

fd
The Bulletin
_
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66-No. 3415
Wednesday, July 25, 1945
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W.. Australia rTp as a Newspaper.
■ ■**■ ■■■**&*•***>» j ii
Seppelts
GUY’S CLIFF.
£“J.UY’S CLIFF is a short distance from Warwick, on the banks
of the Avon. The name comes from Guy, the famous Earl
of Warwick, who slew the Dun Cow and other monsters —feats
of daring which have been honored with a place among the legends
of England. When Guy returned from the Holy Land he lived
the life of a hermit in a little cave on the river some way below
the house, receiving every day alms from the Countess Felice, who
never recognised her husband through his strange disguise. But
when he was dying he revealed himself to her, and when she died
she was buried by his side in the cave of Guy’s Cliff. Perhaps, in
playing the monk, Earl Guy was only following an old tradition ;
for, according to a high authority, Guy’s Cliff was a place of
religious retirement four or five centuries before the time of this
Earl of Warwick, Guy’s Cliff was certainly famed for its beauties
in early days; for when Henry V was at Warwick he went to visit
it, and was so charmed with the scenery that he declared he would
found a chantry there, but he died too soon to carry out his inten-
tion. The mansion, of irregular outline, is built of stone and
founded on the rock, indeed, some of the rooms in the basement
are excavated. It dates from the eighteenth century. The chapel
has a fine tower; its lovely shrine is well preserved, and it contains
a mutilated statue of Guy set up by the Earl of Warwick in the
fifteenth century. In the reign of Henry VIII Leland speaks of
Guy’s Cliff as “the abode of pleasure, a place meet for the Muses ;
with natural cavities in the rocks, shady groves, clear and crystal
streams, flowery meadows, mossy caves, a gentle murmuring river
running among the rocks ; and, to crown all, solitude and quiet,
friendly in so a degree to the muses.”


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL—
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146 AGE
The Red Page
The Hawthorn Hedge.
It was long ago she planted the hawthorn
hedge ;
she forgets how long ago —
that barrier thorn across the hungry ridge:
thorn and snow.
It is twice as tall as the rider on the tall
mare
who draws his reins to peer
in through the branchy blossom. Let him
stare.
No one is here.
Only the mad old girl from the hut on
the hill,
unkempt as an old tree.
She will hide away if you wave your hand
or call;
she will not see.
Year-long, wind turns her grindstone
heart and whets
a thornbranch like a knife,
shouting in winter “Death”; and, when
the white bud sets,
more fiercely, “Life.”
She has forgotten when she planted the
hawthorn hedge,
that thorn, that green, that snow.
Birdsong and sun glittered across the
ridge.
It was long ago.
Her hands were strong in the earth, her
glance on the sky,
her voice was clear on the wind.
The hawthorn hedge took root, grew wild
and high
to hide behind.
QUEENSLAND.
JUDITH WRIGHT.
Universal Disapproval.
“Everybody,” said Mr. Shean, “disap-
proves of everything.”
“And quite right, too,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “Everything ought to be disap-
proved of.”
“But how am I going to enjoy my
reading?” asked Mr. Shean. “I have
been studying the poems of John Thomp-
son, entitled Sesame, published by the
Currawong Press. Mr. Thompson disap-
proves of everything and now I do, too.
1 even disapprove of Sesame.”
“Come,” said Mr. Gallagher. “Doesn’t
Mr. Thompson write good poetry?”
“Certainly he does at times,” said
Mr. Shean. “He says that everlasting
moments cry like golden trumpets in his
blood and—though I am not quite sure
that trumpets can cry in one’s blood —it
sounds very much like poetry to me.”
“And doesn’t he approve of anything?”
asked Mr. Gallagher.
“I think,” said Mr. Shean, “he likes the
Bush. He writes quite pleasantly about
it here and there.”
“Well, then,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“can’t you read him for his golden trum-
pets, gumtrees, etc., "and simply skip the
pages v/here he disapproves of things?”
“I am not,” said Mr. Shean, “a moun-
tain goat; and only a reader of the most
singular agility could skip Mr. Thomp-
son’s disapprovals.”
“Of what, then, does the poet particu-
larly disapprove?” asked Mr. Gallagher.
“ ‘Squid-eyed standardises, ’ ” said Mr.
Shean.
“If he means the Australian bureau-
cracy,” said Mr. Gallagher, “I am all for
him. Only the other day I went into the
Customs department at Circular Quay
and a squid-eyed standardiser”
“I don’t think he means quite that,”
said Mr. Shean. “Mr. Thompson appears
to be of the Left. He disapproves of
‘obstructive bots.’ ”
“Obstructive whats?” asked Mr. Gal-
lagher.
“ ‘The obstructive bots of stock-ex-
changes,’ ” said Mr. Shean. “Also people
who laugh with their mouths open, vicars
who open their mouths to drink tea —
Mr. Thompson is very severe on mouths
—and rats and pimps in the Labor move-
ment, and Mr. R. G. Jvlenzies, and unin-
telligent women.”
“Heaven forfend that I should say it,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “but Mr. Thompson
must disapprove of my wife. Are you
sure he says that?”
“Well,” said Mr. Shean, “he says that
his ‘proper comrades’ are the farmer, the
scientist, the miner, the timbergetter, the
seaman and the 'intelligent woman’ and
that these people will construct by ‘work-
manlike acts of liberation’ a ‘dynamic
synthesis’; so I suppose he doesn’t like
unintelligent women any more than he
likes people with mouths.”
“Let us not,” said Mr. Gallagher, “be
obstructive bots. Let us not be squid-
eyed standardisers. Mr. Thompson doesn’t
seem to be blowing his golden trumpet as
often as he might, but 1 am sure that his
book would be very jolly reading for a
wet Sunday at the Trades Hall.”
“You know,” said Mr. Shean, “I can
understand that all these merry souls
should digaaproy^Qf, the social system ;
but wffiU beats me is tnat, * b£fn£ jfPSfeT-'
sional l|vers of humanity, they should
disapprove of So many pepple. Con-
sider, fob a fyrdaer instanpe { the with
the curijbus name of Alphonse in Miss
Cynthia* Reed’s novel Lucky Alphonse,
published by'Reed and Harris, Ltd; An
Australian globe-trotter.who -becomes
nurse, Ificky Alphonse begins by disap-
proving oL-fhe.. entire, population of New
Zealand. I quote: TITT poriTTiTrmnr
came and were left behind. It was almost
two weeks since they had called at Wel-
lington. It was very dull. One heard
that the scenery of New Zealand was
.magnificent, and the fishing is, of course,
renowned, but in the towns one imagines
only provincial gossip and a few games
of g01f... .From which, and from other
evidence in the book, I deduce that lucky
Alphonse fears that there is in New Zea-
land a lack of improving conversation
about reforming the world.”
“One doubts that,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“In fact, if one has studied New Zealand
New Writing”
“Be that as it may,” said Mr. Shean
“I assure you,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“it be.”
“Look you,” said Mr. Shean, “lucky
Alphonse also disapproves of English,
French, Norwegian and Danish nurses
for ‘reacting in a beastly way’ when the
war broke out and saying that the Ger-
mans ought to be exterminated. Lucky
Alphonse disapproves of the women of
America for being ‘proud’ of their men
going off to fight for their country; and,
I fear, lucky Alphonse disapproves of
the entire rural population of Australia,
for she refers to its young men by the
term ‘yokels.’ ”
“Speaking as a yokel from Gundagai,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “I thoroughly agree
with Alphonse. But you don’t mean to
tell me that this book is entirely devoted
to disapproving of everybody in the
world?”
“On the whole,” said Mr. Shean, “I
think it is. I don’t doubt that what Miss
Reed wanted to do was to tell us about
her own travels —which, since they were
the usual sort of thing, might not have
been especially interesting—and -also to
tell us about nursing experiences in the
hospitals of England and America, which
might have been extremely interesting.
But she has invented this character
Alphonse, and made up a half-pie sort of
novel about her and then she has under-
taken to correct the behavior of mankind
and to”
“Of course, one can’t have that sort
of thing,” said Mr. Gallagher. “But surely
there is some measure of merriment to
be got from this book?”
“There is an account,” said Mr. Shean,
“of the warm-bath treatment used in
America for cases of nervous prostration.
I found it soothing.”
“It is also a consoling thought,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “that lucky Alphonse
would probably approve of Mr. Thomp-
son’s poetry; and Mr. Thompson might
well approve of Lucky Alphonse”
Play About Malaya.
The principal character in T. Inglis
Moore’s verse play of Malaya We’re
Going Through (Angus and Robertson)
is a soldier named Chris, described as a
“poet.” Heartily disliking the idea of
war, Chris enlists because “There’s no
choice for a man but manhood.”
Mr. Moore has done well to set down
this plain truth about Chris —and the
nature of poets —that he is a man like
other men. But there are also times when
a poet is not a man like other men:
in that his special interest in life
—his motive for living—is different. At
the back of another man’s mind may be
his impassioned interest in his wife and
family ; in his garden ; in beer or horses ;
in making money. A poet, as Inglis
Moore should know, is interested in his
poetry. And of this side of Chris’s char-
acter the play says nothing at all.
We’re Going Through is not, then, a
drama of character. It can’t be too often
nor too strongly emphasised that char-
acter is the whole thing, in verse drama
as in any other of the arts whose theme
is the behavior of man. When charac-
ters are fully realised (and when their
emotions are fully aroused) poetry will
come naturally to their lips, and there
will be no necessity to choose a “poet”
to speak the verse.
But, when that has been said, the ex-
ception may be allowed that a dramatic
poem—in which, though a correct under-
standing of character must still be im-
plicit, the emphasis is on some overriding
theme rather than on individual per-
sonality—may succeed as drama on the
stage or over the air. An example (and
a most dangerous one to follow) is
Archibald Macleish’s “Fall of a City,”
in which there is no characterisation
worth mentioning, but which succeeds
as a dramatic poem about the danger of
fascism. This is the category in which
‘Mr.’**Moore has chosen to experiment.
The succe|s of his play is to depend not
on it£ characterisation, but on its quality
poetry fend on the intensity with which
'itSrihWhe is felt and presented.
In neither of these essentials is We’re
Goirfg Through satisfactory. Mr.
genuine talent for lyrical poetry
has nad no chance in the play, and the
verse for the most part displays instead
'bT"'ltiX merits his characteristic faults:
chiefly a recklessness in the use of meta-
phor that results in confusion, turgidity
and bathos:
when the hope to live
Guttered like a burnt candle, and fate’s halter,
Drawn tight round our necks, was loosed as
sudden
As the huge sprite unbottled by Aladdin.
Gladly we plunged into the jungle’s shelter,
Through the gap of escape, there to inherit
Fresh overdrafts of conflict for the spirit.
Mr. Moore gives no thought to the
appropriateness of his imagery, and in
one typical descriptive passage populates
the Malayan jungle—in effect—with a
dingo and a rhinoceros. Further, he has
mislearnt from Cecil Day Lewis a
mechanistic jargon which depicts water
“swivelling” from the rocks and soldiers
held together (like railway carriages) by
“couplings.”
Generally, the verse spoken in
dialogue—
Damn this blasted jungle!
I wish we could set up an O-Pip
And observe the fall of rounds —
is staccato, crisp, suitable to the purpose,
but hardly intended to have the eloquence
of poetry. The monologues of the poet
Chris usually run to the other extreme
of the highfalutin. An Australian soldier
would hardly say good-bye to his wife
in this fashion:
Together we have known high passion’s hour
Widen to circle singing suns, and lead
Us on, on to the bright creative power
Of mateship—love the centre, love the core
Of deep content, the changeless axle keeping
Balance of life when actioned wheels were leap-
ing.
The most successful passage of verse
is Chris’s account of the occasion when
the A.I.F. charged a roadblock with
axes: —
.... attacking
The road-block, pole by pole,
. Hacking them in two, with strokes lashing,
And splinters flying,
Slashing
At the cords tying
Them together, whirling
Axes, and hurling
The hacked poles to the side.
This is not melody or eloquence, but its
vehemence has the ring of sincerity and
it makes a clean poetry of action, re-
minding one for a moment of the Nordic
sagas. Mr. Moore has felt this charge.
The action, elsewhere too confused and
fragmentary, is swift and direct here;
and the theme —which is, of course, the
courage of the A.I.F. —is more clear and
more moving than at any other time.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“MacH.”: Politically speaking, Ber-
nard Shaw really is a most immoral old
person. If one is not to regard it as (to
use a Shavianism) a crackle of blazing
nonsense, “Arms and the Man,” staged
by Sydney Minerva, was written to prove
that soldiers are cowards and fools. Most
writers of repute, from the Elizabethans
to Conrad, claim that the artist and the
man-of-action are blood-brothers: Shaw
degraded the poet in “Candida,” and
when has he ever treated the man-of-
action as anything but a buffoon? To
“prove” his point in “Arms and the Man”
he had to make his characters completely
unreal, mere asses from comic opera ;
and so, though comments in the inter-
vals at the Minerva were nearly all com-
plaints that Agnes Doyle, Evelyn Gar-
diner, Owen Ainley, Leslie Victor, Ross
Buchanan and the rest were playing comic
opera, I don’t see what else they could
have done. Not only in his quaintly
Victorian jokes about sweetmeats (choco-
late creams in this play), Shaw is very
close to W. S. Gilbert, and “Arms and
the Man” is acceptable precisely in the
way “H.M.S. Pinafore” is: as a pleasant
skit—very skittish, very Victorian and, in
its analysis of both love and war, in-
describably vegetarian.
“J.F.”: I must confess that, with the
rest of the first-night audience at Gwen
Meredith’s “These Positions Vacant”
(Sydney Independents) I found the spec-
tacle of real beer on the stage more excit-
ing than the play. Everybody relished the
diversion and more than thirst came into
it—the trials and tribulations of the
Warren family (on the land in Australia
during this war) didn’t really grip. In
spite of its considerable virtues of humor,
naturalness and drama, the great fault
of the play lay in its mechanical struc-
ture ; for, in developing her theme —the
impact of the war on the Warrens —the
author degrades the Warrens themselves
to automatons. In the beginning they
seemed very real characters. No single
incident is improbable—in the right con-
text ; and there is light and shade, but it
is ill-diffused: all the light in the begin-
ning and later the shade piled on with
an unsparing hand. Labor shortages, hard
work, high taxation, loved ones killed
and made prisoners of war, all these are
the familiars of many a family in war-
time, but there are compensations, bright
spots. People still laugh, and there are
the daily joys of life, yet these things are
missing from Miss Meredith’s picture ; so,
by selection, the picture is false. And
the underlying argument, which is first
stated by the youngest boy, Kim, that
most of our troubles are the direct result
of our own political apathy, is shallow
and commonplace.
At the talkies:
“Fighting Lady” (Sydney Plaza): Exciting
full-length documentary about an aircraft-carrier
in action in the Pacific. Like its predecessor
“Memphis Belle,” which in telling of a Flying
Fortress raid on Germany set a new standard
in documentaries, this one is boosted from the
16-m.m. cameras used by the official photo-
graphers.’
“Since You Went Away” (Sydney Regent):
Story of a middle-class family, the 40-year-old
head of which goes away to the war and is
posted missing. There is an excellent bulldog
which insists on sleeping on the bed of the
irascible boarder, Monty Woolley. Claudette
Colbert surprises with restrained emotion far
removed from her usual comedy roles.
“The Constant Nymph” (Melbourne Savoy):
New film version of Miss Kennedy’s sensitive
description of the immortal Sanger family, with
Charles Boyer as Lewis Dodd and Joan Fon-
taine as Tessa. Although the ending has
been slightly bowdlerised, it remains a magnifi-
cent study of the unconventional daughters of
a genius and their fight with their convention-
ridden guardian, Florence. A film that can be
seen many times over.
“Thunder Rock” (Melb. St. James): Guaran-
teed to restore anyone’s faith in the British
film. The complicated story of the young
writer who dedicates himself to warning man-
kind about war and Nazism and who reneges
on the contract and retires to an American light-
house, only to find himself beset with images
which his own mind creates of past failures who
perished in a shipwreck in 1849, is told with an
ease, polish and completeness which has seldom
been done on the screen and certainly was not
done in a previous Melbourne flesh-an’-blud
presentation.
“Tomorrow the World” (Sydney Civic):
Ring Lardner’s adaptation of the James Dow-
Arnand D’Usseau stage play about' a Nazi
youth taken into his American uncle’s family.
The film is remarkable for sustained intensity
and for a vital performance by Skippy Homeier
as the 12-year-old heel-clicker who has to he
dis-educated the hard way. Fredric March,
Betty Field and that polished and versatile
actress Agnes Moorehead handle the adult roles
capably.
After a tour of New Zealand, the
Borovansky Australian Ballet has re-
turned to Melbourne His Majesty’s.
Laurel Martyn, Dorothy Stevenson,
Edna Busse and others seem to have
learned the language of the leg more
thoroughly than ever, and if it is a lan-
guage with severe limitations they use
it superbly. Bousloff as a hussar was out-
standing amongst the principals in “Le
Beau Danube,” and the corps-de-ballet is
tip-top.
The rush of art shows that attacked
Melbourne with the onset of winter
shows no signs of abating. Amongst
recent outbreaks afe William I. Gulliver’s
at the Athenaeum, Dorothea Keeling’s
at the Assembly Hall and Bertram Bryn-
ing’s at the Velasquez. Bryning is an
old Meldrum pupil and shows some
traces of his master in bestowing a
greater attention to values than does
Dorothea Keeling, a Tasmanian artist
who is all imagination but lacks know-
ledge of the fundamentals. Her animal
sketches are better than her portraits.
W. I. Gulliver is an Englishman who
lived in Shanghai before the Jap erup-
tion, and some of his studies of Man-
churian peasants, Chinese waterways and
Balinese dancers are of more than topo-
graphical interest. Pam Bruton, Peter
Peterson and George Mansell share a
show at the Park Galleries and each sup-
plies a definition of art aims in a cata-
logue foreword. Verbally stated the aims
are all different, but the artistic results
are so much the same that there is little
to choose between them. -“Sea Elephant
Bay, King Island,” by Pam Bruton, is
the sharpest bit of observation.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE' 1
m
m
Ms-
n
I
■
-
a
i
: I
Httii
&
*
■
m
-
■HH
«BH
mm
m
W»»->~«! I «li»ini> W>"»' '"**•
•’• , ■
1
I
m
1111
Heavyweight Tapestry Cur-
tains, with rod pocket and
pleated heading. In ,Blue,
Rust, Green, Burgundy and
Fawn. 6ft. Bins, drop, 99/6 pr.
Coupon Free.
• Soft Furnishings —
Third Floor.
Plain 48-inch Tapestry, suitable
for curtains o,r covers. Blue,
Rust, Green, Burgundy and
Natural 12/6 yard
Coupon Free.
54-inch Heavyweight Spiral
Repp. Excellent for Curtains
or Bedspreads. Obtainable in
Rust, Blue, Green and Bur-
gundy 23/6 yard
Coupon Free.
40-inch Natural Indian Burlap.
loose or close fitting
covers 5/11 yard
Coupon Free.
m
fcr
0
m
SMSSS&&
AS
A
a
'
m 4
m
J
m
as
•»*>*
Mf
m
%
m*
3*
F
POSTAGE
EXTRA.
Smart and attractive Single Bed
Covers, suitable for indoors or
verandah sleepouts. In Burgundy,
Green and Rust, with contrast
colour piping £6/5/-
Coupon Free.
Printed Floral Design Bedspreads,
double bed size. In attractive
monotone screen printing, com-
plete with two pillow covers.
Blue/White, Green/White, Rose/
White, Burgundy/White, £6/6/-
Coupon Free.
90-inch Alternative Mosquito Net, with filet
mesh. A standard net made to meet wartime
conditions 4/10 yard
Coupon Free.
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


With the Seventh in Dutch Borneo
By JOHN BRENNAN.
IN the thick of things at the Balik
Papan landing was a South Australian
battalion with a great record. It was
with the Seventh Division in Syria
and the Middle East, and with it, too, at
Milne Bay. The battalion had the task of
climbing the hills to a ridge midway be-
tween the landing beach and the shores
of Balik Papan Bay.
It pushed on rapidly, with a halt now
and again where it was necessary to call
for naval fire or a bombing and strafing
run against bunkered positions. Tanks
went with it, pushing a winding, climbing
way up the slopes. And there were
“frogs,” flamethrowing tanks, used by the
A.I.F. for the first time, whose sweeping,
searing flame fumigated pillboxes and
bunkers ahead of the troops.
The seaward crest of the ridge, marked
on the operation map as the Parramatta
feature, was a huge concealed emplace-
ment housing a six-inch coastal-defence
gun. It was roofed five feet thick with
reinforced concrete and piled high above
with earth. A naval shell had shattered
the mouth of the cavern and cascaded
the earth in front of it.
A and B Company advanced through
the first objectives, C Company pushing
on to occupy the crest of the ridge.
Crowned with white sand, it was bare of
trees and cover, but cratered and torn.
Men advanced across it in ones and
twos, running, crouched low, from crater
to crater. The enemy held it in strength,
and he had covered its top with a series
of small strongposts built up out of the
sand with logs. In seven minutes a sec-
tion under Corporal R. L. Evans, of
Port Pirie (S.A.), had scattered a dozen
Jap dead about the sand along the crest
top. Private J. W. Topping shot three in a
few minutes with a rifle. By mid-after-
noon the Parramatta feature was secure.
The Jap was known to be demolishing
the harbor installations, and, moving in
vehicles of every type, he was heading
north-east away from the city. On the
right flank of the assault beach the drive
north-east along the coast road—named
Vasey Highway in honor of the man who
once commanded the division —met with
only light and intermittent opposition on
its approach to the Sepinggang airfield
three miles from the beachhead, heavy
ack-ack guns being captured intact.
Bulldozers were at work in the beach-
head area clearing the rubble that once
was the European section of Balik Papan
city to establish camps and dumps for
ammo, and supplies. Engineers toiled to
fill shell craters in the roadway.
R.A.A.F. and A.I.F. bomb-disposal teams
searched the area for mines.
In the hills back from the coastal road
cavalry commandos found small groups
of the enemy strongly posted and pre-
pared to dispute their progress with
small arms and machine-gun fire. But
a Victorian battalion that swept the area
behind the beach found only evidence
that the Jap was retreating, forward
elements sighting the enemy only in ones
and twos. On the second day its forward
platoon occupied Sepinggang airstrip.
Sepinggang was badly cratered for two-
thirds of its length, some of the craters
being 60 feet across and 10 feet deep.
But it was well placed on firm ground,
and, as Jap fields go, a good one. It had
been surfaced with asphalt, and —unlike
the disappointing Tarakan bog—the
ground was workable. Auster aircraft,
tiny ’planes used for artillery observation,
were operating from it next morning.
Resistance continued strongest to the
drive across the peninsula to Balik Papan
Bay and the township area. The South
Australian battalion pushed on to the
final ridge before the bay. A Queens-
land battalion moved around behind it,
cleared Signal Hill at the entrance point
to the bay, then worked north.
The South Australians met the most
serious opposition. In the area of their
advance they counted 300 Japanese dead
in the first two days of the campaign.
Many of them had, of course, been killed
by the bombardment. The division buried
500 of the enemy in those first two days.
On the northern extremity of the
Parramatta feature there were two twin-
barrelled 120-millimetre coastal guns in
huge open concrete pit emplacements,
commanding the beachhead and the sea
approaches. A pile of shellcases behind
them showed that they had been em-
ployed, but they had apparently been
put out of action some days previously
either by the naval bombardment or by
aerial bombing. The old batt. was not
long in possession of the ridge before it
came under fire of a similar gun, located
some 4000 yards away, on high ground
in the Kampoeng Baroe area across the
Pandansari River. The enemy used also
hidden anti-aircraft guns, which scattered
their shrapnel wide and caused some
casualties. One series of six shots forced
the battalion commander to go back
along the path as he made a recce of his
companies’ positions.
Most of the storage tanks were situ-
ated on the final ridge along by Balik
Papan Bay. They spread down into the
valley below Parramatta. Two patrols
moved out, the forward company cover-
ing their advance. Figures were seen about
the tanks. Then there was a tremendous
explosion. Mottled smoke and angry,
thick, red flame leapt instantly 300 feet
into the air. Oil began to flow. In the
space of a minute and a half it had
covered 200 yards down the gully below
Parramatta, carrying the flame and belch-
ing smoke along with it.
Suddenly the valley itself was alight.
While it still burned the flames were
gone, blotted out by a solid pall of smoke.
If there are degrees of blackness this was
blackest. It reached up 10,000 feet into
the air. It was carried on a stiff wind,
and it made the day dark with the dark-
ness of a coming thunderstorm. In
two hours it had wound a way, a stream
of fire, for over a mile down the valley
before it stopped. It was horrible and
majestic, a memorable thing in a war of
well-remembered things.
The patrols came out. One had not
advanced to the line of the fire; the
other raced around before its advance.
In one patrol two men were wounded by
shrapnel. Perhaps that was how the
blaze had been started —after the few
remaining tanks had been breached they
had been fired from a distance by incen-
diary shells. However it had been
done, it seemed certain that the enemy
mistook the patrols for a large-scale ad-
vance to occupy the area. If he had
timed it correctly he might have annihi-
lated a battalion.
In the late afternoon D Company occu-
pied the seaward end of the final ridge.
It looked down over steep cliffs to the
docks area, only a few hundred yards
from their base.
The Queenslanders drove along the
shores of the bay. Sometimes the enemy
left a few men with a machine-gun. And,
as everywhere else, there were snipers.
A Company rested at midday in an
area which the forward troops had passed
through some time previously, A small
patrol under Lieut. Bert Sullivan, of
Cressy (Vic.), had a final hunt through
the demolished buildings and pillboxes.
Three Japs with rifles rushed from the
entrances to a dugout and opened fire.
Sullivan ordered his patrol to ground and
himself raced for the dugout, firing an
Owen as he ran. The Japs shot at him
but missed. He hurled a grenade into
one of the entrances, then stood aside
out of range and called on the Japs to
surrender. They answered him with more
fire from inside the dugout. He flung
another grenade and brought up the re-
mainder of the patrol to cover the four
entrances. Captain Howard Flaherty, the
divisional supervisor of chemical warfare,
was on hand with a flamethrower. While
Sullivan covered the entrances he “fumi-
gated” each of them.
The beachhead was expanding. Further
troops were brought ashore, and unloading
of supplies and equipment went on. Major-
General J. Milford, in command of the
Seventh, was noticeably proud of his men.
It had been a severe task for the Navy.
The landing beaches had been well
guarded by mines; those laid by Allied
’planes as well as by the enemy. The
sweeping was a hazardous operation, and
the breaching of the underwater barriers
along the shoreline required the demoli-
tion teams to work on the beach itself
two days before the landing was made.
Then the entire convoy of landing ships
had had to anchor in the open sea, and
in the first days winds from the
south made the landing of supplies in
a high sea extremely difficult. The
L.S.Ts. could not be beached. Every-
thing to go ashore had to be transferred
in a seaway to smaller craft, until the
naval construction battalions could build
a pontoon pier. A difficult job in the
heavy swell, it was done in two days.
There - were other problems ashore.
Though not so thickly mined as was
Tarakan, the area of the beachhead pro-
vided plenty of work for the bomb-dis-
posal squads. The men, under Lt. John
Liddy, of Melbourne —he had them at
Tarakan —deloused 283 land mines on
L.-D. Here they were not so much on
the roads as in the fields and gardens
alongside. There were all types, and
there was abundance of booby traps.
Engineer units worked day and night
filling holes on the coast road and build-
ing bridges. To move heavy equipment
and combat supplies along the road would
have held things up for days. It was
necessary to unload the equipment from
the large ships, reload it on barges and
transport it by sea. It meant work, work.
work, and it was work that would earn
no rest when the assault objectives were
secured.
On the right flank the Seventh Division
drove beyond Sepinggang, heading for the
Manggar airfield, twelve miles from the
city. At the end of the third day the
beachhead had been widened eight miles.
It had been pushed inland to a depth of
3000 yards in the face of fairly heavy
fire from 20-millimetre guns in the central
area. On the left flank the Queensland
battalion which had swung around Signal
Hill moved along the shore to clear the
docks and oil-refinery areas, finding them
practically deserted of the enemy. What
remained of Balik Papan city was soon
occupied.
It was little enough. The tremendous
refineries presented a picture of almost
complete destruction. They stretched
along the shore of the bay for nearly
three miles, a huge conglomeration of
plant and warehouse buildings, of oil
tanks, administrative offices and labora-
tories ; a maze of pipelines and roadways.
They were no more now than the twisted
iron frames of buildings, almost com-
pletely gutted by fire. And there were
three wrecks in the bay.
There were tunnels and dugouts, pill-
boxes and gun positions in every ridge,
in every tiny knoll along the shore, at
every bend of the road. There were anti-
aircraft weapons, dual-purpose guns.
But rarely did the enemy stay to fight.
He disputed the occupation of certain
features, but mostly he retired when faced
with any large force. The battalion which
had driven directly across the ridges from
the landing beach to strike the bay at
Pandansari at the northern extremity of
the refineries area —it was drawn origin-
ally from Tasmania and from North
Queensland —had a brisk fight for a ridge
named Nails, the last before it reached
the flat land by the shore.
In the late afternoon two platoons of
B Company began the assault, supported
by tanks. The tanks knocked out a gun
position, and while one platoon on the
left engaged the enemy on the gently-slop-
ing lug of the ridge trie other worked
to the crest around the right. By night-
fall it was secure on the feature. It
counted 18 enemy dead on Nails, and
gathered in two twin-barrelled 25-milli-
metre guns, two light and two heavy
machine-guns, a searchlight and —what
pleased the infanteers best —18 swords.
Apart from harassing fire from his
guns beyond the Pandansari River, the
enemy was now little interested in Balik
Papan. He was still pulling out along the
road he had built north to Samarinda,
58 miles away, his intentions still obscure.
U.S. naval units celebrated Independence
Day with a concentrated bombardment
of the enemy’s possible assembly areas.
Carrier-based ’planes, used for the first
time in the series of Borneo operations,
found targets aplenty for dive-bombing
and strafing on the Samarinda road, and
heavy R.A.A.F. and American bombers
were still adding their quota of destruc-
tion, The enemy had not been seen in
the air, but occasionally he turned his
anti-aircraft guns on the Allied ’planes.
Naval guns and land artillery, bombers,
too, were finding time to give some atten-
tion to possible positions on the western
shore of Balik Papan Bay. Soon it would
be possible to send the minesweepers in
to clear the bay for supply ships.
Manggar airfield was occupied on
the fourth day. It meant the virtual
accomplishment of the primary objec-
tives of the assault. The road approaches
to Manggar were very heavily mined, the
area'was sown thick with booby traps,
and the bridge across the Manggar Besar
was partly blown. The troops which oc-
cupied the airfield came immediately
under very heavy fire from machine-
guns, anti-aircraft weapons and heavy
coastal guns, firing at point-blank range
from emplacements in the ridge beside
the airfield. They held, and naval and
artillery fire was brought to bear, while
Squadron-Leader C. O. McKew, of
Croydon, Sydney, in command of the
R.A.A.F, air support section at Balik
Papan, went up to direct the bombing.
He had 12 Liberators of the 13 th
U.S.A.A.F. They went in in two groups
and plastered 25 10001 b. bombs along
the ridge: a capital example of precision
bombing. From his position McKew
saw the Japanese gun crews “airborne”
with the pieces of their gun£, thrown
fifty feet into the air amidst the dust of
the explosions.
The position was occupied immedi-
ately. There were forty enemy dead
lying beside the wreckage of their guns.
North of the Pandansari refinery
area troops of a Queensland battalion
which had been in reserve found the foe
prepared to fight stubbornly for small
ridge features, Nurse and Nobody.
A Company made the attack on
Nobody. It pushed two sections up along
a re-entrant on to the saddle of the spur
within 200 yards of the top. They came
under crossfire from both sides, machine-
guns having been cunningly placed beside
the track. One section lost its leader
wounded, and a private took over. He
got his men down, reorganised them and
was himself hit while endeavoring
to reconnoitre the position. While he
lay there he continued to give instruc-
tions. Two other men in the section
yere wounded, and it was impossible to
move forward or to withdraw.
The other section, under Platoon-
Sergeant Bill Confoy, of Coorparoo (Q.),
came under the same fire. Confoy picked
up a Bren from a wounded man and
pushed forward with Pte. G. A. Rabjohns,
of Roslyn (N.S.W.). He found the posi-
tion impossible of assault with the men
he had, and the crossfire cut his line of
retreat. He managed to withdraw part
of his men, then, when it was almost
dark, returned alone to bring out the
of the two sections and the wounded.
They had been pinned down on the spur
for three hours.
During the night artillery and mortars
nibbled away at the position. Next morn-
ing Confoy led a platoon up the spur.
The Jap was gone.
On Nurse the position was very simi-
lar. The attacking troops came under
enfilading fire from Nobody, and the
enemy had two 37-millimetre anti-aircraft
guns firing at point-blank range. The
troops attacked in company strength,
going in at nine o’clock in the morning,
and were under fire from the time they
left the start line. Captain E. A. Hen-
derson, of Brisbane, with the brigade
since its formation, can remember no
greater concentration of fire. The Jap had
dug-out and tunnel defence of every kind,
D Company pushed on. It was
taking fairly heavy casualties —a stretcher-
bearer, Lance-corporal Laurie O’Toole,
of Lismore (N.S.W.), made the trip back
and forward carrying out the wounded
under fire time and again—-but it still
hoped to achieve its objective. One of
the Japs shouted “Are you there, Mr.
Montgomery?” asking for one of the
platoon commanders whom apparently
he had heard called by name.
In Ihe late afternoon D Company
was in position some 15 yards from the
top of Nurse ; but the enemy was dug
in on the far side of a narrow ridge from
where he could hurl grenades down upon
the attackers, and he was using mortars
with effect. The company was with-
out communications to call for artillery
support, and at last was forced to with-
draw. Throughout the night artillery
ranged on Nurse as well as on Nobody.
Mortars and machine-guns harassed the
enemy. In the morning he was gone.
Behind the features he had a hospital
area and a fair-sized headquarters estab-
lishment with many supplies.
On Nurse 30 Jap dead were buried,
an indeterminate number of others being
sealed up in the numerous tunnels by
the demolition squads.
Five days after the landing the unit
which had made a way round Signal Hill
to the refineries district crossed to the
other shore at Penadjim—in Buffaloes, or
tractored landing vehicles, after aerial
and naval bombardment.
It saw one Jap, who was quickly killed.
There was no other opposition till the
troops had pushed inland through the
swamps. Then an odd machine-gunner
held things up for a while. But the force
which was known to have been in the area
had withdrawn. Natives reported that the
main body of the enemy had left two
days previously. Seizure of Penadjim
opened the bay to the minesweepers and
naval working parties.
Sixteen miles -away to the north-east,
Queensland troops who had seized
the Manggar airfield were still coming
under heavy fire. The bridge across the
Manggar River had been in large part
demolished, and the enemy had the
bridge and beach and open airfield coun-
try in point-blank range of his batteries.
Aerial and naval bombardment and fire
from land artillery silenced some of his
positions, but he had other guns, some
hidden in deep tunnels.
Two of a group of tanks which were
taken in by barge to the beach beyond
the Manggar River received direct hits.
One caught afire and was blown apart.
The other was put out of action. The
crews of both tanks escaped unharmed,
but there were casualties among the engi-
neer parties operating against mines.
A colonel was wounded just beyond
the bridge. The regimental police sergeant,
L. M. Ferguson, of Euroa (Vic.), helped
him back to a safer position, then made
a 150-yards’ dash across open ground,
which was being covered with fire from
a 20-millimetre machine-gun. He crossed
the bridge and then made the return
journey to lead back an artillery obser-
vation officer. Later Ferguson assisted
the wounded colonel back across the
bridge, still under enemy fire.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3415
Wednesday, July 25, 1945
SEA-CHANGE.
A wandering militarist I-
A thing of shreds and patches,
Of scorches, scars and scratches,
And woeful alibi!


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
XT Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
MEN OF ‘14 AND '39.
To fighting men come no prophetic
visions such as have been vouchsafed to
poets in inspired moments. Among the
still-serving veterans of the Sixth, Seventh
and Ninth A.I.F. divisions who fought in
the Middle East in 1940 and 1941 there
can be none who imagined then that the
second half of 1945 would see them still
fighting, and that in tropical countries
half a world away from Greece, Syria
and the Western Desert. For their length
of service there are, no doubt, parallels
in the annals of war, but it is doubtful
whether any other body of soldiers has
ever had to suffer so many perils and
trials as these men have undergone in
countries almost as inimical as the well-
armed foe. And very tardily it occurred
to the Government at Canberra, where
the service portfolios are all in the hands
of men without personal experience of
warfare, that some relief was necessary.
The lesson was tragically brought home
by the death in action of Lieut. Tom Der-
rick, V.C., and other five-year men.
So Mr. Chifley, then Acting Prime
Minister, announced in the House on
June 1 that “all members of the Army and
Air Force with operational service over-
seas who have over five years’ war service
will be given the option of taking their
discharge.” On June 19 he said “The
recommendation of the Advisory War
Council, to which the Government in-
tends to adhere and on which it has given
the necessary instructions, is that at
lease 50,000 men are to be released by the
end of 1945.” As for “the option of dis-
charge being given to all men with opera-
tional service overseas and five years’ war
service,” he understood from the Army
authorities that “the forces are well satis-
fied with the decision,” which was in line
with the recommendation of the Acting
Minister for the Army “after his [April]
visit to operational areas”; in fact, Senator
Fraser had used the words “There is no
doubt in my mind that action should be
taken immediately to relieve members of
the fighting services with over four or
five years’ operational service.”
On June 29 Mr. Chifley made an ampli-
fying statement, in which there were con-
spicuous alterations, unexplained then
and since. He said that “the total of 54,000
has been adopted as an objective for
attainment,” and that “an additional
10,000 are to be released on occupational
grounds irrespective of service.”
The release of 54,000 will be broadly as
follows:
Thirty-five thousand long-service men,
comprising 29,000 from the Army and 6000
from the Air Force; 6000 repatriated
prisoners-of-war of whom 5200 are Army
and 800 Air Force; 13,000 surplus air
crew and air-crew trainees.
Releases of long-service men are to be de-
termined by reference to (a) the amount of
operational service; ( b ) length of service,
age and dependency. Subject to operational
requirements, the option of discharge will
be given, in the first place, to personnel
attaining five years’ service who, in the case
of Army personnel and Air Force ground
staff, have had two years’ or more opera-
tional service overseas, and, in the case of
air crew, have had more than one tour of
flying operations against the enemy. Within
these categories the order of precedence
will depend upon length of service, age and
dependency.
An occupational survey is being made of
long-service men, who, it is estimated, will
be released in accordance with the approved
definition. The releases are to be made on
a graduated scale in order to avoid dis-
organisation of units and interference with
operational plans. Detailed instructions re-
garding the procedure to be followed in
connection with the release of long-service
men, prisoners-of-war, surplus air crew and
air-crew trainees will be issued by the ser-
vices. The procedure relating to the release
of men on occupational grounds will be laid
down by the Director-General of Man-
power.
Relatives of 1939-40 men who inferred
from the reference to the “occupational
survey” that the thing was well advanced
and that they would soon have their men
back in their homes, if any, found no com-
fort in a statement issued on July 12 by
Mr. Forde. According to that gentleman,
“details of the machinery for actual
discharge” were “still being worked out,”
.though, they would, of course, be “pro-
mulgated as soon as possible.” Mean-
while, “instructions” had been “issued”
that five-year soldiers “with not less than
two years’ operational service overseas
who desire to be discharged will not be
in future embarked for service overseas.”
At the end of another week Mr. Forde
had to admit that not only had no pro-
vision been made for any five-year man,
whether in the islands or in Australia,’
to get an immediate or early discharge but
that it would be “a considerable time
before the Government” would be “in a
position to put its release policy into
effect.”
Mr. _ Forde said unit commanders were
being instructed by General Blarney to fur-
nish information on how many of their
men would be affected by the release order.
Only after this information had been
gathered—probably a lengthy process—
would the Army be in a position to carry
out the plan.
That the “process” would be “lengthy”
was not indicated by Mr. Chifley in any
of his three statements. In the June 29
one he outlined a monthly programme
of “special releases.”'
The following are to be the progressive
totals of the minimum number:
By the end of August, 10,000.
By the end of September, 22,000.
By the end of October, 34,000.
By the end of November, 46,000.
By the end of December, 58,000 to 64,000.
Obviously a start is to be made with
the 10,000 booked for release “on occu-
pational grounds, irrespective of service.”
This will be in accordance with the
“union principle” of “last to come, first
to go.” Meanwhile, the “union prin-
ciple” is undergoing a test at the Gov-
ernment small-arms factory at Lithgow,
in the Prime Minister’s electorate. Since
it is becoming difficult to keep up the
pretence that jobs can be provided in
that factory and many others on the
1942-43 scale, the unions concerned are
demanding that returned soldiers be put
off and civilians kept on. And “Ministers
are seriously perturbed,” for their
dubious preference legislation is involved,
and for once there is no discernible line
of least resistance. They have issued an
instruction which has been construed to*
mean that preference to returned service-
men is supreme over “all other prefer-
ences,” but whether they will stand to it,
with the unions in full cry, remains to
be proved.
There is no sign that Ministers are
“seriously perturbed” at the delay in
discharging soldiers who enlisted in 1939
and 1940 and the further delay antici-
pated.
They found time last week for
debates on two measures reeking with
Labor hate, the one which is to
“nationalise” airlines, regardless of Mr.
Curtin’s election pledge and the result of
the powers referendum, and the one
which strikes at New Guinea planters
and Administration officers, many of
whom have been engaged heroically with
the enemy (though a Mr. Bryson, from
Bourke, had the brass-fronted inso-
lence to assert that “the only fight put
up on the islands was by the soldiers
from the mainland”), and is designed to
transform the natives into brown imita-
tions of class-conscious union wharf-
laborers. During the same week a
debate on the discharge of five-year
Diggers was vetoed by the Prime
Minister, though the Opposition-
Leader had moved for it, and though
Mr. Abbott, an Old Digger, was
ready with the serious charge that be-
tween June 1, the date of Mr. Chifiey’s
first undertaking, and July 12 Seventh
Division veterans, entitled. to discharge
in the terras of that undertaking, had
been “shipped to Borneo, in some cases
to their death.” '
Whether as Opposition-Leader or Prime
Minister, Mr. Menzies has met the Labor
party in every way. He was reduced to
giving the newspapers the substance of
what he had intended to say, one point
being that “five-year men should not be
given merely an option of discharge:
it is unfair to put them in the position
of appearing to abandon their mates.”
Which contention is, of course, unassail-
able.
Without going into comparisons of
losses and strains, which are possible
only to a select number of men with
special information and experience, it
can be fairly said that, the situation of
the 1939-40 soldiers resembles that of
the 1914 Diggers 27 years ago. The maih
difference is that the A.I.F. was then
overburdened through being short of
men, Labor’s anti-conscription cam-
paigns, with their appeal to sentiments
which were to be found powerful at the
1943 general election, having been only
too successful. The position in 1945, as
bluntly stated by Mr, A. G. Cameron, a
former service Minister, is that “one half
of the Australian army has never been
overseas during this war and is not likely
to go overseas.” Referring particularly
to the Armored Division, Mr. Cameron
said “it is not their fault that they have
been kept in Australia,” and the same
is true of great numbers of other uni-
formed men kept in Australi^; but, a
plain man who goes in no fear of votes,
he gave the plain facts.
Arriving in London in June, 1918, Mr.
Hughes was told by soldiers he met there
“There will be no A.I.F. if they; don’t
rest us soon,” As Charles Bean recalls
in The Official History of Australia in
the War of 1914-18, the then Prime Min-
ister was so impressed that “he deter-
mined to bring about three steps”:
First, the granting of home leave to the
original Anzacs —which till now the British
authorities, fearing its probable extension
to other troops and other demands on ship-
ping, had declared to be out of the ques-
tion ;
Second, the withdrawal of the Australian
infantry for rest when autumn began,
and when, as Mr. Hughes then believed,
further attacks would be merely waste of
men, urgently needed for next year (hke
all other members of the Imperial War
Cabinet, he had been advised that the war
would not end till 1919 or 1920);
Third, the transfer of the Corps during
the winter months to a milder climate to
recoup its numbers.
And “he laid these proposals before Sir
Henry Wilson”:
As to the first, he was informed that the
apparently insuperable difficulty was that of
obtaining ships, whereupon he concentrated
his effort upon securing them. As to the
second, Wilson advised him to see Haig,
who might be able to arrange if. “I shall
not see Haig or anyone else,” said Hughes.
“If the Belgian Government wants its troops
withdrawn from the line it does not ask
anyone’s leave. It simply says they are to
be withdrawn.” Monash demurred that the
needs of the campaign might render it im-
possible to withdraw the Corps when the
weather broke —at latest by October 15 —
as Hughes insisted. The Prime Minister’s
reply was that fhe Corps must be out of
the line by the date mentioned, and that
General Monash’s position would depend
upon this.
As it happened, there was no occa-
sion for wintering in a milder climate
than that of northern France ; but Anzac
leave was in operation and autumn with-
drawal in effect before the war came
to a sudden close. “Early in October
Monash crossed to London and informed
Hughes that the divisions had been with-
drawn a week before the stipulated time.”
On September 12 there had “arrived
from Birdwood a telephone message
stating that shipping had been found by
the British Government and that 60
officers and 740 men” entitled to Anzac
leave “were to be embarked at once.”
Monash, who had General Blarney for
Chief of Staff, protested that it would
be “quite impossible,” to which “Bird-
wood replied T feel it would be wrong
to miss this opportunity and allow the
ship to sail empty; because a large
number of deserving men cannot take this
opportunity is no reason why others
should be prevented.’ ” Monash gave
way, the 800 officers and men were em-
barked, and “Hughes addressed them on
September 14 before they entrained.”
They were “days of intense pressure for
Monash,” who was then preparing the
attack on the Hindenburg outpost line,
delivered by three Australian and two
American divisions, but when “news
came that a second ship would be avail-
able immediately after the first all these
troubles were easily shed,” and “the 1914
men for Anzac leave were drafted out,”
Though the war was over when most
of them reached Australia, and though
they had been freshened up by the sea
voyage, the sight of so many drawn faces
and wasted forms convinced people who
had no use for Mr. Hughes’s politics that
his merciful intervention had been justi-
fied.
As Marvell sang of Cromwell,
So much one man can do
That does both act and know.
As an Old Digger who wangled his
way to the islands said to Denis Warner,
of the Melbourne “Herald,” “Billy would
have remembered the low numbers.”
Pacific Puzzle.
Exactly what is to be made of the
present state of the Pacific war as offi-
cially and otherwise reported? That it
is going well even the most careful and
sceptical interpreter would hardly ques-
tion. But his finding, based on having
been bitten before, might not quite
measure up in optimism to what must
surely be the idea of those who can take
the current highly encouraging reports
and announcements at face value.
Going on these reports the Japs every-
where, even to their home islands, are
taking such a one-sided pasting that the
average onlooker must see the end of the
war against them very near. U.S. “task
forces” —they must have been very
powerful to have had as many as 1000
carrier-based ’planes participating with
them ranged apparently unmolested
along the Japs’ home coastline, bom-
barding iron- and steelworks and other
war industries in eight cities. The bom-
barding forces not only attacked targets
as chosen on a front of some hundreds
of miles on successive days, but intended
shelling was announced by the Com-
mander-in-Chief, Admiral Nimitz, hours
in advance. British naval forces joining
in, the ’plane force was stepped up in
reports to 1500, with broadcasts from
American ships describing the attack
while the .operation was in progress.
Yet “opposition was negligible.” In
the dramatic fashion of war reporting
over the air, it was given out that not a
single enemy ship, ’plane or shore bat-
tery fired a shot at the attacking forces,
though these went as close in as 1000
yards from the coast. Less than half a
dozen ’planes were so much as sighted in
the air, and any of these that could be
overtaken was easily shot down. The
whole attack might be roughly compared
to a supposititious Jap naval attack on
Sydney, Newcastle and such other targets
as might be chosen along the N. S. Wales
coastline. If this were happening, with-
out any opposition whatever, nobody
could have any doubt that Australia was
finished.
On top of reporting of the extraordi-
nary naval attacks on the Jap homeland,
a flood of announcements has indicated
the terrific devastation already inflicted
and looming up for Japan from the air.
With the bombing co-ordinated under
the new U.S. Pacific Army Air Forces’
Command at Guam, what has so far
happened to Jap cities is considered
mild to what the Japs will presently be
in for. They are to see 1000 Super-
fortress raids, though Lieut.-General
B. M. Giles, deputy commander under
General Spaatz, has been quoted as dis-
believing “there is a single target left in
Japan really worthy of a raid by 1000
Superfortresses.” Already 38 Jap cities
are reported to have been attacked with
incendiaries, and some of them up to 50
per cent, destroyed. In a fortnight of
such bombing attacks fewer than 100
enemy ’planes had been sighted in the
air over Japan. By way of comparison,
General Giles has been further quoted as
stating that it will soon be possible to
“concentrate 3000 land-based ’planes
over any part of Japan at any time.”
Despite all this practical demonstra-
tion —which, on the face of it, should be
more than enough to convince any people
on earth that defeat must be certain and
hanging on merely prolonging the agony
and increasing the ruin—it is denied that
there have so far been any official peace
feelers from Japan, though a number of
the unofficial variety have been men-
tioned. The U.S. State Department came
out with a flat denial when Senator Cape-
heart stated that a definite peace offer
had, in fact, been received from Japan
about the beginning of June. Subse-
quently the Senator reiterated his state-
ment. He declared the Japanese had
offered to “give up all their conquered
territory, their army, navy and war-
making facilities.” The only reservation,
he said, was that “the Emperor should
be allowed to remain on the throne.”
Not the only statement of the kind,
this merely adds to the general puzzle of
the Pacific war. Senator Capeheart
rubbed the point home by adding: “It
isn’t a matter of'whether you hate the
Japs or not. But what is to be gained
by continuing the war when it can be
settled now on the same terms as two
years from now.” It seems unlikely, par-
ticularly in view of President Truman’s
earlier interpretation of “unconditional
surrender,” that if such an offer had ac-
tually been made it would have been re-
jected. President Truman seemed anxious
to invite Japan’s leaders to negotiate,
rather than fight it out to a finish. He
said that “the longer the war lasts the
greater will be the suffering and hard-
ships which the people of Japan will
undergo, all in vain,” but he added that,
though “unconditional surrender” still
stands, this “does not mean the exter-
mination or enslavement of the Japanese
people.”
Apparently the U.S, Senator quoted
does not take the current reporting of
the Pacific war at face value. His view
is perhaps pessimistic, but he is certainly
not alone in urging a clearer statement
on which a satisfactory settlement might
be made, or in expecting that the alter-
native, for all the one-sided pasting the
Japs lately appear to have been getting,
will be a long and bitter conflict, with
the military ending certain and favor-
able enough, but the political ending con-
siderably less so.
Subsequent to President Truman’s
statement. Senator White insisted that
the President should “state specifically
what unconditional surrender means to
the Japanese”; should point out that
“Japan’s choice is either annihilation or
surrender with permission to continue
peaceful pursuits.” Senator White’s view
was that the term should not mean “the
destruction of Japan’s home life, religion
or peaceful occupations.”
Others besides these in America seem
to take a less optimistic view of the
Pacific war reporting than might be ex-
pected on the face of it. While holding
that there is nothing that can save the
Japs from the certainty of ultimate de-
feat, they contend, in the words of one
of them, that “an agreed Japanese sur-
render to the United States and Great
Britain would be the happiest and most
sensible ending of the war.” They feel,
as all must, that the Japs will be com-
pletely destroyed and their country
ruined if they keep on, but they are far
from convinced that the Japs are going
to be anything like the easy thing the
recent unopposed attacks on their home-
land might suggest; and they are greatly
concerned over the possible American
casualties ahead.
Against what has apparently lately
been going on, it is pointed out that the
closer the land fighting has come to


[J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann and
of 252 Geoge-street, Sydney,
matter with a bearing on the
election.l
David Adams,
sign for any
Fremantle by-
Japan the more bitter has been the cost.
Iwo and Okinawa are looked on in
America as Buna to Australians ac-
quainted with the grim facts. Army and
Navy heads are quoted as believing an
investment of Japan “might mean half a
million American dead, besides a similar
ratio of British casualties.” And a ques-
tion exercising many thinking minds in
America has been expressed by a repre-
sentative writer in plain terms: “We
are not fighting Japan with the pur-
pose 'of giving the Soviet Union the
paramount position in China which- we
denied to Japan.”
Mr. Truman may be able to iron out
that, among other matters, in Potsdam.
In the meantime the Pacific war pre-
sents the puzzle of, on the one hand,
reported easy going, and, on the other,
of a job ahead to bring it to an end
which will probably make the hardest
fighting so far seem to have been merely
skirmishing. Unless, perhaps, the out-
come of Potsdam may be either an ac-
ceptable alternative to a last-ditch fight
or another ally to help make such a
fight look even more like certain national
obliteration than it looks now.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Robbers and Receivers.
In a chequered week for communist
officialdom, “Twelve British Merchant
Seamen” addressed a letter to Sydney
“Sun” saying “Your war effort on the
docks” — i.e., wharves—“is plain lousy ;
in fact it stinks and is a disgrace to the
United Nations.”
We have taken five times as long to com-
plete our normal routine here as in other
parts of the world, including Argentina. In
that country we have been accustomed
throughout the war to speedy and efficient
loading, together with a great deal of hospi-
tality.
Then Australian Comforts Fund men,
taking delivery of parcels from a ship in
Darling Harbor, discovered that many
cases had been broached, apparently in
South Australia.
Communist officialdom threatened
“strong action against any unionist found
guilty of pillaging A.C.F. parcels,” author-
ity determining guilt and nature of
“strong action” undefined. No word
came from Mr. Keane, the Minister of
Customs, who promised several months
ago to stamp out “pillaging.” Mr. Keane’s
mob moved with tremendous celerity and
ruthlessness against the Portland (N.S.W.)
butcher, an honest man but out of favor
with the mob.
It was reserved for Justice Philp, of
the Queensland Supreme Court, to express
what plain people think of wharf robbers
and receivers and the “penalties” usually
imposed on them when they are caught,
which happens rarely. The case was that
of a wharf laborer, aged 35, found guilty
of having received car tyres, the property
of the United States Government, know-
ing them to have been stolen, but
“strongly” recommended to mercy.
Before passing sentence .(“18 months’
hard”) his Honor, who had on another
occasion denounced the lilyfingered treat-
ment of railway robbers and receivers,
said:
The man who stole these tyres, which
were going forward to the Navy fighting
our enemy, got two months. I don’t under-
stand that. Three years ago a man was
■convicted before me of stealing from the
wharves and I sentenced him to 18 months.
Since then there have not been more than
two cases where men have come up before
juries. They have pleaded guilty before
magistrates, and in my opinion have been
given ridiculous sentences. There is no
right of appeal for the Crown from a
magistrate’s sentence; there is from a sen-
tence imposed by a Judge. The thing is a
matter for alarm.
A man who steals from the wharves or
who receives property stolen from the
wharves is a conduit pipe for the black
market. While men risk their lives at the
front in the Army and Navy of our country
and of our allies, people like this man
are white-anting their war efforts.
Unlike politicians who have the order-
ing of the “campaign” against waterfront
and railway robbers and receivers, Jus-
tice Philp is an Old Digger.
Fish "Control."
“Bray Rock”: Fish prices are already
outside the range of the average Queens-
land housewife’s domestic budget, but
Mr. Dedman’s recent announcement
will now put them at black-market
levels. That eminent statesman has
decreed that on and after August 31
all fish offered in Queensland by
wholesalers will be subject to Com-
monwealth control under the National
Security (Fish) Regulations. His ascribed
reason for “control” is to ensure that
hospitals, hospital ships, institutions which
care for aged, sick and infirm persons
and troops in operational areas shall
receive adequate supplies.
Mr. Dedman announced also that the
Commonwealth Government had been
“aware and disturbed for some time by
the knowledge that supplies of fish were
scarce and prices too high.” Both are
■capable of prompt remedy. Were Mr.
Dedman’s “Government” capable of
intelligent action, its first move would
be to have all professional fishermen
released forthwith from home-service
in the Australian forces and from the
clutches of Man-power. The next would
be to issue to them sufficient engine-
fuel to carry on with their job, with
reasonable grants in aid to enable them
to get their boats and gear into working
shape again.
Jack Moses.
“Old-timer’s” farewell:
If you lived in any fairly closely settled
N.S.W. district and made a habit of going
round to all the agricultural shows within 100
miles of your post-office you were likely to
see the same d’oyley set or “best handwriting
boys under 14” or even “best plate of six
scones made with Aunt Biddy’s baking-powder”
winning prize after prize. There was a water-
color, done by some earnest young woman
(now in all likelihood the mother of fighting
men), which bobbed up at Boggabri or Taralga
or Uranquinty or it may have been Con’s
Harbor,. and kept on being exhibited until its
corners frayed and its colors faded and show
secretaries didn’t know whether it was meant
for the arts section or “best sample of ensiled
clover hay.” But there was another exhibit
that never missed a show anywhere between
the Murray and Urandangie and never lost
freshness —Jack Moses.
About sft. 3in. high, with a chunky body
on sturdy legs, topped by a beaming dial whose
eyes crinkled with good fellowship, he had a
little table just inside or just outside the
“pavilion.” While your nose sported with the
delicious mixture of smells coming from cheese,
honey, butter, preserves, bacon, spuds, apples,
fresh sawdust, baled lucerne and so forth, he’d
say “Try this, boy —just a bit of God’s sun-
shine from the land of milk and honey”; and
you’d b'e a glass of good Australian
wine. At night, when the show society held its
“smoke social,” the little man would be there,
beaming like his own Australian sun and re-
citing “Nine Miles from Gundagai” or telling
his yarn of how to improve bacon by crossing
Berkshire sows with artesian bores. I suppose
Jack Moses told that yarn on an average of
once a week for 50 years, but it always brought
the house down because its author was so sub-
limely confident that it would do so.
Nobody seems to remember when Jack Moses
first began “doing” the shows. Probably some
long-dead secretary found him standing, quiet
and unassuming, his smile turned full on, by
a “pavilion” on a long-forgotten show day,
paused, wondered whence he came and then
hurried on to see that the vehicle-gate keeper
wasn’t letting anyone through on the nod. And
probably, as Jack Moses drifted through the
country, and new generations grew to recog-
nise him, he became an accepted feature of the
rural scene. He was an integral part of “show
day” anywhere, from one-day stands in the
saltbush to the Sydney Royal itself, as inevit-
able as the high jump or the Bearded Lady or
the man with the saveloy stand. Later on,
when the whole blessed country was reciting his
“Nine Miles from Gundagai” and , its 101
parodies, they’d meet the little man and sample
his wine and wait expectantly as though he were
about to reel off some more catchy verses. And
when it was quiet in the “pavilion,” with the
crowd gathered elsewhere for the trots or the
sheaf-toss or Jimmy Sharman’s pugs, he’d go
and stand before the products of his coun y
earth and be moved to silent emotion.
I caught him twice in such moments on P d
Yass and again at Dubbo. When 1 put a hand
Sl,if shoulder and asked “How's she gom.
Jack?” he turned; and there were the sn ? h
and the tears in his eyes and out came t
words “Boy, what a country!
theme-song for over 50 years. Recently, when
advancing age and war restrictions st°PP® dia
travels, he took to hanging about the Area
in Pitt-street, or between the Metiopole
the Royal Exchange. Not in the way of th
thirsty idler, but because he knew that country
people favored those spots and he washkey to
meet men and women from the Monarohillsor
the plains about Jenldene or under the ” d
rumbungles or from up on “
the black ridges south of Inyerell a nd hear now
everyone was doing. He got more sheer happi
ness out of being Australian and seeing. Aus
tralia and living Australia than any other ma
ever got out of achievement or money 01 love
° f 1 V for the last time about
seven weeks ago. He had wanted the Federal
Government to take advantage of the presence
of so many sons of other soils and erect a big
display of Australian land produce .m Martm
place—“ Boy, that would bring immigrants.
The Government had other things to do.
Jack Moses is dead at 85, his dream of Au -
tralia as “the tuckerbox of the nations un-
realised but possible of fulfilment before he is
forgotten. In him the bush has lost a mend
and the nation a minor prophet.
"Surplus Goods."
Anyone now in the throes of meeting
income tax and surcharge could not have
been relieved by reading Commonwealth
Disposals Commission advertisements of
surplus goods for sale. Among thou-
sands of items in two lists for two sepa-
rate depots near Sydney, the following
“bargains” appeared:
Eight thousand three hundred and sixty-eight
meter magnets, 18,211 ft. of flexible conduit,
132.000 eyelets, 50,000 various insulators,
16.000 lock nuts, 34,000 oak switch parts,
30.000 various plugs, 50,000 rivets, 75,000
block rivets, 100,000 assorted washers,
14,000 ft. wire, 10 cases Burgundy dye, 35
rolls wire-netting, 17,000 groundsheets,
waterproof coats and trousers, 100 sets
boxing gloves, 75 medicine balls, 120 foot-
ball covers, 200 punch-ball pads and
buckets, dixies, etc., wheelbarrows, tentpoles
baths, angle-iron, tanks, pulleys, aircraft
wheels, etc., etc.
All bought out of the proceeds of taxes
and loans, and the goods were auctioned
off regardless. Groundsheets went for
Bd. and leather braces for 2d. each —to
civilians presumably. In the U.S.A. when
surplus military goods are disposed of
preference is given to servicemen.
THIRTY-NINERS.
“Ever heard about Anzac leave? Dad said he was on his way back to Australia four years after he joined up.”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners'
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance,
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company,
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
W
it nit I
iff
mi
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together, with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
"METROPOLEr Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
Chifley was sworn in as P.M. on Friday
the 13th ; and he doesn’t seem to see
any baleful significance in the day of the
week or the month. Fadden, on becom-
ing the 13th P.M., complacently recalled
that he had already brought off a treble
event —“born April 13, began 'work
January 13, No. 13 when I passed my
accountancy exam.” Alas, in three times
13 days Artie had to hand over to
Curtin!
After saying he was “giving the matter
very serious consideration,” Tonkin, the
Westralian' Minister of Education, de-
cided not to come out for Federal Fre-
mantle, Wise, the Minister of Lands,
having already resolved that he had better
not risk his chance of succeeding Will-
cock as Premier. So the A.L.P. executive
was reduced to making a choice from 13
aspirants little known beyond the Trades
Hall, this while D. M. Cleland, a returned
soldier of this war, was opening the cam-
paign for the Liberals, with Deputy-
Leader Harrison speaking for him. The
Labor idea is that war conditions have
so increased the Labor vote in the elec-
torate that almost any accredited candi-
date, however obscure, could hold it for
Our Party.
The Middle Ages had their Children’s
Crusades. Almost as pitiful was a pro-
cession of children, organised by the
ex-Servicemen’s Protest Club, which
marched through Melbourne bearing
banners marked “My Daddy is a
P.-0.-W.; No Home for Him Here,” and
“We Pray for a Home: Who is to
Blame?” One bore the picture of a shed
with a family in occupation. The
organisers reported _ that the public
response was apathetic, but not so that
of Mr, Dunstan. A few days later it was
announced that the State Government
had appointed another official to “in-
vestigate the position of housing accom-
modation.”
W. A. Harris, president of the ex-
Servicemen’s Protest Club, and his father
set out from Melbourne last week to
hitch-hike to Canberra, there to present
a resolution to Chifley, signed by 3000
persons, asking for men and materials
for building houses. They intend to
impress on the P.M. that they are the
vanguard of 600,000 servicemen who will
soon be coming home, many with no
home to go to.
“We are in the midst of a world revo-
lution to which nothing is comparable
since the Reformation. The world is
going Left and it is going Left irresis-
tibly.” So wrote Laski in one of the
articles which brought trouble in large
quantities on British Labor at the general
election, and the cocksure little gentle-
man condescended to glance at these
parts:
The new orientation in Australia and
New Zealand only -anticipates what the
brave guerrilla armies of the occupied
countries have learned to demand in the
bitter experience of their long agony.
The said “orientation” is anything but a
fixed quantity, as next year’s elections
will demonstrate. In Australia com-
munists are on the run, and those who
have crept into Labor organisations are
being chased out at a great rate.
A plan for compulsory pasteurisation
of Melbourne’s milk has been described
by the Mayor of Richmond as “another
instance of Mr. Dunstan’s Hitlerite tac-
tics,” and a milk vendor who happens
to be a Port Melbourne councillor char-
acterises it as “monstrous.” This is hard
on Dunstan. The demand for pasteurisa-
tion came during the 1943 epidemic.
when there were so many cases of
typhoid, all traced to one individual in
a dairy, that Moorabbin residents
were quitting the district. Although
pasteurisation has disadvantages, as well
as advantages, scientific opinion is all on
its side. Less than 10 p.c. of Melbourne's
dairies have pasteurisation equipment.
Introducing the bill which is to
“nationalise” airlines, if the oracle can
be worked, Drakeford, who has withheld
A. B. Corbett’s adverse report, neverthe-
less quoted from it figures which he judged
would suit his case. In Britain a com-
mittee under the chairmanship of Justice
Cohen has recommended that, in order to
check reckless company promoters, any
extract from the report of an expert
should not be allowed in a prospectus
without the authority’s written approval.
Victoria’s Government is dead against
lotteries, and that is a good thing. Still,
it gets its pickings from the gambling
spirit. Turnover of totalisators for the
current season, with two race meetings
still to go, is £6,124,101 10s, against
£4,791,858 in the 1943-44 season.
Charities, hospitals and other institutions
will receive £350,000 for the year’s opera-
tions.
Melbourne “Argus” repeated a story
that Moscow had made a diplomatic
matter of a “character-study” of Stalin,
DROPPING THE PILOT (1945 VERSION).
published in a Swedish magazine, which
“cited ‘rumors’ that Stalin, after a night
of heavy drinking, drove back to the
Kremlin happily shooting his revolver,”
Such “rumors” were featured for years
in Left-wing newspapers and magazines,
though Stalin was never the subject. The
“Argus” didn’t mention a Swedish press
reaction to Moscow’s demand for an
apology and a guarantee of future cen-
sorship, answered by an expression of
regret that the magazine article had been
considered offensive. An obviously in-
spired Stockholm newspaper article came
out with the charge that when the
Russians occupied Budapest they looted
the city and “broke into the Swedish
Legation building, threatening the staff
with death and carrying off the legation
safe, where money belonging to Hungarian
Jews was deposited.” The closing words
were “It is still worse that female em-
ployees were raped,”
For publishing an attack on Fallon,
Queensland secretary of the A.W.U.
and formerly general secretary and
Federal president of the A.L.P., Brisbane
“Telegraph” has been ordered to pay him
£l5OO damages for libel. The attack was,
as it were, combined operations on the
part of communist union bosses, Wells
and McPhillips, and was telegraphed
from Sydney. In cross-examination
Fallon admitted having, with the Queens-
land “Worker,” been cast in £lOOO
damages for having alleged that Fadden
had employed Italians to the exclusion
of Australians on a sugar farm in which
Artie was interested. He said “The
‘Worker’ people paid the damages and
costs.”
If any proof were needed that there
are too many Ministers at Canberra it
was given, regardless of the public purse,
when the octogenarian Senator Collings
was named Vice-President of the Execu-
tive Council, Johnson, the new man, being
placed in charge of the Department of
the Interior. At 76 Hughes was Minister
of External Affairs and Vice-President of
the Executive Council.
A high Commonwealth Government
official catalogued the various authori-
ties which have a finger in the housing
pie:
War Organisation, Supply and Shipping,
Man-power, Munitions, Division of Import
Procurement, Disposals Commission, Com-
monwealth War Housing Commission.
He could have added a couple of dozen
State authorities, from housing commis-
sions downward, all passing the buck
to one another (“it’s a Federal matter” ;
“it’s a State matter”). The solution pro-
posed is a Ministry of Building with a
fresh horde of officials. Yet there is the
recent example of Essington Lewis, with
the delegated powers of a dictator, build-
ing whole cities overnight for the Army,
Navy and Air Force.
A New York “appreciation” of
Canada’s financial achievement:
The annual budget before the war was
something like $500,000,000. During these
last years Parliament has voted approxi-
mately ten times as much and although it
has kept a watchful eye on expenditure
it never has refused any war appropriation.
From the outset the plan has been strictly
adhered to —to pay for 50 p.c. of war costs
out of taxation, while the other half has
b’een raised by successive loans that have
always been fully subscribed.
And, besides bearing a great part of the
cost of the Empire Air Training Scheme,
Canada, in the name of mutual aid, has
made a gift worth $1,000,000,000 to
Britain and another of the same amount
to “all the United Nations seeking credit,”
Australia among them. Comparisons
may be odious to some people, but they
can be instructive where people are will-
ing to learn.
For a wonder a Labor speaker on the
Bank Bill had a good word for the trad-
ing banks, Senator McKenna, from Tas-
mania, saying that they have “given a
good deal of service in the development
of Australia.” He added, as a reproach,
that “their first aim must necessarily be
to preserve the assets of theif share-
holders and make profits.” They have
also to “preserve the assets” of deposi-
tors, who in case of trouble come in
before shareholders, and as lenders they
have an enduring interest in seeing, as
far as it lies in their power, that the
purchasing power of the Australian
pound doesn’t go to the bowwows. Here
they are doing a good job not only for
their depositors and shareholders but for
everyone with a pay envelope, a bank
account, a war bond, a life- or
endowment policy, a pension or the ex-
pectation of a service gratuity. There is
no real security against depreciation under
political control of money and credit.
Russian seizure of the great Osram
bulb factory in Germany is not to be
taken as meaning that the blackout on
eastern Europe is to be lifted.
Molotov in a speech (October 13,
1939):
The German and the Soviet Governments
.... declare it their unanimous opinion
that it would be in the real interests of all
nations to end the state of war existing
between Germany on the one hand and
Britain and France on the other.... The
two Governments will therefore make every
effort in co-operation with other friendly
Powers in order to attain this end as soon
as possible. If their efforts do not succeed
the fact will then be proved that Britain
and France are responsible for continuation
of the war. If the war should be continued
joint consultations will occur between the
German and Soviet Governments on the
subject of the necessary measures.
Oh, what a difference on the morning
of June 22, 1941!
“Apparently no one at the conferences
with Mr. Stalin has been bold enough
to ask him why he made his deal with
Hitler.” Thus a U.S. newspaper ; and it
didn’t stop there:
If Mr. Churchill has not asked Mr.
Stalin any embarrassing questions he prob-
ably has not told him any embarrassing
truths, such as that he owes his safety to
England. If England had made peace in
1940 on the assurance that Germany did
not want to destroy the Empire, but did
want to drive Russia out of Europe, Hitler
would not have made near-misses at Lenin-
grad, Moscow and Stalingrad.
The Chicago “Tribune” is the culprit.
And now communist and Left Wing
Labor politicians who wanted to have it
kept out of Australia will perhaps see that
it is kept out.
The New York “Journal-American” is
another paper which has become compli-
mentary to Britain. It stated recently
that U.S. civil-aviation policy was not a
patch on that of the British Govern-
ment, which, it said, will give Britain
“great prestige and accrue to the general
advantage of the nation.” -It selected for
special praise a passage from the British
White Paper:
It is the essence of the Government’s
plan that those interests concerned in
transport by sea and by land should be
brought into a real and effective partner-
ship with the organisations which will be
responsible for transport by air.
What this Hearst paper would say of the
Drakefprd civil-aviation “policy” can be
left to the imagination. Drakeford
damned one of the airline concerns be-
cause shipping people had shares in it.
Communists, like horses, run in all
shapes and names. One of the six per-
sons arrested in the U.S.A. last month
on espionage charges was described as
having been born in Moghilev, Russia,
and naturalised as Phillip Jaffe. As “J .W.
Phillips”, he edited two communist publi-
cations, finding the losses on both
and expenditure as treasurer of the
National Council for American Soviet
Friendship out of his profits as “a
manufacturer of Christmas cards.”
Arraigned with Jaffe, alias Phillips,
was a writer, Mark J. Gayn, “born
Ginsbourg,” and grounded at a Soviet
school in Vladivostock. It is alleged
that Jaffe and party had the use of secret
documents stolen from Washington de-
partments and offices, War, Navy and
State among them.


Cyilajute
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
The longest gubernatorial reign in Tas-
mania’s history since Colonel George
Arthur comes to an end with the depar-
ture to England this month of Sir Ernest
Clark, G.C.M.G., K.C.8., K.C.M.G.,
C. In Australia earlier on an eco-
nomic mission in the depression days, he
became Governor of the Apple Isle in
1933. A big industrialist —a director of
London’s Underground Railways, Mar-
tin’s Bank, Harland and Wolff and other
companies—he started out as a lawyer.
His successor, Admiral Sir Hugh Binney,
was associated with Australian troops at
Gallipoli and later commanded H.M.S.
Hood.
Pictured here, Lieut.-Col. C. H. B. Nor-
man commands a famous Westralian bat-
talion of the Ninth Division. He joined
the unit upon its foundation with the rank
of lieutenant. Subsequently he received
an extra pip, and was with an anti-tank
company, and a gallant piece of work at
Tobruk earned him the M.C. As a major
he rejoined his original unit at El Alamein
shortly after the grim Ruin Ridge fight
and before the battalion left Australia for
New Guinea in ’43 he became its com-
manding officer. The unit’s crossing of
the turbulent Busu River under heavy fire
is now history, and Norman wears the
D. A son of the soil in Groperland
LIEUT.-COL. NORMAN, D.S.O., M.C.
in happier days, he was educated at the
Perth Hale School, where his athletic
prowess, particularly in footrunning, is
still remembered.
The Worshipful Company of Musi-
cians, incorporated by Edward IV in
1469, has awarded its rare Silver Medal
to Lieut. David Crawley, the picturesque
bandmaster who brought the Royal
Papuan Constabulary Native Band to
Australia, for skill and enthusiasm in
teaching the untutored native to read
and make music. Teaching them to read
it was much harder than encouraging
them to make it. Born in London, Lieut.
Crawley became a New Guinea police
officer in 1935. He escaped from Rabaul
when the Japs came and his bandsmen
effaced themselves in the jungle. Craw-
ley got them all blowing together again
in 1943.
Touching on the passing of Jack
Moses (B. 18/7/’45), Frank Rusconi,
who built the Dog on the Tucker-Box
Memorial on the Hume Highway, is still
going strong in Gundagai (N.S.W.). Born
at Araluen (N.S.W.), Rusconi served a
long apprenticeship in marble work in
France, England and Italy, An artist with
a mason’s tools, he is still in business,
but he has found time over a 28-years
period to construct what is known as
“Rusconi’s Masterpiece in Marble,” fin-
ished in 1938. About 4ft. high by 3ft.
wide, it contains 20,948 pieces of pol-
ished Australian marble of astonishingly
beautiful hues, and looks a cross between
a magnificent Town Hall and the Taj
Mahal. Its meticulous accuracy in
dimension and finish has been ecstati-
cally praised by distinguished visitors to
Gundagai. Rusconi also built the Gun-
dagai War Memorial, and a month or so
back had nearly completed a marble
model of a European cathedral altar he
built in his young days.
Another of the batch of Australians
going to Germany for U.N.R.R.A.,
Squadron-Leader Leonard Sumner Potts
served with the Light Horse in the early
part of 1914-18, and after Gallipoli
was among the first of the Light Horse-
men selected for training as pilots. In
No. 1 Squadron in Palestine, he was in
the motor trade after the war before
taking up plantation management in New
Guinea. In the present war he’s had Si-
years’ service on R.A.A.F, administration.
For “de-lousing”;
Experimentally de-lousing some of the plain
and fancy mines dropped round Britain —a job
to which, as the troops would say, there’s no
flamin’ future —earned a small group of Aus-
tralian Navy men some very high awards.
Heading the list, and the most highly decorated
member of the R.A.N., is Westralian Lieut.-
Commander L. V. Goldsworthy, G.C., D.S.C.,
G.M., R.A.N.V.R. Specialising in the diving-
suit job of handling mines under water, he col-
lected the George Medal in April, 1944, a
“mention,” promotion and the George Cross in
the same year, and the D.S.C. in January, 1945.
The diving business has hazards enough of its
own without adding mines to it. Coming up
from working on a submerged acoustic mine
Goldsworthy spiked his helmet on the diving
ladder, flooding his suit, but, rescued by a sea-
man member of the R.N., he went down again
and finished the job in 28 minutes. Lieut. Hugh
R. Syme, G.C., G.M., and bar, R.A.N.V.R.,
of Melbourne, one of the few who won a
George Medal and bar and the only Australian
to collect the George Cross as well as those
decorations, dealt with ten assorted unexploded
mines, including a parachute type hanging in a
house ’by its cords, and another which had
buried itself beside a water reservoir. To deal
with the buried one Lieut, Syme burrowed
through eight feet of clay, struck the wrong side
of the mine, dug round to the fuse on the other
side, with water pouring into the trench, and
then, of necessity, withdrew the fuse by hand,
a job previously always done from a great dis-
tance. Similar stories of ice-cool heroism
could be told of the others mentioned in the
awards: Lieut. K. S. Upton, G.M.; Lieut.-
Commander J. S. Mould, G.C., G.M.; Lieut.-
Commander G. J. Cliff, 0.8. E., G.M. and bar;
Lieut.-Commander H. D. Reid, G.M. and bar;
Commander A. W. R. .McNicoll, G.M.; Petfy-
Officer J. T. Humphries, G.M.; and Lieut.
J. H. Kessack, who was posthumously awarded
the George Medal after losing his life while
working on a mine in 1941.
Noted here as one of the youngest of
the fine crop of young A.I.F. officers of
this war at the time he led the artillery-
men who parachuted with their guns into
the Markham Valley, Lieut. John N.
Pearson has now been reported killed in
action. He gained his commission at 20,
and saw Middle East service before re-
turning to go on to New Guinea. Only
a few years back he represented Mel-
bourne Grammar in football and cricket,
and was the school boxing champion at
his weight. He won the M.C. last year.
His people live at Richmond (N.S.W.),
where his father manages the branch of
the Commercial Bank.
Rev. Norman F, Cocks, Congregation-
alist, comes to Australia as secretary of
the London Missionary Society for this
country and Maoriland. A new post, it
also takes in Papua.
The keen eyes looking out of the
sketch by Mcßeath would be recog-
nised anywhere as belonging to a deep-
water sailor. They belong to Admiral
Sir Louis Henry Kappel Hamilton,
K. C. 8., D.S.O. and bar, lately
landed in Melbourne to become First
Naval Mdmber of the Australian Com-
monwealth Naval Board and Chief of
Naval Staff in succession to Admiral Sir
Guy Royle. In 1903 Admiral Hamilton
was in his first term of the Osborne and
Dartmouth schemes. A lieutenant when
the last war started, he gained a D.S.O. in
the Cameroons. He was in charge of
the river flotilla which drove the Ger-
mans from Dehane in December, 1914,
and later commanded a detachment which
shifted a naval gun 160 miles up the
Niger, thence 480 miles up tlie Benue and
finally 60 miles cross-country. The gun
assisted in producing the German sur-
render at Garua in 1915. In a destroyer
at the Jutland Battle, the new First Naval
Member got the bar to his D.S.O. as com-
mander of Aurora at Narvik in the second
German war, and was a rear-admiral in
the Combined Operations raid on the
FIRST NAVAL MEMBER.
Lofoten Islands which destroyed German
sea communications without a casualty.
Also, in July, 1942, he commanded the
First. Cruiser Squadron when it covered
the Murmansk convoy, which suffered the
heaviest air attack ever delivered against
a convoy. Almost continuously at sea
since the outbreak, he was vice-admiral,
Malta, when he got his present appoint-
ment. Admiralship runs in the family.
Sir Louis is the eldest son of Admiral Sir
Frederick Hamilton, and grandson of
Admiral of the Fleet Sir Henry Keppel
and of Captain George Hamilton, R.N.
He is 54 and unmarried.
Commander Lionel Robinson, presi-
dent of Victoria’s Chamber of Manu-
factures, has been first in several things.
Born in Melbourne in 1888, he left for
England at 15 to join the R.N., was a
midshipman at 17, a lieutenant at 21,
and the first naval man to get a new
shore job, commanding armored trains
operating in Flanders. Back to the sea,
he was in the Navy off Ostend and at
Zeebrugge, was mentioned four times in
dispatches and landed a D.S.C. and the
Belgian and French Croix de Guerre.
Back in civvies, he supervised the instal-
lation of the first cotton-spinning mill in
COMMANDER LIONEL ROBINSON.
Victoria, as director of Austral Silk and
Cotton Mills. These days he’s director
and g.m. of Bradford Cotton Spinning
and Weaving Mills, and a director of
Maryborough Knitting Mills and a mort
of other shows. Until the other day he
was Controller of Cotton for the Federal
Government, Commander Robinson was
aide-de-camp to the Prince of Wales dur-
ing his Australian visit, and was made a
member of the Royal Victorian Order,
retiring from the Navy in 1926. Now
his son is in the Navy somewhere in the
region of Brunei.
“K.S.”: Chris Nielsen, who has passed
on at 85, was known to practically every
Sydney oarsman of the ’nineties. A like-
able little Dane, he was not in the first
flight as a sculler, but has left his mark
on the design of present-day racing boats.
The needle-shaped contraptions in vogue
in the days of Beach and Searle —cranky
to sit and hard to steer —were replaced
by Nielsen with a craft about half the
length. He demonstrated in races the
advantage of his new design, the rapid
adoption of which was reminiscent of the
manner in which a few years before the
penny-farthing had been supplanted by
the “safety” bicycle. Few of the men
who saw him at a reunion of old oarsmen
a couple of years back realised how many
milestones he had passed.
Stan Staton, who manages the trading
department of the R.S.L. in Sydney, has
been 25 years in the job, and tomorrow
(Thursday) night he and his wife (also in
the department) are being given a dinner
in honor of the occasion. Stan’s head-
quarters in Wingello House have become
an unofficial club for Old Diggers, and
younger ones are finding their way in
now.
From John Brennan:
Others may fight and command her, but it’s
Engineer-Commander R. W. Carmichael, her
chief engineer, who looks after H.M.A.S.
Kanimbla. He saw her birth, and he’s been
with her ever since—as passenger liner on the
Australian coast, armed merchant cruiser (she
was H.M.S. then), and as an infantry landing
ship in Pacific invasions from Dutch New
Guinea to Brunei Bay. An Irishman from Bel-
fast, the Chief went to sea in 1923, In ’32 he
took a job on Wanganella to make a quick trip
to Australia because he’d been “everywhere else
in the world.” The climate or something got
him; he married an Australian girl and stayed
on. In ’36 he went back to England to watch
Kanimbla building, and to bring her out. When
war began in ’39 Kanimbla was en route from
Melbourne to Cairns. She was called back,
the first ship of her kind to be converted for
war. As an A.M.C. she saw service as an
escort vessel and patrol craft in the Indian
Ocea’n. Her guns supported an attack by Indian
troops on Bandar Shapur in the Persian Gulf,
and there, too, she shot up a railway train
which was evacuating German and Italian
troops from the town. Before her second con-
version—to an L.S.I. —Kanimbla had chalked up
22 ships, two gunboats and a floating dock on
her list of captures. The Chief has had worries
for his ship in attacks by Jap dive-bombers in
Lingayen Gulf, but he’s never been so worried
as he was in that Persian Gulf show, when
Kanimbla ran alongside the blazing Italian
tanker Bronte to put a boarding party on her.
He’d willingly give up all the prizemoney his
ship has brought him if somebody could find
a way to stop troops stubbing their cigarettes
on her decks.
Into the silence:
At 92, in Brisbane, Thomas Denning, a native
of Portsmouth (Eng.), who trained at Greenwich
Naval College, then on the Victory, and first saw
Australia as a signaller on H.M.S. Avenger, on
which Thacombau signed the papers which
made Fiji a British possession. Making Aus-
tralia his home 60 years ago, he was for many
years with the old Lqndon Bank of Australia
(now E., S. and A.).
In Melbourne, at 76, Marcus Saltau, for 16
years a Victorian Legislative Councillor and
for 29 years chairman of Warmambool Woollen
Mills.
In Melbourne, Frederick W. Johns, chairman
of directors of Johns and Waygood. His father
founded the firm which installed most of the
lifts in Melbourne.
In Adelaide, at 55, after a brief illness, Dr.
Horace Edgar Dunstone, who had just been
elected for his fourth term as Mayor of St.
Peters. His eldest son, Dr. Sydney Dunstone,
is with the R.A.A.F. in Borneo.
At Sassafras (Vic.), Mrs. Henrietta Maria
Gulliver, landscape painter; a foundation
member of the Society of Twenty Melbourne
Painters and past-president of the Melbourne
Society of Woman Painters.
At Darwin, as the result of a motor accident,
Flight-Lieut. G. W. Young, a prominent athlete
at Scotch College, Melbourne, and later settled
in Adelaide as manager for the Nestle Co.
In Sydney, at 75, Arthur Nelson Littlejohn,
senior partner in the Sydney legal firm of
Vindin and Littlejohn. A son of Thomas Little-
john, for 50 years senior partner of Scott, Hen-
derson, he was born in Paddington, educated
at Sydney Grammar, and admitted as a solicitor
in 1892.
At 90, in Melbourne, Arthur Peck, architect,
. adventurer and yachtsman. For half a cen-
tury he and his small yacht Maysie were synony-
mous for adventurous cruises. Races across
Bass Strait and a 5000-mile voyage to the
South Seas with Elliott Giles, of Melbourne
Grammar, another first-class yachtsman, were
interspersed with trips across the Tasman. Peck
filled every office in the Royal Y.C. in turn,
founded the Port Phillip Club and was commo-
dore of the Davey’s Bay Club; and he learnt
to fly when he was 80. Three Australian Gov-
ernor-Generals accompanied him on yachting
cruises.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“A.G.A.”; The present unhappy state
of Poland brings back memories of
A.G.H. at Gaza Ridge in 1942, and our
Polish brother-in-arms Caesar, who, with
both legs broken, hung suspended above,
rather than lay on, the bed next to mine.
His command of English was limited, but
he did manage to conduct a five-minutes’
conversation with Lieut.-Gen. Morshead,,
both looking like choristers as they
shared a Polish-English dictionary. Caesar’s
thirst for news was great. Each day
at one o’clock I used to tune-in to the
news in Polish from the Palestine Broad-
casting Corporation, and he would lie
back and grunt contentedly. So
emphatic were his grunts one day,
that I ventured to . ask if the news
was particularly good. “Good?” he
said, fumbling for '■ words, “Yes —
it is good. Yesterday the Russians
say they kill 10,000 Germans. That is
good. And the Germans —they say they
kill 10,000 Russians. That is good also,”
# $ # $
Authority, with its customary
disregard for historical relics, threatens
with demolition the old square-towered
building so long a landmark at La
Perouse (Sydney). Built in the days of
Macquarie, this structure of beautifully
dressed blocks of sandstone was designed
as a kind of guardhouse for that portion
of the coastline, and as an observation
post against attempts at smuggling. It is
one of the very few Macquarie buildings
which do not bear either his or his
family names, and for a long time was
used as a home for naval veterans. Apart
from its association with the regime of a
far-seeing governor, the old place deserves
preservation, if only as a ver£ worthy
example of the stonemason’s art.
“Petermac”: A chap I know who, as an
unemployed lad during the depression,
had wandered around a Big City besieg-
ing countless offices and factories for a
job was told more times than he cares
to remember “We’ll put your name on
our waiting list.” Years rolled on, but
his name never seemed to’crop up, so he
went into business on his own account,
and was doing well when war broke
out and he got into khaki. De-
livered to him in Borneo was a
letter from a Sydney firm informing
him of a vacancy for a junior clerk,
and promising that if he duly presented
himself he would be engaged. With his
tongue in his cheek the warrior posted
the letter on to Man-power, accompanied
by a request for his release from the
army to undertake this “essential; service.”
* * * *
“S.S.”: “Ex-Cav” (B. 11/7/’45) was
unusually fortunate in his possession of
a Bren-gun carrier capable of doing a
mile a minute. Normal top speed is
40-45 m.p.h. And it shouldn’t have taken
six weeks of specialised training to teach
him to drive the vehicle. The Army
School course in N.S.W. was 21 days,
and this included a thorough grounding
in mechanism. Actual driving practice
occupied less than a week, and included
stunts such as obstacle crossing. The
carrier admittedly has one or two un-
usual features, but once these are known
it is not hard to drive. It is envis-
aged that these vehicles could be used
as tractors for seeding, land clear-
ing on steep slopes, general haulage, saw-
milling and as prime movers. From per-
sonal experience they are also wonderful
timber-getters. They will bring most
dead trees to the ground and haul them
away. Price, incidentally, is £3O plus
freight, not £5O.
* * * ♦
“G’pa”: Those trees in Morrison-
place, Melbourne, which lean at an angle
of 45deg. (B. 11/7/’45) are following a
law of Nature. The street is a short one
flanked on both sides by high buildings ;
consequently light and sun reach only
the centre of the street at any time, and
trees develop a list to enjoy what little
is available.
“Zake”; It is strange that the Sydney
people, renowned as breakers of by-laws
—cops have long since given up as a bad
job the idea of trying to stop them walk-
ing across streets obliquely—impose a
strict self-discipline when it comes to
queueing-up. If two or more persons
approach a fish-shop or a tobacco kiosk, a
bottle department or a bus stop, they un-
hesitatingly form into an orderly queue.
It often, of course, is taken to extreme
lengths—the habit as well as the snaky
line—as witness the chain-smoker who
took his place behind the last one of a
“Apologise to the lady and come inside at once!”
crowd on a footpath and read his pajier
while he waited. After about twenty
minutes he moved forward. Then he
was pushed into a car, the door was
slammed and'the funeral cortege he had
unwittingly joined moved off. The other
day on Wynyard a friend joined the
queue at the ticket window whilst I, hav-
ing a periodical ticket, stepped back into
an open space of the station to wait for
him. A minute later I happened to look
around. I found I was the head of a
queue of about 20, and what they said
when I moved off and they saw only a
blank space in front of them was blood-
curdling.
* * * *
“Lao-dah” on typhoons:
The typhoon which struck an American naval
force on June 5 was an early arrival. ' Usually
these storms roam the margins of Eastern Asia
in August, September and October, arising near
the Equator about long. 145 E and circulating
along a line that gradually curves northward
until it passes along the coasts of China and
Japan. The Jesuit observatory at Manila and
the observatory at Hong Kong used to issue
ample warning, and ships equipped with wire-
less could usually steer a course that took them
away from the centre of the disturbance, but,
even sp, a flick of the tail of the giant is some-
thing to remember. I was in one aboard an
Australian ship on its maiden voyage from
Sydney to China. For three days I lay in my
bunk while the cabin fittings and my belongings
disintegrated into two feet of stinking water
which thundered to and fro across the floor, to
the accompaniment of a deafening uproar which
suggested that the rest of the 10,000-tonner
was going to pieces. A terrified Chinese steward
appeared at the cabin doorway for a second,
looked me over and departed, and I prayed that
the ship wouldn’t sink. Later I was praying
that it would, but when we steamed into Hong
Kong the skipper came up and said I ought to
consider myself lucky that we had missed the
typhoon. Hong Kong signal station used to
hoist three warnings, with an interval between
them, and then fire a cannon. On one occa-
sion the three warnings were hoisted in quick
succession, and a few seconds later came the
report of the cannon. The harbor was in an in-
extricable state of chaos as native vessels
struggled for the typhoon shelters and Euro-
pean ships strengthened their cables, when the
great wind struck. The estimated deathroll was
10,000. The unfortunate man who had that
on his conscience was the cable clerk who had
mislaid the typhoon warning.
* * * ❖
“Radio”; Why do the moralists stop
short at banning radio comedians? For
some months now certain prominent men
have been drifting about with girl
friends, flaunting them in public, plac-
ing them in compromising positions and,
in short, acting in a most reprehensible
manner. I draw the attention of Mrs.
Grundy to the Phantom, to Mandrake,
Flash Gordon, Pop-Eye and others. If
our ears are to be protected, what about
our eyes? One, at least, behaves with
a fitting sense of decency, due perhaps
to his maternal training. I’m proud to
be able to announce that this Puritan is
an Australian —Ginger Meggs.
* * * *
V.S.P.A. with a correction:
“J.K.” (B. 6/6/’45) attributes the erection of
the George and Annis Bills troughs throughout
Victoria to the V.S.P.A., stating that this
society had been named “to administer a con-
siderable legacy left by the Bills for the pur-
pose of putting,these troughs in suitable places.”
This is incorrect. Mrs. W. H. Crook and her
late husband were the sole executors and
trustees of the George Bills estate, and were re-
sponsible for the placing of these troughs.
The V.S.P.A., however, has quite independently
been responsible for the placing of many troughs
throughout the State of Victoria.
♦ * * *
“Kea”: Before the Yanks and the
Aussies pinch all the limelight for queer
town nomenclature,- “Kelpinga*’ (B.
4/7/’45), consider these from Maoriland:
Gust, Bulls, Cave, Adam’s Flat, Gore,
Ho Ho, Moonlight, Oeo, Oue, The
Forks, The Key, Wayby, Bluff, Gummie’s
Bush, Rock and Pillar and Levels. Para-
dise, Eden, Jordan, Babylon and Jerusa-
lem provide a Scriptural touch;
Churchill, Cobden, Nelson and Lauder
give an Old World flavor ; Mt. Parnassus
and Styx supply classical allusions.
Maorilanders are probably grateful to
have such names peppered among the
native ones, such as Maungakaramea,
Tapuiwahine, Waerengaahika, Kauae-
ranga, Whatuwhiwhi, Awaawakino, Kai-
warawara, Maraekakaho, Ngaruawhia,
Raketapauma, Taringamotu, Whanga-
momona and Tangarakau.
* * * H=
“Hamer”: The fury of bombardment
Japan is undergoing brings to my mind
a book, The Kingdom of Madmen, pub-
lished 60 years ago. It was about two
countries which set all the world’s lead-
ing scientists to the job of preparing
secret weapons. Bombing from the air
was one of the ideas—possibly this book
was first to suggest it. Airships, “some-
times as many as twenty,” dropped heavy
bombs “often containing a hundred
pounds of explosives”; and by the time
Britain stepped in and said the business
had to stop all the citizens of Septonia
who survived had gone crazy. Compared
with the London blitzes the attacks men-
tioned with horror in the book would
have been picnics ; and the bombing now
being dealt out to Japan with fleets of
1000 ’planes makes the London blitzes
look small potatoes. Yet London re-
mained sane under its bombings; and I
don’t suppose that there will be any mass
insanity in Japan.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland is used to stormy
winters, but this year’s beats all. Gales
have practically marooned the North
Island, and supplies of coal from the
south have been mighty hard to obtain.
On a cold breezy Saturday afternoon the
s.s. Wingatui (2376 tons) left Wellington
bound for Westport to load coal. She
ran smack into a southerly blizzard. Got
through Cook Strait all right, but simply
could not make southing. Four days
after leaving port she was off New Ply-
mouth, 160 miles to the north, and run-
ning short of bunker coal. New Plymouth
couldn’t be entered in the storm, so the
Wingatui had to shape a course for the
only available northern haven —Auckland
—which involved rounding North Cape.
At the end of this journey of 200 miles
she had to re-coal —the Aucklanders
cursed her, for they were on their last
few tons —and started to battle her way
home down the east coast. She had to coal
again at Napier, and a month after setting
out she limped back into Wellington —to
bunker up sufficiently to take her on to
Westport. She must have burnt a lot
more coal than her hatches could hold.
JJ: * * #
“Hanko”; “Joypet” (B. 4/7/’45)
needn’t get superior about the American
soldiers’ lapping-up ice-cream. The
A.I.F. was jolly glad to get it at The
Landing. The .Fourth Battalion was
aboard the natty little packet Lake
Michigan, not long pressed from pleasure
cruises on the Great Lakes, and her
larders were crammed with dainties.
Bricks of banana and strawberry ice-
cream, at a shilling a pop, were first and
full-time favorite with the troops. For
the short while we were aboard that
little ship we lived like fighting cocks. A
few days after leaving her we were lousy,
bedraggled, half-starved and shot to
pieces. But we remembered the ice-cream.
* * * *
“Maleesh” on delivered captives and
barbed wire:
The barbed wire behind which returned
p.-0.-w were accommodated at Sydney Show-
ground became famous overnight, but according
to some of the chaps who slept there the
indignation was a bit overdone. The danger of
playing up an incident like that is that other,
better-grounded complaints may be dismissed
as equally captious. There is a strong impres-
sion that the official Australian attitude towardv
returned men compares unfavorably with, say,
that in Maoriland, and recently repatriated men
have not been fortunate. But they have always
a good word for the Australian Red Cross,
and there is nothing wrong with Melbourne’s
welcome to returned wanderers. When I came
back Melbourne was our first port of call, and
I have a firm belief that they do things much
better there than in Sydney. A military band
played us on to Australian soil and cars picked
us up and took up to Heidelberg Hospital. In
N.S.W. the welcome is less obvious. I’m told
the Showground has improved, but conditions
at Ingleburn camp, where returned p.-0.-w.
attend five roll-calls a day and do all sorts
of menial tasks, still leave much to be desired.
* * * *
“Jem”: Mention of old Jimmy Ahfoo,
of Longreach (B. 4/7/’45), recalls an
evergreen C.-W. Queensland yarn about
the time that the jovial Chinese fell foul of
the Shearers’ Union over the engagement
of a fellow-countryman as cook. Jimmy,
finding himself cornered, surrendered un-
conditionally. “All light,” he said. “)
sack him and I do the buddy cookin'
meself.” The gesture mollified even the
grim stalwarts of TB9l and 1894, for
Jimmy was a dandy chef. Incidentally,
as late as 10 years ago the Ah Foo Dance
Orchestra was still an institution at social
gatherings in C.-W.-Q.
“Lao-dah”: The bill passed by the
Philippines House of Representatives in
Manila forbidding the entry of Japanese
into the islands for all time recalls
Spanish days. Although Japan was
ostensibly a hermit kingdom and it was
death to leave the homeland, there were
communities of Japanese, mainly military
adventurers, all over the Malay Archi-
pelago. The Japanese quarter in Manila
became so large that the authorities began
to view it with apprehension, and a
wholesale massacre was'ordered or per-
mitted. During three days’ slaughter
20,000 of the race were eliminated ; but
within a few generations they were as
numerous as ever.
AT POTSDAM.
“Among the equipment for the Big Three con-
ference at Potsdam supplied by the U.S. military
authorities in Berlin were 200 bottles of ink, 100
waste-paper baskets and 250 corkscrews.”
\ —London cable.
’Tis reassuring to relate
This quickness to anticipate
The needs of the Triumvirate
At Potsdam.
Foregathered, met at last, we see
Bend to their task the Master Three,
Each with a goodly company,
. At Potsdam;
Their job' in counsel to unite
And seek to set all snags, despite
A sore disjointed Europe, right
At Potsdam;
To steer some nations past collapse,
And one thereto —to find perhaps
The surest way to out the Japs,
At Potsdam.
And all material in demand
When high debates like these are planned
’Tis good to know they’ll find at hand
In Potsdam.
There’s ink enough to see them through;
Whips of waste-paper baskets, too —
And like as not they’ll need a few
At Potsdam.
Nor should the final item irk
Good Templars. Talking’s thirsty work,
Whether at Booligal or Bourke
Or Potsdam.
You wouldn’t have their throats go dry
Who meet to straighten what’s awry,
And it’s a sultry month, July,
At Potsdam.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.
HE CAN TAKE IT.
“Senator Bon Cameron quoted from a letter he
had received criticising the radio ban and describing
him as ‘a dyed-in-the-wool wowser’.”
Few men at a cursory glance one discerns
Who would echo the wish that was uttered by
Bums
And be frankly desirous themselves to appraise
By the figure they’re cutting in other chaps’ gaze.
Even Rabbie himself, it is safe to assert,
Would quickly have found the experience hurt.
Still, no one’s the worse now and then for a
gleam
Of light on his standing in others’ esteem,
Not e’en when some critic, of bitterness full,
Accounts him a wowser who’s dyed-in-the-wool.
There are various uncomplimentary terms
Plain speaking demands and long, usage affirms
As fitting for blokes at each other to fling
In any or ev’ry political ring.
But such controversial brickbats and stones,
However regrettable, fracture no bones;
And when you’ve ascended to Cabinet rank
Your hide should be that of a galvanised tank.
Yet one must be tough not to find it a pull
To be branded a wowser who’s dyed-in-the-wool.
It’s an equable temper that wouldn’t be stirred
To wrath by that ultra-opprobrious word,
A gibe irresistibly calling to mind
A picture of Pecksniff and Stiggins combined.
Yet he takes it, this stab from some virulent
tongue,
His dander unrisen, his withers unwrung.
And gives the anonymous writer a quote
To prove that it’s useless for getting his goat,
What to others would be as red rag to a bull,
The label “a wowser who’s dyed-in-the-wool.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ That's another of those test-tube babies."
“Hist”: The keen eyes of collectors
who scrutinise each new Australian
stamp issue for variations have discovered
that one 34d. Gloucester stamp in each
sheet has the design of the bottom right-
hand corner noticeably doubled —due to
a technical fault in production. Such
deviations from the normal are well
worth looking for, because their collector
value is anything from fifty to a hundred
times that of the ordinary stamp. The
W,A. Centenary stamp issued in 1929,
with a swan as central motif of the de-
sign, is a case in point. A copy showing
the swan with double neck is worth from
7s, 6d. to 10s., against the normal stamp’s
value of twopence.
« * * *
“X.P.8.1.” remembers halcyon days:
The best break the A.I.F. ever had overseas
was the seven days’ rest at Hadera, Palestine,
before going to the desert for the first time in
1941. In turn every unit pitched its tents there,
right on the seashore, and at reveille we leapt
straight from our bed-boards into the blue Medi-
terranean. Parade was at nine, followed by a
little recapitulation, consisting of toying with
a Bren or idling over an A-Tk rifle until 11.
We were free then, and the day really com-
menced. The neat Jewish village was only a
short distance from the beach, and the families
came down after midday to laze in the sun
for the rest of the afternoon. We soon got
to know them, despite the fact that they came
from every comer of Europe and thought
nothing of starting a conversation in English,
switching to German, darting into Hungarian
and finishing up in Yiddish. Throughout the
bright afternoon we romped in the waves with
Jewish nippers, demonstrated our swimming to
the more interested of the gMs, and tried to
initiate the youth of Hadera into the science of
surfing among the mild breakers of the Med.
Later we drifted across with family groups to
the large hotel almost on the beach, and sipped
amicable drinks, feeling ourselves daily broaden
out as cosmopolitans. Two months later, on a
pint or so of water, living among the stones
outside Bardia, we were still dreaming about it.
* * * *
“Chevroford”: In parts of Europe
people still fear the effects of the evil eye ;
the baby born with a caul in certain
parts of U.S.A. is credited in later life
with supernatural vision ; in almost all
countries the belief persists that the old
horseshoe brings good luck; German
peasants believe that the house on which
a stork builds its nest doesn’t need fire
insurance, and a chambermaid in a hotel
in the Northern Rivers district of N.S.W.
told me that to cure a blister incurred
on a walking tour I should bang it with
a Bible. Melbourne people, however,
pride themselves on their superiority to
vulgar superstitions. Nevertheless, Tas.
’plane bookings for the second week in
July were noticeably heavier for Thurs-
day, Saturday and Sunday than for
Friday, the 13 th.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: “Read your receipts” is
the moral of a threat-to-extort-money
charge here. A retired schoolmistress in
the sixties went to a “Barbara” matri-
monial agency, fee £4 4s, a year, took £1
worth, disliked the candidates offered
and withdrew. Then “Barbara” (who
proved to be a man) wanted his money,
as per receipt which said “balance
£3 45.”, and pressed for it. Counsel said
there was no case to answer. Judge Mayo
said that if the money was owing that
would be a defence, and the jury said
“Not guilty.”
* * * . $
“X.S.”: Melbourne’s prevailing obses-
sion for music has reached a point where
the public is demanding not merely one
repetition of a concert but two, the multi-
tudes desiring to listen to overseas con-
ductors being about three times what they
used to be in pre-war days. Gate-crash-
ing at the Town Hall has become almost
a virtue. A University student who had
a handbag stolen which contained two
tickets for a concert bought another
ticket and attended the performance, and
when she saw a woman occupying one
of her seats she thought she had the
malefactor. But snatch-and-grab thiev-
ing wasn’t the crime—the woman had
merely pushed in without a ticket.
“Curtain Raiser”: Dr. Malcolm Sar-
gent remarked in Melbourne that girls
who swooned at Frank Sinatra’s music
ought to <he smacked by their parents. I
don’t know what good that would do
except as an outlet for the parents’ indig-
nation. If the swooning damsels need
anything, it is psychological treatment.
Obviously the music symbolises some-
thing for them, but, then, so does most
music for most music-lovers. The people
at Dr. Sargent’s concerts don’t swoon to
any extent, but they get more excited
than they do at a performance by an
Australian conductor. How many of
them could tell the difference between
Sargent’s performance and, say, one by
Professor Heinze? Their emotion might
be conditioned by the music; on the
other hand, it might be conditioned on
the conductor’s reputation.
* * * *
“Kingi”: Mention of the age of Syd-
ney Grammar School (B. 11/7/ ’45)
brings up the often-argued question about
the seniority of “Grammar” and The
King’s School at Parramatta. S.G.S. com-
menced its existence as Sydney College in
1827, with W. M. Cape as headmaster;
T.K.S. began in February, 1832, under
Robert Forrest. Actually, King’s started
with two schools, one in Sydney and the
other at Parramatta, but the Sydney
branch didn’t last long. It was intended
principally for day-boys, the Parramatta
one for boarders from the country—a
character it has maintained ever since.
Sydney College was put out of action by
financial depression in 1847, and The
King’s School had to close its doors for
a few years after 1864, re-opening under
one of its first old boys, George
Macarthur, in 1869. When Sydney
College began its second phase of exist-
ence it had for a housed the
new University of Sydney, and it is poss-
ible to regard the Grammar School
occupying the building later on as an
entirely new undertaking. Though T.K.S.
had neither scholars nor masters for
several years, it remained a Church
of England foundation, which hadn’t been
abolished formally, though temporarily
in abeyance. So you may take your
choice.
* * *
“Melbn”: A spectacle that may soon
become a commonplace in Melbourne has
greeted citizens hurrying to work. Two
enormous trailers each carrying the con-
crete walls of a house complete with
doors and windows were followed by
another bearing a ten-ton crane. It was
the Housing Commission’s first experi-
ment at prefabrication on the way to
Footscray. The house was scheduled to
be ready for internal decoration by
lunch-time.
“Petma’: While Australian housing
authorities have been pottering around,
re-decorating service huts —I can see dis-
charged blokes just rushing these —their
British opposite numbers have been turn-
ing out a few practical ideas. The latest
is an aluminium house. About the same
size as the Portal and other approved
temporary houses, it comes in four sec-
tions, each complete in itself, which
are coupled, on the site, with interlock-
ing fastenings. Services are joined up
and the dwelling made ready for occu-
pation in a few hours—the first was run
up at Bristol in 3| hours. The floor frame
is of aluminium alloy with normal timber
floorboards. Walls are faced outside
with sheet alloy, painted with stone
rough-cast, inside with plaster board. The
filling is highly insulated aerated cement;
the roof is alloy sheet packed with cork.
Rooms are arranged round a hall; two
bedrooms, opening off one side; living-
room, bathroom and kitchen, off the other
side. Cupboards are built-in between the
rooms. There is a front entrance tb the
hall and a side door into the kitchen.
* * * *
“Half Pint”; A Sydney scribe has been
telling his readers that years ago “tar-
paulin musters” were popular in some
bars, each drinker throwing in a shilling ;
the winner, paying 6d. to 9d. for each
drink, was in pocket. But that isn’t a
tarpaulin muster; it’s “selling a horse.”
The T.M. is a throw-in of what each can
afford to give, the more affluent making
up for the near-broke.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: A leading Melbourne
painter took his son, aged five, to see the
treasures of the national collection in
Swanston-street. After he had gazed
open-mouthed at Phar Lap in the
Museum, the young hopeful was con-
ducted into the galleries adjacent, where
are displayed the Rembrandt self-portrait,
the Raeburns, the Corots, the Van Dyck,
the Cezannes and a thousand others. “Did
you paint them?” he asked his parent.
“No, I didn’t,” said the artist. “I think
I’ll go back and look at Phar Lap,” said
the infant.
“I’m glad you got y'r discharge, ’ Erb, before they allowed all this
fraternisin."
“Feng-Shui” on Australia’s northern
door; —
I see that the Commonwealth Government
is going to resume and rebuild Darwin at a
cost of half a million. My first acquaintance
with the outpost was round about 1906. It was
a picturesque tropical hamlet with comfortable
bungalows set in semi-jungle and a Chinatown
where at any time in the early morning you
could knock up Ah Loong, who would cheer-
fully cook the necessary material for the favorite
sport of the white population. This was an egg-
eating competition, 28 at a sitting being the
record in my time. The grass-grown main
street, ablaze with crotons, jacaranda and frangi-
panni, wandered off in the direction of Adelaide
but got no further than the Five-Mile, where
kangaroos, wallabies, emus and other fauna
abounded and where the white cockatoos made
the native trees look as if they had broken
into blossom. There is to be a world-wide
competition for reconstruction plans, the Lord
knows whyf If an Australian isn’t good enough,
why don’t they get a Dutchman, who at least has
had experience of tropical architecture in Java 7
When the'lndian Government built New Delhi
it employed Sir Edward Lutyens, a leading Eng-
lish architect but unacquainted with the tropics.
He covered his pseudo-Indian buildings with a
perfectly smooth white cement instead of the
rough native plaster. The result is that they
give forth an almost unendurable blaze which
makes it difficult to look at them in the sunshine.
* ■ * * *
“Sans Changer,” with an amplification:
“Fodgie” (B. 6/6/’45) is only partly correct
in his account of R.L.S’s death and burial.
Stevenson was busy dictating Weir of Hermis-
ton whilst his stepson, Osbourne, went for a
swim. Returning, Osbourne found Stevenson
unconscious in an armchair; he had cried out
“My head! Oh, my head!” and fallen insen-
sible Osbourne raced a blood mare at break-
neck speed to Apia, practically forced a short,
Von Tirpitz-like German doctor on to the
mare’s back, borrowed another horse tethered
outside a building and raced back to Vailima.
The doctor diagnosed a blood clot on the
brain and in half an hour, at eight in the even-
ing, R.L.S. was dead. Told of the urgent need
of a pathway to the summit of Vaea so that
Tusitala could be buried there, the chiefs appor-
tioned the work among their respective tribes,
promising Osbourne it would be ready by two
o’clock next day. During the whole job not
a word was spoken; the only sound was that of
axes, mattocks and picks and the swishing of the
falling trees. The path was ready before two
o’clock. At that hour the coffin was brought
out and, borne by 12 powerful Samoans, led
the way up the mountain, followed by 30 or 40
or more natives, who changed places atMntervals.
It was a point of honor amongst them to bear
the coffin shoulder high the whole journey
through—and they did it. Immediately behind
followed a party of a score or more whites,
interspersed with chieftains; behind them again
were more than 200 Samoans, dressed in white
undershirts and lavalavas, anxious to pay this
final tribute to their beloved Tusitala.
* * * •
“W.J.E.”: How many Australians
know that an Australian is General of the
good old Salvation Army; and has, in
fact, been its head since 1939? He is
George Lyndon Carpenter, “of old and
farming stock,” he said in a fascinating
8.8. C. talk:
My father’s people settled in the Hunter
River district over a century ago. With
his parents and four brothers he arrived
in Sydney Harbor when he was six weeks
old. On the 70th anniversary of arrival
the five brothers met to have a group
photo, taken. They died in the order of
their ages—the eldest, Tom Carpenter, at
89, Abe at 91, Harry and Ned at 88 and
my father, at 91J, retaining his faculties
clear till the last.
The General himself has just turned 73
and is, I trust, good for a century.
My father once skippered a 100-ton
sailing craft, one of the droghing fleet which
went up to the farms and down as far as
Newcastle where, as at Sydney, the masts
of swift wool clippers stretched up to the
stars. On the Hunter River we rowed and
sailed, striving to follow our Jim Stanbury,
the world’s champion oarsman. We were
keen on sports at Raymond Terrace, proud
of our local celebrities on the cinder track
and of other sporting interests; and there
were duck and redbill for the shooting.
Many a time we would work all night at
the printing office and then go off with the
guns, up to our middles in swamp; or else
we would hurry down to the river for a
midnight swim.
He would find the river traffic and pas-
times different nowadays. But in Ryde or
thereabouts he could, I am told, still meet
Jim Stanbury—those scullers of the ’eigh-
ties and ’nineties were a long-lived race,
like the Carpenters. In the printery
“ m y m3S t e r published the Gloucester
‘(Tazette’ ”•
A c , ,
A threepenny weekly, printed on an
Albion press, which reached an output ot
seven copies a minute when we worked
at high pressure. We did job printing, too,
were agents for the city papers, and sold
books and music. At 17 I was in charge
of all this, with three apprentices to tram,
Total wage bill, 12s. 6d. a week. The
b° ss would go off to the races,
Young Carpenter got religion “one night
in a Methodist chapel in Raymond Ter-
„ u . . , f *
race. He joined the Salvation Army at
Katoomba, oi all places.
PROPAGANDA.
There’s something sinister about the word,
Such as attaches to “thirteen” or “Friday,”
The term that’s borrowed from, you’ve doubt-
less heard,
The Latin phrase De Propaganda Fide.
It’s spoken with a sneer and packs a sting
As if the speaker felt impelled to hand a
Clout in the jaw to that unpleasant thing
Called propaganda.
In politics it’s used to make it plain
Some utterance of an opponent warrants
Unmitigated scorn, acute disdain
And almost indescribable abhorrence.
You need but hear it hissed, a diatribe
In four brief syllables, to understand a
Little of what contempt lies in the gibe
“Mere propaganda.”
Like an anathema it seems to sound,
A solemn curse pronounced pontifically,
Closing the subject, cutting off the ground
From any chance or prospect of reply.
No column of abusiveness conveys
The so'rt of contumelious reprimand a
Malicious tongue can cram into the phrase,
“Just propaganda.”
And then —how passing strange it is to see
The very critics quick to represent
This as the lowest depth of obloquy,
The ne plus ultra of disparagement,
With little scruple and no more concern
Than that displayed by lawless contrabandists,
Speak their own pieces—to be termed in turn
Mere propagandists!
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Betcha”: All his life Stevens had
driven a pen in the city, but on reaching
retiring age bought a home in scrub
country a few miles out. “A heavenly
place,” he told me, waxing eloquent.
“Bees, flowers, shrubs to the door, and
best of all,'“‘the colored parrots. If you
could see them! Flashing opalescent
gems in a setting of green” (Stevens was
a bit of a word-painter), “and so tame
one will drop like a beam from a rain-
bow on to a limb alongside. Keeping
that garden a model of beauty will pro-
vide me with a little daily exercise.
Enough to keep a man fit, anyway.”
Stevie shifted in to his paradise in the
spring and I heard nothing of him for
some months. Then came a letter telling
of his progress. “Am going early and
late keeping down scrub and weeds,” I
read. “After all my pruning and
digging the fruit trees produced a fair
enough crop, but for heaven’s sake can
you tell me some way to get rid of the
blasted ’ parrots?"
>f * * »
“Lawnstob”: Victoria will soon lose
its distinction as the site of some of Aus-
tralia’s most unusual fauna. Following
on the successful acclimatisation of the
koala in Tasmania, the Appie island re-
ceived a consignment of lyre-birds about
four years ago through the good offices
of Lud Mayor Nettlefold. They built
their nests about four miles from the
entrance to National Park, and are now
reported to be breeding nicely.
* * * *
“Spring Board”: The answer to the
big-end-little-end argument as applied to
fence posts (B. 4/7/’45) is obvious. The
pores of a growing tree run from near
the centre upwards and out to sap, so,
when the timber is used with the butt end
up water runs off instead of into the
wood. Contrary to “C.A.l’s” argument,
the buried ends of split posts show little
deterioration, while from “wind and
water” up they might have rotted away.
I have drawn butts from the ground, put
in 60 years before, still showing the wedge
and axe marks, the result of metallic
impregnation and consequent preserva-
tion. Incidentally, up in the Solomons I
once built a shed with 7in. diameter
hardwood posts, head down ; they all took
root.
* * * *
“Zake”: I always understood that the
boong’s bone-pointer (B. 4/7/’45) was
made up of three pieces which were
corded together, the actual pointer, or
kunga, being about six inches long. It
used to be a custom among the N.S.W.
northern rivers tribes for the most ancient
one of the tribe to squat on the grave of
the departed one each night until the
ghost of the murderer turned up. The
spook was always seen and identified,
whereupon the bucks would visit the
tribe concerned and demand the life of
the accused one.
“Bo”: When it is a question of fear
the spirit doesn’t always hold its own
with the flesh, even with the abo. Corn-
flour, a full-blooded boong who worked
on the cattle-run, had disappeared. Even-
tually located lying in a corner of an
outbuilding, he announced that he would
shortly “die pfinis,” the bone having been
pointed at him by a member of a near-
by tribe. When “Bull” Matherson, the
station manager, was told of the situation
he cursed with great vigor, then heaved
his fifteen-stone in the direction of the
afflicted one. Cornflour looked up as the
“big boss” strode in and bent over him.
“Listen, y’ black blankard,” “Bull” roared
in a voice which nearly buckled the gal-
vanised-iron roof, “the musterin’s startin’
nex’ week, an’ we want every man Jack
we can lay hands on —we’re short enough
as it is. If you go an’ die pfinis”—here he
held a clenched fist the size of a small
ham within an inch of Cornflour’s nose
—“I’ll bust y’ wide open an’ pitch the bits
to the crows. An’ I’ll” But he was
talking to himself. With a look of
abject terror the bone-pointing “vic-
tim,” forgetting entirely about the
kaditcha and the imminent death, shot
through the door in a real dust-burning
burst, back to work.
* * * *
“Propalong”: The other day I rode
through the fowls and goats that make
up most of the scenery at Jake’s place to
find Jake at the top of the mill, covered
in grease and surrounded by flies and
profanity. He came down with sus-
picious readiness and we adjourned to
the pepper trees; then it came out. “Y’
see, the missus had me ev’ry night cartin’
flamin’ buckets o’ water from the re-
ceivin’ tank to her garden out the front.
Wasn’t no good tellin’ her it wasn’t a
fair go f’r a bloke that had bin workin’
out in the paddicks all day, so I found
out that the oil feed had gone crook an’
I had t’ take the mill head t’ pieces. Well,
it worked all right f’r a coupla days:
there wasn’t enough water t’ spare f’r
the garden, o’ course, an’ I c’d ease orf
a bit when I come home. But then the
ol’ girl started t’ get liverish; an’ look
’ere, Prop, ol’ man, she give me blue
hell f’r a day’r two, an’ me havin’ t’
work longer hours out in the paddicks
t’ get away from her. At last I gets fed
up an’ I says to her, ‘Got the pip or
what?’ An’ then she tells me. She hasn’t
bin able t’ sleep at night because o’ the
“Thought I was tin, did you?”
silence; reckons shes bin jus lyin theie
missin’ the groan an’ creak o’ the ol’
mill swingin’ round t’ the breeze, an’ it’s
got on her nerves. I knew all about ’er
flamin’ nerves—l’d ,’ad ’em ev’ry time I
poked me ’ead in the door. So ’ere I am,
all over grease, puttin’ the blanky head
t’gether again.”
*,* * * ,
D.K.H. : Every time 1 pass me
P e PP er trees 1 am carefully inspected by
a visitor who, m the last couple of
J? ontbs ’ has come to beheve that he owns
t he P la^ e - H e crouches on a twig, head
forward and down, in a pose that sug-
§ests either cheeky audacity or short-
h •
sightedness and, in eitfier case, a nair
trigger readiness to remove himself at a
second’s notice. He has a bright pink
beak whitish cheek coverts a golden-
bronze shirt front, a yellowish-white,
speckled tummy and his coat and long,
rather fanlike tail are a darkish brown
except for the light upper tail coverts,
After giving me sufficient time to take in
his beauties he flirts off with a long
swooping flight to the next tree, where he
whistles his joy at being appreciated. His
whistle is a series of gurgling notes as
dear and sweet as those of the butcher
bird, and he uses it every morning to wel-
C ome the sun, I suspect as an equal,
Cayley calls him the spiny-cheeked
honeyeater and places him in the in-
terior of Australia. For me he’s one of
the few happy consequences of the
drought that has driven him to these
coastal plains.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: The old bridge over Wid-
galong Creek was rotting in its timbers
and a new structure was proposed. The
site was not very convenient to Fagan,
who wanted it a mile upstream ;
McKenna, his longstanding enemy, re-
taliated by demanding the new bridge a
mile downstream. Both wrote long and
vehement letters to the Shire Council in
respect of their claims, and each com-
plained bitterly of his neighbor. The
secretary, amused, was moved to reply,
with the same text for both letters:
Dear Sir, —Whereas in consideration of
communications received, the council has
been in conference for several hours on
the urgent necessity of a trafficable bridge
over Widgalong Creek. The council has
just recovered from a lively debate on the
four schemes put forward, viz.;
(1) That new bridge be erected at the
present site.
(2) Ditto one mile upstream.
(3) Ditto one mile downstream.
(4) That Widgalong Creek be draped over
the adjacent hills, where the necessity of
bridges would not arise.
It is agreed that, pending further sugges-
tions, the matter will be held over until
next meeting.
Yours faithfully,
J. Cork.
It had the effect of bringing Fagan and
McKenna into agreement on the present
site ; but when a pair of irate farmers
descended on the council that secretary
found himself in need of a new job, plus
a bit of steak for his eye.
* * * *
“Snobby”: One of the sights at any
outback Queensland township is the home-
coming of the goats, and it’s a poor town
that doesn’t run to at least 3000. Let
out of their yards in the morning they
congregate to feed in one mob, for the
most part peacefully. As the sun is sink-
ing they stroll back to the town leisurely.
Approaching their, allotted yard a mob
will fall out in orderly manner, and this
is repeated with almost military precision
until the last mob disappears at furthest
end of the township. They’ll be mates
during the day; but if one gets into a
wrong yard those pals of hers will kill
her during the night.
* * * *
“Prop”: A game that should prove
popular in bush or army camps is Nine
Men’s Morris. My kiddies play it in the
yard with sticks and stones for men, just
as young Bill Shakspeare played it on
the village green in Queen Bess’s day.
And the missus and I often have a game
at night on a board with draught men.
You draw three squares, one inside the
other, the sides parallel, and connect
their corners with diagonal lines which,
however, must not pass through the
• innermost square. Then you draw from
the centre of each side of the outer
square lines, which pass at right angles
through the centres of the sides of the
second square and end at the centres of
each side of the third or innermost
square. There is a hole, real or imagin-
ary, depending on whether you’re play-
ing on the ground or a board, at each
of the comers and at each intersection,
a total of 24 holes. The two players
then take nine “men” each and take turns
to place one at a time in any vacant hole,
the aim being to get three men in a row,
when you take one of your opponent’s
men. You must not, however, take a
man from one of his threes unless there
is none other available. When all the
men, barring possible casualties, are on
the board the players move in turn as in
draughts, going from hole to hole along
the lines; no jumping over is allowed;
you move in any direction to make
three or to prevent the other bloke
doing so. The winner, of course,
is the player who takes all his opponent’s
men. This game is faster and demands less
concentration than draughts but calls for
enough skill and anticipation to make it
absorbingly interesting.
* * * *
“Wonga”: The whiskered derelict
spotted one of the Turner boys on his
way home and called him over to his
camp. Handing him a pound of flour in
a paper bag he told the boy to get his
mother to make a damper. Ma
Turner, a generous soul, cooked him a
damper fully a foot wide. Then she set
to work and baked him a brownie. When
getting the parcel ready she tossed in half
a dozen gem scones. The hatter took the
contents out of the bag young Turner
handed him and studied them for a full
minute. Then he looked up and drawled,
“Where’s the rest of the flour?”
* * * *
“C.E.”: When Ted was sent out the
back of the Martin and O’Reilly country
to get the dingo that was killing in the
adjoining properties, “Flint” Martin
promised him a bonus equal to what-
ever O’Reilly put up. A fortnight on the
job brought Ted the killer, and he ex-
plained the position to O’Reilly.
“Righto, we’ll make it worth y’r while,
Ted,” he agreed, and handed him a
cheque for a fiver. “Show that to
Martin.” Ted did so. “Five quid extra
just f’r a fortnight!” gasped “Flint.”
“Well, if y’ ask me, y’ve been overpaid
awready. G’day.” Ted turned home-
ward pondering cursefully on the number
of sheep he’d saved “Flint.” A few
days later he again presented himself to
his friend O’Reilly. “Bill,” he remarked
tentatively, “s’pose y’ ain’t got a coupla
milkers y’ ain’t usin’?” “Well, yair,
there’s some Shorthorn stuff on the creek
should be awright,” decided O’Reilly.
“Help y’rself.” By the end of the month
Ted’s missus was regularly milking the
Shorthorns and pouring the milk into
troughs for some 20-odd poddy lambs
that by Ted’s reckoning should before
long make thirty bob a head. They were
sturdy youngsters, the 'same breed as
Martin’s big ewes in the next paddock.
And Ted has forgotten his complaint
against “Flint” in his new boast that no
“lousy cow” can put it over him and get
away, with it.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: An amazing
thing about marine life in northern New
Guinea waters is the complete disregard
that sharks show for swimmers and
fishermen. Yet in the Boat Channel at
Thursday Island only a few hundred
miles away we caught two eight-footers,
and, stringing them up over the stem, we
cut their tails off to kill them. In no time
the blood brought twenty-odd sharks of
all sorts around, compelling us to cease
operations. All along the coasts of the
Cape York Peninsula sharks are always
troublesome to anglers and fatal to swim-
mers, even in three feet of water. But
over a thousand - mile coastline in
northern New Guinea I’ve repeatedly
seen thousands of troops bathing in
the ocean unharmed. Anywhere along
these shores, provided there’s no croc.-
infested river about, our crew swim with
less fear of sharks than in Port Phillip
Bay. There are just as many sharks
about—though, like all fish in these parts,
they’re impossible to hook. And once at
a Madang wharf I watched two sharks
that had swum unconcerned past a dozen
equally unconcerned swimmers. Old
New Guinea hands, however, say that
there have been cases of sharks “kai-
kaing boys.” I’m inclined to think
the culprits were crocs, and that in N.G.
waters there’s so much natural food
about that sharks don’t fancy the flavor
of homo sapiens as diet. ■
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Cherbourg (Q.) abo. settle-
ment is conducting an enthusiastic queen
competition in aid of its welfare fund,
and expects to raise more than £4OO. The
competing lasses have been chosen by
plebiscite for beauty of form and face,
personality and popularity. Molly
Weazel, 16, full blood, domestic, is Dor-
mitory Queen; Iris Hegarty, 18, half-
caste, schoolteacher and seamstress, Sports
Queen ; and Doris Bone, 18, full blood,
nurse, Hospital Quefen. The winner will
be declared at the Settlement’s Agricul-
tural Show on September 14. The only
hitch in the proceedings arose when the
venerable Lena Birch, next in line of
succession as tribal queen, mistook the
competition for a disloyal attempt against
her royal ancestral-rights. Assured that
there was no intention of lese majeste
she became a vigorous supporter of a
related contestant. Home Affairs Min-
ister Foley furnished a note of uncon-
scious humor by his statement that the
competition was “part of my long-range
plan to improve the modern culture ox
the aborigines.”
THE MOUNTAINS.
Stumbling through channels of silence, we send
out
That wild note of our onset to twist along
Paths of the wounded light, and veer about
The mountains with blunted mumblings of a
gong.
And lean, grey, avid angels of the mist
Flap past us for a moment in sullen flight;
Sink back to another £eon of unrest,
Chained by the iron chasms about their feet.
This is where Time died centuries ago,
His huge, white, rigid body broken over
lire giant wheel of the sky to a flux of snow,
And mist still -wandering near him, like a lover.
R.A.A.F.
F. WEBB.


“Old-timer”: Ben came up from the
river camp he shared with Simmons. He
was a bit pallid about the gills and obvi-
ously excited, feeling his neck with ner-
vous hands. The pair had been on a
bender and we’d heard one single shot
about an hour previously. “That ol’
fool oughta be put away,” snorted Ben.
“We’re down there, havin’ a good time
an’ he gets so well he can’t find his chair
when he wants t’ sit down an’ starts
makin’ out I shook it. We gets argufyin’
an’ he grabs the gun an’ shoves a shell
in the breech an’ reckons he’ll shoot me.
He aims the flamin’ thing at me head,
but I ain’t scared, thinkin’ it’s all a bluff
an’ I says, ‘Go on, shoot!’ *Y’ reckon
I won’t,’ he says. ‘Shoot!’ I says, an’
the mad coot pulls the trigger an’ him
only five feet from me.” He drew in
his breath and licked his lips. “Well,”
said Little Curl, “what’s eatin’ y’? He
missed, didn’t he?” “Missed,” howled
Ben. “Of course, he missed. That Sim-
mons couldn’t hit a haystack. Aims fair
at me head, he did, an’ shot away the
handkerchief round me neck! Man’ll
get flamin’ sunburn now!” And ner-
vously feeling his neck, Ben went to the
galley to see if there was any tea on.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: George had driven a long,
narrow tunnel under the terrace of allu-
vial wash, and results were disappointing.
Still, his efforts were worth inspection,
and I had to commend the way the dig-
gings twisted and dodged to get past huge
granite boulders on the way in. But I
couldn’t see how George managed to get
the mullock out till he brought to light a
streamlined wheelbarrow and, strapping
a riding spur on each wrist, trundled
away into the darkness. , The spurs
acted as guides on the walls and saved
the old chap from barked knuckles.
* * * *
“Blime”: Who told “Kelpinya” (B.
27/6/’45) that “any intelligent dog” has
the killer instinct which only man’s train-
"Not quite so close, Sid — it's toastin' too quick."
ing subdues? Actually it is not uncom-
mon to find that only after much patience
and teaching can many dogs be taught to
kill; a cohber of mine has a hound that
after years of urging still won’t come
to it. Excitedly he joins in any chase,
but, overtaking a rabbit or cornering a
rat, he merely shoves over the quarry
with his nose or barks at it. Given a
dead bunny he devours it. Given a small
one alive he backs off and leaves it there,
Some dogs are naturally good killers,
others lamentably poor. Some go for
foxes and ’roos; others will tackle most
game with equal impartiality. Had a
young kelpie one time that always got mad
as blazes over a porcupine, and would
scratch for hours in an attempt to get
even with the thing ; yet he wouldn’t kill
a rabbit. Further, I have yet to own a
dog that will kill a trapped crow.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Mustering scrubbers on the
Suttor River, we struck a blacks’ camp
at the big waterhole where we intended
to meet adjacent cattlemen. As I could
partly speak their lingo, they became
very friendly, and the lubras taking down
some bundles of rolled box-bark showed
me their contents. These were baby
piccaninnies wrapped in small possum rugs
stitched with ’roo-tail sinews. The palms
of the babies’ hands, and the soles of
their feet were soft and pink, quite un-
like the dusky hue of their skins. The
brilliant dark eyes regarded me gravely,
nor did their owners howl like white
piccaninnies who first glimpsed me. The
babies were slung behind the mothers’
backs on walkabout, and hung in shady
trees when camped to avoid the ants.
They thfen showed me an extraordinarily
old lubra, a little helpless thing quite
blind, who crawled about like a puppy
and sucked pieces of singed ’roo with the
gusto of a lolly-licker. She was trans-
ported on the shoulders of younger
lubras.
* * * *
“E. 2”: ‘Td like y’ t’ see me litter of
pure-bred kelpies,” Dan said. “Y’ can
have one f’r a quid.” While he fished
under the bellows and brought out a pup
I inspected the mother. “Here, what
are you giving me?” I asked. “A mongrel
doesn’t throw pure-bred offspring.” “Well,
it’s right about these pups,” Dan said.
“Her father’s a quarter-bred kelpie, an’
so’s her mother. An’ the father of the
pups is a half-bred. That makes em
four quarters pure-bred, don’t it?”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Eight of us, chequed
up and fresh from the Weelong cut-out,
fretted impatiently on the Grawlin Plains
platform awaiting the mixed up to
Forbes. After sporadic attempts at
poker and two-up had failed the mob
fell to spinning yarns and all the whiskery
ancients of the back-country were duly
trotted out, dutifully laughed at and re-
stored to oblivion. Silence. Then Mat
said, thoughtfully, “Wonder if old
Charlie Kerr is still in Forbes. Great
bloke at trainin’ animals an’ birds. Used
f make big money sellin’ ’em round the
district. Blokes use t’ come from as far
as Sydney and Boree Creek t’ buy ’em.
One time the parson from Canowindra
asked Charlie t’ train a cockatoo t’ sing
hymns. Charlie reckoned he could do
it. About six munce later the parson
calls in an’ Charlie shows him a galah
with a bit of string on each leg. Charlie
tells the parson if he pulls the left string
he’ll get ‘Lead, Kindly Light,’ an’ if
he pulls the right one he’ll get ‘Onward,
Christian Soldiers.’ By cripes, that parson
was pleased. Then he tries t’ be funny.
‘What would he do if I pulled both
strings?’ he says. Charlie looks at him.
‘Fall head over turkey, o’ course,’ he
says, an’ slaps another thirty bob on the
price of the bird”
* * * *
“Hanko”: A series of heavy thumps
and teeth-edging skitterings on the cor-
rugated iron roof brought everyone up-
right in bunk. Little Joe hopped out,
grabbed the pea-rifle from the end of his
“Called for help, be hanged! I was only singing !”
bunk, and darted outside. All hands
waited tensely for the crack that would
mean the end of the playful possum.
No shot sounded. Came Little Joe’s
urgent voice: “Shush, yer cow, scat.”
Big Joe hopped out. “Gimme that gun,”
he said. Silhouetted against a bright sky,
the possum sat up and wiped its face.
Big Joe fumbled with the rifle ; waved
it threateningly. “Scat,” he hissed.
“Arr,” jeered Little Joe. “Why don’t
yer tell him a bed-time story?” Then
out pranced Jacky Snowdrop with a bam-
boo fishing-rod. He carefully sighted
the possum, and lunged at it spear-fash-
ion. The furry' nuisance uttered a grat-
ing sound ; sprang off the roof, and went
bounding for the big gum by the chim-
ney. “That dig in the slats soon fixed the
old pos.,” said Little Joe, snuggling into
bunk. Came a resounding thump on the
roof, followed by an ear-wrenching
scraping. “He’s back again, Jackie,”
yelled Little Joe. Snowdrop made an-
swer with a snore that was more than
half raspberry.
* * * *
“Geenus”: It is “E.C.8.” who is wrong
in his questioning of the collapse of Old
George’s galvanised-iron water-piping (B.
20/6/’45). Let him place a bottle full
of water on its side, or, better still, tilt
it to a more acute angle, and he will find
that although there is no rear entrance
the water will flow out in gulps, being
instantly replaced by air rushing in at
the nozzle. During this replacement there
must be a momentary vacuum, which, in
the case of the thin piping, was instantly
eliminated by the pressure of the outer
air, thus causing the pipe to collapse.
* * * *
“Anthropo”: I was wondering who
would be the first to pick me on that
“dingo mammal” slip. Of course, “The
0.D.” (B. 20/6/’45) is correct. 1 should
have defined the dingo as a placental
mammal, the Too and its kin being mar-
supial mammals. Every warm-blooded
animal that suckles its young is a mam-
mal, though even there the definition be-
comes a trifle strained when we contem-
plate the platypus.
* * * *
“Zimple Zimon”: Being interested in
the cassowary, I am puzzled at the lack
of intelligence shown by those boongs
on the volcanic island of Karkar who
canoe to the mainland miles away to
obtain casso chicks which they rear to
become “big fellas” (B. 20/6/’45). Why
don’t they invest in a few mated adults
and go in for the breeding of cassos them-
selves? Anyway, what possibility is there
of acclimatising the cassowary as a poul-
try unit in southern Australia? A fowl
that would weigh upwards of a hundred-
weight and provide leg steaks as good as
any beef would be an investment to be
cherished. Is there anybody available who
would give a simple bloke a quote for a
setting of cassowary eggs?
“Nor’-west”: The bailer shell (B.
20/6/’45) is not only useful for the pur-
pose that gives it its name, it is also
handy for digging, say, when searching
for water on the beach along the high-
water mark. And at a pinch one can also
use it for brewing the good old pekoe.
Not exactly as one boils the billy, since
the shell when exposed directly to the
flame is apt to flake and split, but by
prehistoric man’s method of heating
stones in the fire and dropping them into
the water. Such a brew is apt to taste
a trifle stony; but the method has its
points, it being possible to drop one last
hot stone in to bring the infusion
“through the boil,” just as the experienced
bushy replaces the tea-charged billy on
the fire for a moment to make the leaves
sink.
* * * *
“Aperist”: I wonder if “X.E.D.” would
give me some instruction as to how one
dodges infuriated bees (B. 20/6/’45). My
experience is that the more one dodges
the more excited the bees become and
the more they come straight at you. My
early instructor in beecraft advised that
the best plan was to bow the head in sub-
mission and make the minimum of move-
ments, and certainly no violent or jerky
movements. Though even then Apis was
likely to land on the back of one’s neck,
a favored place, and get one home. Any-
way, the man who would undertake load-
ing of hives on to a truck without a
smoker handy and a veil at least up on
the rim of his hat would simply be look-
ing for trouble.
*'* * *
“Wiiga”: The pelican is one bird that
will not always keep well out of his range
when a cormorant is “doing over a patch
of water” (B. 4/7/’45). In the early
’twenties there was a big migration of
pelicans to the Lower Clarence River
(N.S.W.), Their stay was of short dura-
tion, but for several weeks, whenever a
shag was seen fishing in deep water, it
was almost invariably accompanied by a
pelican. On diving and bringing his
catch to the surface the shag was robbed
by his waiting companion. So persistent
were the robbers that numbers of cor-
morants died of starvation.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’!”: “Chuck’s” scheme of
a rigged-up gun to catch wombats (B.
21 jirAS) recalls another. In parts of
the Kingston and Robe districts of S.A.
in pre-war days it was impossible to
eradicate the rather unique, light-greyish-
furred, slimmer species of wombats there
because of the countless holes in the miles
of limestone ridges running across the
flats. Wombats, however, were in demand
as bait for crayfish—one of Kingston’s
flourishing industries —so the local boys
used to catch the four-leggers to sell to
fishermen in a manner charming in its
simplicity. During dark hours, while Mr.
Wombat was out feeding, they placed
strong cornsacks with a noose tied to it
over the hole. When Mr. W. returned
a bag didn’t worry him with his neyer-
go-astern tactics. He simply went into
it head first, pulled the noose and invari-
ably went to sleep, an easy victim in the
bag. It was no use setting the bag-traps,
though, to catch the four-leggers before
they had fed—for then they mostly ate
their way out.
“Bad* Australian”: The oft-repeated
claim made by Taylor-square naturalists
that weather can be accurately forecast by
observing the movement of black cocka-
toos is blown out when one considers
that the sable fowl never, with the excep-
tion of an occasional stray, leave their
habitat, which is the big timber of the
higher levels of the main ranges. There
they find their chief sustenance, the
larvae of the larger wood-boring beetles.
Bushels of splinters ranging from two
to six inches in length may be seen
scattered around trees where the birds
have been at work. They do not move
down to the lowlands when stormy
weather or snow is approaching. After
all, in their native timber fastnesses they
remain quite unaffected by severe climatic
changes.
FIGHTER PILOT.
Let me fly
High when I’m flying;
Let the noon
Blaze, ere the night fall;
Let the blood
Leap, ere the heart shatter;
So I loot
Life, let me lose all,
For steel rusts and webs gather
On the wall.
Let the song roll
Grand to the singing;
Let my love sigh
Sweet to my ear;
Let use stride free,
Never creep coward
With the snail pace,
The mouse fear;
For crosses crumble and mounds grow green
In a year.
Let mine be
The meteor’s
Eclipse,
With no afterglow.
No belly-pride
Of old battles
For wheel-chaired
Greybeard’s crow;
With grace of my ragged tunic round me,
Let me go.
R.A.A.F.
LINDSAY CARROLL.


mi in ti Modernise
*. Your
.'ilKx 3*
l» '/
Farm
ss
lie
*v>7
v
$
i'r*
mm
M
d
After five years of ‘doina without' the time'’ll
rapidly approaching when you will be able to go
'full steam your plans for modernising,
your farm with the'newest type of silos, dairies,!
barns and ultility sheds. With Victory, full sup*
plies of Lysaghts Galvanised Iron will again be
available for alt .farm building purposes —in
6 ft. to 12 ft.'lengths and both 2 ft. Ij in. and
2 ft. 7f in, widths— so complete your plans!
NOW f
JOHN JLYSAGHT. [(AUSTRALIA) PTY.^LTD
JSJDNETJ C— 1 MELBOURNE,' K BRISBANE* ADELAIDE r PERTH
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
fd
OanogaS
: _ “IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A bo r can nee tb. ,?»>• BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Cyanogas blower (Pat’d)
Obtainable jrom all
Storekeepers throughout Australia
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
SAVES
MANPOWER
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Drafting Sheep.
“Sheepo”: Drafters become efficient
only after a lot of practice. Eyes and
mind must be a jump ahead of the sheep
going through the gate, but no drafter
can do good work unless race and gates
are in good order. Th® race should be
not less than 14ft. long and narrow
enough to prevent sheep from turning
round and blocking the run. It is when
the drafter has to leave his gates and turn
a sheep round in the race that mistakes
occur. The race should be boarded on
both sides ; sheep won’t run if they can
see through the sides.
The gates should be well swung and
have the strength that the work demands.
Forcing pens should not be too big and
should be kept full once drafting begins.
Once a sheep enters the race it should
never have the chance of breaking out
again ; a full forcing pen will help to pre-
vent this.
On a three-way draft it is always ad-
visable to allow the biggest of the mobs
to go through on the straight draft. Sheep
run better on a through draft and time is
saved. As soon as a drafter makes a
mistake he should block the gates and
make sure the sheep concerned is caught
and replaced. When a big mob is being
drafted take a spell now and then. A
tired man can be confused, and faulty
drafting is likely unless the eyes get a
rest.
When drafting off fats the best method
is to get in amongst the sheep first and
raddle them. I have yet to see the man
who could draft off unmarked fat sheep
correctly as they came to him. Raddling
is also recommended when drafting off
the culls, except when ewes are being
culled for age and age-marks are in use.
Victorian Wheats.
“Ben C.”: Victoria has a new one,
bred at the Walpeup research station and
bearing the title Ghurka x Ranee M6173
T14-2-1-1. Farmers in these times of
form-filling, and trying to remember
whether or not money expended on “note-
books, black, for the recording of wheat
varieties” is an allowable deduction, can’t
be expected to memorise such things, so
the sooner it gets a name the better, espe-
dally as it has done so well in trials,
drought and all, that it’s here to stay.
It’s an early maturer with fairly short
straw and a short, compact, brown-
chaffed head. Fairly resistant to flag-
smut and nice to strip, the short straw is
a bit of a nuisance in seasons when there
is a lot of mustard or wild turnip about.
The grain is better than Ghurka, about
the same quality as Ranee 4H. If things
go well, Walpeup hopes to name and dis-
tribute it after next harvest.
The crossbred stood up well in the
drought, beating a fair variety of what
are regarded as good drought wheats. On
“Ougbler get the washin out , Ma — they'll dry in no time with
this breeze !”
the Walpeup farm the acre-yields for 1944
were: Ghurka x Ranee M 6173, 8.5
bushels; Regalia, 8.1 ; Baldmin, 7.4;
Bencubbin, 7.2; Ghurka x White Fife
L 5266, 6.6 ; Quadrat, 6.2; Ghurka, 5.8 ;
Ranee 4H, 5.8 ; Ghurka x Pusa 4 M 4510
V 9-2, 5,8 ; Pindar, 4.8. The figures, of
course, are for one of the worst drought
years the Mallee has known. Over a
five-year average, however, the crossbred
still leads with an acre-yield of 19.6
bushels, Bencubbin and Quadrat being
next-best with 18.1 bushels each.
Most Mallee' growers are now satisfied
about Bencubbin. In the southern parts
of the Mallee its somewhat weak straw
might, cause trouble in a good year, but
they get over it by sowing only on pad-
docks that make it easy to handle. Quad-
rat, not so well known as Bencubbin, has
generally pleased those who’ve tried it.
A late mid-season wheat maturing about
the same as Ghurka, it is a bit taller, has
a bolder head and has steadily stripped
heavier than Ghurka.
Pasture Improvement.
“Outback”: Queensland Cabinet, im-
pressed with an address given by Bris-
bane medico and grazier, Dr. E. Hirsch-
feld, on pasture improvement on his prop-
erty, Bybera, near Inglewood, has author-
ised its publication as a booklet. On a
comparatively small area Hirschfeld set
out, with the help of his son as manager,
to make every acre as productive as pos-
sible. First step was to get the Govern-
ment Botanist, C. T. White, to make a
survey of the grasses on the property-r
over 50 were listed. In collaboration with
the Department of Agriculture, 63 dif-
ferent grasses and plants were sown,
After 12 years Dr. Hirschfeld has satis-
fied himself that for his purpose Flinders
and Mitchell grasses are the best.
Observations of the feeding habits of
cattle on Bybera led to a study of soil
ingredients, and experiments showed that
minute doses of copper markedly pro-
moted the growth of cereals, that boron
brought about earlier seeding of cereals
and prairie grass, and that the addition
of three grains of sulphate of zinc per
plot increased the drought-resistant pro-
perties of the grasses.
Dr. Hirschfeld recommends a close
season for grasses during seeding time,
particularly because there are no winter
grasses in southern Queensland. On
Bybera creeping saltbush has proved
valuable as a drought plant.
As a result of his experience in putting
down water facilities, Dr. Hirschfeld wants
the Government to introduce a scheme,
similar to the scheme for financing erec-
tion of rabbit-proof fencing, for putting
down sub-artesian bores and equipping
same, also constructing dams and tanks ;
the four bores on .Bybera averaged £7OO
each. ,
To make up for the lack of phosphorus
in his soil. Dr. Hirschfeld experimented
with licks containing phosphates as, being
breeders, not fatteners, his cattle needed
an ample supply of mineral substances
in the soil. Best results came from steril-
ised bonemeal, mixed with common salt.
At first the cattle wouldn’t touch it, but
in winter they rushed it. It was found
that in summer they obtained all the
minerals they needed, but in winter nearly
80 p.c. of the minerals was gathered in
the seed, leaving stalks and straw lacking.
When the bonemeal licks were provided
there was a response in calf numbers, and
the fertility percentage increased to 88.
Giant Couch.
“Plane Creek”: Giant couch (Panicum
muticums) is ideal for swamps in Central
Queensland, inland or on the coast. In
the 50in rainfall coastal districts north
of St. Lawrence giant couch will grow
almost anywhere, covering the ground
with rooting runners from which sweet
shoots rise to 6ft. and give wonderful
feed. The crude protein content of young
giant couch is 24.8 p.c., which puts it up
amongst the most nutritious grasses.
In a swamp it gets plenty of moisture
to keep it yielding a green pick. If grown
away from moisture in districts with a
rainfall of less than 50in. it is vigorous
only during wettest periods and relatively
dormant at other times. The seed is
usually unobtainable in Queensland, but
runners are easily obtained. Just put ’em
in from 2ft. to 4ft. apart. The patch
should be ready for grazing in three or
four months and should last indefinitely.
Only very severe frosts are likely to kill
the roots.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.C.”; Lambs that don’t thrive under
normal conditions may be affected with
worms. To treat, dissolve lib. bluestone
in sgall. of water and mix with 16fl. oz.
of 40 p.c. commercial nicotine sulphate.
Dose for lambs under four months is
iff. oz., four to eight months iff. oz.
Give each lamb a few ounces of oats two
or three times a week.
“Mackay”: Cows with ringworm should
be isolated, as the disease is contagious.
To cure, treat with ( a ) 5 p.c. tincture
of iodine or ( b ) 10 p.c. of oil of tar in
rape oil, or (c) make an ointment of one
part sulphur, one part paraffin oil and
three parts of vaseline. In each case
apply two or three times at intervals of
one week. Disease does not affect the
milk but is easily transmitted from animal
to milker.
“Farmer Bill”; The mare down with
sand colic should first be given a
couple of bran mashes ; these pick up
the sand in the passage. After that,
drench with a pint to If pints of raw
linseed oil —according to the size of the
horse. Two to three days later give two
more bran mashes, and if necessary ad-
minister another pint of oil. Keep the
animal warm and feed lightly after the
second dose.
“Myrrhee”: A thinning out of citrus
trees lacking in vigor will help restore
the balance between top and root growth.
Remove branches of orange-trees hang-
ing so low that leaves and fruit touch
the ground, to reduce danger of infection
with fungoid diseases. All citrus pruning
is best done in spring so that fresh growth
will escape frosts.
“Outback”: Although some depart-
mental scientists are apt to question
the existence of arsenic-resistant ticks
practical graziers do not doubt it. A. W.
Anderson, of Wallangarra meatworks,
had a mob of 420 cattle dipped five or
six times at Helidon, but still they were
declared ticky. The Department of Agri-
culture recommended nicotine sulphate.
As the cattle were losing weight rapidly
the firm consented. One dipping with
the nicotine sulphate dip cleaned up the
ticks.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Japan’s Supplies.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” war com-
mentator Hanson W. Baldwin .)
Examination of the resources available
in Japan’s “inner defence zone” and of
the estimated stockpiles Japan is believed
to have accumulated gives no ground for
assuming any quick collapse of the enemy
because of lack of materiel.
The U.S. Foreign Economic Admini-
stration and the’Office of War Informa-
tion believe that, despite Japan’s loss of
the rice crops of south-west Asia and of
Formosa (the latter normally supplied
6 per cent, of Japan’s rice) and of virtu-
ally all her sugar (grown in Formosa),
Japan’s war effort will not suffer seri-
ously and starvation will not result in the
inner zone. Japan grows about 80 per
cent, of her own rice needs; Korea and
Manchuria supply rice and soy beans and
the Japanese fisheries are still operating,
though on a limited scale. The Japanese
will eat, though they will be strictly
rationed and on an increasingly low
caloric diet.
Most of Japan’s steel industry is in
the main Japanese islands, but most of
Japan’s coking coal and some 40 per
cent, of the total coal supply come from
Manchuria and China, and most of her
high-grade iron-ore is also imported
from the continent.
Japan’s synthetic oil production and ex-
traction from oil shales in her own
islands, Manchuria and Korea, plus some
natural crude production in the inner
zone, provide more than 20,000,000
barrels a year, a large part of it fuel oil.
Because most of her navy and mer-
chant marine have been lost or immo-
bilised, because her army is not a
mechanised one, and because her fighting
forces are now concentrated in a rela-
tively restricted area, this may be enough
Japan’s need indefinitely.
However, Japan’s supply problem is
transportation as,well as production. If
Japan could be cut off almost completely
from access to the Asiatic mainland via
the 150- to 500-mile stretch of water —
the Straits of Tsushima and the Sea of
Japan—she would soon feel the pinch,
and such a tight blockade would mean
the beginning of the end.
Spotlight on Manchuria.
(Condensed from “United States News.”)
Powecful forces are converging upon
Manchuria, making it a centre of tension,
intrigue and incipient strife. Suddenly it
begins to look like the hot-spot of the
world. The Japanese war may end there,
where it began. Once Japan is beaten
Manchuria could become the key in the
Far East either to peace or to prolonged
new - struggles that would affect the
Ufiited States.
Why is it a battlefield, and why is the
future peace or strife of Asia, and per-
haps of the world, so closely linked to
its fate? The answers are to be found in
the story of that land and of events now
taking shape.
Manchuria is a prize. Its area, its
strategic location, its resources are such
that control of it, along with control of
Korea, is the key to national leadership in
all of Eastern Asia. Thus, the way to such
leadership for Japan, China or Russia
lies in securing that control.
Manchuria, with its teeming cities, its
broad farm lands, its mountains and
forests, can be set out in three zones:
The industrial south has iron, coal,
copper mines and cities turning out
weapons of war. Among these cities are
Dairen, the big port, and Port Arthur,
naval base ; Mukden, one of the world’s
fastest-growing cities, with a population
of almost 3,000,000; Anshan, steel centre
and chief mainland target of U.S. Super-
fortresses until the Japanese knocked out
the 829 bases in China ; Fushun, which
has the world’s largest open-cut coalmine,
and Chilin, turning out synthetic rubber,
gasoline and fuel oil.
The central farm belt, Japan’s bread-
basket, produces wheat, corn, rice, a grain
sorghum called kaoliang, millet and huge
tonnage of soybeans.
The frontier zone is a region of rich
timber. On the east is the finger of
Siberia with its port of Vladivostok. On
the north the Amur River along the
Siberian border and a high mountain
range is a defensive barrier. On the west
are the arid plains of Chinese Mongolia.
That, then, is a bird’s-eye glimpse of
the vast land of conflicting national in-
terests. Here is the background;
Manchuria now is vitdl to Japan for
several reasons. Manchuria supplies one-
third of Japan’s pig-iron capacity, one-
half of her coke output, one-sixth of her
steel production and a sizable part of
her food imports. Heavy bombings by
Superfortresses are knocking out Japan’s
home industries one by one and are in-
creasing her reliance on Manchurian
sources, Japan is being cut off from the
East Indies and other islands, has lost
sources of three-fourths of her oil, all of
her natural rubber and much of her iron-
ore, other ores and food. This increases
her dependence on Manchuria for these
raw materials.
Japan’s lines of supply by sea to all her
armies in South China, Indo-China,
Thailand and Malaya have been cut for
some time, Notv the overland corridor
down China’s railroad also is being cut
by advancing Chinese armies. The
Japanese are withdrawing northward to-
A wedding has taken place on
Okinawa, under U.S. Army aus-
pices, of a Jap officer and a Jap
nurse flushed out of a cave by a
mop-up squad using hand gren-
ades. Was this wedding a piece of
inexcusable American sentimen-
tality, or was it good propaganda
to counteract the Jap stories that
Americans torture and kill pris-
oners? Anyway, we hope it made
an honest nurse out of the gal. —
, N.Y. “Daily News.”
ward Manchuria, where they can be fed
and supplied. Ships operating the supply-
lines between Japan itself and Manchuria
now are being bombed. The result is
that Japan’s mainland army of between
1,500,000 and 2,000,000 men is being made
more and more dependent on Manchuria
for supplies.
For all these reasons Japan is clinging
with a grip of despair to Manchuria,
centre of her hopes of empire.
The Chinese interest in Manchuria is
intense from a long-range as well as a
short-range point of view. China’s hopes
of becoming a strong nation industrially
and militarily rest heavily upon her re-
covery of Manchuria. Without those
resources China cannot build industries
or equip armies. Without Manchuria’s
mountains as a barrier China will remain
open to invasions that in the past have
swept upon her repeatedly from the north.
Return of Manchuria to China was
promised by the Roosevelt-Churchill-
Chiang conference at Cairo in December,
I*3.
At last the Chinese, with American
help, have equipped and trained some 40
divisions and are fighting aggressively.
They threaten to cut completely the
Japanese corridor to the south. Then the
Chinese armies will be free to turn and
drive for recovery of North China and
Manchuria. That is where China wants
to fight the decisive battles for her inde-
pendence and future national strength.
The Russian interest is largely strategic.
Possession of Manchuria would give
Russia Pacific ports for which she fought
in the Russo-Japanese War in 1904-05.
Such possession would give her a direct
rail route to the Pacific. It would pro-
tect Vladivostok from flank attack. It
would pave the way for Russian collabor-
ation with Chinese communists, who are
opposing the Government of General-
issimo Chiang Kai-shek, thus helping the
spread of the Russian economic system
in China. And it would make Russia
easily the dominant Power in Asia.
Russia steadily has fought extension of
Japan’s influence in Asia. She waged
two undeclared wars in the 1930 s along
the Manchurian border. She is not a
party to the Roosevelt-Churchill pledge
to return Manchuria to China, and her
only recent act in Far Eastern affairs has
been denunciation of the non-aggression
treaty with Japan. Now, Russia, without
breaking that pledge, could go to war
with Japan next April 25—or sooner, in
the event of Japanese provocation. Tokyo
evidently thinks Russia may enter the
war in furtherance of Soviet interests in
Asia,
If a Russian entry into the Asiatic war
should follow the pattern established in
eastern Europe, where the Soviet held
territory taken by its troops, or established
friendly Governments, Russia might be
slow to withdraw from Manchuria.
The U.S. interest has both a present
side and a post-war side. The urgent
need is to defeat Japan and to push the
Japanese out of Asia. China’s resurgent
power now opens the way for the U.S. to
land large armies on the continent and
to join in a combined drive into Man-
churia, where Japan is holding large
numbers of American prisoners of war.
The defeat of Japan would be helped by
Russia’s entrance, which, with a China-
U.S. drive, could snap shut a trap on
the Japanese armies on the mainland.
But the post-war side of the U.S. in-
terests may be different. In the past
American policy has resisted the domin-
ance of any one Power in the Far East.
Also, U.S. policy traditionally has
opposed the domination of China by any
outside Power. The U.S. is supporting
the Chiang Kai-shek Government, while
Russia inclines to favor the communist
regime. And the U.S. is against exten-
sion of the power of any nation by estab-
lishment of dependent Governments in
neighboring countries. So several grounds
are clear for future adherence by the
U.S. and Britain to their pledge of a re-
turn of Manchuria to China.
The results of these conflicts are only
partially clear. Japan is marked for de-
feat, and her Manchurian resources will
not save her. She is to lose her future
place as an international Power. Elimin-
ation of Japan will leave only China as
a rival to Russia as a strong Power in the
Far East. As between the two, Russia
may have the advantage, unless that ad-
vantage is offset by the influence of
western nations, chiefly that of the U.S.
This could lead to future problems in
Manchuria between the U.S. and Soviet
Russia.
Mrs. Roosevelt Views Com-
munism.
(As a rule the “World-Telegram” column con-
tributed by Mrs. Roosevelt is not much referred
to outside the newspapers syndicating it, but her
comments here given, published in June, have
been very widely quoted in the American press
generally.)
At the moment certain action of Ameri-
can communists have added fuel to the
general fear of communism as an inter-
national force.
Earl Browder has been reprimanded for
an attitude which many of us believed
had represented the attitude of the Soviet
Government. [The reprimand came from
a French communist leader who was at
the time just back in Paris from visiting
Moscow.]
We in America feel that any nation
has a right within its own borders to the
kind of Government it feels best meets
the needs of the people. It is only when
those beliefs begin to encroach on other
nations and on other people, and to en-
danger their free beliefs and actions by
attempting to propagandise them, either
openly or secretly, that fear is awakened.
The next step, we have learned through
the rise of fascism, is to try by force to
push upon the rest of the world the
beliefs which your particular nation holds.
That is what we, including the Soviet
Union, have had to fight, and the w'ar
has been a long, cruel war.
It frightens us to see any group in our
midst proposing to propagandise instead
of co-operating where possible and letting
people think and act for themselves. This
might lead to war at home and abroad.
Therefore, the French communist leader
and the American communists who en-
courage a policy of world revolution have
done the peace of the world harm.
The American communists had been
co-operative’ where they could be. But
now, as we understand it, they are out
to force communism on our democracy.
That we will not tolerate.
I am not afraid of the communists in
the United States. They are a very small
group, and my feeling has always been
that as long as the needs of our people
are met by our own form of Government
democracy need have no fear of the
growth of other ideas, either in the field
of economics or of government.
As a people, we are not afraid of the
Soviet Union. We feel kindly toward
the Soviet people. Our soldiers admire
them, and so do our people generally,
for the way they have fought in the war.
We do not understand them very well,
nor do we understand their problems or
their real feelings about things which
affect us deeply. That understanding can
only come gradually, as we get to know
each other better ; and we cannot know
each other unless we live in a peaceful
world.
The sooner we clear up authoritatively
this whole situation of communists out-
side of the Soviet Union the better
chance we will have, for peace in the
future. The Russian people should know
this, and so should the people of the
United States. If they both demand a
clarification of a situation which may
grow until it endangers peace in the
world responsible people will have to
listen. Light may break on what now
seems a situation through which all the
people who want to make trouble be-
tween the United States and the Soviet
Union can do so.
J. Bull v. U-boats.
(Official figures released in June.)
Detailed list of U-boats sunk during
the war against Germany, as compiled
by the British Information Services from
data available to date:
U-boats Sunk.
Brit. Emp. U.S. &
& Allied Allied
Forces Forces
(Except (Except
r v U.S.).' Britain). Total.
Ships 2054 304 236
Shore-based aircraft 1794 45 2244
Carrier-borne aircraft 184 32 5U 2
Joint ship, shore-
based aircraft .. 214 7-4 -9
Joint ship, carrier-
borne aircraft 4 6 to
Bombing raids on
U-boats afloat in
enemy ports .. 8 29 37
Submarines .... 25 1 26
Totals .. •• 462 151 613
A further 100 were losses due to sea
mining by the R.A.F. Bomber Command,
precise details of which are not yet avail-
able. The final total thus is 713 U-boats
sunk. The indicated 4 means that more
than one unit participated in the “kill.”
The term Allied includes forces operating
with the British in the first column and
forces operating with the United States
in the second column.
Czechs Get Annoyed.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” correspondent
in Europe Daniel T. Brigham .)
Having swapped German domination
for what they call “Russian liberation,”
the Czechoslovaks today Vearily hope for
an immediate and radical change in Mos-
cow’s political and economic policy
toward the nation. The signs of national
discontent —in part also directed against
the American “occupant”—have been
amply demonstrated to this correspondent
during a tour of Czechoslovakia by auto-
mobile, which took him far behind the
Russian lines.
The national discontent, in common
with similar sentiments in other Euro-
pean countries, both co-belligerent and
enemy, is increasing rapidly in direct pro-
portion to the growing lack of food,
which is spreading despite the Homeric
efforts of the United Nations Relief and
Rehabilitation Administration, the Inter-
national Red Cross and several Russian
relief agencies, which are sparing neither
man nor beast in their almost hopeless
battle against incipient starvation.
In Czechoslovakia I found the situa-
tion characteristically complicated by the
diversity of the occupation policies being
applied by the Anglo-Saxons in the west
as far as Pilsen and the Russians through-
out the rest of the country. In the west
the policy was one placed on a broad
camaraderie and “we will help you to
restore order in your own house pro-
vided you pitch in and help.”
In the zone under Russian control there
appears to be a scarcely veiled determi-
nation to effect a sort of “voluntary
Sovietisation,” particularly of the indus-
trial centres, by the application of direct
politico-economic pressure. At this junc-
ture this policy has accentuated a national
stagnation to the point of almost total
inhibition of the country’s own efforts
toward rehabilitation. Without some self-
help from the Czechoslovaks no power
on earth will be capable of restoring
either order or industry in that part of
central eastern Europe.
My tour, which took me some 2500
miles, gave me an ample opportunity to
study at first hand the effects of the Rus-
sian stranglehold on Czechoslovak
economy. It is true that militarily the
capital, Prague, and many other large
towns have been “turned back” to the
central Czechoslovak Government. But
in Prague, for instance, this restitution has
been accompanied by a token occupation
of about three divisions on the outskirts
of the town. Further control of Prague
is by the mere fact that not a
single green vegetable can go into the city
from the surrounding countryside unless
it is moved in with Russian permission.
This permission, as far as I coftld
gather, has been almost invariably forth-
coming. There have been “incidents,”
however, when the Russians wished to
“punish” certain towns for fancied or real
grievances and food movements were held
back for periods of varying duration.
The lack of green vegetables in the
larger cities, incidentally, has led to a
distressing prevalence of scurvy, particu-
larly among the younger children, which
is now being tackled by the Russian medi-
cal services.
This tendency on the part of the Rus-
sian military authorities to treat the
Czechoslovaks generally as “bad children”
who still need political education, applied
militarily if necessary, is, psychologically


THE HIGH COST
ST/f tcke!
A
Vvv
'?sv < ~; M
The belching smokestack, mistakenly
regarded as a symbol of power, of
human activity and busy-ness by so
many, is, to the steam engineer, a
visible sign of waste.
Smoke is waste*—waste combustibles
. . . waste heat . . . waste energy.
Smoke is one of the world’s costliest
by-products—for where there is smoke
there is more than unburnt carbon,
there is unburnt gas ... a potential
source of power, literally “going up
in smoke.”
As builders of steam generating
plant, we at Babcock & Wilcox are
vitally concerned with smoke —or
rather with the absence of it for
the whole economy and efficiency of
a boiler plant depends upon how
♦much steam it can raise per pound
of coal.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
uwm
STEAM ENGINEERS—INCORPORATED' IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
But coal is not a standardised pro
duct and so toiler design is inti
mately tied to tte behaviour and
characteristics of the coal to be used
What we know about Australiar
coals results from 70 years experi
ence and cannot be duplicated. This
knowledge, backed by constant re
search and sound engineering, en
ables us to design and build in
Australia steam generating plant
that upholds the Babcock tradition
of low cost operation, high thermal
efficiency and reliability.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use tfu
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ
isation for designing, testing and re
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus
tralia will embody latest design practicef
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . .
work to common purpose with our British
organisation . . . maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of work-nan
ship with moderate first cost
TIME HAS I'KOVEI) THE S.Elit ICE (> E HAIICOCE H(HI. E R,. I’l. ANT
ill
1
i
o
SMi
i
'h
®C
>0
Ht
Ift your fight your
money U needed now.
Buy War Savings Certifi-
cate* and 5/- National
Savings Bonds .
Also Flake Cut
for the Pipe
XS6 ID-6.44
If sometimes
your Champion
Fine Cut is in
short supply
it is only for the
war’s duration.
Ask for it as
usual—your re-
tailer will sup-
ply you when
he can.
speaking, breeding a dangerous variety of
ultra-nationalism. The antipathy directed
against foreigners cannot be ignored.
This contention can possibly best be
illustrated by a description of a mobilisa-
tion rally I attended in a town not far
from the capital. Carried away by his
own eloquence, one speaker—who re-
ceived the most thundering applause of
the evening—let the real cat out of the
bag at one point when he cried “ ‘Our
country has been liberated,’ you say to
yourselves, ‘therefore we need only an
army capable of maintaining our national
sovereignty and nothing more.’ Well! I
tell you right here and now: our army
must be much stronger than that. It
must be strong enough to drive our libera-
tors from our gates and keep them out.
Czechoslovakia must return to its coun-
trymen ! ”
Some of this national discontent can
be discounted as possibly justified. There
have been cases of looting and worse
among the complaints levelled against
the liberators. There have also been
cases of apparently wanton destruc-
tion long after the military expediencies
would seem to have warranted it.
And all this the Czechoslovaks quite
naturally resent and they make no bones
about their feelings. But when the same
speaker released storms of applause to-
wards the end of his speech by appealing
for action so that “the Government may-
take over itself the delicate task of restor-
ing the nation’s health and prosperity”
he was directing his remarks against
both American and Russian occupying
forces.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
It will be conceded that the crime of the
present generation of Germans didn’t have
its origin in just the events of this decade or
the last. A nation does not deteriorate over-
night. The German people began to follow
false gods 30 and even 50 years ago. The
philosophers who were read most in the schools
and colleges taught that the State was supreme
and that the individual owed everything to the
State. Conformity was made a creed, and if re-
ligion interfered with the concept that' the State
was above all else religion suffered. The dig-
nity of the individual was gradually debased.
We could debase it also in a generation if we
allowed government to become our master in-
stead of our servant. What a tribute, therefore,
to the clear thinking of a few millions of per-
sons in Germany that they have steadfastly
adhered to Christianity despite the sharp turn
to paganism which prevailed as Nazism became
in 1933 the dominant religion of Germany!
Are not those British churchmen who now warn
against accepting German Christians “until they
can be trusted” condemning out of hand the
very group which could become the nucleus for
a revived and restored Christianity inside Ger-
many?—“United States News.”
* * * *
Indications are that an international health
conference will be held in the next few months.
Although one of the chief functions of the Eco-
nomic and Social Council in the new United
Nations organisation will be to call international
conferences of this nature, it is officially agreed
that world-health problems growing out of the
war and its end are so acute that delay would
be dangerous. It is feared that epidemics might
sweep across the world in the absence of organ-
ised international co-operation to solve the
health problems arising from famine and disease
in the recently occupied countries, and from the
huge mass movements of millions of “displaced”
persons from their places of imprisonment or
enslavement back to their native countries.
Modern means of communication have compli-
cated the situation** inasmuch as the airplane
can carry germs from one country to another
as quickly as it can carry passengers and goods.
This requires an entirely new conception of
international quarantine regulations.— N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Coal may become so costly that if may cease
to be used to propel ships, says Sir Philip
Hadlin, president of several British shipping
lines and member of several Government bodies
dealing with shipping. The price of British
bunker coal (coal stored at ports to fuel ships)
is about 150 p.c. above pre-war prices, he says.
American coal has risen 40 p.c. in price, and
Australian and South African coal about 30 p.c.
At the same time, Will Lawther, president of
the British Coal Mines National Union, says:
“Cheap coal means cheap miners; it will never
exist again.” This emphasis upon high wages
without equal emphasis upon high Output offers
a sorry prospect for Lawther’s comrades in
other British industries. — London correspondent
“Wall-street Journal.’’
* * * *
What the peoples of Europe are waiting to
see—and they can’t wait long—is whether we
democratic Anglo-Americans or the totalitarian
Russians are going to be the first to start
building a new economy in Europe. What they
are interested m is food for their children, jobs,
housing, trains that run and the appurtenances
of an economy that ticks. On our side they see
hampering interferences. From the Russian side
they hear that the rebuilding is already under
way—on harsh, class-war lines, but actually
gomg on. Those of us who piously expect
The difficulties experienced by
foreigners in understanding the
Russian mind and actions and in
evaluating the Russian scene are by
no means a recent development. A
century ago an American diplomat
named Neil Brown, accredited to
the Czar, wrote a series of reports
pointing out such problems. Dur-
ing William C. Bullitt’s sojourn as
Ambassador in Moscow Brown's
reports were carefully edited,
changing only names and dates, and
submitted to our State Department.
Washington received them as a
broad and up-to-date analysis of
the current situation, and later mas
amazed to learn they actually were
a hundred years old. — N.Y. “Times”
correspondent in Europe, C. L.
Sulzberger.
starving people not to sell their freedom for a
mess of pottage have never had to go without
pottage. — "Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
Until the millennium, there will be a British
policy for Britain and an American policy
for the United States. At times our interests
or supposed interests will not coincide with
those of British nations. But we will always
have a paramount mutual interest in the preser-
vation of a democratic peace; and that interest
must and will be recognised at every level,
from President and Prime Minister down to
farmer, little businessman and mine-worker.
To think or speak otherwise is treason not only
on a national but on an international scale.
— N.Y. “Times."
* * * *
It is a shocking fact that deaths on the high-
ways in England during the European war
totalled more than 42,000, vying closely with
the 60,000 deaths from enemy action. But
public opinion seems much less stirred by the
daily slaughter on the highways than it was
by the bomb casualties. — London correspondent
“Wall-street Journal.’’
* * * *
President Truman is beginning to show some
strain. He is working too hard. Mr. Truman’s
task is prodigious. Problems pour in on him.
He has to get familiar with his job, with per-
sonalities, with issues, while making decisions.
Decisions come readily. The President’s reac-
tions are quick, definite. They rest' heavily on
the commonsense side and are clear-cut, not
equivocal. The only trouble is that there is no
end to the work, no end to the people of im-
portance who want to be seen, no end to the
problems that keep on appearing. Mr. Roose-
velt took it all philosophically, refused to worry.
Even so, the strain got him in the end. Mr.
Truman, at 61, may have to slow his pace, may
be forced to work less than 12 or 16 hours a
day and see fewer callers. — “United States
News."
* * * *
Molotov’s press conferences at San Francisco
were so successful, from his own and the corre-
spondents’ point of view, that he was asked if
he planned to carry the idea back to Moscow.
Cleverly, as the late President Roosevelt used
to do when questions became too pointed, he
sidestepped the issue. In effect, he replied that
San Francisco is San Francisco and Moscow is
Moscow. The net result of it was “No,” much
to the regret of most of the delegates. For it
is conceded that no one thing could contribute
more to a much-needed Anglo-American-Soviet
understanding than free access to information in
Soviet-dominated territory.— William Philip
Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
Outside the San Francisco conference, but
parallel with it and held by many to be superior
in its potency for peace, is a demand by many
groups and individuals for an international bill
of rights. In effect, it is a demand that the
familiar Bill of Rights in the American Constitu-
tion be extended to the whole world; Those
who support the demand, embracing many
religious and civic groups, believe that any inter-
national organisation for peace will be short of
effectiveness unless it includes, or is supple-
mented by, the international bill of rights.
One detail of the international bill of rights,
freedom of the press, was named first in the
four freedoms enounced by President Roose-
velt: “Freedom of speech and expression,
everywhere in the world.” International free-
dom of the press has been indorsed, in resolu-
tions, by both branches of Congress, and by
both political parties in their national cotfven-
tions. These, in their resolutions, made a care-
ful dictinction. They limited their endorsement
to freedom of international transmission of
news, between country and country. They re-
frained from demanding that other countries
practice freedom of the press within their own
borders. There is a natural reluctance to tell
other countries, such as Russia for example,
that they should change their domestic laws
and practices. — Washington correspondent N.Y.
“Herald Tribune."


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO- BARRERE acts dke the hand when
placed fiat upon the orifice. You will at once,
■without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write "to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
barrere DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 228), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
f
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course i
nf ftAttKO Condition Powders. Constant scratcn*
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Giv him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap. , ~
CONDITION POWDERS I/*
SKIN LOTION 2/f
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!>
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
n FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
’while away from the noise and
hustle, you /are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
m c
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
THE
WEHTWDRTH
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO FRANCIS JOSEPH PERRIN formerly of Sydney.
—TAKE NOTICE, that LAURIE ROSE PERRIN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2330 of 1945 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance at the Divorce °® ce
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 21st day
of September 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from E. G. SAYEGH Solicitor 133
Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
Public Notice.
I, VASSILY ALEXANDROVITCH PROOTKOVSKY,
Stateless, bom at Velikie Luki, Russia, and resident
19 years in Australia, now residing at 82 Roscoe
Street, Bondi Beach, N.S.W., intend to apply for
naturalisation under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON NEW ZEALAND
Where efficient but un-
obtrusive service is a boon
to the travel weary...
where all the arts of
the modern hotelier
find expression in
your greater
comfort.
THE SYMBOL
OF SERVICE
Radio, Cable and
Telegraphic Address t
“SANGEORGE”
CR.3
set a
**
3SS$^:
i^ll
Ilk.
Urn*
m
<- u u
808
>0
m
B
-
ft
“They have made
a new man of me”
d
fd
f
df
7J Ri *ati on
h$z j
vz?z \
v%s /
m
■m
m
m
In these strenuous times the revitalising effect of these wonderful
little tablets is more than ever valuable. Just two tablets three
times a day before meals. But if you take the tablets regularly
the results will astonish you.
Start taking
helps to keep you fit after forty
Thyllosan’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark ‘Phyllosan’ is the property of Natural Chemicals Ltd.. London
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BOWDS.
N
5788
CRAVEN A
IjouU appreciate tkeh
etddamimf tptaii&i"
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
m
S'.jp
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Mines of Watsonville, by S. B. L
Skertchly.—362B.
To buy a white glass opal 6£in. diam. lamp-
shade for a Miller Junior No. 1 lamp. 3629.
To buy Angling in Australia. —363o.
To buy Alfred Noyes’s Tales of the Mermaid
Tavern. —363l.
To buy The Bulletin Reciter. —3632.
To buy Norman Lindsay’s Magic Pudding.
3633.
Information Sought.
What is the procedure as regards registra-
tion of a person who desires to start a business.
If operating from a shop or factory, registra-
tion with the Department of Labor and Indus-
try under the Factories and Shops (Amendment)
Act, together with registration with the Regis-
trar-General, is necessary. If trading as a sales-
man or district representative it is necessary to
register with the Registrar-General’s Depart-
ment only.
Who was the first painter to have a picture
hung in the Victorian National Gallery ?
Louis Buvelot, whose “Winter Morning was
hung in 1869.
If a person is injured in an accident and is
adjudged unfit for work for, say, 18 months
is he entitled to an invalid pension?
As the incapacity is of a temporary nature,
he is not qualified for an invalid pension. The
Under-Secretary, Department of Labor and In-
dustry and Social Welfare, 53 Martin-place, Syd-
ney, may be prepared to assist him financially
until employment can be resumed.
Are civilians now allowed to return to
Darwin ? ' . .
As Darwin is still a military area permission
of the army authorities is necessary.
Did the Australian aborigines migrate in the
winter, and what protection had they against
the cold weather?
The natives could not migrate, either as small
groups or as tribes, as each tribe had its own
well-defined territory, and to trespass on an-
other tribe’s domain meant severe punish-
ment. There are numerous references to the
way the abos. felt the winter cold. To keep
warm they huddled round small fires in cave
or hut, or used cloaks of animal skins. But it
must be remembered that an individual who
has lived without clothes from babyhood builds
up resistance to changes in temperature.
Brief Answers.
W.J.W.: (1) 4 Whitehall Court, S.W.I,
London. (2) Not known. (3) Try Angus and
Robertson, Sydney C.M.: Send name and
address It is not necessary for
opposing naval forces to see each other for
accurate shooting... .Anzac Cove: Six ratings
were awarded the Distinguished Service Medal
for the sinking of the Emden J. 8.: When
budding, the thin slice of wood adhering to the
bud should not be removed F.M.: W. H.
Hudson was born in Argentina in 1841, went to
England in 1874 and was naturalised 26 years
later; he died in 1922... .A.A.R.: The seed-
lings should not be transplanted for another
12 months, the best time being September. It
is considered that Hobart is too far south for
kurrajongs to thrive. Apply to Tasmanian Agri-
cultural Department for advice as to the suita-
bility of your area W.R.: lames Peeles
“Evening Shadows, Otira Gorge, N.Z.,” was
hung in 1891 A.F.: The air is that of the
American song “Maryland, My Maryland’’..
p p. : You may change your name by deed poll
and register it... .C.H.F.: (1) Assuming all
other gifts (if any) within previous 18 months
do not exceed £10,000,. duty payable is 30 px.
(2) Yes, but a rebate of gift duty paid may be
made G.T.T.: Know nothing of this co.
Consult a broker D.D.D.: 251 b. finely-
ground maizemeal, 351 b. finely-ground barley-
meal, 251 b. chaffed green feed and 151 b. cooked
meat scraps make a good ration; for young
stock the mash could be mixed with skim-
milk in addition to 3 p.c. bonemeal L.A.D.:
Possibly the trees are seedlings, in which case
not only would they vary in quality and
quantity of nut, but also in the period at which
they commence bearing. Pruning of the
trees the first few years after planting, followed
by a thinning out of overcrowded, crossed
and dead limbs, is usually all that is required.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. mil he returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
C. 8.: Try it on your angel L. 1.: When a
poet says a girl is a pearl one never knows
whether it’s a genuine/ compliment or whether
he was just stuck for a rhyme L.E.: Clover
too far off the earth... .N.S.: You’re striving
for strangeness and vagueness; and you d do
much better with simplicity and directness
C.V.G.: Shoo H.L.: The best poem yet
contributed by a kookaburra... •C.I.McK. i It
wanders. •. .M.K.: Yon glittering stars, chatter-
ing brooks, sundry nooks and leafy glades have
all been taken out of literature... .E.T ; : The
road’s all right, but you’ve peopled it with
platitudes K.K.: Splendor-dazzled, it has
gone whizzing into the never-ending streams ot
timeless time... .V.A.L.: Asking how to im-
prove those poems is like asking how to make
a railway engine out of two wheels and a
whistle .. .A.K.: Too many exclamation marks.
P.G.E.: Slight....F.J.W.: Swagman, dog
and dusty road all old friends... .CT.: Use
more dialogue and avoid large chunks of in-
trospection N.M.: Try a woman’s paper....
M.R.; A neat murder plot but undeveloped as
a story.... H.L.: Sugary... .L.W.: Nicely
written but characters lack animation... -A.fi.-
Two stories mixed up in one... .G.C.: Mignt
make a par P-L.: Wild and woolly.


Do you know?
a
i
W
mm
'mm
I
fm
Do you want your dental
plate to look as clean as
the day the dentist gave
it to you? Then brush
it daily with Kolynos
Dental Plate Cleanser.
ar
m
v
V\
1
d
In Mexico the milk teeth
of children are dropped
into a mouse hole to make
the second set stronger.
Omar Khayyam, the
famous Persian poet,
cleaned his teeth with a i
golden toothpick while he|
composed his famous ‘
A quotation from the
Koran: "A woman who
goes bejewelled into the
street is like a bejewelled
bear. A wise man does
not look at what is on her,
but at her teeth”.
Pasnphile, glamour girl of old
Greece, carried the tooth of a
dead horse as a charm against
toothache. A bright smile makes
any girl a glamour girl. Koly-
nos helps teeth look naturally
bright, because Kolynos gives
antiseptic cleansing.
m.
m
Most tooth decay starts between the teeth
—where microscopic particles of food
become wedged. If you don’t remove
those food deposits, they make a breeding
place for decay germs. Now, Kolynos
foams away from the bristles as soon as
you start brushing. Up between the
teeth goes antiseptic Kolynos, swirling
away those clinging food deposits—every
one of them. Of course, it’s regular
brushing with Kolynos that does it . . „
brushing after every meal.
DON'T SADDLE YOUR FRIEND
WITH YOUR RESPONSIBILITIES
TF you appoint a friend as sole Executor and Trustee, you saddle him with responsi-
bilities and obligations that may be beyond him.
Better, if you wish to appoint a friend, that you couple him with Perpetual Trustee
Company, Limited.
The Company has vast experience. It is shilled in dealing with the highly technical
problems arising out of Wills. Its methods are prompt and efficient. Its health never
fails. Its wisdom and judgment are never impaired by age. It offers perpetual security.
Call and interview a Senior Officer of the Company or, if you prefer, send for a copy of
a booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee.”
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
- DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
N. Norman Pope: Allen C. Lewis; Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and
others, Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Morris, Hedstrom, Ltd. (Fiji)
, Dividends N
Prefs. To Re- Re-
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. Ordinaries. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
193?.. 48,474 13,152 5 p.c. = 26,020 9,302 162,832
1936.. 56,686 13,152 5 „ „ 26,020 17,514 179,846
1937.. 73,835 13,152 5.8„ „ 29,923 30,759 210,605
1938.. 85,097 13,152 „ „ 44,235 27,710 238,315
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 233,315
From contingencies, £13,000.. .. 246,315
1939.. 56,366 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 11,989 258,304
1940.. 56,684 13,152 6 „ „ 31,225 12,307 270,611
Plantations written down £20,000,
“mainly” from inner reserves.
From dividend suspense, £6939 .. 277,550
1941.. 65,306 13,152 6 p.c. = 31,225 10,929 288,479
To Fiji Bomber Fund, £5OOO .. 283,479
1942.. 61,770 13,152 6 p.c.= 31,224 17,394 300,873
To Fiji Fighter Fund, £5550 .. 295,353
War-risk fund created, £160,000 .. 455,323
1943.. 94,769 13,152 84 p.c.= 44,234 37,383 492,706
To patriotic funds, £7355 .. .. 485,351
To staff fund, £5OOO ~ .. .. 480,351
1944.. 99,088 13,152 84 p.c.= 44,234'41,702 522,053
To patriotic funds, £lBO5 .. .. 520,248
To University scholarship, £25,000.. 495,248
Inner reserves disclosed, £128,000.. 623,248
1945.. 94,678 13,152 10 p.c.= 52,040 29,486 652,734
Trading conditions for this stoutly-
ribbed Fiji merchant and plantation
owner have been very mixed over the
last seven years. Collapse of the copra
market was responsible for the sharp con-
traction of profits in 1939. Then, during
the early war years, the shipping bottle-
neck and rising costs kept earnings
down. But with Japan’s entry into the
struggle the conflict spread to the South
and South-west Pacific, and the principal
Allied Governments became involved in
heavy expenditure in these areas. One
result was a new and strong demand for
much merchandise that the co. was able
to supply as shipping became available.
Also, following the enemy’s thrust into
the islands, there has been a ready
demand for copra and other South Seas
products at enhanced prices. Thus the
co.’s earnings have been inflated by ex-
ceptional and temporary war-time factors
over the last three years.
Following the shift of operational
centres closer to Japan, demand on ac-
count of the services, and with it the
co.’s earnings, began to taper. Both
passed their peak a year or so ago. Con-
cerning the outlook the chairman has
this to say:
We are now definitely at the end of the
boom period, and shareholders must be
prepared for profits on a reduced scale.
The sugar crop for 1946 will be far below
the average, but prices for cane are likely
to continue on a high level. Similarly, it
is hoped that the prices for copra through-
out this year will be maintained at some-
where near their present level. Taking
all circumstances into consideration, the
directors are of opinion that the financial
position of the co. justifies a recommenda-
tion that a final div. of 5* p.c. be de-
clared on ord. shares, making 10 p.c. for
the year.
The recession in last year’s gross earn-
ings (£268,171) was £8931. Including
provision for depreciation (£13,546, down
£22,223), exes. (£181,468) were got back
£9795. Taking into the reckoning an un-
explained addition of £7979 (down £5274)
to insurance funds, the net result was
£4410 short of the 1944 figure at £94,678.
That was enough to pay the pref. div.
and show 15.6 p.c. on the £520,407 of
ord. capital as against 16.1, 15.7, 9.3, 8.1,
8.3, 8.3 and 13.8 p.c. back to 1938. There
is nothing in sight at the moment to sug-
gest that the 10 p.c. div. is likely to be
interfered with.
A further £128,000 of inner reserves
has been disclosed by writing up the
book values of holding of Government
and industrial securities to a figure still
below market value. Only a couple of
years back a war risks reserve of
£160,000 was created mostly from inner
reserves. No material war damage has
been, or is likely to be, suffered by the
co., thanks to the success of Allied sea
and land forces in dealing with the
enemy. N,pr is the cautious board likely
to have shaken out all the contents of
the family stocking, which it has been
unobtrusively filling over the last quarter
of a century.
As a patriotic and public-spirited ges-
ture the board has, over the last four
years, contributed £19,710 to various
local war funds, and also set up a Morris
Hedstrom University scholarship at a cost
of £25,000. The first student (Ravuama
Vunivalu) is now studying at Auckland
University.
An extensive building programme is in
prospect post-war, but neither share-
holders nor outsiders are likely to be
asked to assist:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £739,613 £739,6X3 £739,613 £739,613
Deposits .. 4,946 1,631 2,936 8,193
Creditors, etc. 18,999 36,285 69,527 63,498
Plantations .. 49,247 26,508 20,032 19,641
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 303,195 278,070 196,422 184,578
Stocks, etc. .. 337,110 249,297 286,890 206,096
Investments 3}
cash .. 167,256 411,621 918,727 1,140,889
Capital value
branches, etc. 92,760 49,510
Book debts, etc. 133,950 116,113 96,857 90,116
The feature that catches the eye is in-
vestments and cash, up £192,162 last term.
The increase mostly reflects disclosure
of inner reserves already referred to. The
item consists of public securities £631,298,
cash £218,720, shares in subsidiaries
£114,399 and shares in other cos.
£176,472. The lot exceeded paid capital
by £401,276, and the amount coming to
outsiders was more than covered by book
debts, etc., alone.
Without attracting sellers, buyers offer
48s. for the f.-p. £1 ords. in the price-free
share markets in Maoriland. In Aus-
tralia the Government has fixed the ceil-
ing price at 275. 3d, Obviously, no holder
would sell at 275. 3d. unless forced to
do so. Thus in effect the Australian
share-price ceiling amounts to official de-
valuation of private assets and imposi-
tion of capital loss in cases where these
things are least desirable.
Electric Light and Power (Sydney)
, Dividends Nominal
. .. „ Pref. Ord. Writ- Re-
April. Profit. 7 p.c. 8 p.c. ten off. serves.f
■k £ £ £ £
1935 . . 134,258 10,208 63,333 60,619 821
* 93 6 • • 133 > 994 10,208 63,333 60,420 854
1937 .. 134,950 10,208 63,333 60,826 1,437
1938 . . 144,038 10,208 63,333 66,642 5,292
1939 . . 147,631 10,208 63,333 67,603 11,779
7 p.c.
1940 .. 137,579 10,208 65,416 68,166 15,568
6 p.c. 6 p.c.
1941 .. 128,999 8,750 47,500 68,121 20,196
5.4 p.c. 5.4 p.c.
1942 .. 122,312 7,912 42,948 68,649 22,999
1943 .. 117,354 7,912 69,039 31,736
1944 .. 125,554 7,912 31,666 73,537 44 175
1945 .. 139,430 7,912 31,666 86,059 57,968
t Subject to supply rights, £7500.
Nothing more has been heard of the
City County Council’s contemplated
acquisition of the business, nor are there
any indications that the proposal is likely
to be revived. The State Goverment has
been considering the question of estab-
lishing a central electricity authority, but
details of the proposed set-up, including
nature and extent of powers and area to
be covered, have not yet been disclosed.
About half a dozen years ago the Queens-
land Government appointed a commission
to supervise co-ordination and extension
of the supply of current throughout the
south-east of the State and to fix prices
thereof on a basis designed to cover costs,
plus depreciation, plus enough profit to.
enable cos. to pay contract rates on pref.
money and give the ords. 2 p.c. more than
is to be had from Commonwealth loans
issued for voluntary subscription during
the previous year. Adoption of a similar
formula in N. S. Wales would lift present
distributions to shareholders in E.L. and
P, by approximately \\ p.c. It would,
however, operate counter-clockwise to
the formula used to calculate wages
should the yield from public securities
remain steady and, at the same time, the
cost of living continue to rise.
Although the co.’s franchises are
hemmed in by the big County Council
electrical undertaking, they include five
of the older suburbs in which war-time
industrial activity overloaded mains and
sub-stations, which were expected to take
care of demand right through the 1940’5.
Delays in delivery of plant and comple-
tion of work complicated management
problems, while shifts in the nature of
demand for current unbalanced sales,
owing to differential tariff rates, and lifts
in wages and other costs, including coal,
materials and taxation, bumped up out-
goings. Net earnings fell from £80,028
for the 1939 term to £48,315 for the year
to end April, 1943. Over the same period
the ord. div. dropped from 8 p.c. to
4 p.c., and 'payments to the prefs. were
reduced from the full contract rate of
7 p.c. to £5 Bs. 6d, p.c. under the out-
moded N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act.
Increased taxation alone more than
accounted for the reduction in dividends.
The drift was arrested in 1943, follow-
ing introduction of the Government’s
stabilisation scheme, which slowed-up the
pace at which costs were advancing. Sales
have expanded, owing to lifting of restric-
tion! on street and other lighting and
increase in the number of consumers, now
40,369 (up 460 last term). Coal was
down to a few days’ supply at times, and
more had to be paid for low-grade than
used to be paid for high-grade fuel. The
improvement in last term’s gross earn-
ings (£256,384) was £17,796. Exes.
(£125,461) took £4365 of the increase, and
an extra £12,522 was allowed for depreci-
ation (£86,059). Including £8507 dropped
from somewhere into the insurance fund
(£46,857), the net result (£53,371, up
£1354) was sufficient to pay the prefs.
their full contract rate and show 5.4 p.c.
on ord. capital as against 5.2, 4.8, 5.4 and
6.4 p.c. back to 1941. On total capital
(pref. and ord. combined) the year’s profit
was 5.7 p.c., which means that the pref.
money isn’t earning much more than its
present statutory reduced cost.
Here is the financial set-up so far as
balance-sheet figures disclose it:
1941. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. £937,500 £037,500 £937,500 £937,500
Sundry
creditors*.. 179,743 316,793 405,940 362,827
Fixed assets.. 867,680 1,076,473 1,285,791 1,263,019
Stocks, etc. . . 37,268 55,701 30,735 26,289
Book debts .. 18,938 19,641 20,547 19,717
Cash, etc. .. 204,965 155,822 73,488 73,285
* Including provision for taxation.
Last term a reduction of £22,772 in the
book value of fixed assets was accom-
panied by a cut of £43,113 in the amount
coming to outsiders, which includes an
unspecified provision for taxation. When
the books closed this outside debt ex-
ceeded more or less liquids by £243,5j7,
an improvement of £37,634 over the
twelvemonth.
Swallow and Ariel!, Ltd. (Melb.)
, -Dividends N To Re- Re-
April, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
& £ £ £
1935.. 16,910 15 p.c. Nil 15,000 1,910 96,235
1936.. 18,625 6 „ 4 p.c. 14,000 4,625 100,860
1937.. 20,282 6 „ 4 „ 14,000 6,282 107,142
1938.. 20,398 6 „ 5 ~ 16,000 4,398 111,540
Swallow and Amell, Ltd., and Subsidiaries.
1939.. 14,292 6 p.c. 24 p.c. 11,000 3,292 93,704
1940.. 22,147 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 6,147 99,851
1941.. 22,137 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 6,137 105,988
1942.. 24,548 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 8.548 114,536
Net loss sale of assets, £9415 .. 105,121
1943.. 42,571 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 16,000 26,571 131,692
1944.. 49,238 6 „ 5 „ 16,000 33,238 164,930
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 159,930
1945.. 51,162 6 p.c. 54 p.c. 17,000 34,162 194,092
To staff fupd, £5OOO .. .. 189,092
The earnings 'of this cake, biscuit and
plum-pudding manufacturing business,
and of its dehydrated fruit and vegetable
and ice-cream subsidiaries, have been
inflated by exceptional and temporary
demands over the last few years. Tlie
sudden leap in earning is mainly the out-
come of demand from our own and
Allied forces in the South-west Pacific
for emergency rations, etc., and for can-
teen and other requirements. The
Christmas activities of the Australian
Comforts Fund bumped up sales of the
co.’s plum puddings, too.
Over a long period keen competition
and difficulties associated with plant and
costs kept both earnings and distri-
butions to shareholders at moderate


HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us to
be copied. We enlarge, colour and
frame. We will be glad to give a quote
on any work, and the greatest care will
be taken with your original; pack your
originals in cardboard.
Our address is: —
a 6 Goldie Place,
w. O. KEVIN) Melbourne Cl.
you cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
ireJy in Australia by
DUPLICATOR
I has all the fines! features o! high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cl
their tost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
' • SYDNEY AND BRISBANE 1
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
AUSTRALIAN ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE,
GEORGE ST,
CAMPEROOWN,
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
filter
Cylinder
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorney*,
Asbestos House. Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney*
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ROY ROBERTSON late df Parkes.—TAKE
NOTICE that DOROTHY MAY ROBERTSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2030 of 1915 alleging
that you the said Roy Robertson have been guilty of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you desire to defend the suit you
must enter an appearance at the Divorce Office King
Street Sydney by the 17th September 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition free of charge from JOHN
CHARLES PAYNTER Solicitor of St. James Build-
ings 109 Elizabeth Street Sydney New South Wales.
DATED this 18th day of July 1945. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
THAT*
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
•9
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong: - Joseph Mitchel
P. T. W. Black. Manager—E. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901, Box 543 “ G.P.0.. Sydney.
1 1 1 ,?;
A
v
n
■
T
\ inch of Cane-ite will insulate your home better than
16 inches of concrete or an 8 inch thick brick wall.
CANE-ITE
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Mm/WW BOARP
Cool* and pleasant in Summer, warm
and cosy in Winter insulate your
home for comfort and health,
Cane-ite acts on the same principle as
a vacuum bottle: isolates inside front
outside temperatures. Easy to erect*
takes paint, kalsomine, dye or stem
cilled patterns.
Manufactured by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Other C.S.R. Products S/agwooL Asbestos. Plaster Products
levels. Recent expansion in the volume of
turnover has permitted a much fuller and
more profitable use of plant. At the same
time the Government’s price-control and
stabilisation plans have steadied, though
not prevented, the rate of advance in
costs. This has enabled much of the
benefits of the brisker trading to be re-
flected in net earnings. But the div. has
been kept down, allowing more to be
put aside than was distributed and the
cash position to be strengthened.
These and other things suggest the board
is alive to possible developments post-
war, and that it is taking the only steps
it can take at the moment to meet them.
Trade rivalries can then be expected to
reappear, and on a reduced turnover
costs will exert a more limiting influence
on net earnings than at present. More-
over, at present rates of taxation,
rising costs would not only narrow profit
margins but would also reduce taxable
income therefrom, and the yield to the
Treasury.
* Last term overall production was
“appreciably” lower, owing to tapering
of Government orders. Output of
standard commercial lines increased, but
only partly filled the gap. Similar ex-
perience is expected during the current
term. Combined gross earnings of the
parent and subsidiaries (£271,417) fell
away £16,267. The improvement of
£1924 in the net result was due to a re-
duction of £22,317 in tax paid and pro-
vided for (£68,790) and of £1298 in the
provision for depreciation (£33,752).
Trading exes. (£117,713) advanced £5424.
The suggestion there is one of overpro-
vision for taxation in the previous term.
The £51,162 of profit claimed was
enough to pay the prefs. their 6 p.c.
( = £6000) and show 22.5 p.c. on the
£200,000 of ord. capital, compared with
21.6, 18.2, 9.2, 8 and 8 p.c. back to 1940.
Half a point was added to the div., rais-
ing it to 5i p.c., and £5OOO was sent to
the staff fund. The £29,216 that re-
mained lifted the lay-by to £189,092 —
the stoutest prop capital has enjoyed since
the beginning of this century.
There was further marked improve-
ment in the financial position:
Consolidated Figures.
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.,
Paid capital.. £300,000 £300,000 £300,000 £300,000
Overdraft .. 35,575
Creditors . . ,36,731 53,308 80,081 72,146
Tax reserve .. 7,953 39,432 148,332 146,616
Freeholds .. 206,373 ' 198,236 160,675 154,558
Plant, etc. . . 155,456 139,607 82,794 60,&54
Stocks .. 51,532 77,970 107,818 136,858
Uebtors .. 60,482 73,342 95,903 73,761
Cash, etc. .. 3,625 26,120 249,154 280,245
To carry an extra £29,040 of stocks and
strengthen the cash holding, etc., by
£31,091, book debts were reduced by
£22,142. The more or less liquid sur-
plus (£271,102) was £46,640 stouter than
at the previous balance, thanks to liberal
allowance for depreciation, etc. —a policy
with which discerning shareholders will
not quarrel.
British Ministry of Supply will ter-
minate its contract with Electrolytic
Zinc (Tas.) for purchase of spelter as
from August 9 next. Negotiations for
disposal of the co.’s zinc overseas are
proceeding satisfactorily, and no sub-
stantial accumulation of unsold metal is
expected to remain on the co.’s hands
during the next. six months. What will
happen after that depends largely upon
the revival of local trade activity, especi-
ally in the heavy industries, and the
nature and extent of Government con-
trols, including price-fixing, and the level
of costs, which have probably not yet
reached their summit. Local demand for
zinc on war account, which used to ab-
sorb about two-thirds of the co.’s output,
has declined, owing to the tapering of
munitions and other defence production,
to sale of Government stocks of the
metal and to continued repression of ordi-
nary trade revival. The British Govern-
ment took most of the co.’s exportable
metal at a figure which fluctuated with
costs, and was above the local fixed price
(£22 per ton), which has remained un-
altered since Feb., 1940. For some time
the co. sold to the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment at £2O per ton. Soon rising cost
of production overtook the concession
price, which advanced by progressive
steps to the fixed level, at which there is
now little, if any, margin of profit. In
June the average price of spelter was
£3l ss. per ton London and 8.25 cents
New York, equal to £39 Is. 3d. and £57
4s. 3d. per ton respectively in Austra-
lian currency. If injustice to the co. is to
be avoided, a revision of the fixed price
for zinc in Australia is now overdue.
* * * *
After a survey of the man-power posi-
tion in the Westralian goldmining indus-
dry, H. Seddon, M.L.C. for the North-
east Province, which includes Kalgoorlie,
says that after fully protecting the war
effort and civil employment at the top
of the priority list there should be a
residue of man-power resources, in which
goldmining should have a strong claim to
participate, and so be given an overdue
leg-up. He reckons that after the war
Westralian goldmining should be capable
of directly employing 20,000 wages men.
According to the Westralian Chamber of
Mines, the average number employed in
the industry in 1938 was 15,083. The
figure has now dwindled to 4000-odd.
The extent of revival post-war will mainly
depend upon the price of gold and the
level of costs, which do not appear to
have yet reached their highest point.
* * - * ip
According to a cable from London,
Boulder Perseverance’s profit for 1944
was £15,019 stg. as against £18,861 for
the preceding 12 months. The div., steady
at 40 p.c. for the four years to 1940,
dropped to 30 p.c. 1941, 25 p.c. 1942,
15 p.c. 1943 and 10 p.c. 1944. Shrinkage
of throughput and rising costs, owing to
man-power and other difficulties, have
been the trouble.
* H= * *
New Golconda (W.A.) has broken
another year’s silence by announcing
that there is little to report since it last
spoke. Some goldmining properties had
been offered, but none were reckoned
worth taking up under present con-
ditions. It is proposed to remain “on
the watch for opportunities considered
suitable for the co.’s circumstances.”
Accounts show a net loss of £3O, and a
bank credit of £912.
* * * *
“O.B.”: At Gt. Boulder’s recent Lon-
don meeting the directors walked out. It
was not the first to be stormy. At a
previous roll-up the then controllers had
an all-in go with angry shareholders. The
retiring director, J. C. Gardner, is op-
posed by Lt.-Col. Shand-Kidd, chairman
Sims’s nephew. The two other members
of the board are R. E. Binns, a consult-
ing mining engineer and chairman of
Wiluna, and W, Grundt, a wealthy ex-
tributor on Gt. Boulder.
Sterling profit of Lake View Investment
Trust for the year to end March last was
£3736 stronger at £49,677. After deduct-
ing taxation (£65,646, up £6516), interest
and divs. received amounted to £84,184
(up £4295). The prefs. were handed their
5 p.c., and the ord. div. was lifted a point,
making it 10 p.c. After deducting U.K.
tax amounts distributed were £8063 prefs.
and £32,187 ords. Investments are be-
lieved to be worth a lot more than their
book value of £2,000,000-odd. When the
co. kicked off in 19_0 assets included big
blocks of Australian mining shares
acquired from Lake View and Oroya Ex-
ploration. Later it unloaded most of its
Australian holdings, and more recently
has turned attention to British bonds.
Paid capital is £900,000, of which one-
third carries a cumulative 5 p.c.


f
Why not Draw
*»n the Experience
of Others?
To secure the greatest benefit
with the least trouble in the
administration of an estate is an
achievement within the reach of
all, irrespective of the size or
nature of the estate or the
domestic difficulties involved.
With the growing pressure of their own
business affairs, and the added diffi-
culties of war-time conditions, the task
confronting the private executor has
been enormously increased.
Officers of Trustee Companies are
trained and experienced in the adminis-
trative management of all classes of
estates. This specialised knowledge is
reinforced by that of directors who are
all men of mature experience, and who
bring a balanced judgment to bear upon
the problems of estates committed to
their care.
The Trustee Company thus provides
experience, permanency, impartiality
and sound administrative capacity, at
charges that are fixed and reasonable.
The Union Trustee, with sixty years of
service behind it, is the ideal executor
and trustee for appointment under any
Will.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
r.AMPAHY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larritt,
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD ;
Major-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0,, v.d. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart, H.C., f.c.a. (Aust.);
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : IJ. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s,
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
35nvs
’ OiVWOl'
w- WM
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Price Control
Mr. Forde, Deputy Prime Minister, has
told the Associated Chambers of Com-
merce that the Government will not allow
the right of appeal from decisions of the
Prices Commissioner. This stand leaves
the office of Prices Commissioner as one
of the most authoritarian in our legal and
economic setup,
Price control in war-time is undeniably
necessary. But it is an intimate indus-
trial control, and one which has to be
exercised with fairness, skill and expedi-
tion. It was bound to create problems
while entrusted to a Government which
seems alternately to support sectionalism
and socialism.
It was sought to extend the period of
price control well into the post-war years
by the referendum held a year ago. The
public rejected this and 13 other requests
for increased Commonwealth post-war
powers. The Federal Government looks
like returning to this post-war price-
control problem very soon ; it may ask
the States to transfer their rights for a
period, or it may again make a referen-
dum of the matter. In either case, it
needs to introduce more justice and
efficiency into its methods.
. .
War-time- Necessity
The control of prices during this war
has been one of the most vital economic
problems which countries engaged in the
conflict have had to face. It is all too
easy for prices to soar and profiteering to
flourish when goods-even the necessities
ar f scarce and money is plentiful.
Money has been particularly plentiful
in Australia during this war, especially
among the great consuming sections of
the people, and goods, by comparison
with the 1914-18-war period, have been
notably scarce. The squeeze caused by
the plenitude of one and the scarcity of
the other has been responsible for Gov-
ernment introduction of both the prices
ceiling (to keep cost down) and the
rationing (to ensure fair distribution) of
clothing, many foods and other commo-
d ffi es#
Inflation Danger
The amount of money in the hands of
is indicated by the
growth of savings-bank deposits, now
over £540 million, compared with £245
million before the war. This huge pile
of potential spending power—and it is
only portion of the total accumulation —
has been built up in spite of the heavy
war-time taxation. It is there to be spent
or invested as soon as restrictions on
spending and investment are relaxed.
Not that all of it will be spent or
invested immediately ; some of it will be
held as a nest-egg for a rainy day by
many depositors. But a big proportion
would be willingly spent by owners if it
could be used to buy houses, land, furni-
ture, motor-cars, radio sets, refrigerators,
clothing and many other things. A good
deal would also be disbursed on travel
and holiday-making if the right facilities
were available.
In spite of price control during war-
time, it is clear from this big spending
surplus which has accumulated during
the period that the basic cause of war-
time inflation has not been removed. The
surplus of money has accumulated be-
cause the country has been concentrating
for the time being on munitions and other
goods which are not sold to the public
and which have not been fully paid for
out of taxation. On the other hand, full
wages have been paid to the public in their
manufacture, so that an excess of money
over consumer goods was bound to arise.
The best that can be hoped for is that
this potential inflation in costs and prices
may be gradually absorbed in post-war
years, partly by cheaper methods of pro-
duction and partly by a moderate, regu-
Jated rise in the price level until the force
G f [ s S p 6 nt
when Ho tho«se Conditions Pass
When factories return to peace-time
occupations, especially if labor does a
fairer day ’ s work for its money than has
been the experience during this war, thus
increasing per capita output, the shock of
re ] eased purchasing power is not likely
be so seV ere on the price level, per
ca p\i a consumption not being so far
abea d G f output. In other words, when
f b e war j s rea j[ y oV er and production is
back to normal it will be easier to deal
w | tb the banked-up inflation of the war
years provided we tackle the job in the
right way and do not go on creating in-
flationary forces.
Similarly, with production generally
coming more into line with demand and
competition making itself felt in price
levels and profits, there is not so much
likelihood of inflation finding its way into
land and other asset values and bringing
about overcapitalisation of industry. An
industry that has to carry the burden of
puffed-up values and debt commitments
is decidedly vulnerable to trade and price
fluctuations and becomes an unstable
source of employment. It will have been
a worth-while effort in price control if
we have deferred all these problems of
war-time inflation until after the war,
when they may be dealt with other than
under hothouse conditions.
Price Control in Practice
So much for price control as a general
plan. But there is such a thing as a right
or fair method of price control and such
a thing as a wrong or unfair method. As
the ramifications of our Prices Branch
have been extended the detail of the work
has become overwhelming. The intro-
duction of a '‘prices ceiling” in April,
1943, brought particular difficulty into an
already ticklish task. Previously prices
had been restricted, in the main, to a
percentage or fixed money “mark-up” on
cost, though sometimes there were queries
by the Prices Branch where increasing
turnover turned fixed rates of gross pro-
fits into higher total net profits.
Government Breach of Faith
The prices-ceiling plan meant that a
definite top price was set to most goods
for the duration of the war, regardless
of the cost of those goods, and this fre-
quently meant that goods had to be sold
at a loss. But the Government indicated
that it would bear such losses itself where
the trader had “exhausted the possibility
of economies resulting from rationalisa-
tion and improved efficiency.” In too
many cases the Government has de-
faulted in this obligation, sometimes in-
forming the trader that he can make up
his losses out of more profitable lines —
all these subject to price control, however.
This is a variety of rough injustice that
has brought confusion and discourage-
ment to industry, together with a distrust
of the Prices Branch by affected parties.
Arbitrary judgment by a prices officer who
may possess little wisdom but a great
deal of delegated authority can obviously
be very harsh. Where injustice has been
done it is most difficult to have the matter
remedied. Correspondence and inquiries
go on like Tennyson’s brook.
Canadian Experience
When price control was first introduced
it was generally believed that its aim was
to restrict permitted price increases to
actual rises in costs ; to stop profiteering,
in short. It has since been made clear
that not even compensation for rising
costs will be allowed to traders in every
case, Canadian trade appears to be sub-
ject to much the same sort of restriction.
The following is an extract from the
report of the War-time Prices and Trade
Board, Ottawa;
The determination of the point at which
relief [from rising costs] may be given is
not susceptible of precise definition and
must depend upon the circumstances of the
individual case. Increased costs in them-
selves do not justify granting relief. The
mere fact that an applicant is not earning
standard profits does not necessarily mean
that relief should be granted. If the price
ceiling is to be maintained price adjust-
ments can only be authorised, when an
applicant can demonstrate real financial
need on an overall basis. In reaching a
decision the board considers not merely
the current position of the applicant but
such clearly important matters as the future
prospects for sales volume and costs, the
nature of the business and its strength and
financial resources ,
Subsidies are not intended to assure
profits at pre-war or pre-ceiling level, and
rates of subsidy are determined with a view
to providing the minimum necessary relief.
That statement by the Canadian Prices
Board is a blunt indication that industry
has to pay to help maintain the prices
ceiling, and that maintenance of profit
margins is not regarded as a right on
thes one hand or an obligation on the
other. But if that bluntness is accom-
panied by a similar forthrightness and
expedition on the administrative side the
general result may not be so harsh on
industry as might appear at first glance.
In addition, it should be remembered
that the whole Canadian economy during
the war has been kept in better balance
than that of Australia. Vote-catching
party politics have not influenced admin-
istration to the same extent.
Intrusion of Political Bias
British Tobacco (Australia) has been
ordered by the Minister for Trade and
Customs to pay any profits above a cer-
tain figure to the Government, regardless
of whether the company has exceeded its
ordinary margins of profit or not. This
action is clearly contrary to the spirit of
price control, and it has no beneficial
effect on the prices ceiling whatsoever.
It is a perversion of a principle. The
control of prices is intended to prevent
rising living costs. The action of the
Minister of Customs is aimed at restrict-
ing profits and initiative, and is simply
a further extension of Labor-party doc-
trine that has existed in peace as well as
in war.
Endless Delays
Often a concern has to apply to the
Prices Branch for an approved price for
an article. In many cases weeks or
months elapse before a reply is received.
There are stocks held up in all parts of
the Commonwealth in this way—some-
times the holdup has gone on for ages,
regardless of whether bank interest is
accumulating on the finance involved.
Waiting on the Prices Branch for a
reply, many a trader has lost dozens of
customers to competitors more fortunate
in the official treatment they have re-
ceived.
The administration of price control
could be greatly simplified if the Govern-
ment set out purely and simply to regu-
late prices and let the Taxation Com-
missioner take care of profits. But it is
typical of a Government that does noth-
ing well that it has complicated a diffi-
cult and intricate task by dragging in
its mouldering party-political objectives.
Government Doctrine
Professor Copland, the Prices Commis-
sioner, is an experienced and capable
administrator. It is certain that if he
\yere able to attend personally 'to all
prices matters they would be dealt with
expeditiously, even if not always to the
satisfaction of the businessman concerned.
His job in the Prices Branch is so import-
ant that it has been suggested that he
should concentrate upon that task alone,
and relinquish his position as economic
adviser to the Government.
Certainly the Government’s economic
policy has such a socialistic bias that
Mr. Copland, if he has to breathe much
of the Ministerial or Cauciis atmo-
sphere, must find it difficult to keep
his mind free of its influence when
he is doing his other job as Prices
Commissioner. That price control is not
free from political control is seen by the
intrusion of Senator Keane into the
British Tobacco case. Perhaps it is too
much to ask the Government to remove
price control from political influence, see-
ing that it is in the course of placing the
central bank in political hands.
But, after nearly six years of price
control, it is time some fair and adequate
system was in force. War measures are
nearly always emergency measures, and
patriotic motives help a lot in their en-
forcement. More equity and greater
recognition of economic principles are
rapidly becoming necessary now.


ANOTHER WEAPON IN
Australia’s Armoury
m
STORY OF POLSTEN GUN RELEASED . . .
With the Pacific War yef fo be won, production of vital war
needs has not ceased for an instant in the vast plants of
General Motors-Holden's. Latest news from the factory front
is the just-released story of the Australian,manufacture of the
20-millimetre POLSTEN Multi-purpose HEAVY MACHINE GUN,
now off the secret list.
An amazing multi-purpose weapon, the POLSTEN can be used
with deadly effect in many roles, including anti-aircraft, tank-
attack, or Naval warfare. Production in quantity was achieved
by General Motors-Holden's and their sub-contractors, not
merely of the Gun itself, but also of various mountings, which
added to the versatility of this piece of British ordnance. It
is noteworthy that the complete Gun was produced and ready
for proofing in Australia at about the same time as in England.
Another gratifying aspect of the POLSTEN production is that
Australia played some part in joining in the design of the
weapon with those in England.
Production of, the POLSTEN GUN by the Australian-wide or-,
ganisation of General Motors-Holden's and their sub-contrac-
tors gives renewed significance to their wartime slogan:
"VICTORY IS OUR BUSINESS"
*
GENERAL MOTORS-HOLDEN’S LTD.
BEDFORD , BUICK CADILLAC , CHEVROLET , G.M.C.
QLDSMQftILS PONTIAC VAUXHALL
C 804
Each picture tells the
same grim story ...
THESE WAR VICTIMS
NEED CLOTHING NOW!
Photographs which show the awful
plight of the' 125 million peoples of
the liberated countries are now a
familiar feature in the Australian news
papers. They are authentic pictures and
they’re published so that we in Australia
will realise just how important it is to
help U.N.R.R.A. in its drive to get
clothing for these victims of war.
Every man and woman in Australia
is urged to make a contribution to
U.N.R.R.A.’s clothing pool—to donate at
least one article of clothing to comfort
those less fortunate than themselves.
Practically any kind of clothing is re-
quired so long as it is clean and in reason*
ably good repair, keeping in mind that
these people aren’t fussy about style—all
they want is warmth. But time is short-
all clothing collected must be sorted,
packed and shipped by U.N.R.R.A. for
distribution in Europe before the cruel
winter begins. Make your contribution
now.
GIVE YOUR UNWANTED CLOTHING TO
The Australian National Clothing Collection for Over-
seas Relief is a united effort on the part of U.N.R.R.A,
and forty Australian relief agencies, which comprise
U.N.RRA
THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL FOR THE UNITED NATIONS RELIEF AND REHABILITATION ADMINISTRATION
now ... they'll tell you tvhat to do
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia .
U 6.83.65
Blocked Sterling and Bretton Woods
Blocked sterling balances which have
piled up in many neutral or semi-bel-
ligerent countries during the war are esti-
mated at up to £3OOO million. The
“blocking” of this British indebtedness
to other countries is taken by many to
mean that Britain is likely to make pay-
ment only in the form of exports of
British goods—that a bilateral trade
agreement exists in these cases.
At the time of the Bretton Woods
monetary conference the right of Britain
to deal separately with blocked war-time
balances was recognised. In the United
States, however, some financiers and ex-
porters regard the position with distrust;
they say that the result of “blocking”
sterling must mean that Britain is pro-
ceeding on an external-trade policy that
is opposite to the present United States
trend (mostly vocal up to date) towards
lower tariffs and international exchange
controls.
At what was called by an Ameri-
can financial paper an “export man-
agers’ get-together,” a speaker described
blocked sterling as “a sugar-coated
version of the German type of
totalitarianism.” The same paper, how-
ever, quoted a U.S. Government offi-
cial as saying that the British were some-
what sceptical of the chances of both
the Bretton Woods and tariff-reduction
programmes in Congress, and “mean-
while are taking a realistic view to main-
tain their markets and to make sure that
they can pay the debts they owe other
countries.”
In the United States the American
Bankers Association is opposed to the
method and technique of exchange con-
trol advocated at the Bretton Woods
talks. But it is in sympathy with the
general aspirations.
About the time the international cur-
rency fund was under discussion in the
British House of Commons the “Times”
remarked:
This country is most anxious to co-
operate loyally in any international arrange-
ment, but it can hardly afford to face the
alternative of either appearing as a defaulter
or running into insoluble difficulties and fail-
ing to counter mass unemployment caused
by the development of a slump elsewhere.
The credit facilities provided by the fund
are a wholly inadequate safeguard against
this contingency; for any sudden depression
in the United States —such as occurred in
1929 and, with even greater rapidity, in
1937 —would almost instantaneously lead
to exhausting Britain’s credit with the fund.
It would seem difficult for any Government
which has accepted the prime responsi-
bility of maintaining a high and stable level
of employment in the future to ratify the
Bretton Woods agreement without further
clarification of this issue.
Britain and the United States have
very different trade problems to cope
with, and debtor and creditor countries
never have quite the same outlook. U.S.
exporters may accept it that Britain is
going to fight to maintain her external
trade and credit; they should realise that
much as an ordinary matter of common-
sense. Therefore, Britain can hardly be
expected to tolerate trading disadvan-
tages that it is within her power to avoid.
The nation has to make up great war-
time economic losses on a scale not
suffered by America.
Drakeford has told the Representatives
that the total Government investment in
ground facilities for aircraft was £11.5
million, or “more than eight times as
much as the investment of all the
private operators.” The greater part
of this expenditure, he said, was
being used by the private companies
“without cost to them.” Without cost
to them! Then what happens to
the huge tax levied by the Government
on petrol used by commercial airlines?
Airlines pay the same tax as motor-
ists (about ll£d. a gallon), but the
latter are supposed to get good roads
in return for the tax. No; Drake-
ford’s contentions about how much
private airlines are “costing” the Govern-
ment won’t stand up to analysis. The
salesman who puts his foot in the door
and runs down the rival life-assurance
office could put up a f&r more impres-
sive piece of deception.
# * *
In presenting his Australian National
Airlines Bill, Drakeford contended that
Government aerodrome and navigational
facilities, etc., were all available free of
charge to the airlines. Referring later to
the huge surplus received by the Govern-
ment from air-mail postage—£3,294,ooo
over a period—he said it was calculated
after deducting the post office’s charges for
handling the mail. Mr. Drakeford in-
sisted that this sum was “a tax levied on
the public,” which “contributed to the
provision of aerodromes and other facili-
ties for the development of civil aviation,
and provided a fund for the payment to
the airline operators for their share of the
carriage of mail.” It seems that the
subsidies paid by the Government, ap-
parently out of this fund, total £3,167,000
over the same space of time. The Min-
ister, by alleging that the postage charged
is a “tax” upon the public, cannot get
away from the fact that the airlines are
paying their own subsidy. The 5 id.
charged by airlines for an internal
air-mail letter (4d. for soldiers) is
much less a tax than the 2id. charged
by the P.M.G. on ordinary letters.
Of course the people have to pay
for the services they use; the cost is no
“tax.” Where an enterprise shows a
profit it is clear that its patrons pay all
the costs; and that is so in any business.
What is obvious from the figures quoted
is that the airlines could have carried on
without subsidy for mail carriage if they
were allowed all the revenue from air-
mail postage. And there' would have
been a surplus (£127,000) that would
have paid some of the interest on the cost
of Government installations —many of
which have been a result of war-time
necessity, anyway. Before the war aids
to aerial navigation in this country were
sadly deficient.
**■ * *
Up to March, 1945, reciprocal aid from
Australia to the United States totalled
£245 million. Against this, one unofficial
estimate is that U.S. aid to Australia
amounted to £312 million to the end of
April. If ordinary local values have been
used in these computations, and if an
exchange rate of $3.29 has been adopted
in conversion, then it is probable that
Australia has reciprocated to a greater
extent than these lend-lease figures in
themselves indicate,
* * *
W. 0.1. says that home-building now
has a priority second only to urgent de-
fence work. But permits have still to be
obtained, and they wifi be issued spar-
ingly for the time being. Builders will
have equal priority with the various
State housing authorities in obtaining
their materials. Opinion in the building
trade generally is that it will be impos-
sible to build 24,000 houses in the next
12 months, though Mr. Lazzarini has
suggested that that is the Government’s
objective. The great difficulty is still man-
power, not only in actual building but in
all the other operations right back to the
provision of the materials, including tim-
ber. There is a shortage, too, of other
items hitherto imported. Britain will want
all the building materials it can provide,
and both Canada and the United States
have their own lag to make up.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: In the New Guinea areas
campaigns are in transition stages, with
roads being formed, supplies being brought
up and preparations going ahead, under
the usual horrible tropic conditions, for
further bloody struggles towards the
stiffly-held enemy positions.
On the Mivo it was still “R.A.E. Week,”
plus skirmishing by small hunting
parties on both sides to enliven the mud-
splashed monotony of the terrible land-
scape in which the two forces face each
other across the last river of the advance
on Buin. In the north the 11th Divi-
sion is ranged ready for the final assault
on the Bonis Peninsula area.
In the Wewak area the troops have a
better prospect, for they are on a line
of heights and can look forward to more
open country. Here again the campaign
is at a half-way house.
Sambodja Falls
Borneo advances have been spec-
tacular, but they would have been more
so had the enemy stayed to fight in force.
On the nonh-western side of the island
the troops in the Miri oilfield sector
pushed 30 miles inland to Marudi with-
out meeting any opposition.
In the Balik Papan area the work was
diffused, commandos infiltrating and ex-
ploring the environs of the bay and the
courses of the rivers running into it,
while the main drive continues up the
Samarinda road.
Early in the week it was .reported that
Seppinggan airfield was operating, hav-
ing been cleared of mines and booby
traps and reconditioned. It will be a
tremendous asset, likely to alter the
course of the air war when it is fully
developed. Even now it has runways
4260 feet long, and there is space to
nearly treble them. From Seppinggan
the largest bombing aircraft soon will be
able to take off. From an air point of
view, the’ field is virtually in the heart of
Japan’s South-east Asia sphere. Soera-
baya is less than 600 miles away and
Singapore about 900 miles, which is easy
bombing distance with seven or eight ton-
loads for the largest heavies. And the
R.A.E. is at work on Balik Papan, which
is being turned into a base on a large scale.
The advance up the Samarinda pipe-
line and highway has proved less difficult
than expected. The enemy kept contact
carefully with the advance, lashed out
occasionally and left the impression that
he proposed to defend Sambodja, the
first section of the field, 28 miles from
Balik Papan. But Sambodja was taken,
with remarkably little opposition, almost
intact.
Later, as the troops pushed up the
road towards Samarinda, there were infil-
tration attempts, but the technique was
second-class.
The R.A.A.F., with U.S. Liberator
forces, continued to blast crucial points
round the coast and on adjacent islands,
but its most concentrated efforts were
directed against the areas in front of the
northern advance of the Ninth Division,
particularly Jesselton, ahd, at the week-
end, Sandakan.
Casualties and Divisions
Casualty lists issued during the week
gave Japanese losses in Borneo as 4396
killed and 441 captured. Australian losses,
though sad, have been light, having regard
to the slaughter inflicted on the enemy
and the importance of the objectives—-386
killed, 12 missing and 1351 wounded.
Tarakan accounted for about half our
casualties, Balik Papan for 35 per cent,
and Brunei Bay for only 15 per cent.
On July 21 it was officially announced
that there are now six Australian divi-
sions in the front line. There was no
secret about the matter —the divisions
were specified in these pages (B. 27/6/’45).
The Third and Eleventh are in Bougain-
ville, the Fifth—commanded by Major-
General H. C. Robertson, C.8.E., D.S.O.
—holds the Open Bay-Wide Bay door
against the enemy holed up in Rabaul
and Gazelle Peninsula; the Sixth is at
Wewak, the Seventh at Balik Papan, the
Ninth on the British North Borneo-
Sarawak coast.
More to the point would have been an
announcement as to how many divisions
the Government expects to be able to
maintain.
Jap Retreat in Burma.
“Ek Dum”; The Japanese in the Pegu
Yomas —the hills which run west of and
nearly parallel to the Sittaung River—
apparently have now found their positions
untenable, and it has become a question
of “starve or die” with them.
Their plans for rescue were sent badly
astray by the weather, for most of the
Sittaung valley has been flooded by the
monsoon rains, and military operations
have been carried on for some days either
armpit deep in the mixture which Burma
is pleased to call water, but which is
more like minestrone at this time of year,
or in amphibious transport.
If the enemy on the east ha,d had some
efficient amphibious transport of the kind
attached to every British or U.S. force —
ducks and their breed —the attempt at
rescue which has been in progress for
some time might have succeeded, but
the Japanese recipe consists of a few bits
of bamboo and some string. Even under
their inferior conditions the relieving
forces from the east succeeded in seizing
Myitko, at the junction of the Sittaung
canal the British-Indian north-south
highway during the rains—and crossing
the river to the west in many places at
a time when the wet induced the British
command to withdraw its men. And
during the floods positions west of the
river have been strengthened by the
enemy to give the trapped 8000 or so
—their numbers are only guessed at —
“firm” bases and lines on which to re-
tire from the Yomas.
The troops in the Yomas began their
attempt to break out on July 20 in big
groups in the region of Pyo, which is 32
miles south of the Toungoo-Mawchi road
and roughly the centre of the frontal area
in which the enemy is locked up. The,
rains moved to fresh energy as the Japan-
ese poured out of the hills like ants until
brought up by the drowned paddy fields
of the Sittaung valley, where they were
intent on trying to pass their first barrier,
the Mandalay-Rangoon road, which in
places is apparent only to divers.
They holed up in villages which pro-
vided them with little shelter from the
elements, and even less from British
artillery, which has most of these villages
ranged.
Even if any can break across the road
the fugitives still have to cross the swift
Sittaung, which is running a double-
banker. And this after they have floun-
dered for miles through the flooded
paddy fields, harassed by British guns.
The Royal Navy Joins In.
“Ek Dum”: For the first time in the
war major units of the Royal Navy and
the U.S.N. operated jointly against Japan
on July 16-17. The R.N. squadron
steamed in to make junction with Admiral
Halsey’s ships somewhere to the north-
east of Tokyo. Its flagship was King
George V, wearing the flag of Vice-
Admiral Sir Bernard Rawlings; its lead-
ing aircraft-carrier was Formidable, with
all her memories of the great days when
she carried Rear-Admiral Denis Boyd’s
flag in the hottest of the Mediterranean
fighting of ’4l.
The a.-cs. were commanded by Sir
Philip Vian and two other well-known
rear-admirals —the six-foot-four E. J. P.
Brind, known affectionately to the whole
Navy as “Daddy,” though his paternal
habits are mid-Victorian when adminis-
tering punishment to ah enemy, and Rear-
Admiral Edelston. Other British naval
ships mentioned were the Newfoundland,
a Fiji-class cruiser ; the new Black Prince,
not so long ago to be seen in the fairway
of Sydney Harbor, and the destroyers
Undine, Grenville, Troubridge, Barfleur
and the R.A.N.’s Quickmatch.
The American units, or some of them,
came fresh out of the smoke of the bom-
bardment of Hakodate Peninsula on
Hokkaido. They made their run south-
ward without meeting any opposition, in
spite of Admiral Nimitz’s persistent invi-
tations to the enemy to come out and
fight. The Japanese Navy, together with
the Japanese Air Force, seemed to be
busy digging for dear life —that part of
it which was not putting out fires and
looking for the ships which, in the north,
as the result of Admiral Halsey’s opera-
tions, had ceased to be.
Something like chaos must have existed
at some points in Honshu and Hokkaido.
The heavy blows from the air and from
ships’ turrets on July 11 and 12 had sunk
140 ships, aggregating 71,000 tons and
including 12 medium cargo ships, six train
ferries, one large cargo ship, a destroyer
and two destroyer escorts. And to the
sea-change which had been brought about
had to be added the wreckage left be-
hind by the combined a.-c. and Super-
fortress raids, a tornado trail of smashed
oiltanks, obliterated railway yards, over-
turned engines, silent radio stations and
smoking docks.
Honshu Under Fire
However, July 17 was an historic day.
Japan by breakfast-time was catching it
at both ends. In the south the new U.S.
Pacific Army Strategic Air Force made
its debut from Okinawa and adjacent
areas, dropping 2500 tons of bombs. In
the middle north the fleets of Admiral
Halsey and Vice - Admiral Rawlings
joined somewhere off Tokyo Bay and
began to lay with a will into the indus-
trial districts north-east of the smoking
capital. The target was Hitachi, the third
Japanese city, to be bombarded directly
from the sea in four days. The comple-
ment to the big turret guns was an
armada of about 1000 carrier-borne air-
craft ; the sky was the limit in the weight
of attack. The big-gun bombardment
lasted two hours, from 11 p.m. on July
16 to 1 a.m. on July 17.
Hitachi is only about 80 miles from
Tokyo. From many high points, if the
weather happened to be clear, which
apparently it was not, very many Japanese
towns would have been afforded a view
of the remarkable spectacle. But there
was no response to Hitachi’s need for
swift assistance.
As Admiral Nimitz remarked, it
appeared—from the accounts from Guam,
at any rate —that the Japanese Navy’s
power to fight was paralysed.
Further south General Spaatz’s Super-
fortresses were plastering an even more
versatile series of objectives Oita, a
naval base on the Inland Sea side of
Kyushu, whose detonations must have
reached the ears of Allied prisoners at
Zentsugi; Hiratsuka, where aircraft and
related arms are’ built; Kuwana, where
precision tools, bearings and electrical
equipment are made ; and Numazu, with
its ordnance plants, about 70 miles south-
west from Tokyo.
Tokyo (or its fringes) was getting atten-
tion from the aircraft of the fleets, and
before the operations there was at some
stages almost a coherent air battle-line
from north to south, from the fleet oper-
ating area north of Tokyo Bay to Spaatz’s
squadrons.
Japanese “Calm”
The following day Tokyo Radio
announced, as if reporting a Sunday-
school picnic, that “about” 16 Allied
ships had continued to shell shore targets
round 11 o’clock for an hour, and that,
“the weather having improved consider-
ably,” about 500 deck-bome aircraft had
begun to plaster the Tokyo area about
noon and were still at work three hours
later. As far as damage went, it was con-
cerned wholly with the loss of
“thousands” of “innocent lives.”
Nothing was said of the fact that in
the Hitachi area engineering and diesel
building plants and instrument factories
were in ruins and the copper mines and
smelters of that highly volcanic area dis-
organised.
Japanese news agencies and China
broadcasts advertised that the Imperial
High Command was not worried by what
was taking place; that the cruelty of the
battering would merely stir Japan’s fight-
ing men to “supreme efforts of sacrifice”
when the “decisive moment” arrived to
“smash the enemy beyond his power to
resist and recover” in what Admiral Taka-
hashi described as “that one last blow.”
Domei agency excelled itself:
Our superb army and navy are not allow-
ing these operations to go on without
having designed a counter-strategy which
awaits the decisive moment. It is impera-
tive that we conserve our strength and keep
it at its highest for the lightning stroke
which will decide the issue.
By July 18 the Allied reconnaissance
units, peering down from aloft through
the smoke-laden atmosphere—which over
Tokyo Bay is, in any case, not very clear
in the rainy “month of the plums”—be-
held dim and uncertain shapes in the
naval base of Yokusuka, near the mouth
of the bay, which, under the magic in-
fluence of modern aerial photography,
resolved themselves into a large section
of the Japanese fleet.
Light naval units, under Rear-Admiral
Carl Holden, at eleven o’clock the night
before had sailed in south of the bay and
bombarded installations in the region of
Nojima Cape until the early hours of the
morning. The cape is about 55 miles from
Tokyo proper. There was no resistance
of any sort. Presently 250 aircraft floated
over Yokusuka. They met very heavy
anti-aircraft fire, but sank 12 ships and
damaged nine, including the 32,000-ton
battleship Nagato, a 16in.-gun ship. U.S.
losses were 12 machines and 22 airmen.
“Strategic”
Tokyo’s response otherwise to this
hammering at its front door continued to
be entirely “strategic.” The Japanese
people were told that it was a “strategic”
necessity that they should not allow their
natural courage to rise to the surface ;
the attacks were “strategically” not worth
dealing with, a mere “dare” to Japan to
fight before she was ready for the hour
being prepared for by Lieut.-General
Tadaichi Wakamatsu, “an outstanding
strategist,” who had hurriedly fallen into
the chair of Lieut.-General Shibayama,
Vice-Minister for War —presumably at
the bottom of one of the bomb-proof
shelters, in which, Tokyo Radio declared,
all Tokyo inhabitants were now living.
Forty-fifth Day
July 19-20 was the 45th consecutive
day of air attacks on Japan. It was cele-
brated with an awe-inspiring fire display
by 600 Superfortresses operating over
four cities —Hitachi, Chosi, Fukui and
Okazaki—and was evidently designed to
finish off, with its 4000 tons of oil bombs
and flame tanks, the work which had
been begun by the Allied fleets.
Fukui is a city of machine tools and
electrical industries —important not only
to the war effort but to civil life, since
Japan is rurally about the most highly
electrified country in the world, outside
parts of the United States. Okazaki is
an excrescence on Nagoya, the home of
thousands of factory workers engaged
in the making of aeroplane parts. Chosi
is a large fishing centre which plays
a great part in feeding the Kanto Plain
area round Tokyo and its 13,000,000 in-
habitants. To these targets were added
the oil installations of Amagasaki, near
Osaka.
Round the fringes of the centre of the
storm blows were being struck at Japanese
shipping and transport in the sea environs
of the empire. General Kenney’s army
machines on Okinawa had opened the
bombing season for Shanghai, where
aerodromes and other air-defence facilities
were being thoroughly battered as a pre-
liminary to the institution of a regular
raiding policy. By the week-end there
was a lull, and the fleets had retired into
radio silence.
Losses and Optimism
All the news from the Japanese front
was uniformly good. Little or nothing
was said about casualties. However, to
the other major carriers reported
damaged, including Admiral Mitscher’s
two flagships, was last week added the
new and powerful Ticonderoga, 27,000
tons, whose fate was announced
only after she had been repaired. She
was attacked by suicide aircraft at For-
mosa as she was returning from one of
Admiral Halsey’s early sweeps of the
China Sea. Two kamikazes caused 337
casualties, including 144 killed, and put
the Ticonderoga out of action for
months.
Even more instructive in the realities
of the situation were the unobtrusive
figures of Superfortress losses published
on July 17. In the raids over Japan, it
is taken for granted that air-fighter re-
sistance is always negligible, and that
pilots have to go hunting for enemies to
destroy. Heavy flak is mentioned rarely.
But 291 Superfortresses were lost from
all causes, including weather, on 261
missions. Not much when said quickly,
but it involves the loss of close to 4000
first-class airmen, intrepid and highly-
trained, and of 2,300,000 horsepower in
a month.
The Pacific Commands.
“Ek Dum”: Events last week were
connected more with the future than with
the present. The bombardments of Japan,
the conference of General MacArthur
and Lord Louis Mountbatten in Manila,
the announcements regarding Australian
military strength on the battlefronts and
of British naval strength in Asia, the in-
tervention of the army strategic air
forces in the Battle of Japan, the com-
mencement of major bombing of Shang-
hai, across Japan’s communication routes
—all synchronise to mark a phase in the
war against Japan which Admiral Nimitz
termed the “pre-invasion stage.”
Vice-Admiral Bar bey, commander of
the Seventh Amphibious Naval Force, for
whose help Australians have considerable
reason to be thankful, explained that
“plans for a really big invasion of Japan
could be completed in 90 days.”
It can be taken for granted that large-
scale plans for putting forces into the
Japanese islands will not materialise until
every airfield and every town within
reach of naval guns and seaborne aircraft
have had the maximum of beating up.
The Allied commanders, having secured
complete control of the sea right up to
the shores of Japan, are not likely to
waste infantry and material in shore
operations until they have used sea power
and conjoint air power to work as much
ruin as they can, and to make every
beach, harbor, coastline and industrial
city across the narrow width of the
Japanese islands untenable and every
road, railway and aerodrome unwork-
able. They will smash water supply, they
will destroy electric power.
By winter Japan proper should begin
to approach the condition of Germany
early in 1944, more especially since the first
Lancasters are almost ready to operate.
This means that Japanese cities will have
to face, not merely high-level attack by
Superfortress formations, but night


Public Notice*.
TO LILLIAN MAY BARNETT formerly of Perth
Western Australia but now believed to be of Mel-
bourne in the State of Victoria. —TAKE NOTICE
that a citation in a suit numbered 289 of 1945
bearing date the 6th day of June 1945 has been
issued out of the Divorce Registry of the Supreme
Court of Western Australia citing you to appear
and answer the petition of GEORGE ALFRED
BARNETT of 46 Randell Street Perth in the State
of Western Australia praying for a dissolution of his
marriage with you and in default of your so doing
you will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said petition
proved and pronounce sentence in respect thereof
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid you are within Thirty days (30)
from the date of this advertisement to attend in
person or by your solicitor at the Divorce Registry
of our said Court at Perth and there to enter an
appearance in a book provided for that purpose.—
(li.s.) G. J. BOYLSON, Registrar. MESSRS.
OLNEY & NEVILE, of C.M.L. Buildings, St. George’s
Terrace, Perth, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
I, ANGELO ZAGAMI, of Italian nationality, born at
Filicudi; Messina, Sicily, Italy, and resident six years
in Australia, now residing at 19 Main Street, Lith-
gow, intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, Hans Tronser, of German nationality, born at
Bechtheim and resident ten years in Australia, now
residing at “Kingsley Hall,” Elizabeth Bay Road,
Elizabeth, Bay, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisa-
tion under the Nationality Act 1920-1936. ,
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO LOUIS HERBERT BERNARD MANLEY late
of No. 22 Flat “Engleham” 75 Elizabeth Bay Road
Elizabeth Bay—TAKE NOTICE that the Petition
for Divorce No. 660 of 1945 filed herein has been
amended pursuant to an Order of the Court on 15th
June 1945 and the Petitioner is applying to the
Court for the exercise of its discretion in her favour
under Section 19 Sub-section (2) of the Matrimonial
Causes Act 1899 If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by 20th August 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition as amended without
charge from PRITCHARD MARSLAND & CO Solici-
tors 12 O’Connell Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO LAURENCE HARRY HARDING late of Sydney
in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife MONICA ELAINE HARDING has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2654 of 1945 against
you on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney by the 20th day of August 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
ADRIAN O. R. TWIGG Solicitor 160 Castlereagh
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY Registrar in
Di'orce
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HAROLD COX late of Sydney in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
CHRISTINA MICKLIJOHN COX has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 2434 of 1945 against you on the
grounds of desertion for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office, Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 20th day of August 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from ADRIAN
O. R. TWIGG Solicitor 160 Castlereagh Street Syd-
ney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce) —Launceston District Registry.
TO MARIE JEAN STRETTON (wife of GEOFFREY
RAYMOND STRETTON) formerly of Launceston in
the State of Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a peti-
tion had been filed in this Court endorsed with a
notice to you to appear and answer the charges in
the petition of GEOFFREY RAYMOND STRETTON
of No. 56 Wellington Street Launceston in the State
of Tasmania praying for a dissolution of his marriage
with you on the ground of adultery In default of
you so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and.the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid on or before the Seventeenth
day of September 1945 an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street Hobart or at
the Launceston District Registry Cameron Street
Launceston. —((L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM, Principal
Registrar.
I THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce) —Launceston District Registry.
0 CYRIL JOHN MUNRO formerly of Launceston in
e State of of Tasmania Lorry Driver. —TAKE
OTICE that a petition has been filed in this Court
idorsed with a notice to you to appear and answer
e charges in the petition of GEOFFREY RAY-
OND STRETTON of No. 56 Wellington Street Laun-
ston in the State of Tasmania praying for a disso-
ition of his marriage on the ground of adultery
1 default of you so appearing you will not be
lowed to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ved to hear the said petition proved and pronounce
idgment in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
OTICE that for the purposes aforesaid on or before
le Seventeenth day of September 1945 an appear-
ice must be entered at the Principal Register of
le Supreme Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street
obart or at the Launceston District Registry-
ameron Street Launceston. — (1.5.) R. G. BIbGHAM,
rincipal Registrar.
CD
am
attack at low levels by British veterans
who have an intensive knowledge of exact
destruction, using aircraft of greater ver-
satility than the heavy machines of the
U.S. Air Forces. The Lincolns will not be
far behind the Lancasters. They are actu-
ally big sisters.
Also the Americans are organising for
the use of still larger machines than those
at present operating. Very little has been
said about the Dominator, which is the
Super-Liberator, and which the Japanese
claim to have identified in action over
their main islands.
The Southern Sandwich
The conference of Lord Louis Mount-
batten and General MacArthur took
place on July 11, 12 and 13. The large
staffs assembled showed the importance
of the meeting. It was timed to the com-
pletion of the main sections of the Royal
Navy on the Pacific and East Indian
stations, where every major ship fit for
active service and a very large propor-
tion of smaller ships are nbw serving.
Some British battleships are not ac-
counted for in the lists issued in Wash-
ington after Lord Louis had returned to
his H.Q., but it can be assumed that they
are either under refitment or in process
of replacement by capital ships bigger
than anything which has yet formed part
of .the R.N, —H.M.S. Vanguard among
them. ,
The Japanese must have felt no re-
assurance at the list of commands
enumerated at the Philippines discussions.
On the western side is the Seac force,
which includes Sir Arthur Power’s power-
ful naval squadron, of which the heart
beats in the battleships Queen Elizabeth,
Valiant and Richelieu —a French 15-inch
gun ship, with great concentration of fire
power and an original arrangement of
batteries and turrets. The land forces
consist of General Leese’s Army Group
—Twelfth Army (General Montague
Stopford) and Fourteenth Army (General
Slim),
General MacArthur’s Forces
On the opposite side of the picture,
based on Manila, 3000 miles away, are
the MacArthur forces. At sea these are
backed by the Seventh U.S. Fleet.
The Sixth U.S. Army (General Walter
Kreuger) and the Eighth Army (Lieut-
General Robert Eichelberger) form the
main body of General MacArthur’s land
group based on the Philippines. Linked
to them are the A.I.F. First Corps
(Seventh and Ninth Divisions), com-
manded by General Morshead, and
powerful units of the R.A.N., with the
Royal Naval Pacific Fleet’s main squad-
rons within easy call if need be and re-
inforcements from the Marianas and
Guam always available. Each side of
this Anglo-Indian-Australian-American
sandwich is supported by an air force
which could have beaten any air force
in Europe in 1942, and by enormous sea
and air transport power.
Roughly, within the sandwich, Lord
Louis on the one side and General Mac-
Arthur on the other, the area of sea and
land is \\ times that of Australia,
divided up into islands and narrow penin-
sulas by the wide expanses of water.
Even the quarter of a million or half a
million Japanese in this area would be
a drop in the bucket. Unless they are
prepared to sacrifice everything except
one or two points which they consider
crucial, such as Singapore and Soerabaya,
or to concentrate on Malayan defence,
they must practise dispersal, while the
attacking Allies can practise concentra-
tion from outside, striking more or less
at will at any point and from any direc-
tion they choose.
They have all the more strength to do
this because their air power gives them
ability to carry on continuous and uni-
versal reconnaissance over the area, and
because the Japanese have been blinded
by the severe reduction of their air forces
in the south, and immobilised by the ruin
of their major mercantile marine and the
sinking of virtually the whole of their
naval ships in the southern area.
Burma and Buin
The command in the Pacific on the
Allied side seems at first glance peculiar,
but study of it makes the shape of the
Pacific war much clearer.
Ceylon is the scene of the most
westerly H.Q. There Lord Louis sits,
surrounded by a staff on which British
and American officers work amicably
side by side. Seac is self-contained.
Next, far south-eastward, is the basic
organisation centre for Sir Bruce Fraser’s
Royal Naval Fleet and the New Guinea
fighting area.
A straight line on a Mercator’s-projec-
tion map from the furthest-west fighting
in the Pegu-Thazi area in Burma would
pass through, or nearly through Morotai
and down along the north coast of New
Guinea to Bougainville. It seems inevit-
able that in time the whole of this area
should come under British command.
Though actual land battlefields are far
apart, it can be called a continuous battle
line in that every inch of it is subject to
naval attack, and particularly to air
attack from both land and sea. The
length of the battle arc from Burma’s
fighting front to Buin is about 4600 miles.
The strange part of it is that while the
western half of the line faces north or
east it reverses its direction beyond
Singapore, where the greatest enemy
strength is to the south toward Australia.
From the Borneo-Morotai section of
the line another battle system works
north-westward, running roughly parallel
to the Jap-held China coast, on which
the enemy seems to be fortifying and
strengthening only those bases which
would be of prime use to attackers of
Japan —Singapore, Camranh Bay, Hong
Kong, Hangchow Bay, Shanghai and the
Formosan inner ports.
In the Philippines are great forces
ready to move either north or west at
will. Okinawa is roughly 900 miles from
Manila in a straight line towards the
main Japanese islands ; the tip of Kyushu,
and of the great industrial areas of Japan
proper, is 400-odd miles further on, but
this is not the end of the battle front,
which reaches right to Sakhalin beyond
the northern tip of Japan. All this has
become subject to attack from either air
or sea, for the whole of Honshu and
Hokkaido are nearer to Okinawa than
Tokyo is to the Marianas, whence the
greatest Superfortress attacks until re-
cently have come. Okinawa is, there-
fore, the best land base for strategic
bombing.
The battle lines add up to somewhere
near 8500 miles, apart from anything
which may be happening on the mys-
terious mainland of China, where mili-
tary events are always mirage-like; and
the whole of these lines are welded into
continuity by the power, extensiveness
and mobility of the Allied naval forces,
combined with the air forces.
Four Separate Commands
The real Supreme Command is the
Chief of Staffs Committee, operating
under the British and American Supreme
Commands-in-Chief.
Lord Louis Mountbatten’s command,
essentially British, is» independent of
General MacArthur. General MacArthur
commands the Army Forces in the
Pacific, including the Australian forces,
which seem now to be all that are in-
cluded in General Blarney’s titular Com-
mand-in-Chief of “the land forces,
South-west Pacific” —in the formal con-
ception this should include the Philip-
pines, where there are two U.S. armies.
Under General MacArthur, too, is the
Tenth U.S. Army on Okinawa. The
First U.S. Army has also been routed for
the Pacific* area, apart from whatever
other U.S. forces may be coming.
Attached to the three U.S. armies which
are already there is General Kenney’s
Far Eastern Air Force, which constitutes
the tactical bombing force of General
MacArthur’s command. This is based,
too, on Okinawa, which is swiftly being
turned into a vast aerodrome, canton-
ment and dump combined, while there
are still 10,000 fugitive Japs being wiped
out in its northern hills.
But there is not only a tactical bombing
force. General “Tooey” Spaatz, fresh
from command in Britain, controls the
Strategical Air Force, including the
Superfortress squadrons. How General
MacArthur and General Spaatz can tell
exactly at this stage which objectives are
strategical and which tactical it is diffi-
cult to say—strategy affects what happens,
before action, tactics what happens during
action.
Admiral Nimitz, again, holds a com-
mand, independently of General Mac-
Arthur or General Spaatz, over the
combined navies, the Marines, the
Navy Airwing and the Second Marine
Airwing. The situation looks confusing,
and murmurs go up every now and then
in the United States to the effect that it
must cause wrangling among commands.
This is not necessarily so, since func-
tions and conditions are fairly well de-
fined.
The key to the situation is Admiral
Nimitz. His primary objective of block-
ade could scarcely be managed by an
Army command.
General Spaatz, while sometimes he
may strike in the same areas as the other
two leaders, has the duty of preventing
the enemy from being “tactical.” His job
is to blast out factories and works, tear
up railroads, make roads leading to de-
fence areas untenable, disorganise labor,
wipe out food supplies and generally
supplement Admiral Nimitz’s blockade.
Until preparation for the main attack
is imminent or an actuality there is no
need to channel the Pacific command into
one pair of hands. The European posi-
tion, when attack was to be made across
the English Channel, is not a parallel.
In the long sea distances of the Pacific
the naval functions will be in the ascend-
ant till a much later stage than in the
invasion of France.
And it is true to say that the real for-
ward front line at the present stage is at
sea, except in Burma and south-west
areas and Okinawa,
The thing which makes General Mac-
Arthur’s air forces tactical and distinct
from the strategical and naval forces is
that their forward bases are located in
an area where front-line military ground
forces and supplies for invasion are being
built up, near enough to Japanese-held
fortified areas to be regularly menaced by
Japanese fighter attack on some scale and
under nightly risk of naval attacks.
The defence is a truly tactical* opera-
tion. So is the interference with
Shanghai aerodromes and other facilities
which might be used by the enemy to
attack the Chinese forces below Hang-
chow Bay. So, again, are the air assaults
on Kyushu military facilities which might
be used as bases against Okinawa.
The logic of the situation is best seen
by comparing it with the position of
Britain in 1942. The preparations were
in train for attack on Germany in good
time. A large flank group was operating
in Africa under a local commander-in-
chief, much in the same relationship to
forces in Britain as Lord Louis Mount-
batten’s Seac forces hold to the Pacific
forces off the shores of Japan.
Near what would become the central
vortex of attack, land, air and sea forces,
including American forces operating
under the Admiralty, were each function-
ing separately, save that some specialised
sections were at the disposal of, though
not commanded by, some other branch of
the service—the R.A.F, Coastal Com-
mand’s association with the R.N.“ was a
case in point.
But nobody suggested, in this phase,
that commands should be unified, save
at the highest level in the Chiefs of Staff
Committees and the Government.
In the Pacific there will be a far swifter
acceleration from stage to stage than in
Europe, because the capital offensive war
started with its production battle won.
Thus, stages will be shorter between
the present and the moment when the in-
vasion phase begins, and everything con-
nected with the campaign becomes
centred, of necessity, in the C.-in-C, of
the land forces, who will direct the last
battles of the war.
If there were a unified command in the
Pacific area at present the very nature
of operations would make it vital to
invest it in Adrpiral Nimitz. It is fortu-
nate that it is not necessary, for it would
be politically difficult to achieve.
It is a peculiar /act that in the U.S.A.,
where so many millions live far from
the sea, but which possesses the strongest
naval force known to history, the enor-
mous influence of naval power is imper-
fectly understood.
Brave Men Die.
“Ek Dum”: Australia mourned with
the Royal Navy in its loss when a trans-
port Liberator crashed after taking off
from Mascot aerodrome, Sydney, on the
night of July 20, resulting in the deaths
of Captains J. G. Roper, 0.8. E., R.N.;
J. D. Harvey, R.N.; Commanders (sp)
L. E. R. Govett, R.N.V.R., and J. E. Bass,
R.N.V.R.; Surgeon-Lieutenant Moran,
R.N.V.R.; Leading Steward E. Morris,
from the Navy; and Squadron-Leader
I. St. J. Rayner; F.-O. F. F. Hildreth;
P.-O. D. McFee; F.-O. J. L. Till and
F.-Sergeant A. F. Stevenson, from the
R.A.F.
The accident merely serves to high-
light the dangers which officers and men
of the British forces normally face in
the ordinary course of duty along the
thousands of miles of communication
lines which link the British Pacific Fleet
base in Sydney with the front line along
the Japanese coast.
No matter what the weather, transport
aircraft upon urgent duty must try to
get through, and it is sometimes impera-
tive for service machines to fly under con-
ditions in which no civil pilot would be
allowed to go aloft. Pilots and passengers
alike face their risks cheerfully as they
face the risks of battle. Those who die
in accidents are just as much heroes as
those who die in action.
The captain of the aircraft, our own
Captain P. G. Taylor said, “was of ex-
ceptional ability and experience,” and
Captain Taylor added:
Tragedies of this kind will occur as long as
the individual is expected to make up for
shortcomings of equipment and organisa-
tion.
Unfortunately, shortcomings of equip-
ment and flying conditions are inherently
incident to the organisational stage of
every campaign in which there are long
communication lines.
One feature of the accident was the
outstanding gallantry of a young Austra-
lian, Gordon Knowles, who rushed
through flames, with exploding flares
shooting past him, and made desperate
attempts at rescue which ended only when
he collapsed. He deservedly received the
thanks of Admiral Fraser.


xzd’cotnatic
Help the destitute people of Europe.
Give your unwanted clothing to U.N.R.R.A.
Your local council will advise you.
W.S. 172.
*4099 et
there
pcfie* 46 ®
you **
cM*
rOH 6
TiO
pohsh
dust
nd
and
preserve
Oa«nv
VjGGt'
protect
\ea»V»e*
no*
shoes
ents
Shoe
a yera
opons
desttoV
CO
tro*n
yott'
UGG^t
but
save
\cathe»
\et
c oOp° nS
nd
costs
nee
other
tor
shoe*
yoU»
save
V»sh
p o
&000
is o
e*
titty
t»n
very
beh' n
is
A
u»>o
RtC-'i
le»' v ' e
t
The
p,e»«'
VttVASft
SPORTING NOTIONS
Features of the racing at Randwick on Satur-
day—apart from weather even more blizzardly
than the previous week’s—were a new false rail,
further out to escape the gluey going, and adding
a few yards to the trip; wins for two favorites
and two second favorites, and excellent riding
by apprentice E. Cracknell, who scored two
wins and a second from four mounts, the first
win reducing his allowance to 51b. The lad’s
father, S. Cracknell, is. still in the business,
and the two of them have ridden together in a
race more than once this season.
Strathdarr was handicapper Wilson’s choice
for the mile Three-year-old, the Strathisla-Boor-
cello colt getting top weight, 9.3, in a field with
many winners in it. Despite the weight and the
opposition he seemed a much better chance
than the 12 to 1 and over at which he started.
Smartly out from the barrier in fifth place, he
let Fire Chat make the running to the home
turn, but in the straight moved up to join that
Talking gelding and went on to a comfortable
four-lengths win. Laudus (Midstream-Applause)
was third, the favorite, Debenture, second last.
The winner paid the best tote dividend of the
day: £3 10s. 9d. win, £1 4s. 9d. place.
Another topweight, Deed, though with a 71b.
allowance, beat the two-year-olds over a mile,
with the Hua-Questionnaire filly Questing
making the running, and Deed, also by Hua,
moving from a handy position to take over in
the straight and win in a good finish by half
a length. Nigeria (Pure Gold-Hot Stuff), a close
third, seems an improving colt.
Paying the penalty for his string of Randwick
wins, Petulance received weight only from
Kingsdale in the seven-furlongs Avoca Handi-
cap. Probably realising that* 8.9 was more than
his mount cared for, Duncan appeared intent
on setting up an unbridgeable lead from the
start, but McGrowdie on the lightly-weighted
Sir Francis seemed to have the same idea, and
Petulance had the job of chasing the Plymouth
Sound gelding, catching him at the home turn,
by which time both had had enough. Removal
joined the pacemakers, and Kingsdale started
a long run from the rear which landed him
second, a couple of lengths behind Removal,
Sir Francis hanging on for third monety.
Petulance dropped right out to last. It should
have been a fair result for the books, with
Panchio 7 to 2, and Petulance, Removal and
Kingsdale all well supported at 4 to 1.
An even better result for the bagmen was
High Tension’s all-the-way win at 10 to 1 in
the 12-furlongs Pacific Handicap, beating’Yarras,
second favorite, and Night Parade, 5-to-2 favo-
rite, with Lambeth and Prince both carrying
fair money and finishing down the track.
In the mile Welter Man o’ War beat the
pacemaker, Bragger, with Philgita closest of a
bunch striving for third. Prince Buzzard —top-
weight, though he is a five-year-old maiden and
seven of his opponents had won races —was
beaten by Polar Star, with Courier third, in
the Trial Handicap. The four-year-old Mara-
bou mare Marabelle, capable of giving a good
account of herself in this type of event at
Randwick, found her tail at the wrong end
when the barrier went up. She went well enough
when she did get going to suggest that she may
have been decidedly unfortunate.
* * * ♦
With two good wins to his credit in his
own State, the South Australian black colt
Chatter Lad (Limond Lad-Chatterer) scored his
second ,on Melbourne tracks in the Malla-
coota Handicap, first of the six events at Men-
tone on Saturday. On performances he looked
a class above the field, few of whom had even
the faintest glimmer of form. Also, the Men-
tone five-furlongs, with a turn inside the first
furlong, might have been specially pegged out
to suit his noted extremely fast early speed.
Naturally, he was at odds-on; what was sur-
prising was that anything should have had the
heavy backing that Anstey had to beat him.
Anstey, a pricey Foxbridge colt, bought in N.Z.
for John Wren, ran a distant fourth, but it
might pay to remember the betting.
Though he did look the certainty he proved
to be* Chatter Lad put up one of his very best
performances in winning. Carrying 9.7, giving
more than a stone to the next in the weights,
he went fast from the barrier, was very soon
three lengths out, and led all the way, winning
in a canter by five lengths. Tough Guy— re-
ceiving over 2st. —was within a length of the
winner at the turn, but only because Dewhurst
was giving the S.A. flyer a breather. A brown
colt by Charles Fox-Visigoth, Tough Guy stuck
on reasonably well to take second money, with
Durzee third. The track was heavy, and Chatter
Lad’s time 1.2.
There was also a six-furlongs event for two-
year olds, the Berkeley Handicap, with a some-
what better-performed field than in the shorter
race. The Hellespont-St. Enid brown colt Euxine
showed versatility in winning, he having won
over the Flemington mile on the previous
Saturday. Favorite at evens, he added another
to A. Breasley’s 50 winning rides for the season,
beating Gay Hua three lengths, Mardi Gras a
length and a half away next. Like the place-
getters all passably consistent, Hakim, Irish
Gem, Lady Antog and Generalissimo followed
in that order.
Chatter Lad is so very fast early that he may
go on to prove a worthy successor to Aurie’s
Star, while Euxine looks the makings of a
stayer. Euxine was giving away many lengths
in the early stages on Saturday, and he finished
very stoutly.
The Delamere Hurdle betting ran to equal
favorites, Walladale and Azores, at 7 t'o 2, and
Walladale managed to fill a place—there’s no
doubt about the high standard of Melburnians’
courage when it comes to backing hurdlers and
fencers! In fact, “7-to-2 the field” might be
said to indicate a particularly open betting race.
Correct in respect to this one, the winner being
Duomint (33 to 1), with Gyrone (50 to 1)
second.
The rest of the winning was all by three-year-
olds. The grey Soltoi gelding Suthron took
the seven-furlongs Heatherbrae Handicap, re-
stricted to that age, with Vanika and Raboa in
the places. The unluckiest horse anywhere in
Australia must surely be the Piccadilly-Vlaga
chestnut colt Oxford Street. With second plac-
ings in five of his six previous starts —including
the race he won and then lost on a protest at
Flemington—he added yet another to his un-
happy record when the Great Legend-Aerophyte
colt Sir Change came with a remarkable late
run to get up and beat him half a length in
the six-furlongs Ascot Thousand, with Aggressor
a head away. Oxford Street looked to have
the race won with 30 yards to go, and, to
emphasise the bad-luck aspect, it was the first
win Sir Change had recorded, his attempts
including some on country tracks. Another
excellent finishing run gave the Enfield three-
year-old gelding Bisley a head victory in the 10£-
furlongs Lincolnshire Handicap, from the top-
weight, Keplerian, and the bottomweight, Pan-
mure.
* * * *
Evidently Repshot is a lot better horse and
a better sticker than his Sydney running earlier
this year might have suggested. Very narrowly
beaten in the Doomben Newmarket a week be-
fore, he won the 10-furlongs Doomben Cup at
Albion Park on Saturday by four lengths, with
Harvest and Blueness in the places. Heavily
backed, Repshot was favorite at 3 to 1,
For Moorefield (before acceptances):
Two-year-old: (In the absence of Civic Pride)
Nigeria, 1; Young Veilmond, 2; Don Gio-
vanni, 3. Encourage: Courier, 1; Regal Step,
2; Pennicuik, 3. Flying: Star Gold, 1»; Ver-
meil, 2; Cargeonel, 3. Four-year-old: Sir
Francis, 1; Prince Hua, 2; Sunfel, 3. S.T.C.
Handicap : Timken, 1; Salivant, 2; Turn Again,
3. Trial: Dieppe, 1; Prince Galahad, 2;
Goya, 3.
*** # *
Winterset has been given the chance to show
whether his Grand National Steeple failure in-
dicated that he has slipped or merely that he
was having an off day. He has been given 12.3
for the Australian Steeplechase at Caulfield on
August 11. A horse’s weight, it would neverthe-
less be the least the champion ever carried in
a steeple. Another interesting allotment is the
South Australian Lime Rock’s 9.11, a drop of
51b. Lime Rock was unable to have a Mel-
bourne run after his rough trip across, and
should be a much fitter horse on August 11
than he was on Grand National day.
* * * *
Racing authorities in New York State are
going in for an apparently needed tote reform,
though, as reported, they -seem to be intent
on doing in a somewhat crude way what is
done here very simply. Hitherto it had been
possible over there for a man stationed at a
$5O or $lOO tote window to have word ticktacked
to him when any horse had got much the best
of a start, and to get a big bet placed be-
fore the tote closed. So now it’s proposed to
close the tote at the posted time for each race,
leaving it to those responsible to send them
away at that exact time. Here the result they’re
after is effectively achieved by the pressing of
a button as the barrier rises and thus cutting
off the power which operates the tote machines.
* * * *
A rattling good game:
The third “Victory” Test at Lord’s was sporty
to the end, with a high standard of cricket.
To England’s 254 Australia replied with 194
—Hassett 68, Carmody and Cristofani 32 each
and Whitington 19; Pollard 6 for 75, Roberts
2 for 24 and Wright 2 for 49.
England’s second innings began solidly—lo 6
to the fall of the second wicket. Then the crash
came, and the side was out for 164, Hammond’s
lumbago preventing him from batting. The
consistent Hutton got 69, Edrich 58 and Wash-
brook 13. Miller (3 for 42) bowled like a
demon until a wrenched back caused his retire-
ment; then Cristofani (5 for 49) and Ellis (1
for 29) completed the wreckage.
Set 225 to win, the Australians rattled up the
runs, with time to spare: Miller 71 not out,
Sismey 51, Workman 30, Hassett 24 and Pepper
18. Pollard and Wright each collected two
wickets. That left Australia two wins to one.
In all 254 runs were scored on the first day,
312 on the second day and 291 on the last.
And all three Tests have finished in the allotted
three days.
Cristofani, the young St. George (Sydney)
all-rounder, vindicated his selection. He was
used more than any pf the other bowlers in the
match, and his full figures were 42.3 overs,
9 maidens, 92 runs, 9 wickets. Miller’s 6 for
86 (all clean bowled) was an excellent turn; he
certainly looks the opening fast bowler for
future Australian cricket. Wicketkeeper Sismey
also had a great match —two caught and ditto
stumped, and only two byes against him in an
aggregate of 418. In the three Tests Sismey has
caught nine and stumped four. The tall Western
Suburbs (Sydney) player is doing well enough
to carry on in Bert Oldfield’s place.
These figures for the three Tests show how
the players are pulling their weight: Hassett
(243 runs, av. 40.5), Miller (209, av. 41.8),
Pepper (160, av. 32), Whitingtc n (133, av. 22.16),
Workman (107, av. 21.4), Sismey (414, av. 22.8),
Williams (64, av. 21.33), Carmody (89, av.
22.25), Cheetham (42, av. 8.4), Price (56, av.
18.66), and Ellis (11, av. 11); Stanford (49) and
Cristofani (32) have played in one match.
The bowling is split up among Ellis (11 at
23.55), Pepper (10 at 33.7), Miller (9 at 18.55),
Price (7 at 14.44), Cheetham (7 at 30.42), Wil-
liams (5 at 42.4) and Cristofani (9 at 10.22).
“N.X.” looks *back; —*
Many brothers have won a place in Australian
first-class cricket —Bannermans, Hills, Gregorys,
Trumbies, Giffens, Trotts, McLeods, for
instance—but the Trotts have most to show
for it. Harry Trott captained the 1896
Australian XI in England and the 1897-98
team in Australia, and won five out of eight
matches. In Tests he scored 921 runs, average
21.92, and took 29 wickets, average 35.13.
In Sheffield Shield he amassed 1777 runs, average
33.52, and took 74 wickets, average 26.20.
Albert Trott scored 242 runs, average 15.12, and
took 31 wickets, average 23.25, in Sheffield
.Shield matches; then played in three Tests in
Australia in 1895. In the third he scored 38
and 72 (both not out), and took 0 for 9 and
8 for 43; in the fourth he scored 85 not out,
He wasn’t asked to bowl because Turner (7
for 51), Giffen (8 for 40) and Harry Trott (3
for 21) wrecked Stoddart’s XI and gave Aus-
tralia a record win by an innings and 147 runs,
which stood till obliterated by an innings and
200 runs at Melbourne in 1937.
When the V.F.L. tumult and shouting
died away on Saturday South Melbourne
and Footscray remained on top. South
Melbourne holding a slight percentage
lead; Collingwood was next, then North
Melbourne, just scraping in on percent-
ages ahead of Richmond. The last-named
and 33,000 onlookers went to South’s
home ground, where the Tigers booted
only one goal to 4.4 in a brisk first
quarter, tried furiously but in vain to
make up the leeway, and by 14.11-10.17
lost their brief footing in the “four,”
though' they may be in again and North
out again when hostilities conclude this
week-end. On their home turf Footscray
landed one goal more than Fitzroy, but
still bit the somewhat moist dust 8.15-9.7.
Essendon journeyed to Carlton to give the
locals a surprising, though narrow,
drubbing, kicking three goals in the
“time-off” period at the end to win by
10.18-11.9. Collingwood overwhelmed
Melbourne, 16.16-10.17; Geelong, used
to the role, was North’s bunny, 13.19-
9.9 ; and Hawthorn downed St. Kilda, in
the lamentable absence of all but 3000
enthusiasts, 15.15-13.3,
* * * *
With a reshuffled backline and two regu-
lar players absent, Eastern Suburbs, pre-
miers in 1944, strove mightily against
Parramatta, but Schomberg’s kicking and
a neat field goal by Boland late in the
game won the day for the Parramattans:
Parramatta 18, East 11. Inspired by
skipper Ron Rankin, Drummoyne made
better use of a strong wind in the second
half to overhaul North and beat it 16-11.
In a ding-dong forward game West 6
(two tries) beat St. George 3 (penalty
goal). Other games: Randwick 19,
Manly 8; University 26, Gordon 3.
Randwick is three points ahead of Parra-
matta, with East next and then Univer-
sity.
* * * *
“N.”: News of two R.A.A.F. eights
rowing at the latest English Henley
regatta recalls that at the end of World
War I an A.I.F. crew, stroked by Captain
(now Brigadier) Disher, of Melbourne,
defeated an English eight for the gold
cup presented by King George V. In
1920 Disher gained the King’s permission
to have the trophy handed over to the
Australian Rowing Council, and the
annual inter-State rowing contest is now
known as the King’s Cup. Brisbane had
the first contest for the cup in 1920, and
Queensland won the last, rowed in 1939,
before the war, also in Brisbane. Two
members of Queensland’s 1939 King’s
Cup crew, Brian Tihelly and Don Tynan,
who were educated together at Down-
lands College, Toowoomba, fell into Jap
hands in Malaya.
* * ♦ ♦
Featherweights Danny Simmons and
Sid Knight again demonstrated how well
matched they are by fighting a draw at
Leichhardt, In two earlier encounters
one had beaten the other. Simmons
looked like winning the third tussle when
his right counter floored Knight for six
seconds in the fourth round, but Knight
soon recovered, and had Simmons on the
canvas in the seventh. Two other fedders,
Ron Holland and Reg Lawton, who sup-
plied the main support, were also having
their third contest, in their case after
breaking even twice. Holland had the
punch, and administered a clean knock-
out in the tenth.
A 1 Watkins, a promising welterweight
from Jack Dunleavy’s stable, decisively
outpointed Kev McCarthy at the Sydney
Stadium. McCarthy, who was having
his first main event, seemed too overcome
to do himself justice. In another twelve-
rounder the Egyptian Mahomed Fahmy
was much too fast for Frank Duff, but
his clinching lost him so many points that
Wallis took the decision away from him.
Fahmy has been unlucky in Australia.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Big flutter yesterday afternoon was the
reception in honor of the Duchess of
Gloucester by the women’s organisations
of N. S. Wales. The invitations had been
sent out in the name of the National
Council of Women, There were 150
organisations there, and altogether 1000
guests. The leader of each group was
presented to H.R.H. Each, brought a
posy of flowers. Afterwards, at the
Duchess’s wish, these went to various ser-
vice centres. The Trocadero was
the chosen place, and the doors opened
at a quarter to two, though the guest of
honor was not expected till about three.
Mrs. J. Metcalfe, president of the Lyceum
Club and a N.C.W. chieftainess, was the
secretarial hand and brain behind it all-
Flowers were massed in the foyer and in
the ballroom.
There were cheering crowds, Junior
Red Crossers, Girl Guides and many
babies as background for the Duchess
of Gloucester’s visit to Auburn to open
its new baby health centre. And from
the moment she spoke the words “As a
mother myself, I take a deep interest in
mothercraft” she held the heart and the
ear of every woman present. The
Duchess ended her simple and sincere
little speech by wishing the centre years
of success. A gift from H.R.H. is the
tinted photograph of Prince Richard (now
almost a year old) which since her visit
hangs in the centre’s waiting-room. A
group of servicemen’s wives and their
babies, regular attendants, were presented
to the Duchess, who plainly knows the
way to the hearts of children. At her
request the following day was a school
half holiday.
The bleakness of Saturday afternoon
enfolded the burial service of victims
of last Thursday’s ’plane tragedy. Eleven
Royal Navy and R.A.F. men, comrades
still in death, were buried in Rookwood
cemetery. They were farewelled with full
service honors under the downcast gaze
of the hundreds who came to pay their
last respects. Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser,
C.-in-C. of the British Pacific Fleet,
and Commander A. Robertson, represent-
ing the Duke of Gloucester, were pre-
sent. The twelfth man killed in the crash.
Captain J. G. Roper, 0.8. E., was buried
last Monday. His body was not recovered
till Saturday.
Nobody was bored or tired during
pianist Pnina Salzman’s speech opening
the Watercolor Institute’s exhibition last
Saturday. She merely remarked that she
wished to declare the show open.
Windeyer, K.C., explained that Pnina had
a bad cold, but was gratified at the
society’s invitation. After that, inspection
of the pictures was mingled with the usual
tea party. President John Eldershaw was
at the helm. There was a good roll-up of
artists, buyers and friends. There was a
crop of sales, including Gallery and
Marshall Bequest purchases.
“Australia has no city that can pretend
to the sophistication of Paris, the worldly-
wise outlook of New York, the age-old
wisdom of London,” said A.B.C’s chair-
man Richard Boyer to the Society of
Women Writers last week. Therefore,
Mr. Boyer believes Australia should show
herself young among the nations. Give
them the flavor of her youth blossoming
in this land so old that its animals and
its flowers are prehistoric. Mr. Boyer
thinks that is the piquant, the absorbing
contrast which will make Australian
books attractive to the reading millions
of other lands.
Mr. Boyer is a good and a knowledge-
able Australian. He knows that it is im-
possible to astonish the traveller from
far lands with Australian cities, which are
mushrooms compared with those of older
nations, with their great wealth, their
teeming millions of population. But Aus-
tralia has the vision of youth, the wide
horizon of dreams that are to be made
come true. It was a grand talk, as
heartening as the flash of blue in the
grey sky of the July day. Mrs. Boyer
accompanied her husband, and' it was
interesting to the women writers to learn
that Dorothy Cottrell had been their
neighbor in Queensland, Acting-president
Mrs. Gaynor introduced the speaker and
welcomed the guests, notable among them
being journalist Mr. Crouch. Nora
Kelly* made the speech of thanks.
Pnina Salzman’s name is already added
to the list of great musicians who have
held Town Hall audiences spellbound.
Indeed, such musicianly powers in so
young a girl are almost awe-inspiring.
Her two last performances were in com-
pany with the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, led by Canadian conductor
Ernest MacMillan, and from each con-
cert crowds of disappointed music lovers
were turned away. Last Wednesday’s
concert was packed out in spite of the
deluge, and the Australian Comforts
Fund benefited by over £BOO.
The Duchess of Gloucester, with a party
of six, was in the audience. Her Royal
Highness wore a lush silver-fox jacket
with her black frock. Lady Clive’s short
coat was also of silver fox. Miss Eileen
Phipps added hyacinth pink to the group.
Lieutenant-Governor Frederick Jordan
and his lady were in the official group. So
were A.B.C. chairman Boyer and Mrs.
Boyer, her frock of black velvet; general
manager Moses and Mrs. Moses, and
Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress. Mrs.
Walter Swinson, Mrs. Hope Gibson and
Mrs. Robert Dixson of the orchestra com-
mittee received the Admiralty House
company. Afterwards there was a supper
party in the mayoral rooms, and Pnina
Salzman was presented to the Duchess.
A young Moses girl, and a young Boyer
girl were also given opportunity to drop
a curtsy.
Joy Martin, subject of this photograph,
is president of the newly-formed younger
group of the Australian Legion of Ex-
Servicemen and Women. Joy’s father
served both in the 1914-18 war and the
present one, so naturally she is enthusi-
astic in working to raise money for the
Legion and the All Services Relief Fund.
There are 60,000 members in the Legion,
and the younger group is planning a
series of entertainments. Norton Trev-
aire photograph.
Imogen Whyse, who has been showing
school children just how entertaining
Shakspeare can be, has had a great recep-
tion from the youngsters. Imogen por-
trays in quick succession the principal
characters of each play. Her changes
are cleverly arranged by means of scarves,
cloaks and headgear, over what may be
termed a basic robe. During her
recitals the girls and boys are still as
mice. At the end they unleash their
applause and let it rip. Miss Whyse
came to Australia by way of South
America, where she was touring under
the wing of the British Council (a
cultural organisation). Before that she
was in Sweden, where the outbreak
of war caught her. There she gave
many recitals. Tomorrow night and on
Tuesday next (July 31) she will put on
entertainment in modern comedy strain
at the Conservatorium.
On the walls of the Grosvenor Gal-
leries there hangs a fresh-looking little
canvas. It is titled “A North Shore
Street,” and it conveys the atmosphere of
the garden-surrounded homes of the
north side of the harbor. The girl who
painted it is ' Hazel Napier Thompson,
who lives at Neutral Bay. Hazel, a pupil
of Maude Sherwood’s, seems to be a
lover of flowers. She has painted with
obvious pleasure to herself waterlilies,
flannel flowers, roses, camellias, hy-
drangea, and other garden beauties. One
of the pictures, “Tiger Lilies and Corn,”
should open up quite a new design in
decoration for the ambitious hostess giv-
ing a dinner party. The show was
opened by Dr. R. K. Murphy of the
Science Department of Sydney Technical
College,
Singer Arnold Matters was the guest
of the Lyceum Club’s music group last
Friday. His after-lunch speech had for
its core the idea of a national theatre,
a subject much written and talked
about at the moment. Mr. Matters
painted an interesting picture of the
growth of London’s Old Vic. and
Sadler’s Wells theatres to the standing of
recognised homes of Shakspeare, grand
opera and ballet. This was mostly owing
to the loving care of Miss Cons and her
niece Miss Baylis.
The difference between the dream plans
for Australia’s national theatre and such
growths as the Old Vic. and the Abbey
Theatre in Dublin is one of speed. The
idea here seems to be to start with a
building that will house drama, ballet
and music. It’s a grand vision for lovers
of the arts, and such a building will be
a credit to Australia—but only after
every soldier from the wars returning is
sure of a house fit to be a home.
From Melbourne
An unusual burst of sunshine and mild
weather has prompted one of our shops
to show just a glimpse of fashions to
come. The spring styles displayed are
full of romance and enchantment.
Flowers are everywhere. A flower hat
may be worn with a flower-printed frock,
and, of all things, a flower bag. Cool,
grey linens are made with the new cap-
shoulder and are sleeveless. The only
ornament is a gold kid belt or a gay
colored one, A dress such as this is very
practical; it may be worn to the office
with a small tailored hat or to a special
luncheon party with a big rough straw
hat.
At a luncheon party given recently by
Mrs. Horsfall in honor of her mother,
Mrs. W. Ladd, over 20 guests were in-
vited. A stroll round the garden before
lunch was enjoyed by a few of the women
guests, many of whom wore flowered
hats. Assisting Mrs. Horsfall was
daughter Gloria, whose frock attracted
much attention, Fashioned of black wool
crepe, the bodice was tight fitting and
allied to a very full dirndl skirt. Under
it was a crisp black taffetta petticoat with
a frill of black lace, and this was seen
peeping beneath the hem of the skirt.
The hostess had her daughter-in-law,
Mrs. W. Horsfall, Jnr., also clad in black,
assisting her to care for the guests.
Lillian Wightman had an ermine coat
over her black frock and two large roses
in pink and green were set in an ermine
crown to form her hat. Mrs. W. Ladd
wore a simple grey tailored suit and was
hatless. Mrs. J. E. Shilladay was another
smart dresser who chose a black outfit
and warm fur coat. During the after-
noon guests were charmed by the music
of Olive Williams, whose piano solos
included many operatic numbers. Mrs.
Frank Watts, whose flower hat was a
colorful contrast to her black frock, was
another guest. Mrs. Watts is ticket secre-
tary for a bridge party which is being
organised *by the Brookes lady to raise
funds for the Wings Club. This club has
now been opened to all women officers
of the three services. The Brookes lady
is State Commandant of the Women’s Air
Training League, and lives at Elm Tree
Cottage in South Yarra. She has formed
an auxiliary which is known as the Elm
Tree Cottage Auxiliary, composed of
many well-known Melbourne women.
Among functions arranged to help the
girls enjoy their club will be a recital by
violinist Jeanne Gautier and pianist Ray-
mond Lambert.
In producing “The Women” for the
Little Theatre Irene Mitchell, the smiling
lass pictured here, has maintained that
playhouse’s reputation. The stage is a
small one, and the many scenes and the
number of the cast to be accommodated
needed careful and skilful direction. Miss
Mitchell, who is associate director of the
Little Theatre, is a teacher of dramatic
art. One of her most promising pupils
is Robin McKay. Irene gained experi-
ence with the Sybil Thorndyke Co. dur-
ing its Australian tour, after which she
studied production in England. She has
appeared in A.B.C. and commercial
station radio plays, and has been engaged
to produce a series of these perform-
ances. Appropriately, all the work for
“The Women,” painting scenery and so
forth, was done by women.
Frances Burke, whose hand-blocked
linens are well known, was a helper, con-
tributing a cleverly devised , bathroom
scene. Among those who enjoyed the
play were Pat Hoogveld, enjoying a last
fling before entering hospital to shed an
appendix, Mr. and Mrs. Spencer Mac-
Donald and Mrs, Dolya Ribush, snug in
a white woolly coat.
Alannah Coleman invited a few of her
friends to a studio cocktail party so that
they might view the portrait of Lieut.
Fred McGrath, R.A.N.V.R., which she
will enter in a forthcoming exhibition.
With due solemnity Alannah warned her
guests that the studio was haunted, but,
undaunted, they climbed the stairs and
with great enthusiasm toasted both
painter and painted. With great calm,
a virtue always associated with the Senior
Service, Lieut. McGrath listened as guests
discussed his features and coloring and
the manner in which the artist has treated
them.
For this occasion Alannah set off her
fair coloring and flowing locks with a
black frock and glowing red beret. Mrs.
Allan Walters’s good looks were en-
hanced by a suit of red, green and black
checks, and she also sported a saucy red
beret. Mrs. James Robertson, of Sydney,
tucked herself into a cosy beige fox
bolero which she wore over her smart
black suit, Lieut. Brian James,
R.A.N.V.R., was on hand to give his
brother officer support, and Frank Casey,
of the U.S.A. Navy, with Adrien Wall
and Dudley Barr, were other interested
guests.
A wedding of interest was that of
Rosamund Anne, youngest daughter of
the Hon Lewis Clifford, of Wonga Park,
and Chudleigh, Devon, England, to Sub-
Lieut. Geoffrey Fairbairn, R.A.N.V.R.,
only son of Mrs. James V. Fairbairn.
Mrs. Fairbairn is the president of Air
Force House, and has been closely asso-
ciated in this work with Mrs, Alex.
Russell, who lent the bride the veil of
old lace worn at the wedding. The bride-
groom’s father, J. V. Fairbairn, at time
of his death five years ago was Minis-
ter for Air. The bride is the grand-
daughter of Lord Clifford, of Chudleigh,
and her uncle. Sir Bede Clifford, was
from 1931 to 1937 Governor of the
Bahamas. The present Mrs. Clifford, the
bride’s stepmother, was formerly Eliza-
beth Knox, of Sydney.
Scene of the wedding, which was fully
choral, was Christ Church, South Yarra.
The bride’s gown of palest-pink satin
was encrusted with pearls, which formed
a pattern of ivy leaves, embellishing the
sleeves, tight-fitting bodice and the waist-
line of the very full skirt, which was
finished with a slight train. The bride’s
sister Angela and Gardenia, daughter
of Commander and Mrs. William Sey-
mour, attended the bride in white tulle,
worn over palest-pink satin. Sixty guests
attended a reception at the home of the
bridegroom’s aunt, Mrs. Ross Grey Smith,
A pleasant birthday party was that
given by Mrs. Ray Staley. Guests were
first entertained at afternoon tea at the
Staley home at Brighton. The terrace
faces the sea, and guests wandered in
the wintry sunshine to the foot of the
garden and watched the waves roll in.
Then they went to the games room and
played ping-pong and darts until high
tea was served. Mrs. George Haines,
later organised games, and everybody had
lots of fun. Schoolgirl daughter Valerie
helped her mother entertain. Maree Ray-
mond, who had spent the afternoon
riding, arrived for the fun wearing well-
cut riding-coat and breeches. Norman
and Marjorie Spry, with Eric and Ger-
trude Cottrell, were among the table-
tennis enthusiasts. Marjorie and Ger-
trude are busy with plans for an evening
party at the home of Captain and Mrs
Angrove to help the Jack’s Day appeal
Over £35,000 has been already collected,
but the organisers are still accepting
donations. The money will go to build a
centre to be a temporary home for mer-
chant seamen and men of the R.A.N.
When Rex Rienits and his wife Jose-
phine left Melbourne they were sorely
missed, especially in dramatic circles. Jo,
as her friends call her, was one of the
mainstays of the Tin Alley Players, for
she had not only appeared in many pro-
ductions but had produced and been
responsible for decor and dressing of
a number of shows. In a recent letter
received from Rex and Jo Melburnians
learn that Jo* has been understudying
in “Kiss and Tell” at the Theatre Royal
in Sydney, and has had an opportunity to
show what she can do when a member
of the cast was indisposed. Rex’s play,
“Lightning Strikes Twice,” done in
December by the Tin Alley Players, is
now to be produced by the Brisbane
Repertory Theatre, and next month it
will be seen in the Adelaide Playbox
Theatre.
Rita MacNally, widow of artist M. J.
MacNally, who spent the last years of
his life in Adelaide, has been carrying
on there as a “Mail” journalist, of the
thoughtful essayist type. She has now
gone to London, to find wider scope for
her sensitive work with an Australian
background, which will there have the
advantage of novelty.


HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging,- gainful
backaches people hlame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
iday or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tube® and filters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
pnd dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
Successfully by millions for over 40 years.
IThey give happy relief and will help the 15
(miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
teaste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
-IAOHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
that wlli make you jveli find keep you well.
in flusTß/nr^
SO™
V AC u
\Bj
s
ince 1895
. Vacuum hns served
Austrnlia
with Petroleum Products
of the Highest Quality...
SfjUICE
ildTiu
For Industry,
Agriculture,
s
Trnnsport and Aviation
VACUUM
.oimiir rioßucis.
VACUUM OIL COMPAHY PTY. LTD.
(fHCORPORATfD IN AUSTRALIA)
PLUME MOTOR SPIRIT LAUREL KEROSENE
VOCO POWER KEROSENE MOBILOIL
INTAVA GASOLINE/OILS AND SPECIALTIES
SMOKE-OH!
“Purse, brown, lost, contains notes, bills.”
— Randwick-Coogee ( Sydney ) weekly.
Finder keep bills and return notes.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mrs. Waters sighed, seized Billy’s ear, and
climbed the stairs with it, Billy following closely
behind.”— Short story, woman’s paper.
Billy, no doubt, had a drawn look.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Bargain Basement.
“Old Submarine Up for Sale.” — Headline.
This recalls the public auctions I
attended after a border clash between
two minor South American republics.
The authorities had no trouble in sell-
ing the small arms, after spirited bidding,
to a group of wild-looking strangers from
the hills, who claimed plausibly that they
were collecting souvenirs. There was a
certain amount of public alarm and des-
pondency when they made sure the
souvenir ammunition was the right
calibre by trying it out in a friendly way
on the people who had been bidding
against them.
Most of the mechanised equipment
went to the primitive farmers of' the out-
lying districts. I remember my amuse-
ment when I saw one of thefn hopefully
feeding a bag of chaff into the petrol
tank of a stranded jeep. I also recall my
astonishment when it promptly started.
The air force, which consisted of the
major portion of a 1915 Handley Page
bomber, went to an eccentric professor
of engineering who was conducting some
advanced researches into what made aero-
planes stay up.
The buying fever soon had everyone
in its grip, and the authorities took ad-
vantage of this to sell some rather dilapi-
dated trenches to a couple of tourists,
who wanted to take them home for con-
version into air-raid shelters.
Later on, of course, the selling fever
infected the army authorities, and it took
me several years’ hard travelling to get
rid of the three disused major-generals
and the second - hand field - marshal
knocked down to me.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Woman, 45, for spotting room.”
—“Great Northern” (Sydney).
Ladies’ parlor or upstairs lounge?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“He woke up and found a fish in his bed.
It was cold and in a bad temper.” — “Sun.”
Suffering catfish!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She did not mind her husband playing
billiards as long as he didn’t drink.”
—Woman s paper.
Spot barred?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“In the Sydney Divorce Court a man said
that his wife had never stopped talking since
they were married 17 years ago.”
A lottery is marriage but.
On this poor chap’s attestment.
It’s even worse when it has proved
To be a sound investment.
H. M.
Art Affair.
He wrote a “modern” poem with a
keen desire to show ’em what a mighty
clever person he could be. ’Twas a
wicked act of treason to the rule of
rhyme and reason, and a riot in the realm
of poetry.
It was full of dazing phrases that would
cause amazing hazes in a reader’s mind,
submerging it in doubt as to why a dark
allusion tp inscrutable confusion should
be rendered worse by leaving commas
out.
When the thing was perpetrated, with
his ego well inflated, he revealed it to
the damsel he held dear. I might add,
the female party, like himself, was rather
arty: her fingernails were green, her hair-
do queer.
Having read the revelation with an air
of concentration, she crossed her legs
(which weren’t extremely clean), and an-
nounced: “My darling Eric, it is some-
what esoteric, but I’m sure I see exactly
what you mean. It’s provocative and
vital
Here she stalled in her recital, inter-
rupted by a sudden angry shout: “What!
You say you understand it? After all the
hours I planned it! Well, the ruddy
thing’s a failure —chuck it out!”
T. W. Nathan.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She felt too sick to even make up her face.”
,Short story.
She must have been off color!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, daily cook, 45, lunch and din.”
—“S. M. Herald”
Modern music while you work.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, empty or run-down shop.”
—Suburban paper.
Purchaser will wind up the business.
Making a Splash.
“When he was abroad Mr. Forde was ‘shocked
to note the painful discrepancy’ between the
high cost of every social amenity and the low
salaries and allowances paid to Australia s
diplomatic representatives.”
The Australian Minister to Nicotinia
pushed the rusty, squeaking old bike
from which he had just alighted up
against the wall and went inside to the
rented bed-sitting room which served as
the Australian Legation in the capital.
Wearily, but carefully to avoid the nails,
he let himself into the chair he had
knocked up out of a few kerosene-cases.
The diplomatic service, he reflected,
was not without its hazards. That after-
noon, as he was pedalling around the
corner of the Plaza Spiggoti Eng’, a huge
black Mercedes-Benz limousine had
flashed past him, enveloping him in dust.
He had just had time to recognise the
top-hatted, morning-coat-clad figure as
the Ambassador from Wottabotua (pop.
li millions). Just as he was groping his
way out of the haze towards the safety
of the kerb he was almost run down by
a maroon Rolls-Bentley phaeton. He
could tell by the liveried footman sitting
beside the chauffeur that it belonged to
the attache from Gulberia (pop. three-
quarters of a million).
The Minister sighed. He had seen a
hoodless 1922 Essex tourer for sale that
day in a used-car shop. He hoped it
would be still available by the time he
got permission back from Canberra to
buy it —that’s if they didn’t think him too
extravagant. If he got that Essex he’d
be able to do things in real style then.
He could perhaps give other members
of the Corps Diplomatique a lift. He
had offered one the other day to a portly
diplomat, but the fellow had to decline
because he couldn’t risk sitting with his
feet up on the handle-bars.
The Minister, remembering something,
came suddenly out of his reverie. “Hey,
Joe!” he called.
From under the staircase, where he
did his work on a couple of butter-boxes,
the Legation’s secretary (first, second and
third combined, to save salaries)
appeared. As he came up to the deal
his chief held up an admonitory
finger and then pointed over toward the
staircase,
“You’ve forgotten something, haven’t
you, Joe?” he asked. “Remember those
complaints from Canberra about the
bills 9”
The sec ' ret went overj blew out the
candle that stood in a bottle and returned
A . ~ T ,
Now about this reception Im giving
here tonight to the Corps m honor of the
Plenipotentiary Extraordinary from Gala-
poma,” the Minister said. “We ve only
got two quid to do for the whole months
exes. I was stung for a round of drinks
yesterday and half of it’s gone. We can’t
afford to have anyone cater for the lot.
Have you got those soap coupons we
were saving?”
“Yes, chief, there are over sixty.”
“Good. See if you can get some
molded wine. glasses—they’ll be a big
i m p roV ement on the tin mugs we had to
use Jast time Call in to Fullworths and
see if can t some of yesterday’s
cakes _ the y’ll let you have them cheap,
being a bit stale. If you haven’t enough
to get the sherry—we’ll have to have that
qd. plonk again—you’d better ‘mos-
cow > t he diplomatic bag. Uncle’ll let you
bave a dollar on it, as usual.”
» Righto But what’s the idea of the
sash thi you ’ve got to go across your
chest chief? Has Nicotin i a bestowed
Order nn vmU”
™ ~ , T .,„ , , 1; .
‘P™’ 1 sllly f ItU ,o °f. h P "
Order but its really to cover this frayed
ed S e of my coat - N ° w B et
, Ten minutes later the secretary, wear-
mg a harassed look, returned. Afraid
you’ll have to call your reception off for
tonight, chief,” he said gloomily. “That
joint we were depending on for the ham-
burgers has closed up!”
t 80.
The Superman.
“A self-made god with nine wives is in-
fluencing Syrian politics.”—“ Daily Telegraph.”
In times of stress he must have been
Compelled in many ways to don
The mantle of a Solomon,
And though the Governmental scene
May furnish issues somewhat weightier,
With the experience he’d get
In subterfuge, it’s safe to bet
That politics would be his metier.
And not in this respect alone
It’s fortunate that by his own
Assessment he’s decreed to be
God-like, at least if not divine —
If all his wives behave like mine.
Well, Heaven knows, he’d need to be !
P. M. LUSK.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2id. per line-
Revenue from Stamp Issues
The P.M.G.’s announcement of sales
0 f Gloucester postage stamps is interest-
ing. By denominations, the sales during
the three months from February 19 were:
2i± .. 88,290,000 .. £919,687 10 0
3id. *.. 4,048,320 .. 59,038 0 0
sfd. .. 5,886,900 .. 134,908 2 6
Totals .. 98,225,220 .. £1,113,633 12 6
On a conservative estimate, considering
the collector-popularity of the issue, at
least 10 p.c. would be bought by phila-
telists. For these no postal service is
demanded, and the Government profits
by a neat £llO,OO0 —sufficient to build
100 houses!
This highlights what philatelists have
frequently pointed out in the press, that
the issue of commemorative stamps is a
source of revenue that should not be
neglected. Furthermore, it is an effective
form of national advertising.
Australia made no such issues between
June, 1940, and February, 1945, though
there were times during that period when
the eyes of the world were on this coun-
try as never before. It is a fact well
known to stamp dealers that when a
country is in the news the demand for
that country’s stamps rises proportion-
ately.
Moreover, during that time we were
entertaining masses of Allied servicemen
(with money burning holes in their
pockets) from the most stamp-conscious
country on the globe. They were itching
to send home souvenirs of Australia. It
is a safe surmise that the Government
could have collected a million of this sur-
plus cash (to the chagrin, maybe, of black-
marketeers, sly - groggers, room - letters
and taxi-drivers) by the issue of. com-
fnemorative stamps at appropriate inter-
vals. A General Mac Arthur stamp would
have had the “Sold Out” sign up on all
P.Os. in a week ; so would a set with
a “Digger and Yank” motif.
For heaven’s sake, let us have some-
thing worth while in victory sets ready
for issue when the Japs cave in! — Hist
(N.S.W.).
Income-tax Rebates
One of the unexplained mysteries of
the last four or five years is how the
family man on pegged wages in the £3OO-
- p.a. range has kept out of Jhe
moneylender’s hands—or has he? The
mystery becomes deeper if he has experi-
enced sickness in his family, bringing in
its train hospital and doctors’ bills. On
top of the greatly-increased cost of cloth-
ing and of the doubled, and sometimes
trebled, cost of practically all items of
food, the added burden of medical ex-
penses must bring many a sleepless night
to the harassed head of the household.
And what consideration does he get
from the Government at Canberra when
the season for taxpayers opens? A con-
cessional rebate calculated on a limit of
£5O, though his total outgoings for doctor
and hospital might have been three or
four times that figure. This seems to be
a callous disregard by our politicians
for the sufferings of the community. As
well as being a real assistance to the tax-
payer, it would have no appreciable effect
on the total tax collections of the nation
were the full amount of medical expenses
allowed in assessing the amount of tax
payable.
This raises the point of the present
questionable system of computing con-
cessional rebates. The rate of tax is now
assessed before the concessional allow-
ances are brought into the calculation.
This is an unnecessarily harsh method of
assessment, and the former and fairer
system of deductions from gross income
should be restored immediately. Perhaps
next year, being Federal election year, will
bring with it a move in this direction.
Arty Hill (Q.).
State Medical Scheme ,
Australia is to be congratulated if, as
reported, the Federal Government’s free
medicine scheme is to be postponed until
next year. Australia may learn much
from M.L., where thousands of people
are seeing doctors on sore-toe provoca-
tion and rushing off with their prescrip-
tions to chemists.
Abuses are inevitable where people are
offered something for nothing. The M.L.
Government has handed out free medical
and prescription passes, and the public
feels it must take advantage of the gift.
Women, always prone to a doctor com-
plex, are flocking in droves to consulting
rooms —bargain sales are not in it.
A chemist tells me there have been
cases of birth-control prescriptions dealt
out under M.L.’s social-security scheme.
No wonder there are medicos making
their £BOOO a year.
The controlling department works
feverishly to close down the loopholes of
abuse. Prescription repeats without
medical authority have been abolished.
But there are many absurdities to be
rectified. All of which shows that the
longer Australia holds off and benefits
from the prescription-rampage mistakes
of MX. the better. Why not send a few
investigating medicos to MX. to find this
out quickly? It might help MX. also,
and save both countries millions of
pounds. — New Zeal (MX.).
Why Favor Non-contributors?
The additional ss. a week to old-age
pensioners is actually an increase of
18.2 p.c. In these cases the recipients
haven’t contributed one penny towards
their allowance. But the Commonwealth
public servants, who for many years have
contributed at least 4 p.c. of their salaries,
haven’t even been mentioned.
The increase is supposed to have been
given to meet the difference in the cost
of living. The Public Service unit is £26,
and has remained at that figure since the
Act came into force. These units were
fixed at that figure when the cost of living
was at least 20 to 25 p.c. lower than
to-day, and should now be at least £35 to
have anything like an equalising effect.
Of course the object is obvious. There
is an election next year; public servants
are only in units and old-age pensioners
“ Ow Was I to know cabriole legs wouldn't go with the other furnicher?”
are in tens and hundreds. Probably that
accounts for “the milk in the coconut.
If such is not the case, why was one class.
of pensioner (the non-contributing class)
favored while the other class (the con-
tributing section) wasn’t even mentioned?
—Mid-Channel (Vic.).
“Heroes of the Mercantile Marine”
What will be the reward of the Mer-
chant Navy for its services in this war?
Some people suggest nautical colleges to
train sailors to become officers, but very
few sailors want to be officers.
The way I look at it, the greatest boon
that could be offered to the merchant
sailor would be just to recognise him as
an ordinary human being.
Last year myself and four other Aus-
tralians were repatriated from South
Africa. We were survivors of an English
oil-tanker sunk by the Japs. It is suffi-
cient to say that our story was featured
everywhere under the usual cliche head-
lines of “Seamen’s Terrible Ordeal,”
“Submarine Atrocity,” etc.
When we came on board the British
cargo-passenger liner in which we were
to be taken to Australia we were put
right aft in some quarters that, we were
told, had been knocked together to carry
West Indian negro troops some time
before. The conditions were much worse
than in most forecastles. We protested, but
had to take what we could get, being in-
formed that there might not be another
Australia-bound ship for eight months.
We were not allowed to eat in the
dining saloon, but had to take our plates
to the pantry. We were forbidden to
talk to the other passengers. We were
not allowed to enter the lounge or bar.
While Army privates played games on
the boatdeck, we were confined to the
few square yards of poopdeck. Probably
the soldiers thought we were desperate
criminals or lepers rather than sailormen.
We were not allowed to talk to them.
Maybe it was thought we would corrupt
their morals. To men who were not
normal after the strain of the open-
boat trip, being super-sensitive to every
slight, the humiliation to which we were
subjected was as cruel as it was uncalled
f 01*
Back in Australia we were fined Is.
each for the crime of losing our National
Security permits on the oil-tanker,
get copies of our lost British and Aus-
tralian discharges, we had to pay Is. ba.
for the first voyage and Is for eachJW
sequent voyage. Both the Secun y p
and the discharges were essential to en-
able us to go back to sea, so we had no
choice but to pay up. Why do the news-
papers tell us we are heroes while the
authorities treat us as criminals/
Matros (W.A.).
Commercial Sport
Let me tell “D.G.H.” (B. 27/6/ 45)
that at no time did I advocate calling
off any save professional sport.
Being down-graded medically from the
Seventh Div., I was drafted to a Works
co. at Randwick racecourse ; shortly
afterwards a race day coincided with an
announcement in the press that patients
could not be admitted to the Western
Suburbs Hospital because of a labor
shortage in the laundry section.
I can say quite definitely that there
was no shortage of labor (or linen for
that matter) at Randwick. Bookmakers
(plus two or three clerks, apiece), tote
employees, catering staff, gatekeepers,
barmen, maintenance staff, jockeys,
trainers, strappers, etc., made a total of
a couple of thousand, all there (if we
believe “D.G.H.”) to “prevent the civilian
portion of the community from being
hard pressed to carry 0n.... .from the
strain of war.”
If “D.G.H.” cared to watch the hun-
dreds of cars disgorge their thousands of
“war-weary” passengers, and to realise
that the petrol used (plus what fqdder the
nags themselves eat) contributes to the
non-delivery of daily commodities to
elderly folk and servicemen’s wives and
kids, who have to trudge heavily laden
with parcels, he might change his views.
The “war-weary” are mothers, wives and
sisters, not the bookmaking fraternity and
their ilk. »
It’s not so long since the Government
gave out a list of bookmakers who were
a trifle short in their tax returns. At
time of writing the fund for Tom
Derrick’s widow stands at £SOO-odd, well
below the average price paid at the last
sale of yearlings.
The fact that England had racing dur-
ing the war is no argument; the percen-
tage of the population of that country
that attends race meetings is far and
away less than in this country.
“D.G.H.” really believes that “these
are the very things (races, etc.) that we
are fighting for.” I suggest a chat with
Sixth, Seventh or Ninth Divvy men.
To quote “D.G.H.” again, “on the sur-
face it sounds a very good idea to lend
ourselves completely to aid victory....”
Avery good idea, indeed! I may be
wrong (if so in good company, Churchill
among others), but I thought it was the
whole idea! — Trail-eye (N.S;W.).
Public Houses
The Bulletin’s study (13/6/’45) of
hotels in two States, S.A. and N.S.W.,
limited to contrast between the specially
privileged community enterprise at Ren-
mark (S.A.) and a “pub in one of the
N.S.W. coalmining districts,” calls for a
reply.
The Renmark experiment was initiated
by the grant of a monopoly covering the
full range of activities conducted by both
hotels and clubs in a normally-organised
country township. The value of the
monopoly (with its locally-invested
profits) was enhanced by the high
standard of prosperity of S.A.’s premier
irrigation settlement and by its isolation.
Renmark’s license is specially privileged
in being the first encountered on the long
sweep of country on one side from Mil-
dura, where the privately-owned hotels
are first-class in all departments, and their
competitors, the registered clubs, are
famed for their amenities, and on
the other side from Werrimul, where a
commercially-operated hotel opened in
recent years has been highly praised by
the Licensing Court. The river setting is
attractive ; the prosperity of the area is
assured by natural fertility, by the skill
and foresight of the irrigation engineer,
and by assistance from State and Federal
Governments in the raising and disposal
of its products.
The circumstances which have made
possible the success of the Renmark ex-
periment are not found in the N.S.W. coal
area arbitrarily chosen fqr purpose of
comparison, nor in city, suburban
and provincial areas, where substitution
of quasi-socialistic control for commer-
cial operation has still to justify its estab-
lishment. —C, H. F. (Vic.).
Life Assurance Reform
I suggest that the Federal Government
should make the Life Assurance Bill
safer by enacting that advance payments
on Industrial business at balancing date,
as shown by the agents’ collecting books,
and also Ordinary premiums paid in ad-
vance, be stated as liabilities in the
balance sheet, instead of being taken into
account as revenue, and from there
transferred to the Assurance fund.
Only one year’s figures would ulti-
mately be affected, but at present younger
offices, with mostly Industrial business,
can, by large advance payments, actually
show a surplus from what is a liability,
while established offices can get most of
theirs from the same source.
Life assurance as collateral security
will play a big part in future business.
Premium rates are mostly based on
English tables of mortality, compiled
about 1864, the result being large
bonuses ; mine were, pre-war, 150 p.c. of
premiums. An adjustment of rates to
provide £125 initial cover, giving, say, a
return of 255. yearly over a 20 years’
term, would be of greater benefit than
£IOO cover and £SO bonuses at the end.—
C, H. Regelsen, A.I.C.A. (Vic.).
Japanese in the Islands
“Fengshui” (B. 23/5/’45) misses my
point when he instances the Spanish and
Portuguese in South America and the
Hindus in Java as examples of a conquei-
ing race imposing their culture on a
conquered people. In both cases the in-
fluence was continuous over a long
period, with a steady flow of new sires to
assist the process.
By-passed Japs in the islands can pro-
duce as many halfcastes as they please
up to the present their reported output
is not large—but unless they could count
on a steady flow of reinforcements from
Dai Nippon after the war the young
Master Motos would have to seek their
mates from among the boong maidens,
and, notwithstanding “Fengshui s bio-
logical facts, I still maintain that this
could only mean early absorption into
the native population. — Jasby (A.i.FJ.
The Australian Novel
“W.C.C.” (B. ll/7/’45) is a bit late
with his suggestion that, to make money,
Australian novelists should build up an
Australian Wild West and write roaring
blood-and-guts stuff. Some writers have
been doing this, their productions declin-
ing to tales of boy burglars, which just
suit young reprobates who bolt from
home, and pornographic stuff which
should be dropped into the dustbin.
A publisher of “tales for pale people”
told me his sales ran into millions. A
year ago he had made £4000 selling
through chain stores. Yes, Australians
are doing well writing such tripe. Well-
known writers have been asked to swell
this output, but, thank God, most (I
think all) have held back.
An aspect’ of the book situation at the
moment is the fact that English books,
either imported or printed here, have nice
bindings and full habit, while Australian
books are in paper covers or are
anasmic in physique. Nobody knows how
it happens, but the suggestion is that the
British are superior people— conquerors
—while Australians are inferiors.
As long as certain of our writers and
publishers produce tripe in paper
wrappings it will be hard to approach
Ministers to gain redress for writers and
publishers with other standards— Will
Lawson (N.S.W.).


: .T -7
ESTOPS'* 1
-O'ij
m
S
■■• y
k
SK3
SHI
es?
Hi
%
Sf\
* • »>
PEACE
TODAY it is still a race for Victory. In
1939, when the clouds broke, Yarra
Falls machinery began humming a night-
and-day War-time song which has never
ceased.
JUT ATUR ALL Y, we are still fulfilling service demands. The race has not yet been
1 run and won.
OUT Yarra Falls peace-time planning has not been neglected. Just as quickly as we
swing into the race against enemy production so will we enter normal pursuits.
P
YARRA FALLS is poised for Peace—ready to give immediate effect to the far-
reaching plans made for the >videst presentation of all those latest weaves and
fabrics now awaiting release.
m
mmimm
mmm
as-
Ip H |
m
sr m.
M
&
3
r£SS
m
|T
Jk
YARRA FAILS
Renowned for tie excellence Worsted
Manufactures, alt made from Australian virgin
ABBOTSFORD- VICTORIA* AUSTRALIA
S M
