

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3426
Wednesday, October 10, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia,. for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ASTON HALL, THE PRIDE OF BIRMINGHAM
A STON HALL, Aston Park—Estone in Domesday — stands on
a hill above the river Tame, two miles north of Birmingham.
The Manor of Aston was bought by John Holte, of Birmingham,
in the reign ot Edward 111. The Hall was built by Sir Thomas
Holte, Bart, during the reign of James I. When Charles I was
marching from Shrewsbury to relieve Banbury Castle he stayed
two nights at Aston, for Sir Thomas was a stout Royalist. Later
on the house was sacked by the Parliamentarians, and the marks
of a cannon-ball are still shown on the balustrade of the staircase.
The property remained in the Holte family for more than four
hundred years, and then passed to one of the Earl of Dartmouth’s
sons. In 1821 it was occupied by a son of James Watt, the great
engineer. In 1807 the property was valued at £600,000 ; in the next
year the furniture was sold together with over 1500 acres of land
and a large herd of deer. In 1857 a limited company was formed
to acquire the Hall and 43 acres for public use at a cost of £35,000 ;
but the scheme fell through, and in 1858 the Hall and 40 acres
were bought by the Corporation of Birmingham, and inaugurated
as a p U blic park on the 15th June in that year, The Hall is used
as museum and picture-gallery, and in the lower grounds is a
„ , tA ®
5; and * oon * entertainments and exhibitions,
grounds include ornamental lakes, a bo\\ding-green, a skatmg-
rink, cricket grounds and the famous Aston Park football ground,
Close by are the Holte Almshouses founded in the* seventeenth
century in pursuance of the will of old Sir Thomas ; they maintain
five men and five women. In the church of St. Peter arid St. Paul
are some fine monuments of the Holte family-


w
UMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a•
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Addres’•
S.B. 2i5 - AGE
The Red Page
NOISES OF COMBAT.
“Wham!” said Mr. Shean. "Wham,
wham, wham !”
“I presume,” said Mr. Gallagher, “you
are rehearsing for Australia’s Amateur
Hour your celebrated imitation of a door
slamming.”
"Whulk!” said Mr. Shean. "Whulk,
whulk, whulk !”
“A large dog, then?” asked Mr.
Gallagher.
"Whooomph !” said Mr. Shean.
“Ah,” said Mr. Gallagher. “A lady
who has sat on a pin?”
“I am a machine-gun,” said Mr. Shean.
“And when I say ‘whulk’ I am a mortar.
I am trying to read you some of the
quieter passages of Mr. James Aldridge’s
new novel The Sea Eagle, published by
Wyatt and Watts, Ltd., of Melbourne.”
“I gotta get it, I suppose?” said Mr.
Gallagher. “I gotta get up and get goin’,
and if I don’t get that book myself I
gotta get somebody to get it for me.”
“You got it,” said Mr. Shean. “Sure.”
“I figured I got it,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“It’s about the war, and Mr. Aldridge for
the second time is rewriting Ernest Hem-
ingway’s For Whom the Bell Tolls! ” ♦
“Crete,” said Mr. Shean. “I guess you
got it, at that. One notices a certain
affection for the monosyllable ‘got’ we
have just been using with such melodious
effect. The hero is a red-bearded Aus-
tralian giant who is ‘very cynical’ and who
says ‘airdrome,’ ‘sure,’ ‘figured’ and ‘god-
dam.’ There is an English _ major who
says ‘Get the hell out of here.’ . I don’t
think the giant really resembles anybody
who ever walked the earth; certainly
not an Australian. But I would not have
you think that all Mr. Aldridge has
done is to repeat the Hemingway hero
fantasy. His pulse is racing at
SOOOm.p.h. in this novel, his heart is a
240-horsepower engine inside him; and
he has invented a few freaks of expres-
sion that seem to me a madness wholly
his own. He is describing a man chasing
a German and he says: ‘He pushed him-
self with fury up the slope, forgetting
the function of his legs or their separate-
ness from his internal pumping intestines.
They became one with the stolidity of
light and the thinness of sound and the
explosion of demoted electrons. With his
hands he pulled at tufts and scrub and
rocks. His feet pushed, the earth in hard
sound.’ And then after this explosion of
demented electrons —for which, however,
one might perhaps make the excuse that
the author is trying to do something new
—there follows, in a paragraph all to
itself, the cliche ‘He made the effort.’ ”
“Mr. Aldridge,” said Mr. Gallagher,
“certainly seems to have made an effort.”
“When they are trying to escape from
Crete and are caught in a storm,” said
Mr. Shean, “Mr. Aldridge records: ‘The
boat was moving forward faster than the
pull of gravity, seven miles a second out
of itself.’ A little later the craft is ob-
served to be ploughing ‘like an earthen
plough going 3000 miles an hour.’ Then,
when the red giant has had a row with
the English major: ‘He heard nothing.
Only the 240-h.p. engine inside him.’
“The red giant’s heart?” inquired Mr.
Gallagher. “Naturally, a large one.”
“He was banging within himself down
the mule path,” said Mr. Shean.
“Perhaps,” said Mr. Gallagher, “by
inserting into the Hemingway hero these
peculiar mechanical devices —pumping in-
testines and large, banging, 240-h.p. hearts
—Mr. Aldridge is trying to make him the
real Monster of the Age: Frankenstein’s
boyfriend ; Robert the Robot.”
“I am afraid,” said Mr. Shean, “that
Mr. Aldridge just sits down at his type-
writer and goes wham, wham, wham.
And whulk. He says his mechanical
friend wants to ‘eat flesh with his bare
hand.’ ”
“Very tasty, too,”* said Mr. Gallagher.
“But his bare teeth would be more use-
ful.”
“In spite of all this,” said Mr. Shean,
“I find Mr. Aldridge strangely readable,
There are some stirring adventures in the
book ; and the Cretans seem convincingly
portrayed. There is even a patch of
comedy. But Ido not know, and I never
will know why Mr. Aldridge, when look-
ing at the scenery, should suddenly in-
form me: ‘And then the sea. You could
smell the sea, stiff with its palseonto-logi-
cal saturation.’ I think he must have been
reading Mr. Aldous Huxley as well as
Mr. Hemingway.”
“Perhaps,” said Mr. Gallagher. “But
down at Bondi of a Sunday you can
hear thousands of giant, mechanical, red-
bearded Australians chatting away about
the palasonto-logical saturation of the sea.
It’s the seaweed, I think; or possibly
shoals of shrimps.”
“Or whelks,” said Mr. Shean.
“Or,” said Mr, Gallagher, "whulks.”
Poets of the A.L.F.
Maurice Biggs’s, earlier verses included
in Poems of War and Peace (Angus and
Robertson) show very strongly the influ-
ence of Rupert Brooke. But, curiously,
when he got to the war, Biggs threw off
the influence and expressed his own
thoughts in his own words with complete
freedom and naturalness.
As a result, he wrote in “Battle Dress,”
“Spring Offensive, 1941,” “What the Bul-
lets Sang” and “Christmas, 1941,” the
finest group of poems turned out by any
Australian in the forces. They were the
sort of poems Brooke might have, written
had he lived to see action in the 1914
war ; but they were an Australian utter-
ance ; —
Eric Irvin, another of the regular con-
tributors to Bulletin pages of A.I.F.
verse, whose A Soldier’s Miscellany has
also been published by Angus and Robert-
son, comes nearest to Biggs’s directness
when he describes moments of peace and
relaxation in the war years—when he has
“the solid joy” of tobacco and papers ;
when he finds within “a bird’s bright care-
less song” the solace for stolen happiness;
when the soldiers are
Except in such comparatively infre-
quent excursions into the outer world,
Irvin’s is a more subjective poetry than
Biggs’s; more personal; a slow and tor-
tuous verse, winding like some stream of
the jungle:
His whole life seemed too straitly bound
By some unguessed at purpose that
Led him unworried through a flat,
Uncontoured countryland of dream.
Seeking a more complex understanding
of life and war than that expressed in
Biggs’s elegies for fallen youth, Irvin
sums up:
These notes I gather now; all chords resolve
In pointed harmony phrased by despair;
New-cadenced by regrets that rise, and fall;
That hint a solemn pity —and are gone.
Biggs’s statement seems complete. In
half a dozen poems' of a poignant beauty
he has said aIL that he wanted to say
about war ; and his technique, though un-
modified by any of the post-Georgian
developments, was more than adequate
for his purpose. Irvin, though the mass
of his book probably contains in scat-
tered lines and stanzas as much good
poetry as the other, does not often achieve
a completely satisfactory poem, and
leaves the impression of a writer groping
for technical fluency and groping for light
in a world where
the truth is just a sad dream
Somehow jumbled up with fate.
He has something more to say: possibly
in prose.
Both statements —Bigg’s brief rush of
tragic beauty, falling practically into
silence after Greece and Crete; Irvins
longer and more sombre pilgrimage,
illuminated by comradeship and moments
of sunny peace — L are true pictures of the
A.I.F. in this war. These men know what
they are talking about. Nevertheless,
there is more to be said. Neither book
creates a single living portrait of a soldier
—other than the author —and neither ven-
tures into narrative to describe one act
of bravery. Somebody should correct the
tradition that abandons these tasks to
the prose-writers or to remain un-
attempted.
He came from where the Murrumbidgee runs
Through golden paddocks of obeisant hay
And grass more sunny than this Cretan pass—•
and the observation, and the direct ex-
pression of it, was Biggs’s own: —
In where the smoke runs black against the snow
And bullets dram against the rocks, he went,
And saw men die, with childish wonderment —
Where bayonets glitter in the sudden glow
And sleek shells scream, and mortars cough
below:
There tanks lurch up and shudder to a halt
Before the superb anger of the guns:
Then flares go up—the rattle of a bolt —
Rifles stutter —and voices curse the Huns . ..
And then, he jerked and toppled to the ground,
His ears too full of noise, his eyes of light;
His scattered cartridge-clips glint brassy-bright;
A Vickers cackles madly from a mound ...
Oh, where the red anemone brims over
To swarm in brambled riot down a rise,
There wc will, lay him, lay your widowed lover,
And wipe the poor burnt face, and gently cover
The look of startled wonder in the eyes.
Let Beauty come, let her alone
Bemoan those broken lips with kisses from her
own.
Safe in our individual world
Of tents and clothes hung out to dry;
Of lazing in the winter sun
And seeing cloud dreams in the sky,
so that
Poised for a moment on my hand
The day’s delights companion me,
Phrasing the heart’s dim ecstasy,
The hidden speech none understand.
Political Tennis .
From Jack Lindsay’s Hullo Stranger
(Andrew Dakers, Ltd., London):
Second Front, Second Front. The
urgency of his voice, rather than his words,
penetrated her consciousness. For the first
time the meaning seemed to penetrate to
her, as if through a deadening wall, the
barrier of all her past, all her weaknesses,
all her pettinesses. Now all that part of
her seemed identified with the forces that
he denounced; the reactionary forces that
wanted to delay the Second Front for so
many political reasons
And yet it would come, the Second
Front, the burst-through of the mass-de-
mand, the burst-through of the liberated
peoples taking their destinies in their own
hands, despite all the intrigues of poli-
ticians here and in the U.S.A. She felt
it all, fiflt it as an urgency in the hands
and the throat, the quickened heart-beat.
The lady suffering from these burst-
ing sensations in connection with the
now somewhat remote problem of the
Second Front is a young married woman
whose husband is in the Army overseas.
The gentleman with the urgent voice is
a shop steward in the factory where she
works, -a kind of symbolisation of work-
ing-class virtue.
As the lady’s political education pro-
gresses, she is even able to condition her
enjoyment of Miss Ginger Rogers:
And this film enchanted her. She loved
Burgess and wanted him so much to get
Ginger that it hurt. What did money
or manners matter next to the capacity to
enjoy life? The film gave her a passionate
sense of herself as one of the people, re-
jecting all compromises, all pretences, all
efforts to better oneself at the expense of
- someone else.
When the dream-whirls came she cried
to herself: It’s me, it’s me. As if she had
recognised herself for the first time. And
when the kiss of true love rang a bell in
the air, in the blood, a bell that rejected all
compromise, all pretence, all effort to better
oneself at the expense of someone else,
she could have wept for sheer joy. As if
she had at last been vindicated, against an
enemy whose face she could not see.
Most of all she hated the lover who wanted
to get on in the world. Never had any
film taken her so out of herself, into
herself.
After that, it is only a matter of time
until she is taken out of herself, into
herself, by, with or from herself, and in
circles round about herself, into the
Party.
When Alec, the husband, returns from
the war, there are difficulties. Both have
changed, as is inevitable. Alec feels him-
self “tangled up” and only after a long
heart-to-heart talk with his beloved (dur-
ing which, in one admirable moment of
sanity, she admits that she sounds
“preachy”) is he able to reach the proper
heights of lyrical enthusiasm for the
Revolution;
And then, all of a sudden, she was
part of it. Her soft and ready body, the
whole fulness of life. We’ll take it from
the bastards. We’ll stand together. We’ll
smash them....
The Publisher’s Puff says: “The slow
changing of the girl’s outlook on life, as
she is drawn more and more into the
group-life of the factory, is conveyed
with fine insight and warmth of sym-
pathy.” The sympathy—of a factional
kind —can be taken for granted: what
is more than doubtful is the insight. The
picture of the average working-man is
unconvincing. It is unlikely that the
people who weathered the blitz should
consider it a “phoney war” until Russia
was attacked: and it is unlikely that they
should find inspiration in the deeds of
foreign allies, rather than in those of
their own countrymen. For good or evil,
a certain insularity is the keynote of the
English character. And an inability to
take foreigners seriously: and, irrespec-
tive of class and age, a definite pride of
race.
The 'novel is slickly written, but there
are no highlights of heroism or tragedy,
no real humor, no genuine observation
of character. It is impossible to believe
even that there is any real political pas-
sion behind it. Both when the kisses of
true love are ringing bells in the air and
when ordinary Englishmen are talking
about “smashing” there is an impression
of pumped-up enthusiasm; of rhetoric ;
of overstatement: as if, capering before
an admiring audience of the Party and
pretending to be in the thick of battle,
the author were violent!) playing tennis
with himself against a volley-board.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A show of drawings and paintings—
pencil, pen, tint, watercolor and oils—
by war artist James Cook has been doing
its bit for A.C.F. at Farmer’s Blaxland
Galleries, Sydney. From the point of
view that a war artist is a sort of pictorial
reporter, Cook is probably one of the
best equipped of the tribe. He is an
accurate, intelligent draughtsman, his pic-
torial sense is highly developed and he has
all the techniques at his fingertips. A lot
of the work is a record of the wreckage
of war —mechanical tangles that were
once bombers ; scrap-heaps that were once
motor-trucks—but there are sympathy and
feeling in glimpses of soldiers in action
and of New Guinea natives. “The
Malahang Wreck,” landscape studies
made at Lae, Finschhafen and file Bulolo
Valley and “Night Convoy” are outstand-
ing. The collection is reinforced by ex-
amples of the work of 16 “important
American war artists.” Cook suffers
nothing by the comparison.
“F.S.”: Touching the purchase by the Vic-
torian National Gallery of a Ucello (B.
26/9/’45). The slump in prices— not in value,
as they never had. any value —has always
occurred in the case of contemporary paint-
ings. All past purchases of old masters by the
National Gallery have increased, not decreased,
in monetary value, and, if they put it on the
market, the trustees could probably now get
twice the £32,000 they paid for the Van Eyck.
Trustees make all the mistakes in the world in
buying contemporary works. They seldom
make mistakes when they buy pictures 100
years old or over because the artists who
painted them have all been sifted. Ucello was
the culminating influence of an epoch and the
beginning of a new one, and he knew tech-
niques which modem artists don’t know, as
they leave everything to the color merchants—
it is doubtful if many of them could even
copy one of his pictures properly. The picture
which slumped in a few years from £945 to
£l5 was by a fashionable artist who was living
at the time of the purchase, which suggests
that when the new National Gallery is built at
the proposed art centre ,■ in Melbourne the old
one should be preserved and not turned into
a museum. Plenty of contemporary and Aus-
tralian works should be bought—far, more
than at present—and hung at the new gallery
and only works 100 years old or over hung at
the old one, or vice versa. At the end of 100
years the new works that have stood the test
of time could be shifted to the permanent
collection and the rest scrapped without nasty
recriminations. Then we wouldn’t have the
strange hotch-potch we have at present.
Anybody suffering from the meat short-
age produced by the seizure of sundry
cattle by the Food Controllers in Mel-
bourne can more’ than compensate
aesthetically at Septimus Power’s latest
exhibition of livestock at the Athenaeum.
Stolid plough - horses, hunters, well-
nourished cows and soulful spaniels are
painted with the artist’s usual enamelled
slickness, and there is a couple of acres
of watercolor painting. None of the sub-
jects of the bigger pictures look as if
they had been caught on the hop, meta-
phorically speaking, but there is some-
thing more immediate about a couple of
buckjumper studies.
An extraordinary performance by a
soloist made the Zelman Memorial
Orchestra and choirs’ rendering of Elgar’s
“King Olaf” at Melbourne Town Hall a
unique occasion. Sickness deprived con-
ductor Herbert Davies.of the services of
Arnold Matters’s bass and William Her-
bert’s tenor. Soprano Thea Philips sang
her own part and also the tenor’s, and
Elgar’s majestic music had a remarkably
good passage. Miss Philips was a protegee
of Melba and a subsequent find of
Thomas Beecham’s.
“J.F.” attends “The Merchant of
Venice”:
“The Merchant of Venice” at Sydney
Independent gave me a false but pleasant
feeling of culture on recognising Portia’s pero-
ration about the Quality of Mercy not being
Strained, and Shylock’s comparison ot
Christian and Jewish attributes and organs.
The play’s evergreen popularity has long in-
trigued me. Of course it is Shakspeare; and
it is not subtle; and it is safe, with little in
it to offend the proprieties. Actually, althougn
our perception of it is staled by custom, it is
most immoral; it idealises, or at least glamor-
ises, injustice of the grossest kind.
David Setton, who played the thankless
role of Launcelot Gobbo, frisked and pranced
tirelessly and did the best he could with it,
but too much of Launcelot is apt to arouse an
irritated feeling that the quality of mercy is
being strained —mercilessly. And brevity ot
appearance is the only thing which can be saw
in favor of his doddering old Dad. The rest
of the characters are not much better. Jessica
is a disgusting little sycophant, Bassamo a
cadger, Antonio a fool. Only when he comes
to Shylock does Shakspeare let himself go-
Despite himself as it were. Because he was
Shakspeare. . . lt j
As Shylock, Charles Tasman was good, but
not distinguished. There were highlights whicn
he failed to catch. He seemed to lose sight o
the character in the Jew. Jessica Noad, as j
Portia, was impressive. Very impressive m |
her scarlet robes of justice, and she even sue- -
ceeded in infusing some interest into the tatuou i
business of the three boxes, where her suitors
seek her hand per lucky-dip. Bruce Beeby, a
Bassanio, was handsome but negative, whica
the part being what it is, probably did noi
greatly matter. John Harrison and Diana Bern
man played Lorenzo and Jessica respective y t •
and both did creditably. Altogether the vf- •
formance was a good one, apart from a t I
dency of the players to strike an attitude ana
orate when they came to a famdiar speech A
The Duke of Venice was hazy about his lines- p


m
0*
© J)
&
Oo*
Q,
J.
Q-
-0
A
DEA
n
i
m •
~*r.
SONIA
. /
(K
Q
m%K
p|
|OILIWO6"f °
A
om
Jm
m
M 0 66 t
BIMBO
r'-sr
■
A
m
& O
}
#
*
O
<a
m
corah e
MS
A
V
w
;: • •
O
P
'TOPSY'
i*
o.
O O'-
0»y
JEEPS”
DEANNA - - - *2l” Dressed Doll. Pattern and mask, 3/6. Felt
|nd filling, 10/1. Total 13/7
SONIA 1 6” Skating Doll. Pattern and mask, 2/9. Felt
and filling, 4/9. Total 7/6
GOLLYWOG - 18” Black Doll. Pattern and mask, 2/9. Felt
and filling, 6/9. Total 9/6
BIMBO ----- 16” Bear. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and filling, 5/3.
Total 7/-
TOPSY 20” Black Doll. Pattern and mask, 3/6. Felt
|nd filling, 10/6. Total 14/-
MOGGY - - - - TjThe Cat. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and filling, 4/3.
Total 6/-
CORALIE - - « 17” Dressed Doll. Pattern and mask, 2/9. Felt
and filling, 8/11. Total 11/8
JEEPS 10” Dog. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and filling, 4/3.
Total 6/-
ANGUS - - - - Scotch Terrier Dog. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and
filling, 4/3. Total 6/-
TEDDY - - - - Toy Bear. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and filling, 5/3.
Total 7/-
Sufficient pieces of felt for making, in suitable
colours, will be sent in each case.


m
m
i
i
*
M
m
' »¥
ib
m
MHK
■
M
8 •
<*&<sss
mm
m
!■■■.:
■
In
■
m
mmmm
z:
:* -
s i
■I
i
z--:>
r**
,• S
; ;
.
J
tm.
m
m
They look to him trustingly—and he has proved
worthy of that trust.
Not only does he look after their every comfort and well-being
—but he has made sure of their future through Life Assurance.
What peace of mind he enjoys!—for he knows that should anything happen to him
his loved ones will be amply protected to face the changing world. The Life
Assurance that he has built up with “THE METROPOLITAN” will ensure future
comfort for his wife and educational facilities for his kiddies.
Life Assurance is the most practical way of creating an estate for providing against
all eventualities.
THE METROPOLITAN—TO-DAY’S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW’S SECURITY
A USTRALIA
ASSURANCE COMPANY ITO
HUNTER. AND BIIG-H STREETS, SYDNEY
Inc. 1895
Queensland.
INC. 1895, QUEENSLAND.
W. A. H. ALLWORTH (Chairman)
Asst. General Manager and Actuary:
W. J. COOKSEY, F.E.A.
DIRECTORS:
D. F. STEWART. COL. ALFRED SPAIN.
General Manager:
E. W. ROBINSON.
J. A. HENDERSON.
Secretary:
GEORGE LESLIE, A.A.I.S.
VICTORIA:
The Metropolitan Building,
89-91 Queen Street, Melbourne.
R. S. Johnston (Manager).
BRANCH OFFICES:
QUEENSLAND:
The Metropolitan Building,
367-369 Queen Street, Brisbane*
J. L. Eichter (Manager).
SOUTH AUSTRALIA:
.
The Metropolitan Building,
22 Waymouth Street, Adelaide.
A. B. Bolton (Manager).
The job’s not finished —our men returning from the war must be looked
after. Invest all you can in
THE FOURTH
VICTORY


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3426
Wednesday, October 10, 1945
TRYING TO WAKE HIM UP.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the Wtlite Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ONE MORE ESCAPE.
With its well-developed instinct for tun-
ing away from trouble, the Government
at Canberra has been able to retire once
more into recess without having been
forced to endure an effective debate on
the dreadful case of the men called Aus-
tralia Firsters,
The martyrdom of these men began
on March 10, 1942. When they had been
16 days in internment camps they were
branded in Parliament by Army Minister
Forde as having been involved in a con-
spiracy to make contact with the Japanese
invaders on arrival; to sabotage vul-
nerable points so as to make the defence
of Australia impossible ; to assassinate
prominent persons. On the same day
and on the next day their early trial was
promised by that Minister and by the
then Prime Minister.
None of them has ever been tried. The
most that was done was to allow them
a hearing before one of those tribunals of
which Dr. Evatt had said a few months
previously, when demanding the release
of the convicted Communist plotters Rat-
liff and Thomas, that the appellants- before
them were “not charged with any offence,
not entitled to an open trial and have no
right to confront witnesses against them-
selves.” In effect, “so-called tribunals
which have the right to hear witnesses
behind their backs.... .in which the ordi-
nary course of justice is completely for-
gotten.”-
These views, so strongly held and ex-
pressed by the Attorney-General when
pleading for Communists in July, 1941,
had been relegated to the Attorney-
General’s dustbin by July, 1942, along
with his conviction that “where Austra-
lian citizens are alleged to be guilty they
should be prosecuted in the ordinary
course and should be charged with
specific offences.”
Communists had campaigned for the
release of Ratliff and Thomas, and when
the Curtin Government was installed in
office Mr. Forde and Dr. Evatt were
appointed a committee to “review their
case.” It took exactly ten days to get
Ratliff and Thomas out. The very same
Communists campaigned for the intern-
ment of Australia First leaders. The
Australia Firsters were interned and
it took four months to get a hearing for
them and 3\ years to get the last of
them out. According to evidence, two
Rumanian Jews who went in after them
were given tribunal hearings weeks ahead
of the Australians and had become
prosperous factory owners at large before
any one of the Australians emerged from
behind the barbed wire.
This evidence was given at the inquiry
into the Australia First cases, ordered two
years after the internments. It was con-
ducted by a bankruptcy Judge, who made
a report. Very little is known of the
report which has been tabled in Parlia-
ment. The victims of the scandals say
that they wrote to the Crown Solicitor
three weeks ago for copies. At the
time when this was written they had had
no acknowledgment of their letter; but
the Government was safe in recess.
The inquiry, though painstaking on the
Commissioner’s part, cannot in other
respects be held satisfactory. A week
before the Judge was appointed the
Income Tax Department suddenly re-
mitted £5OOO in taxation, which one of
the internees had been unable to pay,
having been ruined. Security officers
called on another internee and offered
him £250 in compensation. This did
not stop Dr. Evatt from warning the
Opposition that if it associated with
internees it would find itself tied to “a
subversive, quisling, anti-British, anti-
Australian organisation which was pre-
pared to stab Australia in the back at
the moment of its greatest peril.”
The inquiry was not aimed at deter-
mining whether this was so. It was
aimed at determining whether the Army
was “justified” in arresting the men and
whether the Minister was “justified” in
continuing their internment under the
National Security Regulations which the
Attorney-General had so strongly and so
justly condemned a few months before.
The men had been arrested without
warrants in the early hours of a morn-
ing. They had been whisked away to
cells without being allowed to notify
their relatives where they were. They
had not been charged with anything or
brought before a magistrate or told why
they had been arrested. Under those
conditions they were kept incarcerated
for nearly a fortnight. But the Judge,
no doubt with the terms of his commis-
sion in mind, found that this action was
justified, even though he reported that
eight of them had committed no crime
against security and were loyal and decent
citizens, entitled to compensation and to
a public declaration of their innocence.
Under those National Security Regula-
tions all that was needed to “justify”
arrest was ttyat “any constable or
Commonwealth officer, acting in the
course of his duty” should “suspect” his
victim of “having committed or being
about to commit” an offence against the
National Security Act. There was no need
to specify the evidence giving grounds for
suspicion or to bother whether there
were any evidence at all. Many of the
victims in these cases were arrested with-
out interrogation and without examina-
tion of the documents in their possession.
The only grounds given for the arrests
were as follow: In Perth, 2400 miles
away, a fellow with Communist asso-
ciations, of whom the bulk of the N. S.
Wales internees had never heard, had
been approached by a police agent who
was himself a member of the Communist
party (on police instruction, he said), and
(on his own initiative) of the Left Book
Club and the Russian Medical Aid.
After being approached by the police
agent, the man had, with three com-
panions (one female), and, without even
a fire-cracker in his possession, made
plans to meet the Japanese, form a
revolutionary Government, blow up
munition works and communication
centres and assassinate Communist
leaders, including a brother of the Labor
M.H.R. for Swan, Comrade Mountjoy,
police and a magistrate. This group of
four, still in the presence of the police
agent, decided to write, through the ordi-
nary unregistered post, to the head of the
Australia First movement in N. S. Wales
and ask for affiliation.
The Security Department did not wait
to see whether the Australia Firsters in
Sydney responded or whether they had
any connection with these Westralian
ratbags. So soon as the letter was posted
they made the arrests, gathering in men
who were not even members of the Aus-
tralia First movement. And under the
National Security Regulation these arrests
were “justified” in law.
The next question which had to be
decided was whether the Minister was
“justified” in continuing the detention on
the recommendation of the Army. With-
out the full report, it is difficult to traverse
Mr. Clyne’s findings on this matter.
He found that eight of the men were un-
justifiably interned and recommended
damages ranging from £7OO down to
£3OO. The remaining eight he found
justifiably detained. And he is reported
to have remarked that all of them were
causing public disturbance and that they
were “doing nothing for the war effort.”
Actually, Hooper (a retired bank
manager, aged 73) had given £25 to the
H.M.A.S. Sydney Fund a day or two
before his internment and had invested
in the current war loan. Another in-
ternee, Bath, had an appointment to
enlist in the R.A.A.F. on the day
he was arrested.' Others, Downes, who
gets no compensation, and Cahill were
both in the A.I.F. and remained in uni-
form throughout their internment, draw-
ing their pay. Downes afterwards went
back to his unit. He was not present to
defend himself during the later stages
of the inquiry. He was “helping the war
effort” in the front line in Bougainville
for the country whose Government had
ruined him and branded him for life.
However, Justice Clyne found that even
though the Army was not “justified” in
recommending the continued detention of
half the men, Mr. Forde was “justified”
in accepting the Army’s recommendations,
which were based on as amazing an
official document as ever was written in
a British country.
Here is the whole statement upon which
Mr. Bath, a fourth-generation Australian,
was thrown into an internment camp,
his health wrecked, his finances ruined:
It is not known how long this member
has been associated with the Movement, but
he is definitely a member and has only
recently come into prominence. Informa-
tion from reliable contacts shows that he
is verging on the fanatical in his beliefs in
the policy of the movement.
This statement was, in the main, the
work of an advertising agent and a soli-
citor’s clerk.
The “reliable contacts” were not
brought forward to give evidence. It
transpired that Bath’s association with the
movement had begun when he attended
a meeting 18 days before his internment.
He had applied for membership and had
consented to preside at a meeting in
Manly—a real-estate man with a four-
figure income, he was a frequent presi-
dent of meetings at Manly, of which he
was an alderman, besides being a mem-
ber of many professional, business, his-
torical, social and sporting bodies.
In spite of his honorable record, he
was interned for months. When, a
nervous-breakdown case and a diabetic,
he was released, only the intervention of
friends and the offer of a United States
Army clerkship prevented his being flung
into the wet mullock of the bottom of the
Sydney Graving Dock as a navvy. He
has been awarded £5OO for the loss of his
business. It will scarcely pay his legal
costs.
The “charges” on which M. F. Watts
was interned were that he was a
writer for the “Publicist,” an executive
member of the Australia First movement,
“and as. such must be in the complete
confidence of Stephensen,” though “his
health does not permit of his regular
attendance at meetings.”
It turned out that Watts was a badly-
wounded Old Digger, awarded the Mili-
tary Medal (“for gallantry in the field”),
and a Commonwealth peace officer on
guard at the Villawood munitions factory.
The Minister was not told that the man
had the Military Medal, nor that he had
served from 1931-39 as a volunteer in
the Militia, nor that he had receive 4 a
congratulatory letter from the Common-
wealth Investigation Branch in the office
of the Attorney-General a fortnight be-
fore he was interned:
I wish to express my appreciation of your
prompt action in extinguishing the fire
which occurred in the electrical switch box,
stores section, Villawood, on 13th February,
1942. (Sgd.) L. G. Smith, Sub-inspector.
Villawood was an explosives plant.
After months of penury and persecution.
Watts died brokenhearted in the Prince
of Wales Military Hospital before the
inquiry ended. Justice Clyne thought the
deprivation she suffered should be worth
£4OO to his widow.
There are other cases. That of Harley
Matthews, the Gallipoli soldier and poet,
was dealt with in The Bulletin in 1942,
and has at length interested newspapers
which then, and for years afterwards,
remained on the fence.
There was no explanation at the in-
quiry as to why Dr. Evatt believed the
organisation to be “subversive, anti-
British and anti-Australian” when a year
before he had cleared the N.S.W. internees
of association with those in the West. The
matter of Mr. Forde’s monstrous state-
ment in Parliament could not be gone
into, since Ministers are in such circum-
stances “privileged,” beyond inquiry.
Neither, apparently, could there be any
investigation of the curious fact that Mr.
Beasley pleaded ignorance of the arrests,
arrests made on the score of a treasonable
conspiracy which threatened to paralyse
Australian defence and produce a bloody
pogrom, a fortnight after they were made.
The whole appalling business needs
further investigation, more especially as
these internments were not the only
ones about the* equity of which there are
grave doubts. The Chief Justice of the
High Court should be asked to choose a
Judge or a tribunal. Preparation of the
case should be taken out of the hands of
the Army and the Solicitor-General and
placed in the hands of a judicial com-
mission. The scope of the inquiry should
be the widest. The internees should be
provided with counsel at public expense,
and those counsel should have the chance
to cross-examine all witnesses, which
was not done at the inquiry, part
of which was held in Melbourne
and part in Sydney. The origins
of all allegations should be sifted.
Protection of anonymity “in the in-
terests of security” should be removed
from’ Crown witnesses. With the elimi-
nation of the mass of roughage and rub-
bish with which the Army cluttered up
the exhibits, the essential facts should be
obtained quickly and easily. It might
then be ascertained how Communists came
to know, not only the names of the men
interned (concealed from Parliament
itself but published with gloating insults
in Communist prints), but what was hap-
pening in the Security Department, to-
gether with other pertinent matters which
have not come out and could not come
out in an inquiry with so limited a scope.
An Odd Election.
An examination of the British election
returns leaves an Australian marvelling
that the Mother of Parliaments (ample
allowance being made for its war pre-
occupations and. its respect for tradition)
should have been satisfied with archaic
electoral arrangements: an absurd dis-
tribution of electorates and first-past-the-
post.
In the result Labor won nearly two-
thirds of the seats with an actual
minority of party votes, 11,962,678 to
12,214,688. Conceding it the votes polled
for the Common Wealth and Communist
groups (110,634 and 101,390), and assign-
ing the Independent total' (564,862) to
the other side (the Independents were
mostly anti-Labor; one, an Ind. C., got
in for County Down with 46,733 votes),
it was in a minority of 604,848.
In the words of the Manchester
“Guardian,” “131 members were returned
on minority polls.” That could not have
happened in elections for our House of
Representatives, though of recent years
the requirement of equal electorates, with
an allowable margin of one-fifth more
or less, has been honored in the breach
rather than in the observance. t
The British rolls were obviously in a
bad state. In many divisions little more
than half the number of alleged electors
marked ballot-papers. This was particu-
larly the case in London, which is now
grossly over-represented, the distribution
of seats being so cockeyed. The City of
London, with 10,830 nominal electors,
returned two members. The distant
Scottish constituency of Renfrew (116,962
electors, of whom 78,944 cast effective
votes, 42,310 for a Conservative and
36,634 for his Labor opponent) has only
one member.
In London 5075 votes suf-
ficed to elect a Communist in Mile End
(paper electoral strength, 16,132) and
little more were required for Labor suc-
cesses in many other parts of London—
-5943 in North Southwark and 9336 in
Central Southwark, 6669 in part of Beth-
nal Green and 7696 in another part, 8139
in West Bermondsey, 7186 in North Cam-
berwell, 8677 in North Lambeth, 9356
in Stoke Newington, 9533 and 10,030 in
two parts of St. Pancras and 9741 in
Rotherhithe. Mr. Attlee himself, who sits
for Limehouse, got only 8398 votes.
There are 61 London seats and Labor
won 49. Under an equitable electoral
system it could not have won 30.
There can be no arguing against
Labor’s resounding victories in Man-
chester and Salford, traditional strong-
holds of Liberalism. Here the number
of electors ranges from 28,642 in Ex-
change to 89,375 in Withington.
There are 13 Manchester-Salford seats
and all, except Withington, went Labor,
though in Rusholme (47,486 electors) the
Attlee party’s candidate scraped in on a
minority vote —15,408 Labor, 15,398 Con-
servative, 4673 Liberal.
Wales, once as solid for Liberalism as
Manchester, also swung to Labor, though
not as decisively—24 seats to 10, In
Scotland the Churchill Government fared
better than in the other parts of the
United Kingdom, securing 30 seats to
40 for Labor and one for the Communist
Gallacher. Each of the two Communist
members is the elect of a minority, and
preferential voting would have dished
both.
Indeed, anyone buying a British paper
of July 27 with thp notion that it was a
“Yours for the Revolution” election
would have suffered a rude shock. On
the list of Labor members were Lord
Corvedale, Lady Buxton and five knights.
One of the knights was a lieutenant-
general, Sir Frank Mason McFarline, and
in with him went as Labor members six
lieutenant-colonels, 15 majors and 20
captains, together with commanders,
lieutenant-commanders, group- captains,
squadron-leaders, flight-lieutenants and
plain lieutenants.
In the reports that reached Australia
it was alleged that the verdict of the
electors was a vote largely against
appeasement and Chamberlain men.
Actually, Chamberlain men fared better
than Mr. Churchill’s own special group.
Among the victims were his son and his
son-in-law (Mr, Sandys), his bosom friend
Mr. Amery and Mr. Amery’s soldier son,
and such other members of the Churchill
set as Mr. Brendan Bracken and Mr.
Ralph Assheton, Chamberlain men were
not spared, but some of them were re-
turned with majorities which many
Churchill men must have envied, parti-
cularly Lord Winterton, Colonel Oliver
Stanley and Mr. W. S. Morrison. Mr.
Churchill himself saw 10,488 votes totted
up to the credit of an Independent who
was the equivalent of a Sydney Domain
gincase orator, with only 27,688 for him-
self. According to the Manchester
“Guardian,” his conduct of the campaign
was largely responsible for his party’s
downfall —“he did himself probably irre-
parable harm by his first and last broad-
cast ; he certainly damaged the Tory
cause.” Beyond doubt, the servicemen’s
vote went heavily against his party. A
queer story is that it was influenced that
way by strong objections to the war-time
travelling of smiling feminine Churchills
as imparting too social a touch to a
desperately grim business.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Ambon. Rabaul. etc.
Long practice has made Australian Labor
adept at dropping its eyelids or averting
its gaze when disconcerting sights appear.
Such a spectacle was furnished in
Sydney when a State Labor Premier who
had just protested his deathless devotion
to the White Australia policy stepped out
at the head of a Six-Hour Day procession
to which one of the Communist contri-
butions was a party of Javanese seamen,
complete with lorries and banners, all
“demonstrating” for a colored Communist
republic at Australia’s front door. Others
of the kind were provided in Australia’s
three principal ports, where, though free
admission was vouchsafed to Dutch
mercy ships packed with returning Aus-
tralian prisoners-of-war, other Dutch
mercy ships were held up by a Com-
munist boycott on the ground that they
were carrying weapons, food, bullion —
any pretext served —which would hinder
the improvisation of a, colored Com-
munist republic headed by a Javanese
quisling.
Federal Labor yielded to the Com-
munist holdup, but went through the
motions of discovering that the striking
Javanese seamen were illegally at large.
But notwithstanding its visual defects,
Federal Labor, possessing remarkable
gymnastic properties, never has its ears
too far from the ground. It couldn’t
help being conscious of a swelling vocal
demand, from Victoria in particular, for
a disclosure of the facts, concealed for
upwards of three years and a half, about
the sacrifice of the Diggers sent to
Ambon (or Amboina). And Mr. Forde
was moved to relate some of them.
He said the original Ambon garrison
consisted of 1092 officers and men, who
were posted “in two main groups on
either side of Ambon Bay.” When the
Japanese descended there was no con-
tact between these groups. Part of one
was “recovered” by the Australians who
landed on September 23. Of the other,
the Laha group, nothing was known. Of
the original 1092, 407 died during the
fighting or in captivity; 305 were
“rescued alive”; of 380 “no specific
report” had been “received.”
Then came the characteristic Labor
excuse (“Age” report):
Mr. Forde said plans to send the force
of one battalion to Amboina had been
made before Labor took office by the
previous Australian Government in consul-
tation with the Allied G6vernments. The
Labor Government honored the agree-
ment.
It won’t do. The “previous Govern-
ment” went out of office two months
before Pearl Harbor. Any arrangement
made for northern defence when Aus-
tralia was at peace with Japan —as it
was for 25 months of the war with Ger-
many when “the previous Government”
was in office—could not be binding on Mr,
Forde’s Government, Before war came
to the Pacific America, Britain, Australia
and the Netherlands were presumed to
have predominant sea-power. The situa-
tion changed so swiftly and radically
after Pearl Harbor and the sinking of
Repulse and Prince of Wales that to put
or keep small, isolated, outnumbered and
relatively ill-armed forces into Ambon,
Rabaul, Tirribr and Java (Brigadier-
General Blackburn, V.C., has revealed
that upwards of 2000 Australians were
in Java) was to throw them away.
And it flouted the cardinal principle of
military strategy; concentration against
the enemy.
Mr. Forde and Mr. Ward have also
told part of the terrible story of Rabaul.
In that port, about four months after it
fell to the enemy, 885 prisoners-of-war
and 205 internees were packed into a
Japanese ship, the Montevideo Maru.
She was torpedoed and sunk, and all
hands are “missing, believed dead.”
Among them were a brother of Dr. Page,
M.H.R., who was Government Secretary
and Deputy Administrator of New
Guinea, and his son, a gallant officer
who was recommended for the D.S.O.
And there are 316 others, “people from
Rabaul,” not accounted for, Mr. Ward
said.
At the end of the week part of the
story of Darwin was coming out —it is
no prettier a story than that of Moresby
—and survivors of the Java expedition
were expected to be heard from at any
moment. But things had been so ordered
that the Government could not be under
fire from Old Diggers like Senator Brand
and Archie Cameron till February or
March. It will then have to explain as
best it can how the facts about Moresby,
Rabaul, Ambon, Java, Timor and Singa-
pore fit into its 1943 election picture, in
which it painted itself as a set of cool, calm,
collected statesmen —each with a genius
for war acquired without training, though
this, point was not stressed —altered the
strategy of the “Tories” (now alleged to
have been primarily responsible for
Ambon), who plotted to withdraw behind
“the Brisbane line,” and, in effect, stopped
the rot and “saved Australia.”
Peter Dargin.
G. H. Burnell writes from Adelaide:
In a Bulletin paragraph it was stated
that Peter Dargin, the Portland (N.S.W.)
butcher, is being hard pressed by the co-
operative butchery set up with special
favors from the Canberra Government.
■ As one who admires guts in any form,
and who hates mob tyranny and political
injustice, I suggest that now is the time to
inaugurate a testimonial to this man, who
has put up such a fight for the rights of
the individual.
I do not know whether Dargin needs
money or not, but I believe that he does
need, and will welcome, the moral support
of all those who believe in fairplay.
I enclose a cheque for five guineas to
start a Dargin testimonial. Should Dargin
not need any money, he can pass it on to
some charity of his choosing.
“As one who has the greatest admira-
tion for Peter Dargin,” a Victorian doctor
has sent a guinea. The Bulletin has no
authority from Mr. Dargin to open a
fund for him, but has forwarded him the
money, and will do the same with any
other amounts that may come to hand.
Jews and Arabs.
United States politicians have a lively
sense of the Jewish vote, which is
'strong in virtually all the cities and de-
cisive in New York City and .State. Each
of the party programmes for last year’s
Presidential and Congressional elections
declared for unrestricted Jewish immigra-
tion into Palestine, where the population
is still two-thirds Arab, to the end ot
making it a Jewish Commonwealth. With
another lot of Congressional elections due
in 13 months, President Truman has be-
come an enthusiast for the dynamite-
loaded proposition ; and so, among other
“LITTLE CAPITALISTS.”
“The Commonwealth Government is concerned to provide adequate and good housing for the
workers. It is not concerned with making the workers little capitalists.”— Dedman.
“An’ none o’ yir hack-chat about this being a capeetalistic car. The peepul
paid for it. Or owed for it, whilk amounts to the same thing.”
“prominent Americans,” have New York
Governor Dewey and Mayor La Guardia.
At a “news conference in Washington”
the President qualified his support for
“the establishment of a homeland for the
Jews in Palestine,” by saying that “he did
not propose to send half a million troops”
there “to ensure its success.” He was
thereupon assured by a Dr. Israel Gold-
stein, President of the Zionist Organisa-
tion of America, that “the military force
necessary to enforce a decision in Pales-
tine—if any such force is needed —will
not need to be any greater than that
which will be necessary to enforce any
other decision of the United Nations in
any other part of the world.” Dr. Gold-
stein went on to accuse the British Gov-
ernment of “being directly responsible
for the deaths of hundreds of thousands
of Jews in Europe,” and to demand “a
new immigration policy under which
100,000 Jews will be admitted to Palestine
for the next six months,” with “the Jewish
Agency for Palestine” in control.
After that, Mr. Truman seems to have
taken a sharper line. He ordered General
Eisenhower to “improve the conditions
under which many Jewish refugees are
living in Germany and Austria,” having
been told that these refugees were “being
treated as the Nazis treated them, except
that we do not exterminate them.” This
seems a queer way to address a general
whose humanity is as unquestionable as
his military capacity, but it was right into
the hands of “representatives of 60,000
displaced Jews in Belsen and other camps”
who “demanded” an open door into
Palestine as part of a nine-point pro-
gramme urging “improved treatment of
world Jewry.” A Jewish Agency corre-
spondent in Germany came in with a
statement that “displaced Jews are still
living behind barbed wire” and a threat:
“any attempt to force these Jews to theii
countries of origin will be resisted: they
will accept only one solution —Palestine.”
The President’s policy for Palestine,
presumably without the qualification, was
urged in a personal letter to Mr. Attlee.
It was asserted in America that the
harassed Prime Minister had left the
letter unanswered. The accusation was
denied, repeated, then withdrawn by the
White House. Meanwhile both Arabs
and Jews in Palestine have armed forces
and anti-British outrages, the worst ot
which were the attempt to bump off the
retiring High Commissioner and party
and the murder of Lord Moyne and his
Tommy driver, both the work of Jewish
gunmen, have been renewed. The Arabs
in Palestine, which is surrounded by Arab
States, have received promises of armed
support from other parts of the Arab
world, notably Saudi Arabia, if it comes
to fighting, and of moral support from
Iraq and the Moslems in India; and
the British forces in Palestine have had
to be strengthened from the army of
occupation in Germany,
After six years of fighting the Axis, the
British don’t want to have to fight Jews
or Arabs in Palestine, or both if they
have to be separated and disarmed. They
are not taking kindly to the President’s
interference.
One way out may be to transfer the
mandate over Palestine to the United
.States, as the country possessing the
greatest number of Jewish citizens, with
all British rights reserved. Another may
be to hand over the whole question to
the United Nations organisation. If the
organisation could survive that, if could
survive anything.
A State Budget.
This year Mr. Hanlon, the Queensland
Treasurer, expects to receive £25,072,275
and spend £25,065,699. Which shows that
the Canberra hive is running out of
honey.
While the Governments of S.A., W.A.
and Tasmania have had to use their Com-
monwealth grants to make ends meet,
the advent of uniform taxatioA and Com-
monwealth war expenditure gave Queens-
land excessive railway earnings and
tax-revenue —cash balances and invest-
ments total over £20,000,000.
Against all that are big arrears in rail-
way and public works maintenance, with
the railways pretty sure to return to
the familiar routine of yearly losses.
And Queensland Labor has a “two-year
programme” for spending £26,000,000
on public buildings, roads, streets,
bridges, harbors, ports, rivers, forestry,
irrigation, water conservation, sewerage,
railways, electricity, mines and so forth,
including deferred maintenance. It ex-
cludes housing and soldier settlement, to
which are allocated £2,000,000 and
£504,000 respectively in the Budget year.
There’s a lot more, but the poor old
taxpayer will give it all away, reflecting
bitterly that, though Governments may
show investments and reserves as expen-
diture, he can’t do the same either with
his income from personal exertion or
from dividends. And it must startle
Queenslanders to read that, though there
is a vast Commonwealth social-services
scheme to be paid for out of taxation,
their own State social services cost 63 p.c.
more last year than in 1931-32 and will
cost a lot more in the coming year, for
which £5,955,167 is earmarked, compared
with £5,232,930 last year.
Conversation Piece.
Scene : Lounge of a Sydney hotel
which has no attractions for lema e
lappers-up of cocktails. Two Diggers
holding reunion in a window alcove, en-
joying their after-lunch cigarette and the
sunshine. Though they are both tall and
large—one is in the 6ft. 4in. class they
appear to be almost entirely covered with
chevrons, badges and ribbons. Their hats
are on the windowsill; enormous but
neat, in apple-pie order. No doubt about
these fellows —they are Outram Gaol Old
Boys. Friend in civvies joins occasion-
ally in the yarning, which is carried on
in an airy fashion as if “it dealt with
something which had happened to some
body else.”
Mac: Then they put Frank here in a cage
and stuck him on the aerodrome.. We used to
pass him every morning....
Frank (the sixfooter): Yes. They put
me in the cage. For the natives to see. That s
their way of showing the native the inferiority
of the white man. Exhibit him Hke a canary.
Friend: And feed him on birdseed?
Frank : No; rice. A handful of rice once
a day. That for ten days.
Friend: And not even a bath all that time?
Frank (cheerfully): No; a bath all the time.
It rained every day. Used to fairly poui
through the slats. No joke, I tell you .. .You
can laugh when you remember it. Me in a
cage! v
Mac: And later they got me. No; they didn t
put me in the cage. We were all rounded up,
then they took us to the Gestapo at Sandakan.
They stuck us in cells and made us sit at
attention all day.
Friend: Sit at attention?
Frank: Yes. Just like Buddha, with legs
crossed and eyes front; never allowed to move.
Mac: And they gave us half a saucer of
rice every day. And then they questioned
for hours. It was tough. “Did you send a
letter away?” Smack! “I think you, bin
lying.” Smack! They teach ’em to hit by ju-
jitsu methods. They can knock you yards with
the butt of a wrist or an open hand. Open
your cheekbone.
Ftank: Too right they can. ( Feels neck
reminiscently). But the Gestapo used walking-
sticks.
Mac: Yes, I think the bone behind my ear
is a bit cracked.
Frank: And then they took us to Kuching.
No bashing there. Food; all soft living com-
pared with Sandakan. Too many of our officers
about. Then we were tried and sentenced and
off on a hell-ship for Singapore. My word,
weren’t we happy to get out of Borneo!,
Mac: Not that Outram Gaol was much better.
Frank: No. You had to sit at attention
there, too. About ten hours a day. Not
allowed to look sideways. Always had to look
front. Mustn’t speak or smile at your neigh-
bor, If you did, smack!....smack! Tough
boys, those guards! We did it for over a year.
Friend: Weren’t any of them decent?
Mac: Well, there was one lad. You remem-
ber when Charlie was dying—he got down to
47 pounds before he died.... dysentery.... I
couldn’t move him; I was too weak; yet he
had to be moved at times. I told Old Moon-
face. And he let big Jens come in and lift
him. Not a bad lad, Moonface!
Frank: I thought that was The Brown
Bomber. We had these names for all of them.
A sense of humor wgs the only thing that
saved Diggers.
Mac: Yes. Smack! And we had to laugh
at ’em or go under. (Reminiscently) Smack!
They’re just like animals —no sense of pity,
most of ’em. Got an inferiority complex.
Frank: You should’ve been there the day
Mac heard he was elected. Few months after
it happened. It came in on the “drift” —bush
telegraph. All sitting there like Buddhas, done
in corrugated iron. Word came in with some
duty bloke; “Mac’s been elected!” We were
pretty low by that time. They had us down,
but we passed it along out of the sides of our
mouths. You should have seen Mac grin. We
all grinned. You can’t understand what it
meant to us. We all felt that we’d been
elected....
Mac: 1 grinned and got smacked. He opened
my cheekbone. I think you can see the mark.
Smack!
Frank: Yes. It was a great day, that day.
The news came months late and they told us
he was unopposed. That bucked us up..,.We
said: “Well, there’s some decency left in Aus-
tralia.”
Mac: Didn’t know then that I had six
opponents.
Friend: Opponents? That isn’t what Billy
Hughes called ’em.
Mac: Good old Billy! Well, anyway, we got
out in time. In our case they used to wait
till you looked like dying and then send you out
to hospital and then bring you back again.
They did that to Frank.
Frank: But they let young Charlie die!
Mac: You should have seen me when I came
out. They shaved our heads with clippers, so
my hair was gone. I had a white beard and my
teeth were gone 1 was gummy and I
weighed 98 pounds Young Pedvin fed me.
The bloke whose wife Beasley has been
talking about in Canberra Wait till I get
into the House... .They took up a sub. in the
camp for me... .And they even made a set of
teeth in Cbangi camp for me.
Frank: Anyway, you learn a lot about your-
self in there.
Mac: Yes, I never knew how many ribs I
had till I went to Outram And, say, did you
know that you had four sinews here going
straight down from the hip-bone? 1 never
knew that before.
Frank: Well, it all seems like a dream. I
want to forget it all. Hate....l don’t want to
be full of hate... .It’s the people who didn’t go
through it who hate.
Mac: They’re just Asiatics. No good hating
them. They’ve got an inferiority complex.
Down the street in the square hoarse
Communist voices, advocates of the ditch-
ing of the White Australia policy, are
begging Australians to give “the Inder-
neesiaft comrades a break,” a “break,”
of course, meaning a chance to treat the
Dutch in the same way that they treated
the Dutch in the days of the Great Rebel-
lion.


BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
79-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudfordj Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
THE NOVEL OF THE DAY
THE GREEN YEARS. By A. J. Cronin, author of “The Citadel.” An intense,
magnetic and completely human story. No wonder the author is successful.
10/6 (post. 4cL).
NEW SUPPLY OF BOOKS WORTH READING
An Economic History of Australia. By the
late Professor Edward Shann. 34/3 (post.
9d.).
Everybody’s Political What’s What. By
Bernard Shaw. 15/9 (post. 6d.).
The Religion of Ancient Mexico. By Lewis
Spence. 4/- (post. 3d.).
Geology in the Eife of Man. By D. Leitch.
4/- (post. 3d.).
Russia from A to Z. An outstanding work of
unbiased first-hand information by Dr. H.
A. Freund. Published under the Auspices of
the Australian Institute of International
Affairs. 700 pages. 17/6 (post. 6d.).
Peter Domanig. Morning in Vienna. A re-
markable novel, an unforgettable story, by
Victor White. 13/6 (post. Bd.).
Men of Science in America. Shows the Growth
of Science told in the story of the lives
and achievements of the Scientists them-
selves, by Bernard Jaffe. 30/- (post. 6d.).
The Week-end Book. A sociable anthology.
Great Poems, Epigrams, 80 songs with tunes,
etc. .Over 200,000 copies sold. 16/9 (post. 4d.).
Relativity. A popular exposition, by Albert
Einstein. 9/6 (post. 4d.).
A History of Europe, by H. A. L. Fisher.
Complete edition in one volume. 1300 pages.
21/9 (post. 1/-).
Reflections in a Mirror. Essays on contempo-
rary value in life and literature from The
Times Literary Supplement. 13/9 (post. 4d.).
Reaching for the Stars. By Nora Wain. New
supply. 12/- (post. 3d.).
The House in Exile. By Nora Wain. New
supply. 12/- (post 3d.).
Memories and Opinions. By “Q.” 9/6 (post.
3d.).
The River and Other Stories. By Cecil Mann.
6/- (post. 3d.)-
The Steep Ascent. A woman's life and ordeal.
By A. Morrow Lindberg. 7/3 (post. 3d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
Do you need a /
Jhan/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
The comedy of Dunstan’s enforced
departure from the Victorian Premier-
ship was carried into the formation of
the Macfarlan Ministry. Macfarlan, suc-
cessively a Nationalist, an Ind. Nat, and
a Liberal, became as a Liberal Dunstan’s
Attorney-General and Health Minister.
As such he naturally voted for the Gov-
ernment in the divisions which ended its
career. As Premier he chose six career-
enders for his Assembly colleagues:
Maltby, Haworth, Gumming and Everard
(Libs.), Hollins (Ind.) and Mackrell (Ind.
C.P.). Barring accidents, his Government
will last till the day after the general
election.
Victorian Ministers under responsible
Government date from November 28,
1855. Macfarlan’s is the 52nd, and he is
the 35th Premier. McCulloch held the
office four times, O’Shanassy, Berry, Pea-
cock and Lawson thrice, Haines, Service,
Turner, Watt, Hogan and Dunstan twice.
Single-term Premiers have been Nichol-
son, Heales, Sladen, MacPherson, Duffy,
Francis, Kerferd, OLoghlen, Gillies,
Munro, Shiels, Patterson, McLean, Irvine,
Bent, Murray, Elmslie, Bowser, Prender-
gast, Allan, W. McPherson, Argyle and
Cain.
To a lady from the “Argus” Dunstan
said:
I have been Premier by the will of the
Labor party and by the will of the Liberal
party; and I am still the leader of the
Country party.
So far the Court is with him, but not as
to his ensuing sentence, if the lady re-
porter got Albert right;
Forgan Smith in Queensland had six
years of office. I have pipped him by four
years and a half.
Not so. Forgan Smith had a straight
run of ten years and a bit (1932-42), and
so had John Forrest in Westralia (1890-
1901). Dunstan, though he served a trifle
longer than either (1935-45), had to stand
down for nine days of his ninth year as
Premier.
Laski, welcoming Dr. Evatt’s advent,
for one day only, to the Council of
Foreign Ministers, since scattered by Rus-
sian arrogance and greed:
I should like to see Dr. Evatt regarded
as not less obviously a negotiator of
Anglo-Indian settlement as Sir Stafford
Cripps or Mr. Amery.
Well, he could offer them a referendum.
Scarcely had McKell, the Sydney Pre-
mier, returned after a tootle round the
more peaceful parts of the globe when
his Labor party was at him to appoint
four more Ministers on the ground that
“young and able men” should get a
chance. Tartly remarking that the State
already had 15 Ministers, eight more than
the members of Churchill’s War Cabinet
(no, he didn’t say that), McKell said he
wouldn’t do it, and if they persisted he’d
regard it as a vote of censure or some-
thing. Whereupon the subject lapsed, at
least for the time being.
Dr. Evatt has been named among four
“freedom-lovers” invited to Java by
Sbekarno, leader of the “Indonesian
Nationalist Movement” ; the others are
Madame Chiang Kai-shek, Pandit Nehru
and Brigadier Romulo, of the Philippines.
So long as nobody suggests the holding
of a referendum Dr. Evatt may go along.
This was going to the printer when
Sydney County Council was meeting to
decide whether or not it would stand by
its general manager, D. J. Nolan, who
has engaged ex-servicemen to replace
strikers at Bunnerong power-house.
N.S.W. Labor Council, which at first
condemned the strikers, threatens a
general strike if Nolan goes ahead The
strike is illegal, has caused loss and in-
convenience to a million people, with the
threat of disaster in operation and iron-
lung cases, and could lead to Australia’s
worst industrial upheaval. Beyond an
abortive and half-hearted attempt to “take
over” the power-house by the McKell
Government and a promise not to “scab
on the workers” by the Ghifley one,
neither has attempted to enforce the law.
Such is “government” in the land to
which the p.-0.-w. are returning.
. French State trials don’t seem to have
improved since the Dreyfus days. That
of retain had the effect of throwing
sympathy to the old man in the dock
And reports of the Laval trial show
ferocious one-sidedness on the part of
Judge and jurors (all drawn from the
Resistance ) as well as the leading
prosecutor, their favorite proceeding being
to unite in howling Laval down. By
contrast, the trial of Quisling in Norway
was everything that a civilised trial should
be.
The case of “the Indernesians,” colored
seamen made cheeky by Communist in-
citements, brought the so-called Council
for Civil Liberties, run by a wordy hum-
bug named Fitzpatrick, out of its cave.
The case of the Australia Firsters moved
Fitzpatrick only to an outbreak of Left-
ist rubbish in “Smith’s Weekly,” apropos
in particular of “the freedom of expres-
sion allowed to subscribers of the late
Publicist’ and its sympathisers with the
sixteen native-born who were plucked
from their Sydney homes and offices (on
the day Mr. Ward met the trade-union
conference, incidentally)”; but “the Inder-
nesians,” being Communists and colored,,
are different. To oblige the wordy hum-
bug, Calwell “arranged to provide quar-
ters for 97 Indonesian seamen at Ta-
tura, ’ adding kindly that “the men are
under no compulsion to go to the camp,
but, if they wish to do so, Army trucks
will take them there.”
Perusal of the Sydney daily and Sun-
day papers is apt to leave the impression
that Mr. Darby Munro, who had an un-
fortunate accident at Randwick, is more
important than any score of the p.-0.-w
rescued from the Japs, and that “form”
for the Saturday races is of immeasurably
greater consequence than what happened
to 6000 Australians in New Britain,
Ambon, Java and Timor, It certainly
leaves the New Poor envying the people
who cut a dash on the racecourse. Among
these worthies, as per newspaper stories,
are two boot manufacturers, a clothing
manufacturer, two proprietors of dinner-
dance joints and a select party of publi-
cans. Thank God those members of the
new nobility weren’t ruined by Labor
legislation!
Somebody remembered last week that
it was nine years since Franco launched
the latest, or at least the most extensively
advertised, Spanish civil war, and Sydney
“Daily Telegraph” rose to the occasion
with headlines (Victory is Incomplete
until We Kick Franco out of Spain) and
a characteristic conclusion:
The people of Britain have always loathed
this puppet of their enemies in Berlin and
Rome. What are we waiting for?
Perhaps for an outbreak of “Daily Tele-
graph” strategy like Fight for Australia
in Java (February, 1942). The leader of
the Java expedition is back in Australia,
together with some of the other survivors,
and there is an uneasy expectation in
some quarters that they will presently be
asking awkward questions.
As the fourth Westralian Senator
elected in 1943 Miss Tangney will have
to go up again next year if she can get
the party nomination. That will be diffi-
cult. At latest there were 17 aspirants,
and the lady’s name was last on the list.
There is still time for Westralian chivalry
to assert itself, as it did in the case of
Miss Holman, whom a predominantly
male electorate, Forrest, returned for
many years until a post-election accident
caused her death. She had succeeded her
father and the loyal timber-workers gave
the succession to her brother.
The N.S.W. Auditor-General’s last
words on one of Labor’s win-the-war
efforts:
Government Charcoal Undertaking.
Operations during the year under review
[1944-45] were on a considerably reduced
scale and resulted in a loss of £16,786....
Sales decreased to £162,067, and expenses
were down to £164,563.
Production at Government kilns has
practically ceased, it being estimated that
private production, plus stock on hand,
would meet future demands.
At June 30 the accounts showed an
accumulated deficiency of £190,625.
In an appendix it is recorded that a
Charcoal Undertaking employee had a
deficiency on his own account, £384 155.,
made restitution and was dismissed.
Adelaide “Advertiser,” after contem-
plating the antics of a wandering Minister
from Canberra:
The shrill voice of Dr. Evatt may sound
logical, but cannot but seem untimely.
And it is very much open to doubt
whether it speaks for Australia, whose
people are far too conscious of what
Britain has done and suffered to be at all
disposed to send a Minister to London to
boast that this country has “felt the full
force and fury of nearly four years of
war in the Pacific.” By comparison our
ordeal has been trifling.... The demand
that Britain should do this and that for
us may conceivably raise the question of
the things we have failed to do for Britain.
The Government represented by Dr. Evatt
has never permitted any plea for food for
“poor old England” to shake it out of its
uniform lethargy.
A true bill, and the “shrill voice” fell on
deaf ears, for the Council of Foreign
Ministers, like the hosts of Sennacherib,
hath melted like snow, though not in the
glance of the Lord
Abbott, the S.A. Minister of Education,
said in the Assembly that there are about
58,000 primary and about 11,000 second-
ary pupils at State schools. He made
no mention of private or denominational
schools, but figures for all S.A. schools
would scarcely reach 100,000. The State
had an estimated 598,091 people in 1940,
probably increased by war-workers from
elsewhere since. One school-child for
every six persons doesn’t offer much hope
for the future.
Ex-Senator Dunn, the man who. stood
as an Independent Laborite against the
accredited McKell Labor candidate in the
Manly by-election and was expelled by
the A.L.P. for it, seemed slightly amused :
Fancy being expelled by such a hypo-
thetical body calling itself Official Labor
and made up of ex-Scullinites, ex-Lang-
ites, ex-Heffronites, ex-Hughesites, ex-
Evansites, ex-Communists and ex-anti-
conscriptioni/ts.
Those who voted for Dunn may now call
themselves ex-Dunnites,
A South Australian pressman from
Canberra to his paper;
It is certain that at no stage during the
currency of the war, even when the
emergency facing the nation was greatest,
did Parliament take a less effective part
in the real business of law-making than
it has taken over the past three weeks.
It is also certain that at no stage during
the currency of Australian Parliaments
has a Government allowed its own laws
and regulations to be openly flouted as
this Governtnent has done.
Recent tributes by Acting-Premier Han-
lon to the efficiency with which the
Queensland liquor trade does its business
without any Continental-style foolishness
are borne out by Brisbane City Watch-
house experience. A typical day showed
17 drunks amongst a total of 24 new
arrests; a recent week, 85 out of 145.
Women drunks are on the increase, a
substantial proportion of them young
girls of 17 and upwards, whose stripping
performances almost bring a blush to the
hardened cheeks of experienced bobbies.
The quick-drinking system encouraged by
the two short daily “sessions” appears to
be the chief cause of it all.
“Grobbie”: C. A. Boswell, the Maori-
land Minister to Russia, is doubtless hav-
ing his troubles there, what with lack of
accommodation and everything, but the
first time he hears of that debate
in M.L. Parliament he may find it neces-
sary to defend the members of his dele-
gation. Prime Minister Fraser, pointing
out that the Minister had had to con-
duct affairs from his hotel room, went
on to say that, though everything possible
had been done, “we have only succeeded
in having him shifted from one bedroom
to another.” Whereupon Poison (Opp.)
asked “What, all twelve of the delega-
tion?” “Yes,” said Fraser and added,
“the others are carrying on in other bed-
rooms.”
A point some of these Socialists and
Communists overlook when they babble
about the classless State is that, had man-
kind never evolved social classes, we’d
still be living in hollow logs and eating
goannas. Progress impels civilisation
because of the few who have the brains,
the will and the desire to build the engine
and keep ‘ti running and then, not being
satisfied, seek to build a better engine.
By their very nature these few are sepa-
rate, which is why Australia, at least,
needs to remember the uncommon man
as well as the common one.
“Chevroford”: At enormous expense
some authority or other is reclaiming
some of the foreshore of Port Phillip
and replacing the beach with a revet-
ment. The last bit of natural beach
left in the district, it will be lost under a
concrete horror like the esplanade at
St. Kilda. A No. 1 priority work, of
course ; but I was under the impression
that there was enough land in Australia
already without the necessity for steal-
ing some from the ocean. There is also
said to be a housing shortage.
The Property Owners’ Association re-
cently took a survey of Melbourne and
found 100 acres of city buildings still
occupied by war-time departments, not
counting things like branches of the Fer-
tiliser Board and the Committee for Co-
ordinating Co - ordination. Meantime
returned-soldier dentists, lawyers, ware-
housemen and suchlike can’t start their
businesses for lack of accommodation.
A former wing-commander with a lot of
orders wants 3000 square feet of floor
space, and has been hovering around‘for
months unable to make a landing.
In American newspaper reviews and
chronologies o| the war in the Pacific
there is a singular lack of mention of Aus-
tralia’s share. Plain speaking, however, is
not wanting, with Hanson Baldwin con-
spicuous, as always.
The war opened with the Pearl Harbor
disaster, still not fully explained. Had a
landing been attempted it would have Suc-
ceeded ; we were disorganised, jittery and
weak.
Much fiction has grown up a,bout those
early months, and many, many things re-
main to be explained—the loss of our
heavy bombers on Luzon hours after the
news of Pearl Harbor had been received;
the failure of American submarines to sink
a single ship in the armada that brought
Jap troops to the Philippines; the sur-
render by order of all our forces there
after the storming of Corregidor; the
Battle of the Coral Sea, in which both
sides lost about equally and some of our
mistakes were glaring; the fiasco at Kiska,
where the Japanese evacuated 10,000 men
under our noses and our only casualties
were caused by our own fire, and the first
battle of Savo Island. Here, in the worst
defeat of the war, we lost four cruisers.
To Baldwin, Midway, “probably the
greatest victory our Navy has ever won,”
“marked a turning point in the war,” and
Guadalcanal was very important in “the
development from Australia and Hawaii
by amphibious operations of two great
offensives.” The foundation of “our
whole strategy was control of the sea by
sea-air power; the Pacific was ‘the
Navy’s war.’ In that opinion he is cer-
tainly not alone.


THE CONCERT OF EUROPE.


Protecting a family
from itself
ft/JANY a man makes provisions in his will which are
defeated by circumstances that arise after his death—
sometimes years afterwards.
The management of his Estate may devolve upon a
relative or some other person who proves unsuited to the
task, and being unused to “handling money” he may be
badly advised with regard to investments. Many a family,
lacking experience of the world, needs to be better
protected.
How much wiser and kinder to protect your loved
ones by appointing Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited)
as Executor, thus ensuring that the Estate will be sympatheti-
cally managed, but with firmness and efficiency in the
interests of those you wish to benefit.
The details of the service that the Company readers
are given in a booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee,” which
we shall be pleased to post to you upon request.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H. V. DOUGLASS', Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
»
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for absentees
and others, Administrator, etc.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £64,000,000.
(The average Estate being less than £19,000.)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
*
r
1 ONE BAR
2 TWO BARS
H
Factory supplies are being
maintained regularly and the
situation is slightly easier to-
day. Ask your retailer for
Standard Gillettes... by name.
To obtain extra service from your Gillette Blades
use both edges equally. Identification marks
have been placed on the ends of the blade which
project beyond the razor head (see illustration).
These enable you to use the two sides alter-'
nately, thereby obtaining maximum benefit from
both cutting edges.
STANDARD
Gillette Blades
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
5.1/127
Business,Rollery,Etc.
“Little Capitalists”
Federal Labor’s “war effort” was
saturated with politics. Its “post-war
rehabilitation” programme, notwithstand-
ing desperate housing and demobilisation
problems, seems as monstrously political.
It is quite obvious that the majority of
Federal Ministers are not regardful of
the real and grievous strain which Aus-
tralian society and the Australian
economy have suffered during the past
four years. Evidence of this was avail-
able fn the Representatives last week.
Dedman, Minister for Post-war Recon-
struction, said that Commonwealth Bank
credit will be provided to build homes.
He added, when asked whether wage-
earners shouldn’t be encouraged to buy
their homes instead of renting them,
that the Government was concerned
with providing good houses for the
workers and not with making them
little capitalists. Anthony, Country-party
member, interjected: “Not concerned
with making them home-owners ; that is
what you mean.” That, apparently, is
what the socialistic Minister did mean.
He has since denied it, in entertaining cir-
cumstances, but he is always profuse with
denials.
Labor is finding it difficult to help
with the housing problem without mak-
ing homeseekers feel a measure of inde-
pendence. Labor doesn’t want voters to
have an independent outlook. For a
long time it has been plain that Labor
would like to see every voter a civil ser-
vant, a trade-unionist or a Government
pensioner. Now it wants him or her to
be tenant of a Government house, not a
home-owner.
The true Dedman reveals itself now
and then, though he is a champion
twister. After browbeating the trading
banks during the war he protested that
he had never closed any bank branch,
though hundreds were closed. As Minis-
ter for War Organisation of Industry he
obstructed private industry time and time
again. He has denied responsibility for
war-time single-weft cloth. He usually
denies that he ever did anythting that
had a political backwash. His technique
is not unfamiliar. With his third denial
the cock may now crow.
Mr. Dedman, speaking on the Com-
monwealth and States Housing Agree-
ment Bill, said that too much legislation
passed recently had tended to give people
a vested interest in capitalism, and that
policy would not have his support. As
Labor is already the greatest vested
interest in the Commonwealth Dedman
seems to be against “the workers”
having a monopoly of vested interests.
Or perhaps even becoming indepen-
dent or remaining reasonably intelli-
gent, While blindly dependent on a
•Labor Government they are more likely
to dance to the Government’s tune.
But Mr. Dedman, in his opposition to
“workers” becoming “little capitalists,”
must be an embarrassment to the Gov-
ernment in its Victory Loan efforts. The
fact that a member of the Ministry is
opposed to “workers” becoming “little
capitalists” seems to conflict violently
with the appeal to wage-earners by Min-
ister Forde for special support to the cur-
rent loan. If the Ministry can continue
to speak with two voices as it is doing
in these cases the charge may be made
that the Government is raising current
loan fupds under false pretences, A
wage-earner who invests part of his sav-
ings in the Victory Loan is no less a
“little capitalist” than one who tries to
buy his own home. Both deserve the en-
couragement and thanks of their country.
Both deserve protection of their security.
But, as said before, the present Labor
Government does not thank citizens for
trying to become independent. It has
picked out the thrifty for special burdens,
and frequently threatens their co-opera-
tive life-assurance schemes with “sociali-
sation.” Property income, thpugh it may
be derived from small savings by an aged
widow, is subject to extra-heavy taxation
rates if from shares, mortgages or rented
property.
The Government has created great in-
flation during the war that has depreciated
the value of savings in banks and else-
where. The earnings of companies en-
gaged in industry are subject to heavy
double taxation. Shareholdings in these
concerns mainly represent the savings of
thrifty people who desire to be indepen-
dent in their old age. Only a few really
wealthy shareholders are on the share-
registers of companies in Australia. Small
people make up the greater part of the
nation’s industrial owners.
Mr. Dedman has emphasised that
funds for the building of homes will be
provided by the creation of Common-
wealth Bank credit. This will represent
a further attack on thrift. During the war
an excess of money amounting to some-
thing like £9OO million has accrued to the
Australian people, partly as a result of
inflationary war-time financial methods,
and £340 million of the excess is de-
posited in the savings banks alone. This
excess of money that exists threatens the
whole price structure of the Common-
wealth, and represents the reason why
price control has been permitted to go
on for a period of up to three years after
the end of the war. The Federal Gov-
ernment should be encouraging holders
of this money to start buying homes with
it, taking all possible care to see that the
homeseekers get good value for their
money. But instead of doing that honest
and sensible thing Mr. Dedman pro-
poses to inflate further the credit struc-
ture of the nation by expanding Com-
monwealth Bank credit to build Govern-
ment houses, which will be let to
“workers” and not sold to “little capi-
talists.”
If Mr. Dedman’s housing “policy” does
not represent an ugly attack on thrift,
on economic and political independence
of wage-earners and upon the financial
stability of the nation, then it amounts
to foolishness just as bad. Because out
of the result of the behavior of fools we
find knaves ready to take advantage of
the confusion and distress to further thfeir
own murky ends.
In the housing debate Mr. Dedman,
under heavy fire from Archie Cameron
next day, sh\iffled very uncomfortably,
Mr. Cameron, after quoting the “little
capitalist” piece, alleged that the Min-
ister had put the icing on—“not pink
icing, but Red icing”—by declaring that
“you could not establish socialism when
people were owners of private property.”
Mr. Dedman claimed that he was being
hit below the belt. Mr. Cameron upheld
the principle of private ownership of
property and freehold land. Mr. Mount-
joy interjected that “we agree with the
private ownership of homes.” Mr.
Cameron retorted: “Then you disagree
with Mr. Dedman. You will completely
disqualify yourself from membership of
the Communist party.”
Those urgently requiring a roof over
their heads will have had enough of the
Dedmans and the Mountjoys before next
winter comes.
r™, ~ _ , ~ ,
..r 16 k - r !u considers that,
although in the next few years many Aus-
ralian mdustnes will be worth while
even if not strictly competitive with over-
seas production, it is essential for Aus-
ralia s post-war reconstruction to be on
he lowest possible cost basis. Such a
asis should be sought as a means of
maintaining and improving living stan-
dards, and not at their expense. In-
creased efficiency offers the only means
o doing that. There is a message heie
tor trade-unionists as much as for anyone
else. It is impossible to increase efficiency
by working fewer hours at a slower rate
of production, as well as demanding in-
creased pay and holidays.
*** * •
A razor-blade co. has been registered
in Victoria. Club Razor Blades, Ltd.,
nominal capital £75,000, is to get plant
and technical information from a con-
cem of similar name in the U.S.A.
Directors of the Australian co. link up
with Armco (Aust.), Leggett Products and
Brown and Dureau Pty.
* * * *
Cables from Washington suggest that
Britain was contemplating fixing the
London-NeW York exchange rate at $3.70
to the £ (against $4.03 at present) until
the United States raised objections. A
condition of American financial assist-
ance to Britain is said to be maintenance
of the 54.03 rate, apparently by arrange-
ment on both sides of the Atlantic. The
higher rate has favored Britain, as a pre-
dominantly importing country, during the
war. Now that the war is over there is
probably pressure within Britain to de-
value the £ in order to help offset higher
internal costs. There are memories, too,
of a misjudged return to the gold stan-
dard after the last war.
**' * *
The sudden, big increase in the price
Of silver in New York and London a
fortnight ago may have to do with the
reopening of trade with China, The
Chinese by this must be thoroughly sick
of Chungking paper money, which has
-depreciated alarmingly, and the reappear-
ance of silver dollars would be greatly
welcomed. Britain no doubt is in urgent
need of reciprocal trade with China, and
the United States, too, may find that it
can buy from, as well as sell to, that
country with advantage.
*** . *
Long-established Australian manufac-
turers have been refused official permis-
s!on to manufacture handbags, etc., with
zip-fasteners. Yet handbags with such
fasteners were made somewhere and
offered for sale in shops. W. 0.1. prohi-
bitions on the making of many goods and
styles of goods have obviously given a
certain type of trader a great advantage
over others. The matter should not be
allowed to rest now that permits to manu-
facture are being issued more freely,
Incidentally, it is remarkable how the
“refugee” handbag trade has flourished
these past few years.
* H= * *
Temporary shortage of dollars that
ma y reS ult from the ending of lend-lease
should not prevent petrol from coming
t 0 Australia. The major oil companies
_ She ll, Vacuum and Caltex-are off-
shoots of huge overseas oil-producers,
an( j jt WO uld be easy enough to make
t h e financing of Australian oil imports a
domestic matter for six months or so.
L) ur i n g the depression the local oil cos.
“blocked” large sums of Australian money
f or transmission to their overseas parents
w fi en exchange conditions became more
f avora ble
* * * «
There is an almost shrieking silence
about oil in Australian diplomatic nego-
tiations. Dr. Evatt is giving great pub-
licity to the claims of Dr. Evatt, also to
the formal rights of this country within the
nations; but if he feels that Australia
has earned the right to a material reward
for its part in the Pacific war he might
suggest that an oil concession in Borneo or
Sumatra would be appreciated. This is
still an oil age, and Australia urgently
needs huge quantities of oil to develop.
But it is unlikely that the Dutch will feel
like conceding the Commonwealth any-
thing in view of the holdup of their ship-
ping. Not long ago they were talking of
giving us shipbuilding orders. Now Com-
munist-ridden unionism seems determined
to foul this country’s nest, politically and
industrially, wherever it possibly can.


SIOPttUR Rupture
Worries/
Mark® LocaHon.
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
Work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 87), S) Martin Place, Syuuey.
Made by
FORD SHERINOTON LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available,
Manufacturers of
GLOB IT E Travel Cases
<Steel
AN INTEGRAL PART
OF THE
FUTURE
IN almost every field of peacetime production there are wide opportunities for the
manufacturer who employs the stainless steels in processes or products: The possibilities
of these steels, the properties required for various applications, methods of working
and fabrication, are all matters on which we, as makers of these fine steels, are fully
competent to advise you. Research, experiment, and years of experience have given
us a unique fund of information that is available for your benefit NOW.
These ore o few of the many uses for COMSTEEL STAINLESS STEELS
» }
i®
Mini
RAIL TRANSPORT
STORAGE TANK!
AIRCRAFT
DAIRY PRODUCTS
HOMES
CHEMICAL PLANT
ARCHITECTURE
SHIPS
Oh!
m
FOOD
MOTOR CARS ELECTRICAL GEAR
DOMESTIC WARE
HOSPITALS
PROCESSING
%0 V Hi »9 M Mm Em Mm
CfiTlHf V*€C eifffFt e
iSI A llill lilrnlkl » A iiSiiiil
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED. Steel Manufacturers. Head Office and Works: Waratah, N.S.W.
BRANCH WAREHOUSES: SYDNEY - MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE - PERTH
General Mining and Investment
Caught badly with “Eastern” tin
shares when Japan entered the war, this
Sydney concern, which was sponsored at
flotation (1937) by the “Investors’
Review,” has been a lame duck without
much quack ever since. Prior to its mis-
fortunes it was a positive windbag,
prompt with accounts and self-advertise-
ment. “AH the expert information pos-
sessed by the mining board of the
‘lnvestors’ Review’ Advisory Service”
was made available to G.M.1., and
“readers who followed the definite
recommendations of the ‘lnvestors’
Review’ earned 60 p.c. on their invest-
ments, taking both losses and gains into
account.” In the year to September 30,
1942, the co. showed a total loss of
£40,077 —in excess of all profits since it
began. In its misfortunes the manage-
ment became inexplicably long-winded in
handing reports to shareholders.
The 1942 accounts were nearly a year
old when presented, and they did not give
a summary of the investment portfolio.
In the previous period there was a delay
of almost 11 months. At March 31,
1939, 46 p.c. of the company’s invest-
ments had been in tin shares, 41.2 p.c.
gold, 6.8 p.c. base metals and 6 p.c. indus-
trials, Whatever changes took place with
the growth of the business subsequently
—capital was increased from time to time,
eventually reaching £loB,634—the co.
got caught with more Malayan and Bur-
mese tin shares than it was pleased
about, though it sold some Siamese issues
before the Jap struck. New Guinea gold
shares were also hit badly for a time.
Dividend income in particular was
affected severely.
Hence the big 1942 loss and subse-
quent meagre earnings. In 1942 the
board said that “it is impossible to ex-
press an opinion as to whether the loss
is merely temporary or likely to be per-
manent. This question must abide the
result of the present world war.” But,
in a report dated April 30, 1944, the board
indicated that it had changed its mind—
apparently it had not then been let in on
the secret of the coming atomic bomb.
Said the report: “Since September 30,
1943, the co.’s investment portfolio was
progressively rearranged as opportunity
offered. A number of non-revenue-pro-
ducing mining shares were sold and the
proceeds invested either in dividend-pay-
ing gold stocks or industrial shares.” The
tin holding showed a particularly big de-
cline—base-metal and tin constituted only
s'p.c. of the total investments at April 30,
1944,
To outsiders the period September,
1943, to April, 1944, seems to have been
a particularly bad time to have sold
Malayan-tin scrip. The September, 1943,
average for tin shares on Sydney ’Change
was represented by an index number of
60.1. During April, 1944, the average
was 59.95. The June average was 58.4.
But by September, 1944 —which ordi-
narily would have been the co.’s balance
day—the index had risen to 73.6, which
would seem to have been a far better
time to sell than during the period Sep-
tember, 1943, to April, 1944. In January,
1945, the index was down to 67,58, and
on June 30, 1945, it stood at 71.67.
The co. decided to skip the September,
1944, balance day, and to leave share-
holders in the dark for another nine
months. The reason put forward was
that jt was desired to bring the accounts
into conformity with the income-tax
year. That would have been much better
done by balancing to June 30, 1944, issu-
ing nine-months accounts, than waiting
until 21 months had elapsed. But the 21-
months accounts have been issued com-
paratively promptly. There is a gap of
months between the presentation of
the last two sets of accounts.
It seems that the co., during thq long
interval, has got back into base-metal
and tin shares on a larger scale. In the
latest report it does not reveal whether
it managed to sell and buy successfully
on the aforementioned market, but it says
that 15 p.c. of the total investments are
now in tin and base-metal stocks, 20 p.c.
in goldmines and 65 p.c. in industrials.
A profit of £2610 is claimed for the 21
months, all earned, it appears, during the
final 12 months of the period. Out of a
total income of £6796, only £4lB is
applicable to the nine months from Sep-
tember, 1943, to June, 1944. Expenses
of management, including £1742 of in-
terest, totalled £4185 in the period
covered by the accounts.
Since the close of books the index for
tin shares has risen to 81.68 (compared
with an average of 98.56 in the month
preceding the Japanese entry into the
war), which should strengthen the market
valuation of the eo.’s tin holdings. In the
co.’s figures investments have been valued
at cost, the auditors say, with three excep-
tions, which are taken in at market price.
They add that they are unable to accept
responsibility for the investment valua-
tion in the balance sheet; “owing to the
state of the sharemarket it is impossible
to arrive at a fair market valuation of
investments.”
Shareholdings, etc., figure in the books
at £63,840, debtors at £31,812 (subject
to a reserve of £2550). As to the latter,
the auditors say that they have found it
“impossible to estimate the amount
which will be ultimately collected from
sundry debtors.” Income taxes assessed
have been provided for, but “no provi-
sion has been made for income taxes (if
any) not yet assessed.”
P. and 1. debit stands in the books at
£38,837, against a capital of £108,634.
Capital includes 180,000 ss. shares called
to only 3d. a share, and on these there are
payments in advance of calls amount-
ing to £11,259. Sundry creditors total
'£23,391.
Though the directors, now that the
war is over, “anticipate greater income
and substantial capital gains,” with the
market value and other details of
the investment portfolio undisclosed
shareholders are not much the wiser.
They have had a very rough spin
in this concern, “rough” being a
word appropriate to the manner in
which accounts have been presented for
some years. An entirely ambiguous
statement appears in the latest report;
“The next few years may be expected to
witness an expansion in industrial activity
in Australia. Already there is evidence
that overseas undertakings will be estab-
lished here. Arrangements have been
made whereby your company and its
shareholders will have an opportunity of
participating in any developments which
may eventuate.” The Bulletin would
like to know what sort of development
has to eventuate in order to present an
opportunity in which there may be par-
ticipation.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”; With the air of Burke
throwing the dagger on the floor of the
House of Commons, the lady Senator
from Westralia, rising from her some-
what incongruous place among our Elder
Statesmen, spread out the contents of a
lunch-bag as proof of her contention that
girls in the Government hostels at Can-
berra were in danger of being reduced
to shadows by systematic
starvation. There were two
slices of brown bread, a hunk
of cheese and an orange.
Three or four Senators gal-
lantly murmured “Shame! ”
but others seemed amused.
It may have occurred to these
cynics that the Senate was
witnessing evidence not of
malnutrition as a heartless
bureaucratic policy, but of a
change in fashion impercept-
ible to the indignant West-
ralienne herself, the end of the slimming
craze. When it raged unchecked two
slices of bread, a hunk of cheese and an
orange would have been reckoned an
over-substantial meal. The check was
imposed by the military authorities, who
compelled the girl in uniform to eat regu-
lar and ample meals, with the result that
she has developed into such a comely*
smiling and well-nourished lass that she,
and not the skinny Hollywood type,
has become a model of attractiveness for
the girl out of uniform, and for
the show-girl, too. Those lasses who
have been parading in the new “swim-
suits” are mostly plump and pleas-
ing. Poor things, they were so cold when
they turned out in Martin-place, Sydney,
in the interest of Mr. Chifley’s Victory
Loan, that chivalrous old gents with a
rudimentary knowledge of first-aid broke
office engagements as they lingered
among the crowd, fearing the damsels
would shiver their “costumes” off.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: The Methodies showed
considerable foresight when they built
what is now called “the Wedding-cake
Church” at Bondi Junction, Sydney. It
had a 101st anniversary this year, although
actually the big church, the most ornate
Methodist temple in Australia, did not
come until later, a smaller building, now
used as a school hall in Grosvenor-street,
being first used. Even 60 years ago the
settlement out Bondi way was “in the
bush”; at what was then the Tea Gardens
there were about half a dozen shops on
each side of the little village street and
the Tea Gardens Hotel, surrounded by a
big patch of ground for parking buggies
and anchoring saddle horses. Also there
was a loop to let trams on the single line,
which ran from Queen-street, Woollahra
(where the double line ended), to /
Charing Cross, Waverley, pass one an-
other. But scattered in the bush around
about were the homes of many who liked
the wide open spaces; and by the early
church registers a large percentage must
have been Methodies.
* * * *
“Macadam”: Town planning is a very
serious business in Melbourne. The citi-
zens are determined that their city, so fair
in its beginning, will keep ahead of every
other, and hardly a week passes without a
new plan being formulated. Early in the
year Russell-street was extended over the
railway to Batman-avenue and an extra
bridge or two thrown across the Yarra.
Princes Bridge station was roofed, and
Young and Jackson’s became a memory
and was replaced by a park. In the
autumn the “Little” streets were widened.
Scarcely had the first leaves fallen when
the Art Gallery made the first of several
trips to the circus site in St. Kilda-road.
The early winter rains fell on a vacant
town hall, for that structure was being
rebuilt in several places simultaneously,
and finally came to rest in the Exhibition
area. In mid-winter the foundation stone
of the new Dental Hospital was laid on
the old Haymarket. That gave the idea
of a hospital village, and half a dozen
other major buildings were erected on
neighboring land. In the spring fancies
turned to a long list which began with a
statue of Peace and ended with a new
city destructor. The early warm weather
brought us a beer garden in Alexandra
Gardens and a fountain.
* * * *
“Craiser”: There have been many
recipes for longevity and none very con-
"Pull the blind doWn Phoebe - there's one of those Peeping Toms
again!"
vincing. “Professor” Tipper, of Mel-
bourne, who rode trick bicycles of strange
shapes and was the subject of mysterious
pictures hailed as works of genius by
“Angry Penguins,” used to say “If you
want to live a long life don’t wear socks.”
Rev. Arthur Sewell, of Salisbury (Eng.),
gave as his prescription the setting of a
distant goal. Forty years ago he an-
nounced his intention of writing an enor-
mously long book and not allowing Time
to cheat him until he completed his opus.
The other day, white-haired, white-
bearded and 103, he laid his pen down,
having written “finis.” The book is an
endeavor to prove the literal correctness
of the Bible chronology. Newton, who
died at 85, also believed that an absorb-
ing task could hold death at bay. In the
outcome he set forth the method of
fluxions (differential calculus), and in his
Principia revolutionised the world’s con-
ception of physical laws,
* * * *
“Melbn”: An unusual pavement artist
is Clarrie O’Farrell, who has a stand in
Upper Collins-street, Melbourne. He
draws passers-by for five shillings a head
in the daytime and paints still life at the
National Gallery school in the evenings.
sH * * *
“H.K.W,” on the war adventures of a
ferry steamer:
She was the Francis Peat, and she took part
in the New Britain landing. Painted battleship
grey, armed with light-calibre guns, and with
a false bow fitted snugly on to what used to
be a blunt end, she was one of the convoy
which set out from Lae for Jacquinot Bay on
November 1 last. She wasn’t built for speed,
and before long the rest of the convoy wa#
running with engines almost in reverse so that
she could keep up. She carried a company
of the New Guinea Infantry Battalion (natives),
white officers and n.c.os., and a few odds and
ends. To make matters worse, after half a
day’s sailing we ran into heavy rain and a head
wind that brought speed back to a little
more than three knots. The rest of the convoy
finally went ahead, leaving the old Francis to
struggle along as best she could. A Fairmile
later came back and escorted the vessel over
the last lap. The Francis wasn’t the only ship
of the old Peat’s Ferry service to do a spot ot
naval duty.
* * * *
“X*S.”: A mystery that has puzzled
Victorian railwaymen for a long time was
cleared up recently. A large mirror
placed at the Melbourne end of a
suburban station to enable drivers of
trains to see the signals round a bend was
constantly befogged, and trains were held
up even on fine days. Staffs continually
cleaned the mirror only to find it fogged
a minute later. A blackbird was the cul-
prit. It had formed the habit of bathing
in a near-by pool and then flying at its
own image in the mirror, scattering water
all over the surface.
* * * *
“Sixenate”; D. R. Hall, onetime
N.S.W. Minister for Justice, wasn’t a very
skilful politician, but as counsel for the
defence in criminal cases he was extra-
ordinarily resourceful. Matters looked
black for a client charged with killing
of a neighbor; there had been a struggle
and shots had been fired. The denial of
the accused, whose presence in the vicinity
was admitted, that he had heard any
sounds helped to make the case black
against him. Hall had acoustic experts
in court to prove that there were areas
of “dead air” which did not carry sound
and ope of those existed between the
farms of the accused and of the victim.
Hall got the Court to go out to the spot
to test the theory. It worked, and Hall’s
client was acquitted. That was only one
of the unusual defences Hall devised.
“Split personality” was a favorite with
him when a clear acquittal was hopeless.
* * # *
“X.P.8.1.” with a Middle East
memory:
We realised that it was Palestine’s harvest-
time when ragged, noisy Arabs streamed in
from the bare brown country past the horizon,
and built, in a couple of hours, a tattered city
of patched, black tents and hessian lean-tos
half a mile from our neat camp. For a week
the cheerful rowdy horde cut the grain with
sickles in near-by fields, laughing, bellowing
and arguing with enormous energy throughout
the day. At night, their spirits undiminished,
they debated loudly and chanted long, mournful,
tuneless songs around their fires until after
midnight. This, and the extra guard duty
caused by the visitation, found us red-eyed and
yawning each morning. On marches that led
us through the dusty domain of the harvesters
we saw babies happily squabbling with the
family goats, fowls and dogs; and, as we
passed, shy, baggily-dressed Women, with black
veils and heavy necklaces of coins, withdraw-
ing into the dimness of shelters each furnished
with a dirty rug, sacks and an earthenware pot
or two. Harvesting finished, the Arabs cele-
brated with a night of arrack, bedlam and tear-
ful ballads. When we awoke, after at last
falling into an exhausted, early-morning sleep,
they had gone, leaving the fields as desolate as
the dry landscape all around.
tie * * *
“Chevroford”: Not only the bureau-
crats but directors of businesses have been
giving thought to the housing problem.
Some time ago Myers envisaged the day
when a citizen will be able to walk
into a store, buy a prefabricated five-
roomed house, completely furnished and
fitted, over the counter for £1250, go for a
two-days holiday and come back to find
his home ready for him. To prove he wasn’t
joking Norman Myer invited the pub-
lic to survey a sample dwelling he has
had erected at Essendon, He claims that
buildings of this type, insulated to give
warmth and coolness more efficiently
than brick, can be produced by any fac-
tory that has been fulfilling steel orders
for war requirements —at a rate of 5000
houses in the first year and 10,000 in
the second. An almost unlimited range
of variations in color, furnishings and
finish should be available. The architect
is D. C. Ward, Haddon Travelling
Scholar and winner of a Centenary Home
Competition.
“Eureka”: There were pre-fabricated
homes in Australia 61 years ago. In the
“Cumberland Argus” of August, 1884,
published at Parramatta, appeared this
item:
On an allotment of land facing the
Woodville-road, Granville, there is being
erected one of the imported American
houses. Some persons think they are dear
at any price, and that they don’t look well,
when erected and painted, and that they
cannot be finished off inside to look well,
but we should have a chance of seeing how
it will look outside if the work goes on as
fast as it has been during the last week,
for the framework is almost put together.
The corner post and plates are bolted
together after the style of the old-fashioned
bedstead, and all the framework is num-
bered so that anyone can put it together.
It is a coincidence that the McGirr chose
Granville for one of his slow-motion
experiments in housing.
* * * *
“Yair”: Outside a Sydney shop, two
women were window-gazing. Suddenly
one of them glanced aside and shouted
“Look! They’re back!” I looked around
expecting to see returned soldiers. But
no. Following her excited gestures, I
found the answer was in the shop win-
dow. Egg-beaters!
* * ♦ *
“Lao-dah” with the saga of Will
Adams:
Australian seamen have been visiting the
shrine erected by the Japanese to Will Adams,
the English sailor, who landed in the then
hermit kingdom in 1600 from the Dutch
ship Charity, on which he had acted
as pilot. Navigation was a catch-as-can
business in those days and Bill brought
the Charity to Japan, believing he was steering
for Calcutta. He interviewed the Shogun, then
ruling with a shadow Mikado behind him at
Osaka, and that intelligent statesman gave Bill
a country estate to induce him to stay in the
country. William was willing; he espoused a
Japanese wife, had numerous children, and,
what is of more historical importance, supervised
the construction of the first English-type ships
in Nippon. He also founded an English settle-
ment at Hirado. William died in 1620, and his
marine designs influenced Japanese shipbuilding
for centuries thereafter. His hand can still be
seen in the thousands of fishing boats that set
out daily from the Inland Sea. They are a
quaint mixture of Oriental and European styles,
owing nothing to nineteenth-century contacts
with the Europe that produced the battleship
and the ocean liner, but a lot to the redoubt-
able William.. They are fore-and-afters, and can
beat to windward, whereas the old native rig
left navigators to the mercy of the prevailing
winds.
* * * ♦
“Rausim”: Don’t rely too much on
“B. C. Ack’s” assurance that only imag-
ination is needed to master pidgin (B.
22/8/’45). The “nothing-to-it” school
never gets very far. Island pidgin is a
distinct language with its own peculiari-
ties of construction, pronunciation and
meanings. The only sensible way is to
tackle it as you would French or any
other language. Learn the official spell-
ing, based on the international phonetic
alphabet, which gives vowels their full
Italian value and drops consonants which
are not pronounced. Learn the limita-
tions of native pronunciations—“p” is
substituted for “f,” “1” for “r”; final
“sh” or “ch” becomes plain “s”; a final
“d” or “t” following “n” is dropped alto-
gether ; and so on. It will then be easy
to distinguish the few purely native
words, such as lik-lik, from the corrupted
English like bokis and lap-lap (originally
box and wrap). A vocabulary can be
built up quickly in this way. Pidgin
originated from traders who came in
boats, hence “cargo” was the word used
for goods or supplies. Sheet metal, par-
ticularly galvanised iron, is referred to
as “copper,”
* * * ♦
“Fungbung”: I’m afraid the move-
ment to reduce the alcoholic content of
Australian beer as a means of bringing
people back to sober habits won’t
work. The strength of the liquor isn’t
the major factor. Continental wines,
generally speaking, are stronger than
Australian beer, but a drunk is sufficiently
rare in Europe to arrest attention because
there people can drink at their leisure.
In Paris most of the population, male
and female, may be seen sipping their
aperitifs for a couple of hours before
dinner in open-air cafes. Here, six-o’clock
closing hour goads people who knock off
at five into intoxication by forcing them
to bolt their drinks in a few minutes.
Weaker beer will mean only that more
beer will be bolted.
OUTRAGEOUS.
He spoke as one swept fairly off his feet
By passion that he fain would make con-
tagious
To all around him in the crowded street;
And ever and anon he would repeat
The word “outrageous.”
A stem and solid citizen enough
He seemed, disdaining all the cant and snivel
You hear in the Domain from rude and rough
Exponents of pernicious soap-box stuff
And Commo. drivel.
I took his whole demeanor to denote
Some infamy he felt impelled to bludgeon;
And while the air protestingly he smote
I mildly wondered what had got his goat
And caused his dudgeon.
Was it the closed-up pubs that sent him crook
And seemed to make his tones each minute
Grosser,
What time his portly frame with anger shook?
No, I decided that he didn’t look
That sort of josser.
Was it the vile atrocities of Japs
For which grim retribution comes so slowly
That stirred his wrath? Or could it be perhaps
The tendency to strike of union chaps,
Wharfie and coalie?
The roar of traffic drowned the words he spoke,
And being naturally somewhat curious
I passed the problem on to neighboring folk,
“What can it be,” I asked a passing bloke,
“Makes him so furious”?
He grinned and knowingly a gesture made
Towards a window where a crowd was staring
At goods in all their nakedness arrayed,
The latest fashions in the drapery trade
For seaside wearing.
“It’s there you’ll find,” he said, “what moves
his gall
And bitterness —the bare idea that women
Should ever dare to contemplate at all
For figleaf fripperies such as these to fall.
Even to swim in.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Well, you said to leave the flat exactly as 1 found it."
“Bo”: We have had lugubrious moans
from singin’ cowboys imploring some-
body to give ’em a saddle and a horse,
passionate requests which, unfortunately,
seem never to have been satisfied, for they
are still moaning, saddleless and horse-
less, in our midst. Dinah, too, whd is
Mad About Him, Sad Without Him, has
sobbingly wailed the complementary ques-
tion How Can I Be Glad Without Him?
And the Four Caterwaulers, the Andrews
Sisters and Other combinations give caco-
phonous calls to Baby, Please Stop and
Think About Me, or complain that they
have No Love, No Nothin’ —though they
do have openings to their faces, which
has been a singular trial to a world that
has deserved some consideration. But
there has been one gratifying mutual
feature about these gems of the art of
A 1 Guggenbloom, Ike Maginty and co. —
the lyrics usually have been mercifully
limited to three or four stanzas. Now
a new era is ushered in with “Rum and
Coca-Cola,” a Tin Pan Alley omnibus
of 14 verses and two choruses. In a fore-
word • the lyrist cheerfully admits that
only the first two verses fit the music,
and advises the heroes who will try to
sing it and swing it to “ad lib." the others,
naively finishing up with “Have fun.”
Calverley wrote verses on beer and
tobacco; and no doubt he could have
spun them with equal charm and facility
about rum. But coca-cola! Truly, peace
hath its horrors no less than war.
* * * *
“Poifect”; Don’t know whether
“Oxmead” (B. 3/10/’45) will be pleased
or otherwise to learn that American pro-
nunciations of “rations” and “lieutenant”
are closer to Dr. Johnson’s taste than
to current English usage. At least
“rationing” is pronounced by Americans
in a way that leaves no doubt as to its
relationship with “ratio” (with a long
“a”), and “lieutenant” is “lootenant.”
Which reminds me of an English joke-
block. In an old-style inn a civilian is talk-
ing to an American serviceman over a
glass of beer, Says the Englishman;
“Your . pronunciation of the word was
abandoned here about three centuries
ago.” The polite tenseness of the situa-
tion is well illustrated by the artist.
* * * *
“N.H.”: A cable from England records
what is claimed to be a beer-swallowing
record. At Wembley a 6ft. Scots guards-
man drank 62 pints of beer in three hours
for a wager of £5. Fifty-two pints were
sunk in 2 hours 10 minutes, after which
the guardsman’s opponent quit with a
tally of 47. This beer-swilling episode
recalls a sft. nothing barber in a small
Queensland town in the dear, dead days
when beer was cheap. He was reputed to
be able to sink 20 pints of beer inside an
hour without sign of intoxication. Un-
known to him, some brewery travellers
and a few of the townies decided to test
this barber’s holding capacity given a go
at free beer. The little chap downed 27
pints inside 55 minutes, after which he
had seven lOoz, glasses more before the
test committee called it a night. Next
morning, free of any sign of hangover,
he was applying hot towels and cold
packs to throbbing brows of members of
the committee.
* * * *
“Nakh”: Cable and Wireless, Ltd., has
been collecting stories from its staff in
war areas, and intends to get data
from staff liberated in Asia, many of
whom are Australians and Maorilanders.
The whole will make a book, eventually
to be published, which should give a pic-
ture of World War II with some extra-
ordinary features. One Australian escaped
from Sharp Peak, a station between
Hong Kong and Canton, and after in-
credible adventures turned up unscathed
at Calcutta.
“C.Q.”: Little was heard of telegraphic
vicissitudes during the war years, but
stories are now being told. Electra House,
Cable and Wireless h.q. in London,
was completely wiped out during the
blitz. What this meant only a cable hand
can visualise. But there was no hiatus.
The whole system was immediately
switched to an emergency plant prepared
for such an occasion, and the traffic con-
tinued to flow without dropping a dot
and without Australian offices knowing
that anything untoward had happened.
The first they knew about it was when
they were officially notified that the Lon-
don address had been changed from
Moorgate to the Victoria Embankment.
Later the Embankment building was
cracked severely by a V-bomb, but there
was no telegraphic interruption.
* * * *
“Knarf”: In the stakes for age for
church bells the one that tolls for all
services at St. Augustine’s, Hamilton,
Queensland, leads by furlongs (as it
should, for there are three racecourses
in the parish—Ascot, Albion and Doom-
ben). This bell was first hung in a
Rumanian church in a.d. 320, and has
some claim to be regarded as the oldest
church bell still in use in the world. Till
a.d. 1410 it was used for Christian
worship, and from 1410 to 1918 it hung
in a mosque. When Allied troops attacked
the town the mosque was blown up and
the bell was souvenired, taken to Varna
and buried in the sand awaiting a favor-
able opportunity to salvage it. Members
of the crew of the A.U.S.N. chartered
ship Melara saw the burial party at work,
waited for a dark night, dug the bell up
and smuggled it on board. It was hid as
ballast in the ship and became the
property of Captain William Campbell
Thompson, of Brisbane, an ardent curio
collector. When St. Augustine’s church
was built as a war memorial Captain
Thompson presented the bell to the rector
and church wardens. The church was
consecrated in June of last year.
* * * *
“Scribe”: After bringing home a con-
tingent of sick and wounded Kiwis from
the M.E. the hospital ship Empire Clyde
has gone to Asia to help in the evacua-
tion of personnel. A much-travelled
vessel, she is the former Leonardo da
Vinci, a 12,000-tonner built at the Ansaldo
yards 20 years ago. After running be-
tween Italy and South America and then
to East Africa she became the head-
quarters and staff ship of the Duke of
Aosta when Viceroy of Abyssinia.
While the Somaliland campaign was in
full swing she remained in Mogadishu
harbor to produce fresh water. When the
Ities packed up she put to sea but was
intercepted, whereupon her crew partly
sabotaged her machinery. Mombasa,
Bombay, Pernambuco, Trinidad and New-
port News were ports of call before she
was finally refitted. She is now under her
first charter to the Admiralty.
♦ * JfC *
“Arter” on an eddy in the Sydney art
world:
Modernist circles in Sydney have been in-
spired and heartened by an outburst from the
new Director of the N.S.W. National Gallery,
who was reported (he subsequently said he was
misrcported) as saying that the gallery is
“stacked with inferior paintings,” and announc-
ing that he proposed to remove “third-grade
paintings by Royal Academicians, purchased
merely because they were Academy works.” A
Sydney morning newspaper, applauding this
shrewd buffet, rejoices over the impending de-
parture of “the dun grandeur of Leighton, Solo-
mon Solomons and Alma-Tadema,” and infers
that the Australian community, by cherishing the
works of such stupid old fuddy-duddies, has be-
come “the laughing stock of the great world
outside.” (The Louvre, the Vatican, the Tate
Gallery and other great overseas depositories of
art have, of course, long ago got rid of all
their old stuff and stocked up with Braques and
Dalis.) Obviously there are going to be stirring
changes in the Sydney Gallery and a vastly
improved market for the local ga-ga output,
but one remark of the new director is not likely
to raise any responsive cheer from the anti-
conventionalists: “People do not want to hear
pictures explained in art jargon, but in simple
language.” There’s the rub. It can be done
with such homely Academic stuff as Luke
Fildes’s “The Widower,” but what becomes of
Gauguin’s wonderful study of the lady and
the goldfish if the commentator cuts out the
esoteric guff and gets down to tacks?
* * * *
“Free Jim”: Whatever hardships it may
have had to endure, M.L.’s Royal Com-
mission on Licensing can hardly complain
that it was boycotted. Retired policemen
and magistrates, clergy, brewers, profes-
sional prohibitionists and dozens of un-
specified citizens have contributed
2,520,000 words of verbal evidence during
hearings lasting nearly 90 days. The
typed evidence fills 48 volumes, each con-
taining 150 pages. Fifty cyclostyled copies
of each volume have been run off. Added
to this are 200 written submissions.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”: Australian chess is
moving on; there are likely to be inter-
national matches by radio within a few
months. Besides a revival of the two-
yearly Australian championship tourneys,
an international chess congress is to take
"No funny business —keep ’em up and hand over yer wad!"
place in 1948 as part of the World’s Fair
fixtures, and, inspired by the example of
Dr. Evatt, “Australia” is “claiming the
right” to nominate its own players.
Lajos Steiner is already a chess master,
having acquired that distinction by win-
ning the championship of Hungary on
a sequence of occasions and being a
place-getter in a tourney of masters. On
the standards of some European countries
Purdy and Koshnitsky would be entitled
to be classed as “masters,” but no retro-
spective awards are likely to be made.
Purdy, incidentally, holds a record, asso-
ciated with The Bulletin. At the time
when he won the N.S.W. championship
whilst still a student at Cranbrook School
(he had only discovered chess two years
before but had progressed amazingly), his
photograph reached The Bulletin. The
8., then as now, had only one place
where photographs were admitted, so
Purdy’s phiz grinned out of the Woman’s
Page. Only one other male had previ-
ously been shown there —John Norton
dandling his infant son, none other than
Ezra, on his knee.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: I see that Melbourne’s
Lud Mayor Connelly wants Australia not
only to have a national anthem but a
national dress to attract the attention of
tourists and people from other countries
to our indigenous characteristics, even
if we have to take a line from the abo.
But why bother about abo. fashions?
What could be more striking than those
new bathing suits in Sydney which have
had more space given them in a Mel-
bourne daily than was accorded the State
political crisis?
m ** * *
“Hist”: In the matter of victory
stamps Brazil was first past the post with
five stamps, symbolic of “Courage,”
“Glory,” “Victory,” “Peace” and “Co-
operation,” issued on VE-Day itself.
Switzerland was runner-up with a peace
set of 14 values put on sale on May 9
and all embodying the slogan Pax Homi-
nihus Bonce Voluntatis (Peace for All
Men of Goodwill). Great Britain had its
victory postmark ready for use on May
8, the obliterators having been distributed
to postmasters as far back as 1943 in
packages marked “Secret.” No doubts
of ultimate victory there! Australia has
been promised a set of three victory
stamps “in three months’ time.” We
commemorate rather than Celebrate. In-
cidentally, the values announced, 2£d.,
3|d., sid, (same as the “Gloucester”
stamps), suggest that the Government has
conveniently forgotten that the extra £d.
was a war-time tax. Victory might well
have been commemorated by its removal,
* * * *
“Outback” on a Queensland scientific
development:
A machine on radar principles—it bears the
awe-inspiring title of “high-gain, multi-purpose
direct reading and recording oscilloscope, with
tachometric attachment for physiological use” —
has been developed in Brisbane by Professor
D. H. K. Lee, Professor of Physiology, Queens-
land University; Dr. Montgomery White, Agri-
cultural Chemist, Department of Agriculture
and Stock; and engineers of the P.M.G.’s De-
partment. The machine measures minute
changes of electrical potentials in the body,
whether human or animal, which take place
under a variety of conditions, such as fatigue,
shock, poison, etc. At a demonstration be-
fore the Minister of Agriculture (T. L.
Williams), scientists and engineers the machine
was used to record the heart-beats of a guinea-
pig, a porcupine, a cat and a human being, and
the super-sensitiveness of the contrivance was
shown when the man or animal became the
least agitated by movement. Dr. White
explained that in Queensland the grazing indus-
try had been hampered by not having an instru-
ment to record abnormalities as soon as an
animal began to suffer from a disease, particu-
larly those peculiar to this State and to which
such local names as “Birdsville disease,” “St.
George disease” and “Mackenzie River dis-
ease” had been given. Hitherto such diseases
usually got too firm a hold before the veterinary
officer was called in. With the aid of the
oscilloscope it would be possible to conduct
research in an effort to ascertain, for instance,
at what period of the year these local diseases
first made their appearance.
THE DICTATOR.
“Everyone at Canberra knows that the Chifley Gov-
ernment has no foreign policy. That seems to be the
sole possession of Doctor Evatt, who takes care that
it is never debated in his presence in Parliament.”
• — Mensies.
In other things there’s joint control
Among the Chifley section;
Of this alone he claims the sole
And absolute direction.
Upon our foreign policy
His massive brain he rivets,
And brooks no fingers in the pie
Excepting Doctor Evatt’s.
Colossus-like aloft he towers,
Dictating our relations -
With friendly or with hostile Powers,
With big or little nations.
His dart’s divining in advance
What’s best for this Dominion,
While giving no one else a chance
To offer an opinion.
From shore to shore he takes his course,
Swift as the migrant swallow;
Where’er he leads his mates perforce
Obsequiously follow.
Of plans domestic needs to meet
They’ve many a trained concoctor;
High politics are off their beat,
They leave ’em to the Doctor.
He gives his dictum square and straight
For Cabinet’s adherence;
Corrections none he’ll tolerate
And stand no interference.
Uetat e’est moi, some Frenchman said,
And clearly inter alia
Far overseas the notion’s spread
That Evatt is Australia.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Strange indeed how the
wheel of our lives turns full circle. Nearly
30 years ago I met George north of the
Murrayville line in the Victorian Mallee,
where he’d taken up a block and become
a pioneer. George had a one-room cor-
rugated-iron shack as his first home, and
on that Sunday morning, as I yarned with
him, a crow swooped on the cake of
yellow soap on the wash-bench. George
dropped the conversation, let out a pro-
fane howl and chased that crow through
the scrub. He came back, blowing hard
and panted, “My last cake, too, the
black blankard!” I left George to his
farming and went to many places and
saw many things, while time drifted
steadily on. Last week I was on a golf
course in the N.S.W. mountain districts
and watched a stout old josser drive a
ball well down the fairway. A black
shape dropped from a timbered ridge and
swooped on that ball. The golfer dropped
his bag, let out a profane howl and
chased that crow’ up the ridge. He came
back, gasping and red-faced, wheezing
“My last ball, too, the black blankard.”
Yes, it was George, and he didn’t get the
ball back either.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The lizard is generally
supposed to support life on a diet of
insects, grubs and ah occasional meal of
offal. Wandering through the bush the
other day I found a blue-tongue making
what was probably his first meal for the
season. He was dining on the petals of
a tiny blue flower.
T * ’ * *
“Lower Tops’l”; What is the greatest
distance you can sight land? Captain J.
K. Davis, Commonwealth Director of
Navigation, told me that in clear weather
down in Antarctica he has seen Mt.
Erebus from 120 miles. A glimpse of
the Wilson’s Promontory hills is occasion-
ally obtained a similar distance away.
But what surprises me most is the visi-
bility at times in New Guinea waters.
I’ve seen flat-topped, 10,000-ft.-high Mt.
Yule, the nor’-westerly extremity of the
Owen Stanleys, from 110 miles out to
sea in the Gulf of Papua, while further
north, off the mouth of the Sepik River,
I’ve repeatedly seen the 13,000 ft. Finisterre
peaks standing out in bold relief fully
120 miles away. But no matter how clear
the nor'-westerly season sunrise is, you
cannot pick them up any further away.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Memories of stealthy
approaches to lyre-birds’ dancing mounds
were stirred the other evening as we
worked our way along the bank of an
Indian river in the hope of sighting a herd
of chital. Three beaters had crossed on
to an island to work the spotted deer in
our direction, and we had just taken up
a position covering the ford when a flash
of shimmering color drew all eyes to the
water’s edge ; there he was, a superb pea-
cock, in the full ecstasy of his evening
display. On a low gravelly shelf he was
reflected in a calm back-water, and the
steep bank of red earth behind him was
the perfect back-drop. Whereas our own
avian artist would be hidden among moss-
covered logs and tree-ferns, the Eastern
fowl performed below thorn bushes and
the broad-leaved scrub that goes to make
up open jungle—incidentally, a very
loosely-used term here; and while our
chap would be making the gully ring with
the voices of all its denizens, the peacock
was silent. Menura, when dancing, brings
the tail feathers right over the head and
fanned out horizontally; the blue per-
former, with forgivable pride, declines to
hide that glorious neck, and keeps his fan
erect. The Australian is a quivering form
of drab brown and white; the Indian
outdoes the rainbow —furthermore, he is
held sacred and and wanders unafraid
among human habitations; we could
learn a point there. Altogether, you
could not compare the two birds in any
way. There were contrasts only; and
this was all the better, for both performers
commanded such admiration that it was
a pleasure to award full points to each
for every part of his performance. And
the chital? Oh, they dodged the beaters,
crossed the main stream farther up, and
were standing gazing at us from across
the river as we straggled back to camp.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Was digging over the
garden while a following magpie con-
sumed large quantities of the big cock-
“Just what I Wanted —a bit of hose-pipe for me garden."
chafer grubs I unearthed with almost
every shovelful. When he could cram
down no more, he filled his beak from
the collection I’d thrown him, appeared
to cogitate for a minute, then flew off
down the paddock and landed behind a
stump. About eight or ten trips he -made
Jo the same stump with a load of eats,
and, investigating later, I found the grubs
had all been killed and placed in a heap
close in against a root. Evidently
maggie’s idea didn’t extend to covering
his hoard, so whether or not he collected
them himself is doubtful, but 24 hours
later they were gone.
* * * *
“Sou’-west”; Looking over a collec-
tion of ancient dingo traps I was struck
by the change in technique of recent
years. Most of the old dogger’s tools
were single-spring traps with a lOin. jaw,
big enough to hold a bear. Of course,
the old-timer knew all about cutting
down all the teeth of the jaws except two,
so as to avoid a close snap likely to chop
a dog’s foot right off. But even with
that safeguard a good many dogs pulled
free, the heavy weight of the trap pro-
viding a sufficient resistance to enable
the frantic dog to tear away skin and
sinews, leaving a foot behind. Such a
dog, of course, became “educated,” a
deadly killer, unlikely ever again to put
its foot in a trap. Most famed “killers”
of the past showed tracks with a muti-
lated foot. Today’s dogger asks for a
comparatively light trap with only a 7in.
jaw; a trap that the dingo can run away
with, for it will not be fastened down in
any way. The trick that really circum-
vents Warrigal is to poison the trap.
This is done by swathing one of the jaws
with cotton cloth, or waste, well dosed
with strychnine. The trapped dog’s
natural impulse is to bite at the trap that
is causing him such pain. He finds some
satisfaction in tearing away the , cotton,
and so swallows enough of the poison
to settle him. He and the trap will
seldom be found far from where it was
set.
* * * *
“Fin”: The rare Antarctic crab-eating
seal that was washed up at Hobart
recently was only the third of its kind
found on our coasts. Its habitat is in the ice
floes quite 1000 miles off Tasmania, and
it finds tucker on the sandy areas. Lobed
teeth help the animal to sieve the sand
from the food. The seal’s head will join
the other immortals in the Hobart
museum.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were camped with
several others under the pumping station
at Narromine (N.S.W.), on the banks of
the Macquarie, and it being a Sunday
and warm we had our lines in the river.
Nobody was getting a bite, so the long
bloke started a yarn about the various
fish he’d caught in various rivers. Mat
and I chucked in a tale or two of our
own and then the short bloke opened up.
“Cripes,” he said, “y’ oughter seen the
cod I landed once down on the Ana-
branch, near Wentworth. Ever bin there?
Yair? Well, I see a swirl in a bit
of a backwater, so I gets out a
big hook I had and shoves the
hind leg of a rabbit on it. Presently
there’s a slow sort o’ tug an’ I yanks
quick. Yoy! When that fish kicks back
he nilly drug me arm off. I dig me toes
in an’ pull, but I can’t shift him, an’ it
looks like he’ll beat me till I get the
line round a gumsucker in a double run.
Then I starts t’ inch him in, bit be bit.
Was he a beaut! It’s like a hard-mouthed
horse, and I’m biowin’ hard when I get
him into the shaller water. Cripes, he’s
about six-foot long an’ two-foot thick.
Doan know what he weighed, not havin’
any scales, but I never saw such a cod!”
There was a short silence, then Mat said
slowly “No, I don’t reckon you did,” and
the short silence became a long one.
* * *
“Munja”: “Norther’s” sceptical refer-
ence to 23ft. crocodiles (B. 22/8/’45) may
draw some tall stories. I prefer facts. In
Walcott Inlet (Kimberleys, W.A.) Harold
Reid, manag'er of Munja Aboriginal
Station, has shot a number of salt-water
crocs, measuring from 17ft. to 22ft. from
snout to tail-tip. These little pets were
bumped off with a .303 rifle, not the “long
bow.” Mr. Reid’s predecessor disappeared
without trace some years ago while cross-
ing this crocodile-infested’ inlet. The story
that he was attacked and dragged under
by a peevish whiting should not be taken
seriously. Perhaps “N.” had the John-
stonii type in mind. This is a fresh-water
fellow Whose length-limit is about sft.
and as harmless as a plate of cold soup.
Binghi will catch these timid saurians
with his bare hands, even the women and
kids joining in the fun. I have yet to
see Binghi tackle the salt-water species
deliberately.
* * * *
“Lub”: Joe Rawson, bachelor, lived
for many years on a neglected farm at
Elbow Creek, and his unpaid account at
the store mounted steadily. On stray
occasions Joe paid off a pound or two and
promised to “settle up soon,” but more
than offset this by getting an extra-large
order at the time, and most of his earn-
ings at trapping were spent at Ma
Grogan’s shanty pub. Then a brighter
period ensued with the advent of .a saw-
mill at the creek, and Joe sold his heavily-
timbered land at a good price. He de-
cided to try his luck in the city and, with
a few minutes to train-time, marched into
the store, plonked account and cheque
on the counter and turned to go. “That s
okay, Joe,” said the storekeeper, “but
wait a jiff. There’s a few bob discount
on this.” “Hey,” said Joe, halfway to the
door. “I ain’t payin’ any flamin’ discount.
Y’ must think a man’s made of money!
* * * *
“Puffinus”: “Patrol Leader” (B.
26/9/’45) is wrong about those cockatoos.
The average length from bill-tip to tail-
tif) of an adult Calyptorhynchus funereus,
yellow-tailed black cockatoo (funereal),
is 26 inches. That of Probosciger ater-
rimus, palm cockatoo, is 25 inches.
Authority, An Australian Bird Book, by
the late Dr. J. A. Leach, world-authority
of his day on such subjects. The narrow
elongated feathers of. the palm make it
look larger in flight, but it is a far less
powerfully-built bird than is the yellow-
tail.
* * * *
“Notaden”: That handsome couple
the cooee birds have arrived in this S.Q.
neighborhood on their annual spring visit
from the Far North. He dresses in a
glossy blue-black, she mostly in brown
shades with a black beret and a hand-
some stomacher of barred white. Would
that their voices matched their charm-
ing attire! His raucous and unmodu-
lated imitations of a cooee have de-
servedly gained him the name of brain-
fever bird ; her whizzing, rattling replies
resemble the sound of a self-starter,
somewhat out of order. So much so that
a pair of city bush men on a visit to these
parts set out just before sunset to help
the poor broken-down motorists who were
cooeeing for help while trying to restart
their car in the thick scrub toward the
creek. They had to be extricated by a
search party.
* % #
“Bo”; Alec the drover, big and slow
of speech and movement, had taken his
seat in the dining-room of the little bush
pub to enjoy a rare treat —a hot meal
he hadn’t cooked himself. Just as he was
starting to lap up his soup the lady
boarder came in and sat at the
same table. Alec noticed then that she
took up the serviette from beside her
plate. There was no serviette beside his
own, so, anxious to demonstrate that he
wasn’t unfamiliar with civilised ways, he
tucked the edge of the tablecloth firmly
inside his ancient waistcoat. Just as he
was meditating dreamily whether plum
duff would follow the goat-or-galah
course someone out on the verandah
called out “The beer’s on!” Alec’s re-
action was as close to immediate as any-
thing he did could be. Lumbering him-
self up, he started to move off in the
direction of the bar. A second later
there was a terrific crash of crockery and
a scream of rage from the lady as her
soup cascaded into her lap. But Alec’s
eyes were not on his fellow-diner. Won-
derment blended with admiration of his
own prowess were reflected in the look
he bent on the table. “By cripes, just
look at that, will yer?” he drawled to
nobody in particular, at the same time
pointing. “The flamin’ bottle o’ Woos-
tersheer sauce is still standin’ up!”
. “Tug”: “Get” (B. 19/9/’45) may be
right when he claims an Australian record
for flood damage done to the Brookton-
Corrigin line, but he can’t claim any such
recora for its one train a week. In his
own‘State there are at least three other
like services: Katanning-Pingrup, Lake
Grace-Hyden and Port Hedland-Marble
Bar; while Malcolm-Laverton, Sand-
stone and Big Bell carry passengers once
a fortnight. Victoria and N. S. Wales
have three or four one-day-a-week mixed
trains on branches, and Queensland has
two —Normanton-Croydon and Cook-
town-Laure. If lines which run only
goods trains, and that once a week, are
included “Get” must be disqualified alto-
gether.
* * *
“Wester”: The old horse dozed under
the heavy shade of three lopped sugar-
gums by the road fence. A mongrel dog
from the near-by town, scrounging round,
came upon the nag, and was so aston-
ished by the apparition of an idle horse
that it became excited and circled round
the horse, yapping furiously and talking
fight. The horse flopped its lower lip
and gave the nuisance a dreamy look. The
nuisance kept up its yapping and circling,
then fell silent and crept a little closer,
sniffing as though it had lost something,
but keeping an eye suspiciously on the
horse. Then, when the mong was within
six feet or so, the nag raised its head and
gave the horse yawn. The spectacle of
bared teeth and red jaw transfixed the
mong for a split second ; in the next split
it was flat out for the town, ki-yiking its
alarm. Whereupon the old neddy flopped
its lower lip again and went back to
sleep.
DOWN HOMEWOOD WAY.
The folk are waiting in the central hills
—Yarra Glen and Lilydale, Yering and Yea —
For soldiers and sailors, Jacks and Jims and
Bills,
And birdmen coming home at last to stay.
The mushrooms studding Cotton’s Pinch,
Where bullock-carts went through,
Are moonstones on the quilted grass; and Early
Nancy, too,
Waits in the lowland pastures in the dew.
Ibis hold the swamps in trust.
Heron keep lagoons,
Magpies quarter willow-flats
Lifting laughing tunes.
Yellow-box, grey-box, red-gum and sheoak
Dress the shining air for them above the river
loam;
And on the linked, long billabongs
The frog bells ring them home.
Molesworth willows trail new coats,
King Parrot Creek flows gay,
And now the wind is turning warm •
Down Homewood way.
Coming home again at last after long war,
The hillmen, the river men, the men of Goul-
burn birth.
To work and walk with neighbors under twisted
trees,
Running through their calloused hands the
living stuff of earth.
There’ll be tussocks in the croplands,
Gardens charlock-ridden,
Cotton-weed invading Concord’s hills;
But, loveliness unbidden,
Old wintry peaches fleshed with bloom,
And plums white-clouded where the orchards ,
stand,
For those who come through years of bitterness
Home to no waste land.
Goulburn’s country waits for them
By Cathkin and Killingworth, Kerrisdale and
Yea; •
Murrundindi’s hills are green, Flowerdale’s in
bloom,
And wind is turning warm down Homewood
way.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


“Bray Rock”: The humpback whales
are on their leisurely yearly voyage
southward from the tropics to the
Antarctic, feeding their way lazily along,
the 20ft. babies taking rides on mother’s
back or sucking at teats the size of
cream-cans, the 40ft. lads and lasses
doing show-off leaps into the air, the
sober old fathers of families cruising
ahead or rounding up stragglers. Before
long someone will be writing to the
papers about terrific combats waged with
them by swordfish and thresher sharks,
the threshers walloping them from above
with their tails, the swordies tickling
them up‘ from below. That figment of
the fancy of some splendidly mendacious
mariner of long ago is really a hump-
back getting rid of irritating barnacles
and sealice by rolling over and slapping
itself with its 14ft. paddles—“finning,”
as the old whalemen called it. They are
the only whalebone whales which are
given to leaping out of the water, a re-
markable sight when several are at it to-
gether, but one much more comfortably
viewed from the shore than from a small
boat. A whale is a nasty thing to fall
on you, and the stupid things certainly
don’t look before they leap. Even if they
did they couldn’t see you.
* * * *
“Munja”: Hunting wild pig near the
Sepik River, our two mongs bailed up a
huge male cassowary. Showing fight, the
bird soon had both dogs badly gashed.
Not wanting to risk shooting the dogs,
Bill clubbed his Owen gun and landed a
hefty wallop on the bird’s neck. An-
noyed, the cassowary let fly with a kick
that would have torn Bill’s throat out
had it connected. As it was, the razor-
sharp claw severed his brachial (arm)
artery, and I had to use a bootlace tour-
niquet in a hurry. Result of the stoush
was dismal: both dogs crippled. Bill hos-
pitalised for two weeks and both of us
advised by the mob to look out for the
Hyde Park sparrows when we went on
leave.
“Horseless Norseman”: Someone has
been asking why island boongs get their
cassowary chicks from the mainland in-
stead of breeding them. The answer to
“A bit slow, but she's got a pretty action !”
that can be found in the complex men-
tality of the northern New Guinea coastal
native. He has no idea of putting any-
thing' aside, as we know it, for a rainy
day. He rarely grows more food than he
and his family can eat. Often, while bar-
tering quantities of fruit at beach villages,
I’ve traded only rice and bully-beef, and
not one ever thinks of asking for any-
thing but rice and “bully-moo-cow”—l
love that word. Yet take ashore and
display biscuits, tobacco or razor-blades,
and these articles are asked for in turn
as well. And so with those Karkar boys.
When they canoe to the mainland and see
before them once-wild casso. chicks run-
ning in the villages, these birds to them
are something concrete that in 12 to 18
moons “some big feller.” So sometimes
they trade them. But as for breeding
the fowls, they just haven’t the foresight.
I’ve known boongs to catch fish on a tide,
and these they never could resist “kiki-
ing” mstead of holding them an hour or
so till dawn, as promised, to barter them
for the more cherished rice and bully-
moo-cow.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Is “J.E.S.” sure, that his
fresh-water drains pouring into Port
Phillip Bay (B. 5/9/’45) are devoid ot
anything edible? Unless the fluid is
filtered through very fine mesh, or chlori-
nated, or is of direct artesian origin, it is
certain to carry life of some sort, even
though it may be only tiny water beetles.
And, anyway, those gulls may be indulg-
ing in a mouthwash ; possibly after a life-
time on the salt water a throat gargle of
fresh water may be as appealing to a sea
bird as fermented malt liquor is to the
average male human.
* * * *
“Gryllus”: Whatever “E.2’s” (B.
19/9/’45) diamond birds did in Victoria,
in this s.-e. Queensland district they don’t
nest more than once in a season. Mor-
tality from enemy action amongst their
offspring is unlikely to be anything like
that amongst the wrens and tits quoted
by “E. 2.” At the unfledged stages they
are well protected in the underground
nursery, far more effectively so than the
other chicks in their open nests. Their
flight-life is spent mostly in high treetops
well out of reach of most enemies of
small birds. Moreover they are most
speedy and elusive sprites, always on the
alert, and well camouflaged to match
their normal surroundings. The uncom-
pleted tunnels near the real family home
are quite possibly intended to mislead
marauders, but many of those which I’ve
traced out have finished up against a
rock, a root or some other obstruction.
Anyhow, they’re real dinkum little Aus-
sies, for they’re found nowhere else in
the world.
* ♦ * •
“B. A. Ker”: Dick is the type of fellow
who has never owned a stupid dog, a slow
horse, a poor milker or a backward infant.
Naturally his form held good when some-
body suggested a game of crib. The new
bloke let him brag for quite a while
before asking “Suppose you had a six, a
seven, eight, ace in hand and another ace
turned up, what score would you take?”
“Thirteen, of course,” Dick replied
promptly. “That’s the ‘ragged thirteen’;
an experienced crib-player wouldn’t need
to count it.” “Would you like to bet
drinks for the mob that it couldn’t count
any more?” the new fellow asked. Dick
would —and did. He lost. His subduer
set the hand out as a flush: score 17.
Dick was ohly temporarily crushed ; soon.
as perky as ever, he ran his nose into
further trouble by declaring that it wasn't
possible for all four players to hold 20
or more each. The new chap took him
up again, and proved his argument by
setting out four hands and a crib each
holding 24! That held Dick until the
last game, when he almost jumped out
of his chair as a five turned up. When
it came to the “take” Dick and partner
wanted 28 and the opponents 12. The
new man had first take and went out with
“the ragged 13.” Dick went to bed in
sullen disgust. For the first time in his
life he had held the possible: 29 (four
fives and a jack—the jack for his nob),
and then he hadn’t been able to take
them.
* * * ♦
“Wingella”; I’ve witnessed many
Pookaminnie corroborees (B. 26/9/’45),
and always found women and children
present, some of them being chief mour-
“All I said Was ‘Thank you '!”
ners and performers in the dance. The
corroborees took the whole day, ending
at nightfall. The posts were never placed
in position immediately after the burial;
often enough six months or more elapsed
between the burial and the erection of
the graveposts, which are always elabor-
ately carved and decorated. As a rule,
the Pookaminnie corroboree re-enacts the
death of the dead man, the actors being
marvellous mimics. The old men of the
tribe, in full dress of red and yellow
ochre, white pipeclay and charcoal, sneak
up to the grave, and, after killing the
debbil-debbils that are sitting on the
grave, prance back in triumph, each with
a debbil-debbil impaled on his spear.
Most artistic wailing and crying go on
as each po«\Js carried from its original
position to me grave for re-erecting there,
the father of the dead man weeping loudly
and announcing that so deep has been his
grief that neither food nor drink had he
lifted to his lips since his son died. All
quite true; but his wives had generously
fed him, I never saw the mourners
“gallop” over the grave. It was treated
with respect; all the dancing went on
round or near it.
» * * *
“C.V.S.”: For quick growth of tropi-
cal vegetation the lowly toadstool takes
some beating. At dusk their tiny domes
were just peeping through the film of a
rotting coconut log. By reveille next
morning the fungi were six inches high.
Two hours after sunrise they had
matured, shed their spores and withered.
Successive crops repeated the cycle
nightly for a week.
* * * *
“C.E.”: “Spud” counted the handful
of cash, passed it to the visitor and
watched thoughtfully as he started his
car. “Y* know. Bill,” he remarked as
the dust cloud disappeared, “it comes out
expensive gettin’ that bloke from down-
country every time one o’ the Old Diggers
cashes in. Don’t y’ reckon we c’d buy
a bugle ourselves an’ get one o’ the locals
to learn ‘The Last Post’?” “Yair, but
who c’d y’ get?” “Spud” pondered for
a bit. “Well, I dunno,” he puzzled, “un-
less it’s Sam —he’s a bit on the musical
side.” Sam, agreeing to the plan, they
collected for a bugle, and the old soldier
started in. It took him a fortnight to get
the hang of the notes; then slowly he
began to master the required salute. Week
after week he stuck to it, and finally
reached the stage where he could play the
required bars two out of three times with-
out a blunder. After that a few minutes
daily kept him in form, while he awaited
the necessity of publicly demonstrating
his ability. Then “Spud” dropped in on
Bill. “Say, Bill,” he said solemnly, “ring
through for that down-country bloke t’
come an’ play t’-morrer, will y’?” Bill
stopped to stare. “But, why get him?"
he protested. “I thought” “Yair,
I know,” explained the caller ; “but we’ve
give ’em all a military send-off, an’ it’s
up to us t’ have things fixed proper now
for old Sam.”
* ♦ * *
“Blime”: Tom slipped his knife into
his pocket, picked up his hat and made
for the door. “There’s y’ knife, Tom,”
remarked Jim, pointing to the floor. Tom
picked it up, dropped it back into his
pocket and again got as far as the door.
“Hang it,” he exclaimed, once more stoop-
ing for the knife and returning it to his
pocket. He was looking out over the pad-
dock and pretended not to hear the thud
as it hit the floor the third time. There
came a snort from Jim. “Y’ll lose the
blasted thing d’rectly, y* goat,” he rc-
marked. “Well,” returned Tom, retriev-
ing his knife. “These ’ere’s me noo pants
that I got in town last trip. The coot in
the store ses they’re a lot better’n they
look, an’ll stand up to a good bit o’work,
Them two frayed slits at the sides is
pockets, see? They’re the best linin’ y’
c’n get, an’ they’ll last quite a bit. Gripes,
I’ve only wore these pants two days.”
Jim nodded. “I know,” he replied, under-
“but y’ve forgot one important
thing—y’ can’t fool a pocket-knife.”
* ♦ ♦ »
“X.E.D.”: The bright four-year-old
bush kid was being taken on a car ride
along a track he’d traversed the week
before. He watched interestedly for land-
marks till a carcass he’d seen on the
previous trip was sighted. “Dam’ calf,”
he muttered disgustedly. “Dead again! ”
• ♦ * *
“B. 4”: It would be difficult to resolve
“Dominic E.’s” doubts (B. 26/9/’45), as
no humane breeder of beef could con-
done the callous experiment incidental to
satisfy the questions formulated. 'Die
shooters of whom I wrote were accredited
daredevils, packing sinister reputations;
but I cannot vouch for the alleged origin
of the steaks. This may help. Had occa-
sion once to hang a heavy shintapper of
green timber attached to a trace-chain
round a confirmed charger’s neck, pur-
posing to steady her for a few days. In-
tended then to remove the log, but to
leave the chain dragging to trip her when
charging. However, she escaped, joined
the scrubbers, and was not yarded till
two years elapsed. Meanwhile, the chain
had cut through her neck, and was over-
grown by a healthy two-inch thickness of
hide, flesh and hair, while her knees were
as calloused as a N.S.W. coal-striker’s con-
science. We had to cut through hide and
flesh and tear the chain away while she
bawled in the crush. She bled like a stuck
pig as she raced away, but inside six
months a casual observer would have
noticed nothing unusual about her. We
threw her to convince one sceptical
scorner.
* * * *
“Lub”: “I’m stiffenin’ dawgs in a
lonely part of the hills oncet,” said One-
eyed Willie. “I don’t see a soul f’r weeks
on end at times. One mornin’ I’m ridin’
orf round a line of baits when I spot a
young galah poke its head out of a holler
tree spout erbout the height of me
shoulder. There’s a sheilah at the pub
bin at me f’r munce t’ ketch her a galah,
so I sidle me horse over an’ stick me hand
down far as I c’n reach, an’ ” “Yair,”
I interrupted. “I know. The nag backed
away an’ left y’ hangin’ f’r three weeks
without even a toothbrush t’ polish y’r
beeyutiful fangs.” “Gripes,” he said, star-
ing at me with awe in his solitary orb.
“I didn’t mind that s’ much as the blasted
monotony of rollin’ orl me cigarettes left-
handed ! ”
♦ * * *
“Old Camp”: Speaking of barrows (B.
5/9/’45) there were as well as the Cousin-
jack type the navvy and the hand. The
navvy barrow came into being along with
the railway, it being the necessary
counterpart for the building of the em-
bankments on which the engine ran.
When I first met it some 50 years ago it
was already past its prime, though still
a very hefty implement. When a man
took the handles on a full load he knew
that he was wheeling something. But
during the passage of the years I have
seen the vehicle that perhaps did more
than any other towards founding Britain’s
greatness become more and more
anaemic: the last lot I helped to construct
for a W.A. Government job had ridicu-
lously small bodies.
ROSELLAS.
I see you flash your way through forests green,
As if pursued by demons as y° u
I see a splash of red, a streak of blue,
And then your darker back against the slcy.
Your bright flocks cluster on an old dry tree,
And sit unmoving; now I love you best.
With sunlight shining on your Joseph s coats,
Your strong daws holding you at quiet rest
Your scarlet heads with snowy-powdered cheeks,
Your breasts of mingled scarlet, yellow,
green; ,
Your tails and shoulders touched with heavenly
blue: . ..
The dead tree wakes and flashes with your
sheen.
You fly again, a rainbow-colored flock,
A painter’s palette flung into the air.
Tu sek! tu sek! you whistle as you fly,
Tu sek! tu sek! you whistle, free of care.
TASMANIA.
A. E. STURGES.


mfr WHEN YOU CAN AGAIN
DELIVER THE GOODS TO ALL YOUR
CUSTOMERS YOU'LL DO THE JOB ON
DUNLOP
TYRES
Yh
u i
-Ho
r
- ( —// \ a a /
it
You know . . .
that most people throughout
the British Empire ride on —
DUNLOP
TYRES
0.52
IN THE GRIP
of hay rm
FEVER Jlii\
pi
■ i
"FRANK
TO THE
HOME,
! WE'VE BEEN ASKED iffi . /A —
SMITH'S COUNTRY Wi [i "THIS WRETCHED
NEXT WEEK-END" u m/ro hk
IV
7 CAN 7 i
POSSIBLY I
GO h
HAI FEVER HAS
"WELLJU ASK
JUNE WHAT
DOT ME BEATEN", li
| "JUNE SWEARS BY VAUS No. I,
m SO EVE BOUGHT A BOTTLE
f FOR you:' g
m
I
HER HAY
S^FEVER
1
"THANK GOODNESS FOR '
VAWS No ! MY HAY FEVER
HAS djfa GONE COMPLETELY:
<V* > I
C —W53
&
%
s^?
Rid yourself NOW from distressing Hoy Fever attacks without costly
injections. Vaxos No. 1, taken by mouth in water daily, is a scientific
DISSOLVED vaccine treatment proved by thousands of Australians to
quickly end Hay Fever attacks, nose blockages, sinus headaches, head
noises, catarrhal deafness and chronic colds. Further, VAXOS No. 1
is safe and simple to take and builds immunity for up to two years.
Don't suffer needlessly. Be wise ... Immunise ... obtain Vaxos
No. 1 from your chemist to-day.
"VAXOS" costs only 21/- a
large bottle containing 24 c.c/s,
which is sufficient for several
weeks' treatment for chronic
cases. The medium size bottle
for milder cases is obtainable
at a cost of 12/&.
3NI33VA IWtiO
l oN SOXVA
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 LIT. COLLINS ST., MELB., C.I
r ■ wr ■-. jiMMIVID. 160BEI
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Displaced” Russians.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Tribune” report by
Carl Levin.)
The Russian Government is pressing
for help from the western Allies not only
in forcing the repatriation of Russians
who do not wish to return, but also in
the return of 65,300 Estonians, Latvians
and Lithuanians who are in the American
zone of occupation. The Russians say
these Baltic peoples are Soviet citizens,
by virtue of the 1939 annexation, and as
such they come under the terms of the
Yalta agreement.
The United States is unwilling to con-
cede Russian nationality of citizens of
the Baltic States and never intended to
be a party to forcible repatriation in cases
not involving disloyalty to Russia. The
situation is coming to a point where
American blood may be shed in skir-
mishes with unwilling repatriates.
’ The American soldiers detailed to the
forcible repatriation of Russians are
under instructions not to shoot, but
21 hospital cases were counted when
80 Russians baulked at being put
on a train for the east by a detachment
of 25 American soldiers. Two of the
Russians attempted suicide. Similar
conditions of unwillingness have been
noted in the British sector, and one
British officer already has been court-
martialled for refusing to obey an order
to aid the Russian agents.
What American and British servicemen
object to is that orders to forcibly re-
patriate these Russians fail to take into
consideration any of the human factors
in the miserably mixed-up lives of the dis-
placed persons involved. One case con-
cerned a young Russian and his Polish
bride, who met in a concentration camp
and married immediately following
liberation. A Russian displaced-persons’
agent found them and demanded that the
Russian return to the Soviet Union. He
replied: “All right, but my wife must
go, too.” The agent answered that she
could not go to Russia because she was
non-Russian. The husband and wife
were separated. He was sent back to
Russia, and she remained in Germany.
Laski Proposes.
(Condensed from Chicago “Tribune.”)
Harold Laski, who says that the British
Labor Government will have a “profound
brotherly affection” for Soviet Russia, is
chairman of the Labor party’s executive
committee. Its equivalent in Russia
would be the politburo, of which Stalin
was secretary until he became marshal
and then generalissimo. It was the office
filled by the actual head of the State, and
after Stalin obtained full control it ceased
to be a body for discussion and decision.
When the vote revealed the triumph of
the Labor party on a socialist programme
of nationalisation Mr. Laski took to the
air to outline new policies of State. He
said that if France went Socialist in its
general elections the British Government
would renew the offer of common citizen-
ship, one of the desperate measures Win-
ston Churchill proposed in June, 1940, to
keep Frante in the war. Mr. Laski told
Franco of Spain that his number was up
and he promised a radical revision of
British policy in Greece.
Mr. Churchill in his first speech for
the Opposition asked Mr. Attlee, the
Socialist Prime Minister, to define Mr.
Laski’s position. Was he the actual head
of Government? Did he with his com-
mittee make the Government policies?
Mr. Churchill said he did not ask that
Mr. Laski be muzzled. “Anyone can say
anything in their country, no matter how
pernicious and nonsensical it may be, but
it is necessary for the Government to let
us know exactly where they stand with
Mr. Laski.”
Mr. Attlee replied that Mr. Laski spoke
for himself and was inclined to be ebul-
lient and impulsive; the Government
policies were laid down by the Ministers,
The Labor party has expelled dissidents.
It does not, as the Russia of Mr. Laski’s
profound brotherly affection, shoot them.
Indeed, Mr, Attlee and his Foreign Minis-
ter, Mr. Bevin, have expressed dis-
approval of what is happening behind
what Mr. Churchill calls the “iron cur-
tain” dividing Europe. They say that
the totalitarian Governments operating
in Rumania Bulgaria and Hungary do
not represent the will of the people. The
Labor Government will not start a civil
war in Spam to get rid of Franco.
Later it may be seen whether the
Labor party exercises a discipline over
the political servants who represent it as
servants of the Socialist king and whether
Mr. Laski, Prof. Laski by profession, as
chairman of the executive committee,
throws only his own weight around. If the
party line is one of profound brotherly
affection for Russia, which may be
doubted, then Mr. Attlee and Mr. Bevin
are non-conformists in deploring the
Russian totalitarian Governments in
Rumania, Bulgaria and Hungary. They
are on Mr. Churchill’s side of the fence,
Remaking Europe.
( Condensed from N.Y. “World Telegram’s”
Washington correspondent Wm. Philip Simms.)
Russia’s apparent insistence on settling
the peace of Europe her own way has
placed the workability of the whole
United Nations organisation in gravest
doubt.
The Atlantic Charter and the'pro-
nouncements of Moscow, Yalta and Pots-
dam bound Russia, Britain and America
to seek no territorial aggrandisement as
a result of the war; to favor no terri-
torial changes that do not accord with
the freely expressed wishes of the peoples
concerned ; to respect the right of all
peoples to choose the form of govern-
ment under which they will live; to
assist liberated peoples—even of former
Axis satellites like Rumania and Bulgaria
—to establish internal law and order,
relieve emergency, hunger, etc., form
broadly democratic interim Governments
and facilitate the holding of free elec-
tions. Russia put her seal to these and
similar pledges no less than the United
States and Britain. Yet most of them
have been broken, and if Moscow per-
sists the entire array of promises bids
fair to become a dead letter.
At stake, therefore, is the whole post-
war setup.
the new League ofßations
on a just pea , neonle at
t’hetbovl
least reasoactui ce
P n^£ e *^ r '
Almost me-omy ** ]9r „i v hv t i, e
far cone hided
unilateral action of interests
almost every instance where her interes
were involved—whether in Europe or
Asia—she has been prompt to settle the
issues mostly without first consulting h r
allies. She has redrawn the map _
eastern and south-eastern Europe, m-
stalled puppet Governments at will, and
worked out reparations tor herself an
to suit herself. Though the war sup-
posedly was a joint affair against a com-
mon enemy, the peace settlements have
been almost exclusively unilateral.
At Yalta it was agreed that Russia,
Britain and the United States would
“jomtiy assist the peop e inUTO-
pean liberated State
satellite State to estab is e :• y-
Now Russia refuses. A ® •
vened unilaterally in P »
Bulgaria, Yugoslavia an , , , ,
set up puppet Governments headed by
Communists, she now wou ®
“undemocratic tor outsi
supervise elections,
A Rumanian Government in
Yalta would spell the end of P
Communist-dominated Rumanr n
tatorship and the installation of a 8
broadly representative of all the y
democratic elements,
The clashes between Russia and
Big Three partners, according to some.
are due to differences of interpretati n
the word democratic. But rn
Minister Churchill took great pains
announce publicly what he meant by it.
This he did in the House of Commons
immediately on his return from Yalta,
“My idea of it,’ he said, is that the
plain, humble common man just the
ordinary man who keeps a wire ana
family, who goes off to fight tor his
country when it is in trouble, ana
goes to the polls at the appropriate time


m
m
IN
»J*
Pr esbyfa f r<u» M
.‘‘ ll *'tZT' an c& ry '«'
y», tbi^ ,ea <ledt h X Sa yo:
V arese. %f»«oo of
e oft**s *hr e « Paint-
tofts
***gB,
k t °d isinal
&*««* *JL°’
v ere
*p Z aPai *'- I^V*l
****tte e (j*?* l *hat l* as Bf <>c
nt r*i Clde d tn y Com
to. S: ia »se
% C l*n, itt^.
/ '» <tT"
/ . § T a tified ,^J^ ,,ee is e A^
fro« g “«*
**ev.
PREPARED
14.5
AYlOll!r
paint
Three coats of first-grade paint
give 5 years’ full protection.
BEST BY THE FIVE YEAR TEST!
GOVT. RESTRICTIONS LIFTED!
Restrictions on manufacture have been lifted and your pre-war favourites
are now available again at your local Taylor’s agent-. MIRAGLOSB
QUICK-DRYING ENAMEL —TAYLOR’S PAVING ENAMEL TAYLOR’S
ENAMEL FLOOR STAINS SILVAR ALUMINIUM ENAMEL TAYLOR’S
ROOF PAINTS —TAYLOR’S KALSOMINE MATTE WATER PAINTS
TAYLOR’S SPIRIT STAINS.
Paint Suppliers to Army, Navy and Air Force.
Made at Sutherland Avenue, Paddington, N.S.W, (.Tel. FA 2125 ) by
TAYLOR’S PAINTS PTY. LTD.
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of:—
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS ~
SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES ‘
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS
TIMBER MERCHANTS
and puts his cross on the ballot paper
showing the candidate he wishes to be
elected —that is the foundation of de-
mocracy.” What it is not, he added, is
“grabbing power and shooting those who
do not agree with us.”
That, also, is the American interpreta-
tion. And unless the peace settlements
of Europe and Asia tally with that inter-
pretation, little hope is seen for the new
League of Nations born at San Fran-
cisco.
The Price Germany Pays.
(The intended programme for Germany, as out-
lined in “United States News.”)
The intended plan calls for a new
order of trade in Europe. The buying
and selling habits of half a century are
to be altered.
Germany, chief maker of Europe’s
heavy goods since 1890, is to be stripped
of these industries. It will not return to
the fat days for its people, when Ger-
many was the topmost market for farm
products and raw materials. The Ger-
man people are to be reduced to a living
standard that conforms to the European
average, A board of receivers will run
the country just as if it were a bankrupt
corporation.
The pattern wipes out Germany as a
big industrial nation. It establishes an
Allied Control Council, composed of
American, British, Russian and French
generals, as the supreme dictator of Ger-
man life.
Any industrial plants not needed to
keep the German economy at a bare
subsistence level will be eliminated. The
plan is to leave the German people just
enough industry to enable them to exist
without outside assistance. Aircraft and
ships may not be owned by Germans.
Allied overseers will keep a close check
on the production of metals, chemicals
and machinery, to make certain that it
conforms to the peace-time needs of Ger-
many. These may be swapped to other
countries for food, of which Germany
normally imports about half of what it
uses.
The old German cartels, syndicates and
trusts, which used to divide up the world
markets, are to be smashed. All German
economic and financial transactions in
international trade will be watched over
by the Allied Control Council. All Ger-
man external assets that have been moved
to neutral countries and are not now
under control of United Nations —such as
patents that have been moved to Sweden
and other neutral countries—will be taken
over by the Control Council.
Russia will take what machinery and
goods it wants from Eastern Germany,
settling Polish claims from its share. The
U.S., the United Kingdom, France and
other countries will satisfy their claims
with 75 per cent, of the “surplus”
machinery and equipment in western
Germany.
In addition, Russia and Poland will
take German property wherever it is
found in the Balkan States and elsewhere
in eastern Europe. German property in
western Europe will fall into the hands
of the Western Allies.
Twenty-five per cent, of the property
in western Germany that is taken for
reparations will go to Russia. Ten per
cent, of this will go to Russia as straight
reparations. The other 15 per cent, —
coming from the metal, chemical and
machine-tools industries —will be paid for
by Russia with food, coal, potash, zinc,
timber, clay products, petroleum products
and such other goods as may be needed.
The German navy and merchant
marine are to be divided by the Allies,.
A separate commission of experts will
work out plans for the use and disposition
of the fleets. No German flag ships are
to sail the seas for a long time to come.
Gold captured by American troops on
the drive through Germany will be held
for the use of the Western Allies, Russia
waived any claim to this.
The rearrangement of geography
whacks off considerable of the German
war potential. Displaced Germans will
add several millions to the population of
a whittled-down Reich that only rarely
in recent history has ever produced
enough food —even with its larger area —
to feed its people. Until standing room
can be found for the people that are
being moved, the Czech, Polish and
Hungarian Governments are being asked
not to expel any more.
Stripped of industry and territory, with
several new millions added to its popula-
tion, the new Germany is in the tight
grip of the Allied Control Council. That
council has the direct command to wipe
out militarism and Nazism.
A long list of forbidden things is being
drawn up, aimed at wiping out the old
influences. The death penalty is imposed
upon any German found with arms. No
military establishment of any kind is per-
mitted. The Germans may have no mili-
tary schools, no cadet corps, no war
veterans’ organisations, no marching
clubs, no agency of any kind that pro-
motes militarism.
No trace of the Nazi party or any of
its works is to be permitted. No central
German Government is to be permitted
for the time being, but measures are
being taken to repair railroads and in-
ternal shipping, enlarge coal production,
increase agricultural output and make
emergency housing and utility repairs.
In all areas the declared aim is to pre-
pare for the eventual reconstruction of
German political life on a democratic
basis. Democratic-minded Germans are
being installed in places of authority. As
much of the control work as can be done
by them is to be put into German hands.
Local self-government is being restored as
fast as possible. Representative and elec-
tive principles are being introduced. Cer-
tain German departments—of finance,
transport, communications, foreign trade
and industry—are being established to
work under the Allied Control Council.
Within the limits of military security,
the Germans get freedom of speech, press
and religion. Religious institutions are
to be respected. Equal justice is to be
given in courts. And free trade-unions
are to be permitted.
The plan is to keep controls tight until
Germany has learned the lesson of peace-
ful living. The Germans will have to earn
their way to a peace treaty.
Union Coercion.
(Condensed from a “Reader’s Digest” report of
a speech by Cecil B. DeMille.)
On November 7, 1944, there was sub-
mitted to the voters of California a pro-
posed amendment to the State Constitu-
tion. This measure stipulated, briefly,
that “every person has the right to seek
and hold employment, without impair-
ment of said right because he does or
does not belong to a labor organisation.”
In the preceding August I received
from the American Federation of Radio
Artists a notice that each member was
being assessed $1 to finance a campaign
to defeat this amendment. The notice
stated that failure to pay the assessment
by September 1 would result in suspen-
sion.
A fundamental question of public
policy is involved in such an assessment.
It is this: Should any organisation have
the power to force its members to con-
tribute to a political campaign fund,
whether they agree with the purpose of
the fund or not? I believe firmly no
organisation should have that power,
and I therefore refused to pay the assess-
ment. Since suspension by my union
automatically cuts a member off from
employment, I lost my job as director of
the “Radio Theatre of the Air” —a ppst
which I had held for nearly ten years.
My case is important because it in-
volves the question of the right to be
politically free. I believe I speak for an
overwhelming majority of union members
and leaders when I say the worker must
be free from coercion and intimidation,
and must have the right to make up his
own mind at an election what candidates
and measures he shall support. .
This is an issue between all liberty-
loving citizens and a few men who are
trying to gather into their own hands,
for their own use, the power of the people
—as a small group gathered power in
Germany and Italy and other totalitarian
countries. If these men are not quickly
stopped all our individual rights and free-
dom will be gone. In recent years coun-
try after country has seen the spectre of
oppression and government by small
cliques loom larger and darker.
In many instances those who would
speak out are frightened by the “smear”
technique which the power-thirsty cliques
have adopted toward all who oppose
them. A dissenter is branded as a “labor
hater” or “fascist.” In reality, the dis-
senter is only pleading for constitutional
government for all—the same law for
rich and poor, educated and uneducated,
majority and minority, union and non-
union—and is speaking out against the
injustice of one group imposing its will
upon the other.
As long as a union remains the servant
of the worker and not his master both
are safe.
Shying Off China.
(From a N.Y. “Journal-American" report .)
Loans to China for hydro-electric pro-
jects, railways, highways, reforestation,
mining and other industrialisation would
come from American private investors.
These bond and share buyers have shown
every sign of shying from China while
the noise the Communists make in the
United States and the political machina-
tions of the Communists in China give
the appearance of threatened revolution
and the installation of a regime that
would promptly repudiate all foreign
debts after the example of the Russian
Bolsheviks in the 1917 revolution.
Bank spokesmen say they are aware
that the Communists are but a minute


Married and Back
In Civil Life
IF you had died while you were in the Forces
*■ the Nation would have looked after your
wife and children.
Now that you are back in civil life this risk
falls on your shoulders—or, rather on the
shoulders of your family, for it is they who
would suffer.
This serious risk can be placed on the broad
shoulders of the A.M.P. Society while you are
still in good health by paying a comparatively
small premium regularly.
Don’t let your family carry the risk. Ask any
representative or office of the A.M.P. how the risk
can be taken by the Society. Don’t delay. Even
r to-morrow may be too late.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General. Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
M. C. Buttfleld, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Offices 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
Let’s finish the job-
Buy ith Victory
Loan Bonds,
m
Until conditions return to normal you may still find some
difficulty in getting all the Capstans you require.
But keep asking for your favourite " Red ” Capstans.
Capstan Special Mild, Medium and Full Strength are
regularly distributed.
B. p st
Ah
c IQaJ* I
*Uo
A *e
*
i
.
m
%
wmm
C oi o
_ , n
'
Ui
■S'
K.
k/
<o.
X>
c>
/.
0*
*
favour^
part of China’s 450,000,000 population.
Banker belief also was expressed that con-
servative Chiang Kai-shek has proved his
strength by resisting both Communists
and Japan for nine years and, when he
has only the Reds to face, doubtless can
keep control of the Government and
hand it on at his death or retirement to
the anti-Communist majority.
But the investing public, fooled by
Communist propaganda, cannot feel
safe enough to chance its money unless
the Communist uproar dies down.
Thus capital for Far Eastern invest-
ment which might go to an independent
China, to help assure a true republic as
America’s trans-Pacific neighbor, will go
instead under present conditions to India
and the Netherlands East Indies.
Spokesmen for such institutions as the
Chase National Bank and the National
City Bank, wide operators in the Far
East before the war, say they expect
to resume common banking operations
in China, but their foreign investment de-
partments could promise nothing in the
way of an outflow of American capital
while the Communist excitement con-
tinued, and Chiang Kai-shek jvas being
so persistently “smeared.”
Back to Gold?
(N.Y. “Times” financial writer.)
If the world is to be saved from infla-
tion on the one hand or • complete
economic regimentation on the other ex-
perience and further reflection are likely
to bring it back to the gold standard
sooner than most persons imagine.
The world’s currencies can neither be
measured nor stabilised with reference to
each other except in terms of some com-
mon standard. And that common
standard, by a process of historical selec-
tion based on the survival of the fittest,
has been gold.
Intelligent advocates of the gold
standard do not maintain that it is perfect.
They contend merely that it is incom-
parably superior to any other that has so
far been tried or proposed.
The bureaucrats are against the gold
standard because the gold standard is
against the bureaucrats. From time im-
memorial it has been an automatic critic
of all unsound monetary and economic
policies. When such policies are adopted
gold says nothing, but it quietly takes its
hat and starts to leave. By prohibiting
the export of gold dictators suppressed
this critic of their policies as they sup-
pressed others; but they did so in both
cases only to the great cost of their own
people. For one of the chief merits of
the international gold standard is that it
acts as an automatic danger signal which
can bring unsound policies to a halt be-
fore they have led to disaster.
Jewish Refugees.
(From the "Christian Science Monitor”)
A poll taken among German Jewish
refugees in Switzerland showed that a
marked majority were opposed to return-
ing to Germany. A similar opinion has
been expressed by Jewish refugees from
other formerly Axis-controlled countries.
Thus, as so often before in its history,
a large segment of Jewry is striving for
an answer to the classic question: “Quo
me vertam?” Indeed, “where are they
to turn,” the 750,000 European Jews, up-
rooted remnants of a total of 7,000,000
who lived in countries west of Russia be-
fore the war?
Some 5,000,000 of them were extermi-
nated by the Germans and their hench-
men. About 1,000,000 escaped into
Russia. Of the remaining well over
1,000,000 Jews a few hundred thousand
found refuge in countries overseas.
About 270,000 —citizens of western
European countries and of Czechoslo-
vakia, Yugoslavia, Italy, Greece and Bul-
garia—will in all likelihood be able to
stay in or return to their old homes,
though they are bound to face a consider-
able amount of economic adversity.
But for the majority of the 750,000
Jews from Germany, Hungary, Austria,
Rumania and Poland resumption of their
pre-war careers appears out of the ques-
tion. Only a fraction of them is likely to
consider returning to the country from
which they were driven.
Concerning the return of Jewish refu-
gees to Germany a study published in the
U.S. Department of State Bulletin
arrived at the conclusion that the collapse
of the Nazi regime in Germany “will not
necessarily make feasible the repatriation
of the large numbers of Jews who have
fled Germany or who have been deported
from that country since 1933.”
The number of German Jews who
escaped from the Reich to neutral
European countries is not very large. Per-
haps it is 50,000. Another 5000 to 10,000
found refuge in Great Britain, and an
estimated 80,000 to 90,000 must be pre-
sumed to be scattered over German con-
centration camps in and outside the
Reich or just emerging from their hiding
places in towns and villages of France, Italy,
Belgium and other countries where they
had the support of underground forces*
In an interview, quoted in the Man-
chester “Guardian,” Carl Winkler, Jewish
police chief of Cologne, appointed by the
United States occupation authorities, ex-
pressed his belief that the German people
were deeply imbued with anti-Semitism.
He felt there was little chance of return-
ing Jews getting back their property.
With very few exceptions, reports from
other formerly Axis-controlled countries
are equally discouraging.
In France, whose Jewish population of
230,000 has shrunk to fewer than 100,000,
the discriminatory laws of the Vichy
Government were revoked immediately
after the liberation last October. In addi-
tion, two decrees were issued ordering the
return of confiscated Jewish property to
the rightful owners. Yet within two
weeks after the proclamation of the first
decree of restitution some 40,000 French
owners of Jewish business films formed
a “protective” Association of Former
Administrators of Jewish Property to
oppose the measure.
The association was reinforced later by
the Inter-professional Association of
Merchants, Industrialists and Artisans, the
Association of Tenants of Good Faith and
the Association for the Defence of French
Homes—all three anti-Semitic for eco-
nomic reasons.
Attempts by Jewish citizens to retake
possession of their pre-war business
premises fin certain commercial districts
of Paris resulted in serious disturbances.
The first two of the associations were
dissolved by the De Gaulle Government
last December, The remaining two were
disbanded by the end of May after anti-
Jewish demonstrations in various places
in which repatriated French war prisoners
had joined.
In contrast to its sympathetic attitude
to French Jews, the De Gaulle Govern-
ment had not solved the problem of pro-
tection of the tens of thousands of Jewish
refugees stranded in French concentration
camps.
In their treatment of Jewish refugees
from other countries, Belgium and Hol-
land have displayed an ungenerous atti-
tude. In the Dutch province of Limburg
Jewish refugees from Germany are under
drastic curfew regulations, and in some
instances are being held in internment
camps together With their former perse-
cutors.
In Belgium Jewish refugees had to pre-
sent themselves repeatedly at the local
police station, and were refused working
permits. The Belgium Ministry of
Justice has ordered German Jews to leave
the country.
Enough of Hate.
(From a N.Y. “Sun” article by George E.
Sokolsky .)
Preceding the war and during the
whole of its course ran the undertow of
hate, the propaganda of hate, vindictive-
ness, oppression not only against nations
but aimed at groups and individuals. Men
were singled out in all countries for the
meanest personal attacks because of their
opinions.
There has been money in all this. Com-
mittees and organisations were founded
with the sole object of stirring malice.
Some of these organisations are anti-
Jewish; but there are just as many that
tear the hide off an individual who
happens not to believe everything he is
required to believe by professional sup-
porters of causes.' Books have been pub-
lished to prove that fine Americans are
Fascists because they love their own
country (God forgive them!) more than
Soviet Russia. Such a magazine as the
“Reader’s Digest” has been pilloried for
publishing more than one side of a ques-
tion. This miserable business reached
its apogee of debasement in the campaign
to suppress W. L. White’s Report on
the Russians, and the willingness of pub-
lishers to withhold books actually in type.
The best example of this is the suppres-
sion of Trotsky’s biography of Stalin, a
historical volume of the greatest signi-
ficance ; a few copies are available, but
the edition has been withheld from the
public.
The worst sinner in this hate business
has been radio. Men have day after day
stood before microphones denouncing
citizens for their opinions. Radio has
become degraded as a gossip, a purveyor
of cheap rumor, of unprovable canards
concerning individuals and public move-
ments.
The need for sharp, staccato enuncia-
tion of radio helps the exaggeration. The
fact that the most successful broadcasters
are those whose voices are most raucous
and give the impression of terrific anger
has resulted in a vogue of rushed and
forceful denunciation of persons and
things. All the sins are not on one side.
Hate has become a style and a fashion.
If Hitler started it. his most ardent


The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street. Sydney.
Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS con help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
R EO!STe*e° TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS, ARTERIES, ETC.
1-n
Thousands of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto In relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief —the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
As a result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple: skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully in a free booklet
offered see below.
What users of ELASTO say*
"No signs of varicose veins
now.”
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
“ 'Elasto* has quite cured my
eczema.”
"My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis."
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to "Elasto”, Box 1552 B,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the Interesting "Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££a4&r wiM ymo /
BAR THEM FROM
YOUR BUILDING..
Time, Wear and Tear are always on the
jot—but where Lifts are concerned, in-
telligent. planned and systematical main-
tenance by Waygood-Otis can nullify the
efforts of these three villains.
Waygood-Otis Maintenance is more than
a routine check-up and periodical adjust-
ment—it is a regular engineering survey
that forestalls the continuous efforts of
Time, Wear and Tear to bring about a
dislocation of lift service.
Ask yourself this—who but the manufac-
turer is better able to service the equip-
ment he designed and built? If your lift
is a \Vaygood-Otis isn’t it logical then to
have genuine Waygood-Otis replacement
parts and genuine Waygood-Otis know-
how and service?
It will pay you to put your lifts under
Waygood-Otis. Telephone or write your
nearest office for details. IMo obligation
WITH
WA YCOODO
LIFT
MAINTENANCE
of course.
m
%
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS fAUST.) PTY. LTD. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICAL
TRANS PORTATION
opponents have flattered him by constant
and meticulous imitation.
The end of the war should bring an
end to this. Have we not had enough of
it? I dislike adding fuel to the fires of
hate, but a long list of organisations that
thrive on this, of individuals who live by
it at good salaries, could be published
and may have to be if the fashion of stir-
ring man against man, group against
group, does not die a natural death now
that the war is over.
Mac Arthur’s Complex Job.
(From an article by a N.Y. "Times” Washing-
ton correspondent .)
It is a big job that General MacArthur
faces. The commander’s qualifications,
in the opinion of many observers here
in Washington, are excellent. He knows
the Japanese people, as well as the other
peoples of the Far East, well; he is a
strong and austere man, a proved admin-
istrator and one with enormous personal
prestige in the Far East, even among the
defeated enemy. The Japanese should
know they would not be likely to deceive
him.
At least 1,500,000 of the 1,800,000 men
now in the Pacific and Far East will be
returned to the United States by next
June 30, but new troops —in as great
numbers as the military authorities decide,
are necessary—will go out to replace
them.
There are great differences between the
jobs in Germany and Japan. In the shat-
tered ruins of the Reich we took over
from a thoroughly beaten army ; in Japan
we take over from an army that we never
met in force.
Although the Japanese Army laid down
its arms because its leaders knew their
cause was thoroughly hopeless, there is
a great psychological difference. It will
become most important, some authorities
consider, to straighten out Japanese think-
ing. Since the Japanese mind is not easy
to tamper with, this is a job that will
call for the most skilful type of planning
and execution —a sort of programme of
psychological post-warfare. It remains .to
be seen how skilfully we can do it.
The physical condition in which we
find Japan is another factor that alters
the comparison with Germany. Although
Japan took severe bombing damage the
aerial campaign against her was so rela-
tively young that a greater proportion of
the country is unscathed.
Nevertheless, we must rebuild certain
ports, docks, bridges, railroads, njotor
roads and utility systems for the benefit
of our occupation forces, which will need
them.
In Germany we found the war indus-
try pretty thoroughly smashed as a result
of the long air campaign. In Japan a
greater proportion will be found intact.
In the Potsdam declaration the United
States, Britain and China declared that
the war-making power of Japan would
be destroyed. The dismantling of her
industry alone will be a gigantic job.
Authorities familiar with Japan point
out that it is perfectly feasible to establish
her as a self-sustaining nation, even after
she has been deprived of the heavy in-
dustry formerly used to build up her
potential for waging war. They do not
anticipate a disastrous economic problem
as a result of the industrial amputations.
The problem of bringing Japan’s war
criminals to justice also fooms large. The
Potsdam declaration promised the world
that “stem justice shall be meted out
to all war criminals, including those who
have visited cruelties upon our prisoners. ’
On the administrative side, the quick
surrender may have been embarrassing.
The Army’s Civil Affairs Schools were
training specialists for the Japanese
theatre rapidly, but the job will require
several thousands more than have been
trained. The War Department is con-
sidering means of stepping up this train-
ing, but the results, particularly in view
of the complexity of Japanese background
and language, are bound to be somewhat
sketchy.
After the military influence has been
purged from the Government, existing
Japanese civilian agencies probably will
be permitted to resume their normal func-
tions as usual under general supervision
of the occupying forces.
There is considerable Washington in-
terest in the question of Emperor Hiro-
hito’s ultimate future. This, of course,
is a purely speculative matter, but in-
formed opinion seems to think that the
Emperor can survive so long as (a) the
Japanese people continue to want him;
and {b) his intentions and actions are sin-
cere and effective. Failure to co-operate,
it is generally believed, would spell the
end of the ruler.
Authorities on Japan are not too dis-
couraged on the prospects of ultimate co-
operation from the Japanese people. They
feel that the proper sort of educational
and administrative programme, carried
out over a reasonably lengthy period, will
produce results. Though Japan never will
become our style democracy, her trouble-
making proclivities at least can be curbed.
But an occupation army alone cannot
win the peace, unless it is prepared to
occupy the enemy’s homeland forever.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources .)
During the war Canada gave $1,600,000,000
in Mutual Aid to Britain as well as an outright
gift of $1,000,000,000, and it is felt that in one
way or another the system of Mutual Aid will
have to be continued until a long-term credit
can be substituted. The difference between
lend-lease and Mutual Aid is that while the
United States plan calls for ultimate settle-
ment, no post-war payment will be asked by
Canada. It will be for the countries that re-
ceived aid to decide if and when they desire
to make repayment. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The ending of lend-lease does not at all mean
that the U.S. will not give future financial and
economic aid to Britain. On the contrary, it
has long been the expectation that the U.S.
should give such aid. The plans of the Ad-
ministration and the attitude of Congress have
always assumed that economic reconstruction
of the world is an imperative necessity and
that U.S., as the richest nation, should bear
the largest burden. Mechanisms for aid to
Britain and to other nations are already set up.
Some of the money is already provided tor.
In Washington there is no question about going
on with the plan.— Mark Sullivan; N.Y.
“Tribune.”
* * * *
The British feel that the balance sheet is
being drawn up unfairly. Lend-lease began
in March, 1941. They ask, what about their
contribution to victory, which began in Sep-
tember, 1939? They claim that these things
should be put on the credit side: Dollar
reserves and dollar securities that they ex-
hausted, capital investments they made in
American industry, such as shipping, inven-
tions and parents they turned over to the
United States even before lend-lease and our
entry into the war, cash-and-carry purchases,
the blood, sweat and tears they expended in
holding the fort alone. In short, they say,
“Throw 1940 and 1941 into the balance if
you want to be fair.” — N.Y. “Times.
/ 4 s ♦
China has approximately 460,000,000 inhabi-
tants, excluding Mongolia. Yef her total
foreign trade in 1939 amounted to a mere
$530,000,000. Canada, with 12,000,000 popula-
tion, did a foreign trade totaling $1,598,000,000.
China’s per capita foreign trade in 1939 was
just $l.lO. Her imports were 85 cents per
capita and her exports 25 cents. Canada’s per
capita foreign trade footed up to $141.30 or
$63.45 for imports and $77.85 for exports. On
a Canadian basis China would have piled up
the perfectly fantastic foreign trade total of
nearly 65 billion dollars. Her imports alone
would have amounted to more than 28 billion.
Of course, no such astronomical figures are re-
motely possible at any time in the foreseeable
future for China. But they do indicate what
can be done if the Great Powers (1) live up
to the Nine-Power Treaty and the Smo-Soviet
pact and (2) help a pacified China raise the
living standard of her tremendous population.
If freed from civil strife and given proper
help the Chinese could quickly double and
quadruple their present purchasing power.—
Washington correspondent N.Y. World lele-
gram.”
* * * *
In his State-of-the-Union message to Con-
gress President Truman said: “One of the
costliest lessons of our unpreparedness for this
war was the great danger involved in depend-
ing upon foreign sources for supplies of raw
materials necessary in times of national emer-
gency....! recommend that Congress enact
legislation to bring about the acquisition and
retention of stockpiles of materials in which
we are naturally deficient but which are neces-
sary to supply the needs of the nation for its
defence.” That is and should be at least a
billion-dollar item as an addition to our normal
pre-war imports. And of that billion the
United Kingdom could realise a very large
increase over 1938 in exports to the United
States, since numerous essential raw materials
come from the United Kingdom and areas ruled
from London. That increase would materialise
in British purchasing power and improved
national economy and provide funds for im-
ports from the United States which Great
Britain will require and which in turn will
strengthen the economic position of the United
States. There is not likely to be successful
opposition to so commonsense a proposal, and
its effects on Britain’s dollar position would
be highly beneficial.— Arthur Krock; N.Y.
“Times.’'’
* * * *
“The problem in Europe as I see it is to see
that the people there are properly fed and
kept reasonably warm during the coming winter
and give them the essentials necessary for
priming their industrial pumps. It seems to
me that America must aid all countries for its
own self-interest. The essential is to preserve
the democratic way of life in western Europe.
It was for that purpose that we provided lend-
lease and all the other great contributions we
have made. We might as well be honest about
what has happened in Europe. We have not
won victory in Europe. We have only beaten
the Germans. Our present enemies are cold and
hunger. Unless we get clothing, fuel and some-
thing to eat to the pople m Europe and
assist them to re-establish themselves the demo-
cratic way of life will be severely challenged.
—Arthur Hayes Sulzberger, president N.Y.
“Times,” speaking on return from. Europe.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
MT67-12
fleu International Trucks
can be delivered immed-
iately for essential work.
Capacities up to 4y 2 tons... 2-speed
rear axles.. All-steel cabs.. Import-
ed platform, dropsides and stake-
sides bodies. Other approved body
types.
Obtain full information at our
branch city showrooms or from
any of our Authorized Metropoli-
tan Distributors or Country Local
Agents.
Imported by the (government to
ensure efficient transport .. ."Permit
to purchase” must be obtained.
Your nearest Metropolitan Dis-
tributor or International Harvester
Agent will help you with your
application.
INTERNATIONAL. HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
TMTT W> WINK
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
d
CYanogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can nse the BXb.
Cyanogras blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia,
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle
* Sterilised
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
. All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
Q.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
The“ATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
f
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
. the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards of
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all "MAKS” Lathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibrationless running of “MABS”
Lathes.
The Leadscrew in ail “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert
& Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence St., Sydney.
For Victoria; Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd.,
28 Market St., Melbourne.
STOCKISTS!
Goods! I k Co. Pty. Ltd, 301 Kent St, Sydney
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Pastures and Pests.
“R. Ney”: One of the penalties of im-
proved sheep pastures is increased trouble
with diseases, particularly internal para-
sites, and, as A. R. Grayson points out in
the Victorian “Journal of Agriculture,”
it is mainly due to the increased stocking
that follows improved pastures. The
obvious cure, reduced stocking, is only
applicable to a small degree-few men
are going to spend money on building up
a pasture unless it will at least treble
carrying capacity.
It is, however, becoming clearer that
another important contributor to the
disease increase is lack of minerals in the
pastures. Where these minerals are pre-
sent in adequate quantities there is
usually far better general health of the
tZ “*■“”?
? d £ ° r mmeral ,.content, and
ow that the war is over there won t be
much trouble in correcting the lack.
Sheep probably cop out worse from in-
ternal parasites than any other stock. A
mere record of deaths from worms
doesn’t indicate the total losses; they
come from poor fleeces, second- and
third-grade lambs, lamb losses, etc. The
best preventive is good stocking, so
worked that the sheep get a fair share
of whatever is going and retain their con-
dition all the time. Rotation of grazing
helps, since the sheep are not allowed to
stay in one paddock long enough to con-
taminate it badly, and while they are off
it parasite eggs and larvas die out. Burn-
ing-off helps to get rid of worms ; so does
cultivation of the paddock. But over
and above all is good tucker—good
enough to keep the sheep strong and thus
able to throw off infestation—and the
best way to get good tucker to them is by
supplementing the pasture with hay, grain
or
t Mitchell Grass Pastures,
. Norther ’: Grazing trials on a natural
Mitchell grass pasture in south-west
Q ueens l and are described in Bulletin 185,
issued by the C.S.I.R. Three rates
S ei l e c °^ n P ared - a light rate
ofT-V ‘ wS ex
perienced graziers consider to be toe
approximate carrying capacity of the par-
ticular type of Mitchell-grass pasture
being used. Each rate of stocking was
tested under continuous grazing and under
rotation, i.e., paddock grazed at double
rate for six months and then spelled for
s^ r ? 10 ? , ~
v m P rogre ? s / or three
SM&SSgSjTcZZ
drawn . Tentative results show that con-
tinuous grazing at the medium rate (1-5)
was the best treatment. Under it there
was no evidence of pasture deterioration,
and sheep liveweights and wool produc-
ti°n were maintained almost as well as
under the light grazing of \-l\. The
regular practice of heavily grazing
Mitchell grass for a lengthy period over
the summer, particularly during summers
°f light rainfall, should be avoided ; it
leads to elimination of the Mitchell grass
from the pasture.
#
Cotton Growing,
“Muffin”; Numerous illustrations have
been obtained in tests and in corpmercial
plantings of the advantages of ploughing
cotton land in late summer rather than in
autumn or winter. At Biloela (Q.) Re-
search Station, cotton grown on a forest
alluvial loam ploughed in March after
three years of Rhodes grass appreciably
outyielded cotton grown on later
Ploughed areas.
Soil moisture tests indicated that at
planting time early in October the March
ploughed areas were wet to 34 inches as
compared with 22 inches in the June
ploughing and only 17 inches in the
August. As an inch of steady rain will
penetrate only approximately six inches
in dry, firm soil of the clay-loam type
on which most of the cotton of our State
is grown, it would require at least six
inches of penetrating rain within a week
to wet August ploughed land to the depth
attained through the March ploughing,
Crops on March ploughings averaged
9711 b, cotton seed per acre, June plough-
ings averaged 9081 b., later ploughed areas
failed to produce over 5001 b. Highest
average yield produced was from Sep-
tember-planted March-ploughed areas,
11311 b., which exceeded September-
planted, June-ploughed areas by 1891 b.
per acre.
dac Rpcni-ffpnrf*
- uu- » vr 17c w D* 1 A •
B. Cubbin . The N.S.W. Royal Agri-
cultural Society is making ready to resume
the Easter Show in 1947. It can t have
one before then as there wouldnt be time
for agriculturists, breeders, high-jump and
hot enthusiasts, the fat lady and the
three-headed tadpole to get into training.
Jimmy Sharman s pugs are probably still
in uniform or war work and the future
female champion of the Jersey section is
still short of manpower to tease her tail
and polish her horns. Besides, the man
who will guess your weight or cough up
acoupleof boxes of chocolates resolutely
to get in the queue for chocolates
The biggest job is to get the district
exhibits going again. These displays of
the land s wealth were probably the
greatest single attraction of Sydney show,
but it takes an enormous amount of time
R n A.S lab is r .o to coX n
of the five districts—and any others who
may be interested—and start the ball
rolling.
Another less spectacular but equally
important part of R.A.S. activities, the
field competitions for wheat-growing,
fodder conservation, maize, potatoes,
erosion control and pasture improvement,
will be resumed next year. In the past
these competitions have had a big influ-
ence on agricultural development in this
State. The R.A.S. can claim that its wheat
contests have added a couple of bushels
an acre to State production, the fodder
contests have increased
and reduced winter and drought stocK
losses, and the maize, potato and pr
trials have had similar Erosion
control will be a new one, it s
a decided effect on one of the most sen-
ous problems of the land.
As in the past, each country agncul-
tural society will be invited to run a local
competition, the winners of which will
compete for the R.A.S. championships m
their respective zones. The society is
anxious to hear from any individual or
organisation with ideas on the subject,
and it certainly deserves all the encour-
agement it can get.
1
Trees and Streams.
“Bill C.”: Whatever trees are encour-
aged tQ g row along the banks of water-
courses care should be taken that their
falkn branches don’t block the water-
way The majority of develop a
vast root S y S t e m when grown close to
water, so I believe in planting ’em a short
distance back from the ver S e> Masses
* w illow-roots may partially block a
stream the shoots are pro p aga ted too
c jj ose . same with bamboo and water-
es Another thing: the leaves of
near . water trees tend t 0 f oul the water,
they’re planted well back they serve
their purpose of holding the banks and
of br £ aking mo isture-eVaporating winds,
and cause nQ trouble whate ver.
Many landholders are opposed to the
grow j ng G f water-course timber, and have
- n tbe past cut down protective trees to
the detriment of the surrounding
coun f ry ImmenS e damage was done at
Proser ' lne (N .q.) wben careless Italian
f armers destroyed the river timber some
years ago> xhe relatively small quantity
wat * that fringftlg trees ta £ from
creekg and guUies i s nothing compared
with that wl J ch th save from evapora .
° £
'
_ . . .. „ .
Fowls in the Garden.
“Get”: There are two obvious benefits ;
the green feed for the fowls and the fowl
manure for the garden. Feed green, leafy
scraps to the fowls direct, but cook stems
and tough skins with boiled wheat and
meat scraps. There will be scarcely any
waste.
Fowl manure is very rich in nitrogen,
up to 2-\ p.c., and rich in potash and
puosphate. But don’t use it straight on
the garden. Make a compost heap with


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^e'^tdleim.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months £l4 0
6 12 6
3 „ ’0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia;
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9O
ECZEMA
3 ENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S..
Doans Ointment
Arteries of water! These are the pressing
need of Australia if it is to achieve its right-
ful place among the peoples of the world.
It must conserve its water supply for its
people and provide bountiful irrigation for
millions of thirsty acres. With modern Cater-
pillar Diesel and Waugh & Josephson Earth-
Moving Equipment, building a large dam or
a pipeline across country or providing an
irrigation scheme .. . once the work of years
... is now possible in months.
CATERPILLAR
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and
CATERPILLAR EARTH-
MOVING EQUIPMENT
ViESEI
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney — Phone, L 332 1; Marquis St.,
Ounnedah — ’Phone, Ounnedah 326. Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone,
57 Cambridge St., South Grafton; Mr, R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie — ’Phone,
Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga—’Phone,
2839; 102 Melbourne St., South Brisbane — ’Phone, JIJ/56; Rankin St.,
Innisfail — ’Phone, Innisfail Iflo.
' -v is»J «
# > *-> A yilwW nfyj
$$ wM/l/f/A yM
(/
■«? i i I /
m •■ -y/v'
vV
aSSfZ
T /V
mm
X',
Australia's life blood
In constructing vital water supply schemes
Caterpillar Tractors, wielding big, brutish
bulldozers, clear away trees, stumps and rocks
and remove millions of yards of earth to build
the dams. Multi-scooped ditchers powered by
Caterpillar Diesel Engines, cut the trench for
the pipeline. Then the tractors, with winches
and sidebooms, swing the pipe into position
for welding, cradle it for doping and wrap-
ping, lower it, cover it. . . backfill the trench.
In water conservation and irrigation, as in a hundred other
essential tasks that go towards building the pride and prosperity
of a nation, Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Waugh & Josephson
Earth-Moving Equipment have cut m/'K costs t 0 a fraction of
what could be achieved by jjMfJ 3W older methods... and
.without wasting time or I jfA manpower.
mimWm
' r "2x', $1
J p[ ' 1
isii si m
.
Hi
*
■ - '• C SS5 > -
WlmJrmM
CT.S-33-42
PORTABLE—FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES ON
STANDS.
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and
built to tit your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very
attractive and some pur-
chasers have reported re-
covering their full outlav
in one season.
df
THE MAXIMUM PATENTED OUTLET.
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor.
The patented Coupling is the only one on the market _ that has
positive flexibility, for it can be coupled in any direction to an
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight.
Quotations given for plants suitable for 2 to 1000 acres.
MANUFACTURERS;
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
Agents: SMITH & GLUYAS PTY,, DTD., 154-156 Clarence St., Sydney.
Telephone: M 2977.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES Pty., Ltd., Box 768K.G.P.0., Brisbane. Phone, B 3131.
WELLING & CBOSSLEY Pty., Ltd., 143-149 Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. Phone, MX
MSI 953——_
the manure and ashes. Rake the yard
and fowl-house on to the heap at least
once a fortnight. When the heap is moved
the ground under it will grow wonderful
cabbages.
Make use of the fowls. Dig over next
year’s garden in the spring and let the
fowls have the run of it through summer.
If they are slow to scratch make a furrow
with the hoe and bury some wheat
therein. Boiled wheat is best in late
summer, as it won’t germinate if the fowls
miss any. Ground that the fowls have
been running on will be free of pests,
grubs, slugs, snails and eelworms. There
will be mo weeds, and the fowls will keep
the ground well worked. There will also
be a liberal application of fowl droppings.
Even when the garden is well advanced
the fowls can be used to clean up pests.
Leave out a good feed of green leaves
overnight, and next morning give the
chooks ten supervised minutes in the
garden. It’ll save hours of slug-baiting.
Root Pruning.
“Green Ink”: If fruit trees are show-
ing a lot of top and not much fruit, try
root pruning. Trees up to five years old
can be done, and small ones that have
been “lifted” by the nurseries bring much
higher prices. With young trees, start
by taking a trench out about 2ft. from
the stem, work towards the tree till the
roots are found, then remove soil beneath
them and lift the tree. Next cut away
the strong roots, leaving only the fibrous
ones.
Spread these evenly and upwards and
tread part of the soil firmly, then fill in
and tread again. Roots should be Sin.
or 4in. from the surface. Big trees may
be treated without taking them out, but
don’t cut downwards with a spade, as
this bruises the roots and causes some to
die; at least it induces them to grow
downwards. All cuts should be upwards,
thus bringing new growth to the surface.
Weak or stunted trees should have the
top pruned hard. If they don’t improve
uproot them and plant new ones. Same
applies to old or neglected trees.
Hints for the Farm.
“Outback”: Research - workers in
Britain have found that half the objects
handled by milkers may be contaminated
with the organism of chronic mastitis.
Tests with milkers’ hands gave 18 pairs
affected out of 22, while churn handles,
door knobs and other dairy furnishings
showed 50 p.c. infection. Of 2177 milk
samples tested from herds all over Britain
37 p.c, wera carrying the organism and
23 p.c. teat swabs taken at the same
time sffbwed infection. The teats of 50
young heifers and in-calf heifers were
also tested. In the heifer calves no sign
of the organism was found, and only one
of the in-calf heifers showed a positive.
“Will C.”: Recently S.Q. dairymen and
graziers complained that they were un-
able to buy molasses for stock feed.
There’s no doubt that molasses is a neces-
sary item on many farms and restrictions
on its use should be lifted. When
sprinkled on dry feed it prevents consti-
pation and impaction in cattle. Used as
a garnish ,it gives otherwise unattractive
mineral licks a desirable flavor. Some
pig-raisers contehd that in moderation it
acts as a tonic and keeps pigs free from
worms.
“Myrrhee”: Ordinary concrete is too
cold for pigs; a drier and warmer floor-
ing can be made with sawdust-concrete.
Use three parts of coarse sawdust to one
of cement, mix thoroughly by hand to a
moist consistency, apply in yin. layers
and work down well until the 2in. level
is reached. Dust the surface with pure
cement, smooth with a float and finally
sprinkle with pure sand. Put a ledge of
pure concrete 4in. wide on exposed edges
to prevent the sawdust-concrete breaking
away. Allow three weeks to harden.
“E. 2”: For general use 1 cement, 2\
sand and 4 gravel or screenings (by
volume) makes good concrete ; no clay
or foreign matter should be present. Mix
the dry ingredients thoroughly on a level
floor and stack in a heap ; water is poured
in a hole scooped in the centre and the
lot worked into a stiff mixture. Don t
make the batches any bigger than can be
handled conveniently. Spread the con-
crete and tamp firmly, then bring up a
smooth surface by trowelling. Concrete
should be laid in sections no more than
4ft. wide, divided by narrow wooden
laths, which are lifted when the concrete
has firmed and the joins filled with a
weak mixture of sand and cement. After
24 hours to harden the concrete should
be covered with wet bags for at least a
week to cure, j
“Bill C.”: Better known as “wonder
grass,” giant couch is acclimatised in
N.Q., where it thrives extremely well in
and around watercourses. Rather a hairy
grass, giant couch spreads at a tremen-
dous rate, and yields a great body of rich
feed for dairy cattle. The protein con-
tent of young giant couch is not much
less than that of young lucerne. The
grass produces running stems and succu-
lent shoots and is good for grazing and
chaff-making alike. It does not seem to
seed in S.Q., but an abundance of fertile
seed is produced on the N.Q. coast. The
grass, however, can be established in any
damp place by rooted runners, but it
cannot stand very cold winters. *
“Sarina”: Grow a few Cape goose-
berries to provide jam- and pie-making
fruit. Jam factories are also keen to buy
’em in unlimited quantities T y
home in mild and warm climates t y
grow wild there. PkMigh bo f imn
scrub land or burn an old lantana clu p
and put the plants in per mattocK io
feet apart. With steady moisture a pat
should last five years, but the first ye _
crop is always superior to the ratoomng
crops. Keep weeds down until the ousnes
cover the ground.


'W
PROTECTION during Peace and War is
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE.
throughout Australia.
ECKERSLEV . SONS PTV. LTD.
93-105 CLARENDON ST.. STH. MELBOURNE SC.S
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
1-2-3 knock out
FLU - COLDS
WV with
POIBIE II
fsiicalifjtUiA
Knock out Flu-Colds in record time with
the popular Double “D” Eucalyptus
3-way treatment. It’s quick and effective.
K%k TAMW
Wm bus
WWmmi*
3 drops of Double
“D” on sugar,
chest and back with
Double “D.”
15 drops of Double
“D” in hot water.
d
Also sprinkle Double “D” Eucalyptus on
your handkerchief and pillow. The more
ways you fight Colds with Double “D”
the quicker you will knock them out of
your system. Always keep a bottle of
Double “D” Eucalyptus handy in your
medicine chest.
9|d. and 1/4.
I
II?
,
i
*
NJ
' M //U '
d
SMOKE-OH!
“Now at last she had the opportunity of
doing him a great wrong.” —Magazine story.
So she accepted his proposal.
■J* *l*
“ ‘Bad Manners’ by US on Lease-Lend.”
—Hobart “Mercury.”
That habit of dropping the full-stops
may yet smash the Atlantic Charter,
•F *F *i*
Red Sea.
She threw a kiss, as we’ve heard sung
before,
Into the ocean; followers threw more.
If this craze lasts, it will, with lipstick
shine,
“The multitudinous seas incarnadine.”
Brian Bureau.
♦J*
Preparation for Peace.
“Servicewomen who have put on weight in
the services are trying to reduce so that they
will look well in civilian clothes.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
When my wife joined the services I
feared the worst. It happened.
After a month on army rations, com-
bined with as little P.T. as she could get
away with, she became known to the
Q.M. as “The Boomerang,” due to her
habit of returning each week for a larger
uniform. She was deeply hurt at the fifth
visit when he suggested unkindly that it
seemed a matter for the surgeon’s rather
than the tailor’s art.
Towards the end of her army career
she had a silhouette like the first stages
of a monumental job by Epstein, while
her front elevation gave an architect
friend of mine the inspiration for three
public buildings. Then her discharge
came in sight and she got to work.
She would do exercises to the wireless
throughout her leave, the effect of the
sprightliest of them on the structure of
our cottage being disastrous. When I
claimed insurance the company refused to
regard my wife as an Act of God,
although when they saw her they were
visibly shaken.
In desperation we rigged up a Turkish
bath by building a fire under a 500-gallon
tank with an inch of water in it. My wife
stood up to it well, apart from turning
puce, but she was too sensitive to put up
with the comments of visitors, who would
ask brightly “What’s cookin’?”
As soon as she was discharged, of
course, all was well. In the civilian
struggle for the necessities of life she
wasted away in a week to her normal 14
stone.
> Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Unable to conquer the drink habit that was
ruining his practice, he buried himself in the
heart of the country and threw up the sponge.”
—Crime story.
But he still continued to soak,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted —woman for squeezing fruit.”
“S.M.H.” advt.
Good opening for some tight-fisted
person.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I have a warm sunny spot formed by an
angel of the brick front walls of the house,
which makes a perfect sun-trap.”
—“Sunday Sun” gardening notes.
A veritable paradise.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Although his father had objected to Gaynor’s
marriage he later bought him a farm.”
—“j d.t:-’
Dad fumed and swore when Cyril wed;
The act he deemed unsound.
He softened later, it is said
Yet still he stood his ground.
H. M.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Even in war-time people get married.”
— Woman’s paper.
Thus women are able to feel thai
they’re fighting with their men.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Kelpie dog, lost, dark brown, tan muzzle,
feet; spots over eyes, write under tail.”
Autograph hound?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“After his having been taken prisoner the
governor of the jail died without his know-
ledge.”—Melbourne “Herald.”
Perhaps the confusion prevented some-
one telling him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“By a printer’s error in at least’ 100,000 of
the “A” personal income return forms, the
Taxation Department exhorts taxpayers to make
an untruthful statement.” — “S.M.H.”
There is no reason, sense or rhyme
In this debased instruction —
Td do the job in half the time
By process of deduction.
D. H. E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Watch, oval-faced lady’s gold wrist.”
— “S.M.H.” Lost and Found.
A classic beauty, eh?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, Morning Woman, 45, for home
work, £3 week.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Must be good at sums?
Etiquette.
He always spoke in tones subdued
When in the bar or thereabout;
To raise one’s voice, he thought, wps
crude.
And so he let the others shout!
J. A. W.
-I- V *i* *J*
‘ Kindergarten, young, refined, highest refer-
ences req., accpm.” —Suburban paper.
A boarder of class.
•J* 4* 4*
Now Bite, Please \
“A New York dentist puts earphones on his
patients when working because music reduces
the grating sound of the drill. Favorite tune
is ‘lt Ain’t Necessarily So.’ ”
“Just a little wider, please... .um.,..
I’m afraid a bicuspid here has started to
go. Now if you just hold this mirror
here like this I’ll show you. Your head
a little to the right, please. There! Now
look closely at the small mirror I’m hold-
ing. You see that bluish shadow on the
tooth near the gum?”
“G-grlsh.”
“Exactly. Incipient decay. We’ll put
in a temporary filling. Now first we ll
have a spot of drilling. Oh, you’ve no
need for that Tarzan’s grip you're getting
on the chaic sides. I assure you. The
"Pst! I'm going to give the fellow
seven years—hop out and pay
a deposit on his flat for me.”
drilling will be absolutely nothing to
worry about. But first put these ear-
phones on. They’ll help take your mind
off the monotony of the drill’s buzzing.
Now just relax and enjoy yourself while
I clean this cavity out. Each to his own
devices, as it were, eh? Just a teeny bit
wider. There, that’s better! Now this
drilling’s not inconveniencing you in the
slightest, is it?”
“Glug guggle.”
“Of course it isn’t! Really, the
modern dentist’s chair is no more to be
afraid of than the barber’s. My own
kids have got that way they want to come
in and have their teeth done. Never been
the slightest bit of trouble in the chair
since they were this high. It’s just the
way you train them in the first place.
Now when you and I were nippers what
did they do? Threaten —threaten, mind
you—that if you pinched quinces from
the orchard or wagged it from school
they’d take you to the dentist and get
him to fill some teeth or pull some out.
That’s why-ythere’s a little sensitive, spot
here, but just take it easy, there’s no need
to worry—that’s why, as I say, so many
middle-aged men still walk past their
dentist’s door a few times, even when
they’ve got a toothache, before they can
pluck up enough courage to go in. But
I can see you’ve got over that stage long
ago.”
“Glup... .gulg.”
“That’s right. Ah, well, they can say
all they like about what they called ‘the
good old days,’ but when you stop to
think, they weren’t really so good. A
dentist’s instruments were comparatively
crude things, and those old-time dentists
in their ignorance simply ignored the
dangers of a ‘crowded’ mouth. There
were no such things as block injections
to enable the drill to be played right on
an exposed nerve without the patient
being aware of it. Things, in fact, are
incomparably better all round, don’t you
think?”
“Gologolog srps.”
“My opinion, too. Though, mind you,
in some other ways things are not nearly
so good. Children are allowed to eat
far too many sweets, for instance. Abso-
lutely the worst thing out to start dental
decay, though I suppose some would say
it’s a good thing for the dentists that they
do. Ha! Ha! Well, I suppose dentists
must live, although there are times their
i patients probably query the necessity,
I eh? Ha! Ha! —um —now just wash
I your mouth out, will you? Now, again?
Not quite so wide this time. Now this
will be nothing at all, just a little round-
el ng off of some rough edges. How’s the
music going?”
“Glr.., .0g1... .Gsh.”
“Good! The women patients rave
over Bing, the flappers go for Frankie, but
most of the men prefer Victor Sylvester’s
orchestra or Deanna. A matter of taste,
I suppose. I have one middle-aged woman
patient who as soon as her appointment
time is fixed writes to about six broad-
casting stations to play for her while she’s
in the chair a certain record. It’s always
the same one: T’m a Sugar Daddy’s
Tomato Blonde, And Is My Face Red!’
One day she had seven extractions,
and Good heavens, what’s wrong?
I wasn’t hurting, was I?”
“You weren’t, Mr. Bawrer. But would
you mind putting the drill right on the
exposed nerve, without benefit of any
block injection, and keep it there? It
might help deaden the effect of your
magging when I’m trying to swallow half
a gallon of saliva while my mouth’s open
a foot or more and having my eardrums
bashed by Count Basie and his blasted
band!”
80.
Painting the Lily.
“Seeking a divorce, a Los Angeles woman
complained that her husband forced her to use
lipstick.”
The partner of the lady fair
Apparently was not aware
How fortunate he was to share
Kisses from lips without the snare
Of gory glue they mostly wear;
Instead, it seems he couldn’t bear
His loved one’s face to brave the air
In what is known as disrepair.
It’s likely, though, that he was swayed
By a design more deeply laid
In prompting thus the paintless maid:
I’m betting that the faithless blade
Had fallen for some other jade.
And, fearing he would be betrayed
By lurking kiss-prints, he essayed
To match the Other Woman’s shade.
P. M. LUSK.


Legal Notice.
IN THE ESTATE of GEORGE HERBERT HARRI-
SON, formerly of Wahroonga, in the State of New
South Wales, Clerk, but late No. 438593, Royal
Australian Air Force, deceased, intestate. —THE wife
of the abovenamed GEORGE HERBERT HARRISON,
formerly of 40 Bundarra Avenue, Wahroongp,, who
is a beneficiary under his will, or anyone knowing
anything of her whereabouts is requested to com-
municate immediately with the undersigned.
WEAVER GENTLE & HARRISON, Solicitors, 111
Faulkner Street, Armidale, New South Wales.
HOW TO PUT YOUR DISTRICT
it
ON THE MAP" IN THE
FOURTH VICTORY LOAN
SSX£
iiiill
th ,tame
/ vf-":
v> * _ 1
"ii
• F-‘iiri ttfniitfjirr
fO* boNDS
fiPP 1 *
fOrf™
\ *«><,<
/J> yo" % rO cK in u ou ht
I**** L-° Af i'ti%
of**t
help
Vfo°%t£ *''!*-
-o» r d %an r
MMK
Every town and municipality is
given a loan target which it aims to
reach and pass, both in money and
number of subscribers. Naturally
the district in which you live wants
to be out in front in this competition
to reach the quota figures, at least.
So when you fill in your application
for the loan make sure you name
your district.
Mention this to your friends and
neighbours when you’re discussing
the loan. Let them know that you
are doing your duty as a patriotic
and far-seeing member of the
community.
Remember that you can buy Bonds
for cash or by instalments. And
whichever way you choose the full
sum contracted for is credited to the
figures for your district. But you
must name your district!
Make sure you do your bit to get
for your district that special red
pennant which goes to the towns
or municipalities with best loan
results in each population class .
FACTS ABOUT THE FOURTH VICTORY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used only for War
and Repatriation. Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO,
£5OO and £l,OOO, or Inscribed Stock, may
be purchased for cash or by instalments,
through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
2. Interest is payable each six months, at 2{%
per annum for five years, or 3i% per annum
for sixteen years. Repayment in full at
maturity is guaranteed by the Common-
wealth. Your Bonds or Inscribed Stock are
readily saleable to meet an emergency.
3. You lend, not give, your money. On your
application form, credit your subscription to
your district to help its quota.
ICTORY
Loan
mmmWM
f m
mm.
r
CRAVEN A
tk&fte ahvMfs,,
modtk * fjtedt!
Obtainable In 10 9 s & 20’s
if :•/ >
!&*>**
;-><vT
5787
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THR
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy full orchestrations of “Italians in
Algeria,” “lolanthe,” “Semiramide” and Haydn
symphonies. —3659.
To buy Sky High to Shanghai, by Frank
Clune. —3660.
Information Sought.
Is it legal to divert money from a district
comforts fund (which has operated indepen-
dently of A.C.F.) to a fund to be divided
among returning servicemen of the district?
It is assumed that the fund is either regis-
tered or exempted from registration. Since
the object of the fund has been changed it
would be advisable to notify the Chief Secre-
tary of the change and obtain his approval.
Under National Security Regulations if at any
time it appears to the Repatriation Commis-
sion that it is desirable to wind up the affairs
of any fund, “the Commission may direct that
the fund be wound up and that any moneys
remaining unexpended in the fund shall be paid
by the person in whose hands they are to the
Commission or a Patriotic Funds Board, and shall
be disposed of by the commission or board in
such manner as the commission directs for the
benefit of persons who have served as members
of the forces during the present war or the
dependants of deceased members who served
during the present war.”
Some information about the financing of the
Australian Transcontinental Railway?
The line was completed in October, 1917,
and the capital cost at the 30th June, 1918,
was £6,899,000. Capital additions since have
brought the total cost at 30th June, 1945, to
£9,196,000, comprising £2,553,000 from revenue
account and £6,643,000 from loan account. Of
the amount from loan account, approximately
£5,300,000 was borrowed from the Australian
Notes fund and the balance partly from other
Commonwealth Trust funds and partly from
the public. The greater proportion of Notes—
fund moneys lent to the Treasury for this
purpose represented profits derived from inter-
ests on investments. These loans were sub-
ject to interest at rates varying from 3£ p.c.
to 4i p.c. p.a., and a sinking fund of
10s. p.c. p.a. was provided. When the note
issue was handed over to the Commonwealth
Bank in 1920 debt to the amount of approxi-
mately £3,428,000 in respect of the East-West
Railway was redeemed from the accumulated
profits of the notes fund. The balance of the
debt forms part of the Public Debt of the
Commonwealth, which matures at various dates
and is being redeeemed in the ordinary way
through National Debt Sinking Fund. No part
of the cost of the railway was paid by the
States.
What are the numbers of adherents of the
principal religious denominations in Australia ?
According to the 1933 census, Church of
England 2,565,118, Roman Catholic 1,161,455,
Presbyterian 713,229, Methodist 684,022, Bap-
tist, 105,874.
t
Brief Answers.
R. 8.: “What I shall be, I hope” is the
translation of that Latin quotation E.S.:
The pronunciations are San Michele —Sahn
Meeka-lay, Vansittart Vansittat... .C.R.C.
A. E. Smith, 9 Hunter-street, Sydney....
S.R.A.: As the service pension is paid to you
on account of old-age and not in respect of
pulmonary t.b., you are disqualified under
section 45 A.F. of the Soldiers’ Repat. Act from
receiving service pension and invalid or old-
age pension at the same time J.T.R.
Rather than go to the trouble of making graft-)
ing wax, use Colgraft, which is applied cold.
This is obtainable from most firms selling agri-
cultural products Wirrawa: A full descrip-
tion of the cloth is necessary before the infor-
mation can be obtained; send this to the Dis-
trict Contract Board, 428 George-street, Sydney.
.... .A.C.E.: (1) Eire has a population of about
3,000,000. (2) Information unobtainable. (3)
Rowlahd James is M.H.R. for Hunter, N.S.W.
S.M.: Twenty years is a “life” sentence; a
“natural life” sentence means imprisonment
until death G.E.R.: The distance is much
too great for a six-volt unit; not less than 32
volts should be used. For lighting of mode-,
rate intensity allow one watt per sq. ft.; an’
area of 1000 sq. ft. would require 1000 watts,
and the amperage would be about 32. For a
distance of 400 yards, a voltage of 120 would
be better, requiring an amperage of about nine.
Locate batteries in house.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
supbmitled; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.R.: Very rarely reprint materail that has
been broadcast 8.H.: Be sparing of techni-
cal terms V.M.: Have you ever seen a bush-
fire? E.T.L.; Nothing new about your brave
new world... .W. 1.: Try a daily... .E.D.: If
it is essential for Dad to drop his g’s and h’s,
be consistent about it N.A.: “Did I doze
beside the campfire or did I really receive a
visit from the spirit of Charlie Slade?”
Neither G.L.: Come again L.E.: Some
good writing, but lifeless ... . J.Y.: Don’t ex-
plain your jokes so conscientiously... .C.C.L.:
“Jennifer’s Folly” is flimsy... .0.A.R.: Conver-
sation too long-winded... .P.W.: “I tremble to
think of the problems confronting qur leaders.”
You should also tremble at the problems con-
fronting the poet J.R.H.: Swaggie and faith-
ful dorg—oh, cripe5!... .8.8.G.: Ballades
should be neat as well as sweet... .KJ.C..
Stock jokes in limping verse W.C.: Com-
posed with the aid of a cookery book and a
copy of Masefield’s “Cargoes’ ... .C.S.R.: 1
thought of it off Florida recently, where the
water is incredibly blue.” Incredibly watery,
too.


JOURNEYING
~=^ONWARD
We believe it vras Robert Louis Stevenson who
said:
"It is more pleasurable to travel than to arrive ”
There can be no greater tragedy for an
individual or a Company than to arrive at a
point on the road of Progress and stay there
satisfied ignoring the beckoning finger of
achievement to go yet further, if only to blaze
a trail for those who follow. While, as leader
in its field Gerrard Wire Tying Machines
Company has ARRIVED it firmly intends
to continue to TRAVEL—forward to improve
and expand its already wide range of package
reinforcing equipment.
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
GERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Machines and Strapping - Flat Band Strapping Systems
Corrugated Fasteners - Fountain Stencil Brushes - Fount-Pencil Markers
Stencil Inks - Label lackers and Tacks - Bag Ties -
(trbl'HTiil Packing Room Supplies.
Melbourne. Sydney. Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart
£1,000,000 REFINERY
FOR THE PRODUCTION OF
«CALTEX
HMMUm.
In this great refinery, the most modem in the world,
Caltex perfected the motor oil that gives a new lease of
life to tired engines ... and NOW with the strain on its
resources relieved by Victory this refinery provides for
Australia the finest motor oil ever imported. Try it in
your car or truck. It will definitely improve the per-
formance of your engine, minimize carbon and reduce
running costs.
TOMORROW'S OIL TODAY.'
Rub With a Circular Motion
AS soon as Bennie Snape saw the
small unpainted house with its
shut-down windows he knew that
old Gormie was dead.
It was right and proper for a little
dried-up grasshopper of a man over
eighty to pass on without warning or fuss,
but Bennie was conscious of shock. For
years he had never gone by without pul-
ling in at the little grey paling gate and
threading his way up to the front step
through rows of crooked onion stalks
and broken flower-pots.
Accelerating wildly, Bennie urged the
car along the rough bush-track and was
soon on the main road, a kelpy wind
from the sea blowing in his ear.
The road was close to the sand at this
part, close to the inlets and the tussocky
grass and the silver-grey bushes with their
tiny yellow balls. Back a little from the
dark braids of water, lilies grew thickly,
clump after clump. They looked odd in
such a place. No one knew how they
had first come, but there they were every
spring with their shapely leaves and pale,
rounded trumpets pierced with gold.
From the road Bennie Snape looked at
the lilies with an air of sly amusement.
That’s them, he thought, and gave the
fat throaty chuckle of a contented man.
He had made use of the lilies in a busi-
ness way. They had suggested to him a
text with a nice, romantic sound about it.
“My Love Feedeth Among the Lilies.”
He had copied it out from the Song of
Solomon for the printer in Willowdale,
and now here it was in black lettering on
yellow bill-paper, wrapped round the
bottle of medicine that he was on his way
to deliver to Miss Hannah Deane at
Deane’s farm.
Bennie was a hawker and his most
profitable best-seller was a liniment con-
cocted in a haphazard fashion from a
recipe of his grandmother’s, made and
bottled in an old tin shed at the back of
his house. The bottles wore a profes-
sional look, due to the gummed-on labels
that were printed for him locally,
“GRANNY’S WONDER LINIMENT
FOR ALL ACHES AND PAINS
PARTICULARLY CHEST
RUB WITH A CIRCULAR MOTION.”
Honey-colored and of a resinous smell,
the stuff, which cost him a few pence to
make, was sold at two and sixpence the
bottle. The free texts that accompanied
the bottles, chosen at random from the
Bible more for their picturesqueness than
for their aptness, cancelled out in Ben-
nie’s mind the comfortable profit that he
made. He liked as well the blending of
religion with his business, for his father
—at one time a small unsuccessful store-
By MYRA MORRIS.
keeper at Willowdale and a member of,
an obscure religious sect called the’
Brethren of Salvation —had instilled into
him at an early age the advantage that
would accrue both in this world and the
next from a judicious spreading of the
Good Word.
Driving indolently, with only one
plump, hairless hand laid on the wheel,
Bennie took a last friendly look at the
lilies and swung the car away from the
sea. He was a man of middle age, sturdy,
with pink cheeks and a small puckered
mouth like a baby’s. There was bene-
volence in his smooth, rounded fore-
head, good humor lurking under the
shrewdness in his sandy-lashed eyes that
were wrinkled round the corners. It was
the lively face of a man who knew him-
self as something of a character and was
determined to live up to it.
DEANE’S farm, a scatter of tumble-
down buildings and sheds and fences,
with a rutty path twisting through a welter
of tarnished bracken, lay close ahead.
Whistling under his breath, Bennie
Snape negotiated the puddle at the gate-
way and drove cautiously down the slope
to the house.
In the Deane kitchen three people were
sitting with an air of waiting. The kit-
chen was a long room, comfortable
enough, with unlined walls festooned
with strings of orange-peel and raftered
with wire racks of apples that smelled
like crushed sweet-briar. The window
was curtained in coarse white net and
gave a look-out over a muddy yard dap-
pled with ice-blue pools of spilled milk
and neat round cakes of cow manure.
Old man Deane was sprawled back-
wards in a chair, cleaning his nails with
a pen-knife, his yellow-stained whiskers
lying across his waistcoat like a- worn,
straw, broom. The old woman rested,
her knees well apart, her round red-
veined cheeks puffing in and out with the
gentle bubbling noise of a kettle boiling.
They were both tough and hearty, and
incredibly old to be the parents of
Hannah. Hannah was in her middle
twenties, a tall, awkward girl with a flat,
high-colored face and an uncontrolled
look about her gawky limbs that sug-
gested a ventriloquist’s doll. She sat
with her feet turned in under the chair,
her full brown eyes staring at the fire in
the stove, the set of her hunched shoul-
ders proclaiming a desire for silence.
Bennie Snape’s car approached the
yard. Hannah’s limbs jerked as if they
had been pulled by invisible strings.
“It’s him,” she said, giggling a little.
When Bennie appeared in the doorway
it was as though he had been blown
lucre by some vital gale from a different
world. His small feet in the narrow
black shoes stamped on the step. His
cheeks were pink and his eyes twinkled.
You would have expected him to shake
snow from his lashes.
“Hiya, Mr. Deane, Mrs. Deane! Hiya,
Hannah! Nice weather for this time of
the year! The sap rising and the blood
lively, too. How are the pigs, Mr.
Deane? Fine! Fine! I never forget
what you told me. Don’t pat a pig
scratch its bristles just behind the ear.
How’s that, eh?” He set his two cases
flat on the scoured kitchen table ready
for opening up,
“How is the pain now, Hannah?” he
asked, bending forward deferentially from
the waist.
Hannah flushed with pleasure. She
had been waiting for him to ask her that
question. “How is the pain now, Han-
nah?” Almost like a doctor.
“It’s better than it was,” she admitted
grudgingly. “It was like knives in my
chest. Knives with jagged edges,” she
added after a moment’s consideration.
“A bread-saw, like,” suggested the old
man, drawing his mouth down at the
comers.
“That’s it,” said Hannah, unaware of
the sarcasm.
“Women! ” muttered the old man, prod-
ding at his nails. “Give me pigs every
time. They got no imagination.”
Bennie Snape, who liked to please
everyone, managed to look sympathetic
and to laugh at the same time. With the
air of a conjuror he opened his cases and
bent over them.
A pipe for the old man, aprons and
hairpins for Mrs. Deane, a bottle of ink,
pot-menders, soap, and Hannah’s lini-
ment tied with string the color of cochi-
neal.
“Half a crown! It’s dear!” giggled
Hannah, hugging it to her breast.
“It’s expensive to make, and it takes
a long time,” said Bennie, staring at an
invisible point away in the distance.
“If she’s got a pain she should see a
doctor,” declared the old man, with the
air of one saying something that had been
said many times before. “If she hasn’t
she should shut up about it.”
“That’s not a nice way to talk,” re-
proved the old woman.
“It’s sense,” said Mr. Deane, his faded
eyes on the cattle moving uneasily at
the bottom of the yard. “I’ve seen them
carried out feet first all along of them
not going to see the doctor.” He grunted,
holding his new pipe up and looking
along the stem as if it had been a gun.
“Old Gorman’s gone.”
“I know,” said Bennie softly.
He was sorry that Mr. Deane had men-
tioned old Gormie, It made him uncom-
fortable to remember old Gormie, his
wheezy chest, his explosive hawking and
spitting. Always old Gormie had pinned
Ids faith to the Wonder Liniment.
“Granny’s Rub,” he had called it. “Bring
me a bottle of Granny’s Rub, boy, it’ll
do me fine. Better than any doctor.”
There would be a tidy little heap of
empty bottles at the back of old Gormie’s
by now. . ,
But it was only the fact of old Gormie s
belief in the stuff, Bennie assured him-
self comfortably, that had allowed him
to go on taking those two-and-sixpences
that the old bloke had dug out of his
pocket as if he were digging them out of
actual flesh.
“Well, better be off” he said, and, with
the sunny smile that irradiated his pink
face, walked briskly to the car with his
cases.
Hannah stood in the doorway listening
till the distressed sound of the car ascend-
ing the track had died away. Then she
went into her bedroom and unwrapped
her parcel.
Her mouth hung slackly as she read
the printed text. “My Love Feedeth
Among the Lilies.” It was beautiful.
She put a little of the pine-smelling
liquid into a saucer and shudderingly
rubbed her warm, blue-veined flesh. “Rub
with a circular motion.” Rub, rub, rub.
Soon the pain would be gone.
Already she seemed to see the shape of
the pain running away like a snake
through grass.
BENNIE lived in Willowdale at the
dead end of the town.
In the shed at the back that had
been fitted up with taps and shelves,
a sink and an old smoky kerosene
stove, Bennie was always happy potter-
ing about with wet labels and glue,
washing bottles, stirring mysterious
concoctions over the blue, waver-
ing flame, stacking new supplies methodi-
cally into place. The Wonder Lini-
ment was his joy. He would have been
hard put to it to remember exactly the
ingredients that had gone to its making
in the beginning, but the base (water from
a certain dried curly fern that he found
in the forest and boiled for hours on end)
remained essentially the same as it had
been, and his own addition, a pungent
pine essence that he bought wholesale at
the chemist’s, was to his mind an im-
provement.
Now, working in the shed a week after
his visit to the Deanes’ farm, he labored
a little less happily than usual. The
thought of old Gormie’s death was still
on his mind. Old Gormie had pinned
his faith stubbornly to the Wonder Lini-
ment, and he had died notwithstanding.
His death was a reflection on the liniment
that, after all (Bennie was forced to admit
reluctantly), had no proved curative quali-
ties ; and it was also in a way a reflec-
tion on himself, Bennie Snape. “But I


Whether you're interested in Wisdom Teeth or Gear Teeth
it pays to bring things nearer
• • •
clearerl
Be careful—there’s a nerve down there. If molars were as big
as they look in this micro-photograph, drilling would be easier.
But because a tooth is about 20 diameters smaller than this, the art
of fine dentistry becomes a seeing task. Industry meets this problem, too.
Many manufacturing processes, research work and engineering machining
demand the same kind of concentration operatives want their work more
get-at-able— c/eorer — nearer.
Condor “new vision” Fluorescent Lighting brings things clearer-— nearer. The remark-
able characteristics of this shadow-free, high-intensity, low-brightness lighting render objects
with greater definition, hence they appear nearer, and eliminate eye strain.
In addition, Condor "new vision" Fluorescent Lighting has these advantages:
(1) Low heat level, which enables reflectors to be
placed close to work.
[2) Economical, as you get 1\ times the intensity of
ordinary incandescent lighting.
(3) Easy to install, as existing wiring is usually adequate.
[4) Cheap in operation and maintenance because
Condor Fluorescent lamps and accessories are
manufactured on highest lighting principles.
(ojjjfe
FLUORESCENT AND FILAMENT LIGHTING
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY: George Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., National Theatre Supply Co. (A'sia) Piy. Ltd.,
Reg. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd., T. F. Stewart & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sun Electric Co, Pty. Ltd.
MELBOURNE: Howard Electrical & Radio Pty. Ltd., Sun Electrical Co. Pty. Ltd.,
A. J. Veall Pty. Ltd. BRISBANE: Trackson Bros. Pty. Ltd. ADELAIDE: R. C. Woollard.
A3NQAS “IS iONiH VID S£ 'Oll Aid (VIS V/V) SdNVI JIOONOO
believe in it,” he assured himself stoutly,
as he gummed a label on a shining new
bottle. “I believe in it. It’s grand stuff.
Worth its weight in gold.”
He stood the bottle tenderly on the
shelf and went across to the tiny window
that looked out over the side road to
the meeting-hall of the Brethren. People
were coming slowly out of the building,
making a black-ant trail down the path.
Bennie popped back into obscurity, a little
puzzled, a little hurt. He hadn’t known
of any meeting.
Why hadn’t anyone told him? The
question nagged at him as he gummed on
a new label, and was finally answered to
his satisfaction. Of course, no one had
told him because of late he had been a
bit of a backslider. He had excused him-
self from meetings and dodged the acting
preacher, Brother Jones. He had grown
away from the Brethren a little. They
were too sanctimonious for his taste.
Moreover, he didn’t care about their
habit of “calling-out” erring members of
the congregation and praying for them
publicly while they administered a rebuke.
There was the time they had called-out
Joe Cowley for adulterating his sausage-
meat. ...
Live and let live, thought Bennie as
he slapped away cheerfully at the wet
label, and was unperturbed, when he
opened the shed door for more light, to
find a tall, lanky man in a scarecrow’s
overcoat throwing his shadow across the
grass. It was Albert Turner, the Willow-
dale baker, who confronted him, peering
over his shoulder into the corners of the
shed. Bennie nodded. He liked Bert,
whose lugubrious bloodhound face
always seemed to secrete little drifts of
flour dust in its folds.
“You had an afternoon meeting, Bert?”
“Yes, we had a meeting.”
“I wasn’t let know.” Bennie winked
slyly to show that his appearance of
offence meant nothing.
“No, you wouldn’t be let know,
Bennie.” Albert gloomed for a little,
kicking at‘ the step. “There’s a prayer
meeting tonight at eight. I thought I’d
give you a word of warning. You’re to
be called-out and prayed for.”
“Who — me?” Bennie’s mouth made a
little round O of surprise, and his sandy
eyebrows took a ludicrous upward slant.
He was silent for a moment, struggling
between anger and disbelief. “What they
got against me?” he asked in an injured
voice.
“A matter of profit,” said Albert
cautiously. “That rub-stuff you sell.
Somebody counted fourteen bottles on
old Gormie’s rubbish heap. And it’s not
as if they done him any good.”
“Well, I’ll be jiggered,” said Bennie
softly.
He stood motionless, feeling as if a
cold wind were blowing on him from
some place where it had never blown
before. *
u \k /E come now to pray earnestly for
VV Brother Snape, entreating him to
thoroughly examine his heart. For what
shall it profit a man”....
Brother Jones’s drawling nasal voice
flowed on and on until it seemed to Bennie
that it encompassed the whole world.
Sitting forward on the edge of his seat,
his face covered, in the attitude that was
considered the reverent and right attitude
for prayer, Bennie knew shame. He felt
that everyone in the scanty congregation
was looking at him.
When the praying was over he joined
lustily in the singing of the final hymn,
feet set well apart, his head thrust well
down into his stocky shoulders. He did
not wait for supper, though he could
smell the coffee cooking in its little muslin
bag in the outside copper. He wanted
to go home, and he couldn’t get there
quickly enough.
In the narrow scullery behind his
kitchen he put the kettle on and fed the
swollen mother-cat with milk. Mewing and
curling round his ankles, the cat made him
think of Hannah Deane. Her full breasts
like ripe fruits under her tight-drawn
blouse, her moist, parted lips, her drown-
ing eyes. Hannah, Suppose she should
get worse and die on him with a bottle
of Wonder Liniment in her hand! He
shrank in anguish from the thought. The
night had turned cold, with a sharp,
sudden chill that pierced his bones. He
slept uneasily in the high-roofed bed-
room off the kitchen, and dreamed that
Hannah was dead, lying in her shroud
among the lilies by the dark sea-water.
He woke sweating, his mouth dry. She's
dead, all right, he thought, I knew she’d
die. He put a coat on over his pyjamas
and let himself out into the bright early
morning. There had been a frost in the
night. The leaves of the docks were
crusted with powdery white and the long
grass bent over as if dogs had tumbled
there. Moving steadily like a man with
a fixed purpose in his mind, he walked to
the shed, unlocked the door and went
inside. Everything was there. The neatly-
placed bottles just as he had left them,
the pot on the stove, the yellow piles of
printed texts and labels. He filled his
arms with bottles like a man filling his
arms with flowers and went outside. It
was a terrible thing that he was going
to do, but he would do it, destroy the
stocks of the precious Wonder Liniment
for good and all. He would never sell
the rotten stuff again.
He flung the bottles out one by one.
Some fell with a soft thud on the grass,
some crashed with a glassy tinkle against
submerged iron and china. The sound
hung in the air like a chime of little bells,
and the bells rang silverly in Bennie’s
head. I’ve done it, he told himself
proudly, but he stood rubbing his fingers
together, his round, pink face contorted
in agony. There was more than precious
bottles gone ; there was something else
shattered to bits and lost —the vision of
himself that he had always had: Bennie
Snape, the honest man, the well-
beloved ... *
By midday he could endure it no longer.
The memory of his shame the night
before still rankled, though he had in a
measure made amends. His fear haunted
him. He must find out about Hannah
Deane. He carried his cases into the
garage, a lean-to alongside the house,
tippe'd- petrol into the car and drove away.
It was a clear, lovely day, with sun on
the treetops, and the sea spread out like
a sheet of milky glass. But Bennie, driv-
ing with an urgency that was new to him,
saw nothing of it. As he came down
the steep cliff road on to the flat where
the lilies grew he looked with half-fright
along his shoulder. The frost had got
the lilies. The shapely leaves were a pulpy
mass. The pure-white blooms were black
and stricken. Bennie remembered his
dream with horrid accuracy. “I been a
cheat and a liar,” he muttered. “I sold
’em what I knew was rubbish and made
’em pay. And now there’s Hannah dead.”
F y
S_ , , c tt uv
O deeply was the idea of Hannahs
death entrenched in his mind that
half an hour later when he saw her cross-
ine the yard he could not at once believe
Z evidence of his eyes. But it was
Hannah all right. Hannah, sprawling and
untidy, with a bucket of pig-swill in one
hand, Hannah looking her astonishment,
her face going from red to white, then
red again.
“Hiya, Hannah!” Bennie clambered
out of the car, his legs shaking under
him. Airy words floated like bubbles
out of his small baby mouth, “I thought
I’d just call in. I’ve brought the pipe-
cleaners for your dad.”
“It’s real good of you,” gasped Hannah,
She stood giggling helplessly, dragging
together the pleats of her blouse where
a food-stain showed.
“How’s the pain, Hannah?”
“It’s gone,” said Hannah simply.
“Eh?” Bennie felt a slow delight steal-
ing over him. “Gone?” t
“Yes, a few rubs like you said cured
it. It’s grand stuff that, Mr. Snape.”
Hannah looked at him, smiling broadly,
She wanted to say something but she
couldn’t say it. It had been like that at
school. She had always known the
right words would never come. “It was
a nice text,” she said shyly. About the
lilies.” „
“Oh, yes, yes, yes ; Song of Solomon,
, Bennie’s voice was brisk and business-
bke. He 1° failed °after S him
house, and Hannah trailed after him,
draggi g * , examined
.^ n t kitchen t e delieht
his pipe-cleaners with a naive delignt,
cocking his head towards Hannah.
, Rennie”
G? 1 ®"! R.“£„a, c hin e
That liniment, B ” , ~r ,
Mrs. Deane laying the c t>th.
stuff that! Always swear by it myself
Fair dmkum. scoffed the old man
raising his shaggy eyebrows,
Hannah drifted out, dragging her
bucket, / vaguely resenting the old man s
tone.
Bennie stayed on, scarcely hearing Mr,
Deane’s chatter. He wanted to be on the
road again, occupied with his own
thoughts. When he left Hannah was at
the bottom of the yard. She waved a
hand hopefully and he waved back. Nice
girl, he thought comfortably, nice as
girls g°* . , , , . .
It was getting late when he diove into
Willowdale. He parked the car in the
garage and went into the backyard. Deep
in the grass lay the bottles he had thrown
out in the morning Some were still
whole, but most of them were broken.
It was shocking waste. Whist mg, enme
bent to his task of retrieving those that
were undamaged It cured the girl, it
will cure others, he told himself happily,
Good stuff and cheap at the price. At
dusk he was still there stooping and
straightening himself, stooping again.


£O3
Last Year's Will
may not meet to-day*s
conditions
Inevitable fluctuations in the value of assets
and other factors may affect the intentions
expressed in a Will. It is, therefore, desir-
able that you consult your Solicitor and
have your Will revised periodically to meet
changing conditions.
At the same time, consider the advantages
of appointing The Trustees Executors and
Agency Company Limited as your Executor.
Its appointment gains for your Estate, at a
fixed and moderate charge, the services of
a Company with more than 67 years’ prac-
tical experience in the administration of
Estates.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) ; D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G, S. Cplman, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S>, Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager! W. Sydney Jones.
Manager! K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS!
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. B. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUOKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager. T. 0. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Australiari Consolidated Industries, Ltd.
, Dividends — , Nominal
Net Pref. Re-
Mar., Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves.*
’35 175,522 15,750 13 p.c. = 120,962 570,006
’36 205,493 15,750 15 „ „ 139,672 620,177
’37 231,199 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 696,054
’3B 287,628 15,750 15 „ „ 139,572 828,360
Surplus sale assets, £4,331,718 .. 5,160,078
Bonus scrip Issued, £2,558,814 .. 2,601,264
’39 324,512 15,750 6.86! p.c. c= 239,598 2,670,428
A.C.I. and Subsidiaries.!
Share premiums, £99,694 .. .. 2,770,122
’4O 433,271 15,750 7 p.c. = 251,229 3,004,532
Share premiums, £99,694 .. 3,104,226
’4l 410,777 15,760 8 p.c. = 820,003 3,179,250
May.
Share premiums, £49,847 .. .. 3,229,097
I '42§ 427,864 15,750 7* p.c. = 318,273 3,322,938
Loss, sale of assets, £1869.. .. 3,321,069
’43 329,324 15,750 6f p.c. = 302,821 3,331,822
Loss, sale of assets, £295.. .. 3,331,527
'44 341,851 15,750 6| p.c. = 302,821 3,354,807
Profit, sale of assets, £3063 .. 3,357,870
'45 392,186 15,750 7 p.c. = 814,037 3,420,269
* Subject to goodwill, etc. (now £2,372,421).
! Deducting outside interests in profits and reserves.
!On enlarged capital. §l4 months.
E. M. Grimwade, who sat at the head
of the board table since Australian Glass
Manufacturers amalgamated the interests
of the Melbourne Glass Bottle Co. and
two Sydney concerns in 1915, died in
April last. His brother, Major-General
H. W. Grimwade (Monash’s artillery
commander in the Third Div., World
War I), steps into the vacant chair, after
30 years at the board table.
The organisation is now one of Aus-
tralia’s major industrial undertakings.
The vision and enterprise of those
in control, tariff assistance, shrewd
management and technical efficiency,
combined to sit it there. The name-plate
was altered to the present more descrip-,
tive title in 1939, when the business was
split into a number of subsidiaries, and
£2,558,814 of bonus scrip was handed
out (11 for four) from a surplus of
£4,331,718 (about half goodwill) on
revaluation of assets. Then (Sept., 1939)
£996,941 of new ord. capital, which
brought with it £249,235 of share pre-
miums, was gathered. That lifted paid
capital to the present £4,661,233 in
175,000 9 p.c. cum. prefs. and 4,486,233
ords.
There are 20 cos. in the group, whose
activities, which range from glass-making
and engineering to plastics and printing,
are spread throughout the Common-
wealth and Maoriland. Recent growth
can be judged from the fact that there
are 7099 names on combined pay-roll,
which totalled £2,228,850 last term, com-
pared with-some 5000 names and over
£1,000,000 six years back. The £1,246,176
of new money put up by shareholders at
the outbreak of war found ready employ-
ment in the new engineering, plastics,
metal-stamping, fibre-carton making and
other sections of the organisation. A
wide range of munitions, including sights
and other gun components, shell forgings,
complete fuses, parabolic reflectors, etc.,
were turned out and charged to the Gov-
ernment at cost. And £80,595 was volun-
tarily handed back to the Treasury in
connection with manufacture of a large
volume of other war goods.
Main difficulties underlying production
have been shortage of suitable labor, coal
and materials. Among other things, it all
added up to restricted output of essential
lines and postponement of research and
development work, especially in the plas-
tics and other new sections of the busi-
ness. With war out of the way civilian
demand for products of the group can
be expected to gather strength as demobi-
lisation proceeds and the transition period'
merges into the post-war era. Meanwhile,
the Government proposes to control in-
vestment and prices, and to regulate sup-
plies of certain essential construction and
other materials. During the war stand-
ardisation helped to partly offset the effect
of lifts in taxation, wages and other costs.
With more varied production one danger
lies in the possibility of further lifts in
costs over which management has no
control rendering production of some
lines unprofitable, and so tending to retard
both output and employment, as well as to
reduce the national income and standard
of living. For these and other reasons
early relief from present excessive com-
pany taxation is called for, and so is a
declaration of Government policy in con-
nection with the wage-price structure.
Given freedom from undue Government
interference, A.C.I. can be relied upon
to give a satisfactory account of itself.
After deducting outside interests, pro-
viding for taxation and allowing £350,300
(up £45,204) for depreciation approx.
10 p.c. book value fixed assets
net earnings of the group (£392,186)
sprang £50,335 last term. But the
improvement was more apparent than
real. It arose mainly from adoption
of a uniform balancing date (end March)
for all subsidiaries, whose figures at that
date covered 'periods varying from 21
months to nine months. On a 12 months’
basis, the chairman says, combined profits
of the group only slightly exceeded those
of the previous year, which covered the
pref. div. and 7.2 p.c. on ord. capital,
compared with 6.9 p.c. and 9.4 p.c. for
the two preceding terms. The div. was
kept at 7 p.c.
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures in tabloid form:
Consolidated Balance Sheet Figures.
1940. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £4,062,601 £4,661,233 £4,661,233
Outside interests* 38,117 43,726 43,222
Sundry creditors! 509,706 1,346,771 1,693,885
Inter-co. balance! 859,764
Freehold .. .. 1,185,654 1,628,743 1,681,758
Plant, etc. .. 1,268,013 1,726,070 1,840,154
Shares, etc. .. 753,847 781,705 778,933
Stocks .. .. 1,454,793 1,821,826 1,878,352
Debtors .. .. 500,427 907,058 837,975
Consols and cash 167,870 687,293 593,960
Intangibles .. 2,377,385 2,878,499 2,372,421
Inter-co. balance! 43,946 11,165
* Including proportion reserves. t Including tax
provision, etc. ! Due to differences in balance date.
Adoption of the uniform balancing date
already referred to was partly responsible
for movements in the figures last term.
However, net additions of £114,084 to
plant, £53,015 to freeholds and £56,526
to stocks suggest that the board is losing
no time in preparing for increased output.
The reduction of £69,083 in debtors’
balances reflects the tapering of defence
orders. The amount coming to sundry
creditors (up £347,114) includes an un-
specified provision for taxation. The
more or less liquid surplus (£2,491,347)
was £84,847 stronger, despite the outlay
on fixed assets.
Howards, Ltd. (Brisbane)
Net Dividends To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Ordinary. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1985.. 12,126 8 p.c. = 8,345 3,781 147,015
1936.. 15,843 8 „ „ 8,345 7,498 154,513
Loss liquidation subsidiaries, £1993.. 152,520
1937.. 18,717 10 p.c. = 10,432 8,285 160,805
1938.. 22,460 10 „ „ 10,432 12,028 172,833
Reserves .capitalised, £34,773 .. 138,060
1939.. 20,821 10 p.c. = 13,909 6,912 144,972
1940.. 12,585 8 „ „ 11,127 1,458 146,430
1941.. 12,332 8 „ „ 11,127 1,206 147,685
1942.. 12,007 8 „ „ 11,128 879 148,514
1943.. 22,423 8 „ „ 11,128 11,295 159,809
1944.. 25,593 8 „ „ 11,128 14,465 174,274
1945.. 38,140 8 „ „ 11,128 27,012 201,286
Earnings of this stoutly-ribbed co. come
from Morris and Studebaker franchises
for Queensland and the Northern Rivers
of N. S. Wales, assisted by what looks
like a remunerative sub-agency for Inter-
national trucks (acquired in 1943), agen-
cies for ElectrlCE refrigeration and
Philco radio, and returns from a wad of
outside investments —Government securi-
ties and industrials.
Although war brought civilian sales of
motor vehicles, refrigerators and radios
practically to a standstill, our own and
Allied service demands, especially for the
two last-mentioned helped to fill
the gap. Mounting costs, particularly
taxation, bit into takings, of course.
Hence the sag in profit figures for the
first three years of war and their recovery
since. Gross earnings fell sharply from
£119,181 in 1939 to £66,681 in 1943, and
rose to £76,949 in 1944. Over the five
years to the close of accounts in 1944
the tax bill shot up from 5.1 p.c. to 18.6
p.c. of gross earnings. During the same
period net profit rose from £20,821 to
£25,593, which suggests that keen man-
agement kept a tight hold upon control-
lable exes.
Last term the board reports increased
sales in all sections of the business. The
spring in gross earnings (£111,041) was
£34,092. Including the previous year’s
tax bill (£14,313, up £3500), but making
no provision for the next one when it
arrives, exes. (£72,901) took £21,545 of
the increase. That left the declared net
result £12,547 stronger at £38,140, equal
to 27.4 p.c. on capital as against 18.4,
16.1, 8,6, 8.8, 9 and 14.9 p.c. back to
1939. The div remained steady at 8 p.c.,
and more than twice the amount distri-
buted was put by, lifting reserves £62,193,
in excess of paid capital.
Balance-sheet movements are encour-
aging :
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £139,093 £139,093 £139,093 £139,093
Creditors* . . 39,868 81,648 13,066 51,103
Freehold ~ 69,969 69,929 69,929 70,129
Plant, etc. . . 1,754 1,623 1,312 1,287
Stocks . . 105,247 69,869 60,410 56,732
Book debts in-
vestments, etc. .168,458 161,348 195,205 227,707
Cash, etc. .. 1,092 27,603 20,704 46,756
* Including unaccrued interest.
Last term’s expansion of £32,502 in book
debts and investments —an untidy entry—
was accompanied by a growth of £38,037
in the amount coming to sundry credi-
tors, which includes £4533 (up £2134)
unaccrued interest on hire-purchase ac-
counts. Cash, etc., was strengthened by
£26,052, approx, the amount of surplus
earnings. The growjh in the more or less
liquid surplus (£280,092) was £26,839.
Plans for marketing new cars and
trucks are well advanced, the chairman
says. And so are arrangements for manu-
facture and sale of refrigerators and
“other domestic appliances,” many of
which have not been previously marketed
by the co. Competition in the motor
trade promises to be very keen. Selling
prices of cars look like being about double
pre-war figures. Unless overcome, lack
of dollar balances might create an imme-
diate position more favorable to British
than American manufacturers. Ulti-
mately much will depend upon what
happens in connection with an Austra-
lian-made car.
Peters American Delicacy (Sydney)
To
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 55,720 10.7 p.c. = 42,583 13,137 569,348
Unexplained additions, £28,847 .. 598,195
1936.. 68,517 12* p.c. = 49,681 18,836 617,031
Depreciation reserve. £20,276 .. 637,307
Unexplained reduction, £24,388 ~ 612,919
1937.. 109,320 16 p.c. = 63,876 45,444 658,363
Added depreciation res., £21,277.. 679,640
1938.. 113,491 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 78,005 757,645
Added depreciation res., £26,434.. 784,079
1939.. 96,812 8.9 p.c. = 35,486 61,326 845,405
Goodwill ( £25,250), freeholds, etc.,
sold to subsidiary, and £397,446
of bonus scrip issued from profit .. 870,655
Depreciation reserve disappears,
£453,423 417,232
Div. on bonus shares, £70,972 .. 346,260
1940.. 87,537 8,9 p.c. = 72,991 14,546 360,806
1941.. 77,306 8.9 „ „ 74,498 2,808 363,614
1942.. 70,637 8 „ „ 66,751 3,886 367,600
1943.. 83,825 9 „ „ 75,095 8,730 376,230
1944.. 85,478 9 „ „ 75,095 10,383 386,613
Inner reserves disclosed, £37,850 .. 424,463
From tax reserve, £20,000 .. .. 444,463
1945.. 86,166 9 p.c. = 75,095 11,071 455,534
This holding co. presents only a skele-
ton balance sheet, which means that
shareholders simply have to back the
management. To encourage them in the
belief that there is little danger in doing
so, they can see a long run of very satis-
factory divs., sweetened with a one-for-
one bonus-share issue in 1940, which
makes distributions since equal to double
the declared rate on capital as it stood
before the gift. And there are indications
that the management continues to follow
the same cautious policy as in the past.
Chief source of income is two wholly
owned subsidiaries. The principal one,
Peters Ice Cream Pty. (paid capital
£1,000,000) provided the bonus issue just
referred to, and is still the backbone of
group earnings. The other is Peters
Creamery Pty., operating at Taree
(N.S.W.). It was formed about seven
years ago to ensure supplies of cream to
the other co., and has now grown into
one of the leading milk condenseries in
the Commonwealth. Financial results are
reported “satisfactory.” To help finance
extension of plant, etc., the parent in-
creased its holding in this offshoot (now
£150,000) by £50,000 last term.
Through the Ice Cream Co. the
parent is also interested in three
inter - State associates Peters Arctic
(Q.), Peters (Vic.) and Peters (W.A.)
all in the ice cream business
and all giving a very good account
of themselves. Another associate, Peters
(S.A.), is about to be formed in Adelaide.
There is no hint that those on the parent’s
register are likely to be asked for any-
thing more than the Is. 2d. presently to
be called on the 169,247 contribs. When
the money is in paid capital will be
£844,256 in 1,248,391 shares of 14s. each,
of which 1,079,144 will be fully paid and
the balance paid to 10s. 6d. each.
Last term the Ice Cream Co. was un-
able to meet demand. Supplies of dairy
produce were further cut by 12£ p.c. from
March, 1945, paper for packing was in
short supply and the co.’s customers were
rationed. “Satisfactory results were
achieved,” despite further advance in
costs. And more than usual was set aside


MAASEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’o
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne. N.S.W.
a scrap of paper
.... but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND CtNERAI INSURANCE* CO LTD. ,
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V PERKINS, General Manager.
BRANDALER-S
tm
m
*
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM. ENG
WV
rPENS
Every point
guaranteed—
Dandruff goes after a few ap-
plications of McMahon's. It
makes the scalp clean and
fresh . . . banishes scurf, itch-
ing and dryness . . . prevents
falling hair.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
iM? HAm
MW
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and' Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and. overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
PROMINENT ATHLETE BREAKS DOWN
Tells of Amazing Recovery!
"Four years ago I played most
kinds of sport, but suddenly my
weight dropped from over eleven
stone down to nearly eight. I
thought I was finished but,
after taking R.U.R., my con-
dition rapidly improved. I now
weigh nearly thirteen stone and
am fitter than ever before,”
writes Mr. D. Benson, of Potts
Point.
Mr. Benson’s experience is typical
of thousands of people who attribute
their vigour to R.U.R., a simple, in-
ternal cleansing treatment which clears
the system of poisons, acids and
wastes. Scientists know that from
these poisons spring the cause of much
pain and ill-health. That is why wise
people everywhere are turning to
R.U.R. in ever-increasing numbers to
this natural, efficient, way to physical
fitness.
Take R.U.R. as directed and it
gently reaches every eliminative organ
of the body, cleaning out wastes and
poisons, toning up liver, kidneys,
stomach, bladder and bowels to nor-
mal functioning again. R.U.R. is
bound to do you good. Take R.U.R.
for a while and feel the difference!
!SS3
WM
Smaller size, 4/-. and full money-
back treatment, 7/6. Obtainable at
all chemists and stores.
df
Company Meeting.
AUSTRALIAN CONSOLIDATED INDUSTRIES, LTD.
Post-war Research and Development.
CHAIRMAN’S ADDRESS,
Addressing the annual meeting of shareholders of
Australian Consolidated Industries, Ltd., on Septem-
ber 19, the Chairman (Major-General H. W. Grim-
wade) emphasised that relaxation of labor and fuel
shortages would facilitate important post-war de-
velopments. Before calling on the Chairman
(General Grimwade) to deal with the report and
balance-sheet, Mr. T. C. Alston, a director, said:—
“Before our Chairman, General Grimwade, deals
with the Reports and Balances for the year just
ended, I crave permission to refer to the loss to the
Company of our former Chairman, the late Mr.
Edward Norton Grimwade, who died on the 29th
April last. Mr. Grimwade’s death was not only a
very great loss to our Company, but also to his
brother, our present Chairman, who worked side by
side with him since early youth.
“We have also lost Mr. Wilfred Johnson, of the
firm of Smith, Johnson & Co., to whom I will refer
later on. Mr. Grimwade was a Director of this
Company and of its predecessor for 41 years, and
for 35 years of that period to the date of his demise
he occupied the Chair. During this long period the
Company grew from a comparatively small one to
what it is today. I, in common with his brother
(our present Chairman), my colleagues on the Board,
the staff of the Company, and many others have felt
a great personal loss, and I speak feelingly as we
were all so closely associated with him for so many
years, during which we learnt to appreciate his
kindly manner, sterling character and conscientious
discharge of his duties.
“I would also refer, with deep sympathy, to the
passing of the late Mr. Wilfred E. Johnson, of
Sydney, who acted at different periods on our Board
in an alternate capacity, and also rendered great
service to us in a consultative capacity on many
occasions. He was a man of great financial ability
and knowledge, and was also most energetic in his
efforts on behalf of the Company. I now ask share-
holders to ijoin with me in rising and standing in
silence as a token of respect to the memory of these
gentlemen, and as evidence of our appreciation of
their long outstanding and invaluable service to the
Company.”
The Chairman said: —
“I wish to apologise for the absence today of our
Managing Director, Mr. W. J. Smith. He is making
one of his periodical trips abroad in the interests
of our Company and arrived in America on Saturday
last. We are very hopeful that this visit overseas
will be just as successful and beneficial to the Com-
pany as his previous ones have been.
“I also apologise on behalf of Mr. Fred. J. Smith,
who is unavoidably detained in Sydney and cannot
be with us today.
“My Co-Directors showed their confidence in me
by inviting me to become Chairman. I was pleased
to accept the position and am deeply conscious of the
honor conferred upon me.
“It is most gratifying to be making this address
so soon after the glorious victories achieved by the
Allies over our enemies in Europe and the Pacific.
I pay tribute to our Empire leaders and to the
valiant men and women of our Fighting Services.
Let us hope that soon our people, f now with the
Forces, will return to us and work under peaceful
and prosperous conditions for the benefit of our
country.
DATE OF ANNUAL MEETING.
“This Annual Meeting is taking place later than
usual. For many years up to 1943 we met annually
in June, while last year we met in August. This
year we meet in September, a month later. This is
due to the fact that now, for the first time, all our
Subsidiaries observe a common balance date, t.e.,
3 Isis
“Prior to this year most balanced in March,- but
some closed their accounts in June, and some in
December. For purposes of comparison and tor
other reasons, it is necessary for them to all balance
on the one day, that is, 31st March, and we feel
that the change now initiated will prove most advan-
tageous.
REVIEW OF ACCOUNTS.
“For the year just ended the Parent Company
made a profit, available for dividend, of £349,771,
compared to £334,450 for the previous year. Divi-
dends received from Subsidiaries were paid from the
results of 12 months’ trading only. From the
year’s profits we paid 7 per cent, p.a.. on the Ordinary
shares and 9 per cent. p.a. on the Preference shares,
absorbing £329,787, as against 6f per cent. p.a. on
the Ordinary and 9 per cent. p.a. on the Preference,
absorbing £318,571 for the previous year.
“As regards the consolidated accounts, the profit
shown for the term just ended is £398,258, as
against £344,115 for the previous year. The two
periods, however, are not comparable, for the reason
that the figures for the year just ended include profits
for 21 months in respect to seven Companies, 15
months for three Companies, 9 months for one Com-
pany, and 12 months for all the others. I am
pleased to say, though, that on a 12 months’ basis
the combined profits of the Group slightly exceed
those of the previous year.
“Now dealing with the assets of our Group ot
Companies, land and buildings stand at £53,015
higher than a year ago, and machinery, plant and
equipment at £114,084 more. Investments and
Debentures are £312,205 higher, while floating
assets (Stocks, Debtors and Cash) are £420,867 less
than a year ago. You will note that we have
£479,272 invested in Empire War Loans.
“On the liability side, our Reserves and Accumu-
lated Profits are £65,462 higher than at 31st May,
1944, and Sundry Creditors and Provisions for Tax-
ation and Contingencies are £358,330 higher.
“I regard the result of the year’s work as satis-
factory. Our turnover, generally, was buoyant, and
would have been larger had production not been
restricted, due to lack of manpower, fuel and
materials. The compulsory restriction and standard-
isation, due to war conditions, of the many lines ot
glass containers, has largely offset the increased cost
of wages, fuel, material, etc., but this was only a
wartime expedient, and it is obvious our customers
must now be supplied with a complete variety ot
containers denoting the quality and distinctiveness
of their products if - they are to succeed on a com-
petitive market. This will naturally substantially
increase our production costs unless wages, fuel and
materials revert to a normal basis. ,
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
* “These activities have unfortunately been re-
stricted during the year just ended, and the cause
is entirely due to war conditions. Shortage of labor
and fuel are the main difficulties, as the available
supplies are insufficient for the production of our
regular and essential lines. We hope that con-
ditions will soon permit the implementation of our
plans.
EMPLOYEE RELATIONS.
* “To-day we employ 7f)99 persons, and the wages and
salaries paid for the year just ended total £2,228,850,
as compared with approximately 5000 people for
the year ended March, ’39, when we paid £1,000,000
in wages and salaries. The average wages/salaries
now average £314 per employee.
“It is gratifying to your Directors to note the
increasing progress made in the Social, Cultural
and Sporting activities of the employees, who are
also to be highly commended for their unstinted
efforts in raising and providing comforts and money
for Patriotic and Charitable purposes.
WAR AND POST-WAR.
“After these years of devastating War, I feel it
is fitting for me to refer to our War efforts; also
to mention our resources for rehabilitation and our
capacity to employ labor in the Post-war period.
“The story was amply revealed in 1942 in the
book issued with the Balance Sheet that year en-
titled ‘A.C.I. at Battle Stations,’ and since then
we have carried out much more War work. Certain
Munitions were produced and charged at cost, and
in respect to a large volume of War material we have
voluntarily handed back the sum of £80,595. We
• look, in retrospect, with pride on our Company’s con-
tribution to the War effort. Our staff and employees
are to be commended for their efforts to help meet
the Nation’s war needs, and we join with them in a
feeling of great satisfaction with the victorious re-
sult. We are confident that, with continued co-
operation of all those engaged in the Company’s many
industries, our reputation for the advancement of
Australia’s industries will be maintained to the
benefit of all. !
“At present 1400 of our employees are serving in
His Majesty’s Forces, and we look forward to their
early return to us. We extend our sincere and heart-
felt sympathy to the relatives of the 35 men who
have paid the supreme sacrifice and mourn the loss
of those gallant employees.
“We also offer our deepest sympathy to the relatives
of those who are still listed as missing or who were
prisoners of war. During the past year three of our
employees have received decorations for their services
—Squadron-Leader L. C. Jacobe, the D.F.C. and Bar;
Flight-Sergeant K. J. Dawsett, the D.F.C.; and Ser-
geant D. Moore, the Gold Oakleaf U.S.A.
“Again, we thank our Management and Staff, and
our employees, for their efforts. This is no for-
mality. We thank them sincerely for their excellent
and loyal work under difficult and trying conditions.
In the sixth year ,of War their task has been in-
creasingly difficult, and I congratulate them on their
capable and tireless energy and their sincere regard
for the Company’s progress.”
Mr. L. L. Evans seconded the motion of the
Chairman for the adoption of the Report and Balance
Sheet and stated that the Shareholders should be
very satisfied with the results, and I feel sure that
when we get back to normal conditions this Com-
pany will continue to make the progress it has
done in the past and will continue to be one of
Australia’s leading manufacturing Companies.
It was moved by Mr. F. S. Grimwade and
seconded by Mr. G. O. Simeock, that the two re-
tiring Directors, Major-General H. W. Grimwade and
Mr. A. E. Smith, be re-elected Directors of the Com-
Mr. Sydney Jones moved and Mr. A. E. Creswell
seconded the motion for the re-appointment of Mr.
A. G. Hooke, F.O.A. (Aust.), of the firm of Messrs.
Hooke and Graham, as Auditor to the Company.
Mr. L. L. Evans moved a vote of thanks to the
Directors and Management. He stated it is a pleasure
to be a Shareholder of this Company because every-
thing is so well managed and the industry goes
ahead so well.
for taxation. Plant and equipment are
being overhauled and new units mstalle
to cope with the increase in demand ex-
pected to follow lifting of restrictions.
The co.’s policy of leasing power cabinets
to cusomers helps to anchor turnover.
After sending £12,402 (down £2-0) to
the staff fund, the board wrote the parent s
net earnings last term at £86,166 (up
£688). That was equal to 10.3 p.c. oil
capital (£834,383) as against 10.2, 10, 8.4,
9.2 and 10.5 p.c, back to 1940. The div.
remained at 9 p.c., leaving £11,071 to put
on the shelf. Together with £20,000 previ-
ously overprovided for taxation, that
lifted reserves to £455,534. In addition
there are whatever reserves the subsi-
diaries have accumulated, subject to
goodwill.
The parent’s published accounts dotl t
tell much:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £397,446 £834,383 £834,383 £834,383
Sundry creditors* 95,335 75,124 11,563 7,105
Overdraft .. 71,163
Freeholds, etc. 285,345 — 1
Plant, etc. . . 687,281 94,699
Shares subsidiaries — 1,106,000 1,106,000 1,156,000
Other shares,
etc. .. 212,051 125,437 141,543 115,811
Stock .. 39,897
Book debts .. 23,238 55,407 1,899 1,670
Cash .. . . 108,115 58,512 65,701
* Includes provision for taxation.
To take up the 50,000 new £1 shares in
the creamery the parent reduced its hold-
ing of Government securities (now
£25,000) by £25,000 last term. Surplus
earnings provided the balance and en-
abled cash to be strengthened by £7189.
'British Australian Carpet Mfg. Co., Ltd.
This latest addition to Australia’s
secondary industries, which has been
registered in Melbourne with a nominal
capital of £750,000 in £1 shares, will be
a subsidiary of Felt and Textiles, Ltd.,
and will have British associations as well.
Scarcity of looms promises to be one
of the co.’s early difficulties. To help
it over this hurdle arrangements have
been made for shipment of some second-
hand plant from Britain. Felt and Tex-
tiles already has a pup, Baldwin Textiles,
Footscray (Vic.), which turns out Wilton
carpets. Whether the new subsidiary is
to absorb the old one has not been stated,
but it is to specialise in turning out
Axminster and other carpets. A factory
site has yet to be chosen somewhere in
Victoria.
Formation of the new co. follows
closely on the heels of the parent’s suc-
cessful £1,000,000 4 p.c. debenture issue.
As the housing programme gets into full
swing there will be a strong and growing
demand for the co.’s products.
Malayan Rubber-growers’ Plan
The new Malayan Rubber Estate
Owners Co., recently formed in London
with the blessing of the British Govern-
ment, is an attempt at co-operative re-
habilitation. The aim is to hasten re-
sumption of production, and at the same
time ensure equitable treatment of all
estate owners during the period of transi-
tion, when suitable labor, materials, etc.,
are likely to be in short supply. Briefly,
the practical steps proposed are: (1)
despatch of inspection party to report on
the condition of properties, (2) provision
and assembly of equipment in anticipa-
tion of needs, (3) organisation of
planters available for both administrative
and operational purposes, (4) rationing
of available goods and services.
To carry out these proposals estate
owners, while preserving their separate
identities and rights of ownership, are
to organise themselves into groups of not
less than 100,000 planted acres. Each
group may divide itself into sub-groups
of not less than 10,000 planted acres.
And each group and sub-group is to
select its own committee, which will re-
distribute among the members such staff,
labor and supplies as the board of the
co. makes available from time to time
and upon such terms and conditions as
to payment, etc., as the board specifies.
The chairman of each group is to be a
member of the board, thus ensuring
direct representation of all estate owners.
Reports on individual properties are to
be made available to owners through
group and sub-group headquarters.
Membership is open to all owners of
100 planted acres or more, regardless of
nationality (except “enemy”) or domi-
cile. Terms are cash payment of Is. per
planted acre, and a banker’s guarantee
for an amount equal to £1 per planted
acre. Contributions, together with any
commission charged, are primarily for
the purpose of covering cost of forma-
tion and working exes, of the co.—it is
limited by guarantee, has no share capi-
tal and does not aim at making profit.
Malayan estates of 100 acres or over of
European ownership are estimated to
aggregate approximately 1,600,000 acres.
In these circumstances £1 per acre looks
like a liberal guarantee, which might
cramp credit available to owners for
other purposes. And, unless headquarters
of the co. operate from Malaya, there is
the danger of a London bottleneck re-
sulting in irritating delays.
The British Government is to buy for
export all rubber available, look after
the interests of small owners (under 100
acres) and is to have representation on
the board of the co. Nothing is said
about the price to be paid for plantation
crude, but present position of the com-
modity ought to ensure a satisfactory
profit margin for all but high-cost pro-
ducers. To what extent competition
from synthetic rubber will affect the
price of plantation crude remains to be
seen; much will depend upon the extent
to which overall plantation costs rise.
Thus far synthetic is preferred only in a
limited field of manufactured products.
The plan has been framed to deal with
a “purely temporary phase,” but no
specific time limit has been placed on its
operation.


I
Y
»
ll
v\
$*
■•• *
wm
.
m
:.Pst*'
”> •<
' a™
To
Engineers
who are
planning
the
“Battle
of Peace”
Australia will need your plans. The job of reconstruction is a
big one... the absorption into peacetime employment of thou-
sands upon thousands of fighting men and war workers is an
essential factor in making a new and different world now Victory
has been won.
You’ll be considering many new projects that will improve roads
and beautify the Australian scene ... projects which will provide
employment for those who will be needing it.
Plan now for the reconstruction period... and include in your
plans the use of Armco Multi-plate Pipes ... for beauty, per-
manence and economy.
Write to your nearest Armco office for Free Booklet giving full
particulars of all Armco Drainage Products.
ARMCO
MULTI-PLATE
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY ... MELBOURNE ... BRISBANE ... ADELAIDE
V


m if.
Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY.
Exide Batteries contribute to the conveniences
of modern living, from a telephone call to air
travel. In your choice of a car battery you
can safely be guided by the world’s largest
telephone exchanges, who depend on Exide.
WHEN
HItoWSTART
mm
i-46.
PERSONAL ITEMS
M.L. received with pleasure and pride
the news of Captain Upham having been
granted a bar to his V.C. A pakeha in a
public bar read the news out to Henare.
“Py korri,” said Henare. “He te lucky
feller. He will sell te waipiro and can
drink as much as he like. Py korri, 1
tink he get more fun out of te bar dan
out of te Vittoryer Kross. Kaipai te wai-
piro ! Kaipai te bar! ”
Characteristic of Blackburn, V.C., most
modest of warriors, that he should have
devoted a great part of his A.B.C. broad-
cast on the men of Java to the great
work of Lieut .-Colonel Dunlop for the
Diggers on the scene of their most
frightful experiences, the Siam-Burma
railway, Melbourne knew the lieutenant-
colonel best as Dr. Dunlop. Like many
other gallant spirits, he was a Rugby
Union footballer, playing in the Victorian
team with Andy Barr.
Percival Halse Rogers, J., dead at 62,
had everything that an ambitious man in
the law could want except sound health —
a good intellect, a sober background de-
veloped during a youth spent in a strictly-
ruled Methodist home, a dignified pres-
ence, athletic prowess and all the quali-
ties which went to make a Rhodes scholar
in the days when Rhodes scholarships (of
which he had the second granted in N.S.W.,
following “Toby” Barton’s son) were
taken more seriously than today. Success
followed both his ability and his inclina-
tion. He took silk after 15 years at the
Bar, reached the Supreme Court Bench
at 45, became Chancellor of Sydney Uni-
versity in 1936 and showed moral courage
in 1941 in resigning when soldier candi-
dates for two law professorships were
rejected in favor of Julius Stone and
another. He had a record among
Supreme Court Judges as a Royal
Commissioner, and inquired into many
unsavory matters within the past decade.
“Uramao”: Add to the listing of fight-
ing families the sons of E. J. Herrick, of
Hastings (M.L.): Squadron-Leader M. J.
Herrick, D.F.C. and bar (killed); Pilot-
Officer D. T. Herrick, G.M. (killed);
Pilot-Officer B. H. Herrick (killed); Lieut.-
Commander T, D. Herrick, D.S.C. and
bar; Lieut. L. E. Herrick, D.S.C., R.N.,
who is revisiting his native land for the
first time in ten years.
Recently awarded his third decoration
—the D.F.C. —“for outstanding leader-
ship,” Flying-Officer Clement John
Barrey, a 25-year-old South Australian
with the R.A.F., gained his commission
and the A.F.C. in 1943, when as an ob-
server he took charge of a bomber out of
control, pulled it out of a spin at
1500 ft., dropped its bombs on the target
and returned to base with a perfect land-
ing. He served in Greece, Crete, the
Middle East and Europe, and won his
D.F.M. for “efficient and courageous
work during 50 operational missions” with
the Near East Command in 1941.
“Hamer”: A special grant is to be
made to “Jock” Brady to mark his work
in getting rice-growing started in Aus-
tralia. Brady was one of the leaders in
a Broken Hill strike which embarrassed
the first McGowan-Holman Govern-
ment. All the men’s demands were con-
ceded but the re-employment of the
leaders; the Government promised that
they would be “looked after” on the
Murrumbidgee Irrigation Area if they
accepted that point without a fuss. Thirty-
two men were transferred, and most of
them did well. Brady made a personal
success with a farm, and was a prime
mover in starting the Leeton Cannery, of
which he became manager. In America
on leave he visited irrigation farms, and
seeing rice being grown there wired the
Government for authority to bring back
seed rice. The industry thus originated
has been very useful, though it has
suffered a check.
Major B. T. Cowlishaw, M.C. (Master
Mariner, London), has been elected
deputy master of the Master Mariners
of Australia. Queensland’s Governor
Leslie Wilson is master of the company.
Since July, 1940, Major Cowlishaw, who
is hon. A.D.C. to the Queensland Gover-
nor, has been attached to a department
of the War Office, London.
Acting - Justice Matthews, lately ap-
pointed to the Queensland Bench, hails
from around Charters Towers, where he
was educated at the School of Mines. In
1913 he entered the Railway Department
as a clerk and was eventually attached to
the secretarial office of the Commissioner
for Railways. Called to the Bar in 1925,
he went to the Crown Law Office the
same year and was appointed legal assis-
tant in 1926, but resigned three years later
to take up private practice in Brisbane.
Dunedin (M.L.), with its centenary ap-
proaching, has appointed a Director of
Development —Maurice Myers,' son of
M.L.’s Chief Justice. Myers went to the
U.S.A. as representative of Gollin and
Co. to work up business connections.
Two big jobs were dangled before him
in Sydney—one from the branch of
Gollin and Co., the other from Tallerman
and Co. He accepted the latter, but after
a year returned to M.L. as assistant
manager of the D.1.C., of which he be-
came g.m. in 1923. Myers saw service
with the M.L. forces in the Pacific, where
he rose from second lieutenant to lieut.-
colonel. In 1939-40 he was president of
M.L.’s Associated Chambers of Com-
merce.
Acting-Judge Alfred Ernest Rainbow
(depicted here by a brother-Judge) was
educated at The King’s School, Parra-
matta, won the Broughton and Forrest
Exhibition, studied law at Cambridge,
was admitted to the Bar (Gray’s Inn) in
1923, travelled Europe and North and
South America and climbed Mi Aconca-
gua. Returning to Australia, he was
associate for a time to Justice Fergu-
son. Since 1925 and till his elevation to
the Workers’ Compensation Bench in
June of this year, he practised at the N. S.
Wales Bar, specialising in workers’ com-
pensation ; and he is the joint-author of
ACTING-JUDGE RAINBOW.
Workers’ Compensation Law (Treatt and
Rainbow). He represented Cambridge v.
Oxford in swimming, and in Rugby he
represented N.S.W. against Maoriland.
He is president of the Prisoners’ Aid
Society, vice-president of the N.S.W.
Rugby Union and member of the Bar
Council and Barristers’ Benevolent Asso-
ciation. He served with the Second A.I.F.
in New Guinea (J 941-43), and was suc-
cessively chief legal officer to the First
Australian Army, Second Australian
Army and First Australian Corps. And
the net result of this varied experience is
an equable Judge whose knowledge of
the world and affairs is unsurpassed on
the N. S. Wales Bench.
Leading-Signaller J.. D. Button, of
Cremorne (N.S.W.), was welcomed back
last week to his old job at Sydney G.P.O.
after six years and a month of service in
the Australian Navy. He was the first to
go from the Harborside G.P.O.
The rather detached look here captured
by Scorfield on the face of Tom Mc-
Mahon, now of Mt. Druitt and formerly
of Amaroo (Orange) and Bumbaldrie
(Cowra) and most points north and west,
was put there by The Bulletin’s tame
bushwhacker, who blew in while Tom
was being drawn and at once launched
into something about Cunnamulla or
Bourke or some such place. Thereupon
the pair got roaming through the back
country and back through time to
“Was that in nought-two?” “No, in
nought-three.” It wasn’t much good
trying to talk about anything else except
TOM MCMAHON.
Sid Kidman and the old McMahon
stations in Queensland and the time Tom
and old Bob Glasson, hunting for grass,
so wrought upon Hell-fire Jack, driver
of a mixed train from Nyngan, that he
ran clean through Girrilambone instead
of waiting for the mail to pass him and
beat said mail into Bourke. From there
the pair headed into the drought-stricken
north behind a pair of drought-stricken
neddies and stopped at all the drought-
stricken pubs on the way up and all
the drought-stricken waterholes on the
way back. Anyway, Tom survived that,
as he survived other things, until he was
taxed off his central-west runs and retired
to Mt. Druitt to breed Holsteins and
dabble in city business. He used to breed
thoroughbreds, too, but gave it up when
he discovered that others got the profits.
He’ll be 70 next birthday, and conse-
quently doesn’t think he’s old enough yet
to begin writing his reminiscences.
Harry C. Davies (“Wot’s Fresh” to two
generations of Westralian pressmen) has
retired from journalism. He was bred to
the pen; his grandfather edited a South
Wales paper over 80 years ago, and in
the ’seventies hi? father was a newspaper-
man and prospector in California and
Utah. Davies, a native of Melbourne,
joined the “West Australian” staff at Kal-
goorlie 48 years ago, became financial
editor 12 years later and finished up as
trade, finance and mining editor, the last
remaining staff man appointed by John
Winthrop Hackett. His “West Australian”
work did not exhaust his energies;
he wrote for the “Times” and The
Bulletin, travelled extensively and,
with Curtin, was a foundation mem-
ber of the A.J.A. He held every office
on the A.J.A. State executive.
Had a 90th birthday in Adelaide, James
who was in his day footballer,
mayor and everything else in suburban
Norwood. But his two great interests
have been an odd double, soft drinks
(chairman of directors of a big family
co.) and racing (chairman of the Adelaide
Racing Club).
The H. G. Smith Memorial Medal
awarded by the Australian Chemical In-
stitute, which has gone this year to Pro-
fessor V. M. Trikojus, B.Sc. (Syd.), Ph.D.
(Oxon), Professor of Biochemistry in the
University of Melbourne, is an annual
recognition of the best contribution to the
development of chemical science in Aus-
tralia. Professor Trikojus’s work included
results of investigations concerning the
biochemistry of the thyroid gland and of
natural products, such as the t noxious
weed St. John’s wort, which causes a
disease in sheep ; also, there was his work
as leader of a team working on synthetic
drugs (sulfa drugs, mercurial drugs, vita-
mins), vital to both Army and civilians
during the war years. The medal was
struck to commemorate the life and work
of Henry George Smith (1852-1924), a
Fellow of the Australian Chemical Insti-
tute, who for 20 years was assistant cuia-
tor and chemist in the Tech. Museum,
Sydney. The first award was made in
1929 to David Rivett. Other winners of
professorial rank are Professor T. G. H.
Jones (Queensland, 1930) and Professor
J. C. Earl (Sydney, 1935).
The name of Murray, which has been
so long linked with the history of New
Guinea, is to continue to be associated
with it. Col. Jack Keith Murray, 8.A.,
B.Sc., Agr. N.D.D., having been selected
out of 51 applicants as provisional
administrator of the combined ter-
ritories of Papua and New Guinea.
Son of John Murray, of Coburg,
Melbourne, the new administrator was
born at Brighton (Vic.) in 1889 and
educated at Sydney University and the
Dairy School for Scotland. He was lec-
turer in bacteriology at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College (N.S.W.),»and has
been principal of Queensland Agricultural
College since 1923, and professor of the
science at the University of Queensland
since 1927. In command of the 25th
(Darling Downs) Battalion, A.M.F., since
1940, he finds time for reading and rifle
shooting.
F. J. Huelin, W.A.’s Under-Secretary
to the Chief Secretary’s and' Public
Health Departments, is retiring after 45
years’ service. He started in a bank, but
joined the W.A. public service in 1900,
when the State had a plague on its hands.
In the 1942 danger period he was Chief
Evacuation Officer for Westralia.
Among the war prisoners reported on
the way to Australia, Lieut.-Colonel J. W,
Wright, D.F.C., of the Eighth Division,
is a veteran of the 1914-18 dust-up. En-
listing in the 12th Light Horse, he was
four months on Gallipoli; later joined
No. 2 Squadron A.F.C. with many other
Light Horsemen, became a pilot and won
the D.F.C. in France. After the war he
took a keen interest in the Volunteer
Militia* held the rank of major at the
outbreak of war in 1939, was put on to
instructional duties, but eventually
managed to get away with the Eighth.
In civil life an accountant with the
Morley Johnston furniture people, Wright
lives at Wahroonga, on Sydney’s North
Shore line.
Adelaide gets good parsons from Croy-
don (N.S.W.). Claridge Goss, formerly
of the Matheson Congregational Church
there, is in the pulpit of the Stow Mem-
orial in Adelaide. And now John Bryant,
also from Matheson, has moved across
to the Brougham-place church in North
Adelaide.
C. A. Hutchinson, U.S.A. Consul in
S.A., has at last decided to call it a day.
He is to be succeeded by Knowlton V.
Hicks, formerly at Hamburg, and in the
passport office at Washington, and latterly
at Naples.
Into the silence:^ —
In Brisbane, at 74, Alf Jones, sometime Minis-
ter of Mines and Lord Mayor of Brisbane.
He was in public life for 36 years.
In Melbourne, at 81, solicitor Victor Wischer.
He was in practice for 50 years. An ardent -
golfer, he played until he was 75.
Tn Brisbane, at 69, E. Griffith Oxley, a
Brisbane chartered accountant and a foundation
member of the Institute of Chartered Accoun-
tants in Australia. For 40 years he was
auditor to Brisbane Newspapers and its suc-
cessor, Queensland Newspapers, and was also
manager of Brisbane Building Society.
In Brisbane, H. S. A. Bontoft, one of the
State’s leading Salvationists. Born at Windsor
(Eng.), he came to Australia in 1912, but was
off overseas with the first A.I.F. very soon and
served with the 6th Field Ambulance.
At 73, A. F. Basset Hull, one of Australia’s
leading philatelists (his books on Australian
stamps are textbooks) and one of the leading
authorities on Australian birds. He was presi-
dent of the Zoological Society and the Linnean
Society of N.S.W.


ss
Skat
VICTORY
BONDS
>4 CABLE FROM
Olympic
Every cable that leaves the Olympic
factory has been expressly designed
to do a specialised job . . • and it
does that job extremely well.
\
You can depend on a
Cable from Olympic,
OltlttiPlC INSULATED
3 CABLES
OLYMPIC
TYRES
A product ot
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRy IN AUSTRALIA
A Man and
his family
& «
Life Assurance is a vast Co-operative
enterprise for taking care of future needs.
Death comes to everyone. Before death comes, the
earning power of most people declines. Neither of these
can be prevented, but there is a way of safeguarding
families against hardship brought about by old age and
death. That way is Life Assurance.
Life Assurance rests on the principle of co-operation.
A life office is merely the instrument that enables a group
of people to co-operate for their mutual benefit and pro-
tection.
Like any other co-operative movement, Life Assur-
ance is purely voluntary. No citizen is compelled to enjoy
its benefits against his will. Each citizen is free to decide
what benefits he desires, and to make his contribution
accordingly.
The wise man protects his family with sufficient
assurance to see it through the difficulties that may lie
ahead.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
THE SERVICE MAN
Darwin's Travail.
“Ek Dum”: As the session of 1945
was going over the precipice the Gov-
ernment condescended to fling on the
table the report of Justice Lowe on
the bombing of Darwin. It has had this
lengthy document in its possession for
about three years, and most of what it
contains could have been published
almost any time after January, 1944, with-
out damaging military security.
The report shows that the R.A.N. had
taken all proper steps to prepare for a
raid; the military ack-ack was “to be
commended” and the conduct of Group-
Captain Scherger and Squadron-Leader
Swan called for high praise. But obvi-
ously there were muddle, inefficiency,
panic and other unsavory features, some
of which are traceable to Government
lassitude and incompetence.
The air officer commanding, Air-Com-
modore Wilson, was absent on duty, and
his conduct, therefore, did not come into
question ; but the Judge held that he was
“unduly optimistic” in believing that the
possibility of a raid on Darwin in his
absence was remote.
So was the Government, on which the
primary responsibility rests. It had been
pressed, cajoled and earnestly warned
from the moment of the outbreak of war
by the member for the Territory, Mr.
Blain, and others. But 76 days after war
broke out the civil authorities were in-
sufficiently equipped ; there were no slit
trenches in the right places, nor any of
the tunnel defences which could easily
have been provided by local volunteers.
And the Administrator failed to call for
aid to the military to perfect preparations
at a suitably early stage.
R.A.A.F. preparations were appalling
in their inadequacy. There was virtually
no camouflage on the aircraft centre, and
its buildings were not dispersed. There
were no fighter aircraft under R.A.A.F.
control. Xh e ground defences of the
aerodrome area, like the rest, seem to
bave been insufficient. There were no
dispersal pens for aircraft. A senior
officer told the commissioner that he had
been .unable to communicate with Hud-
son aircraft to attack the enemy aircraft-
carrier because of the disorganisation. He
asserted R.A.A.F. station com-
rnander was “rattled,” and did not know
which were first and which were second
things. Justice Lowe’s view is that it was
“probably unfair” to blame the station
commander, “his service there” having
been “short.” The emergency water
supply was chained and locked and there
w as no attempt at salvage,
It is singular that in the press sum-
maries received from Canberra there are
no casualty statistics. Heavy casualties
there were, and they cannot be dissociated
from the fact that, though the A.W.A.
coastal station received a report at
9.35 a.m. of a large number of aircraft
passing southward over Bathurst Island,
no general alarm was given in Darwin
till nearly 10 a.m.
Failure of the R.A.A.F, to notify this
fact to A.R.P. Justice Lowe describes
as “inexplicable,” and he found it difficult
to accept the explanation that there was
some discussion as to whether the air-
craft seen were U.S, aircraft on the way
to Java, since “evidence shows most
conclusively that most of the U.S, air-
craft had actually landed on the R.A.A.F.
station when the message was received.”
As Justice Lowe observes, another
20 minutes might have made all the
difference to shipping and have saved the
lives of the post-office officials,
The most disgraceful feature of the
whole business was the panic that fol-
lowed the attack. The Japs knew Darwin,
and the discovery of meteorological posi-
tioning balloons and the detection of out-
ward Morse from the direction of Daly
Waters (480 miles from Darwin) and
incoming replies made it clear that they
were not without their local information.
But, as with the R.A.A.F. so with
civil and other authorities, there had been
no transfer of key communication and
other facilities from their normal accus-
tomed places, where the enemy would
locate them with ease. There was no drill
as to what would happen if raids should
take place. Holus-bolus the population,
led by the foreign element, sought to
escape, and officials were not behind-
hand. It is legendary that trade-union
leadership which had been concerned in
industrial disturbance right up to the
moment of the raid —though Mr. Justice
Lowe does not enter into that factor —
was well to the fore in the exodus, and
the town was virtually abandoned with
drinks half-consumed and meals left
cooking. Mr. Justice Lowe writes:
The air station itself was practically de-
serted. For several days after men were
straggling back to the station, and at a
parade on February 23 (i.e., four days
after the attack) the muster showed 278
men missing. As the casualties were very
small the result could only be regarded as
deplorable.
Deplorable it was, and it is no wonder
in such an atmosphere that Iqoting broke
out that evening and was carried on by
both civilians and servicemen right up
till the time the Commission was sitting
some days after the attack, though the
Commissioner believed that if proper
supervision had been exercised through-
out such looting would have been impos-
sible.
There is room for further inquiry
into a black incident which is no blacker
than some other incidents connected with
the “defence” of the North.
How to Leave the Army.
“Ek Dum”; It looks simple, but it is
complicated by all the factors and bottle-
necks involved in disposing of large
forces. Shipping, transport by land, both
in the aggregate and in some particular
spots, the medical accommodation avail-
able for passing the soldier out, the
clothing available for him (or her), the
actual need for him in his particular
position, and a host of other elements,
plus that intangible influence the impact
of the military mind, all help to govern
the speed and certainty with which the
servicemen of Australia will return to
their homes.
Generally speaking, the basis of re-
lease is upon a series of priorities, though
these cannot always apply. Because of
special knowledge, a man may be vital
for some time to come in the position he
occupies. A particular force in a parti-
cular station may be indispensable. An-
other may be marooned somewhere
because of transport shortage, and it may
not be easy to get it away. Then there
are those “old soldiers” who “like the
life” and hope it will continue for ever,
and who resist demobbing as they would
resist the Japs.
On the other hand, there are specialists
in industry who are urgently needed in
civil life in order to start wheels turning
and make it possible for hundreds of
their fellows to doff khaki and stop salut-
ing. And the sick are a problem in them-
selves.
All things being equal, however, it is
proposed to reduce the ranks of the
forces, giving equal treatment to Army,
Air Force and R.A.N., at a dispersal rate
of about 3000 per day when the scheme is
in full swing, the numbers in each State
being as nearly proportional as possible
to the number of enlistments within that
State. __
In view of the different natures of oc-
cupations in different States it is very dif-
ficult to understand how this aspiration
cannot break down. And it will certainly
be impossible to keep an even daily flow
going. At some stages men \Yith high
priorities will bank up in particular dis-
persal centres and then discharges will
have to be accelerated.
The Priority System
There are two systems of priority. One
affects the lesser number of women in
the forces. These get out in the follow-
ing order: (1) Women with dependent
children ; (2) women married before the
end of the hostilities ; (3) women with de-
pendants other than children ; (4) other
women. Priority will be established in-
side of each of these groups by giving
one point of priority for each month of
service and three points for each year of
age at enlistment. This is irrespective of
the service to which the “demobilisee”
—copyright applied for—belongs.
As with all other matters in the Army,
the position of the mere male is more
highly complicated in the matter of
priority. On first impressions, the scheme
was apparently designed by Einstein and


OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE-
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ms
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office; Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
Public Notice.
I, JAAN PLATOV (NX 149726, Sapper, A.1.F.), of
Estonian nationality, born at Stalingrad, Russia,
and resident five years in Australia, now residing *
at 20th Aust. Field Co., R.A.E., A.1.F., intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
RIOISTIRIO TRIM MIRK
iMiJiITOTB
WHIR PROOF • IRI I fSOMACIO
The Finest Leatne
Preservative
o
FOR
c Oq,
m
“NUGCBT
SHOE POLISH
*(>4s/51
FOR OVER 50 YEARS
▲ GOOD POLISH
In the future, as In the past,
there will be occasions , , .
pleasant evenings at theatre or
pictures . . . anniversaries to
mark. Crown such occasions
then ... as before . . with
"Golden Glory.”
U
19
Qolclen/CjlprM
o
y
. \
m
m
\ V \
44/5/2
One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. ... Their judg-
ment has made (EruaaiUfr Qlluil? the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
druaaiirr QUntlj is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to shoiv you
Crusader CM
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
. > : -‘'"y
UK
v\j
EE
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
the Pay Corps, but it is simple enough if
you want to get out badly enough to
apply a mathematical mind to it.
Basically, the idea is that right to dis-
charge should depend on length of ser-
vice, age at enlistment and family re-
sponsibilities. Rights in keeping with this
idea are determined by doing a lot of
arithmetic connected with a game in
which —subject to exceptions—the high-
est score should win a prize of the earliest
release, .
In this game each player earns two
points for every month he has served
and two points for every year of his age
at the time of enlistment. But each man
with dependants gets an extra point per
month of service, though it does not
matter how many dependants he has.
A man of 25 who enlisted and served
12 months would have 50 points for age,
plus 24 points for service ; total, 74
points, if he had no dependants. With
dependants, he would have 50 points for
age, plus 36 points for service; total, 86
points.
Under this system a man of 45 with
dependants and six years’ service can
score 306 points, while a man of 20 at
time of enlistment, the same amount of
service and dependants, has only 256. A
man of 20 with only six months’ service
is well down the list, and is in for a rela-
tively long stay in the forces unless he
is a key man in industry or can find
some special reason for discharge—with
dependants he scores only 58 points;
without dependants, 52.
Dispersal Centres
When men are marked down for dis-
charge, it is planned to send them to dis-
persal centres as early as possible. “After
arrival in their home States,” they “will
generally be required to live out while
arrangements for discharge are com-
pleted :
This living out will be most necessary in
periods when abnormally large numbers
are awaiting discharge, but arrangements
will be made to dispense with it where prac-
ticable.
Release to homes during the waiting
period, it is stated in the demobilisation
report, will help members to become ac-
customed to the civilian atmosphere and
begin to settle down.
As soon as it is feasible after mem-
bers arrive in their home States, there-
fore, they will be issued with warrants to
travel home and later back again to the
dispersal centre for final demobilisation.
While they are at home they may
take a job, provided they arrange for
leave of absence for the few days needed
for final discharge. While they are at
home or living out normal medical atten-
tion will be available.
Dispersal areas will be established in
each State near the capital. Australian
Capital Territorians will go to N. S.
Wales, along with men from Norfolk
Island and Nauru ; Northern Territorians
are allotted to S.A.; Papua and Man-
dated Territory men to Queensland. But
all men will be sent to the area in which
they desire to live, not to that in which
they enlisted.
Secrets of the Depots
Each dispersal area is. to consist of
H.Q. service discharge depots and an
inter-service wing in which there will be
medical, rehabilitation and vocational
guidance sections. There will also be a
re-establishment wing. What these last
two departments or sections, which are
for the common use of all three services,
intend to accomplish and how it is
proposed that they help soldiers, would
be more clear to the rank and file if
the Army wrote plain English. It prefers
an awful telescoped jargon which it often
does not appear to understand itself.
The process by which each man will
return to civil life has been mapped out.
The Army will send the member involved
to his proper dispersal base. He will be
boarded medically, if he needs it. He will
then have what the Army calls “a service
rehabilitation interview.” This probably
will not be as bad as it sounds. It seems
to mean that somebody will stand him
up and find out where he wants to go
and what he wants to do and tell what
he can do—and, the Army being in
charge, also certainly what he cannot do.
Next he will receive “vocational guid-
ance where needed.” This again is not
a painful operation. It merely means that
somebody will discuss with him what job
he wants to get or should get, and how
to get it.
The “demobilisee” (copyright) will
then be submitted to “re-establishment
action required.” This seems to mean
that he will be turned over (properly
“vocationalised”) to the Civil Re-establish-
ment wing, which is concerned with jobs,
war-service land settlement and homes,
“reconstruction training”—whatever that
may mean —re-establishment loans, tools
of .trade and equipment for retiring-
heroes, on which, presumably, the “re-
establishment” loans are to be spent;
also, banking and “other requirements or
facilities developed in the light of experi-
ence.”
“Service Finalisation!”
When all this has been fixed up, the
Army’s victim is submitted to “Service
Finalisation.” Again, this does not mean
what is sounds like. There are no Belsens
at discharge centres. It merely means
that what is left of what once was a
recruit is fitted out with a suit and other
clothing items —if available —is equipped
with a leave pass, a warrant for travel
and his pay and is returned temporarily
or permanently, as circumstances allow,
to the bosom of his family and of the
New Order which has been built for him
during his absence. Presently he will
return to the depot for final discharge.
He will get his deferred pay and —in time
—his gratuity.
If he is suffering from the effects of his
service he can look forward to many
happy years of filling in forms and wrest-
ling with boards in the fashion so dear
to the Australian bureaucrat.
But, at any rate, he will know that he
is at last free —free to stand in queues,
free to have large lumps sucked out of
his pay by the income tax, some of it
money which he does not owe but which
the department will hold for months at
a time ; free to be hurled to the pavement
by fast-starting trams when his gammy
leg fails him; free to buy a home if the
W. 0.1. will let him, at whatever price the
Valuer-General will allow him to pay. In
fact, he will be free to do anything short
of being free, the thing he thought he was
fighting to be.
The actual processes of demobilisation,
as outlined above, even when clothed in
Army language, will sound attractive to
most Diggers, especially those who have
served for nearly six years.
But the writer has noticed that most of
those whom he has met and who have
been through portions of the preliminaries
in N. S. Wales are already jaded. They
mutter of long, hard, cold, crowded jour-
neys after soulless farewells; of the lack
of welcome on arrival at destination save
for the cold-eyed tolerance of harassed
inhabitants of an overcrowded unit depot
or some other repository or hideout for
transitory soldiers; of the “showground ’
or its equivalent, one of the main objec-
tives of World War II as interpreted by
base-wallahs having been to make every
Young Digger pass through that gloomy
compound as many times as possible and
as uncomfortably as, possible ; of long-
waits in line before leisurely but inquisi-
tive officers in uniform who have never
known the joys of New Guinea or Borneo,
but who appear to have an affectionate
desire not to release their victims so long
as they can keep them. There are argu-
ments as to where one’s “body” belongs,
spirited technical affairs with the most
complicated solutions which end in fresh
eruptions of forms and passes.
Finally, if in Sydney, the homing war-
rior does a sharp sprint across a filthy
vacant allotment bunkered with old air-
raid shelters, discarded beer bottles and
jam-tins, and plasters himself like a suck-
ing-fish on the outside of a tram in a
manner only possible to a six-year soldier.
From this vantage point he gets his
first glimpse of freedom on his way to
his interim period of “living out,” from
which he will presently be jerked back for
a few days to undergo, his “finalisation”
in the service of his country.
One facility seems to be missing from
the Government agencies which carry out
the tortuous process of releasing the
soldier, sailor or airman. In Army par-
lance, it would be called a “Demobilisa-
tion-Personnel Humanisation Establish-
ment wing.”
There is a sad lack of warmth about
the end of service, a grudging air as if
the whole procedure had been designed
by the Taxation Department.


Jig-borin
am
m
'
u
• • •
Precision takes on a new meaning
through latest addition to ultra-
modern A.T.L equipment
FOR
As specialists in super-
accuracy, A.T.L. has long
foreseen that interchange-
ability with its attendant
precision will attain even
greater significance in post-
war production than it has
reached during the war.
A.T.L. equipment and tech-
nical resources have been
developed accordingly. En-
quiries concerning the sup-
ply of production essentials
requiring the finest margins
of accuracy will be weL
corned.
Latest addition to A.T.L. equipment for
super-accuracy in jig-boring—the Newall Jig Borer.
Accurate to .0001 of an inch, this machine is
universally regarded as a major achievement of
British engineering.
JIGS . . . FIXTURES . . . MOULDS
I
PRESS TOOLS...DIES...GAUGES
Oj
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . .
IF IT’S A PRECISION JOB, IT’S A JOB FOR AXL.
ATL.4-45
HAIMS
Circular Charts lor all types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREEt PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O EO.
d
fd
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Reputed to be almost as good as his stable-
i mate, Havoc, whom he did not oppose in the
Breeders’ Plate won by that Ajax colt, the
Fresco-Figurine colt Vigaro had his first public
run in the five-furlongs Canonbury Stakes at
Randwick on Saturday and confirmed the
promise he had shown in training. Finishing
on very strongly from nearly last to beat the
favorite, Prince Standard (Mr. Standfast-
Golden S.), by a half-neck in the last stride,
Vigaro did not have the easy all-the-way vic-
tory of the Breeders’ Plate winner, but the
fact that Prince Standard finished next best in
both races offers a line to Vigaro’s comparative
merit.
From his connections’ point of view the most
disappointing run in the Canonbury was that
of the expensive Ajax-Privet colt Tengur, who
brought top price of 5250 guineas at the last
yearling sales. In the Breeders’ Plate he did
not have the best of the running and ran greenly
into the bargain, but in the Canonbury Munro
had the colt first out of the barrier and well
placed all the way. However, when called on
for an effort in the straight he seemed to be
just lacking the necessary and could finish no
better than fourth behind another Ajax colt,
Franjax. From the Constant Son mare Fran-
chise, Franjax fetched 1100 guineas as a year-
ling and is a proraising-looking bay colt—the
first of the family yet sighted who has not
caught his sire’s characteristic coloring. With
only two runs to his credit it would be prema-
ture to criticise Tengur, and he’s too good-
looking to be a dud, but, while he should win
races, he does not seem likely to make a swift
and easy return of the hefty sum laid out on
him.
Leading trainer last season and already well
ahead again, B. R. Pay ten has won the first
two-year-old races of the season with Havoc
and Vigaro, and in those two colts seems to
have a strong hand in future important two-
year-old events, allowing, of course, for
youngsters yet to be produced and for the
fillies, who will not appear till December.
The importation of Valais was a wonderful
contribution to the Australian blood lines. He
was six times leading sire of Australia; his son
Heroic had the honor for seven years, and
now Heroic’s son Ajax is heading for the
lead. His oldest progeny racing here still have
most of their three-year-old career in front
of them, but, with many good two- and three-
year-old races yet to come, they have already
won the A.J.C. Breeders’ Plate, Gimcrack
Stakes, Sires’ Produce Stakes, Champagne
Stakes, Hobartville Stakes (first and second),
Derby, a couple of lesser events and now a
second Breeders’ Plate. The best of Ajax’s
three-year-olds, Magnificent, has yet to be un-
placed. N
The Craven Plate, at 10 furlongs, attracted a
small but select field, with the form horse,
Shannon, a short favorite despite the extra dis-
tance. As with every other favorite of the
day, he was beaten. The Royal Step mare
Flight led them all the way and had plenty of
go left in her when the favorite threw in a
challenge over the last furlong. Russia was
third. Flight beat Tribal and Veiled Threat in
the 1943 Craven Plate and last year was third
to Tea Rose and Mayfowl.
The Harinero colt Chaytor has shown him-
self one of the best of the N.S.W. three-year-
olds apart from Magnificent, but in several
recent starts has not been running true to form.
However, fie came good again to score in the
Clibborn Stakes, also at* a mile and a quarter.
He won by only a short neck from the Fresco—
Myra Tip colt Open Air, who finished on very
strongly. Columnist was third.
The Kia-Ora Handicap was marred by a
rather nasty smash inside the first furlong.
Lady Barlene, ridden by E. Doon, went down
and Flying Cloud (D. Munro) and Silver Clare
(Tomlinson) toppled over her. Lady Barlene
and Silver Clare had to be destroyed. Munro
broke a few bones, which may keep him from
riding for some weeks. The topweight, Silver-
elda, went on to win the mile from Fort
Denison and Felberta, in good time, 1.374.
Showing something of his brilliant wintei
form, the Andrea gelding Petulance bounced
out from the start and tried to lead them all
the way in the Final Handicap, over 10 fur-
longs. He just failed to last it out. Silent and
Swan River closing with him at the finish and
at the post' it was Silent, Petulance and Swan
River, with a long head and a half-head separat-
ing them. The other event on the card, the
Chester Handicap, went to Soho, who was a
shade too good for Highgate and consistent
Puffham. Soho Jias won good races in his day
and is in the book as joint holder with Gold
Salute of the Randwick six-furlongs record,
but this was his first win for a year, and of
late he had been a model of inconsistency.
* * „.
At Flemington Lawrence consolidated his
position as Melbourne Cup favorite by defeat-
ing the outstanding three-year-old Don Pedro
and Counsel in the®Melbourne Stakes at about
a mile. La Patrice filled the accustomed role
of pacemaker, and at the half-mile had set up
a lead of a dozen lengths from Tranquil Star
with Don Pedro well nlaced and I awrence
watching proceedings from the Jear. Don Pedro
tackled the job of running down the bolter, had
reduced the gap to four lengths with two fur-
longs to go and inside the distance went up to
La Patrice. That effort proved a bit too severe
for the youngster, and Lawrence, putting in
his usual terrific finish, was a half-length too
S d c a « U P p°. S , , rS d o' V „? S o B f oi K W m y o„ev° UnSd
just cut La Patrice out of third money.
. Melbourne two-year-olds had their first*outing
in three Maribyrnong Trials; one for fillies
and one, run in two divisions, for colts and
f°« r and .a half furlongs.
snnnlvina ie P( csente< J L)hoti predominated,
S lymg l W ° , wmn ?P and two th , ird P lace ‘
Snpraj I S WaS r ®P rese “ ted a
T TnrH « fL P a m aw m aker by a
‘K c ai } d ,°$, er second
placing was filled by a Solar Bear filly.
‘
Nestani (Dhoti-Chapani) was the best of the
fillies, leading for the last two furlongs for an
easy win from Fly Beam and Delecto (Dhoti-
Delicious). Nestam cost 900 guineas as a
yearling and the race she won first start
carried £l2OO, less £3OO for the minor placings,
so that her account should be about square.
The two divisions for colts carried £lOOO, less
£3OO, and the two winners still have a bit to
make up. Bold Beau (Kinderscout-Petite
Joan), whose yearling price was 1000 guineas,
took the first fairly easily from another Kin-
derscout colt, British Boy, and the grey Dhoti
colt Westminster Abbey. The second division
went to the Dhoti-Ranji colt Hindu Prince
(1100 guineas), who had a three-lengths win
from Woodrow (Law Maker-Cimbo) and Bray
Law, another Law Maker colt.
The October Handicap for three-year-old colts
and geldings and run over 10 furlongs, for
what bearing it may have on the Victoria
Derby, went to Euxine, who downed Four
Freedoms and Liberty Law, but in the absence
of such performers as Don Pedro, Attley,
Leonard and Royal Gem it could scarcely be
regarded as a,Derby trial. The three-year-old
fillies had their outing in the Manifold Stakes,
which was a shock for those who made Irish
Gem favorite, as this highly-rated filly never
raised a gallop and finished out of a place.
A close second favorite, the Shakuni-Surfine
filly Norwich, from South Australia, had the
run of the race and won it by a neck from
Rose Bay and Apropos.
* * * a
For Randwick (before acceptances);
Three-year-old: Lakshmi Vallis, 1; Warspite,
2; Even Time, 3. Juvenile Stakes: Havoc or
Vigaro, 1; Prince Standard, 2; Tengur, 3.
Trial Handicap : The Gaekwar, 1; The Tiger,
2; Open Air, 3. Peter Pan Handicap: Sleepy
Fox, 1; Melhero, 2; Vermeil, 3. Phar Lap
Handicap: Russia, I; Silver Link, 2; Buzz
Off, 3. Clovelly Handicap : Puffham, 1; Right
Royal, 2; Culnooy, 3.
* * * *
Miller’s Sporting Annual for 1945 (its 70th
year) is now available. With weights and entries,
placings in past races (back to 1861 for the
Melbourne Cup and to 1879 for the Caulfield
Cup) and up-to-the-minute records of amateur
and professional sport, the old compilation is,
as always, a capital two shillings’ worth.
* * * *
Accounts of “demonstrations” on Australian
racecourses often make lively reading, even
though the actual happenings might have needed
a microscope and an ear-trumpet to find. The
recorders thereof should have been at Suffolk
Downs (U.S.A.) on August 11, the day the grey
horse First Fiddle won the rich Massachusetts
Handicap for the second year in succession.
That, however, isn’t what started it. It began
when a disgruntled punter tried to climb up to
the stewards’ box to air some opinions and the
police dissuaded him by knocking him uncon-
scious with their blackjacks. Thereupon on-
lookers waded into the police, and more police
waded into them. Before it was. through police
reserves and a fire-engine—they like to hose
’em down to quieten ’em over there—had been
rushed in, along with the Navy shore patrol;
and 3000 spectators mixed it with them.
Talk about our “demonstrations”! The Suf-
folk Downs mob laid down a bottle barrage on
the stand. Bottles crashed through the big
windows, driving the four stewards to take
cover inside. Bottles might be dodged, but hell
hath no fury like a woman scorned, and one ol
the gentle sex succeeded where both the glass'
ware and the now unconscious disgruntled punter
had failed. The lady—she had on a violet dress,
if that’s important—climbed up and slapped the
face of one of the sheltering stipes. There was
a fresh rain of bottles, through which some cops
emerged, lugging along the partly-revived punter.
The mob got to the scales and smashed them
up, set fire to an awning and to a police motor-
bike. Surging in, they made a shambles of the
stand restaurant bars. In an attempt to pacify
them, it was announced that the starters for
the next race were about to go to the post. It
brought another fusillade of bottles. Eventually
the police, reinforced to the size of a small
army, beat off the attack. But by now it was
too late to run “the last,” which was called off,
and the clients headed for home. The meeting
was for charity.
* * * *
Mosman’s 21-year-old wicketkeeper
Stewart gave a fine exhibition of batting to
score 110 v. Paddington (out of 385). It
was his first match in the top-grade, and
the effort helped the side to a good win.
Bowlers who got excellent figures were
R. Pearce (Balmain), 7 for 35 ; R. Long-
bottom (St. George), 6 for 31 ; and S.
Smith (Uni.), 6 for 33.
At the end of two rounds Marrick-
ville (17 points), Gordon, Wests, St.
George and Balmain (14), and Mosman
(11) are well in the picture.
*
The Victorian football heads are con-
cerned about the unseemly brawls that
marred the final games this season. Two
things need correcting: the inability of
umpires to do more than report a player
after the match and the bad practice of
not allowing them to be present at the
subsequent inquiry. Obviously, as in


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES —In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM THOMAS JOHNSON late of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that IRENE CLARICE JOHNSON
has filed a Petition in Divorce No. 8903 of 1945 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance on or before the 17th
dav of December 1945 at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney and obtain a copy of the
Petition without charge from Messrs Kaleski and
Harris Solicitors of 39 Martin Place Sydney. •
C. K. BODY (1.5.), Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO RICHARD LANGLEY formerly of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that ROSE LANGLEY has filed a
Petition No. 2115 of 1944 for Divorce on the grounds
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney New South Wales on or
before the 17th day of December 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from F. W.
REILLY Solicitor 79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Il
For BEAUTY
and
PROTECTION
Specify
METAL WINDOW
FRAMES
h
1. CONNOLLY PTY., LTD.,
Sydney
w
m
m
n
a
doing
are
f job
area
/
mm
x
A few months ago a farmer
came to one of our offices
and proudly displayed a
letter from his soldier son
in which was written:—•
“Ronaldson-Tippett Spray-
ing Plants are doing a
great job up here.” Tho
boy referred to the merit-
orious performance of Ron-
aldson-Tippett Spray Plants
in camouflage' w’ork, mos-
quito extermination and
weed control in operational
areas.
There will be many such occasions in the post-war yvars when the soldier
sons of orchardiets, recalling the work of Ronaldson-lVppett Spray Plante
in war years, will influence sales in their favour.
RONALDSON BROS., & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head OCSce: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
QTand Distributors: Ronaldson, Tlpjrett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 12V Eagle Street, BRISBANE
VICKERS GIN
LcKeti
LH
LET’S FINISH THE JOB
Support the
4th VICTORY LOAN
VICKERS GIN
V.&.25
II
Li mustered for the big advance
Australian enterprise will make a big for-
ward step when the first Australian-made cars take
shape. B.T.M. is ready for the day! The craftsmen
have the skill and experience, the plant has the tools,
to produce the multiplicity of Steel Tubes that go
' V
into every car. This readiness has been proved in
the production of components for all
transport — land, sea and air — at
British Tube Mills {Aust.) Tty. Ltd.j
Kilburn, South Australia.
PRfCISION
IlLl WAVS
R Me.
B115>
Rugby, the ump. should have the power
to send an offender off the ground. The
fallacy of the present system is illustrated
in the matter of the Carlton player. Savage,.
who was suspended for six games as a
result of the brawling in the grand final,
yet was awarded his club’s trophy for
best and fairest player.
* * * "n, * .
“Casul”; Before the days lengthen into
midsummer cricket umpires will be incur-
ring ire with “border-line” decisions on
appeals against the be
relieved of this responsibility if A ,
equipped with a gadget ?
light. Such a device is use y P. ‘
graphers, and it .should be a s mple
matter i ol , the f CnC u e^ A ° fJwk ° to J
a standard of visibility in whi p y
was possible. The measurement 8
ky a photographic meter woulsinp y
the umpire s task, elimmate the human
and ensure consistent rulings.
“Old Un”: In the last half-century of
Test cricket I plump for Englishman
Tom Richardson as the most accurate of
first-class fast bowlers seen on Australian
wickets. The sturdy Surreyite was 24
when he made the first trip in 1894-95,
and took 32 wickets (25 clean bowled)
for 849 runs ; in the next trip in 1897-98
he got 22 wickets (11 clean bowled) for
776 runs, and this in a season when the
Australian batsmen scored 408, 520, 573
in successive innings, and won four of
the five Tests. On these trips Tom
Richardson bowled 566 overs in Tests
and 1196 in all matches. In England his
34 Test wickets were 18 bowled and 16
C :& KtC he hit tt
wlckets so often Richardson replied
“Well, beant stoomps put there to bowl
aht?” In all flrst-elass cricket Richard-
son took 2105 wickets for 38,704 runs,
av. 18.42, easily the best figures for all
real fast howlers
* tit *
“Short Stop”: Grimmett’s experiment
with the dog as fielder (B. 3/10 / ’45) was
common in Sydney clubs 30 years ago.
especially among those enthusiasts who
rose early in the morning to get prac-
tice. A kelpie we used was adept at mid-
off, and rarely missed fielding or catching
a ball until he became so gummy that he
was pensioned off. A gadget popular for a
time was the slip-fielding machine, where a
V ,1 ~ * , J r. „ j
ball was thrown at a wooden floor and
went off at any tangent at terrific speed
tr> woitirifT fiplrlcmpn Tt however wac
lO Waiting Heldsmen. It, However, W S
discarded after many damaged hands and
accidents The late Rill Howell’s ideas
cXCiaenrs. me late Hill rioweil S 1U
were more practical: hed bowl tor 15
minutes at one stump, then another 15
minutes at a shilling placed on the pitch
where the batsman had to play forward
to meet the ball or was bowled It was
longer me oau ur was do * A „~
this accuracy that got Bill into the Aus-
tralian XI.
« * « *
p- . „ , , ~ „
UaVIS Gup selectors can write Dinny
Pails down as a definite contender for
„ „i • ~ . T „ + v
a place in the team. In the Sydney met-
ropolitan championships he baffled Craw-
ford with fine serves and line smashes, and
won in straight sets (6-2, 6-3). In the
doubles Pails and G. Brown (who assisted
with fine work at the net) beat J.
Bromwich and R. Barnes (7-5, 6-3). Pails,
who is 24 and the most vigorous live-
wire seen in tennis for a long time, has
been cleaning up lesser suburban titles
in the last couple of years, and has been
coached on sound lines, especially in
cour t temperament and bearing,
* * * *
John Treloar> the hefty North Sydney
lad who has been tipped as a future
Olympic rep., showed his paces in slash-
j ng w j ns j n the 100 yards in 9.Bsec.
record) and 22Q ds 21J
(3-10 sec. better than record) at N.S.W.
Schools championships. R. Nash
(Canterbury) and twins D. and K. Man-
ston (strathfield) showed up well in the
lad E T imson (Sydney Grammar)
alsQ WQn a fine double _ BBo yar ds in
2min. jlfsec and the mile in 4min 39sec.
c 9 Th e times were taken by A.A.A.
officials.
T .‘ , „
Metaphorically speaking or writing
George Elliott wasi always on top of Lou
Viliams at Leichhardt. The only time
Williams looked to have a chance was
when he floored Elliott with a short light
*° the chin in the fifth round. He should
have been disqualified for hit mg e
prostrate pug, but he was cautioned
for landing low with a right m the eighth.
At the end of that round he surrendered
with the naive explanation janed me
ri §ht.
„ A.f
bailer, has no 8 ,
bativeness which wrested part of an ear
bem lts moorings twd M t» ttaLnro
a complete !? a
Wih every physical advantage he failed
to lower Jackie Mart s colors at the Syd-
ney Stadium. Straight lefts made Gal-
lagher’s nose bleed, and an accidental
head punch gashed his left eyebrow,
These injuries did not stir him into show-
ing any venom, and the stone-lighter
man won easily on points.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
There seems to be no limit to the
patience of Australians. The tram strike
proved this. Melbourne folk went calmly
on their ways and got to work the best
way they could. The only comment heard
was “Isn’t the city peaceful without the
trams?” Trains were a nightmare for
those lucky enough to get into them, but
motorists did a grand job picking up
tramping workers and driving them into
town. Not everybody knew what it was
all about. One man, after waiting 30
minutes for a tram, said to a policeman
“Why are the trams so late?”
It was a sorry finale for guests who
attended a reception at the Town Hall to
find on coming out that the trams had
stopped. The affair was a civic welcome
to the new Chinese Minister to Australia,
Mr, Y. T. Cheng, and his wife. As usual,
the reception-room was a blaze of glory
with spring flowers placed at all points of
advantage. Guest of honol-, Mrs. Cheng,
rivalled the flowers with her national cos-
tume, fashioned of shimmering ivory
satin and patterned with clusters of grapes
and foliage in deep wirie and tender
green. Over her Oriental gown she wore
a grey squirrel coat, in which she
pinned her presentation posy of orchids.
Mayor Connelly, with Mrs. Bernard
Heinze, Mayoress, received the guests.
Among the guests were knight Latham,
C.J., and former Australian Minister
to Japan, and Disney, M.L.A. Mrs.
Heinze set off her tobacco-brown cloth
coat and deep brown furs with a match-
ing sailor hat softly trimmed with curled
ostrich feathers. With knight Robert
Knox was his wife, who chose an en-
semble in soft pastel blue with a small
matching hat.
In a short speech of welcome, given
after the official one by the Mayor,
John Latham stressed the debt Australia
owes to China, as our ally against Japan.
Mr. Cheng said his country would never
forget the help Australia gave in China’s
darkest days of war and famine. Mem-
bers of the Consular Corps Were guests.
Mr. Nicolades, Greek Vice-Consul, was
with his wife, and Trade Commissioner
for Maoriland, J. A. Malcolm, was also
present. French military attache, Col.
Renucci, represented his country and told
of plans for a garden party at his home
for the French Red Cross.
In spite of the tram strike guests
managed to assemble in the private din-
ing-room of the University Union House
for a sherry party given by Prof. A. F.
Barker, President of the Australia-China
Co-operation Association, as a welcome
to the members of the cast of “The
Western Chamber,” the 13th century
play translated into English by S. J.
Hsiung, translater also of “Lady Preciops
Stream.” Producer Laurel Berryman (in
private life Mrs. Gaston Held) comes
from Westralia, where she was in radio
and repertory circles. Among her activi-
ties in Melbourne was her work at the
Melbourne Conservatorium in co-opera-
tion''with Clive Carey. Costumes of rare
beauty will be seen in “The Western
Chamber,” lent by the Bendigo Chinese
Citizens’ Association. Among the guests
at the sherry-drinking were Captain
Wang, Chinese Military Attache, Mrs
Elizabeth Marshall, secretary of the asso-
ciation, and Harry Howe, Melbourne rep-
resentative of the Bendigo group.
Gloria Melody, petite and dainty, who
attended the party in a trim tailored grey
suit, will play Ying-Ying. Sylvia
Samuel is to portray the psftt of
Hung Niang, maid to the beautiful Ying-
Ying. The part of Hung Niang is long
and very exacting, and as the play is to-
be presented in the Union House in three
weeks’ time, members of the cast are
working very hard. Shirley Fosdick will
appear as Madam Tsui, wife of the Prime
Minister. Ruth Bergner, cousin of
Elisabeth, is a Melbourne resident, and
she will be seen in the play in a series
of dances.
With much ceremony and, on the part
of Mayor Connelly, much aplomb, “Miss
Victoria” was chosen and crowned. Gal-
leries were filled with an eager audience,
all backing their favorites, and many
more took part in the dancing. A more
or less non-stop Tivoli programme kept
the audience happy until the 27 candidates
appeared. The title went to a lass of 17,
Betty Joan Tuck, sponsored by a
radio station. Just back from Manila,
John Hunter accompanied his wife Joan
to the Town Hall for this occasion. Ivan
Holyman, of A.N.A., was with a group
of his staff, hoping that their candidate,
“Miss A.N.A.,” would win the stakes.
Kathryn Perkins, in white crepe embroid-
ered in gold, was with fiance Flight-Lieut.
Max Wilson. Mrs. Ken Leicester, in a
short black frock worn with a hat com-
posed of three large pink roses, was with
Lieut. James Brown, R.N.; Mary Ward,
wearing a silver'fox cape over her black
frock, was in the same party. Later
Mayor Connelly and Mayoress Heinze
entertained the winning three candidates
and their friends to supper in the
Mayoress’s reception-room.
Gordon Ellis, managing director of
British Empire Films, and other members
of the B.E.F. staff, were hosts at a buffet
luncheon given at the Village Theatre,
Toorak, preceding a private screening of
“I Live at Grosvenor Square.” Guests
were independent exhibitors and their
wives and members of the press. Mr.
Ellis talked about English-made films now
on the stocks. One, “Concerto,” in tech-
nicolor, brings Arthur Rubinstein to the
screen for the first time. He will play
Rachmaninoff’s Second Pianoforte Con-
certo and the “Appassionata” Sonata.
Altogether there are 25 classical works
in the film, including compositions of
Debussy, De Falla, Grieg and Chopin.
Russia, Mr. Ellis said, is seeking markets
for her pictures all over the worth She
aims “to blanket the world” with them,
and will subsidise any co. willing so show
a great proportion of Russian films.
Broothorn took this picture of Lieut
Betty Wallace Mitchell, A.W.A.S. Jean,
her elder sister, is an officer in the
W.A.A.A.F. Betty, an old girl of the
Melbourne C. of E. Girls’ Grammar
School, was head of the school for physi-
cal training in her day, and one year she
was also junior diving champion of the
associated public schools. For three
years Betty has been a member of the
A.W.A.S., for the last six months at
Cabarlah Staff School. With Brigadier
Hopkins, Betty received the Duchess of
Gloucester and Lady Clive when they
came to visit the girls at Cabarlah. Later
Betty took them on a tour of inspection
of the quarters. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell
has just returned from a visit to Sydney
and she is hoping that her four older
children in the services will be able to
join the family for Christmas. There
are eight children in the Wallace Mitchell
family—two girls and six boys.
Last week the Leggo home on St.
Kilda-road was filled with a crowd of
gay and youthful guests who had come to
extend best wishes to Betty, elder
daughter of Mrs. and the late Victor
Leggo. Earlier in the day Betty, accom-
panied by bridesmaid sister Joan and
matron-of-honor Dymatha Bennett, had
motored to Geelong, where her wedding
with Flying-Officer Dunstan took place
in the chapel of Geelong Grammar
School. When the bridal party came
out of the chapel they walked through
a guard of honor composed of Air Train-
ing Corps boys attached to the school. For
her wedding Betty wore a white net
frock, the skirt very full and allied to a
peplum-finished jacket. Peplum and neck
and short sleeves of the tight-fitting
jacket were trimmed with wide white
lace. A floating veil of tulle was attached
to a diamente Juliet cap, and the bride
carried a trail of gardenias. Both bride
and attendant wore matching white net
frocks and carried bouquets of deep red
roses.
When leaving for her honeymoon
Betty was lovely in a powder-blue en-
semble, and wore with it a tiny mush-
room hat of off-white straw tied up with
brown veiling. Air Force officers carried
the bridal pair to their car as they left
on the first stages of a short honeymoon.
Illness prevented the bride’s mother from
taking part in the fun. Mrs. J. Dunstan,
mother of the bridegroom, whose navy
blue outfit was made gay by a small hat
of flowers in cyclamen tonings, helped
to receive the guests.
From Sydney
More of Australia’s sons came back to
their motherland last week, and their wel-
come was warm and true. The cheers,
the laughter, and the waving of flags
stirred even the sick in their ambulances
as the procession made its way through
the city. They, poor lads, tried to lift
themselves up to take a glance at the
crowded, the tumultuous streets. Sydney
has welcomed yet another group of the
youngsters who have done so much for
Australia, who have suffered dire* wrongs
in the doing of the right. But when the
folk who stayed at home have stopped
cheering, when they have laid down the
little flags, what are they going to do in
a practical way to prove to the men
returning that this land is really theirs?
In brilliant sunshine the .Duntroon
glided up the harbor on Sunday. Sirens
shrilled and whistles blew; cheers came
from the hundreds of small craft bobbing
up and down on the waters. More cheers
from the thousands on the foreshores.
The men who had clambered to every
vantage point of the ship, just as those
on the Vindex, Dominion Monarch and
Arawa did, looked and listened and
found their homecoming good. More
cheers when the ship docked at
Woolloomooloo, and cheers all along
the way to Ingleburn camp. Not so many
cheers here, where mothers and fathers,
wives, children and sweethearts were
waiting. But there were laughter and
tears, and who can say how many an
inaudible “Thank God” was breathed for
the prayed-for miracle which had come
to pass.
At last the poor Australian author has
a fairy godmother. It is the newly-formed
Australian Book Society, which has been
formed with, the idea of publicising the
home-grown book, , It has its own
medium, “Book News,” which carries re-
views of Australian books and features
literary articles. On its advisory board
are Dame Mary Gilmore, Miles Frank-
lin, Dr. George Mackaness, C. B. Christe-
sen, and many other writers of standing.
They will advise on such matters as the
choice of a book of the month. The
society brings writers and readers to-
gether (rather like the pre-war Foyle
lunches) at®a monthly midday repast.
Last Monday the Feminist Club was the
meeting-place, the speaker John Metcalfe,
of the Public Library, *who spoke on
libraries and literature.
Shipping knight Thomas Gordon’s
youngest daughter Helen became the wife
of Geoffrey Penrose Johnson, of Grafton,
last week in St. Mark’s at Darling Point.
Great masses of flowers decked the altar,
and the pews, too, were decorated. Bells
pealed, and there was a great uplifting
of choral singing to add the right churchly
atmosphere. The bride’s frock was of
white chantilly lace, and her tulle veil
flowed from a coronet of pearls. Her
flowers were white azaleas and pink
orchids allied to the traditional orange
blossom. Thomas Gordon and his lady
presided over the reception held at the
Australia.
Phyllis Raisbeck was one of this State’s
finalists in the A.B.C. vocal and instru-
mental contests. She has a contralto of
wide range and great richness. Listeners
who had heard Calve declare that this
young Australian singer has the same
dramatic note in her voice. Phyllis is
known to radio audiences, and to audi-
ences who have heard her voice lifted in
recital work, and at many concerts for
good causes. A Noel Ruble photograph.
It is interesting for the people in the
Empire to see how their kinspeople go
about their daily occupations. Nothing
could show this more intimately than do
those splendid photographs now on view
in David Jones’s grouped under the title
“This is Canada.” This idea of exchang-
ing photographic close-ups of the daily
life of members of the British Common-
wealth could easily prove one of thfe
greatest links of Empire.
Many of the photographs are of war-
time activities. Others >show the serenity
of country life. Noticeable in these out-
door pictures is lack of the sunshine to
which Australians are accustomed.
“Cattle Fording an Alberta Stream” is
perhaps one of the most beautiful pic-
tures on the walls. Another that draws
the gaze is a* group of rural schoolchild-
ren watching a travelogue. The picture
might have been taken at one of Aus-
tralia’s outback country schools. The
photograph dominating the room is one
showing a meeting during the war of Win-
ston Churchill, President Roosevelt and,
Canada’s Prime Minister, Mackenzie
King. It was beneath this that the High
Commissioner for Canada, Justice T. C.
Davis, made the opening speech.
Mrs. Davis, in brown suit and small
hat, wore her veil in the Edwardian
manner. She found the day cold, although
she and her husband are not long back
from a two-months visit to Canada. They
went in a bomber ’plane, and only eight
days were spent in travelling. A group
of Canadian airmen gave their support
on the opening day, and after the speeches
Mr. and Mrs. Davis were able to give
them some first-hand news of what
Canada is doing.
One of the importants of the afternoon
was the just-appointed Government Film
Commissioner for Australia, Ralph
Foster. He has been lent to Australia by
the Canadian Government, and it is his
intention to make pictures of Australia
and its people. His interest in the after-
noon was a personal one. He was in
charge of the Canadian Government de-
partment responsible for the making of
the pictures ; and he knew the men who
did the making.
A cultural group that seldom has the
spotlight thrown on it is the Celtic Society.
Here Scottish, Welsh, British and Irish
Celts gather together and find a common
language—the coin of literature and
poetry. The. Society’s president, Clement
Hosking, calls for a special word. He is
probably the only Bard in Australia or
Maoriland. He was created a Bard by
the Gorsedd, the group behind the great
National Eisteddfod of Wales. Actually
he was invested with scroll and insignia
in Cornwall, whither he had gone in quest
of old lore. He had already spent months
of research in the Outer Hebrides, col-
lecting folk-song and folk-lore, and in
recognition of his services to ancient
literature the very exclusive Gorstedd
admitted him to the brotherhood with the
title of “Singer of the Isles.”
Last week the friendly little Celtic
Society held a meeting in its president's
studio. There is a great store of know-
ledge in this group, many of whom can
read the old scripts as easily as they can
English. At these meetings it is usual
for some of the members to sing and play
traditional airs. Last week Mr. Mc-
Sweeny was the singer, telling the history
of each song as a prologue. One of his
■ songbooks had been given to him by
Brendan Bracken.
Singer Gwen Howard (Mrs. Pedlow),
surely one of the bravest women
evacuated from Singapore, will lift her
mezzo-soprano voice in a programme of
Welsh folk-songs at the Macquarie audi-
torium on October 13. The recital will
benefit the 2GB Community Chest and
Military Camps Comforts and Enter-
tainment. Idwal Jenkins will play the
accompaniments.
Max Oldaker, playing the Red Shadow
in “The Desert Song” at the Royal, is
an entrant for the Popular Man contest*
sponsored by the Actors’ Benevolent Fund
of Australia to raise funds to assist dis-
tressed actors, especially those who have
been disabled by war. The aim of the
fund it to build a home for aged
thespians, and in the immediate future to
assist in the rehabilitation and welfare of
members of the profession returning from
active service. It is intended also to look
after the children of the disabled and to
provide for their education. Max, who
is “The- Firm’s” candidate in this contest,
was born in Tasmania. Well known as
actor and singer, he is also an accom-
plished pianist and composer.
The Wishing Tree in the Gardens has
been cut down. The poor thing has
been dying slowly for years, and now its
sap will flow no more, its fyeart no longer
beat in unisbn with thq humans, little and
big, who confided their dreams to it.
Those who have walked about its trunk
wishing something, that came true can
buy a bit of its wood for remembrance
at the Red Cross Chelsea flower show in
the Domain midway through this month.
Patients in the 113th General Military
Hospital at Concord are carving the wood
into paper-knives, penholders and such,
and these will be on sale. The show will
be opened by the Jordan lady.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Permanent Forces
Demobilisation officially commenced
on October 1. At the time I write the
Government has made no announcement
as to the establishment of the permanent
forces. Experienced men will be required,
at least for n.c.os. and officers, and the
most experienced, the long-service men,
are to be demobilised first.
Many four- and five-year men would
like to make the services their profession,
but, with the future in that direction ob-
scure, will choose to be discharged in
order to obtain a secure job as soon as
possible. The pre-war set-up, of course,
can be little guide to the future shape of
the permanent forces. Before 1939 there
was no overseas service to be done. Now
there will be. Married men want to know
how long they will have to serve over-
seas and whether, after a period, their
wives may join them.
Prospective members of the permanent
forces also wish to know the rates of pay.
The increase in the cost of living since
1939 makes the pre-war rates unattrac-
tive, but old permanent members think,
perhaps pessimistically, that a substantial
increase is unlikely.
An immediate statement is necessary if
many of the best men are to be retained
for the permanent forces. —T.P. V.
(R.A.A.F.).
Soldier Settlement in Queensland
Already about 3,815,000 acres of land
in Queensland have been “frozen” in
connection with soldier land-settlement
schemes submitted by the Queensland
Government to the Federal Government,
and preliminary inspection of other areas
is now being made with a view to having
such areas similarly “frozen.”
Most of this land is to be opened for
agriculture, dairying, fruit-growing and
cattle fattening. Grazing land is also re-
quired by sons of graziers and others who
have had experience with wool-growing
and cattle. When all the land set apart
for soldier settlement is eventually
“frozen” the State’s farm production will
be seriously interfered with unless prompt
action is taken to allot land to ex-service
personnel.
So far not one acre has been allotted in
Queensland to returned soldiers from
this war, and men waiting to go on the
land are anxiously inquiring regarding
the Government’s intentions. Shortage
of surveyors and other technical officers
is given as the reason for the slow pro-
gress being made.
Owners of grazing properties, portions
of which are due for resumption, are
anxious to know what is in store for them.
All that the Government can tell them is
that they are “to remain in undisturbed
tenancy until new tenants are granted the
right to occupy,” but this is not very
satisfactory, particularly in the case of
sheep-breeders and stud-owners who de-
sire to plan for the future.
The Federal Government has stated
that private enterprise is to be looked to
to assist in providing employment for ex-
servicemen and others, such as munition
workers previously engaged on war work.
But there is every indication that the
farming industry is going to have a vast
supply of red tape. — Outback (Q.).
Leaving the Sinking Ship*
Lately I have met some young men
who for the last three or four years have
been holding good jobs in Army Educa-
tion. When I first met them they were
full of ideals about educating the soldier.
Now, it appears, {hey are interested only
in getting back to their old jobs or into
new ones.
When I said to one of them “But what
about Army Education—doesn’t that
begin now?” his wife said “Yes, but
people do need money, and my husband
will get much more money in a civilian
occupation than he does in the Army.
Besides, he will have a permanent posi-
tion.”
These chaps have been writing little
pamphlets telling the soldiers what is to
be done for them in the post-war world,
and the moment the war ends they want
to wash their hands of the whole busi-
ness. The soldiers have been told that
the people who stayed behind while they
were in the front line have been preparing
a brave new world which would be ready
for them when the war ended..
Isn’t the building of a new world
a big enough job to last an architect a
lifetime? — Lord Luvus (Vic.).
Interest Rates
It is hard to follow the Federal Gov-
ernment’s reasoning in financial matters.
The new Victory Loan bears interest at
2i p.c. If I put £lOOO in it my annual
income from the investment would be
£25. But, having been released from the
Army, I decide to buy a War Service
Home, so I must borrow my £lOOO back.
On this I would have to pay interest at
the rate of 4 p.c., thus losing £l5 a year
for trying to help my country and house
my family.
Surely the Government’s administra-
tive costs for War Service Homes cannot
amount to l\ p.c. when building societies
average only \ p.c, for similar services.—
Gartmore (Vic.).
Ford Houses at Rolls Royce Prices
Frost, Minister for Repatriation and
War Service Homes, has been advising
returned soldiers and others not to build
elaborate homes just now because build-
ing costs today are almost double their
normal level, so that a house which
should cost less than £lOOO runs into
£lBOO. The same Minister said long ago
he was convinced prices would come
down after the war.
In 1934 a fair-to-middling timber frame
dwelling cost £730, brick veneer £864
and brick £960. The corresponding quotes
this year are £1035, £1250 and £1365.
Labor pre-war made up 25 p.c. of the
cost of building and material 75 p.c.
Today labor accounts for 40 p.c. and
material for 60 p.c. The labor cost of
“It’s fer our tenth wedding anniversary. I'd always Wanted a signet ring!"
an average five-roomed brick house in
1934 was £240. Today it is £546. The
average bricklayer in pre-war days laid
700 to 1000 bricks a day of eight hours;
today he averages 350 to 400.
The cost of labor in the trades serving
the building industry tells the same story.
In the brick, pottery, tile and pipe indus-
try in Victoria the value of production
per £1 wage paid to employees has de-
creased in ten years by 24 p.c., while
wages and salaries per head have in-
creased 75 p.c.
War-time conscription of labor by
Governmental ukase has been a big factor
in raising costs. The cost of Building
labor in the N.T. worked out at £22 a
week for each man employed. When
these jobs were taken over by private
enterprise a considerable saving was
effected. But bureaucrats don’t give up
their power easily. The Federal authori-
ties have refused permits to builders to
erect homes for returned servicemen as
the demand for building material would
compete with the requirements of the
State Housing Commission. —L. L. (Vic.).
Makers of Slums
In nearly all prescriptions *for a better
new world we read of “abolition of
slums.” “Taurus” recommends it (B.
26/9/’45). What constitutes a slum?
After eight ‘years’ observation in Bris-
bane I say positively it is the people who
form the slums, not the area.
Prior to the war, when houses could
be had for the asking, there was no notice-
able exodus from the notorious Spring
Hill area. Certain suburbs in South Bris-
bane kept their full quota when cleaner
suburbs were available. There were other
instances. To compel slummy people to
clean up and live decently would have
been an infringement of their personal
liberty. They made the slums.
I had a nice little cottage on a 28-acre
farm. I let it. The tenant had a clean
house, in good condition, with practically
unlimited scope. Did he grow himself a
cottage garden and keep the place in
order? He did not. With other houses
about him that family would have been
the nucleus of a slum. The place was
filthy: windows and doors were broken,
there were slush and muck at the back
steps, and, though there was unlimited
space, he brought his fowls up and made
perches for them under the house.
That tenant, incidentally, was a rabid
Communist. Perhaps it is unfair to judge
others by his standards. He had a slum
mentality, and his creed fostered filth. I
formulated a new theory: Slums don’t
foster Communism; Communism fosters
slums, — Cocky (Q.).
“Bamjo” and Yass
Yass has no delusions about A. B.
Paterson’s links with the district. At the
public meeting on August 23 when it
was decided to launch the memorial
movement everybody was aware that
“Banjo” was born at Narimbla in 1864,
that he came with his father and uncle
to Illalong station in 1870 and was
associated with Illalong up to 1888. We
knew also that early in this century he
and a Mr. Linderman bought Coodra
Vale station in the Yass district, and that
he was associated with the Yass dis-
trict for the greater part of his life. —
B. lulian (Yass, N.S.W.).
Sunday Open-air Concerts
Sydney music-lovers are very disap-
pointed that restrictions have not been
lifted on open-air concerts on Sunday
afternoons. Melbourne and Brisbane are
able to show the Harbor City a point
there. Music in the open is allowed and
appreciated in other parts of the world,
and the Australian climate is ideal for it.
A walk through the Domain or Botani-
cal Gardens would be all the more
pleasurable with music in the air.—
George Foster (A.1.F.).
Wanted—A Medal
We need another decoration, to be
awarded for plain hard work of either
hand or brain, and not available to com-
missioned ranks except in the case of
V.D.C. personnel.
Among some of the people to whom it
could be awarded are: (1) men who had
ideas accepted by the Army Inventions
Directorate. Some of those ideas saved
lives, others saved the country a lot of
money or were a boon and a blessing to
the troops. Most of those ideas came
from civilians, from n.c.os. and privates.
(2) Members of the V.D.C. who spent
so much of their time —and often their
money as well —in originating new
methods of training and in improvising
weapons. A typical case is that of the 17th
Battalion V.D.C. in North Queensland.
These men did more than train, drill and
stand on guard in case of invasion ; hav-
ing in their ranks some of the best bush-
men in Australia, they devoted their spare
time to training soldiers, sailors and air-
men in bushcraff, teaching them how to
survive if they found themselves cast on
their own resources on coast, reef, bush
or jungle. Intelligence reports have since
shown how valuable that training was —
the V.D.C. did it all on its own initiative.
(3) Instructors at training camps who
really taught instead of roaring and bully-
ing. They were among the most valuable
men in the Army —and how many of
them ever rose beyond sergeant or war-
rant officer? Very few, for the incongru-
ous reason that they were too good to
promote! .
Also to be considered are the first-class
cooks who did the most thankless job in
the Army; the Y.M.C.A. man who was
always “just behind the lines”; the padres
of all denominations who did the same
thing ; men of 'the Farming Companies
who toiled like slaves in the blazing tropi-
cal sun to supply the troops with fresh
vegetables as soon as a new base was
captured (it wasn’t their fault if most of
their produce often went to base-wallah
messes), and the outstanding men among
the teams who built bases, airfields and
wharves in record time. Under the
present system, these men get nothing
while their C.O. is awarded the 0.8. E,
How could such an award be made to
ensure that only those who really deserve
it are honored? In cases like inventions
there will be no trouble —the records
speak for themselves. In other cases,
single out the units to be so honored by
an award or two of the new medal —and
let the men vote for the man who is to
wear it. This isn’t a real innovation, as
the Victoria Cross itself has been so
awarded by a ballot of the men who took
part in the action which brought the
award.
Finally, any man who thinks he or one
of his mates .has performed an outstand-
ing service could be invited to submit
particulars of the claim to a committee,
who could investigate it and judge the
case on its merits. Of course, many
modest men wouldn’t put in claims, but
the procedure might bring to light some
of those cases where a private, corporal
or sergeant did the real work while the
C.O. got the credit.
And the time to do it is now —before
our services are disbanded. — Wanyill
(A.M.F.).
Eire and the War
An Irishman, born in County Clare, 1
am afraid it is not possible to be proud of
my native land’s record. The figures
“M.L.M.” (B. 5/9/’45) quotes are im-
pressive. I doubt the Calcutta 1943 quota ;
but for the rest it will be noted that these
gestures took place after hostilities ceased
in Europe ; and there is no sign of Eire
putting forth a helping hand to the
British. Oh, no! The Italians, who
stabbed the Allies in the back, are the
ones to be helped.
Has “M.L.M.” forgotten that Eire’s
neutrality enabled the Axis Powers to
maintain Embassies in Dublin; that a
German co. installed and runs the Shan-
non Electrical Project, near Limerick, with
a complete'German colony of engineers,
technicians, etc., running their own schools
and speaking the German language—a
colony numbering over 400; that
thousands of British and Empire sea-
men lost their lives in convoys because
the coasts of Eire could be hugged by
Nazi submarines?
Yes, thousands of Southern-' Irishmen
(bless them!') have served in the British
forces, as their forefathers -did for
250 years in the old Irish regiments dis-
banded in 1923. These lads are to be
congratulated; but has “M.L.M.” spoken
to any of the Irish lads now serving with
the Royal Navy and Royal Marines in
the Pacific Fleet? I have, to find that
one and all say they come of a genera-
tion fostered on hatred of England and
everything British and loyal, and that
not one of them during their years of
service in the war had been able to find
the Ulsterman, Englishman or Scot they
could hate. Then, “M.L.M.,” what about
the 200 veterans of Monty’s Eighth Army,
given leave from Europe, to be immedi-
ately arrested in their homes in Eire,
charged as deserters and sentenced to two
years’ imprisonment?
One can only assume that the thousands
of Irishmen and Irishwomen who, seizing
on Britain’s difficulties when she was
battling for her life and world freedom to
fill their pockets in English factories,
smugly put their tongues in their cheeks
and considered their “war effort” a salve
to Republican consciences in accepting
hated England’s bloody gold—to the tune
of £3,000,000 per year.
If “M.L.M.” and De Valera could
meet, as I have met in the Islands, some
of the Irish lads captured with other
British boys in Singapore, walking
skeletons rotten with malaria, beri-beri
and ulcers, and if he could hear their
opinions when they found their country
had closed its eyes for years, he might
change his tune. —NX70721, Co. Clare
(A.1.F.).


:
«
mi
m
.
Wm-.
y
I
/zr
df
A supreme effort was demanded of Australia’s radio
industry and A.W.A.’s great scientific and manufac-
turing resources achieved record-breaking production
of vital war equipment.
This included the manufacture of more than 20,000
radio transmitters for communications use by the
fighting services of the Allied Nations.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA)
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS 0 R w A Hll A % I k 1
