

q
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE—BUY VICTORY BONDS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/*
Vol. 66—No. 3399
Wednesday, April 4, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
RIPLEY CASTLE, YORKSHIRE HOME OF THE INGILBYS
RIPLEY CASTLE, close to Ripley in Yorkshire, was built by
Sir William Ingilby, Bart., in 1555. After the Battle of Marston
Moor (July, 1644), in which the Royalists were completely beaten,
Cromwell sent one of his officers, a relation of the Ingilbys, to
Ripley Castle to announce his arrival in the town. The master
of the house was not at home ; but Lady Ingilby told the mes-
senger to return to Cromwell and inform him that she could on
no account receive such a' man under her roof, and that she had
sufficient force to defend her person and her house against all the
rebels. However, her relative at last persuaded Lady Ingilby to
receive the general. She went out to meet Cromwell at the lodge
gate with a pair of pistols stuck in her apron-strings, and, having
first told him that she did not expect that either he or his soldiers
would behave improperly, she conducted him into the hall. There
they sat all night, each on a sofa at opposite ends of the room.
and each equally suspicious of the other’s intentions. When he
left she had a message for him to the effect that he had done well
to conduct himself so peaceably, for he would never have left her
house alive if he had behaved himself differently. The Great
Tower contains on the wainscoting of one of its rooms a carved
inscription bearing the date of the building. The lodge is also
old ; but the rest of the castle has been much enlarged and rebuilt,
and its ornamental battlements contrast strangely here and there
with the traces which remain of the old stronghold fortified for
use. Ripley has been occupied by the Ingilby family ever since
the castle was built. The land first came to them through Sir
Thomas de Ingilby, who, in the latter part of the fourteenth century,
married the heiress of Ripley, “and well used the stoare he got.”


q
This Book FREE to YOUi
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised tn the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name ~
My Address
S.B. 115 AGE
The Red Page
PORTRAIT OF LEICHHARDT
Leichhardt Letters (Pan Publishers,
Box 1761, G.P.0., Melbourne) consists
of a series of letters from the explorer
to his relatives in Germany ; the first,
dated March 23, 1842, written shortly
after his arrival in Australia and the last
(to a friend in Sydney) dated April 3,
1848, at Macpherson’s station on the final
and fatal expedition.
The booklet of 95 pages also includes
a short biography by Dr. G. Neumayer,
formerly director of the Flagstaff Obser-
vatory, Melbourne, and an introduction
by Alec Chisholm. L. L. Politzer, who
has translated the letters and Dr. Neu-
mayer’s biography, has done an excellent
service to Australian history. There has
been considerable controversy about
Leichhardt, not only in recent times but
at intervals throughout "the hundred years
since he made his journey to Port Essing-
ton ; he was a fantastic and contradic-
tory character; and these letters are his
self-portrait.
It seems a pity that Mr. Politzer has
omitted from a letter to Leichhardt’s
brother-in-law, written aboard ship on
the way back to Sydney from Port
Essington and summarising the explorer’s
adventures, a section which is described
in a footnote as “a justification of his
motives which need not be repeated.”
Very likely the “justification” merely
repeats what is stated or implied in other
letters ; but at least an ampler footnote
•might have been provided to make this
clear.
One aspect of Leichhardt’s personality
—his flamboyance—is'revealed in the
first paragraph of the first letter:
My dearest Brother-in-law —Wide oceans
I have crossed, fiery storms I have weathered.
The sun passed over my head from south to
north, and now the- whole earth lies be-
tween you and me; now time, season, even
the character of the skies is different —the
south is cold, north is hot, and the shadow
of my body draws at noon towards
south It may suffice for you to know
that I am contented and happy but for my
separation from you all, although I do not
deny that I often get impatient when I
cannot realise my plans as quickly and
magnificently as I would like.
There is his idealism:
I do not deny that the general tendency to
make money, this purely material life, which*
submerges higher spiritual ambitions, does
not -appeal to me at all.
His piety and his tenderness for his
mother;
I am in thought with you on Sundays
when I indulge in recollections of-the past;
I then hear you, see you, and share your
thoughts. After that day .the globe divides
us again, you return to the dear Heimat,
whereas I, left to myself in a strange land,
have to search for consolation, peace and
contentedness. 1 do not feel unhappy; for
a considerable time now I have got accus-
tomed to live with nature and to find happi-
ness in its observation and exploration. My
only heartache is caused through the fact
that I wander across the world, separated
from you all You have been lovingly
attached to the boy who gave you, some-
times against his will, some sorrow, but
still you would love more the man in whom
the passion of youth is quieting down
gradually and who has tried to preserve a
childlike freshness of heart.
His ardent love of Australia:
Such families of free settlers who take an
interest in the colony and consider it as then-
fatherland are the only true treasure of the
country and they will be the nucleus of a
mighty nation which will make us forget the
old Europe After the completion of this
expedition I shall return to Europe and
then I will visit you; but I will hardly
stay for good in Germany or even Europe.
I must go back to the land of my wander
years, to the beautiful, to the glorious sky
of Australia.
There are his respect for literature,
his craving for poetry:
But why do you omit to inform me
about German poetry? Have all of the
German poets gone to sleep? Does the
present time not find any poetic expres-
sion? We have grown up with the thought
that great times produce great poets, and
I cannot resist’ the thought that we live in
great times. I have read again Schiller’s
poems after three years of my life in the
wilderness. What a magnificent, noble lan-
guage. What fine feelings harbored in the
breast of this remarkable man.
There is his attitude towards women:
I have made the acquaintance of charm-
ing families; often I have been attracted
by girls; in fact, I have been deeply in
love, but my dependent position made me
always refrain from any serious step, or
from declaring myself.
Against all these appealing qualities
in Leichhardt’s nature, there is his con-
demnation of the men who accompanied
him on his expeditions. “On the whole,”
he said, “I have not been fortunate in
my companions.” He refers to bicker-
ings on the Port Essington journey;
strongly criticises the members of the
second expedition; offering in general a
picture of a blameless Leichhardt always
let down by his associates. *As to what
measure of truth there may have been
in his accusations —a point that can be
decided only by balancing them against
the counter-charges brought by his com-
panions and by comparing discipline and
dissension on Leichhardt’s expeditions
with the conduct of leaders and men on
similar desperate adventures —historians
will argue for a long time. The value
of the Letters is that here Leichhardt
speaks for himself.
However much the explorer may have
been responsible for his isolation, there
is something intensely human, and in-
tensely appealing, in his picture of him-
self at the close of the Port Essington
expedition seeking consolation and
friendship in the company of a humble
bullock:
We were lucky enough to shoot a buffalo
at the approach to the peninsula, an inci-
dent which gave us meat and saved the
life of my last bullock. The idea of killing
this bullock was very distasteful to me. It
was my favorite during the whole voyage,
I had loaded it personally. This animal
was at first wild and unapproachable, but
gradually it became tame and quiet,
although from time to time it gave me a
kick with its hind leg, making me lame
for several days. It is now in Port Essing-
ton; I presented it to Captain McArthur,
the Governor of the place, who promised
me to look after it.
“I know my weaknesses,” Leichhardt
said, “but I pursue my goal courageously
and indefatigably.”
Gone to the Dogs.
The first appearance of dogs in Mr.
George Barker’s latest collection of
short poems, published by Faber, is
in the punning title, Eros in Dogma.
The pun here is hardly likely to
be accidental, but it is a pleasant and
wonderful coincidence that the author’s
name happens to be Barker.
For Mr. Barker is obsessed by dogs.
On page 10 he declares:
Those whom I may not meet pester me now
Like dogs I lost seem leaping at my throat.
On page 34:
Laboring, the lover shall become that Apollo
Who in a Spanish square stared at a dog
Till it gave up the ghost and ran off empty.
On page 37 he ejaculates “O dog my
God!” On page 38 there is a “dog’s
dream,” and on the same page:
Here at my hand here at my heart lie still
Till the dog-rose springs off its beds of bush
To run in circles leaping at your heel.
On page 46 he describes his one-year-old
daughter as “My small one whom the
dogs follow” ; on page 48 the “dogs of
memory” are howling on the steps of his
heart; on page 50 he has a dog in the
sky ; and on page 52, which brings one
practically to the end of the book, there
is expressed the hope that:
The spitting bitch shall lie down and
Breed beds of cherubs.
Clearly, Mr. Barker has been bitten.
What is troubling him, of course, is
Francis Thompson’s Hound of Heaven,
of which his book as a whole is simply a
rewriting according to contemporary for-
mulae. With something of the naive de-
light with which children, on first master-
ing the alphabet, make the same dis-
covery, Mr. Barker has found out that,
spelt backwards, “God” becomes “dog.”
Representing the torments that fall upon
man, the dog chases the author from one
end of the earth to the other until, seeing
himself as Job but lacking Job’s dignity,
he cries out “Brute! Beast!” and then,
in the concluding love-poems, is recon-
ciled.
The poetry is essentially personal, the
sort of “allegory of the state of the
author’s mind” which Matthew Arnold
refused to regard as art. To describe it
as mere doggerel would be unjust; for
Mr. Barker can write charmingly:
O Golden Fleece she is where she lies tonight
Trammelled in her sheets like midsummer on a
bed.
Kisses like moths flitter over her bright
Mouth, and, as she turns her head,
All space moves over to give her beauty room.
But such simplicity is rare. Mr. Barker,
who describes himself as a “trumpet on a
twig,” is always trying for bizarre effects
of language and a comparison of his
“Verses for a First Birthday,” addressed
to his daughter in war-time, with Ken-
neth Mackenzie’s “A Fairy Tale” in The
Moonlit Doorway —an Australian poem
on the same theme —will show how much
of dignity and emotional strength the
English poet has thrown away for mere
showmanship. Mr. Barker’s fireworks are
the less effective in that (“My nine-tiered
tigress in the cage of sex”) they derive
so obviously from Dylan Thomas. Other
influences, also strongly marked, are
Cecil Day Lewis (the use of “jockey”
as a verb) and T. S. Eliot (“The wheel
where the dog’s dream Turns and is inter-
minable”).
The ideas in Eros in Dogma derive
from Eliot and Auden. Mr. Barker is
obviously affected by Eliot’s return to re-
ligion, while for the most part he dole-
fully repeats Auden’s error, that the
present war means the collapse of our
civilisation: a notion that must have
sprung from the illusions that this is the
first war in England’s history and that it
will last for ever. Mr. Barker’s concep-
tion of the soldier is that he is a “sing-
ing sheep.”
It seems more clear than ever that what
really happened when the war broke out
was not that the world came to an end
but that a certain school of English
poetry did.
Democracy in N.Z.
Author of the latest addition to New
Zealand’s already extensive bibliography
is Walter Nash, who, with an interlude
as Minister at Washington, has been
managing the country’s finances since
1935. His New Zealand: A Working
Democracy is published by Dent.
Douglas Crediters and the sort of
people who think national debts can be
defrayed by gratuitous bank-note issues
say that Nash has betrayed Labor prin-
ciples. Less censorious critics find a
parallel between his career and that of
Philip Snowden, the “sea-green incorrup-
tible” of English Socialism who surprised
the City •of London with an absolutely
orthodox Budget.
Nash himself points proudly to the
reconstitution (in 1936) of the N.Z. Re-
serve Bank as an instrument “to give
effect to the monetary policy of the Gov-
ernment.” The extent to which that
function could be properly exercised was
the subject of many misgivings on the
part of the then governor of the bank,
Leslie Lefeaux, which is perhaps one of
the reasons why that gentleman’s criti-
cisms of the Reserve Bank’s policy now
come from outside the institution.
But Mr. Nash does not write at any
great length about the broader aspects
of the Dominion’s currency-management
system, and he does not even mention
the current campaign to convert the Bank
of New Zealand into an entirely (as
opposed to a partly) State-controlled in-
stitution. He gives a very full and (natur-
ally and with justification) glowing ac-
count of the Dominion’s general war
effort, and (with somewhat less warrant)
eulogises the price-fixing, stabilising and
industrial peace-preserving measures of
the war period, '
Mr. Nash’s brief excursions into poli-
tical theory are interesting. Most com-
mentators from outside have found the
little country’s legislators to be curiously
free from the doctrinaire influences of
the older world. Henry Demarest Lloyd
credited them with a distinctive aim of
their own —“the deliberate exploitation
of both capitalists and proletariat by the
middle class, which means to be, itself,
the ‘fittest that survives.’ ” J. B. Cond-
liffe, just a little disgruntled because the
country has so little reverence for Univer-
sity professors, suggested that what prin-
ciples are afloat in the Dominion derive
from John Stuart Mill, but offered no
evidence on that score. The fact is that
Maoriland Cabinet Ministers, even the
most studious of them, and irrespective
of party, have always hated to be handi-
capped by theory. Mr. Nash apparently
shares that characteristic distaste. Of his
own convictions he says;
I am a socialist in the sense that I believe
that a major responsibility of government
is to provide collectively for the economic
welfare and security of the individual. But
I am conservative in the sense that I look
on the family as the foundation of the
nation.
Of the guiding principles of the Gov-
ernment of which he is a member he
says:—
They can be very simply stated: That
the first charge on a nation’s wealth should
be the care of the old because they have
worked t'o make it possible for us to enjoy
the standards of today. Of the young, be-
cause unless we care for them the future
will not be provided for. Of the ailing
' because they cannot care for themselves.
That after making this provision those who
render useful services are entitled to the full
fruits of their labor. That our resources
must be organised to ensure the maximum
production of useful goods and services
so that all may enjoy good standards of
life with security and leisure.
Seddon, who called himself a Human-
ist, could have said every word of that.
Seddon’s intense devotion to the concep-
tion of Empire is equally shared by Mr.
Nash, though he prefers to refer to the
British Commonwealth of Nations. What-
ever it is called, he will not hear of its
territory being diminished or its influ-
ence in the counsels of the world over-
shadowed.
Throughout a long discussion of post-
war problems this Imperial (or Common-
wealthian) thread runs through warp
and woof. Mr. Nash sets tremendous
store on the Atlantic Charter and the
Four Freedoms, which in his eyes seem
to constitute a veritable new Gospel.
Again and again he quotes that bit about
the right of all peoples to choose the
form of government under which they
will live” without once facing the obvious
criticism that the first of the Freedoms
7 freedom of speech and expression—is
incompatible with communist or fascist
“forms of government,” which, for all the
Charter decrees to the contrary, any
nation may choose if it wishes to. ’
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Whatever else he is, Ivon Yakovlev,
a Russian 15 years resident in Australia’,
who earns his living by photography and,
paints for pleasure, is a trier, as exem-
plified by his show of oils at the Velas-
quez Galleries, Melbourne. His “Krem-
lin of Moscow, a study of the queer
vegetable architecture of Old Slavdom,
dates from his Russian days. He hasn’t
become acclimatised to Australian land-
scape, but a couple of his portraits are
forceful, notably the musician depicted
in “Relaxation” and his study of the
famous spruiker who for 30 years has
verbalised the pictures in front of Hoyt’s
in Bourke-street—a very speaking like-
ness.
“F.S.”: An unusual show at the Vertu
Cottage Galleries in Melbourne com-
prises original etchings by Rembrandt,
Van Dyck, Durer and others, collected
during a term of service in England by
Lieutenant John Seymour, R.A.N.V.R.,
a young serviceman with a taste for the
antique. A magnificent Rembrandt is
“The Death of the Virgin” priced at 100
guineas. Every bit of it looks as if it
had been drawn with passion; and there
are nearly a dozen others. It might be
asked how it is possible to obtain etch-
ings of the Old Masters these days, but
they did, not destroy or deface all their
plates after a limited edition had been
struck off, as is the modern practice, and
certainly Rembrandt would not have
bothered to do so, as he wasn’t much
sought after in his later life. Many of
the plates are lodged with the Govern-
ments of various countries, who strike off
fresh copies from time to time and these
get on the market.
Adelaide Repertory, being severely
amateur, was able on opening its 1945
season to hand a cheque for £915, last
year’s profits, to the Legacy Club, which
looks after soldiers’ children. Mimi
Mattin produced the opening play,
“Tovarich,” a bright comedy by Sher-
wood from the French of Deval. The
experienced Ken Fraser, now of the •
R.A.A.F., brought with him comrades
Cooper and Ratner, who also are well
known with the Independent Theatre in
Sydney. Fraser and Phyllis Burford
stood out as the light-hearted Russian
aristocrats, starving in Paris after their
Revolution, although guarding a vast
sum entrusted to them by their late
Czar. Cecil Reed and Elizabeth Camp-
bell had the next best chances, as the
employers whom, as butler and maid, the
others fascinate, and at the end George
Whittle triumphed as a brutal Russian
official who turns out to have a heart. The
Tivoli must have held some 3000 people
in the four shows.
“MacH.”; “Timeless Moment,” a play
by a Sydney author, Noel Rubie, given a
brief try-out by the Independent Theatre,
was chiefly concerned with the struggles
of an adolescent musician, described by
his father as a “genius.” It suffered from
the common failing of plays about writers,
painters, musicians —artists of any sort
—that the author did not really know what
he was balking about. Charles Morgan
and Thomas Mann (in his novel about
Goethe) obviously know something about
the nature of great genius; Rubie ma}
know something about the studio won
of Sydney, but most of its denizens ta*
a long way short of genius. The chaoi>
lads on their way up in the world
usually to nowhere —can be used in
comedy; but then, as they are sincere >
attempting the mountains of the arts, it
in bad taste to make a joke ot the •
One can’t take them seriously a
“geniuses” ; one doesn’t particularly wa
to laugh at them ; consequently, they r
very poor material for the drama u ■
Moreover, there’s little dramatic *
in the troubles of a soul declared r
the outset to be sensitive; real
comes when the normal, the average
or less insensitive man is ......
situation that awakens his sensib •
not the abnormal man m his norm
of disturbance, but the noimal
normally disturbed.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING’
121 YEARS OF SERVICE
Nth
OIMV
»yb
Ji
W 3
Bl
i
hi
«
m
a
asm
SMst
artr
ss
m
m
91 BBS If HI
M 188 IBM
!3
3a*
F®
“THE SENIOR STORE”
T
o acknowledged as Australia’s oldest retail store is an honour which we could not
enjoy if we did not daily strive to desefve it.
in
E
owever arduous the struggle to attain our first century may have been, we are under no
illusions about the difficulties that lie in our pathway towards our second
hundred years.
xtraordinary merit will be required in any commercial institution which hopes to
survive the spirited competition of the post-war era.
s
uccess in trading depends on so many different factors.
E
xperience has taught us that its price — like that of liberty—is constant watchfulness.
Nothing may be left to chance.
I
€
IE
n every direction we must be prepared for the unknown and the unforeseen.
n our ability to adjust ourselves rapidly to cope with the unexpected may rest our
entire future.
ecognition of this truth is the guiding force behind every development in our highly-
evolved organisation today.
%
till, there is one point which we should like to make clear:
t
€
imes may change, but our objective of service to the community remains the same.
ur traditional policies of fair dealing, good value, minimum prices, will always be
rigorously maintained.
IE
egard this as our pledge to you in all circumstances,
IE
ven as it was to your ancestors by our founders in the year 1823.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SYDNEY


1
9
I WSM
Mg ' ” ;
m
1
■ 9
m
mx
A
.SSSi
M
M
S . mjm. „
S*x
a a i
n
188 -, | ;
■
Mi awp ■
>- *‘ . i:
.
HiiM— 1f
W!m§^mBm
.
| iiM|lilii|
■
w
..
sap
»■
.
M
tp? :
'-iS
:ft ft
I i
WMsmmmr $ »%. *
BS^
v :■■;■:
I
H
-
/ Jr ,
'
- M#
11
-i
ftiiftftft- -1
I
? i
HH H
mm
m
. «|
ft!-
j
I
*l &
:;■ $
H
flj
IB
■ft
«
m
ft*ft*'ft - •
I
% m
-
- r 775*rr
ft'
•r>' r ft ~
**&■ <*mtv \Myf >
■ 4 jiLV
-‘I I lift f ft"
*J. i lI MM .
ml
ft ft/. : ' '.' " ft . : "■
4Y' '4a 7r *«/ It' C^fß
l'ftft r ■ - A
■ ft ft !
* *
f /Jm-
ft-'ft'lftftft ::ftftftftift" 'ft ft ; ft "ftft :ft ."ftfti ft'ftft" ftft'ft
■:-ftft : "ft '•X&f'’' ' - *' "ftftftft;’" ~ ; ' ftftft'i' ft—ls:
Hfti-i'i-ftiMl'.l ftftftft"'' ftftift''. ■ B : HaH HIHf
npa| I-ill
Hfe Ah
■■■
■■■" ft ft; ftfti "■■ '" ~
rT?3' - - 4
, ' jffl lilEißr
■ ■
: f^ 1
pil.ii.
st»
- ■ -; ■ i";
» t 1
"ftfti,;. "'"ftftft";
f
wJSiPti
I"-;;"
mm
■; ft
ft
ft : 'ft ft. : ■ ’ ■
■ i'ftftftft 1 ■""'■ "ftift ; ftft' ft-ft Wm»r%
■"■-ft.,. V||
m : '
ft- I
Kl
"I. ftftft,"
EH
im
m
ft'-, ' ‘ /’ftft'"'-ft
V.>
: s a
ift
For nearly 60 years we have co-operated with Industry
and Insurance, successfully reducing fire risk to its
minimum.
(
From the first “Grinnell” save in 1886, 1212 fires have
been controlled in Australia and New Zealand by the
“Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System.
The average loss per fire was £145. This unbelievably
low figure covered all claims for fire, water and smoke
damage.
This wonderful record of “saves” in “Grinnell” protected
buildings over the years represents the sum of
materials of outstanding quality, accumulated knowledge,
backed by painstaking service rendered by a substantial
organisation.
The name “Grinnell” is a registered trade mark and
applies only to the “Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and
Fire Alarm System.
Wormald Bros. Pty. Ltd.
, {lnc. in N.S.W.).
Fire Protection Engineers since 188 9.
Sydney: Melbourne: Brisbane: Adelaide: Perth: Newcastle: Hobart: Wellington: Auckland: Christchurch.
Note: A complete Fire Protection Engineering Service operates at all branches.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3399
Wednesday, April 4, 1945
TWILIGHT OF THE TIN-GODS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P• H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
. r Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria ; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings {opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ENGLISHMAN OF DESTINY.
El Alamein saw the turning of the
tide now rolling over what is left of the
military structure of Nazi Germany, leav-
ing in its wake, as witness to what may
happen to a once-great people when it
heedlessly entrusts its destinies to a gang
of adventurers, men of blood, unnum-
bered graves and hideous ruins.
The issue at Stalingrad was still in the
balance when Rommel’s broken legions
•were in full retreat across the North
African desert, seeking a haven which
they were never to find. It was not de-
cided till nearly three months after El
Alamein had been won. And Stalingrad,
though perhaps the greatest achievement
of the dogged valor which has so often
in their history come to the rescue of the
Russians against an invader fighting far
from his home bases, had little effect on
the war in the skies, to which Russia’s
contribution has been small, and no effect
on the war on the seas other than the
cruel cost of aid to Russia in men and
ships, chiefly British.
In the El Alamein week an Anglo-
American army under General Eisen-
hower landed in North-west Africa, and,
though this army had its reverses, the
doom of the ‘ Germans and Italians in
Africa was from that moment sealed.
Within eight months those who were not
dead were prisoners of war. Another
two months and the Italians, save for a
rabble of fugitive Fascists, were out of
the war and the Royal Navy had received
the surrender of their fleet. Even before
this catastrophe came the Germans had
lost the use of the Italian divisions in
Russia and had themselves begun their
retreat from that country, gloomily con-
scious of the probability that the process
of desertion would be rapid and that at
no distant period they would have to face
the might of Britain, America and Russia
alone.
The blows struck in North Africa in
that fateful month of November, 1942,
were not hastily improvised or prepared
without great difficulties having to be
overcome. That year was the worst of
all for Allied shipping losses, and though
British shipyards were working to their
limit, necessarily restricted by sinkings of
equipment and materials. United States
construction had not got fairly into its
stride. During the twelvemonth 782 Brit-
ish vessels of 3,695,000 gross tons and
422 U.S. vessels of 2,053,000 gross tons,
a large proportion carrying cargoes for
the armies of Alexander and Eisenhower,
were sunk by U-boats, surface craft and
bombers, Norwegian, Greek and other
ships bringing the fearful total to 1859
ships of 8,338,000 gross tons. The losses
in manhood and in the withdrawal of
damaged vessels which had to be taken
and convoyed long distances for repairs
have never been disclosed, though they
must obviously have been great.
The British and American Govern-
ments had also to reckon with a world-
wide agitation for premature landings in
Europe, not less formidable for being
execrable. It was supported alike by
communists and fellow-travellers, by
persons like Beaverbrook and his satellites
and by other armchair strategists who
denied any Moscow inspiration. The
cry for a “Second Front” was raised
even in Australia by journalists, politi-
cians, union bosses, bishops and femi-
nists, as well as by communists, in their
publications and processions and at their
party and union meetings ; and this when
the Germans were on the Volga and had
most of the great Russian cities, except
Moscow and besieged Leningrad, and
when the Japanese, victorious everywhere,
had made a tragic mess of Darwin, were
in occupation of all Australia’s mandated
islands and were threatening Moresby.
It was asserted that Britain was letting
Russia bear the whole' brunt of “the”
war when it had 5,000,000 soldiers eat-
ing their heads off in the United King-
dom. In a Sunday paper issued from
the Sydney “Daily Telegraph” office a
homekeeping youth snorted that “from
the west the British Army offers no more
fight than it would were it conquered
or disarmed.” Mingled with these erup-
tions of ignorance and insolence were
attacks on “the Old School Tie” generals
in Egypt, it being declared that they were
such duffers that they were trying to
beat the Germans without “tankbusters,”
and that some of Timoshenko’s subordi-
nates should be borrowed from Mr.
Stalin (not Timoshenko himself, as he
would be required for command of the
“Second Front” campaigns) to teach
them their trade.
Not even the soldiers of the Eighth
Army were spared. The trouble with the
Geordies and their companions, a whelp
named Aldridge wrote in the Sydney
“Sun,” was ignorance of “what fascism
means.”
Tell this to the Tommy and he would
get the speed and anger of hatred, the
virility of a new life, the toughness of a
man determined to destroy, if it means win-
ning the war.
And only four months before El Alamein!
At El Alamein there stepped on the
stage one of those men whom the Eng-
lish always contrive to produce when
their fate is at stake, as it were by the
direct favor of Providence: a com-
mander who has Cromwellian and Nel-
sonian characteristics; a queer character
with a rugged frame and a bony, whim-
sical face who embodies the genius of
the race for war. The able and gener-
ous American generalissimo has said in
a sentence which will certainly become
part of history that Montgomery is “not
only one of the greatest generals of this
war but one of the greatest of any war.”
It is true, and when in the course of
nature Montgomery goes to join his
peers Wellington and Marlborough will
welcome him to their company as a kin-
dred soul and a master of complex prob-
lems, arising from the vast scale of war
in the nineteen-forties and the changes
which science and invention have effected
in it, with which they in their campaigns
never had to deal.
Yet his contemporaries other than his
officers and men, who, recognising his
great qualities, have been devoted to him
from the beginning, have been slow, and
in some cases very reluctant, to accept
Eisenhower’s judgment. When Mont-
gomery halted on the Mareth Line to
prepare one of his dazzling strokes, with
Freyberg’s New Zealanders as his bold
and trustworthy instruments, men of
little faith were at work proclaiming that
the enemy had stopped him. They re-
turned to this sorry game when Mont-
gomery was in Italy, and again during
the Battle of Normandy, fought two
years after the landings for which
their tribe had clamored, even after
the bloody warning of Dieppe—landings
stamped with the organising genius of
Admiral Ramsay, who was fated not to
receive the gratitude of the Allied Nations
at the conclusion of the victorious peace
whjph he had helped so magnificently to
make a certainty.
The grim fighting on the left, where
Montgomery, with his British and
Canadians, was worrying the life out of
the flower of Rommel’s army so that
Patton might seize a favorable moment
for a dash through the lines thus
weakened, brought the third issue of
traction at Montgomery’s expense, nor
did it cease when Patton’s tanks were
careering through France. The dash of
the Americans, though one of the factors
on which Montgomery had relied in shap-
ing his plans as overall commander, was
contrasted with the “immobility” of the
part of the army under his personal
leadership. Patton nearing Paris ; Mont-
gomery “held up” at Caen. Humiliating
contrast, which showed Montgomery in
his true colors. A passable general by
African standards, but unsuited to the
greater demands of European warfare.
Too slow; too cautious.
How stupid, as well as ungrateful, this
anti-Montgomery stuff seems now, with
the Rhine crossed as a result of the
masterly accumulation of men and equip-
ment in the right places and the hard
pounding which have been identified with
all Montgomery’s operations, and all the
Anglo-American armies of the west
thrusting deep into Germany! How
idiotic the sneer of a Melbourne “Herald”
young man, carried away by the spec-
tacular successes of the Russians, when
the careful preparations for a thunder-
stroke in the Rhineland were under way.
The Russians fight hard and with every
possible man, almost regardless of what is
happening behind them; we are inclined to
fight soft. They are saying now that the
British and Americans before crossing a
river require Bailey bridges, pontoons,
ducks, alligators, crocodiles, weasels, am-
phibious jeeps and the rest, as part of their
great river-crossing paraphernalia. The
Russians simply require a river.
The long-delayed Russian campaign was,
of course, described in newspapers, as
all Russian campaigns have been, as
“the mightiest in history.” The public
which reads these newspapers was bidden
to expect that the Cossacks, their sabres
“flashing,” would be riding along Unter
den Linden while the armies of Eisen-
hower and Montgomery were still
fumbling west of the Rhine; and the
communists, as always, exploited the ex-
pectation. Maps showing the Russians
30-odd miles and the Anglo-Americans
300-odd miles from Berlin and the time
taken in reaching those positions made
their appearance, the motive in one case
being about as subtle as a communist
poster. Before the Russian offensive was
three weeks old it was asserted that Stettin,
Berlin, Breslau and Frankfort-on-the-
Oder would fall in a matter of days. And
though the offensive did not begin till
January 12, Moscow claimed on Red
Army Day, when flags were flown on
Government offices in Australia by
“Labor’s” orders, that it had “thwarted”
Von Rundstedt’s efforts to capture Bel-
gium and Alsace.
It is improbable that Von Rundstedt
had any such grandiose ambitions. Any-
way, he failed to reach the Meuse, where
Montgomery was grimly waiting for him,
and was on his way back to his original
lines, hustled and suffering, a week before
the Russians surged forward, to encounter
only weak opposition, except in places like
Thorn, Posen and Konigsberg, till they
reached the Oder line, where they were
stopped for two months. General Eisen-
hower has uttered the last word on Von
Rundstedt’s adventure —“the Germans’
most costly mistake since their decision
to stand in the face of the Allied break-
through at Avranches, Normandy,”
At the beginning of this week some
people seemed really afraid that Mont-
gomery would get to Berlin first.
Whether he does or not, he has been the
chief architect of victory in the ground
fighting, having availed himself with
genius of the opportunities provided by
the wonderful work of the seamen and
airmen of the British Empire and the
United States and their associates from
the smaller nations, and the entire demo-
cratic world is his permanent debtor.
Though the desperate gang which has
found his appearance on any front an
omen of ruin may fight on somewhere
and somehow for a few weeks, possibly
a few months, the doom of their country
was inevitable from the moment he made
the Normandy landings good.
It is a thousand pities that Diggers
were not among his legions, as Aus-
tralian airjnen were among the sky
battalions. The officers and men of the
Ninth Division were at El Alamein,
and Montgomery’s tribute to them was
so glowing—as was that of Alexander,
then in the chief command —that beyond
doubt he would have been glad and
proud to have them in France and Ger-
many ; and the Ninth, the Sixth, the
Seventh and other A.I.F. divisions,
especially the unemployed armored divi-
sion, would have given their ears to be
with him. Their “Government” decided
otherwise. This may prove an embar-
rassment at the San Francisco World
Security Conference, which, as things are
going, looks like being a dress rehearsal
for the peace palavers unless Moscow
manoeuvres cause it to be delayed. It
will certainly be awkward if Dr. Evatt or
Mr. Forde, airing his views on the recon-
struction of Europe, the more copiously
for having no directions from their Par-
liament —ignored, as usual —should be
drily asked how many divisions Australia
sent to that continent and reminded that
when the population was only 5,000,000,
nearly 50 per cent, less than in 1945, it
had five splendid divisions there in 1918.
Digger Re-establishment.
Though his views on hanking and credit
would be funny if they were not dan-
gerous, Mr. Dedman, himself an old sol-
dier, one of that great majority of them
who overcome all handicaps and njake
good on return to civil life, has done a
thoughtful and generally sound prelim-
inary job on the framing and presenting
of his Re-establishment Bill, intended to
“give legislative expression to Australia’s
sense of Obligation to its fighting forces
and to their auxiliaries for the part that
they have played in the war.”
Having a Commonwealth-wide appli-
cation, and hence superseding separate,
divergent State legislation, the bill in most
sections embodies suggestions put for-
ward by service representatives, chiefly
of course, the R.S.L. and the committees
it has had working on this decidedly dif-
ficult and complex problem. This does
not hold for the preference section, which
Mr. Dedman describes —and no one will
dispute it—as the “most controversial”
in the bill. The R.S.L. stand has all along
been for outright preference to returned
men. The bill, bringing in a certain, un-
specified class of civilian war workers on
an equal footing, is a compromise between
the R.S.L. aim and that of Labor organi-
sations —no preference whatever. The
limitation of preference to a seven-years
period is Mr. Dedman jumping through
the hoop at the crack of his Labor-union
bosses’ whip.
The seven-years term is to date from
the cessation of hostilities, and this cer-
tainly needs amendment. It discriminates
against the unfit and the unready, and,
obviously, in favor of the civilians
allowed in. A returned man who may
spend years in hospital after the war
and be discharged fit will have lost those
years of preference benefit. A man who
answered the call as a youth to go and
fight for the country and afterwards takes
up the occupational training needed to
fit him for civilian life will be in the
same position. There are other like
cases, and the slight amendments neces-
sary to ensure them an equal fair deal
should be made, none the less so because
they will be merely a small minority.
Mr. Dedman has argued, reasonably
enough, that “after seven years there will
be new generations of workers coming
along, many of them the sons of service-
men, and these should not be handi-
capped by old history.” Certainly, if the
provisions of the bill are wisely admin-
istered, all' entitled to preference should
by seven years have had the opportunity
to get a steady start back in civilian life
—at least, provided there are the jobs
to go round.
Obviously a great deal depends on
what civilians are to be included on an
equal footing with returned 3 and other
service personnel. It calls for a clear and
complete definition. Both the portion of
the preference section dealing with the
application of priority in preference as
between one individual and another and
Mr. Dedman’s statement on this point
smell fishy. Mr. Dedman sounded like
one trying to cover something up when
declaring that this war differed from the
last “both from the point of view of the
nature and locality of service of the ser-
viceman, and from the standpoint of the
form of national services rendered by the
war worker and other civilians, especially
in the war sector of the economy,”
What Mr. Dedman meant by that jar-
gonistic conclusion has to be guessed at.
In view of what its real bosses have told
the Government to do in this matter it is
a reasonable suspicion that what Mr.
Dedman was there up to was leaving the
preference gate open to all with any sort
of ground whatever for claiming to be
war workers. If the civilian admission
is to be as wide as that the fighting ser-
vicemen are being sold, in the guise of a
benefit, a particularly mangy pup.
Clarification of the civilian inclusion
provisions is essential before anyone can
interpret the full meaning of the section
enforcing preference “unless reasonable
and substantial cause exists for not doing
so.” With the unspecified civilian inclu-
sion in mind it needs no particularly
gifted nose to catch the high whiff of
fish in the following:
In determining whether reasonable and
substantial cause exists for not engaging
a person entitled to preference to another
applicant an employer has to consider:—
{d) The length, locality and nature of
the service of the person entitled to prefer-
ence;
(b) his qualifications as compared with
the other applicants;
(c) the qualifications demanded for ful-
filling the duties of the position;
id) any procedural requirements pre-
scribed by law for engaging an employee
for the position; and
(e) any other relevant matter.
When to that is added “Civilians who
are granted registration [for preference]
will become equally entitled with ex-
service personnel to the benefits of the
preference provisions of the Act” the use
that could be made of clauses “ b ” and
“c” starts to poke up a very ugly head.
One thing it seems certain to mean is
that over the demobilisation period—put
at up to 18 months —the civilian, being
on the spot, will be able to get in first.
Shameful if permitted.
The thing is full of loopholes, despite the
sound opening clause (a). This clause-
liable, however, if not certain, to be nulli-
fied by the succeeding clauses —appears
to be the only concession in the prefer-
ence section to the idea, strongly ad-
vanced all along by the R.S.L. and shared
by most people with a sense of the right-
ness of things and of gratitude, that the
returned man, the one who has been
doing the actual fighting, is entitled to
special consideration. Unless the Dedman
idea is that this clause (a) is to be
balanced against the succeeding clauses
in some sort of nice adjustment of points
—a ridiculous impossibility—the returned
man, in the practical application of these
preference provisions, is not only going
to be lumped in with civilians and home-
front commandos, but will be at a posi-
tive disadvantage against them.
These and other minor considerations
apart, the bill appears an honest attempt
to fit servicemen and others dislocated by
the war back into steady civilian life.
That is, after all, the final and over-riding
purpose of such a measure, and, with
few amendments, this one looks like
standing out as a solid and comprehen-
sive job of legislation. A point about
preference that is liable to be clouded in
discussion is that it is for the filling of
vacancies; not for the filling of all jobs.
Those held before the war by present
servicemen are thoroughly well looked
after in Mr. Dedman’s bill, with a special
body provided to see that the relevant
provisions are enforced. Men who were
apprentice lads on enlistment will have
to complete their apprenticeships (neces-
sary in their own future interests), but
will while doing so be paid allowances
at a rate ensuring an income equivalent
to the wage they would have been receiv-
ing in the ordinary course. .
Under such headings as “Vocational
Training,” “Care of the Disabled,
“Loans,” “Housing” and the like, the biU


bears a generally close resemblance to
what it purports to be —a re-establishment
measure aiming at playing its own big
and important part in getting the nation
as a whole moving forward as a going
concern when the war is over. One fun-
damental thing in it—to be expected, no
doubt, from an ex-serviceman who made
his own adjustments for normal civilian
life —;is the clear aim to help those it is
principally concerned with to get back to
normality. There is no encouragement
in it for getting the head down in despair.
It is an encouragement towards a dis-
play of the same sort of courage in facing
up to the road back that the great bulk
of those who may benefit by it showed on
taking the road out, and when they got
there.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Lloyd George.
To Britain’s leader in the last war, dead
at 82, Kipling’s lines on Lord Roberts
could be applied with little alteration:
He passed in the very battle-smoke
Of the war he had descried;
Three hundred mile of cannon spoke
When the master-gunner died.
The guns of the Western Allies were
roaring as the greatest Welshman of the
age, perhaps of all ages, was breathing
his last. Had he been spared a little
longer he would have heard the well-
known shouts of victory. He stood so
high in the esteem of the British nation
that it was thought by many that he
should have been called to office as Mr.
Churchill’s chief lieutenant and adviser;
and it transpires that Mr. Churchill,
generosity itself in these matters, made
him the offer. He said he was too old
for that, and perhaps he was ; but he
never ceased to be an inspiration to the
people whom his passionate oratory had
thrilled so often in war and peace.
As a young M.P. Lloyd George risked
his career and nearly wrecked it by oppos-
ing the Boer War, He was fated to fall
as Prime Minister because he had backed
the Greeks against the Turks; “backed
the wrong horse,” the Conservatives said;
and time has proved them right. In
between he was a leader of many causes
that triumphed, none of them easily—
Budget reform, old-age pensions, insur-
ance against sickness and unemploy-
ment, House of Commons supremacy
and universal suffrage. The Old Diggers
had no greater admirer, and he
wrote in his memoirs that if he had
known of Monash’s unsurpassed talents
early enough he would have seriously
considered placing the great Australian
of the Jewish faith at the head of the
Imperial armies.
At the peace palavers he steadily sup-
ported Australia’s cause. He opposed the
Japanese claim to a race-equality clause,
and reminded President Wilson that Aus-
tralian losses in battle were greater than
those of the United States. It must have
been a source of regret to him in his
declining days that there were no A.I.F.
divisions among the hosts commanded by
General Eisenhower, the present Austra-
lian Government’s view in that regard
being radically different from those of
the Governments led by Joseph Cook,
Andrew Fisher and William Morris
Hughes. That son of Wales, himself
turned 80, lives on, no longer a fiery
particle but still giving service, to cherish
the memory of crowded hours spent
and great things done with Lloyd George
when each was a Prime Minister.
"Nationalised."
The tram and bus strikes in Sydney and
Newcastle on March 24, followed by
threats of encores unless Randwick races
and S.C.G. football were transferred to
the suburbs, ostensibly arose because
Man-power authorities, asked to release
300 men for trams and buses, accepted
the Transport Commissioner’s word that
he could manage with 100. But it came
out at the stopwork meeting that a Mr.
Junor hated Randwick races, while a Mr.
Ryan was annoyed because the A.J.C.
secretary (who isn’t concerned with the
city’s transport system) “refused to see
us” and seemed to favor rather “wealthy
raceowners.” This Mr. Ryan wanted to
“embarrass” the Government, and was
supported by a Mr. Jensen, who wanted
“to give the Government a sample of
your courage.” So, though union officials
objected, the cry was “all out.”
Sydney has always had a regard for
its trammies, who in all weathers and at
risk to life and limb work on the deadly
footboard which is a disgrace to a succes-
sion of Labor Governments. Curiously
enough, where modern trams have been
supplied they are on non-Labor routes,
though a Labor Government controls
them. All the same, Sydney is fed to the
back teeth with “nationalised” services,
above all with the “nationalised” abattoirs,
and on finding itself afoot because about
one-twelfth of the transport men wanted
it so found its affection for the men
waning. As for Newcastle, denied public
transport because of some silly row in an-
other city, its feelings are more easily
imagined than described.
The Commonwealth Conciliation Com-
missioner ordered a secret ballot on the
question of repetition of the strike at the
Easter week-end. It resulted in a majority
against the threatened stoppage. But it
applied only to the Easter week-end, and
the public is still at the mercy of whim-
sical gentlemen like Comrade Junor and
Comrade Ryan, while whimsical gentle-
men like Comrade Ward and his disciples
loudly demand the “nationalisation” of
everything, and whimsical gentlemen like
Comrade McKell say never a word.
Sydney's "Underworld."
Along with looting, racketeering and
black-marketing Sydney naturally has
gangs, and the gangs have feuds, it being
the nature of the beasts.
The feuds break into the news every
two or three weeks. Then ordinary
people who live decent lives are vouch-
safed pictures of a world in which the
central figures are ruffians who, though
generally young and of athletic build,
are seemingly required to do no war
work or service and, though they may
figure on charge-sheets as “laborers” or
“waterside workers,” have no visible
means of support. Yet it is made clear
that as well as leisure they have plenty of
everything that the heart of criminal
can desire —money, cars, petrol, tyres,
rich food, booze and women. The
women, according to the Legs-and-
Leftism press, are always expensively
dressed and the young ones are always
beautiful. Photographs accompanying
these statements show that the first part
is correct.
Though in the course of the war a
good many of these gangsters have been
killed and wounded in or about their
haunts, prosecutions have rarely been
successful. In N. S. Wales crime-detec-
tion and the criminal law and law-
enforcement in the criminal jurisdiction
have become sources of merriment to
the criminal classes. In any case, gang-
sters have their own code of law, a car-
dinal point of which is that witnesses of
a shooting may not speak, nor may a
dying gangster “squeak.” Because of the
awe in which gunmen are held the police
have been unable to get evidence against
killers even when their killing was done
in the sight of disinterested parties, the
disinterested parties being too scared to
come forward.
But the circumstances of a case of
which all Sydney has been talking pre-
vented the familiar recourse to silence
or intimidation. After a hard day at
“Central” facing an abortion charge, a
doctor with an extensive “underworld”
acquaintance was “taken for a ride” and
shot, finishing up in a hospital, to which
the police were summoned. There were
four men in the car besides the doctor,
all four being charged with attempted
murder, and there were many witnesses,
one, the doctor’s chauffeur, being placed
in the position of trying to explain how
he bought a yacht for £llOO on £5 a
week, and of denying any concern in the
black-marketing of booze. And a great
deal came out about two women and their
relations with men concerned. Two of
the accused were acquitted ; the others
were found guilty and sentenced to death.
Of course they won’t hang. No one
is ever hanged in N. S. Wales when
“Labor” is in. There has been a signi-
ficant increase not only in gangster shoot-
ings but in coldblooded murder by
criminals not known to be working in
gangs, and robbers and “fences” who
spare nobody and nothing, not even
fighting men and their comforts, abound.
But “Labor” can’t be moved to go in
for the measures which the situation calls
for, beginning with the appointment of
a Police Commissioner like Mitchell or
the man they have in Victoria and end-
ing with the return of capital punishment.
When sentence of eighteen months was
imposed on a fellow who, as the Judge
said, had been “making an organised
business of stealing in time of war,” and
that from the Government railways, he
“flung himself into the arms of his wife,
shrieking ‘They can’t do this to me ’ ”!
There is all too much ground for the
belief that this feeling is widespread;
that men who steal and sell in the black
market and bash harbor the notion that
“Labor” will not permit any agent of a
nefarious capitalism to be hard on them.
And “Labor” never bothers to consider
whether hate propaganda, communist
or its own, may not have had its influ-
ence on the startling outbreak of crime,
or whether something is not wanting in
what “Labor” is pleased to call “the
finest education system in the world.” To
all appearances “the finest education sys-
tem in the world” has since the last war
been oversupplied with communist
teachers, and has turned out multitudes
of youngsters with little knowledge and
no reverence for anything in particular,
Russia perhaps excepted —certainly not
for their own country or its flag.
HOUSING WHILE YOU WAIT (BUT YOU MUSTN’T BE IMPATIENT).


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING. Managing Director
HOW MUCH WILL IT COST
TO HANDLE MY ESTATE?
Some folk hesitate to appoint a Company as Executor and
Trustee of their Wills, because they imagine that by so doing they will inflict a heavy
burden on the Capital of the Estate. Such a fear is groundless, so when drawing up
your will appoint the Permanent Trustee Co. as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company’s charges are extremely reasonable for an administration backed by over
50 years experience in the management of all types of estates, the investment of funds,
and the knowledge of the technicalities involved in Trusteeship.
AND —You are assured of integrity and financial stability. Through its permanence,
the Company’s administration is guaranteed until completion of the Trust.
The charge on the gross capital value of an estate up to .£50,000
is 2i per cent,, i.e., £2/10/- for every £lOO of capital.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts.or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal*
ments which will fully repay a loan lor
amounts mentioned within 12 months .
LOAN Weekly Fortnightly Monthly
inc. Disct.
£lO
£2O
£3O
£4O
£5O
£lOO
Instal.
Instal.
7 9
IS 5
I 3 I
I 10 10
I 18 6
3 17 0
Instal.
U S
1 13
2 10
3 6
4 3
8 6
4
0
8
4
8
A longer period to repay may be
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in tne
instal ments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept-, 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place. Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
With about three weeks to go
£54,000,000 has been subscribed to the
£100,000,000 war loan, largely by those
cursed financial institutions. As was the
case last time, the two non-Labor and
non-lottery States show out best in in-
dividual subscriptions—one in 45.8 of
population in Victoria ; one in 55.6, S.A.;
one in 64.2, NiS.W.; one in 76.9, Queens-
land ; one in 79.5, Tasmania; one in
103.3 W.A. From the West people in
other States are being deluged with invita-
tion to “invest” in the Perth lot’ry. It is
an unspeakably sordid traffic.
Concerned with filling the war loan,
Curtin had a go at s.p. bookmakers —
“brigands” and “tapeworms” he called
them. It seems that he booked a ’phone
call to Willcock, the Westralian Premier,
and was held up for two hours by pres-
sure of s.p. “business”; and he complained
to Ashley about it. To Ashley. Louder
laughs were never heard at Lithgow.
The Victorian A.L.P., which opposed
the sending of the Militia beyond Aus-
tralian territory, was still in an opposing
mood at its Easter conference. It
opposed Federal Labor’s Preference and
Reestablishment Bill, styling it “a breach
of faith with the trade-union movement,”
and a “betrayal of thousands of workers.”
Dedman unavailingly pleaded that when
Federal Labor was relying on Coles’s
vote it “had to commit itself to prefer-
ence or go out on its neck,” and that since
the Dunstan Government had passed a
preference measure the party had “got
itself into a terrible position.” Dedman
is the author of the Preference and Re-
establishment Bill. What an author!
Protesting about the high cost of
housing projected under young Dr.
Coomb’s post-war reconstruction scheme,
a Melbourne serviceman’s wife points
out that if she built a brick veneer dwel-
ling, livingroom, two bedrooms, kitchen
and conveniences, the cost, plus £3OO for
block and £2OO for fittings, would be
£l6OO. She asks whether there is no pos-
sibility of those in authority reducing
costs of homes to a reasonable level.
There is little possibility when expert de-
partments are run by professors of eco-
nomics and suchlike, however distin-
guished in their own academic subjects.
You might as well expect a dentist who
doesn’t know the difference between the
French horn and the oboe' to conduct a
symphony concert.
It has come out that while W. 0.1. had
an old Digger with a dead young Digger
son fined £2O for adding two rooms to
his cottage to accommodate another son
and his bride, victims of the desperate
housing shortage, a bookmaker with
fashionable Sydney quarters was per-
mitted to build an expensive house with
mod. cons, in the mountains. The book-
maker’s permit was cancelled after the
house was up.
The redistribution plan submitted by
the Victorian Electoral Commission pro-
vides for carving up the 65 Assembly
districts so as to give the huge wen six
more seats. Premier Dunstan says the plan
is “impartial.” Hollway, leader of the Libs,
and one of Dunstan’s Ministers, calls it
“reasonable.” Labor-leader Cain re-
serves judgment until he hears from
Caucus and the owners of the heads
which will fall are discreetly silent. The
general public, bored with the inability of
State Governments to do anything about
anything, especially housing, is of the
opinion that the plan will bring in the
millennium about five minutes sooner.
From a special Parliamentary corre-
spondent ;
At question time —which goes from
11 a.m. fill noon—the Front Bench is well
filled. The Prime Minister is often there
answering questions in person, sometimes
very trumpery questions, too. But the Prime
Minister treats the House with great defer-
ence. He craves its indulgence when he
wants to break a long speech by taking
lunch.
Curtin? No ; Churchill.
Since all strikes by registered unions
are illegal, it is fantastic that industrial
tribunals should order secret ballots as
to whether or not union members should
strike. All the same the procedure has
been effective in two recent cases. One
was the communist-inspired Queensland
shearing strike, though communists held
up the return to work; the other was the
Government tram and bus strike in Syd-
ney, though there was a strike majority
among Newcastle men who weren’t
affected by the actual dispute. Had
Governments clothed the industrial tri-
bunals with enforcement powers and
backed them up latter-day industrial his-
■ll i. . i . 111
“Glad you’re not offending any of those anti-Blimp reporters by sporting the Old
School Tie.”
tory would have been different. The
results of both ballots suggest that most
Australian workers are against war-time
strikes.
The Duke of Windsor’s reasons for
giving up his post in the Bahamas have
not been published, but they may be con-
nected with increasing political* agitation
among our colored fellow-subjects in the
Caribbeans. Jamaica recently had an
election, its first under universal suffrage.
There are 32 seats, and Mr. Bustemente’s
Labor party won 22. With the sangfroid
that never deserts it on such occasions,
the “Times” noted that Mr. Bustemente
was gaoled before the war for leading a
riot and interned early in the war for
hurling himself into the struggle against it.
There is bitter irony in the report that
“protests from rank-and-file members
against what they termed the high-handed
methods of bureaucratic departments
were made in the Caucus at Canberra,”
Even these worthies ought to know that
high-handed methods of public depart-
ments are part and parcel of the social-
ism they are inflicting on Australia. Like
the authority on heraldry who was hope-
lessly boxed up in cross-examination, they
don’t understand their own silly super-
stition.
McKell has shut up his Parliament and
is going abroad, with Mrs. McKell and
two “senior officers,” leaving the long-
promised liquor reform, on which “an
expert committee” and “a committee of
experts” have been working, to “await
his final decision,” in “August or Sep-
tember.” There seemed some danger of
the falling out of friends when McKell’s
“Government” ordered licensees to keep
their doors open during the hours pre-
scribed by the Act and licensees replied
by closing them when they pleased. Obvi-
ously this little interruption to the policy
of “going along quietly” has been for-
given, and, should the necessity arise, the
vote will be delivered at the usual
address.
South Australian effects of the pass-
ing of the Chifley Bank Bill as reported
to Premier Playford by the Parliamen-
tary draftsman:
Within six months the Savings Bank must
obtain the Governor-General’s authority to
carry on business. Authority, if granted,
“might be on conditions breach of which
would involve liability to a penalty of
£lOOO a day.”
The amount of the increase of assets
since August, 1939, and any further amount
required by the Commonwealth Bank, would
have to be transferred to a special account.
The Commonwealth Bank might dictate the
policy to be followed by the Savings Bank
in respect of advances and might control
the rate of interest payable to or by the
Savings Bank.
The Savings Bank would not be entitled
to conduct any banking business for the
State, an authority of the State or a local
authority without the consent of the Federal
Treasury.
True also in every particular of the Vic-
torian State Savings Bank, and it is no
answer to say that Chifley would never
think of enforcing such requirements.
Chifley isn’t Caucus.
In the British trade-union report on the
murderous communist rising in Greece
there is a shrewd thrust at the venomously
partisan Red and Pink correspondents:
They seemed to think that Greece con-
sisted of the Hotel Grande Bretagne.
It seems to be a weakness of Red and
Pink writing boys. Moscow correspon-
dents “report” the Russian war from the
Hotel Metropole.
Premier Dunstan, casting up in War-
racknabeal after a tour of the Malice,
said things weren’t as bad as he’d ex-
pected. He had failed to find any erosion
on the scale pictured. There was bound
to be some soil erosion in drought time,
‘‘but the sand drift is not as bad now as
in previous droughts.” No, because
there’s less of it to drift, most of it hav-
ing gone. Albert had better look out or
he’ll be linked with Scully.
Chifley dips into history:
In 1931, in the depths of the depression,
the Commonwealth Bank and the private
banks refused to assist the rehabilitation
plan of the Commonwealth and State Gov-
ernments designed to relieve acute unem-
ployment and restore industry.
What they did was to stand against the
Lang plan of interest default because it
was dishonest, and against the Theodore
“fiduciary” issue plan because it was
inflationary. They preferred tried and
trusted British ways, and, as a re-
sult, Australia was out of the depression
earlier than any other country. The
American depression was ended only by
the war.
Denying that the Polish part of the
Yalta declaration was in conflict with the
Atlantic Charter, Dr. Evatt, who sent
Mr. Moloney to Moscow and instructed
him to act as Poland’s Protecting Power,
said, in effect, that his Government’s
policy in such matters is to Follow
Britain:
The final responsibility has been accepted
in the main by the Government of Great
Britain. Our views and those of the British
Government are clear.
In spite of this, Barnard, from Laun-
ceston, had the face to say that “the
policy of the Menzies Government was
‘Follow Chamberlain’ and ‘Follow
Britain,’ regardless of the policy of that
country.” His crowd follows Churchill,
Roosevelt, MacArthur, Blarney—anyone
or anything that can save it the trouble of
thinking out a course of action and stick-
ing to it.
Howls are going up in Melbourne from
small property owners with suburban
blocks whose little investments are being
demanded by the Vic. Housing Commis-
sion at such low prices that it looks like
a form of confiscation. There is nothing
the blockholder can do about it without
being reminded that there is a war on
and he oughtn’t to be unpatriotic.
Bureaucracies always go for the small
game.
“W.J.E.” with some additions:
Forde’s cheer-up message to the Singapore
garrison (B. 14/3/’45) was sent on February 3,
1942, nine days before the catastrophe. To
allay doubts he said in a preliminary flourish
“I want you to accept it as a binding promise
of our utmost support,” and burbled on for a
few more sentences. Then came the words: —
We have done everything in our power to
ensure that the greatest degree of help
which may be sent will reach you with all
possible speed. It will go, not as a few
consignments from a shrinking store, but
as a stream which will spread to a flood,
and a flood which will soon grow to an
overwhelming torrent. These movements
are under way. You will not be left alone
or with empty hands.
It is true that he never had to account for
it to Parliament, but that is Parliament’s way.
It rarely debates foreign affairs. It hasn t
even debated the Forde-Evatt mission to the
San Francisco conference. As Archie Cameron
put it in his mordant way, “We present to the
world the spectacle of a nation sending
Ministers to San Francisco who have no public
instructions.”
In Adelaide there is a mild agitation
for a church union. If it comes off there
may be a new splurge of newspaper head-
lines: “City deprived of Sermons: Pul-
pits declared Black. Church Union seeks
Support of A.L.P.”
The “West Australian” discovers a
mystery:
The statement from Melbourne that Aus-
tralia’s meat production for 1945 is esti-
mated to show a reduction of 67,000 tons
will cause no surprise... .The surprise will
be reserved for the statement that last
year’s output exceeded 1,032,000 tons....
the year of our worst drought.
But the mystery, of course, was only
Scully. Last October Scully estimated the
year’s meat at 1,035,000 tons, whereupon
Fisken, chairman of the Meat Board,
said the figures were “obviously wrong. ’
They’re still wrong, of course; but that’s
no surprise to anybody who knows
Scully.


(Vo ajno»
Royal Reserve Port
PERTONAL ITEMS
“Watching him in recent debates,” an
American visitor to England wrote re-
cently of Churchill, “you got a sense of
the tribal chieftain breathing defiant chal-
lenge at a small band of rebels. Standing
in the well of the House, he glared across
at Left-wing Laborites, challenging them
to come out and fight. Irony, scorn, invec-
tive, ridicule—all these weapons he used
to the fullest extent. In clarity and force
of enunciation he could have been a
man 20 years younger. He was the old
warrior at the top of his stride.” Not
bad for a man who carries an Empire
war leadership burden at rising 71, but
still nothing out of the way for one who
made a point of getting across the Rhine
as close on the heels of the advance
troops as they’d let him.
Resigned the Lieutenant-Governorship
of Victoria, held since 1936, Chief Justice
Frederick Mann, K.C.M.G., was born at
Mount Gambier (S.A.), 76 years ago, and
was called to the Victorian Bar in
1896. He left the Crown Law Depart-
ment to join in the fight against Kruger
with the Fourth Australian Imperial
Rifles. In 1919 he became a Judge of the
Supreme Court; Chief Justice in 1935.
Cables on last week’s costly air crash
on the Britain-Canada route listed among
the missing Air-Marshal “Sir Peter”
Drummond. Actually, Drummond had
two Christian names, Roy Maxwell; but
it was as Peter that he was known in the
First A.1.F., the old R.F.C. and R.A.F/
and even to the enemy in 1914-18. A
Westralian, born in Perth in 1894, he
went from Scotch College there into the
A.1.F., saw service on Gallipoli, was
then with the R.F.C. in Palestine and
afterwards commissioned in the R.A.F.,
collecting on the way the M.C., D.S.O.
and bar and 0.8. E. (military). Between
the wars he continued with the R.A.F.,
was loaned to the R.A.A.F. from 1925
to 1929, and after that rose rapidly in
important posts with the British Air
Ministry. He had been Air Member for
Training on the British Air Council since
1943, meanwhile adding C.B. and K.C.B.
to his honors. He married into the
Drake-Brockman family in 1929. Under-
secretary for Air R. A. Brabner, also
missing, was a Royal Navy man with
service in several of its most notable car-
riers, including the Eagle when she was
sunk. He had been M.P. for Hythe since
1929.
An unusual jubilee was that of J. Stead
Clark, of Vacuum Oil, which has been
celebrated by the co.’s officials in Adel-
aide. Clark, who likes to recall that he
started in Melbourne under E. W. Lycett
in March, 1895, when the whole head-
office staff was only four, has seen service
also in M.L. and Queensland, but mainly
in Adelaide. The unusual part is that,
though not yet 80, he retired 20 years ago.
Three times wounded and wearing a
Military Cross and bar, Major Angus
Ross, recently appointed acting-head of
the History Department of Otago Univer-
sity, is back in his native Maoriland. He
succeeds Prof. Elder, resigned. From
1936 till he enlisted in the 2nd N.Z.E.F.,
in 1940, Ross was lecturer of history at
Otago Uni. His campaigning has been in
the Middle East,
“J.H.M.A.”; William Gosse Hay, who
lately passed on at his home near Victor
Harbor (S.A.), was a writer; of Australian
historical fiction which —to the present
scribe’s way of thinking, at any rate —has
never been bettered, not even by Marcus
Clark. Early Van Diemen’s Land Hay
made his particular study. The most not-
able of his books dealing with it was The
Escape of Sir William Hearts, the story of
a “silvertail” convict, always the gentle-
man. It has to do with Hobart Town
and Tasman’s Peninsula in the days of Sir
John Franklin, and there are capital
character studies —notably that of Mr.
Daunt, who might easily have been John
Price. Hay never advertised himself, and
his books are not as generally known as
they might be. There is not one of a
fairly long list that is not eminently Bead-
able, and the man himself was a charm-
ing and cultured personality.
Australian Chester Wilmot has been
doing a fine job with the 8.8. C., describ-
ing the Rhine crossings and the general
advance into Germany, Nothing better
has come over the air than his straight
description of one of the hottest Rhine
engagements. Wilmot, formerly with the
A.8.C., made his name in the African
campaign and subsequently wrote a very
sound book on Tobruk. He’s been
describing for 8.8. C. since D-Day,
when he was early ashore. Also heard
from the Rhine battlefields was A.B.C.’s
Charles Moses, who was brought out of
the A.I.F. after his escape from Singa-
pore, but who evidently prefers to be
where the fighting is.
Both M.L. Wang, Chinese Consul in
Victoria, and Deputy-Consul Y. C. Hsueh
have written theses in their spare time
for M.A. degrees in political science, and
the other day they had the degrees con-
ferred on them at Melbourne University.
They already held B.A. degrees of Nan-
king Uni. The Consul has been six years
in Australia, and his wife is a college
graduate of China. His deputy has been
three years in Melbourne, with a wife
somewhere in occupied China.
The Catholic Church in Australia lost
one of its most noted theologians and
scholars with the passing last week in
Sydney of Monsignor Thomas Hayden.
Born in Kilkenny in 1864, he came to
Australia after education in Ireland and
Rome, and subsequently was for 23 years
professor and 15 years president at St.
Patrick’s College, Manly (Sydney). After-
wards he was parish priest at Balmain
and, from 1931 to the end, at Darling-
hurst.
Being strafed by a Fritz airman in the
last war decided the future career of
Frank Penny, now Australian aviation
manager for Shell. He went away foot-
slogging with the old 38th Battalion, but
after the strafing decided it would be
better upstairs, and so transferred to the
R.F.C. Returning with a mention in dis-
patches, Penny got into the Shell co., and
was its Victorian manager before going
FRANK PENNY.
up to his present job. He’s 59, but that
doesn’t prevent him from retaining his
pilot’s license. Penny, who gives his spare
time these days to the A.T.C. in Mel-
bourne, with the rank of squadron-leader,
in 1919 represented R.A.F. at the inter-
services championships sports meeting at
Stamford Bridge, and won the high jump
with a sft. llin. leap. He has a son in
the R.A.F.
“El V.” memories:
In my days in London Lloyd-George was
about the least seen of statesmen. You could
see Churphill strolling through Palace Yard
waving a cheery cigar; Baldwin (then P.M.)
and little Amery trotting down Whitehall of a
spring morning, taken for granted and pro-
tected by the cast-iron rule of immunity from
being accosted by strangers which seems to
hedge British Ministers better than a Palace
Guard; Birkenhead, at church with the
Benchers. But L.G. was rarely on view except
on ceremonial occasions. Thus my only con-
tacts with him came through having a motor-
car which resembled his. His carriage was a
large grey Rolls-Royce. Mine was a large
grey affair built for a journey to India. Both
used to stand in front of the Overseas Trade
Department—he had some sort of an office in
the same street. One morning as I waited in
the driver’s seat for somebody to join me a
solid but genial figure pushed its way in, sat
down looking much like one of Norman Lind-
say’s bears, started, pointed an expressive finger
at our Australian flag and asked in a voice
full of Welsh emotion: “And pray, who hung
that decoration there? Then he realised where
he was, burst into laughter, apologised for
having mixed his vehicles and chauffeurs. He
asked if we were Australians, and, learning what
we were up to, put questions like a machine-
gun. I noticed that when I told him that
I knew Billy Hughes he did not send any kind
regards, but assumed the expression of one who
has been reminded of the existence of a prodi-
gal son.
Here presented by Coventry, the man
who should have first priority in the Adel-
aide telephone directory Dr. Andrew
PROFESSOR OF ANATOMY.
Arthur Abbie, formerly of Sydney Uni.,
now Elder Professor of Anatomy and
History at Adelaide Uni. Bom in Kent
(Eng.) 40 years ago and coming to Aus-
tralia after matriculation in London, he
graduated 8.5., BSc. and M.B. in Sydney
in 1929, collected the Walter and Eliza
Hall travelling scholarship in anatomy
three years later and studied in Engand
and on the Continent for a couple of
years, receiving his M.D. degree for brain-
work in Amsterdam. Prof. Abbie’s wife
is also a doctor, at present practising in
Sydney.
Exit from active connection with Labor
in S.A., T. P. Howard, on account of fail-
ing hearing. He has given all his active
life to the cause, as a member of S.A.
Parliament, secretary of the Trades and
Labor Council, foundation member of
the Australasian Council of Trade
Unions and committeeman of everything
of the kind in sight.
The Queensland force has had five re-
lated Howards, all over 6ft. Three of these
broths of bhoys, brothers, were born in
Ireland; two sons are Brisbanites. Ex-
Inspector Pat (served from 1909 to 1943)
is the tallest (6ft. sin.), but is second in
length of service to ex-Senior Sergeant
John (1902-1938). The second generation
members, Constables Tom and Brian,
are mere striplings of 6ft. 2in.
Dr. G. Shedden Adams, superintendent
of Brisbane Women’s Hospital, has been
elected to the Fellowship of the Royal
College of Obstetricians and Gynaecolo-
gists. Claimed to be the first time a
Queensland doctor has been admitted as
a Fellow.
The recent British Military Mission
to Moscow included an Australian,
Major J. A. Douglas, of Brisbane. He’s
a son of R. J. Douglas, J., of Townsville,
and a nephew of E. A. Douglas, J., of
Brisbane.
At Christchurch (MX.) the Canterbury
Pilgrims and Early Settlers’ Association
made a special anniversary call on Rev.
F. G. Brittan, lone survivor of the first
four ships of Canterbury Pilgrims landed
at Lyttelton in 1850, Rev. Brittan
notched his ninety-seventh birthday, and,
as an old cricketer, hopes to reach his
century. He showed his visitors round
his half-acre fruit and vegetable garden,
the work of his own hands.
Character-actor Harry Neville, who
passed on in America a month or so back,
hailed originally from Lancet (Tasmania).
A son and daughter are in Victoria.
Neville began his stage career in the
Apple Isle, and was an actor-manager
in Australia and the Orient before head-
ing for America. He acted with Marie
Tempest in “The Great Pursuit,” with
Katharine Cornell in “Enchanted Cot-
tage” and with Godfrey Tearle in “The
Fake.” Neville’s last appearance was in
“Embezzled Heaven,” starring Ethel
Barrymore. Seventy-seven at the end.
John Cain, Labor leader in the Vic-
torian Parliament, must pass a panel out-
side Dunstan’s office with mixed feelings.
The panel contains photos of 33 of the 34
Premiers since 1855. The vacant place
belongs by right to Cain, though he was
the most remarkable of the lot, being
Premier for only four days—September
14-18, 1943. One of his Ministers,
delegated to open a National Gallery
exhibition, was a Minister when he started
his address and an ordinary M.P. before
he finished. John Cain was born at
Blackwood (Vic.) in 1887, was educated
at State schools, has been a Labor poli-
tician since 1917, and is one of Labor’s
fairest and most forceful spokesmen.
Australia has a certainly high ranking,
if indirect, personal interest in the com-
mission that’s deciding whether the
Fiihrer and pack will be shot on sight or
after being kept caged for a while. Lord
Wright, elected chairman a couple of
months back in the place of Sir Cecil
Hurst, represents this country on the
commission. Britain’s Lord of Appeal in
Ordinary, Lord Wright is 75 and has
been a Judge since 1925. Judging by his
pronouncements, the prodding the com-
mission has been getting on not repeat-
ing the last-war farce is all quite super-
fluous.
Superintendent of railway passenger
transportation and rolling stock C. Quin-
ton will this year complete 55 years’
service in N.S.W. railways. Of his three
A.I.F, sons, two are prisoners of war.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, veteran clockmaker and in-
ventor John Ingram. He started his Swanston-
street business 59 years ago with his twin
brother, and installed the first electric clocks in
the city. One of his inventions was an electrical
calendar, said to be the most complicated piece
of mpchanism in existence, which he claimed
would be telling the time of day, the day
of the month and the years, including leap ones,
with complete accuracy 2000 years hence, pro-
vided there was still an electric current and
the calendar had not been altered. The blue-
prints were lost and it was never finished. In
the human realm Ingram had clocked every
record of the Victorian Amateur Athletic
Association since 1895, using a Swiss watch
adjusted to hundredths of a second.
At 87, in Melbourne, Sidney Brewster Joske,
director of several breweries. Chairman of
directors of Carlton and United for many
years and of Victorian Associated Breweries,
he was also one of Melbourne’s leading patrons
of music.
In Melbourne, at 76, Rev. John William
Grove, M.A., Principal Emeritus of the Metho-
dist Ladies’ College and principal from 1929
to 1939. He was superintendent of the Central
Mission, Perth, for 10 years.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 85, Neil Austin, in
his day the Dominion’s best-known professional
athlete.
At Wellington (M.L.), Edith Christina Sprott,
widow of Bishop Sprott. After much slum work
in England she followed up with 54 years of
humanitarian work in M.L.
In England, Edith Lyttelton, better known
as G. B. Lancaster. Born in Tasmania, the
eldest of a family of four, she was taken young
to Maoriland. Her Tasmanian historical novel
Pageant was probably her best.
At Gladstone (S.A.), at 66, Dr. John Stewart,
who came to Australia as a young man after
gaining his medical degree in Scotland. Two of
his sons are in the services; the third, John,
who is also a doctor, is completing his train-
ing at Royal Adelaide Hospital.
In Sydney, at 62, Sylvester Edwin (Sil) Rohu,
a last-war Digger, whose gunsmith and fishing-
tackle shop in Elizabeth-street has been for
many years one of the best-known shops of its
kind in Australia.


PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
OVER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ims
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). O. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
VANVnUff
GO£S7
• (\ ft
3
V
After a few appli-
cations of Mc-
Mahon's Hair Re-
storer . . . leav-
ing the scalp_ clean and fresh. Mc-
Mahon's is quickly effective for scurf,
itching and dryness of the scalp and
for falling hair. Good, too, for
cradle-cap . . . because McMahon's
may be used on the tenderest scalp.
McMahon's Hair Restorer promotes
growth, keeps the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale; Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
Business,Rollery,Etc.
War Spending Should Be Reviewed
Australia has had a very disturbed
existence since Japan came into the war,
an existence in no way calmed by Mr.
Curtin’s “without inhibitions” speech on
the first day of 1942 or by the policy and
administration of his Government since.
As the menace of Japanese invasion has
receded the menace of clumsy, ignorant
but cocksure interference with the Aus-
tralian way of living by a socialisticaliy-
inclined Labor Government has in-
creased, although even when the Eighth
Division was falling into enemy hands
in Singapore and Australian forces were
being annihilated in New Britain Labor
Minister Eddie Ward was doing plenty
to stir up class-hatred at home.
Perhaps not so much is heard of Mr.
Ward nowadays; but Labor Caucus as a
body appears to have committed itself to
socialistic schemes involving, for a start,
the banks and airlines, and to that extent
may have stolen Mr. Ward’s thunder. It
is unlikely that Mr. Ward has reformed ;
it is more likely that others are now tail-
ing him up. The Prime Minister himself
has broken his pledge that he would not
attempt to introduce socialisation of in-
,„•.. . . , .
dustry in war-time. And the bigger a
nitwit or a humbug a Minister happens
to be the more fantastic are his personal
ambitions in the direction of “running
the country,” as a rule.
In this atmosphere the greater part of
£2OOO million of Australian money has
been spent on “war.” By far the largest
amount of our “war” expenditure has
been incurred since Japan came in and
Labor assumed office. Up to February
28, of a “war” expenditure then amount-
ing to £1951 million, taxation had paid
for 645 million. It has also paid for all
other Commonwealth expenditure, which
rose from £74 million a year in 1938-39
to an estimate of £llB million for the
current term. Total taxation. Common-
wealth and State, during 1943-44
amounted to £325 million, compared with
£125 million in the last pre-war year.
During the present year the Common-
mffl'o h n G orw r hThlso1 me |l t 0 *“? “f
fnr 5-°” which £s°o milhon !S set aside
million 3 ' Tr,S Xa ! 101 - 1S t 0 provide £ 1 25
lower estimate ttanfte\c S t u a al fn
respect of the previous term, but is
Si"?STSSmSSMfta’
relationtoAustraha’s war effort S The
reiation to Australia s war ettort. ine
nation is no getting value, m terms of
war effort, for the huge expenditure
that is going on Too much of our “war”
purposes—Tn S
fn jobs that are of no more real value to
J oc , • . - . j ij
the war effort, in paying for increased old-
age pensions, etc., and in keeping ration-
ing and other inspectors in red-tape occu-
pations that have palpably failed to stop
major black-marketing and similar opera-
tions but which have resulted in the gain-
ing of convictions for petty offences
against soldiers’ wives, etc., especially
when aided by censorship snooping. Em-
ployers are also being harassed by in-
spectors and officials of all kinds.
* a i* c a- ,1 . ~ * i
Australians are finding that their heavy
taxation contributions, levied in the name
of “defence,” are being partly used to
pay for that bureaucratic interference
which seems to be defeating the objec-
tives for which Australia went to war —
the preservation of freedom and civil
liberties. In spite of all the great spend-
ing by the Government, our food-produc-
tion effort has been an astonishing failure,
the wheat and stock-food situation being
deplorable in a country known princi-
pally overseas for its land products.
Drought is only partly to blame.
The man-power ■ position is in a state
of confusion, the really essential indus-
tries seeming to be the worst off; our
food-production figures are largely
indicative of man-power muddle and
bureaucratic control. There are too many
city bureaucrats and dud politicians in
charge of too much of the country’s
money and possessing far too much
power of an economic and “regulation”
order over all our industries. A Minister
sailing along in a fluid-drive Chrysler car
that is piling up anything in the vicinity
of 3000 miles a month probably finds it
hard to visualise the problems of a pro-
ducer of wheat, butter or meat who is
having great difficulty in getting his tyres
retreaded in order to carry on his essen-
tial business. Problems of this kind are
perhaps all too boring or bothersome for
the country’s present masters. They are
more interested in meddling with efficient
institutions like the trading banks, thereby
adding the danger of financial chaos to
industrial failure.
In the cities, in spite of the droves of
civil servants and bureaucratic “inspec-
tors,” the introduction of every new
rationing or “priority” regulation is fol-
lowed by a flourishing black market. But
our rulers continue to hedge round
with restrictions (sometimes almost frivo-
lous) the use, availability or variety of a
multitude of goods and services. In Syd-
ney crime appears to be one of the best
organised and least “regulated” industries.
The Bulletin has favored the prin-
ciple that justifiable war expenditure
should be paid for out of taxation as far
as possible, and all through it has sup-
ported a maximum war effort. It has
asked for a wholehearted, straightforward
war programme aimed at winning our
share of the war but devoid of political
frills and bureaucratic excesses; for the
banning of the Communist party, as in
Menzies’s time; and, in order to achieve
a maximum war effort, it has favored a
national Government. But it has con-
demned the over-use of bank credit to
balance Budgets, bank credit being a
prime source of our actual and immi-
nent inflation. It has been opposed to
all forms of waste during war-time, tak-
ing the view that the greater the waste
the greater the real burden of war upon
the people and the less effective our war
effort.
The present Commonwealth Govern-
ment was reluctant to tax the voting
majority, even though those earning £8 a
week and under represented 70 p.c. of all
the incomes earned within the Common-
wealth. This paper \yas all for the taxa-
tion of incomes on a scale similar to that
operating in Great Britain, and it advo-
cated the introduction of post-war credits
as well in order to help curb war-time
civil spending, counter inflation, reduce
the necessity for detailed rationing and
cut away the main reasons for black-
marketing.
Even with taxation now levied on
incomes of £2 a week it has been
impossible to pay for all war-time
expenditure out of taxation. We have
had to use borrowed money as well.
The Bulletin has supported all war
loans offered to the public, knowing that
the next-best form of war finance to taxa-
tion is the direct lending of money.
But the Commonwealth Government
has abused the principles of the all-in
war effort. It has used war funds waste-
fully and politically, it has courted in-
flation of the currency, and it is reluctant
to let go its war-time spending powers,
or its bureaucratic powers, in spite of an
obvious reduction in what the Govern-
ment has chosen to regard as our war
commitments. There is repeated evidence
of the frustration of private enterprise,
however necessary and logical the enter-
prise may be, by Government interfer-
ence. Time and time again there is evi-
dence of man-power and money wastage
on a startling scale.
R. G. Menzies was perfectly right when
he said that the present Federal Govern-
ment was the worst this country had ever
experienced. How bad it really has been
Australians will learn to their sorrow as
times goes by. Chickens often have a
spectacular flutter before coming home
to roost.
The taxation burden in Australia is
now a crushing one. It is particularly
heavy on industry and investors in indus-
try. This burden, plus the increasing
debt burden, is out of all proportion to
what the Government is providing in
return by way of a “war effort,” With
the decline in the size of our war com-
mitments and the increasing inability of
the country to provide food to our fight-
ing Allies many Australians are becom-
ing fiercely resentful of taxation rates
that kill initiative and strike at their
economic independence. Especially are
they resentful of the fact that, while their
present income has to bear this taxation,
their past savings are losing value be-
cause of the inflation that has accom-
panied the “war” programme.
There would be little resentment at
the taxation rates —no Allied country has
yet reduced its war-time taxation rates —
if good use were made of the money.
There are many ways in which proper use
could be made of taxation revenue apart
from necessary expenditure on war; it
could be used to redeem part of the war-
time Treasury-bill debt, or else to reduce
current bank-credit borrowing and thus
offset inflation. The essential things are
that taxation should not be used simply
to keep up Government spending how-
ever useless, wasteful or political, and
that it should not be used to set up a
bureaucratic or socialistic state of affairs
that will hamper the productive efforts
and future welfare of the very people
who have provided the greater part of the
monetary sinews of war. It will shock
most Australians if they find, after the
war, that they have really fought their
way into a state of slavery under official-
dom.
Station 2HD, Newcastle, is owned by
Airsales Broadcasting Co. Pty., Ltd., a
concern which a Jehovah’s Witness
would hardly recognise since it has under-
gone treatment over the past few months.
Prophets of another order decorate the
board. Representing the A pref. share-
holders there is Robert Arthur King,
M.L.C., secretary of the N. S. Wales
Trades and Labor Council; representing
the B prefs. are Daniel Mulcahy, M.H.R.,
Stanley Fox and Herbert E, Beaver;
while ord. shareholders almost en-
tirely the executive of the N, S.
Wales branch of the A.L.P. are
spoken for by Francis Daniel Kelly,
M.L.C., John Stewart, M.L.C., and
William Clarke Taylor, who is also a
Labor appointment to the board (soon to
be extinguished) of the Commonwealth
Bank. Nominal capital of the done-over
Airsales Broadcasting Co. Pty., Ltd., is
£lO,OOO in £1 shares. There are 1750 A
prefs. issued, 3250 B prefs. and 2607 ords.;
only 2393 ords. remain unissued. The
prefs. of both kinds have the sugar-coat-
ing ; they carry the right to a non-cumu-
lative 16 p.c. p.a., and when (and if) the
ords. get 16 p.c. the prefs. share
rateably with the ords. in any addi-
tional distributions. The prefs. also are
entitled, in the case of a winding-up,
in priority to all other shares, to £4
a share, “representing the capital of £1
paid-up thereon, and a premium or addi-
tional payment of £3 a share paid in
purchasing such share.” All shares
carry one vote each in the event of a
poll, so the prefs. have it, should it
come to that. It was Airsales Pty., then
owned by Jehovah’s Witnesses, which
conducted negotiations with the Bishop
of Newcastle through H. G. Alderman
for the purpose of selling the station.
According to R. G. Menzies, the New-
castle Diocesan Council was “unani-
mous in repudiating the suggestion that
the diocese should seek to ensure the ac-
quisition of the 2HD license by making
concessions of great commercial value
to supporters of the political party then
in power.” The political party in power
seems to have got there just the same,
even though Jack Lang says the B prefs.
are held by “private investors.”
* * * *
Savings-bank deposits increased by
£7.8 million in February, reaching £532.3
million, compared with £245 million
prior to the outbreak of war. Though
there has been a slight slowing-down in
the rate of increase over the past 12
months, owing principally to bigger tax
levies and rising living costs, inflation in
s.-b. deposits and poor direct support of
war loans continue to be outstanding
features of our war-time finance. An-
other has been the hoarding of currency
notes to avoid taxation and for black-
marketing purposes. In the absence of
direct support to war loans by many
people the Government has sought finan-
cial assistance from the savings banks
and similar institutions on a far greater
scale than should be necessary. Borrow-
ing by the Government from savings
banks on an extensive scale has created
a post-war danger of inflation resulting
from the double use of the one credit
base. The Government has already spent
a great deal of s.-b. depositors’ money on
the wastage of war; after the war a num-
ber of depositors will want to spend the
same money on homes, furniture, cars,
etc. The effect of double-spending will
be almost the same as that which will
arise from the use by the Government of
so much central-bank credit during the
war. War-time Government spending
that does not reduce the present or post-
war spending power of the people is full
of inflationary possibilities. Both taxa-
tion and direct borrowing from the
public reduce civil spending power. But
borrowing from the central banks and
from savings banks does not. To the
acknowledged bank-credit debt (£3BB
million at February 28) should be added
the unacknowledged savings-bank-credit
debt; it is estimated now to be roughly
£2OO million so far as it relates to Com-
monwealth war-time borrowing.
* * * *
On March 27, Ministerial fluid-drive
Chrysler No. CIO, almost spanking new,
standing outside the Commonwealth Bank
in Sydney, showed 10,828 miles on its
speedometer. On March 29 car No. COlB
of the same fleet showed 10,700 miles
up. It must be lovely to be able to do it.
Sailing along in such luxury you could
almost forget about drought, the dangers
of political interference with the banks,
the prospects of post-war economic chaos
and the general demoralisation that a
futile but mischievous Ministry is aiding
and abetting.
* * * »
The Baerami (N.S.W.) shale-oil deposits
are unlikely to be tackled so long as
results from Glen Davis are unsatisfac-
tory. As this paper has pointed out
several times, in spite of contradictions
by interested parties, the Baerami shales
are poorer quality than those in the
Newnes-Capertee area. A Parliamentary
committee has advised against a proposal
to develop Baerami at a cost (estimated
by an American mission) of £2,914,000.
But it recommends a commercial trial of
Renco retorts at Glen Davis without!
delay. It is officially expected that in 1946
output at Glen Davis will rise to 9,000,000
or 10,000,000 gallons a year, cost at plant
Is. a gallon. Recent costs have been 3s.
6d. a gallon, with output only 2,500,000
gallons.


RUPTURE
, NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
nets
LIKE THE HflnO
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARREBE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lT)j 2,43 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
5 TiMr
£HE
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Tmst Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS-James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchrl
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
C ° M PANY limited
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
' BP 9-44.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
■9 m
? * tn-
Hiip
Bh
vm
: m
:Q
' ;-V.
m
s;.- v ~;
HU
Wf
m
m
P
i
I
>■ ' ■-
■MI
i n
■Hi
■
■P
T*jl
■
Hi
:
:
■
■E
iliistralian manufacturers are to-day producing precision tools to standards of
accuracy and quality which before the war were believed impossible of achieve-
ment. Slitting saws; twist drills; milling cutters and gear hobs; these and many
more specialised products are being made, and made well. ,
We do not make these tools. But we do make the steel from which they are
ma< | e _fi n e quality “high-speed steels capable of giving completely satisfactory
performance and giving Australian industries independence of overseas
supplies, now and in the future- ,
f
i> ■
iiiiii
'fmss&M >
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED. HEAO OFFICE & WORKS: WAR6TAH, H.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth*
44/12
COMSTEEL
Stainless, Heat-Resisting, High-Speed, and
Alloy Steels. Bromet Tips.
Stabilisation in New Zealand
Stabilisation —the freezing of wages,
costs and prices—is dying hard in Maori-
land. It achieved success up to a point,
and that point broadly was reached when
politicians on both sides of the House
swiftly and unanimously increased their
pay, in the dying hours of last session,
from £450 to £750 a year, £250 of which
is tax-free.
Overdue though some rise undoubtedly
was, the extent of the lift and the speed
with which it was put through made fur-
ther talk of stabilisation something of a
mockery. The immediate effects were the
creation of a railway strike, for it was
useless to tell the lower-paid railwaymen
(some of whom had not had their depres-
sion cuts restored) that they must await
the decision of the Railways Tribunal. It
was the action of the politicians in tak-
ing care of themselves first, before cor-
recting a multitude of wages anomalies
in the body politic, that turned into some-
thing of a rod for their own backs.
However, they staged a quick come-
back, and the net result was increased
pay for the railwaymen, with promises of
increased pay to the civil service, which
has been notoriously neglected in the
national paper-money chase, also a new
amendment to the stabilisation regula-
tions giving all unions access to the Arbi-
tration Court and non-unionists access
to the wages commissioners “to seek ad-
justments of disparities within the Wages
structure.” In the words of an Auckland
daily, there was a “withdrawal on the sta-
bilisation front according to plan.”
With the lid virtually off stabilisation,
trade unions are now falling over them-
selves in preparing claims for the Court’s
hearing, but there was a temporary delay
while the Court considered basic rates
for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled
work.
“Standard rates” for adult males have,
in fact, been raised by an hour, but
these have no operative effect. The rates
are “purely an indication of the Arbi-
tration Court’s future policy,” and each
union wifi have to make out its own case
for wage rises.
It seems clear that the removal
of some “disparities” will create further
disparities as between groups in the
community affected by the Court’s
decisions and by those (a numerous and
long-suffering section) not so affected.
Observers of Maoriland economy are now
watching developments with interest.
Already manufacturing units have been
pressing for higher prices for commodi-
ties at present stabilised, and there seems
grounds for believing that the Govern-
ment will seek further refuge in subsidies.
A fantastic story has been given
publicity in Brisbane. It'is to the effect
that Andrew Fisher paid off a “Boer
War debt” of £2OO million, lent £435 mil-
lion free of interest to primary producers,
and that, in all, “the Commonwealth Bank
under Fisher paid out without cost to the
taxpayer £938 million,” All assertions
are as utterly and stupidly false as the
first. The Boer War was mainly Great
Britain’s affair, but between 1899 and
1903 the British national debt grew by
only £142 million. The Commonwealth
financial responsibilities in connection
with the Boer War were paid for out of
taxation, and there was, in fact, no Com-
monwealth national debt until after
Andrew Fisher took office as P.M. (in
1908). In 1911 the Commonwealth
Government assumed responsibility for
the outstanding liabilities of the Northern
Territory and the Port-Augusta-Oodna-
datta railway. The next addition to the
national debt was in respect of the cost
of the transcontinental railway. The
Commonwealth’s national debt really
had its foundations laid at about the
same time as the Commonwealth Bank.
In the first decade of the Commonwealth
Bank’s existence the debt grow enor-
mously, mainly as a result of the 1914-18
war, in which Australia was pledged by
Fisher “to the last man and the last shil-
ling.” Fisher did not see the war through
as Prime Minister, moving to the High
Commissionership in London when
Hughes took office in 1915. About the
time of his retirement from the Ministry
the total advances of the Commonwealth
Bank were only £2.1 million! Fisher clearly
saw the limitations of money even where
expertly controlled, as is obvious by his
reference to “the last shilling.” In the
eyes of advocates of-political control of
banking there is no such thing as a last
shilling—there’s always a million or a
billion of “national credit” only waiting
to be turned on to make everything rosy,
provided the key of the right tap is
handed to the right group of financial
conjurers.
* * * *
Under Section 21 of the Common-
wealth Bank Bill, 1945, it is provided:
The special accounts established by banks
under Division 3 of Part II of the Bank-
ing Act, 1945, and the accounts estab-
lished by banks for the purposes of section
52 of the Banking Act, 1945, shall not be
kept in the General Banking Division [of
the Commonwealth Bank].
These “special accounts” refer to the
deposits which have to be transferred,
under compulsion, by the trading banks
to the Commonwealth Bank. The effect
of the section is that an account for the
total must be opened in the central-bank
section of the Commonwealth Bank, not
in the general banking department. But,
having made a book-entry in the central-
bank section, there appears to be nothing
to prevent that section lending money to
the general banking department. In. fact,
the central bank is specifically authorised
to lend money, as well as 11 other item-
ised functions.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Clooter”: Nothing tickles me so much
as a State Premier assuming the mantle
of a Jeremiah and condemning the prac-
tices of his colleagues, Albert Dunstan,
the Victorian Premier, is better than
average in the role and recently came
out with a whole-souled warning to Can-
berra that “unless some curb is placed on
the carnival of extravagance and Com-
monwealth expenditure, this country will
soon be heading downhill for one of the
worst depressions it has ever known.”
It reminds me irresistibly of Tiddley
Tom. Almost any week-day you could
expect to find Tom warning some young
fellow against the evils of booze and
urging him to shun it like the plague.
Almost any week-end you could expect to
find Tom, hopelessly blithered, arrested
by the cops for his own protection.
* * * *
“Pitt St.”; I foresee a lot of trouble
if the Sydney Government wipes out all
its footboard trams and substitutes for
them double-decker buses, as proposed
in the latest post-war plan from Mac-
quarie-street. Anyone who has to travel
between Central Station and Bridge-
street, via George, Pitt or Castlereagh,
in a busy hour knows that to attempt
to transport that crowding, shoving mob
in anything but a multi-doored vehicle
would be asking for chaos. Short of the
footboard method, which is dangerous to
life and limb, the only alternative would
seem to be a turnstile system at stopping-
places. If anyone doubts this let them
try a journey on any one of the three
streets, at a busy time, in a corridor tram.
» * ¥ *
“P.0.M.C.”: I question “Cauboy’s”
theory that “it is the gallery girl who
decides the fate of most Australian stage
productions” (B. 14/3/’45). The box-office
career of Australian productions is assured
before the g.g. sees them. “Cauboy”
should know that there are virtually no
professional stage failures in this coun-
try. Pantomimes and G. and S. and other
old musicomedy revivals are permitted
to share Australian theatres only with
such plays as “Susan and God” or “The
Man Who Came to Dinner,” which have
had record runs, and therefore have
proved to be safe investments, in London
and New York. Consequently, the gallery
girl’s reactions to any given Australian
production have about as much effect
upon its carefully-planned career as the
expressed opinions of “Mother of Ten”
or “Pro Bono Publico” have upon the
housing scandal.
“J.H.M.A.”: “Lucretia” (B. 21/3/’45),
quoting the Rev. M. Fielding’s remarks
as to the origin of the name of Longue-
ville (Sydney), leaves rpe doubtful. Col-
lins, Tench, Hunter, King, Southwell and
Phillip himself transmitted no record of La
Perouse having left any living members-
of his expedition behind him when he de-
parted from Botany Bay early in 1788.
D’Entrecasteaux and Baudin were in Aus-
tralian waters after La Perouse, and one
of them may have left some people who
pioneered the arm of Port Jackson, in-
correctly termed the Lane Cove River,
but La Perouse didn’t. He left one of his
chaplains, Le Pere Receveur —dead. The
grave may still be seen on the north side
of Botany Bay.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Tallangatta, the picturesque
little Victorian town in the path of the
proposed expansion of the Hume Weir
dam, is to hold a plebiscite to determine
a site for its re-creation* The towns-
people seem to have made up their minds
that the new town shall be a model of
beauty and good sanitation. It will cer-
tainly be perched on the rolling foothills
overlooking the vast artificial lake and,
if natural aspects and terrain are used to
full advantage, could easily be developed
into the finest of country towns. It’s a
good centre, too, commanding the outlet
of the Mitta and other rich valleys.
Oddly, little or no resentment is being
expressed by those who will be forced
out of old and treasured homes, prob-
ably accounted for by the fact that the
evacuation will be en masse and that
“They reckon this mechanisation spells the end of us P.B.T.
something of a challenge to build some-
thing new and better has been issued.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: An unmusical row has
arisen in Melbourne over the use of the
Town Hall organ, a £60,000 white ele-
phant. The powers that be offered
the freedom of its keyboard to a gentle-
man who performs upon a cinema organ,
and this has terribly enraged the non-
Wurlitzer musicians. It seems to have
been forgotten in the heat of controversy
that the musician so honored is a church
organist as well as a cinema performer
and that he hasn’t announced his pro-
gramme or shown how he will play the
Town Hall box of whistles. If he must be
banned from playing the Town Hall organ
because he plays in a cinema, half
the members of the Melbourne Sym-
phony Orchestra ought to be banned.
They play “Mairzy Doats” in dance halls
and picture houses on week days and
Beethoven on Saturday nights at the Town
Hall.
“R.H.C.”: Tell “Ah Jay” (B. 14/3/’45)
that the Fasoli’s in Melbourne’s King-
street was as truly Fasoli’s as ever was
what he calls the real Fasoli’s, properly
the Pension Suisse, now the Ritz, in Lons-
dale-street. It was never in Latrobe-street
and the “grapevine” was a willow tree.
The group named by “Ah Jay” as hardly
ever patronising the King-street joint in-
cluded the most regular attenders at that
popular eating-house where, under the
supervision of Mrs. Maggia, we had
hors d’ceuvres, spaghetti (grated cheese,
of course) and a joint, with vin ordinaire
and black coffee, for (believe it or not)
Is. 3d. Dr. Maloney was a frequent
visitor, but Grant Hervey was coldly re-
ceived. That muscular (and talented)
poet and impossible person was never,
to my knowledge, at the original Fasoli’s,
as “Ah Jay” asserts.
“Pawang”: Science does not rest on its
laurels. Experiments conducted at the
Adelaide Institute of Medical and Veteri-
nary Science with oil extracted from the
leaves and flowers of the Geraldton
(W,A.) wax plant are said to have pro-
duced a chemical with all the attributes of
penicillin without its various deficiencies.
As there are many square miles of wax
plant in the West it should be possible
to dispense the new drug as cheaply and
universally as any patent nostrum—cer-
tainly it should be applicable to as wide a
range of common human ailments. A
miraculous improvement in human health
needn’t be too confidently expected, how-
ever. Most common ailments are more
a matter of mind than of body and,
although scores of remedies have been
discovered for the common cold, people
still start sneezing their heads off in the
spring, as they no doubt did in the days
of Shakspeare.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Shakspeare in modem cos-
tume (B. 21/3/ ’45) was tried years ago
in Melbourne when an amateur pro-
ducer put on the “Taming of the Shrew”
at the transpontine Playhouse, the mod-
ern trimmings including bicycles, tennis
racquets and flannels. These experiments
miss- the point, however. Shakspearean
conventions are no better and no worse
than modern ones; they are merely dif-
ferent. The Bard’s plays are full of the
conventions of his day, which, generally
speaking, irritate and bore us. It is only
intellectual snobs who don’t admit it.
But every now and then a great thought
or a piece of profound understanding
arrests us, no more out-of-date nor old-
fashioned than the axiom that two and
two make four. It is usually people
that can’t appreciate Shakspeare’s truths
who bother themselves about the cos-
tumes.
* * * »
“Dyshidrosis”: “Q.E.D.” (B. 14/3/’45),
who discourses on khaki dermatitis, a
favorite disabling disability so far as the
Army is concerned, may be interested to
learn that the Air Force does not recognise
the wearing of khaki material as the
causative factor of a skin condition. I
know that if in doubt it’s a safe and
popular diagnosis to attribute a derma-
titis to the wearing of khaki, a material
containing chrome dye. But I have seen
a medical certificate to the effect that the
patient was suffering from dermatitis due
to the wearing of blue uniform. Some
individuals, of course, are allergic to any
type of uniform of the Fighting Services,
and Repat. ought to consider them pen-
sionable as well as those with khaki der-
matitis. Let the dermatologists carry on
from there.
* * * *
“Niitfin”: “Ped’s” reference to writing
lines as a school punishment (B. 7/ 3 / ’45)
harks back to a less practical age than
the present. In these days when grounds-
men and odd-jobmen are rarities around
boarding schools, offenders against school
rules are usually directed to pull up so
many hundred weeds, to perform so much
roller duty on the turf wicket or to clean
the gadgets in the “chem. lab.” I remem-
ber reading the notice board at a Queens-
land agricultural college, where the
authors of various misdemeanors were
consigned to such tasks as “pull
one A grade stump,” “root out three
saplings, ’ “do 10 sq. yds. of suckering.”
One habitual offender was credited with
grubbing sufficient “A grade stumps” and
saplings to give his college a first-class
football oval.
* * * *
e^er news reels and in the
illustrated newspapers the public has been
familiarised with the spectacle of a
heavily-muffled seaman holding aloft a
steaming cup of cocoa. Usually there’s a
|^ ne ’, *. 00 ’ say that the stuff is called
‘ ky” in the Navy. Really that is long
outdated. Coffee is now the drink for
long night watches. The change-over has
been more than justified. Anyone who
has gone on watch at midnight knows the
somnolent effect of a mug of cocoa.
Coffee, equally warm and stimulating,
could keep away sleep merely by its repu-
tation, even if that were unfounded, which
it is not.
* * * *
“Pookie” with a personal experience:
We were dining at a posh King’s Cross
hostelry. Joe, just back from overseas with
the R.A.A.F., was holding forth on hospi-
tality. “«The English people are marvellous,
of course,” he said, “and the Canadians—well
it was embarrassing at times. I’ve had meals
at restaurants and they’ve refused to take my
money. Things like that.” Just them a sailor
joined our party. Joe spied “Canada” on his
shoulders and they were soon exchanging ex-
cited reminiscences. Joe ordered beer (Is. 6d.
a glass) and dutifully tipped the waiter. “Have
to do it,” he explained to the Canadian, “other-
wise they won’t serve you—not in Sydney.”
After the meal we got our checks and the sailor
went over to the door, looked vainly for the
cash register, then went outside, obviously
under the mistaken impression that it was to be
found there. In a few moments the full im-
port of what had happened dawned on the
shocked staff. Waitresses, waiters and immacu-
late gentlemen, who apparently had superior
positions in the establishment, rushed hither
and yon in a state bordering on frenzy; some
dashed out to head off the offender, others,
apparently flew to telephone the police, while
a third group stood and discussed the outrage
in excited, scandalised voices. While the hue
and cry was at its height not even the Cross’s
most distinguished blacketeer could have got
service. Even the handsome young drink waiter
was ruffled. At last a flushed, triumphant little
band of hunters returned, one of them waving
a pound note. It had been a mistake after all;
the sailor had parted up like a little gentleman.
“As I was saying,” Joe continued, beckoning
to the winded waiter, “when I was in
Canada ”
* * * *
“Karlua”: A.B.C.’s protege Haylen,
M.H.R., has enriched “Hansard” with a
prize bull —“It does appear to me that
the scaly neck of international capitalism
is reaching out for its feast of souls
again.”
* * * *
“7346”: “X.S.” (B. 21/3/’45) is a bit
late with his discovery that “for some
reason or other English pennies are in
favor in Victorian two-up circles.” In
the most exclusive circles of the first
A.I.F. it was held to be a grave solecism
to use the Australian browns, and the pre-
judice has been widespread ever since.
The theory behind this is that the Eng-
lish penny is “truer” and less likely to
be “loaded” towards heads or tails than
the home product. When the matter is
referred to mathematicians the somewhat
non-committal reply is usually handed out
that if a thousand tons of pennies were
tossed in the air the fall of heads and tails
would each weigh 500 tons. Not satis-
fied with this, a physicist in the Old Dart
experimented and found that if pennies
were tossed in the air by a machine slight
adjustments to the “throw” of the gadget
would cause a majority of the coins to
fall heads or tails as desired, though there
was no visible difference in the spin. At
Tel-el-Kebir early in 1916 a lance-jack
from the 19th Batt. had acquired the art
of heading ’em to such a profitable degree
that “head” punters used to follow him
from school to school—his visits to each
were prudently of short duration. Bar
’em” how you liked, that Digger could
consistently turn up “two heads” or “two
ones” (from apparently fair spins with
the school’s coins) at least seven times
out of ten. Perhaps, like the machine, he
could adjust his release of the coins.
* * * *
“Pip” on army moaners:
Though he rarely takes himself seriously, the
average soldier is adept at the art of moaning >
fS there’s a widely-held theory that the
man who makes no complaints is liable to
wind up troppo. Perfection in moaning
only comes with long practice. Most cooks are
exnerts with a grouch against the world m
general’ but particularly against officers an
seraeants. Batmen are good, too. lo near
them discussing their respective officers you d
swear the unit was being run by a black-hearte
nack of sadists. Nothing is free from. criticism.
The food is always a target for
So are route marches, rifle inspections, en
torcement of the light-out and g
inspections. A paragraph in Routine uraei
about tightening up on discipline will pu
£ regiment into verbal ferment for a solid
hour One subject leads to another and a
if thTS'JS SLTffl?
■rt k e ei r ;:
mmmm
tentedly down to the swye game.
UNDER THE TABLE.
“Premier McKell, as always when industrial brick-
bats are flying, is under the table.”
—■ “S.M.H.” on the tram hold-up.
There, Mac! Twas the burden of Grand-
■ mamma’s song
When critics were busy in proving you wrong
That you “best served the State by going quietly
along”
With a plain “Safety First” as your label;
Yet now you’re assailed by your quondam ally
As being the sort of a bloke (or a guy)
Who, soon as half-bricks are beginning to fly,
Is bound to get under the table.
Hit high or hit low, one’s experience decrees,
There are folks you can never consistently
please.
The thing they acclaimed in you once they will
seize
On another occasion to hurt you;
And it’s perfectly patent it cannot be nice
For a habit of mind to be charged as a vice
Against you, which erst was the very precise
Acquirement accounted a virtue.
When miners and wharfies and slaughtermen
raise
The flag of class warfare in various ways,
And trammies stage hold-ups, it possibly pays
(Unless you’d be misapprehended)
To keep a still tongue in a sapient head,
Nor venture where angels might scruple to
tread,
And always remember the less that is said
The sooner what’s torn will be mended.
So keep up your heart, Mac! Four years—or
almost —
I note that you’ve clung to your coveted post,
A record that no predecessor could boast
Who came from the Laborite stable.
And who can assert it won’t lengthen your span,
If, when passions embitter the average man
And strife and disorder are rampant, you can
Contrive to adhere to the practical plan
Of keeping well under the table.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Wodgil”: Nearly everybody is sing-
ing “Lili Marlene” as nearly everybody
sings “Waltzing Matilda” —badly. The
novelist Steinbeck, who was 4 in North
Africa for a time with the Yanks, wrote
a spirited account of the vogue of “Lili
Marlene” in which he suggested that it
might be the one thing left of the Ger-
man campaigns in that part of the world.
Giving a translation of the first verse, he
said Lili was a lass who, having not only
looks but a keen eye for the main chance,
went every night to “the barrack square
(for she was young and fair)” and in
process of time mashed a multitude of
Deutschers, starting with a private and
working up to a brigadier. He must have
been wrong about the theme, or some-
body must be wrong, for the version mal-
treated in Australia is quite different.
Certainly it is vilely translated;
My Lil-lcc of the lamplight,
My own Lii -lee Marlene.
Turning to “Waltzing Matilda,” it is a
serio-comic song or nothing. Yet every
time I hear it tackled it is rendered in
a deadly serious style, and as often as
not when the singer or singers reach “Up
came the troopers, one, two, three,” he,
she or they “number off.”
* * * *
“Thistlebrook”: The area of Mel-
bourne parkland the Victorian Govern-
ment proposes to alienate in Batman-
avenue (B. 7/3/’45) as a site for the new
Institute of Technology was part of Yarra
"You must be blind , Herbert—there I am waving a hanky right behind
the Duke."
Park until the Hobson’s Bay railway ease-
ment went through in 1862. It then
became Flinders Park, although it has
never been used for anything but run-
ning a few City Council horses at week-
ends and as a rubbish tip. The City
Council deserves praise for its care of
parklands nearer the city, but for some
reason it has completely neglected Flin-
ders Park from Punt-road to the City
Morgue. This large stretch of land has
not a tree or a shrub on it, and the coun-
cil’s only sign of interest, the garbage
pile, is now being used by cynical offi-
cials as one excuse for alienation of the
area. They say (and nobody denies it)
that the area will be beautified by build-
ings and gardens.
* * * *
“Hamer”: That good old literary prop
the death-rattle is cropping up again: it
occurs in three adventure books pub-
lished this year. There is no such thing ;
“rattle” is a poor description of the
struggle for breath that sometimes accom-
panies the approach of death, if that is
what the term is intended to convey. The
death-rattle in a yarn I have just- read
is used as an omen, “Holmes was not
surprised. Three months before he had
detected the death-rattle in the throat
which presaged the death of Mayne.”
When I was at school my contemporaries
thoroughly believed in the prophetic
value of the rattle. I remember how
bucked-up we were after a particularly
disliked master, unaffectionately known
as “Whacker,” had handed round a liberal
dose of canings, when one of own number
assured us that Whacker was due for
death at any moment. “Didn’t you hear
the death-rattle in his throat this morn-
ing?” he asked ; and optimistically most
of us agreed that we had. Whacker dis-
appointed us by living to be 91.
* * * *
“C.K.”: A Red Page reference (B,
7/3/’45) to that splendid quatrain com-
mencing “Sound, sound the clarion, fill
the fife” was felicitous. Though nothing
could better express Scott, it was not
written by him, nor did he claim it.
Where he uses it over a chapter heading
in Old Mortality he gives the author as
“Anon.” As neither the author nor the
rest of the poem was known, it was
ascribed to Sir Walter, for Scott often
wrote his own rhymed headings. Years
ago it was discovered that the quatrain is
the eleventh in a poem of 14 stanzas
written by a Major T. O. Mordaunt, who
served in the Seven Years’ War. The
poem was published in “The Bee,” an
Edinburgh literary journal of merit, on
October 12, 1791. Scott, we know, was
a constant reader of the journal, and the
quatrain must have been locked away in
his mind for a quarter of a century. The
interesting point is that the rest of Mor-
daunt’s poem is quite hopeless. One may
compare Burgon’s description of Petra.
“A rose-red city, half as old as Time” —
the only line that is ever remembered
out of all his prize poem.
* * * *
“Dismo”: We had a chap in our unit
with ideas about letter-writing. I saw
a screed he wrote to his parents in Bris-
bane from the M.E. It went like this:
“This is a very peculiar war, Mum.
When things are really happening a man
hasn’t got time to write letters, and when
nothing happens there’s nothing to write
home about.”
* * * *
“Canoozer”: “Pawang’s” remarks (B.
7/ 3 / ’45) on “Latin or No Latin” are fair
enough, but there’s a case for the classical-
ists he hasn’t stated. Latin held sway
for centuries in Oxford and Cambridge.
But it was scholars so nurtured who gave
us the English Prayer Book and the
Authorised Version of the Bible in vigor-
ous English. Also in the classical uni-
versities the young “men” leave the “hall”
to go to the “playing fields.” In the non-
classical U.S.A, universities, some of
which boast of having “swept out Latin
and Greek,” -the “alumni” vacate the
“auditorium” and proceed to the “cam-
pus.” I’m willing to bet that the really
sound classical scholar, as a rule, chooses
simple words. The semi-educated loves
long sesquipedalian polysyllables. Dr.
Johnson may be quoted as an exception.
But there are several Dr. Johnsons. The
Johnson of The Rambler is not the John-
son of The Lives of the English Poets,
just as Carlyle of Sartor Resartus is not
the Carlyle of Heroes and Heroworship.
*** * ■
“Ike Hollar”: Efforts are being made
to get the N.S.W. Main Roads Board to
give Kurnell a better connection with
Sydney; Transport Minister O’Sullivan
has promised to do his best. Only seven
and a half miles from the centre of the
city, the place where Cook first landed
is more cut off than is Penrith, 40 miles
away, although a considerable suburb
has grown there. The connection is a
long-intervalled ferry to La Perouse
(meaning a long tram journey after the
crossing), which stops running in rough
weather. A good roadway and a bus
"She seems to be making a little more noise than usual, Ted."
to Cronulla are proposed as an emergency
way out. The shallowness of Botany Bay
causes its waters to fume into dangerous
breakers in rough weather, and the sus-
pension of the ferry crossing is necessary.
One of the early suburban dwellers at
Kurnell was cartoonist Claude Marquet,
who sailed his own boat across the bay.
One night he left for home, refusing to
be deterred by the gathering storm.
Neither Marquet nor his boat was seen
again,
* * * *
“A.E.F.”: “Publova’s” reference to the
Eagle and Child inn (B. 21/2/’45) recalls
the legend pertaining to the Derby crest.
Long ago (the earldom dates from 1485)
the Stanley family was in danger of ex-
tinction, there being no male successor.
One day an eagle was seen flying over
Knowsley Hall with a bundle jn its
claws. The bundle was released and fell
near the Hall. It proved to be a baby
boy, who was adopted and thus secured
the line of succession. The crest, inciden-
tally, has seen much active service, hav-
ing been well blooded in France and Bel-
gium in World War I by the 17th, 18th,
19th and 20th Battalions of the King’s
(Liverpool) Regiment, which wore the
crest as their regimental badge in lieu of
the prancing horse of the regular bat-
talions. It also became the division’s
badge, the motto being “Sans Changer.”
* * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide City Council has
big ideas for beautifying the central Vic-
toria Square, which is the site of the
G.P.0., Supreme and police courts and
a lot of old-time Government offices, but
has otherwise been rather neglected for
the city’s northern side, near the river.
Premier Playford, however, has told the
Council that new dwelling-houses and
renovation of sub-standard ones must be
held more important after the war, and
that the suggested two millions for the
Square should go to home-building rather
than to a work which, “while desirable,
must be considered as aesthetic rather than
essential.”
* * * *
“Eagler”: Every now and then the
Americans get tired of highbrow writers
and rally round some plain, homely cove.
Latest pendulum-swing of the kind has
hoisted into eminence war-correspondent
Ernie Pyle. Pyle’s all right. He chronicles
the war in the Pacific in much the manner
of a country reporter wandering down
the main street of the village and picking
up gossip, and (for this I call him
blessed) never uses a word a boy of ten
couldn’t understand. But he’s very human
r— human enough to discant upon his
troubles with his fan mail and other little
personal discomforts.
* * * *
“Bughouse”: A journalistic delusion,
much found in publications purveying
snippets (“digests” they call themselves
now), concerns the wonders that will
come to mankind when science succeeds
in “smashing the atom.” Scientists
everywhere (particularly, of course, in
Russia) are alleged to be attempting it.
With its accomplishment, we are told,
sources of tremendous energy will be
released and placed at the disposal of
man. It has been suggested that if Ger-
man scientists could do it they even now
might win the war. But science long ago
smashed the molecule, and no very revo-
lutionary results accrued, A molecule of
water consists of two atoms of hydrogen
and one of oxygen. By passing a current
of electricity through water the hydrogen
and oxygen become dissociated and
may be caught in separate vessels. But
this action consumes energy, and though
we may remix the gases and by ignition
produce a mild explosive, capable of
driving an engine, we in the end merely
receive back the same amount of energy
as was originally expended. So profitless
is the whole thing that though Germany
was expected to avail herself of the elec-
trical production of hydrogen and oxygen,
to be used as U-boat or E-boat fuel, she
didn’t. Other instances of molecular
smashing are equally unproductive of
useable energy. So how smashing the
atom into its component electrons, which
will require an enormous expenditure of
electrical energy, is going to release
energy has me puzzled.
# * * *
“F.S.”: L. L. P. Politzer’s explanation
of the way he ran his Melbourne cafe,
where young artists occasionally paid for
a meal by “a sketch, (not a picture),' ’
recalls the cafes in the art quarter of
Paris. Long-haired, wild-eyed young men
would sit down and, while waiting for soup,
cover the tablecloth with charcoal draw-
ings. The proprietors didn’t object to
this —in fact, there would often be keen
competition between them and the waiters
for the impromptu drawing. The pro-
prietor would keep the sketches he liked
and send the others to the laundry. The
official galleries, which had rejected
painters who subsequently became
fashionable, bought some of these sketches
for considerable prices when the artists
had become internationally known.
* * * *
“Avon”: It is over half a century since
Maoriland’s Gaming Act was equipped
with a set of clauses intended to protect
the interests of the totalisator, among
them a provision that no person may act
as agent for placing a bet. The first
prosecution under this clause occurred
this year, when a man was lumbered
for putting £3OOO on the tote for a
friend. So open was the offence that
it was not until the N.Z. Racing Con-
ference had suspended the “agent” for
doing something illegal that he and his
principal had any sense of guilt. Then
came a police-court prosecution. The
magistrate, entering a conviction and dis-
charging the two accused, said that in
1894, when the relevant clauses of the
Gaming Act were placed on the Statute
Book, the minimum tote ticket cost £1
and the laborer’s wage was six bob a
day. Party pooling for tote tickets was
the general rule. “For fifty years,” said
the S.M., “the majority of racegoers have
been breaking the law in ignorance. The
only reasonable inference is that the
authorities did not think Section 53 ap-
plied to the general public.” He added
that the clause obviously was directed
against the paid or professional agent or
tout—against whom it had been found
useless.
POET AND CRITIC.
A poet of the “modern” brand
He perpetrated reams of stuff
Sans rhyme or reason, crude and rough,
On any theme that came to hand.
Contented with his versifying,
He scribbled on from day to day,
Until at last Love came his way—
A circumstance extremely trying;
For she, a lovely lass and pure,
Had massive intellectual powers,
And occupied her leisure hours
In writing notes on literature.
No Amaryllis, on for sporting
In shady groves or mossy dells,
She told him odes and villanelles
Were needful to a proper courting.
Subservience to a maiden’s whim
In lines of metric purity
Containing no obscurity
Was something wholly new to him.
She read his contributions through
In manner coldly critical
And from the analytical
And Matthew Arnold point of view.
His matter (so she said) was slight
And lacking in the true romance;
His muse could neither sing nor dance;
His sentiments were tame and trite.
This frank critique was her undoing —
It touched him on a tender spot;
He told her what he thought was what,
And left his literary wooing.
But still (the knowledge nettled him)
He was unable to regain
The old, pre-amoristic strain,
His lapse had so unsettled him;
So he abandoned “modern” tripe
And wrote what some consider worse —•
That simple cut-your-heartstrings verse
The Ella Wheeler Wilcox type.
N.S.W.
P. M. L.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Norther”: Up on Magnetic Island
(N.Q.), whose capital is Picnic Bay,
they’ve been celebrating an event as im-
portant to them as the opening of the
big dock was to Sydney. For Picnic Bay
is now connected to the mainland by sub-
marine cable, and anybody there can
ring up anybody anywhere in Australia.
The line goes under water from Hawkins
Point to Townsville, and it was gravely
reported in our local paper that “there is
good transmission for the volume of
sound.” All that remains now is to see
who will win the sweep being run on
who gets the first wrong number.
*** , *
“Mat’s Mate”: Caught by a sudden
rain squall and early darkness, we took
shelter under a thick boxthorn hedge,
sweeping the ground with a bag to rid it
of thorns and preparing to sit tight. The
rain, luckily, was on a slant and we
were fairly dry, but the wind howled
and threshed at the hedge as though
anxious to get at us. Then, in a lull
when a wan moon gave a fitful gleam
or two, we discovered that we camped
in a cemetery. Neither of us was super-
stitious, but, as Mat put it, “It’s a blamed
sight different at night, with the wind
hpwlin’.” More rain came and we
huddled down, trying to sleep. The wind
died down and there was a bit more of
the moon and then Mat grabbed my
arm. I looked and saw, about 20 feet
off, a tall figure that stood as still as
stone, watching us. I made to get up, but
Mat held me down, whispering, “I dunno
what it is, but I ain’t sittin’ tight.” Then
he sprang up and said “Hey, watcher
want?” The figure jumped about a foot,
then answered, “Gripes, why didn’t y’
speak before? Thought y’ was a flamin’
ghost or somethin’.” Then, of course,
everybody laughed and we poked a ton
of fun at that frightened bloke.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Harvey was always blow-
ing about a crackerjack sheep-dog he’d
seen that was reputed to be of dingo
strain and, anxious to acquire a hound
of similar breed, he sent a young bitch
out with George to the mountain soli-
tude of Alluvial Creek. George brought
her back a month later. “Did y’ have
any luck?” Harvey asked. “Too bloomin’
right,” the old bloke said. “I jist col-
lected eight quid from the council f’r
the skins orf four *big dawgs I shot after
they came prowlin’ round me camp. Y’
can keep the lousy ten bob y’ offered
me!”
* H= * *
“Creel”: In all its habits the “dingo-
fish” ( Sphyraena obtusata) of Great Bar-
rier Reef waters resembles its animal
namesake of the bush. One of the sea-
pikes, the fish attains a length of about
6ft. and, like the dingo, is a killer; on a
plundering raid it kills everything it sees.
The fish’s jaws are equipped with a for-
midable array of big, sharp teeth, and,
like the worst dingo killers, it hunts alone.
It usually selects as a lookout some ele-
vated position, such as the summit of a
rock or ledge of a coral reef, and from
this vantage point swoops on its victims.
During the two days pur patrol boat was
anchored near a reef north-east of Cook-
town we were visited regularly by a sft,
“dingo,” whose home was in a crevice
near the summit of the reef. Whenever
vegetable and fruit peelings or scraps of
food were thrown overboard the fish shot
out to snap them up, and any other fish
that intruded were dealt with likewise.
The voracious killer was too cunning to
touch our baited hooks, and at sunset on
the second day had the audacity to steal
the biggest catch the skipper had ever
made; a large kingsnapper, which the
“dingo” ripped from the hook just as
the skipper had it at the surface. The
“dingo-fish” has been known to attack
native divers ; in Torres Strait one of
our hands was a former trochus-shell
diver who carried a six-inch scar on his
right thigh, result of an encounter with
one.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: The fact that Hume Dam
is dashed nearly empty and that there
are parts of the Murray where a man
can jump from side to side reminds me
of the time in 1914 when old Ben Higgs,
who’d been south, came back to Mil-
dura. The river had practically stopped
running and Ben, looking up old mates
around Gol Gol, walked across to the
N.S.W. bank dry-footed. “Strike me,”
he murmured, “if ever she runs again
all the flamin’ fish’ll have t’ learn t’
swim.”
♦ * * *
“Fang”: Can’t agree with the Service
Department (B. 14/3/’45) on the like-
ness of tiger-snake to brown. Tiger is
usually stumpy, fairly thickset and slug-
gish, and has a biggish head. On the
Moira Lakes along the Murray there are
probably more tiger-snakes to the acre
than in any other part of Australia, and
the average length is 3ft. 6in. to 4ft. But
in mountain country I’ve seen 6ft. speci-
mens. Color ranges from straw to almost
“Watch his right cross, Cracker !”
black, according to how long since the
old skin has been sloughed, and the
bands may be distinct or faint. The
brown snake is slim and active, although
six-footers put on a fair girth, and is
easily identified by the very small head.
Brown Joe rears high when bailed up,
and the strike is like a rapier thrust; the
tiger strikes low in a savage, sideways
clout.
* He * *
“Lub”: Rode over to Kane’s the other
afternoon, and found the house cow still
in the bail. The family had left early
for the township, but Paddy, the absent-
minded rouseabout, was snoring in his
bunk in the hut. “You crook?” I asked,
and he woke with a start and goggled at
his trousers hanging on the nail. “Aw,
I don’t think so,” he said, thinking hard.
“I forgot the bucket when I went to milk
this mornin’. On the way back I stopped
in here t’ change me boots. Gripes,” he
went on, a surprised look creeping over
his dial, “I must’ve gone f bed instead /”
$ H*
“B. 4”: Many small dogs devoid of
pedigree may equal in courage and
stamina those of distinguished ancestry.
Out boar-shooting along a reedy bore-
fed creek, the boy owner of a little non-
descript canine and self pursued a
wounded boar across a treeless plain in
the bullock paddock as he made for a
swamp. About one hundred forward
Herefords sighted and galloped straight
at us. There was no escape from their
rush, so we stood fast and waited. As
the mob was almost upon us I had de-
cided to fire a shot in front of them, hop-
ing to wheel them, when out dashed that
midget straight at the thundering hornies,
barking and yapping to the attack. That
mass of beef wheeled to the left as one
bullock, splashed and floundered its way
across the boggy stream, then turned
round to gaze its fill. I always liked dogs,
but after that their courage and fidelity
just got under my skin.
“Botano”; The reason why eucalypts
don’t hybridise (B. 28/2/’45) is that that
process was carried to its ultimate nega-
tive end up to a million years ago. All
eucalypts, like all banksias, must have
derived from the one ancestor, the first
varieties arising as “sports.” Such
“sports” would have very largely the
same flower and pollen as the parent,
and among them cross-pollination would
proceed very rapidly, producing a
number of varieties; varieties without
end, as it were. The only way such
confusion could come to an end was for.
some varieties to produce pollen that re-
fused conjunction with any but its own
kind. So a variety became fixed. If this
happened to be accompanied by a more
vigorous root growth such a fixed type
would soon oust the hybridisers and gain
control of the forest. And since the
evolutionary process never works back-
ward such chastity of pollen persists
today. The reason why various melons
and cucumbers cross-pollinate so readily
is that they are merely man-created, de-
rived by cross-pollination methods; and
so, never having had their strain fixed
by competition, are literally wide open
to further cross-pollination.
* * * *
“Naturala”: “M.U.R.” is right about
wild birds feeling that a tamed bird has
betrayed his kind (B. 28/2/’45). Living
on the edge of tall forest I had a tame
magpie. At certain times every season
my place would be besieged by wild
maggies. But though they would even
perch on the fence they never dared to
land inside the fenced garden where my
tame maggie lodged. Then one day, the
gate being open and no one at home,
Maggie responded to either their threats
or blandishments and'went out, I found
his remains a hundred yards or so away
—picked to death. But occasionally we
have a reversal of attitude. Witness the
high-stepping animosity shown by a
white man’s dog towards those of his
kind who have taken up the associa-
tion with aboriginals, and the dejected
fallen-from-caste manner in which the
blackfellow’s dog accepts such brow-
beating. In the canine world reversion
to the wild is the offence.
* * * *
“Perthite”; Speculation as to whether
the sea varies in temperature around the
same degree of latitude reminds of the
old pump in the garden. Water lifted
from the sand strata 30 feet down is
deliciously cool in summer, yet in mid-
winter is so warm that it is a pleasure
to douche one’s head under the flow.
Nevertheless, with its 30-foot blanket of
earth the subterranean stream never
varies a degree all the year round.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; Even- admitting with
cockney comedian Jack Warner that “iris
are very funny fishes,” “Zake’s” conten-
tion that eels do not sit in lounge chairs
with their feet up (B. 14/3/ ’45) seems
indisputable, and weighty evidence is
against the derivation of Parramatta as
“place where eels sit down.” The Modern
Standard English Dictionary gives the
abo. meaning as “many eels.” And the
fact that the old city’s coat-of-arms depicts
an abo. about to plunge a spear into the
water may not be merely coincidental.
“Many eels” would not be such a mis-
nomer either. A little elbow-resting on
the historic Lennox Bridge when the tide
is right and the sun’s rays penetrating will
often reveal sizable specimens nosing
about. But I can assure “Zake” that they
never sit down.
* * * *
“Katiti”: When working on some
Public Works huts at Tuatapere, South-
land (M.L.) we were worried by a number
of wetas —sometimes called the N.Z.
scorpion—which seemed to think the
huts were being erected specially for
them. Actually they are harmless, but
this is hard to believe in view of their
appearance. They were in every corner
of the huts and especially on the ceiling.
My mate was planing an uneven surface
on the ceiling when he gave a horrible
yell and fell off the ladder. Landing on
the floor with a terrible thud he began
pulling at his shirt like a madman ; in
trying to get it off he ripped it from end
to end. Then he looked fearfully and
saw—a shaving.
* * * *
“E. 2”: She was a fluffy young thing
on her first visit outback, and her intro-
duction to mutton with an overcoat came
when a drover’s mob was met on the
drive out to the homestead. “Nice, even
line of wethers,” remarked young Dave
approvingly. “Ye-es, how lovely,” she
replied with a show of interest. “Now,
tell me —which are the mother ones and
which the fathers?”
* * * «
“Katiti”: “Old Camp” (B. 14/2/’45)
missed the pest I found to be the worst
when sleeping on the ground. Making
a place for my hip and shoulder, I usually
had no trouble in dropping off to sleep
without any rocking. But periodically I
would wake with no clear idea of what
woke me except that it was a dull sound
and was near me; yet there was nothing
in sight. Then one night, lying awake in
the bright moonlight, I found myself
face to face with a rabbit! Coming on
me in the foot-long grass he had stamped
on the ground as a warning to all his
tribe that there was a Gulliver around,
and then he bolted. It was this stamp
(followed by a quick getaway), using the
ground on which my ear was pressed, that
had awakened me. I hope I didn’t look
as startled as the rabbit did.
* * * *
“Tension Nut”: If “Betcha” (B.
21/3/’45) is constantly knocking about
with a pack of mongs, tell him to get a
bob’s worth of snuff or a small tin of
pepper. When the brawl starts share it
up amongst them. It will save energy,
boots, breeches, leggings and bellowing.
■** V *
“Patrol Leader”: Early one morning
we anchored about nine miles north-east
of Lizard Island, just inside that narrow
opening in the Great Barrier Reef through
which Captain Cook took the Endeavour
on Tuesday, August 14, 1770, and which
ever since has been known as Cook’s
Passage. Since the days of the navi-
gator Nature has provided the his-
toric gap with a natural beacon, visible
from a considerable distance, which in
bad weather has guided many a vessel
to the safety of the inner waters through
the Passage, thus escaping certain destruc-
tion on the Great Barrier. On the outer
edge of the reef, just north of the open-
ing, is a gigantic boulder. Apparently
thrown up from the ocean floor during
a cyclone and too massive to be carried
over the reef surface, the mighty jet-black
boulder, roughly circular in shape and
fully 10ft. in diameter, has been there
for as long as any local fisherman can
remember. So conspicuous a mark is it
that it is recorded on the Admiralty
charts. Cook’s diary contains no mention
of the huge rock, which for a century or
more has withstood the ceaseless pound-
ings of the great rollers that smash down
as the long, smooth swell of the Pacific
encounters the margin of the coral ram-
part. Cook’s Passage is a difficult channel
to navigate in a small craft; the tide
swirls in and out like a mill-race, while
formidable dangers are massive heads of
jagged coral protruding from the reef on
both sides of the Passage, any one of
which would rip open the side of a vessel
chancing to graze against it.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Those jokers who amuse them-
selves by tossing pebbles at and belting
charging bulls with hammers are merely
misleading. If a straight-trunked tree is
handy you may dodge the bull by work-
ing round the trunk with arms extended
about it to assist balance and footwork.
Often resorted to this method after
tossing bulls by the tail and doctoring
them in timbered country before I could
regain the saddle. Perhaps the best
method of dealing with a charging bull is
to apply a dog-stopper, or maybe two.
Sool your poodles at him, and while one
tries to eat Ferdinand’s face the other
demonstrates on his bovine heels why his
boss calls hijn Hootch. He’ll be too busy
on both fronts to bother about you.
* * * *
“Kit”: Nearly all the bush fights I
have seen (B. 14/3/’45) have been very
short affairs. Contestants are usually
men hardened by toil on the axe or
shovel, who can swing a punch capable
of flattening Dempsey. But they rarely
have the training necessary to help them
withstand a heavy punch. Result, the
first wild, ferocious swing to find its marK
is the signal for Bung to fill the jug
again.
TREASURE TROVE.
Show me the treasure you’re bringing home,
brothers who sail with me.
Soldier of fortune, your journey’s done and
what is your legacy?
We travelled far and we travelled long—ocean
and land and air;
Some of us went where the highways led and
others to God knows where.
The troopship is hardly a galleon now, with
you as her captain brave,
Sailing the coast of Araby or out of the White
Man’s Grave,
Laden with spice or damascene or a coffer of
plundered gold:
What have you gathered among the years, and
what have you learned to hold?
Memories, yes, of course you ha^e —you needn’t
tell me why:
You that I knew in the city streets, and out
where the jackals cry.
I who have watched as the bombers left and
counted them in again;
Watched, on the desert, the columns pass to the
battle of Alamein.
So what is the sum of your souvenirs, what
have you brought, my lad?
A trinket or two for a girl or two, a trifle
for Mum and Dad?
I think you brought back deep in your heart
something like fire and stone
For a double gift in her bitter need to the
land your valor won.
R.A.A.F.
J. A. HENDERSON.


“What a brain-wave it Was to bring my emergency rations.”
“Old-timer”: Benson took a job hay-
making and quickly found that the cocky
was one of those blokes who think that
wages and keep include the right to make
butts of their employees. Benson
had other ideas, but he put up with
it, determined to hang on until the season
was finished because he needed the
money. That cocky gave him no peace ;
if he wasn’t chipping Benson in the
morning about taking too long to lace
up his boots he was waking him in the
night to tell him to stop snoring. There
grew in Benson a slow, consuming desire
for revenge, but since he wasn’t a mali-
cious man his imagination stopped short
of arson, assault-and-battery and similar
crude forms of evening a score. Day
after day the cocky poked a mixture of
borak and caustic at Benson, and day
after day Benson racked .his brains. Then
on the second-last day his face wore a
contented look and that night he slept
like a child. On the last day Benson
threw hay about with vim and pleasure,
greeted the cocky’s sallies and laugh-
ter and even prompted the somewhat
puzzled agriculturist once or twice. That
afternoon Benson got his cheque and
headed for the town, smiling. Three
hours and twenty minutes later there
arrived at that farm the first of many
agents, and for four days that cocky
never knew where to turn. Agents came
from everywhere within 100 miles, and
the maddened man could trace Benson’s
progress by their appearance. For Ben-
son was spreading the glad, if unsubstan-
tiated, news that his former boss had
won Tatt.’s under an assumed name.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Bill C.” (B. 7/3/’45) reminds
me. Once we flushed a thick ten-foot
python which made off up hill. Our two
mongs vainly sought a grip on the lithe
muscular body as it slid tantalisingly
through their gobs. We ran beside the
pageant as the mongs whined and worked
for a hold. At last one tyke’s fang found
entrance, and the outraged ophidian
whirled round, seized that dog’s snout
and whipped two crushing coils round
Toby’s torso, while his tail sought and
found leverage round a projecting rock.
Blood gushed from the dog’s nose and
throat as his ribs cracked and his spine
was broken. Hastily loading and cap-
ping our old blunderbuss, we blew the
brute’s head off. Those dogs had often
settled the slimmer carpet-snakes, one
chewing its collar, his mate becoming an
anchor at the other end of the hawser.
* * * *
“Blime”: For so many years Jim had
caught rain on his freshly-dipped sheep
that he’d come to believe the happening
was inevitable. This N year he was later
than usual on the job. With a shortage
of help, feed and water, he was kept
busy, while, with one eye on the skyline
and the other on their stock, the locals
plodded cursefully through the long dry
spell. Then Jim got round to mixing
his dip. Someone spotted his hands mus-
tering, the news spread, and by night the
whole district was on its toes waiting to
see what would happen. Dipping started
at daylight. The morning was hot and
dusty, and yard after yard in unbroken
line the jumbucks passed through till
midday showed a couple of thousand on
the right side of the draining pens. Then
the storm came. For two solid hours it
pelted down, filling dams and waterways,
while Jim tore round shoving sheep into
every sheltered corner he could find. He
was shutting the gate on a bunch in the
scrub paddock when Kelsie rode up.
“Nice sort o’ cove you are,” growled
the neighbor resentfully. “Never did
think o’ no one but y’rself.” Jim blinked
the water from his eyes. “Gripes, I don’t
see what you got t’ growl about,” he
replied. “Y’ got rain, didn’t y’? Won’t
hurt your sheep.” “No,” snorted Kelsie,
“but I’ve lorst a coupla hundred lately,
and what I want t’ know is why in hell
y’ didn’t dip y’ flamin’ sheep six weeks
ago.”
* * * *
“C.E.”; Was in talking to old Waiter-
son the other day when “Dreamy”
strolled up to report that the Walterson
mare he’d been riding that day was badly
cut after jumping a fence. “Then why
the blazes didn’t y’ use the gate?”
roared the old bloke. “There’s one a
coupla .hundred yards further down.”
Silently the band followed us out to in-
spect the nag, and, finding her in a bad
way, Wally sent him back for a rifle.
“Good bloke with stock?” I inquired,
nodding towards the retreating “Dreamy.”
“Aw cripes, no”; Walterson was em-
phatic. “Knocks up the hacks, cripples
the sheep an’ ruins me dogs. Why, only
las’ week he killed three o’ me best
heifers by shuttin’ ’em in without water.”
“Bad luck,” I sympathised. “Well, yair,”
Wally agreed, “but not’s bad as losing
the feed shed an’ all me hay. That coot
would lie there ’n’ smoke, an’ o’ course
went t’ sleep ’n’ didn’t see the blaze.”
He nodded disgustedly. “Then there’s the
truck he smashed, t’ say nuthin’ o’ the
binder. Careless, that’s what he is ; ’n’
lazy. Does little else but eat an’ sleep.
Y’ know,” he decided grimly, “if men
wasn’t so flamin’ hard t’ git nowadays,
I’d sack that cow.” *
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Until recently I would
have cheerfully staked my wages on the
ground lark as the fastest runper (pro-
portionally) in the avian kingdom. Now
I’m hedging on a bird probably a
species of sand-piper—that frequents the
les§-crowded beaches on the N.S.W. south
coast and, occasionally, certain sand-
strips along the Parramatta River. Little
bigger than a sparrow, it presents a white
front and an effective white marking
across both sides of the head, but viewed
from behind is a drab fawn and grey
color. Its legs are nearly an inch longer
than a spag’s, and the rapidity of their
action is astounding. I’ve tried to count
the steps in each short burst of speed,
but my eye couldn’t keep up with the
movement. The wings, too, are pheno-
menally long, and graceful as a swift’s;
the same length of wing on a short-legged
bird would carry the disability that be-
falls a grounded swift —inability to rise
again. It is this wing span that makes
the bird look nearly twice the size when
flying. In groups of from half a dozen
to half a hundred these birds have a habit
of skimming across water or sand at a
furious rate until, as though at a word
of command, the whole flight suddenly
executes an “about face” (not a wheel)
and comes shooting back just as speedily.
How they all know when to turn, and
why the back-markers don’t collide with
the front files, are just an-
other couple of mysteries
on the list of things that
baffle me.
* * *
“Julia Creek”: Agree with
“D.R.H.” (B. 28/2/’45)
that a horse reined up and
spurred might root. Assum-
ing “D.R.H.” agrees that
spurs should not be used
as a goad, but as an in-
strument of correction,
that leaves us alternatives:
to hold a horse tight and
scold with the spurs or rake
him while he is moving. The
former might make him root, the latter
possibly bolt. As I could never tolerate
a bolting horse I prefer the former
method. When the camp horse is trained
the spurs are discarded, as no thoroughly-
trained animal should require spurs. I
don’t recommend such a method for use
on kids’ ponies, for schooling ladies’
hacks or for breaking old horses of evil
habits; but Ido suggest it for anyone
training a cutting-out horse.
* * * *
“Taniwha”: Floods in the South Island
of M.L., the most severe since the ’seven-
ties of last century, have concentrated
public attention on river control. The
big South Island rivers are of a gipsy
disposition. They sprawl about in beds
of shingle up to a mile wide, which in
normal times may carry one, two or three
small streams. Snow melting on the
mountains or heavy rain may, in half a
dozen hours, fill the river bed from bank
to bank with a yellow rushing tide, and
in such circumstances the river is apt to
seek a new bed. The Molyneux, in South
Otago, diverted during the February
floods to save a township, liked its new
bed better than its old and decided to
stay there. To cope with such vagaries
there have arrived in the Dominion from
the U.S.A. two giant “tower excavators.”
These are bulldozers greatly magnified.
Their scooping buckets lift 12 cub. yds.
of spoil at a single bite —24 tons if the
material is rock. The main tower of
each machine is 130 ft. high, and the
whole contraption weighs 225 tons. A
600-h.p. electro-motor provides power.
These machines embody Works Minister
Semple’s protest against old methods,
which he has often characterised as
“stupid and dangerous.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: It is evident that “Diamond
Bar” (B. 7/3/’45) knows sheepdogs, and
while I agree that dogs are far better
worked by whistle than by voice, there
are times when the method doesn’t act.
Take old John, a sheep cocky round these
“ Orright , then —no home-beer recipe , no weddiri !”
East Gippsland parts. First time I struck
John he was in a spot of bother getting
a mob of ewes and lambs into the sale-
yards. “Go for’ard,” he bawled, in a
voice'that could be heard a mile away,
“Steady now. Sit. Sit DOWN.” Be-
tween his bawled orders he turned to ex-
plain the mong’s faults. “Easier if you
work ’em by whistle,” I pointed out,
emitting the short, sharp note that
dropped my own creeping mong in his
tracks. “Not so confusing.” “Yair, that’s
awright with some dogs,” he replied, “but
not this bloke o’ mine. Rover won’t
work to a whistle. Watch.” He took an
enormous breath, screwed up his face and
amid a blow like a hurricane there issued
a wheezy note that reached his nag’s
ears, possibly a few tail-end jtimbucks,
and died feebly in my direction. Again
and again his chest heaved, the sides of
his dial rose and fell, then, “AW, SIT
DOWN,” he bellowed, exasperated. The
dog sat. “There, what’d I tell y’?” he
turned triumphantly. “We get sort o’
used to each other, but somehow I never
seem t’ get liold of a dog that’s been
broke to a whistle,”
* * * *
“Bill C.”: After passing through the
coastal canefields in N.Q. in January-
February, 1944, the locust hordes (B.
14/3/’45) bee-lined for the mangroves
of the salt pans, and died in heaps feet
deep. They died so plentifully around
one locality that the poison from their
decaying corpses turned the mangroves
yellow. Large clouds of fliers, dis-
appointed that South America lay so great
a distance to the east, plunged into the
coastal waters, and were eaten by shoals
of fish. Best fishing bait for months
afterwards was grasshopper, whether
you angled in fresh or salt water.
* * * *
“Bo”: This talk of stoushes and their
duration recalls “Blowit” Brady, who
earned his sobriquet through his exclu-
sive use of that mild epithet. “Blowit”
was rouseabout at the station, and an
amiable enough fellow when sober; but
after about three beers he imagined him-
self a Joe Louis and invariably looked
for fight. As he was a 14-stoner and had
once learned to use his mitts, and was
always in pretty fair condition, he was
usually side-stepped whenever possible.
One Saturday afternoon he returned from
the township slightly primed and hogging
for someone’s blood. He picked on
Dodds, the new presser, who was 11 stone
of whipcord, told him he wasn’t a man's
bootlace and made grave reflections on
the morality of the Dodds family. Dodds
just grinned. Enraged, “Blowit” knocked
the cigarette that the other was rolling, and
the tobacco wafted away on the breeze.
Dodds made the opening swing and the
fight was on. It raged in out the shed.
Half an hour later “Blowit” had Dodds
down, and as he seemed about to bite a
chunk out of his adversary a couple of
the men dragged him off and a shearer
threw a bucket of water over him.
“Blowit” forgot his previous engagement
and started on the water-tosser. Ten
minutes later he landed a k. 0., but only
after taking a lot of punishment. Then
a mate of that shearer hopped in. A
quarter of an hour later the rouseabout,
as he groped around on his knees with
a pair of shanties hung on his lamps,
looked around and said: “Blow it! I
believe youse cows are tryin’ to buy a
man inter a fight!”
“Zake”: It was a sweltering day, and
the swaggie who had taken up his possie
on the verandah of the town’s only pub
had discarded everything but pants,
singlet and an ancient vest. All day, with-
out success, he had tried to cadge a drink,
Towards closing time he tried his last
prospect, and clicked. As he put down his
pot he looked sourly at Bung said
“No footrails, no electric fan goin’, no
radio—what sort of a way’s this to run
a pub? If there was another one in town
I wouldn’t patronise yer lousy joint!,
WAR AND PEACE.
In all the sky but half a moon
Mirrored in the glassy dam, and there
She floats more purely than in air.
Fine edge of fire to the western cloud
Where the hot sun sank from sight;
The shimmering sea’s a band of white
Satin to bmd the evening’s brow;
And north and south the vast parched plain
Awaits the coming cool of night.
But out in the paddocks children play
At war. Rat-tat!—the Bren guns stutter
And marching feet and war-cries shatter
The evening peace with martial din.
Wild shouts and throb of drums arise
And beat against the startled skies
Until night quietens all. The child
Is father to the man, and man
Is still a child until he dies.
S.A.
NANCY CATO.


*Si»5
VOJ
-
o
s.
Sous-marin de la France
libre en difUculte •
It was early morning on the
22nd August, 1941.
The British Coastal Com-
mand had picked up the
radio message. The Free
' French submarine " Rubis ”
was in grave difficulty off the
coast of Norway,
Away raced three Blen-
heims to the rescue. The
"Rubis” was located quickly.
A constant patrol was
maintained until nightfall.
She was picked up again next
morning.
But now the submarine’s
engines had stopped. Radio-
ing back to base, the protect-
ing aircraft brought a Sunder-
land and two Catalinas to
pick up the crew, as the pres-
ence of an enemy mine-field
prevented surface vessels
reaching the "Rubis”.
The rescue, however, prov-
ed unnecessary. The ”Rubis”
succeeded in starting her sur-
face engine and moved slowly
off to her base. She reached
port escorted by British Naval
units, protection from the air
being maintained by aircraft
of the British Coastal Com-
mand.
Another incident of' this
war showing how radio makes
possible co-operation amongst
the services.
* * *
Australian industry has shown
the world we can produce equip-
ment for our armed forces ...
planes, ships, guns and radio.
As victory succeeds victory, let
us not forget the part played by
Australian Industry in helping to
win this war. And let us realise
that whilst all such equipment is
produced in Australia, we need
never fear being cut off from our
sources of supply. Amalgamated
Wireless (A/asia) Ltd.
Pull Your Weight!
Third Victory Loan
must be filled
No one else can do your
share of the filling
Store Your Money!
For the Nation’s use now
and your use later
*yHE Bonds you bought last year have
already done their duty. The money
you put into war bonds, savings certifi-
cates and life assurance last year and
in the earlier war years has been used
to maintain our Navy, Army and Air
Force in fighting strength.
Another hundred millions are now
needed to meet current war expenditure.
Each one of us must contribute all he can.
No one else can do your share.
.When you store your money in war
bonds you store it for the Nation’s use
how and your own use later.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Truth About Poland.
(From an " American Mercury” article by Will-
Ham Henry Chamberlin .)
There are ugly spots in the Polish
record. During most of its life as an
independent State Poland was governed
by semi-dictatorial methods. The Poles,
long oppressed themselves, were often
intolerant in their treatment of racial'’
minorities. Polish administrative methods
in Eastern Galicia, where the Ukrainians
are a majorty of the population, were
harsh and oppressive.
There was anti-Semitism in Poland,
as in Rumania and other East European
countries. It grew out of the same un-
healthy soil of poverty, economic depres-
sion and urban overcrowding, and led to
regrettable social and economic discrimi-
nation. Also, the seizure of Wilno and
the taking of Teschen from Czechoslo-
v;akia after the Munich settlement were
Kigh-handed acts in the international
field.
However, one need not accept an un-
real picture of Poland as a Sir Galahad
among nations ip order to recognise the
right of the Polish people, who have
fought heroically and suffered unimagin-
able horrors, to determine their own
political fate.
Poland’s past cannot be reasonably
appraised in the abstract. Two considera-
tions of time and place, ini particular,
should be noted: —-
First, Poland during the ’thirties was
wedged in between two powerful and
ruthless totalitarian States, Nazi Ger-
many and Soviet Russia, which certainly
did not contribute to the flourishing of
democracy. Second, the Polish record,
bad as it was in many respects, was
strikingly better than that of the Soviet
Union, if one takes such reasonable
standards of comparison as the existence
of opposition parties, executions for poli-
tical reasons and forced-labor camps,
The attempt to justify absorption of
Poles by Russia on “democratic” grounds
is therefore illogical and absurd.
Arguments sometimes put forward for
differential treatment of countries that
willingly or otherwise joined the Axis
cannot apply to Poland. For Poland was
the first nation that took up arms against
Nazi Germany. And Poland’s fight did
not cease when the physical resistance
of the country was beaten down by the
Germans, abetted by a sudden Soviet
blow in the rear of the Polish armies,
Poland’s fight has gone on, through guer-
rilla warfare inside and through effec-
tive Polish units serving with the United
Nations abroad. History will underline
that Poland was the only conquered
nation where Hitler was unable to find
local quislings.
But that is not all. Soviet Russia actu-
ally owes a debt of gratitude to Poland
for its steadfast rejection of Nazi bland-
ishments. According to the testimony of
French diplomatic observers, contained
in the French Yellow Book, Hitler made
three proposals to the Polish Govern-
ment looking toward combined action
against Russia in 1938 and 1939. The
basis of the German proposals was that
formerly German regions be returned to
the Reich and that Poland be “compen-
sated” by additional territory from the
U.S.S.R.—a proposal remarkably like
Stalin’s, except in reverse,
Poland refused these offers. How
different the course of history might have
been if Poland, like Hungary, Rumania
and Bulgaria, had swung into the Nazi
orbit and co-operated in an attack on the
Soviet Union. In that case, Britain and
France might never have been involved
in the war and Russia would have been
obliged to bear the whole weight of the
German onslaught two years earlier. Cer-
tainly the Russians have reason to be
thankful for Poland’s refusal to accept a
German orientation in its foreign policy.
Even after the ominous announcement
of the German-Soviet Pact, in August,
1939, Poland preferred an unequal war
to surrender. Its reward was the revival
of the old Russo-German technique of
partition, with Stalin and Hitler repeat-
ing the roles of Catherine II and Fred-
erick the Great. The Soviet Commissar
for Foreign Affairs, V. M. Molotov, pro-
nounced a death sentence on Poland
when he said, in a speech before the
Soviet Parliament on October 31, 1939;
One swift blow to Poland, first by the
German Army and then by the Red Army,
and nothing was left of this ugly offspring
of the Versailles Treaty, which had existed
by oppressing non-Polish nationalities.
For almost two years, it should not
be forgotten, Poland lived under a regime
of joint German-Soviet occupation as
cruel as any recorded by modern history.
Both Powers made every effort to deci-
mate Polish leadership and stamp out
Polish national consciousness. Accord-
ing to a diplomatic note of the Polish
Government, 1,500,000 inhabitants of
Eastern Poland were deported, most of
them to Soviet forced-labor camps. The
exact number of victims may be dis-
puted, but the huge scale and brutality
of the Soviet “purge” are beyond doubt.
Mr. Roosevelt’s Health.
As reported on by “United States News.”)
Great significance attaches to Mr.
Roosevelt’s health. Not that the Presi-
dent is ailing seriously. He probably is
not. There is no reason to question the
official view that the President’s health
basically is sound: that he has no real
ailment that would interfere with his job.
It’s just that Mr. Roosevelt’s vitality is
not what it was.
The President was two weeks going to
the Yalta Conference, one week in con-
ference, two weeks getting back. The
one week in conference admittedly im-
posed a strain on Mr. Roosevelt.
The significant point in all this is that
President Roosevelt no longer is in
a crusading mood, no longer itches for
a fight. There isn’t the White House in-
terest in new ideas that once was evident.
It is evident, too, that Mr. Roosevelt
has not been in a mood to Stand up too
strongly against Britain’s Churchill or
Russia’s Stalin on issues that U.S. has dif-
fering ideas on. There is even a mellower
attitude toward Gen. Charles de Gaulle,
who has been baiting U.S. It’s simply
that the President’s vitality is not up to
the job of battling against others with
more vigorous and more persistent ideas.
The strain of 12 years as President finally
is telling.
Also, the President’s right-hand man,
Harry Hopkins, is, like the President, not
too well. Yet the major burden of day-
to-day White House operations falls on
these two key men.
Generals and admirals run the war
itself. Much of the remainder of the
Government sort of runs itself. The close
White House interest and supervision,
once so noticeable, now is lacking. The
President tends to spend more and more
time away from his office. Fewer and
fewer top officials get to him regularly.
The President is less and less ready to
tackle issues or to take actions that in-
volve a disagreeable fight.
How Japs Win in China.
(This revealing glimpse of the war in China is
from a “Collier’s” article by Mark Gayn .)
A swarm of Japanese “guerrilla” bands,
followed by 200 whippet tanks, attacked
in the green plain of Honan Province.
The Japanese played a canny game. For
months their agents, disguised as mer-
chants, had crossed the front lines freely.
They scouted the Chinese defences, talked
to the officers and men, carefully felt the
people’s pulse. They found that the
Chinese army in Honan was rotten with
graft and inaction, that it lacked equip-
ment, that it was hated by the farmers,
from whom it had extorted grain in the
two preceding years of famine.
When the dossier on Honan was com-
plete the Japanese struck. At first they
used only 40,000 men, split into small,
mobile units. Facing them was an army
of 250,000 under General Tang En-po,
who had a fighter’s reputation but kept
his headquarters far, far behind the front.
When the blow fell the Honan Com-
mand had 700 trucks. Five hundred of
them were immediately seized by Chinese
officers and officials to move their fami-
lies, concubines and chattels to safety.
Left without transport, the Chinese Army


JUfyki
of Jkodtodup
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT
mass produced to microscopic precision standards
is another Pyrox “Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian
Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection
Equipment is a manufacturing achievement that
further strengthens famous, nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals, Diesel Service Depots,
under the management of experts,
are fully equipped for testing, overhaul, repair,
general maintenance, and the supply of Injection
Spare Parts for all makes of Diesel Engines.
Pyrox J.VvVei
In SYDNEY: PYROX PTY. LTD.
&V3X:K RELIEF
AND IMMUNISATION
FOR UP TO 2 YEARS FROM
CATARRH
INFLUENZA. HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA. ANTRUM. & SINUS TROUBLES
&
These distressing complaints are all
caused by germs in the bloodstream,
and lasting relief can only be ob-
tained by defeating these germs.
Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a
Vaccine which, instead of being in-
jected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth), and is
produced under Government licence
by an eminent physician. Upon
obsorption into the bloodstream, Vaxos quickly sets to work
destroying the attacking germs and neutralising the poisonsj
created by them; with the result that the patient soon feels
brighter, headaches and body pains vanish, and health steadily
improves. With continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to
the disease is.established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for
children and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer
needlessly; obtain Vaxos from your chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe Type) Vaxos No. 3 for Boils. Pimples,
for Rheumatism, Neuritis, Sciatica, Carbuncles, Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
Myositis, Fibrositis. Lumbago and matitis. Eczema, Impetigo, beptic
Spondylitis. Sores and most Skin Infections
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
Large size (24 c.c.’s), 6 weeks’ll/ Medium size (15 c.c.’s), 3
treatment for Chronic Cases ~AI * treatment for Acute Cases ..•■* V
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to:—
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lt. Collins St„ Melb., C.l
%
7
For Fait-Tempo Drama Keep Tuned To
Mekb Ckeiftoty's
“THE URGENT HANGMAN.”
9 p.m. every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
from all Major Network Stations.
promptly took over all carts and oxen it
could find.
Oxcarts are the pillar of peasant
economy. Angry, the farmers began to
resist. Leadership came from the old vil-
lage secret society, the Red Spears, which
for decades has defended the safety of the
villages. As the peasant bands grew they
began to attack Chinese Army units up
to 500 men. The farmers were not for
Japan but their slogan was “Better Japan s
soldiers than the men of Tang En-po.”
In all, they probably seized 50,000 rifles.
Meanwhile, the small Japanese units
streaked across the young wheat, cutting
rail iines, taking towns, disorganising
Chinese defences. In a few weeks noth-
ing remained of Tang’s army. It had
crumbled into nothing, leaving behind an
evil memory and the bodies of hapless,
ragged soldiers strewn along the country
roads.
Honan was Japan’s. So was the crop,
one of the best in Honan’s history.
Fiction and Fact.
[The summary here given of information in a
U.S. Foreign Economic Administration brochure
on “Lend-Lease Fact and Fiction” throws in-
teresting light on lend-lease dealings, and also
on the wild crop of rumors that have had cur-
rency in America, many with an anti-British
slant. The anti-British rumors were part of an
ominous outbreak of recriminations publicly
deplored by both President Roosevelt and Lord
Halifax. The lend-leasing country is, of course,
the United States throughout .]
Fiction. —Our lend-lease exports to Great
Britain have enabled that country to maintain
its export trade at a comparatively high level
during the war while our exports have declined.
Fact. —An analysis of the export trade of the
two countries during the war reveals the fact
that British export trade has declined drasti-
cally, while our own has not fallen so far below
the pre-war level.
Fiction. —Americans who have stood in long
lines in recent months to purchase cigarettes
have sometimes heard the rumor that one cause
of the cigarette shortage was the large number
furnished to other countries under lend-lease.
Fact. —Our lend-lease exports of cigarettes in
1944 required only about H p.c. of our pro-
duction during that period. Some of the cig-
arettes which we have lend-leased have gone to
the French forces in Africa; the remainder have
been furnished to British armed forces on
various war fronts. No cigarettes have been
supplied under lend-lease for civilians. For
every cigarette which we lend-leased in 1944 we
sent 26 to our armed forces abroad and the
people in the U.S. smoked 55.
Fiction. —There is a rumor current to the
effect that the British charge us high rental
costs for airfields in the British Isles.
Fact. —The British have built 133 airfields for
us at a cost to themselves of $440,000,000 and
have turned them over to us as reverse lend-
lease without paymept by us.
Fiction. —One of the most persistent criticisms
directed at lend-lease concerns the butter that
has been exported. The story appeared in
various parts of the country that American
tourists in Canada have been able to purchase
all the butter they want, at low prices, and have
allegedly found that the butter contains a lend-
lease label.
Fact. —Canada has not received any butter,
or any other commodity, under lend-lease.
All of the butter which has been scheduled for
export under lend-lease has been sent to the
U.S.S.R. for use by the Russian Army. The
lend-lease butter has been shipped in large tubs
or fibre containers and not in pound prints,
such as are sold to consumers. No lend-lease
goods are labelled in the manner described in
these stories.
Fiction. —Beefsteak has become a rather rare
item on the American menu in the last year.
This shortage in the beef supply has resulted in
the misconception that large quantities of beef
are being lend-leased.
Fact. —Only 0.7 p.c. of our total supply of
beef and veal was exported under lend-lease in
1944; the proportion lend-leased was 1.7 p.c.
in 1943 and 0.3 p.c. in 1942. American forces
stationed in the South Pacific have received
from Australia and New Zealand, under reverse
lend-lease, two-thirds as much beef and veal
as we have exported under lend-lease to all
countries.
Fiction. —A member of Congress who re-
cently returned from a trip to England stated
that he had seen “at least a square mile of
American-made farm machinery, new tractors,
ploughs, harrows and discs packed close to-
gether,” which he understood had been sent
from the United States under lend-lease.
Fact. —Actually what’ was seen in England
was a depot where American tractors with aux-
iliary equipment were stored preparatory to
shipment to France to build military roads, or
assignments on war projects in England, such
as the clearance of ground for air bases.
Fiction. —Under the rationing system many
Americans have not been able to get as many
shoes as they may have needed or wanted. The
recent O.P.A. announcement that there might
be fewer shoes available for civilians this year
than were available in 1944 has revived the
rumor that lend-lease is in part responsible.
Fact. —We have sent to the U.S.S.R. for use
by the Russian soldiers more than 10,000,000
pairs of army boots. These account for more
than nipe-tenths of all the shoes which we
have exported under lend-lease. The remaining
shoes which we have lend-leased have been
equivalent to a small fraction of 1 p.c. of our
total production. Some of these shoes have
been old and out-of-styld models for which
there is little or no demand in the U.S.
Fiction. —Each time an American ’plane makes
a forced landing on a British airfield in the
United Kingdom the United States Govern-
ment is charged $7OOO.
Fact. —The British Government makes no
charge whatsoever, either in cash or to the re-
verse lend-lease account, for such forced land-
ings.
Fiction. —The British buy aviation gasoline
from us at 25 cents a gallon and resell it to us
at 55 cents a gallon.
Fact. —We do not sell aviation gasoline to
the British, nor do we buy it from them.
Fiction. —The United States Navy is charged
for articles obtained from the British at prices
greatly in excess of cost.
Fact. —Any goods received by our Navy from
the British are furnished as reverse lend-lease.
Fiction. —A rumor which has been particu-
larly irritating to American farmers, who have
been unable to get the farm machinery they
need, concerns the alleged storage in Algiers of
a large number of combines which have been
sent there under lend-lease.
Fact. —In the last two years about 230 com-
bines were shipped to French North Africa.
These are but a fraction of 1 p.c. of our total
production. We are being paid for all com-
bines delivered in North Africa. An investi-
gation carried on in Algiers last July disclosed
that agricultural njachinery shipped there was
on its way to producing areas within ten to
twelve days after arrival at port.
Fiction. —The statement has at times been
made that we have lend-leased such a large
proportion of our munitions that American
forces are under-equipped as a result.
Fact. —Although we have been able to furnish
large quantities of munitions to our allies, we
have retained for our own forces all equipment
which they need.
Fiction. —Our patent rights are lost on articles
we lend-lease.
Fact. —Our patent rights are protected on all
lend-lease materials by specific agreements with
lend-lease countries.
Fiction. —The British are charging us $65 a
ton for American freight moved over British
railroads.
Fact. —The United States pays nothing for
the carriage of our military freights on rail-
roads in the British Isles. The British Govern-
Field - Marshal Montgomery is
without peer as a battle commander
in the European theatre. He has a
special and superb genius for com-
manding the huge and fast-rolling
vehicular forces employed in mecha-
nised warfare. He has this genius,
in fact, almost exclusively among the
military commanders of this war. It
was a mistake to relegate him to the
relatively minor and inactive role
he played too long on the Western
Front, and it was an appropriate
and proper remedy for that nearly-
tragic mistake that he was elevated
to a command commensurate with
his great talents. —This striking U.S.
tribute is from a N.Y. “Journal-
American”. editorial displayed in
large type down one-third of a page,
the rest of the page filled with pic-
tures of Monty.
ment pays to the railroads and reports as reverse
lend-lease the military rate of 365. ($7.20) a ton
irrespective of the length of tlje haul.
Fiction. —A recurring rumor concerns the
transhipment of American lend-lease ’planes
by Russia to the Japanese in exchange for
rubber.
Fact. —The Berlin and Tokyo radios have re-
peated this story so often, in order to create
disunity among the Allies, that well-meaning
people are sometimes misled by it. There is no
truth in it.
Fiction. —While we ship to Britain billions of
dollars worth of lend-lease goods, Britain is in-
creasing her commercial exports in Latin
America at the expense of the U.S.
Fact. —This rumor reappears every time the
war news in Europe turns favorable and the
problems of reconversion and post-war markets
return to the front page. Actually, British
exports to Latin America have fallen off drasti-
cally during the war, while United States cash
exports to those countries have increased above
pre-war levels.
Fiction. —The figures on reverse lend-lease
received from the British are exaggerated be-
cause of the high prices which they charge us.
Fact. —On the contrary, most of the items
which the British furnish us under reverse lend-
lease cost less than similar items would cost in
the U.S.
Fiction. —The British do not furnish any of
their ’planes to our air forces, even though they
might be vitally needed.
Fact. —While most of the ’planes used by our
men are built in the U.S. the British have sup-
plied us with more than 700 Spitfires, hun-
dreds of Mosquitos, Beaufighters and trainers
and 500 “Horsa” gliders.
Soviet’s “Free Germans.”
[Suggestions made in the authoritative U.S.
“Army and Navy Journal” and elsewhere that
Russia might use captured German generals for
post-war governing of Germany have already
been given in “Uncabled Additions.” The
contrary view is argued in the following (con-
densed) N.Y. “Herald-Tribune” article by
Maurice Hindus, back in America after 18
months in Russia.]
Russia has infinitely more reason than
the United States or England to dread
a resurrected and re-energised Germany
and to prevent and crush every effort she
may make to lift herself to political emi-
nence and military might.
Yet the Free German Committee in
Russia and the part German generals
are playing in the committee have stirred
no end of speculation, especially among
those foreign observers who feel that at
a Russian signal a German Soviet revo-
lution will spring into life, as to whether
or not this is Russia’s ultimate aim.
German generals, say the proponents
of this view, are after all generals, inter-
ested first and foremost in remaining
generals, in a country that would give
them a chance to be real generals. There-
fore, men like Von Paulus, Von Seidlitz
and other generals who have joined the
Free German Committee, as well as
Junkers and even outright Nazi generals
inside Germany, would be glad to for-
swear Nazism and help lift the banner
of Sovietism over Germany.
All the more eager would these men
be to do this, so runs the argument


Mi
m ■ W
VIS English”
These cottages are of the earllesf
and most restful type of domestic
architecture. They actually grow
from the landscape both aesthetic-
ally and materially. There are
many modern imitations of the
thatched or similar coverings.
WHATEVER THE STYLE, cost or location of the home you
build, one thing is essential to its comfort, long life and
appearance "Sisalkraft."
"Sisalkraft" protects against drip, damp and dust when used
as sarking under roofs and sheathing for walls, etc.; safe-
guards ceilings and interiors for the life of the building. So
moderate in cost, so gratifying in results, it is unwise to build
without "Sisalkraft" protection. . . , Defence requirements
absorb our output at the moment, but make sure your
architect specifies "Sisalkraft," because there will be ample
supplies available for post-war building.
S[S>9LKMFT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthhance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland.
m.
«
/ „ V -J
tr SS
yuMMO^SSSSK
**£*&
Zsr~
Built to Vickers- Armstrong’s geodetic methods , the Wellington
long-range general-purpose bomber has done yeoman service with
Bomber and Coastal Commands. It has appeared in different
Marks , equipped respectively with Bristol Pegasus and Hercules
engines and with Rolls-Royce Merlins. A transport development of
the Wellington is the Warwick,
BOMBERS SAVED THE SHIPS
Late in 1939 the German
magnetic mine threatened
the existence of the Allied
shipping fleets.
Desperate necessity evoked
a scientific and engineering
tour-de-force unparalleled in
the history of war. A
magnetic mine was re-
covered intact from the sea.
To quote the official Air
Ministry account: "Its sec-
rets were laid bare by the
courage and skill of a naval
officer, and experiments
were at once made to deter-
mine whether this type of
mine, which blew up when
it came into contact with
the magnetic field of a pass-
ing ship, could be exploded
from the air by an aircraft
capable of setting up a
similar field.”
In seven days British tech-
nicians found the answer.
Many twin-engined bombers
were speedily equipped with
a hoop-shaped casing some
fifty feet in diameter,
attached at points in the
wings, nose, and tail. With-
in the casing was a mag-
netic coil, to which current
was supplied by an auxili-
ary engine mounted in the
aeroplane. These aerial
mine-sweepers saved Allied
shipping from destruction.
For vital months while the
ships were being fitted with
degaussing gear they assured
safe passage along the sea-
ways.
Such unrivalled adaptabil-
ity and engineering genius
may indeed be trusted to
meet the most exigent tech-
nical demands of air trans-
port and private flying in
the Air Age of Tomorrow.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
further, because of what they now know
about Russia. Through her collectivism
Russia has built up a powerful industry,
has mechanised her agriculture, has
united and solidified the nation as it
never has been in all history. Power im-
presses such men and Russia has power,
formidable power.
Moreover, Russia is undergoing a pro-
found revolutionary process. A general
in the Russian Army is a general again.
He wears a general’s uniform. He re-
ceives special privileges. He has adju-
tants and orderlies. He has special
standing in the community and the
nation. His family lives in a good apart-
ment, obtains higher rations, the best
available. In his own profession his
word, once sanctioned by party authority,
is law which subordinates must obey.
Therefore, if Germany achieved a Soviet
revolution and German generals helped
achieve it they might lose little or noth-
ing. They would be the military de-
fenders of the new Germany, and the
German Communist party would treat
them with no less favor and circum-
spection than the Russian Bolshevik
party treats Russian generals.
If Germany were Soviet, the argument
continues, she could lean on Russia for
protection. The territorial rearrange-
ment would not be as severe. Repara-
tions would not be so heavy. In time
they might be forgiven and cancelled,
at least by Russia. The chances of re-
building Germany, of making her a real
Power again, would be much greater
than under a system of private enter-
prise, which by itself would keep Russian
suspensions high and Russian hostility
unabated.
When Russians hear this argument
they shrug and laugh. Some of them are
not displeased with speculations which
invest Russia with formidable and de-
cisive powers over ‘the fate of nations.
They enjoy the feeling that at last Russia
is taken seriously as a World Power. Yet
I know of no Russian who would for
one instant trust Von Paulus or any
other German general, particularly if
tainted with Nazi thinking and Nazi mis-
deeds.
Russians cannot forget that on the day
Von Paulus entered Kharkov, when it
was first occupied by a German army,
500 Russian citizens were strung up on
telephone poles, on balconies, on the
high posts of courtyard gateways. With-
out his authority these hangings could
never have taken place. The responsi-
bility for them is his and he cannot ex-
punge it from the record which the Rus-
sians constantly hold before their eyes,.
Whatever else the Bolshevik may be,
he is not gullible. Vigilance and more
vigilance and still more vigilance is his
creed and the key to his conduct. If he
errs at all, it is on the side not of trust
but mistrust. No one in Russia is ever
vested with a responsible task or a re-
sponsible mission unless after painstak-
ing search and investigation, after con-
tinuous trial and probation, he proves
politically worthy of the trust.
In the liberated regions only those who
have a record of guerrilla warfare or of
active opposition to the Germans are,
for the present, permitted to hold office.
Nowhere in the world is the checking of
character and conduct, of ways of
thought and ways of life, of social atti-
tude and political rectitude of all officials
and qualified workers, whether in the
party or in the Government, in industry
or in agriculture, so constant and so
assiduous as in Russia, Nowhere are past
errors and misconduct so long remem-
bered, so rarely forgiven. I know men
and women of great gifts and of high in-
tellectual attainment who do ordinary
clerical work only because of some poli-
tical sin in the past, sometimes the far-
away past, which has been neither for-
gotten nor forgiven.
If Russian Bolsheviks exercise such
stern caution, such unrelenting vigilance
in the treatment of their own people,
over whom they have complete power,
it is in my judgment absurd to imagine
that German Junkers who have stalwartly
supported Hitler in his deeds, if not
always in his ideology, will command
their confidence, especially in the execu-
tion of a revolutionary or any important
political mission.
The Russians are using Von Paulus,
who has nothing to lose and something
to gain, perhaps, by allowing himself to
be used in the verbal crusade against
Hitler and Nazi Germany. Hangman
that he is, he may yet save his neck. Nor
will the Russians hesitate to continue
using men like him. But using a man is
one thing, trusting him is quite another.
There is nothing in the realities of Rus-
sian policy, Russian thought or Russian
practice to justify the least suspicion that
German Junkers, whether on the Free
Committee or inside Germany, will ever
earn the trust of such implacable and
unshakable realists as are the Kremlin
Russians.
Had these Russians cherished the least
intention of collaborating in comradely
fashion with Junkers, even the best of
them, they never would have committed
themselves to the severance of East
Prussia from Germany, and thereby de-
prived all Junkers once and for ever of
their rich estates. It is the possession of
these estates that gave them the means,
the leisure, the social position and the
power to nurture their military plots and
to unleash on their neighbors one holo-
caust after another.
France on the Rhine.
(From a statement by French Secretary of
State Georges Bidault.)
“It is we [French] who are on the
Rhine, where we have the right to do
certain things that are important to us
and to the world. No separate action
certainly ; but for us the Rhine is always
there. Always a source of worry. It
is essential that this eternal worry be
ended forever,
“The question of the left bank of the
Rhine is raised. The territories which
compose it —and one must add to them
the Ruhr—will no longer be governed
militarily, economically, administratively
by Berlin.
“What regime shall prevail in these
regions? It is because of the necessity
of reaching an accord on this point with
the Allies and because of the uncertainty
regarding the disposition of the Rhine-
land populations that it is impossible for
me to give precise details. From today,
in any case, France, the first in danger
and periodically invaded, lays claim with
determination to a share of authority pro-
portionate to the risk she runs. We will
protect ourselves with our own means in
agreement with our Allies.”
Geography Aids Japan.
(Condensed from a “Free World” article by
John Goette.)
Somewhere over 25,000,000 square
miles of Asia and the Pacific Ocean Japa-
nese naval, air and ground forces are
scattered. Of course, not every square
inch of this vast area is firmly held by
our enemy. But United Nations fighters
must track them down and give battle
wherever we meet them.
The war-expanded Japanese Empire
actually comprises 4,000,000 square miles
of physical occupation. Bombers wing
their way 1500 miles over open sea from
the Aleutian Islands to smash at Japan’s
most northern islands, the Kuriles. On
the same day other bombers fly 2400
miles to strike at Japanese oil installa-
tions in the Netherlands East Indies.
Despite these extended flights, both en-
tirely over water, the distance between
the bombed points is 4000 miles. And
that is but a fraction of the entire Pacific
front.
A thousand miles away the Chinese
hold the Japanese on a 1500-mile line.
Still another thousand miles from this
fighting the British, Americans and
Chinese struggle against the enemy in the
jungles of Burma. Two thousand miles
eastward of that Burmese war zone some
300,000 Japanese and Americans are
locked in a combat for the Philippine
Islands. Adding further magnitude to
the war are the daily flights of Super-
fortresses from the Mariana Islands to
Tokyo and back. These 829 s easily make
a routine bombing journey which would
carry them non-stop from Paris to New
York.
When we eventually accomplish a
large-scale landing on Japan or on the
Chinese coast, for every 250,000 troops
there must go forward from American
ports 2,000,000 tons of material for every
30 days.
Gasoline for heavy bombers at island
bases like Saipan and Guam is carried
5500 miles from San Francisco. The
consumption of gasoline during a 3400-
mile round-trip raid on Tokyo is fan-
tastic. For example, an American civilian
is alloted four gallons of gasoline per
week on his ration card. Such an allow-
ance for 50 years would keep one 829
in the air only a single hour. Our leaders
threaten to raid Japan with as many as
1000 8295, possibly within 1945. The
quantity of gasoline for such raids which
we must ship 5500 miles across the Pacific
is beyond ordinary human comprehen-
sion.
Shrinking Democracies.
(From a “Free World” article by Sir Norman
Angell.)
A very wholesome truth which both
Britain and the United States would do
well to keep before them is that, even
combined, they are not the big pebbles
on the beach potentially. And “poten-
tially” may mean the quite near future
as history goes.
Russia has proved that an agricultural
country with a village economy and


Wk
:
mm.
&
a®
i
si I
V - i
m
U*JASK
viW-ry,
B
iASVsfc
tM»i
k *
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
BAR THEM FROM
YOUR BUILDING..
Time, Wear and Tear are always on the
job*—but where Lifts are concerned, in-
telligent, planned and systematical main-
tenance by Waygood-Otis can nullify the
efforts of these three villains.
Waygood-Otis Maintenance is more than
a routine checlc-up and periodical adjust-
ment—it is a regular engineering survey
that forestalls the continuous efforts of
Time, Wear and Tear to bring about a
dislocation of lift service.
Ask yourself tills—wfio but tbe manufac-
turer is better able to service tbe equip-
ment be designed and built? If your lift
is a Waygood-Otis isn t it logical tben to
bave genuine Waygood-Otis replacement
parts and genuine Waygood-Otis know-
how and service?
It will pay you to put your lifts under
Waygood-Otis. Telephone or write your
nearest office for details. No obligation
WITH
m YGOOD-om
LIFT
MAINTENANCE
of course.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART • NEWCASTLE
HEADQUARTERS
VERTICAL TRANSPORTATION
structure can, in single generation, be-
come one of the great industrial coun-
tries of the world. India is showing signs
of illustrating the same truth, and there
is no insuperable reason why China
should not follow suit, provided only that
internal conflicts can be avoided.
The particular qualities of government
and of political management which have
given to a little island off the north-west
coast of the continent the con-
trol or leadership of a quarter of the
earth, and to the United States virtual
domination of the whole of the Western
Hemisphere, are factors which technology
is making more available to other
peoples. If and when that happens —and
it may happen quickly—the English-
speaking world is likely to find itself not
a dominant factor in the direction taken
by mankind, but a very minor member
of the world partnership.
A glance at population proportions will
indicate how minor that membership
may become. The population of China
is approximately five hundred million, of
Russia almost two hundred million, of
India nearly four hundred million; and
to India is added each decade a number
equal to the whole population of Great
Britain. To the population of China,
India and Russia add the population of
Africa, possibly not far short of another
two hundred million. Add, also, the un-
considered trifles of Asia and you have
one thousand five hundred million souls
as compared with the mere two hundred
million that make up the populations of
the English-speaking world.
Population trends are certain in the
next few decades to make the dispropor-
tion still greater. Both in the United
States and in Britain there is a decline in
the rate of increase (which is not at
present the same as decline in popula-
tion), the disturbing quality of which
has been revealed only within the last
few years. There is no such tendency to
decline in China, India or Russia.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Congressmen blinked at discovering that
Americans invested more heavily in Germany,
before the war, than in any other European
country. American investments in Germany
were $1,290,000,000. It promises all sorts of
complications when Germany’s future is being
considered, with economic controls to curb her
future war-making ability. Another knotty
problem: $90,000,000 American investment in
Japan.— Scripps-Howard Washington staff.
•fC $ $
The strike record of 1944 is not one of which
the United States can be proud, no matter how
the facts are presented. Considering that 1944
was a war year, that the no-strike pledge was
not waived and that wages and working con-
ditions were steadily improving, as they had
in every year since 1933, it is hard to see what
excuse there was for this kind of behavior.
The number of strikes, 5000, was apparently
the largest on record, certainly in recent decades.
The number of strikers, two million, was ex-
ceeded, since 1936, only in 1941. — “Washing-
ton Post:”
* * * *
The French communists have completely re-
versed themselves since General de Gaulle’s
journey to Moscow in December, which was
the turning point in his domestic as well as
foreign policy. Before that they resisted the dis-
armament of the communist-led militia, which
formed the illegal partisan army, and they
bitterly criticised General de Gaulle. After
that journey they became a Government party.
—Paris correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The operations of airborne troops are not to
be thought of as suicide missions. In Holland,
where one of our largest airborne operations
took place, the losses in men were less than
5 p.c. The gliders take a beating. In the
Holland thrust we recovered in first-class shape
only 500 out of 1800. Gliders cost $13,000
apiece, which illustrates how costly war can be.
Wings can be shorn off in landings, say, by trees,
without endangering the troops. Gliders are
considered expendable material, much more so
than other aircraft. In fact they might be
called “one-mission” aircraft; those which are
recovered are so much “gravy.”—Scripps-How-
ard report.
* * * *
“We hear very much about the road to
Tokyo. We should like to think of it as a
four-line highway with no speed limit. Actu-
ally, that road exists only as far as we have
built it —to the Marianas and the Philippines.
The remainder of the way has been surveyed,
but the roadbed has not yet been cut; the pave-
ment has not been laid. We shall have to build
it day by day, section by section as we go.”—
U.S. Marine Corps Commandant Lt.-Gen.
Vande grift.
* * * *
Question of food for delegates to United
Nations convention in war-crowded San Fran-
cisco engages officials here. One school of
thought feels it might be better to let dele-
gates take “pot luck,” instead of making efforts
to round up steaks, luxury foods. It argues
foreign representatives will get better impres-
sions of the U.S. if they feel we’re making
at least minor sacrifices, not living luxuriously
while other peoples starve. — Scripps-Howard
report.
* * * *
Contrary to many impressions abroad, when
Britain came here to Greece she did not come
to beat Soviet Russia to the punch, but truly to
re-establish law and order in a vital British
zone. British affections for Greece are old and
close, and the terrorism here, being fratricide,
was even more fierce than was then disclosed.
A review of the confidential reports to the
British Cabinet at that time weighs more heavily
on the side of simple humanity than on power
politics. — N.Y. “World-Telegram” special cor-
respondent Henry J. Taylor, reporting from
Athens.
The Russian censors would never permit
correspondents to hint at the number of deaths
from famine in Leningrad during the blockade
of the winter of 1942. Yet among themselves
particularly in Leningrad, Russians speak freely
of the catastrophe. Physicians in the former
capital of the Czars told me that the toU
reached one and a half million lives. I heard
no one in Leningrad dispute this figure. In
the hope of being evacuated deep inland,
masses of civilians from the surrounding lands
poured into the city. But the blockade hemmed
them in and barred all avenues of escape. They
died in crowds. There were houses in which,
in apartment after apartment, not a person re-
mained alive. Rooms were unheated, there
was no water, there was no light, there was no
food, the cold was fierce. People crawled into
bed alone or with other members of the family,,
covered themselves with all the wraps they
could find, kept munching away at a handful
of raw lentil or beans or the half-pound of
soggy bread they were receiving, and passed
quietly out of life. The story of the Leningrad
famine is one of the least publicised and most
horrifying episodes of the war. — Maurice Hin-
dus; N.Y. “Herald-Tribune
* * * *
The financial experience that Britain went
through following the first World War is
attracting attention in Washington. That ex-
perience, in fact, is having a definite influence
upon the planners who are considering post-
war tax policy for the U.S. The British came
out of the last war with a debt that had in-
creased to 10 times the pre-war debt. Interest
payments on that debt required 7 p.c. of British
national income, even before other Govern-
ment expenses were taken into account. The
British made two decisions. The first was that
the size of the debt problem made it necessary
to get British finances under better control with
a balanced budget. The second was that policies
must be shaped that would encourage business-
men to venture and to expand the home market
to make up for loss of export markets. Tax
policy was used as an important instrument to
achieve this result. It was decided to end all
direct taxation of corporation income as such.
Corporate earnings in Great Britain are taxed
at the same rate as individual incomes, but,
when they are distributed as dividends stock-
holders do not again pay a tax. Government
revenues were obtained through heavy income
taxes on individuals, in both the low and the
high brackets, from customs duties, and from
excise taxes on luxuries such as beer and
tobacco, automobiles and gasoline. Business
enterprises, because their earnings thus were
freed of direct taxes, were not hindered from
expanding. By 1929 total industrial production
in the British Isles was 10 p.c, above 1920,
and by 1937 industrial output was 24 p.c. above
the 1929 level. This was achieved despite the
failure of British exports to expand propor-
tionately. Production for export accounted
for a fourth of all British production in the
’twenties, but for only 15 p.c. of output in
1937. — “United States News.”
* * * *
“Little Britons” who arrived here in New
Zealand in September and October, 1940, to
enjoy the security offered by the Dominion as
their fathers prepared to defend their isle against
a possible Nazi invasion are now going to war.
Of the batches who ran the gauntlet of Nazi
submarines and patrol ’planes before the British
Government stopped further departures 72 have
now graduated from school. Twenty-seven of
these are now at college, some of them pre-
paring for careers which would have been
denied them had they remained in their home-
land. Ten boys are working on farms, five
are in engineering plants, and one is cutting
coal. Girls are nursing, working in banks and
munition plants, and training as teachers. The
older boys are now enlisting for foreign ser-
vice, the only way most of them are likely to get
to war, for boys are not drafted overseas in the
New Zealand Army until they are 21 years old.
One boy is already a bomber pilot flying
against Germany from a British base, another
is on his way there, two have enlisted m the
New Zealand Navy, which probably means ser-
vice against the Japanese today instead of
hunting on the Atlantic and Mediterranean, as
New Zealand craft did earlier in the war, and
two other youngsters have gone to England to
join the merchant marine.— Wellington corre-
spondent “Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
“What is undoubtedly the most expensive
highway in the world runs through the wild
green jungles of New Guinea. Construction
gangs, using whatever rock they could lay their
hands on, were unaware that they had taken
rich gold deposits to make a smooth lane for
automobiles and trucks. The workers tossed
everything into their rock-crushers and cement-
mixers and, to the uninitiated eye, the gold-
bearing rock looked like any other kind of
stone. It was when the highway dried out and
took on a bright sparkle in the sun that the
engineers gave a closer look at the rock mat
was going into the roadbed. Amazed foremen
discovered that their workers had used about
$1,000,000 worth of gold—some 45,000 ounces
of the metal —in building a two-mile-long
thoroughfare through the bush.”— U.S. Navy
newsletter published in the Admiralties; quoted
in N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Most of the members of the Moscow-made
Council of National Liberation are completely
unknown in Polish life. And those who are
known hardly inspire confidence. They are
broken, discredited adventurers, just the kind
of men who might be expected to turn out as
quislings. Take, for example, the “Minister of
War,” Michal Rola-Zymierski. Under the Pu-
sudski regime he was convicted of taking bribes
from French manufacturers in connection with
supply of gas masks and was sentenced to five
years in prison and the loss of his military rank
and honors. Jan Grubecki, Minister of Com-
munications, is a former member of the
E.N.D.E.K., a nationalist youth organisation,
and was identified with many anti-Semitic out-
rages. The now deposed Minister of Agncul-
ture, Andrsej Witos, tried to blackmail the
Government into giving him a profitable export
concession in 1923 by threatenmg to withdraw
the Parliamentary support of his political
organisation, the People’s party. Emil Som-
merstein, a well-known Jewish lawyer, had
been held for years in Soviet prisons and may
well have joined the “Government” to avoid
indefinite detention. The chairman of the
council, Boleslaw Berut, is a communist who
was unknown in pre-war Poland. The com-
mittee includes two men who were more or less
well known as fellow travellers, Eduard
Osubka-Morawski and Bolslaw Drobner, both
expelled from the Polish Socialist party for this
reason. — William Henry Chamberlin; “Ameri-
can Mercury.’'’


THE WORLD FOLLOWS BRITAIN'S LEAD
'smsm
k-:
m
m
*
v-
-1
PENICILLIN
T\ISCOVERED by Sir Alexander Fleming and developed
U Sir Howard Florey two British Scientists Penicillin
has already achieved wonders in preserving human life, and in
healing wounds which might have proved fatal without its help.
Even, so, the full extent of Penicillin's power to help mankind
has not yet been disclosed. The discovery of this new drug
marks yet another triumph for British brains and energy, and
adds one more debt of gratitude to the long and lengthening list
of benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world
In a widely separated sphere of activity, another development
deriving from British enterprise has changed and improved the
standards of comfort for millions of people the world over
the development of rayon, and the lovely fabrics made from it,
by Courtaulds. This remarkable textile has steadily appreciated
in beauty and serviceability during.the half century since, its
inception. Research and experiment continue to reveal new
uses and new methods of manufacture which will make post-war
rayons even more attractive, more varied and more useful than
those you admired before the war.
The present unavoidable scarcity of rayons will pass with the
coming of peace, and Courtaulds, released from onerous war
duties, will be free to implement their plans for new and different
products designed to enhance their own and Britain's name as
originators and leaders in the post-war world.
SIR ALEXANDER
FLEMING
of the Inoculation Depart-
ment of St. Mary's Hos-
pital, London, who dis-
covered Penicillin the
new healer. The illustra-
tion above shows one
stage in the complicated
process of producing
Penicillin.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, JEngland.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics: Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry, England
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
I —▼ —I
PROTECTION during Peace and War is
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE,
throughout Australia.
ECHERSLEV . SONS PTV. LTD.
33-103 CLARENDON ST.. STH. MELBOURNE SC3
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing Lambs’ Wool.
“Jumbuck”; Sorting lambs’ wool re-
quires the constant attention of the
classer, even when experienced shed
hands are employed. If cloth isn’t avail-
able packs can be used for covering the
tables, but when packs are used they
should be spread so as to form an even'
surface. The classer should instruct the
pickers-up to bring one fleece only at a
time to the tables unless the lambs are
of uniform age and size and to use
boards and not their hands for gathering
and picking up.
Condition of the wool, length, quality
and cleanliness will determine the numbers
of sorts, but the classer must be on the
look-out for stains or wool not fitted for
the respective lines. In small sheds he
should handle all the body wool him-
self.
In a merino flock, where super lambs’
wool is lacking, two sorts will usually
suffice, the longest stapled, brightest and
bulkiest making the first line and the
shorter wools from the younger lambs
making the second line. The trimmings
minus the stains of each line can be
branded LBS PCS, and if numbers war-
rant it the bellies might be kept separate,
otherwise the belly wools go in with the
pieces. Where vegetable matter is preva-
lent keep the free wools in lines of their
own.
In crossbred lambs the length of staple
invariably coincides with quality, the
longest staple fleeces being the strongest
quality and the shortest, those bordering
on comebacks, the finest. In mixed flocks
the classer will have a hard job and can
only make lines according to length of
staple, but where the distinctive types
are shorn separately classing will not
present much difficulty. It is easier to
determine the difference in quality in
crossbred lambs than in merinos, but
the classer must keep busy going through
the body wools whether they be placed
in baskets or in bins. In all cases the
classer must be on the qui vive to see
that the sorters are not doing any
“dumping.”
Prevention of Bushfires.
“L.C.”: Many property owners follow
the method- of winter burning, not only
on the coast but in the western districts
of Queensland, except the extreme west,
where there is rarely sufficient to burn.
In 1908 a bushfire got away near the
Ballon in December and roared north
through hundreds of square miles of
country heavily covered with an accumu-
lation of grass, etc., caused by under-
stocking after the 1902 drought and a
succession of good seasons. The only
property which did not lose stock or
have to send them away on agistment
was Bonus Downs, which at that time
practised winter burning. That station’s
burnt country was too green in summer
to burn.
It is the practice at Bonus Downs to
drop matches in thick patches of grass
during July and August, especially after
rain while the ground is still damp. A
fire then will only run over the tops of
the grass, not injuring the roots, which
will shoot as soon as the weather is warm
enough even without rain. This young
growth should not be stocked until it
has got some body in it, otherwise, if
the spring is dry, another man-made
drought will result.
There need be no fear that a fire in
July-August will get beyond control. The
trouble is to make it burn, as the frosts
at night put it out and in the daytime it
is too cold for a fire to burn fiercely. By
watching the wind the area to be burnt
can be controlled.
It is always advisable to burn the whole
of a paddock, as stock will concentrate
on the burnt area, leaving the unburnt
portion strictly alone until they have
eaten it out, when it will take years to
recover.
Feedino- fm- Milk
“MvrrW” • t i * f
Myrrhee : The stimulus to secrete
an abundance of milk results in a keen
appetite m the good cow ; she will eat
more than the low producer. If she is
not fed liberally her yield will decline m
n m quantity of nutrients
consumed. On the other hand the low
producer cannot increase her milk pro-
duction beyond her inherited capacity
and excess nutrients are stored in the
if* * at ‘,. * W °’ Ba on cow nee , ts
balf , r ratlon for maintenance, the
sow5 ow , one - thi y d -
Feed six food units to each cow for
aatw!^ ai mf n tK nCe ' T f IS can ‘ usually be
Th P n f fi.H by tbe C th anf aS l Ur J‘
f o IK S 1X ‘ um f uu xt urc 31b. chaff,
a *V . 31b ; crushed wheat, hn-
seed meal to the lower producer and 12
units of the same or similar ration to the
° er ’
Prairie Grass.
“Dof if„». wru / u
have ®
nliHe . ; - S ;
thZu’hJ Z! 8 k • (B r om “ s vmoloides)
Where “nrii!-L” C ° ICC airy
with other > W ‘c m °?f n P ac^oc k s
henee it if 1 1 usua Ay eate “. out ’
cron f ra7 in cL US fr? tf S a f n !??
allow rector.! B S Con fl- o fl e fl to
2lr.o r a°b 0 o n f S seed T ?o
germinate well enough on stubble or fal-
lowed ground, but does better on newly-
broken ground.
On rich, deep alluvial soils there is
little need for fertiliser, but on poorer
ground as little as icwt. of super, to the
acre will give results. Prairie grass will
run riot on heavy and volcanic soils.
In pasture mixtures with Wimmera
or perennial rye, Phalaris tuberosa, white
or red clover and cocksfoot, prairie grass
holds its place. Sub. clover is a useful
extra in places where autumn and winter
rains ensure its becoming established.
A standard mixture for mild, mid-
coastal areas is perennial rye, 81b.;
Phalaris tuberosa, 21b.; Wimmera rye,
lib.; prairie grass, 21b.; sub. clover, lib.;
red or white clover, 21b. These pasture
mixtures need a good deal of variation
as the altitude and degrees of frost
change, but in good winter-growth areas
the mixture is usually from 161 b. to 201 b.
of grass-clover seed to the acre.
Trees
“Plane Creek”: Before you knock
down a tree figure out the probable con-
sequences. Will clearing off the timber
make bet ter grass or is the land so poor
or stony that the grass won’t be im-
proved? Remember, trees will thrive
where grasses won’t. Poor timbers often
me an poor pastures. Clearing off often
le ads to more weed growth than grass
growth. Are the trees to be cleared on
a s i o p e where their removal might be
followed by gully erosion? Do they con-
stitute a natural windbreak? Trees are
better than grass when they check hot
summ er winds. Passing short distances
across open stretches from one belt of
trees to another the winds stay com-
paratively cool, and lower the tempera-
ture of areas whence stock pick up their
bv j ng In winter the reverse is the case.
Trees keep the temperature from dropping
excessively.
Another point in favor of trees is the
water they save. Though cloudy thinkers
won’t have trees around, creeks and
waterholes because they believe the trees
get away with a lot of water, sensible
fame* know that the amount of water
absorbed by the roots of a few trees is
small indeed compare d with the quantity
that evaporates from water-channels that
are incessantly exposed to sun and wind,
In addition, trees, provided they are not
close enough to the water to foul it with
their own dead leaves, protect it from
and keep P it dean,
Bracken,
“Fluffy”: Bracken has been eliminated in
North Wales on light sandy soil. Late in
autumn the bracken was cut, left spread
on the ground and a dressing applied of
calcium cyanamide (101 b. a rod) and
manganous sulphide (4oz. a rod). By
early spring the plot appeared bare, the
bracken having disintegrated and become
embodied in the turfy soil, forming a
spongy moisture-retaining surface,
A mixture of grass seed, including red
and white clover, was sown, together with
soil (lib. a rod) from a pea plantation,
A fine crop of meadow grass, including
legumes, was in evidence by the end of
June and well established in the follow-
ing summer, free from bracken. The
fact that bracken, both in growth and
decay, seems to have an eliminating effect
on other weeds suggests its use as an in-


PRACTICAL PLAITING.
Published for the first time in Australia, a book
on plaiting, illustrated throughout with diagrams
and with detailed instructions' for all Turks Knots,
fiat, round and uncut plaiting. Also included in the
book are methods of greenhide work, horsehair handi-
crafts, and all aspects of bush craftsmanship, pre-
pared by a practical bushman for bushmen.
This book has been purchased by the Red Cross
as an occupational therapy guide.
Cost £/.
Register all mail to 125 Strangways Terrace, North
Adelaide, South Australia.
£l7/10/-
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing*
Plans, Music, etc.
trely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
~ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE :
n
' tL
C
*\
f 'j)
3 "Jill *
at;
AW
Ufca
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies —are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD.,
30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81032.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS
8N.5.44
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Sterilised
C
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ot
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
q
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
q
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
How can 1 have
a luxury interior
at low cost?
KK!
Youthful, modern rooms with beautiful walls,
ceilings and floors are easily and economically
acquired with Masonite Presdwood. Small
rooms appear larger; dull rooms brighter.
Masonite Presdwood is easy to apply. It’s
lighter, stronger than wood, takes any finish
you desire, bends around corners without
cracking or chipping, and lasts a lifetime.
i J
e
/
♦PRESDWOOD
♦TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
QUARTRBOARD
Manufactured by: MASONITE CORPORATION ( AUST .) LTD..
SALES DIVISION, 369 Pitt Street, Sydney,
and 529 Collins Street, Melbourne.
• Limited supplies now obtainable from all leading builders*
suppliers , timber merchants and hardware stores.
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
termediate stage in the removal of such
resistant types as bindweed, etc.
Grassing the Slopes.
“E. 2”: Good, permanent pastures
can be maintained on hillsides, sloping
terraces and undulating country if the
correct principles are observed in estab-
lishment and after-care. Where culti-
vation may be practised, contour plough-
ing gives the best results ; the furrows,
every 10 or 12 feet, should be of gentle
fall and sufficient depth. Steep or stony
rises will need to be sown by hand,
and effective planting of trees in strips
will combat erosion and help to conserve
soil moisture.
The backbone of the pasture should be
a mixture of tufty, binding grasses,
selected to suit local conditions. Clovers,
particularly sub., may be added later for
higher-quality feed. Grazing should be
carefully controlled and stock kept off
completely at times to allow reseeding.
Light topdressings with artificial ferti-
lisers at intervals are beneficial.
For taking levels across slopes, a
wooden triangle with plumb-line may be
used. All sides should be equal—five or
six feet is a handy size—and the plumb
line, which hangs from the apex, indi-
cates that the bottom bar is level when
it hangs in line with a mark at the
centre. Drive in pegs as markers at
fairly close intervals.
The Carob.
“8.A.”: The carob of the Sahara
fringe, the honey mesquit'e of Mexico and
Arizona and the algarroba of Argentina
and Bolivian Chaco are all of the same
family. The foliage and long saccharine
seed-pods of these leguminous ever-
greens provide a highly-nutritive fodder
for all kinds of livestock.
Notwithstanding the apparent barren-
ness and aridity of parts of the Bolivian
Chaco, several of the carobs attain con-
siderable size, the chief being Prosopis
alba which cuts about 30ft. of logs with
a diameter of 2ft. 6in. to 3ft. The timber
is tough and durable and is in much
demand by coach-builders and wheel-
wrights. In some cases it is beautifully
figured and is sought for the manufac-
ture of staircase railing, panelling and
better-class furniture. The “white”
Chaqueno brews a very agreeable drink
called aloja, from the immature beans.
The Indians manage to work up some
exceedingly vociferous jags on jt. They
also consume great quantities of sweet
johnny-cakes made from the pounded
beans.
The algarroba develops an extensive
root system, and the fibrous roots hold
the sandy soil and protect it from ero-
sion ; fallen leaves and seed husks accu-
mulate and form a dressing of humus
over the protected area ; windborne grass
seed is deposited over all, the seed ger-
minates ,andi the whole area is soon
covered with succulent herbage. “Algar-
roba for the arid areas,” mightn’t be a
bad slogan.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: It’s essential to test the
strength of the mixing before drenching
lambs. Knew a manager who drenched
2000 lambs with a home-made mixture
and lost most of them. It was later
proved that the strength of the drench
was enough to kill a horse. Try
the mixture on a few lambs first and
allow plenty of time to elapse before
drenching the mob. With bought mix-
tures always follow the directions given
as to dosage.
“Bill C.”: Don’t under-estimate the
strength of nitrate of soda and similar
artificial manures, Topdressings should
be stirred well in to prevent large deposits
coming in contact with the feeding roots.
I’ve seen splendid cucumber crops ruined
in a few days by over-use of sulphate of
ammonia. It would pay amateur gar-
deners to use nitrogenous fertilisers as
liquid manure. One ounce to the gallon
of water is harmless on previously watered
soil, and is stimulating.
“Ninety-nine”: To be effective drugs
for the treatment of worms must be
given after a starvation of 36 hours, with
the exception of phenothiazine. Some
drugs require a purgative, others are
effective against one type of worm and
not against others. Most effective is
l|oz. of phenothiazine in a bran mash,
spreading the treatment over three days.
That is, ioz. on three consecutive days. A
bran mash should also be given for two
days before and after treatment. The
horse should be spelled for a few days,
after which treatment should be repeated
in a month’s time.
“Plane Creek”: Elephant grass does
well in N.Q. I planted a few cuttings
in black soil on the C.Q. coast 20 years
ago and had an acre patch of self-propa-
gated elephant grass in a few years. If
allowed to seed the grass spreads rapidly.
My patch is still going strong, and I’ve
reaped a lot of feed from it, sometimes
cutting and chaffing it, other times grazing
nags on it. During 1943, a dry year, it
produced incessantly. It deteriorates if
allowed to run riot without frequent cut-
ting or grazing, and only a fire through
it will clean up dead stuff and promote
vigorous re-growth. It is an upright
growing grass, with thick stems, and is
Bft. to 10ft. high at seeding. It blocks
creeks if planted too dose to the water.
“Myrrhee”: Put the nests inside the
fowl pens on the partition walls and
about 2ft. from the ground so as not to
take up floor space. Keep them dark and
secluded and see that the cover has suffi-
cient slope to prevent roosting on it. With
individual nests allow one nest for every
six or seven birds. In community nests
allow 4ft. 6in. by 2ft. for every 50 birds.
Make nests lOin. to 12in. deep to hold
the nesting litter.
“Sarina”: A patch of sunflowers
should be grown on every poultry farm.
Sunflower seeds are great tucker for
show poultry, giving their feathers a
pleasing gloss that catches the judge’s
eye. Start introducing seeds into the
birds’ feed a good while before show
time, and get ’em used to them. They
may not want to eat the seeds at first;
if not, cut down on their other rations,
and prepare ’em for a substitute. Best
sunflower seed is grown on potash-rich
land. In some districts deficiency of
potash is responsible for hollow seed.
Such trouble is rarely experienced where
the soil contains an abundance of fine
ash from the recent burning of fallen
timber. Sunflower plants also make ex-
cellent silage and green manure.
“Bennie”: When using Bordeaux mix-
ture remember that after preparation the
mixture should be used as soon as pos-
sible. If it is left standing it will de-
teriorate, Don’t apply Bordeaux during
showery weather, on exceptionally hot
days or when plants are fragile from
drought conditions.


The violin has a magic of its own when
played by the master exponents of the concert
platform. When peace comes, records will once
more bring to the people at large the opportunity
to hear the exquisite performances of these artists
as often as fancy dictates.
SOME OF THE FAMOUS
VIOLINISTS WHOSE ART IS PRESERVED ON RECORDS.-
Heifetz
Menuhin
Kreisler
Szigeti
Huberman
Milstein
Elman
Zimbalist
Renardy
Bustabo
COLUMBIA • “HIS MASTER'S VOICE" . PARLOPHONE
■w
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. In England) Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
The Parlophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. In England) • HOMEBUSH, N.S.W. A2/45
IT WON'T BE LONG
—-before you can fill your car with petrol
and hop off for a care-free day at the beach
with the family. Meantime, your car is not
getting enough running to keep the battery
charged. Call on your Masse dealer once a
fortnight and get him to test it. An occa-
sional re-charge may mean many extra
months of service.
S 3 I Oil 18V
assß%
w
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
■nr
SMOKE-OHT!
“Strikers’ Special Tobacco.” — “Sun” heading.
Appropriately enough it keeps going
out.
•J* *l* HE*
“Golden Weddings. Beck —Speck.”
— “S.M.H.”
Heck!
*l* >!* -h
“Top of electric light reading lamp, pat-
tern diamond squares.”
— “S.M.H.” Wanted to Purchase ad.
Failing this, circular parallelograms
will do.
t
“One racketeer, who uses a notorious under-
world blonde as a decoy, sold us a bottle of
vile stuff masquerading as a popular brand
of ‘Scotch.’ ” — Article on black-marketing.
This bootlegger works with a saffron-
haired minx,
And declared he has “Scotch” straight
from bond.
He might add with more truth to his
clients, one thinks,
That his word is as good as his blonde.
Brian Bureau.
•J* 4* ❖
Because you’re not strikingly beautiful you
start with a handicap.”— Woman’s paper.
Apart from any extra weight you may
be carrying.
•I* •!« -I- -I-
“Goat to eat down blackberries, also one
year old asparagus.”
—Wanted advt. in suburban paper.
A good-sized billy could carry quite a
lot.
“To let, half furnished house, one child, ex-
change for furnished flat or cottage.”
—Suburban paper.
But you’ll be left with the baby.
Mighty Like a Rose.
“Two deodorised skunks will be included
in a shipment of animals to be sent from
Canada to Australia.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
My Cousin Philibert once had a de-
odorising problem of a more formidable
kind.
He kept a small eating house in Surry
Hills, and one day he discovered that
from a modest beginning as a soupfon
of something nasty wafted on the breeze
there had developed in a couple of days
a virile, greasy Smell which occupied
the whole of Phil’s premises.
After attempting to propitiate it with
libations of attar of roses, burning in-
“Who dropped that chewing-gum on the runway ?”
cense and finally chopped-up garlic scat-
tered on the floor, Phil was obliged to
give it best. On the fourth day it became
strong enough to go out in the street by
itself, and, after leering experimentally
at several passers-by, began to attack
innocent bystanders in a savage manner.
As all of Phil’s clients, with the excep-
tion of one very deaf old man, had by
now deserted him, he decided it was
time to trace it.
He finally secured the services of a
bloodhound with a bad cold, healthy
specimens being so affected by the con-
centration of scent that they became, as
it were, permanently blunted. The
catarrhal hound made straight for a pic-
ture entitled “Young Love” on the wall,
and snatched from behind it the mortal
remains of a crayfish, parked there by
some dissatisfied diner.
Cousin Phil still goes pale when criti-
cal friends tell him that in their opinion
that picture stinks.
Plum.
Concession.
“When she discovered that her husband was
carrying on with a girl called Grace she gave
him three days to end the affair.”
—Divorce item.
Such magnanimity is rare:
The missus in the case
Was definitely very fair
To give three days of Grace.
Nat.
4* 4*
Sometimes the bonds of wedlock are
just a collection of knotty problems.
•F _ 4*
Monkey Tricks.
“Four monkeys, specially trained to handle
vacuum cleaners in the dark, have been placed
on the payroll of Jackson County (Kansas).”
To avail oneself of skilled simian assist-
ance is, after all, no new thing.
One day as I was sitting under the table
deeply absorbed in the timetable of the
London tube system I received a note
asking me to call for something at the
post office. When I got there I was
slightly surprised to behold a gorilla in
a cage. It had been sent to me from
Africa by the man whose wife I had run
away with. Gratitude, I thought, some-
times takes queer forms of expression.
I named him Horace, He was rather
large, as gorillas go, and he wore an
expression of dumbfounded astonishment
such as flits across the face of a man
who has been thanked by the lady to
whom he has yielded his seat in a tram.
The flatette was rather small, and if
Horace took two strides in any direction
in the backyard he was halfway up the
fence. I couldn’t very well let him stop
home all day. Besides, the peke used to
frighten the devil out of him when it
yapped. So I decided to make Horace
my assistant. At that stage of my career
I was selling and demonstrating a carpet
soap.
I’ll say this much for Horace —he was
very quick at picking things up. Once,
when I had occasion to reprimand him
sharply because he ate four cakes of the
soap, he picked me jap, and the way he
put me down again loosened my eye-teeth.
Nevertheless, it wasn’t long before I
had schooled him in demonstration work
sufficiently well to take him with me on
my rounds. Some of the “prospects”
refused to admit him, but for the most
part they didn’t draw the hair line or
exhibit a vulgar and lamentable class-
consciousness. Perhaps my tuition in get-
ting him politely to raise the bowler hat
he wore and to give a courteous bow
before jamming his great foot in the
doorway so they couldn’t close it on us
when I pedalled my introductory guff did
much to get us invited in.
Horace’s job was to get some fat from
the kitchen, mix it with the soot we car-
ried around, and rub the mixture into
the best carpet. He would then mix
our special soap with water, and, with the
lather, rub the soiled part of the carpet
vigorously with a sponge. It was my job
to explain to the lady of the house that
the light black blob still visible on the
carpet would disappear before the new
moon came in.
We got on quite well with most of the
customers, and some of them even gave
us afternoon tea. That I didn’t have to
kick Horace’s shins under the table more
than five times a week to stop him from
drinking out of the teapot speaks volumes
for the polished manners he had learnt
from me.
On one occasion we called at an Italian
fruiterer’s. Soon I was in the domicile
at the rear of the shop. It wasn’t until
I had been speaking for about forty
minutes on the rare qualities of the soap
that I woke up that Madame Tesoriero
couldn’t understand a word of English.
It was then that I heard a row in the
shop, and at the same time noted that
Horace was a.w.l.
I rushed in. There Horace had the
proprietor bailed up in the corner and
was forcibly feeding him his own bananas.
At least, I noted with no little pride,
Horace had the decency to skin them
first. I found out later he had eaten
two cases of them himself. Could he be
blamed if, rather fed up, he thought to
give the man in the shop some pleasure?
It cost me £2 15s. for bananas and 10s. 6d.
for doctor’s fee for the compulsory
banana-eater. Not so hot, seeing that I
made only one and thrippence on the
sale of the soap.
The last place I went to with Horace
he noticed a comet on the table. Horace
had become very fond of blowing
bubbles, and he instantly recognised a
super bubble-blower. As the bubbles
wouldn’t come out quickly enough, due
to the convolutions of the pipe, he used
his strength to straighten it out before
proceeding. When I went to slap his
wrist and take it away from him he be-
came peevish, forced me to eat the soot-
and-fat mixture and drink to the last
drop the half-gallon of soapy water.
Horace is now in the zoo.
80.
Modesty.
I worship lovely girls, good wine, and
wealth
That shields the soul of man from
gnawing fear.
And ah! How priceless is the gift of
health,
Which makes the other treasures
doubly dear.
As well as these, I’d like to have my
name
Among the poets, to be held divine;
So all I ask of life is praise and fame.
The love of women, riches, health and
wine.
T. W. NATHAN.
Coup de Grace.
“ ‘To the soldier every girl is a military
objective,’ says a writer.”
He takes the field whenever there
Are comely maidens to engage.
His motto is to do and dare
And war on tender hearts to wage.
His target is all womankind
Until, at last, he captures one
Specific miss to wed ... to find
That war for him has just begun !
P.O.M.C.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL anyone having information of MARY DAWSON,
formerly of Melbourne, who is believed to have
become MRS. STEAD, please communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, LIMITED, 472
Bourke Street, Melbourne.
TO DAVID OGILVIE STEWART formerly of
Jessie Street Westgarth in the State of Victoria
Engineer but now of parts unknowm. —TAKE NOTICE
that your wife GLADYS FRANCES ROSE STEWART
has instituted proceedings for a divorce on the
ground of desertion UNLESS you enter an appear-
ance in the Office of the Prothonotary oi the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or be-
fore the Thirtieth day of April 1945 the case may
proceed in your absence If you intend to defend the
suit you must also file an answer in the said office on
or before the Tenth day of May 1945 AND
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy petit-
tion and copy citation in the suit may be ; inspected
at the office of the Petitioner’s Solicitor, JOAN
ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
MISSING RELATIVES—GRACE LOVETT.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand GRACE LOVETT, who was born in
Tasmania about 1880 and who is a beneficiary in the
Estate of her deceased half brother, William Lovett,
late of Stratford, New Zealand, or any person
claiming through or under her is required to send
in notice of such claim to the District Public
Trustee, Stratford, New Zealand, on or before the
30th day of June, 1945, otherwise the Estate may
be distributed and their claims disregarded. Grace
Lovett is about 64 years of age and if married her
married surname is not known. She is the daughter
of Charles Lovett and Martha Lovett (nee Hill) and
lived in her childhood at Penguin and Latrobe in
Tasmania. She is believed to have left Tasmania for
New Zealand about 25 years ago, but no information
as to her whereabouts in New Zealand has been
obtained.—YOUNG & CALLAGHAN, Solicitors for
the Estate, Stratford, New Zealand.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
q
q
q
mtmm
mmmtm
mm
I 1
m
mm
CRAVENA
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quallt
I v. Ohtalxiahle in
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
5789
. . y
mm
••y
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To exchange C. T. White’s Principles of
Botany for book by Idriess or Frank Clime —
3611- , , „
To buy Discord and Harmony, by Osmo
Hamilton. —3612.
To buy Law for Journalists (Pilley) and The
Writing Way (Steeksma). —3613.
Information Sought.
Number of locations of toll bridges operat-
ing in N. S. Wales?
Bridges: Sydney Harbor Bridge; Ryde
Bridge, spanning the Parramatta River between
Ryde and Concord; George’s River Bridge,
between Tom Ugly’s Point and Sylvama.
Ferries; Peat’s Ferry, over Hawkesbury River;
Newcastle-Stockton Ferry; West Kempsey
Ferry, in Kempsey Municipality; Iluka Ferry,
in Harwood Shire; Clybucca Ferry, in Macleay
Shire; Tea Gardens-Hawks Nest Ferry and
Forster-Tuncurry Ferry in St'roud Shire. In
addition tolls are charged on a few ferries
for operation late at night.
Are wallabies protected tn N.S.W., and can
skins be brought into N.S.W. from the N.T.?
Wallabies are protected in N.S.W. under the
Birds and Animals Act and may be taken or
killed only during an open season or under a
permit authorising destruction of a certain
number on a particular property. Before
bringing into N.S.W. skins of wallabies taken
in the Northern Territory application should be
made to the Chief Secretary’s Department for
an import certificate.
How is the staff of the International Labor
Office recruited, and to whom should applica-
tion for appointment be addressed ?
Appointments are usually made on the re-
sults of competitive examination. Applications
should be addressed to the Administrative Sec-
tion, International Labor Office, Montreal,
Canada.
A method of treating dates?
Clean dates, prick each with a skewer,
arrange on flat trays and place in warm oven
for 12 hours, keeping temperature even to avoid
scorching, then turn each date and return to
oven till dry (seven to eight hours longer).
Pack into boxes with paper between layers.
Dates may be dried in hot sunshine, covered
with net to keep insects off.
Brief Answers.
H.S.: 1923 is not the first edition, and it is
of no particular value... .Westerner: Send
name and address... .P.D.: Wholesalers such
as Gordon and Gbtch or Edwards Dunlop,
Ltd., both with offices in Brisbane, might be
able to help you F.C.S.B.: Dymock’s Book
Arcade, Sydney, will be able to help you....
C.B.M.: (1) Yes; as a member of the editorial
staff and conductor of Red Page part of the
time. (2) Angus and Robertson, Sydney. (3)
Yes; in the production of a book N.E.:
Send your request to the Colonial Office,
London... .Rosedale: (1) Copy of will may
be obtained from Registrar of Probates,
Supreme Court, King-street, Sydney. (2) Cost
depends on length-of will P.B.: Send to
Tyrrell’s, 281 George-street, Sydney for an offer.
R.L.C.; Market value from £3 3s. to
£10 10s R.B.D.; Information unavailable.
E.C.: (1) The pay of Commodore, R.A.N-,
exceeds that of a Group Captain, R.A.A.F. (2)
It is not possible to purchase a naval commis-
sion N.T.A.; Obtain Cross and Sevan’s
treatise, the standard British work on paper-
making. .. .D.C.: Send a photograph to
Tyrrell’s Bookstore, 381 George-street, Sydney,
and he will give you the approximate value of
the painting.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted . and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
.
H.P.: Even if it were true that a gum-tree
could be “ fully conscious of a soul which m
life’s worth believes” you haven’t put it very
melodiously... .J.W.: “Drop this drivel in the
w.p.b. and oblige.” Dropped W.S.: Flat,
A.W.B.: “To Be” is not to be G.E.F.:
“Just babbling soft or gurgling gay”....
J.M.M.; “Metres used are trochaic trimeter,
iambic trimeter, trochaic tetrameter (catalectic
foot).” The best thing you could use on it is
an axe D.D. : “Boom! You Great Guns !:
is about to recoil 8.E.P.; I have been asked
to send the enclosed doggerel to you.” Try
the home for lost doggerel J.R.8.: Not far
off W.F.: “I feel that both show a happy
compactness.” You’ve squeezed ’em flat
K.E.G.: Just a bubble L.F.; If you must
write about “Aurora’s bugle” at sunrise, at
least don’t have it clashing with “morning
muezzins” 0.W.: Avoid inversions.


■
I
1
1
m
Wi
■
ii
%
■
m
Agents; M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY.
W.S. 170.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Appointment Books for All Professions.
Covers J-hour periods every day for Over One
Year’s Appointments. Size Min. x 12in.
Strongly Bound. Ledger Paper.
Price 12/6 post and tax free.
Don’t delay, post today and Save Office Worry.
WILLIAMS & WILLIAMS (Dept. B),
147 Liverpool Road, Burwood, N.S.W.
\
NO**
A*
v
' FIXED PRICES
Supreme .. l|/5
Diploma .. 18/11
Autoflow .. 26/3
14ct. »olid gold,
hand-made _ mb,
Iridium pointed
JEEM
By DOROTHY SANDERS.
IT began a couple of months ago when
we’d gone out to the cottage for the
summer.
Blackman’s Bay is still the limits of
holiday civilisation. When Dad built
the cottage there he said the beaches
were the finest in the world and some
day soon the world would discover them.
Penn’s Jetty, Benson Beach, North Beach
and most northerly of all the settled
beaches, Blackman’s Bay; wide stretches of
fine yellow sand, protected from the rough
surge of the Indian Ocean by the straggling
reefs that are a fisherman’s paradise.
About the second or third day I set
out on a long walk along the water’s
edge. I’d had a row with Mum, who
was always nagging about my day-
dreaming, and in the loneliness of the
sunlit beach I could always imagine by-
gone kingdoms, perhaps of aboriginals,
or even of sea kings and mermaids who
knew and loved these long beaches with
their periods of jumbled rock and their
distant white horses.
I had walked for a long time and gone
much further north than I’d ever been
before when I came to the bay. It was
a little inward curve of sand between
two rocky promontories with tall, thick
bush coming right to the edge of the
beach. Out to sea the reef curved in,
too, so that the water was as calm as a
land-locked lake.
It was a mysterious translucent green
and as I waded through it and swam in it
my eyes were fascinated by the beauties
of the sandy bottom, the secret fastnesses
of miniature merman kingdoms, the
miracle of mysterious beauty. I resolved
then that I-would come secretly to the
bay every day; only in future I would
bring something to eat and some fresh
water in a bottle.
On the third day Jeem came.
I had had my swim and was lying half-
dozing in the sun when I heard a whistle.
Jeem was standing just outside the belt
of trees, idly throwing pieces of cuttle-
shell at the water’s edge. He was about
fourteen or fifteen and even at that dis-
tance I could see his olive-burnt skin and
realise that his eyes were dark, perhaps
black.
“Hallo there,” I called, pulling myself
up to a sitting position.
Jeem walked over to me. Sure enough,
he had black eyes, glowing in a thin,
sallow face. His hair was long and looked
as if he’d been cutting it himself. His
trousers were too big for him and his
faded blue dungaree shirt was torn. His
face looked fine and friendly—the best
boy’s face I’d ever seen—and I liked
him at once.
“Where d’you come from?” he asked.
“Back there,” I nodded my head in
the direction of Blackman’s Bay. “D’you
mind my being here?” I asked.
“No,” he said, squatting down in the
sand beside me. “It’s lonely here some-
times.” He spoke with a queer accent. It
sounded to me as if it might be Portu-
guese or Spanish or some such. Not that
I’d ever met anyone from those two
countries, but for some strange reason
I immediately associated them with
Jeem.
That is, until I looked at his feet,
They were broad and flat and the tex-
ture of the skin was dark beyond sun-
burning. They were the kind of feet we
used to call “niggers’ ” feet at school,
and I immediately thought that Jeem
might have aboriginal blood in him.
“Where do you live?” I asked,
“In there,” he said, looking in the
direction of the bush,
“Are your people there?” I asked,
“Have you got a holiday cottage? What
do you do for water?”
“Oh, there’s water if you know where
to look for it,” he said. He looked at
me with his dark, friendly eyes. “My
family have been using a little stream
for over a hundred years.”
“A hundred years!” I said incredulously,
“Nobody lives for a hundred years.”
“Silly ass,” he said without anger. “My
father’s father in his time. That’s what
I mean.” He paused a moment. “They’re
all gone now. I’m the last of them.”
“Do you mean you live alone? But
what do you live on?”
“There’s fish and kangaroo, and I’ve
got a yam patch back there. Why we’ve
never lived on anything else for a hun-
dred years.”
This sounded a bit tall to me, but it
also sounded happy and exciting, and I
decided not to ask any more questions
just yet.
“Do you Want to go fishing on the
reef?” Jeem asked. (That was the way
he pronounced his name.)
“Do I what! Just lead the way.”
Jeem did. First of all he showed me
a miniature cave in the northerly end of
the rock-spit where he had fishing tackle
hidden. There were some old lines made
of twine and hooks—“picked up by ray
father long ago,” said Jeem, But more
interesting than these were some spears
with stone heads which Jeem said his
father had made.
Then he began to follow the direction
of the rock promontory out to sea, step-
ping high in the shallow water and some-
times leaping from rock to rock. It
must have taken us nearly half an hour
by that path of shallow waters and jut-
ting rocks, but at last we were seated
high on the weed-strewn jags of the reef,
Jeem showed me his secret,
“Nobody knows where we get our
water from,” he said mysteriously. “Lots
of people have come here hunting for
our waterhole, but no one has ever found
it,” and he led me along the reef to
where a particularly large cluster of
rocks rose up out of the water in circu-
lar fashion. In the centre of this pool so
formed by the rocks the water was fresh.
“An underground spring,” Jeem said.
“And it comes out here.”
4 ‘\WHERE do you go all day?” my
* “ mother asked when I was setting
off next day to meet Jeem again. “It
isn’t natural for a boy to go off by him-
self*all the time.
“I’m not ‘by myself,’ ” I was goaded
into replying. “There’s another boy 1
go swimming with up at the beach.”
“What’s that?” said Dad. “Someone
camping on the beach? There aren’t any
cottages from here on.”
“That’s what you know,” I replied.
“This chap lives up there. Never lived
anywhere else in his life.”
“There isn’t any water up there,” said
Dad in a contrary tone.
“Oh, isn’t there?” I scoffed.
“What about the waterhole the half-
blooded tribe used to have and nobody’s
ever found?” asked Mum.
“That’s only legend,” said Dad. “You
know what fishermen’s tales are.”
I nursed my secret knowledge of Jeem’s
springs and let my family put what con-
struction on my mysterious companion
they liked, so long as they didn’t stop my
going to the bay. And they never did.
A BOUT ten days after Jeem and I first
** met we were lying sun baking in the
dunes when three American sailors
turned the corner of the southern pro-
montory and sauntered along the bay.
“Gripes,” said Jeem, “what’s these?”
“Americans,” I said. “Haven’t you
seen Americans before?”
As they came closer I suddenly realised
that I’d seen these three sailors before.
One day my brother and I’d gone down
to Benson Beach for a surfing carnival,
and there were a lot of Americans about.
These three had been sitting together
and a little apart from the crowd and
we had talked to them.
I remembered the one called Joe par-
ticularly, because he seemed to be the
leader of the three and he was so full
of fun. We asked them what boat they
came off, and Joe told us she was named
the Randy. They all laughed a lot about
this but I did not know why.
The Randy was an armed merchant-
man, they told us. Her job was “pirat-
ing” for Jap and German supply ships
in the Indian Ocean. And they told us
some of the jobs she had done, of some
of the fierce encounters they’d had. Sven
and Ilka, the other two sailors, roared
their heads off at nearly everything Joe
said; but I could have gone on listening
all night.
And now here were the same three
sailors, miles from Benson Beach, walk-
ing up the sandy stretch of our bay.
“Joe!” I cried excitedly as I jumped
up and ran down to meet them.
“Why, if it isn’t Ginger Meggs him-
self,” said Joe. “And what are you doing
here and who’s your buddy this time?”
I told him quickly about Jeem and the
bay and then in turn I asked him, “What
are you doing here?”
The three sailors exchanged glances
and then threw themselves down on the
sand.
“We might as well tell the kid,” said
Joe to the others. “He’s 0.K.”
Sven and Ilka both said 0.K., and Joe
told me how they’d got into a rumpus
with some Kiwis and missed the Randy.
She’d sailed without them and they were
left stranded in the port.
“Now,” said Joe. “If we’d reported
to U.S. Navy, as we are supposed to,
we’d have been put in barracks till the
Randy came to port again, and then
once aboard we’d be up for as much time
as if we’d been A.W.L. all the Jime. So
we might as well be free and make a
good time of it. D’ya see?”
Joe suddenly reached forward and
cuffed my head in a friendly way,
“It’s 0.K., kid,” he said. “Every sol-
dier and sailor is A.W.L. against his will
some time or other. Could I help it that
a Kiwi clouted me unconscious and that
Sven and Ilka stayed around to help me?
In any case, if we reported to head-
quarters they might just as easily ship
us away in any old tramp and we’d never
have seen the Randy again. You
wouldn’t have us lose the Randy, would
you?”
“Tell me and Jeem some more about
the Randy,” I cried eagerly.
“0.K., O.K. But what about some-
thing to eat? Me and the boys are
fair famished.”
Jeem and I looked at one another in dis-
may. There was nothing in the tucker bag.
“I’ll tell you what,” said Jeem. “I’ll
go out to the reef and spear some fish
and maybe bring in a Cray or two. You
fill that old kerosene-tin full of fresh
water and get a fire going.”
I was all for making the fire the way
Jeem had shown me with two firesticks,
but the Americans spoilt that by produc-
ing some matches and lighting the fire
before I’d even begun to get the sticks
into play.
It didn’t seem long (though Joe said it
was a hell of a time) before Jeem was
back and half a dozen crays were turn-
ing pink in the tin and some big sea
mullet smouldering in the ashes. The
sailors had a quick swim in the sea while
the fish were cooking and after we’d had
all eaten our fill we lay chatting and
half-dozing in the sand until the after-
noon wore well on.
It was decided that Joe and Sven and
Ilka should camp in the bush for the
time being, and we had an hour’s fine
time building them a branch humpy in
Australian style. Jeem didn’t offer to
take them home, so no one suggested it,
but they couldn’t have been better off
anyway. They all seemed snug and set
for the night when I left for my long
trek home, but I promised to be back
long before midday loaded, I hoped,
with some of Mum’s victuals, secretly re-
moved from the kitchen.
THAT was the first of many wonderful
days. We swam and fished and tried
shooting with a revolver that Ilka carried.
But Ilka had better luck with the knife,
which he could use as effectively as Jeem
could use the stone-headed spears. Sven
could whittle any shape out of a bit of
cuttle-shell or a small piece of wood.
But of the three Joe was the best, with
his yarns about the Randy.
When we grew tired of fishing and
swimming and lay at our ease on the
sand I listened to him enraptured, and
only when the sun sank level with the
ocean and everything, heaven and earth,
was blood-red with the setting sun would
I drag myself away from them and
dawdle the long way home.
After a while Dad and Mum began to
fret me a bit and nag about staying
home. “There’s something wrong with
the bdy,” they’d say. “A boy shouldn't
go off on his own like that; he’s getting
thin; his eyes are strained; he looks
wretched.”
I’d never been happier in my life, and
nothing they could say would make me
stay at home. The Randy had captured


WMmm
mm
; : .v .V
W//A'
,
m
m
ip
I#
o
o^O
•Jifj
MA^
AU'*'
'::::::.-’ v» r»%v*i
“r“/.;;::s?.S«;aKivK
iuurjunsr^j
i>u*iiimj>»»*ss|S
UK
«>M,.r^liiuiii««»tiiiumi\i
'• ■ -..•
BS»S=
.
■^^■»J.'L l i?lSi!!!H«iiiiKs-
-
i- - •
mi
wvvvl
§aM&T
-V*
,
fW/ZM/n.
f/Sm/ k,
'mm
WmA
m
m
s
iiiiiiil
:
-v;
IpUjiii!. •,
is-li! 1
<^§M
-SsSSS«'4al!i
W 1
5
•y?/
-
fISE PHILIP S
\N
W.'
m
ms
5*3
1
swwmM
rr~
&SS
WA
:
m I
mi
S 98
■HUfbui*
mnu\U\V\\\
’sSS;s!Uniiiit
FIT A
PHILIPS
and SEE the difference
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney - Melbourne -' Adelaide ~ Perth - Brisbane
DO YOU KNOW?
Greek Goddess Athene took
teeth from the dragon slain by
Kadmos, scattered them like grain
on the ground and from the teeth
armed men sprang up.
Indian proverb: "Be heed-
ful of thy teeth and thou
wilt show it in thy mouth."
Kolynos floats away cling-
ing food particles the
starting point of decay.
&
ik
&
ica-r r s^j
is"
Peruvian Charm a
necklace consisting of
puma teeth, human teeth,
bones of monkeys, birds’
beaks, etc. Add charm to
your smile by twice daily
brushing with refreshing
Kolynos Dental Cream.
Half an inch on a dry
brush is all you need to
make every tooth in your
head antiseptically clean.
Old Yorkshire custom.
When a child’s tooth comes
out, it must be dropped in
the fire and a rhyme recited,
to prevent misfortune.
Because Kolynos is con-
centrated half an inch on
a dry brush is plenty.
Have you a dental plate? One brushing with
Kolynos Dental Plate Cleanser will leave it as
bright as the day your dentist gave it to you.
4
Seventeenth Century dentists did all their work in
the town square, so that the populace could enjoy the
writhings of their patients. Today your dentist is the
best friend of your teeth —so visit him at least every six
months for a check-up, and remember to brush your
teeth twice daily with Kolynos —a dentist’s prescription
for the care of your teeth. Switch to Kolynos today.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will 'quote you price for the original.
my imagination, and Jeem and I were
blood brothers.
The Randy! What magic that name
was in my ears. I had never been to sea,
never seen a ship at close quarters, but
from our holiday cottage I had watched
the coming and going through the Roads.
Joe had drawn us such a perfect picture
of the Randy that I felt I would know
her at once if ever I saw her.
And that is why, on the last day of
our holidays, as I set off up the beach
and saw a ship coming over the horizon
and turning into the Roads, 1 knew that
it was the Randy.
She had a gallant, proud look about
her, and my heart was filled with excite-
ment and impending sadness. The Randy
would carry the sailors away; I was
going back to town, Jeem would be alone
on the bay.
I was suddenly appalled. I saw the bay
empty and forlorn, sunbaked and be-
draggled with rotting seaweed ; or wild
and storms wept in winter with Jeem
standing on it alone. I looked out to
sea at the Randy, and she wasn’t lovely
any more. She was purposeful • and for-
bidding, and she would come to port and
take Joe and Sven and Ilka away for ever.
I rounded the southern promontory,
and for a moment I thought the bay was
empty, and then in the distance saw the
three sailors wading on to the shore by the
northern rock-path from the reefs. They
were carrying something between them.
Where was Jeem? I started to run
across the sands.
“Look out, here’s the kid,” said Sven.
Joe turned quickly.
“Take it easy, kid,” he said. “Take
it easy.” I pushed him aside and stared
down at Jeem. I knew at once he was
dead. The back of my head seemed as
if it would burst apart. Words wouldn’t
come. I could only stare at Joe.
“It was out at the reef,” Joe was say-
ing. “We never saw it. Just heard him
give a cry and he went over backwards.
We thought he would come up—you
know how he used to —but he didn’t.
Sven had to dive twice before he got him
He didn’t drown; he hit a rock.”
I turned away and ran across the sand
to the edge of the bush. They must have
found me there in a kind of daze; for
later, about midday, I remember Joe tell-
ing me that they had buried Jeem—-“In
the sea, where he’d like to be.”
“But you can’t do that,” I remember
saying,
“You see, kid,” I heard Joe answer,
“we’ve got to get aboard the Randy to-
night. We don’t want to lose her again.
It isn’t as if we could do any g00d....
as if we could bring Jeem back. If we
lose the Randy this time it might be for
keeps. She’s due for home waters this
trip. She won’t come this way again, not
in ten years.”
It was all clear. Joe and the boys had
to go now if they were to get their own
ship. If they told the police there’d be
delays—things they called post-mortems,
inquests. All trouble for Joe and Sven and
Ilka, and none of it would bring Jeem back.
“Come on, kid,” they said. “Let’s get
going.”
I don’t ever know how I got home or
just when or where I said good-bye to
the boys. All I can remember is my
splitting headache and a feeling of stumb-
ling against the sun and the glassy stare
of the sea. Somehow or other I got
back, and I can remember Mum saying:
“Goodness, what’s brought you home
before sundown?” Then, “What’s the
matter, boy?” she asked sharply.
“My head,” I mumbled, and somehow
pushed my way to the bedroom,
{ DON’T know how many days I was
* out to it, but long enough to have mut-
tered all about the bay; about Jeem and
the three American sailors.
As soon as I was better they began to
pester me with questions, especially the
doctor, and he was the hardest of them
all to evade. At first I would say nothing,
but soon I knew it was no good ; at least,
not with the doctor. He wanted to know
the color of Jeem’s eyes, his height, how
his face looked when he was dead. Time
and again he came back to the color of
his eyes. He would pop the question in
suddenly while saying something else. It
was no good. I couldn’t hold out any
longer, and one day, when he was hardest
at me, I told him the whole story.
He listened without once interrupting
me, and I noticed his eyes never left my
face. From time to time he would hold
my wrist as if taking my pulse. When
I finished he walked over to the window
and stood silently staring out for a minute
or two. At last he turned around,
“Boy,” he said, “I want you to forget
this whole holiday. Forget the bay, forget
you’ve been ill. Now, how are you going
to do it?”
I stared blankly.
“I’ll tell you what,” he said, coming
over to the bed and sitting on the end
of it. “How’d you like to go to sea?”
“Go to sea? Why, that’s all I ever
wanted to do. But Dad’ll never hear ot
it,” I added.
“Well,” said the doctor, “I’ll see if I
can influence him, and I think I can, but
only on one condition, mind you. You
forget about the bay. Start thinking
about going to sea.” And with that he
left me, but I knew he’d never have any
influence with father. They d never let
me to go to sea.
In any event, the doctor didn’t have his
own way. The rumor got round the little
seaside town as to why I’d been ill, and
a day or two after our delayed return to
the town a police constable came to see
my father. I was sprawled on the lounge
on the verandah and listened desperately.
Twice 1 heard the policeman say:
“But we found his camps.” Then
again, later, “We found where someone
had been spearing and cooking fish.”
And, later, “It’ll have to be looked into.
There may be something in it.”
TWO days later my father and I, with
the doctor, were in the city visiting
the Police Commissioner,
“You will agree, doctor,” the Commis-
sioner was saying, “there is some extra-
ordinary coincidence in the detail of the
story. Particulars about the three Ameri-
cans and the waterhole, for instance.”
“Quite, quite,” said the doctor. “I’m
just as anxious as you to have my diag-
nosis verified.”
“Well,” the Commissioner continued,
“a submarine is just in the port with some
interesting people on board: three men
whom we know were on Benson Beach
at the surfing carnival. I want to see if
this boy knows them.” He rang a bell
on his desk and a door immediately
opened and a policeman appeared.
“Ask the Americans to come in, will
you, constable?” he said.
A second or two later Joe and Sven
and Ilka came into the room with a
fourth man who was an officer.
I stared aj them unbelievingly. It
was Joe . . . and yet . . . there was
something different. I thought I knew
every line of his face but there \fras some
indefinite difference. And Sven; and
Ilka. They were all staring at me vacantly
as if they had never seen me before.
Then I realised that every eye in the
room was on me and no one had spoken
since the men came into the room. They
were waiting for me to say something.
I felt lost and hostile. I felt high up
on a mountain peak alone in a terribly
misty world, miles from anywhere, anyone.
“Joe,” I began, but nothing more would
come.
“That’s me, kid,” said Joe. “What’s
up, buddy?”
“Joe, don’t you know me?”
“Well, buddy, I’d like to know you,
kinda. But I don’t really”
Joe not know me? It couldn’t be. I
turned to Sven —the same puzzled look.
Ilka? Not one of them knew me. It
couldn’t be true. The top of my bead
began to hammer and all the faces were
vague. My mountain peak became higher
and more remote.
“Lootenant Macon informs me that
these men have been at sea in their sub-
marine for the last six weeks.” It was
the Commisioner’s voice in a strange little
squeak coming from miles away down one
of the valleys. “As far as any known
authority is aware there’s no such ship
as the Randy except in a yarn one of
these men told some kids on the beach at
Benson some weeks ago.”
“Quite,” the doctor’s voice came up
another valley. It seemed to rush up as
if through a tunnel. The valleys and my
mountain seemed to kaleidescope together
and the room began to take form around
me again. Only it wasn’t the Commis-
sioner’s room. I was lying on the floor
of the ante-room and a policewoman was
kneeling beside me dabbing my forehead
with something cold.
“How’s that?” she said. “Feeling
better?” I saw the Americans come out.
The door of the Commissioner’s room
was ajar.
It was the doctor’s voice I could hear.
“A very unusual case of a lonely boy,
over-given to romancing, becoming so en-
grossed in his imaginings that they be-
came his actual emotional life. Split
personality, we call it. Forced back into
everyday life by the conclusion of his
holiday, his mind cannot bear to take
farewell of the dream playmate, so he
romances a death —something which is
te his mind a real enough reason for
parting from Jeem. Of course he crowns
all by getting a serious touch of the sun.”
The three men were coming through
the door and the old policewoman helped
me to my feet. My father came forward
and took me by the arm,
“And your solution, doctor?” the
Commissioner asked.
“A life of action,” said the doctor
with emphasis.
“The lad’s going to sea,” my father said.
“As soon as he’s fit and old enough.”


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 187^2.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
r..
m
q
advt
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne.
STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 801 Kent Street, Sydney.
■■*••• ■
Almost as important as your
WILL
THERE is a wide realisation amongst people of means that the choice of the Executor
and Trustee who is to administer a Will is just as important as the Will itself. An
unsatisfactory Executor and Trustee may defeat the very purpose that the maker of
the Will had in mind. , . . .
If you follow the lead of many of the shrewdest of our successful citizens and
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, you will ensure that the terms of your
Will shall be faithfully carried out over the years, and that your beneficiaries shall
enjoy a courteous and sympathetic service. , _ . „
We should like to send you a copy of a book, ‘ Your Executor and Trustee.
You will find it helpful. Write for it today.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS.
*• a a f£wß, Plw? ‘w. deucilar goedol.' E ‘ '
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A - A^„ TAGE ’ Managen
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed tb^MUjUUV.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative ; 0. E. > Street, Wagga Vi agga.
Western District Representative: H. A. SHAW, 140 Lords Place, Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Union Bank of Australia, Ltd.
Dividends. To
Feb., Profit. 5 p.c. Reserves. Reserves.
1934.. 203,509 200,000 3,509 4,954,032
Aug.,
1934.. 106,999 100,000 6,999 4,961,031
1935.. 214,985 200,000 14,985 4,976,016
5} p.c.-
1936.. 240,848 220,000 20,848 4,996,864
7 p.c.
1937.. 254,383 235,333* 1
To special centenary fund, !■ 4,995,914
£20,000 .. .. j
1938.. 244,683 233,333 11,350 5,007,264
1939.. 225,087 225,000 87 5,007,351
1940.. 196,958 194,500 2,458 5,009,809
1941.. 188,129 191,333 5,006,605
6 p.c.
1942.. 174,068 169,000 5,068 5,011,673
1943.. 173,144 171,479 1,665 5,013,338
1944. . 177,274 174,125 3,149 5,016,487
* Excludes 2 p.c. centenary bonus from special fund.
Having decided to set up as dispenser
of palliatives for all kinds of financial
and economic ills, the Government has
brought down legislation for embellish-
ment of the Commonwealth Bank and
for hamstringing the trading banks. The
Commonwealth Bank is to be divided into
central banking, general banking, note
issue, rural credits, mortgage, industrial
finance and housing loan departments.
Also, the present board is to be replaced
by a Governor, who will be subject to
direction by the Treasurer.
In effect, it all amounts to party-poli-
tical control of central-bank credit and
the currency, as well as to control over
the volume and direction of private spend-
ing. Australia thus faces a money mono-
poly and a money dictatorship. This
despite the fact that most people
desire to please themselves ip the matter
of business enterprise, and in the way
and manner in which they spend or em-
ploy their money and time —they said so
at the referendum in August last.
In return for loss of this liberty, and
all the ancillary liberties that go with it,
the people are given political promises that
they will be led into an economic Eden,
where “full” employment and a “high
and rising” standard of living are to be
the fruits of a new economy, the key-
notes of which are Government control
and Government spending. Hence the
Government’s need for recourse to vast
expansions of credit, backed by the
State and used for grandiose pro-
jects. Such is the road to bureaucracy,
which ends in seizure by the Government
of the whole economic activity of the
nation.
This is what has largely happened
under war conditions. But a national
crisis justifying such means needs to be
sharply distinguished from the exigencies
of party politics and controversy. The
final object of party politics is political
power. Faced with the choice between
this and economic welfare, the very nature
of the party compels it to chose the
former. Therein lies the danger of direct
party-political control of national credit
and currency. Although the details of
history may not repeat themselves, the
pattern does. And experience has shown
that sooner or later such a change in the
economic wind results in inflation, and
all the evils that go with it, including a
steady widening of the field of control
and restriction.
Among other things, bureaucratic con-
trol increases that trader’s risk of loss, and
therefore, hampers individual enterprise,
which is the mainspring of progress. De-
stroy this enterprise and there will be
no mainspring at all. It will not be until
some time after the war, when the long-
range view of the new economics of
reconstruction takes preference over
purely military requirements, that full
effects of current legislative proposals to
“regulate banking and for other pur-
poses” is likely to be felt.
As for the trading banks, they
are to remain fettered by restric-
tions and controls imposed to meet the
emergency of war conditions. And re-
strictions imposed on the banks mean
restrictions imposed on their customers,
as recent experience has shown only too
plainly. The special war-time deposits
with the Commonwealth Bank —broadly,
the increase in deposits since war began —
are to remain frozen, or blocked, together
with such further amount as the Com-
monwealth Bank may direct. The limit
of further direction is to be the increase
in a bank’s assets after the new legislation
comes into force.
Thus will the Government be able
not only to postpone, or hand on
to its successor in office, the oner-
ous task of funding a large floating
debt, but will also be able to enlarge it.
And to make sure that free or unblocked
deposits are spent more or less in the
direction and volume desired the Com-
monwealth Bank may “determine the
policy in relation to advances to be fol-
lowed by the banks” and “may give
direction as to the classes and purposes
for which advances may or may not be
made, and each bank shall comply with
the directions so given.” So the Govern-
ment becomes master of the fate of
trade and industry by appointing its
agent final arbiter of the amount of credit
—the life-blood of commercial activity
and enterprise—that may be given or
withheld in whatever field pleases it.
The trading section of the Common-
wealth Bank is directed to liven its acti-
vities, and to take as much of the busi-
ness of the other banks as it can get. At
the same time, the trading banks are
forbidden, except with consent of the
Treasurer, to conduct any banking busi-
ness for a State or local governing author-
ity. They are forbidden also, without per-
mission of the Commonwealth Bank, to
buy Government and local Government
securities, or securities listed on the Stock
Exchange. The idea is to preserve a free
field for the Commonwealth Bank to
manipulate the open-market rate of in-
terest in accordance with Government
policy.
Charges to be made by the trad-
ing banks for advances, discounts, etc,
and rates paid by them for deposits are
to be fixed by the Commonwealth Bank,
which also will have power to compel
trading banks to hand over their “excess
receipts of foreign currency.” Foreign
exchange business generally awaits only
the making of regulations before being
swept into the net.
Profits of the banks are not to be
directly limited by statute —under National
Security Regulations the ceiling is the
average for the three years immediately
preceding the outbreak of war. But by
means of rigid price control (fixation of
interest rates, etc.) and rationing (regulat-
ing the volume of advances) their con-
trol would be an easy matter. It is all a
vicious return for loyal co-operation
which the trading banks have given the
Government and the country in connec-
tion with emergency war-time financial
measures.
The Union’s headquarters are in Lon-
don, and have been for the last 107 years,
but the business is done in Australia and
Maoriland. For the 12 months covered
by the latest accounts the co. netted
£177,274 (up £4130), equal to 4.4 p.c.
on capital, or a mere 1.9 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined). The div, was kept at 6 p.c., sub-
ject to English income tax (ss. and
ss. 4d. in the £ on interim and final re-
spectively). Thus the rate actually re-
ceived by shareholders was 4.35 p.c.,
equal to 5.4 p.c. in Australian currency
after allowing for exchange. And share
premiums make the div. worth little more
than half the rate received on most of
the £4,000,000 of share capital.
The co.’s balance-sheet figures reflect
the general trend in banking:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £4,000,000 £4,000,000 £4,000,000
Notes, etc. 7,556 7,529 7,523
Deposits 0 ' slfilill] 61,575,232 69,466,710
Liquid assets 13,530,269 40,503,971 51,737,687
Advances . . 35,483,941 29,513,470 26,176,827
Premises . . 538,546 679,720 678,873
Last term a growth of £7,891,478 in
deposits was accompanied by a contrac-
tion of £3,336,643 in advances and expan-
sion of £11,233,716 in low-interest-bearing
liquids. The latter includes special war-
time deposit with the Commonwealth
Bank, £16,139,000 (up £7,069,000), bear-
ing interest at 15s. p.c. p.a. When the
books closed liquids amounted to 74.4 p.c.
of liabilities to the public, of whose
money the bank was holding £7 14s. for
every pound of its own. A very strong
position, but it means low earning power.
South Australian Brewing Co.
Writ- Added
ten to Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Off. serves, serves.
£f £* £* £> £*
1934.. 49,915 6i p.c.= 32,500 7,500 f , Q 1 - ...
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO t 4yit> 44,441
Inner reserves disclosed, £120,000 ..162,441
1935.. 52,155 7 p.c. = 35,000 7,500 [ .err ic? noa
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO ( 4655 lb7,uyt)
1936.. 56,645 p.c.= 37,500 7,500 \
Reserved for bad debts, £5OOO f bbio 1
1937.. 67,124 9 p.c. = 45,000 22,124 195,865
1938.. 74,417 10 „ „ 50,000 15,000 9,417 205,282
1939.. 92,225 10 „ „ 60,616 20,000 11,609 216,891
1940.. 98,135 10 ,_ „ 72,137 20,000 5,998 222,889
1941.. 94,741 10 „ „ 72,208 20,000 2,533 225,422
1942.. 83,038 10 „ ~ 72,208 10,830 236,252
1943.. 81,216 10 „ ~ 72,208 9,008 245,260
Inner Reserves disclosed, £lOO,OOO ..345,261
1944.. 82,249 10 p.c. = 72,208 10,041 355,302
1945.. 84,757 10 „ ~ 72,208 12,549 367,851
Subject to Government interference, the
scrip of this Adelaide brewing business
has much to recommend it, especially
as a holding proposition. Beer rationing
and advancing costs, including unprece-
dented tax rates, have occasioned no em-
barrassment so far as earnings are con-
cerned. Since war began all increases in
costs have been absorbed within the busi-
ness, excepting lifts in excise, which have
been passed on to hotelkeepers, and then
to the public in a combination of price
lifts and adjustments in the size of con-
tainers. Brewers hand the Government in
excise about 73 p.c. of gross receipts for
bulk beer. The other 27 p.c. (approx.
ss. sd. in the £) covers production, dis-
tribution and other costs (including in-
come tax) and profit.
Offsetting influences have been substan-
tial service demands (they fall outside
the public rationing scheme) and growth
of population following rapid expansion
of industrial activity in S. Aus., which
was well under way when war began.
When controls are relaxed and demand
shifts from war to reconstruction require-
ments the development of I.C.L,
British Tube Mills and others in the
heavy industries should mean much to
traders generally* in S. Aus., including
this brewing co., whose business also
spills over into the thirsty mining centre
of Broken Hill (N.S.W.).
Pre-war the co. was steadily expanding
and anchoring turnover by purchase of
hotel properties, of which a large block
was acquired in 1938 with purchase of
Wakerville Co-op., the co.’s most up-and-
coming competitor. The price paid for
the Wakerville business was £122,089 (in
scrip), or £139,691 less than net tangible
book value; inner reserves benefited by
the difference.
Over the last 20 years £250,000 of
reserves has been capitalised (in 1924
and 1928) and £354,133 has been
taken from secret cupboards and put in
the window. The last shake out was a
year or so ago, when £lOO,OOO pre-
viously reserves against advances was
dropped into visible accumulations.
Obviously the position has not been over-
stated in the past. The div. remained un-
changed at 10 p.c, for 13 years to the
close of accounts in 1931, and never
dropped below 6 p.c. during the slump.
The figure reached 10 p.c, again in 1938,
and has remained steady since.
After making whatever provision was
considered necessary for depreciation and
taxation, and including £2217 dropped
from somewhere into reserves, net earn-
ings for the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts were £2508 stronger at
£84,757. That was 11.7 p.c. on capital
compared with 11.3, 11.2, 11.5, 13.1 and
13.5 p.c. back to 1940.
Over the last couple of years the
general experience in the hotel business
has been one of improvement. Still, since
war commenced Government control of
capital expenditure has restricted pur-
chase, improvement and maintenance of
these properties, which will call for heavy
outlay when labor and materials become
available.
Last term £23,241 more was written
off than was spent on freeholds, which
include hotel properties:
1938. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £500,000 £722,080 £722,080 £722,080
Creditors* . . 126,345 333,257 281,501 296,614
Freeholds .. 1 962,154 954,405 931,164
Plant, etc. .. 1 584 ’ 146 \ 80,417 53,514 40,945
Stocks.. .. 25,525 61,393 72,738 100,739
Book debtsf.. 36,805 117,907 124,493 128,725
Advances . . 152,536 83,912 98,789 131,882
Cash .. .. 72,617 21,911 91,048 89,094
* Includes taxation, t Includes shareholdings.
Advances increased by £33,093 and
stocks by £28,001. The amount coming
to outsiders (up £15,013) includes an un-
specified provision for taxation. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£153,926) was £48,359.
Hotel Sydney, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £,£,£>
1934.. 940 Nil 940 8,518
1935.. 2,854 24 p.c. = 3,250 8,122
1936.. 5,856 4* „ „ 5,200 656 , 8,778
1937.. 7,033 6 „ „ 6,500 533 ' 9,311
1938.. 8,898 6 „ „ 7,800 1,098 10,409
1939.. 5,858 41 „ ~ 5,850 8 10,417
1940.. 6,934 5 „ „ 6,500 434 10,851
1941.. 6,507 5 „ „ 6,500 7 10,858
1942.. 8,005 5 „ „ 6,500 1,505 12,863
1943.. 9,208 7 „ „ 9,100 108 12,471
1944.. 9,226 7 „ „ 9,100 126 12,697
Built on leasehold that runs out in
1960, this hotel looks across Belmore
Park to Sydney’s Central station. In the
palmy 1920’5, before the underground car-
ried people past the doorstep to the heart
of the city and the Government squeezed
private buses off the road, the co. paid
a run of 10 p.c. divs., sweetened with a
one-for-one bonus-scrip issue in 1923.
When slump arrived in the early 1930’s
the board had gone to its bankers (over-
draft since wiped out) to help finance
extension of the premises, and share-
holders were shown an empty basket for
the four years to end 1934. They have
since received annual distributions aver-
aging 5.1 p.c. to the close of last accounts.
And the financial structure has been
reinforced by a sinking-fund insurance


LET
f ATLAS )
CARRY THE
BURDEN
sag Ssßi
Established 1808 in Keign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.VV.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big.. King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at ail branches
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE
Filter
Inti
Cylinder
SYDNEY,
Manufacturers
F I
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Umited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camper down,
Sydney, N.S.W.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* « * ♦
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, li Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors-. THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman j F. W. Duesbvry; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager,
’Phone (three lines) : 1J7361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BUY THIRD VICTORY WAR BONDS
m
win?' *
\h
i \\f\
a
ICANKST MILK
tmecowjtoiay
And I’ll be worse to-morrow,
We’re out of Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure
Unless we can some borrow.
What’s that—the grocer’s car is here
Hooray! No need to borrow
A dose or two; goodbye to ’flu,
I’ll milk the cows to-morrow.
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure!
For Coughs and Colds never fails
Time for his
CAPSTAN
If you are short of CAPSTANS it’s because
wartime conditions have reduced output. We
realise just how acutely are restricted supplies
of CAPSTANS felt by smokers under the
strain of wartime conditions—but we ask for
your patience until restrictions can be relaxed.
When rationing ends there will be plenty of
CAPSTANS for all.
In the meantime, continue to ask for
CAPSTANS—
“The Empire’s Favourite Cigarette”
Shoulder your share in speeding Security
—lnvest in the Third Victory Loan.
893P-1.4S
policy, taken out in 1940 to cover “full
book value of the building within the
term of the lease.” Before that annual
contributions had been made to a sink-
ing fund reserve, but the money was used
in the business and was not therefore
available for return of capital. Here is
the position as the published accounts
show it:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. .&130,000 £130,000 £130,000 £130,000
Overdraft . . 16,220 2,594
Creditors . . 5,058 5,085 7,001 7,927
Tax provision 23,099 38,250
Leasehold . . 136,964 128,737 123,992 116,324
Furniture, etc. 12,489 17,753 12,724 1 10,648
Stocks . . 10,896 3,088 2,521 3,328
Cash, etc. . . 2,986 2,449 19,630 31,209
Sinking - fund
insurance .. 8,618 17,235 21,544 31,815
Last term the co. was able to strengthen
cash, etc., by £11,579 and add £10,271 to
the insurance fund. Including provision
for taxation, which appears to be liberal,
more or less liquids exceeded outside lia-
bilities by £20,175 when the books closed,
or £B5BO more than at the previous, bal-
ance.
Although war bumped up costs, in-
cluding demands of the taxgatherer, com-
plicated staffing problems and brought
rationing of beer and spirits and “aus-
terity” meals at fixed prices, there have
been compensating advantages. Employ-
ment increased with the demand for war
goods, wages rose with the cost-of-living
index, and the volume of spending was
stimulated by influx of our own and
Allied service personnel into the city on
leave and duty. And the influx taxed
accommodation everywhere to the limit.
Then the Government took steps to check
the ugly spirit of inflation, and the rate
at which costs were advancing has slowed
down, thus enabling traders generally to
get a little benefit from the reorganisa-
tion and adjustments constantly being
made to cope with a quickly changing
situation.
Last year the co.’s gross earnings
(£80,973) sprang £12,395. Including a
final £2260 written off cost of air-raid
shelters, and an extra £2904 charged to
sinking fund and depreciation (£8480),
exes. (£71,747) took all but £lB of the
increase. The div. was kept at 7 p.c.,
which took all but £126 of the profit
claimed. However, maintenance of the
7 p.c., with a wider margin, at next bal-
ance appears encouraging. It needs to be
remembered that present inflated con-
ditions have pushed turnover to an
apparent peak, or thereabouts. The diffi-
culty will be to get costs back when the
volume of war-spending tapers sharply.
The Government’s new policy of spend-
ing its way to prosperity won’t be much
help in this connection.
After many delays, connected with
shipping and delivery of plant from
abroad and the labor problem,, King
Island Scheelite’s new 20,000-ton-a-
-month concentrating mill is being run in.
Several adjustments, however, have yet
to be made before full production and
satisfactory performance are reached. The
final cost of the new project, including
the mill, quarry - development and
equipment, road construction, housing,
stores and overhead, is now estimated at
£520,000. In August, 1943, the mill alone
was expected to swallow £260,000 ; but
war-time developments, over which the
management has no control, are likely
to bump up the final figure to well over
£300,000. Of the £260,000 the co. was
to find £45,000 (it has put up £10,500
more than that) and the Commonwealth
Government the balance. Any additional
cost was to be advanced on loan at 4 p.c.
p.a. by the Government, which is also
to buy output of concentrates for the
duration and six months thereafter. The
co. also has a contract of similar duration
with the British Government for purchase
of exportable tungsten ore. Profits are
to be divided between the Government
and the co. pro rata to the amount of
capital and loan money invested. The
Government’s whack is to be applied
firstly to payment of interest and secondly
to repayment of loan money. Present
fixed price of scheelite concentrates (65
p.c. WO3) is £357 10s. per ton. What
will happen after the war, when the
Chinese mines, which used to be the
world’s chief source of tungsten, come
into production again remains to be seen.
The co. hopes that, .after the new mill
gets into full swing, production costs will
be reduced sufficiently to enable it to
earn a fair rate of profit with concen-
trates fetching much less than they do
today.
* sH * *
The Tasmanian Government intends to
investigate the mineral, timber and agri-
cultural resources of the Pieman River
valley on the West Coast. If the possibili-
ties of the area are considered encourag-
ing enough, the intention is to open the
river mouth for navigation. Develop-
ment of the area would follow comple-
tion of the Zeehan-Waratah road by way
of Corinna, of which a 20-mile section
has yet to be constructed.
* * * *
London - controlled Hampton Gold
Mining Areas (W.A.) holds invest-
ments valued in the book at £11,439 and
cash £7688. Last year’s receipts exceeded
expenditure by £l4O, reducing the p. and 1.
debit to £18,909. The co. is the third recon-
struction of Hampton Plains Estate, Ltd.,
and owns nearly 200,000 acres of free-
hold, containing auriferous areas, includ-
ing the Surprise group of leases, recently
optioned to one of the De Bernales cos.
* * * *
Accounts of Adelaide-controlled Kan-
garoo (W.A.) show that the co. has £640
in the bank and 3600 shares, forfeited
for non-payment of calls, to unload when
opportunity offers. Co. was floated dur-
ing the Patricia boomlet several years
ago. Later it moved to Kanowna, and
then to other places, where it struck duds.
It has done nothing for some time.


m
,v
'hi
V
m
l£vgC,:*i
/
FIB PEACE
nrODAY it is still a race for Victory. In
1939, when the clouds broke, Yarra
Falls machinery began humming a night-
and-day War-time song which has never
ceased.
NATURALLY, we are still fulfilling service demands. The race has not yet been
run and won.
OUT Yarra Falls peace-time planning has not been neglected. Just as quickly as we
B- 9 swing into the race against enemy production so will we enter normal pursuits.
VARRA FALLS is poised for Peace—ready to give immediate effect to the far-
A reaching plans made for the widest presentation of all those latest weaves and
fabrics now awaiting release.
■ %.
m
.
mm
m
riisM
.sv*
m
mm
%
■
F r
SS&S
-'
rj
% ! s
x
»
-s©
iitliliipai
OIKlO'
D
*" * 0000000 00 J
YASKA FALLS
funowned for tie excellence of its tforsted
Manufactures, alt made front Australian virgin wool s
ABBOTSFORD * VICTORIA* AUSTRALIA-
~ w
'rooo§o0 S -
? -
M
I#
- - —as*


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Back to the Weser?
“Ek Dum”; The Allies, having crossed
the Rhine at nearly every feasible point
which presents an eastern outlet between
the Dutch border and the region near
Karlsruhe, where the main German de-
fences sweep across the river from west
to east, began at once to chase the
enemy’s retreating screens.
The spearheads moved with remarkable
rapidity, though not so fast as the daily-
newspaper correspondents, who, as usual,
were several dozen miles ahead of the
fighting men.
It takes considerable time to bridge a
river of the status of the Rhine, and to
carry over it supplies and forces capable
of pushing even into screen country for
any distance, with adequate reserves for
support and for succor in case of need.
In the daily-press realm of fancy, how-
ever, tanks when they reach a swollen
river rollick over magic pontoon bridges
in a trice and plunge at once into the
heaviest kind of fighting, in the course
of which they career across landscapes
in which resisted or threatened armor
could go nowhere save at a frequently-
halted crawl.
In the advances beyond the Rhine
during the first week there could have
been little fighting above the level of
skirmishes. The swift moves of the Ameri-
cans were clear evidence that the most
significant feature of the landscape into
which the armored columns were nosing
was its bareness of fighting Germans.
The usual prisoners were coming in in
the rear —“Volk” troops in all their many
varieties, and, no doubt, foreign labor bat-
talions, with an occasional small, fierce
detachment of rearguard or armor held
up by road difficulties or air strafing.
The one thing definite on April 2
was that all the country west of the Rhine
had been reconquered, and that the factor
which had determined the enemy’s flight
and his abandonment of the crossings, in
most cases without resistance worth the
name, had been Montgomery’s victory
in the north. And the Allied spearheads
had made their way westward to the
headwaters of the Lippe both from the
north and the south, thus enclosing the
Ruhr and the Sauerland, with at least
some German troops.
The majority of the crossings them-
selves were made without any of the pre-
cautions which even a madman-general
would have thought necessary if he ex-
pected immediately to have to use a major
force in the nether bridgehead—prelimi-
nary artillery barrage, landing of para-
chute troops, extensive strafing of roads
and the development of dumps on the
side from which the assault on the river
was attempted. Some of the crossings
of the First and Third Armies were made
when the forces used were anything from
70 to 120 miles from a major dump.
Monty’s Preparation
The one exception was in the region
where Field-Marshal Montgomery’s
troops were operating. The concentra-
tion here was tremendously intense, and,
though this might have been interpreted
as the use of a drophammer to crack a
walnut, due to British “caution,” it must
be remembered that the strategical com-
mand is all in the hands of General
Eisenhower. That General would not
have consented to the detachment of the
Ninth U.S. Army from General Bradley’s
Group, and to the squeezing of three
armies—First Canadian, Second British
and Ninth, plus divisions from the Air-
borne armies—into a space not more than
50 miles long from Emmerich to below
Diisseldorf unless he had thought it vital.
The German war has seen no concen-
tration like this from the point of view
of sheer force. Russian concentrations,
while they may be more numerous, usu-
ally lack punch in artillery. Moscow cor-
respondents mentioned with awe the
bombardment of Stalingrad with 8000
tons of shells in a week. It would
have been a fleabite against the 26,000
tons of the first day on 11 miles at Mes-
sines.
And the fact that such a group was
massed there showed that the Allied Com-
mand had at least good reason for sus-
picion that there was powerful German
concentration on the nether side of the
river The Allies had chosen a! - ea
for the main drive as the point at which
they could move main supply dumps
furthest forward and have the clearest
run after crossing the river.
Broken For the First Time
The reasQn for the present con dition
a g a j rs s tems entirely from one fact:
£ or tbe g rst t j me j n Ardennes-Lower
Rhine campaign the defence lines of the
enem y ka d been broken through to their
very * rean since September there had
b)een man y repor ted breaks-through on
the Roer sector, in each of which Amen-
can troops were supposed to have “com-
pieteiy smashed” or “pierced” the Sieg-
fried " defences . B ut in each of these
succeeding events told their own story .
d^d M on t gomer y’ s final realisation
of what ev army on the west had been
endeavoring t 0 do
since October.
ddie resu fi s G f fij s achievement were all
more f ar . re aching for two reasons —
the Germans’ resistance was so despe-
fate and caP Qn tbie | r reserves so grea t
as t have painful reactions upon their
s h g policy. Also, in the pro-
cess breaki £ g th ; ough British and
Canadians had completely pulverised the
G erman r j gbt fl ank west of the Rhine.
A defence system with a pulverised
flank, especially when it is on the wrong
side ’ of J river from its bases> is much
tbe same p fi gbt as a gentleman whose
back is to t F he wall and who is being
hammered on top of the cranium by one
assailant while another jabs him heartily
and continuously in the breadbasket,
As has been ,/ aid here beforej the wise
comma nder—especially one who has suf-
£ered tbe p a i n f u i experiences which have
begn tbe Q £ tbe G erman arm y
a p OS fij on already prepared to fall back
on - n tbe case Q £ f ron t a i or fl ank defeat;
and fae hag it as far & from
ori inal batt ieline as possible,
He retireg hi§
main force before the
de£ea , c ;£ he js and command , er>
and able t 0 act o£ his s £ree wiU
Along his line of retirement he prepares
to ho B , d whatever roadblocks he £ an F and
p re p ares wlmtevcr measures he finds pos-
F ib , p , , ak the momentum off the F ur .
suit and t 0 and tte pursuers u F ful
resources
The fulther he can it the en
, 0 , ravel , he e it is that h d
m have breathin time and ace t 0
make read for g blow p xhe
further , he J foUow the less
momentum will have when th
reach . him Rn / , he fur[her h /
brin 8 »P d <=« lo P a «w
““”t”' ” attack . U P°” him '
North ana South Differ
Rivers enter into the matter, but there
were certain factors on the German
front differing as between north and
south which made the defence in each
sector a separate puzzle for the enemy.
In the north, for instance, Monty’s
arn fi es were r j g fit on the Rhine bank at
A be kickoff. In the south the mobile
co } umns 0 f General Patton, General
jjodges and General Patch had some dis-
tance to travel, must reach the river far
£ rom their bases and dumps and must
waP on £ be arr j V al of large supplies be-
£ore dar jng major operations against
ma j or forces any distance across the
r j V er. For some time their drives across
£ be r jver could only be pushes, save in
abandoned terrain.
Next, the north had a far greater im-
portance because of its vast industrial
sources, the very core of Germany’s con-
tinued military existence ; because of the
g r ea f water supply and canal control
regions of the Rothaar mountains and the
Sauerland and because a British-
Canadian-U.S. drive forward would
isolate Holland, and perhaps result in its
swift conquest across the Yssel. This
would rob Von Kesselring and his men
G f their last V-bomb bases worth the
name . “Southern England” would then
beC ome free of bombing, which would
g i ve a tremendous fillip to British moral
strength, besides opening the Netherlands
ports.
Also the different natures of the north
and south sections of the country east of
the Rhine must play a considerable part,
In the south the enemy could afford to
give up quite a wide swathe without los-
ing overmuch. The Rhine Valley itself,
save in industrial areas, is not very closely
settled. The hill country of the Black
Forest, the Odenwald and the Wester-
wald boasts few towns beyond the status
of overgrown villages or market towns.
In a belt 30 miles or so wide behind the
line of cities along the fringes of the
Rhine Valley facing the long south reach
to the Swiss border (Darmstadt, Heidel-
burg, Karlsruhe, Freiburg), there is no
big town at all, save a few gloomy, stone-
hearted and bleak-looking places such
as Pforzheim and Bbblingen, miserable
beyond words during the last melting of
the snows.
The valleys through all this country
are re-entrant. The roads run largely
through forests hidden by tall timber.
There is abundant cover for trans-
port. The advancing invader is faced
with difficult problems of reconnais-
sance. Allied air advantages are dis-
counted and the country presently
falls back into regions of gorges which
run across the course of advance —that
of the Neckar at Tubingen, for instance,
would stop any tank column ever con-
ceived if crossing places were destroyed.
This was a favorite region for German
Army manoeuvres before the war.
In some places the mountains come
close to the Rhine, but in others such as
that at Oppenheim, where General Pat-
ton made his crossing below Mainz, fac-
ing Darmstadt, the valley and relatively
low country runs more than 30 miles
inland to Aschatfenburg. Between that
town and Wurzburg, on the Nuremburg
highwaj', which correspondents captured
for General Patton on March 26, lie the
considerable heights of Spessart. The
Americans had not reported the capture
of Wurzburg up to April 1 and was
trying to bypass it on the south.
On the Westphalian Plain
The problems presented north of the
Ruhr were of another kind. The plain to
the north is open ; a terrible place for de-
fenders with aerial inferiority, since there
is little chance of cover in transit over
any great distance. Normally it would
be good defensive country in part, since
much of it can be flooded quite readily—
or could have been before the gallant
Gibson and his Lancasters breached the
Mohne Dam. But one fact must have
been clear to the Germans who had
banked on water barriers to cover Kleve
and other parts west of the Rhine on the
northern front: water had not stopped
Monty in his earlier advances. He was
able to provide every type of equipment
necessary to make swift crossings—a
specially built navy, something such as
European land fighting had never before
seen, together with such air protection
as sealed the crossing troops away from
every attack but artillery attack.
The best German hope in the north
lay in a retreat from the Westphalian plain
behind the Rhine, between the Yssel and
the beginnings of the Ruhr hills as far
back at least as the Teutoburger Hills,
which reach from the Osnabriik region
to join the Sauerland Plateau. This dis-
trict has a legendary air of victory
about it for Germans, since it was here
that Varus lost his legions, as the old Latin
tag and the German student song tell.
These slight hills 75 miles from
Wesel, and the marshes of the Lippe
headwaters make a passable holding
region. The first real natural line east
of the Rhine in the north is the Ems
River, in front of them streaking across
the plain just east of Munster —several
(escaped Australian prisoners swam it
during the last war. The first really
sound barrier, however, is the Weser,
which rises in the Thuringian forest,
almost on the Czechoslovak border near
Eger, flowing out of the northern slopes
of the Fichtel Gebirge. A defence line
along it would reach from the southern
mountains to the North Sea, would be
strong in the south and would link well
with further good ground in the Spessart
region, which U.S. armor was re-
ported to be approaching early in the
week.
Behind the Weser lie two tributaries
which converge north of the latitude of
Berlin and then join the main river near
Verden, about 35 miles south-east of
Bremen. Between the British-U.S. armies
of the north and Berlin, the great stream
of the Elbe lies east of the Weser,
On the west of the Weser a further
tributary flowing from the Teutoburgers
covers the approaches to Bremen,
Sacrifice of all country west of the
Weser line means the isolation and en-
dangering of the two great naval ports
of Emden and Wilhelmshaven, But this
kind of retirement creates a box retreat
salient round the Westphalian plain on
the model familiar on the Russian front.
Progress of Armies
A general picture of the battle on
April 1;
(1) The enemy had retired from the plain
of the Lippe, leaving strong flanks in the Ruhr
and along the Yssel on- the Dutch border.
Marshal Montgomery was hammering these
flanks in the hmmerich-Bucholt sector in the
north with Canadian armor, which on April 2
was reported 15 miles inside Holland. He was
also hammering columns apparently evacuating
Holland further north with his Typhoons. And
one of his columns was said to have received
the surrender of Munster.
On his south flank he was forcing a way
into the Ruhr with Ninth Army infantry and
tanks* and had taken the broken shells of Ham-
born and of Duisburg, Germany’s greatest in-
land port.
His armor —the Seventh" Armored Division
and Guards —attached to the Ninth Army, had
driven parallel to the Lippe 100 miles to the
region of Paderborn, almost on to Varus’s
battlefield of the Teutoburgers. There this
force had met the spearhead of General
Hodge’s First Army, which had come up from
the Sieg, at the rate of 20-25 miles a day, sup-
plied with petrol from the air. The joint forces
of the First and Ninth Armies appeared to be
encountering tough fighting with a Panzer
Division which was preventing them from
junctioning in Paderborn. They had, however,
formed a ring round the Ruhr and Sauerland
inside which there were supposed to be elements
of four German armies. And some of the
British armor was said on April 2 to have driven
further towards the Weser.
(2) General Patton’s troops in cleaning up
the region between Aschatfenburg and the
Rhine met little serious resistance even in
Frankfort-on-the-Main, where there were only a
few S.S. rearguard troops. So soon as they
attempted to push east * into the slopes of the
Spessart they became involved in fighting which
called for more supplies than spearheads carry.
The same was true when attempts were made to
penetrate the Black Forest region in the south
and to take the strong points of the eastern
fringes of the Fulda-Weser Line. There U.S.
troops apparently had i*un into the next layer
of German defence.
The Allied First, Third and Seventh Armies
held every city within 25 miles of the Rhine
banks from above Karlsruhe to Bonn. Wies-
baden and Mannheim, charred ruins, and
Heidelberg, almost undamaged, fell with few
shots.
The Rhine had been crossed by the French
First Army near Ratstatt, where a main road
makes for Ulm and Munich through Pforzheim
and Tubingen. This region between Karlsruhe
and Strasbourg-Kehl marked the furthest south
intrusion of the Allies along the Rhine Valley
reported up to April 2.
General Eisenhower’s Summary
General Eisenhower’s summary was
that the German Army had been
“whipped,” but that there would be
“some darn tough fighting before the war
was over.” He remarked that he was “not
writing off the war,” though since D-
Day the Germans had suffered defeats
they couldn’t afford. He added that in
the recent battles west of the Rhine they
had lost 250,000 prisoners apart from
killed and wounded —General Patton
claimed 90,000 Germans killed and
wounded between January 29 and March
22, “practically eliminating the enemy’s
First and Seventh Armies.”
General Eisenhower put his finger on
the test of German power to resist when
he said that the Germans must defend
the Ruhr to remain in the war.
Lieut.-General Dittmar, Hitler’s H.Q.
commentator, came in with a version:
It does not matter whether we fight on
the banks of the Rhine or to the east of
it. Fight we must, for every day we con-
tinue the fight east and west is of great
importance at home. The army must main-
tain the power to endure and to fight, in
order that the measures which our leaders
consider necessary, whatever they are, can
be put into effect with the backing of the
whole German people.
Mr, Stimson’s summary was better. He
said the Army of the Rhine was beaten,
The enemy might find some temporary
line of defence, but without the hope of
anything in the future save unconditional
surrender or piecemeal collapse.
Americans on Okinawa.
“Ek Dum”: ; Throughout the last week
of March Tokyo Radio persistently
asserted that United States troops were
trying to land on the Kerama group, in
the Ryukyus, part of the chain of nearly
submerged mountain peaks which push
their summits out of the sea in a line
between Kiushiu, the most southern large
island of Japan, and Formosa.
It was alleged at first that the attacks
had been beaten off. Admiral Nimitz’s
H.Q. admitted that the Ryukyus were
being bombarded by the most powerful
naval fleet ever seen in action in the
Pacific, in part Vice-Admiral Sir Ber-
nard Rawling’s Royal Naval contribu-
tion, including the battleship King
George V and a carrier force with Illus-
trious, Sir Philip Vian commanding. The
R.N. ships were described as pounding


70 j
600
500
1100
800
400
900
700
b-WVL
(200
300
1000
B*BC
600
1300
200
PE!
!400
LBS
1100
500
uNHEIT
n
1500
1200
400
Turning
Temperature and Pressure
«. the Terrible Twins
.Steam at normal atmospheric pres-
sure has a temperature of 212°F.—<
but raise tbe pressure for reasons of
industrial economy and efficiency
and you immediately raise tbe tem-
perature . . . for temperature and
pressure are complementary ... a
couple, dangerous in tbe bigber rat-
ings, tbat materially increase tbe
complexities of boiler design and
construction.
Very largely tbe bistory of tbe de-
velopment of tbe modern bigb pres-
sure, steam generating unit is tbe
bistory of tbe taming of these terrible
taming wbicb began effec-
tively in 1913, wben a Babcock boiler
was commissioned to operate at 273
lb. per sq. pressure tben con-
sidered bigb. Thereafter Babcock &
.Wilcox progressively upped boiler
pressures to 400, 630, 800 and
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS —INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS—REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
1,500 lb. per sq. in, in under 18 years
and raised temperatures from some
500°F. to over 900°F.
Thus. the benefits of to-day’s bigb
boiler operating economy and effici-
ency stem back to Babcock pioneer-
ing, research and development—and
this vigorous tradition is backed by
Babcock experience of local fuels
accumulated during sixty years of
building steam generating units for
Australian users.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . , .
work to common purpose with our British
organisation , . . maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of workman-
ship with moderate first cost
TIME„HAS I'HOVEI) THE SERVICE Ol BABCOCK-- HOLLER l>.l, AN T r
Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS can help YOU.
too, to new vigorous health!
registers TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS. ARTERIES. ETC.
q
Thousand s of
grateful users havp
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief —the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
q
££a4?4T uhM’ 'i
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
the Sakishima group, which forms the
south-western part of the Ryukyus, under
100 miles from Formosa.
The Ryukyus (Loochoos) consist of
three groups—Oshimo, about 200 miles
from the Kiushiu coast; Okinawa, the
largest island, another 120 miles south-
west in direct line; and the Saki-
shima-Kaeyama group. The little Kerama
islands are within gunfire of Okinawa.
On April 1 Admiral Nimitz personally
broadcast the news of a landing in
Okinawa.
Japan’s Malta
Okinawa is to Japan what Malta was
to the Mediterranean campaign. It is a
long, narrow island about 320 miles from
Kiushiu, which is part of Japan proper,
and the bottom point of which is appro-
priately named Cape Satan. Philippine
islands excepted, Okinawa is the most
densely populated area which Allied
forces have attacked in the Pacific, con-
taining about 100,000 people on 200-odd
square miles. Generally speaking, it is
low-lying and highly suitable for an air-
craft base. There are some hills in the
west. The chief port, Naha, is on a bay
on the southern part of the west coast;
the capital is Shuri, a town with a pic-
turesque castle; there is a smaller town-
ship of Katena in the south-west. The
west-coast area is served by a railway,
and there are good roads.
The importance of a landing here can-
not be over-estimated, in view of the
Allied resources and power of organisa-
tion. The island is within comfortable
long-distance-fighter range and medium-
bomber range of the great metal in-
dustries of Kiushiu, of Nagasaki and of
Sasebo, one of the greatest of Japanese
naval bases, a few miles further north.
Possession of it will bripg the whole of
the ports of the Inland Sea within reach
of fighters and medium bombers—the
Moji and Kure naval bases, Kobe, Osaka
and Kyoto. Even Tokyo is only distant
700-odd miles. Aircraft-carriers operating
from Okinawa can be across any or all
routes to China from Japan within the
hours of summer darkness.
The entrance to the Japan Sea through
the Korea Strait is within Thunderbolt
patrol range. So are Shanghai and all the
Japanese bases round Hangchow Bay.
Formosa can be cut off by the sea route.
Another advance of 120 miles by crow-
fly to Amami Island and the Allies would
have a foothold only 200 miles from
Japanese soil.
Okinawa presents a fine position from
which to effect surprise in further opera-
tions, being equally useful as a base for
attack on Formosa at its least-defended
end, the China coast and Japan proper.
Tokyo Tales
The Japanese, first in with their story,
as usual, alleged that the Americans had
been preparing to land on the Ryukyus
since March 23, and that eventually,
their ships coming closer and closer, they
“presented the Japanese special air de-
fence forces with a golden opportunity
to strike out.” When major naval units
were within reach this was done. Initial
statistics from Imperial H.Q. were quoted
as showing that up to March 27 51 Allied
ships had been sunk and 39 heavily dam-
aged, including two battleships and seven
aircraft carriers sunk and 10 battleships
and seven A.Cs. damaged.
This “brilliant result” was represented
as being the work of the special Japanese
attack corps, and it was added that any
landing on the island would be a “divine
opportunity to the Imperial forces to in-
flict more casualties than at Iwo Jima.”
“To take Okinawa,” it was added, “is
one thing. To remain there is another,
as the Americans have learned to their
cost on Iwo Jima, which our ’planes
raided yesterday (March 30) for the first
time, dropping four loads of bombs and
causing large fires and explosions.”
Iwo Jima’s garrison, Tokyo said, could
confidently expect that it would receive
many more attacks before it was much
older. And it also was threatened
that the Japanese Army and Air Force
would shortly “take the initiative” on
Luzon, where it was claimed that 80,000
Americans had been killed.
Tenth Army Ashore
Admiral Nimitz’s statement showed
no traces of worry at the enormous disas-
ter which his fleets were supposed to
have suffered. The admiral seemed in
the highest spirits.
He reported that the Kerama Group
landings had taken place on March 26,
and that from that island heavy U.S.
artillery was supporting the Okinawa
assaults.
The landings on Okinawa were carried
out by Major-General John Hodge’s
XXIV Corps and Major-General Roy
Geiger’s 111 Amphibian Corps as the
spearheads of General Bolivar Buckner’s
Tenth Army.
Vice-Admiral Kelly Turner’s amphi-
bious forces put the attackers ashore
under cover of the guns and aircraft of
the Fifth Fleet.
The Kerama landings were made with-
out much difficulty. There 290 “suicide”
boats which seemed to be intended for
defence against the Allied fleet were
destroyed.
Airfields Captured
The Okinawa landings, which involved
the use of 1400 ships, the largest fleet so
far assembled in the Pacific zone, appar-
ently took place at 8.30 a.m. on March
31 after wide minesweeping operations.
The troops had a much easier time
initially than those at Iwo Jima.
They attacked on a nine-mile beach,
with close support from naval guns and
aircraft. Three hours later they had
overcome light opposition and had oc-
cupied the two airfields at Yontan and
Katena with only small losses.
The island had been badly battered
by the bombardment, and the inhabitants,
troops included, appeared to have taken
to the hills. But the fighting had only
commenced.
The U.S. Fleet communique reported
the sinking of 18 ships, mostly small
freighters, but including two destroyers
near Okinawa on March 30.
Japan proper was attacked from the
air during the Okinawa operation, the
main points blasted being Kiushiu Island
installations and the region of the Kure
naval base in the Inland Sea.
The R.N. Gets to Work.
“Ek Dum”:, The Royal Navy—more
precisely Vice-Admiral Sir Bernard Raw-
ling’s Task Force —has opened its season
in the Pacific.
That the R.N. is not less mobile and
adaptable than the American Fleet, de-
spite the nonsense of silly Chicago corre-
spondents, is shown by the fact that some
of the ships involved were mentioned as
having implemented the bombardment
of Palembang on January 29. They
visited Sydney and are within a few hun-
dred miles of Japan.
Roughly, between bombardments the
British warships have travelled a distance
equal to that between London and Syd-
ney, and since they must have had a
considerable supply train during the
Palembang adventure, which was carried
out 2000 miles from the nearest East
Asian base, and are now operating at
least as far from any base, their train
must make them virtually self-contained.
The squadron has been attached to the
Allied Fifth Pacific Fleet under command
of Admiral Spruance, but operates as a
unit under R.N. tactical command.
The choice of ships for this first adven-
ture was fitting. Nearly 2000 miles to
the south-west Prince of Wales was sunk
in December, 1941, Now the sister-ship of
Prince of Wales, George V, is operating
only 500 miles from the Japanese coast,
and apparently not a Japanese ship is
available to go out and bid her welcome.
Vice-Admiral Rawlings said in Sydney
his journey northward in the Pacific would
be “like going home,” since he spent
many and by his conversation very
fruitful —years studying the enemy and
his ways at first hand as naval attache
to the British Embassy in Tokyo.
The Record of Illustrious
It was fitting, too, that Illustrious
should be in the van of Sir Phillip Vian’s
aircraft-carriers. She is the mother of
the kind of war that this has turned
into at sea. She was the first carrier to
attack a land base, more than a year
before Pearl Harbor, for it was her
Swordfish which on November 12, 1940,
sailed over Taranto’s two harbors and
left the cream of the Italian capital fleet
a sinking ruin.
Illustrious it was who, in the great
running fight to get supplies for the
Greek campaign through the Mediter-
ranean, January 7-13, 1941, was hit by
several 10001 b. bombs while her fighters
already in the air warded off and feinted
at the Stukas. Fires in her hangars,
engine and boiler rooms full of smoke
and guns out of action, Illustrious used
her propellers to steer for Malta, where
she remained for three weeks under re-
pair. Stukas dived at her at intervals,
hitting her once, without preventing her
in the end from being able to steam
back to Alexandria at 25 knots.
She was through the rest of the Medi-
terranean war. Battered from time to
time in the actions to pass the convoys
to Malta which saved the victory m
Africa and clear troops from Crete,
repaired in U.S. yards, commanded tor a
brief time by Lord Louis Mountbatten,
she survived to be part of Vice-Admir
Sir Algernon Willis’s covering fleet at tne
Salerno landing. She is in fact almos
history of the European naval war m her
self.
Burma to Bougainville.
“Ek Dum”: The Japanese, haying
Mandalay, show no disposition to allow
Major-General Rees’s 19th D * vl^°\ e
make an easy passage either down


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD anyone knowing the whereabouts of
CHARLES DAVIS, who was last heard of at Broken
Hill or Wilcannia about 1900, or the whereabouts of
any of his issue, please communicate with SLY &
RUSSELL, Solicitors, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.
IF GEORGE COLLINS, husband of Ada Ann Collins,
late of Parkville, will communicate with THE
EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY, of 472 Bourke
Street, Melbourne, he will hear something to his
advantage.
WILL JAMES DONNELLY and PETER DONNELLY,
formerly of Melbourne, Victoria (sons of the late
Peter and Annie Matilda Donnelly, nee O’Rorke, who
died at 142 Young Street, Fitzroy, in 1923), or
anyone knowing their whereabouts, please communi-
cate with DARBYSHIRE & GILLETT, Solicitors, 42
St. George’s Terrace, Perth, Western Australia.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CLARENCE JAMES ESSEX late of South
Grafton.—TAKE NOTICE that CLAUDE ROBERT
ESSEX has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3862 of
1944 against his wife CLARA ELLEN ELSIE ESSEX
on the grounds of her adultery with you If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 30th day of April 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from D. W. MACPHER-
SON Solicitor No. 21 Prince Street Grafton By his
Agents T. MARSHALL MARKS & JONES Culwulla
Chambers 67 Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO OSWALD LESLIE CASEY (falsely called Oswald
Leslie Watkins) formerly of Bondi Junction. —TAKE
NOTICE that MARY ELLEN AGNES CLARKE (fal-
sely called Mary Ellen Agnes Watkins) has filed her
Petition for Nullity No. 118 of 1944 on the grounds
that at the time of the ceremony of her marriage
to yourself you were then still the husband of Irene
Dorothy Casey If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 30th April 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
W. J. ENRIGHT & SKILTON Solicitors for the
Petitioner and their address is 467 High Street West
Maitland or their Agents MESSRS. TAYLOR &
KEARNEY City Mutual Building Hunter and Bligh
Streets, Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ESME HALL.—TAKE NOTICE that LENORE
LESLEY HUNTER has filed her Petition No. 3791 of
1944 asking for a divorce from VIVIAN WILLIAM
HUNTER on the grounds of his adultery with you
You may apply to the Court to be allowed to defend
and a copy of this petition may be obtained free
of charge from VINCENT J. BRADY Solicitor 60
Hunter Street Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
How to Simplify
Property Management
New and ever-varying forms of
taxation; changes in the values
of investments ; war-time restric-
tions and amendments in legisr
lation —
All these throw greatly added responsi-
bilities upon people having the handling
of estates.
For the well-informed man of affairs
property-management is difficult
enough, but for those without know-
ledge or experience the problem is
frightening.
Your own observation teaches you that
relatively few women possess this
managerial experience. Their training
is naturally in other spheres—and you,
as a good provider, have relieved them
of the worry and responsibility.
But when in due course you are no
longer there to manage—what then?
Don't let your love for those dependent
on you blind you to the realities of life.
Safeguard your dependents by drawing
on the knowledge and experience of
those trained over many years for this
very work, and arrange for the Union
Trustee Company to take over your
responsibilities.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
' J, C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b.,' c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager ; Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
, Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager ; L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, K.B. (Chairman); J, W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, M.C., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., F.F.1.A., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager; C. A. Bradfield, a.fj.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager),
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager),
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
'///
Vj,
I
W /,
m,
Ui
nf.
f//J
• .rk
7//r
f//yy
i,/
What is the uncanny
secret of Plywood? How do
those thin frail sheets of wood
hecome stronger and tougher
than solid board ... a trans-
formed material, for which
new and vital uses are being
found every day?
Actually, although the result seems
magical, the explanation is simple. When
the sheets are assembled into a plywood hoard, the grain
of each sheet is placed at right angles to those above and
below it. This makes the plywood practically unsplitable
and warp-proof.
The sheets are then glued together with high-grade
glues. This in itself gives added strength, for, as every
woodworker knows, a well-made glue joint is stronger than
the timber 1
Remember, when you need strength you need Plywood.
ml
iii'
V
1',,.
m
m
l/l 1 \
nil If
I vi
inserted
AUSTRALIAN PLYWOOD
BOARD
Irrawaddy or eastward along the
Taunggy rail route towards the Salween
and the Thai road. Near Meiktila the
Indians have encountered savage resist-
ance from Japanese armor and carefully-
fortified posts, and on April 1 were en-
gaged in fierce fighting.
But to the north-east the spearhead
British 36th Division had linked with
Chinese troops from Yunnan, on the
Lashio road.
In China the Japanese in one 6f their
periodical pounces had forced the aban-
donment of the U.S. airbase at Laoho-
chow, in the Hupeh province, about 200
miles north-west of Hankow. On the
other hand, the Fourteenth U.S. Air
Force was getting a little of its own back
south of Hongkong, where it all the
week played hob with enemy shipping
round the coasts of Hainan. Two
freighters in the 5000-ton range were sunk
there early in the week.
In the Philippines at the week-end the
operations succeeding lightly-resisted
U.S. landings on Panay and Cebu had
reached the stage of mopping up. On
Negros a few days of swift movement
had resulted in the capture of Bacolod,
the capital, which was abandoned full
of unexploded demolition charges. The
invasion troops on April 2 held 30 miles
of the east coast and were pushing in-
land vigorously.
On Luzon General MacArthur re-
ported “good progress.” Enemy resist-
ance in the centre of the island was, it
was said, becoming sporadic. There is,
however, a great deal of territory on
Luzon still in Japanese hands—more than
there is in U.S. hands —and even small
islets at the mouth of Manila Bay are
only falling one by one in bitter little
landing battles.
The New Guinea Zone
The civil war on the question of New
Guinea strategy and supplies is almost as
fierce as that in the jungle. Thus far no
casualties have been reported either
among politicians or generals.
The only fighting of moment in the
New Guinea area was a flare-up in
Bougainville, at the Darara ford, on the
Puriata River, where Australian troops
have been advancing south of the
Empress Augusta Bay perimeter. The
Japanese made determined attacks here
on the morning of March 29. Next day
communications were cut between two
Australian positions, one of which was
encircled. Towards sundown the enemy,
after heavy mortar preparations, launched
a bayonet charge which cost him heavy
casualties.
Bitter, but not large-scale, fighting was
in progress over the week-end.
In North Bougainville Japanese forces
were trying vainly to break out of the
Soraken Peninsula with artillery support.
On New Britain General Blarney in-
spected positions and troops. It would
seem that there will be no sea assault on
Rabaul in the immediate future, for “the
important shortage at the moment is
water transport.”
Aitape forces in the drive down the
coast are fewer than 25 miles from
Wewak.
The first casualty lists for the New
Guinea campaign issued during the week
to March 17 gave total Australian losses
since November at 374 killed, 711 woun-
ded and 23 missing. The known enemy
casualties were reckoned at 3489 killed
and 101 prisoners of war.
On the bdsis of the Army’s calculations
last December that leaves 86,000 of the
enemy still to be accounted for.
Towards Vienna.
“Ek Dum”: The moment Field-
Marshal Montgomery’s forces showed
that they could cross the Rhine the Ger-
mans began a retreat from the Hungarian
front. They fell back more than 50 miles
across the Raab River, south of the
Danube, and yielded Komarom, north of
that river, and some country to the east
of it, bringing the Russians within 15
miles of Bratislava on April 1.
South of the Danube, on the main
road, the Bakony Forest area and Gyor
(Raab) were given up, also the flat, bleak
land across the main road near the
border.
It was suggested by writers in Moscow
that Marshal Tolbhukin was on his way
to link with General Patton. On April 1
500-odd miles separated the tank spear-
heads of the two forces.
Later, when a second wing of the
Russian drive pushed south of Lake
Balaton towards Wiener-Neustadt, being
claimed to be within 40 miles of Vienna
from that direction after taking Sopron,
south of the Neustedl Lake, the theory
was that the Russians might soon cut
the Czech supply route to Trieste, or
even go to Trieste itself to link with the
Fifth and Eighth Armies under the
American General Clark.
Possibly there has been some recent
geographical compression in this part of
the world due to the enormous north-
ward pushing of Tito’s hosts. Unless
there has been, Trieste is still 300-odd
miles from Wiener-Neustadt and a mere
600 miles from the Eighth Army, with
the Styrian Alps, the Carinthian Alps, the
Karawanken, the Julian Alps and some
other ranges and several rivers, including
the Isonzo, Piave, the Adige and the Po,
to be crossed. Between the Russians and
Wiener-Neustadt were still the Leitha
Mountains and river.
The junction which Marshal Tolbhukin
probably desires to make is one with
Hitler at Berchtesgaden, roughly 200
miles or a little more nearly due west.
But there is some tough defensive country
ahead, as there is on the 300-mile trek
from Marshal Malinovsky’s front to
Prague, via Bratislava, north of the
Danube.
On the Oder-Neisse front, except for
the capture of Glogau, besieged for two
months, the Russians had made little pro-
gress. Marshal Koniev’s forces, after the
fall of Ratibor was reported—the enemy
denied losing it—had, however, closed
on a couple of towns nearer the Moravian
Gap, The Germans claimed that they
had driven the Russians back with
“heavy losses” in a sector south-east of
Ratibor. At the same time Berlin at
last admitted the evacuation of Kustrin
on the Oder, “unknown to the Russians,”
who, they alleged “suffered staggering
losses.” The Russians declared that they
had closed round the Germans west of
Kiislrin, uniting their bridgeheads on
either side of the town. The Oder front
otherwise appeared to be quiet until April
2, when the Germans reported that Mar-
shal Zhukov was opening an attack on
Stettin with 30 divisions.
But the final stages of the Gdynia and
Danzig battles were fought and those
ports were overrun by the Russians.
Marshal Stalin in his Orders of the Day
announcing the captures mentioned the
names of 92 generals concerned in the
Gdynia operation and 90 in connection
with Danzig, where 39,000 German
killed, 10,000 prisoners, 140 tanks, 45 Ü-
boats and 358 guns were claimed. It was
stated also that 96,000 Germans had
been killed and 59,000 captured in three
weeks on the Hungarian and 80,000
killed and 50,000 taken prisoner in a fort-
night or so south-west of Konigsberg.
Nevertheless, Konigsberg, the Cour-
land enclave, and Pillau were still in
enemy hands at the week-end.
The Germans then asserted that they
still held the Westerplatte, scene in 1939
of a last stand of the gallant Poles, whose
remnants escaped. National heroes with
their countryman and the world at the
time, they now could return to their
native country only at the grave risk of
being shot or sent to Siberia as oppo-
nents of the Lublin regime. That* regime
has “annexed” Danzig and is demanding
representation at the San Francisco
World Security conference in contempt
of the Yalta declaration. By a secret
arrangement at Yalta, Russia and the
U.S.A. are to have three votes each at
San Francisco, and to this there is oppo-
sition in the U.S.A. as well as among the
Little Peoples.
It was obvious at the week-end that the
battle for North Italy would soon be in full
blast. German patrols were probing all along
the front and the Mediterranean Allied air
force was tearing Austrian communications
through the Brenner and to the Russian front to
bits. The bomb-load dropped in March touched
30,000 tons. On April 1 General Mark Clark
remarked that “with our ammunition piled up
and our divisions largely filled up and rested
we are ready for another battle.”
The British Empire Air Training Scheme, for
which Australia provided more than 35,000 per-
sonnel, of whom 11,000 became casualties, with
6000 killed, 2000 missing and 1000 p.0.w., has
closed down. No more trainees will be sent
abroad.


Mr. Potter
wins a war
He doesn’t look the fighting type! He’s
never won a medal, or led an army into
battle. But he’s a warrior in his own way,
just the same.
Out of his restricted income he manages
to save a little here and there. And with
the money he scrapes together he is buy-
ing Victory Bonds.
Take a leaf from Mr. Potter’s book. No
one else can do YOUR share —only you
can carry out your personal obligation to
buy more and more Bonds in the Third
Victory Loan.
FACTS ABOUT THE
THIRD VICTORY LOAN
All you lend will be used only for War. Bonds
for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO may
be purchased for cash or by instalments
through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is paid each six months, at 2 \°/o for
five years, or 3i% for 16 years. Repayment
in full at maturity is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth. Your Bonds are readily
saleable to meet an emergency.
You lend, not give, your money to speed
Victory. On your application form, credit
your subscription to your district to help its
quota.
NO ONE ELSE CAN DO YOUR SHARE
YOUR MONEY IS NEEDED IN
THE THIRD W/CTORY LOAH
3V10.83
im
5 J
m
' --x ' r'TO
f
xrpe
a £§•• they
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager-
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co-, Drununoya*, Ji-S.'T
SPORTING NOTIONS
Heavy rainclouds and bleak wind kept the
crowd down to 57,000 —22,000 below last year’s
ngures—for the opening of the A.J.C. Autumn
meeting at Randwick on Saturday. Tote turn-
over was £136,404. The track, though it stood
up well to the racing, was heavy enough to
make times the slowest for years.
Magnificent (Delaney) took 1.28| to run the
Sires Produce Stakes seven furlongs, the
slowest (bar a Rosehill-run Doncaster) since
Dark Sky’s 1.29* in 1934, and snail-like to his
own sire’s 1.23* seven years ago. It would be
rash, however, 19 judge this tractable son of
Ajax on either his time or his mere long-head
and half-head victory' over the fillies Lucky
Stream (Midstream-Symphony) and Courtship
(Agmcourt-Happy Returns). A big chestnut
colt with a white blaze, he is already uncom-
monly powerful-looking. Having had only three
races beginning with his win in the Breeders’
Plate, and placed at his only other start —he
still runs greenly. But anyone who watched
at all closely his recent third when unready or
his sterling win on Saturday could have little
doubt about him. He has size plus quality—
the best of combinations.
Excuses were made for some of the beaten.
The hitherto most successful tall filly Jamelie
struck the barrier, lost ground at the start and
ran last. The hitherto unbeaten Courtship had
the pacemaking to do. Lucky Stream had to
come from a long way back and was only just
beaten on the post. However, Courtship, favo-
rite at 5 to 4, had easily the best of the start.
Balmore, the New Zealand-bred colt by the
the English Derby-winner Coronach, was near
her to the turn, but she there shot away to
an apparently unbeatable lead. Magnificent,
third early, several times struck trouble through
running about, and was giving away a long
start in the straight. What was really good
about his run was the way he travelled under
pressure, and the further they went the
stronger he galloped. He looks exactly the
part of a Derby winner.
The Golden Sovereign-Feminist filly Anne-
Tien-Et ran another of her consistent races to
be fourth, less than a length from Magnifi-
cent’s winning head. So far the Golden
Sovereign stock have shown plenty of speed,
but this one may develop some of the staying
quality of her dam. A solid, stocky filly, she
should win her share as she develops.
The Doncaster, won clearly by W. A. Mc-
Donald’s Queensland-bred Palfresco - Bonny
Abbey six-year-old Abbeville (Bougoure) from
Enthuse and Barnsley, with the three-year-olds
Melhero, Silent and War Eagle, and then Prince
and Victory Lad, all fairly handy, was also
slowed by the going. Excluding the Doncaster
run at Rosehill, Abbeville’s 1.40| was much
the slowest time since the best of them at the
distance Chatham took quarter of a second longer
on the slow day in 1934. Winooka, also raced by
McDonald, won the 1933 Doncaster in 1.354.
this page’s choice —Prince, first'; Abbeville,
second—took a risk on Prince’s ability to come
Irorn a good way back. Finishing fairly, he was
m the bunch behind the placed horses; but
even with a clear run he probably wouldn’t have
troubled Abbeville, who won like a sturdy
miler.
A grand performance in the Doncaster was
Mclhero’s fourth. At the leger, where Abbe-
ville was just passing Warlock and Repshot, the
solidly-weighted Melfort three-year-old—he had
three pounds over w.f.a.—was hopelessly placed
on the rails back near the tail of the field. He
finished splendidly on the outside. Repshot,
much boomed in betting-plunge stories before
the day, had every chance, and finished 13th.
War Eagle did fairly well, as usual; an ex-
periment of racing him more might produce re-
sults. Tea Rose was second-last, with Ribbon
behind her.
The Autumn Stakes running said either a lot
for old Katanga or mighty little for Sydney’s
current and recent w.f.a. performers. Cook,
replacing Thompson on Flight, tried holding
her back for the last run. It made no differ-
ence. The hardy, deceptively constructed old
fellow, with Munro up, trundled along in front,
shaking his tail in protest at the role, but
staying there all the mile and a half. Flight,
always handy enough to win, declined to show
any of her old finishing dash. Veiled Threat
was third and Dewar the only other starter.
Accession (Cook) duly won the St. Leger,
coming from last in an easy, long run to beat
Ceylon and Beau Monde, with Prince Verity
and Milanion the other starters. None of them
had the slightest chance against Accession.
In the Vaucluse Sir Francis (Mulley) showed he
has improved in sticking ability by very easily
beating Constable, Nobleman, Kimbell and
other fair welter performers, and Craigie
(Duncan) won the City Handicap from Welles-
ley, Scene, etc.
Craigie’s form proved the best of guides to
the Sydney Cup result. Again ridden by
Duncan, Craigie, who was sired- by Chatham,
himself not a stayer, though there is, of course,
staying blood in the family, won the Cup from
Russia and Flight. Flight and Royal Peer
were battling it out at the leger; Royal Peer
faded out, but Flight hung on gamely. She
is unlucky in big handicaps.
Weights not being out when this page was
printed, no selections were possible for the
final races of the Autumn meeting next Satur-
day. If she runs Enthuse should be somewhere
amongst them.
Allowing all their claims to fame, the grand
horse who was known as “old” David when
he was still winning races will have a place on
his own. An outstanding example of the value
of soundness as a breeding quality, he was a
remarkable sire of hurdlers and fencers. Yet
another of them, Bay David, added to that
repute with a five-lengths win in the Glenelg
Trial Hurdle at Mentone last Saturday. The
former Sydney welter performer Ron Rico
(second) shaped well in carrying list, in his
first run over the jumps.
In the Ascot Easter Cup the Manitoba four-
year-old Oatcake added to the Lou Robertson
stable’s recent good wins by overhauling and
beating the topweight St. Fairy, after that con-
sistent performer looked a sure winner. Canada
was a handy third.
Consistency had a better reward in the Win-
chester Handicap, the Talking mare Busybody
beating Antes and Grand Legend a head and
half a head. Antos, however, looked decidedly
unlucky not to have won it easily. She was
in a lot of bother in the running, and her
finishing run was only the barest fraction late.
Carngham also ran truly to form by defeating
Leryhen, Euxine and the rest of the big two-
year-old field in the Canterbury Handicap, and
Hispano was too good for Metro Star, Britisher
and the rest of the Exeter Handicap three-year-
olds.
* * * *
Before the current Sydney yearling sales (bid-
ding about to open when this page was in the
hands of the printer) it was reported that an
advance offer of 3000 guineas had been re-
fused for the Ajax-Privet colt. There was a
similar advance report before the Newmarket
(Eng.) sales —a, refused offer of 10,000 guineas
for the Hyperion-Campanula filly Carpatica.
At the sales bidding opened at 6000 guineas;
the ultimate purchaser, Mrs. Nagle, came in at
12.000 guineas, and carried on till 15,000
guineas was reached, a record price for a two-
year-old at public auction.
That, together with other big prices realised at
the Newmarket sales, is making English owners
wonder what figures they’ll have to go to at
the first post-war sales, with competitors from
America, France, Denmark, Belgium and else-
where. Before the war some good stock was
also sold to Russia, and it’s expected that “even
Germany will return to Newmarket to have her
sadly-depleted stocks replenished.” In the past
20 years at least 25 p.c. of the thoroughbreds
offered at Newmarket were bought for export.
The aggregate of the Newmarket sales in the
three years after 1939 was 74,865 guineas. In
1943 it rose staggeringly to 259,585 guineas.
There has been heavy buying for Ireland, and
one or two choice lots were bought at the
latest sales for Brazil, including 6000 guineas
for a three-part sister of the Derby winner Blue
Peter. In a private deal the Ascot Gold Cup
and Doncaster Cup winner Foxhunter was also
bought for export to Brazil. A buyer for
Argentine interests bought lots at a total of
30.000 guineas.
Before the war Britain exported an average
of more than 1000 thoroughbreds a year—
J-u C T?°» , as Lord Rosebery has de-
scribed it, that is desired all over the world
and which can be obtained nowhere else in
such excellence; the British thoroughbred
stands alone.” Lord Rosebery listed India,
New Zealand, South America, and
u £. me ™ ca i as P resent eager to buy
British bloodstock. The demand, he said is
greater now than it has ever been. He was
appealing for the allowance of more English
racing, and warned that “if we are closed down
much longer in the manner that we are at
the present time the future outlook will be bad.”
In those remarks the president of the British
Thoroughbred Breeders’ Association was touch-
ing on what is a fundamental in English blood-
stock breeding, and what should be that every-
where—the proving of potential sires and dams
in actual racing. Summing up on the big
December sales at Newmarket the “Times”
racing correspondent noted that buyers from
Australia and New Zealand and the other
countries mentioned by Lord Rosebery “were
all eager to pay prices that produced the
biggest aggregate ever reached at these sales.”
The “Times” writer also urged more racing,
since “it is asking for disaster to breed from
animals that have not passed the acid test of
being tried on the racecourse.” The line some-
times appended to the names of dams in Aus-
tralian sales catalogues—“She was only lightly
raced” —would not mean much in England,
where they like to know just what they’re
breeding from.
The London “Times” racing correspondent
suggested that there was a good deal of
gambling about the buying at the Newmarket
sales. “It was quite obvious,” he wrote, “that
buyers were content to take a chance with mares
that had not run because of the war,” but, he
added, “it has to be remembered that if these
mares prove failures at the stud it is going to
have a serious effect abroad on the prestige of
this country’s thoroughbreds.”
* * * *
An extraordinary breeding story comes from
America, with that great horse Whirlaway in
the leading role. Before fixing fees it’s cus-
tomary to test for fertility, using a non-
thoroughbred mare. Whirlaway, having earned
$561,161 on the tracks, ended his racing on
June 26, 1943, and arrived at Calumet Farm
a month later; a time of the year when the
breeding season is long over and it’s not easy
to find a test mare. However, in October one
was found. In due course, though conception
in October is quite rare there, Whirlaway’s
owner had the necessary information to fix the
fee ($1500). Satisfaction was complete when
the progeny duly foaled was a colt. Ordinarily
nothing further of such progeny appears in
racing or breeding records, but in this case
the mare was now proved to be quite royally
bred —the unraced Mary V, daughter of High
Time, the leading U.S. money-winning sire of
1928. Mary V had brought $6500 as a yearling.
January 1 being the birthday of all U.S.
thoroughbreds regardless of foaling date, the
colt will be rated as a two-year-old when, actu-
ally, he’ll be one year and four months. Still,
he’s reported to be growing extra fast. He’s
been registered with the appropriate enough
name of First Whirl.
* * * *
“Jacky Roo”: That Peter Pan of
cricket Clarrie Grimmett turned in a
fine performance on the final day of the
S.A.C.A. district cricket season at Ade-
laide. Bowling for Kensington against
University with all his old guile, the vet-
eran trundled down 27.5 overs and took
8 for 86. Although no official premier-
ship was held this year, Prospect won
unofficial honors. Find of the year was
19-year-old Colin Webb, now in the
Navy. Webb has all the shots, a sound
defence and a Test match temperament.
Two good judges who predict big things
for the youngster are Don Bradman and
Herbert Sutcliffe.
* H= ■ * *
“2641”: “PA.” (B. 14/3/’45) is slightly
awry in his sequence of events when he


If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a courses _
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Bog Soap.
q
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
STOP SETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night FecauSS of
lack of control over the urine. When your
Test is Interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising In the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take Immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and Inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflnesa under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don't delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
Strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid In ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
BO AN’S BACKACHE) KIP.NEY PILLS to-day.
Mamijacfttrent ef
Airways will be made available
whenever war needs permit.
MADE BY
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Hill!
mm a
hi
jii
o*m
Tl
Modern high-clf*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless: •
*‘METROPOLE,” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
q
refers to Collins nursing Ponsford in the
latter’s first Test a few weeks after Brad-
man and Archie Jackson had been wor-
ried by the bowling of Maurice Tate.
Bradman and Jackson were both at
school at this time (1924). Ponsford, m
his first Test against Arthur Gilligan s
team, joined the select band of those
securing a century in a Test debut. Pons-
ford went one better —he scored a
century in his second Test. In addition
he holds the distinction of a century in
each of his last two Tests, played in Eng-
land in 1934, when he and Bradman
were associated in mammoth partner-
ships. Bradman and Jackson first faced
the Englishmen in 1928 (Chapman’s XI).
♦ * * *
“Old ’Un”: Noting Turner’s advice
“to bowl at the wicket” (B. 28/3/’45) I
waded through the preformances of some
of the notable bowlers in Test cricket and
this is what I dug out: Ernie Jones, 60
wickets—3B bowled, 19 caught, three
l.b.w. ; Spofforth, 94 wickets —51 bowled,
38 caught, three 1.b.w., two stumped ;
Turner, 101 wickets —41 bowled, 54
caught, three 1.b.w., three stumped;
Trumble, 141 wickets —88 caught, 35
bowled, 16 1.b.w., two stumped; Lar-
wood, 64 wickets—3s caught, 25 bowled
and four stumped.
* * * *
“Golesneek”: Just now spare allot-
ments and back streets of suburban Mel-
bourne are infested with youths and foot-
balls and the honest wayfarer never
knows whether he’ll stop a muddy hunk
of leather with his face or have some
yelling oaf fall on his neck. Still, unless
the victim’s a stranger, there’s likely to be
more apology than indignation, for Mel-
bourne’s mighty tolerant of its football-
ing youth, and anybody at all in a train
or tram is likely to start recalling the
good old days of “Up, there, Cazaly!”
or “Cum awn, Clover!” on the slightest
provocation. Which explains why, de-
spite the existence of a state of war be-
tween League and Association and be-
tween club and club, Melbourne looks
forward to the coming season with cheer-
ful anticipation. Everybody, that is,
except the umpires.
♦ * * *
“Offside”: The development of foot-
ball codes in Australia has a queer his-
tory. Rugby was played under very amor-
phous rules when the game first arrived,
and was mainly confined to schools.
When A. E. Stoddart •skippered a visiting
team in the ’nineties the divergences be-
tween Rugby and Australian codes were
so slight that in Victoria, where the Aus-
tralian game had taken root, matches
were arranged in both codes. The Eng-
lishmen won in their own and lost in
the unfamiliar code. N. S. Wales jeal-
ousy of Victoria barred the acceptance of
rules “made in Victoria,” and the senior
State adopted amendments gradually in-
troduced in England. Queensland was
influenced by the N.S.W. attitude ; Vic-
toria carried South Aus, Westralia and
Tassie with it. Rugby must have been
a wild scramble when it was a 19-a-side
game ; the number was reduced to 17,
and stayed there a long time before the
reduction to 15. An estate agent named
Butler (a great A.N.A. man) made a great
effort to make the Australian Rules game
strong in Sydney by bringing star players
from Melbourne to play, getting jobs
for them with Sydney firms. One of the
men gave up football when nicely settled
in his job, and another, with the tempta-
tion of a chance against an English Rugby
team, swapped codes.
$ * * ♦
Dave Sands, voted the best of half a
dozen fighting brothers, came to Leich-
hardt from Newcastle to box Max
Cameron and returned with a well-
earned decision ; but he has a great deal
to learn. Jackson, the greatest of all
colored boxers (Sands is colored), was a
straight puncher. Sands is a swinger,
and, though full of energy, he missed
often. This didn’t matter much against
Cameron, who boxed on the retreat,
with no great skill, but a confident man
with a good left would make things very
nasty for Sands. However, Dave is only
19, so he has plenty of time to learn the
essentials and the' finer points of the
game. He is strong and tough enough.
Though science was lacking, Johnny
Shields proved to be full of fight against
Reg Tozer at the Sydney Stadium, and
his consistent slugging enabled him to
squeeze home on points. The bout was
exciting at all times, and gory on Tozer’s
side. In the very first round his right
eyebrow bled, and so much carmine
came from it in the sixth that Joe Wallis
inspected the injury at “corners.” Tozer
pleaded that he could carry on, and he
did, engaging in many toe-to-toe rallies.
In fact, Tozer won the twelfth round, but
Shields had not lost his lead. The youth
is from Queensland, and he was giving
the Sydney lad 61b. —a considerable han-
dicap to a lightweight, though it never
seemed to bother Shields.


Woman's Letters
From Melbourne
With a nautical eye to detail the Royal
Navy Fleet Maintenance Section saw
that every guest had a good time at <its
late afternoon party at Grosvenor. Set
in lovely gardens, with panelled walls,
fine pictures and bowls of glorious
flowers, Grosvenor provides an ideal
background for pretty frocks and uni-
forms. Admiral Daniel was a jovial
guest, and greatly admired was the gold-
braided uniform of Commander Brock-
man. Keeping his weather S/e on the
guests was Commander Allen, R.N., one
of the hosts.
Among the guests were numbered
many of this city’s best-known people.
Pretty Joan Freedman, in black with a
grey fox bolero and flower hat, was with
husband, Capt. Ralph Freedman (A.1.F.,
ret.). Mrs. Ada Colman was smart in
black and silver foxes and small black
hat trimmed with pink ospreys. Com-
mander Lord Gifford and his lady were
also guests, she wearing black with silver
foxes and black and pink hat. Mrs.
Wesley Ince, another who chose black,
brought along her two daughters. Betty,
also in black, sported a small hat trimmed
with tea-rose pink ribbon, and Billy,
who has just announced her engagement
to Flying-Officer John Baragwanath,
wore navy blue. Group-Captaii* Eric
Harrison was accompanied by his wife,
who chose red, with a small red velvet
rose-trimmed hat. Mrs. Charles Lyon
was another smart guest in black. Among
the women in uniform was Chief Officer
Samuel, in the trim navy blue of the
W.R.N.S.
An event of last week was the open-
ing by Lud Mayor Nettlefold of the
Hopetoun Free Kindergarten. The build-
ing, which cost £11,500, is to accommo-
date 70 children from 18 months to five
years old. There are two nurseries, a
large dining-room, kitchen and laundry,
and a large playground. Many windows
let in light -and sunshine. The City
Council will pay half the cost of main-
tenance. The City Fathers furnished the
place, with particular attention to small
tables and chairs, excellent china' and
pretty floral place mats. A representa-
tive gathering of interested men and
women watched the Lud Mayor open
the doors with a gold key.
Mrs. T. A’Beckett, president of the
Pre-School Child Development Commit-
tee and Mrs. J. D. G. Medley, president
of the Lady Hunfingfield Free Kinder-
garten, were among those present. Miss
Mary Lush, president of the Kindergarten
Union, and Mrs. J. A. Wunderley, of the
Opportunity Clubs, were with M. M.
Crump, principal of the Kindergarten
Training College. Dr. Vera Scantlebury
Browne spoke on behalf of the Minister
of Health, lan Macfarlan. Dr. John
Dale, health officer, and members of the
City Council were also among those who
supped afternoon-tea. With the Lud
Mayor was the Lady Mayoress, Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell, in a graceful black
frock with cyclamen accessories which
happily matched a bouquet of flowers
presented by Mrs. Townsend.
Mayoress Campbell entertained the
members of, the Southern Auxiliary for
the Tweddle Hospital at supper in her
reception rooms at the Town Hall. Mrs.
Garnet Curwen set off her fair coloring
with a frock in a warm shade of red
and twisted a ribbon into the coils of
her hair, making an unusual headdress.
Mrs. David Knox, vice-president, chose
black and Miss Maxine Portus, hon, sec.,
favored white-spotted navy blue. Plans
discussed during the evening included the
arranging of card parties to be held by
members in their own homes on a special
night. Mrs. Campbell will lend her home
in East St. Kilda for a garden party. At
supper Margaret Campbell cut a delicious
ice-cream birthday cake, made in honor
of herself and her twin brother, Flight-
Sergeant David Campbell.
Tall and slim and wearing a hunter-
green boucle suit with matching forage
cap, Mrs. Lena Rupert, newly appointed
assistant director of the American Infor-
mation Library, recently arrived in Mel-
bourne. A native of Ohio, Mrs. Rupert
has lived for the last 14 years in New
York, where she was formerly director
of the Public Library of Long Island,
N.Y. America, Mrs. Rupert says, is very
much like Australia under war condi-
tions. Queues of people line up at eight
o’clock every morning for cigarettes, and
sometimes the queue stretches for two
blocks. There are many empty shelves
to be seen in shops and rationing has be-
came more severe. Women are working
valiantly in munitions and many thou-
sands of them have joined the women’s
services or the Red Cross.
The Australian Information Library
in New York has developed greatly, Mrs.
Rupert said, and many Americans are
using it. Schools ask for various sorts of
information and the women’s clubs of
America, which wield a great deal of in-
fluence, have been asking that a booklet
on Australia should be compiled so that
it may be read at their meetings. Mrs.
Rupert’s 18-year-old daughter Jean has
been left at college in, Pennsylvania.
Warned in America of the treachery of
the Melbourne climate, Mrs. Rupert has
brought loads of warm clothes.
The war with Japan brought to Aus-
tralia pianist Madame Alice Carrard (pic-
tured here by Athol Smith), and after
many years of retirement she has decided
to again appear on the concert platform.
She has broadcast under A.B.C. auspices
several times recently. Born in Hungary,
Madame studied with Professor Tho-
mann, pupil of Liszt. At Budapest
Academy she was a fellow-student with
Eugene Ormandy. When 18 she gave
her first recital in Vienna, following this
with a tour of the capital cities of
Europe. While visiting Lausanne she met
a mining engineer, who became her
husband. His work took him and his
wife to Malaya and thenceforward she
played only for her own and her hus-
band’s pleasure.
Occasional visits were paid to Singa-
pore, where Lady Small, wife of the
acting-Governor, arranged many morning
musicales at which Madame appeared as
pianist. While Madame Carrard was on
a visit to Perth with her small son war
broke out in the Pacific and, although a
Swiss national, Madame Garrard’s hus-
band thought it best that she remain in
Australia. Taking up her residence
with Mrs. Threadgold, well known in
Perth - for her patriotic work, Madame
entered into Australian life and has
given several recitals in aid of the A.C.F.
Prior to leaving Perth, Lady Small, who
with her husband Sir Alexander Small,
has lived in Perth since Japan became
hostile, give a reception to Madame Car-
rard.
Among the old masters, Beethoven is
the favorite composer of this pianist, and
among the moderns a fellow-Hungarian,
Bela Bartok. Incidentally,' Mrs. Jimmy
Dyer, a former resident of Melbourne,
who later went to France to spend the
remaining years of her life and there con-
trolled the Lyre Bird Press, published
300 copies of The Life and Works of
Bela Bartok, and gave them away. When
Madame Carrard has finished her broad-
casts in this city she will visit Sydney to
fulfil a broadcasting engagement on
April 26.
Accompanying Madame Carrard on
her visit to the Eastern States is Mrs.
Threadgold, whose organising abilities
have been devoted to making the
recitals given by Madame completely
successful. Mr. Threadgold is a mining
engineer &nd he recalls that on the gold-
fields 40 or 50 years ago the women
used the red covers of The Bulletin to
dye dresses that had faded. Before her
marriage Mrs. Threadgold was Edith
Green, member of a well-known Mel-
bourne family. Her brother Gordon is
carrying on Fairbridge ideals as super-
visor of child emigration in Britain.
From Sydney
The woman who had got her fur coat
out of cold storage in time for the
autumn meeting was the clever one.
Those of her sisters who hadn’t went
about looking as though they were in
cold storage themselves. Easter Saturday
at Randwick was bitter chill, and hare-
brained fashions were absent. The usually
fashionable were there in cohorts, of
course, but warmth in dress was what
they had sought. The stands were dressed
in an almost unending procession of suits
—tailored and dressmaker-made. The
soft, blurred check was well to the fore
in tweeds, and indeed in the ruthless
wind that slapped the face of the stands
the tweeds looked the most competent
and therefore the smartest of all. Tweeds
in soft pinks,' blues and greens flashed
here and there. Millinery most favored
was the kind that grips the head. A few
even kept hair and ears in place with gay
kerchiefs.
Of all the wraps out to see the Don-
caster won by Abbeville the most attrac-
tive was one of snow leopard. Its wearer
was Mrs. Brian Haynes. Berry-red was
worn by Mrs. H. O’Connell, Diana
Scott-Waine, Mrs, Marcel Dekyvere and
Mrs. Bill Adams. Mrs. Adams’s mother,
Mrs. Bishop, was smartly tailored in
grey. Mrs. Joe Coen was one of the
lucky backers of Constable (over £lO for
five shillings). Anne Crawley, in sap-
phire-blue tweeds, Sadie Budge in brown
checks, Lorna Bowen a flash of red on
her grey outfit, Mrs. De Baun gold motifs
on her black frock, Mrs. B. Chapman,
of Maoriland, in her khaki uniform,
pretty Julee Helen McGrath, one of the
snooded, and Mrs. Jim Normoyle, one of
the “bobby” hatted, were others who
braved the wind and the rain.
A loud hand was given to Ray Hartley,
who played the part of Raymond Pringle,
the kid brother, in “Kiss and Tell.” This
young Australian stepped into the part
at 24 hours’ notice. Poor young Peter
Mendoza, the Raymond of the Melbourne
twelvemonth season, is ill in St. Vincent’s
Hospital, where the doctor thrust him a
day or so before the opening. “Kiss and
Tell” is a play about ’teen-olds and
under. It might be called a farce with a
domestic background. Dog-lovers who
have spoiled and petted canines about the
house roared with laughter over the
Archers’ hound, who, when Mr. Archer
gets into a brawl with his neighbor
Pringle, grows excited and bites his own
master’s leg. “Gosh, isn’t that just the
fool thing our Rover would do?” gasped
a streaming-eyed man to his wife.
As constant as the drain on Red Cross
resources is the steady work of its en-
thusiasts. Seven hundred bottles of jam
was Mrs. W. P. Minell’s effort for one
particular Red Cross activity. She has
made thousands and thousands of bottles
of both jam and pickles for the cause in
the last few years. In these energetic
culinary undertakings Mrs. Minell is ably
assisted by her husband in her Birtley
Towers flat, Elizabeth Bay. Mrs. Minell
is Divisional Commandant for Women
Personnel and has a number of Red
Cross appointments, including vice-presi-
dent Red Cross Day Committee, member
of Junior Red Cross Executive and organ-
iser of Red Cross Aid Companies. Her
most recent undertaking is presidency of
Headquarters Branch. Her only son,
Lieut. Bruce Minell, is on active service.
Photograph from Talma.
Red Cross is in the air this week. This
morning at ten o’clock the 1945 confer-
ence of N.S.W. Division opens. The
sessions will be continued on Thursday
and Friday, and according to the agenda
some very practical benefits to both
civilians and soldiers will be discussed.
Eden’s suggestion of Red Cross aid to
secure an ambulance for isolated country
centres 10 miles from a doctor or hos-
pital seems very sound. So is the resolu-
tion from Parkes that a change should
be brought about in the method of
notifying relations of fatalities and
casualties to members of their families
in the. fighting forces. Rollands Plains
branch has an eye to the welfare of the
soldier toymaker when it proposes that
the authorities be asked to impose a
heavy import duty on all toys.
Australian play-writers are interested
in the fortunes of Sydney writer Max
Afford, whose play, “Lady in Danger,”
has got its first footing on the American
stage. The Lady made her professional
bow to Sydney audiences at the half
past five session at the Royal. The piece
has been given a South Pacific angle for
American audiences. Its principal vil-
lain has been changed from German to
Japanese, and the scene is laid in Mel-
bourne instead of in London. Detroit
press notices were favorable, but a New
York “Times” review was coldly hos-
tile.
There were few Easter eggs for the
young fry this year. Inquiries last week
at three city shops failed to produce one,
though one assistant had a vague theory
that there had been some but they were
sold out. However, there were other
sweets, and by going early and staying
late the shopper could emerge with a few
sticky little packets. Australians think
little of this, but English servicewomen
rave over our sweets. Our fruit, shoes
and handbags also cause them to gloat.
Australian woollen goods, too, are among
things admired. Wool, one English girl
said last week, was scarce in her home
town when she left —even knitting wool.
Another of the McGirr girls is about
to be married. This time it is Dr. Gwen
who has an early fitting for an engage-
ment ring. The young man is Flight-
Lieut. John Tyrer, R.A.A.F., who was a
fellow-medical student at Sydney Univer-
sity. Gwen, second daughter of the Greg
McGirrs, of North Sydney, is resident
medico at Goulburn District Hospital.
Flight-Lieut. Tyrer is the only son of the
S. J. Tyrers, of Bondi. He is on leave
from New Guinea.
Sydney Scammell’s exhibition of Aus-
tralian landscapes were well worth a visit
to his studio in Paling’s Buildings, Ash-
street. The artist’s rooms, which are on
the top of the building, a flight up after
the lift stops, were once the artistic work-
shop of Lister Lister. The show was
managed by the widow of painter W. S.
Watkins, of popular memory. Mrs. John
Moore made the opening speech.
To many the basement of the Town
Hall may seem a dull if not gloomy place,
but to the two groups of young wives
from England who "had a date there with
the servicemen husbands they had met
and married in their homeland, and from
whom they had been parted for two and
more years, it was a sort of pavilion of
romance. With some of the wives were
baby sons and daughters who said “hello”
to their fathers for the first time. These
bright-faced mothers and their babes make
another uplift to our population problem,
and Australia is proud to welcome them.
About half of the husbands were unable
to be present to greet their families, but
many of the brides are for other States,
so their reunions are just a little delayed.
All the girls have done their bit at war
work in Great Britain.
The wedding will take place today at
St. Martha’s, Strathfield, of Margaret Hill,
younger daughter of the P. R. Hills of
Strathfield (father is secretary of Anthony
Horderns) to Gunner Boyd Ryan, A.1.F.,
younger son of M, J. V. Ryan and the
late Mrs. Ryan, of Bexley. The bride
will wear a frock of ivory crepe and triple
tulle, and she will be attended by her
sister, Mrs. John O’Hara, Mrs. Robert
Turner and Patricia Palmer. The recep-
tion will be held at Amory.
Unobtrusively as ever, the Lunch-time
Music Club has started on a new year
of endeavor. Its achievements in the
years of war lead subscribers to
expect another year of good music excel-
lently served. History House is still the
club’s meeting-place. At last concert
pianist Alexander Sverjensky played a
sonata of Roy Agnew’s, and listeners
were pleased to hear Sydney de Vries
announce that fellow-musicians of Roy’s
hoped to found a competitive scholarship
as a memorial to the gifted Australian
composer, who died last year. Mayoress
Neville Harding and First-Officer Kath-
leen Butters and Second-Officer B.
Hoopell, both of the W.R.N.S. were the
guests of honor.
Former Sydney woman Margaret
Baxter, now living in London, where she
is one of the best-known members of the
Forum Club, has had an experience of
the flying-bomb. Fortunately for her,
as she was sleeping close to a window,
the curtains were thick, and in addition
there were heavy black-outs, too, and the
crash which buried her in debris-plaster
and cut glass —did her no physical in-
jury. Nerves, though, were a bit shaken,
but Margaret, indomitable as ever, writes
to say a holiday in North Wales pul
them right. ]


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tne contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others per line.
The Maoriland Way
Of 60,815 men and women discharged
from the M.L. forces to December, 1944,
only 850 had not been replaced into in-
dustry by the Government Rehabilita-
tion Scheme.
In addition, a returned invalided sol-
dier, married, with two children obtains
a pension of £6 14s. 6d. a week, free of
tax, plus the benefits of training or
apprenticeship in profession or trade.
You rarely get inspiration from statis-
tics, but in this case you do. A nation’s
appreciation of her sons’ willingness to
sacrifice may be judged by the manner
in which she welcomes them home. Is
her heart open and bountiful, showering
a gratitude that is warm yet practical?
Or are the boys immediately aware of
the restriction of privileges, the uncer-
tainty of a future, the tightening band
of meddlesome adjustments?
To war-weary men such a garden of
weeds is poor reward for their services.
Maoriland is a small nation ; it is said
small people are more tidy in their ways.
But there’s more than just neatness in
those figures. What’s N.Z. got that we
haven’t? — Dumbell (N.S.W.),
Preference
Thousands of ex-servicemen have
joined the R.S.L. and kindred organisa-
tions. They hope for a sympathetic settle-
ment from a grateful nation ; and to this
hope they cling in spite of the fact that
many of them haven’t a roof over their
heads yet.
Practically every improvement in con-
ditions gained by Australian labor has
been the result of more or less direct and
occasionally unpleasant action. The ex-
servicemen will feel that they have a
stronger case than any pre-war body of
trade-unionists had.
What the serviceman wants is satisfac-
tory reinstatement (provided for at
present in Queensland legislation only)
and a measure of security after years of
hardship and uncertainty. He can see
little evidence of realising his hopes in
such cases as that of the Sandringham
(Vic.) ex-soldier barber who, after re
opening his business, was refused a
tobacco license on the ground that his
pre-enlistment quota had been redistri-
buted among stay-at-home competitors.
—Lieutenant (A.1.F.).
Deeds of Australians
I have a booklet entitled Australians in
Action, the Story of Gallipoli, issued by
the Department of Education to every
senior school pupil back in 1915. Why
shouldn’t a similar booklet be issued tell-
ing the story of the Australians’ part in
the war in the Middle East, North
Africa, Greece, New Guinea and else-
where, so that present-day school chil-
dren might learn about the deeds of our
own men? Far too many children are
getting the impression that only the Rus-
sians and Americans are doing or have
done anything worth recording in this
w’ar. —W. P. T. (N.S.W.).
Cheap Concrete Houses
A spanner was recently thrown into the
complacency of officialdom which is try-
ing to solve Queensland’s housing prob-
lem when O. C. Moffatt announced that
with 60 men, only nine of them skilled
tradesmen, he could build ten concrete
houses every 14 days for £7OO each. The
price seerhs exceptionally low, remember-
ing that fibro-sheet structures are costing
from £B5O to £ll5O.
The Moffat proposition is even more
attractive when specifications are con-
sidered. Built-in refrigeration and a cool-
ing system circulating cold water through
the ceiling, also a hot-water system, are
features now lacking in most homes.
This energetic contractor has proved to
Brisbanites that he is a practical man,
having quickly demolished Brisbane’s un-
sightly air-raid shelters, but a proviso he
makes regarding house-construction might
make his proposition unwelcome —he is
anxious to build, the houses, but wants
to do it “free of Government control.” —
Mark Patch (Q.).
Socialisation
I am deeply concerned at the an-
nounced intention of the Commonwealth
Government to assume control of our air-
lines and of the Commonwealth Bank.
Why should the direction of so vital and
well managed an industry as the airways
be taken away from those who have
proved themselves competent, and given
to a weak, inefficient and unreliable
Labor Government, such as our present
one? The referendum—a costly under-
taking—bluntly denied that Government
such powers, and Mr. Curtin gave his
promise that the Government would not
use the war as an excuse for socialisa-
tion.
To do away with the Commonwealth
Bank Board, replacing it with one indi-
vidual, to be subordinate to the Govern-
ment, is an even greater outrage. It
is a big step towards the sort of tyran-
nous dictatorship to overturn which our
men have fought, and in resisting which
so many have died or suffered imprison-
ment - .
As a depositor in the Commonwealth
Bank of many years’ standing, I hope the
institution will continue to be indepen-
dent of and unfettered by a Labor Gov-
ernment, which is merely an echo and
instrument of the Labor Caucus. That
Caucus mostly represents labor unions
and civil servants—not by any means
does it voice the opinion of the majority
or consider the will of the people of
Australia as a whole.— Democrat (Q.).
_
Why Pick on Sydney ?
I live in the country, when at home,
but I feel that recent critics of Sydney
show unwarranted bias and prejudice.
“Eromeno” (B. 28/2/’45) has failed
to say anything constructive. His
allegations that the populace is con-
“Ask ’em to come back later, Sarge —I don't feel up to visitors now!."
cerned with the finding of cash for beer,
races, dogs and pictures, and that mothers
and cripples are madly jostled in wild
scrambles for tram, train and bus seats,
are, to some extent, undoubtedly correct.
But that applies in all Australian capitals.
The last four years have taken me
into all States except Westralia. Adelaide
trams I found the most crowded in the
Commonwealth, the aged and infirm re-
ceiving no preferential treatment in the
rush for seats or standing room. Picture
theatres were booked out days in ad-
vance, and beer plentiful enough to pro-
duce more than enough drunks. Races
and trots flourished, though betting was
not on a big scale, and I liked the picnic
outlook.
In Melbourne I walked any distance
up to four miles rather than join in the
all-in battle for transport. I once had a
seat in a tram, and as the journey pro-
gressed stood to make room for an
elderly woman who had entered the car.
The seat was promptly grabbed by a young
husky, dressed in very well-cut civvies.
Queues lined the streets for even early-
morning picture “sessions.” Around
6 p.m. Swanston-street, between Flinders
and Collins-streets, exhibited more drunks
to the square yard than I have seen in
any other part of the world. Pubs were
mainly disgusting swilleries. Betting on
the racecourses reached colossal propor-
tions, and wagers could be legally made
on dogs, peds., and cyclists at many
tracks. Hardly any commodity was not
procurable on the black market. Bac-
carat and gambling dens flourished,
almost openly.
With slightly less betting, the same
story can be told of Brisbane. Unless
one was wearing an American uniform
it was almost hopeless to secure a meal
without a very long wait, and street
brawls were commonplace. North
Queensland cities wer& dirty and un-
kempt. There it was mostly impossible
to get a drink at all, unless armed with
your own pot and the strength to battle
long and hard.
In country districts, irrespective of
State, I found a vastly different state of
affairs. Very little black marketing,
people courteous and understanding and
hotels where a man can have a drink in
civilised surroundings. To my mind,
the people who live close to the soil
have always maintained more of the
art of living with graciousness.
Sydney is full of faults, but to single
it out for adverse criticism is unfair.
There are still thousands of splendid
people in city as well as country areas.
I for one will cheer when these people
assert their influence to bring about a
return of the courtesy and dignity which
once marked our lives. Perhaps the first
thing to be done should be to curb the ac-
tivities of the foieign refugee element
which has poured into our cities during
the last few years. — Stanus (R.A.A.F.).
Overstocking and' Erosion
E. W. Cowen (B. 21/3/’45) scarcely
makes his point when he refers to “judi-
cious heavy overstocking” after rain. This
cannot, by the wildest stretch of imagi-
nation, be confused with the injudicious
and continuous process to which the word
overstocking usually refers when stock
are kept on depleted pasture in dry
weather and are allowed to walk it and
pull it out by the roots, leaving the pad-
docks open to erosion.
The loose open downs between Corona
(C.Q.) and Evesham (Mt. Victoria) boun-
daries are known as alkali country, and
would make better grazing with the treat-
ment E.W.C. suggests, which I would
describe as heavily grazed or fed off.
Nevertheless, overstocking or injudi-
cious continual stocking, combined with
dry weather, is the chief cause of erosion,
whatever may be said to the contrary. —
lan C. A. Drew (N.S.W.).
Coming of Age
In some matters we have less wisdom
than the ancients, less even than our own
aborigines. One of them is the way we
hand Youth the key of the door. Com-
pare the Roman way, as described in
Lloyd Douglas’s The Robe:
When a Roman of our sort comes of age
there is an impressive ceremony by which
we are inducted into manhood... .this was
. one of the high moments of life.... I re-
member how our relatives and friends as-
sembled that day. My father made an
address, welcoming me into the Roman
citizenship. It was as if I had never lived
until that hour. I was so deeply stirred
that my eyes swam with tears. Then good
old Cornelius Capito made a _ speech, a
very serious one, about Rome’s right to
my loyalty, my courage and strength.
Capito and my father put a white toga on
me —and life had begun.
More enlightened views on citizenship
are needed if civilisation is to progress,
if moral values are to survive and democ-
racy to justify itself. A gay party, with a
golden key as symbol, is an inadequate
ceremony of initiation into the responsi-
bilities of manhood. The key can too
easily mean “Go where you like, come
home when you like and do as you
please,” three heady freedoms for a young
man unless he is also given a great vision,
such as a solemn and noble ceremony
can give.
We have “passing-out parades” in the
services. This is our great opportunity
to take over into peace-time that cere-
monial of attainment, acceptance, wel-
coming ; of the public vow taken in com-
pany with other candidates-and blessed by
the presence of relatives and friends.
Such a handclasp between maturity and
youth, such a solemn charge, with its
sense of strong human encouragement,
of understanding and comradeship be-
tween the generations, should have a deep
psychological effect, not only on the can-
didates but on the spectators, too. The
call to creative citizenship addressed to
the young must surely have an equiva-
lent—perhaps even profounder —effect on
those who have passed further along the
road. The responsibilities held out in
the charge to the young men ought to
shame maturity into healthy self-search-
ing and the impulse to make'amends or
to share the tasks.
Some token (certificate or diploma)
worthy of the occasion could be for the
young man of today what the toga was
to the Roman youth.
No, I have not overlooked the women.
The equality of the franchise and the re-
sponsibilities it implies, the feminine
claim for a bigger share in the tasks, re-
wards and opportunities of industry and
the professions, the large and seemingly
permanent place they have been given in
the services and other national organisa-
tions and the sense of comradeship, of
team spirit, that has arisen, make it logi-
cal that young women should either share
in the ceremonies or have similar ones of
their own.
It is a great opportunity for the
churches, civic leaders and all welfare
organisations to combine. Youth has
fought our war and saved our world
and is about to inherit that world and
its tasks. We have much to hand to our
young people, and they have much to
face. We can make it one of the high
moments of life, which will be an assur-
ance and a challenge to both generations
when we hand them the key of the door.
—C. Washington White (Vic.).
Tasmanian Potatoes
In common with other potato-growing
States, the Speck has a record acreage and
a record crop of spuds this year. Owing
to summer rains a big * percentage has
developed a second growth and is classed
third grade and prohibited from sale for
human consumption.
These potatoes should not be allowed
to go to waste. They have a definite
value as stock feed, reckoned at £2 10s. a
ton. This pays only for digging and bags.
A subsidy would have to be given to cover
transport costs and allow the farmer to
recover cost of growing.
I understand this has been done in
Britain. Certainly in that country potatoes
have been turned into flour for bread-
making and have been the standby of the
poultry and pig industries. It is up to
Australian Agriculture Departments to
achieve the same results here. — Kirk
(Tas.)
Develop Australian Fisheries
We have been told that imported sal-
mon, herrings, sardines and other fish
delicacies will soon be seen on the Aus-
tralian market. More welcome would be
an announcement that the Government
plans to develop Australia’s own fish in-
dustry, particularly in the Northern Terri-
tory.
The waters of the north are teeming
with fish. Naturalists in the survey-ship
Geranium in 1923-5 reported that the fish
caught by them in the Pellew Islands,
Darwin and Cape Wessel included wolf-
herring, herring, hair-backed herring, an-
chovy, salmon, mackerel, trevalli, pony-
fish, soldier-fish, grant perch, rock cod,
coral-fish, red schnapper, grey schnapper,
bream, silver belly, red mullet, whiting,
barramundi and many other varieties.
Despite this report, very little has been
done to exploit these prolific waters. In
1931-2 only 40cwt. of fish, worth £4BO,
was produced in the Territory for ex-
port. During my long term in Darwin
as a soldier I saw tons of fish caught in
simple traps and distributed to hospitals
and units. Now that Australians have
done without imported fish for so long
our statesmen should become Australia-
minded and provide a national fishing
and canning industry, instead of stifling
our trade for the benefit of other nations.
—Turana (A.1.F.).
Post-war Trade
Our trade relations with Britain after
the war will be precarious, due to the
extensive development of manufactures
here in war-time. We will have to find
new markets for our farm produce. Hun-
dreds of millions of people in India and
China, underfed and under-nourished, are
a potential, untapped market. Trade be-
tween these countries and Australia will
help us to build a new economy. It will
at least help us to realise that we are
part of the Pacific, and not of Europe.
Our future lies in the Pacific and the
countries which border it. We must think
of ourselves as a continental nation with
unlimited economic, political and physical
possibilities. Our biased conservatism
must be broken down and replaced by
practical thinking of a progressive nature.
In our short history this continent has
fashioned us ; now we must fashion a
continent. — Ralph D. Maddern (S.A.).


C
o
o
o
a
o
®>oooO
Oooo^
ST
H
a
i
3
<&
/, v,.. ' ;
7)
C
Cs
0
0
go
m
O
0
zz/
9%
ITIII FJHSUS FS3IVCTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE . . . CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT . , a . . . ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO - CREME dc CACAO
GILBEDENE .... ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
V. & 1. BILEET LIMITED
ROSSLYN ST., WEST MELBOURNE REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams & Cables Melbourne Telegrams & Cables; "Gilbeys” Sydney
