

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin/’ Vol. 66-No. 3436
Wednesday, December 19, 1945
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Oflice, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
HAMMERSMITH BRIDGE FROM THE SOUTH SIDE.
'"THIS Hammersmith Bridge across the Thames was opened by
Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence, in 1887, to replace the
earlier suspension bridge of 1827, the first of its type near London.
About seven miles upstream from Westminster, this bridge serves •
the district between Putney and Kew and is in an area which has
many features of interest. During the Queen’s reign, the London
School of St. Paul’s removed from the City to Hammersmith ; also
within this borough is the Godolphin School dating from the six-
teenth century, and the schools of the Latymer Foundation. Beyond
the farther end of the bridge may be seen the tower of Hammer-
smith’s church of St. Paul, in which are a number of monuments
preserved from the former church here, founded by Laud in 1631.
In Hammersmith is the famous Lyric Theatre, which was opened
during Victoria’s reign, and also here is the King’s Theatre opened
in 1902. The many notable residents of Hammersmith have in-
eluded Sir William Crisp, who built Brandenburg House, once
the Fairfax headquarters, and William Morris, who started at
Hammersmith the Kelmscott Press. At Hammersmith in Queen
Victoria’s time were the headquarters of various rowing clubs,
and this bridge was always so seriously overcrowded during the
Oxford and Cambridge boatrace that the authorities had to forbid
the watching of the race from this vantage point.


SJy I
This Book FREE to YOUI
> fOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin:' 1
My Name
My Address
S.B. 346
AGE
The Red Page
"Banjo" Paterson .
Possibly because the proposal for a
national memorial to A. B. Paterson at
Yass reawakened interest in his work, 1
have been reading his Happy Despatches
again, and realise afresh that it has the
two first essentials of a work of reminis-
cence; it not only gives the clearest
possible word-pictures of all its personali-
ties and an infallible revealing of their
salient characteristics but it gives a full-
length portrait of “Banjo” himself, and
that while utterly ignoring all the conven-
tional devices of self-revelation.
If there was one content in human
personality that “Banjo” himself loathed
it was that which makes a public splurge
of its motives and emotions. He was the
most sardonically self-contained man I
ever met.
The word sardonic emerges first in any
effort to envisage his personality. The
second distinction that insists on attach-
ing itself to him is one that badly needs
a revaluation today. He was an aristo-
crat.
No man ever dared take a liberty with
him, and • that went for the snootiest
British brigadier-general to the crudest
Australian journalist. But his aristocratic
basis was that which derided all claims to
precedence unless those were vested in
genuine powers or virtues. It enforced
itself on all contacts with him without
the slightest effort on his part, and it gave
him that especial quality of the aristocrat
that he was able to meet all types of men
on their own ground and gain their
respect without ever abating his own
casual, sardonic presentation of himself.
He never unbent to posture in deference
to the prejudices of whatever company
he was in, whether it was a Lady Dudley
or Dempsey the rough-rider. And both
accorded him an equal respect.
It is impossible to define just what that
aristocratic quality evinced by “Banjo”
derives from. It is extremely rare. It is,
of course, something that all truly
superior minds have, but which very few
of them ever carry about with them as a
sort of exterior emanation; something
in the air between them and lesser men
which makes for an unfathomable dist-
ance in the spirit, not to be bridged by
the conventions of approach or the futile
appeal of words. In “Banjo’s” case, I
assume that his rejection of “the vulgar
desire for generous emotion” was based
on a concept of life which dispensed with
false sentiment and overstressed emotional
or intellectual valuations. In the Greek
definition of virtue, “Nothing in excess.”
It is rare that a superior spirit is given
a superior casing, but “Banjo” had it. A
tall man with a finely articulated body,
moving with the grace of perfectly co-
ordinated muscles. Black hair, dark eyes,
a long, finely curved nose, a dark pig-
mentation of the skin due to the prime
affliction of his life, bile. Every morning
he suffered a minor martyrdom till he had
got rid of its accumulations. His eyes
were a very distinctive feature, slightly
hooded and with a glance that looked be-
yond one as he talked. If it focused on
you it could be either tolerantly sardonic
or completely ruthless, as he accepted or
rejected opinion or outlook from you.
He rarely bothered to put acceptance
or rejection into words, though if he did
they were incisive enough. He had more
power to put you at a distance by one
casual glance than any ostracism by
words could do. He spoke slowly, with a
slight drawl, with a saturnine inflection.
Saturnine is another definitive word that
must be added to his portrait. Every line
in his dark-textured face was saturnine.
I knew Paterson from my early days
on The Bulletin up to the year of his
Jeath, but I was never intimate with him.
I doubt that anybody ever was. He had
no use for any sort of emotional inflec-
tion on the interchange of personality in
talk. My meetings with him, except in
the occasional event of a ride, were just
the chance meetings of any other two
inhabitants of the same earth of journal-
ism. They occurred spasmodically, with
gaps of years between them. I wish,
now, that I had kept some record of talk
with him, but, then, in the making of a
period, one is singularly obtuse to the
significance of those who are making it.
“Banjo,” at that time, was just one of
the contributors of occasional verse to
The Bulletin, or the editor of the “Even-
ing News,” or he had gone off somewhere
as a war correspondent. He had not
emerged as the man who had made the
Australian ballad distinctively his own
and distinctively an Australian product.
Or the man who had, roughly speaking,
compressed into a few years the time
factor in poetry between the early Eng-
lish balladists and the Elizabethans.
I daresay what talk I had with him was
casual enough, and had to do with affairs,
and horses, and very little to do with
valuations in the arts. For that matter,
I’distrust reminiscence that after a period
of years assumes to recall long slabs of
conversation. Nothing is so swiftly for-
gotten—unless one has made a practice
of imitating the talk of one friend for
the amusement of others (which is a
literary exercise, based on parody ; one
system of collecting minor characters for
the novel).
All the same, it is exasperating the way
memory ignores what must have been in-
teresting data and clings obstinately to
some triviality as the selected treasure of
a long period of experiences. This sort
of thing, for instance:
Myself and “Banjo” at Randwick. He
had a horse running, and I recall this
casual item of talk in reference to the
horse.
“Has it got a chance?”
“None whatever.”
“I’d like to prove you wrong about a
horse for once, so I’ll have a quid on it
with you.”
“Oh, I’ve no objection to making a
quid.”
“Banjo” made the quid, of course, and
I must accept the psychologists’ dictum
that if memory recalls a triviality it is.as
an association with something wilfully
forgotten. But that is no consolation for
forgetting the many terse opinions on life
and affairs “Banjo” must have made to
me in those exchanges. They were always
very much to the point. One such com-
ment from him sticks in my mind, and it
was so eminently characteristic of his
personality that it is worth recording.
I had bought a horse at that time which
was really above my modest capacity as
a rider. I managed to ride him, but there
were times when I could not control him.
He never threw me, but once he threw
himself with me on him. In the end he
cleared out with a groom I had and
smashed into a trap, threw the groom
and broke his leg, smashed up the trap
and its driver and himself as well, and I
had to have him shot. I pay myself a
mild compliment in giving this record of
him, but all the same, he gave me some
very bad rides, and I would have sold him
but for the derision I knew it would bring
down on me from the group of horse-
men I used to consort with at that time,
Colonel Bob Lenehan, Major Lucas and
others.
On Sunday mornings I sometimes took
this horse out to Centennial Park, and
often, by arrangement, picked up “Banjo”
at his house at, I think, Elizabeth Bay. I
never remember localities clearly.
Once, when we were idling round the
park, “Banjo” made that characteristic
remark I have referred to. Looking me
and my horse over, he said in his de-
tached drawl “I’ll buy that horse at your
funeral, Lindsay.”
I am pleased to believe that I gave
some stimulus to the writing of Happy
Despatches. It was over an arrangement
for me to illustrate those cheerful verses
of his, The Animals Noah Forgot, that I
had a long talk with him in The Bulletin
office, and he dropped into a reminiscent
vein, recalling some of his war corre-
spondent experiences. I said “This stuff
is too good to throw away in talk. Why
don’t you write it?”
“The nuisance is I don’t know how
far to go ; whether to tell the whole truth
or only half of it,” he said.
But he wrote the book, which is the
main thing; and again, quite apart from
its value as reminiscence and the charm
of its easy, casual prose, it gives an extra-
ordinarily clear picture of “Banjo” him-
self, and that is of a special significance.
For “Banjo” represented in both his
work and personality the transition stage
of the Australian from the man of action
in a small and parochial group of people
remote from world affairs generally, and
with only the initial struggle for a
national Culture evident, to full nation-
hood in both war and art. Behind that
reserve of his “Banjo” was intensely
conscious of and concerned for the dignity
of the Australian national character.
Though he remains very much an indi-
vidual, he strangely epitomised the best
qualities of the Australian outlook,—
those qualities which refer to a sardonic,
humorous and unsentimental outlook on
life: an outlook which makes for the
best literature.
And “Banjo,” it must be remembered,
met a great number of the notabilities of
his generation in going about the earth,
from Winston Churchill to Rudyard Kip-
ling, and they all respected him and were
aware that he was a unique personality.
And that was a very fine thing for an
Australian to have done, seeing that the
English of his day, and a great many of
the present day, dismissed and dismiss the
Australian as a Colonial, by which they
mean a crude denizen of the backblocks
of the earth with no claim to the dignity
of being a cultured human being. Aus-
tralian newspapers of today, of course,
still keep applying that stigma valuation
to Australia, but that is only because they
are the automatic products of the English
devaluation of us as Colonials. Perhaps,
also, because they are dimly aware that
the parochialism of which they are the
product is rapidly dying and in another
generation will be dead. It will never
survive once it is held forth for inspection
by that ruthless refusal to be deceived by
false pretensions and false values which
the spirit of “Banjo” Paterson derived
from, and bequeathed to, the Australian
national character.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
Some for Youngsters.
Australian publishers mostly make a
pretty good job of children’s books, and
this year’s Christmas lot includes an
attractive one about fish and mermaids
and drowned pirates—very nice and
handsome people, with a gallant leader,
who live their lives again on the bottom
of the sea— Pirates’ Gold (W. H. Honey
Publishing Co., Sydney), by Ruth C.
Williams, with Rhys Williams’s illustra J
tions. Wrecked galleons and the flash of
jewels and fairy-colored fishes in the
drawings.
Marjorie Rankin has illustrated Alec
and Catherine King’s Australian Holiday
(Georgian House, Melbourne) —the story
of a camping holiday on which the
children meet nearly all the pouched
animals —with full-page drawings in color
of kangaroos and bandicoots, possums
and numbats.
From Brisbane comes Billi-Billi’s Walk-
about (Watson, Ferguson), by Maureen
C. Meadows. It lacks the color-drawings
of the other two, but Berenice C.
Eblund’s black-and-white sketches of
birds and animals and the little aborigine,
Billi-Billi, help to tell the story of the
double Billi’s wanderings.
Prince William of Gloucester (Angus
and Robertson), by Lisa Sheridan, is a
collection of photographs which take the
Prince from when he was a thumb-suck-
ing infant on his mother’s knee to when
he could walk down to the stables to
offer a dog-biscut to a prize bull.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“C.Q.”: Some years back Victorian
provincial cities took up art promotion
with great enthusiasm, offering handsome
prizes, and there is now scarcely a town
of any size which hasn’t some reward to
offer for the struggling dauber. The
prizes, however, have invariably been
won by Melbourne painters. Bendigo
Art Gallery’s Churchill competition is the
latest. Awards in the oils section were
to Max Ragless and in watercolors to
Kenneth Jack, and commendations went
to Ernest Buckmaster, John Rowell and
Arnold Shore, all Melbourne National
Gallery products. The decentralisation
of art doesn’t seem to be any more suc-
cessful than the decentralisation of in-
dustry in Victoria.
For some mysterious reason it was
decided to hold the two- or three-weeks’
festival of Mozart’s music at the Mel-
bourne Uni. Union Theatre, which seats
800. Although large concords of music-
lovers got the astonishing variety of the
Salzburg composer’s repertoire per loud-
speaker on the lawns outside when it
wasn’t raining, there were thousands who
would have rushed the seats if the affair
had been at the Town Hall —other festi-
vals haven’t provided better playing and
singing or a wider range of music. Ernest
Llewelyn’s Government-owned quartet
from Brisbane was one of the highlights
of the programmes. It showed that State
enterprise can be more successful in music
than in fishshops. Peggy Knibbs, Fred-
erick Morgan, Thomas White, Edgar
Richmond and others dipped into the
Mozartian treasure house for vocal items
and brought out some rare gems. Pro-
fessor He nze waved his baton over a
large slice of the proceedings.
“C. Ma”: Contrary to “MacH.” (B.
28/11/.’45), I will back the photographer
against the artist of the Norman Wilki -
son calibre as a recorder of war alter
seeing “The True Glory,” the Anglo-
American picture of the European in-
vasion, at the Liberty, Melbourne. Both
are factual presentations, and therefore
not art, since art deals with relationships,
but in the film’s case the facts are so
terrific that no painter could give them.
There were 1400 cameramen concerned
in the production and 32 lost their lives,
mostly at the landing, a special hell m
which not the most resolute painter could
have set up his easel, and there are /j
narrators, from Britishers to negroes. Itie
final uproar amidst the shambles leaves
the listener feeling as if he had been
in it. The reason why a ship s captain
would sooner hang a Wilkinson picture
in his cabin than a still of this film would
probably be because there is some
romance in a painting; there is none in
a photo.
Reversing the Elizabethan practice, the
Australian Repertory Players used a cast
entirely composed of women for its pro-
duction of the “Alcestis” of Euripides in
Gilbert Murray’s translation for its open-
ing event at the Melbourne Repertory
Theatre, the up-to-date and well-equipped
little playhouse recently erected at Middle
Park, near St. Kilda. The results were
good in the case of King Admetus.
The grief and distraction of the hus-
band who has been granted immor-
tality on condition that he procures
another to die in his stead were admir-
ably portrayed by Margaret Kellallea,
but it required a heavy intellectual effort
to accept Audrey Konig as his aged and
bearded father, and when Miss Nance
McLeish bounced upon the stage in a
tiger-skin and announced that she was
Hercules and was going to do battle with
Death no connoisseur of form would have
put his money on her. Greek conventions
of the drama are as remote from this
enlightened age as are Elizabethan, and
it says something for the Repertory
Players or the poetic genius of the Attic
writer that the story carried some con-
viction.
In his latest —it was announced that it
would be his last—show of watercolor
drawings at the Sedon Galleries, Mel-
bourne, Lionel Lindsay shows the same
affection for Spanish convents, balconies,
bridges, goats and donkeys which he
acquired 20 years ago and which he has
apparently kept alive with memory
sketches. The architecture certainly de-
serves it —it is lovely. One of the best is
“The Boat,” in which there is less of the
topographical literalness which puts many
of the pictures in the class of illustra-
tions, if not of draughtsmen’s drawings.
At the talkies:
“Conflict” (Sydney Mayfair): A cleverly-
devised murder story which ranks with Double
Indemnity,” “Laura” and “Woman m the
Window.” Like them, this one makes no mys-
tery of the identity of the slayer, but concen-
trates on character study and the processes by
which the guilty man is eventually enmeshed
in the net of his own weaving. Sydney Oreen-
street abandons his usual sinister fat-man
role to delineate a psychiatrist family friend
who by his deep knowledge of the human mind,
and by subtle suggestion, first undermines the
tremendous self-confidence of the murderer be-
fore speeding the tempo of his plunge to de-
struction. Humphrey Bogart turns in a fine
piece of taut work as the killer who frankly
“assists” the law to clear up the mystery.
Direction by Curtis Bernhardt is especially
good.
“An American Romance” (Sydney St. James).
The 'romance is primarily of American in-
dustry. A penniless, uneducated immigrant at
the turn of the century arrives in the U.b.A.
from central Europe, arfd starts as a laborer
in an iron-ore mine. Ambitious, he graduates
to steel worker, becomes foreman in a steel mill,
starts a small car factory and winds up as a
mass-production tycoon. The film is used a
a goodwill medium for capital-labor contro-
versies, which may be bad art but good sense.
Filmed in excellent technicolor, the story hangs
together well and moves pacily. The steel
factory scenes are gripping and authentic.
Brian Donlevy makes the industrialist five, and
Australian actress Ann Richards does very wen
as the helpful wife; moreover, she is one ot the
few actresses in Hollywood who can convey
advancing years with ease and conviction.
“I Live in Grosvenor Square” (Sydney Em-
bassy) : Had this story, which makes no bones
about its objective being the furthering ot
Anglo-American understanding, been made m
Hollywood, the confection would have been
heavily coated with hooey. Being made by an
English studio, understatement is allied to some
classical appraisal of the characteristics ot
both peoples, so that the whole thing is de-
lightful. Rex Harrison, Dean Jagger and Anna
Neagle work the triangle part out satisfac-
torily, but the beautifully-spoken character-
actor Robert Morley as a democratically-minded
duke steals every scene in which he appears.
“From Bowery to Broadway” (Sydney Capi-
tol); Musical backstager. The eternal squab-
blings of a brace of Bowery beer-hall barons
supply the motive power, and the opus jerxs
to a fitful halt every so often to put a vaude-
ville turn on. Set in the spacious days ot loud
suits, the sight of beer frothing in staggering
quantities will wring a nostalgic tear from toe
Australian beholder. Above the clink of glas -
rises the beautiful coloratura of Susanna roster.
Even the luscious Maria Montez, minus ner
sarong for once, essays a song; it is profoundly
to be hoped that those crow-like notes ara
the last the lady utters on the screen.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"WHILE I LIVE I'LL GROW"
0
i
a
X
itll
wv
II
\ V 1
c N
i.
O V//
0
:i v ■ i; '
A'-' S I
'-V 5
?
«Jl»
<&
vlfce*. atf'
>\ e price ■
tenths .v^Tv^-
S« urK3 88/-
-- ts Go°
AH Sf^-d
J J o'W ,er
ds —
fl,00l‘:
pitt
gtreet-
iot.o^aS;
sssa
. **-
of£ ” ***&** *f*! 6 sssss^
#• ' W d r \oV*i tvtfVSl o^ 1 '
W ieS
0 e€
T s^
vn
*<*?>/£
ood ' 4fi/6! & 1
3^s- r %
\s u
r^ d ®
xe© 1
_ vn ul *" pt\ce, ® aCn
Ty***
,Sh S« e «
„ ■RoA-
ovved
it©# 1 0^ eT '
ft
Vt/skW
4
: * I ,
4 ~
m
■a*' 1 '
.-
A&&*
l^V
■«
3K
&
.*V
sr.*
|J—£ -»
I »
[S^ e TxA OV&
aC& ‘ , e c x® NV '' U
H ]e^^'y[aS oXie '
Co^° n Gtee 8 couP oriS - S treet
sWte eS ' r Ge° r S e
„ »„nd Fl °
OS-
3/-
100
oi
& r:
rev** ’ 0^ eta ope-
Qati° „c itts* . tqo^ l
ead vv et^ 3
3V&&'
•tvds-
dtV b £l S
■ t ...
at® pxtce •'
floor.
POST TO BOX 2712 C. G.P.0.. SYDNEY
THE HOME OF SANTA CLAUS
TELEPHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)


A BLACK SQUALL
By “NAUTILUS.”
STRUTHERS, the second mate, took
a,glance at the weather leach of
the main t’gallants’l, then one to
windward. “God’s trousers!” he
yelled. “Brail up the main t’ga’n’sl!”
He stamped twice, hard, on the poop
deck over the Old Man’s head. That
would bring him up. Then he tumbled
down the weather poop ladder and
streaked to the pin rail in the waist.
Throwing down from its belaying pin
the coil of manilla which was the end of
the main t’gallant halliards he started to
lower away. “Lively on the buntlines
and downhauls, you squareheaded crowd
of stiffs!” he shouted.
Olsen, too, shot a glance-over his oil-
skin-clad shoulder as he pulled. “Yust
in time—perhaps,” he muttered. “Blutty
ting...
“Belay all that! Up aloft and furl
her!” yelled Struthers. “God damn my
rags, can’t you look lively before this
squall blows her out of the blasted bolt
ropes?”
His last words were lost to the watch,
now clambering up the weather rigging
like monkeys. Last and smallest of the
strung-out figures was Shaw, the first
voyager apprentice. His heavy leather
seaboots felt like lead ; his wrists were
chafed raw where the leather binding of
his oilskin coatsleeves had rubbed salt-
encrusted flesh; his head was still ring-
ing from the lusty clout the senior appren-
tice had bestowed on him for a piece of
half-deck clumsiness, but he climbed
steadily up the ratlines behind Holmezzer,
the German A.B. As Hollmezzer climbed
the futtock shrouds to get over the top,
his heavy seaboot, swinging out, nearly
took Shaw in the face. Shaw dodged, but
the heel caught him a glancing blow on
the side of the head. • He grunted, but
hung on dizzily. Then he, too, climbed
out around the futtock shrouds: the
Royal Queen had no lubbers’ hole in the
top.
As he climbed the breeze slackened off
—as is usual before the coming of a
black squall—and the ship rolled heavily
to windward. When a ship is on an even
keel the futtock shrouds slope outward
at an angle of forty-five degrees from
the mast; when she rolls ten degrees the
angle is increased to fifty-five, and the
weight on the climber’s arms becomes
unbearable. Sick and dizzy, Shaw hung
on waiting for the leeward roll.
“Get on up, you blasted mother’s dar-
ling!” came a stentorian bellow from
immediately below him. “Get up!”
He realised that the second mate was
behind him, coming aloft to bear a hand
in furling the sail which now flapped and
volleyed in its buntlines as the wind
caught the loosely-held bights of heavy
canvas and banged it against the yard.
That meant the Old Man was on deck,
because the mate in charge of the watch
could not leave the deck without relief,
and would be watching. Shaw dragged
himself up over the futtock shrouds, aided
by the leeward roll, and into the topmast
rigging. Somehow he found himself over
the crosstrees and on to the lowered top-
gallant yard, at the bunt beside the mast.
As he felt for the swaying footrope with
his clumsily-shod feet the mate bellowed
in his ear. “Out to the lee yardarm, boy!
We want weight here in the bunt!”
fHE long, slender steel yard was alive
* with men, three feet apart, and to get
out to the yardarm he must pass them.
There was only one swaying footrope
to hold them all: only one slim jackstay
on the top of the yard by which to cling.
He must pass outside and behind all
those swaying figures, because they were
already fighting the hard, saturated can-
vas. He must reach around behind each
bulky, slippery, oilskin-covered figure and
get a precarious grip of the jackstay on
the far side ; swing a leg round and feel
for the footrope that would not stay still
while heaving, struggling men thrust their
weight against it. Slowly and pains-
takingly he worked his way out along
the yard. Once on the way, pass-
ing the gigantic Olsen, he found himself
with only one foot on the footrope and
a half-frozen left hand alone holding the
jackstay. He was facing aft, and could
not swing back. A huge hand gripped
and swung him. “Blutty poy!” said its
owner, and turned to fight the canvas.
The Royal Queen was lying over
heavily now, and Shaw could see below
the yardarm the purple and white water
creaming away directly beneath him. His
perch was more than usually uncomfort-
able, because here at its outer end the
footrope sloped steeply upward to where
it was shackled on to the steel yardarm.
The top of his left seaboot was level with
the top of the yard ; his right was a little
lower, and the angle made his boots
slither. He bent to the task of clawing
at the wet canvas. Since the sail clewed
up at the bunt in by the mast he had far
less half-frozen canvas to fight than those
farther in, but it was enough for his
strength.
He had just succeeded in getting several
folds under his laboring chest, the only
way in which to hold what was won until
the whole was caught and gaskets could
be passed round the furled sail, when the
squall hit—hit like a solid wall of fury,
spiked with hail. The furious wind
bellied the remaining canvas slam into
the faces of the toiling men; the little
they had won was torn from their grasp
and thrust into their faces. Homy hands
gripped fiercely at the jackstay rnd
smothered oaths were caught by the
furious wind and flung away to leeward,
Shaw, his grip of the footrope uncertain
and both hands striving to hold the sleet-
frozen canvas, was hit smartly in the face
as it bellied back.
“Catch der poy,” Olsen’s great voice
thundered ridiculously. “Catch der poy! ”
In the teeth of the shrilling wind his
voice carried, but it was too late.
“ DUT your helm up!” the Old Man
* shouted through the megaphone of
his hands. “Come down from aloft,
Mister, and square the cro’jek yard! ”
“Damn and blast it!” he growled to
himself as he cut a lifebuoy free from
the poop rails and hurled it overboard,
“I’m going to lose that main t’gan’s’l!”
He raised his voice to a thunderclap.
“All hands on deck. Bosun, clear away
that starboard boat: starboard watch to
the braces. Get the main and cro’jek
yards squared away lively. Mister. Then
the fore. Steady that helm! Lucas, hop
up to the foretop and look for the lad.
H’m, short and sweet, that squall—it’s
easing. Lively with that boat. Knock
those chocks from under her. Hop in,
you, Larsen, and hook on the davit falls.
Make sure the plug’s in. Yes—oh, it’s
you. Mister Mate; thought you were
overboard too, I sang out for all hands
half a dog watch ago. Get those bloody
foreyards swung, Mister Struthers. Right,
Now all hands to the braces. I’m going
to put the old bitch in irons and she won’t
like it. Starboard fore braces, Mister,
and lay those fore tops’ls flat aback,
Hard a starboard!”
He stood watching the shapely old ship
swing like a ballerina. She took a dollop
of green water over the waist and
drenched the men at the braces. “Glad
I hadn’t much canvas on her—foresail,
tops’ls, main t’gallant’s’l, two heads’ls,”
he ruminated. “Isn’t too much sea,
either.” He raised his voice: “Chips!”
he vociferated, “bring aft a drum of colza
oil and feed it out of the lee quarter pipe
—make a path for the boat.” He glanced
overside. “Way’s off her,” he murmured,
then “Swing out that boat! Aloft, there,
can you see him?”
In the calm that had followed the squall
the voice of the senior apprentice was
clearly audible on the poop: “Not
exactly, sir, but there’s a mess of birds
down on the port quarter, about four
cables.”
“That’ll be him! Lower away! Hop
in and take charge, Bosun! ”
“Ay, ay, sir.” ,
Below where the boat had been on the
chocks there lay on deck a strange
medley water-beakers, the hastily
slashed-off boat covers, a paint pot, a
canvas sea anchor, a boat hook, a coil of
spun yarn—all the impedimenta which
tended to collect in a windjammer’s boats
in the early days of the century, when
lifeboat drills were unknown and only
dire emergency or an offshore anchor-
age brought the boats into use.
The falls were running through the
sheaves, and the boat was sliding evenly
downward. “Watch this next one,” called
the bosun, “Stand by to let go and un-
hook. Now leggo for’ard; leggo aft;
ship oars —give way!”
For a moment it seemed that the after
fall would refuse to unhook, and that as
the wave receded the boat would hang by
the stern and empty the living load into
the water, but just in time she got clear
and fell quickly astern.
“Steer for the birds!” called the Old
Man. The bosun raised his hand in
acknowledgment. “Now, Mister” —the
Old Man turned to the mate “we’ll
square away and run down to leeward
of them to give them an easy passage.”
SHAW, his face blue and his teeth
chattering, had thrown one leg over
the lifebuoy and got it to sit upright, so
that his chin rested on its upper edge.
Every second wavecrest submerged him,
and in between great pinions beat at his
head and sharp, heavy beaks tore at his
sou’-wester. Through his ringing head
came the thought “I never knew that alba-
tross and bosun birds and mollyhawks
were so big or so fierce. I must tell
father.” A wave slopped over him, and
he retched salt water. He reached with
difficulty the sheath-knife in his belt out-
side his oilskin jacket and thrust at
pinions that darkened his sky. A vicious
poke in the back made him lose his grip
of his knife, and it fell shining into the
sea. But a boathook had been respon-
sible.
As they hoisted the boat level with the
t’gallant rail Shaw rolled out over the pin
rail on to the deck. He staggered to his
feet, water pouring from him, and at-
tempted a naval salute to what was left
of his sou’-wester.
“Come aboard, sir!” he croaked.
“Well I’ll go hopping to hell!” said the
second mate.
“Grog-oh,” said the Old Man, and then
“Get that t’gans’l set again. Mister!”
SMOKE-OH!
“Moths and silverfish dislike black pepper.”
—Weekly paper.
But they can’t sneeze at it.
*b *b »b *b
Funny the way white lies frequently
give rise to black looks.
*b *b *b »b
Wonderful how empty-headed some
people can be when they’re full.
*b *b *b •!•
Beard Saga.
“Odd and peculiar beards, which appeared
during the war, are no longer permitted in the
U.S. Navy.”— “Today."''
When my Uncle Thursday put his
age back half a century or so to join the
Navy, he suffered from beard trouble.
Uncle’s reason for enlisting was a dis-
agreement with his fourth wife, who
adhered strictly to the Old Style calendar,
and insisted on calling him Last Monday
Week.
Although appointed to a shore estab-
lishment as a kind of ancient retainer.
uncle immediately set about growing a
beard in true nautical style. The whiskers,
after peering round in a discouraged way
for a week or so, soon took heart and
began to sprout in all directions, until
uncle’s collar and tie and most of his
features disappeared behind a mass of
bright ginger foliage. My great-aunt com-
mented briefly that he looked like some-
thing primitive peering through the
fringes of civilisation, and joined the Land
Army.
When the, beard reached to his fifth
tunic button' and out beyond his shoul-
ders, it underwent a series of subtle
changes in color, due to uncle’s habit of
absent-mindedly wiping his hands on it
after doing odd painting jobs. He also
found he was constantly losing things in
it, and after mislaying a sail-needle qne
day came home complaining that he felt
like a second-hand proverb.
He finally employed a man to trim it,
but as the bloke’s last job had been doing
ornamental hedges uncle’s beard took a
good many different shapes from day to
day. It ended up as a bust of Admiral
Nimitz, complete with decorations, where-
upon uncle was seconded to the American
Navy.
This was the finish of his career as a
beard-grower. Disheartened by the com-
petition, his beard wilted and withered,
and the bushfires got it the next summer.
Plum.
•b *b *b *b
Logic.
“Fay was beautiful and glamorous, but she
lacked the right social background. Now, if
only she could get an invitation to Mrs. Vander-
bore’s ball she would have the men at her
feet.” —Short story.
If only she could get a call
To step around with the elite.
Then, once her feet were at the ball,
The ball would soon be at her feet.
F. M.
Time Swims On!
“Priscilla, shame on you! That bath-
ing costume shows your kneecap!”
“But it’s modern. Aunt Agatha.”
“It’s positively indecent! You will
either bring it halfway down to your ankles
or I will be forced to curtail our holiday.”
“But, Aunt, I’m covered from my neck
to the top of my knees, Anyone would
think I was almost naked”
“Priscilla! Such language! Nay—oh,
I can’t say it; I’m deeply shocked. For-
tunately in a year or two this dreadful
practice of sea bathing will be forgotten
and brazen girls showing kneecaps to
the world will be just a memory, and —
oh, my poor head! Priscilla, my smelling
salts, please!”
“Okay, Lana; race you to the pool.
Wait a sec., though, till I fling the frame-
work into a swimsuit.”
“Gosh, kid, I thought you had it on
already.”
“Don’t be silly ; that’s the strip of sun-
burn I got last week But there! Now
I’m dressed. Like my cossie?”
“H’m! The bra top’s whacko with just
that one shoulder-strap, but the trunks
are a bit short, aren’t they?”
“Oh, these new diaper type are a bit
scanty, but —gosh, how did that happen?
All I’ve got on is the price ticket! I must
have dropped the trunks somewhere,”
“And are you going on to the beach in
that, dear? Just the bras and price
ticket?”
“It’s tempting, but —no, I’d better not,
pet. Next season’ll do for that.”
Yair.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She married a Melbourne tailor in 1939, but
deserted him two months later.” — Court item.
He didn’t suit her.
4* 4* 4* 4* „
“One of two men charged was manslaughter.
— “Sun.’’'
The other was probably consorting.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mix all ingredients well together, and drop a
tablespoon at a time on top of the meat.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
For best results, tablespoons should
not be dropped from a height of more
than six feet.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Hand knitted baby’s blue coat.”
—Hornsby (1V.5.1P.) “Advocate.”
A little Purl.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I got skinny running round for meat for my
husband’s meals; he got fat leaning against a
bar counter all day.”— Divorce report.
The startling paradox we read between
The simple-seeming lines of this is that
By running much to flesh the wife grew
lean.
While constant leaning made the hus-
band fat.
F.M.
Language Lesson.
“English policemen must keep their tempers
under insult and gross provocation, because
the right to insult policemen is an old English
custom. Home Secretary.
So, when you’ve sworn your larynx
hoarse.
Observe the calm, seraphic smile
That flits across the kindly dial
Of any member of the Force
Who has been adequately cursed;
But what’s a bloke supposed to do
About the local coppers, who
Invariably get in first ?
Well, if you’re minded to increase
Your stock of bitter words, designed
To wound the sensitive police,
It would be difficult to find
A more proficient teacher than
The average Sydney barrowman.
P. M. LUSK.
Counter-Offensive.
Raise high the hat and let the coffin pass.
As yonder corpse is, so will we be soon.
For we are born to wither as the grass,
And Death, which ends our torment, is
a boon.
Of Death then let us talk, the most divine
Of all the treasures life can hold in
store.
{Excuse me, I am trying out a line
For getting rid of an infernal bore.)
T. W. Nathan.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Handbag, lady’s black, zip fastener, contain-
ing teeth, letters, etc. Lost Saturday.
—“S. M. Herald.”
She got her teeth in it, but couldn’t
hold on.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Likewise, since the evolutionary scheme
offers nothing better, we are simply cutting off
our own noses to repudiate man, puerile as he
often is, the poor sap.”— “New Idea.”
Thereby losing face.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She ripped her mouth open with a laugh.”
—Magazine story.
That tore it!
The Situation.
Now that my spirit is immersed in gloom.
Shattered by grief and choked with
misery,
I yearn for the sweet silence of the tomb.
The subtle joy of having ceased to be.
Yet, strangely, I could overcome this
doom
And laugh at life’s eternal tragedy
If only Fate, relenting, let me buy
One pint of sherry—either sweet or dry.
T.W.N.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3436
Wednesday, December 19, 1945
TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS AFTER.
in nineteen-seventeen, when I was agin the Gover’ment, I stepped off the footplate. Now I’m the Government, me and me train ain’t movin’.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior DavM Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street. Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington,
London;. 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street .
London, E.C.4.
FRIENDLY "ENEMIES. "
As the strikes began to collapse because
their promoters are brainless as well as
bad, having entered upon their criminal
campaign against the nation with re-
sources so scanty that they soon gave out,
there was a renewed eruption of journal-
istic mush to the general effect that the
Powers of Darkness were being worsted
by the Powers of Light. On the one
side, the Communists McPhillips (Iron-
workers), Wells (Coalminers) and Elliott
(Seamen), representing Darkness ; on the
other side, Mr. Chifley, Mr McKell and
the A.C.T.U. executive, representing
Light.
The most sickening example of this
journalistic sophistry was published in the
Sydney “Morning Herald,” which had
been favored to the extent of being per-
mitted to issue, as usual, its eight-page
starting-price gazette while useful city and
country weeklies which have never pan-
dered to the craze for gambling, deprived
of power by savage and one-sided
“Labor” regulations, had to suspend pub-
lication.
None of the million victims of the
wicked strikes, all of whom will go on
being victims even when the N.S.W. coal-
miners return from their brazenly pro-
longed Christfnas-New Year holidays and
resume their deliberately small measure
of production, should allow themselves
to be dazed by the Darkness-Light dope.
Both sets of shadow-sparring combatants
bear the brand of guilt on their brows.
Both aim at the socialisation of indus-
try, production, distribution and exchange,
differing only in their methods of achiev-
ing the Marxian objective, and falling
out only when (as in 1940) the Red Fas-
cists look like capturing the A.L.P., and
when (as has now happened) they make
a bid for conquest of the trade-union
movement to the end of bringing about
“a revolutionary situation” in which “the
workers” will “take control.”
They were allies during Dr. Evatt’s
powers referendum, and the A.C.T.U. sent
the Red Fascist Thornton abroad to “rep-
resent Australia,” the “ ‘Labor’ Govern-
ment” finding his expenses out of tax-
money. The “ ‘Labor’ Government” has
also employed notorious Red Fascists
on waterfront committees and as war-loan
organisers, though the very sight of these
fellows was an incentive to unionists who
hate their poisonous gang to refuse sub-
scriptions. And the shadow-sparring com-
batants, each set in its own way and for
its own purposes, have been concerned
to set up trade-union mobocracy as an
imperium in imperio, exercising in mat-
ters which concern the social and domestic
life of the community powers superior to
those of the State.
There is every indication that these
usurped powers will survive the strikes.
Only the innocent have been and will be
punished ; the guilty go scot-free. Those
who richly deserve imprisonment will
remain at large, with their opportunities
for bringing anxiety and misery into hun-
dreds of thousands of decent homes, and
for striking at the very existence of this
Australian Commonwealth, temporarily
checked but otherwise unimpaired.
Photographs of Australian servicemen
and servicewomen on the march have
brought many a thrill to Australians who
love their country, and who realise the
quality of their young manhood and
womanhood, banded together in its cause.
■iVery different emotions were excited by
photographs of the Labor, Communist and
A.C.T.U. worthies who gathered at Syd-
ney and Canberra and posed for camera-
men, the Communists being treated not as
enemies of the nation but as the deposi-
tories of power, negotiating with another
power on at least equal terms.
There were two of these works of art,
and each conveyed the impression that
nothing more was afoot than the settlement
of a temporary difficulty between friends.
In one the Federal president of the A.L.P.
and other gentlemen of his persuasion were
smiling as if they hadn’t a worry in the
world. Certainly the set faces of the
Communists McPhillips, Elliott and Wells,
also in the picture, suggested anything
fcut a care-free frame of mind, but then
Communists never smile easily, being a
humorless lot. In another photograph
McPhillips and Wells, still tight-lipped,
and Elliott, staring across at Wells, were
seated at a table with two A.C.T.U.
gentlemen. Above them, standing in the
attitude of waiters and looking down
obsequiously on the party, were two Min-
isters : Mr. Ashley, Supply and Shipping,
and Mr. Calwell, Misinformation and
No-Irnmigration, who had a rare old feud
with the Red Fascists (as he called them)
before he was promoted to the Ministry,
since when he has been silently deferen-
tial to the whole crowd.
Mr. Chifley is a native of N. S. Wales,
and when Mr. Curtin died he became the
sixth Prime Minister from the State which
has two-fifths of the Australian popula-
tion, there having been no other N.S.W.
Prime Minister for 28 years. It might
.have been supposed that Mr. Chifley
would have been aggrieved and indignant
when apprised of the immediate effects
of the Red Fascist outrages on the people
of his State, let alone the people of other
States, as expressed in the restrictive
regulations— one hour per day for receiv-
ing sets, an hour and a half for cooking,
one electric globe for lighting, and that
only till 9 p.m., and after the beginning
of the Canterbury races no week-end
tram services—there haying also been un-
employment for hundreds of thousands.
All this with thousands of servicemen
coming home, thanks chiefly to the un-
acknowledged generosity of the British,
and with the wholesale erasure of Christ-
mas timetables by the McKell Railway
Department. But from Mr. Chifley there
came not one word of hope or comfort
to the victims of Red Fascist malignity
or of condemnation of the foreign con-
spiracy and the foreign-minded conspira-
tors responsible.
Mr. McKell is also amative of N, S.
Wales, and all the criminal strikes arc
centred in his State. That of the iron-
workers began as a larrikin revolt against
his own Industrial Commission, marked
by the mobbing of the oldest member
of that tribunal, who has the status of a
Supreme Court Judge, in the public street.
It was Mr. McKell’s Government which
imposed the savage lighting and power
restrictions on householders and business-
men, proceeding thence to order a whole-
sale ejection of hospital patients who
could move or be moved. From Mr.
McKell likeVvise came no word of hope or
comfort or apy indictment of the guilty
ruffianism, much less any measure designed
to call the ruffians to account. Labor
members of the first (1891) vintage must
have turned over in their coffins when
Mr. McKell’s Government “directed”
that “all hospitals under the control of
the State Hospitals Commission should
send home patients who were not too ill.”
Mr. McKell’s Government had another
matter to attend to, unconnected with the
strikes. Not the eradication of black
markets, particularly the one in the liquor
trade, which running sore has been the
subject of many Labor promises, or a
campaign against the crime wave, but the
matter of pensions for Assemblymen who
have “served” in three Parliaments at
£875 per year, with a great deal more for
Ministers and officers of the House, plus
free travel, postage, the use of a club and
library and othei»concessions,among them
free admission to racecourses and boxing
halls. Subordinating the Budget debate
as well as the promised Licensing Reform
Act to the Pensions for Politicians Bill,
the McKell Government steered the Pen-
sions for Politicians Bill through the
Assembly. If it goes through the Coun-
cil, one of the numerous beneficiaries will
be Mr. Clive Evatt, the honorary Min-
ister.
This Mr. Evatt, who has a fine house
in a fashionable neighborhood and* 1 is
otherwise a man of considerable posses-
sions, got in at a by-election (for Hurst-
ville, which is part of his brother’s
Federal electorate) in March, 1939. Hav-
ing been re-elected in 1941, and again in
1944, he has already fulfilled the time
qualification for a member’s pension: £6
a week on defeat or retirement and £3 a
week for his widow. This Mr. Evatt
graduated from Duntroon in 1921, and
has stuck round Sydney ever since. None
of the many Duntroon graduates who
fought for Australia in the Middle East
or the northern islands or both therebjT
qualified for anything approaching a life
pension of £6 a week with a £3-a-week re-
mainder for his widow; nor, of course,
has any non-commissioned officer or pri-
vate, however his health may have suf-
fered. Those racked by malaria get noth-
ing, except for a period of actual inca-
pacitation, which has to be proved.
The Labor party seems fated to suffer
a moral collapse every 14 years. The
bottom fell out of it in 1917, and again
in 1931, and, though it now has the
numbers, it is, ethically considered, in a
worse plight than ever before.
It has become much more the party of
the work-shy than the worker. It chatters
about “full employment” without ever
mentioning full production or seeming to
care a dump about it. Its noisier ele-
meats, echoing the Red Fascists, are de-
manding more pay for less toil —a pound
a week on and four hours off —saying
never a word as to the quality of the toil
and the effect on the price of commodi-
ties and housing; and the party’s sur-
render to this agitation is only a matter
of time. It has become a party without
principles, ideals or courage. Bung and
the Bookie love it, for, in N. S. Wales
especially, it is the prop and stay of
Booze and the gambling business, to
which it has contributed Government lot-
teries that competed all too successfully
with war loans. And, with the rule of
law fast becoming a memory, criminals
abound and, when caught—which is
rarely—are handled with kid gloves ; and
unwhipped mobs proceed from outrage
to outrage. Nowadays the party stands
for place, pay and privileges with, in
N. S. Wales, unearned pensions for Labor
Assemblymen (the Opposition voted
against them), none of whom saw combat
service for a day—pensions which, never
mentioned to the electors, combine legal-
ised fraud with legalised daylight rob-
bery.
“Labor” has even sacrificed the
White Australia policy to the clamor of
waterfront mobs, led by Red Fascists,
and it looks unmoved on the perils and
calamities of friendly and allied white
neighbors, beset by colored savages who
murder and mutilate, refusing help to the
British in the necessary and merciful mili-
tary task assigned to them by General
MacArthur. Could its founders return
for an hour to the country for which they
wrought they would spit at it.
War-Crimes Trials.
Studied by an Old Digg w:
It can be said that the Australian trials of
Japs accused' of complicity or participation in
such atrocities as the bayoneting of prisoners-
of-war and cannibalism are being carried out
both expeditiously and, on all reports, satis-
factorily in the clear light of law and justice.
It must also be said these trials so far—of
Captain Iwaso, Lieut. Tazaki and others —
have been simple affairs. No ex post facto
difficulties appear to enter. into them. The
crimes in these are crimes in all countries.
Shift the scene to the trial of General Yama-
shita at Manila, and the issue becomes more
complex. Yamashita was found guilty of
complicity in atrocities and sentenced to be
hanged. His defence, conducted by United
States officers in a manner which evoked ex-
pressions of gratitude from the prisoner, was
briefly that he was personally unaware that
the atrocities were being committed in his com-
mand area, and that, had he been aware of
them, he would have taken action to prevent
them. The prosecution had detailed hideous
crimes committed under the supervision of Jap
officers and non-commissioned officers, and
charged that Yamashita failed to provide effec-
tive control of his troops.
In* effect, what Yamashita was found guilty of
was criminal negligence. The defence indi-
cated that there would be an appeal to a
higher authority; that failing, to General Mac-
Arthur; and, if necessary, to the U.S. Supreme
Court. “The defence,” it has been stated, “in-
tends to take advantage of every possibility,
because the case sets precedents ip international
law.” It would appear to set the precedent,
lacking proof of more than circumstantial
negligence, that a commanding officer may be
held guilty if he does not take steps to prevent
crimes .by his troops which he may or may not
have reason to suppose they will be likely to
commit. No doubt the Court considered that,
as the crimes were “not sporadic incidents,
but were often methodically supervised,” it
was impossible for Yamashita to have been un-
aware of them. However, it would seem that
the accused could have faced his trial feeling
much more comfortable about the neck if he
had had the foresight to issue an order or two
forbidding atrocities.
But the Yamashita trial was simplicity itself
compared to the big, dramatically-staged trial
of leading Nazis at Nuremberg. Compared to
this, too, the Canadian trial of an S.S. brigade
leader on a “no-prisoners” order charge is a
minor affair. A “no-prisoners” order is nothing
novel in the grim business of hand-to-hand
fighting. The Australian Official War His-
torian, dealing with Second Villers-Breton-
neux, quotes a captain as saying to his men
“Kill every bloody German you see —we don’t
want any prisoners”; and, again, “on his men’s
sighting a number of the enemy, who put up
their hands,” as giving the order “No
prisoners.” At least technically, those Ger-
mans were not yet prisoners, which makes a
certain distinction, though it is an illustration
of the hard fact that war’s standards of morality
are of necessity altogether different from those
of peace. The distinction would be hard to see
if the charge against the S.S. brigade leader
went no further than the stated “inciting troops
under bis command to take no prisoners during
fighting at the Caen beachhead.” However, the
charge refers also to “the brutal punishment of
helpless prisoners who refused to answer ques-
tions improperly put to them.”
The Nuremberg trial is in a different cate-
gory altogether, and not merely because of its
individual leading characters, or of staging
which seems as much a mixture of the histrionic
arts of the prosecuting countries as the trial
itself is a mixture of their considerably varied
judicial practices and methods. Its characters,
being on the one side the captured leading men
of a big nation which lost the war—Goring,
Hess, Ribbentrop, Keitel, Doenitz, Raeder,
Jodi, Von Papen, Schacht and the rest —
and on the other side the chosen legal men of
the victorious countries, themselves alone give
it the status of great drama, and its setting,
in the court where those who attempted to
assassinate Hitler were tried, provides all re-
quired theatre properties and effects. But it is
on other grounds—on all sides admittedly most
difficult and complex—that it can be set down
as the greatest of all trials known to history.
Briefly, the defendants stand accused on all
or any of four counts: (1) They planned, pre-
pared, initiated and waged wars of aggression;
(2) in carrying that out they violated inter-
national treaties* agreements and assurances
entered info by their country; (3) they com-
mitted crimes in direct violation of the estab-
lished rules of war; f 4) they committed cnmei
against humanity. Justification of the first and
second counts has been accepted, not
only by the prosecution and the defence
but by many others not involved, as by far the
paramount issue. Both the leading American
prosecutor, Justice Robert H. Jackson, of the
U.S. Supreme Court, and the British Attor-
ney-General, Sir Hartley Shawcross, devoted
a great part of their monumental opening
addresses to establishing that justification.
Others have questioned whether any such justi-
fication can be established, and have pointed
-very doubtfully to the possibilities which the
Nuremberg precedents may lead on to in the
future. *
That precedents are there being set up is not
denied. Sir Hartley Shawcross described the
tribunal as providing “a contemporary touch-
stone and an authoritative impartial record to
which future historians may turn for truth and
future politicians for warning.” Arguing in
favor of the trials being held at all, instead of
the “wretched men charged being summarily
swept aside into oblivion,” Sir Hartley declared
that “not so would the world be made aware
that the waging of aggressive war was not
only a dangerous venture but a criminal one.”
Mr. Justice Jackson said: “We must make it
clear td the Germans that the wrong for which
their fallen leaders are on trial is not that they
lost the war, but that they started it.” In the
simplest terms, the highly important precedent
being established is that those who start a war
of aggression shall answer for it in person.
The victors, naturally, will decide the matter
of aggression.
By this approach the accused are charged with
the conspiracy of lending their aid, in one way
or another, to the breaking of the peace, with
all the - mass murder and general slaughter a
direct consequence. They are charged with con-
spiring in aggression which led to those conse-
quences through, in the first place, the break-
ing of the Kellogg-Briand Pact condemning and
renouncing war and then through the only too-
well-known attacks on Poland, Norway, Den-
mark, Belgium, Holland, Luxembourg, Yugo-
slavia, Greece and Russia.
Thus the indictment introduces the principle
that the individual must be held responsible for
the acts of any organisation to which he volun-
tarily belongs. That is one point on which
some viewers of the trial look with considerable
doubt. Its possibilities are, of course, endless.
As far as those standing trial are concerned,
they would all seem to be equally gathered in
by this dragnet and equally culpable, Field-
Marshal Keitel, Admiral Doenitz, banker
Schacht and diplomat Von Papen no less than
the missing arch-conspirator Hitler, his mouth-
piece Goebbels and others such. And what then
of the rest of the Nazi party members? The
New York “Times” has commented:
The Russian press.... seems to be crying
out for an ocean of Nazi blood. But it is
doubtful that there will be a blood purge
of tens of thousands of Germans ex-
clusively on the basis of membership in
a criminal organisation. The Western
conscience .... recoils from wholesale
slaughter.
Who - then is to say, if such as Keitel,
Doenitz and Schacht are guilty, where the
line eventually is to be drawn among the lesser
Nazis —and where it can be drawn, on this
precedent, in any war of the future? The
crime, under the counts in question, is one of
aggression and its fruits. The point is im-
portantly made that all this is not a revival
of the ancient practice of the victors putting
the defeated to the sword. It is, instead, a
point of high principle; a precedent which
can serve, as Sir Hartley Shawcross said, as a
warning to politicians. To all politicians
guilty of war aggression. As to this, it may be
pointed out that Russia also was a party to
the Kellogg Pact; and what wa's, the nature
of Russia’s wars against Rumania, Poland,
Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Finland?
The doubt that arises has nothing to do
with whether the Nazi head men charged at
Nuremberg are found guilty or otherwise,
whether their sentences are to be death or im-
prisonment. The question is just what exten-
sion of the term “war criminals” is to be laid
down as part of the Nuremberg precedents.
The hope is held out that the extension will
be such that it alone will act as a deterrent of
future wars. The fact, on the other hand, may
be that once any country again becomes in-
volved in war the Nuremberg precedent will
lead to every possible form of atrocity cal-
culated as likely to help in winning, since the
losers would then be certain to stand trial as
war criminals. The New York “Daily News”
takes what some may regard as a crude and
others as a merely realistic view of the issue:
We think it will be a good thing if the
Allies establish a modern precedent by
executing a lot of German and Japanese
generals, admirals and top-ranking
ticians just because they lost World War
11. It is hard to see why elaborate trials
should be necessary, when everybody knows
these men’s real crime was that they didn’t
win.
Taking that sort of view, the hopeful might
feel ■ that leaders might well baulk at taking
their countries into war if they henceforth
know their own necks will almost certainly
be forfeit in defeat. That did not, how-
ever, prevent wars when death for the con-
quered was the order of the day. The ques-
tion is whether the Nuremberg precedents are
to be a revival of that old order, gradually
dropped as uncivilised over the centuries, or
whether they can somehow lead to establishing
peace everlasting. The main fact from which
the precedent-making begins has been plainly
stated by an American military counsel: “The
simple and undisputed truth is that until
August 8 there was no law, legal precedent,
treaty or custom justifying the imposition of
criminal punishment for the planning or waging
of a war of aggression or a war in violation
of international agreement.”
The establishment of such a precedent is
the most imporant thing happening at Nurem-
berg. Whether Goring, Hess and the rest are
all strung up by the necks is of little account.
Among them, under Hitler, they planned
initiated and waged a war, and lost it. Hence-
forth this can be sheeted home as criminal
as widely as victors care to go. Whether in
the future the establishing of that at Nurem-
berg will be looked back on as an advance in
international affairs, or whether Nuremberg will
be looked on as giving a legal standing for the
execution of the losers by the victors, is a de-
cision for tomorrow. And, however desirable
it may now seem to string up not only the
lot of those now accused but thousands more
with them, it is unlikely that all of the current
proceedings will appear exactly the same in a
future view as they seem at present. The
future may turn mighty ungrateful, particularly
in countries that get into wars and lose.


PLAIN ENGLISH
An Anniversary.
Thirty years ago today the men of the
first A.I.F. —the old Diggers —withdrew
from the Gallipoli Peninsula. There are
many of them alive today who can re-
member that night as, aboard ships of
the Royal Navy, they looked back at the
fires on the beaches of Anzac and Suvla
and saw the shadowy hump of Gaba
Tepe fade into the darkness. Behind
them were 8500 dead, and it was bitter
to leave them. Behind them, too, were
Lone Pine and Walker’s Ridge, Shrapnel
Gully and Flynn’s Post, Chunuk and Sari
and the hulk of the old River Clyde, and
a score and more spots in the scrub made
precious by Australian blood and Aus-
tralian mateship, and by the blood and
mateship of New Zealanders, Gurkhas
and Indians and Tommies.
The old Diggers that day left behind
them their country’s first essay on the
battlefields of the old world. They were
to go on to France and Flanders, and
Pozieres, Polygon Wood, Villers-Bret,
Mont St. Quentin and more words of
honor were to go on their battle flags,
while in Syria and Palestine their
mounted men wrote legends of heroism
into the story of that ancient land. And
on the seas and in the air Australians
made equal reputations for courage and
skill in war. In the four years from 1914
to 1918 the fighting men had pushed their
country into world history.
The survivors came home and slipped
back into their civilian ways, flaunting
neither their deeds nor their decorations.
There grew up around them a splendid
tradition, and overseas people came to
know the Anzac tradition as worthy.
The years rolled on to 1939, and upon
the world’s stage stepped one of its most
sinister characters, ready to enslave civi-
lisation to a dreadful philosophy of
tyranny. And with the free men arose
again the Australian spirit, so that forth
to the battle went the sons of the Anzacs
—and some of the Anzacs themselves —
and they wrote again deathless names in
the cities and the mountains, the deserts
and the jungles, on the sea and in the air,
wherever the great struggle raged. These
Diggers found in other countries that
their fathers were remembered with grati-
tude and pride, and they added lustre to
the names of their fathers. Presently,
that war, too, was over, and now they are
coming back.
But there is little to occasion pride in
the situation of the country to which
they return. Its Government is in the
hands of men who draw their inspira-
tion, such as it is, not from Gallipoli
but from the anti-conscription campaigns
and the 1917 strike. Its people are the
victims of a criminal conspiracy by
adherents of a foreign political cult. Its
cities, the biggest especially, are happy
hunting grounds for racketeers, thugs and
professional gamblers. Its agriculture is
in a bad way, its soil falling into desert,
while people huddje in their overcrowded
coastal cities as though appalled by the
great land lying empty beyond them and
the work waiting to be done.
It is a far cry from the night fires on
Gallipoli in that December of 1915 to
this December of 1945, but now, as then,
Australia’s hope lies with the men who
fought to keep her free, white and Aus-
tralian. Their spirit is needed now as
never before in politics, business, industry,
agriculture —and in unionism.
Too Old a*—What?
Back in his native country after 12 years
of distinguished service in London, Mr.
Bruce has been hearing and reading many
things about himself, for the most part
very complimentary, but not so in every
case. In one of those political columns
written for “capitalistic” papers by smart
young Labor gentlemen who make an
ineffectual pretence of being impartial he
was informed that if he had any notion
of returning to political life he had better
abandon it, being too old.
Too old at 62! And this of a man who
has not only been High Commissioner
since October, 1933, but from early in
1942 represented a captious and fretful
Government in the United Kingdom War
Cabinet and on the Pacific War Council
and, without wilting, added to these duties
those of Minister Plenipotentiary to the
Netherlands Government in exile. The
Netherlands post alone must have in-
volved him in more work and worry than
fall to the lot of any two Commonwealth
Ministers in the category of passengers,
which goes for at least half a dozen. And
he is not nearly as old as some of the
gentlemen at Canberra. Senator Collings,
still thought worthy of a Ministerial job,
can give him 17 years.
In some of the State Parliaments, as in
that of the Commonwealth, there are men
much older than Mr. Bruce. The objec-
tion of age, reserved by the Wards and
their press friends for High Court Justices
and political aversions, was never raised
against Mr. Dwyer-Gray, who has died
in Tasmania in his 76th year and his 11th
as State Treasurer. Mr. Cooper, the
Queensland Premier, was going to school
when Mr. Bruce was born. ‘The Wes-
tralian Assembly has active debaters
whose intellectual vigor mocks their years
—on the Opposition side, Mr, Keenan,
who is in his 80th year and has been in
public life since 1901, though not con-
tinuously ; and, among the Labor mem-
bers, ex-Senator Needham (71) and ex-
Minister Millington (70). And there is Mr.
Collier (72), Premier for nine years and
member for Boulder since 1904; nowa-
days he rarely speaks, but when he is
“up” the House fills immediately. And
in the Legislative Council there is H. P.
Colebatch, who, after two periods as
Agent-General and a term as Senator,
returned to the House at 68. At rising
74 he is still its most effective debater.
But there is no greater living refutation
of the “argument” that age condemns the
public man without reference to his
powers than the inexhaustible Mr.'W. M.
Hughes.
Though he has turned 80, Mr. Hughes’s
memory remains retentive, and in conver-
sation he is a match for any man, whether
friend or stranger. Emerson, meeting
Wordsworth for the first and only time,
found that the poet could not “think
with” him, and judged that to be an in-
fallible test of extreme age. Mr. Hughes
can think with anyone, and is still quick
on the uptake. As to his memory, a
Bulletin man put a few impromptu
questions to him regarding three Wes-
tralian members, all of whom have gone
to their account —one died in 1913,
another was given up by the doctors in
1922 (though he recovered and survived
“WITHOUT ARE DOGS.”
“The time will arrive when a certain journal is going to be brought to the bar of this
House. The sooner the better that we say to this journal ‘We don’t want to suppress any-
thing you say that is fair, but we won’t submit to dictation.’ ” N.S.W. Deputy Premier
Baddley, annoyed at “S. M. Herald’s” objections to the Assembly pensions steal, and reported
verbatim in that paper.
“Bring that fellow Fairfax to the Bar—the Bar with a capital B!”
for 19 years), and the third passed out
suddenly this year. Mr. Hughes was ready
not only with the answers but with
anecdotes about all three ; some fresh to
the questioner, Vho knew the men pretty
well. And it delighted the veteran to
mention that a great many Italians were
for Orlando as Prime Minister, his 84
years notwithstanding, and to recall that
Orlando and Salandra supported him in
his tilt with President Wilson at Ver-
sailles, saying, when he put the case for
the Australian mandate over New
Guinea, “Why, that is our case for
Fiume.”
There is talk among a few Liberals of
forcing the member for North Sydney to
go to a pre-selection ballot next month.
It would be ungracious and foolish, and
would be taken very badly by servicemen,
who know they have never had a better
friend than “Billy.”
Thornton Skies the Towel.
Mr. Lang is about to have a birthday,
his 69th, and he received a welcome birth-
day present in advance. He was advised
of it by his solicitors, Harold T. Morgan
and Sons, who notified him that they
had signed judgment for the defendant
in Thornton v. Lang, plaintiff having
failed to go on with the case.
Plaintiff is general secretary of the
Ironworkers, and the most notorious
Communist in these parts. With a great
flourish of trumpets he issued a writ
claiming £lO,OOO damages for libel,
alleged to have been contained in a book
giving interesting details of his history as
an “Australian worker,” trade-union boss
and Communist. His statement of claim
ran into columns of small type, and had
he called upon defendant to stand up to
the charges and proved them false he
would have been entitled to thumping
damages. He preferred to back out and
become liable for all the costs, though
these will no doubt be passed on to “the
mugs.” Unionists, principally ironworkers,
bore the expenses of two of Thornton’s
three overseas trips and most of
the wherewithal lor the third was
perforce found by the taxpayers, the
“Labor” Government having decided that
this Communist, who is not Australian
by birth and who, during the German
war, proved himself rancidly anti-Aus-
tralian, would be a worthy representative
of Australia abroad.
• Defendant noted in his newspaper, the
“Century,” that when Thornton
“squibbed” on his libel action he was in
Moscow, summoned there with a band
of Red Fascist brothers from other parts
after the so-called World Trade-union
Conference in Paris, where delegates of
alleged Russian trade-unionists had things
all their own way. And Thornton was
permitted to broadcast from Moscow—
a privilege never offered to Mr. Churchill
or Mr. Eden —at the crisis of the strikes
started by his union and led by his deputy
McPhillips, with assistance from the Red
Fascist bosses of the Coalminers and the
Seamen, also on strike. As the “Century ’
puts it, there is “little doubt that while in
Moscow Thornton has been kept in
almost hourly contact with events in Aus-
tralia ; McPhillips would not be acting
on his own initiative.” Neither would
Thornton.
Another visitor to Moscow is—or was
—Joe Curran, Red Fascist boss of the
National Maritime Union (U.S.A.). And
beyond doubt Curran 'was an instigator
of the waterfront strikes which occurred
simultaneously in four English-speaking
countries, and which, in Sydney, Brisbane,
Wellington and San Francisco, have for
many weeks stopped the passage of Dutch
mercy ships to the N.E.L Curran also
gave the blessing of his union to a Red
Fascist attempt to capture the New York
waterfront from the A.F.L. longshore-
men’s union led by Joseph P. Ryan.
Bridges, alleged to be an Australian,
although he looks like a Whitechapel Jew,
threw himself into the struggle on the
Red Fascist side. He and his confeder-
ates and their mobs failed, chiefly because
Ryan is one of the fighting Irish. Indus-
trial chaos has come upon Australia
largely because leadership of the “mod-
erates” is in the palsied hands of non-
fighting Irish.
During the war there was no exemp-
tion from military service for American
union officials as such. Those sound in
wind and limb and within the prescribed
age-limits were conscripted and had to
serve. Curran was an exception; he
applied to Mr. Roosevelt for “draft de-
ferment” on the ground that he was
approaching 40 and was immersed in
union business ; and he lost heavily in
reputation and influence when the secret
came out. In Australia all union officials
were placed on the “protected” list. A
son of P.M.G. Cameron gave up a
good union job and joined the Mer-
chant Navy, and no doubt there
were other cases of the kind. But
Wells, Elliott, McPhillips, Thomson,
Hughes and many others took advantage
of the exemption and availed themselves
of it to consolidate their power and in-
crease their opportunities for mischief,
Mr. Ward looks after his friends.
A Neurosis Clinic.
“Galenus”: The installation of a Gov-
ernment clinic in Brisbane for the diag-
nosis and treatment of neuroses of all
types was a wise and timely measure.
Six years of world war have left their
mark deeply upon a substantial propor-
tion of the civil population, especially
amongst those most valuable to the coun-
try. Mothers of young families, in par-
ticular, have carried a strain of which the
ultimate effects may, in many cases, lead
to tragic consequences if neglected.
Food shortages, housing difficulties,
eternal queueing-up, traffic risks to
children in the crowded streets, anxiety
for loved ones in the services, sorrow for
lost ones, conscious or subconscious fear
during the dark days of Japanese on-
slaught—these and other past stresses are
showing their effects now that restraint
seems no longer necessary. The earnest,
hard-working civilian breadwinner with
dependants is another type who is parti-
cularly likely to suffer.
To these and many others such a clinic
will be of the greatest possible help, and
it will repay its cost a hundredfold by
saving many of them from the detention
wards of a mental hospital.
Legalised Betting.
The S.A. Assembly, in a measure which
went to “another place” radically altered,
has put it up to country people to say
whether or not they want private, but
legal, betting shops or a municipal tote
in their areas, the municipal tote being a
“Labor” idea. Under the bill electors in
a municipality or district will be asked to
vote on the matter. Where a tote is
agreed upon, the profits from it are to go
to the council for use on local projects
in much the manner of the profits from
the community pubs.
For the Adelaide area, which is to have
neither betting shops nor municipal totes,
additional race meetings were proposed
by one of the Independents. Premier
Playford said that in view of the “ex-
perimental nature” of the legislation, he
would not agree ; and his view prevailed.
“Experimental” is right, and an aspect
not mentioned is the flight of s.p. men
from districts with betting shops or totes-
into places without them. A clause in
the bill prohibits the presence of any
person under 21 in any area set apart
for betting. East of the S.A. border kids
bet as regularly and passionately as their
elders, a habit discouraged by neither
Parliaments nor newspapers, nor even
education departments.
“Splendid Farce, the Police!"
Report by “Petermac”:
Many N.S.W. policemen smile cynically at the
much-advertised attempts to beat up recruits.
The number of rookies available doesn’t nearly
equal the number of experienced men who
would like to resign.
Plodding round on his beat the policeman
has seen unsavory characters of pre-war
making fortunes in the s.-p. business and on
the blackmarket. He had to deal with a resur-
gence of larrikinism and with new epidemics of
theft, from “souveniring” to wharf looting. He
has been expected to control all this, and more,
with the force 500 men under strength and
additional war-time duties to perform. He
would infinitely rather have enlisted, but only
in the latter part of the war were policemen
permitted to join R.A.A.F, air crew, and then
only a few. .
When the Japs struck, police were asked to
work 12-hour shifts. This most of them
volunteered to do, though they had already
had piled on to them duties such as regis-
tration and surveillance of aliens, co-operation
with the Provost in apprehension of military de-
serters and enemy aliens, and co-operation with
the N.E.S. to the extent of sleeping at the
police station a couple of nights a week in
case of air raids. If bombs had fallen the
Force would have been just as integral a part
of Australia’s home defence as the N.E.S.,
the V.D.C. and the Services.
For all the added work and worry J. Hop
has had one small rise since the beginning of
the war. A constable is paid 18s. per day for
a 44-hour week of seven days, including shift
work, overtime being rewarded with time off
instead of pay. His wage is subject to
taxation and a superannuation deduction of
4 p.c., to be forfeited altogether if he resigns.
With the spiralling of living costs he now finds
himself amongst the new poor.
The policeman’s lot is hazardous, and the
hazards have been increased by war-time and
post-war conditions, and by the leniency of
magistrates and Judges and the attitude of Gov-
ernment and public. Time and again when
ruffians, wharf pilferers and blackmarketeers
have been apprehended they have been let off
with paltry fines and bonds, allowed by a
criminal law which has not been strengthened
in any way. And in case after case police try-
ing to arrest suspected thieves and notorious
bashers have been set on by the mob. And they
go into these encounters with the knowledge
that if they lose their lives (as one brave fellow
did recently) their killers will not hang.
“Labor” is against capital punishment.
Finally there are administration and promo-
tion grievances. Capable men refer bitterly
to promises of steady advancement which
never materialised. Old hands, many of them
Diggers of the last war, aver that in their cases
seniority has counted for little and military
service for nothing. In the determining of pro-
motion it is impossible to decide whether ability
or seniority rules; nor does a recognisable bal-
ance between the two appear to have been
struck. As for new uniforms, a light tropical
uniform for summer wear is long overdue,


Do
need a
you
PcUM/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
HufoiUlmk
MARTIN PLACE. SYDNEY
NEW AND STANDARD BOOKS
Green Armour. Vivid aoounts of life In New
Guinea. 10/6 (post 4d.).
The Philosophy of Spinoza. (Three titles in
one volume.) 17/6 (post 1/-).
The Liife of Benvenuto Cellini, by himself.
More amusing than a novel—a most enter-
taining vivid biography. 31/- (post 9d.).
Jean Sibelius. The Life and Personality of a
great contemporary composer, with a fore-
word by Ernest Newman. 14/- (post 6d.).
Bio Grande, by Harvey Ferguson, with 18
illustrations. The story of a colourful world,
of explorers, mountain men, prairie men,
Mexicans, etc. 14/- (post 6d.).
The Memoirs of Casanova. 31/- (post 1/-).
Music for Fun, by Spaeth. 7/6 (post 4d.),
Winston’s New Dictionary. 1945 Edition, over
100.000 words defined, 3000 illustrations.
Wonderful value. 28/- (post 1/6).
The Commodore. The first new “Hornblower”
Novel in six years, by C. S. Forester. 8/6
(post 3d.).
Give Yourself Background. Your personality
improved by Bond. 8/6 (post 6d.).
Science Year Book of 1945. 15/- (post 4d.).
Best Stories of O. Henry. 8/6 (post 6d.).
The Complete Etchings of Goya. With 268
etchings beautifully reproduced. 42/- (post
2/-).
10,000 Garden Questions Answered, by 15 experts, with 400 Illustrations and planting maps.
1480 pages. A 10 volume set, in one handy reference manual. New supply. 30/- (post 1/-).
Prince William of Gloucester, by Lisa. Sheridan, with 31 pages of beautiful photographs. 4/6
(post 3d.). The people of Australia will find this small boy after their own hearts—
friendly, interested and interesting.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
57/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
Queensland. Pastoral
Supplies Pty. Ltd.
Bowen Street - - - Brisbane
POLITICAL POINTS
By 1482 to 1429, over 10,000 “abstain-
ing,” the N.S.W. coalminers agreed to do
a bit of work before entering upon holi-
days for at least two full “working”
weeks ; and their strike is alleged to have
been “settled.” The seamen, for their
part, were expected to get a few coal-
ships moving, and their “dispute” is like-
wise alleged to have been “settled.” Ac-
cording to a miners’ union boss “the sea-
men secured a promise that the Govern-
ment would defer implementation of the
regulations reducing the war-risk bonus,”
and “we received assurances that the
N.S.W. Coal Bill of 1932 would be
amended and implemented; but nothing
could be gained for the ironworkers.”
They remain “out,” there being “two
points to be adjusted,” according to
Clarey of the A.C.T.U., that lath painted
to look like iron. Meanwhile an army
of the innocent are without jobs, and the
restrictions on fuel, lighting and trans-
port —clumsily contrived by N.S.W.
“Works” Minister Cahill, who neverthe-
less talks as if he were a public bene-
factor continue indefinitely. Three
hearty British groans for Chifley!
The thing is called “The Legislative
Assembly Members’ Pensions Act, 1945,”
and, for taxpayers, these are the material
clauses, condensed :
(1) There shall be paid to every mem-
ber who after the commencement of this
Act ceases to be a member, and who has
been a member in any three Parliaments,
a pension at the rate of six pounds per
week, which pension shall be payable to
him until his death.
(2) The three Parliaments referred to may
include any Parliament or Parliaments held
before the commencement of this Act, as
well ap the current Parliament and any
future Parliament or Parliaments.
(3) A person shall be deemed to have
been a member in a Parliament if he has
been a member during any portion of the
term of that Parliament.
(4) Upon the death of a member who
would have been entitled to or is in re-
ceipt of a pension there shall be paid to his
widow three pounds a week till her death.
Clause (3) lets in Martin and C. Evatt,
the two legal Ministers in the Assembly.
They joined their happy band of brothers
at by-elections in 1939, and were re-
elected in 1941 and 1944.
Slab of sentimental Leftism from Syd-
ney “D.T.’s” Sunday issue apropos of
“the way Chifley cooled down Commu-
nist Jack McPhillips, Acting-National
Secretary of the Ironworkers’ Association,
just as McPhillips was launching into an-
excited tirade”;
“Wait a minute, now,” “Chif.” said.
“That wonlt do, Jack. If you go on like
that you’ll have blood pressure when you’re
my age.”
Said McPhillips, upturning his hands in
a gesture of frustration, “How can you
quarrel with a man like that?”
Slab of honest indignation from the
Rev, H. J. Whitney, of Bundaberg (Q.),
preaching at Scots’ Church, Sydney, on
Sunday afternoon:
It is scandalous that we are compelled to
suspend Divine worship on Sunday evenings
because of the lawlessness of a handful of
Communists. Why should the symbol of
supreme political authority have to confer
with lawbreakers? It puts a premium on
lawlessness and it panders to the arrogance
of petty anarchists. It penalises law-abiding
citizens and holds the country up to ridi-
cule.
The acknowledged philosophy of Com-
munists aims at the destruction of organ-
ised society and of religion. Based on hate,
not love, reducing the individual to the level
of a cypher, Communism constitutes the
antithesis of Christianity. Its favorite
weapons are banditry, intimidation and
misrepresentation. Because of its distorted
and pernicious propaganda a creeping
paralysis seems to have afflicted both the
people and Parliament. Let the authorities
do their duty and establish order.
Pity the Rev. Whitney isn’t Prime Min-
ister instead of the 1917 striker to whom
the unspeakable McPhillips is “Jack.”
Wragge, M.L.C., with a House resolu-
tion that “pensions received by many
N.S.W. police and stipendiary magistrates
are inadequate”:
Of 25 magistrates in retirement, one gets
£BO p.a., nine draw £lO4 p.a. and 11
£156 p.a. Of 41 still on the list, three are
entitled to £52 p.a., four to £lO4 p.a. and
16 to £156 p.a.
“Labor” was so moved that it rushed
out and returned with a bill awarding
Assemblymen (£875 p.a., with more for
Ministers and officers) £6 a week for life
after continuous service in three Parlia-
ments. And there are contractual obliga-
tions to magistrates. There were none
to the politicians.
I. C. Black, a young Sydney barrister
with an excellent war-service record, suc-
ceeds Weaver ias M.L.A. for Neutral
Bay (N.S.W.). Considering the smaller
vote, his majority was about equal to that
of the late Opposition-leader—no mean
achievement, for he had a strong oppo-
nent in Bolton, of the R.S.L.
In a unanimous judgment, the Full
High Court declared “Labor’s” National
Airlines Act invalid to the extent that it
sought to abolish existing inter-State air-
lines licenses and prevent companies run-
ning inter-State services. Said Latham,
C.J., “the exclusion of competition with
the commission” [Minister Drakeford’s
baby] “is not a system of regulation and
is, in my opinion, a violation of Section
92 of the Constitution” (“Trade, com-
merce and intercourse among the States,
whether by means of internal carriage or
ocean navigation, shall be absolutely
free”). Ip its way, as nasty a knock for
Dr. Evatt as the strikes in contempt of
his National Security Regulations, the
work of Communists from whose organh
satjons and publications he removed the
Menzies ban, with a pledge that he would
“reimpose it if the undertakings given
are not observed.”
According to General Marshall, the
atomic bomb is just another weapon, and
the U.S.A. will still need military pre-
paredness “to defend its interest against
any nation or combination of nations.”
Specifically, universal military training,
with a trained reserve of four million
men, so that “we can move armies into
the enemy’s bases of operations and seize
the sites from which he launches his
attacks.” In the “Labor” view Australia
won’t need anything of the sort. Pre-
sumably, if Australia is threatened
with attack by a combination of
nations, possibly with “our Indernesian
comrades” among them, another “Labor”
Prime Minister can appeal or squeal to
America “without any inhibitions.”
The American loan received reluctant
approval in the Commons, but 70 Con-
servatives, 20 Laborites and 10 Libs and
Independents voted against it. And a
Conservative, Boothby, said one of those
things that stick in the memory—“ The
Government may have a mandate to
nationalise gasworks, but it has received
no mandate to sell the British Empire for
a packet of cigarettes,”
Scully, the seer of Australian agricul-
ture, has “warned” vegetable growers not
to expand production, mainly of French
beans, beetroot, cabbage, carrots, onions,
parsnips, green peas, tomatoes and
swedes, most of them capable of being
canned or bottled. Scully says the growers
must cut down because service demands
will soon cease. He apparently never
heard of the famine in Europe. But he
must have heard of the N.Z. delegate to
the United Nations food conference, who,
in an utterance for which he was ap-
plauded by his fellow-delegates and the
North American press said: “Never
again should any country pay farmers for
not producing.” In pursuance of the
Scully “policy,” there was paid to farmers
in Westralia £599,300 in 1943-44,
£586,900 in 1944-45 and £285,000 this
season for noj growing wheat.
Tully, the N.S.W. Minister for Lands,
has been steering a War Service Land
Settlement and Closer Settlement (Amend-
ment) Bill through what passes for a Par-
liament in his State. No serviceman need
imagine he’ll get a block in the immediate
future, Tully—Digger Tully to “Terewth”
—“what battalion, pray?”—says the delay
is attributable to the Commonwealth dis-
regarding State land officers’ valuations.
There is always a “delay,”
From an article in the “Standard,”
“official organ” of the McKell Labor
party:—
Unfortunately, the 8.H.P., which for once
was supported by legal, if not moral, rights,
stood on their uppers because it suited
them.
Possibly this moved the manager of the
B.H.P. steelworks to make a statement
about the strikes. He said, among other
things, that in 1944 the Communist Thorn-
ton “informed me that as soon as the war
was over he and his union (the Iron-
workers) would attack B.H.P. and every-
thing associated with it,” and that, under
the guidance of the Communist Wells,
“strikes at the three B.H.P. collieries sup-
plying the Newcastle steelworks caused a
loss of 230,000 tons of coal in 11 months
of 1945.” Presumably to papers and per-
sons with, like the “Standard,” “a leaning
towards the Communist ideology,” the
Thornton threat and the Wells strikes
were “moral.”
Announced on the same day in Mel-
bourne —(1) by Galvin, the Labor Min-
ister of Lands: the aerial survey branch
of the Lands is co-operating in produc-
ing maps of the Moe-Morwell district to
help speed up plans for developing Vic-
toria’s brown-coal resources; (2) by
Stoneham (Transport): experts from the
Railways and the State Electricity Com-
mission are to visit Germany to study
progress made there in the use of brown
coal for rail haulage, electricity, gas and
other methods of power production. Over
400 square miles of Victoria is rich in
brown coal, some of it on Melbourne’s
doorstep. Mining brown coal 'isn’t as
difficult or as unpleasant an activity as
mining black coal, and it may be that
one of these days Victoria will be the
chief coal-producer in Australia.
C.U.W. —“Communist unions willing,”
a qualification which must now be
added to all promises by their vassals of
the Canberra “Government” —106,000
Australian troops are to be brought home
from island bases, including Borneo, by
ship and aeroplane before the end of
February. Of these 61,092 will leave for
home during December. But troopships,
as well as many other ships, have been
held up by the strikers, and Mr. Chifley
can always be depended on to be “firm”
—in doing what the unions tell him.
At least a month later than expected,
Dr. Evatt is coming home. He was
represented by a deputy (or dummy) at
the United Nations Preparatory Commis-
sion when a vote on the permanent head-
quarters of the United Nations Organi-
sation was taken, the decision going to
the U.S.A. That’s all right as far as it
goes, but the voting was curious, though
characteristic of “Labor’s # foreign policy.”
Britain, Canada, South France,
Belgium, Holland and Norway were for
a European H.Q., Maoriland abstaining.
“Australia,” as usual, was in the same
galley with the Latin Republics, other
associates being India, China, Russia,
Egypt and Turkey.
The hammer-and-sickle flag drooped
when Thornton abandoned his much-
advertised action against Lang, being
afraid to go on with it, and again when
Dougherty, of the A.W.U., was awarded
£l5OO damages for what a jury certified
to be a libel in the Red Fascist “Tri-
bune.” Joined with the printer and pub-
lisher as defendants were the Communist
party duumvirs Sharkey and Miles, the
strike bosses Wells (Miners) and Elliott
(Seamen), and kindred spirits Healy
(Waterside Workers) and Hughes (Clerks),
all champions of “our Indernesian com-
rades” against their own race. Fourteen
of the band were designated “clerks.” No
wonder the Clerks’ Union passed under
Communist control, now vigorously dis-
puted.
Estimates of Maoriland population
based on the recent census, with some re-
turns still outstanding and 40,000 allowed
for servicemen overseas, are 1,640,000
whites and 100,000 Maoris. If they are
realised the Maoris will have increased
at a greater —or, rather, less slow —rate
than the whites: at the 1916 census there
were 1,096,228 whites and 52,997 Maoris.
For a country so favored by nature and
with so fine a breed of men the figures
are desperately disappointing, especially
as they show a persistent drift from the
country to the city, Denmark, with only
16,575 square miles (the area of N.Z. is
103,410 square miles) has nearly 4,000,000
people.
In an “Australia Would Like to Know”
series of broadcasts from a Brisbane sta-
tion, Fadden has been putting pertinent
questions to “Labor” Ministers on mys-
terious features of their “policy.” A
specimen list:
Why did the Minister of Customs [Keane]
lift price-control from tomatoes, causing retail
prices to soar 50 to 100 p.c., without corre-
sponding benefit to the producers, while fixing
maximum prices for piano-accordeons?
Why did the Treasurer [Chifley] clap 25 p.c.
sales tax on children’s toys? And why does
he charge land men 25 p.c. sales tax on the
cartridges they buy for eradication of pests?
Apropos of the 10,000 men listed in June for
discharge from the services on occupational
grounds, why, Mr. Holloway (Labor and
National Service), was no provision made for
the rural industries except 300 men for cereals
production for all Australia? And, with Europe
facing a catastrophe which has no precedent
since the Black Death, why has Mr. Scully
(Commerce and Agriculture) decided on a 25
p.c. cut in potato production?
And why has Mr. Lazzarini (Housing) given
owners of seaside holiday dwellings the legal
right to refuse tenants with children? Ser-
vicemen’s children and all!
And why, Dr. Evatt, those proceedings in
Sydney to eject a concern making essential
drugs, penicillin and blood plasma, to find more
room for A.8.C.?
And why has no fight been put up for the
retention of Empire preference, when Empire
preference means five millions a year to land
men? Why should Dr. Evatt be far more inter-
ested in telling Britain and America how to
settle the future of Japan than in protecting the
producers of his own country?
None of Artie’s conundrums has been
answered, but that doesn’t matter. Keep
going, Artie!
The Labor rule of “one man, one job”
has laid a cold finger on bookmakers’
clerks in Queensland, who have been told
by the Q.T.C. that it won’t license any
holding down another job from which he
draws more than the basic wage. The
clerks demanded that bookies with other
jobs should also be delicensed, but the
Q.T.C. regards such bookies as employers.
The matter has not yet been referred to
the Prime Minister. If it is, he can be ex-
pected to display his usual “firmness.”
On the authority of a member of the
Evatt newspaper claque, U.S. branch, it
was asserted last month that “China and
Australia favor the removal of the Jap-
anese emperor from the throne.” For
Australia only Parliament can speak, and
until it does the views of Dr. Evatt and
the Communists are impertinent. For
the Chinese Government Chiang Kai-
shek has spoken:—
In an interview with the president of the
United Press the Generalissimo declared
that the question whether Hirohito should
be permitted to continue on the throne
should be decided by the Japanese them-
selves.
The Washington “Post” agrees, adding
that “the Potsdam provision has worked
out very much to our advantage.” And
it has worked out very much to Aus-
tralia’s advantage, notwithstanding Dr.
Evatt’s strident objections.


Every day in some
way, you use
EXiDE
an
' (hi)
rE
Wh L n J t 's ( mn
llvi?
Upstart
6.45
Exide serves the public in a hundred
ways, from telephonic communication to
the production of coal. In your choice
of a car battery be guided by un-
dertakings that depend upon Exide.
tt
cm
PERSONAL ITEMS
When S. M. Bruce, back from 12
years of good Australian service in Lon-
don, was electioneering he welcomed in-
terjections and was a pastmaster at scor-
ing off the interrupter. At his Adelaide
meeting during the 1928 Federal cam-
paign the foolish catchcry “What did you
do in the Great War, daddv?” floated up
to him. “Well, I attended it,” replied Bruce,
returning immediately to his subject
matter. During his attendance —he served
on Gailip. with the Worcesters and in
France with the Royal Fusiliers —he was
twice wounded and received an M.C, and
French Croix de Guerre.
Queensland Rhodes scholars for 1946
are Sub-Lieut. Gordon William Donald-
son and Lieut. Francis Patrick Donovan.
Donaldson, a product of the Brisbane
Boys’ College, received the degree of
Bachelor of Engineering with first-class
honors in mechanical and electrical engi-
neering in 1940. During the war he was
on the destroyer Norman operating with
the Indian Fleet. Donovan,, an old-boy
of St. Joseph’s, Nudgee, is an under-
graduate member of the Faculty of Law
and at present is in the Army. He saw
active service at Milne Bay and other
N.G. battlegrounds. Donaldson, born
at Camooweal (far W.Q.) “repped” for
’Varsity in athletics, whilst Donovan, a
native of Ingham (N.Q.) participated in
inter-’Varsity R.U. and debating. They
will be accompanied to Oxford next year
by Lieut. Graeme Wilson, the 1940
Rhodes winner, who went to Malaya with
the 2/26th Battalion and was a prisoner
in Singapore,
A veteran at 20, Trevor George
Donald, nephew of W. H. (“Chiang’s”)
Donald, got into the A.I.F. commandos
when he was 16, learnt Morse code, and
in several raids on Timor, apart from
scrapping, relayed valuable information
back to Australia. After 18 months’ ser-
vice his age was discovered and he was
discharged. He then joined the Police
Cadets, but resigned before signing up
because he wanted to re-enlist. He was
in the A.T.C. next, learning to become a
wireless air-gunner, but when he enlisted
in the R.A.A.F. there was a surplus of air
crew and he was diverted to ground staff.
However, volunteers were requested for
a special job of radio interception of Jap
messages, and young Donald was off
again with seven others to New Guinea
and the Philippines, where he served until
serious recurrences of malaria caused him
to be invalided back. With four years’
service, mostly active, and 200 points to
his credit, he’s now awaiting discharge
and is studying to be a civil engineer.
Colin Bednall, who becomes managing
editor of Brisbane’s “Courier-Mail” and
“Sunday Mail,” is one of the many Aus-
tralian journalists who have made good
in London. Born in Adelaide, he ,is a
member of a well-known newspaper
family,, and he trained as a journalist in
Melbourne and Adelaide. He went to
Britain on the staff of the Australian
Newspapers Cable Service, from which
post he was engaged by the “Daily Mail”
as aviation writer and war correspondent.
Subsequently he became assistant editor
of the “D.M.” Bednall’s wife is a
daughter of C; L. A. Abbott, Adminis-
trator of the N.T.
“Ek D.”: Reference to the fact that
The Bulletin’s much-mourned Jimmy
Johnson was a member of the old A.I.F.
2nd Battalion reminds me of another
Jimmy Johnson who served in the ranks
of that battalion —William James, a Yass
native, an old-time Labor man who was
pipped at the post by Pigott for Calare
in 1914 —the voting was 12,770 to 12,169.
That particular “Jimmy” put back his
age and got into the Second Battalion,
A.I.F.—No. 3827. When Billy Hughes
reviewed the First Brigade in June, T 6,
at Fleurbaix, he noticed the old fellow in
the ranks, shook hands with him and was
greeted with “Well, Billy, have they made
you a Doctor of Divinity yet?” The
“War History” records that Jimmy, “who
bore cheerfully and without complaint
duties for which he was really too old,”
was mortally wounded less than a month
later, on July 23, at Pozieres.
Veteran Maoriland alpinist A. P. Har-
per is still in the pink. Fifty years after
making the first winter ascent of Mount
Egmont, he lately revisited it and climbed
almost to the top of Fantham’s Peak.
Now well over 80, he has produced a
useful book for trampers and such,
drawing on a vast fund of experience.
John C. Litchfield, depicted here by
Scorfield, took up his Army career again
in 1939 where he had left off 20 years
before. Told then that he was too old
for overseas service, three years later he
was young enough to be sent north at a
few days’ notice as A.A. and Q.M.G. to
Major-General Clowes in what was
known successively as “C” Force, Clowes
Force and Milne Force. Within six
weeks of its formation the force had in-
SOLDIERS’ WATCHDOG.
flicted on the Nip his first land defeat
of the war. Later Milne Force became
N.G. Force and 11th Div., but changes
of name found the name of its A.A. and
Q.M.G. unchanged, until scrub typhus
laid him low at Buna. It takes a very
tough and very lucky Digger to toss s.t,
but after 12 months in hospital this one
was on his feet again and fit enough to
preside at the inquiry into the Cowra
Jap prison-camp break. Now back in
civvies Col. Litchfield has taken on an-
other man-sized job. As chairman of the
executive committee of the R.S.L. Busi-
ness Advisory Panel his aim is to protect
the ex-serviceman in search of a small
business from sharks who are out to
part him from his deferred pay and
savings.
Misfortune hits a colorful soldier:
There is something cruelly ironic in the
news that General Patton, most active and
energetic of America’s many live-wire generals,
has been incapacitated by a spinal injury.
A showman and actor to his fingertips it is
natural that much newspaper space has been
wasted on Patton’s pearl-handled pistols and his
green uniforms of exotic design, his unfor-
tunate face-slapping episode in Italy got almost
as much publicity as his terrific Third- Army
thrust into the heart of Germany.
Born in 1885, “Old Blood and Guts” comes
of old Virginian stock and began his career
at the Virginia Military Institute, where he is
chiefly remembered for his polo, football and
horsemanship. At West Point football and
riding were still his first choice, though he did
manage, unassisted by a horse, to lower the
220-yard sprint record. Sent on graduation to
a cavalry post in Texas, he caused a stir by
turning up with a string of 26 horses, every
one of them seasoned at polo. In the cav. he
made a hobby of collecting prizes for swords-
manship (he later invented a new type of sabre),
pistol and rifle shooting, and went to Stock-
holm in 1912 with the U.S. Olympic team.
During the Villa troubles in Mexico Patton
once went in alone against a bandit who had
turned an adobe hut into a one-man fort.
After a short interval, broken by a few shots
and a little scuffling, Patton reappeared carrying
the dead bandit over his shoulder like a stricken
deer.
In France in 1918 he switched from horses
to tanks. How he stuck to them between the
wars and fought them through. North Africa,
Italy, France and Germany is now history.
Surgeons may be able to put the general
on horseback again, but if his active career is
over he can at least look back on a life lived
as he liked it, filled with action and crowned
with glory.
A. D. Mclntosh, Secretary of External
Affairs since 1943, takes over the post
of permanent head of M.L.’s Prime Min-
ister’s Department, vacant through the
retirement of C. A. Jeffery. Mclntosh,
who’s an M.A. (Victoria College, Wel-
lington), will go on doing his old job as
well as the new one. Now in his thirties,
he saw the U.S.A. and Europe fairly
thoroughly on a Carnegie travelling
scholarship.
Perth’s new Lord Mayor is J. Totter-
dell, a Manchester native who emigrated
to the West in 1903, settled in Kalgoorlie
and soon went into business in Perth
as a building contractor. A past presi-
dent of the W.A. Master Builders and
the Federated Master Builders of Aus-
tralia, he has travelled widely and studied
civic affairs in Britain, Europe and
America.
In the latest news of him to reach this
page former Bulletin artist Percy
Leason, who has been some years in the
U.S.A., figures as winner of the Sidney
Hollaender Popular Prize in the Audubon •
artists’ exhibition, staged in N.Y. National
Academy Galleries. The prize is awarded
for the best entry in any medium selected
by the popular vote of visitors to the
exhibition. Leason, whose winning effort
was a portrait, is a regular illustrator in
“Collier’s,” “Liberty” and “This Week”
magazines. He’s also a teacher at the
Staten Island Museum' of Arts and
Sciences.
John Harding Chinner, Victoria’s 1939
Rhodes Scholar, starts his studies in the
room in which Shelley wrote his “The
Necessity of Atheism” pamphlet, which
earned the poet expulsion from Oxford,
Chinner was almost aboard the ship that
was to take him to England when Hitler
erupted. He served four years with the
A. and emerged a lieut.-colonel. His
wife is a daughter of ex-Premier Dunstan.
Forestry research is Chinner’s particular
study.
B.H.P. superintendent in South Aus-
tralia, Reginald Theodore (“Snowy”)
Kleeman has seen an extraordinary trans-
formation at Whyalla. Twenty-two at the
time, and armed with an Adelaide Uni.
B. degree, he went to Whyalla in 1923
as a draftsman for the company. The
population was about 200; the town, a
few houses, a small hotel and a store.
Since then the population has gone up to
TOWN FATHER.
8000, and the town has grown into a fine
place, with not only three of the best
hotels in the State but an unlimited beer
supply. Kleeman has been a main force
behind pretty well all the progress. He
is chairman of the Hospital Board, presi-
dent of the Technical High School and
Aero Club, and has a place on various
committees. An inter-’varsity athlete in
his day, he played football at Whyalla
when Whyalla almost wasn’t there.
If Canberra were included in Hume
electorate —it’s not, though one boundary
of Hume touches on the F.C.T. —Warren
McDonald would receive probably
enough votes in the capital to make him
certain to win the electorate under any
conditions. As it is, he will take some
stopping. C.P. candidate, just endorsed,
he will be up against Labor’s tall but not
very effective Fuller. McDonald became
a brigadier during the war, after enlisting
in the ranks. He was —as his father be-
fore him —a builder, spending most of his
life in Canberra. He built St. Christo-
pher’s R.C. church on a basis which left
no profit for himself, and has carried
some local causes financially when an-'
other man would have shied away from
them. ,
The Navy lost a keen young officer and
Australia a gallant son when Lieut. Dick
Saunders, D.S.C., was accidentally killed
last week on Morotai. A Cremorne boy,
his interest at first turned to the land, and
after passing through Glenfield Veterinary
Research Station he put in a few years
in the sheep country of western N.S.W.
Switching to mechanical engineering, he
went to Mort’s Dock and joined the
R.A.N.V.R., where he quickly found his
feet and his sea-legs. Like many more of
our amateur naval men, he saw action in
many arms of the service. From mine-
sweeping and sub.-spotting in the North
Sea he went to the Channel Patrol ser-
vice and was promoted to command of
an m.t.b. It was here he won his D.S.C.
When Scharnhorst, Gneisenau and Prinz
Eugen made their dash from Brest to
safer waters Saunders’s craft was among
those sent out to oppose them. Tailing
the field through engine trouble, he took
her in alone through the enemy destroyer
screen and put a torpedo into Prinz
Eugen. Later he served in subs., with
the Indian Ocean his stamping ground,
and early this year he went to the Islands
on special service in command of an M.L.
Ironically, he was killed on shore —in a
motor accident. •
Rev. Dr. J. J. North, retired after half
a century of service to the Baptist Church
in Maoriland, was for two'decades prin-
cipal of the Church’s college. For 28
years he edited the New Zealand
“Baptist.”
“W.”: Mention of the brilliant Adel-
aide Rhodes scholar W, A. N. Wells, who
recently won the Stow Prize for the
third time (B. 5/12/’45), is not complete
without recalling that his “marking-time”
period since 1940 consisted of four years
in the ranks of a Ninth Div. infantry unit,
including Tobruk and New Guinea. Since
discharge in late ’44 he has finished his
Law course with two first and one
second-class honors, collecting the Ben-
nett Prize and David Murray scholarship
as well as the Stow, while working at the
same time as Judge’s associate.
Into the silence;
At Te Araroa, M.L., aged 70, Dr. Tutere
Wi Repa, one of the first Maoris to enter the
medical profession. A pupil of Te Aute Col-
lege, he was among the founders of the Young
Maori party and took a prominent part in the
war effort of his people. Wi Repa’s services
were mainly devoted to his own people, on
whose tribal history he was an authority. He
was a chief of the Te Horohuta section of the
Ngati-porou tribe.
In Brisbane, at 75, George Edward Driver,
formerly Divisional Returning Officer for .Lilley
and Brisbane. His public service career began
with the State Customs Department in 1884;
30 years later he transferred to the Common-
wealth Electoral Office.
In England, Lieut.-Col. F. W. Huggins, a
Maorilander; city councillor and a veteran of
two wars. Last year he received an appoint-
ment from the British Government as Deputy
Commissioner for the Western Pacific which
included the Gilbert and Ellice Islands.
At 56, in Melbourne, John Thynne, private
secretary to 25 State Ministers. His long run
of “seccing” was interrupted only by his years
abroad with the first A.I.F.
At Ryde (N.S.W.), in sight of where he won
world’s sculling championships on the Parra-
matta River, Jim Stanbury, after a long illness.
He had victories over O’Connor, McLean,
Sullivan, Harding, Gaudaur and George Towns.
A clean, straightforward sportsman, he was 77
at the end.
In Perth (W.A.), at his desk, Jim Burgess,
chairman of the State Licensing Bench, and
previously, for many of his 63 years, a union
and (Fremantle) Trades Hall secretary. During
the last war,’ when feeling ran high, he sued
the “Sunday Times” for libel and lost the
case. But in court he showed himself such
a good fellow, transparently honest, that the
editor of the paper sought out the disconsolate
litigant and, shaking hands, said he would
ask the proprietor to forego costs; and the
proprietor did. Scotsman, too.
In Charters Towers (N.Q.), at the Eventide
Home, Jupiter Mosman, who, as a little abo-
riginal, was with the original prospecting party
that discovered gold at Charters Towers in 1872.
The only living member of the party today is
knight Thomas Buckland of Sydney, now m his
98th year. TT . Tjr 1t
In Melbourne, at 87, Rev. Hugh Kelly, one
of the best-known Presbyterian ministers in
Victoria. He started preaching in Scotland at
17, served the ministry in M.L. for 20 years
and went to St. Andrews, Carlton, Melbourne,
in 1903. He was editor of the “Messenger,”
and a graceful essayist on social and political
problems.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Zake”: One of the few laughable
aspects of the disastrous strike was
the fawning discovery by Sydney dailies
of a “firm” and “courageous” attitude by
Priminister Chifley towards the Com-
munist strike leaders: Granny “Herald”
even wound up one fatuous piece of edi-
torial slobber by visualising the P.M.
as going “boldly over to the offen-
sive”—which is much like congratulat-
ing a rabbit, escaping from a dingo, on its
matchless courage. But among the well-
nourished herd of “organisers” and secre-
taries that roam Sydney’s Trades Hall
there is a more realistic appraisal of the
P.M., whose gutlessness is regarded by
them with considerable gratification—for
it suits their book to have someone in
the big chair who won’t bite back—and
even more levity. The levity has been
expressed by a couplet which is being
tossed around where forgather the multi-
chinned champions of the downtrodden
wage-plugs. It runs:
A firm and rigid attitude’s adopted now by
Chif.
He met some Corns, in conference, and that’s
what scared him stiff.
“Bo”: McKell’s Sydney “Government”
graciously took time off from establishing
a fat comforts fund for “the boys” to
impose savage restrictions on the use of
gas by housewives already harassed in -a
hundred other ways. There will be one
peculiar aftermath. Citizens who meticu-
lously bowed to the threats of extor-
tionate fines and inhaled large quantities
of smoke when they tried backyard
cuisine should look to their gas bills. If
ever I am doubtful as to when I had my
three-weeks’ holiday in any given year I
turn up mine. That quarter’s bill
which is the heaviest of the year will in-
variably prove to be the one in which
the house was shut up for three weeks.
* * # SJC
“Scribe”: Zeal of two Auckland re-
porters in uncovering and making public
the exploits of a woman who for ten
years masqueraded as a man and went
through the form of marriage with a
younger woman had its sequel in a case
which J. H. Luxford, S.M., declared to
be unique in his experience. On condi-
tion that both submitted themselves for
psychiatric treatment, he admitted de-
fendants to probation for three years and
stipulated that they should remain apart
and obey the psychiatrist’s directions.
Counsel for the masquerader, replying to
the Bench, told the Court that “with the
idea of removing any cause for suspicion
and so as not to embarrass her in her
work as a laborer,” his client had under-
gone an operation for the removal of her
breasts. Commenting that he felt an
operation for such a purpose was in-
herently wrong, the Beak said he didn’t
know how far medical rule applied in
such a matter, but he thought the sur-
geon’s action should be brought before
the B.M.A. for a ruling.
* * * *
“Dutigalla”: Where did “S.T.S.” (B.
14/11 /’45) get the idea that some States
pay greater tribute to the memory of
Robert Torrens than does South Aus-
tralia? No State has a “Torrens Act.”
Besides S.A., three others-—Queensland,
Tas. and N. S. Wales —call their respec-
tive statutes “Real Property Act,” while
Vic. and W.A. have the title “Transfer of
Land Act,” commonly referred to by the
legal profession as “T.L.A.” In Victoria
these days the cost of bringing even a
pocket-handkerchief' block of land under
the T.L.A. is nothing less than £6O, if
you can get a solicitor to do the job.
* * -1= * •
“Bohemian”: The one-time owner of
the great Cheviot estate in M.L. was
always known as “Ready Money Robin-
son.” When he bought the 80,000 acres
for £30,000 he presented his cheque at
the office of the Nelson Land Board, only
to be told that the amount must be paid
in cash. Annoyed at this display of
red-tape, he jumped into his buggy, drove
to the bank and presented the cheque. It
took all the gold, silver and copper on
hand to make up the amount, and it was
a bulky and v,ery heavy sack that Robin-
son dumped on the Land Board’s counter
just before closing time. “Here’s your
ready money,” roared Robinson. “Give
me a receipt.”
“Go right back and get his cage.”
“Si Arm”: A wandering correspondent
of the Melbourne “Herald,” surveying the
scene from the verandah of the spacious
Hotel des Indes, reports from Batavia
that the Indonesian “extremists” are com-
posed of Japanese-trained youths and
“rampoks,” which he explains is the
Malay word for looters, always a source
of trouble in Java. The word is rompak,
meaning to plunder or pillage, and the
noun perompak means a pirate. When
I was in Java there were no perompaks
on that well-ordered island, and there had
been very little piracy outside it after
Brooke, the white rajah of Sarawak, sup-
pressed the sea-raiders round about 1840.
* * * *
“Jarumudi”: Jan Fabius, an inmate of
Prince Henry’s Hospital, Melbourne,
where he is recovering from the effects of
three years’ internment in Java, was a
Dutch Intelligence officer at Bandoeng
before the invasion. There came into
his hands the Japanese General Staff’s
plans for their southern swarming. Like
most documents of this sort, it was comic
in some of its miscalculations, the Nip-
ponese leaders being confident that the
Dutch would (1) keep out of the war long
enough for the archipelago to be by-
passed by the Jap Navy for the conquest
of Australia, or (2) come in on the Jap
side. They based their belief that the
Dutch would become an ally on the long
commercial associations between the two
countries, dating from the seventienth
century, when all European traders were
excluded from Japan with the exception
of the Dutch. •
* * * *
“City Lights”: I won’t have “Strict
Veg.’s” dictum (B. 14/11/ ’45) that chop-
suey is almost tasteless. I have often
dined at a Chinese restaurant and hoed
into a heaped plateful of the comestible.
The main basis was rice, but rice prop-
erly cooked (few Europeans know how
to cook it—they invariably produce a sub-
stance that might be used for sticking
wallpaper), with sideline of a little dish
of soy sauce. Working through on a
face, one came upon sliced roast pork,
boiled ditto, ham, roast chicken, roast
duck, fried preserved mushrooms, onions,
water chestnuts and possibly a few sliced
bamboo shoots. And that concoction,
which was merely mixed and not cooked
together, was certainly tasty. But to a
heavy smoker, especially of a pipe, such
a delicate variety of foods would seem
almost tasteless. Most pipe addicts pour
Worcestershire sauce on to every dish of
meat in the effort to achieve a little flavor.
* , * * *
“Peter Mike”: It was at the time when
the Luftwaffe was making the most of
its air superiority over Tobruk. With
British ’planes beginning to arrive in the
Middle East the garrison was ordered to
repair the bomb-cratered landing strip at
El Gubbi, the working parties being sup-
plied by units enjoying a spell from the
forward positions. Private Bluegum was
in the middle of a self-decreed smoke-oh
when a R.A.F. n.c.o. demanded to know
what he was doing. Bluegum confessed
that he was “havin’ a ‘bludge.’ ” The n.c.o.
wanted to know whom Bluegum thought
he was addressing. Bluegum had no idea.
“I’m from the R.A.F.,” said the n.c.o.
tersely. “Never heard of ’em,” replied
Bluegum, looking portentously at the
heavens.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: As I write the grand old
Australian custom of a piping hot dinner
on a sweltering Christmas Day looks like
going west this year. I have recollections
of the day with a fall of snow as garni-
ture. Mt. Bogong (Vic.) carried a white
mantle for a few hours on the Christmas
morning of 1932, and we enjoyed the
scene from Tawonga, over which hamlet
the great mountain looms. Old residents
spoke of an earlier similar Yuletide visi-
tation.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: “Jandow” may be right
when he says (B. 5/12/’45) that the
achievements of the Nazis in the realm
of persecution were influenced by child-
ren’s books like Struwwelpeter. But
against that is the fact that the frescoes
of the Buddhist hell which adorn the
entrances to Chinese temples are the last
word in fiendishness portrayed to the last
detail, and yet the Chinese are no # more
cruel than other races and are particu-
larly gentle to children. It was an Ameri-
can clergyman, the Rev. Mr. Furniss, who
described the punishment in hell of a boy
whose offence was attending public
houses, theatres and dance halls:
The boy’s eyes are burning like two burn-
ing coals. Two long flames come out of his
ears. Sometimes he opens his mouth, and
breath of blazing fire rolls out of it. But
listen! There is a sound like that of a
kettle boiling. Is it really a kettle boiling?
No. Then what is it? The blood is boil-
ing in the scalded veins of that' boy.
The brain is boiling and bubbling in his
head. The marrow is boiling in his bones.
The Germans weren’t the only addicts to
frightfulness a hundred years ago.
“Sikey”: A Canadian psychiatrist, Dr.
G. B. Chisholm (he was director-general
of Canada’s medical services in the war,
with the rank of major-general), emphati-
cally does not believe in fairies and says
children should not be encouraged to be-
lieve in them. He says
Any child who believes in Santa Claus
has had his ability to think permanently
injured. He will become the kind of a man
who develops a sore back when there is a
tough job ahead and who refuses to think
realistically when war threatens.
The doctor sees as the world’s only hope
of peace a system of child-training on “a
strict basis of reality, free from escap-
ism.” More easily formulated than put
in practice. Dr. Chisholm realises the
difficulty himself when he says “We can-
not give children our own rules of right
and wrong because we have been so dread-
fully wrong ourselves. We have messed
every aspect of living. No other animal
in creation has made such a mess of it.”
But not necessarily because*we indulge
in irrational fancies. The people who
plunged the world into war were stern
realists.
* * * *
“Pawang”: All Lud Mayor Connelly’s
noble efforts in the cause of freeing Mel-
bourne’s drinking habits from the pub
complex and all the argument about
them won’t have any effect whatever
until the Australian attitude is altered.
Most Australians have a sneaking attitude
to drink, something akin to their attitude
to sex. This attitude can be seen in any
average conversation and even in adver-
tisements. In one such, screened almost
daily in the theatres, a man in a dress
suit fetches various delicacies out of a
refrigerator to show how well they’re
frozen. When he lifts out the bottle of
beer he smirks as if to say: “What a
devil of a fellow I am! ” Mayor Connelly
wants us to follow European custom
where alcohol is enjoyed along with other
amenities of civilisation, like music, food,
conversation and the companionship of
one’s family or one’s girl friend. But with
Europeans drinking is not synonymous
with sinning or a bottle of wine at dinner
with
* * * *
“Bray Rock”; Fashions in fish con-
sumption certainly do change with the
times. Less than 30 years ago Spanish
mackerel was regarded in S.Q. markets
and on restaurant tables as a very second-
rate sort of article, to be avoided care-
fully if snapper, sea bream or even flat-
head was obtainable in its place. Any
kind of fish with a tropic-water origin
was suspected of being invariably taste-
less and possibly poisonous. Until World
War II stimulated interest and prices by
reason of fish scarcity sixpence a pound
for mackerel, dressed at that, was re-
garded as a good market return. Recently
30,0001 b. of the once-despised article, all
caught in Barrier Reef channels and
despatched from Townsville, was sold in
the Brisbane fish market for an average
of Is. 7id. per pound, and with keen
competition amongst bidders at that.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Two young people of 21,
who apparently could not be happy either
together or apart, have been giving the
S.A. Criminal Court a lot of trouble.
After they had separated more than once
with mutual ill-feeling, she went to his
house on a business errand, and there
some acid was thrown ; by the other,
each of them said, but she got most of it.
A jury disagreed once, but the second
shot convicted him.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
“Friday Island”: Sister Kenny’s infan-
tile paralysis treatment is attacked horse,
foot and guns in the 1945 British Medical
Annual, which gives 28 detailed reasons
why the orthodox methods are superior
to the Kenny treatment. It declares that
Sister Kenny “uses technical terms used
in medical terminology, but does not
speak the language of medical scientists.’
Subscribers to medical publications have
been heard to complain that the terms
which the resolute woman applies to
objecting doctors are anything but techni-
cal.
THESE REFERENDA.
“Mr. Calwell announced that his Government
would hold another referendum to seek increased
powers. He hoped that the verdict would be more
sincere than on the last occasion.
A lot of powers are theirs of course
They’ve no idea of using,
Along with laws they daren’t enforce
For fear they’d votes be losing.
Hence one might think it wouldn’t do
A deal to recommend ’em,
This constant looking forward to
Another referendum.
They’ve methods, commensense’ insists,
No law court could deny them
To cook the goose of Communists
Soon as they’re game to try them.
But no, perhaps it’s better not,
They reason, to offend ’em.
To bid for powers we haven’t got,
Let’s hold a referendum.
They might, if they were minded, cause
Industrial turbulences
And flouting Arbitration laws
To rank as rank offences.
But these are prickly points on which
Too many risks attend ’em,
Better to something else to switch
'And stage a referendum.
They deem this sort of plebiscite
With all the faith that’s in them
A final word that’£ fair and right
(Unless it goes agin them).
Once more, we’re told, the test is near,
Put out with this addendum,
A pious hope this coming year
The verdict, will be more “sincere”
Than at last referendum.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Jasby ’: Shorty, an old soldier and
long in the head, finished the war as a
batman. Weeks slipped by and demobi-
lisation was the only thought in every
man’s mihd. One day Shorty’s “Sir” sent
for him, mentioning that he would be
embarking for home the following week
and offering to wangle Shorty a passage
provided Shorty agreed to bat for him
on the voyage. Shorty gratefully accepted,
but next day he came back to say he had
changed his mind. “It wouldn’t be fair
to the rest of the chaps,” he explained.
“I’ll stay and take my chance with the
mob,” A few days later the demob, ship
sailed, and the officer embarked without
a batman. Shorty was a fellow-passenger
but was not working his passage. After
the original offer he had discovered that
he was on the embarkation list in any
case.
“S.T.S.”: Adelaide has introduced the
old French custom of “blessing the fish-
ing fleet.” Bishop Robin in the harbor
at Port Adelaide had Governor Norrie
and the Mayor with him, also represen-
tatives of the Australian Navy and Mis-
sions to Seamen. He told the listening
fishermen that in the ranks of the likes
of them Christ found his first friends and
supporters,
* * *, *
“Gryllus”: Australia’s most mosquito-
ridden city, is voicing its annual com-
plaint against the buzzing hordes which
make life miserable from November on
to April, and its city fathers are repeating
their annual promise of great deeds in
the future in the way of reclamation and
drainage of far-off salt-swamps now be-
yond their control. It is an ironic fact
that Brisbane occupies its present site
mainly by reason of the activity of
salt-swamp-bred mossies in tormenting
Lieut. Miller and his charges at the origi-
nal Redcliff settlement; but it is not they
who create the main part of the nuisance in
Brisbane today or any of the disease risks.
They do their biting in the open air. The
sleep-destroying demons of the bedroom
are bred from Brisbane’s own neglected
“Would you mind directing me, nurse? I get dizzy.”
drains, creeks, swamps, tanks, roof gutters
and other small collections of mainly-
domestic water. A pint of water neglected
in a flower vase for a week can make
a household miserable for months. The
elusive and silent carrier of dengue—once
infected, of yellow fever, too—chooses the
cleanest of water, as near as possible to its
human food-supply. The carrier of filaria
is also a home-lover—its victims’ homes.
The remedy lies, not in vast engineering
. , , / • ’ c i i • °
works, but in careful and continuous
mspection and abolition of domestic and
adjacent breeding grounds. Over 30
years ago this method was used experi-
mentally in Brisbane with such successful
results that drapers complained of the
drop in sales of mosquito nets, Too-
woomba copied the good example and is
still practically free of the domestic pest.
But Toowoomba decided to keep on at it
—and did. Brisbane didn’t,
* * * *
“Bombo” on cosmic rays:
A cablegram announcing that some unidenti-
fied “Soviet scientists” are “developing cosmic
rays” to rival atomic energy, and recalling, in-
cidentally, that Millikan described the cosmic
rays as “birth cries of the atom,” seems to
call for a little elucidation. The so-called cosmic
rays (it isn’t yet clear whether they are par-
ticles or electro-magnetic waves), so far from
being a side-track to the line of research on
atomic energy, lie right on the main trail. It
was by using them as missiles with which to
bomb and disintegrate atoms that Carl D.
Anderson, in 1932, demonstrated the existence
of positrons (positively-charged electrons) as part
of the nucleus of the atom. Their tremendous
velocity; little if any inferior to that of light,
ma'kes them the most powerful known agency
to apply to the taste of atom dissection. Milli-
kan’s reference to “birth cries of the atom”
is old stuff. He termed the rays that when
fie came to the conclusion that they represented
the overplus of energy generated whenever
four protons and two electrons combined to
form the nucleus of a helium atom. Later
he discovered that the energy behind the cosmic
rays was far too great to be ascribed to such
a transaction —it accounted for all the power
generated by atom-birth. So he then called the
rays “annihilation cries.”
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Another queer request
that was made to the anatomy school at
Melbourne University (B, 21/11/’45)
came from a man who phoned up from
the country and asked (so it sounded) if
he could have a cow embalmed. New to
her job, the girl at the phone said she
would go and ask whether cows came
within the scope of the institution. “We
don’t embalm cows here,” she said when
she returned. “I didn’t say cow,” ex-
plained the irate inquirer. “I said caul.”
“What do you want a caul embalmed
for?” asked the girl. “My wife’s just had
a baby,” said the other, “It’s got a caul
and she wants it embalmed and buried
in the garden to bring luck to the baby”
* * * *
“Tapioca”: A huge monolith was
erected at Kohima, in Burma, to the
memory of the men of the Second Divi-
sion of the 14th Army who fell in the
battle of Kohima in the summer of 1944.
The stone was brought from the hills
voluntarily by the Nagas, 200 strong, and
worked into design by men of the Divi-
sion. A translation of an old Greek in-
scription is carved on it:
Wheat you go home
Tell them of us, and say
For your tomorrow
We gave today.
* * * *
“S im o n”: “Craiser’s” yarn (B.
21/11/ ’45) recalls that philately was simi-
larly used by “Mudgee” (A. G.) Taylor,
a layman, in his contest against N.S.W.
Speaker Edmund Barton in the ’eighties.
It was long before payment of members,
and Taylor, broke to the world, sold his
stamp collection to pay expenses. Taylor
won his case before the Privy Council,
and handsomely refused reimbursement at
the hands of the then Government on his
return to Australia. He didn’t even get
his stamps back.
* * # ♦
“Avon” with a tale of the sea:
Reminiscent of Kipling’s story “The Devil
and the Deep Sea” is the saga of the war-time
voyage of the 14,000-ton cargo steamer Horo-
rata from Maoriland to England. She was a
practically new ship, product of John Brown’s
Clydebank yards, and carried a full cargo of
frozen meat, butter and cheese. In mid-Atlantic
a U-boat launched at her a torpedo which tore
a hole in her side 31ft. by 42ft. and flooded
two holds, increasing the ship’s draft by 10ft.
She was able to crawl 200 miles or so to Flores
Island (Azores), leaving a trail of lamb car-
casses and butter boxes all the way. There
were no repair shops at Flores, so after 36
hours the Hororafa sailed for Horta, the port
of Fayal, leaving most of the crew at Flores,
“ He'll hang on that note TOO long one of these days!"
as the voyage was extremely risky. At Horta
there was a small engineering shop, but it had
no welding plant or heavy machine tools. So
repairs had to be done in wood—pine timber
cut from trees on the island. A timber patch
was laid by divers over the huge hole in the
hull, and as soon as the water had been
pumped out of the holds a second timber wall
was built inside. Between the two 375 tons
of concrete were poured (hand-mixed on the
ship’s bottom and carried up in baskets on
men’s backs). Old rails, pipes from the
damaged refrigerating system and lengths of
steel cable were used for- reinforcement. Re-
pairs occupied ten weeks, after which the Hora-
rata, convoyed by a destroyer, continued her
passage to Liverpool, averaging 121 knots.
She had lost only about 12 p.c. of her cargo.
She went into dock at Liverpool for 18 weeks
while permanent repairs were being made.
Thereafter she went her way unmolested.
* * * *
“Hamer”: When a hansom cabby
pushed his antique vehicle into a Sydney
parking space one of the taximen bantered
him with “Hey, take your ark away;
your ’orse will scare our cars.” By which
1 picked the man of petrol as an old
hand. He told me he had been driving
hire cars since the first number-plates
were issued—which was long before taxi-
meters came in. In those days the Cab-
man’s Union fought the intruding
buzz-buggy every inch of the way. The
cabby’s leader was a chap named
Fletcher, who really thought he could
sweep back the incoming tide. As long
as Fletcher lived he kept up the fight;
his great argument against the cars being
“them stinkers will scare our ’orses.”'
* * * *
“Kay”: As all stamp-collectors know,
prior to 1913 all Australian States pro-
duced their own distinct postal labels.
N. S. Wales holds pride of place with
collectors, notable issues being the 1850
“Sydney Views” and the 1888 series,
printed for the “colony’s” centenary.
This included a view of Sydney, a map
of Australia, an emu, lyre-bird and
kangaroo, in addition to portraits of
Queen Victoria, Captain Cook, Captain
Phillip, Lord Carrington (1888 Governor)
and the State’s armorial bearings. Vic-
toria from 1850 onwards adopted
characteristic portraits of Queen Victoria.
Westralia’s emblem, the black swan, was
the predominating feature of the majority
of this State’s stamps, first issued in
1854. South Australia entered the field
in 1855, with many attractive “Queen’s
head” designs, a view of the G.P.0.,
Adelaide, appearing on an issue of 1894.
Portraits of the young Queen Victoria
featured Queensland’s stamps, issued first
in 1860. Originally labelled “Van
Diemen’s Land,” Tasmania’s 1853 stamps
were most striking and distinctive. Por-
trait issues began the series, and in 1899
a set of scenic stamps was printed
representing Lake Marion, Mount
Wellington, Hobart Town, Tasman’s
Arch, Spring River, Russell Falls, Mount
Gould, Lake St. Clair and Dilstoh Falls.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Australian sculptors might study
the methods of Lorriaux, of Paris, who runs
a hair-dressing and millinery business in
conjunction with his sculpture and “re-
leases” his creations at expensive cock-
tail parties. A savage controversy has
arisen between the once-gay city’s milli-
ners and coiffeurs. The Parisian ladies
have taken to the no-hat movement, and
the milliners have been trying to shame
them into returning to tradition. The
hairdressers have countered this by de-
signing hair-dos so lofty that a hat put
on top of it would look like a peanut on
the Eiffel Tower. M. Lorriaux has cashed
in on both sides of the struggle. He de-
signs a special coiffeur for each client,
based on ancient Roman, Greek or
Egyptian art, and then he sends his
milliners with a hat to suit it.
« * ♦ ♦
“Upanuther”: Chances of perfect
hands coming out in card games (B.
5/12/’45) have always fascinated the
mathematically-minded, who never seem
to appreciate that, chance being what it
is, it simply can’t be reduced to equations.
Sample: Sat in at a six-hand poker game
and was dealt three eights first hand. Two
packs were being used. Next hand I was
also dealt three eights. This ought to set
the wizards explaining that if everybody
in the world played poker for a week
they’d have to wait until a.d. 3978 for
that to happen. It could happen next
week in a two-handed game, even if that
was the only poker game being played in
the world at that particular time.
* * * *
“Aqua”: The last of the three 1600-
ton steel spans needed to complete
Hawkesbury Bridge II has been floated to
position. This bridge replaces Bridge I,
which has some records. It was not the
longest, for Tay Bridge beats it by more
than a mile, nor the oldest, for Caesar’s
legions were active in that field, but it
surely has the deepest foundations —160
feet in Hawkesbury ooze, below the
river’s bed. It must also hold the
record for short-lived usefulness, hav-
ing been opened in 1889 in the days
of beards Premier Parkes’s, Sydney
Smith’s and Dan O’Connor’s were
among Ministerial ziffs which waved
in the breeze while Governor Car-
rington cut the ribbon. Rising but
40 feet above water level, the bridge
closed this most navigable of rivers to all
but tin-pot steamers, thus depriving the
Windsor-Richmond farmers of cheap,
quick water transport for their produce.
But the old river took its revenge as the
caissons sank deeper and deeper into the
ooze, and in latter years trains have taken
the bridge at a respectful crawl.
* * *
“S.T.S.”: Cheers for Justice Jackson,
of the U.S.A., for leading a return to
the right use in our language of a good
old phrase. Said he, in opening the trial
of Goring and co., “What these men stand
for will be patiently and temperately dis-
closed.'” This term “stand for” has two
meanings, either of which would fit here:
(1) Jackson’s use of it, To signify, as “The
name of cricket now stands for fair play”;
or (2) To battle for, as “I stand here for
justice.” But let us ban the absurd
modern Americanism, which Australia
seems quite ready to adopt; “I won’t
stand for this,” where “stand for” is used
for “lie down to.”
* * * *
“F.S.” on a picturesque picturemaker:
Victor Cob’b, just dead at 69, was the doyen
of Melbourne etchers. Like Whistler, he be-
lieved that the artist should be a craftsman,
and he made his own tools and designed a
printing press on which he printed the etchings
of brother-artists, despising them for having
to ask him to do it. On one occasion he wrote
a caustic letter to the Victorian Artists’ Society
remarking that none of the etchings in their
exhibitions were etchings at all, but a hodge-
podge of mediums which had nothing to do
with etching. One of the younger members re-
torted that if an etching should look etchy, an
oil painting should look oily and water-color
watery. At the society’s next meeting, when
Cobb, a tall, powerful-looking man with a
saturnine expression, walked into the room, his
critic effaced himself behind another member.
Cobb was the most spectacular of Melbourne
artists. He would get a pick-up into the
country on a butcher’s cart or a postal waggon
and there unfold an enormous continental um-
brella which, towards the end of its days, was
more patches than canvas, to paint a landscape.
His father had fought in the Maori wars, and
Cobb himself served in the Boer War, winning
the Queen’s Medal with three clasps. He was
descended on his mother’s side from the first
white woman to land in M.L. His etchings are
scattered all over Australia and one —of the
State Parliament in Melbourne —hangs in West-
minster Hall. Rider Haggard got him to illus-
trate Jess. The Etched Work of Victor Cobb
was one of his publications. He was born in
Footscray.
BREASTING THE BAR.
Sundown—but as things are
It’s all too clear to me
I’ve just got Buckley’s chance to breast
the bar
Before 1 head for tea.
•
I note a crowd in front intent to keep,
Ere they shall hurry house,
Their hard-won prior nghts of schooners
deep
To blow the foam.
Sundown—and soon the knell
Will toll, the “Time, gents,” bark.
With an insistence that you cannot well
Fail to remark.
Truly a cheerless Christmastide we face
When in our city’s taverns, near and far.
Ever the problem grows to find a place
Where you can breast the bar.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Esk D.”: The setting is Tom Stid-
well’s place at Mad Joe’s Creek, a tangled
blackberry selection scarcely different
from those around it except that the
shades of the trees are worn out, proof
of Tom’s years of effort in dealing with
the ’berries. Tom is a widower.
Ermyntrude, in her beauteous maiden-
hood, is seated with her father on the
verandah of the shack, and they are
holding lively discussion on where to set
the rabbit traps in the evening. Sud-
denly a noise as of thunder is heard and
the dust cloud approaching from the
direction of the horizon parts to reveal
young Joe Mickle astride a motor-bike.
He brakes it to a halt and throws a leg
over the saddle. “ ’Day,” he says, “The
ol’ man says t’ send them harrows back
on the cream truck in the mornin’. Has
the black mare got a foal yet? How
about me an’ Ermy gittin’ hitched?”
Ermyntrude fiddles bashfully with some
rabbit skins. “Let him call,” Tom answers.
“She’s got a filly. Can y’ keep her in
the way she’s bin accustomed?” “Well,
hardly,” says Joe. “But I’ll work up. All
I’ve got is me two strong arms, me bike,
a course in tap-dancin’ with toe an’ heel
plates free, an’ a farm with 50 cows
cornin’ in next month ; also three hundred
pounds.” “Take her, me boy,” says old
Tom, rising on the tottering feet of his
dotage. “It’ll break me heart t’ part with
me little girl, but she’s bin gittin’ too
much of a blasted knowall lately over the
trappin’. Still, that’s your funeral now.
Gimme the loan of y’r bike an’ half a
quid so’s I c’n hop down t’ the pub an’
celebrate.”
* * * *
“Aperist”: In my first year as a bee-
keeper I found it necessary to place my
half-dozen hives on stands, as a safe-
guard against the innumerable ants. Now
with a hundred hives one is hard put to
find an ant, let alone a nest, within 20
feet of a hive. The bee’s technique in
ant elimination is simple: she simply
picks up the intruder with her front feet,
flies a sufficient distance, then lets it drop.
Whether the fall is disastrous to the ant
I know not, but evidently the distance is
enough to prevent the pest finding its way
home. So by sheer persistence the bees
eliminate every ant that annoys them,
ending by depopulating the nests.
Bray Rock”: This business of leasing
Queensland beaches for sandworm catch-
ing seems to me to conceal a dark
Government scheme for developing the
tourist traffic. Benighted southerners have
probably never even heard of Sandworm
Mania. It has nothing to do with hook-
worm sandworms can’t be caught with
a. hook—but once developed it lasts for
life and is totally incurable. Outwardly
it is merely trailing a bit of unfresh meal
or fish along a surf-pounded beach to
induce the long iridescent worms to put
their heads up from below, then offering
a smaller piece to tempt them into making
a bite at it, then nipping them by the neck
with finger and thumb, pulling them out,
and selling or using them for fish bait. In
reality it is a psychological matter. Those
gifted few who can really catch sand-
worms regard themselves—and rightly—
as a class apart from, and infinitely above,
those who can’t. Once the sport becomes
widely known, distinguished visitors will
flock to Queensland’s worming beaches
from all parts of the world. Capture of
a five-foot worm by a visiting Duke will
be wirelessed throughout the world, only
to be eclipsed by a six-footer taken by
some American business potentate .after
spending millions of dollars in baiting a
whole coast to attract the game. Vast
fortunes will be made from patent baits
and lures, colossal licence fees will gratify
successive State Treasurers and enable
them to provide fresh luxuries for the
enfranchised non-worker. Queensland will
become the Mecca for the world’s richest
pleasure-seekers. It will ruin a noble sport,
but, maybe, a kindly and enriched Gov-
“ That's the Worst of Bill —he always gets car-sick."
eminent will save us old sportmen from
a thirsty death by a special tax for the
benefit of Unemployed Sandwormers.
* * * ♦
“Sou’-west”: Speaking of unofficial
postmasters taking a personal interest in
the mail (B. 14/11/*45) reminds me of an
outback Westralian postmistress who took
the introduction of the sealed letter card
as a personal injury. Her penchant was
to read .the postcards, and any unsealed
mail such as bills. So she kept touch
with her district. Afternoon tea at the
post office was popular with most of the
other village dames since there was the
chance that the day’s crop of postcards
might be brought in as a little light read-
ing. Also knew one country storekeeper-
cwm-postmaster who never passed on a
magazine or an attractive paper until he
and his family had read it. His tech-
nique in extracting the reading matter
from its wrapper and replacing it so that
it would not be noticed was unsurpass-
able.
♦ ♦ ♦ •
“Old-timer”: When the march of
modernity and the age of his buggy-horse
compelled “Curyo” Charlie to take to
the motor for transport he acquired an
ancient and somewhat battered pedal-
change Ford, not because he couldn’t
have afforded a car with a standard gear
lever change, but because, as he himself
put it, “I’m too used t’ the reins. If I
gotter drive this thing I’m goin’ t’ need
both hand’s t’ steer it an’ can’t be droppin*
one hand to fiddle about with flamin’
levers.” The car got him successfully
about the country race-meetings and
shows, where customers for his Yankee
sweat-wheel, his under-and-over-seven and
his crown-and-anchor were plentiful and
eager for business, to “Curyo’s” profit.
But there came the inevitable day when
the car conked out half-way up a sand-
hill between Patchewollock and Under-
bool. “Curyo,” who knew nothing about
internal combustion or the ways of
batteries or magnetos, pushed and poked
for awhile, then trudged up the hill.*Road
and scrub stretched ahead without sign*
of humanity. Behind him lay nine miles
of similar emptiness. Without rage or
impatience he sat in the shade of the car
until a buggy and a pair picked him up
and took him into Under bool. Charlie
told the local garageman he could have
the Ford if he liked to go and get it.‘Tm
buyin’ a good buggy horse,” he said.
“Aw,” said the motor man, jealous for
his trade, “these things happen. Even a
buggy can break a shaft or a wheel, y’
know.” “Yair,” said “Curyo,” “and y’ can
take a horse out an’ ride it for help. A
man’d look a goat tryin’ t’ ride a car
cushion or the blasted engine out o’ the
thing along a road.” He bought a horse.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”: Now and then one of the
gibbers around here gets up and hops
away and your attention is drawn to a
diamond-shaped piece of rock with six
legs, two of ’em pretty sizable. This im-
probable insect seems to be a flightless
grasshopper that has gone in for camou-
flage in a big way. Usually it looks like
a bit of the prevalent yellow-brown sand-
stone, but I have one whose back is the
exact replica of a weathered chunk of
quartz, lightly stained with iron to a pale
rose and even complete with the usual
dirt-filled depressions. The wing covers
are fused together into a hard, triangular
shield which protects the front two-thirds
of the beast. Like the ordinary grass-
hopper, it carries its ears where its ribs
ought to be, just abaft the chest covering
and for’ard of and above the junction of
the big hind legs with the body. But
where the winged grasshopper has the
eardrum sheltered beneath the wing-
covers this cnap Pas a neat little flap over
each of his auricular gadgets. He seems
scarce, but it’s safe to bet that for every
one you see —and you see it only if it hops
away—there are scores you pass un-
noticed,
* ♦ * *
“Narrin”: Parachilna (B. 28 /11 / *45)
is about the worst place in South Aus-
tralia, and probably in the whole con-
tinent, for dust-storms —a blinding, chok-
ing mixture of red drift sand and white
silt dust, fine as flour. When you’ve
travelled for hours in such a dust-storm,
getting it from Edeowie to Para., on a
burning day in a small narrow-gauge rail-
way carriage, tightly shut against the
dust, the lights on and visibility limited
to a few feet because of the suspended
silt and tobacco smoke, then you hit
Parachilna with a considerable thirst.
And yet I’ve seen a storm so bad that a
mob of bush blokes wouldn’t face it to
make the dash across to the pub. Inci-
dentally, in a gully in the ranges back
of the township a radical optimist is this
year trying to grow a crop of wheat. If
he flukes it the surrounding country’ll
be taken up for closer settlement, I sup-
pose—they say one’s born every minute.
* * * *
“E. 2”: “Wonk’s” Burkie (B. 28/11/’45)
is the sort we want. The usual treatment
for slopes is to ring the timber, wait foi
the undergrowth to get thick and full of
tinder and start a conflagration. A sheet
of flame runs up the hill, the humus
bums to ash and gets washed away in
the first decent rain, and the slopes will
then run half a goat to the hundred acres.
Burkie, in laying the timber across the
slope, did a good job in holding the drift
and building up deep, fertile soil. I can
quite understand the locals watchin]
goggled-eyed as he broke away from
the traditional procedure. Dammital]
“Wonk” and his cobbers ought to erect
a monument to him. But, all the same
I’m interested to know how Burkie kep
the rubbish growth down while the grass
got going.
* * * *
“Zake”: Southwell, who owned a 20-
acre block on the straggling rim of the
outback township, had given up the hope-
less struggle against weeds, goats anc
ennui in his attempt to coax something
profitable to grow on it, and had at last
advertised it for sale. The agent came
along with a prospective buyer, who was
staggered when Southwell asked twenty
pounds an acre, “Why, it’s not worth
three!” he exclaimed. At which South-
well flung out an arm to indicate the
square miles of flat landscape which
?wept drearily to the horizon. “You got
no imagination,” he said slowly. “That
land, on’y five minutes or so from here,
is ideal for the site for an airport. It’s
gotta come. And when it does this land’ll
skyrocket in price. Well, if you don’t
want to make a fortune I’ll hang on to
it meself and make it!”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: Although our aboriginals
are undoubtedly all of the same race, the
various nations differed widely in their
methods of* disposal of the dead.
Throughout southern W.A. earth burial
was favored, previous rites being designed
to restore the corpse as much as possible
to the semblance of an infant before birth.
With a man all hair and beard were
burned off. The body then was bound
so that the knees touched the chin, arms
being folded over the chest.
Semblance of sun worship was
also shown ; among the Bibbul-
mun the deceased was always
placed on his right side, head
to the south, so that his eyes
should be in a position to greet
the rising sun. Tribes just
further* north placed the body
east and west so that the eyes
met the noonday sun. Earth
was not allowed to touch the
corpse, a thick screen of grass
and leaves being first placed as
a cover before the earth was
finally filled in. Among the
Bibbulmun all the deceased’s
property was placed on the
mound, broken and torn so as
to be unserviceable to his ghost.
Among the tribes of the far
north tree burial, really a kind
of mummification, was prac-
tised. But the tree grave was
not final. After a certain time
the cadaver was taken down,
the bones being cleaned and
placed or buried in some cave
that had long been used for the
purpose.
“Atlanta”: Durability in greenhide
may depend upon several things, but an
old Queensland cattleman assures me of
the infallibility of his own methods. In
the paddocks of any large run —or small
one, too —you’ll come across the beast
that’s died in a sitting position, belly
undermost. Leave the carcass as it is
until nature has reduced it to a hide-
covered skeleton. The belly, weakest
portion of any hide, will by then have
rotted, and wind and weather have
effected a cure on the remainder which
all the salt and care in the world won’t
improve.
# * * *
“Propalong”: Bill’s out of the army at
last and back on the run. He’s put on a
bit of weight, but his face still has the
immobility and the dead-level gaze it
acquired in years of battling before
Hitler called the tune. He says it’s all
right to be back again, but he supposes
that a man’ll get flamin’ soft. In the
10 years before 1939 Bill was a
professional saddle-polisher. He’s worked
in mustering camps, long days of walk
and trot from daylight till dark on sheep
station prads, and no non-horseman or
horseman used only to schooled mounts
can realise how tough that job can be.
Bill wasn’t a buckjump rider and he
wasn’t much at showing off, but he could
stay with an awkward frightened colt all
day, never losing patience with its clumsi-
ness and never being able to relax, be-
cause when you ease off something goes
wrong and you walk home, if you’re not
smashed up, and the colt’s ruined. It’s
not easy to ride a horse closely mile
after mile, all day long, and keep your
temper when he jolts you about and tries
to jump from under you twice in every
mile. And it’s less easy when you know
you have to go on >doing it for weeks.
Well, Bill’s come back to all this, and if
he’s frightened of getting soft you can
bet your war bonds he hasn’t been having
a holiday these last six years.
KING OF THE ROAD.
“It’s going, going.. . for a quid—
I’ll chuck the hayframe in as well” ...
For old-time’s sake I made a bid
And down the seller’s hammer fell.
A carter’s pride of long ago,
I doubted it would stand a load,
But faintly on the nearside bow
It bore the name “King of the Road.”
What would I want a waggon for?
I bought some memories, . nothing more.
For not so many years ago
They rolled along the Tara road;
Great horses, ponderous and slow,
Would haul away a golden load.
Old “Bollygammy” yoked fourteen,
All bright bay geldings with white feet.
He used no reins for he had been
A carrier of wool and wheat
Out West. It would have hit him hard
To see some cocky gun the yard.
The lurching waggons rocked like ships
That sailed a boiling, dusty sea,
And sunburned teamsters trailing whips
Rode by, in faded dungaree.
• All day they strung out in the sun,
At night beside the Gov’ment Tank
They camped, and unyoked, one by one,
The chain-free horses rolled and drank.
You’d often see two hundred draught's
Around the feeders on the shafts.
And when the drivers had their meal
They’d congregate to yarn and smoke,
And in amongst them I would steal
And never miss a word they spoke
Of waggons bogged down to the knobs,
Of Bennetts that ran true and free,
And of those modern perch-pole jobs
—Twas said they suckered like a tree —
And famous teamsters of the hour
Like Staniforth of Buddigower.
The nomad bushmen liked to sing,
An old mouth-organ droned the air;
The “Banjo” would have felt a king
To hear his ballads cherished there.
The tales waxed tall and one and ail
Grew drowsy in the summer night,
When suddenly with savage brawl
Two cattledogs would start to fight.
The startled nags would snort and stamp
And hobbles clink around the camp.
They’d wander off with sleepy laugh
To swing their bunks between two posts
And settle down with murmured chaff
And sleep until the stars were ghosts.
Then, as I padded home to bed,.
Running the fine dust through my toes,
I could not dream the times were dead,
No teams would take the place of those . ~
What could I use a waggon for?
I bought good memories to store.
R.A.A.F
R. H. WEBSTER.


“Bo”; One of Gieeson’s polers had
disappeared, and after much searching
around the workings of an old nearby
abandoned antimony field he located the
bullock down a shaft about 20 feet deep.
Miraculously the beast had suffered no
serious injury. After deep cogitation the
ox-conductor procured from his wagon
a pick and long-handled shovel and set
to work. At the end of the second day
he had shovelled into the hole enough
earth to enable the bullock, after a bit of
bad-tempered struggling, to walk out. As
Gieeson stood looking at the filled-in
shaft Kimpton, from across the ridge,
rode up, and to him the rescuer explained
the nature of and reason for his labors.
Kimpton stared at him. “But your
brother Jim’s place is only over at Cork-
screw Bend,” he said. “He’s sure to have
a block and tackle. You could have
rigged up a windlass over the shaft and
had your beast out of it in no dme.”
Gieeson rubbed the stubble on his chin.
“Aw, cripes,” he drawled, “Jim’s joint’s
over five miles from ’ere an’ I’d ’ve ’ad
to walk —d’you think a man’s a blanky
horse?”
* * * *
“Atta”: Sorry, “Mem,” but despite the
translation Gula Malacca is not a cane
sugar (B. 28/11/’45). Actually the
Malacca Cane and Gula Malacca each
derive their name from the country of
origin. Malacca is. the ancient name for
the Malaya Peninsula, and is still used
for the whole of Malaya by people in
neighboring countries, though today it
should only refer to the State and town
on the west coast. In Java the concoc-
tion is known as Gula Java (locally spelt
Goela Jawa), and it is a palm sugar,
collected by the natives and run into
moulds, usually half-coconut shells qr
bamboo rings. G.J. was by far the most
popular line among Java p.-0.-w., who
melted or boiled it down and strained it
to extract such things as dead flies, bits of
stick or palm leaf in which it was
wrapped. It made an excellent spread,
something like treacle, which enabled us
to eat the rubbery bread, particularly if
we could locate an orange or lime to
cut up and so make a kind of uncooked
marmalade. Mixed with our rice, it turned
that hardy old annual into quite a pala-
table dish, and many a prisoner has been
glad of it, or, as the case may be,
regretted its absence when endeavoring
to assimilate those Nip rations.
* * * *
“Atlanta”: Surprised the two four-
months-old sheep pups at the mildly-
amusing—for me, anyway —pastime of
catching bees, and watched quietly.
Tongues lolling, heads oscillating and
with short excited yaps, the pair fol-
lowed the angry passage of golden-
bodied nectar-gatherers as they rose from
the water-tin. Viciously snapping jaws
told of mainly futile attempts at captur-
ing the elusive quarry, although occa-
sionally there was some success —or so
I imagined by the hounds’ frantic efforts
to bury their snouts in the sand. But
apparently the sport possesses some mag-
netic quality, for the ardor of the pair
was undimmed when I passed 10 minutes
later.
* * * *
“J.E.W.”: Just on sundown Mrs. Charlie
went out the back door and called the
fowls home for their evening meal. As they
came racing towards her a voice from the
scrub called “Chook, chook, chook.”
Immediately they all turned and rushed
off towards the voice. As they were dis-
appearing in the scrub Mrs. Charlie burst
into song again and back they raced.
Again came the mocking voice and then
the game was fairly on. After 13 laps a
couple of Wyandottes turned up their
toes. Three more laps and half a
dozen matronly Australorps had heeled
over and conked. A big rawboned game
rooster, galloping valiantly, collided with
a bevy of staggering Leghorns, who died
later with several ribs stove in. By this
time Mrs. Charlie’s voice had risen to a
hysterical scream, but the game still gal-
loped on over dead paramours and dying
rivals, tearing up big chunks of earth
as his second wind came. It was as the
lone survivor was making for the scrub
for the 29th time that Charlie came up
from the bottom paddock and gently
lowered his all-in missus to the ground.
Mrs. Charlie has begun the campaign to
get Charlie to shift to a locality less in-
fested by lyre-birds.
jp * H* *
“Deir Suneid”: The situation of Elsey
homestead (B. 28 /11 / ’45) has been
altered twice since Mrs. Gunn wrote We
of the Never Never. Tfie first move was
to the Red Lily lagoon, about 30 miles
east of the original site, but mosquitoes
forced another shift to an ideal position
on the banks of the Roper River approxi-
mately 25 miles east of Mrs. Gunn’s
home, of which no trace now exists. The
grave of /Eneas Gunn (The Maluka),
which has a suitably-inscribed iron plate
at its head, is close to the site of the
original homestead, and is maintained in
first-class order. Near it are three or
four other graves, mentioned in Mrs.
Gunn’s book, which were difficult to find
until Lieut.-Colonel Ted Stokes, of a
workshops unit at Mataranka, took them
in hand, tidied them up and put up rail-
ings. This nucleus of a cemetery would
no doubt be the spot where Brigadier
Dollery re-interred the remains of other
characters in Mrs. Gunn’s book. “The
Fizzer” was drowned at Dashwood Cross-
ing on the Victoria River, nearly 400
“And I did SO Want him to be an architect !”
miles by road from old Elsey. The car-
penter who built Mrs, Gunn’s house is
reputed to have been taken by a croco-
dile while crossing the King River be-
tween Katherine and Willeroo.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Mat was a pretty quick
thinker, an attribute which frequently got
us out of trouble. One time at Elmore
(Vic.), we’d drifted over to the sale-
yards in the hope of finding some farmer
who wanted a bit of fencing or something
done. A Guernsey cow was up for sale
and the bidding ran up to £lO 15s. and
stopped. The auctioneer was working
hard for another bid and running his eyes
eagerly round the crowd. Mat must have
nodded or moved unconsciously, for the
auctioneer .cried “Eleven quid. Eleven
I m bid. At eleven. Are y. done? All
done? Going at eleven, going, going,
gone!” Then he looked at us and said
“The gentleman in shirtsleeves.” Mat
looked behind and, seeing nobody, jabbed
me fiercely and snapped “Claim it! Go
on, claim it, y’ goat! ” I seldom question
him, so I called “Hey, my bid.” “No,
mine,” howled Mat. A beatific smile
spread over that auctioneer’s face. “Dis-
pute bid. Dispute bid,” he exalted. “We
must put her up again.” The crowd be-
came silent, eyeing us. “All right,” cried
the auctioneer, “who’ll start?” We looked
stubborn, A little whiskery bloke piped
up “Nine quid.” “Thanks, mate,” yelled
Mat, grabbing me and dragging me away,
* * * *
“Puffinus” Those Yankee whaler hogs,
described by “Colonial Cove” (B.
5/12/’45) as having, with the aid of a
few sows, produced enough progeny to
despoil mutton-bird rookeries in early
days, must have been very different from
their effete British and Australian synonyms
of today. My Pocket Oxford defines hog
as “swine, esp. castrated male for
slaughter,” and the Australian acceptance
of the word precludes any possibility of
progeny from such artificial bachelors
unless the operation was a failure. And,
if so much damage was really done to
mutton-bird islands by pigs, how comes it
that Cape Barren Island, a principal base
for Yankee whalers and sealers of a cen-
tury and more ago, still retains the mutton
bird as its mainstay of commerce and
cuisine 7 Fifty years ago mobs of wild
pigs roamed the bush on Phillip Island
at the entrance of Westerport (Vic.). They
did no damage to the great rookeries at
Cape Wollomai, although I have seen and
shot them in the near vicinity of the
thickly-burrowed ground in the nesting
Seas ° n ‘* * * *
“Nagheer”: As the watchful gulls
hover over the beaches of Deliverance
Island, almost midway on a course be-
tween Thursday Island and Merauke in
Dutch New Guinea, to take toll of the
baby turtles now hurrying from their
sandy incubators to the sea, the soul of
Henrick Enevold will be smiling down
from the Valhalla of good Danish sea-
men. Never have I seen turtles as thick
as there in the laying season, landing in
scores and hundreds, by day as well as
night, to scoop their incubator-nests in
the soft warm sand. It is just over 17
years since Dick Roche, of Merauke; his
old friend and shipmate, found “Deliver-
ance Harry” dead in the doorway of the
iron-roofed hut which Reg Hockings, of
Thursday Island, another old friend, had
given him. He had lived alone on the
little low islet, except for his dogs and
cats, since 1893, seeing nobody but Dick
and Reg on their rare visits, and some-
times a lugger sheltering from the south-
easter. Dick Roche, a New Zealander
with Irish forbears, was a pioneer of
south-eastern Dutch New Guinea, and
had many strange adventures among the
wild Kia Kia savages of the Diogel,
Eilander and Bensbaeh rivers. In Sep-
tember, 1931, he took his launch to the
Bian River, some 45 miles westward of
Merauke, to repair her in a natural dry
dock there. Paddling a dugout into the
stream to recover a floating bit of gear,
he was caught by a strong current, swept
out of sight round a bend and never seen
again. His two partners in the first bird-
of-paradise shooting expedition organised
in Dutch New Guinea, Jackson and Pen-
rose, both Australians, died violent deaths
at native hands.
**, # *
“Lub”: Martha Hobbs had settled into
dour spinsterhood, refusing with some
asperity the half-dozen proposals that
came her way. By all accounts she was
waiting the return of Tim Crispie, a
sweetheart of her girlhood, who’d left the
Crossing 30 years before. And Tim, now
a prosperous cattle-dealer, came back on
the day of the stock sale. There was a
little gathering at Hobbs’s to renew
acquaintance, and, since Tim was leaving
by the evening train, the company faded
away unobtrusively to allow him a few
minutes with the expectant Martha. But
there was no “announcement,” and Tim
went off as unconcernedly as before.
“Tell us what he said to you,” the family
plagued Martha. “Well” she con-
sidered, blushing to the ears. “Oh, he
did say T see y’ got over them measles
y’ had when I left.’ ”
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: I used the term “wild
peaches” instead of “quondongs” because
in some districts the latter word is used
to describe the inedible variety of the
fruit. “Edjudina” (B. 28 /11 / ’45) should
try the emu-tucker stewed ; if the peaches
have been stoned and sun-dried before-
hand they’re much more flavorsome. Per-
sonally I’m not keen on the things raw ;
when cooked they’re a different article.
“F.W.L.”: The wild cherry is another
inaptly-named indigenous fruit (B.
28 /11 / ’45), though as a “fruit-tree” it’s
hardly worth a mention. The tree is
much like a stunted and branching pine,
with the typical pine needles* and the
wood is deep pink, soft and knotty. The
fruit is very small, cherry-colored and
attached to a seed two or three times its
size. The wild cherry is reputed to be a
parasite, drawing sustenance from the
roots of eucalypts among which it grows,
and I’ve seen the trees die out in ring-
barked patches.
* * * *
“Rooster”: “Pigskin Bagman’s” wedge-
tail, crow and goanna (B. 21/11/ ’45)
were behaving normally in feasting
together. Consider the different struc-
tural development in each of these
three carrion-eaters. The ripping, hooked
beak cvf the wedgetail is ideal for
the fleshy part. Jim favors the eyes and
membranous parts, his long probing
bul being also suitable for picking
the bones clean; the go. is usually
content with the viscera. Warrior ants
also given a bountiful banquet will sink
their differences.
DECEMBER DATE.
I’m never in the same place twice, I’m always
on the go,
Chasin’ down t’ Gippsland or up t’ Dorrigo;
It’s the way t’ see the country, workin’ here
an' workin’ there,
Livin’ on the land’s good fat or livin’ on its
ajr.
But always in December when the days are hot
an’ dry
I make for Riverina an’ its wide an’ open sky—•
Y’d never guess throughout the year in what
far place we’d meet,
But I’m always back at Finley in the season of
the wheat.
I’ve walked the 'streets of Sydney town on
warm days in the spring,
An’ watched the rain on Grdwlin Plain an’
heard the waters sing.
In the hills o’ Wattomana or the rugged
Flinders Range
I’ve watched the sunset color when the evening
shadows change.
An’, camped below Canow’ndra, I’ve smelled
the honey smell
Of lucerne bloom at midday while the gutters
took their spell—
But never in December need y’ search in any
street,
For I’m always back at Finley in the season
o‘ the wheat.
I’ve seen the Barkly Tableland an’ walked St
Kilda-road;
From Narracoorte t’ Pinaroo I’ve humped me
bloomin’ load,
An’ never cared what fate might bring or that
I’d come again:
A place might see me once or twice or twenty
times an’ then
I’ll wander off some other way an’ strike for
pastures new
An’ hurry on or pause awhile, like that old
wanderin’ Jew.
But always when December looms I poljsh up
me feet
An’ strike with every toe Fve got for Finley
in the wheat.
There’s blokes who talk of settlin’ down in this
loved place or that;
Not me—me only fixed address is underneath
me hat.
I’m always seein’ somethin’ new, and changes
every day,
An’ meetin’ people, good an’ bad, but mostly
good, I’d say.
It’s very entertainin’ just t’ drift around the
land
Never carin’ where y’re headin’ for, or if it’s
poor or grand,
Exceptin’ in December when I give meself a
treat
By makin’ tracks for Finley in the season of
the wheat.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Comoany, Limited .
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
. SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, W AGGA, HENTY HAY MOREE
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO LTD
For Mineral Mixtures
Dairy Stock
and Licks for
J Sterilised
To Remedy BONE
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tn-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
A ll particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 768 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
KILL the RABBITS with
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-FUMP
BLOWER that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
Cyanogas blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead—e\en those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9; 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now a\ailable.
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia,
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
I
(Repd.)
The “MARS” H gh-Spaed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
sd
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
District Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence': Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion,
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Export Lambs.
“Sheepb”: Shortage of good ewes and
distance from treatment works have
hitherto placed Australian lamb raisers
at a disadvantage in comparison with
New Zealand and the Argentine. The
N.S.W. Government is planning country
killing works and the sooner they’re es-
tablished the better. But improving the
quality of the ewes is not a Government
job; it must be done by the breeders if
the country killing works are to be jus-
tified.
A shortage of good export lamb
mothers is to be expected in a country
where more than 80 p.c. of the sheep
population consists of merinos, and it
seems there must be some inducement
for graziers to breed first-cross ewes to
fulfil fat-lamb breeders’ demands. Plenty
of graziers have country suitable for
breeding crossbreds but, in spite of the
lucrative market that prevails for first-
cross ewes, they stick to merinos and
wool. Inability to obtain good prices
for crossbred wethers makes many hesi-
tate about deserting the merino.
There are plenty of poor-quality cross-
bred ewes available, but under best of
conditions these nondescripts can only
bear a very small percentage of good
lambs. A first-cross ewe with 50 p.c. of
merino blood or a second-cross ewe with
a lesser proportion of merino blood is
ideal for fat-lamb production and, apart
from the wool angle, the infusion of
merino blood is almost a guarantee of the
fat-lamb carcass being of fine texture. A
reciprocal relation exists between the
wool and carcass of a fat lamb ; if quality
appears in the wool it is almost certain
to show up in the meat.
Every effort must be made to encour-
age graziers to breed first-cross ewes for
fat-lamb raising. Decentralisation of
treatment works will help, but only if
fat-lamb breeders are not hamstrung for
their requirements of good ewes.
District Co-operatives.
“E. 2.” : Butter factories and other con-
cerns trading as companies in which the
share issue is held by district suppliers are
good for farmers. Trading profits are
distributed among shareholders as divid-
ends, subsidiary payments on produce
handled and rebates on farm supplies
bought through the company, and a sup-
plier holding a nominal number of shares
thus has equality of economic benefits
with the biggest shareholder. The direc-
torate is elected generally on a plurality
system of voting, ensuring higher powers
of control to the more substantial backers.
The co-operative concern is the heart
of the district and progressive farmers
can’t afford to ignore its possibilities
where applicable for manufacture and
marketing. Under good direction and
management the concern should prosper
for as long as primary produce is worth
the growing. The co-operative represents
organised strength in the markets, and the
economic handling of produce is a big
factor in profitable farming.
I cite one case of a co-operative enter-
prise, begun as a butter factory with
capital less than £4OOO, which has devel-
oped into a substantial trading company
and distributed profits well over £50,000.
The district farmer is able to market all
his produce advantageously with the com-
pany, and to buy, at a concession, general
farm requirements, stock feed, petrol,
engine fuels and oil, fertilisers and a large
variety of bulk stores. The value and im-
portance of the company to the district
has shown out handsomely in progressive
development of the local industry.
Soya Bean.
“A.G.R.”: Climatic conditions in Man-
churia certainly do not give much hope
of soya bean becoming an important crop
“Pop over and see us often now y know where We are."
here. However, considering the vast
number of varieties available, and the
adaptability of certain other crops, test-
ing of varieties is worth continuing. “H.
Early” (B. 15/8/’45) supports peanuts
against soya beans, but soya beans have
a crude protein content of 38 p.c. com-
pared with peanuts’ 30 p.c. Also, soya
beans contain a greater variety of amino
acids (the bricks of which proteins are
made) than any other plant product; in
fact, they can replace meat-meal (which
no other plant protein can on account of
absence of essential amino acids) in stock
and poultry foods.
A Brisbane business man has been in-
terested in soya beans (chiefly for indus-
trial purposes) for some years, and has
developed four varieties which are be-
coming acclimatised to Queensland con-
ditions. The proper treatment of the seed
with bacterial culture is essential, and
probably many farmers have failed
because they neglected this. If any large-
scale watering of the inland is carried out
soya bean is an obvious crop, as ideal
conditions (plenty of moisture during
growth, with hot, dry conditions for
maturing) would be provided for growth.
Meanwhile, we should not give up such
an extremely versatile crop just because,
of all the investigations so far made in
a few years here, only one appears to
show promise. This successful selection
df a few suitable varieties is worth
watching.
Bush Barometers.
“Bugaldie”: Curlews are about the best
bush weather prophets. When they cry
at night you can bet there will be a
change within the ensuing few days, be
it hail, rain or a Bogan shower. Swifts
indicate stormy weather, but rather make
their appearance after than before. Tree
frogs are an exceptionally good sign of
rain when they croak before, but they
also have a weakness for doing their stuff
after. Willy wagtail’s “sweet, pretty little
creature” from the adjoining pepper-tree
in the middle of the night is a hopeful
sign. Ants clearing out their holes —not
meat ants —and building mounds round
them mean heavy rain. Moths and in-
sects collecting round the light at night
import a change.
Whirlwinds —willie-willies —are a sure
sign of dry weather, as is the wind follow-
ing the sun round— i.e., from east to
west—in the course of the day. A stiff
easterly or sou’-easter that “whistles” and
blows for some days, indicates the com-
ing of a tropical change. There’s always
the chance of a dinkum northerly bring-
ing rain
If cloudy and the distant hills or
mountains are a turquoise-wue it w,l. tain;
if titmtVo u t •
if they re smoky-grey it won t Lightamg
m the east at night without cloud,
especially a fiosty night, fine weather ; a
succession of heavy frosts, rain. Brown
sugar is very susceptible to atmospheric
conditions; if soft and moist rain is
about, if dry and hard the weather will be
dry.
A red mackerel sky at sunrise is always
a good indication for rain. “Mare’s
tails”—cirrus—though supposed to mean
wind, are all right for a change; grey
clouds low in the west at sunset, very
good, so is a grey bank of clouds in the
north at evening for rain in three or four
days’ time. “Floaters” are 0.k., too. If
cumulus attains big enough proporuons a
local shower will follow. None of these
signs are infallible, but they are probably
as good as some of our official weather
forecasts.
Hints for the Farm.
“Gip”; To drain a wet place in the
garden without putting down pipes under
the paths dig a drain about 18in. deep
and half-fill with stones. Then fill in with
soil. The water will get away easily
through the stones,
“Rooster”: Estimate the size of the
silage stack from the size of the paddock
—usually an acre of lush grass occupies
12 cubic feet approx. Stack in thin
layers. A sprinkling of rock salt on top
of each layer will help preserve the
chlorophyl and reduce the danger of
combustibility. Stacks need not be
weighted. Green ensilage has sufficient
weight in itself to “settle,”
“R.”; It’s a mistake to “rush.” en-
silage into the stack. A towering stack
will settle considerably overnight. Far
better to complete the operation in easy
stages, to allow for compactness and
symmetry. The more airtight the stack
the less chance of combustion. Keep
piling it on until there’s no more notice-
able subsidence in 24 hours. Silage is
the perfect winter feed for dairy cows,
retaining all the nutriment of the grasses
and clovers. Butter fat improves in per-
centage even in the coldest weather. It’s
worth the time and trouble spent on it.
“Myrrhee”: Bulk in root crops and
pumpkins for stock feed is misleading.
The water content is high and it takes
101 b. or more of roots or pumpkins to
equal the food value of 11b. of grain.
Most roots can be fed whole to sheep
and pigs but pumpkins should be split.
Slice for horses and dairy cattle to reduce
risk: of choking. Although cattle may
eat up to 1001 b. of roots or pumpkins a
day, which is equal to about 101 b. of
grain, 401 b. is the usual allowance.
Sheep may eat up to 201 b. a day ; pigs
and horses up to 401 b. However, the
allowance for pigs and horses is best
kept between 10 and 201 b. a day.
“Gip”: If weevils have got into stored
maize get rid of ’em by placing a small
shallow tin of kerosene on top of the
grain. The weevils will come out of the
grain and pack into the kerosene until
they drown—they can’t resist it.
“Tuerong”: “Murrawong” is only too
right (B. 14/11 /’45). I took all the risks
for four years of losing stock rather than
use brands, with the sole idea of submit-
ting “clean skins” to the leather trade. I
made a special trip to be present at the
sale of 100 of my hides. When my lot
came under the hammer the auctioneer
announced that they were unbranded
and absolutely clean. Immediately there
was an uproar amongst the buyers. They
slapped their knees, banged each other
on the back and screamed with laughter
—never having heard of unbranded hides.
I didn’t receive a penny more for my
clean hides. Never' again will I risk,
losing stock trying to help a trade which
is too dumb to help itself, though it
never stops squealing.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTw^^tdleix/iL.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months £l4 0
6 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —Smooths .. ..£l9 0
hJ
HR
ScUUX.
Ob
a
f
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Qualities developed by
Pelmanism
Observation
Self-confidence
Concentration
Will-power
Judgment
Initiative
Decision
Organisation
Social Ease
And a thoroughly de-
pendable memory for
faces, figures, names,
appointments, prices
and useful data of
every kind.
Headquarters:
London
750,000 Pelmanists
of whom over
60,000 are
enrolled in
Melbourne.
Telephone
MU2355
Telephone or
personal calls are
welcomed.
Duty, Interest, Service
One reason why Pelman students proceed happily, and,
allowing for war-time delays, regularly through the
Course, completing it in normal time, is the promptness
of the Pelman Institute in dealing with all correspondence
from its pupils. This is not only the exercise of Will in
the performance of a duty, it is also interest in the work
and in the pupil as an individual. The staff of the Pelman
Institute sets out with each pupil to get as quickly as pos-
sible to the core and substance of his requirements and
then to communicate with him at once.
THE SERVICES: Whenever it is an advantage all
communications, including Text Books, are sent by Air
to members of the Services. The pupil thus gets comment
and advice whilst the relative matters are still fresh in his
mind. The Pelman Course is approved under the Com-
monwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme. It was
approved by the War Office, London, in 1939.
CIVILIANS: The same prompt attention is given to
civilians. Now that the pressure of war-time conditions
is lessening, the number of civilians taking the Pelman
Course is progressively increasing.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” describing the Pelman Course are
posted free. Write the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House, 396
Flinders Lane (corner Market Street), Melbourne.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE
EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
173
ft
I
&r
tv
m
57 85
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’8
.. (M (dwMfS
;-.i
as
M A
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy English Sounds (Dent) and Good
Speech (Ripman).—36Bl.
To buy collections of verse by Roderic
Quinn and Mary Gilmore and Under Capricorn
by Helen Simpson.—3682,
Information Sought.
Names of South African publications dealing
with agricultural subjects?
“Farming in South Africa” (monthly), obtain-
able from the Dept, of Agriculture and For-
estry, Pretoria; ss. p.a. subscription. “Onder-
stepoort Journal of Veterinary Science and
Animal Industry” (quarterly), published by
the Government Printer, Pretoria, at ss. per
copy. Cattle Farming in South Africa, by A.
B. Bosnian, distributed by the Central News
Agency, Johannesburg and priced at about
275. 6d. “Fat Lamb Production in the Union
(bulletin 204) obtainable from the Government
Printer, Pretoria. Animal Industry in the
British Empire by A. N. Duckam and J. B.
Orr, published by the Oxford University Press
and priced at about 20s. Further information
can be obtained by writing to the South
African Dept, of Agriculture and Forestry,
Pretoria.
Some information on the feeding of horses
in exceptionally hot regions?
Saddle horses on light work will require one
and a half to two kerosene tins daily of
sound chaff as well as two to three quarts of
corn. Give two-thirds of the chaff and one-
third of the grain in the evening meal. Damp
the chaff with a pint of watery molasses and,
unless the water is brackish, include a table-
spoon of rock salt in each feed. Brood mares
require no hand feeding when there is plenty
of green feed, but a handful of corn when the
grass dries would be beneficial. If the grass is
parched, give daily half a kerosene tin of
lucerne-chaff, one to two pints of heavy molas-
ses and a teaspoon of fine sterlised bone meal.
Before and after foaling a feed of two tins
mixed chaff, two quarts heavy molasses and
two teaspoons bone daily is satisfactory. Do
not use fermented molasses, and build up the
two quarts gradually, as in some cases scouring
follows sudden large increases. Foals thrive
on whatever bright hay they will take and about
21b. poultry laying-mash (if this is rationed, a
substitute of ilb. linseed or peanut meal mixed
with crushed grain and half teaspoon
bone meal would be satisfactory).
Facts about the establishment of Reuter’s
news agency?
The founder, Paul Julius Reuter, was bora
in Cassel, Germany, in 1816. In 1849 he inau-
gurated a news collecting agency, and used
carrier pigeons to transmit news between Ger-
man and French telegraph lines at Aix-la-
Chapelle and Venders. In 1851 he became a
naturalised British subject and opened an office
in London, In 1858 his news telegrams
were first accepted by the English papers.
He appointed agents all over the world.
In 1865 a concession for a cable under the
North Sea to Cuxhaven was granted him by
the King, of Hanover, while in the same year
he was conceded a line from France to America,
working it jointly with (he Anglo-American
Telegraph Co. Reuter, who was given the title
of baron in 1871, died in 1899.
Information Supplied.
Books written by Henry Lamond (B.
5/12/’45). H. G. Lamond, of Brisbane, did
not write Days and Ways of a Scottish Angler
or Loch Lomond, a Study in Angling Condi-
tions. He wrote, in addition to those stated
previously, Kilgour’s Mare, Dingo and, lately,
Brindle Royalist. —H.G.L.
Brief Answers.
H.G.: Information unavailable at present; will
answer as soon as possible... .J.R. McC.: The
horse was not injured to any serious extent,
but in August, 1945, he was barred from racing
within the Melbourne suburban area for kick-
ing at the starting post. It is thought that the
horse will be taken to South Australia to race,
....Y.L.: If you live within the Moreton Bay
pastoral district the cat has to be dipped be-
fore it will be allowed into N.S.W., and a cer-
tificate to this effect signed by the stock in-
spector. If you reside outside this district,
a certificate from the stock inspector that the
cat is free from ticks is all that is necessary.
Mrs. V. Anderson, Prospect-street, West Kog-
arah, Sydney, will be able to give information
with regard to the welfare of the animal while
in Sydney A.C.: Know of no active volcano
in that country.
Answers to Correspondents. .
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
H.S.T.: It doesn’t get anywhere... .J. 8.8.:
Glad to see you again; you’re farther away
than ever W.E.J.: The little that was legible
showed promise; try writing with the other
hand T.P.: Not ours, but a daily might
use it....H.M.: Too many kisses, not enough
cake A.D.S.: There’s the patience of years
in “The Gilded Swain”; “Honeymoon’s End”
lacks spontaneity, brut keep trying R. 0.:
The right door at the wrong time D.A.: So
you carved her name on a prickly pear! Did
anything come of it?... .S.M.V.: Let these
lines in:—
The night is dark; I cannot see.
I wish these strikers would think of me!
T.MJ.: “And tomorrow, and tomorrow,
and tomorrow”; try us when the time comes.
J.P.: Polish them till you get a shine.
....F.T.S.: Close; but you’ll need to tell a
story PJ.: They’re workmanlike, but unin-
spired... .M.L.: Wordy, and, what’s worse,
woebegone L.M.T.: No, no, no! We don’t
like “whistling riders of the far north-west.”
J.S.: “ ‘Percy,’ he said, ‘Out upon him!’ ”
Come, come, that’s too severe.


02
Are You a Business
or Professional
Man?
If so, your days arc possibly so fully occu*
pied that you find it difficult to devote the
necessary time to your personal affairs. The
\ Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited is in its 68th year of experience as
Attorney or Agent, and is well qualified to
relieve you of worry in arranging invest-
ments. It will be glad to suggest how it can
be of assistance, if you will call or write at
your convenience.
The Trustees Executors
mi d Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager; W. Sydney Jones.
Manager; K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W, D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
• N.S.W. Manager; J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
J
Safe and Profitable—
AN “A.C. A.” POLICY.
9 Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earnipg-power, but matures
the life policy.
• Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to ’’The Bulletin’s” criticism (!7/3/’43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD,
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building,. 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Tooth and Co. (Sydney)
Nct To Re- Re-
Sept. Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935.. 628,1(99 i2i p.c. =702,575* —*
1936.. 696,028 10 „ „ 689,017 ) 10fi 011 979 fil3
Employees’ Fund, £lOOO J 1 ”’ 1 ’°
1937.. 774,695 ioi p.c. =649,179 12*.516 1,105.359
1938.. 841,839 ni „„7ii,005 130,834 1,236,193
1939 " E m P 5 ioy 7 e 0 e 9 B’ 12 Fund.” ? £sood} lo8 ’ 790 1 > 344 ’ 983
1940.. 870,29912 p.c. =741,919 128,380 1,473,363
1111-- 121*211 ii ”” 7 7 4 4 1 I ’91 1 9 9 1 67 ’ 1171 ’ 540 ’ 480
'Employees’ Fund,” £sooo j 16,519 1,556,999
58!:; SnSS
1945.. 858,022 13 „ ~ 803,746 54,276 1,694,274
* Includes special centenary bonus of 6d. per share,
For the half-dozen years to the close of
last accounts net earnings averaged
£821,576, compared with an average of
£727,348 for the preceding six years.
which included the backwash of the early
ict-m , -rj ,
1930 s slump. However, during the
decade to the close of accounts in 1939
the co. had added £1,954,040 net to the
book value of fixed assets, including hotel
properties. This widening and anchoring
of the market for its products enabled
the co. to secure its full share of in-
creased war-time trade. In the civilian
market demand stepped up with the
growth of employment and wage lifts
until pegged at two-thirds the thirsty
January-February, 1942, level. This in
order to meet expanding service demands
of our own and Allied forces, which are
outsid? the public rationing scheme, and
which account for a large slice of the
total increase in beer consumption.
Some idea of the expansion, as well as
what the amber liquor-is worth to the
Treasury, can be had from the Common-
wealth statistician’s figures showing col-
lections in excise on beer:—
Year to Year to
June so. June so.
1941!’. lii-llu.!!™ 1944.’.’ £ 2i,’6i 3 5,974
1942!! w.’iwiin 1945’.'. 8i£e74,224
Until 1943 the increase was due partly to
lifts in excise aggregating 2s. 10d, making
total excise 4s. 7d. per gallon. This is
equal to about 73 p.c. of brewer’s gross
receipts for bulk beer. The other 27 p.c.,
approximately ss. sd. in the £, has to
cover increased production, distribution
and other costs (including co. tax), as well
as profit. Obviously the Government is
on the pig’s back so far as the beer trade
is concerned. Advancing turnover eased
the pressure of costs upon the ceiling
over wholesale selling prices. This ceiling
has been punctured only by lifts in ex-
cise which have been passed on to hotel-
keepers and over the counter to cus-
tomers.
Last term the Royal Navy more than
filled the gap in service demands caused
by the treck of U.S. personnel north as
the war moved toward Japan. Shortage
of manpower and some essential raw
materials made it difficult to keep up
civilian supplies. In the hotel section of
the business the general experience was
one of improvement. After allowing
£136,191 (down £11,971) for depreciation
of fixed assets and whatever was con-
sidered necessary for other contingencies
the co’s gross earnings stepped up
£96,467; —*
Management, Exes.
Gross Wages, p.c. Net
Sept. Earnings. etc. Gross. Profit.
1938.. £1,819,421 £977,582 53.7 £841,839
1940.. 2,261,584 1,381,285 61.3 870,299
1942.. 2,799,208 2,035,770 72.7 763,438
1943.. 2,540,068 1,751,027 68.9 789,041
1944.. 2,601,172 1,761,549 67.7 839,623
1945.. 2,697,689 1,889,617 68.2 858,022
The net result benefited by £18,399 of the
increase, reaching 13.8 p.c. on capital as
against 13.5, 12.7, 1.2.3, 13, 14 and 13.8
p.c. back to 1939. The div., to which a
point was added in the previous term,
was maintained at 13 p.c., and £54,276
was added to visible reserves, lifting them
to £1,694,274.
As for the outlook, the Federal
Treasurer has budgeted for an extra
£400,000 or thereabouts from beer for the
year to June 30 next. But production of
beer and many other things from which
public revenue flows has now been inter-
rupted by use of the strike as a coercive
weapon in direct bargaining by some
Communist-led unions. Yet it is from
public revenue derived from production
that all who are elegible depend for pay-
ment of so-called social security, unem-
ployment and other State benefits. What
a large section of workers has yet to
realise is that to interrupt production is
to undermine the security upon which
employment and a high and rising
standard of living and other benefits
finally rests. It is a sad thing to see the
economically blind being led by the
politically unscrupulous into the desert of
regression.
As demobilisation proceeds service re-
quirements will diminish and civilian de-
mand strengthen. This ought to mean
progressive relaxation of civilian quota
restrictions. The alternative is encourage-
ment to the black market. What will
happen in connection with costs will
largely depend upon what the Govern-
ment can do to hold wages, hours and
prices at or about their present levels.
When manpower and materials become
available deferred repairs and improve-
ments to hotel .properties and the brewery
will call for substantial outlay, which the
co. is well equipped to meet;
Assets:— 1941. 1944. 1945.
Breweries, etc. £6,880,511 £6,509,934 £6,323,693
Book debts.. 1,298,996 657,357 680,660
Stock .. 540,282 ■ 525,609 477,916
Liquid . . 1,328,559 3,180,015 3,430,103
£10,048,348 £10,872,915 £10,912,362
Sundry creditors 1,874,133 2,566,631 2,553,822
Net assets.. £8,174,215 £8,806„284 £8,358,540
Paid capital.. 6,182,657 6,182,657 6,182,657
Liquids (up £250,088 last term) consist
of Government securities and deposits.
The year’s reduction of £186,241 in the
book value of fixed assets was over
£50,000 more than the visible allowance
for depreciation. •
Permanent Trustee Co. (Sydney)
To Re-
Sept. Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 9,109 6 p.c. = 6,600 2509 64,256
1936.. 11,630 7 „ „ 7,700 3930 68.188
1937.. 12.762 10 „ „ 11,000 1762 69,948
1938.. 12.180 10 „ „ 11,000 1180 71,128
1939.. 12,232 10 „ „ 11,000 1232 72.360
1940.. 11,812 10 „ „ 11,000 812 73,172
1941.. 11,669 10 „ „ 11,000 669 73.841
1942.. 11,177 10 „ „ 11,000 177 74,018
1943.. 10,900 10 „ „ 11,000 73,918
1944.. 12,170 10 „ „ 11,000 1170 75,088
1945.. 13,332 10 „ „ 11,000 ( „ a 9 77ft
To staff fund, £1650 .. j 682 76 ’ 770
Greatest difficulty in the path of these
trustee cos. over the last half-dozen years
has been to prevent costs getting too far
ahead of the moderate advance in earn-
ings, which are derived mainly from the
expanding volume of trusts placed in
their expert care and, from investment
of their own funds. Their corpus and
other commission charges are anchored
by legislation, as they always have been.
War-time controls have repressed capital
values, retarded realisation of estates,
forced down interest rates and kept rents
low. While a rigid ceiling has been thus
maintained over the factors affecting earn-
ings, costs, especially taxation, have not
been similarly restrained. One result has
been that the growth in exes, has out-
stripped the growth in earnings, despite
continued expansion of business.
For the five years to the close of last
accounts this co.’s net earnings averaged
£11,849, compared with an average of
£12,123 for the preceding quinquennium.
Over the decade the net addition to the
volume of trusts on the books
amounted to £6,041,592, and £11,514 was
added to the co.’s own funds. Last term
new estates entrusted to the co.’s care
exceeded the value of those wound up
by £858,967:
Exps. p.c.
Gross of Gross
Trust Funds. Earnings. Exes. Earnings,
1920.. £6,349,568 £24,948 £15,689 62.9 p.c.
1930.. 15,975.572 61,899 45,858 74 0
1935.. 19,613,027 54,410 44,700 82.1 „
1936.. 20,191.487 60.662 48,431 79.8 „
1937.. 20,612,149 65,875 52,513 79.7 „
1938.. 21,117,323 70,121 57,341 81.7 „
1939.. 21.890,250 72,998 60,166 82.4 „
1940.. 22.534,608 75,014 62,602 83.4
1941.. 22,854,436 78,087 65,818 84.2 „
1942.. 23,656.504 80,195 68,418 85.3 „
1943.. 24,352,657 82,035 70,535 86.0 „
1944.. 24,768,652 82,686 69,916 84.6 „
1945.. 25,627,619 83,915 70,583 84.1 „
Gross earnings stepped up £1229. The
net result benefited by £1162 of the in-
crease, raising it to £13,332, equal to 12.1
p.c. on the £llO,OOO of capital, compared
with 11, 9.9, 10.1, 10.6, 10.7 and.ll.l p.c.
back to 1939. On shareholders’ funds
(capital and reserves combined) the net
result was equal to 7.1 p.c. There is a
suggestion there that the co.’s own assets,
especially freehold, are conservatively
valued in the books. The div. was kept
at 10 p.c. for the ninth year in succes-
sion, and £1650 was sent to the staff
fund, leaving £682 to put on the shelf.
There is further Government bleeding
of shareholders by what amounts to
double taxation. Not only are profits
earned taxed in the hands of the co., but
the same profits when distributed as divi-
dends again bear income tax in the hands
of shareholders. Further, the pegging of
values, fixing of rents and reduction of
interest rates, etc., have operated harshly
against beneficiaries and others, particu-
larly in cases of forced realisations. Few
property-owners are prepared to sell at
the arbitary official valuation as at Feb.
10, 1942, because true market value is
now obviously so much greater. Still,
Government resumption of property is
being made at prices fixed on this basis.
In trusts where there are life tenants, many
of these beneficiaries have suffered heavy
loss of income. The compensation money,
when invested in practically the only type
of investment available (Government
securities), yields much less than the re-
sumed property turned in. Now that
the national emergency of war is out of
the way, the whole question of real-
estate values and control calls for early
revision, and so does taxation.
At end September last the co.’s own
funds, together with £19,495 coming to
sundry creditors, were represented by
freehold £51,321, mortgages £76,281,
Government securities £52,992, cash, etc.,
£27,914, and shares in the Canberra sub-
sidiary £5009.
Australian Knitting Mills (Melb.)
, t Dividends >, To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
e £ £ £
1935 .. 39,894 7| p.c. 7 p.c. 38,550 1,344 187,105
1936 . . 28,054 7J „ 7 „ 32,583 182,576
Unexplained addition, £l7OB .. .. 184,284
1937 .. 19,070 7i p.c. 7i p.c. 14,906 4,164 188,448
1938 . . 18,848 7i „ 7J „ 14,906 3,942 192,390
1939 .. 17,656 7* „ H „ 14,906 2,750 195,140
1940 .. 28,736 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,111 203,251
1941 .. 29,018 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 8,393 211,644
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 209,644
1942 .. 28,435 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 7,810 217,454
To staff fund, £2OOO .. .. .. 215,454
1943 .. 29,122 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 8,497 223,951
To staff fund, £7OOO 216,951
1944 .. 33,250 10 p.c. 10 p.c. 20,625 12,625 229,576
1945 . . 28,243 10 „ 10 „ 20,625 7,018 237,194
Shortage of female labor, especially in
the juvenile group, and absenteeism were
the troubles last term. The present scar-
city of outer-wear materials in the market
is due in no way to lack of raw materials
or manufacturing facilities. And the
requirements of the hungry civilian trade
are more than sufficient to fill the gap
caused by the tapering of defence orders.
Still, not only was the co. unable to meet
demand for its products, but turnover
fell away. This labor problem, which
has arisen out of a rapidly expanded war-
time economy, appears to have its roots
in social causes rather than in lack of
amenities or salary attractions. And it
is difficult to say when a solution will be
found ; maybe not until changing con-
ditions brings about a new psychological
approach in which the worker once more
“calls for the job,” instead of vice versa ,
will the position right itself.
Meanwhile, opportunity is knocking
at Australia’s door, while its textile in-
dustry is unable to attain full-scale pro-
duction, with the inevitable effect upon
costs. Among other things, this will push
prospects of developing export markets
further into the background ; and that
at a time when their development is most
to be desired. Also, unless this produc-
tion lag is overtaken in time, an import
trade might develop on a scale detri-
mental to local industry, and those em-
ployed in it. And there is a growing de-
mand for a 40-hour week and for wage
lifts. Briefly, if working hours are re-
duced and at the same time money wages
rise without an adequate increase in the
volume of production, then real wages


STOPyour Rupture
Worries/
-i.v
UfT
r %
Mark <g> location
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter!, , . . , f >
where you live. • Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEJL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), !) .Martin Place, Syuney.
HEAITHY
wa/r f
9
Rub in a few drops of
McMahon's every day
to make the hair lustrous
and soft . . . and to
keep dandruff away.
sdf
SOR HAIR
Ftl I r||J
BRANDMJER3
W.
e'*
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD.. BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
,AT HOME^
FOR
2 6 a
WEEKLY
mm
II
It’s quick easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson home-study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
• HILL-BILLY GtJITAB
• BANJO MANDOLIN
• PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
• SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
© MOUTH ORGAN
• ACCORDION • PIANO
• DANCING • VIOLIN
5000
have succeeded
why not you ? Takes
8 Lessons to play first piece—
-10 Lessons a variety, and 20
Lessons any piece—doesn’t
matter where you live.
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part of
Australia. Freight paid.
IT DC IT Illustrated catalogue and descriptive
u *vLL booklet FREE —Write for yours.
(MENTION INSTRUMENT FAVORED.)
SAMPSON’S. Dept. 3, 481 Kent Street.
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because oB
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from thesa
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, tha
more you owe it to your health to heed tha
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
’ the kidneys do not function properly, wasta
matter and poisonous acids stay in the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, pufflness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay I Neglect is dangerous. Taka
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
Strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid In ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
EOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY BILLS to-day.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Dvesburyj Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines): 87361. /tranches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney^
l ''vkV
* , , - N .'v A
" m
f v
ill?
/'V/
PROPRIETORS OF THE
FOLLOWING TRADE MARKS
C.O.R PLUS" MOTOR SPIRIT
C.O.R" POWER KEROSENE
CORALITE" KEROSENE
C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM"
C.O.R" DIESEL OILS; AND
C.O.R" FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Branches in all States
cs
*hit %
You can see for yourself the resemblance to an
ocean liner that led to this Aircraft Oil-duct
component being called a “Queen Mary” by
Richards’ workers. But whatever it’s called, it
is an excellent example of the extraordinary
variety of shapes demanded of Richards' cold-
pressing equipment. Richards, so long famed
for the Safe-T-Steel “Body by Richards ”, turns
out pressed parts, large and small,
from dies designed and made in
the factory.
\ &
Richards Industries Limited. Keswick &. Mile End, Sth. Aust.
& 8 Me
MS
and the standard of living will contract
proportionately to the rise in prices, and
everybody will be worse off.
The co.’s new cotton-spinning equip-
ment, which came into full production
toward the close of accounts in 1944, is
reported to be giving a good account of
itself. But the worsted-spinning plant,
which arrived a year or so ago and has
been completely installed, is working at
only 50 p.c. capacity, owing to the labor
difficulty already referred to. When in
full stride these two spinning plants will
increase the range of the co.’s yarns
and fabrics, and ought to help lighten
costs and strengthen competitive power.
After setting aside £26,000 (down
£6000) for taxation and allowing £20,194
(down £173) for depreciation, net earn-
ings were £5007 short of the previous
year’s at £28,243. That was equal to
13.6 p.c. on capital as against 16.1, 14.1,
13.7, 14, 13.9 and 8.5 p.c. back to 1939.
It needs to be remembered that the
£206,*250 of capital has the support and
assistance of £237,194 of reserves, which
means that actual earning power of share-
holders’ funds is only about half the
rates just stated. An all-round 10 p.c.
div. was paid—the prefs. advance with
the ords. in any distribution beyond 1\
p.c., and share in surplus assets.
There is nothing to worry about in the
finances: •
1941. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £206,250 £206,250 £206,250 £206;250
Liabilities .. 36,114 40,505 34,743 36,118
Tax reserve .. 15,919 27,259 37,795 32,145
Freeholds .. 108,008 137,939 133,872 130,983
Plant, etc. .. 74,530 84,448 118,425 105,441
Stocks .. 191,449 144,774 138,904 136,857
Book debts . . 62,102 65,739 65,582 76,451
Cash, etc. .. 47,572 72,299 65,315 76,209
Chief movements in the figures last term
were a growth of £10,869 in debtors’ bal-
ances and an addition of £10,894 to cash,
etc. The year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£220,754) was
£23,491. The new plant, paid for dur-
ing the two preceding terms, was financed
out of accumulated savings.
Westralian Minister for Industries
Hawke was recently asked whether the
Government had spent £330,0C0 on the
State alunite industry for a return of 10
tons a day potash, and whether the stuff,
when recovered, was only about 70 p.c.
pure. The imputation behind these ques-
tions, which have not yet been fully and
specifically answered, is that the under-
taking is financially and economically
unsound. Council for Industrial Develop-
ment, which is running the show, more re-
cently announced that “the progress of
the industry was most satisfactory, that
revenue exceeded cost of production, and
that when plant modifications were fin-
ished a further improvement in both
grade and quantity of the product was
anticipated.” The public, whose money
is at risk in the venture, is entitled to
full and detailed information.
* * *
Westralia’s latest gold rush is at
Kanowna, where a rich find is re-
ported in ground south of the Main
Reef. Country has been pegged for two
mile along the supposed auriferous line-
of lode. Long ago Main Reef yielded
nearly six tons of gold, but the carriers
proved erratic in values and behavior, and
many blanks were drawn.
* * * *
London-controlled Gold Mines of Kal-
goorlie, operating on the Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile (W.A.), shows a working
profit of £41,478 (up £28,207) for year to
end March last. After allowing £27,500
for depreciation £13,978 remained. A 6d.
div. (5 p.c.) called for £15,369. Taxation,
estimated at £11,500, was covered by writ-
ing back surplus provision of a similar
amount from the previous year. The mill
treated 104,353 tons (up 25,534 tons) ore,
averaging 4.Bdwt., for 25,50 loz. fine
gold. The increased throughput came
from easily mined ore in the Australia
East open cuts. Working costs (30.325. a
ton) benefited to the extent of 4.415. a ton.
Ore reserves, proved and probable, were
figured at 531,920 tons, averaging s.3dwt,
a drop of 4750 tons and o.4dwt. respec-
tively compared with the previous year’s
figures. The slip in grade was due to work
disclosing lower values than originally
assessed in some blocks. Since the close
of accounts work in the open cuts has dis-
closed a substantial increase in tonnage
available there. The adjoining Lake View
South group of lease was bought during
the year for £4750 in f.p. 10s. shares. All
known pay-ore has been extracted from
this ground. Hopes are that further ore
bodies will be found at greater depth.
* * * *
“Thafrabar”; At Wodjina, about 90
miles from Port Hedland (W.A.), lie de-
posits of tantalite, one of the world’s
rarest, richest and most remarkable ores.
From tantalite, by a refining process,
comes tantallum, used for steel-harden-
ing, in the making of electrical apparatus
and, as a substitute for platinum, in sur-
gical instruments, drills, files, pen-points,
watch-springs, etc. The needs of war
opened up other fields for tantallum. It is
non-rusting, can be beaten into sheets as
pliable and thin as paper and more
malleable than gold. Drawn into nearly
invisible wire, or lamina, it has been used
successfully in surgery and plastic sur-
gery. During the war the ore was flown
to America for processing. High-grade
ore is worth about £l2OO a ton. The
owners of the deposits are trying to per-
suade the Commonwealth Government to
help in establishing a refining plant in
Australia. Germany and Japan also
might be able to provide useful infor-
mation about processing.
* * * *
Slight decline in South Kalgurli’s ore
reserves (now 202,500 tons, averaging
s.osdwt, blocked, and 144,000 tons.
averaging 5 Idwt. probable) is due tp lack
of new uevelopment, owing to shortage of
manpower. Bottom of the mine has re-
mained at No. 19 level for some
years. Sinking has now been resumed, but
vigorous exploration at No. 20 level will
not be possible until more labor and
equipment become available.


' PLAN NOW TO
faV
*
i
Protect
\% Costly
Farm
Machinery
FOR dependable weatherproof, fire-
proof protection plan NOW to build
garages, barns, and sheds in the
strongest and most economical of all
building materials Lysaghts Gal-
vanised Iron! Quicker, cheaper,
permanent, it has proved itself
ideal for all farm building pro-
jects. Supplies are still limited
at the present time but as
industry swings over to peace-
time production full stocks
will again be available
to all.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD#
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE ADELAIDE PERTH
L125*—4332
JUST RIGHT TOP fLfIUG
£
t
LIGHT WitCUT LUG SAGI
Every effort is being
made to increase manu-
facture, so don't risk
missing one . . . ask
first for an Airway!
■
Made by FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
The Jlityht
s
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT, mass produced to microscopic
precision standards, is another Pyrox “Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment is a manu-
facturing achievement that further strengthens famous nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals Diesel Service Depots, under the management
of Pyrox-trained experts, are fully equipped for testing, overhaul,
repair, general maintenance and the supply of Injection Spare Parts
for all makes of Diesel Engines.
Pyrox DIESEL SERVICE
IN SYDNEY - - - - PYROX PTY., LTD.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Power Without Responsibility
The results of years of irresponsibility
and Communist pollution in the trade-
union movement have now become
grimly evident in N. S. Wales and other
parts of the Commonwealth. The chief
cause of the trouble is that trade-
unionists have not accepted the responsi-
bility of democratic self-government.
Apathetic as to responsibilities in the con-
duct of their union affairs —affairs obvi-
ously vital to the industrial conduct of
the nation—they have, nevertheless, at all
times shown an alacrity to accept any
“benefits” that unionism, whether under
Communist control or otherwise, has
been able to get for them. They have
voted solidly at general elections for a
Government which removed the ban on
Communism, and which has, in its short-
sightedness, prejudices and misplaced
sympathies, paved the way for the Com-
munist-based industrial trouble which has
paralysed industry in every State.
The lesson which trade-unionists must
learn if their growth in power is not to
be an everlasting danger to the very life
of this country is that they cannot con-
tinue to accept the benefits of unionism
unless they are prepared to bear corre-
sponding responsibilities. It has been the
aim of some sections of trade-unionism
to take away “power” from the “bosses/’
and for a long time this attitude has been
adopted in the case of B.H.P. In some
industries any sign of prosperity on the
part of industrial proprietors has been
accepted as a signal for obstruction tac-
tics or strikes, and the result of this in-
dustrial jealously and synthetic friction
has been that our country has lost market
after market for its products, especially
coal.
Utterly selfish and mulish trade-union
policy has time and again undermined the
industrial structure of the Commonwealth
without gaining trade-unionists an extra
penn’orth of benefit. The attitude on the
wharves and elsewhere towards the Dutch
in Java has probably lost us the post-war
trade that should ordinarily come to a
friendly neighboring ally, and the whole
difficulty has been created by the dicta-
tion of a handful of vicious Corns, to
trade-unionists unwilling to assert them-
selves. There are over a million trade-
unionists in the Commonwealth, mostly in
vital industries, and their refusal to
accept full responsibility of self-govern
ment cannot fail to be a national disaster
so long as it persists.
The repeated striking and obstructive
tactics prevalent in various trades have re-
duced the initiative and output-develop-
ing power of the managerial side of in-
dustry, Business, whether “big” or other-
wise, has been unable to plan with confi-
dence in its attempts to expand its
markets at home or abroad. The diffi-
culty has been emphasised most in over-
seas markets, where we are chronically
short of foreign exchange because of in-
adequate export revenue, and where we
are now in serious difficulties even in pay-
ing for essential commodities such as
petroleum. “Go-slow” and the like, in
addition to reducing internal living
standards, has restricted our dollar-eam-
ing capacity and our ability to attract—
and support—a much larger population.
It is admitted by all responsible authori-
ties that a larger population is essential
to this country from both the economic
and defence viewpoints. The more cus-
tomers there are on the home market the
cheaper it will be to produce for each
individual in peace-time and the greater
will be our munition-making capacity
during war.
The Federal Labor Government has a
great deal to answer for in the present
deplorable situation, and the McKell Gov-
ernment in N. S. Wales is almost equally
to blame. The best of the so-called
“moderates” in the Parliamentary Labor
party are no better than slick politicians;
they have shown a singuar lack of moral
guts at all times, and even the now-
harassed Mr. Chifley has chosen to play
party politics on occasions when the up-
holding* of moral values and legal prin-
ciples was absolutely necessary to stop
the rot in our industrial and social posi-
tion. The daily press, with its ear flat to
the ground and addicted to “modern-
ism” in every phony guise, has gone a
long way along the road with Communist
wreckers before waking up to what must
be the inevitable result of appeasing mili-
tants and disruptionists. The Sydney
“Morning Herald” backed the Federal
and N. S. Wales Labor Governments
during a period in which Communists
were taking deep root in the community,
aided and abetted by a Government toler-
ance that amounted almost to benevo-
lence, and the “Herald” showed a definite
change of front only when the August,
1944, referendum was put to the people.
The “Herald” was probably honest
when it said “the ‘Herald’ for more
than a year‘has repeatedly drawn atten-
tion to the activities of the Communists
in Australia’s key industries.” The
Bulletin has been pointing to the danger
for more than a decade, and has been
vilely abused for doing so.
The majority of Australian wage-
earners today are trade-unionists, and
this paper has not lost faith in the country
to the extent that it would say that such
a huge proportion of the population is
beyond social and economic salvation.
Far from it; many of our best citizens
are members of trade-unions. But the
trade-union movement has been growing
rapidly jn numerical, political and
financial power, and the outlook of each
member of a trade-union will have to be-
come modernised in accordance with his
new conditions. It was long ago learnt
by the “bosses”—as a body, there being
individual exceptions—that the proprie-
tary side of industry could not prosper
if the wage-earners were not prosperous.
Trade-unionism, now so powerful, must
accept the responsibility of not indulging
in mass behavior that strikes at the wel-
fare of all classes in a mere selfish, pig-
headed and futile desire to benefit a sec-
tion, and this responsibility will be in the
hands of every unionist, including those
now too apathetic or cowed to express
themselves at meetings.
It is impossible to avoid this truth, and
foolish of anyone to try to evade it or
suggest an expedient. Irresponsibility in
trade-unionism, if persisted in, will dog
us to our national deathbed. The power-
ful countries in the world today are those
with a high industrial output per head.
And these are also the most economically
contented.
There was talk before the war to the
effect that democracy was a failure. An
American retorted that we had never
really tried democracy. Certainly there
is little democracy within trade-unionism
in Australia today. There is mob rule,
or militant-minority rule, in several key
unions, but there is very little real effort
to help build a prosperous, expanding
Australia in which wage-earners will have
a better standard of living than they have
at present and in which “bosses” will get
a reasonable share. On the contrary,
some of the most politically active sec-
tions of trade-unionism seem determined
to jeopardise the whole of this country’s
economic future simply in order to gain
greater dictatorial power for themselves
and to win congratulations from Moscow.
In every trade-union problem we in- !
evitably return to the weakness displayed
by the Federal Labor Government. There
is very little opposition shown to trade*
union anarchy by the socialistically-
minded Minister Dedman, for instance,
who not so long ago protested that the
Government was not going to make “little
capitalists” out of wage-earners by help-
ing them own their homes. He preferred
to keep them in Government-owned,
rented houses. The Ward clique in Can-
berra, too, has made many contributions
to the present state of industrial chaos in
the Commonwealth. And the sins of
omission on the part of the “moderates,”
from Chifley and the late John Curtin
downward, have been more destructive
of our industrial framework than the
work of the more obvious firebrands.
What has not been done by the Federal
Government to cope with problems lead-
ing up to the present situation has been
a greater factor in its creation than what
has been done in directly contributing
to it.
The appeasement and buck-passing
practised by the Government are perhaps
best demonstrated by the fact that it has
never stood up against Caucus on a major
issue. On the other hand, it passed the
trading banks, bound hand and foot, over
to the virtual control of Caucus purely
as a political tribute.
The issue before all Australians at the
present time is representative, responsible
self-government, with a commonsense
regard for the realities of our existence,
or else chaos. Trade-unionists who have
been too apathetic to take a responsible
interest in the behavior of their unions
and in the economic position of their
country will shortly be faced with dis-
concerting hardships. If hardship is the
only thing that will wake them to reali-
ties, then the sooner unmistakable hard-
ship overtakes them the better. Economic
hardship is light enough punishment for
what amounts to almost criminal folly
and apathy.
In six capital cities and suburbs the
monthly average of permits granted for
the building of new private dwellings fell
to an average of 38 a month in 1942-43,
which meant that in that financial year
the total of private dwellings erected was
less than 500. In the one month of
August this year permits were granted
for 978 houses, compared with 189 in
August, 1944. Since the end of last August
it has been unnecessary to obtain Federal
permission to build a house costing £l2OO
or under, though the States are now pass-
ing legislation to cover the position. Not-
withstanding the number of permits
granted recently, it is unlikely that any-
thing like that quantity of building is
going on at the present time. The idea
among would-be home-owners has been
to get over the permit hurdle first and to
surmount the equally difficult job of get-
ting a builder able to do the job after-
wards.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
EYE LOTION
Jor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Said Every wher«
H. Rose&Co„Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
df
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cl
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
Buth entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
i IT. —r. SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
If jour
dog's coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema, Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Log Soap.
sd
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/t
SKIN JLOTION 2A
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/<
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Gordons
TANQUERAY GORDON & CC. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
sound framework
for post-war aviation
0
0
&
40
v>
While international agreements are
forming the framework of post-war air services, the
aircraft concerned will be framed in Steel Tubes—for
only Steel Tubes have the lightness, the strength and
the economy demanded by modern plane-builders.
B.T.M. has the plant, the air-craft quality steel and the
practical experience to meet any and every requirement
of the aircraft industry in Australia
. . . and the experience is mounting
in the production of tubes for every
purpose at British Tube Mills ( Aust .)
Pty. Ltd., Kilburn, South Australia.
PRECISION'
"ALL WAV*)
R & Me.
8135
One thing you can say for Australians—
they know a good cloth. ... Their judg-
ment has made (SruHahrr Qltntlj the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(Eruaater (Clotij is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
(frusatbr (flotfe
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
m
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
The reduction in power, gas and fuel
supplies in N. S. Wales to mere emergency
rations last week represents the culmina-
tion of a long string of industrial trouble
and political deterioration that has been
developing ever since the Federal Labor
Government took office. It has been
forecast in these pages repeatedly. Where
a Government, possessing almost life-
and-death powers over the citizen during
a long war, gives revolutionaries vast
freedom by contrast with what liberty is
allowed law-abiding citizens, the revolu-
tionaries must score heavily in their on-
slaught on democratic stability. Daring
the war Communists infiltrated essential
services everywhere, and they even got
safe jobs in the armed services in order
to carry their treacherous dope to fight-
ing men eager to listen to almost any
kind of entertainment or read any kind
of literature. In the meantime there were
many people not actually labelled “Com-
munist” who aided the revolutionaries in
their work, addling the minds of the
people:, striving at all times to create class
discontent. Lies of all sorts have been
told about 8.H.P., about Mr. Menzies,
about anybody or anything likely to
demonstrate to the people the way to an
ordered, industrially stable way of life.
In the Ministry itself there has been E. J.
Ward, present Minister for Transport and
External Territories. Eddie is a purveyor
of false, inflammatory industrial propa-
ganda, and he seems never to be really
happy unless he is telling the “worker”
how badly off he is. Yet Ward, in his
false industrial philosophy —his support
for a still-shorter working week, his dis-
paragement of established legal, industrial
and financial institutions, his silence on
the necessity for increased production in
return for higher pay—has probably done
more than any other single man to reduce
the standard of living of wage-earners in
the Commonwealth. He is now interfer-
ing with industrial conditions in Aus-
tralia’s island territories, and it looks as
though rubber production will be reduced
as one immediate result. Yet, confronted
with liars, humbugs and political fire-
brands, the Federal Labor Government,
in spite of its huge Parliamentary
majority, has never been game to deal
with them effectively if they tied up in
any way to the “Labor movement.” And
that is w r hy, at this stage of the game,
there is very little sympathy in the hearts
of many for Mr. Chifley in his “stand”
against the revolutionaries in their attacks
on the essential services of the country.
The resources for the attack have been
built up, and the preparations made, over
a period of nearly four years. Mr.
Chifley and the rest of his Ministry have
given the opposing forces of democracy
very little encouragement or assistance
in their struggle to maintain law, order,
living standards and economic stability.
* * * *
Through the working of the “dollar
pool” in London, Australia has for many
years been enabled to buy more Ameri-
can commodities than its annual dollar
revenue would pay for. Australia’s best
customer has always been Britain, and
Britain, with the help of, colonies such
as the Federated Malay States and “in-
visible exports” such as oil-tanker ser-
vices and income from investments in the
US. A., has had a better dollar balance
than the Commonwealth. Britain has
sold dollars to Australia out of a Lon-
don exchange pool to enable us to pay
for our U.S. purchases, and we have paid
Britain out of our sterling in London. Our
gold exports before the war helped to
strengthen the position; they were as
good as dollar income. In 1937-38 Aus-
tralia’s adverse balance of merchandise
trade with the United States was £l5 mil-
lion sterling, in 1938-39 £11.7 million
sterling. In those years our exports of
gold and silver were worth £l2 mil-
lion and £12.7 million sterling re-
spectively, almost filling the dollar
gap. Australia’s favorable balance with
Britain in the same years was £l2
million and £12.8 million, while our ex-
ternal interest commitments were about
£2l million sterling a. year, mostly owing
in London. Belgium, France and Italy
helped to swell our overseas funds by
buying wool, etc. Abolition of the dollar
pool is likely to put even greater powers
over imports from the United States and
other parts of the world into the hands of
our Commonwealth Bank than were even
contemplated when the Federal Govern-
ment virtually handed control of bank-
ing in this country* over to Caucus.
* * * *
During the five months to the end of
November the cost of war to Australia
was, £l9B million —£86 million financed
out of taxation and £lll million out of
borrowed money. In the borrowings,
bank credit figured for £27 million —that
is apart from savings-bank credit used to
fill war loans. As The Bulletin has
pointed out in these pages for the past
two or three years, and as C.P. leader
Fadden has recently been stressing, Aus-
tralia has used an excessive amount of
&vings-bank credit in filling its loans.
Prime Minister Chifley has lately sought
to refute this; but, of course, the same
politician used to ignore the danger of
militant unionism and its comrade, Com-
munism.
* * * *
To the end of November (five months)
£76 million was collected by the Com-
monwealth Government in income tax.
Estimated collections for the whole finan-
cial year are £2ll million. The income-
tax revenue for five months was £ll mil-
lion greater than for the corresponding
period of last year, there having been no
relief to taxpayers whatsoever since hos-
tilities ceased. From January 1 there is
to be a cut of approximately 12f p.c. in
personal income-tax rates, but industry
gets no relief. In Canada there has already
been a bigger personal-tax reduction, and
the effect of taxation and regulations on
industrial incentive has been given
prompt and intelligent consideration.
* * * *
This is how the Commonwealth Bank
dissects estimates of the present year’s
“war” expenditure in relation to the two
actual outlay:
1945-46. 1944-45. 1943-44.
• Estimate. Actual. Actual.
Expenditure— £m. £m. fan.
War—Australia .. 298 424 488
Overseas .. 62 36 56
Civil —Social Services
(a) ..65 39 39
Other .. ~86 83 78
Total Expenditure .. 511 582 661
Revenue —
Income taxes (h) .. 178 183 152
Other taxes .. .. 125 121 119
Other revenue 37 39 38
Total Revenue .. 340 343 309
Excess of . Expenditure
over Revenue .. 171 239 352
Surplus (+) or Defi-
ciency ( —) in National
Welfare Fund .. —l9 +27 +25
Deficiency met from
Loan Fund .. ..152 266 377
(а) Actual expenditure from Consolidated
Revenue and/or National Welfare Fund.
(б) Including Social Services contribution
in 1945-46.
Overseas “war” expenditure is put at a
higher figure than in any of the two pre-
ceding years. This seems extraordinary,
though it is possibly accounted for by the
end of lend-lease assistance from the
United States. This year’s war expendi-
ture, or the estimate of it, is understated
by approximately £5O million, revenue
from sale of war-time assets and recov-
eries from other Governments being
treated as offsets to approximately that
extent.
* * * *
Wine is a scarce liquor this Christmas
season —far more so than gin, whisky or
rum. A demand accelerated by war-time
drinking of wine—particularly when
other liquors were very scarce—is
now persisting; in addition, seasons
for the industry have not been good, and
supplies have fallen away. At present
rates of taxation, too, some winemakers
prefer to leave their stocks mature for a
year or two more and collect a higher
price when taxation is lower.


Public Notice.
I, ELIZABETH GRAHAM NEUMANN, Of German
nationality by marriage, born at Brisbane, Queens-
land, and resident all my life in Australia, now re-
siding at 393 Liverpool Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney,
intend to apply for naturalisation under t,he Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MERVYN HENRY PETER LEA (also known as
THOMSON) of Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that MARIE
DAPHNE LEA (known as Thomson) has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4971 of 1945 on the ground
of your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend you
may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 18th day
of January 1946 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from L. C. ABIGAIL Solicitor 66
Hunter Street Sydney.—(l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ARTHUR COMPTON ECKLEY late of West
End Crick Avenue Potts Point Sydney.—'TAKE
NOTICE that IVY ELIZABETH ECKLEY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 3960 of 1945 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to de-
fend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court House King Street Sydney be-
fore the Twenty-fifth day of January 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
WILLIAM OSWALD CURRIE Solicitor of 11c Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
THE SERVICE MAN
Dear Old Pals (1939-41).
“Ek Dum”: The documents produced
by the U.S. assistant prosecutor at the
Nuremberg trials—at a moment when
Field-Marshal Montgomery had sharply
rebutted sullen and groundless Russian
allegations as to powerful German armed
forces being retained in the British zone
of control—proved beyond doubt that it
was not the Kremlin’s fault that the
Soviet Union was not on the Axis side
during the whole of the war.
The chief of these documents was the
war*diary of the German Admiralty.
It expounded the opinion on September
25, 1939, that there was “no doubt about
Russia’s honest attitude” ; that “Russia
was convinced of the necessity of co-
operation with Germany.”
Around the date of the Revolutionary
Anniversary (Nov. 6-7, 1939), which
Stalin celebrated with a notorious speech
in which he advised Communists through-
out the Allied world to follow the
example of the Russian revolution and
implement Lenin’s dictum that national
war should be turned into civil war, there
was much •collateral German-Russian
action.
On November 10 the U.S.S.R. Govern-
ment offered the Germans a naval base
near Murmansk. The objective of this
becomes clear when it is known that next
day the U.S.S.R. signed an agreement to
sell Russian timber to Britain, this to be
carried in British and neutral ships, and it
was made plain that Russia did not intend
to interfere with German economic war-
fare.
Thus it was intended to sell the British
timber, take the cash for it and then give
the Germans facilities for destroying the
ships and timber cargoes on the high seas.
On November 25, 1939, the Russians
held certain British ships in Murmansk
to give German ships a run for safety.
It was recorded that Germany was sup-
porting Russian claims for expansion
towards the Persian Gulf, now palpably
in progress. And reference was made to
the valuable help of the Russians in get-
ting the 52,000-ton Bremen back to Ger-
many from Murmansk.
In December, 1939,. there were Hitlerite
negotiations with Russia for the use of
sea lines along the Siberian coast for Ger-
man warships, and in coming to a satis-
factory arrangements “no difficulties”
were anticipated. There was under way at
that time an agreement to deliver a 10,000-
ton cruiser hull (the Liitzow) to the Rus-
sians, along with the plans of the battle-
ship Bismarck,
By August, 1940, when the Battle of
Britain had begun, economic deliveries
of goods by Russia to Germany were
“good beyond expectations.”
Singapore—Not Vladivostok
By April 20, 1941, the German-Japa-
nese-Russian pacts had been signed, and
the documents made it patent that the price
of Russia’s agreement was that the Japa-
nese should sheer off Vladivostok and
attack Singapore. It is clear that Moscow
knew then that Japan intended war.
Right up to the outbreak of German-
Russian hostilities Russian deliveries of
war goods to Germany continued “satis-
factory” and all German observations
showed that Stalin and Molotov were
doing everything to avoid a conflict with
Germany,
Finnish War Influence
The inept handling of the Finnish war
and the Soviet’s awful military muddle at
that time, and the almost desperate Rus-
sian pleas for German armaments in
return for war goods, seem to have put
temptation to attack in Hitlers way.
Then, for the first time, orders were given
to alter the attitude towards the U.S.S.R.
and “to throw into the scale in all nego-
tiations the military and political strength
of Germany.” By December 31, 1939,
the German High Command had come
to the conclusion that the Red Army was
no match for an army with modern equip-
ment and superior leadership. The
delivery of the Liitzow and Bismarck
plans was delayed, and hopes were
expressed that it would be possible to get
out of the naval agreement altogether.
By August, 1940, German troops began
to move towards the eastern borders. By
September the idea had crystallised that
the Suez Canal must be captured, and that
from Suez an advance through Syria
would surround Turkey and put a dif-
ferent complexion on Russian relations.
It was hoped that Russia might be in-
duced to threaten India by an advance
through Persia, forwarding the Kremlin’s
1939 plans for an advance southward
from the Caucasus.
How far matters went can bp guessed
or seen by a reference to Communist pro-
paganda in Australia at that time. For
example, the declaration of the “Austra-
lian” Communist party that the A.I.F.
might be used against Russia in the Cau-
casus and the demand that in no circum-
stances should it be employed* to defend
the “oil monopoly” of the Anglo-Persian
Oil Co. That oil was the very lifeblood
of British Commonwealth naval defence.
Wavell Moves
General Wavell’s drive in December,
1940, appears to have altered the Ger-
man outlook —and the Russian.
In January, 1941, when the Italians
were being driven back willy-nilly, Hitler
and Mussolini discussed fears that Russia
might now put its clutch on Rumanian
oil. Although confidence was expressed
that there was “no danger so long as
Stalin lived,” plans were made immedi-
ately to attack Russia in the summer.
On March 1, 1941, the Germans took
the momentous step of marching into
Bulgaria. It was held that Germany’s
swift victories and the bargaining to save
Vladivostok from Japanese Aggression
could be guaranteed to keep the Russians
passive for some time.
The Russo-Japanese pact was reported
on by the German Navy on April 20,
and it was realised that relations could
not be maintained at their then level
much longer. ,
On April 24 the German naval attache
at Moscow reported that the British Am-
bassador had advised Moscow that the
Germans proposed to invade Russia on
June 22. This Moscow seems to have
passed on to the Germans and no doubt
there was much laughter. The Com-
munist press throughout the world con-
tinued to blackguard the British for trying
to involve two dear old pals in a quarrel.
But on June 22 the attempt came, and
in the next four years the U.S.S.R, pro-
pagandists had a busy time representing
their country as the one influence which
had saved civilisation.
It alb shows how small the lever which
may upset great plans. Had Wavell and
his British, Australian and Indian troops
not stopped and routed the Italians in
December, 1940, Suez would have fallen.
Then the Russians would have seized
Persian oil and pushed to the border of
India,
And victory might have come —as it
was intended in Moscow that it should
come—with Germany, Russia and Japan
sharing up Asia, and later, the world.
The Bennett Inquiry
Brigadier Duncan Struan Maxwell,
who commanded the 27th Brigade in
Malaya, and Major Gordon Henry
Walker, who was Lieut.-General Ben-
nett’s A.D.C. for nine months before the
surrender and who escaped with him,
were the last witnesses examined. Major
Walker had been brought from England.
The inquiry lasted 14 days, and 22 wit-
nesses were heard. The Commissioner,
Mr, Justice Ligertwood, will make his re-
port to the Prime Minister.
Brigadier Maxwell said that at the con-
ference on the day of the “ce&;e fire”
General Bennett said to him the men should
be told to make every effort to escape.
He (Maxwell) urged that it would be un-
desirable to make any organised attempt
by a large body of troops, as it would in-
volve loss of life out of all proportion
to the individuals who might succeed. It
was decided to leave escape to the dis-
cretion of the men. A diary reconstructed
by himself and his brigade major in Changi
camp used the words “No escape will be
countenanced,” but he thought that was a
mistake. Certainly there had been no out-
side influence suggesting what should be
put into the diary.
Major Walker said that his main object
in considering escape was to get General
Bennett back to Australia; “We all felt
that he had something of untold value to
tell.” It was he (Walker) who first dis-
cussed the matter with Bennett. Bennett
told him soon after 8 p.m. on February
15 that the “cease fire” would be at 8.30
and that he should go ahead with prepara-
tions for getting away. He and Moses took
a car to find a Chinese who, as they knew,
had a boat. They returned to headquarters
just before 10 p.m. and left with Bennett
about 10.5 p.m. The party said good-bye
to staff officers, including Brigadier Calla-
ghan and Colonels Thyer and Kent
Hughes. All removed their badges of
rank when they got to the wharf and left
their arms in the car. That was done be-
cause in the terms of surrender the order
was that all personnel would be disarmed.-
Walker said that he and Moses had pre-
pared all the plans for the escape..
In his address Mr. Brian Clancy, K.C.,
who appeared for Lieut.-General Bennett,
said that in his decision to escape
Bennett had never been actuated by the
slightest thought of self-interest. The
military position just before the surrender
was such that the annihilation of our
troops seemed imminent. “These were
brave men taking desperate chances.
They were not mindful of the local nice-
ties of the situation.”
Mr. Clancy said that he had been
unable to find any concise definition of
the time at which a member of the forces
becomes a prisoner-of-war.
Justice Ligertwood: “Maybe it is in-
capable of definition.”
Mr. Clancy argued that when the stage
of the surrender was reached General
Bennett became an independent commander,
subject only to the Australian Govern-
ment. Permission from Australia before
making the escape was not necessary. The
regulations provided a penalty if he failed
to escape when opportunity offered. Even
if permission was refused he still would
have been entitled to escape.
It was submitted by Mr. Clancy that
once a force was surrendered uncondition-
ally the person in command of that force
ceased to hold any command. When
General Bennett left he was not in fact
relinquishing his command, but was only
leaving a place where he, and all those who
had formerly been under his command,
had been unconditionally surrendered to the
Japanese, and were under their sole domi-
nation. There was no authority which
was competent to give him permission to
leave, whether he sought i|, or not.
Mr. Clancy claimed that if a soldier is
ordered to stand fast for further instruc-
tions and then, after the surrender, receives
an order representing the imposition of the
enemy’s will, he then becomes a prisoner-
of-War. This stage h'ad been reached when
Bennett escaped.
Mr. Dovey, K.C., assisting the Com-
missioner, claimed that “General Bennett,
in the unfounded belief, honestly enter-
tained, that, to use his own words, he
was ‘the only one who could help Aus-
tralia,’ had acted in deliberate breach of
what he knew to be his duty as a soldier.”
General Bennett knew that what had
passed between General Percival and
General Yamashita was" an agreement to
surrender as distinct from a simple sur- ,
render. It was plain that it was the duty
of General Bennett and every man under
his command to carry out implicitly every-
thing that was agreed to when General
Percival surrendered unconditionally. The
question was not whether General Bennett
was justified in his own opinion or
belief that he had the right to escape, but
whether he was justified in accordance with
his obligations to his troops and to the
commander under whose operational com-
mand he was.
In Asia.
Indonesia
With the increase in British forces and
the announcement that the Sixth Airborne
Division (“the Red Devils”) were drafted
for the Indies it seems to have become
palpable to the so-called Indonesian “Gov-
ernment” that the British mean what they
say. The terrorist force of the Soekarno
residue, largely Jap-trained and -armed,
has moved from its H.Q, near Java to
safer fields 70 miles east.
The British helped them to this opinion
by razing a large village where 22 British
subjects were done to death when their
aircraft crashed there. The hapless and
helpless British victims had their clothes
torn off them and, naked, were handed
over to the village butcher, who mangled
them with his chopper one by one for
the delectation of the village crowd.
The British reprisal; was carried out
after due warning to the inhabitants to
evacuate, but some stayed and died.
The Dutch and other internees of Ban-
doeng have been moved to safety. Troops
are pouring in. U.S. shipping is bringing
roadmaking and other- equipment from
Milne Bay and elsewhere.
The only Allied interested nation which
is not co-operating is the one which has
most to gain for its own safety by the
establishment of a stable European-con-
trolled Government in the East Indies—
Australia. • ■ .
It is reported by the “S.M. Herald”
correspondent that the Dutch are “angry
at the failure of Australia’s inability to
forward supplies to her war-time ally.”
There is little news published in Java of
Australian developments, and what there
is—the “S.M.H.” man complains—
“mainly concerns the wharf-laborers’ atti-
tude, which seems to be accepted as the
attitude of the whole of Australia, includ-
ing the Government.”
Judging by the lack of protest against
the present disgraceful condition of affairs,
it is no wonder.
Persia and Oil
In Persia, matters have rapidly come
to a head. Russia virtually occupied the
north-west of Persia, both militarily and
politically, fostering there a party much
on the lines of the Chinese Communist
party. When, at the end of last month,
the Persian Government addressed notes
to the Kremlin asking that its troops
should be allowed to move northwards
in its own territory, to stop insurrec-
tion by the Moscow-favored party, Mos-
cow blandly replied that if the troops
were moved it would be necessary to
increase the Russian forces to keep the
peace between the two parties—a state-
ment which boiled down to a promise
to prevent the Persian Government i r °m
interfering with rebellion by its own sub-
jects within its own borders. >
On complaints from the Persian Gov-
ernment of interference in numerous
purely internal affairs, the Russians denied
that they had aided the dissident Commu-
nist-type party of Azerbaijan (N.-W.
Persia), that they had interfered with
the free movement of Persian citizens in
the northern provinces or in judicial mat-
ters, or demanded the release of persons
arrested by Persian gendarmes. These
statements were made in the face of
many known cases of infringement of
Persian rights. The Russian case was
described by the Persian ambassador as
“flimsy.”
So soon as the details of the Russian
Note were made public overseas, Russian
troops were withdrawn from Tehran,
the Persian capital to a camp four miles
away, though no answer had then been
given to the British and American notes
suggesting that all foreign troops, includ-
ing Russian, should be withdrawn from
Persia by January 1.
Moscow then hastened to answer the
British-American notes, but with the same
brusque unsatisfactoriness as the Persian
Note, after a reminder from Washington
and a State Department announcement
that three U.S. diplomatists were being
sent to North Persia, and after a Wash-
ington suggestion that this delegation
should be expanded to include represen-
tatives of the three great Powers. British
and U.S, troops are now to remain in
Persia till March 1.
In the meantime a Russian delega-
tion appeared with complete ready-made
political support in Meshed, which is the
strategic key to north-east Persia and its
road systems on the Indian and Afghan
side. And it was discovered that without
Persian permission and on Persian terri-
tory, Russian missions were calmly pro-
specting for oil.
Grab in Turkey
In essence what is going on in Persia
seems to be an attempt by the Soviet
Government to switch Persian Azerbai-
jan and its oilfields and perhaps Meshed
and its strategic road areas into the
Soviet Union.
Meanwhile, in Turkish Armenia an
equally curious movement goes on. A
person who calls himself “the Catholicos
of All Armenia” has suddenly arisen in
Azerbaijan and is receiving great atten-
tion from the Moscow press. He has a
plan for “the welding of the Armenian
people around their motherland, Soviet
Armenia” —of course, within the borders
of Russia. The patriot says he has asked
the leaders of the' Big Three Powers “to
put an end to the great historical injus-
tice permitted with regard to the long-
suffering Armenian people,” and that “the
lands forcibly seized by Turkey should
be taken from her and returned to their
rightful owners” —joined to Soviet
Armenia.” This would make it possible
for all Armenians to live in a single
family, to labor and to develop their
national culture.” It would involve the
handing over of the vilayets of Bitlis,
Erzincan, Erzurum, Kars, Trebizond and
Van by Turkey to Russia, together with
all their populations and 160 miles of the
Black Sea coast.
Russia has about 30,000 troops in Per-
sian Azerbaijan and a large and menac-
ing force on the Turkish border. It is
strange that Armenian national aspira-
tions are suddenly voiced by a prelate in
Russia at a moment when the U.S.S.R.
is demanding Kars and adjacent areas at
the eastern end of the base of the Black
Sea. These national aspirations fit in
splendidly with Russia’s desire to sur-
round Turkey and control the Dardan-
elles. They have the added advantage
that they affect oil areas.
It is beginning to look as if Persia is
going the way of the little Baltic and
Balkan countries and of all small States
which have the temerity to try to exist
on the frontiers of Russia.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Russian Terrorism in Danzig.
[ln reprinting the item given below U.S.
papers commented: “The Soviet regime of rape
and rapine in Danzig, described in the current
issue of the British magazine ‘The Nineteenth
Century and After,’ is being studied in Congres-
sional circles. The Russian terrorism is de-
tailed by F. A. Voigt, editor of the magazine.
It is explained that the publication has 17 state-
ments by eyewitnesses of what happened when
the Russians entered Danzig. In addition there
are first-hand reports by three British officers
and numerous reports by clergymen, doctors
and others.’'’]
Danzig was taken and sacked by the
Russians on March 27. The greater part
of the city had been destroyed by bomb-
ing and artillery fire. About a third of
the central area was standing. The Ger-
mans, on leaving, ordered a general
evacuation, but the Danzigers, Tor the
most part, were convinced that the Allies
would establish the city as a Free State.
The Russians entered every shelter,
cellar and basement and, under menaces,
demanded and took watches, rings and
other valuables. Nearly all the women
were raped—among the victims were old
women of 60 and even 65 and girls of
15 or even 12. Many were raped 10, 20
or 30 times. Most of those that suffered
in this way contracted venereal disease.
All ihe houses left standing were ran-
sacked- according to one eye-witness, the
Russians gave orders that the doors should
remain unlocked. Furniture, wireless sets,
pianos, sewing-machines and so on, were
taken away.
There was much drunkenness among
the Russian troops, and the officers, many
of whom took part in the excesses, seemed
to have little control, though some showed
consideration for the civilians and tried
to exercise authority. The excesses went
on for days. Boys trying to protect their
mothers against outrage were shot down.
There were many suicides.
Danzig cathedral was plundered of all
movables and left in a condition of in-
describable filth. It was reconsecrated
by Dr. Behrendt.
There were similar scenes in other
towns. At Olivia, the Russian officers
lost control over their men, all of whom
seemed to be drunk. One Russian officer
went to several shelters and advised in-
mates to take refuge in the church. They
did so and remained unmolested for a
night and a day.
The next night the church was invaded
and became a scene of wild outrage while
some of the soldiers played, or tried to
play, the organ and others tolled the bells.
The inmates then took refuge in the vicar-
age, where they were undiscovered for
two days. On the third they were again
subjected to outrage—among the victims
were Sisters of Mercy and a girl of 13.
The principal hospital in Danzig was
looted of everything. The nurses and
women doctors were outraged.
Many persons were arrested. One eye-
witness relates that he was locked up in
a stable with 30 others. There they
were kept for five days without food or
drink, except for fouled water they could
scoop up from a runnel. Several con-
tracted dysentery.
The Russians set fire to what remained
of Danzig, so that destruction of the city
was complete. Polish militiamen arrived.
They were on bad terms with the Rus-
sians and stole what little was left to
steal.
Indian Jap Collaborators.
(Condensed from a report by N.Y. “Herald
Tribune’s" New Delhi correspondent.)
With few exceptions, Indians who went
over to the Japanese side during the
war are being greeted by Indian Nation-
alist leaders and the Indian press as
patriots, rather than traitors or collabora-
tors.
The worst that is being said of them is
that they were misguided. They are de-
scribed as men whose primary motive
was the liberation of India from British
rule,
A nation-wide campaign of sympathy
and support for the homecoming mem-
bers of the Japanese-created Indian
National Army provided a new source of
embarrassment. The British are inclined
to deal leniently with a great majority of
the 20,000 on the supposition that they
acted under duress or from a desire to
work their way home via the Japanese
lines. The British admit, too, that genu-
ine nationalism, rather than any love for
the Japanese, was a factor in many cases.
But they insist that exemplary punish-
ment should be meted out to those who
joined the enemy for motives of sheer
opportunism and participated in oppres-
sive and criminal acts against those who
remained loyal.
The campaign for clemency towards
the Indian National Army was begun
the day after Japan’s capitulation by
Jawaharlal Nehru, outstanding Indian
Nationalist, and was forwarded by a
resolution of the All-India Congress
(Nationalist) party’s working committee.
In a statement which has since been
echoed frequently by Congress party
spokesmen Nehru regretted the failure
of Subhas Chandra Bose and other
leaders of the Indian National Army to
appreciate “the larger consequences of
their unfortunate association with the
Japanese,” but he voiced a conviction
that they were motivated by “a desire to
free India and were in no way mere
tools of the Japanese.”
Explaining the adhering to the Jap-
anese of thousands of Indian prisoners of
war in Malaya and Burma, the Indian
press has made capital of the bitterness
provoked by British behavior during the
last days at Singapore in 1942. It has
been freely charged that British person-
nel received preference over Indians dur-
ing the frantic evacuation in the last
boats to leave the city.
Not all Indian prisoners yielded to the
Japanese threats and blandishments. In
fact, the British declare pridefully that
more than half of them chose to remain
in prison camps rather than join Bose
and his “Government of Free India.”
More than 20,000 joined up, however,
and were exposed to a full course of
Japanese propaganda and anti-British
education. Today the Japanese are de-
feated and discredited, but their slogan
of “Asia for the Asiatics” remains deeply
imprinted in thousands of Indian minds.
British authorities in India fear that the
return joi officers and men of the Indian
National Army will inject a new and in-
flammable political factor into the un-
stable Indian situation. The majority of
these men may have no other ambition
than to return to their ancestral farms
and live out their lives in peace. Thous-
ands, however, have been so deeply in-
fected with nationalistic and anti-British
sentiments that they might make ready re-
cruits for an Indian revolutionary move-
ment. As adherents of Bose, they have
been taught that Indian salvation lies not
in Gandhian non-violence but in armed
revolt. Their military background and
their possible influence on the regular
Indian army also are giving the British
cause for concern. A high proportion of
the returning soldiers are natives of the
Punjab, a region which traditionally pro-
duces the best and the most of India’s
fighting men.
Judging from the present state of
Indian opinion, Bose stands a fair chance
of attaining the status of a martyr to the
cause of Indian independence. To the
Indian press he was a genuine patriot,
whose only mistake was attaching his
faith to Japanese promises.
Control Troubles in Germany.
(Condensed extracts from a series of articles by
London "Times" diplomatic correspondent.)
Travelling through Germany in these
days reveals a people sobered, apprehen-
sive, still bemused for the most part,
acknowledging a lost war, yet largely un-
comprehending what the war has cost
others, quick even now to blame others.
It reveals political leaders beginning to
appear, those in the east strongly en-
trenched, those in the west still disorgan-
ised and largely unknown. Keen rivalries
over the pace of socialism, or the measure
of socialism, are developing. Is Britain
to give an open lead as Russia has already
done? But at present the fear for the
winter lies over all; and, over that again,
lie the great unresolved questions of
Allied policy. Much in the whole scene
is still shifting and shapeless.
♦ * * *
At the Anhalter station wrecks in tat-
tered uniforms arrive, a few hundred a
day, after being prisoners of war in
Russia. They are men found unfit to
work. Limping or shuffling along slowly,
with matted hair, and all shape and color
gone from faces and from their great-
coats and thin quilted jackets, most of
them go forward to British transit camps.
And then at the Steetiner station you
see civilian refugees—haggard, wretched
and bewildered —coming from the parts
taken over by Poland. It is in the urgent
task of catering for these refugees that
the “battle, of the winter” is starkly and
immediately apparent. It is only a small
part of the battle.
♦ * * *
How is it that most Germans in the
western zones look better than could be
expected from a knowledge of their
present rations? The truth is that many
Germans are still living off their hump.
In the war years they were able to keep
or build up a store of tinned goods. Even
in the shattered towns some preserved
their stores. Furthermore, many have had
vegetables from allotments. Some of our
military governors told me that, under
their encouragement, families had lately
bought in two hundredweight or more of
potatoes for the winter.
Therefore, until now, they have not
shown the effects of the pinch. American
medical officers say that they are losing
weight. Townswomen checked after three
months had lost about a stone. Such a
loss has been by no means extraordinary
in war-time Europe; Allied countries
have much worse to record. But, in
proclaiming the “battle of the winter,”
Allied commanders are not thinking of
the present. They have their eyes fixed
on January and February, when a number
of things will happen at once. The last
household stocks will be used up by then,
and there will be no garden produce.
Transport difficulties will hamper the
distribution of even the basic, sub-stand-
ard rations. The rations themselves will
not be assured, even in depots before
without imports. Imported
stocks are being built up only slowly.
On top of ail, there will be little pro-
tection against the severe cold. Nearly
half the dwellings in the British zone
were destroyed or heavily damaged. In
spite of the great organisational work of
the British Army, which has supplied
timber and bricks, many tens of thous-
It has been asserted, and is widely be-
lieved, that although Poland has lost her
eastern territories —to which, so we are
falsely told, she had no right—she has
received “compensation” at the expense
of the common foe, so that what has
been achieved on her behalf and in ful-
filment of so many pledges may not be
altogether what the Poles desire, may
not be entirely what Great Britain in-
tended when she went to war “for
Poland,” but is, on the whole (and con-
sidering the difficulties and the changed '
circumstances), a “solution” of “the
Polish problem,” a solution which, if
it does not satisfy the Poles, ought to
satisfy them; which does, broadly speak-
ing, honor the pledges given by Great
Britain and her Allies, and is, taking it
all in all, the fulfilment of one of
Britain’s principal declared war aims,
the restoration of Polish independence.
But the truth is that these pledges have
not been honored —either severally or
all in all —and that the declared war aim
has not been achieved, for the extinction
of Polish independence is complete.—
F. A. Voigt, editor, London “Nineteenth
Century and After.”
ands will be living in patched and hardly
windproof houses. No coal will be avail-
able, except for miners’ families (who get
tons) and for those who can themselves
carry inferior grades, such as slurry, from
the pits.
It is to this combination of inadequate
food and miserable heating that the mili-
tary commanders turn their attention. It
especially brings the risk of a virulent
influenza epidemic. They feel impelled
to give the warning in good time. First,
they are responsible for good order in
Germany. Secondly, they cannot let Ger-
many be a centre from which infection
would spread to Allied peoples whose
powers of resistance are reduced.
So far the Germans have been extra-
ordinarily docile, except for some hooli-
ganism among youths. But many of our
military governors told me that they had
to count on the possibility of some local
disorders in January or February.
♦ * * ♦
,How long will the zonal frontiers
stand? Have individual Allied policies
behind each frontier diverged so much
that Germany will not be unified again—
at any rate, in our lifetime? On the first
question, most military commanders sug-
gest that 10 or 15 years’ occupation will
be necessary, and while occupation lasts
it is bound to be by zones. On the second
and greater question of ultimate unity
or disunity, several Allied administrators
could only say to me “We don’t know.
It’s impossible to tell.”
At the moment almost everything points
away from unity. The economic revolu-
tion which is being carried through in the
Soviet zone is not perhaps in itself an
insuperable obstacle to unity, for several
parties in other zones recognise that
eastern Germany was ripe for a change
and some of them, particularly the Left-
Wing Social Democrats, advocate a social-
ist structure for the whole of Germany.
But they draw back from the way it was
achieved in the east; they distrust the
power of the Communists, and behind the
“iron curtain” they see the spectre oi
permanent foreign domination.
* * * * ./.
Without a central financial policy it is
hard to see how inflation can be averted.
We do not know how many Reichmarks
are in circulation. Already Germans are
distrusting their money and exchanging
three Reichmarks for a single Allied mili-
tary mark, although the two currencies
have nominally the same value. Largely
because there is little to buy, deposits in
the banks are now exceeding with-
drawals; but the banks have next to
nothing behind them, as 80 per cent, of
their assets went into the Reich internal
loan, and the future of this enormous debt
has still to be settled. Equally uncertain
are the means of relating the municipa-
lised banks in the eastern zone with the
private banks in the west. It is a compli-
cated and dangerous situation, requiring
clarification on a central basis.
So far, however, the French delegation,
maintaining that the German people have
not yet had opportunity to decide whether
they wish to be united, are stone-walling
every proposal which has a centralist
tendency. As all decisions on the Council
have to be unanimous, no progress at all
can be made, and the divergent policies
in each zone prevail.
It may be asked why the divergencies
are so great when three of the Powers
signed the Potsdam agreement on the
treatment of Germany and France her-
self accepted most of it. Why are there
such great differences of approach be-
tween east and west?
It is the now familiar trouble: two
worlds with different traditions and
philosophies and with different social
targets are interpreting an agreement in
different ways. Each commander-in-chief
has “supreme authority in his zone of
occupation.” He is supposed to report to
the Council on, all major decisions and
developments, but the Council does not
call his interpretation of Potsdam into
question.
* * * *
The supreme test lies close ahead. By
February 2 the amount of German in-
dustry in the western zones to be made
available for reparations has to be de-
cided: that was laid down at Potsdam.
A quarter of it is to go to Russia. But
there can be no decision on what is to be
taken without deciding on what is to be
left; that is, what the future level of
German industry and of the whole Ger-
man economy is to be. Immediately the
highest questions of policy and purpose
are involved.
So far these questions have hardly been
broached, Four-Power teams of experts
are travelling round the western zones
assessing the value of industries already
set aside for transference. In the Ameri-
can zone almost half the ball-bearing
capacity, half the shipbuilding, a third
of the military explosives and a tenth of
the electric power capacity have already
been blazed to go. In the British zone
many large shipbuilding and heavy indus-
trial plants have been similarly marked ;
Krupps, Essen, will in all probability go
to Russia. The assessing teams are work-
ing well together. Some difficulties may
arise' in deciding precisely which plants
shall make up Russia’s quarter of the
whole ; but the much greater difficulty is
bound to arise in the question of what
shall be left to Germany. What, in the
words of Potsdam, is to be Germany’s
“approved post-war peace-time needs,”
the “German peace economy”?
Articles in the Russian press proclaim a
determination to see German steel in-
dustry reduced to the lowest level. Talks
I had with many Allied representatives
suggested little possibility of keeping
German industries high to produce goods
in plenty for European countries ; the war
potential left intact, they all said, would
remain too great a danger. The problem
is approached simply in the determination
to find what is absolutely necessary for
a Germany with reduced standards of life.
* * * *
It is thought that a reduced and indus-
trially weakened Germany may in future (
feed nine-tenths of its people. Even so,
food for the remaining tenth of 50,000,000
or 60,000,000 people is a large bill. Even
if, as is suggested, the necessary exports
are to be chiefly made in guaranteed
“peaceful” goods, such as textiles, an
appreciable steel output will be required
for the productive industries, quite apart
from what is required in everyday life and
transport. The great question is whether
such required output of steel will be per-
mitted by agreement or whether Germany,
even on the greatly reduced standards


Soon, Pioneer will again be at your ser-
vice with highway fraveltours of exciting
Interest and infinite variety I Then, once
more, you will be able to journey through
a colourful panorama of sun-drenched
'beaches, fragrant bushland and rugged
new conception of luxurious travel com-
fort and courteous service. Let your
holiday target for to-morrow include a
Pioneer Tour, Advance information on
request. , , with pleasure I
ncAV erriKKi » SWAHSTOK' ST„ MELBOURNE, c.l.
mountains, enjoying to the full Pioneer’s
eer
lours
T
0
T
E
P
R
E
OJiuHuy} pltaM'*
Because, as yet, conditions have not returned
to normal—shortages will still sometimes occur.
But “State Express 333’5” are being regularly-
distributed, so keep asking for “Three Three’s.”
STATE EXPRESS 333 CIGARETTES
which are certain, will be an uneconomic
and unbalanced unit. An answer should
begin to appear by February 2.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
President Truman is trying to evolve a foreign
policy that reflects the thinking of all of the
people, rather than a policy that embraces the
thought of just one political party. All through
the work toward a United Nations agency,
Republicans have been given leading roles. Mr.
Truman reiterated at a dinner for Mr. Attlee
arid Mr. King that he is aiming at a foreign
policy that will not change with elections.
And Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, a promi-
nent Republican member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee, sat behind the President’s
desk when Mr, Truman read his announcement
of the agreement by U.S., Britain and Canada
not to share their atom bomb knowledge until
enforceable safeguards have been set up to pre-
vent use of the bomb for destructive purposes.
—“United States News.”
* * * *
In cheap taverns, men huddle together over
watery beer, mulling over the fate of relatives
swallowed up by the great silence of the
Russian zone. 1 talked to one sullen beer
drinker and he turned out to be a member of
the police force. He saw plenty of crime
ahead, along with disease, hunger and cold —
and perhaps a wave of “remmy-demmy,” local
slang for “riots.” “Deplorable though it is,”
he said, “this winter we may have to shoot at
our own people.”— “Saturday Evening Post”
correspondent in Germany.
* * * *
Undoubtedly, British youth today believe the
present Government will bring Utopia where
they will enjoy a fuller life without too much
effort. They are quite unperturbed by warn-
ings of the loss of liberties which this will
entail. London correspondent “Wall-street
Journal:” ♦
* * * *
The proposed elimination of most of the
foreign trade of Germany and Japan is un-
economic. The consequences, “in the short
run,” are that industries and markets vital to
the economic health of Europe have ceased to
exist. The blow has been heavy for neutrals;
for the liberated countries it means that many
goods which should be available for their re-
construction cannot be provided. Such goods
could largely have been furnished by Germany
as reparations. Reparations in this, the true
sense of the word, are deliberately ruled out in
the Potsdam plan. “In the long run” some of
the industries prohibited to Germany and Japan
could be “transferred” to other countries. In
impoverished post-war Europe, however, costs
will be counted carefully, and observers like
Mr. Baruch would be the last to advocate
American assistance to cover chronic deficits.
Besides, private business could hardly shoulder
burden of running plants erected contrary
to mi me mles governing the location of in-
dustries. We risk, therefore, the forcing of
Socialism, together with inefficiency, on the
liberated countries. Also there is the paralysis
which present Allied policies toward Germany
and Japan are bound to create. These policies
are inspired by the extremists, and everyone
else knows that their grip on power is limited
by the very laws of war-time psychology which
have brought them to the top in the first place.
The high tide of war-time feelings will some
time or other be followed by a low tide of
post-war disillusionments, which will drag down
extremist policies together with other, and
better, things. Then, too, there are certain
obligations of international law. The second
Hague Convention, of which U.S. is a signa-
tory, says that “private property cannot be con-
fiscated.” Private property is, at the present
time, being confiscated all over Germany, and
there are already indications that thoughtful
people in certain Latin-American countries
view such procedure with dismay.— F. A.
Mermens, Associate Professor of Politics at the
University of Notre Dame, writing in N.Y.
“Times/’
* * * *
Befbre the war U.S. farm population was
31,037,000. Now it is down to 25,190,000. This
is the lowest farm population recorded in the
U.S. during the twentieth century. And, since
total population has continued to grow, non-
farm population of more than 113,000,000 is
the highest urban total in U.S. history.—
“United States News.”
* * * *
It was certain that sooner or later the British
Cabinet, armed with sufficient authority, would
proceed on an e/tensive programme of nation-
alisation and planned economy. But this Gov-
ernment has emphasised that its guiding prin-
ciple was to be efficiency and not ideology in
deciding how far to carry this programme and
that it wished to co-operate with private enter-
prise in evolving the most efficient system.
Among the rank and file of the Labor majority
in Parliament, however, ideology seems to out-
weigh every other factor and there are indica-
tions that the tail is wagging the dog.— London
correspondent, “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * j*
The whole story of the King of the Belgians
is shrouded in a fog of misrepresentation. The
opinion of most people is founded on a single
statement by Paul Reynaud, the French Prime
Minister, in announcing the Belgian capitula-
tion. Reynaud was in desperate straits.
His Government as well as his army was tot-
tering towards collapse. More than anything
else in the world he needed, a scapegoat to
turn public indignation away from himself.
The Belgian capitulation gave him just what he
needed. The King was already a prisoner and
no matter what was said about him he was
unable to answer or defend himself. So Rey-
naud let himself go in an assault on the
character of a defenceless man. When the true
story of the Belgian capitulation comes to be
known the King will emerge, not as the
cowardly traitor depicted by Reynaud, but
rather as one of the great heroic figures ot
the war. I know that this is a startling state-
ment to those unfamiliar with the facts; but
it is a statement that will be borne out by his-
tory. The facts are there. They come from
many unimpeachable sources. — From a N.Y.
“Times” letter by the veteran American diploma-
tist Hu”’ Gibson.
<K H # #
The aged Mufti of Jerusalem, despite the
error he made in placing all his chips on the
losing horse, still maintains his prestige with
the Arabs and lives comfortably in France,
near Versailles. The British prefer to ignore
his existence and his whereabouts. Another
Arab leader, Rashid Ali, who led the Iraq
revolt against the British during the war, has
succeeded in escaping from Europe, where he
lived under Nazi protection, to Saudi-Arabia.
He could hardly have succeeded in his escape
if the British Intelligence in the Near East had
acted with its usual vigilance. But the British
have adopted a very lenient attitude towards all
Arab nationalists who collaborated with the
enemy during the war. They have allowed
Algerian and Tunisian nationalists, like Habib
Bu Rakiba, to find refuge in Egypt, and three
Palestinian Arab nationalists —Izzaf Darwaza,
Akram Zueifar and Nabih el Azmeh —who
worked with the Nazis during the war, to return
to Syria.— Andre Visson; Washington “Post.”
* * * *
The principal issue in Europe today is not
between private enterprise and State ownership
but between democratic government and dicta-
torship. The truth is that private enterprise
has virtually ceased to exist throughout most
of Europe. Under the strain of total war,
Europe’s private-business system has been
shaken to its foundations, until it thrives today
only in a few small, isolated countries. If is
almost as obsolete in the American Army’s
zones of occupation as it is in the various
liberated States under Russian control. Most
Europeans, therefore, are less worried about
the future of private enterprise—which they
suspect has no future on their continent —
than about the future of genuine democracy.
On this issue of democracy versus dictatorship,
there certainly is no conflict between Americans
and Britons. The British people, whether
Socialists or not, are as much opposed as
Americans are to any form of dictatorship or
police State. — Demaree Bess; “Saturday Even-
ing Post.”
* * * *
A puzzling but significant fact has been that,
whereas Stalin used to express his views with
brutal frankness when he was dealing with
Churchill and Roosevelt, more recently Soviet
diplomacy has become taciturn about great
issues, and has turned to making mountains
out of the molehills of procedural and textual
details. This indicates doubt and weakness
within the Kremlin, among the makers of
Soviet policy. They are acting not like a great
Power which is confident of its position but
like men who are troubled and unsure of them-
selves. They are withdrawing into themselves
exactly as one would expect them to do if
are finding that they have failed to w
support of the masses in eastern Europe ana
that their military power in that j
wasting asset. — Wdlter Lippmann; N.Y. Her
Tribune.”
» * * *
Valev Uibopuu, associate editor of an Eston-
ian newspaper published in Stockholm, said in
an interview that of 30,000 of his countrymen
who came to Sweden during the war, a third
arrived when Germany invaded his count y
and two-thirds when Russia took it. umy
100 to 200 have accepted the Russian bid to
recross the Baltic Sea, he said. Little has been
heard from these, but two who escaped re-
ported they had been taken to forced labor
camps in Russia instead of to their homes.
—Chicago “Tribune''' staff correspondent in
Sweden.
* * * *
A Gallup survey has found that while in 1941
one-fifth of U.S. women between 21 and 3b
thought four children an ideal family, now one-
third feel that way. The widely expressed long-
ing by servicemen and their wives and fiancees
for homes of their own indicate that, barring
a major depression, family life will gain new
vigor during the next decade., The war has
awakened many persons to a new value ot
human relationships. Repeatedly married ser-
vicemen and servicewomen express their post-
war intention of leading quiet home lives and
giving more time to companionship with those
dear to them. While after all wars marriages
and births are inevitably stepped up, this seems
to be something deeper. It seems to be some-
thing beyond economic influences. For while
the birthrate is always sensitive fo rises and
falls in living standards, yet it is also aftected
by those deeply-felt impulses that sweep
over mankind and set the pendulum swinging
in the worlds of business, fashion and social
customs. —Washington “Post.”
♦ ♦ ♦ •
From a report adopted unanimously by all
18 members. Republicans and Democrats alike,
of the Special House Committee on Post-war
Economic Policy and Planning: The commit-
tee feels that to strip transportation equipment
and the machineryl of factories capable ot
manufacturing it, as well as to strip other basic
German industries beyond the point recom-
mended by General Clay’s advisory committees
of experts, can mean only one of two things:
(a) That a considerable part of the German
population must be “liquidated” through disease,
malnutrition and slow starvation for a period
of years to come, with resultant dangers to
the rest of Europe from pestilence and the
spread of plagues that know no boundaries;
or (b) the continuation both of large occupying
forces to hold down “unrest,” and the afford-
ing of relief mainly drawn from the United
States* to prevent actual starvation. If a “hard
peace” requires the elimina'tion of eight or ten
millions of Germans, it would be much more
humane to eliminate them at once. — N.Y.
“Times.*


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4%d. per line; all others 2*d. per line.
An Empire Council
If the British Empire is to continue
to exist as a political and military entity,
it will need to develop a permanent and
effective machinery for consultation.
One plan which would not involve
any major alteration in the existing legal
structure of imperial relationships would
be the setting up of ah Empire Council
on a permanent basis. On this council
the leader of each Dominion Government
would have a seat in virtue of his office,
while each Parliament would also nomi-
nate a certain number of additional
members. The council would in effect
be a senior Cabinet, representative of
Parliamentary government throughout
the Empire, its job to advise the King
on inter-imperial questions generally,
foreign affairs and defence.
A declaration of war made on such
advice would be in the name of the
whole Empire, and at once effective in
all its territories. In this way the anoma-
lous and dangerous position resulting
from the operation of the Statute of West-
minster, making neutrality possible for
parts of the Empire, would be avoided,
and a real imperial defence scheme, the
only sort worth while, made possible.
The spirit of the Statute would in large
measure be preserved in the widely
representative character of the council.
Indeed, the Statute practically implies the
creation of some body to speak for the
whole Empire as the only possible alter-
native to its eventual dissolution. Neither
Britain nor any Dominion is today really
capable of sustaining the role of a great
Power alone, and the signs are that the
world of the immediate future won’t be a
particularly soft place for small or even
“middle” nations.
Through an Empire Council Australia
and the other Dominions might exert
some real influence on world affairs, and
retain control of their own destinies in
uncertain times. Independent represen-
tation on international conferences wholly
dominated by big-Power politics contri-
butes a lot more to the self-importance
of globe-trotting politicians than it does
to the safety or profit of the nation. —
G. H. Ayliffe (S.A.).
Army Education and the Reds
So certain members of the Seventh
Divvy are joining in the Commo.-inspired
fanning of the Indonesian flames, to the
danger of the lives of their comrades!
Don’t ask me to be surprised. I’ve
listened to too many Army Education Ser-
vice speakers to expect anything else.
The White Australia policy was at-
tacked, Menzies’s name was linked with
pig-iron, and the object of the war was
held up to be the setting up of some Red
New Order in Australia and all parts west
and east thereof. <
All sections of the Army being com-
posed very much in such proportions as
the rest of the Australian population,
they’d always find some supporters. And
I’ve no doubt that the blokes who are
making the trouble in the Seventh Divvy
listened avidly to those A.E.S. represen-
tatives who, with a fine show of impar-
tiality, attempted to ram Red propaganda
down our throats. — Freedom (S.A.).
Commos. and the R.A.N.
Like a breath of clean wind from the
sea, conspicuously displayed outside the
Guard House of Flinders Naval Depot,
is the first service regulation encountered
by recruits:
Communistic propaganda is aimed at the
well-being and efficiency of the whole ser-
vice. The possession of Communistic litera-
ture in the form of pamphlets or leaflets
is strictly forbidden; any rating finding •
on board any publication of this nature
is to inform his commanding officer at once.
Strangely enough, Communists have
served the R.A.N. a good turn. Aboard
an Australian warship the ship’s company
was dissatisfied with leave arrangements,
and a mild sort of sit-down strike occured.
In ten minutes representatives of the dock-
yard’s Commo. element were aboard,
mouthing the usual jargon about “getting
organised.” In less than five the first Red
was rolled down the gangway, thumping
the wharf as his opposite number hit the
water the other side, and the sailors,
ashamed and disgusted, were fallen-in on
the foc’s’le ready for work. A pity the
same spirit doesn’t prevail in the Aus-
tralian Seventh at Balik Papan, though
official action seems to be salutary. —
J, E. MacD, (R.A.N.),
Rehabilitation and Backbone
Many things are to be done for the
ex-serviceman, and rightly so. But isn't
he liable to develop an impression that
everything will be done for him, includ-
ing his work?
The present policy is a continuation of
the attitude developed in the Army where
all thinking is done for the soldier, and he
is told when to eat, when and where to
go and even what sports to play. This is
perhaps necessary in the Army, but if
it is continued in civil life it will inevit-
ably lead to disaster.
No attempt has been made in the re-
habilitation plans to overcome this atti-
tude of mind and to teach the soldier the
necessity for self-discipline. He must be
taught to cease to depend on the Gov-
ernment and to realise that he must give
a fair day’s work to get a fair day’s wage;
that the employer who looks for that is
not a slave-driver and exploiter but one
who earns his own living and provides
work for others.
Unless such self-discipline is inculcated
there will inevitably be a spiral of less
production and rising costs and taxation
leading to unemployment and depression.
No employer. Government or private,
whose employees don’t produce, a fair
day’s work can remain in business. *
Major P. S. (A.1.F.).
The New Referendum
I note that the A.L.P. favors a further
referendum to grant enlarged powers to
the Commonwealth Government. In last
year’s referendum the people of Australia
bluntly refused greater powers. In spite
“Remember me? I'm Willie the office boy!”
of the nation’s veto the Government took
what powers it wanted and used them to
seize control of banking and commercial
aviation.
The A.L.P. wishes the Federal Gov-
ernment to nationalise basic industries.
This would mean the stifling of free indi-
vidual effort and initiative. The total
failure of State-owned pastoral ventures,
mines, smelters, butcheries, canneries and
fisheries discourages optimism in this
connection. I for one don’t favor social-
isation of industries, and would like to
see banks and airlines again free of
Government control. The Government,
however, seems to have made up its mind
on policy irrespective of the results of
referenda. So why put the country to the
expense of such a farce? — Caedmon.
Subsidies and Markets
Australia today is living in an unbal-
anced economy and offers no encourage-
ment, happiness or security to men
struggling to get a living on the land-
The primary industries, which once sup-
ported secondary industries, are con-
stantly pleading for subsidies. If primary
industry was made to pay, there would
be no need for subsidies. We con-
stantly hear the cry for increased pro-
duction, but we know there is no definite
market for it. ... ,
There is no stability in the price of
primary products. Wheat has been sold
as low as Is. 6d. and as high as 7s. 6d.
per bushel and the same applies to most
products. Hence the subsidies, all paid
by the taxpayer much to his regret.
Australia needs a balanced policy as
between city and country, and a termi-
nation of subsidies. It’s useless to talk
of soldier - settlement when we are
living in an unbalanced state, with no
definite markets for the products of our
cultivated areas.—Discharged Moonya
(Q.).
Gauge Standardisation
“Australian” (B. 31/10/’45) condemns
the Clapp scheme as waste. But the pro-
jects now recommended are estimated to
cost one-seventh of the amount spent over
each year of this last war.
Further, during 1926-27, more .than
£15,000,000 value of livestock perished
in Queensland alone in the lack of an
inland rail transport system which would
have provided timely and safe transport
to agistment areas. A standardised inland
rail system connecting Bourke with Cun-
namulla and Charleville with Blackall,
and estimated to cost £2,000,000, is
surely not too expensive an operation
to obviate any recurrence of such a
disaster.
“Australian” is of the opinion that rail
systems will, in 20 to 25 years, be obso-
lete. I for one cannot visualise our N.T.
within the next 20 to 25 years being
appreciably opened up to by means or air
transport. For both strategic and de-
velopmental reasons, a standard-gauge
line linking Darwin with the pro-
posed Bourke-Townsville-Mt. Isa-Dayarra
line sounds like a heap of commonsense.
This line would also open up the Barkly
Tableland with some 20 million acres of
first-class sheep-raising land.
As to the contention that modern
bombers could destroy rail communica-
tion at will, it is well to remember that
Britain from 1939 to 1945 managed to
keep her rail communications in opera-
tion.
Rail transport, unlike road transport,
does not rely on imported fuel and thus
is able to meet an important defence re-
quirement. Victoria could accelerate de-
velopments in the use of brown coal as
a competent fuel.
Railways are still, in Australia, with
its sparsely settled open spaces, the only
common carriers capable of transporting
in sufficient quantity all classes of traffic.
—John V. (Vic.).
Barton’s Example
Observing the passion of the present-
day politician for milking the Treasury
of every possible item, such as semi-picnic
jaunts to the ends of the earth, in
which there are included every possible
deadhead for whom an excuse can be
found —as witness Dr. Evatt’s excursion
to the already futile San Francisco Con-
ference —I look back to the example of
Edmund Barton, practically the engineer
of Federation and first Prime Minister of;
the Commonwealth.
It is probably forgotten that after
Barton went to London to obtain the
King’s signature to the Act of Federa-
tion, he refunded the whole of his
expenses. —W. C. C. (W.A.).
Post-war “War Loading”
It was anticipated that trade unions
would fight hard after the war to retain
any war loading granted their members,
but it was not expected that months after
the end of the war they would still be
applying for such favors. In the Bris-
bane Industrial Court last month the
Federated Clerks’ Union applied for a
war loading for more than 1000 Queens-
land clerks employed in bacon factories
and wholesale and retail establishments.
The Court found that no evidence had
been given of any anomaly, and the appli-
cation was refused.
Later the union secretary (K. A. San-
ders) stated that the claim for a war
loading was based on the “added stress
to the employees brought on by the reper-
cussions of peace”!
Union secretaries would be better em-
ployed in devising means of increasing the
purchasing power of the pound. One
looks in vain for any suggestion from the
unions which would assist industry, how-
ever much it might eventually benefit
their members, by giving them a genuinely
better living standard and real value ioi
their wages. —Archchaps (Q.).
Teacher’s Superannuation
“Q.X.” (B. 21/11/’45) hits the mark
as to the Queensland Teachers’ super-
annuation fund. My own case goes
further.
I enlisted voluntarily and served three
years in the 1914-18 war. Upon my return
home to my teaching job I scratched and
saved, doing without most amusements or
anything that cost money unless abso-
lutely necessary, and at last bought a
home.
Now at 60 I would like to resign my
job, and am informed by the Education
Department that I am eligible for 355,
a week, which is really my own super-
annuation money. lam also informed
that if I resign before 65 I will forfeit
all leave due to me (long-service leave
included).
I am informed by the military authori-
ties that I am eligible for a pension ot
655. a fortnight if I am in receipt of no
other pension. I must not earn more
than 6s. Bd. per week extra, nor own
property worth in excess of £4OO. In
fact, I simply must be a pauper (probably
this is the Labor “little capitalist” idea).
The Government expects a man to
educe himself to beggary, to save noth-
ing, to provide no home for his old age ;
in fact, to be an absolute waster, before
it will hand him (as a favor) a pension
just sufficient to keep him on the star-
vation line. — Benita (Q.).
Penalising the Innocent
I am always filled with amazement at
t he rapidity with which our usually
lethargic powers that be are able —in the
twinvkling of an eye, as it were—to frame
regulations, even to the amounts of fines
to be imposed on the long-suffering and
unfortunate public when there is a strike.
Maybe it is the rtsult of constant practice!
Another remarkable achievement is the
sudden acquisition of an army of inspec-
tors to police regulations when there is
such a deplorable shortage of manpower.
But most amazing of all, it is that
whenever a set of irresponsible nitwits
chooses to stop work and reduce industry
to chaos, no machinery can be found to
coerce or even to chide lawbreakers who
are deliberately robbing their fellow-men
of their right to work. —G .M. Richard-
son (N.S.W.).
Rationing in Britain
We wrote to friends in London asking
“What do you have to eat?” Here’s the
reply: r .
We get 4oz. margarine, 2oz. butter [just
try to imagine it fellow Aussie, 2oz. a week
for six years!], 2oz. lard, 4oz. cheese and
2oz. tea per week; also 20 “points per
month to cover fruits, tinned meat or fish,
\ porridge, oats, rice, biscuits or jam. For
meat we have Is. worth per week and
sometimes one can get offal off the ration,
ie tripe, oxtail, or liver, but we seldom
see’ any. We have to think of saving gas,
too, but you can see that we aren’t starved.
Or can we? Arid here is another and
more up-to-date letter from a 70-year-
old inhabitant of Bristol, written m
October last:
Food is as scarce as ever, but we manage
quite well, although we do sometimes
wonder what we can have for lunch. We
get about two eggs each a month, but for-
tunately the dried eggs are really very good
and we can always fall back on scrambled
eggs or an omelette made from them. Next
month (Nov.) we are to be allowed 2oz.
of lard each a week, instead of loz. as we
have been having for the last few months.
At one time we could buy suet at the
grocer’s, but now if we have that we do
without our lard ration; that means that
one cake takes the week’s ration of fat
for the family. Still we have nothing to
grumble at: it’s wonderful How well we
have been fed and clothed all through the
war.
Two good fruit cakes, the butter gladly
saved from our ration, are on their way
to England. — Ulva (Tas.).
Plea for Smaller Houses
Among the obstacles to a solution of
the housing problem are municipal regu-
lations which have apparently been de-
vised on the assumption that every mar-
ried unit starts off with at least seven
children. The result is that houses have
to be designed on such a large scale that
the initial cost puts them out of the reach
of the average couple.
A small house, large enough to accom-
modate two people, with or without P
fabrication, could be built for £6OO. I
could be added to as the hostages to for-
tune began to make their appearance and
regulations could be framed to make this
obligatory on the owners.
This would lead to a variety of archi-
tecture instead of the dull monotony of
the present method. The rambling home-
steads of the early settlers were built
in this way and even prefabrication
specialists like their appearance better
than they do that of their own synthetic
productions. — Houssa (Vic.).


Au
o?
C V
GMJGg
A
A
M
m
r.
"Acr)
Wi
M
\\&
7 o
&
\o
Vj
s>
£
’'/)
,e^
*0
>/0
n.
.e^'
tq
e c/ (
,v,\C
«e
Af,
f'o,
M,
S®<
®A
°n<* t
‘ C '*Z
c <*
)^K
9W
>*•?:
<*>.
**tk
o
,sl®
*e
<*
>Q^
A
\o<
H/ (
AO
,P
■o^i
f s
,eO
v\
t® s
Vy
t v*»'
,<e s
<*/
b uf,
?.cP
INI »
»o
I**
9V
t
t®
P<o
r «l>.
A' 0
0/
,e*
o»
A®
A
a® 1
9<o
-a*
)V>° X
v\<*s
oO s9
,'J®
•'■ ; *
NA
o*
.0?
.0*
c°-
an
,oN v
ta 1
■
l\<o
*4*
.\j\e
e 0> ‘ rt
a»*2
A®
t aH
c« tf
to 1
.0*
Ca«
ii&
AP*
c ottvl
,\>V>'
at®
s\ a
\W®
>v»
,a' e
&
W‘;;
ftO
atv
■eV£
4ft
a*'
'■'•■■ ■'
:
Kti*
i
H
';! ■ ;- : r'
•: :, ■
■ I
( IV'
0.. V
• •
vo^ e
Steel being teemed into
ingot moulds at A.I.S.
Kembla Works.
STEEL is the basic material which enables such projects as housing
construction, motor-car manufacture, and unification of rail gauges
to become realities.
Indeed, the success of every plan for Australia’s economic and indus-
trial development as well as the rehabilitation of our servicemen and the
actual livelihood of thousands of workers is related to assured steel
supply.
These facts stress the importance to the nation»of the operations of
Australian Iron and Steel, Ltd., whose Port Kembla Works normally
produce nearly one-third of Australia’s annual steel requirements.
Steel in assured supply not only enables plans to be implemented,
but it is vital to our daily way of life.
The news of the day covers many ambitious plans and projects. .
housing schemes, unification of rail gauges, rehabilitation of servicemen,
motor-car manufacture, and other proposals. . . formulated in the cause
of economic and industrial development.
Steel is the basic material which enables such plans to become reali-
ties . . . and Australia has the required good quality, low priced steel in
assured quantities.
The Broken Hill Pty. Co., Ltd. has helped materially in the attain-
ment of this happy state of affairs, and the company’s Newcastle Works
(one of the most efficient steel plants in the world) produced approxi-
mately two-thirds of Australia’s annual steel requirements.
Steel from the Newcastle Steelworks will be found in wide variety
implementing the plans, big and little, national and individual, which
will in turn contribute to Australia’s progress.
BROKEN HILL PTY. CO, LTD.
Steelworks, Newcastle, N.S.W.; Shipyard, Whyalla, S.A.
Offices at Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth, Brisbane.
