

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3437
Wednesday, December 26, 1945
Price 6cL
Registered at she Genera! Post Office,, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
STATUE OF RICHARD COEUR DE LION, WESTMINSTER.
JN the time of Queen Victoria, this equestrian figure of King
Richard I of England, ranked high among London’s outdoor
statues and today it is still one of the best in the city. This bronze
monument was created by Baron Carlo Marchotti, who lived
between 1805-1868. A model of this work was shown at the Great
Exhibition of 1851 and won for Marchotti an international reputa-
tion. Besides this, the only other notable Marchotti work in
London is the Inkermann memorial in St. Paul’s, while his relief
work on the Arc de Triomphe in Paris is also worthy of mention
here. The bronze of Richard Coeur de Lion possesses bas-relief
panels, also by Marchotti, which picture scenes in the life of
the great Crusader. This monument, purchased for London by
public subscription, is a spirited tribute to the Lion Heart and is
nobly set in the old palace yard of Westminster.


Learn
freelance
Journalism
of HOMF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please tend, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. u
Sty Name ..
By Address
8.3. 146 ..
.AOS.
The Red Page
BEYOND THE HILL
Its incidental material stated in its sub-
title, “Scenes from a Medical Life in Aus-
tralia,” and its theme implicit in its title.
Beyond the Hill Lies China, by Herbert
M. Moran (Dymocks), must be the book
referred to in The Bulletin note on Dr.
Moran’s death a month or so back: “He
was preparing another volume for publi-
cation when he was stricken down by a
rare and incurable disease.” The author
himself wrote:
In this narrative there is no caricature
and no cap fits. Cockle Creek is dry; its
dredged Bay carries another name, and
those who walked beside it are dead, or
had their being only in the fearful mind of
one who, in his own enclosure, awaits the
adventuring hour.
That gives one sense in which the title
could be interpreted: Beyond the Hill
lies the escape from this life which the
author himself was tragically but not un-
hopefully awaiting. The Shadow falls
so heavily on so much of the book that
the many living characters themselves—
including Dr. Challis, the main one
among them —seem to exist in a half-light.
As with most books by doctors, the nar-
rative is studded with strongly projected
incidents which are at least the makings
of short stories, and the Wings beat in
a dark flutter as finale to nearly all of
them.
A good many deaths must be inevit-
able in a book which traces out realisti-
cally the full effective life of a moderately
successful general practitioner. They must
be part of the stock-in-trade of any
author attempting such a book. But here
they are a major element. Not only the
numerous death scenes, in which the
general practitioner’s and other doctors’
patients take the spotlight for their final,
usually macabre, act, but, as well, the
deaths of his friends, his wife and his
acquaintances crowd the pages. For a
novel, the number of passings hence, nar-
rated with medical detail and a vivid
strength of description, must come close
to a record. Not Dr. Challis but Death
is the novel’s leading character.
Still, though that suggests a passable
interpretation of the novel’s title, and no
doubt was to some extent in the author’s
mind, the real meaning is too plain, and
too emphatically stated in the whole
design and “argument” of the book, for
anyone to miss it: Beyond the Hill Lies
China means virtually the same here as
it meant to the convicts obsessed with the
thought that China was up there some-
where over the hills, and China repre-
sented escape. This, as the novel seems
most plainly to say, can be here expanded
to: Beyond Australia lies escape. And
one does not escape from a preferred or
even from a tolerable situation or en-
vironment. It is done from something
hateful, or, at any rate, from something
hated.
Australia, as seen through Challis’s
eyes or in the light of his experiences, is
a hateful place. If what Challis saw and
experienced could be accepted as Aus-
tralia, then it would well deserve to be a
hated place. Many Australian writers in
particular have had little enough love for
it, or found little enough of beauty in it
and little enough in its people to admire.
Whether these are to be classed —as
Challis and quite a lot of others besides
in this portrayal can be classed —as spiri-
tual failures, people who have come up
against something too big for them and
turned to escape from it under a screen
of hate, may perhaps be an open ques-
tion. Certainly it would not be hard to
gather a whole library of hate literature
of the place. But it might be hard to find
there a volume so severely to the point
as this projection of an Australian doc-
tor’s reactions to Australia.
Like the other lines of his criticism, the
author’s terrific banging of the Aus-
tralian medical profession is continuously
interwoven in his narrative, so that ex-
amples can show only the general trend
of it:
His [Dr. Challis’s] stock prescriptions
were fewer than a score. He had an itch
to prescribe instead of a thirst for finding
out the diagnosis. It was so fatally easy
for a tired doctor to pick out the leading
symptoms and treat for that
These [various sufferers from diseases]
and many more. It is a procession that
drags its way around the world, a parade
of people still hoping, whose stories are
banners that proclaim our medical ignor-
ance. Who will refuse them the benison
of a kindly word or the short illusion of a
new recipe, thankful that its commonplace
constituents are hidden beneath dog-latin!
A pharmacist will add to it his cryptic sign
for the amount charged and hand it back
into circulation.
It was a fault of the Australian tempera-
ment in medicine that nearly everyone
wanted to “have a go.” Yes: half sur-
geons, as Macleay had said, like half
virgins, belong to no recognised order.
They were damned alike in Heaven and
Hell.
All that can be left to the doctors. The
general criticism of Australians is
another leading line, and it might be
found hard to refute. It is certain that
if Dr. Moran had been living through
this 1945 Christmas in N.S.W. he would
have hit out more savagely still. And,
because refuting it will be found very
hard, the bulk of his criticism may be
viewed as a needed dose of medicine,
calculated to do good. It is an unsweet-
ened dose, but anyone can see the symp-
toms of what it is intended to help cure.
About all the patient could very well pro-
test would be that a bit of a look around
would discover the same, or like, symp-
toms in other countries apparently con-
sidered healthy.
For instance, the patient might read on
the bottle, touching on his state of health
in the recent war: “The collapse of
France shattered the still lingering com-
placence of Australians, although the
racecourses continued to be crowded and
the football matches went on.” The
patient might well shout “How true, Dr.
Challis, how true!” and swallow the dos-
age outright. Or, being an obstinate sort
of cuss, as many of Dr. Challis’s actual
patients were, he might say “Did you ever
hear of that ‘phoney’ war? Was there
any complacence in England and France
at the time? If so, they being right on
the edge of the volcano, was it so very
unhealthy for Australians to be casual?
Wasn’t theirs, in fact, a simple normal
reaction? As for those lamentable race-
courses, did England, under constant
bombing attack, do what was done by at
least South Australia, a heck of a long
way away from any likely bombing?”
In other respects the impatient patient
might get the idea that it is only on an
inspection of a very limited part of his
anatomy that the diagnosing has been
done by Dr. Challis. He can accompany
Dr, Challis through medical studies at
Sydney University ; as resident medico at
one or two Sydney hospitals of a primitive
sort; next practising in an industrial sea-
port town called Castlecrag, a name which
seems even less a disguise than the other
name for it in Lawson Glassop’s We Were
the Rats. After that he will share with Dr.
Challis the always vividly projected pro-
fessional experiences of practice in a poor-
class Sydney suburb.
The patient, especially if he comes from
Castlecrag, might be disappointed to find
that Dr. Challis remained wholly unaware
of such few compensating features as the
native may hold Castlecrag to
beaches, for instance. When Dr, Challis
gets to Sydney the patient may consider
it limited of him never to catch sight of,
say, the Botanical Gardens, or Manly
village, or the suburbs along the North
Shore line, or even the light relief from
sordidness and ugliness that may be had
from, perhaps, commonplace North Syd-
ney, where an artist once bought himself
a house and flattened its gable roof
simply so that he could sit up there and
paint what he conceived to be beauty.
Still more astonishing to the patient might
be Dr. Challis’s inability to notice the
Hawkesbury River, though apparently
having had to pass and repass it to and
from Castlecrag.
In the long run Challis turns an un-
reluctant back and arrives in Italy:
Almost at once he fell captive to a
beauty that in all his earlier life had eluded
him. Here was poverty, but a poverty made
cheerful with color. Challis wandered
along the little unhygienic back streets of
this foreign city and did not find them
alien to his senses.
In Australia Challis had married, but
the marriage had turned sour. In Italy,
as well as the beauty of scene that had
eluded him in Australia, he finds tem-
porarily the transcendant beauty of an
idyllic love. In time he returns to Aus-
tralia, or, rather, as the chapter descrip-
tive of his return is headed, to “Eldorado
Banal”:
When upon an early summer morning
his ship passed those dour sentinels of the
Sydney Heads and he saw the harbor un-
fold before him, he felt a sudden access
of native pride. The blue waters sparkled
in beauty unspoilt; at least, they had not
as yet hired this out for advertisement
hoardings. Only man could mar such a
scene.
That—it is one of the rare occasions
on which Dr. Challis sees even that
amount of attractiveness in Australia —is
the core of the matter. Here is Eldorado
Banal: beyond the hill lies China. Be-
yond the hill is escape from all this ; and
eventually Dr. Challis escapes again, to
Engand,
The patient, feeling that the more of
definitely present ugliness that can be
purged away by such dosages the better,
may grab the bottle and drink eagerly,
though it might be merely human in him
to feel that it was a pity Dr. Challis had
not looked at more of the Australian
anatomy before making his diagnosis, or
even at a few Gruners and Streetons,
since it must ever remain a wonderful
thing how attractive even unhygienic
back streets can seem after enough
painters over enough centuries have
painted them, and how dour headlands
can remain, though opening in on how-
ever many Middle Harbors and Manly
villages and Balmorals, lacking enough
painters of enough centuries.
However this aspect of the novel may
strike any reader—and, alongside the Dark
Angel, it is the major aspect —the general
contents of the novel are most definitely
convincing. So much so that thie novel
reads more like straight biography than
like fiction, an impression greatly
heightened by the vividness of the death
scenes in particular; the very clear
descriptions of that much of Sydney and
“Castlecrag” as Dr. Challis’s eyes are
rivetted on ; the numerous anecdotes and
incidents, related with a sardonic humor
and of such variety that it is impossible
to believe many of them are sheer inven-
tion ; and also —despite the declaration
that “no cap fits” —the number of inci-
dental characters that even a limited
acquaintanceship with the novel’s time
and setting can very quickly identify.
A Vegetarian Delicacy.
From Plant Immigrants and Stowaways
(Lothian, Melbourne), by Alexander
Mcjaggart:
Banksia roses, which were discovered by
Sir Joseph Banks during one of Captain
Cook’s wonderful voyages of discovery, are
familiar to all. The small white or buff
double flowers are well known, but the
single-flowered type, which was known to
have been found, was entirely lost. In the
year 1790 Captain Robert Drummond, of
Magginch, brought a plant home from
China and planted it at the base of his
castle wall in Perthshire, Scotland. Though
the plant survived the cold for over one
hundred years it never flowered. Conse-
quently no one knew it was the long lost
single rose. A few years ago a banksia
rose cutting was taken from a garden on
the Riviera. This struck and produced
numerous white single blooms, thereby
bringing to an end “the long absence”; and
in the summer of 1926 the original plant at
Megginch actually flowered after 136 years
of obscurity.
Put together by Dr. McTaggart just
before his death —he was in charge of
Plant Introduction for the Commonwealth
—Plant Immigrants and Stowaways is a
sketchy little volume, but altogether
charming.
The short chapters deal not only with
Australian plant “romances” —how we
got the prickly-pear from a settler from
Brazil who thought it an ornamental
vegetable * and how soldiers returning
from the Boer War brought on their
clothes the seeds of Perennial Veldt grass
(now widespread in Western Australia) —
but also with similar bits of botanical
“news” from all over the world: how the
sunflower and the pineapple, for instance,
were first cultivated by the Incas of Peru;
also, presumably, the estimable potato,
concerning which Dr. McTaggart says: -■
The potato, originally confined to the
primitive native husbandry of Chile and
Peru, in the highlands of which country it
originated, was introduced into England
about 1586. Popular tradition credits Sir
Walter Raleigh with its introduction into
Great Britain and Ireland, but there can be
found no documentary evidence. From
England it was brought to the Bermudas
in 1613; from those islands it was carried
to Virginia By a peculiar turn of for-
tune, therefore, the potato, a South Ameri-
can plant, came to North America by way
of England and Bermuda.
One is tempted to go on quoting
how the tulip came to Europe from Con-
stantinople in 1559 and was received with
ccstacy by the Dutch; how Nebuchad-
nezzar sent Daniel forth to obtain the
seed of lucerne, and how the invading
Saracens, who brought that plant to Spain
from North Africa, named it “alfacfacah,”
meaning “the best fodder.” But with
this sort of book quotation is theft. Read
Plant Immigrants and Stowaways and,
when you have done with it, pass it on
to your cow.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
At Sydney Conservatorium there were
hurricane-lamps to light the passageways,
hanging in niches as they must have hung
in the days when the building served the
purpose for which it was originally built
—stabling Government House horses; —
and tiny globes strung from car batteries
to light the music for the players. A
gentleman with a torch read the pro-
gramme aloud to people who couldn t
see their own, and read a deal more
about the purpose of the entertainment,
and what was hoped for, and what was
aimed at. It was the first concert of a
new string ensemble, Richard Goldner’s
“Sydney Musica Viva,” functioning as “a
string chorus consisting of a number of
string quartets, as germ cells.” What it
meant was that four quartets played to-
gether—the same music at the same time
—and it added only volume to what
could have been achieved with the single
group. There was life and feeling in the
Purcell Chaconne which opened the per-
formance, but for the rest there was only
the competence of technicalities, and no
style. It fell a long way short of the high
hopes of the man with the torch, but the
new group still promised the earnest
future attempt at excellence.
Lionel Lindsay had his water-color
drawings and etchings at the Macquarie
Galleries, where, in the late afternoon, it
was necessary to carry a candle to find a
way through the dark and narrow streets
of Naples and Salamanca, Venice, Genoa,
Granada and Burgos. They were dark
streets always, and here the houses were
untenanted and gloomy with age where
they should be alight with the lives that
have been lived in them.
Norman Lindsay’s land of fawns and
nymphs, and dukes and courtesans, his
thieves and lusty ladies, is a long way
beyond Granada and Venice, but closer
by far in the life his people live there.
His etchings are at the Grosvenor Gal-
leries. They splash the walls with light.
This is the thing most noticeable in a
city of dim half-tones. In black and
white they seem to cover the walls in a
riot of color. Many of the etchings in
the exhibition are old and well-known ;
all of them, old and new, are lusty and
vigorous with life and light.
The Minerva, too, presumably got
caught up in the search for life and light,
and then confused it with lightness. Ken-
neth Horne’s “Yes and,No” is cut from
the flimsiest fabric. It doesn’t even pre-
tend to very much —just tells as briefly as
possible (a point well worth recording in
its favor with trams and trains meander-
ing home at half-speed) what might have
happened if a girl had said “No” when a
young man proposed; what might have
happened if she’d said “Yes,” and what
did happen, which wasn’t anything really.
There’s a comic rector and a stuttering
curate, two girls and a boy and the girl’s
mother, the rector’s wife ( he’s the girls’
father, too). All six of them cause plenty
of laughs, but nothing they have to say
need distract the attention when rushing
for the tram after they’ve solved their
little problems. John Wood is the boy,
Jessica Noad the girl who answers him
variously, and Jack Needham the stut-
tering curate.
The art of etching appears to have
attained a fairly high level in Adelaide,
judging by the work of Jacqueline Hick,
Thelma Fisher and Christine Miller at
George’s Gallery, Melbourne. At any
rate, the three young ladies display more
than a nodding acquaintance with their
medium, which can’t be said of many
“contemporaries” in Melbourne, who
make a merit of painting like children.
Most of the Adelaide pictures are straight-
out attempts at depicting nature, at which
Christine Miller is most successful in
“East-end Market, Adelaide.” Jacqueline
Hick imports some fancy into her work.
At the talkies:
“Cauboy”: According to Masefield, Shaks-
peare’s “Henry V” is a chronicle or procession
eked out with soldiers’ quarrels, and his Henry
is a popular hero who is as common as those
who love him; who jokes with his men like a
groom and woos his bride like a butcher;
who accuses other men of cruelty and ingrati-
tude and forgets those friends of his youth,
Falstafi, Bardolph and Pistol, whom his own
cruelty betrayed to death and dishonor and
whom he puts out of his life with as little
feeling as he shows at Agincourt when he orders
all the prisoners to be killed. This last item
was omitted (or I missed it) in Laurence
Olivier’s version at Melbourne Athenaeum. The
Bard’s Harry of England would have stood a
good chance of being hanged as a war criminal
today if he had lost the battle fought by
armoured knights who had to be lifted with
cranes on to their chargers—highly amusing
to a public used to tanks and jet ’planes. The
film opens with a view of 17th century London
and the Globe Theatre preparing for the first
performance of the play in question. Then it
takes to the field, where the producers could
have used old English castles and French
chateaux for their settings, but preferred their
own backcloths painted after the style of Walt
Disney. Laurence Olivier glamorises his swash-
buckling hero and has a trick of substituting
bellowing for feeling, after the traditional
fashion of Shakspearean declamation, but on
the whole the film is worth seeing. There is a
bustling livingness about it and it is hard to
imagine how the action could have been con-
veyed from the stage, especially the Elizabethan
stage, to the screen with more astuteness. One
of the best things in it is the way the highly
un-Christian compact between the clergy and
the king that led to the French war is brought
out.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
>hw«; pcj
ANTHONY HORDERNS
122 Years of Service
>o'
s
«l
IMS
r :IP r
, ..
A MESSAGE FOR THE
othing is more inspiring to the traveller on life's highway than the vista of an
untouched year beckoning onward with its promise of spiritual and material
reward for well-directed effort;
specially at a time like this, which heralds not merely the beginning of
another twelve months but almost the dawn of another age—an age
which shall make, or break, the human family.
ell for those who see clearly the part they must play in the difficult
days ahead, the immediate future with its new problems, its new perils
threatening to test the capacity for endurance of us all.
hke S 1946 10 ' ears 9°/’ there may never be another year quite
nded, a period of destruction; commenced, an era of reconstruction.
ccountable to the community, to the nation, to the world outside is each
one of us for the manner in which we dedicate our energies to the task.
etail distribution, too, will have wider opportunities of service, of making
the way easier, of giving you more leisure for the worthwhile things of
life, by bringing into your home new and better goods as soon as they
become available.
from
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
SYDNEY


ALMA MATER
By JAMES HACKSTON.
MY Alma Mater was not famous as
a school, but the scholars had a
most profound knowledge of pos-
sums (good mountain skins 12s. 6d.
doz.), goannas, lizards and snakes ; and
could have passed with honors in such
subjects as milking, swinging Douglas,
panning off or dollying a bit of quartz
of an evening for their old man.
Unless you had known the building
was the school you would not have
guessed it. It stood in a bare paddock,
and on one occasion a storm got away
with the roof. On another occasion a
bushfire got away with the whole build-
ing to the unbounded joy of the scholars.
The rest of our local color was made up
of a community of slick, quick-off-the-
mark jumpers, March flies (in season) and
the ordinary fly that saw to it, with punc-
tilious regularity, that the school received
its full summer quota of bung eyes. Also,
snakes visited our dripping water-tank
and bit two scholars, on which occasions
the teacher, in addition to his ordinary
duties of delivering learned addresses on
gripes in horses, dogs with the mange
and sick cows, delivered two cultural
discourses on snake bite.
We had no school tie, no badge or
monogram ; nor did we have a school
cry —only the yells of kids when a jumper
branded them with the old school bite
(we had that) or crawled up their pants
or drawers. But the old school, although
lacking in other conveniences, had a large
fireplace, and in the summer the scholars
studied hard with the axe so that there
would be tons of wood for the winter.
It was cold at Red Range in the winter,
and we had blazing fires and at lunch-
time we used to put the billy on.
A DAY in our school life would start
something like this: We’d straggle in,
light the fire, drag the form up to it and
then hold a discussion, at which meeting
we’d retail all the bits of news we had
—how some boy’s old man was sinking
a new shaft, or had bought a new horse,
bull, cow, buggy or plough ; or was swap-
ping one for the other. Then the teacher
would pass judgment on the matter, give
his learned opinions ; say that it was of
no earthly use sinking a shaft in such a
place or that it was of earthly use sink-
ing a shaft in such a place, or that such
a horse would be no good between the
shafts but would make a good hack, or
would be no good as a hack but good
between the shafts, or that they should
have bought a Friesian instead of a Jersey,
or a Jersey instead of a Friesian, or that
the milk from the cow they had bought
was not as rich in cream as the milk of
some other kind of cow they should
have bought. All this lore and wisdom
was then repeated at home, and the
parent’s opinions and ideas communi-
cated back to the teacher at the next
gathering.
On mornings when it rained and we’d
get wet going to the club we’d take off
as much of our wet clothing as we could
and hang it up by the fire, and on such
occasions the college looked more like a
big farmhouse kitchen on a washing-day
that had turned out wet, than an academy
of learning.
When there was no gossip to be re-
tailed we’d have fireside lectures, mostly
on Australian history—Fisher’s ghost, the
Kelly gang and other important historical
events in our past. The history of the
Kelly gang was more than interesting to
us because our teacher had hinted in a
roundabout way that his father had actu-
ally known the great Kelly himself, and
he gave us such intimate details about
Mr. Kelly that we reckoned his father
must have been one of the great gang
and that teacher (always a modest man)
did not want to skite about it to us. With
this in our minds, we were more than
proud to have over us such a man.
In addition to such cultural activities,
when most of the dams went dry in
summer, we had the teacher’s three horses
to Water, and we used to ride them to a
big dam some miles away. We took it in
turns to do this, and all the scholars were
perfectly willing to sacrifice their lessons
to this humane act of saving three horses
from dying of thirst.
But all this fraternising between teacher
and pupils happened before the inspector
raided us and, unfortunately for our club,
our vas t storehouse of knowledge 1 con-
cerning ’possums, lizards, snakes and
goannas, and the great art of swinging
Douglas, panning off and dollying were
out of place as far as the inspector was
concerned. Alter examining us he left
us looking like a lot of wet hens and the
head of our club as if he were thinking
ruefully that his methods, though they
might have made him friends, didn’t pay
dividends when it comes to teaching. It
was not long before the departmental axe
fall ail d the old club held a farewell
gathering,
J T was almost unbearably hot the day
1 the new man toox over, and you could
almost smell the wool of the sheep up
on the northern plains as the north wind
scorched past. The solitary Murray pine
in the college paddock was flinging itself
about like a windjammer in a gale, and
the bush looked as if it would suddenly
burst into flames. We stood in two rows,
every pupil present—no absentees away
with the horses ; they’d gone, too —
eighteen whites and two abos. Standing
there, most of up bootless, slabs of patches
on our backsides, knees and elbows, hair
unshorn, feet as black as the abos’; we
must have looked a dishevelled, unkempt
mob. Up against the tatterdemalion raga-
muffins of our old Alma Mater the new
teacher looked more than spotless, and
his pale skin up against the abos’ looked
like a girl’s. Sizing him up there, we
reckoned that it would not be long be-
fore his nose would peel, freckles sprout
all over his face, March flies pick him,
and he rhight have to shut himself up
in a darkened room for weeks and go
silly with the sandy blight or get a bung
eye—and the latter we wished on him.
It was not long before our wish came
true, for the new teacher got a bung eye
that was a beauty. Of course the scholars
at Red Range were brilliant students of
the bung eye, too, and had the bung eye
been a subject for examination would
have passed with honors.
There is this about a bung eye: it does
not suit some people as well as it does
others. It makes some look comic, others
just as if they have a bad eye. As ex-
perts on the subject we knew that a bung
eye would not sit quietly on the the new
teacher’s pink complexion ; knew that it
would stand up ruthlessly and disgrace-
fully. Also, a bung eye, when worn with
an old battered felt hat and no collar or
tie, is not so noticeable, but the dark-blue
stain with the bottle-green trimming that
is a good bung eye matches ill with a
spruce, well-set-up felt hat and a gleam-
ing white collar and dinky tie. It doesn’t
tone with a spick-and-span suit nor carry
well with a haughty expression.
The teacher’s new bung eye must have
been the champion of the district; it was
like a big blue plum with green leaves
round it. One boy, an adherent of the
piece-of-steak-on-it school, suggested that
teacher put a piece of steak on it. Another
boy who favored .the blue-bag school
suggested that the blue-bag be applied,
and another one who believed in the put-
mud-on-it doctrine said he should put
some mud on it.
WITH the old club closed down, we
now had no fires in the winter, and
instead had to clap our hands to circu-
late the blood. So one very cold winter’s
naming Larry, being big and strong, took
o 4 himself the responsibility of asking
that the fires be again lit with the wood
we had cut for that purpose. The request
being refused, Larry and his brother, too,
walked out on the teacher and stayed
away from school.
This brought their old man into the
picture. He had been a soldier in India,
and so, being a firm believer in discipline,
ordered his two sons to return to school
or he’d flog them, and the two sons re-
fused and went bush and lived the lives
of outlaws. Their stem sire now saddled
his horse, collected his stockwhip, and,
fingering his big, sandy, Kitchener-like
moustache, set forth to round them up.
For two weeks he rode the district, call-
ing on settlers and miners for information,
and in between times stalked his burly
six-foot frame boldly into the schoolroom
—without being asked—and in a thunder-
ingly heavy voice discussed the where-
abouts of his erring sons. “Yes,” he
would roar, “I’ll find the scoundrels, and
if I hear of any of you boys aiding them
I’ll” and then he’d take hold of his
whip and, with a mighty movement, swing
it round and up and then bring it down
(and once he brought the map on the
wall down) with a crack that sounded like
a shot from a gun. Then he d stare us all
down, salute the teacher and stamp out
again. This would happen every tew
days, and, by his authoritative manner, he
must have been a generalissimo, for never
once did he knock or ask could he come
m, but istumpedl in as if he had been m
the habit of riding roughshod over the
whole Indian Army And he never missed
cracking his whip to let us know what
to expect if he caught us helping his two
desperados.
Although the outlaws were never seen
they came close enough into the college
to send messages to the teacher by
showering blue metal on the roof of their
Alma Mater, and one night they burnt
the school’s stack of wood to the ground,
This last act was carried out just after
several of the parents had got together
sent a letter to the teacher informing
bim that, as the boys had cut the wood
to warm the school, he should use the
wood for the school,
The outlaws had been out about three
weeks when their mother came on the
scene. First of all she, metaphorically
speaking, unseated the generalissimo and
posted him to a potato paddock. This
done she then arranged an armistice be-
tween the teacher and the outlaws. Con-
ddions teacher not to thrash her sons,
and be ft s . on | to be obedient and behave
P r °perly in future. This capitulation on
tbe P ai 't the teacher was probably gov-
®rned by the tact that the college had so
ew pupds that he could not afford to
* ose an y-
So they came back to school again, but
in case the teacher was a man who would
n °t keep his word they returned with
their pockets stuffed with blue metal. This
most effective ammunition they placed
meaningly upon the desk before them,
And so the teacher consented (with him-
self) that he would have to forfeit two
pupils after all—for the honor of the
school. Larry, following a stormy debate
with the generalissimo, cleared up north
and the other brother went down south
to school,
T" HEN, strangely enough, the whole
1 school seemed to disintegrate. Two
families left the district, and with their
departure the school lost five pupils, and
lbe teacher had only eleven pupils left,
Then everything fell away like a pack of
card s. The abo. family went walkabout,
and so the two abo. pupils left their old
Alma Mater. I left soon after this, too,
and it was not long before the school
there bein S no more kids in the district—
closed down and the teacher had to go
walkabout, too.
The last time I saw my old Alma Mater
I noticed that the window was broken
and had a bag up to it, and, by the smoke
coming from the chimney, that the old
club fireplace had a fire in it again. Being
curious, I called, and was greeted by the
new master—Barbed Wire Jack, who used
to live in a shack down on Briar Flat, and
whose own Alma Mater was that famous
hallmark of culture and decorum, Oxford.
SMOKE-OH!
“Give your cauliflower a nice white look by
adding a teaspoonful of vinegar.”
— Women’s paper.
Next week: how to brighten faded
broken noses.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Women, over 45, fast workers, for light
assembly work.” — “S.M.H:”
But wouldn’t their continual flirting un-
settle the male employees?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Three almost-new Men’s Suits (2 from Eng-
lish material), 1 almost-new Gent.’s Watch.”
—“S.M.H.”
Just back from a good holiday, eh?
-I- 4- 4- 4
Who wants unasked relationships thrust on
them?”— Woman’s paper.
Anyone taking a seaside cottage for
the summer holidays.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Well Greased.
“Your skin needs plenty of lubrication in
the warm weather.” — Women’s paper.
The last time I gave my skin a thor-
ough lubricating I made an unfortunate
mistake in the choice of oil. Instead of
waiting till a superior light amber grade
was available at four o’clock, I im-
patiently filled the sump with a blend of
crude red and white lubricants that, far
from giving my skin the easy, drag-free
motion I desired, merely resulted in over-
heating. It was passing the police sta-
tion in a jerky manner when its bearings
suddenly seized, and I found my progress
violently arrested.
Naturally my epidermis had to go into
the dock, and I went with it to find out
the period necessary to get it running
freely again. “Fourteen days!” decided
the S.M. (Senior Mechanic), adding that
a complete change of oil would be highly
beneficial.
“Blackleg outbreak.”
— “Courier-Mail” heading.
What’s Chif, doing to deal with the
dirty traitors?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Today the trend in swimsuits is far less
suit and more You.”— Woman’s mag.
But the more there is of you the less
they suit.
Explanation.
“Why is inferior tobacco sold in Australia?”
asks a correspondent.
It smokes and smells like humid straws
Of grass, you can’t deny it.
But I’m convinced it sells because
We’re goats enough to buy it.
P. O. M. C.
❖ 4* 4* 4*
“Cook, Male, third, wanted urgently for
war workers’ hostel at St. Mary’s Must be
of strictly temperate habits.” —
That’s asking too much. No wonder
the first two got out.
4* 4* 4* 4*
No Case.
“German conjurers are forbidden to use
edible articles in the performance of their
tricks.”
In the first case of its kind to come
before a Berlin Court Herr Schnitzen-
gurggler was charged with having, while
performing divers feats of legerdemain in
a beergarden, extracted from a top-hat
an article which could be described as
edible.
Giving evidence, Constable Fladtfeedt
deponed that on Tuesday evening, while
passing the beergarden, he had heard
sounds of loud laughter issuing from it.
He deemed it his duty to enter and inves-
tigate, as he thought such sounds might
be inimical to the best interests of the
Third and a Half Reich.
He had just wiped his moustache and
was looking around the place when he
caught sight of accused standing on a
low floodlit stage. From a top-hat which
he held in one hand, accused extracted
successively what appeared to witness to
be a rabbit, about 12 yards of brightly-
colored’ cloth, a large sausage, a small
dachshund, a pair of lady’s undergar-
ments, a football and posy of lilies.
After this he lit a fire in the hat, broke
two eggs into a vessel, whipped them up
and then proceeded to make an omelette
in a frying-pan held over the hat.
After the performance, Constable
Fladtfeedt went on, he had interviewed
accused. He was satisfied afterwards that
the alleged rabbit was in reality an
animated dummy. The “sausage” was
a “prop” made from sawdust, powdered
coal and glue; although this might be
regarded as edible in view of the standard
nutriment of German sausage, the prose-
cution would waive the point. The
dachshund certainly was edible, but not in
the form in which it was being used by
accused—dachshund when edible did not
usually squeal while lifted by the scruff
of the neck. It was the omelette which
was the subject of the charge. Accused
had freely admitted that two eggs had
been used in its composition.
In a statement from the dock accused
said that the alleged breaking of the two
eggs by himself was a delusion, a feat
attained by him only after long practice.
Actually the omelette had been cooked by
his wife for his own breakfast. He had
attempted its deglutition, and after he
had given this up he determined to use
it in the trick. He invited the Court to
test its edibility.
At the magistrate’s direction Constable
Fladtfeedt tried it, desisting only after
mangling his top set on it. The magis-
trate then examined it carefully, and to
his questions as to what gave the omelette
its peculiar caoutchouc quality, accused
said that his wife always cooked them
like that. Apparently the secret was hers.
With an understanding nod and an
intimation that he himself was sometimes
exposed in his own home to the cooking
of omelettes, the magistrate dismissed the
charge.
Bo.
Problem.
When What’s-her-name said such-and-
such
To poor old So-and-so,
Would Whosthis worry very much
If Thingummy should know ?
Yet, if His Nibs had tipped the wink,
Who owned the lady’s hat ?...
Oh, struth ! I’m all mixed up. I think
I’ll let it stand at that!
T. W. NATHAN.
The Superman.
“A police sergeant claimed in court that a
showgirl, prosecuted for wearing a French
swimsuit, was offensive to him.”
We men are seldom disinclined
To gaze on comeliness enshrined
In raiment of the sketchy kind,
And so the search would be extensive
Among the local cops to find
The upright mind, to beauty blind.
That could have truthfully defined
The undraped female form “offensive.”
P. M. LUSK.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3437
Wednesday, December 26, 1945
HOW SANTA CLAUS CAME TO LONDON TOWN.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathans Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
ROAD TO DELIVERANCE.
When the industrial landscape was at its
murkiest a gleam came from Collie
(W.A.). The coalminers there, members
of a branch of the Miners’ Federation,
which has for president a Communist
who lives in an elegant Sydney flat, de-
cided to withdraw from the Communist-
controlled concern. They had arranged
to take a ballot on the issue before the
latest of the multitude of Communist
strikes, and while it raged they refused
to contribute to the support of the
strikers.
These Collie coalminers had a very
good record during the wars. Mr.- Curtin
once remarked that they worked on
Saturdays, which the N.S.W. coalminers
refused to do. And, unlike the N.S.W.
coalminers, they maintained their output,
and, according to their member, an
elderly Scot who served in the last war,
they would have increased it substantially
but for hindrances for which they were
not responsible; among other things, a
still-lingering prejudice against Collie coal
which the Government Railway Depart-
ment shares. Because of this “the em-
ployees in some of the mines worked
fewer than four days a week wheq the
Railway Department was importing coal.”
Among these Collie miners who worked
throughout the war without striking there
are “83 men between 60 and 70.” In
February-March, 1942, when the Japanese
were hammering at the northern gate,
the N.S.W. “Labor” Government pulled
one-tenth of the men out of the mines,
then under its control, .because they had
turned 60, being two years younger than
General MacArthur; and when some
of these veterans proposed to carry on
there were stoppages in pit after pit. The
places of these sturdy sexagenarians and
others who accepted superannuation were
required for younger men, many of whom
were classified by Mr. Curtin in the last
quarter of 1943 —despairingly, but with'
a half-hearted undertaking to settle their
hash which was never even attempted:
Malcontents and irresponsibles with bad
attendance records; youths of military age
and taxi-drivers, starting-price bookmakers,
billiard-room proprietors, dog-trainers and
the like. Such fellows have engaged as
miners in order to obtain “protection.”
They not only readily agree to strike, but
sometimes make the first move, whereupon
it is a case of “one out, all out.”
When the war was over the Collie
men turned on a bad strike of their own,
but even “Tory” members found excuses
for them. Mr. Mann, M.L.C. (South-
West), said in the State Parliament that
“the trouble” had been “brought about
wholly and solely by the refusal of the
authorities in the eastern States to recog-
nise Westralia’s position.”
The Collie miners followed absolutely
the correct procedure. They approached
the local reference board, and, at great
length, argued their case. The local refer-
ence board came to the definite decision
that the miners’ claims were justified. The
recommendation was sent to the central
authority in the eastern States [i.e., Sydney}.
For some unknown reason, that authority
refused to entertain the local reference
board’s recommendation. I understand
that it did not even give a reason. I under-
stand also that the Collie miners, not once
but a number of times, endeavored to get
their case reopened, but without result.
Obviously these men will get a -better
deal by taking their complaints to their
State Arbitration Court. This goes also
for many distant branches of federated
unions, especially those with Communist
controllers who hang out in Sydney.
Many times over the years distant
branches of federated unions with no
grievances of their own have been
dragged into destructive strikes by
wreckers with headquarters in Sydney.
The example of the Collie miners
should be followed in the domain of
government as well as that of trade-
unionism. The plight to which people in
other parts of Australia have been re-
duced by Communist union bosses and
by guilty and incapable politicians
centred in Sydney should inspire a re-
vival of the natural and healthy move-
ment for new States. Nothing could ad-
minister a greater check to the powers
for evil of those who, on the one hand
by the criminal exercise of usurped
authority, and on the other by a cowardly
failure to protect the people by using
the weapons which the people have
placed in their hands, have brought
misery upon a great part of the nation
and darkened its future, especially the
future of those who have saved it by in-
terposing their bodies between the nation
and its foreign foes.
It was never contemplated by the
founders of the Commonwealth that there
should be only six States for all time.
On the contrary, they made express pro-
vision in the Constitution for the forma-
tion of new States, being in this matter,
as in others, guided by the example of
the United States. In the decade of their
constitution-making six new States were
admitted to the American Union:
Montana, South Dakota and North
Dakota (all in 1889), Idaho (1890),
Wyoming (1890) and Utah (1896); and
even at the 1940 census Montana, Idaho
and Utah had fewer people than South
Australia, Wyoming having only a few
thousand more than Tasmania. In the
ensuing decade three more States were
admitted to the Union; New Mexico
and Arizona in 1912 each with
fewer people than South Australia
—and Oklahoma (1907). In the same
period Alberta (1905) and Saskatche-
wan (1905), each with fewer people
than Queensland, became two of
the nine Canadian provinces, being
formed for the most part out of terri-
tories. The stifling of the natural divi-
sion of N. S. Wales and Queensland into
States with local self-governing powers
has been bad for the inhabitants of parts
increasingly ruled from coastal cities and
bad for the whole people.
It was an old idea of Samuel Griffith’s
that Queensland should be divided into
a northern State, with Cairns, Towns-
ville, Bowen and Mackay for ports; a
central State, served by Rockhampton,
and a southern State, with Brisbane as
its port. Part of his project has lately
been revived by the people of the
west, though not exactly in the Griffith
form. So far in these days there has been
no corresponding movement in the north*,
but the people of that rich region can
scarcely have failed to be impressed by
the comments of servicemen from the
south, many of whom audibly wondered
why Cairns, Townsville and the Ather-
ton Tableland should have been content
so long to be ruled from distant Brisbane.
For N. S. Wales, U. R. Ellis, author of
New Australian States, proposed a city
State formed by Sydney, Newcastle and
the immediate neighborhood; a New
England State, a western State and a
Riverina State, each stretching to the
South Australian border, with the Murray
as the southern boundary for Riverina.
When the Commonwealth was pro-
claimed on September 17, 1900, New
South Wales had 1,360,305 people, the
population of all the States being
3,760,482. It now has 2,870,956 out of
7,287,015, which by all Federal stan-
dards is exorbitant. Its American
counterpart is, of course, New York,
but at the census of 1940 New
York had Tittle more than a tenth of the
population of Continental U.S.A.,
13,479,142 out of 131,669,275, and that
was leaving out Alaska, which territory,
as well as that of Hawaii, has an elected
delegate in the House of Representatives
“with the right to speak on any subject
ahd to make motions but not to vote,”
Federal Labor is toying with the notion
of increasing the personnel of the House
of Representatives. As things stand this
would mean more voting members for
N. S. Wales and 'Queensland, which
already have 38 out of 74. It would be
infinitely better that the increase should
come from the division of the two un-
wieldly States into seven compact States,
each with a one-chamber legislature,
especially as it would mean also that the
Senate would have 66 members instead
of 36. The Canadan Senate* has 96; the
South African Senate (the European popu-
lation being less than 2\ millions) has 40.
In N. S. Wales there are 288 municipal
and shire councils, many of which have
managed their affairs much better than the
Sydney politician has managed the affairs
of the excessive State. But their self-
governing powers, instead of being in-
creased in the interest of decentralisation,
to which the Sydney politician pays so
much lip-service, have been persistently
whittled away, and the process is incessant.
So that the crowd in office may get
votes and cut a better figure in its Bud-
gets at the expense of local-government
finance, local bodies have been deprived
of the right to rate religious properties—
even those carried on for gain—Govern-
ment properties—even railway refresh-
ment rooms —and old-age pensioners’
properties, and when shorter hours were
conceded to striking firemen, bills for
£30,000 p.a. were passed on to local-
governing bodies as their share of the
cost. Mentioning these facts in an
article published in the “Australian
Quarterly,” A. Mainerd, secretary of the
Local Government and Shires Associa-
tions, went on to point out that the State
Housing Commission, constituted in 1941,
had been given a virtual construction
monopoly, with power to “acquire” land
at pre-war valuations, to declare it rate-
free “until let or sold,” and, if it chose, to
ignore the standards laid down by the Local
Government Act, The material results of
this construction monopoly are dread-
fully familiar to the army of the house-
less, particularly family men who have to
pig it in single rooms, garages, huts, stable
lofts and caves.
“Apropos of electricity control,” Mr.
Mainerd proceeded, “ Local Government
has been told that a proposal will be sub-
mitted to Parliament for placing it under
a new Electricity Authority composed
wholly of men appointed by the Govern-
ment” :
By far the greater number of the electri-
city-supply undertakings are owned or con-
trolled by Local Government. It is only
logical, therefore, that Local Government
should have the major say. However,
according to available information, not
only will that not be the case, but Local
Government will not even be permitted to
nominate its own “representatives.”
This measure made its appearance last
month, and, somewhat altered by the
Legislative Council, has been slammed on
the Statute Book. It gives Local Govern-
ment two members of the controlling
body, two out of seven, all to be
appointed *by the “Government.” The
chairman will probably be a Labor poli-
tician, and almost certain sequels will be
the formation of One Big Union and an
extension of Bunnerong strikes to areas
such as Clarencd River, whose flourish-
ing and far-reaching Nymboida works,
set up independently of Sydney as a result
of private initiative, have never had
a strike. This alone should be an
incentive, to New England at least,
to strike out for government of
New England by New Englanders, with
all the powers reserved for States
by the Commonwealth Constitution. It
should tie an added incentive to New
England and the Riverina and the three
dissatisfied parts of Queensland to realise
that the formation of new States, which
would all be producing States, would
arm" them against the Communist ruffian-
ism which, with the cowardly connivance
of “Labor” politicians, stalks unwhipped
through Sydney, inflicting deep injuries on
civilians and blighting the homecomng
of fighting men. Helpless now, they would
then be in a position to come back with
swift and drastic reprisals, and in the
process they would benefit the people of
Sydney and Newcastle, who, because of
the alliance of ruffianism and poltroonery,
have become like besieged populations,
subjected to privations which they wefe
spared in the worst phase of the Japanese
war.
Patience with Russia.
His patience at last brought to breaking
point by the charges levelled by Marshal
Zhukov at his administration of the
British occupation area in Germany,
Field-Marshal Montgomery found it
necessary to give the lie direct to the
Russian commander.
In the style made familiar by Russian
war reporting, throwing in a few spare
noughts for effect, Zhukov alleged that
1,000,000 German soldiers, complete with
staff, fighter and bomber squadrons,
reconnaissance formations and tanks, and
including “Stockhausen” and “Witthof”
troops, “each with an effective strength of
100,000 men,” were being. kept as an
established force in training.
To this tissue of lies Montgomery re-
plied: (1) Total German Army personnel
in the province, 239,000; (2) no German
staff exists ; (3) no fighter or bomber
squadrons nor reconnaissance forma-
tions ; (4) no “Witthof” organisation
whatever; “Stockhausen Corps,’.’ 91,000
unarmed men. To the Russian’s further
charge that the British were retaining
Hungarian soldiers in their zone, Mont-
gomery retorted that the Russian authori-
ties in Austria had refused all facilities for
transporting them to Hungary; that
Zhukov’s command had ignored two
letters from British headquarters explain-
ing all this ; that he wondered how far
the new precedent of a zone commander
openly criticising another’s administra-
tion was to be followed in the future;
that “if the information was supplied by
the Russian liaison officers who are in
the British zone as guests they are guilty
of an abuse of facilities” ; and that “cer-
tain of their reports on other matters have
been very tendentious.”
The British-zone commander’s crushing
reply is another sign that the once seem-
ingly inexhaustible patience of Anglo-
American leaders with their former yvar-
partners has been worn extremely thin.
“In October General Eisenhower instanced
a series of unilateral political acts” by
which the Russians were, against all
agreement, fostering German Commun-
ism. These included giving the Com-
munist party exclusive use of the Soviet-
controlled Berlin Radio, permitting the
Communists to publish twice as many
copies of their newspaper as any other
party, and “moving headquarters of all
political parties, except one, to the Rus-
sian zone before the entry of American
forces into Berlin,” General Eisenhower
added caustically that if put to a fair vote
Berlin Communism would be routed.
Also in October, U.S, Secretary of
State Byrnes, in his report to the American
nation—by radio, and hence openly to
the world, including Russia-’—put the
blame for the total failure of the Council
of Foreign Ministers’ first session in Lon-
don squarely where it belonged, and made
it quite clear that American patience was
approaching exhaustion. “It became
obvious,” Mr. Byrnes said, “that there
could be no agreement unless the other
delegations were prepared to yield their
views and convictions to those of the
Soviet delegation.” What that delegation
ostensibly wanted was that the entire
peace should be arranged by three
nations, with two others being allowed a
say in a restricted field. The U.S. delega-
tion, the British siding with it, took the
position that peace could not be so exclu-
sive a concern; that, instead, those
nations, large and small, which had fought
and suffered in the war must make the
peace. In that it had the support
of the French, whose Foreign Minister,
M. Bidault, has strongly protested against
the latest meeting of Foreign Ministers in
Moscow being restricted to three of them.
“We were willing to make many con-
cessions,” Mr. Byrnes said acidly, “but
the United States does not believe in
agreement at any price. The United
States is willing to dictate terms of peace
to an enemy, but it is not willing to dic-
tate terms of peace to our allies.”
Further evidence of the hardening of
feeling towards Russia in America comes
from the President downwards. Mr.
Truman, on the strength of his one brief
experience at Potsdam, put an end to
further such meetings as sheer waste of
time. A comedy of the Potsdam meeting
which history will surely highlight was
Mr. Truman’s keeping mum his know-
ledge that the atomic bomb was as good
as achieved, while playing out the futile
diplomatic game with the Soviet leader
as if he had no such trump card up his
sleeve. Since then the President, of
course, bluntly refused to hand over the
bomb secrets to Russia, lacking any
reasonable guarantee, or even an offer of
one, on how they would be used.
In that, as in much other of . their sup-
posedly “clever” manceuvrings, the Rus-
sians have shown themselves pastmasters
of clumsiness. Altogether America
shipped to Russia some 10,000 fighter
’planes, 4000 bombers, 400,000 trucks and
7500 tanks. Two and a- half billion
dollars’ worth of machinery and one and
a half billion dollars’ worth of food were
also shipped. Lend-lease goods sent free
of charge to Russia cost the American
people a total of nine billion dollars, and
in addition there were such items as the
sixty million dollars privately raised in
America for Russian war relief. A little
gratitude for alb this would have been
appreciated. The ingratitude which pre-
vented even admission of it by the Rus-
sian leaders to their people, with all the
other acts of Russian clumsiness since
added, has produced among Americans
generally the feeling that has been clearly
reflected in the forthright utterances of
Mr, Truman, Mr. Byrnes and others.
In effect, the notion that Russia is
always right, that Russia must be kow-
towed to and kidded along, has gone by
the board. Repeated polls of U.S. public
opinion are revealing positive mistrust.
The London “Times” Washington corre-
pondent reported this month that misgiv-
ings as to Russian policy in the field of
national organisation have reached among
some Americans the point of “phobia.”
Among the great bulk of Americans it has
reached the point of ensuring their solid
support for henceforth dealing with
Russia, not as a special country that has
to be approached fawningly but as a
country which must now leam that co-
operation is a two-way business.
History will not accuse the other in-
terested nations of having been over-
impatient. It may accuse them of having
shown far too much patience ; of crawl-
ing to Moscow and getting a deserved
return. At least, there is to be less of that
sickening spectacle from now on; and
some beneficial effects of the change may
very soon be seen—if not in anything that
may be reported of the Moscow confer-
ence, then at the London conference
intended to get somewhere at last with
peace-making.
“No body of men in the history of the
world,” Mr. Bevin has said of that com-
ing conference, “ever met with a greater
responsibility to the generations yet un-
born than those of us who will meet in
January to grapple with this terrible ai;d
difficult problem.” Without doubt, Russia
would be in the forefront of Mr. Bevin’s
mind in thus describing the task ahead,
but by the conference date, it may be
hoped, Moscow may have learnt that not
only individuals, like Field-Marshal
Montgomery and General Eisenhower,
Mr. Truman and Mr. Byrnes, Mr. Bevin
and Mr. Churchill, and the countries these
represent, but pretty well the whole effec-
tive world has had more than enough of
Russian obstruction and means to get on
with arranging, if not a perfect, at least
the securest possible sort of peace, if need
be without the blessing of the Kremlin.


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Hero to Granny.
“S. M. Herald’s” Canberra oracle has
had another lit of idolatry respecting one
of his Labor gods; on this occasion Mr.
Beasley, off to London as Resident Min-
ister :
The boy from the Victorian bush, stjll
in his twenties, was president (1921-28)
and almost adored leader of the Mew
South Wales Trades and Labor Council,
which then had no screeching would-be
totalitarian minority to direct into sham
fights a native-born industrial militancy.
There certainly was no “screeching
minority” in the T. and L.C. during Mr.
Beasley’s chairmanship—it screeched as
one man in the Red cause. And if Mr.
Beasley was “adored” it was because he
screeched as loud as any.
Dips into T. and L.C. history bring
forth these* further facts:
During nearly all Mr. Beasley’s presi-
dency, the secretary to his council was
John Smith Garden, since Mr. Ward’s
offsider, then an executive member of the
Comintern and head of the Communist
party in Australia.
During the Beasley period the T. and L.
Council introduced Communism specifically
into Australian trade-union organisation by
affiliating with the Profinfern (Red Inter-
national of Trade-unions), a Communist
body with headquarters in Moscow. The
T. and L.C. remained affiliated during the
whole of Mr. Beasley’s presidency.
Comrade Beasley was one of those who
voted for the admission of the Communists
to the A.L.P. in 1923.
Comrade Beasley was a member of the
International Class War Prisoners’, Aid as
late as 1929 —he attended a conference
that year.
When Comrade Beasley was acting-presi-
dent of the T. and L.C. Garden reported
at the Moscow Communist conference
(Nov. 21, 1922) that “the Labor Council
of N.S.W. constitutes 120 unions. Yet
the C.P. has full control of the executive.
Out of 12 members of the executive 11 are
members of the Communist party, and they
direct these 120 unions and the policy
of each union.”
And the “Herald” enthusiast failed to
quote his hero’s own burst of ecstacy,
published in the “Communist,” Nov. 7,
1922, on the Red Anniversary;— •
Words fail to give the desired impres-
sion. Workers of other lands, more espe-
cially those of our own countries, should
watch with keen interest the everyday de-
velopment of Russia’s new order of society,
profit by their experiences and in doing
so set themselves determinedly to accom-
plish within a short period that measure
of emancipation which the Russian workers
now enjoy.
The rhapsodist described the Russian
revolution as “the most wonderful accom-
plishment ever recorded in the annals of
history,”
Mr. Beasley’s past, as recorded in the
“S. M. Herald,” is about as mythical as
the record of Mr. Theodore’s ancestors
detailed by the same “authority.”
The Sorrows of Boddeley.
The Bulletin finds Itself in the position
of having to apologise for the statement,
published in its last issue, that the N.S.W.
“Labor” measure proposing life pensions
of £6 a week for retired or defeated
Assemblymen who have “served” in three
Parliaments —length of service in two
Parliaments immaterial—and £3 a week
for their widows combined “legalised
fraud with legalised daylight robbery.”
“Legalised” was incorrect. The resolute
opposition of a few men, among whom
Colonel Bruxner, the Country - party
leader, was conspicuous, forced the
withdrawal of the bill before it was pre-
sented to the Legislative Council. It is
asserted that the thing will be brought up
again next year in an “amended” form,
but as 1946 will be a Federal-election
year, and probably a referendum year,
this is not at all likely.
The moral is that courage in a good
cause is still a factor in political affairs,
and could be usefully extended to the in-
dustrial affairs of Australia, where it is
as rare as hens’ teeth. The only “argu-
ments” employed by “Labor” Govern-
ments in dealing with promoters of and
participants in criminal strikes are flat-
teries and entreaties. Even while Deputy
Premier Baddeley, who introduced the
Pensions Bill, was removing it per tongs he
was thinking out an appeal to the coal-
miners, of whom he used to be one (he
is still their Minister), to forego their in-
tention of knocking off from the after-
noon of December 21 to the morning of
January 7 for what they are pleased to
call their annual holidays. According
to his own account, Mr. Baddeley asked
the executive of the Communist-con-
trolled Miners’ Federation to bring them
back on January 2, and was informed
that his “request” had been “sympatheti-
cally considered”—and rejected. There-
upon Mr, Baddeley said he was “sorry,”
Coalminers are npt less lacking in
appreciation of courage than the rest of
their countrymen, whom they have let
down so often, and in this last year and
month more shamefully than ever before.
Very different results would have been
obtained had Mr. Baddeley, instead of
paying he waS “sorry,” addressed them
through the Communist Wells in a
strain which they would have understood,
and’ with the quality of courage and
public spirit exhibited by Colonel Bmx-
ner and his associates. For example, in
the following terms:
You say you won’t work any day be-
tween December 22 and January 7. This
period you require for holidays. You have
already had your holidays. You were idle
from December 5 to December 19, not on
any score of wages or working conditions—
you have no grievance on either account —
but because, along with the Communist-
controlled Seamen’s Union (still drawing a
war bonus), you sided with the Communist-
controlled Ironworkers’ Association which,
as the outcome of a lawless campaign
against industrial arbitration, had brought
iron and steel production to a standstill. In
the same utterly selfish spirit most of you
in minority of good men have always
. worked faithfully) took unauthorised
holidays in every month prior to De-
cember. Our “Industrial Gazette” records
that working time lost for nine months
to September 30 amounted to 11.1 p.c.
off the working week, which, as you are
well aware, is 40 hours on the surface and
approximately 36 hours underground.
In the result, output is millions of tons
down. And this at a time when the need
for coal was greater than ever before,
for reasons that you well know—the fight-
ing men who protected your skins require
jobs, houses, furniture and the rest; the
war lag in civil production has to be made
up, and the national economy calls not
only for resumption but extension of the
export trade. Production of all these urgent
requirements you have sabotaged, you and
your friends in the other Communist-con-
trolled unions, particularly the Ironworkers
and the Seamen.
If you are so unmindful of your duties
and responsibilities as citizens as to intend
loafing till January 7, you had better lay
in supplies of stores, particularly candles,
beforehand. For you will return to
empty stores and darkened homes; nr.d
there will be no special issues of smokes
or beer. Tobacco and alcohol in your dis-
tricts will be “off.” Nor will there be dog-
racing or horseracing or starting-price
COMMUNIST ENTRY FOR THE NEXT COMPETITION.
gazettes or s.-p. radio or picture shows or
trains or buses (except to take you to and
from work) until further notice. Large in-
stalments of these deprivations have already
been visited upon hundreds of thousands Of
innocent fellow-citizens by your actions and
those of the other Communist-controlled
unions, and a great deal more besides; while
your jobs are secure, half a million, through
you, have lost theirs. And many poor
people have been turned out of hospitals,
and some of them no doubt are already dead.
Death or physical or mental breakdown is
likely to be the fate of many housewives,
who have been tried beyond endurance.
In any case you may be sure your other
victims won’t mind putting up with an
extension of what they are undergoing
now provided you get your share, with the
interest you have earned by your infamous
conduct added.
may have the public holidays, Christ-
mas Day and Boxing Day and New Year’s
Day and January 2, but no more.
I have the authority of the Common-
wealth Government for saying all this and
for telling you that the required National
Security Regulations have been drafted,
and will be instantly and relentlessly en-
forced. There will be no “beg pardons” on
this occasion; the situation is too serious.
And if your federation is contumacious its
finances and the bank account of every
member of its executive will be at once
frozen—again till further notice. These
measures will also be taken if production
for the month of January and the ensuing
months falls below a million tons a month.
You could do that “on your heads.”
But in the presence of selfish coalminers
Mr. Baddeley’s feet are always frigid, and
Mr. Baddeley chose to be “sorry.”
Christmas in the Islands.
Written by a man from Wewak:
Poultryless dinner, nine o’clock curfew, tram-
less week-ends, cold baths, no pudding, silent
radio and all the other concomitants of a
Black Christmas would be willingly accepted
by tens of thousand of troops in the islands if
only they could get home for it or if they
could even sit down to an exile’s Christmas
dinner in the knowledge that their exile was
almost over.
These men have served their country well
and they feel that the job of looking after Jap
prisoners belongs to someone else, and when
they hear official promises, contradictions and
counter-contradictions on their relief and lack
of it they have every reason to wonder whether
they or the N.S.W. coalminers really fought
the Nip. And when they read in papers from
the south of nothing but strikes, unemployment,
restrictions on fuel, lighting and transport and
Ministerial blah, is it any wonder they feel to a
man that history has once more proved a
true guide and that, the war over, the country
wants to forget the soldier? It is useless telling
these servicemen that strikes have not inter-
fered with their return, that world shipping
shortage is the cause, when they know of actual
instances where troopships have been held up
—for one thing, the Katoomba, a trooper for
years, was tied up in Brisbane in November
over a trivial when every shipping
delay and waterfront dispute must be reflected
in the world shipping position. Thousands of
men have had cause to rejoice that the R.N.
came to their rescue when their own kith and
kin failed them, and that they at least got
home for Christmas.
When the surrender came it was overwhelm-
ingly assumed among troops that the call-up
of young men would continue and that new
trainees would be available to take over gar-
rison work in the Islands. But immediately a
“suspension of call-up” was announced. Now,
acting on a directive from a non-Parliamentary
body, the A.L.P. conference, the Government
has intimated in effect that, compulsory train-
ing has once mere been scrapped and that Aus-
tralia’s defence will be left to a permanent array
with an island garrison of volunteers.
The decision shows once more how woefully
out of touch with the feeling of the soldiers are
Mr. Chifley and his Army Minister. When Mr.
Forde made his original call for volunteers for
the Japan Occupation Force he seemed confi-
dent that the response from combat troops
would be overwhelming. Like Carole Landis, he
apparently pictured himself beating ’em off with
clubs and handpicking his force from among an
eager 50,000. Men in the Islands had no such
illusions.
The original response was poor. But
when it became evident that low-points men
would be remaining in the Islands in any case
many plumped for Japan as the lesser evil. De-
lays and indecision have weakened the resolve
of many of these, and the Minister is still call-
ing for volunteers, even among civilians. And
this for a job of some glamor and reasonable
comfort and in a temperate clime. Yet the
Government fondly relies on volunteers for a
dull, monotonous life within three or four
degrees of the Equator.
Called-up lads committed to 12 or 18 months’
full-time training would probably plump for
duty in the Islands rather than in up-country
Australian camps. Give them, as the Govern-
ment intends, a choice between volunteering for
that job or taking civil employment and the
present garrison will stay in the Islands till their
beards are as long as their years of service to
an ungraceful country.
Among the low-point men are lads who have
had over two years in the tropics—some 17th
Brigade youngsters have seen'close on 18 months’
actual combat experience in some of the worst
terrain in the world, on the ridges between Wau
and Salamaua in 1943 and this year in the Torri-
cellis. Yet the system, Labor’s voluntary sys-
tem, which acts on the principle “let the mugs
do it for the wise guys,” condemns them to a
further indefinite spell away from home and
civil life.
Despite Hollywood and romantic novelists,
there is no glamor about life in the tropics;
and, despite horror stories, life in the tropics
is not hell. The A.I.F. has shown that white
men can, if necessary, work hard and fight
hard under any conditions. But life in the
tropics is not easy, and under Army conditions
it is deadly dull. The monotony is soul-rotting.
It need not be monotonous to new troops
who can combine realistic training with the gar-
rison job and can bring fresh young enthusi-
asm to it. The present garrison is not merely
browned-off. Its enthusiasm is burnt right
out and nothing can re-kindle it.
The job needs fresh men, without the “old
soldier” complex and with a definitely stated
term of service ahead of them. The prisoners
are now disarmed and are proving docile. Low-
point men from mainland stations should be
sent at once and called-up trainees should follow
at regular intervals.
Ministry for Ic6-chests.
Gratified noises have been emanating
from taxpayers over the news that person-
nel of war-time Commonwealth depart-
ments is to be reduced from the “peak” of
191,519 to 83,336. A Chifley report details
the reductions: Aircraft Production and
Annexes, 38,012 to 6377; Federal peace
officers, 2709 to 350; Food Control, total
staff of 1015 to go ; Department of Infor-
mation, 756 to 344; Manpower, 3006 to
1457 ; Munitions, 63,550 to 9650; Import
Procurement, total of 2147 to go ; Works
and Housing, from 60,035 to 1316.
Before people burst into loud cheers,
thqy are coldly reminded that most, if
not all, of these reductions aren’t to
happen at once. They are to come into
effect at various dates between June and
December, 1946. Sceptics recall that this
will be an election period.
As for Mr. Calwell’s D. 0.1., which has
diseminated so much Labor propaganda,
he ought to be reminded that British
Labor is abolishing the British D. 0.1.,
which really did a good job,
Post-yar Reconstruction is not affected,
though it is probably the most useless and
retardant outfit in the nation’s path back
to peace-time trade, industry and develop-
ment. It is staffed with herds of “experts”
and “planners,” and nobody inside or
outside of it seems to know what it
it doing, other than print reams of
pamphlets full of abstract conclusions.
A measure of its usefulness is a state-
ment published in Sydney:
The Ministry of Post-war Reconstruction
announced on Dec. 17 that ice would be de-
livered during Christmas and New Year
holidays on the usual four days a week.
The department pointed out that regula-
tions required vendors to place ice deliv-
eries in the ice chests. It invited customers
for whoip this was not done to communi-
cate with it.
Whereupon, we may suppose, the
Director-General and the Deputy Direc-
tor-Generals and the Directors of Ice
Deliveries (for ice-chests, household) will
go to Canberra and, after a conference
with the Minister, Mr, Dedman, issue a
solemn warning to the offending iceman
not to do it again, and set up another
Director to plan hexagonal ice-blocks as
a means of saving coal.
"Equal Before the Law."
One man in Sydney must have his own
ideas about the “firmness" of Mr. Chifley.
His name is F. L. Paul. He is a master
butcher. He lost his only son in the Ger-
man war.
At the end of 1943, when meat ration-
ing was introduced, Mr. Paul was presi-
dent of the Meat and Allied Trades
Federation. Two unionists employed by
the Sydney Meat Preserving Co. declared
that on December 17, 1943, he had
approached them with a criminal proposi-
tion of such enormity that they felt com-
pelled to report him to the authorities.
This process of reporting would have been
described as “pimping'” if some other
unionist had been the object of it, and
whoever did it would have been held up
to execration.
One of the two comrades was secre-
tary and the other assistant secretary of
a Shop Stewards Committee at the
plant where * they worked. Both were
candidates for union office in an industry
in which an unfortunate secretary, with
his equally unfortunate wife, was blown
to smithereens a few years ago after he
had been engaged in trying to impose a
“moderate” policy on a union stiff with
Reds.
To the two shop stewards Mr. Paul was
alleged to have sa'id: “What are you going
to do about this rationing? Fadden un-
earthed a scheme by Curtin to bring in
meat rationing. Curtin denied it, but
went on with the scheme. Isn’t that a
reason for you chaps to strike?”
The Government, upon hearing the two
informers, immediately launched a
prosecution. So the master butcher came
up before Atkinson, P.M., in a Federal
Special Court in circumstances of the
greatest publicity, the prosecutors seek-
ing to create an atmosphere of awe at
the effrontery of the perpetrator of the
hideous crime of “inciting” two union
shop delegates to strike. Counsel for the
defence asked one of the two union wit-
nesses if he was a Communist. Witness
refused to answer (“My politics are my
own business”) and got away with it.
One might have imagined, in view of the
fact that Communist creed is that the end
justifies the means and that Communists
are in the habit of inventing the vilest
slanders against their enemies, that it was
a question which needed to be answered
in the interest of justice.
A humorous touch could have been
added to the proceedings had anybody
mentioned that Government slaughtermen
were actually on strike during their pro-
gress, and that on the incitement of
unionists.
Accused swore that he had never had
the conversation which the two shop dele-
gates reported. He was, nevertheless,
fined £l5, the magistrate remarking:
“Doubtless the defendant did not realise
the gravity of the situation, and from his
demeanor I am inclined to think that to
be 50.... I must warn him and others
that they must restrain themselves in dis-
cussing matters of vital importance.
(Continued on page 8.)


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people*
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
„Bead
Office:
117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
REMEMBER . . .
when making your WILL
The position of Executor and Trustee of your Estate,
as nominated in your Will, entails knowledge of legali-
ties, experience in handling any complications which
might arise, and an understanding of investment
problems.
If you have already made your Will, appointing your
wife or a friend, add a codicil, making them co-trustees
and executors with the Permanent Trustee Company.
This will transfer the onerous duties of trusteeship
from their shoulders, assure permanence, stability and
faithful guardianship of all your affairs, and the wise
management of your Estate, whether large or small.
Write for a Booklet,
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W. LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
*
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. O. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
particularly at a time when the subject-
matter is a burning question.”
Paul, like the rest of the people of
N. S. Wales, victims of Communist
strikes, will have plenty of time to medi-
tate in the next few weeks, often in the
dark. He will no doubt meditate on the
fact that the present condition of affairs
is forced on the community by the law-
less incitements of Communist agitators
who nevertheless are on intimate terms
with the Prime Minister. These ruffians
are not only immune from prosecution
for proceedings which have cost the com-
munity far more than Australia’s expendi-
ture on the Boer War, but were given
the freedom of national radio stations
to issue the lawless declaration that the
power supply of Australian Iron and
Steel was “black.” And he will no doubt
rejoice at living in a community where,
as any Labor politician will inform him,
democracy is in full flower and all men
are equal before the law.
POLITICAL POINTS
Beasley has gone to London as Resi-
dent Minister, and Makin is going to
Washington as Resident Minister, with
retention of seats and Canberra portfolios
—as Menzies comments, a characteristic
way of getting round the Constitution and
dodging by-elections, one of which would
be distinctly nasty. And Keane is to be
at Washington with Makin on lend-
lease business or something. Two other
Ministers, H. V. Evatt and Fraser, have
been out of the country to no purpose for
munce and munce. If the Government
can always spare two and sometimes
three Ministers, why should the tax-
payers be put to the expense of main-
taining 19 and their personal staffs,
especially when it would be base flattery
to call some of the 19 intelligent?
The Sydney “Labor” Government en-
tered upon a two-months’ adjournment
without producing the Liquor Reform
Bill it has been promising for years, and
with “the Legislative Assembly Members’
Pensions Act, 1945,” morosely consigned
to a pigeonhole. Shaken by Lib.-C.P.
opposition to the unspeakable thing, the
“Government” retreated from opposition
mustering in “another place,” muttering
that the bill would be re-submitted in “an
amended form” next year. It won’t be.
Realising how Federal electors would
take it, Chifley, for one, will see to that.
A Sydney “Daily Telegraph” serial,
condensed:
Chapter I.—Reaction to the State Gov-
ernment’s proposal to give retiring Ms.L.A.
a pension is typical of the people who feel
little gratitude for their public men. Most
of the men who have served this country
in Parliament have done a job of work
most inadequately recompensed. A pension
of £6 a week is not an excessive pay-off.
Chapter 2.—You will probably not gee
your “Women’s Weekly” on time next
week. Work on the issue—the Christmas
issue—has stopped because of prohibition
on the use of power for the production of
weekly papers. Everything is ready to
complete the issue as soon as the restric-
tions are lifted.
Chapter 3.—The easing of restrictions is
possible because of an unexpected increase
in the amount of coal available. The Min-
ister for Local Government' (Mr. Cahill)
said weekly newspapers could print a
Christmas issue provided they did not use
more than half their normal consumption
of electricity and gas.
And so everybody lived happily ever after.
The artless revelation that the scowling
Red Fascist strike promoter McPhillips
is “Jack” to the Priminister could scarcely
have astonished members of* his union,
notably those who were fined by the Mc-
Phillips gang for working on Good
Friday, 1942, in response to Curtin’s en-
treaty, and were left in the soup by the
“Government.” Still, there was a time
when they didn’t know who McPhillips
was or where he came from, and sought
enlightenment in vain. The story goes
that Ward met McPhillips at Darwin on
the first of his visits to that port —it
was before the stampede—his curiosity
having been excited and his heart touched
by seeing the fellow doing something
remotely resembling work. When the
Minister (Labor and National Service
then) came south again he brought dengue
and McPhillips with him.
Victoria’s new Cain Government struck
trouble almost immediately. The Labor-
socialist mind running to dictatorships, it
proposed to put soldier-settlement under
one-man control. The Leg. Council de-
claring for commission control, Clarey,
who is Minister of Labor as well as presi-
dent of the A.C.T.U., “sharply told mem-
bers that the Government would not
accept the amendments, 70 of which read
‘omit director, insert commission.’ ” The
sequel showed that Clarey’s influence on
“members” is as negligible as his influ-
ence on Communist strike-promoters and
their mobs.
Australians, or those of them who have
given generously to the Food for Britain
appeals, were astounded and indignant
when J. F, Murphy, Controller-General of
Food, came out in opposition on one
of A.B.C.’s “strike-hour” broadcasts, hold-
ing that the supplying “of food to Britain
could best be left to the Government,”
and supporting the claim with flummery
about rationing. It’s because- the Aus-
tralian people aren’t satisfied that the
Government is doing what it should be
doing that ihey’re responding to the
appeals so willingly.
While the unutterable “Government”
at Canberra threw 'its influence against
the Food for Britain appeals, through its
Mr. Murphy, an example of Canada's
splendid generosity to its partners in the
war came to light on the other side of the
Tasman. Being short of wheat, partly
because the “Government” at Canberra
paid Westralian farmers just on a million
pounds for not growing wheat —this when
they had a run of fairly good seasons
while the other three wheatgrowing States
were drought-stricken—the Government
at Wellington sent an SOS to Ottawa.
By way of reply 75,000 tons of wheat
came from Canada as a free gift “under
mutual aid.” The aid furnished by Maori-
land to Canada was necessarily small, so
the gift was princely. Landed costs would
have worked out at 12s. a bushel.
Two incidents distinguished a fire in a
private home in Albury, one of which
could only have happened in Australia.
The water supply gave out and. Vic-
torian firemen pumped on the conflagra-
tion thousands of gallons of vinegar
found in vats near the homestead. The
other incident was that the Corowa
(N.S.W.) fire brigade was called out —
and stopped at the border. State rights!
In Sydney, Lascars and Indonesians,
egged on by white Communists, have taken
to charging into the Dutch shipping
offices, intent upon obtaining pay ad-
vances by force. None of them, of
course, has been prosecuted. Mr.
McKell and his Ministers would not dare
to sanction proceedings which might be
distasteful to “the canker on the
Movement” to which Mr. McKell refers
in anonymous awe.
Comrade Stalin, or his double, returned
to -Moscow from the region of Turkey’s
Black Sea border, “bronzed and fit,” and
things began to happen immediately. With
“demands” coming from a Georgian pre-
late and two professors at Tiflis (where
“Marshal” Tito used to keep the Yugo-
slav official radio), the whole of the north-
eastern provinces of Turkey and the Cas-
pian provinces of Persia are to be
delivered to Russia, the Anglo-Americans
permitting. These manoeuvres, like so
many others of the kind, are totally at
variance with the Atlantic Charter, to
which Comrade Stalin has pledged his
devotion so often, but Moscow’s copies
of the Atlantic Charter have long been at
the bottom of the Black and Baltic Seas.
The Russians’ claim to part of the terri-
tory rests on the fact that they last owned
it in the days of William the Conqueror.
It looked as if Harrison, >M.H.R., was
guilty of overstatement when he asserted
that A.B.C. gave priority to Labor and
Communist stuff in broadcasting “news”
and comment; and Boyer, the chairman,
was very angry. No one would accuse
Boyer of being partial, but if partiality
doesn’t operate in some quarter there is
no going on appearances. Questions that
cannot be dismissed with a mere Boyer
outburst of indignation concern an out-
rageous puff for Scully in a serial called
“The Lawsons” ; the employment of two
Johnny-come-Latelys, one an extreme
Zionist, to do an “Australian news
summary” ; the surrender to Communists
of part of the single hour to which A.B.C.
was restricted, the result being a biased
and mendacious version of the strike, and
the resumption of the favors extended to
Haylen, M.H.R., with presumably Daly,
M.H.R., to follow. It has been A.B.C.
fashion to give Haylen and Daly an
inordinate amount of time for their un-
important proceedings. They are both
very minor Labor members with desper-
ately unsafe seats.
Proposal for the prevention and cure
of lawless strikes:
A possible remedy lies in making the fight
two-sided; in the community going on strike
against illegal strikers. It has as much right
to forbid them the use of its post offices,
railways, tramways, banks, hospitals, and even
its police and law courts, as they have to for-
bid it the use of its railways. It has as much
right to intercept theii contributions and to
sequestrate their funds as they have to inter-
cept its mails and sequestrate its steamers. And
to blacklist professional strike-raisers —bravoes
who have no interest in industry, but murder
industry for hire —to blacklist them as voters
and politicians would be far less outrageous
than their attempts to blacklist non-strikers.
It is a poor, uninspiring battle in which one
side fights and declares that the other side is
a hound if it hits back.
James Edmond, of The Bulletin, wrote
the prescription, and it is still available.
But no “Labor” Government is game to
apply it.
A census is long overdue in Australia,
which in this matter lags behind the rest
of the English-speaking world. There
was one in 1921 and another in 1933 —
two years late —and there hasn’t been one
since. A 1946 census is proposed by
Chifley, to be followed by redistribution
of Federal seats. The way the P.M. put
it suggested that redistribution is much
more important to Our Party than a mere
enumeration of the people, plus infor-
mation about their ages, callings, reli-
gions, distribution and condition.
“Having regard to taxation and
economic policy, no individual in this
country can grow rich out of the war.”
Menzies said that during the war. He is
not a racing man, but if he comes to
Sydney and goes into the facts of the
racing business he will find out how
wrong he was. About half the racehorses
in Sydney seem to be owned by, and a lot
of the big wagering is done by, persons
directly and indirectly connected with the
Trade ; and very few of them were heard
of before the war.
“Captain Pintle”: Many weeks ago
three Dutch vessels, the Bontekoe (5000
tons), Both (2600) and Van Outhorn
(2100), came to Brisbane for refitting and
loading with food and medical supplies
for the relief of distressed people in the
Dutch Indies, largely white women and
children. After relief of their most press-
ing needs, it was the intention to use the
ships for evacuating as many as they
could carry of the thousands of them who
are existing there in misery and peril
after years of captivity in Japanese hands.
Repairs were completed, crews arranged
for (not with the Seamen’s Union), and
the ships could' have left for Java imme-
diately on their errand of mercy. But
the Commo.-led waterside workers refused
to permit their loading, and the Chifley
“Government” remains—perhaps wisely
—silent. So far as the “Government” is
concerned, I am inclined to agree with the
Mate that the only portion of the White
Australia policy which remains true to
name today is its liver.
On one of those costly and unneces-
sary trips abroad, Haylen, M.H.R., dis-
covered that “thousands of the best type
of Europeans would welcome a chance
to migrate to Australia,” He says he
had to tell them that shipping, demobi-
lisation and housing troubles would bar
them for at least 12 months, and that “in
any case, no passages can be arranged
until a carefully prepared migration
scheme has been launched in Australia,”
By that time most of the present intend-
ing migrants will have qualified for the
old-age pension a month after they land.
No doubt Minister Fraser, Lawson and
James, who have also had costly and un-
necessary trips abroad (“Join the Labor
Party and See the World”) will return
with similar “information.”
There has been a Bushfire Prevention
Week in Sydney, with the usual demon-
strations of fire-fighting and equipment.
It is the danger season for fires, and there
have been bad ones already, but firms
supplying equipment —tanks, water-carts,
pipes, pumps, nozzles, etc. —can’t get
material to make them because of strikes
and can’t rail those on hand because or
strikes, though orders from the country
are many and urgent.
Significant was the statement in Mel-
bourne of the chairman of the City Coun-
cil electric supply committee, who said
that the Spencer-street power station can
run on brown coal, briquettes, coke and
coal —so-called, though the “coal” some-
times looks more like earth and has to
be stopped from blowing out. One cer-
tain result of the latest outbreak of strike
impunity will be the development in Vic-
toria of its vast brown-coal deposits to the
point of complete independence of
N.S.W. workstoppers, whether miners or
seamen. Red Fascists or simply fools.
John Amery, son of an eminent ser-
vant of the Empire to whom Fate was
fiendishly cruel in his declining days, has
been hanged, and Joyce has failed in his
second (and last) appeal against the death
sentence. The passport declaration that
brought about “Lord Haw Haw’s” con-
viction as a traitor:
I William Joyce, hereby declare that I
am a British subject by birth, and have
been in Rutledge Terrace, Galway, Ireland.
And, not having lost the status of a British
subject', I hereby apply for a passport for
the purpose of holiday touring.
Somewhat to the astonishment of many
people, post-war British cars have begun
to arrive in Australia. In Adelaide
there was a rush of “inquiries”
for the first post-war Australian-built
body on a British chassis. No Australian.,
wants the British to have a monopoly of
the Australian car market, but there is
such a feeling for Britain in this country
that British cars, which are as good as
any other, in quality, will enjoy a new
popularity. And that is as it should be.
Dedman told an Adelaide gathering
that “there should, barring accidents, be
no difficulty in securing full employment
during the first two or three post-war
years.” Then a large and frightening “ac-
cident” occurred in N. S. Wales which
put 50,000 out of work in S.A., about
400,000 out in N.S.W., and many more
thousands in Victoria and other States.
The “accident” was riotously prepared
by Red Fascists, but neither Dedman nor
his leader nor any member of his crowd
has been game to do anything about it.


(yOond**
Special Old
PERSONAL ITEMS
Victorian Rhodes scholars for 1946
are, like their colleagues already selected
from the other States, ex-servicemen.
Lieut. A. H. Cash was captain of Mel-
bourne Grammar in 1940 and the fol-
lowing year went to Trinity for first-year
Arts. Followed four years in Army In-
telligence, including service in New
Guinea and Bougainville. He is 23.
Hugh Stretton, two years younger, is a
product of Scotch College and had com-
pleted the first year of a mixed Arts and
Law course at Melbourne Uni. when he
joined the R.A.N. in 1942. He served in
the corvettes Glenelg and Gympie.
Stretton represented Scotch at Rugby and
rowing; Cash made his school’s first
teams in football, cricket and athletics.
Brothers Keith and Frank Hampshire,
both members of the Permanent Air
Force, have fine 1939-45 war records to
their credit. Both became wing-com-
manders and both won decorations.
Keith, commanding a Boston squadron
based on Moresby, collected a D.S.O. in
1943. John (D.F.C.) commanded a Sea
Transport squadron in the same area, and
when the Japs were coming down through
Java did magnificent rescue work with
a Sunderland, loading her till the sides
were bulging with refugees. John’s air-
craft was officially unarmed, but he
bagged machine-guns whenever he could
get them, and had them sticking out all
ways through the fuselage. In the Milne
Bay scrap he flew military leaders into
the area by night and remained hidden
during the day. Altogether John flew
2000 hours about the islands; 320
hours in one month. Keith, while in
hospital with a thigh wound, sneaked out
to be at the preparations for a specially
important operation, and it took the com-
bined efforts of the squadron pilots to
keep him from going on the job. It was
on this operation that Newton won the
V.C. Both Hampshires saw the war out
in Britain, Keith in command of a Mos-
quito squadron and John running a Sun-
derland ditto.
Wing-Commander A. A. (“Bid”) Alt-
mann left a lucrative practice when he
went into the
R.A.A.F. five years
ago, and he’s now
shaping up to re-
establish himself in
it. In the meantime
he has been senior
M.O. to many
famous squadrons,
including the 24th,
32nd and 6th. In the
most hectic days of
enlistment he was
senior M.O. at No.
1 Recruiting Centre,
Melbourne, where
hundreds of men
who later became
topnotchers of the
air war daily passed
✓his critical eye. /
Not many people
live to read their
own death certificate,
but Corporal Leslie
Gibson, of Papa-
kura, Maoriland, has
seen his, which re-
cords “Killed in action in the
Western Desert, November 26, 1941.”
Gibson, a machine-gunner, was covering
his platoon’s withdrawal when a mortar
shell fell. When his comrades recap-
tured the position they found his
twisted machine-gun in a crater. Badly
wounded, Gibson had been picked up by
a German tank, but this was not sus-
pected at the time, and for over a year
his parents thought him dead. After four
years he has just parted with his last
mortar-shell fragment and is almost fit
for discharge.
J. T. Brown, of Kew, Melbourne is a
portent of the future. At present assist-
ant-director of engineering and opera-
tions in the maintenance division of the
Aircraft Production Department at
Fishermen’s Bend, he is resigning
to begin a “hire-and-fly-yourself” service
R.A.A.F. MEDICO.
in all States. Some little time ago he
bought the Kingsford Smith Aviation Co.
and started assembling a fleet in Sydney.
He bought 99 Wackett trainer ’planes and
96 spare engines from the R.A.A.F., and
after selling 39 of these he will still be
the largest individual owner of aircraft
in Australia. Business executives, ex-
R.A.A.F. pilots, the press and other per-
sons and institutions in a hurry are to be
catered for, and the cost will work out
at about eightpence a mile, which com-
pares favorably with the earthbound
motor. Chief pilot of the new co. will
be Wing-Commander Masters, who, as
chief instructor at Point Cook, got the
Air Force Cross.
Whatever his opinion of the rights and
wrongs of Britain’s loan deal with Uncle
Sam no one can accuse Lord Keynes of
being insincere when he told the country
it was the best bargain that could be
made in the circumstances. John May-
nard Keynes (his baroncy is only three
years old) was born an economist —his
father John Neville Keynes was an
authority on political economy—and first
achieved fame in 1919 when he walked
out of the jieace conference to which he
led the Treasury delegation. He found
himself unable to agree with the repara-
tions proposals, and when these were
adopted he forecast in The Economic
Consequences of the Peace just what
would happen if an attempt were made
to carry them out. The following years
proved how right he was. Round about
that time Keynes stated in everyday
language his “Cake Theory” of British
economy. Briefly it was that the accumu-
lated initiative, ingenuity and labor of the
past had produced a fund of capi-
tal which he called a cake. In bad times
pieces could be nibbled from it, in good
times they'must be replaced. The growth
of the cake was desirable; its preserva-
tion essential. On his recent trip to
America Keynes must have been mind-
ful that war had devoured the entire
cake, icing, decorations and all. But,
being an Englishman, he was probably
also serenely aware that although he had
to go to America for
ingredients, the recipe
for Jhe cake remains in
England.
Memories of the long
police hunt for Richard
Buckley, who was
wanted for the murder
of a Glenferrie (Vic.)
bank manager, were re-
vived by the sudden
death of William Pat-
rick Walsh, former
superintendent of Mel-
bourne C. 1.8. As chief
of the Investigation
Branch, he was in
charge of the search
which ended in Buck-
ley’s capture. A keen
bowler, whenever there
was a lull in the
burgling industry he
could usually be found
at Toorak Bowling
Club, and on occasion
played in inter-State
matches. Thirty-eight
years in the force, with six as C. 1.8. chief,
he retired in 1934 and was 71 at the
finish.
New secretary of the Queensland
Merino Stud Sheep Breeder’s Association
is lan Grant, an A.I.F. veteran of four
and a half years’ service this war. A
member of the Legacy Club and an
executive officer of the R.S.L., he is a son
of Brigadier-General Grant, a Darling
Downs resident for many years. Major.
Donald Grant, now at Bougainville, and
formerly with A.M.L. and F. Co., Ltd.,
is a brother.
Changes in the Bank of New Zealand,
now taken over by M.L.’s Labor Govern-
ment, include the appointment of assist-
ant general manager R. D. Moore. At
present head inspector, he has had ex-
tensive experience, including terms in
Sydney and Melbourne. In 1938, with
London manager D. F. McLeod, he
toured the United States in the interest
of the bank, and was later stationed in
London as assistant manager of the
branch. He returned to M.L. last year,
and since had been manager at Inver-
cargill and head office inspector.
Pictured here by Woolcott, Captain
M. H. St. L. Nott, D. 5.0., 0.8. E., R.N.,
on loan to the Royal Indian Navy, is in
Australia on a flying visit to look over
the facilities for naval training. He sur-
prised the average naval officer with the
information that the Royal Indian Navy
has a personnel strength of 32,000. He
collected his D.S.O. for work in Burma,
and has been associated with Australians
in the Persian Gulf and Indian Ocean.
During a speech at Flinders Naval
R.I.N. VISITOR.
Depot he spoke highly of the Australian-
built corvettes in use in the Royal Indian
Navy, In naval parlance, he’s all about.
One of the’ 1914-18 war’s youngest
V.Cs., still young in years, passed out at
49 when Sgt. Albert David Lowerson col-
lapsed and died at his home in Myrtle-
ford (Vic.). Lowerson was 20 when he
won his Cross during the capture of
Mont St. Quentin in September, 1918.
His battalion (21st) ran into a maze of
machine-gun nests. Half a dozen had
been silenced when the advance was held
up in front of a huge crater, from the
shelter of which stick bombs and fierce
machine-gun bursts were coming. After
a platoon attack had failed “Sgt. Lower-
son, realising this to be a centre of re-
sistance, urged the survivors to creep'
up and rush the crater. He himself led
and, reaching the edge, threw bomb after
bomb into the crowded enemy.” He was
wounded, but the crater was captured.
Joining up again in this war Sgt. Lower-
son helped to train the new A.I.F. in
every State of the Commonwealth. His
home town gave him a soldiers’ burial.
Sixty returned men formed a guard of
honor, and Capt. A. Borella, a fellow
V.C of the last war, was a pallbearer.
“Barty” recalls an author :
The recent sale of the high-country run called
Mesopotamia, in Canterbury (M.L.), recalls that
this sheep station, originally of about 8000
acres and now increased to over 99,000, was so
named by its world-famous owner, Samuel
Butler, because of its situation —true to the
meaning of the word —between two rivers, the
Rangitata and the Forest. It was here that
Butler, taking up grazing land about 1860,
after emigrating from England, where he’d had
a difference with his father (Canon Butler)
regarding his taking holy orders, first saw the
wild and grand scenery he was to use as back-
ground for the fabulous country of Erewfion,
and it was in a hut he built on this small run
that he lived with his shepherd and two cadets,
25 miles from the nearest habitation. Here he
wrote parts of Erewhon, and carted, by bullock
dray, a piano on which to while away solitude
with Bach’s fugues. Small and dark, Butler
/was a stimulating talker, and that, and his
■musical gift, once carried him beyond the petty
conventions of an evening-dress party in early
Christchurch, at which it is said he arrived
attired in a blue shirt and moleskin trousers.
That “his consternation was great” is hard to
believe of the author of the scarifying novel
The Way of All Flesh; the same man who rode
an exciting race from the Rangitata to Christ-
church Land Office against a rival for priority
of registration of a block of land. It was be
lieved Butler lost, through ill-judged advice
the fortune he was reported to have amassec
in M.L., but he apparently ended his days com
fortably enough in London.
“Fi. fa.”: On December 1, 1885, R. J.
Leeper was admitted to the Brisbane Bar,
Eighteen months earlier he had been
called to the Bar in London. On
December 1, 1945, the legal profession
and leading citizens of Warwick (Q.),
paid tributes to him at a gathering held
in honor of his diamond jubilee as an
active and able practitioner of the law in
Queensland. Stipendiary magistrate T. E.
Dwyer summed up the general opinion
by describing him as “the grand old man
of the law.”
When S. M. (Johnnie) Norton, secre-
tary of the N.S.W. Rural Bank, lost his
son, Sub.-Lieut, Leslie Norton of the
R.N. Fleet Air Arm, in an aircraft acci-
dent at Schofield, the Empire lost a bril-
liant pilot. Educated at Shore, young
Norton entered the R.A.A.F. on his
eighteenth birthday. He graduated with
a commission and served with the Fourth
Army Co-op. Squadron in New Guinea
and New Britain, He transferred to
80 Squadron (a fighter squadron of
the 13th American Air Force) in other
Pacific battle areas, and returned to Aus-
tralia as a test pilot.- When the R.N.
sought recruits from the R.A.A.F. for the
Fleet Air Arm he was the baby of the
first dozen to be appointed. Attached to
H.M.S. Implacable at the time of the
accident, he had celebrated his 21st birth-
day only a few days before. Fellow-
airmen speak equally highly of his ability
as a pilot and his infectious enthusiasm.
Newly appointed coadjutor-bishop of
Melbourne, Rev. John David McKie is
a young man who is well known in army
circles. From Melbourne Grammar and
Trinity College he went to New College,
Oxford, in 1933 and gained B.A. with
first-class honors in the School of
Theology. Ordained the following year,
he returned to Australia in 1936 as chap-
lain and lecturer at Trinity. When the
war broke out he became senior chaplain
of the Sixth Division, and in 1941 suc-
ceeded Archbishop Booth as senior chap-
lain M.E. Padre McKie has also served
in New Guinea ; he was Assistant Chap-
lain-General of First Australian Army
and N.G. Force. He received a M.I.D.
for his work in the north, and, leaving
the army at the beginning of last year,
was appointed to Christ Church, South
Yarra, At 36 he is only the second to
hold the post of coadjutor-bishop of
Melbourne; present Archbishop Booth
was the first.
New Professor of History at Otago
University Dr. William Parker Morrell
is an M.A. of N.Z. and Ph.D. of Oxford.
Prof. Morrell is a son of the late W. J.
Morrell, former rector of Otago Boys’
High School and Chancellor of the Uni-
versity of Otago. Born at Auckland 45
years ago, he graduated from Otago Uni.
with first-class honors in languages and
literature and went to Balliol College in
1923. Since 1930 he has been reader in
history at the University of London and
for three years prior to that he was Beit
Lecturer in Colonial History at Oxford.
John S. Gooden, who leaves for Bir-
mingham Uni. for a three years’ scholar-
ship in nuclear physics, won a S.A. Gov-
ernment bursary in 1927 and graduated
B.Sc. at Adelaide Uni. in 1940, with credit
in every subject—he gained top credit in
Honors Degree Physics in ’4l. He en-
listed in ’42 but was later discharged for
research Work on Radar with the Radio
Physics Department of the C.5.1.R.,
Sydney.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 76, Capt. John Dawson,
known on the Australian coast as skipper of
Melbourne Steamship Co. vessels. He jo.ined
the co. as master of the Brisbane in 1911 and
rose to be commodore of the fleet. During the
twenties he made many friends while in charge
of the old Dimboola. He retired in 1929, making
racing his main hobby.
At Charters Towers (N.Q.), aged 82, Morgan
Edward Lewis, for many years a leading figure
in local mining affairs, and manager of the
successful Clarke’s and Black Jack mines
through the bad years. A Welshman, he was
a foundation member of the committee which
initiated the eisteddfod movement in N.Z.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wix”: Sydney’s “festive season” this
year has been like no other Christmas-
time on record. In the city itself the
streets have been full of strike-displaced
persons queueing-up, window-shopping
and shopping, and the air reverberated
with the sound of diesel (and other)
emergency generators, from the smallest
and most querulous “put-puts” to the
big plants turning out the daily
and weekly newspapers. The ban
on electricity for sewing-machines and
irons caused Chorley, the tailor, whose
firm has more than a generation
of vice-regal connections, to in-
vestigate a back room almost
forgotten. There he brought to
light a complete equipment in
the way of treadle sewing-
machines and goose irons, as well
as half a ton of coke, all care-
fully put away in the days when
tailoring hands were afraid of
being electrocuted by the new-
fangled power machines. Chor-
ley carries on. In the suburbs,
backyard fireplaces of various
designs are one of the principal
topics of conversation, together
with recipes for home-brewed
beer and where hops can be
bought. Many amateur brewers have suc-
ceeded in making a drinkable stingo, but
filtering, corking and “getting a head” on
the stuff are the problems. Sugar,
too, now has become as scarce almost as
hops, and is a touchy domestic item. The
Trade is unconcerned, knowing it is only
the absolute impossibility of most people
getting bottled beer that has prompted
them to defy the excise laws.
“Strict Veg.”: Lud Mayor Connelly’s
contention that the restrictions put on
drinking by Melbourne wowsers have in-
creased, not decreased, the very thing
they are anxious to abolish is confirmed
by the experience of a suburban Bung.
He reports that, although his hostelry is
open for only three hours a day, his cus-
tomers are getting through 22 hogsheads
a week, whereas in pre-war days, \Vhen He
was open from morn till eve, they seldom
absorbed more than 16 hogsheads.
* * * *
“Ken” on a naval sartorial matter:
When a seaman’s suit is issued from the
ship’s clothing store (“slops”) it is “pusser.”
As worn by Jack after he has had it
taken in or let down, or, as is more often the
case, after he has had a suit tailored-to-measure
by one of the “jewing” firms ashore, it is
“tiddley.” But Jack and the tailor us lally com-
bine to produce a suit which only generally
resembles the accepted pattern. The trousers
are more bellbottomed than the regulation 28in.;
anything from 32in. to 36in. bottoms may be
favored. The opening in front of the jumper is
likely to be U-shaped instead of V-shaped. The
material will be a finer, civvy serge. The
tapes which secure the silk scarf to the jumper
will dangle proudly in the breeze a foot
longer than the approved length. Collars
will be longer and narrower, and usually of
a lighter shade of blue. An Australian
sailor can usually be distinguished from
his British “oppo” because the British sailor
generally prefers the “pusser” collar. Another
unauthorised garment is the dickey front, con-
sisting of a rectangular piece of white drill
just wide enough to cover the opening in the
neck of the jacket, and, like the shirt, piped
with blue tape at the neck. It exposes more
chest than the shirt does. These are
basic variations. It is individual creations
which bring down on the unfortunate initiator
the most drastic official action.. It is a matter
of naval history that “tiddley” refinements,
long enough persisted in, earn official sanction.
The latest ordinance permits the use of zip
fasteners on the pockets of trousers. Still every
so often an open season for official sniping
at “tiddley” gear is declared. Officers in-
specting the ranks at Sunday divisions are
alert for narrow collars, U-fronts on jackets,
dickey fronts, civvy serge, long tapes. So,
when a purge is on, the sailor Beau Brummel
stows his “tiddley” gear ashore and changes
when he goes on leave. The battle, which
started about the time of George 111, will prob-
ably go on without end.
♦ * * «
“Bronte”: There is still, it would seem,
some measure of mystery about the terms
upon which grateful Britain rewarded
(posthumously) her hero, Nelson (B.
21/11/ ’45). His widow received an an-
nuity of £2OOO. His parson brother,
who had no part whatever in the ad-
miral’s deeds of derring-do, and who, in-
deed, by all accounts, heartily disliked
him, got a lump sum of £90,000 and an
annuity of £5OOO, Some provision un-
doubtedly would have been made for the
girl Horatia, supposed to be Nelson’s
daughter by Lady Hamilton, were it not
that Nelson (who made some private pro-
vision for her while he was alive) always
referred to her as “my adopted daughter.”
Whether he really was her father is still
a matter for controversy.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Melbourne Johns believe they
have a grievance in the sale to the Gov-
ernment of the Police Provident Fund’s
“These will do, thank you —my vacuum's out of order."
£2OOO property in Latrobe-street for the
token sum of £l. Chief Commissioner
Duncan has retorted that the police got
more than its value in the amenities pro-
vided in the home-from-home created in
Russell-street headquarters. The men in
blue contend in rebuttal that this brought
their club within barracks for the purpose
of disciplinary administration, and now,
if a policeman wants to make a little
bet on a game of billiards or play penny
solo, he may find himself in the soup.
The original building on the site in ques-
tion was a dignified example of Georgian
architecture. It belonged in the first ih-
stance to a medico who kept such a
spanking table and stable that his estab-
lishment was thought good enough for
entertainment of the Duke of Edin-
burgh. During the depression, being
vacant, it was seized by 70 unemployed,
who lived there for a while unmolested
under the noses of the police. The old
mansion was then an artists’ studio for
some years and finally it was handed over
to the wreckers. Its massive bluestone
facade finished up as filling for the
Williamstown breakwater.
* * ♦ ♦
- “Frosty”; The Bulletin’s old contri-
butor Nathan Spielvogel, of Ballarat,
writing to a newspaper friend, says “I
would like to tell you of a maiVellous
discovery I have made lately. It is that
life commences at 70. All my earlier
years were just a preparation for the
gloriously happy, time I am enjoying to-
day. Browning was right: ‘Grow old along
with me, the best is yet to be.’ ” That is,
of course, the experience of every healthy
man in declining years who has congenial
interests to pursue and who is at peace
with himself. In a sense, the happy old
are, as Swinburne sang, “from too much
love of living, from hope and fear set
free.”
* * * *
“T. Cornstalk” relates the history of a
Sydney street corner;
Traffic in city property is beginning again;
and that reminds me of some of my researches.
In 1827 Governor Brisbane granted to Wil-
liam Henry Moore, afterwards Crown Solicitor,
an area of 2 roods, 4 perches of land on what
is now the north-east corner of George and
King streets at a quit - rent of 9d. per rood,
with option to buy for £63. Moore built a house,
which stood in a fine garden, but early in the
’thirties, realising that the land was far too valu-
able for residential purposes, he cut it into 12
allotments, which were sold by auctioneer Sam
Lyons on May 20, 1831. Lot 1, right on the
corner, with a front of 25£t. 6in. to Gearge-
street, and a depth of 86ft. to King-street,
brought £55 10s. per ft. of frontage, and other
portions fronting George-street were sold at
from £43 to £34 per ft. Such land prices had
never before been realised in Sydney, and the
area became known as “the Golden Corner."
Building began soon after the sale, and the
Sydney “Herald” of February 16, 1835, re-
marked that “the splendid range of shops
erected at Moore’s corner are nearly finished,
and bid fair to equal any of the second-rate
shops in London.” Good old Granny ; she’s
always been like that.
* * * *
“Redouble”: “Upanuther’s” “dictum
(B, 19/12/’45) that “chance being what
it is simply cannot be reduced to equa-
tions” will bring a tender, pitying smile
to the grim dials of bookies, insurance
actuaries and, yes, even professional card-
players. The subject is covered, so far as
cards are concerned, in two lengthy
chapter? in Hall and Knight’s Higher
Algebra —Chapter XI, Permutations and
Combinations; Chapter XXXII, Prob-
ability. These take the place of official
betting odds in estimating card chances,
a matter so well understood that Hoyle
Up to Date, latest edition, gives the
mathematical odds against every hand
in poker and on draws to fill various
hands. From this table it can be seen
that the odds against drawing three cards
pat are 47 to I—nothing astronomical
about that. I have drawn three cards of
the same sort in pat hands in three con-
secutive deals, but that hasn’t shaken my
faith in mathematics. That’s the one
science that deals in irrefutable fact.
* * * *
“Pip” on Army bookkeeping:
When the announcement appears in Orders
that “immediate steps are to be taken to bring
unit records up to date” the soldier gives a
hollow groan and prepares for some grievous
harassing. First step is a thorough inspection
of his record of service book. The quartermaster
finds an extra pair of trousers on charge and
protests that the last pair returned were not
marked off produce nothing but a cynical smile.
The pants must be found or a stoppage goes
through. Explanations are demanded as to why
specimen signatures have not been entered in
the allotted space, and why the photograph is
missing. Photographs have an uncanny habit
of just disappearing, but officers have no be-
lief in the supernatural and emit harsh words
such as “negligence” and “charge sheets.” The
medical orderlies have the time of their lives
on the inoculations page; their eyes sparkle
as they con the list of personnel due to have
more needles plunged into already speckled
arms. Kit inspection comes next, and then the
dentist examines everybody’s teeth, noting on
dental cards fillings and extractions to be
effected as soon as possible. The doctor follows
up with a check on skin diseases. As a result
half the show goes around for weeks in a mess
of green and purple dyes, darkly insinuating
that they were quite O.K. before the quack had
a go at them. The pay sergeant, “reconciling”
paybooks, invariably finds an overpayment in
the distant past, and raises debits. Unit record
sheets mark the end of the ordeal, with a bevy
of perspiring officers filling in, for the hundredth
time, the soldier’s rank, name, number, marital
state, color of hair, civil occupation—two pages
or so of such detail. It is small wonder the
final item in the questionnaire “What do you
want to be now the war is over?” produces
the weary answer “Just left alone.”
* * * *
“Jasby”: An American correspondent
interviewing General Patton claims to
have recalled to him “a British officer who
got die V.C. for saving the regimental
goat which had wandered out into No-
man’s Land in the last war, gilt horns
and all.” Patton snorted: “Posthum-
ously! That’s the only way you can get
that damned medal! ” I haven’t the
records handy, but if anyone ever won
a V.C. for saving a goat, regimental, two-
legged or diamond-studded, I’ll eat the
regimental barber. It is a fact, though,
that the world’s most coveted decoration
was not always as difficult to acquire as
it is today, “Bringing in a wounded man
under fire” won many an award in Indian
frontier campaigns, the Zulu and Boer
wars. Two officers, Lieuts. Melvill and
Coghill, got theirs for saving regi-
mental colors after the disaster at
Isandhlwana —a gallant enough feat, no
doubt, but rating only an M.I.D.
by present-day standards. The reason
the V.C. is so highly regarded is
that, although no one doubts that there
are many unsung heroes who have missed
the award, no one ever gets it without
painfully earning it. Patton wasn’t far
out in his comment on posthumous
awards of the Cross. It has come to be
a saying among troops that to gain a
V.C. you have to win it nine times and
be killed on the tenth.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Australia’s first native-
born historian was Roderick J. Flanagan,
a special writer and editor for a time of
Henry Parkes’s “Empire.” His His-
tory of New South Wales was published
in London in 1862, but the author, having
gone overseas to see his opus through the
press, found the English climate too much
for him 7 and died before his book was
in its covers, being then only 33. The
young man seems to have had consider-
able standing in the literary circles of the
’fifties. “Empire” was glad to print his
verses, and these were published in a
collected, form as Austrlian and Other
Poems —a title as stodgy and stilted as the
contents. Still, young Flanagan had vision.
He dreamed of Sydney becoming a great
metropolis, with possibly at some far
future date a population of quarter of
a million.
♦ * * *
“Sixenate”: A 59-page letter in which
a man set out to explain the reason
for his suicide was ndt the longest such
, screed known in Coroner’s Court history.
Another man covered 157 pages. In each
case the only reference in the press was
a note that “the letter indicated that
deceased suffered from delusions of per-
secution.” The suicide rate would be
cut if it were made known that letters of
the kind have no chance of publication.
The thought that the farewell words will
get big headlines in the papers and con-
found supposed enemies makes suicide
worth while for morbid people.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: An ex-internee now in Mel-
bourne had a strange experience while
in a Jap concentration camp in Java.
Her husband, a Singapore resident for
20 years, owned many racehorses and a
20-acre home, which he exchanged for
forced labor on the notorious Thailand-
Burma railway. She was captured, too,
when she tried to escape to Java. She
was lying in hospital one day when a
pepper-pot wrapped in a page of the
“Straits Times” was handed to her. In
it she read an account of three races won
by her husband’s horses with Japanese
riders.
♦ * * *
“Eureka”: Some country Bungs have
more to offer than booze and barmaids.
At Collector (N.S.W.) there are relics of
bushrangers who stuck up the hotel, in-
cluding the bloodstained sofa on which
Constable Nelson died after being shot
outside the pub by John Dunn. At Cann
River the stairway, wash-basins, mats
and other fittings were salvaged from the
stranded Riverina, and provide a nauti-
cal atmosphere. Outside the hotel at
Picton there are freak timber growths,
one limb strangely like J. T. Lang. At
Mackay (Q.) a fine private zoo brings
customers. Attached to a hotel at Mt.
Victoria (N.S.W.) there is a * museum
which draws many people who do not
like even the smell of beer. For many
years an attraction at a Nimmitabel
(N.S.W.) hotel was a talking crow that
got drunk occasionally and tried to walk
a chalkline along the bar counter. Talk-
ing cockatoos and parrots are, of course,
commonplace.
1945.
His breath grows faint, his end is near,
The summons comes for him to go;
A more than memorable year
He’s reached, it’s definitely clear,
The stage of in ariiculo.
And in the scroll of things to be,
When few of us perhaps survive,
I wonder how chronology
Will deal with Nineteen-Forty-Fivc.
Will it be starred to mark a date
For future ages to record
When those who drew the sword in hate
To ravage and to devastate
Were doomed to perish by the sword,
When jungle law went down in flames
And brutal force cou!d,no more strive
’Gainst higher motives, nobler aims,
In good old Nineteen-Forty-Five?
Will it become a milestone, this
Year of our Lord, to note the time
Of world-wide metamorphosis,
A true annus mirabilis
When war itself was made a crime?
To mend a world that’s out of joint
By all that vision can contrive
Will history fix the turning point
At fateful Nineteen-Forty-Five?
Sure, it should live beyond a doubt,
The date that saw mankind begin
The task, with resolution stout,
Of booting Armageddon out
And ushering Utopia in;
The year that gave us freedom from
The woes of war that rend and rive
(Along with the atomic bomb).
So long, then, Nineteen-Forty-Five!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“ That's ‘Lights Out,’ mum — y’ll never get him up with that.”
Plug In”; Don’t these semi-Govern-
ment authorities ever smile? With power
restrictions in full force—a limit of one
light per house up till 9 p.m. then com-
plete blackout and a total ban on all elec-
trical gadgets—Sydney County Council
splashed big ads. in the dailies imploring
home-builders to go in for all-electric
dwellings. “Don’t stint the power points,”
it urged. “You’ll need all these;
Three in your living-room—one for the
radio, one for your standard lamp, one
tor the radiator, fan, table lamp, vacuum
cleaner or polisher. Two in your bed-
rooms—you’ll be wanting to use a bed-
lamp and radiator, or bed-lamp and radio
at the same time. (And don’t forget the
clock and vacuum cleaner!) One in the
dining-room—you’ll be using a coffee per-
colator, toaster, radio and vacuum cleaner,
hour in the kitchen—you’ll be wanting
to use your jug and toaster or jug and
mixer at the same time. The third plug
is for the refrigerator and the fourth for
a clock. One in the laundry—for your
washmg machine and for your iron.
The only room forgotten is that crowded
apartment where the all-electric house-
holder (if he has any sense) will keep his
candles, kerosene lamps, fuel stove, spirit
lamp, Coolgardie safe, flat-irons, vacuum
flasks, gramophone, chemical foot-
warmers, and something to throw at the
meter-reader when he comes around at
the end of a coal strike with a bigger bill
than ever.
“Lupin” with a vignette of Sydney life,
December, 1945:
In the impenetrable fastness of his luxuri-
ously equipped underground retreat, lit now
only by the wan daylight that filtered through
a grating high on the wall, the Master Criminal
paced up and down like a caged beast. Ever
and anon his baleful, withering glance played
like icy fire upon the members of the little
band of trusted lieutenants who shared his
citadel. What new, daring, awful exploit had
their leader m mind? The walls of that splendid
atelier had seen many dreadful happenings;
what new atrocity foreboded? Suddenly the
leader ceased his pacing. His mind was made
up; his plan formed. Beckoning Killer Kelly,
chief of his henchmen, to approach him, the
master snapped his instructions: “Post the
guards; a scout at each end of the street and
a man on the watch tower.” Kelly ’phoned the
instructions. “0.K., boss,” he said at last.
“Good,” ejaculated the Master Mind. “Then
switch on the light and law or no law we’ll
brew ourselves a cupper tea on the electric
kettle!”
* . * * *
“Pitt St.”: A pointer to what is popu-
larly called “the decline in morals” has
been the complacent acceptance of the
standing of de facto wives. For reasons
of its own the Army introduced the term
in relation to Army pay allotments, but
except for the de facto wives themselves,
it is doubtful if many women support
the notion. Justice Douglas, of Queens-
land, is the first member of the
judiciary to protest against the current
trend. “It is an abominable phrase,” he
declared. “Used to cover, up what in
most cases is a shameful union by com-
paring it with • a lawful and honorable
union of husband and wife. Now we
have got to the stage where we treat de
facto wives as if they were wives—which
is a disgrace to all morality.”
“X.S.”: The first example of a de
facto widow appearing in a will case
occurred in Melbourne when Herring,
C.J., ruled that the unmarried consort
of a contractor should receive an annuity
of £156 during her “widowhood,” plus a
life interest in a cottage, unless she mar-
ries again. The contractor was survived
by a widow and 11 children. The widow
testified that her husband had installed
the other woman in a house and con-
tinued to visit his family. When his un-
official companion fell ill he pestered his
wife to join him, assuring her that he
missed her, and he became very angry
when she refused to do so. Provision was
made in the will for the widow and
family.
♦ * * *
“Bumpkin”: The Tailed Man from
Borneo, the World’s Fattest Woman, the
three-headed calf and the giant mangel-
wurzel will make their reappearance after
six years’ absention at the Royal Mel-
bourne Show on September 19 next year.
Minister for Air Drakeford has promised
that the R.A.A.F. will evacuate the place
before then, and arrangements are already
in hand for the restoration of the show-
grounds to their accustomed uses.
* * * *
“Sevener”; What intrigues me about
the more senseless type of vandal is the
amount of sheer physical strength he will
put into his efforts. One or two of him
visited our golf course recently and in-
dulged in such merry pranks as cutting
thgir initials in huge letters in the greens,
ddubling over the metal flagpins and so
forth. Also they carried a couple of
heavy tee-boxes—made of 2in. thick con-
crete and probably weighing the best part
of a hundredweight—fully 50 yards for
the sheer joy of chucking them into a lake.
But the crowning achievement was at the
14th green. This is beyond the crest of
a hill, hence a 20ft.-high target is pro-
vided, consisting of a 'couple of lengths
of 3in. galvanised piping bolted together
and bedded into a solid block of Mrd-
wood. Believe it or not, the remarkable
beings climbed that pole, and by main
strength bent it until it lay flat along the
ground. Any day now I expect to find
the clubhouse carried out and placed in
the middle of the road.
* * # «
“Buggins”: This nudity business has
some queer complications. Fifty years
ago white Australians,of both sexes who
disported along the beaches wore far
more than the average person does on
lawful city occasions today. And now, of
course, we tremblingly await the universal
adoption of French bathers for girls. On
the other hand, the original Australian,
when first discovered and for long after-
wards, suffered no inhibitions regarding
the lack of covering; even such clothing
as was worn, a skin cloak, and that only
in cold weather, swung from the shoul-
ders and seldom covered the hips. Now,
in our tropics, one is apt to encounter
few white men clothed in more than a
pair of shorts. But not the abo.; he long
ago adopted full shirt and trousers, and
would consider it in no small degree in-
decent even to curtail the latter garments.
At the same time the abo. lady adopted
the Mother Hubbard gown, and she has
very definite objections to exposing as
much of her legs as does her white sister.
♦ * * *
“Sturt”: A queer betting dilemma was
posed at Gawler (S.A.). A 20-to-l chance
won the first leg in a doubles tote, and
there were only six tickets on it. There
was an apparent certainty in the second
leg, and all six went on that. It ran only
fifth; what'was to be done with the
money? All backers had picked a double
and lost, so nobody had a claim. On
the other hand, the tote just takes its
commission and doesn’t want a profit.
Short of forfeiting- all the cash in sight,
there was only one way out. What claim
there was to a dividend the six shared
equally, and nobody else had any. So
they were given all the money in the
machine, making £4l Is. 3d. each for the
4s. ticket on a double.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: According to Dr. Julian
Huxley, atomic energy may make Australia
one of the leading nations of the world.
Her deserts may become fertile, productive
regions, great cities may flower in the
midst of the Never Never and rivers be
turned inland, all this at the cost of a
pile of uranium “the size of a double
bed.” Also he suggests that atomic energy
could be used to dissolve the icepack and
snow of the Polar regions, thus turning
foggy Britain into a land of Spanish sun-
shine.
♦ * * *
“Earpuni^her”: It was thought worth
while to cable that Lady Astor, departing
from her life-long teetotal principles, sup-
plied plentiful quantities of Devonshire
cider for 400 guests when she and Lord
Astor entertained the ship’s company of
H.M.A.S. Australia at Plymouth. It isn’t
reported how many of her guests went
under the weather. Ye olde English cider
is a very different proposition from Aus-
tralian. A colleague of mine in Borneo,
a two-bottles-of-whisky-a-day man, used
rigorously to follow the custom of inflict-
ing on himself what he considered to be
one month of complete teetotalism each
year, and during that month h? drank
nothing but Devonshire cider. Though
he went to bed drunker that month than
he did during the other 11, he attributed
his continued good health and immunity
from malaria and other tropical diseases
to his periodical “abstention.”
“Now do y' think my 'ome-brew ain't got a kick?"
Pa ntaloon ; ‘ Frosty’s” recollection of
h o e M^ tainm f« ts bxs y° uth (B-
u t recalls to me the staple and
sbeet-anchor of all such happy interludes
—the once-a-month Band of Hope swarry.
Ibere were songs and recitations dero-
gatory of the Demon Rum, but most
appreciated was the magic lantern. This
gave us glimpses of foreign lands, or
presented a series of pictures something
on the fines of the modern comic strip.
Occasionally it even provided a movie—
a kaleidoscopic pattern formed by moving
two transparent discs in opposite direc-
tions, or that irresistibly funny scena of
a man lying in bed asleep and apparently
swallowing a series of mice who crawled
slowly over the counterpane, I wonder
what would have happened had the bed-
sheet that served as a screen been occu-
pied magically for just a couple of
minutes with a few hundred feet of a
modern talkie in technicolor!
* * * *
‘S.T.S.”: Wowsers there always have
been and will be, but you wouldn’t look
in the hard-swearing eighteenth century
for them. Yet I have just come on a 1774
edition of Shakspeare, freely annotated.
In Twelfth Night” Sir Andrew, after
giving challenge to a duel, adds the con-
ventional “And God have mercy upon
one of our souls! ” This has been cut
down to “Heaven have mercy,” yet", even
so, the 1774 commentator is shocked,
“This unnecessary appeal to Heaven,”
says a footnote, “borders too much upon
profaneness.”
* » * *
XT ..P • According to Vienna Radio
Nijinsky, recovered from schizophrenia,
has been billed to dance again in New
York. He is said to be the first suf-
lerer from what the psychiatrists call
split personality” to receive insulin
shock treatment. The inference is that
the treatment cured him, l?ut there were
other factors. According to Mrs. Nijip-
sky, Diaghilelf, the wealthy dilettante
who was Nijinsky’s patron in his heyday
—he had an income of a million dollars
and spent an annual three million,
mainly on the ballet —completely domi-
nated the dancer and was furious at his
marriage. On an American tour Nijin-
sky believed he was the victim of Diaghi-
leff’s vengeance. When he leapt on the
boards one night in New York he landed
on a nail; weights fell on him from the
flies in Brazil; his musicians went on
stnke ; a newspaper campaign was started
to prove that the dancer was immoral and
the story was spread that he was the ille-
gitimate son of the Kaiser. This may
have been persecution mania, but Mrs,
Nijinsky believed these things happened.
Nijinsky made his last appearance
before a fashionable war-time audience
in Vienna. After staring at them in
silence for some time he jumped up and
shouted; “Now I will dance you the war,
with its sufferings, its destruction and its
death—the war you did nothing to pre-
vent and for which you are responsible! ”
He was taken to a mental hospital after
he had given, according to his wife, the
most terrible choreographic visions of
suffering humanity any ballet audience
has ever witnessed.
* * * #
“Ceg”: Few people seem to realise
how far the purchasing value of njoney
has depreciated in the last half-century.
The Diggers now returning to civilian
life will find that their savings will not
go far when it comes to furnishing a
house. But in 1890 a fiver would go a
long way in that direction. A price list
of Oetzmann and Co., of London, who
described themselves as “the largest pro-
prietary furnishing establishment in the
world,” quotes “Five guineas for the fol-
lowing new furniture for a bedroom
complete: Chest of drawers, toilet table,
washstand with marble top and tiled back,
toilet glass, towel rack, chair, strong iron
French bedstead, palliasse, top mattress,
bolster, pillow, toilet set, water bottle
and tumbler, fender, fire-irons, carpet,
9ft. by 6ft., and rug.” Of course, in
those days when cashing a cheque or
changing a five-pound note you received
sovereigns.
A RACECOURSE ATTRACTION.
“At a meeting of Sydney bookmakers, called in
consequence of rumors that the N.S.W. Government
is considering the limiting of betting on racecourses
to the totalisator, the opinion was expressed that ‘the
hurly-burly and battle of wits in the betting ring’ are
part of the fascination of race-meetings, and without
it the game would lose much of its attractiveness for
the public.”
Well-tended courses and swift steeds in action,
With nimble riders forging to the fore,
Afford material for satisfaction
Each passing year, it seems, to more and more,
And we’re reminded there’s another attraction,
I hough seldom emphasised, you can’t ignore:
The cries of gents whose satchels bulge with
wads,
The clamor of the clan that lays the odds.
Before each race it hits you bright and early,
II less melodious than birds in spring;
It rises like a slogan, wild and whirly,
A trumpet-call to arms or some such thing,
The vividly vociferous hurly-burly
Ever associated with the ring,
Luring the punter on to stake his dough
With some accommodating Ikey Mo.
Wouldn’t the course have something lacking
for us
Unless from time to time there were revealed
These challenges in tones sonorous
To back whatever prad to us appealed,
This pleasantly invigorating chorus
Of perfect readiness to “lay the field?”
A stimulus to wagering, you’ll note,
For which there’s no provision in the tote.
How dull ’twould be without the calls that go
on
The air jn wars between the wills and wits
Ot books who offer six to four and so on
And wary punters who opine that it’s
A bit too cramped a price to risk their dough
on,
Although their fancies may be favorites!
The turf, without the roaring of the ring,
Would be an unexhilarating thing.
What would its patrons do without the layers
Of odds, who ply their trade with force and
fire,
Swift to rake in the bunce and prompt as
payers
a should lose) as any could desire,
And adding to their jgb as sport-purveyors
The functions of a voluntary choir,
Untrained but forthright. Heaven only knows
How we should manage without Ikey Mos.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Ack-Ack”; I for one don’t doubt
“Betcha’s” tale (B. 5/12/’45) of the doe
which returned to a burrow that was
under water to rescue her kittens, for I
also had the opportunity to observe the
wonderful maternal instinct of a dumb
creature. I was fishing for mountain trout
on Tassie’s west coast, and having caught
about 20 I headed for home through a
blinding storm. Soon after starting my
tea I was puzzled by a strange swishing
sound at my door, and on opening it
found there a large female rainbow trout
—at least I took her for a female, for she
spoke in a high-pitched voice (though
that rftay have been due to her missing
her native element), and she wore an ex-
pression calculated to excite pity in even
the hardest human. Yes, she had swum
through the rain from the river. I had
mistaken her young for the native trout,
* * * *
“Esk D.”: “On’y time I ever got lorst
was in the Strathbogies,” said George.
| “I was wanderin’ about the ranges an’
i a mist came down an’ there I am, lorst.
i Well, after strugglin’ on f’r miles I git
11’ the Seven Cricks an’ put in a good
| night outa the rain which sets in thick
and heavy.” Now, I’m a bit familiar
with Euroa (Vic.) and thereabouts, and
I couldn’t help asking “But which of the
Seven Creeks, George?” “Aw, not one
of the cricks ezackly,” said he. “I finally
got a lift from where I hit the road t’ the
Seven Cricks ho-tel.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The pump broke down
and the boss sent to Mildura for an engi-
neer. He arrived on a Saturday night,
and at once revealed himself as new to
Murray conditions. Next morning Mat
was strolling along the river and sighted
the engineer with a light rod and line
trying his luck. Mat withdrew and came
up to the hut with a gleam in his eye
and words on his lips. Shortly, we made
our way down to the river and Mat un-
rolled the hank of clothesline and bent
on a hook big enough to hold a whale,
whilst I gravely skinned a rabbit. With
the pop-feyed engineer watching, we tied
the whole rabbit on that hook, hung on
a four-inch engine nut for a sinker and
heaved the line into the river. Then Mat
cut a stout springer and propped it under
the line. We made to go away. “But—
but aren’t you going to watch it?” asked
the engineer, “Aw, no,” Mat explained,
“it’ll hold any tiddlers that have a go
at the bait,” We went away up the bank
and had a good laugh, then we sneaked
to a vantage point and watched. The
engineer hauled in his own line, then
hauled in ours, eyed the rabbit care-
fully and heaved it back. He sat there,
obviously impressed, until what we’d
expected happened—the current caught
that rabbit and the springer started to
' bob. The engineer let out a yell and
| grabbed the rope. We rushed down the
bank, yelling with laughter and laid hold
of the rope. Then we yelled with some-
thing else and hauled in the biggest cod
we’d ever seen. “That’s astounding,”
breathed the engineer, “Astounding! It’s
ruddy miraculous,” gasped Mat. Then
he recovered himself and said “Well, he
ain’t much. But he’ll do.” That engineer
tried every way he could think of to
better our catch while he was there. But
he couldn’t. Neither could we. That
cod went 621 b. cleaned.
* * ♦ *
“Jim”: “Lub’s” wild holly (B.
14/11/’45) would be Oxylubium or
mountain holly, one of a big clan of
legumes. It grows freely on the
N.S.W. southern highlands. If it didn’t
bloom, as it does, in the early spring, when
nectar supplies are at lowest ebb, bees
would probably give it the go-by. It has
been my experience that they are not keen
on the greeny pollens. If we except cer-
tain early wattles, bees are not keen on
any of the legume tribe if other flowers
are offering. Outstanding member of the
clan is the ordinary fodder lucerne. Bees
rush this no matter what other blooms
are offering, and though the resultant
honey is not in the same class as that
which comes from yellow-box or the iron-
barks, lucerne honey is clear though some-
what thin.
* * * *
“E. 2”: Shorty, an unassuming little
chap, had worked on Murphy’s place for
years, and he took the blustering and
slave-driving of his boss as a matter of
course. Murphy, who sidestepped wages
awards by promising bonuses that never
materialised, put on another hand a bit
on the brawny side and set the pair grub-
“I reckon Were lucky to be alive.”
“Keep your reckoning till We’ve reported to the Old Man.”
bing stumps in the corner paddock.
Shorty was in charge and his shrill com-
mands in Murphy’s best style could be
heard well down the road, with the added
flavor of a flow of language that would
have scorched the hide off a bullock. So
far as we could see the new hand bore
it without flinching and worked on
steadily. Then one day we struck Shorty
with a beautiful shanty over one eye and
wearing other signs of combat. He gave
a lopsided grin, “Who’d ’ave thought the
silly cow would buy hisself a book on lip-
readin’?” he asked. Then we realised
that the new cove was stone-deaf.
* * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Saw a couple of
brawny lasses swinging an expert axe
among some knotty problems at an Awas
barracks at Karrakatta (W.A.) When they
met us that night they were as pleasingly
feminine as could be desired, but their
prowess at the woodheap gained them
the unstinted admiration of their most
interested spectators —a group of Italian
p.-0.-ws. resting in some near-by shade.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Mention of
that dog decoy ruse used by Gulf Coun-
try abos. when crossing crocodile-
infested rivers (B. 5/12/’45) recalls the
tactics of an old abo. whom I saw swim
the huge Fitzroy River above Derby
(nor’-west W.A.). Followed by two gins,
who had somehow maniaged to dog-
paddle and carry a host of spears and
tins at the same time, the old black landed
on a bank from where I had just watched
several large ’gators swim up against the
yellow stream. “Aren’t you frightened of
being taken by an alligator?” I asked him.
The old abo. shook his head uncon-
cernedly, then explained“ Alligator
only takem last pfella, Supposem me
cross river, me swimmum first plena ,
young pfella missus swimmum second
pfella; old pfella missus swimmum last
pfella. Supposem alligator takem old
pfella missus, no matter! ”
* * * *
“Southern Cross”: “Kwinana’s” ac-
count of Aussie lads sailing disguised out
from Fremantle (B. 21/11/ ’45) has a
melancholy confirmation in the statement
issued recently by the Defence Depart-
ment, which tells of 10 such gallant ad-
venturers being intercepted by the
Japanese just out from Singapore. They
were all lined up and shot.
* * * *
“Bamekaw”: The Torres Strait abo.
may not have any clear tradition of the
original movements of his
from New Guinea, but one of his legends
deals with a minor migration in the re-
verse direction. A group from Saibai
(the nearest island to Papua) set put,
under the leadership of one Eri, to visit
the, large mysterious land which they
could see from their shore. Lack of a
canoe did not stop them, since Eri pro-
duced a magic shell: “Binibin,” a name
since given to many native luggers. This
shell miraculously increased in size till it
could accommodate all the travellers;
then, using a sail of pigeons’ feathers,
they set off. On arrival the shell oblig-
ingly shrunk again. Thence the narrative
more or less leaves the supernatural and
with close attention to detail tells of what
could be the wanderings of a people in a
strange land. Some were slain or assimi-
lated by local tribes; the leader, Eri, re-
turned home discouraged; but the sole
survivor pushed on to the Fly River,
where, after a hostile reception, he was
transformed into a pig and accordingly
deified by his former enemies. Anthro-
pologists could find much material for
discussion as to whether the whole is pure
fiction or a folklore rendition of an his-
torical fact. It might be argued, for in-
stance, that the last of the nomads was
an emigrant who introduced the porker
to a primitive tribe and was held in grate-
ful remembrance thereafter.
* * * *
“Anyndale”: Re bullockies with re-
ligious ideas (B. 28/11/’45). During the
big 1900 drought a Queensland country
paper published some verses telling
how a number of ox-persuaders were
camped near a fast-failing waterhole
watching, to the accompaniment of much
profanity, their cattle dying day by day.
Then there arrived Holy Dan, who every
evening would pray for his stock, and
for a time he suffered no loss. Then
Dan’s bullocks started to go the way of
all flesh, and at last he was left with one
only. That evening Dan went down on
his knees, the company gathered round,
and “here’s the prayer he prore”;
“Eleven Thou hast taken, Lord,
And now You’ll plainly see,
You’d better take the bloody lot;
One’s no damned good to me.”
In the sequel the unregenerates sent up
such a shout that the lightning flashed,
the thunder roared, the floods came down
and Holy Dan was drowned. At least
one of the unregenerates was spared,
otherwise how could the tale have been
told?
# * * *
“Gravelsnatcher”: Dropped in on
young Bill after tea to find Mrs. Bill at
the sink. Bill had suspended operations
with the tea-towel to pick up the baby,
whose sobs were subsiding. “That’s
right,” Mrs. Bill chided, “spoil the child.”
It took me back 30 years. Bill’s mum
and dad were cutting banksia firewood,
and between them they were knocking up
three and a half cords a day, of which not
much more than two were contributed by
old Bill. I was passing in the dog-cart
and had stopped to say hullo, when young
Bill, parked under a shady tree, sprung to
life with unmistakable and vociferous
vigor. “What’s wrong with him?” I asked
after a while when the racket showed no
signs of abating. “Aw, I s’pose the flamin
ants is at ’im agin,” said old Bill, and he
walked over to inspect. I watched him
brush some ants off the kid’s face and
extract one or two from somewhere else,
when the subsiding noise attracted mum’s
attention. “That’s right,” she piped, lean-
ing on her axe, “spoil the kid.” Then I
knew what made the present scene so re-
freshingly familiar. Young Bill’s sheepish
grin was just the same as his dad’s had
been.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Unable to keep an eye on
day-wages blokes, Perry reckoned such
ventures unprofitable, and, waiting a strip
of back country ring-barked, he let the
job on contract. Before starting he rode
over the area, selected a few straight trees
suitable for building and picked out the
shade trees he wanted left. On these re-
serves he blazed a small cross close to the
ground. The men got to work and Perry
grinned in secret at the ground covered
by the contract men. In record time they
reported the job finished. Perry rode the
main spur, made a circuit of the area and
paid up. A bit later the trees began to
wither, and, coming on a twisted old giant
unrung, the boss inspected the blazed
cross and wondered why he had left ft.
Then, as many more showed no sign of
withering, he made a further inspection
and discovered the small blazed cross on
all the tough, overgrown and more inac-
cessible trees in the rough gullies. Two
days it took him altering the blaze, then
the best part of three weeks for “Weary,” *
the day-wages bloke, to clean up the job.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: If “Pookie” (B.
21/11/45) is speaking about Australian
abos, I can’t agree when he says that
among the primitive tribes the, sorcerer
was a rather scarce phenomenon. Actu-
ally he was plentiful, among the W.A.
tribes, at any rate. To be a “boolya-ga”
was a claim often made, though upon
what grounds no white observer was able
to ascertain. Lieut. George Grey, in his
account of his sojourn and explorations in
Westralia recounts several experiences
with such gentry. On the Gascoyne
River in 1839 the deputation that
met his landing consisted of two
elderly gentlemen possessed of super-
natural powers, which they brought into
play by distending their cheeks and blow-
ing, with the obvious intent of driving
the whites away. And when Grey, per-
ceiving nothing ashore of any enticing
nature, sheared off, these two , practi-
tioners of the dark arts no doubt claimed
a substantial victory. On attending several
native funerals Grey found the boolya-
gas very active, their job being to locate
the direction in which lived the evil wisher
who had brought about death. This was
accomplished by lighting a small fire in
the grave at the feet of the corpse and
then noting the direction in which the
ascending smoke drifted. Given this lead,
which necessarily pointed towards the
dwelling-place of another tribe, the read-
ing of certain omens then enabled the
boolya-gas to point out the definite indi-
vidual. And they were never caught out
in any mistakes since, like the doctor’s,
the undertaker buried them.
* * * *
“Naturala”: The guidance of birds in
their globe-wide migrations depends not
so much on navigational ability as on
ancestral memory. When migrations first
began, possibly half a million ’years ago,
the earth’s land masses were more con-
tinuous than at present, the intervening
water spaces much narrower, if even
existent. So those primitive birds learned
.to travel from the tropics to the temperate
zone in search of seasonal food or breed-
ing quarters. Sea erosion which created
the present wide waters took place so
slowly that year by year the increase was
imperceptible to the flocks. Thus, for
instance, we have the comparatively long
flight of very small birds across the Medi-
terranean, which sea, geologists inform
us, was at one time a depression locked
off from the Atlantic by an obstruc-
tion across the Strait of Gibraltar. So
we find such birds making a resting-
place of Malta, the Toe of Italy, the
Island of Capri, in the Bay of Naples,
still following the route their ancestors
flew when the flight was over dry land.
How ancestral memory functions is a
mystery. Man himself possesses vestiges
of it —in the dream of falling down the
abyss when pursued, of the face at the
window, dreams that torment youth but
largely pass with, age.
OLD HORSES.
Where are the good grey horses, the chestnuts
and the bays,
The blacks and browns and creamies we rode
in other days?
Old mustering days when stations were daylong
i journeys wide, ,
The cattle fast and touchy and stockmen bom
to ride!
Where are the good old horses? Nor hooves
nor hides remain,
And only in our dreaming shall we see them
I once again.
Shades of the great campdrafters, swift to the
bullock’s turn,
Through many a sleep-born vision their quick
hooves flash and spurn.
The turf of camps forgotten, where oak and
wilga break
To thrust of horn and shoulder as wild scrub
cattle make
A bid to beat the riders, for whom each mount
obeys
The touch of knee or rowel as wiry body sways.
And where the old packhorses —Prince, Polka,
I Dusty Bob?
Tip wise and seasoned stagers that often led
the mob
And slowed them in the open, though sandal-
i wood and pine,
| Through tangled hop and wattle, through
brigalow and vine?
j Sure pilots in the half-light when cattle-pads
were dim,
j Their packs undamaged through the press of
trunk and low-hung limb.
i Where are the splendid horses who proved on
| foreign sand
Of Palestine and Sinai the mettle of their land?
Good mates they were, those walers, to friends
j of camp and track
Who, by some higher order, could never bring
j them back.
Oh, sleep well, all old horses, where’er your
your dust be laid:
Old days are dead, old times are gone, but
memory does not fade.
Q.
HERBERT DAWSON.


“Here —enough o' that, or We'll have y' up for threatenin' langwidge!"
“Codar”: For training purposes our
carrier pigeons were sent to our unit in
crates: old birds that had already flown
over similar distances (50 miles) and
young ones that had not previously flown
more than 20 miles. We released them
in pairs, one old one and one youngster,
and the antics of the old chap were worth
watching when sometimes the young one
was obstinate about the direction. But
the most amazing sight was a mass release
of 30 old and 30 young birds. We released
the young ones first, and were so en-
grossed watching tl% individual efforts to
locate themselves that it was a minute
or two before we let, the others go. In
a matter of seconds these had the direc-
tion and set off in a bunch. About a
quarter of a mile on the way they appar-
ently noticed the absence of the young-
sters, which were now half a mile in the
opposite direction, circling aimlessly like
lost sheep. The old ones checked almost
as if stopped by a wall, and after a circle
or two made full speed for the strays.
By the whistle of their wings as they
passed over we could imagine what they
were going to say when they got there.
They went round the juveniles like a pack
of sheep-dogs, and in less than a minute
the whole flock was headed for home,
* * * *
“Anthropo”: “Munja’s” account of the
burial rites of the Herbert River tribes
(B. 21/11/ ’45) show a marked contrast
to those once practised by the Bibbulmun
nation of south-west W.A. The attitude
of those tribes towards their dead was
of affection and reverence; no mutilation
whatever was practised, the utmost dese-
cration being the tying together of the
thumb and first finger of each hand, with
the idea of preventing the spirit, should
it walk, from using the woomera and the
spear. But the most curious thing was
the practice on the part of the women of
kissing the dead all over the face, even
on the lips. Very few savages the world
over practised the kiss, while even among
many highly-civilised Asiatics it is un-
known.
* * * *
“C.E.”; “What we want round this
place,” declared Dad, “is a good watch-
dog. One like old George’s got, only
he wants five quid each for them big
pups. Whatcha think, Mum?” Mum
turned the idea over, decided a dog was
a necessity, and helped rake together the
fiver. The likely-looking tyke was strange
in his new quarters, and despite Dad’s
most ingratiating efforts, sat mourning
woefully on the end of his chain. About
midnight his low keening broke into a
series of barks, which presently set in,
loud and continuous. Dad whistled,
roared, swore and rolled the blankets
round his ears, all to no purpose. “Aw,
it’s no good, Mum,” he growled 10
minutes later. “I’ll have to show that dog
who’s boss. We can’t put up with this
every night.” He grumbled a way into
his pants, and, collecting the stockwhip,
took toll of the new pup. Followed half
an hour of peace before the barking again
burst forth and, growling a vivid descrip-
tion of his intentions, Dad once more
cursed his way through the darkness of
the recently irrigated vegetable plot. This
time his rage was untempered with mercy.
“Bet I’ve taught the brute to shut up
this time,” he announced, getting back
into bed. He had ; but next morning
showed the poultry-run short four' fat
gobblers and two hens.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: Little Curl, having
prinked and primed himself to the full
extent of his wardrobe and shaving soap,
headed for the New Year dance at Boun-
dary Bend, confident that Emma, the new
housemaid at the Royal, would be unable
to resist him. Sure enough, the girl
appeared to think that Little Curl was
the answer to her dreams, and she danced
closely with him and sat with him along
the wall between dances. But about the
fourth dance a long, dark, saturnine bloke
lounged in, eyed the assembled beauty
and cast a somewhat devilish eye upon
Emma. He took her for that dance and
the next and the next, and for all the
notice he received. Little Curl might have
been a knot in the floorboards or a dead
fly on the wall. Whereupon Little Curl
withdrew into the darkness and conspired
with himself. Presently he reappeared,
and, while dancing with Miss Moyje from
the school, allowed the pellets from an
opened No. 6 shotgun cartridge to dribble
upon the, floor. Thus it was that feet,
striking the tiny, hard, rolling objects, flew
this way and that, and presently the in-
terior of that hall looked as though it
were inhabited by people suddenly de-
prived of their sense of equilibrium. Then
the M.C. investigated, and a general howl
of execration went up, and the perpetrator
was sought with vengeful intent. But
he wasn’t interested, lying unconscious
where his head had hit the wall after his
feet had slipped from under him; and it
came to pass that the long, dark bloke
and Emma withdrew to the moonlight
by the river, and nobody could find a
clue either to the culprit or the point of
his act.
* * * *
“Jamtin”: Corny had a canvas-and-
bark humpy by the lagoon, and whenever
we passed he could be found hanging
over the fence with his dogs at his feet
slapping at flies, and always ready to
whinge about both. “A man,” he’d growl,
“can’t keep a bit of meat nohow, what
with thievin’ dorgs an’ flies.” We sug-
gested making a safe; and he spoke
vaguely about “some day when ’e ’ad
time.” A few days later, when passing,
we found Corny eating his tea with great
satisfaction, although the meat didn’t
look good. “I fixed ’em,” he grinned,
pointing -to a piece of wire-netting en ;
casing half a rabbit, which hung from an
overhead limb. “The dorgs can’t take it
all flow, an’, apart from a few flies get-
tin’ in, a man can keep a bit of fresh
meat to tide ’im over.”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: In his list (B. 24/10/’45)
“Zake” missed the primest use of the
dead marine —as a jam container. A
suitable wrought-iron ring—heavy fenc-
ing-wire will do —heated and placed
round the marine, just above the waist,
followed by a dip into cold water, and
there’s a jar. Have cut hundreds and
seen thousands, all used for home-made
preserves. Again, I’ve seen them used as
path borders, or buried bottom up, as
the pavement itself. Have also seen more
than one hut built of them ; and I came
upon one cove smashing up thousands of
them for use as a substitute for stone in
concrete work. Cement adheres to glass
“closer than a brother.”
“Betcha”: “Nagheer’s”
sensitiveness regarding his
northern climate (B.
14 /11 / ’45) reminds me of
a little bloke who blew in
here one time and called
for a Jimmy-Woodser.
“Ain’t as good as y’ get
where I come from,” he
remarked in my direction.
“Man’d soon go to pieces
drinkin’ that, eh?” “What’s
the matter with it?” I
asked indifferently. He
laughed amusedly, and
called for another. Pre-
sently Big Larry arrived,
followed by a smart-look-
ing sheep dog. The dog
dropped quietly at the big
fellow’s heels, and after
staring at him a moment
the stranger’s lip curled de-
risively. “Can’t breed
tykes here like we got m
Godnoswhere,” «he re-
marked. “Better stock, I
s’pose, an’ better trained.”
“Gripes, this bloke’s not
bad,” defended Larry, rub-
bing file mong with his
boot. The stranger burst into a series of
chuckles, and turned his attention to a
couple of drovers entering the bar. He
glanced through the door into the street.
“Herefords, eh?” he went on. “Quiet,
ain’t they. Up our way cattle take hand-
ling. Blokes are smart up there though,
an’ tough.” “Baldy” Bob looked the r^nt /
over and inquired what made him think
he was seeing a weakling. He was an-
swered by another burst of guffaws.
“Who’s the rabbit?” “Baldy” asked as the
cove moved off. Bung grinned. “Bloke
from up north,” was the reply. “Troubled
with one of them inferiority complexes,
I s’pose.”
* * * *
“B. C. Ack”: A sick Jap prisoner lay
in a N.G. hospital. He was emaciated,
silent, his face impressionless. An Aussie
offered him a cigarette, which was
ignored. Later, to the Aussie’s surprise,
the Jap accepted a smoke from a Yank.
Possibly he preferred American tobacco,
but, after a single draw, he closed his
eyes and quietly joined his forefathers.
The Yank gaped; then, bearing an opened
packet of cigarettes, he hurried off in
search of more Japs.
* ♦ * #
“Bo”: “Medical science,” said the long
bloke with the walrus moustache, “may
be right enough in its way, but it can be
overdone. It dished me out of a forchin
once. I useter do a bit o’ runnin’ up on
the Noo South Northern Rivers in the
old days—there was good money to be
picked up, too, in stakes and side bets.
The starter at most o’ the meetin’s I run
at was a little wizened-up bloke, very
’ighly-strung. I notices one day that
about a split second before he pulled the
“The darned thing's locked!"
trigger—it was in the days before they
introduced the double-gun start—the
left side o’ ’is dial always gave a twitch,
I’d be down on me mark, and I useter
screw up at ’im from under me armpit,
As soon as I’d see ’is clock twitch I’d
beat the gun. I was on a snifter cop.
Well, about a month after I’d been run-
nin’ up on the Richmond I goes to a big
meetin’, the last o’ the season, down on
the Bellingen. The same starter’s there,
an’ if I can get that split-second break
on the field I reckon I’m a skate. The
prize is worth 50 o’ the best, an’
I’d backed meself with every bean
I had. We’re down on our toes an’
fingertips, an’ I’m peekin’ up at the starter
under me arm, tensed for the dial signal,
when the dam’ gun goes orf. What with
the shock, I do in another half-second
and I gets pipped by a foot. Lfound out
later that the starter’s missus had bullied
him into goin’ about his nerves to a new
quack that’d set up his shingle in the
town, an’ the cow had cured him! ”
* * * *
“Blime”: It had been hard going for
many years, and now with a couple of
good seasons that left a credit balance,
Charlie’s long-dreamed-of plan started to
take shape. First he bought a second-
hand truck, and, setting it up in the back-
yard, began making over the body to his
requirements. As low to the ground as
it could be fixed, he then built up the
sides and fitted a roof. Next, a hinged
ramp was added at the back, the railed
sides also folding for easier transport
when not in use. Charlie had just finished
it when Bert dropped in. “Not bad, eh?”
suggested Chari. “Gointa use her for
musterin’,” Bert nodded, eyeing the con-
traption thoughtfully. “ ’Course, she won’t
be no good on the hills,” Charlie went
on, “but she’ll save a lot o’ work, just
the same.” He stood back to gaze ad-
miringly at his handiwork. “Many a
time in the last 15 years I’ve promised ’em
this,” he chuckled, “an’ they can’t say I’m
lettin’ ’em down.” He stopped to collect
an old manure bag and spread it on half
the seat in front. “That’s for Nigger,” he
explained. “Bet he’ll be .tickled pink.”
Again Bert nodded. “Yair,” he mur-
mured, “but it’s all that back arrange-
ment I mean —wouldn’t a single-
seater bin better?” Charlie stopped,
aghast. “What!” he challenged. “An’
let me ol’ nag walk! ”
* * * *
“B. A, Ker”: Negotiating the bend the
lorry rumbled down the coast road into
Austinmer (N.S.W.). Blissfully unaware
that the barrels of beer which comprised
his load were waddling to the edge, paus-
ing a moment, then dropping off like para-
troops bailing out, the driver returned
the waves directed at him and kept going.
Only on reaching the little township did
he sense the significance of the friendly
waving and apply the brakes. A couple
of barrels were chasing him down the hill
—one carrying a “No Parking” sign be-
fore it and the other crashing into
and breaking a treeguard. One had rolled
off the road and (appropriately) come to
rest on the parking area. Two more had
bumped over the green, rumbled across
the concrete promenade and now rested
on the sand. Another barrel was re-
ported as having gone “flying down the
hill back there,” While the biggest, which
had taken off at the crest of the curve,
had hurtled cliffwards, bounced down
about 30 steps —fortunately encountering
nobody in its path, but shattering and
cracking the concrete under its impact-
and now lay at the foot of the cliff
haemorrhaging beer into the sand. Amid
sympathy for the driver in his depression
as he tried to replace bungs and hammer
the hoops tight, two bright spots stick -in
my memory. One: the happy, dazed ex-
pression on the face of a small boy who
had been rubbing his hand up the sprung
seams and ecstatically licking the frothy
seepage. Two: the lost beer was the
Christmas ration for striking miners.
NEAR KOSCIUSKO.
This little tarn is magic—a crystal cup
Holding a mountain image two miles high,
Where great, belled cattle come each night to
sup
On col and crested snow-gum, dimming sky.
And winter earth, barren and iron-bound,
Is a warm cage for summer butterflies
Sleeping in darkness till the year swings round
Through the bleak months when rainbows
walk the skies.
O forest place, where mosses creep like mice
From root to quiet roof, keep always now
Your upland stillness that is paradise,
And never feel the iron tooth of plough!
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY. MOREE,
CUNNAMULLA, TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
KILL the RABBITS with
CyanogaS
—but it’s the Buzacott
BLOWER that makes it
easy.
(Regd.)
A small quantity of
Cyanogas blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead—even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9 ; 251 b. tin, 58/8;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
To% n T buzacott-wolseley pty., ltd.
out Australia
through. l n MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
FOOT-PUMP
o cheap and
d
'
LYSAGHfS
.4 *
PROOF
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
1
■ >
ill
-
m
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable 1 * from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agertts.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LTSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE METTIN G. ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Beef Quality.
“Beefo”: I was on a station for several
years where the percentage of breeders
culled out was about 3 p.c., though an
abo. wouldn’t have regarded 10 p.c. as
too heavy. On an adjoining station all
cows not up to a rigorous standard were
speyed or sold. The greatest tyro in-
specting steers of fattening ages on each
station could not have failed to see the
difference. Absurdly enough, about twice
as much was paid for bulls on our
station.
If a herd is to produce good beef judi-
cious but rigorous culling of the breeders
must take place yearly. If speying isn’t
practicable culls should be sold. Any
price is a good price so long as they’re
got off the place. It’s better to keep one
old cow showing quality than a dozen
poor heifers. Culls never improve with
age, though *a remarkable number of
managers think they will. Once on the
down grade it takes years before a herd
can be brought back to normal and the
best bulls cannot improve it whilst in-
ferior breeders remain. Culling must be
done more thoroughly in the future if
the standard of our beef is to be raised.
The Utopia Ahead?
“E. 2”: Some new systems will have to
be evolved before dairymen can join in
the “undreamed-of future” (B. 28/11/’45).
As it is the cows have control over work-
ing hours, and there’s at least 12 hours
between the first cow in the morning and
the last ?.t night. Between milkings is
precious time for work in the paddocks.
Harvest comes in the flush of the season
and every minute of daylight is valuable.
Granted that machinery has done much
to eliminate the drudgery of the yard,
the time-factor can’t be .disposed of.
Under union patronage, of course, shifts
would be worked, thus making employ-
ment for a great army of seasonal
workers for half the year and producing
butter at from five to ten bob a pound.
Who’d buy it at that I don’t know. Then
there’s the taxation angle, which is a
serious bar to production above a cer-
tain limit on the present scale.
Between seasons is no holiday, either.
Care of stock and pastures must go on,
and a lot of maintenance, improvements
and repairs is necessary. Most farmers
can drag themselves away for a bit of a
much-needed rest, but the work mounts
up. A prosperous future with a 40-hour
week and concessions is hard to visualise
in cow country, and it’s no wonder many
farmers are turning their eyes to the cities
and the good times being had by all in
them.
Carrying Capacity.
“Pat Ater”: L. Skene, of Blayney
(N.S.W.), has about 600 acre's of good
carrying country in a district of lush
natural pastures. But natural pastures
won’t carry 1000 ewes and turn off 600
prime lambs from 600 acres. Skene
believes in pasture improvement adapted
to the particular class of country he has.
Some grasses have not proved themselves
at Blayney. On this 3000 ft.-high plateau,
the winters are often severe with snow
and piercing‘westerly winds. Rainfall is
round about 30 inches.
There is a well-established stand of
perennial rye, sown many years. This
makes lush feed in a good season, but
nothing excels cocksfoot, which over
recent drought seasons stood up better
than othdf grasses. One hillside of this
pasture stood out green and satisfying
right through last summer’s dryness.
A paddock of Phalaris tuherosa,
neglected until its value was established,
is now being replanted, as root-tufts are
“Now that buildin restrictions are eased a bit We might do somethin about
that leak in the gutterin' .”
increasing under husbandry. This Phalaris
patch must have been put down by the
previous owner as long as 30 years ago.'
The paddock of Phalaris with sub-clover
should make excellent winter grazing
when established. There should be no
difficulty in keeping it low and tasty to
stock under this intensive pasturing and
stocking.
But it is to winter grazing of oats that
Skene pays highest tribute. He got in a
good patch before the dry winter stopped
germination in 1944 and had it for fat-
tening and. lambing through that winter.
As a result 500 prime lambs went to
market. Red clover comes in for some
praise, too. Skene is a believer in rota-
tional grazing, with paddocks divided to
run stock and make the best use of pas-
tures provided. He also strongly advo-
cates mechanised sowing, harrowing and
harvesting. The pool of machinery estab-
lished in his area to facilitate quick cover,
sowing and transport of crops for can-
ning has his enthusiastic support.
In the pooling of tractors, reapers,
gatherers and vine-carriers (to take off
the pea crops) he sees a big advance in
Australian agriculture practice.
Dalgety’s Review.
“C.S.”: In its 47th. annual review of
the Australian and New Zealand wool
trade Dalgety and Co., Ltd., have nothing
but praise for the war-time appraisement
schenje, but point the lesson that, though
it was under “control” by an executive
body, the actual working of the scheme
was in practical and experienced hands:
The trade was able to handle huge sup-
plies,, given the requisite facilities, and the
Central and State Wool committees saw
that these facilities were provided.
Drought, of course, kicked the 1944-45
figures to pieces and it ought to, give the
Federal Government concern that the
wool cheque was down by over
£11,000,000 as a result. Total payments
through appraisement over the six seasons
amounted to £400,063,791, something
over an average of £l9 a bale for the
21,025,545 bales of good, bad and indif-
ferent wools handled, for which Australia
is eternally indebted to Britain.
The co. doesn’t fear artificial fibres,
rightly pointing out that “Australian
newspapers are prone to give prominence
to extravagant claims made at frequent
intervals by the champions of some new
fibre or other the more breath-takin"
the claims the larger the headlines...?
What is not given sufficient publicity is
the fact that scientists who are engaged
upon research for the improvement of
wools and its products are achieving very
remarkable results which must inevitably
place wool still further ahead of its
imitators.” .
On the new Joint Organisation for the
marketing of surplus and post-war wools
the review has little to say, since it was
in the hands of the printers before details
of the scheme could be announced. But
it does comment on one peculiar aspect:
Although woolselhng brokers and wool-
buyers’ delegates attended as advisers from
. K l? gd S ym ’ South Africa and
ment, for some refmfned
from nominating any Australian representa-
tiv6s of the buying and broking sections,
despite the fact that Australia must neces-
sarily handle a'much larger quota than any
of the other countries. ,
In addition to these things, Dalgety s
Review this year is probably one of the
best things put out on the wool and
allied trades. It covers practically every
aspect of the industry and is packed with
useful facts, summaries, statistics, state-
ments and history. Nobody interested in
the wool industry should be without it.
Preserving Fence Posts.
“Bill C.”: Queensland Department of
Agriculture recommends creosote for pro-
tecting fence posts and house blocks
from destructive fungi, termites and
borers (B. 25/7/’45). Fence posts should
be stood in empty 40gal. oil drums which
are then almost filled with a two-to-one
mixture of creosote' crude oil. Light a
fire under each drum and heat its con-
tents to 210 deg. F., taking care that the
inflammable'stuff does not spill. Four
hours later the mixture is allowed to cool,
but the posts should be left in the cool
creosote and oil for a few hours.
The department says that instead of
“boiling” the posts for four hours, fencers
may dip posts into the heated mixture
for a time, then haul ’em out and im-
merse for four hours in another bath of
cold creosote and oil. But this second
method is risky to the operator.
House blocks, piles and fence posts
already planted in the ground should be
painted with creosote and kerosene (equal
parts). More than one painting is usually
required. Be sure to get a brand of
creosote that will mix with kerosene. y
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”; With the exception of
common salt a sheep will get all the
minerals it needs in its natural food. In
a number of Victorian districts there is
enough salt in the water supply,- but if
there is no natural supply of salt pro-
vide ioz. per head daily or between 41b.
or 51b. per head per year. Salt stimulates
the appetite and aids digestion, and sheep
receiving it do better, fatten more quickly
and grow more wool than sheep on a salt-
deficient diet.
“E. 2”: Make crash pens for feeding
calves —a series of feeding pens after the
style of bails—in which only one poddy
may enter each pen. They quickly learn
to take nourishment in this fashion, the
scramble of feeding-time is avoided and
the habit will come in useful later when
the heifers are in. The crush may be
made from sawn rails or saplirtgs, and it’s
wise not to space them too much. The
pens, side by side, are about the width
and length of a poddy and open at the
rear. At the feeding end a small barrier
will prevent overturned feeding buckets
or a trough with sections may be fitted.
“Pat o’ Day”: Treat seed wheat against
insect attack with magnesite or copper
carbonate powder before, the wheat is
bagged or stored. Magnesite mixed with
the grain at the rate of about lOoz. per
bushel will effectively prevent develop-
ment of weevils.
“C.L.”: For a tick-poisoning antidote
try boiling two handfuls of freshly picked,
young bracken fern fronds in two large
cups of water. Boil it down to one cup.
Strain and give the liquor to the affected
animal. A dose every two hours, reduc-
ing to 3-4 hours with recovery. Give
small drinks of strong, black tea every
now and then. Animals take kindly to
the treatment, particularly dogs.


Missing Friend.
TO ROBERT HUTCHINSON GRAHAM formerly of
13 Railway Parade Dandenong in the State of Vic-
toria Laborer but now of parts unknown. —TAKE
NOTICE that your wife ETHEL MAY GRAHAM of
34 Green Street Windsor in the said State married
woman has instituted proceedings against you for
divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office Law
Courts William Street Melbourne in the said State
on or before the Ist day of February 1946 the said
suit will proceed in your absence and a Decree for
Dissolution of Marriage may be granted and you may
be ordered to pay costs If you intend to defend this
suit you must also file an answer in the said office
on or before the 11th day of February 1946. —■
EUSTACE L. J. MURPHY, of 40 Queen Street, Mel-
bourne, in the said State, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
IA
V«
I. 11. v
11
'll
&
'im
M
//
an
n:
d
2^
4
“Fair cities on western plains far out
“It is they who will set fair cities
On the western plains , far out;
They who would garden the deserts —
It is they who would conquer the drought.
They see to the dykes on the skyline.
Where a dust waste blazes to-day,
And they hear the lap of the waters
On the miles of sand and clay.”
—Henry Lawson.
.... ,
: . .
..
.
mm
4i< -*4'^
Sw
t ♦*»
111111
;
m
■ ;
mm
m
#4
dMyy*#b» ♦»>, Hi Jv r « **
y. A ;&i?
ass
i3O tf.P. Caterpillar Diesel D 8 with elevating grader
making a road somewhere in Australia.
If Australia is to find a prosperous living for the millions of people necessary
to hold it safe ... we must make plans now for speedy development. The
population, which clings to its seaboards, must be offered a prosperous stake
in a bountiful hinterland made so by water conservation, irrigation and
cultivation. The fear of loneliness and isolation must be banished by quicker
means of communication. Out there where now lie loneliness and waste,
great cities must be built in the future. So that this gigantic task can be done
within our national budget only the most modern equipment should be used.
CATERPILLAR D/£S£C
lIS. U.(. PAT. OPP,
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. ’Phone—LAS 321. Marquis St., Gunnedah. ‘Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr. J. A, Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton, Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie.
‘Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane.* 'Phone — Jl4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfaU 475.
CTS-33-43
fv
5788
CRAVENA
ijotiU Mpueiatt Mm
wtitemdfajf tpuM&f -
Obtainable In 10 9 s & 20 9 s
%
■xm.
. . .*:*•*
mmmmi
IW A
SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Commonwealth Income Taxation, by
J. A. L. Gunn—3683.
Information Sought.
Biographical details of John Masefield and
some of his notable works?
Born in 1875 at Ledbury, England; ran away
to sea at the age of 14 and settled in London
in 1897 to devote himself to writing. Poet
Laureate from 1930 and member of Order of
Merit, 1935. Some of his works are Salt Water
Ballads (1902), The Tragedy of Tompey the
Great (1910), The Everlasting Mercy (1912),
Gallipoli (1916), Dead Ned (1938), Generation
Risen (1942).
H= * * *
What adhesive is used in sticking substances
(1) to clear celluloid, (2) paper ?
(1) Dissolve one part gum camphor in four
part's alcohol and add one part shellac and
apply warm. The united parts should not be
disturbed until the cement is hard. (2) Dissolve
2oz. clear shellac. 4ft. oz. methylated spirit
and 311. oz. spirit of camphor (a 10 p.c. weight
in volume solution of camphor in methylated
spirits). The mixture will be slow to dissolve
and should be allowed to stand overnight in a
tightly-closed container. If the shellac is not
dissolved after 24 hours, the mixture should be
cautiously warmed over a water bath. This
adhesive should be stored in an airtight con-
tainer. After applying, the parts should be
clamped together. About 24 hours will be re-
quired before hardening is complete.
% $ * • %
Some information about the harvesting and
marketing of wattle bark?
The bark is stripped from the trees when
they are in bud, usually from September to
December. The tree is ringbarked about 3ft.
6in. from the ground,-and the bark opened, and
pulled downwards in strips as broad as possible.
It should not be chopped olf at' the base of the
tree as. bark still adhering to the root collar
will be lost. All bark above the ring to where
the tree is over lin. in diameter should then be
taken off; if the tree is is usually felled.
The bark is cut info 3ft. 6in.‘ lengths, made into
bundles, with the sap side facing inwards, and
tied with pieces of bark rope placed 18in.
apart. The bundles are placed on pieces of
wood (to prevent mildew), for drying. Each
bundle should weigh about 561b. when dry.
The bark is harvested from eight- to ten-year-
old trees, as bark on older trees cracks, and
the percentage of tannin decreases. Bark of
black wattle brings about £13 per ton, price
varying with quality. John Bunce and Sons,
31 Edgehill-street; J. Bayley and Sons, Lord-
street; and J. Chegwyn arid Sons, Lfnderwood-
street, all of Botany, N.S.W., buy wattle bark.
Brief Answers.
A.C.: Honors score whether the bid is suc-
cessful or not; no points for honors are scored
in match-point play... .J.M.: Howard Auto
Cultivators, Windsor-road, Northmead, Syd-
ney... .G.H.T.: Try Westralian Agricultural
Department E.P.K.; Get in touch with Mr.
Honeyfield, Station 2UE, Sydney M.D.F.:
It was considered some years ago that the addi-
tion of salt was necessary to obtain success
in growing asparagus, but American experience
has indicated that whilst applications of salt
may help under some conditions, its use is
seldom justified when asparagus is well fertil-
ised W.P.T.: (1) The book is not yet on sale
in Australia, but it is expected soon. (2) The
book is One Who Survived, by A. Barmme.
Inquirer: In March, 1911, all Portuguese
over 21 were given a vote R.P.W.: Micbau,
Wig-maker, 160 Castlereagh-street, Sydney....
J.R.; (1) No record of Bob Fraser winning the
Australian light-heavyweight title. (2) Fraser
defeated Lang on a foul in 1905 and on points
in 1906. The weights in each contest were
Fraser 11.8 and 11.10, and Lang 12.9 and 13.0.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
Lay off the spooks P.M.: Weld
“Bits and Pieces” into some sort of form and
come again R.N.F.: A string of dreary
anecdotes PH.: Try a woman’s paper....
jSMcN : “Dude Jake” and “Highball Bill”
seem strangely out of place in the»Riverina. ...
seem aiidiigciy y „„ .1
F.K.: Ditch two thirds of the adject ves
all the exclamation marks... .C.H.H.: Its
pleasantly written, but the story trails away
into nothing F. 0.5.; Stilted S.E.: You’re
riding pretty roughly P.K.: The idea is
good enough, but it breaks down every few
lines M.C.M.: “Why try, why try, why
try?” you ask. We can only answer “Why
tty u 5?”.... T.P.: Can’t leave them out:
Christmas came; the ducks got fat—
There wasn’t enough gas to cook a sprat!
The miners all on strike had went,
Let’s hope the blighters are now content!
K.S.J.: “Out upon it!” It’s archaic, but we
echo it S.T.W.: If you must be dull, try
not to be dismal. If you must be dismal,
please don’t send your laments to us G.A. :
Get out! P.M.: Poisonous!


BOOKS TECHNICAL
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics Engineering
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry-
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Badio
Refrigeration
Bound Projection'
Slide Buies
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE,
s, (
m
sw
m
... attafyoui cat
Already from the rich oil lands of North America has
come the NEW CAETEX MOTOR OlE...and soon will
come other Caltex petroleum products—Motor Spirit,
Lighting and Power Kerosenes, Distillate —each as advanced,
in its own sphere as the New Caltex Motor oil, that has
so quickly established itself as
TOMORROW’S OIL—TODAY!
car
CALTEX
T/iwuq/ieiit fastra/ia,..
The "Curvilinear” Concentrating Table
SEND FOR
BULLETIN
AND
PRICE.
m
SIMPLE
AND
RELIABLE.
We are the patentees and manufacturers of this table. Call for a
rln nkn nuote for all classes of mining machinery, including stamp batteries,
»= sa
Electric motors and Ellison switch gear.
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED,
Sole Patentees and Manufacturers,
10-12 PARRAMATTA RD., CAMPERDOWN, SYDNEY, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Electrolytic Zinc Co. of Australasia, Ltd.
f Dividends N
Pref. Ord. Written
June, Profit, p.c. p.c. Total. Off. Reserves*.
1935.. 402,956 8 5 175,000 148,008 431,185
1936.. 497,247 10 10 260,000 175,544 492,888
1937.. 691,344 l7i 17i 455,000 154,521 574,711
1938.. 604,802 15 15 390,000 144,774 644,739
1939.. 503,532 15 15 390,000 96,577 661,694
1940.. , 563,096 14 14 364,000 112,503 748,287
1941.. 451,640 14 14 364,000 86,318 749,610
Taxes short-provided, £87,500 .. 662,110
1942.. 459,611 9 9 252,952 121,910 746,859
1943.. 406,759 9' 9 270,000 88,999 794,620
1944.. 389,920 9 9 270,000 72,346 842.194
1945.. 502, 9 9 270,000 152,764 921,965
•Excludes depreciation revenue £3,163,307 at
30/6/’45.
After making a handsome contribution
to the war effort, and to Australia’s in-
dustrial progress before that, the enter-
prising management is now turning atten-
tion to further widening and expanding
the co.’s activities. This means addition
to the national income, together with in-
creased employment and all the other
benefits that go with it.
Including net additions to the deprecia-
tion, reserve, the co.’s net earnings over
the five years to the close of last accounts
averaged £442,055, compared with an
average of £572,004 for the preceding
quinquennium, when zinc sold at figures
based on prices ruling in world markets,
plus the usual premium for quality.
For the improvement in last term’s earn-
ings shareholders can thank higher prices
for spelter and by-products in export
markets. The Australian price of zinc is
fixed at £22 a ton, and has been since Feb.,
1940. In the U.K. the figure is now £S.3I ss.
(=£A39 Is. 3d.) a ton, and in U.S.A,
8.25 cents a pound (=£A57 4s. 3d. a ton).
Since the British contract for purchase
of the co.’s exportable surplus of the
metal at £SIB a ton, plus increased war-
time costs, ran out in August last, this
surplus has been taken care of by sales
to India, U.S*.A. and some liberated Euro-
pean countries. The co. is now in the
anomalous position where increased Aus-
tralian sales of its main product, which
should be a prime national objective, will
adversely affect financial results.
The next table shows how war-time
production was stepped up, despite man-
power and other difficulties:
Cad-
Zinc, Silver, Lead, mium, Copper, Gold,
Tons. Oz.* Tons. Tons. Tons. Oz.*
1939- 437,550 2,873 172 238 4,070
1940- 551,400 3,172 163 251 3,291
1941- 455,060 2,834 183 258 2,534
1942- 339,025 2,517 160 214 1,834
1943- 258,394 2,588 168 168 1,380
1944- 377,885 2,479 202 200 2,101
1945- 400,960 2,060 254 164 2,003
* Excludes residues from cadmium plant.
The contraction of 1296 tons in last term’s
zinc output was due to industrial trouble.
Without interruption output would have
been about 3000 tons ahead of the 1944
figure. In addition to the items shown
in the table, the year’s production in-
cluded 82,873 tons (up 17,168 tons) sul-
phuric acid, 28,941 tons (up 4529 tons),
superphosphate, 1535 tons zinc dust, 358
tons zinc sulphate and 12.88 tons cobalt.
The board figured the year’s profit at
£324,491 (up £31,917), which is recon-
ciled with the figure in the table as
follows:
1945.
Profit and loss balance £824,491
Add: Addition depreciation reserve .. 152,764
Unexplained addition gen. reserve 12,250
Reserve for ore depletion.. .. 25,000
£514,505
Less; Appropriation new plant, etc. .. 12,250
Added intangibles .. .. .. 10
Profit per table .. .. .. £502,245
The net addition to the depreciation re-
serve (now £3,163,307) is included with
profit and then shown as written off. The
balance (£349,481, up £31,907) was 11.6
p.c. on the £3,000,000 capital (half of it
8 p.c. cumulative participating), compared
with 10.5, 10.5, 12, 14, 17.3 and 15.6 p.c.
back to £1939. The div. was kept at an
all-round 9 p.c., money being wanted for
further expansion of the undertaking.
The West Coast mill at Rosebery (Tas.)
treated 123,454 tons (down 19,024 tons)
ore from the co.’s own mines there. Ore
extraction was cut in halves for about
four months owing to a dispute with
underground miners. Average assay value
of mill feed was 19.6 p.c. zinc, 5.96 p.c.
lead, 0.57 p.c. copper, 7.120 z. silver,
2.osdwt. gold. Production was as fol-
lows :
( Assay.
West-Coast:— Zinc, Lead, Copper, Silver, Gold,
Tons. p.c. p.c. p.c. Oz. Dwt.
Zinc
Cons. ..37.523 65.20 2,90 0.35 3.30 0.64
Lead
Cons. .. 8.075 16.80 58.60 0.53 22.80 4.62
Copper
Cons. .. 3.588 18.70 17.90 10.54 125.70 34.70
Residue ..74.268 1.95 1.20 0.20 1.60 0.91
In addition, 131,921 tons zinc concen-
trates —over two-thirds of the co.’s total
requirements—assaying 51.92 p.c. zinc,
1.18 p.c. lead and 1.430 z. silver, were
bought from the Barrier cos.
Ore blocked in the West Coast mines
remains around 1,500,000 tons of average
grade. Owing to shortage of labor, miners
had to be diverted from ore-breaking to
development. Prospects of further tonnage
being developed are brightest in the
bottom levels of the Rosebery mine.
As for the outlook, the market for zinc
is a firm one at the moment, and the
co. is unable to meet all inquiries from
overseas. What will happen to metal
prices will largely depend upon ability
of buyers in devastated countries to
finance purchases, disposal of Govern-
ment stocks in U.S.A., subsidies to pro-
ducers in some countries and costs.
At Risdon plant capacity is to be
stepped up to 95,000 tons zinc a year.
This means additions and alterations
throughout the plant, including new roast-
ing furnaces. Other plans are; (1) in-
creased production of sulphuric acid, (2)
manufacture of sulphate of ammonia and
related fertilisers, (3) production of
elemental surphur. As a first step a new
contact acid plant is to be erected at an
estimated cost of £250,000. The sulphate
of ammonia and elemental sulphur pro-
jects are inter-related. Together they are
a major industrial undertaking, on which
the board is marking time pending clari-
fication of the local industrial and costs
position, and prospects in export markets.
Two of the co.’s technicians are abroad
investigating metallurgical problems in-
volved. Also, plans for preliminary treat-
ment of zinc plant residue before ship-
ment to Port Pirie are under considera-
tion.
The next table shows how the big
undertaking is financed:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Debentures .. £400,000 £400,(TOO —-
Sundry creditors 199,416 255,137 £858,822 £413,964
Deposits .. 203,432 225,696 15,096 18,441
Overdraft .. 62,393 47,920 259,297 82,775
Tax reserve .. 107,829 251,677 254,586 314,338
Mines .. 457,524 457,525 479,089 483,305
Plant, etc. . . 3,959,003 4,234,410 4,722,739 4,807,725
Book debts . . 194,916 262,135 667,028 718,471
Shares . . 500,468 714,397 778,366 810,115
Stocks .. 613,744 734,191 962,800 945,774
O&sli invest-
meats, etc. 1,271,578 1,062,671 288,016 806,610
Since 1939 £848,722 net has been added
to the book value of plant, etc. (up
£84,986 last term). Including sharehold-
ings, the more or less liquid surplus
(£1,951,452) was £143,043 stronger than
at the previous balance,
Olympic Tyre and Rubber Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit, Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 18,945 61 p.c. = 12,324 1,621 2,445
1936.. 34,017 10 „ „ 18,317 15,700 18,145
1937.. 55,259 12i „ „ 27,268 27,991 46,136
1938.. 82,346 13f „ „ 42,969 39,377 85,513
1939.. 98,220 Hi „ „ 55,580 42,640 128,153
1940.. 75,152 Hi „ „ 59,305 15,847 144,000
1941.. 63,750 13| „ „ 66,734 142,996
1942.. 93,903 Hi „ „ 70,121 23,782 166,778
1943.. 90,284 ll| „ „ 74,948 15,338 182,114
1944.. 88,571 Hi „ „ 75,037 13,534 195.648
1945.. 92,578 Hi „ „ 75,037 17,541 213,189
There was little change in basic condi-
tions governing rubber manufacture dur-
ing the 12 months covered by the latest
accounts. Production was mainly on
defence account, and war-time restrictions
and controls continued in full blast.
Orders came from Maoriland and U.S.
forces in the s.-w. Pacific as well as from
the Commonwealth Government. And
the co.’s plant, capacity of which had
been expanded during the war, worked as
hard as manpower available would allow
it to work.
After making liberal allowance for
depreciation (£111,440, up £256) and set-
ting aside £93,550 to meet Government
bleeding, the net result was £4007 stronger
at 14.3 p.c. on capital, compared with
13.5, 13.8, 15.4, 12.8, 17.6 and 18.4 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. remained at
p.c., making the average over the last
decade 12.5 p.c. It is a remarkable per-
formance for a 12-year-old. Though
rapid, the growth has been sound, finan-
cially and technically, , and there are good
reasons for assuming that the business
should continue to give a satisfactory
account of itself in the future.
With war over service requirements are
evaporating rapidly. And the co.’s manu-
facturing and distributing organisation is
being reconverted to meet peace-time
needs. Also, plans are being made to
extend the field of production into lines
other than tyres and tubes. And a sub-
sidiary is to be formed to take over part
of the business.
For the next few years demand for
rubber goods of all kinds looks like run-
ning ahead of plant capacity. Three of
the most important factors governing out-
put will be: (1) an adequate supply of
suitable labor; (2) a sufficiency of raw
materials and freedom to employ them
to the best advantage; (3) freedom from
industrial hold-ups. As for labor, the
position should ease as demobilisation
gathers momentum. On the materials
side, stocks are reported satisfactory,
except for certain types of tube valves.
Synthetic rubber, which has been pro-
duced here in increasing quantities since
February last, now accounts for about
45 p.c. or more of all rubber mixed
locally.
But the natural article possesses
advantages in the production of most
rubber equipment. Although supplies of
plantation crude should begin to corns
forward during tlie first half of 1946, ade-
quate quantities for all purposes are not
expected to be available for a couple of
years or thereabouts. However, the in-
dustry believes that present restrictive con-
trols, which severely limit civilian con-
sumption, can be lifted with safety inside
the next nine months. And, subject to
freedom from dislocation of production
by insane strikes, prospects of the indus-
try developing an export market are en-
couraging. If we are to enjoy “full”
employment and a high and rising stand-
ard of living, we will need all the things
we are able to produce and as many
markets as we are able to win to sell
them in.
At June 30 last the number of com-,
mercial vehicles in Australia was reckoned
to be around 900,000, of which 795,880
were registered 100,000-odd had been
put on the blocks. High-priority war-
time users of vehicles received only
limited supplies of tyres and tubes. The
remaining vehicles, which was most of
them, continued in restricted use on
patched shoes. In addition to the big
replacement demand thus foreshadowed,
there will be heavy initial shoeing of thou-
sands of new cars and trucks required to
take the place of worn-out and obsolete
ones. And there will be a strong
deferred demand for all kinds of other
rubber goods, too.
To carry stocks £31,292 in excess of
shareholders’ funds, the co. has had to
go outside for assistance:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £392,500 £649,099 £652,500 £652,500
Overdraft . . 953,299 354,710
S’udy creditors* 107,929 804,670 292,295 426,565
Premises .. 78,119 201,160 202,647 183,590
Plant, etc. .. 115,707 843,562 253,149 20b,679
Stocks . . 244,359 1,334,669 811,001 896,981
Debtors, etc... 245,448 229,336 267,606 -51,096
* Including tax reserve.
To lop £145,768 off the overdraft, add
£44,470 to plant and carry an extra
£85,980 of stocks the board leant upon
sundry creditors for a further £134,270
and drew upon cash for £16,410 last term.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded the amount coming to
outsiders by £512,570, an improvement of
£81,068 over the twelvemonth.


Queensland
Insurance Co
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
Owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
P#£V£Nr
For baldness and bald
patches, falling hair, dan-
druff, scurf and dryness of
the scalp, rub in a few
drops of McMahon's ©very
dayl
7
FOR HAIR
AND SCAUP
fs
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
oim on a courser _
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing 'is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN LOTION
lODINE DOG SOAP
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
d
BARKO
SOLD
FACING A PARK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner”
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. , . the service and cuisine
excellent. _
TAE WENTWORTH
Lit
T ne V
Thone BW 1361 (lO lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
MAXSEASE
the perfect comfort male
•upporx for everyman’*
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shop*
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
HAIMS
Circular Charts io* all types of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Got our quotation.
JACK SON A O’SCLLIVArt
OUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, 010.
V 5 to ■V
*
CH £
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even ihe most expert and conscientious Individual executor Is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and “Unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as corExecutor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request
DIRECTORS —James Burns - B. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong: - Joseph Mltcbel
P. T. W. Black. Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
* ■ i
7 BRIDGE STREET. SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
• BP
Shareholders in Oil Search, Ltd., are
to be offered an unstated number of ss.
shares at par early in 1946. The money
is wanted to enable the co. to take
up its quota of a new issue by Australian
Petroleum Co. Pty.,* for which Treasury
approval is being sought. Oil Search,
through its subsidiary, Nominated Hold-
ings Pty., holds a one-fifth interest in
Australian Petroleum. The other partners
are D’Arcy Exploration (representing
Anglo-Iranian Oil) and Vacuum Oil Co.
Pty. (representing Standard-Vacuum Co.).
Operations at Kariava (Papua), where
Australian Petroleum’s first test well is
down about 5000 ft., ceased in Feb., 1942.
Drilling machinery and equipment have
been preserved in good order, and every-
thing is ready to start up again as soon
as the Government gives permission.
Flow oil has not yet been encountered,
but numerous seepages of oil and gas
have occurred in the area where the bore
is situated, and other anticlinal struc-
tures worth testing exist near by.
♦ * * *
Shareholders in Enterprise of New
Guinea Gold and Petroleum Develop-
ment have passed a resolution reducing
the rate of commission the directors .can
claim on sale of the co.’s Edie Creek
goldmine from 5 p.c. to one half of one
per cent, of the purchase price, whether
in cash, or shares, or both. The £125,000
cash option, or alternatively £75,000 cash,
plus £50,000 in f.p. shares in any co.
formed to work the property (B.
12/12/’45), was granted to F. Cooper,
Melbourne, who is said to represent
American interests. If the option is exer-
cised the intention is to use the cash, or
a substantial part of it, in a hunt for oil
in the mandated territory, where the co.
has asked the Federal authorities for a
permit (not yet granted) to search. At
end August, 1942, £74,077 of the co.’s
total assets of £81,044 was represented
by intangibles.
* sfc
Perth Stock Exchange is hopeful of
an early goldmining and oil-search boom.
Its latest annual report says that con-
siderable speculative activity may be ex-
pected in shows on the new Hampton
Plains auriferous field, near Coolgardie,
and in the shares of various mines
shortly to re-open in different parts of
the State. As regards oil, it says that
Freney’s bore has reached an interesting
stage, and that there might shortly be an
active market for the scrip. The sophisti-
cated investor, however, will note that
in the last 50 years goldmining on Hamp-
ton Plains has failed to produce a divi-
dend payer, and that Freney’s has been
drilling off and on for many years. That
does not mean that neither pay-ore nor
flow-oil will be found, but that new data
on which hopes of future success might
rest needs to be very carefully examined.
* ♦ ♦ #
Yankee-controlled Big Bell (W.A.) was
re-opened recently. It now employs 150
men, and wants more. Grog and stores
are on sale again in the adjacent town-
ship, and the starting-price bookmaker
has reappeared. A branch railway con-
nects Big Bell with Cue, 20 miles away.
Before labor shortage forced suspension
of production in Jan., 1943, dividends
aggregating 17s. 6d. (Aust.) had been paid
on each £1 stg. share. Big Bell is reckoned
to have years of life ahead of it, though
the best ore has probably been extracted.
• ♦ ♦ ♦
From London: Wilunas have risen
again in the market. This time to 12s.
a share, on a well-authenticated report
that a profit of half a million Austra-
lian is expected from the re-treatment of
residues. There are about 3,000,000 tons
of these piled on the surface. This esti-
mated gain from residue treatment, to-
gether with £1,000,000 in cash and bonds
now in hand, would be equivalent to
nearly £AI a share.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Shareholders of Hill 50 (W.A.)
were told at the annual meeting that
there was only about 12 months’ supply
of ore at the No. 3 level, that at the No.
4 (bottom) level the lode appeared to be
pinching, and that the board was
looking for another property. Profit
for the year to June 30 last was £5788,
A 6d. div. (£9375)) was paid in December,
1944. When the books closed debtors’
balances, bullion in transit, cash, etc.,
totalled £16,013, There was £3341 com-
ing to sundry creditors. The co, is treat-
ing 3000-odd tons a month, and from
July to November last recoveries im-
proved from s.o2dwt. to 5.67dwt., and
working costs, excluding development,
dropped from 375, 7d. to 325. Id. a ton.
* * * *
Coolgardie Brilliant broadcasts that
it has started underground work at
the 100 ft. level on its new venture at Mt.
Vernon (W.A,). A crosscut is to be ex-
tended from the lode, as “there is every
indication of a parallel ore-body.”
Hitherto the co.’s forecasts have not
always been realised.
* * * *
Complaints are being heard in the
West that the* Commonwealth Govern-
ment, after taking millions out of the
Westralian goldmining industry in special
gold tax, is tinkering with the idea of a loan
of £300,000 to rehabilitate mines forced
to cease production during the war years,
owing to loss of manpower and vital
machinery. There is scope in the indus-
try for absorption of thousands of men,
and it is vital that production be ex-
panded promptly. Some of the mines
closed, but kept unwatered and machinery
in order, are Tindals (Coolgardie), Yel-
lowdine (Yilgara), Triton (Mt. Magnet),
Ora Banda Amalgamated (Ora Banda),
Consolidated Gold Areas (Hampton
Plains), Gladiator (Laverton). Others, in-
cluding Emu (Lawlers), Phoenix (Cool-
gardie), and Norseman (Norseman), had
to face commandeering of labor and re-
duction of output.
♦ * * *
W. J. Ellis, general manager of Gold
Mines (N.Z.), Ltd., Greymouth, M.L.,
has been appointed a supervisor for
Alluvial Tin (Aust.), Ltd., for rehabili-
tating the tin industry in Malaya and
Siam. He will work under the British
Military Mission as a member of the ser-
vice Engineers’ Army Corps.
T. & G. MUTUAL LIFE SOCIETY
OUTSTANDING PROGRESS.
s
The Sixty-ninth Annual Meeting of the Society was held on Tuesday,
18th December, at the Society’s Head Office in Melbourne.
New Business.
The Chairman, Mr. J. T. Thompson, said:
“The New Business comprised 108,597 Policies,
Ordinary and Industrial, assuring £15,241,045,
which compares with £13,485,325 for 1944 and
£10,654,229 in 1943. In the Accident Depart-
ment New Business, assuring £3,388,051, was
written. These figures provide ample evidence
that the Society has enlarged its sphere of
activity and increased its popularity. An ap-
preciable percentage of the New Business arose
from Group Assurance operations, the increased
interest of employers in the superannuation of
their staffs having been well sustained. Em-
ployers contemplating such a scheme would be
well advised to seek the assistance of the
Society’s highly equipped Group Assurance
Department.
Income and Payments to
Policyholders.
“The Income increased by £495,240 to
£8,323,930, being almost double the amount for
1935, and compares with £2,415,197 in 1925,
indicative of the Society’s remarkable growth.
Payments to Policyholders amounted to
£3,530,934, the largest total ever recorded.
Policies matured amounted to £2,447,836, and
it is always a pleasure to record the payment
of these claims to such a large number who
have reaped the reward of thrift and self-denial.
Assurance Funds.
“The Assurance Funds increased to
£46,921,392, a record increase of £3,095,553.
These Funds represent the accumulation of
premium payments augmented by interest earn-
ings, less claims, expenses and reserves, and are
held in trust solely for the purpose of meeting
the Society’s liabilities to its members under
Policy contracts. No less than 72.3 per cent of
the Assets, is invested in Government, Muni-
cipal and other Public Body Securities. Since
the purpose of accumulating these Funds is the
payment of claims as they arise, it is necessary
that they be invested in safe securities and that
a fair percentage should be in liquid form.
War Loan Subscriptions.
“The subscription to the last Victory Loan,
£3,100,000, was the largest made by the Society
to any Government loan, while the total
amount contributed to the various War Loans
now exceeds £20,700,000, exclusive of the un-
paid portion of the amount subscribed to the
latest issue. The strength and value of the co-
operation to the economic structure has never
been more effectively demonstrated than during
the last six years, when the subscriptions of
Life Assurance Societies to the cost of financing
the war amounted to a huge total. This was
made possible by the collection of a very large
number of small payments from individual
members. One can only conjecture as to the
difficulties which would have confronted the
Treasury if these funds had not been available.
The usefulness of such funds for Government
finance in war-time and for Municipal and
other Local Body finance in peace-time, as
well as assistance in financing industry, makes
it obvious that substantial benfits from Life
Assurance business reach the whole community.
Home Purchase.
“The Society is now prepared to meet an
increased demand for Home Purchase Loans,
an important condition being the provision for
the assignment of a Policy. The Society’s post-
war plans are complete and will be brought
into operation early in the New Year if con-
ditions in the building industry should improve.
The post-war scheme provides a free Plan and
Specification Service to all whose securities are
acceptable, with a wide diversification of design
and particular attention to lighting and ventila-
tion, as well as to kitchen equipment.
The Actuary’s Report.
“After transferring £lOO,OOO from Revenue
to the Investment Reserve, a surplus of
£896,882 was disclosed. Of this £65,000 has
been added to the Special Reserves for actu-
arial contingencies and the greater part of the
residue distributed as Reversionary Bonuses.
The allotments provide for increases in last
year’s Bonus Scales in the Ordinary and Indus-
trial Departments in respect of Participating
Whole Life and Endowment Assurance Policies
and for the maintenance of the Bonus Scale
applicable to Participating Pure Endowments.
The increases over the previous year’s scale in
the Ordinary Department will range from 30s.
to 50s. per £lOOO Sum Assured, while in the
Industrial Department the rate of increase is
at least 25 per cent.
“The Commonwealth Life Insurance Act
1945, which was designed for the purpose of
fully protecting Policyholders, \rill not involve
any drastic variations in the practice of a well-
conducted Life Office. The provisions of the
Act for the unification of returns is welcomed.
General.
“At this time we remember those of our
Staff who made the supreme sacrifice and
extend our sincerest sympathy to their relatives
and former colleagues. We now approach the
important task of rehabilitating our ex-service
personnel and will earnestly endeavour to re-
instate each man and woman in a position as
good as that vacated, with opportunities for
advancement. The transition period upon
which we now enter will present many pro-
blems, and I direct attention to the necessity
for devising adequate means of arresting in-
flation. This has been kept within bounds by
war-time restrictions, such as the rationing of
goods, fixation of prices and wages, and the
absorption of huge sums for war loans and
taxation. With Government loans and taxes
on a reduced scale, and with more buying free-
dom as relief from rationing is given, how can
the gap between consumer-goods and purchas-
ing power be prevented from widening? In my
opinion it is imperative that as much as pos-
sible of the surplusage of purchasing power be
diverted into Life Assurance. As a means of
stemming inflationary tendencies, Life Assur-
ance has a special place in the National Eco-
nomy, particularly during a period of recon-
struction, and deserves the encouragement of
all Political Leaders and Economists, as well
as the support of all business men.”
The retiring Directors, Messrs. A. R. Stewart
and H. G. Brain, and retiring Auditors, Messrs.
A. McK. Hislop and C. A. Holmes, were re-
elected.


-&.r
j.
V*
s'*. •
W
«U
I*
07
•> . ;
7**.
*
Mfcmf to be fovtf..
Good to get back to pre-war hobbies and
real home comforts. Good to look forward
to post-war Radio programmes (they’re going
to be good) . . . and hear them in a post-war
“His Master’s Voice”
RADIO
llis'lii%iefsVmi-p
THE GRAMOPHONE COMPANY LTD. (Inc. in England), HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
registered tablets
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers, have
gained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Blasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the Inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition:
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally: piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet—see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
that Elasto is not a
drug but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It Is this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say;
"No sign of varicose veins
now.”
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers."
«‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.’’ „ .
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elas*o” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month's supply.
&ss
££adt(r wiM A*, tv y-w. poTtndd /
Business,Rollery,Etc.
THIS YEAR OF "PEACE"
The world is approaching its first year
of “peace” after the end of both the
European and Japanese wars. The con-
fusion of the situation is perhaps greater
than anyone previously visualised.
When the first blow was struck in the
cbnflict leading to the industrial paralysis
with which Australians are ending the
year, Comrade Thornton, head of the
union (Ironworkers’) from which the
“trouble” sprang, was in Moscow. On
opposite sides of the Atlantic there are
heated differences of opinion about the
conditions of an American loan to
Britain, The terms of the loan may
have been a matter of political ex-
pediency on the part of the United
States; it may have been politi-
cally—and legally-difflcult to have done
anything more constructive and far-
sighted But, whatever the obstacles with
which the U.S. Government found itself
confronted, the terms of the Washington
financial arrangement are far from meet-
ing either the difficulties or the merits
of the occasion. Too little regard has
been paid by America, as a late entrant to
the war, both to Britain’s present and
future needs and Britain’s past sacrifices
A,: n f war
~ S .. , ' , f ~ ,
The effect which proceeds of the loan
will have on Commonwealth imp r
from the United States is not clear. Bu
the loan is plainly intended by America,
among other things, to facilitate Empire
buying of U.S. oil, manufactures, e c.
_ x
Outrageous Obstruction
If Australia were able to make a clean
finish to the war and get on quickly with
the job of restoring production and living
standards, making provision for more
plentiful and better housing, planning for
a Commonwealth much greater both in
population and productive capacity, there
is no doubt that there should be ample
and remunerative work in front of all
those able and willing to do a fair day’s
work. But organised obstructionism,
mainly emanating from Communists and
“militant” elements bent on their own
murky objectives, is blocking Australians
in their tens of thousands from getting
on with what they want to do in a sen-
sible and energetic way. The population
is crying out for homes, for furnishings,
fer clothes, for food, for entertainment
and all those things which a rational
people normally wants. The continent is
inviting great development. The obstruc-
ting elements must be dealt with effec-
lively. Though poisonous, like a black
snake, they can be as easily dellt with
as a snake if tackled with purpose and
intelligence..
Australians are very dull people if they
haven’t by this time wakened up as to
who their real economic enemies in this
country are. The production difficulties
the bottlenecks, the high costs which
mean, among other things, a fall in the
value of savings-bank balances—are very
largely the result of go-slow policy on tne
P a rt of trade-unionists in essential mdus-
tries, dictated mostly by trade-union
bosses bordering on the racketeer type.
D ded Llving standard*
7 s ~
In a nation-wide industrial breakdown
™ ch Lf. l ™ B been “ Australia over
the Christmas season it became plain y a
of dog-eat-dog among umon.sts-
he chaos grew to such wide proportions
that the effect of suspended or crippled
production on almost every individual
should have been clear to the most dyed-
m:the;wool supporter of Labor send-
What happened on a large scale
before Chnstmas has been happening on
a smaller scale intermit ently, in the Com-
monwealth for the past two or three years
Every now and then there have been
“successful” efforts by Communists and
militant unionists in reducing output per
| lour per man j n some industry, and so
poor f oO i s 0 f unionists who follow
t y s union-boss dictation strike
own an other support for their living
stan d a rds and pave the way for a break-
down in all industry and a failure of the
constituted law that protects the rights
and liberties of the individual.
Australia’s midsummer madness has
a dded several months to the housing lag.
At a time when the i ac k of homes is
rap idly becoming a danger to the physical
an d mental health of unfortunates in the
community, and when tens of thousands
of servicemen are being demobilised and
thrown oh their own housekeeping re-
sources, Communists, “militants” and
their many stooges have struck a
foul blow at recovery from the produc-
tion arrears caused by war. Brazenly
and blatantly the issues of the “Christ-
mas” strike have been misrepresented by
McPhillips and his ilk. These types, on
any analysis, stand for a degraded living
standard for all the people—possibly ex-
cepting themselves—and a retarded re-
covery from the strain and deterioration
of war. They have attempted to addle
the brains of the wage-earners and other
voters, and, where they are Communists,
they are definitely pledged to overthrow
democratic government,
The evil influence of Communists led
by the likes of Thornton, McPhillips,
Elliott and Wells on the industrial com-
munity and upon vital industrial produc-
tion should be now very obvious. And the
evil should be startling enough to awaken
every right-minded citizen from his
apathy and stimulate him to remedial
action. Australians don’t have to tolerate
racketeers of the Thornton type. A Gov-
ernment with any backbone could deal
with them effectively inside a week. But,
since the Government will not do its duty,
and since it is remiss in upholding the
prestige of the laws of the land, the obli-
gation is upon every citizen to stand firm
against the assaults being made upon his
faith in the democratic way of life, the
industrial arbitration system and the tradi-
tional Australian belief in fair play. He
should remember at all times that he has
a soul to call his own—unless he is too
craven or apathetic to call it his own.
A Healthy Self-interest Needed
A thing most desirable in Australia to-
day is a healthy, intelligent self-interest
in the hearts and minds of the people,
Such an interest would be beneficial to
all. Through such an interest we have
progressed in the past, and only through
such an interest shall we do so in the
future. Mere shortsighted selfishness does
not serve the same purpose. It is through
playing on the grossest form of selfish-
ness, envy and jealousy that the vicious
elements behind trade-unionism and
Labor politics have had so much success
in creating the industrial chaos visible in
the Commonwealth today.
The wage-earner should at all times
remember that constituted law is really
of greater value to the poor man
and the weak man than it is to
others, and that out of increased
national production alone is he likely
to improve his standard of living. How
heavily—and how rapidly—his living
standard is hit by a collapse in industrial
activity has been only too evident in
almost every State during the past few
weeks.
Sins of the Government
In the midst of year-end shocks let
us not forget the problems that have beset
us for years now and which have not yet
been overcome. The desire to collect big
revenues and loans from the people and
spend the proceeds in a manner calcu-
lated to do the “party” the most good
politically is still very strong in Canberra.
The Government has given the nation
no practical, straightforward lead in its
administrative behavior. Taxation is still
excessive, still deceptive in its incidence,
still depressing in its effect on production,
Further, notwithstanding the deadly
heaviness of the burden, there has been an
almost wanton waste of part of the pro-
ceeds by the Federal Government. Its
“national welfare” scheme, costing in the
vicinity of £65 million a year, has a poli-
tical rather than a practical basis, and
it is of doubtful constitutional validity,
The Government has been out-to buy
votes at any price, even thoug
pay the price. The figuies p
its last Budget were grossly
until carefully analysed. r „, mn , mpn t
It is little wonder that this G .
finds itself unable to deal tir y
forthrightly with the forces or P
and anarchy in our midst. It is t P
to misrepresentation, expedients an P
tical humbug itself to stand up
attack. There has to be keen respec
legal, moral and economic values in y
successful resistance to the su "
elements now showing their hand so g
rantly and impudently,
~„ , _
Inflation, Taxation and Function
Spending power continues
in the Commonwealth, increc 8 . ,
flationary dangers and, com
fhe Communist-inspired s 8 ,
goods and services, adding impetus to tne
black-market evil. It is estimated that
buying power in the hands and bank
accounts of the people has considera y
more than doubled during the past si
years—years in which our production
capacity has visibly fallen an< -f . e
national debt and tax burden great y in-
creased. It is plain that much or tne in-
crease in “savings” is pure inflation, and
that any delay in a return to the lu es
possible industrial production is simply
courting economic disaster,
In 1938-39, the last pre-war year, the
Commonwealth Government collected
£ll.B million in income tax. During the
current year it aims to collect £l7B mil-
lion, and the States will get their tull
whack still. Total Federal taxation levied
this year is estimated at £2BB million, an
increase of £230 million. And 1945-46 will
be an almost complete year of “peace”!
Another year has ended without any
rectification of the double-taxation of
shareholders in companies on their divi-
dend income. The double tax was
imposed only as a war measure, and
its destructive effect on industrial incen-
tive has been well known for some
years. A Government with any real
understanding of, and concern for, the
vigorous incentive that is necessary to
build up living standards and industrial
strength would have already made plans
for the abolition of this double and un-
just tax and made an announcement
accordingly,
Banking, Borrowing and Bretton Woods
Government control of all banking
activity, originally a war-time measure,
was perpetuated by new legislation during
the past year. It was a stupid conces-
sion by the Government to the radical
element in Caucus, and serves to illus-
trate the way in which the Federal Labor
Government has so often pandered to
the very elements which are now trying
to strangle industrial law, order and life
in the country.
Government borrowing operations were
startlingly unsuccessful during the past


For truly
delicious cliocolates
remem
her ....
ROMANCE
&
v--
S'V')
permit
-I >
This famous chocolate
assortment will again he
made as soon as conditions
MAC. ROBERTSON’S
THE GREAT NAME IN CONFECTIONERY
BETTER STEEL
means Better Appliances
for the kitchen of the future
M
m
mmm
U
.. y
oUT of the flaming cm-
f
; :
cible of war have come new and
improved grades of sheet steel. One
of the results is that kitchen appli-
ances of the future are likely to be
lighter, stronger, more efficient and
attractive than anything we have
known in the past. Their design will
be highly functional, and stoves and
refrigerators will be integrated into
the architecture of the kitchen ... a
new beauty and a new convenience
for a new world.
One of the many improvements
developed in COMROL Sheet Steel
is in enamelling sheets, which will
give a better porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances .
st in
SHUTS
COMMONWEALTH ROLLINS MILLS PTY. LTD.,
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
year, notwithstanding the great amount
of “savings” available to the people.
This reluctance to entrust the Govern-
ment with his savings is a characteristic of
the Australian wage-earner, and one in
which he differs from his English,
Canadian and American congener.
The $4400 million loan to Britain by
the United States has, as one of its con-
ditions, acceptance by Britain of the
Bretton Woods currency plan. Australia
was one of the 44 countries the delegates
of which approved the plan. This pro-
vided for a money fund and an inter-
national bank, the fund to aid in inter-
national trade and exchange stability,
and the bank to make loans for post-war
reconstruction purposes, for promoting
private foreign investments by way of
guarantees and to assist in financing the
productive resources of member countries
with the long-term objective of a balanced
growth in trade. Each member country
is to make a contribution both to the
fund and to the bank. The member may
exchange its own currency for other
currencies (from the fund) in order
to meet adverse trade balances, but it
may not draw more than 125 p.c. of its*
contribution quota over a period of five*
years without special permission of the
managers of the fund. “This provision,”
it is explained by the United Nations
information office, “is designed to keep
any nation from relying on the facilities
of the fund to pay its deficits year after
year without making a determined effort
to balance its foreign trade.”
Member countries have agreed to seek
approval of the fund managers in fixing
their exchange rates, and such fixed rates
may not be altered except under condi-
tions of the fund. After a transitional
period member countries must free their
exchanges and ' avoid discriminatory
exchange practices not approved by the
fund. Each country must pay in gold
as a minimum 25 p.c. of its quota or
10 p.c, of its gold and dollar holdings,
whichever is the smaller, the rest in its
own currency. Australia’s quotas for
both the fund and the bank is $2OO mil-
lion each. “One of the less edifying
features of the conference,” said the
National City Bank of New York at the
time, “was the bickering over quotas by
countries wanting a larger share in the
fund, which measures the right to borrow,
but a smaller share in the bank, which
measures the sharing of the risk.”
A new wool agreement with Britain
was arranged by Australia, New Zealand
and .South Africa during the year. The
new control will sell wool from the big
surplus stocks and regulate auctions of
current clips, assess prices and finance
wool withheld from sale because of low
prices offered at auction. Australia will
be called on to invest £4O million sterl-
ing in the organisation over the next four
years. The Australian clip for 1945-46
is being disposed of under the current
contract with Britain at 15.4 d, a pound.
A Big Future—lf *
The future qf Australia, on a summing-
up, looks confused. Internally and exter-
nally there are obstructions to production,
marketing, employment and prosperity.
But, whatever benefits and disabilities
there may at present be in economic
arrangements with the United States, and
with the rest of the world under
the Bretton Woods plan, Australia
has a first duty to set its internal
affairs in order. It must really ac-
cept the responsibility of democratic
self-government, and this applies particu-
larly to trade-unionists. There must be a
willing return by the people to the rule
of law, including industrial law. And
there has to be much wider appreciation
of economic realities. In short, Australia
has to be geographically and economically
understood and politically deloused. With
the achievement of these things there
must be a highly progressive and prosper-
ous future ahead of this ordinarily kindly
and hospitable land. Our 7,400,000 of
population has only scratched the surface.
During the 1945 balancing period 177
manufacturing, trading and transport
companies in the Commonwealth showed
lower profits than in 1944. Their net
earnings represented 6.1 p.c. on funds
employed, compared with 6.4 p.c. in the
preceding period. Dividend distributions
to shareholders were also lower —4.7 p.c.
on funds, compared with 4.9 p.c. Before
the war earnings were more like 7.5 p.c.
on funds and dividends more like 6 p.c.
Bank earnings have shown little move-
ment over the last three years, having
been reduced to a state of almost rigidly
low earning power by Federal legislation.
Whatever income company shareholders
receive from reduced industrial and finan-
cial earnings is taxed in their hands with-
out rebate for the taxation that the com-
pany has paid. The fall in Australian
company earnings during World War II
should marked well. Lying Commu-
nist and militant-unionist” propaganda
will insist that circumstances have been
otherwise, but, like the Nazis, Corns, have
discovered that the bigger and bolder
the lie the more likelihood is there of get-
ting away with it—for a time. The sig-
nificant things about fallen company earn-
ings and investors’ dividends are that
capital has not cashed-in on the war effort
to the same extent as Labor —there has
been a huge war-time increase in wages
paid and that industry is not nearly so
economically strong, for the purposes of
expansion and modernisation, as it was
before the war. !
* * H* *
Tire amount to be charged to Britain
by the United States for a closing of the
lend-lease account does not appear to
involve more than the cost of cleaning up
contracts not completed at the termi-
nation of the lend-lease agreement and
paying for some establishments and plant
in Britain which can be used for peace-
time purposes. The total charge is put at
$650 million, representing about £l6O mil-
lion sterling at the present rate of
Many argue that there should
JjWP been no charge by the United States
Jrgsf a cleaning-up at all. But the final
cdst represents only about a fortieth
of the ‘‘debit” balance on lend-lease
account between Britain and America,
though President Roosevelt himself ad-
mitted that ift a number of cases British
prices for reciprocal lend-lease aid to
America were lower than U.S. charges for
the same sort of thing. If a settlement
between the United States and Australia
is to be made on terms similar to those
adopted in Britain’s case, there should
be little or no liability against Australia.
It is argued in some Treasury quarters
here that, on the score of actual values
rendered and received, the United States
is indebted to Australia if a true lend-
lease balance is struck. The United States
will deal separately with the Dominions
in the matter of lend-lease settlements.
* * * He
A cable from Washington last week
stated that 14,000 tons of silver had been
used in making atomic bombs in the
United States. This represents about 340
million ounces, assuming that the tons
quoted are of 20001 b. A lot of silver,
Recently the price of the metal made a
big leap in both London and New York.


Missing Friends.
JOHN ZOUOH WILSON, formerly of Parramatta,
New South Wales, Australia, Member of 2/lst Bat-
talion, A.I.F. Height 6ft. 4in., slight build, age 33
years, blue eyes, brown hair, large scar on forehead.
Reported taken prisoner in Crete —where he was last
heard of. Information relating to above required by
SHEPHARD AND SHEPHARD, Solicitors, Parra-
matta, for the Estate of the Mother of Wilson.
BOWES.—JOHN BOWES and JAMES BOWES (sons
of the late Thomas and Alice Bowes) or any person
having knowledge concerning them please communi-
cate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE, 412 Collins Street.
Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW T SOUTH
WALES — 111 Divorce.
TO CHARLES CROPPER late of Sydney in the State
of New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
HAZEL LOUISA CROPPER has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 5255 of 1945 against you on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the first day of February 1946
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from ADRIAN C- R. TWIGG Solicitor 160 Castle-
reagh Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
7JuTsixlldfa/L.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:
12 months .. .. ♦•£l4o
6 „ 13 6
3” » 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
13 months .. .. • • 15 0
6- * ®
3 „ 40
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands —3 months •. ~£lBO
THE SERVICE MAN
The New Army Command.
“Ek Dum”: The British took Mont-
gomery from a junior job and put him
over the heads of numerous seniors. The
Americans took Eisenhower, a lieu-
tenant-colonel before the war, and, with
hearty British concurrence, made him
supreme commander. In this country,
with Mr. Chifley and Mr. Forde in con-
trol of the Army, other notions‘prevail.
The Military Board is being restored,
and Lieut.-General Sturdee been
named Chief of the General Staff, with
Major-General Rowell as Vice-Chief.
General Sturdee has been C.G.S. before.
He was moved to Washington, then to
New Guinea towards the end of the war.
He is in his 56th year. General Sturdee
is personally amiable and well-liked, but
it is puzzling to think of his being ap-
pointed for a second time at his age,
especially in view of a Chifley pronounce-
ment to the effect that it is “important
that in the post-war development of our
forces the younger men who have distin-
guished themselves in the new methods
should have an effective voice.”
Major-General Rowell is one of the
most brilliant Australian staff men. He
did well in the Middle East and in Greece,
and he was in command at Moresby when
fine- Sydney “Daily Telegraph” moved
Mr, Curtin to order General Blarney to
rush to Papua and save the “D.T.”
and other panic-stricken “authori-
ties” from a handful of Japs who had
struggled across the Owen Stanleys ; little
more than a decoy force. They were not
there when the A.I.F. went to look for
them, but were discovered in a neat am-
bush behind the mountains waiting for
the tired troops whp had been so need-
lessly pushed across the range when, with
a little patience, they could have been
taken round. When history has time to
appraise the Owen Stanley campaign it
will rate it glorious so far as the troops
are concerned ; but the politicians who
allowed it in the circumstances will be
branded with ignominy if their country-
men are not absorbed in the races when
the news comes out.
General Rowell seems to have felt some
impatience with the state of affairs which
developed when General Blarney arrived
in Moresby. In the result he was sent to
Cairo as liaison officer —a job more suit-
able to a retired lieut.-colonel of no par-
ticular use.
Among all the talent of the Allied
armies and amid all the competition of
British, American, Canadian and South
African soldiers for senior places on the
staff of the grand invasion of Europe
this displaced Australian officer was
selected to be Director of Tactical Studies
at General Eisenhower’s H.Q. After-
wards he was taken over eagerly by the
British War Office.
These tributes to his worth do not and
will not help him in his own country.
As for the brilliant younger brigadiers,
the eager students of war in tune with
the times and with the later type of train-
ing and the later scientific outlook on
weapons—let them go out and stand for
Parliament. There is nothing for them
in the Army, One brilliant youngster —to
state a typical case —who was put through
Duntroon in 1939 and became the first
Australian graduate of the U.S. Army
Command and General Staff School, with
his abilities not at their full flowering, has
recently resigned from the Staff Corps to
take a newspaper job.
It is time the scale of pay and allow-
ances for senior officers was revised. It
is miserable beside that of other Anglo-
Saxon nations.
As for the general run of the forces
still in being, discipline is better on the
whole in Caucasian irregulars, though
this is not the fault of the men but of
the inept Governmental control. Of poli-
ticians who promised an endless flow of
reinforcements to Singapore, who told the
public they were feeding the troops like
fighting cocks when they were lucky to
have bully-beef, who gave seamen any
price they liked to demand for rolling
round the Australian coast —they are still
drawing their “war bonus” notwithstand-
ing the fortnight’s strike —and who told
C.C.C. men and factory workers their
services were equal in worth to those of
the fighting men —and paid them a great
deal more.
And this crowd allowed the forces to
be Red-anted with Communists. Troops
have been under a continual barrage of
propaganda against the British system of
life and in favor of the Russian,
Most of the fighting commanders of
higher rank are out of the war areas. The
pass to which discipline has come was
shown by the escapade of 34 men who
hitch-hiked out of Morotai, Borneo
and the islands, by aircraft or as
ship stowaways. There are servicemen
there with 250 demobilisation points.
Some of the escapees had only 90-
odd points, their enlistments dating from
the time when it was a case of either en-
list or be conscripted (unless you were a
union secretary or organiser or a pugilist,
professional footballer or bookmaker).
It seems easy to get on to an aircraft and
land in Australia without a pass. Men
come from areas full of hideous tropical
diseases which quarantine authorities for
years have made the most scrupulous
regulations to keep out. But they appar-
ently have no difficulty in evading these.
They just arrive.
Then they cheekily ask to see the Min-
ister. Does the Minister support his
senior officers, send the truants back to
their units to be dealt with? He does
“Psst —Would y' like to pick up a corvette, black market?”
not. He receives them in a friendly way,
discusses his future plans with them and
sees to' it that the punishment inflicted
amounts to nothing more than a tribute
to their adventurous* conduct in leaving
behind mates far more entitled to home-
coming.
Meanwhile ships bring men who rush
to the newspapers with complaints. Often
these complaints are unfounded. Some-
times they are all too well founded but
affect only small sections of the forces.
There is more than a suspicion that
there is organisation behind much of the
discontent. With an army seeded with
Red Fascist agents it would not be sur-
prising if Communists, whose plans are
so well forward at home, were not busily
carrying out on a large scale their plan
to “break up and shatter the armed
forces” of the Commonwealth so that
there will be no cohesive defence against
insurrection when the time is believed to
be ripe for it.
If the Australian defence system is
going to survive and to be built to suit
the requirements of the next few years
it will need a strong Ministry, and in
particular a resolute Minister of
Defence who will support the com-
mand in maintaining rigid discipline.
Instead it has a Minister of Defence who
will be in London during the crucial
reorganisation period, who .never saw
a shot fired, and who was a Communist
sympathiser before he became an anti-
communist —very silent since he reached
office on October 7, 1941. His “Acting
Minister,” Mr. Forde, should not be Min-
ister for anything. He should, be under
suspension while an inquiry is held as
to the tragic affairs in New Britain,
Ambon, Java and Timor, and as to his
glozing assurance to the doomed garri-
son of Singapore that ample reinforce-
ments were on the way.
Our Javanese "Allies."
“Ek Dum”: The more one examines
the facts about the development of the
Indonesian “independence movement”
the more disgraceful becomes the attitude
of the servile Australian Government
which allows its policy to be made for it
by a lot of foreign-directed Communists.
The Government’s own official tran-
scripts of monitored broadcasts show
beyond all doubt that the Indonesian
forces were organised by the Japanese,
armed by the Japanese and trained by
the Japanese, and that, generally speak-
ing, they were designed to fight as allies
of the Japanese under Japanese command
- i —to fight against Australians, among
others.
But in the interests of these traitors
ships with supplies for British troops are
being held up and Australian forces are
being evacuated from the Dutch East
Indies as fast as possible, leaving the
whole burden on the shoulders of the
British and Americans.
It may be added that the Labor-Com-
munist attitude had the hearty approval
of the Japanese while they were able to
express approval. On May 22 Batavia
Radio recorded that “a humble Laborite”
had “brought some life to the dull de-
bates of Canberra” by taking up the case
of the Indonesians. It was remarked that
this, it seemed, was “the first time” that
it had “occurred to anyone in Australia
that Indonesians would not go back to the
bad old days of colonial oppression,”
it was added that “Indonesians kilM
that their only light in a dark future
lit by the Japanese promise of indepeiw
ence. It needed a war to bring home t(>
Australians the smell of an ancient rot
off their northern frontier.”
Broadcasts from Batavia
Some of the Batavia Radio broadcasts
picked up and monitored by the Austra-
lian Department of Information speak
for themselves —a few have already been
quoted:
May 20: Batavia Radio recorded that the
preparations for the realisation of Indonesia s
independence are making rapid progress
Members of committees are leaving Dokjakarta
in batches They will discuss defence pre-
parations necessary for the realisation of Java
independence.
It was reported that a delegation was tour-
ing Sumatra asking for Eurasian support,
it being explained that “Eurasians had not
found their place in the new order, due to the
attempt of the Dutch to sow discord.”
In other words, these Eurasians re-
mained loyal to the Allies. They are now
being murdered by the friends of Aus-
tralian Communists,
A further note was made;
The conversion into something which may
well be called Fortress Java is well under way.
The Commander-in-Chief of Java’s defences
made an inspection tour and, wherever he went,
he was greeted in the streets by schoolchildren,
student corps and volunteer defence corps. The
red and white flag of Indonesia was hoisted
everywhere together with the Rising Sun. The
C.-in-C. was entertained by Javanese dancers
and the Sultan of Sulu received him in
regal style.
On May 24 it was recorded that “500
Island volunteers” were receiving special
training at a central training camp:
After successfully completing their training
they will return to their respective districts.
These fighting young Indonesians, ranging in
age from 17 to 25, aspire to become the nucleus
of the all-Islam special volunteer corps. A
second group of young men is now being
selected for training.
May 26: A conference held at Bandoeng
with representatives of every part of Java
passed a resolution calling for the establishment
of a Central National Party The resolution
claims that such a party is vitally necessary to
spur Java’s war efforts to greater height's, in
order that an Asiatic victory shall lead to the
emergence of a rich, powerful and free Indo-
nesia.
“Large-scale Exercises”
May 28: The Japanese Foreign Minister con-
gratulated Mohammed Sjafei on his appoint-
ment as president of the Central Political
Council of Sumatra and urged him to drive
ahead with the prosecution of the common war.
As a result of large-scale exercises held under
the allspices of the National Service Associa-
tion, the entire population of Bogol participated
in the training 191; home defence Indo-
nesians of high ability will be appointed to im-
portant positions in the Celebes, Southern
Borneo and Lesser Sunda. This step has been
taken by the Japanese Naval Administration in
order to prepare the Indonesians for indepen-
dence. Only by active participation in offices
of high importance can Indonesian leaders 9b-
tain the experience so much needed During
celebration of Navy Day special praise went to
those Indonesians, now members of the J?P*
anese fleet. These naval heroes have proved
their mettle.... Indonesian sailors arid tecn-
nicians are playing a valuable part in keeping
the sealanes open between Japan and the rar-
flung areas of the southern regions. '
May 30: A grand opening ceremony the
Higashi Indo Dokuritsu Jumhi Chusakai (East
Indies Preparation Investigation Council) was
held on May 28. The President in a radio
broadcast said:
We offer our wholehearted thanks to the
Japanese Army which is protecting Greater
East Asia. We, under the command of the
Japanese Army, must equally make efforts
to strengthen our defence power, must co-
operate with the Japanese Army and will
give all our strength to annihilate the enemy.
We Indonesians, let us now pledge again
to be together with the Japanese Army and
win certain victory.
The Japanese Military Administrator in
Sumatra appointed Adinegoro, vice-chairman
of the East Coast Provincial Advisory Council,
as Director-General of the Central Affairs
Bureau. Expressing a strong belief in final
victory in the present struggle against the
Anglo-Americans, Director-General Adinegoro
declared he was resolved to see Indonesia once
and for all time established as a free and inde-
pendent nation.
“War Reaching a Climax”
June 1: The Society for Aid of National De-
fence appealed to the people of Java and Ban-
doeng province in particular to support the
defence of the country. The war is now reach-
ing a climax, and it is necessary to strengthen
J|ie war effort to assure independence. The
,lpciety will create committees in all towns and
hlillages to enlighten the people on the import-
of the work of the society.
June 2: Japanese residents in Menado
(Celebes) have started a drive for the training
of natives in guerrilla fighting. The training is
based on infantry tactics. The drive is supple-
menting the already splendid war effort of the
people in the production of food and war
materials.
In a fitting ceremony at his official residence
in Djakarta, the C.-in-C. of the Japanese forces
in Java installed new battalion commanders of
the Volunteer Army. Addressing the new bat-
talion commanders he declared that at this
juncture when the war was reaching its climax
he was very glad to instal them.... It was
clear that the Anglo-American enemy wanted
to enslave the Indonesian people only to satisfy
their own selfish objective. The enemy will try
to land in Java and therefore it is the Volun-
teer Army’s business to render such an enter-
prise a failure The Volunteer Defence
Army (the C.-in-C. stated) forms the nucleus of
future national army of the independent Indo-
nesian States and therefore must show the
death-defying spirit of the Japanese special
attack corps.
The Clenched-fist Salute
So it went on throughout Japanese oc-
cupation—special training of Indonesians
under the committee of which Dr. Soe-
karno and his main followers were mem-
bers and the arming of units. Officers
continued to be appointed by the Jap-
anese, trained by the Japanese and armed
by them. The whole independence move-
ment,, in fact, was born of Japanese
initiative.
The significant fact for decent Austra-
lians is that if the atom bomb had not
cut short the war these traitors would
today be killing Australians,
But this does not matter to the Com-
munist organisers of Indonesian support
within the Commonwealth.
The fact that Dr,. Soekarno, who is
touring Java with the new “moderate”
so-called “Premier,” is giving the
clenched-fist salute of Moscow to the
crowds which he addresses sanctifies him.
So long as he does that his supporters
can murder British soldiery and Red
Cross girls, mutilate the dead and put
innocent villagers against walls to their
hearts’ content without losing the sup-
port of Australian Communists.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Japan’s Political Religion.
(From an article by Raymond Moley in the
“Wall Street Journal.”)
The headlines had it the other day that
General MacArthur had abolished Shin-
toism. Generals can do many things, but
they can’t abolish religions. Not, in any
event, generals of a country which has
said that religion is a Constitutional guar-
antee.
Shinto’s durability is doubly assured,
because it bears so lightly on the com-
municant. He is born in Japan and ipso
facto he is a Shintoist. If another re-
ligion attracts him, he can join and still
stay Shinto.
Shintoism seems to have originated in
the veneration of ancestors and in an
ancient belief in deities embodied in the
sun, in fire and in blossoms of shrubs
and trees. Altars for the veneration of
ancestors are in every Japanese home.
On festal occasions, lanterns are lighted
to guide the spirits of ancestors to their
worshipping descendants. The Shintoism
of a Japanese exacts little from his
treasure or his time. At every moment
of the day or night Japanese people may
be seen approaching the tens of thou-
sands of shrines in the country. Worship
is very expeditious. The faithful one de-
posits his hat and scarf, clasps his hands,
prays no longer than a couple of minutes
and then tosses a copper coin through
the wire net to the priest. These prayers
may be to a god, an ancestor, a famous
general of the past or to the Emperor.
Most of all, the prayers go to the spirit
of the conquering Emperor Meiji. No
one can object to all this and no one
can very easily prevent it.
In more remote times, Shintoism was
nature worship. Prayers were directed
not only to the sun but to the moon, the
rain, thunder and fire. Also, they were
directed to stones and rocks and serpents
and tigers and silkworms and the lowly
louse. There was also totemism. A gor-
geous mythology grew up, with innumer-
able stories, many of which have been
collected in written forms.
The evil to which General MacArthur
is directing his attention is State Shinto-
ism, which is relatively new in Japanese
history. Simple worship has been, more
and more, directed toward the Emperor
and the Imperial Family. Those who
skilfully directed national education in
the past century contrived to use
Emperor-worship as a means toward
totalitarianism. The people were led to
believe that Emperor-worship had existed
for a thousand years. As storms and silk-
worms and serpents lost ground, auto-
cracy gained.
The way back from totalitarianism is
not the abolition of worship, but the
growth of democratic institutions. As
imperial brightness fades before the rise
of representative institutions, the Japanese
people will, no doubt, go back to more
permanent objects of reverence. They
will still have their mountains and moon
and stars. And if political parties rise in
a democratic society they may find less
and less that is holy in their leaders. Per-
haps, after the passing of a century or so,
they may be holding festivals to their St.
Tammanys and hang in their convention
halls their Jacksons, Lincolns and Jeffer-
sons, as we do. If they do, it may even
be in simple imitation of our own semi-
rational forms of political worship. But
it will hardly be an inducement to war,
which, after all, is our only important
concern.
Britain Under Labor.
( Condensed from a “Reader’s Digest” article
by William Hard.)
The essence of political public free-
dom —namely, the private personal liberty
of the citizen —remains in Laborite
Britain unimpaired and perhaps even on
its way toward expansion.
It is this note in the British Labor
Movement —this belief in one’s own im-
mortal rights and in the immortal rights
of others —that leads the British Labor
party continuously to refuse to allow the
British Communist party to join it. It is
the Labor party that has reduced the
Communists to political insignificance in
Britain.
Such is the first point about the British
Labor party. The second point follows
along logically. The British Labor party,
instead of seeking to liquidate the British
middle and upper classes, has striven to
persuade them.
In the new Laborite majority in the
House of Commons there are 136 officers
of trade unions and of co-operatives. But
there are 156 professional people such
as lawyers, publishers, doctors, clergy-
men, army and navy officers, teachers.
There are also 41 businessmen.
Sir Norman Angell, Laborite, has
P r °udly remarked in a recent article in
the “Saturday Review of Literature” that
Mr- Bevin, the ex-truck-driver, and Mr.
Morrison, the ex-errand boy, did not
boggle because during the war they were
as ked to work side by side with Mr.
Churchill, the Tory grandson of a duke,
Similarly, now, Francis John Westenra
Plantagenet Hastings, 15th Earl of Hunt-
to§don> does not boggle because, as Par-
barnentary Secretary to the Ministry of
Agriculture, he will work side by side
lth J; he ne w Minister of Agriculture,
Ml > T° m Williams, who was a check-
weigher in a mine.
. British class distinctions have been ter-
rific>. P ut . never forget: British political
P atr .i°tic inter-class solidarity is equally
er . nf ! c - We do n °t took at the new
Bn . ta m. We look at an old new for ever
Britain , its branches unfettered but its
roo^s unsurrendered,
That same thought must recur when
we examine the British Labor party’s eco-
uomic programme. People say; “Britain
has turned Left.” The actual truth is
more momentous. Britain has
simply decided to go Lefter. It was
ulready going Left—under the Tories,
Under the Tories the British Govern-
uient definitely embraced “managed
money” instead of the old traditional
“automatic Gold Standard.” It com-
mitted itself to a broad measure of social
security, including medical care for every-
body from the cradle to the grave. It
unnounced its resolve to banish booms
and busts and by public governmental
Britain produces the best high
level planners and intelligence
officers on earth. United States
Lieut. General Walter Bedell Smith,
who was General Dwight D. Eisen-
hower’s Chief-of-Staff, told the
Royal United Service Institution.
“If I were organising another head-
quarters tomorrow I would know
exactly where to get my intelligence
officers and my planners—if the
British War Office would let me
have them,” he asserted. Compar-
ing British and American military
planners, he said that the American
officer way a bit short on planning
and in operations relied more on
improvisation. — N.Y. “Times”
spending to arrest every threatened indus-
trial slump. It had a nationalised tele-
graph system, telephone system and radio
broadcasting system.
Now the Labor party proposes further
nationalisations: coalmines, transport
services, gas and electricity, iron and steel,
the Bank of England. In this list a high
priority seems to go to coalmines. The
working of the coal deposits of Britain
will now be nationalised. But note: the
ownership of those deposits, the sub-sur-
face rights in them, the “royalties” from
them, were nationalised in 1938 —under
the Tories.
Clearly we are gazing not at a British
abrupt break with the past but at a
British continuous trend. It is a trend,
however, which (for the moment at least)
has definite limits. The overwhelming
bulk of British industries and services will
retain their chance to prove that progress
and prosperity can best be promoted by
free enterprise in harmony with a certain
degree of public planning.
Thus Britain becomes a sort of eco-
nomic middle ground between Soviet
Communism and American Private Capi-
talism. In present European circum-
stances nothing could be more fortunate.
A semi-Socialist but non-Communist
Britain can by example and by influence
soon greatly help to moderate all popu-
lar convulsions of despair towards out-
right Communism in Western Europe as
a whole. The semi-Socialist Labor Move-
ments have already today produced Labor
Prime Ministers in Sweden, Norway,
Denmark, Belgium. British Labor Gov-
ernment preferences will undoubtedly
move toward producing such Prime Min-
isters —and not Communist ones —in all
other Western European countries. The
Labor victory in Britain will increase
British influence in Western Europe, and
there, just as in Britain itself, it will be an
influence toward taking and holding the
middle ground.
Surprises for Ivan.
(From a report by a Scripps-Haward staff
correspondent in Berlin .)
Russian soldiers now have seen that the
western systems, even Hitler’s distorted
State capitalism, produced better than
the Soviets’ vaunted Utopia, Russian
propaganda is at pains to combat such
disturbing impressions.
Russia is telling its people that the bath-
tubs of the German workers resulted
from false war-time prosperity, and that
the workers otherwise were exploited.
Furthermore, this line runs, America and
England have unemployment, whereas
Russia is demobilising its military forces
and building for a peaceful future.
In the words of a high American officer:
“Ivan isn’t gullible. He has seen the
superiority of American uniforms,
weapons and rations, as well as the
abundance of watches which the lowliest
G.I. carried—and often sold at excessive
prices to Ivan. By billeting in or plun-
dering German homes Ivan has seen that
Germany’s living standards, at least be-
fore the war, exceeded his own.”
This same high officer said there is a
gagline current: “Russia made one vast
mistake, and that was in exposing the
Russians to the west and the west to the
Russians.”
Inside information to this correspon-
dent appears to confirm that quip and to
show that Ivan’s bosses are beginning
to ponder whether their system will
appear to those returning home as being
such a lodestone as it was touted. More-
over, their anxieties apparently are grow-
ing as many Germans manifest scepticism
about rushing into the Communist ranks.
Germans are beginning to see through
certain Russian “generosities.” For
example, they realise that Russia’s “mag-
nanimous” deliveries of small milk, meat
and alcohol allotments —frequently at
high prices, plus stiff taxes —became pos-
sible merely by using stuff which earlier
had been confiscated from the Germans.
The Germans also are saying that the
Russians didn’t endear themselves through
the conduct of their combat troops and
through some actions, since early days of
occupation. Germans say they had had
enough violence in the last 12 years and
don’t fancy a system which, they assert,
has been marked by many instances of
violence.
American sources say there was con-
siderable rape and looting, and that this
continues today to some degree, although
it is abating. Although American officers
don’t countenance these outbursts, they
privately comment that rape is not as
heinous to Germany and Russia as it is to
America. Current reports indicate that
Russian derelictions in the Berlin area
outnumber American ones about 4 to 1.
There is no dodging the fact that Rus-
sians, be they deserters or otherwise, in-
dulged in many terroristic activities. In-
cidentally, these do not become less repre-
hensible as the word passes among Ger-
mans.
All these factors combine to retard
Communisation within Germany, despite
efforts to force a big membership.
It can be said that top-level Americans
get along with the top-level Russians,
realising that if they can’t operate this
relatively small show, then the United
Nations organisation will be a myth.
British in Hamburg.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Ernest O. Hauser .)
If Hamburg had been incorporated in
the Russian zone of occupation, the fate
of post-war Europe might have been
different.
Hamburg, one of the largest seaports
on the Continent, Germany’s second city,
lies just across the street from England.
From its humming waterfront the Rus-
sian Bear would have looked straight into
the British Lion’s front window.
Britain staked her claim to this port
at the Yalta Conference. Remembering
that Hamburg was founded by Charle-
magne as a defensive bastion against the
advancing Slavs, British administrators
here cast apprehensive glances toward the
line which, a mere 25 miles to the east,
marks the beginning of the Russian zone
—the line which, throughout Western
Europe, has come to be known as the
“asbestos curtain.”
Hamburg was one of the principal tar-
gets of the Allied air assault. You can
still see the remnants of the wooden
carpet with which the citizens tried to
disguise the Alster Basin and thus make
Hamburg look not like Hamburg from
the air—probably the largest and cer-
tainly the most pathetic camouflage job
ever undertaken by man. Today the sur-
viving inhabitants seem determined to
make the victors forget that there ever
was a war. Everyone is friendly here,
and if the Nazi High Command returned
to power today it would have to shoot
every living soul in Hamburg for colla-
boration with the Allies.
The city fell to the British without a
shot being fired —the German police, as
a reward for their exemplary conduct,
were given the unique privilege of keep-
ing their guns, and now patrol the streets
alongside the invader’s husky, red-capped
military policemen, dubbed “Little Red
Riding Hoods” by the natives. Some-
times the Germans themselves seem
slightly amazed by the incongruously
peaceful atmosphere.
Although Hamburg’s tradition is Red,
the deeper shades of crimson have only
rarely dominated the picture—the vast
majority of the city’s working people were
Socialists. Communist advances were
blocked at every turn by the solid
machine of the trade-unions under Social-
ist leadership. In reviving this machine
Military Government here is taking out
an insurance policy against a radical re-
surgence.
The movement, consisting of 13 unions
with a total membership of 60,000, is
under the supervision of British Major
Francis J. Dwyer, labor officer in Ham-
burg’s Military Government. Dwyer, in
civilian life a Birmingham bicycle manu-
facturer, believes that letting Hamburg
stew in its own juice would be dangerous
—radicalism, in his opinion, can be effi-
ciently forestalled only if potentially con-
structive elements are given a chance to
function. He deliberately encouraged the
Socialist unions because he considers them
the best bulwark against radicalism.
Dwyer moves carefully and conserva-
tively, and likes to emphasise the point
that his policy has nothing to do with the
fact that Britain itself is now ruled by
the Labor party. “Unions are not neces-
sarily troublemakers,” he explained.
“Where I come from, the best unions
are the ones the public never hears about.
Good unions facilitate the co-operation
of management and labor —and the union
movement in pre-war Germany had a
clean record.”
I was told by Franz Spliedt, 69-year-old
chairman of the administrative committee,
“I shall live and die a Socialist. But if
Karl Marx walked into this room today
to -discuss his philosophy with us, I think
he’d make some revisions himself. Take
his doctrine of class struggle, for example.
The rich get richer and the poor get
poorer all the time, according to Marx,
and the middle class disappears—becomes
absorbed by the rich or the proletariat.
Well, I’ve been watching the Hamburg
middle classes for a good many years
now, and they’ve shown no sign whatever
of dying out—on the contrary, the middle
class is a sturdy, wholesome institution,
and holding its own at any time. If we
want to succeed, we must go with it
rather than against it.”
The British experiment with Ham-
burg’s labor assumes great significance.
There is a solid layer of middle-of-the-
road families who are longing for the
kind of normal life which would allow
them to work, eat and send their children
to school. They are weary of extremes ;
rumors seeping through the “asbestos
curtain” do not tend to make Com-
munism seem more attractive to them.
The desire to introduce an element of
political and emotional stability in this
community prompted Military Gov-
ernment to put its money on those
moderately Leftist forces, which seemed
to be the only ones to offer a workable
solution. In encouraging German Social-
ism, modified after 12 years in limbo,
British administrators here feel that they
are giving the majority of Hamburg’s
inhabitants a road to follow.
Eventually, as the ideas of free speech
and Parliamentary self-rule spread from
the selected few to the masses, they may
create in the population of this port
something approaching a democratic
state of mind. Such a development
would have repercussions throughout the
British and American zones of occupa-
tion. For Allied observers feel that it
might be unwise to restore Berlin as the
German capital. There is, therefore, a
growing tendency to let Berlin slip into
the status of a wide-open frontier town,
which it is rapidly assuming. Instead,
Germany’s western occupants might give
increasing prominence to such peri-
pheral cities as Munich, Cologne and
Hamburg. Whatever the final settle-
ment, Hamburg will form an important
hitching-post of the new order. The
growth of the grass roots is going to be
worth watching.
The Bomb and the Veto.
(From London “Times" Parliamentary report.)
In the House of Lords Viscount Cran-
borne said that all regretted the friction


GIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
As manpower and raw materials become
available, increased quantities of
Globites will be manufactured. So j jj
ask first for Globite!
Made by
FORD SHEBINGTON LTD.
■- ■ ■
■ -V •>
i
■ ■■ ‘N
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
fsdfs
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
New Zealand: Motor Specialists, Ltd., Anzac Avenue, Auckland. Branches throughout the Dominion.
A MASONITE
Kitchen-dining-room
STORAGE WALL
AS SEEN FROM
£MIN6 ROOM
■■
m
FROM
KITCHEN
Oo OUBLE-StDED
CHINA CUPBOARD
© FOOD STORAD!
©DOUBLE-SIDED
GLASSWARE CUPBOARD
© SERVERY WITH PLUG
FOR TOASTER OR JUG
©DOUBLE-SIDED
CUTLERY DRAWERS
©GENERAL STORAGE
© NAPERY
©GENERAL STORAGE
©
■■
©
0
Here is another money-saving
Masonite Storage Wall. This wall,
constructed entirely of Masonite
Presdwood, divides kitchen and dining room, and replaces
the usual brick or timber partition. As our illustration
shows, china and glass cupboards and cutlery drawers are
double-sided, allowing for storage from kitchen after
washing-up, and table-setting from dining room side.
Masonite Presdwood with its hard, smooth surface, is
ideal constructional material for storage walls. Like all
Masonite boards, it can be worked with nrdinarv «nrw
penters’ tools. Your
nearest supplier will
be glad to give you
all the details.
Manufactured, by:
vIASONITE corporation
(AUST.) LTD.
NORTHERN
SALES DIVISION:
369 Pitt Street, Sydney;
and
SOUTHERN
SALES DIVISION:
529 Collins Street, Melbourne.
df
°Oo
*0
°0 0
■v
X
A.
*
K
which appeared to have arisen between
the western Powers and Russia over the
atomic bomb, but very likely the pro-
cedure adopted at Washington was the
only one that could be adopted in the
, present circumstances.
There were some people who would
have preferred that the bomb should be
handed over immediately to the Security
Council of the United Nations. There
was something anomalous in refusing to
transmit so supreme a weapon for peace
to the world organisation. Those who
favored such a course ignored one con-
sideration, the existence in the Charter
of the power of the veto by any perman-
ent member of the Security Council
against action by the Council or by the
world organisation.
Many always thought that was unfor-
tunate, but now it had become absolutely
disastrous. While that power was in the
Charter it would always be open to a
permanent member of the council to
veto the use of the bomb or threat of the
use of the bomb whether that Power
was directly concerned in the matter or
not. The deterrent effect of the bomb
would be largely nullified.
From such a situation he could not
see that anyone would benefit except an
intending aggressor. While the veto was
in the Charter it was better that the
bomb should remain in the United States,
in whose pacific intentions we could have
absolute trust. If the veto were ex-
punged from the Charter the situation
would be different. The argument against
handing over the bomb to the Security
Council would largely disappear.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The threat of Jewish domination in Palestine,
through gradual infiltration or otherwise, has
aroused and united the whole Arabic world—
Christian as well as Moslem. The insistence
by the Zionists on their extreme claims may
set the entire Middle East aflame and render
peace impossible. It may divide the United
Nations now struggling desperately to preserve
at least the appearance of unity. It certainly
has sadly divided the Jews themselves. It may
react tragically against all Jews throughout the
world. The just solution would seem to con-
sist in a general agreement to consider
Palestine as a Holy Land sacred to Jews, Mos-
lems and Christians alike, in which none shall
enjoy special rights of an exclusive character.
The supreme responsibility for its administra-
tion should He not with Great Britain but with
some form of international trusteeship. Ameri-
can public opinion should be more accurately
informed concerning this dangerous situation
and exert its influence in favor of a solution
which shall do justice to all concerned.— Philip
Marshall Brown, who made two reports on
Palestine to the U.S. Department of State.
* * * m
Foreign Commissar Molotoff is forced to
listen to Foreign Secretary Bevin singing
“Britons never, never shall be Slavs,” while
Americans hear the traditional rendition of
“Britons never, never, never shall be slaves.”
It is worth noting that the British are equally
determined in both cases.— A. Beverley Baxter,
M.P., writing in N.Y. “Times Magazine.”
* * * *
There are people in Washington who be-
lieve that the British do not wish for American
lenetration into the Middle East. This is a
complete delusion. The British Government
would like to encourage American interest in
the Middle East on the basis that we should
have an extra friend in a difficult part of the
world. Both the last coalition Government and
the present Labor Government are genuinely
convinced that no solution is possible in the
Palestine question without the full and active
co-operation of the United States. — Randolph
Churchill, in N.Y. “ World-Telegram.”
* * * *
An argument that is never offered explicitly
[in advocacy of military training in U.S.] is
this: The post-war world is a hard world in
which a nation will have influence in proportion
to its latent strength to carry out its inter-
national policies. These policies in the United
States are aimed at peace and non-aggression.
There is some reason to doubt that Soviet
Russia’s policies are travelling toward the same
goal, even if that is their objective. The only
way the United States can assure that is to be-
come and stay strong enough to discourage the
contrary course of any nation. An essential
basis of that strength is a youth which is
trained to arms and discipline.— Washington
correspondent, N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The whole course of recent history should
explode once for all the silly fallacy that
capitalism, or. individualism, makes for war,
while collectivism of the Socialist or Com-
munist type makes for peace. The “capitalist”
peoples, the Americans, the British, the French,
were the least prepared militarily for the ordeal
of global conflict’. The collectivised peoples, the
Germans, the Russians, the Japanese, were the
most thoroughly militarised .—William Henry
Chamberlin; “ Wall-street Journal.”
* * jje
The loss of her eastern territories provides
Germany with a demand upon Poland which
Russia —not Poland —can grant when the time
comes to establish a modus vivendi between
Germany and Russia. It provides Russia with
powerful means of achieving an association with
Germany and of preventing any association be-
tween Germany and western Europe, indeed of
sustaining permanent German hostility to the
west. The principal claim which Germany will
make, and must make, some day—the claim to
her eastern territories—cannot be met by the
Western Powers, cannot be met by Poland, but
can be naet, with one stroke of the pen, by
Russia alone.— F. A. Voigt, editor, London
"Nineteenth Century and After.”
* * * *
President Truman soured on the idea of Big
Three meetings when the agreement he entered
into at Berlin last August, designed to lay
the basis for peace in Europe, was pretty well
shattered two months later. The U.S. Presi-
dent will require a good deal of convincing be-
fore he goes into another meeting abroad. —
44 United Slates News.”
* * * *
In Czechoslovakia the people used to hold
the freest elections in central Europe. But to-
day when Czechs vote for the National
Assembly they enter no polling booths to mark
their ballots. Voting is by acclamation, in the
open, which puts a sort of damper on malcon-
tents. — N.Y. “Post” editorial comment.
♦ * * »
It seems sometimes that there is a tendency
in Britain and the U.S. to feel if the French
propose a thing it must b'e wrong. In the light
of our present policies it was the French after
the last war who were right and we wrong.
They wanted a strong League and a weak Ger-
many. We didn’t then, but do now. No doubt
this is hard for us to forgive.— Paul Scott
Mowrer, European editor of N.Y. “Post. 4 ’
* ♦ * *
War-time’s most optimistic predictions on
post-war aviation already have been knocked
into a “cocked hat.” U.S. airlines are making
every attempt to handle about five times the
pre-war traffic, including passenger and cargo.
And the industry is speeding up beyond all
expectations to supply much-needed new model
airliners and cargo ships. ’Planes not only are
being filled to capacity, with 85 per cent, of the
war-time priorities off, but it is proving almost
impossible for the average citizen to obtain a
seat unless he gets his reservation far ahead. —
Scripps-Haward aviation editor.
* * * *
One of the outstanding virtues in the system
of private capitalism is its flexibility. There is
no one way to manufacture or to sell—there
are literally thousands of ways. This is obvi-
ously not true of State capitalism or Socialism
or Communism. Their rule is to impose a
single decision from one central office upon the
whole of economic society. If a mistake is
made by the authorities in any one industry
(and plenty must be made each year) that mis-
take becomes a national calamity. In order to
preserve the very heart of the free enterprise
system we must maintain this diversity and
flexibility which has served us so well in the
past. Yet year in and year out our tendency
is to impose upon industry laws and regulations
which make the system rigid rather than flex-
ible. —N Y. “World Telegram I '' economic writer.
* * ♦ *
General de Gaulle told Maurice Thorez,
Communist leader, that he could not turn
France’s foreign policy over to a man whose
first loyalty was not to France but to Moscow.
Nor could he confide to such men the levers
that commanded the diplomacy that expresses
foreign policy, the army that sustains it and
the police that protects it. The general also
made it plain that in his view there are now
only two very great Powers in the world
(Russia and the United States), and that he
does not intend to throw France into the arms
of either. He wishes friendly relations with
both, also with Great Britain and the rest of
France’s neighbors.— William Philip Simms;
N.Y. 44 World Telegram.”
* * * *
The most important aspect of our [U.S.]
war-time experience appears to have been over-
looked. It is the vital necessity of preserving
the combined chiefs of staff of Great Britain
and the United States. Few people in either
country know the extent to which the armed
forces of Britain and the United States worked
together in military operations. Few people
know how splendidly the British carrier task
force worked with the American Navy in the
raids on the Japanese coast. The story re-
mains to be told of how the British officers
and crews accepted the American system of
carrier operation and even American slang in
their communication between ships in the
Pacific. A tremendous respect for the speed
with Which the British learned the tactics of
U.S. carrier task-force operation has been de-
veloped among American naval officers in the
Pacific. It is being urged from both British and
American quarters that the two navies maintain
joint manoeuvres and develop together in the
coming years. This is a practical suggestion,
which does not need a treaty or international
agreement but merely an understanding between
the military or naval staffs of both countries.—
N.Y. “S n” columnist David Lawrence,
m * * *
Eire’s total trade, both imports and exports,
fell from $280,000,000 in 1939 to $232,000,000
in 1944 in spite of rising prices. The war also
cut Eire’s imports of coal, forcing her to fall
back on smoky, unsatisfactory peat. New
manufactured goods, especially industrial and
agricultural machinery, virtually were elimi-
nated from the list of imports. Tea and sugar
remain strictly rationed. But the typical Irish
reactions is that, if there were shortages, there
were also no bombs;' if some arteries of trade
died, many young Irishmen lived. The ample
food supply is another compensating factor.
Side by side -with this evidence of wellbeing,
however, ragged urchins still beg for pennies.
Although unemployment has been cut almost
in half in three years—partly through migration
to British war industries and partly through
the expansion of Eire’s own army to three times
it normal size—approximately 1 per cent, of
Eire’s population remains unemployed. Gov-
ernment assistance for a single man out of
work is fixed at $2.50 a week. Also, the Gov-
ernment plans to reduce the army to its pre-
war level, and Britain’s own demobilisation
programme probably means that Irish war-time
labor will be replaced by British Tommies. —
“Chicago “Tribune.”
* * * m
The daring young man on the flying trapeze
is to disappear from Berlin by order of the
Allied Kommandatura. A letter to the chief
burgomaster informs him that groups sponsor-
ing not only trapeze work but boxing, mountain-
climbing, yachting, rowing hiking, jui-jitsu,
weight-lifting, athletics, skiing or cycling are
“abolished.” On the other hand, Berliners may
go in for hockey, Rugby, soccer, tennis, volley-
ball, basket-ball, skating, bowls, fishing, ele-
mentary calisthenics and body exercises. The
division is between sports that “tend to promote
military preparedness” and those that do not,
and it was the Russians who —mindful, prob-
ably, of secret drilling before Hitlerism became
openly militarist—produced the two lists and
said that there would be good reason for sus-
picion if Berliners organised, for instance,
mountain-climbing.—Loudon “Times.”


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4ijd. per line; all others 2id. per line.
Pearling for Servicemen
Servicemen in the northern battle areas
have gained an experience of sea life and
the handling of small boats. Men
stationed around the islands have rigged
up all kinds of small craft for sailing
about, have made sails of worn and dis-
carded tents and created engines out of
scraps collected from salvage or Yank
dumps and fitted them into native laka-
tois. Many have come to love the sea
and the free open life.
Why shouldn’t they continue it? There
are good prospects in the marine industry
along North Australian coasts in the
gathering of pearl shell, trochus shell and
beche-de-mer. Fortunes have been made
in the past and will be in the future along
the Queensland coast, Torres Strait and
northern coasts. The Am Islands were
profitable fishing grounds and were ex-
ploited by the Japs who had gained a
strong hold on the industry before the
war.
Pearl and trochus shell vary a deal
in price according to kind and quality
and size generally between £BO and
£l2O per ton, while beche-de-mer
has fluctuated between £4O and £6O,
according to quality. Beche -de - mer
is a delicacy with the Chinese, who were
the chief buyers before the war with
Japan. The blockade ended the trade.
For ten years the beche-der-mer beds
have been untouched, and rich harvests
of easily and quickly gatherable fish
should be waiting for the first on the job.
There are great prospects for the man
with knowledge of luggers and cutters,
with a liking for the sea and the gift of
working and handling natives, who are
the main source of labor.— Alpha
(A.1.F.).
Lawyers in the Services
The army has announced that, regard-
less of points, the further demobilisation
of officers of the Legal Corps is to be
deferred. They are wanted to assist in
the trials of the Jap war criminals. Here,
as elsewhere, points have significance
only when policy permits.
The profession has, throughout the war,
been working at a great strain to try and
compensate for its many members in the
forces. Some time between V.E.- and
V.P.-days the Government flatly rejected
a claim by the N.S.W. Law Institute for
help with releases, and since the shooting
war ended has said that it has nothing
further to add to its previous reply.
For the most part the members of the
Legal Corps were too young in 1939 to
have established durable practices. They
face the future, rusty in their civilian law
and with the same non-existent prac-
tices that they had when admitted a
decade ago. Now is the time for them to
start if they’re ever going to. But the
Government has them cold. They are
sworn to serve for the duration of and
12 months after a war which needn’t end
till the politicians see fit. In the mean-
time established practitioners, though
still overworking, are sitting pretty and
raking in the fresh clientele which morally
belongs to the still-serving members. The
coming-on youngsters are exempt from
call-up, and the volunteers are left hold-
ing the baby.
For the European trials the British
Government is employing civilian mem-
bers of the Bar, who are presumably re-
ceiving their proper professional fees.
Such a system here would distribute work
evenly throughout the profession instead
of the Government’s cheap “economy”
in flogging the no-longer-willing horse. —
Geoffrey S. Hanson (N.S.W.).
Palestine Propaganda
War-time Jewish propaganda in Pales-
tine aimed at British servicemen was very
much in evidence.
Servicemen from the M.E. on leave in
Palestine were always assured of a good
holiday. The Jews, especially Tel-Aviv-
ites, made obvious efforts to be hospitable.
They organised tours to flourishing com-
munity settlements to show off refugee
scientists famous in the universities of
Europe ploughing, digging and raising
poultry, and arranged week-ends in
private homes where other Jews, Rus-
sian, Polish, Spanish and American, all
speaking excellent English, were invited
to meet servicemen guests. They all
seemed extremely well educated, and their
conversation was wide and varied, but
underlying it was anti-Arab feeling.
A more direct approach appeared in
the civil privileges accorded to service-
men—allowing them to go to the head of
cinema and bus queues, reduced prices
here and there, special “Forces’ Night”
programmes and priority for cafe tables—
privileges which servicemen highly appre-
cited.
Often expressed by the Jews was their
pride in achievement: “When we came
here in numbers 30 or 40 years ago as
refugees, homeless and nationless, this
was desert. It was the only land the
Arabs would sell us, their poorest. Now
look, at us And now they want it
back.”
The Arab point of view was not easy
to find at first-hand. For one thing, there
was the language difficulty ; for another,
the Arabs could not offer the same leave-
comforts as the white population ; and,
for a third, finding their point of view
would have required a mental and phy-
sical effort that servicemen generally were
not prepared to make. The Jews cashed
in on this.
It is safe to assume that hundreds of
thousands of servicemen, particularly
those from the U.K., wrote home glowing
accounts of the Jews and their land and
their accomplishments, and that many
more on repatriation will sooner or later
spread the gospel of “Palestine for the
Jews” just where the Jews wanted it
spread—at the doors of Westminster. —
E. J. Curtis (Tas.).
War Criminals
In the trials at Nuremburg we of this
generation are witnessing the most sig-
nificant happening in human history, for
this is the first time that the planners of
“Extraordinarily low tide, Chumleigh !”
wars have been called to account for
their misdeeds.
In the past the Alexanders, the Napo-
leons who caused the blood of common
men to flow in rivers have been acclaimed
as heroes, demigods; but from now on,
not even the wearer of a crown will feel
quite happy over the starting of a war. It
will be even more of a milepost in man’s
upward progress should adequate pun-
ishment be imposed on these delinquents.
—W.C.C. (W.A.).
Food far Britain
The Federal Government has certainly
not shown much gratitude or good man-
ners in its dealings with Britain, but it is
not fair to blame it for the 51b. limit on
food parcels, This and other conditions
were imposed by the British Government
early in the war, so that the fortunate
few with well-to-do friends overseas
should not monopolise shipping space.
The limit has now been raised slightly,
but in any case food parcels cannot solve
Britain’s food problem. I suggest the
inauguration of a “Feed Britain” carri-
paign, with two objectives:
(1) To collect donations (cash or coupons)
to be handed over to the British authorities
to buy food. This food would not be dis-
tributed free but poojed with all other
stocks to bring down the general price level.
£2) To raise an interest-free loan,
currency five to seven years, also for the
buying of food, the money to be spent in
Australia on food for the people of Britain.
The British Government would have the
use of the money for its reconstruction
programme until it could send us exports
sufficient to repay the debt.
Shipping would have to be provided to
take the extra food as soon as it is bought.
It should now be possible for Govern-
ments and shipping companies to arrange
such services.
Such a scheme would be a practical
expression of Empire unity, and would
undo the harm that certain irresponsible
yappers have done to our relations with
the Mother Country.—J. B. Cameron
(Q.).
I wish to thank the people of Austra-
lasia for the efforts they have made, and
are still making, to send food to us over
here in Britain. Almost every day I have
read of fresh consignments being re-
ceived or en route, and believe me the
news has acted like a tonic.
In the first, months following the end
of the war it seemed that the ordinary
housewife —like myself —was in for ia
pretty stiff time. Lease-lend had ended,
talks with the U.S. had broken down
and supplies were short in the shops, but
happily for us the overseas Dominions
came forward with promises of still more
supplies. And here we are with extra
rations for Christmas, and still more food
on the way.— London Wife (U.K.).
Interest Rates and Policy-holders
Just what further interest-rate reduc-
tions would mean to policy-holders in
reduced bonuses can be gathered from the
last T. and G. report. Interest rate
dropped 2s. 7d. to £4 Is. 6d., a result
only to be expected when 72.3 p.c. is
invested in Government, municipal and
public body securities.
At £896,882, the year’s surplus was 48.4
p.c. of the teturn from interest and net
rents; the year before it was 43.9 p.c.
Other offices show much the same
trend. A reduction of interest rates in
other directions would no doubt call for
a strengthening of the valuation basis,
which would give added security at the
cost of lower bonuses to over half the
Australian public, until rates are stabil-
ised. — C. H. Regelsen, A.I.C.A. (Vic.).
Old-age Pensions
“J.P.” (B. 5/12/’45) distorts what I
wrote about 0.A.P., misconstrues it to
suit his own purpose, and then indulges
a tirade of' personal abuse —the stock
argument of those without the mental
ability to analyse logically. In answer to
my question why I should not get the
O.A.P. he replies ; “He doesn’t need it.”
How does “J.P.” know? Though I’m over
60 I’m still working ; I intend to continue
to work so long as I am physically and
mentally capable of work. The bit I’ve
saved by strenuous self-denial and thrift
isn’t enough to keep me ; it is against my
principles and training to squander it to
put myself in a position to apply for
Government help. If I had the pension,
in addition to what I make now, it would
allow me to go to the races, the dogs, the
stadium—the unquestionable right of
every worker—and I consider myself a
better worker than any militant unionist
who sponges on his country.
“J.P.” concludes that pensions should be
augmented with moneys “used to subsi-
dise useless cockies who batten on a bit
of land and can’t make it pay.” What
wonderful reasoning! If he implies that
I am one of those I can tell him posi-
tively I am not —and I never have been.
—Cocky (Q.).
N.S.W. Hospital Finance
How are the hospitals of New South
Wales operating under Hospitals Com-
mission finance?
Partly by patients’ fees, partly by pay-
ments from a Contribution Fund and as
to almost all the rest by some form of
Government subsidy. There was a time
when private donations and proceeds of
entertainments were substantial helps;
but that time is now many years past. In
almost every hospital balance sheet they
are comparatively small items.
Patients’ fees in these days are
adequate and reasonably well collected.
The Contribution Fund is in general
economically conducted, and within its
present limits is helpful.
The Hospitals Association has time and
again passed resolutions asking for a com-
pulsory extension of the Contribution
Fund scheme as the best means of financ-
ing hospitals ; but the powers that be pre-
fer the present fool system.
For fool system it is. There’s nothing
like it in all the world. Incompetence
and extravagance are subsidised;
economy and competence are dis-
couraged.
Take examples. A few years ago a
country hospital was notorious for bad
management and local dissension. It re-
ceived as regular subsidy almost thrice
that of a well-conducted hospital of
similar size.
But let’s begin at the beginning. After
local agitation for some years the hos-
pital is visited by the district’s M.L.A.
and some members of the Hospitals Com-
mission. All agree that the agitation is
justified and a new hospital or a new
addition (almost always the latter) is
promised. Delay, of course, and more
delay, but finally the new addition is
promised. Cost, say £20,000, of which
the Government, through the Commis-
sion, finds half and the district hospital is
supposed to find the other half. The
Commission or the Government arranges
this loan ; the district hospital affixes its
seal to a mortgage in favor of the super-
annuation board for £lO,OOO. This loan
is guaranteed by the Government.
The hospital receives periodical pay-
ments from the mortgagee and returns
these to Sydney to meet part of the cost
of the mortgage. Then the accounts for
interest come along, and. these are as a
matter of course sent to Sydney for pay-
ment by the Commission. Even in the
few instances in which the hospital pays
the interest account these just add to the
general deficiency which the Govern-
ment or the Commission finally under-
takes to pay.
In the ordinary country hospital of 30
to 50 beds there is a deficiency of £lOO
to £2OO a month after allowing for
patients’ fees. Contribution Fund payment
and the ordinary Government subsidy.
Every now and then the Government
makes a promise to pay all outstanding
hospital accounts as of a certain date.
But the deficiency continues to mount up
while the Government is making investi-
gations, checking figures and keeping its
promise; and by the time the payment
is made or the promise is allegedly kept
the deficiency has again grown to
thousands of pounds.
And so it goes on year by year. One
hospital decided to live within its means.
It got no special grants to pay old defi-
ciencies and its usual subsidy was reduced
£5O a month. It complained to high
heaven and was told by the district’s
M.L.A. that its appeals were not heard
because it had not appealed through him.
Now it has reverted to the old procedure
and gets a subsidy greater than before.
Economy of administration as such has
no place in its reckoning.
The only reason why the public in
general put up with the foolishness and
muddle of hospital finance is that it
doesn’t know anything about it. —Hospice
(N.S.W.).
Tools of Trade
Tradesmen leaving the services are
finding it almost impossible to secure
tools of trade under grant and loan
from the Repatriation Department, yet
in the auction advertisements one reads
announcements by the Disposal Commis-
sion of such sales as this:
123 cases of tradesmen’s fools of every
description.
12 carpenters’ canvas tool kits.
120 cases tradesmen’s tools.
Large quantities picks, shovels, spades.
The Digger would not be in the hunt
bidding at these sales for one kit when
the deajers will be there in force.
Why doesn’t Repat. buy tools from
the Disposals Commission and supply
servicemen direct? The Air Force alone
must have thousands of tool kits not in
use now which could be passed on to
Repat. and the discharged men get a good
selection instead of being forced to buy
at the fantastic prices charged by dealers.
—Recco (N.S.W.).
Wool Committee’s Profits
The Central Wool Committee has
ended six years’ operations with a profit
balance of £7,000,000. Woolgrowers,
whose properties have been neglected
during the war, will be anxious to see
how this amount is distributed. Under
the Imperial Wool Purchase Agreement
growers are to receive half the profits.
C.W.C. has handed over the job of
disposing of the clip to the Wool Reali-
sation Commission, local subsidiary for
J.O. —joint organisation of the four
parties to the wool scheme, Britain, Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and S. Africa.
For the year ending June 30 last
C.W.C. handled 3,123,107 ba1e5—403,440
fewer than the preceding year and
£62,602,058 was paid to growers. The
current clip is also much smaller than
that of 1943-44. Wool stored in Aus-
tralia on behalf of the U.K. Government
at June 30 was 5,136,000 bales, a rise of
742,984 on the 1944 figures. Strikes are
hindering the shipment of accumulated
stocks. A statement by C.W.C. as to its
future policy would be welcome.— Graz
(N.S.W.).


W. & A. Gilbey Ltd. have much
pleasure in announcing that,
following the lifting of restrictions,
additional supplies of . . .
GILBEY'S WORLD FAMOUS GIN
will now be available.
I .-iu from tho
1
das by »»* that this
officers uld now car y d sale
the trad re distribution, 9 - bran d?
wan h& V. ru f'interference 1»
,qi wb-is y» nve tnment m W at.
with °ame waV a* unsatisfac-
i the same ne s aid ft impo s "
Senaloi Kea ion made 1 and
‘tors s ?? P relax control ot
elun. on
coi k! com^^feia
: :
mu
W
