

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3406
Wednesday, May 23, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
LONGLEAT, a Wiltshire Mansion, seat of the Marquess of Bath.
J ONGLEAT, to the west of Warminster, in Wiltshire, was
granted by Henry VIII to Edward, Earl of Hertford. He began
to build a priory there; but before he had finished the king
dissolved the religious houses. The property was bought by one
of the Thynnes, who had been knighted by the Protector Somerset,
and the half-finished priory was completed as a private residence.
The building is in the mixed style belonging to the end of the
sixteenth century, principally Roman, designed, some say, by John
of Padua. The founder, Sir John Thynne, married Christian,
daughter of Sir Richard Gresham, Lord Mayor of London,
and sister and heir to Sir Thomas Gresham, who built the first
Royal Exchange. Ken, Bishop of Bath and Wells, spent many
years of his life at Longleat. He was one of the seven bishops who
refused to read James IPs Declaration of Indulgence, and he was
deprived by William 111 for refusing to take the oath of allegiance.
Lord Weymouth (a descendant of Sir John Thynne) offered him
an asylum at his house, and Ken arrived with his books, the only
property he took from Wells Palace. A part of this library is still
preserved at Longleat. Miss Burney gives a rather dismal account
of her visit to the house with the royal party. She had a silent
dinner with the gentlemen—the ladies of the family and the Marquis
of Bath were dining with the king and queen—“the Weyinouths,
Thynnes rather, are silent, and we had but little talk as entertain-
ment.” The house she found “very magnificent and of an immense
magnitude,” but sadly in need of repair, and by no means cheerful
or comfortable. She slept in Bishop Ken’s room, so far from the
rest of the inhabitants that if she had seen his ghost she might have
screamed her voice away before anyone came to encourage her.


[Learn '
I Story
Writing
crt HOME I
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write tor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE.
The RedPage
Idyll .
At noon the sun puffed up, outsize.
We saw a township on the rise ;
Jack croaked “A pub,” then filed his
throat.
Spat out an encroaching horde of flies.
One-headed Cerberus near the door
Bit off the fag-end of a snore,
Allowed us a red eye’s filmy grace
And veiled the awful sight once more.
Sad barman showed a yellow fang;
Sweat was dirt-cheap, the whole place
rang
As six-foot told a ten-foot yarn ;
One chap was under, and one sang.
I’d bottle up that song without
A license, just to serve it out,
A ballad, long and cool for days
Of epics, dry ca,nteens and drought.
We shouldered through the cork-tipped
fog.
Paid several zacks and downed the grog ;
Then like the brown fox of copperplate
Made exit over the lazy dog.
R.A.A.F.
F. WEBB.
Byron and Gordon .
The linking of Byron and Adam Lind-
say Gordon in H. M. Green’s Fourteen
Minutes (R.P. 11/4/’45) set me thinking
that perhaps it wasn’t so great an insult
after all to Australian poetry to have set
up that ghastly, rocky white head of the
balladist in Westminster Abbey as Aus-
tralia’s national poet.
It’s true that one can’t rate Gordon
highly as a poet; true that even as a
balladist he was too derivative to be con-
sidered distinctively Australian ; and true,
lastly, that his suicide must mar our esti-
mation of him as a man. If we were
going to set Up a balladist as the repre-
sentative of the beginnings of our national
literature —and they have a case —“Banjo”
Paterson would have been a much more
suitable figure. - And yet Gordon serves
well enough.
What do we chiefly remember of him?
That he borrowed from Swinburne and
Browning? That despair lay deep in his
soul? That he took his own life? On
the whole, X think, we remember rather
that he was a horseman. His total state-
ment, his impress on the Australian mind
is of reckless courage—and we could put
up a worse monument to ourselves in
Westminster Abbey.
Whether or‘not, as H. M. Green avers,
the psychoanalysts could worm their way
down to an “inferiority complex” in
Byron and Gordon, the point is irrele-
vant: it is as vital personalities, full of
life and fire, that both are remembered,
as Mr. Green recognises in Gordqp’s case
when he says:
Gordon was a boxer who had been some-
thing more than a chopping-block for the
champion of England, a mounted trooper
who had hunted bushrangers, a daredevil
horseman and the best amateur steeplechase
rider in Australia, and he got the spirit of
all this into his verse; so it was no wonder
that he appealed to a young and adven-
turous country.
Gordon came to a young country and,
because he was young and adventurous
himself, identified himself with it and be-
came the most widely-read balladist in
Australia until the advent of Paterson
and Lawson. Byron, too, was an athlete:
a boxer, a swimmer and no mean horse-
man. He drank brandy, he liked the
ladies, and he was not afraid of war. Eng-
land rejected him, to its cost. But all
over the Continent, and especially in
Greece, he became a legend.
When I was in Greece in 1941 I was
astonished ht the übiquity of the legend.
Not only to the educated classes, but to
the unlettered, Byron had all the vitality
of a living figure. Waiters, taxi-drivers
and picturesque herdsmen from the hills
seemed firmly convinced that there had
been one great Englishman and that man
had been George Gordon, the 6th Lord
Byron. Some were disposed to analyse
his poetic merits, but the vast majority
were content to think of him as Byron
the man of action, the English milord
who had expended wealth, energy and
finally his life that Greece might be free.
We came to Glymphada camp at dusk,
when from the bare hillside we could see
far out over the purple bay and watch
the farthest purple islands fading into the
sea. Glymphada was on the outskirts of
Athens, not far from the Piraeus, and it
was there that we first came across the
Byronic legend. Our guns and tents were
scattered haphazardly among vegetable
gardens, olive groves and pretty little
squarely-built white houses.
The first evening Zoe, whose parents
lived about a hundreds yards away from
our tent, paid a social call; her father
was a teacher of English, and, although
she was only nine, Zoe herself spoke it
almost without an accent. She became
popular immediately, and we cemented
our friendship by giving her a tin of bully
beef. She accepted it with dignity—for
she had not begged—but gratefully, be-
cause even then Greece was short of meat.
She visited us daily after that.
“I think I’ll come back and marry you
after the war,” one of the boys said to
her one day when w© were cleaning tbe
two-pounder.
Zoe smiled archly. “Oh, you’ll meet a
lot of pretty girls before the war is over,”
she said. “Wait till you go to Athens.
We have the most beautiful women in the
world—so Byron says.”
“So who says?” we echoed.
“Byron. You know.” She-smiled, and
quoted:
“Maid of Athens, ere we part,
Give, oh give me back my heart!
Or, since that has left my breast,
keep it now and take the rest! ”
She smiled sweetly at our astonished
faces. “Byron always said that about the
Greek women. My great-grandfather was
at Missolonghi with Mavrocordatos, and
he often saw Lord Byron. He was a
great man.”
We found that Zoe had spoken the
truth about the women of Greece. I
have never seen so many beautiful women
before or since. I had a conversation with
one of these radiant beings later, sitting
in a cafe at a little table covered with a
gay cloth, toying with tiny bread rolls
and garfish cooked in oil and drinking
krasee, the harmless Greek table wine.
Her face and figure were as near perfec-
tion as it is possible to find in this imper-
fect world, and a gay animation lit her
laughing, finely-chiselled face and large,
glowing black eyes. She spoke English,
but with a delightful, musical lisp, and
she attempted to teach me a little simple
Greek. By this time I had passed from
the krassee stage to the mavrodaphne,
and from mavrodaphne I graduated to
oozo, which should be tackled very
warily indeed by the uninitiated. “Kali-
mera ees good morrning,” my fair teacher
said. “And kalispera ees good evening.”
I watched the oozo cloud in my small
glass as I poured the water in, and found
it hard to concentrate on my lesson.
“You are a bad pupil,” my teacher
scolded. “Do you not know,
“ Tis pleasing to be schooled in a strange
tongue
By female lips and eyes—that is, I mean,
When both the teacher and the taught' are young,
As was the case, at least, where I have been;
They smile so when one’s right and when one’s
wrong
They smile still more, and then there intervene
Pressure of hands, perhaps even a chaste kiss.
I learned the little that I know by this.”
“Who wrote that —-Byron?” I asked
cautiously. I was fairly sure of the
answer by now.
“But yes, of course, eet ees from Don
Juan. When Don Juan is washed up
from the sea and the beautiful Greek girl
Haidde and her maid find him and care
for him. Ees eet not re-mark-able that
one of the best of Byron’s characters
should ’ave been a Greek girl?”
“Yes, I suppose it is,” I said. “And I
suppose there was an original for
Haidee?”
“Mais oui,” my teacher said. Like
most educated Greeks, she slipped into
French on the slightest provocation.
“But yes,” she added conscientiously,
“there were many beautiful women in
Greece in those days,” she dimpled, “and
Byron was a great man. There was one,
the daughter of a priest, at Daphne, who
was vairee fair. You know Daphne, be-
tween the two hills? Peutetre she een-
flu-ence ’eem more than any woman.”
“I’ve never heard of her before,” I
said truthfully, “but Byron knew many
women.”
“But per’aps ’e learn to love Greece
from ’er, no?” my companion suggested.
“Didn’t he first come into contact with
the fight for freedom in Italy?” I asked,
racking my brain.
“Cest vrai. ’E met Countess Guiccioli
there, and later, at Ravenna ’e wrote the
“Prophecy of Dante” for ’er.
“ but only in the sunny South
Such sounds are uttered and such charms dis-
play’d,
So sweet a language from so fair a mouth —
Ah! to what effort might it not persuade?
“That is from ’is ded-ee-cashion,” she
explained. “Byron met the Carbon eria
through Countess Guiccioli and the
Gambas, ’er father and brother. But ’e
nevaire loved the Italians. And now the
Italians are trying to take our freedom,”
she added sombrely.
“But Byron was interested in the free-
dom of Greece in 1810-11, and after the
Carbonari movement failed ’e came back
to Greece. ’E sailed from Leghorn in
the ’ercules, with Pietro Gamba and Cap-
tain Trelawny to Cephalonia, in the
lonian Sea. But,” she said obstinately,
“eet was the girl from Daphne first of all.”
Pavlo was the next person who volun-
teered doubtful information on the sub-
ject of Byron. Pavlo was a Cretan, but he
had kept a cafe in Athens for years, and
he was at pains to let me know that there
was no Turkish blood in his veins,
although his mother had come from
Cyprus.
His cafe was a small dim retreat from
University-street, and it was deserted the
first time I went in there. Pavlo, a cocky,
paunchy little man, was leaning against
his own counter whistling to himself ; it
was 11 a.m., but Pavlo hadn’t got around
to having a shave as yet, although his
hair, long, with luxurious waves and
parted in the middle, was brilliant with
oil. He had flashing black eyes, heavy,
eloquent eyebrows and a cosmopolitan
repertoire of gestures: his teeth were so
good that I suspected that the gold
fillings which danced and dazzled in the
centre of his charming smile had been
put in purely for effect. He wore a clean
white silk shirt, lurid green trousers and
natty patent-leather shoes, all, he in-
formed me later, sent over by his brother
from Egypt; in addition, he had a battery
of rings on his fingers and an expensive-
looking gold watch on his hairy wrist.
Pavlo greeted me with delight: he was
obviously a man who liked company,
preferably an audience. In a matter of
moments we were drinking together
amicably, and I was hearing something of
Pavlo’s life story.
He was a polygot and a man of parts.
He had worked up and down the Medi-
terranean seaboard, as a waiter in
Jerusalem, as a shop-assistapt in Alexan-
dria and for a time he had run a gamb-
ling joint in Spain. I asked him what
he thought would happen if the Germans
came down through Yugoslavia into
Greece, so he told me all about the battles
of Salamis and Plataea and how Leonidas
and his Spartans had sat down and
combed their hair while they waited for
the Persian host at Thermopylae: very
interesting, but hardly to the point.
A Greek soldier came in and joined us.
Through Pavlo I asked him a few ques-
tions about the mechanisation of the
Greek Army. They countered with a few
racy stories anent Alexander the Great’s
campaigns and a short way the Mace-
donian potentate had • with traitors, as
illustrated by his treatment of the Persian
nobles who tried to ingratiate themselves
by bumping off their lord.
I got some answer to my questions
later, when I saw the Greek A.S.C. in
their bullock-wagons.
Then a fierce argument arose between
Pavlo and the Greek, soldier.. Pavlo
halted every now and again,, in the midst
of savage gesticulations, to interpret for
me, but so swift was the transition frorh
Greek to English and then back to torrid
Greek again that I never quite got the
hang of things. It was a political dis-
cussion, of course, and it ranged from
contemporary politics to those of the
last war and then, inevitably, back to the
War of Greek Independence.
“I try to tell thees man,” Pavlo said,
throwing his hands before him as though
calling on the gods to witness that he
was a just man sorely tried by fools,
“that Mavrocordatos deed offer the
throne of Greece to Byron. Eet ees not
in the ’istory books, true, but I ’ave eet
from a man ’oo knows. Ts father”
But here the soldier became impatient
again and burst in with a flood of Greek.
One night when we were camped high
up in the mountains past Larissa I met an
old man, clad in knee-breeches, woollen
stockings and stout boots, with a goat-
skin jacket over his gay red and blue
shirt. He was bearded like Nestor and
slightly the better for drink. He hailed
me joyously, and though he spoke no
word of English, nor I of Greek, I went
home with him and we got on very well
together. It was still dusk as we walked
to his house. A sparkling stream ran
past our huddje of guns from between
two mountains, one with its head in the
clouds, the other snow-capped and look-
ing unnaturally close to us in the clear
air. On either side and beneath us was
a quilt-work pattern of green, deep green,
purple and brown and far below us the
narrow road twisted down to Athens.
My host, his fat smiling wife and I
sat down and wolfed highly spiced,
chopped spaghetti and lumps of goat’s-
meat out of round white bowls. They
kept thrusting food upon me, and near
my right hand was a kerosene-tin full
of krasee into which my host and I
dipped freely. Then the son of the house
came in, and we were introduced with
many flourishes. The son spoke fair
English, and he told me that he had
worked for a time in Brisbane. Then
my host produced a bottle of the color-
less, deadly oozo, and after one drink I
declined another. This provoked a torrent
of comment from my host, now far gone
in his cups. Then he lay back in his
chair and so rocked with laughter that
the table creaked and the ikon on the
smoke-stained wall was almost shaken to
the earthen floor.
“My father says,” the son said smiling,
“that because you are an Englishman you
should be a good drinker. He says if
Lord Byron had not been a good drinker
he would never have won over the wild
Phanariofs.
“Do you not know the story? It was
soon after Byron came to Missolonghi.
Two followers of Demetrios Ypsilanti
had been fighting in the mountain
country, not against the Turks but
against the followers of Alexander Mav-
rocordatos. They were little better than
bandits, wild men, but good fighters, and
each was master in his own part of the
country. Then they fought each other
over some loot. Ypsilanti tried to control
them, but they were proud now, and
arrogant, for each had been joined by
lesser leaders. But Byron had money from
England, so they came down to see him.
“Each brought his bodyguard of fierce
hairy men, bristling with weapons.
Byron tried to talk to them, but they
kept glaring and bristling at each other
like two dogs with one bone and feeling
the edges of their knives.
“That night Byron had a party, all the
Phanariots were there, and the English-
men Fletcher and Parry. There were
goatskins of krasee and mavrodaphne,
and everything one could desire besides
English whisky and Italian wine. At
midnight Fletcher was carried out, then
a Greek, and by two o’clock only Byron
and the two rivals remained. They were
good drinkers and proud men, and
neither would yield. But by three
o’clock they were rolling around and
laughing like schoolgirls, and by four
they were asleep in each other’s arms.
After that Byron had no trouble with
them, because they treated him with
respect.”
Most of the tales I heard about Byron
in Greece were probably untrue: but in
their essence they were probably truer
than the average Englishman’s concep-
tion of Byron. The Greeks thought of
Byron as a lover of freedom and a friend
of Greece, but above all as a man of
great stature, one who, had he indeed
been offered a throne and had he lived to
accept it, would have made a fine
king of the Hellenes. They were not
concerned with the scandals of his early
life, and I really can’t imagine what
they’d say to any psychoanalyst who tried
to tell then! he suffered from an in-
feriority complex. They honor his
memory because he was a man as well
as a poet —very much in the same way as
Scotland honors its Burns and Australia
its horsemen of the ballad.
J.F.
“Cine Ma”: If the Queensland Govern-
ment wants to do good for the fillums
(B. 9/5/’45) it should subsidise a cinema
on the lines of the repertory theatre. There
is already a sort of one in Melbourne, com-
mercially owned, the Australia, which is
almost exclusively devoted to the resus-
citation of past films of merit. One of
its latest revivals was “Blossoms in the
Dust,” a lovely film magnificently handled.
Another theatre which occasionally turns
on a worthwhile picture is the Lyceum,
but unfortunately it has built up its
prestige on cowboy, horror and crook
fillums, so that “The Hairy Ape” was
naturally expected to be about a demen-
ted scientist turning a beautiful young
woman into a man-eating monster which
sucks the blood of babies. But this one,
of course, was by Eugene O’Neill; and
on the same programme were two tales
of de Maupassant’s —“Boule de Sun
and “Mademoiselle Fifi” —telescoped into
one story on the Franco-Prussian war.
It is donkeys’ years since the flesh-n-
-blood theatre has presented anything
artistically comparable to the programmes
at these two film houses. A reper-
tory theatre would be able to show
unusual French, Danish, Russian, Ameri-
can and British pictures which never
reach these shores.
“F.S.”: S. Herman, of Sydney, who
has been appointed an official war artist,
has been showing some of his pre-assign-
ment work at George’s Galleries, Me-
boume. Mr. Herman paints houses, tree
and human beings in the deliberatey
childish way which is the modem fashion.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
'THE SENIOR STORE"
: ' X: - ••'
ssSw
8888889:
'■
<x--: '•■■■■ ■ -yjmw
v •••■£: &£v>- v
■■•' •:***:*# .
WK&f&y '^yy^y-
r
sasws^ps®?
•;■••• •• • v,.-.-
mmmm
litiii
Sssss
jg« / m.mAmj > n i»yM»y»iyw»H|Mi
w m
f- : ■ f’'& ' > >*
I - : I 3
(l I
;ji
« 3
40-inch INDIAN BURLAP, good heavy
quality. Suitable for either loose or tight
furniture covering. Obtainable in Rust,
Natural or Brown .. 6/6 yd. % (No coupons.)
Freight paid in iV.S.PF. on Curtain Material and Mosquito Net.
The difference between N.S.W. and Interstate Postage will be charged.
We do not pay freight on Duck Blinds and, Cushio7is.
m
PHONE: M 2401 {DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY
•
m
-tw :• is
l| | I
i *
N
1/
Mounted on rollers and batten, complete
with pulleys, cord, and straps.
Sizes PRICES
6 feet x 6 feet drop £3/12/ -
6 feet x 7 feet drop £3/15/-
6 feet x 8 feet drop £3/19/6
7 feet x 7 feet drop £4/11/6
8 feet x 6 feet drop £4/14/6
8 feet x 7 feet drop £4/18/6
9 feet x 6 feet drop £5/11/-
9 feet x 7 feet drop £6/ -/-
10 feet x 6 feet drop £5/14/ -
10 feet x 7 feet drop £6/3 7-
No coupons.
TAPESTRY CURTAINS. Made up ready for
use, finished with a pleated heading and
a pocket for f-inch rod. Colours are Rust,
Green, Burgundy, or Fawn. 6ft. Bin. drop.
Price 105/- (No coupons)
• Furnishings —Third Floor.
WADDED EDGE CUSHIONS
made of good quality felt,
filled with pure garnetted
wool. Colours are Burgundy,
Rust, Green, Brown. 35/- each
No coupons.
90 - inch Filet mesh alternative MOS-
QUITO NET. Suitable for any furnishing
purpose. Obtainable in Ivory shade
only. Price 4/10 yd. (No coupons)


With the Ninth on Tarakan
By JOHN BRENNAN.
IN the first days of the Tarakan cam-
paign the Jap fought a cautious, well-
ordered defensive action. There was
no counter-attack on any large scale
which could expose his force. In “local”
attacks against the troops pushing towards
the airfield he had his heaviest losses,
and the invaders hoped that he might
come from his positions again. One
group attacking down Anzac Highway
from the airfield in the late afternoon
suffered 60 casualties and was repulsed
in disorder.
At night the enemy practised his usual
probing infiltration tactics with very small
groups. In some cases he was armed with
the weapons he fancies for poking into
foxholes, long poles with bayonets wired
to the end, but there was no case in
which he got close enough to use them.
Towards Tarakan town a trooper of
the Cavalry Commando Squadron, Ed
Hobbs, of Edgecliff, Sydney, was awak-
ened about midnight by a rustling in the
scrub on the slope of the ridge below his
foxhole. He threw a grenade down the
slope and waited. An hour later there was
further sound of movement, and he
tossed another grenade. In the morning
he found a Japanese officer’s sabre stick-
ing point-down in the earth wall of his
foxhole. There was no sign of the
Japanese.
While north and west the attack moved
slowly towards the airfield, the primary
objective of the invasion force, the bat-
talion on the extreme right drove directly
north from Lingkas Port to Tarakan
town and the Tarakan “feature,” a 300 ft.
hill which rises, bush- and jungle-clad,
from the centre of the township area on
the edge of the Pamoesian oilfield. It
would seem that with Tarakan Hill the
oilfield has thrust a wide salient into the
straggling town. The great steel derricks
on its crest are the mark of its conquest
and a flaunted challenge to the wooden
buildings of the town which its tree-
covered slopes hold at bay. It dominates
the entire area of the town, and its occu-
pation was costly of time and threatened
a greater cost of men.
Before its reduction could be attempted
the pattern of the Japanese defence of
Tarakan was already obvious. The
enemy was strong in his determination
to fight a careful delaying action from
dugouts and concrete machine-gun posi-
tions concealed with all his usual clever-
ness. He scarce exposed himself on any
occasibn, He was fought and killed in
his holes without ever having been seen,
and he fought always until he was killed.
He was on each of the three ridges be-
tween Lingkas and Tarakan town, and
he defended the high ground stubbornly
for its command of the road.
The Jap likes to dig; and he had dug
well. He had linked tunnels passing clear
through the narrow ridges. He wasn’t
going to leave them, and he couldn’t be
left in them alive.
As the advance continued and the
“front” widened, there developed a battle
of “pockets” flung out over a wide area,
with here a company, there a platoon, in
places only a section, working on indi-
vidual positions. There could be no peri-
meter as such.
While A company got caught up in a war
of its own out along Hospital Spur, west
of the road and flanking the town above
the hospital, C company pushed wide
to the east across the oilfield; D com-
pany fought up on to Horseshoe Ridge
on the very edge of the town, with Tara-
kan Hill a thousand yards ahead, across
the low flat land where were the shat-
tered barracks buildings, the offices and
extensive workshops of the Dutch oil
company.
The approach to Horseshoe Ridge was
along the narrow road built on a cause-
way through the swamp. D company got
across and cleared the ridge and held it
during the late afternoon, but the tanks
were behind, and during the night the
Japs burned the bridges, which allowed
the tide to sweep up over the swamps.
In the morning, with the tide well out and
the mud covered with a film of oil, the
nip a palms were smouldering on either
side. It was as though the swamp itself
were burning, the smoke hanging in a
low cloud above the mud.
Engineers went to work repairing the
bridges. On Tarakan the engineers were
attached to each troop of tanks. There
was no other way of moving them with
the roads so carefully sown with mines.
But D company couldn’t wait for the
tanks to come up. It began the attack on
Tarakan Hill with two platoons.
'T'HE preparation was beautiful to see. It
-*■ filled the infanteers with delight. “We’re
getting the support this time, all right,”
they said. “It gives you confidence when
you know you’ve got it behind you.”
And others of them said “And we’ve
never had it before, except at Alamein.”
The shells whined their way over Horse-
shoe Ridge to crash on Tarakan Hill.
There was an American destroyer stand-
ing off Lingkas Port with its guns on
radio call, and down on the beach were
the batteries of twenty-five pounders.
The smoke of their shellbursts was in
around the feet of the derricks, and on
the road leading up the hill, and some-
times in the tops of the tall trees. They
started up the thick, black smoke of an
oil fire from somewhere over the far side
of the hill, and they ranged their salvos
forward and back, left and right, search-
ing for the hidden dugouts and machine-
gun emplacements. They worked over
the hill for an hour, and when the smoke
cleared the face of the jungle—as is the
character of jungle, no matter how much
the ground beneath may be torn by a
barrage—was still unchanged.
When the barrage lifted the Mitchell
bombers came winging low, following
each other along the valley on a path
between the derricks. Their red, spitting
tracers flew wildly in among the trees of
the hillside, and suddenly were lost. As
the ’planes climbed above the trees they
dropped which floated
slowly down to explode after the ’planes
were away.
The mortars from Horseshoe Ridge
took it up then with h.e. and smoke to
cover the advance of the platoons, which
already were moving cautiously in the
shelter of the buildings on the flat. The
smoke got them out of the buildings and
across the open soccer field to the drain
beside the road leading up the hill. From
then on there were only the Vickers guns
on Horseshoe Ridge to cover their creep-
ing assault.
One section made it across the road in
a headlong dash. Another wormed its
way along the ditch to try to gain a flank-
ing position. Both were pinned down by
vicious, sweeping m.-g. fire from positions
they could not determine. They crawled
a little further up the slope, then they left
their packs and blanket rolls and inched
on their bellies through the scrub, search-
ing for an unseen enemy who was some-
where above them.
A platoon commander was hit, and
then the Bren gunner with one of the sec-
tions. There was a call for stretcher-
bearers. Two youngsters, Bert Riddle, of
Manly (N.S.W.), and Ted Lucas, of Foots-
cray (Vic.), got across the road in a ruh
to help the gunner. Another youngster
had the crown torn off his hat by a
machine-gun burst. He wormed his way
a few yards back to his mate. “They
knocked the top off my hat,” he said,
and lay beside him a while. Then sud-
denly he collapsed.
There were other casualties. The enemy
was still hidden, but he had opened now
with enfilading fire from two more
machine-guns on the slope to the left of
the hill, and his mortars were bursting
around the two grounded platoons.
The Vickers from Horseshoe Ridge
raked the top of the hill in an effort to
keep down his fire, so that the platoons
might withdraw. It took them two houis
to get out. They carried their wounded
with them, and it was necessary to leave
some of their equipment behind. The
enemy harassed their withdrawal all down
through the buildings on the flat. As
they went he began the explosion of a
series of mines laid along the edge of the
oilfield, apparently set for firing by re-
mote control. A long string of fires began
about the foot of the derricks, and the
smoke rolled up across Tarakan Hill.
TT was just over six hours from the
time the D company platoons met the
first enemy fire at the foot of the slope to
the time they were back. It was plain
that Tarakan Hill was no task for a single
company, but D was worried about
the equipment its men had left behind.
It held its position on Horseshoe Ridge
for the night, and when it was dark Ser-
geant Laurie Froud, of Foster (Vic,),
took two men back up the hill to collect
the equipment. They were two hours
gone, and they returned with all except
some operational rations which the Japs
had collected. The Bren gun and a
“walkie-talkie” set had not been touched.
They were challenged from a Japanese
outpost, but they drew no fire.
The following morning D company was
switched to enter the town by way of
the hospital area to the west. Tarakan
Hill was handed over to Cavalry Com-
mandos with a strength more than three
times that which D company had been
able to employ. It became possible to
move flanking troops up the slopes while
C troop attacked frontally.
The artillery and aerial preparation of
the day before was repeated. It was mid-
morning when the assault began. C troop
faced immediate trouble. Two of the
enemy m.-g. positions were located. They
were wide, tunnelled emplacements, deep
in the hillside, with a field of fire com-
manding the entire approach. Two sec-
tions which attempted to get sufficiently
close to attack them with hand grenades
suffeied heavy casualties. Most of one
section penetrated to within ten yards of
one of the tunnels in the cover of a low
mound, but the Bren gunner had been
wounded in the move forward and the
men were without covering fire. From
the tunnel the Jap machine-gunner began
carefully to cut the mound away with his
fire. The section was forced to withdraw.
The lieutenant commanding and another
man were wounded just in front of the
mound. Two others fell before the section
reached the shelter of a concrete building
some seventy-five yards from the tunnels.
It was decided to make an effort to
return and bring back the wounded. But
when a party was already on its way,
moving around to the side, the lieutenant
called “Don’t come here; they’ve got
me covered. Get the others! ”
Further progress frontally was impos-
sible, but the troops on the flanks were
gaining ground. There was a call for
tanks to deal with the tunnels. There
were three of them. They crawled slowly
forward to within point-blank range of
the tunnel mouths, fifty yards away.
!Machine-gun bullets spattered harmlessly
on their sides as they went in. They
began deliberately to pour h.e. shells into
the tunnels, A steel door was slammed
shut across the mouth of one of the tun-
nels, The tanks blew it down. They
fired intermittently for more than an
hour. A short time after they had
stopped there was another burst of Jap
machine-gun fire from out of the tunnels.
The tanks began their hammering again.
Their shells began to tear away the hill-
side and send the earth cascading down
in front of the tunnels.
While they were firing two unarmed
troopers from Sydney, Sergeant Bill
Curtin, of Centennial Park, and Cor-
poral “Chicka” Donnelly, of La
Perouse, raced across the open ground
from the side to see if the lieutenant and
the man with him were still alive. They
reported both of them dead. Ten minutes
later Donnelly made the run again to
bring back the papers from their pockets.
Another hour went by. The tanks held
their fire. There was a short wait, then
the cavalrymen moved forward. There
was no sign of life from the tunnel
mouths. C troop moved up the hill. A
and B troops were already in position on
the crest. There were two or three minor
positions still to be reduced, and there
were snipers in among the trees, but Tara-
kan Hill was occupied, and with its occu-
pation Tarakan town was secure. It
meant the virtual security, too, of the
whole right flank for the invasion force,
and made it possible to concentrate all
the attack battalions for the drive on the
airfield.
HTHE enemy withdrew to the wild jungle
A country to the north, and that night he
set Tarakan town ablaze.
The Ninth Division stuck grimly to its
task of ferreting the Jap from his holes
and tunnels in the low Tarakan ridges.
Nowhere else in the Pacific had he
used mines to such purpose. From one
pillbox there were rigged 75mm. shells
with slow fuses which could be slid down
wires on to the attackers. One Jap rln
towards a tank carrying a shell in his
arms in an attempted suicide attack.
Others threw shells from the brush be-
side the road in the path of the troops.
But gradually the enemy was prised
from his hold on the high ground or
silenced in his holes with tank fire and
flame-throwers, and the entrances were
sealed.
When Tarakan town was cleared and
the battle of the revetment areas around
the airstrip was won, the enemy was
finally driven from Rippon Ridge, which
secures the command of the airfield to
whoever holds it by a concentrated
artillery and air attack. The artillery
hammered at the ridge for two days, but
the infantrymen were surprised at the
ease with which they eventually occupied
the position.
This was the first objective which tHe
enemy elected to leave rather than die to
hold. Its occupation marked the success-
ful completion of the first phase of the
invasion. All that is strategically im-
portant on the island of Tarakan had
been wrested from the enemy; all that
remained was to seek him out in the wild
country beyond and destroy him.
MOUNT API was occupied, and the
razor-backed Sykes feature on the
western outskirts of the town. To retain
his hold on Sykes the Jap staged the most
vicious counter-attack of the entire opera-
tion.
The assault was made by C company
of one of the A.l.F.’s most famous bat-
talions. It began the attack at noon, and
pushed forward up the steep and thickly-
wooded slope against the same deter-
mined opposition it had met with in four
days in the line. There was nothing to
suggest that this feature posed any
greater problem than had a half-dozen
others. Snipers were a nuisance and a
potential danger to the advance, but more
important was a machine-gun position
which covered the road. That held things
up for nearly an hour, but was then
silenced ; Private Roy Toohey, of Tiboo-
burra (N.S.W.), showing a complete dis-
regard for personal danger, pressed on to
within a few yards of the position and
killed the crew with a burst from his Owen.
Sykes seemed safe enough. Head-
quarters platoon began to move up into
position. Then came the counter-attack.
From beyond the narrow crest of the
ridge the enemy attacked in strength with
hand grenades, and rolled 75mm, shells
down on the C company positions. For
some minutes it was uncertain whether
the company would not have to retire
from the ground it had already won.
Lieutenant Ken Allen, of Brighton
(S.A.), second i.c, of the company, rallied
one flank,
“If Ken hadn’t been there I wouldn’t
have been in the race,” said the C.O.
“The Jap came back with an attack just
as we were moving in.
“He had a stores and ammunition dump
on the other side of the ridge, and
apparently he wanted to hold it. We
couldn’t get up to him. He had a sniper
covering along the top of the ridge. A
lot of them are just fair shots, but this
fellow was good. He never missed. And
we couldn’t find him. He was somewhere
in the trees, but the Brens couldn’t pick
him up. They raked the trees, and after
a while we got tanks up and turned them
loose, but he still stayed there.
“We were holding them back with
grenades, tossing them over the ridge.
Ammunition was one of the chief worries.
The ammunition-carriers worked like
niggers carrying the stuff up the hill and
filling Bren magazines. Each man threw
over fifty grenades.
“It went on for over two hours.
Private Murphy—S. C. Murphy; he
comes from Balmain, Sydney—got up on
to the top of the ridge and shot four Japs
with his Owen.
“We were having a job getting casual-
ties out. A lot of the men copped it. It
was something after half-past-five when
we finally broke the attack. We’d
managed to hold the position, and got
up on top. Then a fresh platoon came in
and got well dug in. The Jap did come
back with a few grenades during the
night, but it wasn’t too bad.
“It was a hot show, though. Every-
body was just about done. I’m pretty
proud of these men, though. Every
n.c.o. and every man did a first-class job.”
C company was then ready for a rest.
The counter-attack had cost it heavy
casualties and given it a new idea of the
Jap. “These jokers are different from the
blokes we struck in New Guinea,” one
of them said. “He used to run or hari-
kiri or some bloody thing. This bloke’s
hard. And he’s well fed, too. Been living
off the fat of the land.”
The Sisters.
Well, there’s a pathos in sleep, and what
was a cloud
White in a mountain sky, and then a
green gully.
All that I said she was while midnight
was proud,
Had to come down for the fogs of slum-
ber to sully
And seem in the end no more than a girl
in bed.
Waking and rubbing her eyes and ruffling
her head.
And so she takes a basin round to the tank
And washes her face, and smiles, and is
half aware
That, sparkling and fresh, white with the
sky, and dank
With those green creeks that lost it into
the air,
When the cool bush-water kisses her face
in greeting
It is not girl and water but sisters are
meeting.
Then back she comes and all the magpies
are singing
And the spiders’ webs are bright on the
stalks of the grass
And her head’s in the sun and her feet
where the dew drafts are clinging
Are light as a fern and sweet as a stream
they pass.
There’s a pathos in sleep but a pride in
the day, O my dear.
And the sky and the gully sit combing
the shine of their hair.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3406
Wednesday, May 23, 1945
OLD LINES WITH NEW SETTING.
TITO: I’m da monarch of all I survey.
My r-r-right dere is none to dispute.
SAM: He’s telling US.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
*• Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia :, 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
ew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
A COMMUNIST AUSTRALIA?
Speaking at Young (N.S.W.) last month
on the communist shearers’ strike, which
has flared up again at the worst possible
time for the drought-smitten industry and
foi the country which depends so much
on it, R. C. Wilson described the methods
of the strike-promoters in Queensland
and N. S. Wales, who set out with plenty
cars » P etr °l a nd money and perhaps
other thing?. Being general manager of
the graziers co-operative shearing con-
cern and a member of the council of the
Graziers’ Association, he could fairly
profess to be well acquainted with their
technique The first step, he said, was to
set up local committees, “communist cells
m the A.W.U.” The objects were “(1) to
secure the overthrow of A.W.U. officials;
(2) to strike a smashing blow at indus-
trial arbitration; and (3) to establish com-
munist control of the pastoral industry.”
After relating how the local com-
mittees, anticipating defeat in a secret
ballot ordered by the Queensland Indus-
trial Court, which gave a 2-to-l majority
for a return to work, had arranged for
another strike by extorting written
pledges from men to whom “scab!” is
the most hateful term that could be
applied, Mr. Wilson turned to the danger
threatening Australia. On that he said:
The Communist party, seizing a moment
when unrest or popular pro-Russian senti-
ment or a feeling that democracy had
nothing to offer might make the move
opportune, could seize control in Australia.
The people would wake up to what had
happened only when control of the army,
the navy, .the police, the press and industry
had passed into the hands of men who
would be prepared to meet any opposition
to their regime with immediate ruthless
counter-measures.
Mere scaremongering? Far from it.
What has happened in other countries
could happen here.
When the organisation of communist
movements was in its infancy and Russia
had no record of victory in the field
there was a ferocious Red rising on the
Rand. In the presence of a British Army
charged with the duty of preserving order
and securing the peaceful distribution of
food among hungry people, there was
a murderous communist insurrection
in Greece. In the presence of large
Anglo-American forces and in violation
of an agreement entered into three months
ago the Moscow agent known as Mar-
shal Tito is claiming Italian and Austrian
territory for his brand of communism
and resorting to methods which Field-
Marshal Alexander finds “all too remi-
niscent of Hitler, Mussolini and Japan.”
Communist regimes, themselves con-
temptible in numbers but with powerful
Russian backing, have bloodily estab-
lished themselves in Rumania and Bul-
garia, and another has appeared in Aus-
tria. All these “Governments” have been
set up, and the one in Poland continues
as a communist concern, with the arrest
of 16 representatives of the Polish Gov-
ernment in London added to many other
outrages, in contempt of engagements
made at Yalta and subscribed to by Mar-
shal Stalin himself. There has been com-
munist terrorism of the ghastliest descrip-
tion in northern Italy. Communists have
stirred up coalminers’ strikes, with a sin-
ister resemblance to the N.S.W. convul-
sions, in desolated Belgium. Communists
claim to have won the French municipal
elections and their tone has immediately
become more truculent. They are cer-
tainly in the ascendant in Paris, with its
grim memories of the Commune.
Even since the party line changed
from sullen opposition to “the war against
Hitlerite Germany,” seditious in its bold-
est form, the Commune has been the
theme of glorification by communist
writers in Australia. There is a reference
to it in a Party Training Manual, pub-
lished by “the Communist Party in Aus-
tralia, 395 Sussex Street, Sydney.” The
“Manual” was withdrawn from circula-
tion when “the war against Hitlerite Ger-
many” became holy, and when reproaches
and insults were hurled at Britain, racked
by the blitz, and by terrific losses in ship-
ping, because out of a population much
less than one-fourth the size of Russia’s
it did not immediately throw “four mil-
lion idle soldiers” into France ; but copies
have been preserved and extracts have a
current significance:
The principal lesson of the Paris Com-
mune was that it demonstrated that the
working class cannot simply seize the avail-
able ready-made machinery of the State and
set it going for its own ends.
The working class must break up and
shatter the State bureaucratic and military
machinery as a preliminary condition of
the workers’ revolution. The Commune
was essentially the government of the work-
ing class, the result of the struggle of the
producing against the appropriating class;
it was the political form under which
Labor could work out its economic eman-
cipation.
The Russian Revolution confirmed the
lessons of the Paris Commune and the role
of the State power of the working class by
the creation of Soviets or workers’ councils.
What the Commune really did was to
start a revolutionary civil war in Paris
74 years ago, with the conquering Ger-
mans as spectators. It seized many host-
ages, among them the Archbishop of
Paris and the president of the Court of
Cassation, and in the hour of defeat
shot them in cold blood. And
through the agency of “petrol-women,”
precursors of the frenzied creatures
who have been performing at Milan
and other places, it tried to fire Paris,
and did burn down some of its noblest
buildings, among them the Tuileries and
the Hotel de Ville, together with “so
many private houses that the city pre-
sented a spectacle of long lines of ruins,
as if it had been visited by an earth-
quake.” The hostage technique of
the savages of the Commune was
copied by the communist gangs in
Greece, with results which sickened not
only Mr. Churchill and the Citrine trade-
union delegation but the British soldier,
who voted these communists the foulest
of fighters (“dirtier than the Germans”)
and the cruellest of ruffians. Nevertheless,
they have found champions among “Aus-
tralian” communists, whose propaganda
fund, whatever its sources, is apparently
inexhaustible, and the effigy of Tito,
neighbor and fellow-terrorist, had an
honored place in May Day processions.
A correspondent in Trieste saw “New
Zealand tank crews at the alert by their
Shermans as Yugoslav soldiers in their
greenish uniforms stroll through the
streets carrying an assortment of weapons,
including British arms supplied to them
before the occupation.” If New Zea-
landers are slain by these Yugoslav com-
munists, as British soldiers and airmen
were slain by communists in Greece, not
they but their slayers will be defended
and extolled by communists in Australia,
and whatever orders come from Moscow
as its mysterious policy is unfolded will
be obeyed.
At no previous period of history was
any section of people in any part of the
British Empire in avowed and abject
allegiance to a foreign Power —and the
Power in question was for nearly 22
months of the German war Germany’s
sleeping partner, and still has neutrality,
oil and fisheries agreements with Japan
—but it has happened in these times and
in Australia. It is a most serious matter,
and the Opposition parties at Canberra
are alive to the seriousness of it; but the
party in office and in control of both
Houses is supine and dumb. This is true
even of the members, one now a Minis-
ter, who contested the 1940 election as a
Non-Communist Labor group. Another
Minister and other members employ the
controversial methods and jargon of the
Russomaniacs, their favorite term for
opponents being “Fascists.”
For the associates of these “Labor”
politicians are no longer a despised and
skulking remnant. Legalised by “Labor”
as soon as “Labor” reached the Treasury
benches, accepted as “Labor’s” elec-
tion and referendum allies, exploiting
“Labor’s” poltroonery at every turn, par-
ticularly in the direction of gaining con-
trol of powerful trade-unions, and utilis-
ing as a recruiting agency among the
gullible in and out of camps the false
reporting of the Russian ’war (“censored
tripe from Russia” was the American
Sokolsky’s apt description), which pic-
tured the Russians as bearing nearly the
whole brunt of the struggle—in which
they did very little in the air and hardly
anything on the sea—but able tp support
it because the Revolution had made them
supermen, these communists have become
powerful and dangerous. They gain at
“Labor’s” expense every time “Labor”
shows the white feather.
Even the strikes that sabotage the
war effort, while revealing “Labor”
as the weakest thing that man, the
political animal, ever made govern-
ing only those who are willing to
be governed, afraid to apply its own laws
and regulations to those who are unwill-
ing—leave these communists unharmed.
This is true whether the sabotage strikes
are palpably communist-caused, as in the
stricken pastoral industry, or, as in the
Mort’s Dock affair, take on the appear-
ance of a revolt against communist
control, with the cards stacked against
revolters by “Labor” itself. In either
case communists may claim to be pro-
moting “the revolutionary class struggle”
on one of the Party Training Manual
prescriptions—“the development of a
fighting spirit in the trade-unions would
tend to a breakdown of arbitration.’
Early in 1942, when both wars were
going very badly and Australia seemed in
deadly peril, communists in at least two
States launched an agitation for “a Civi-
lian People’s Army.” modelled on the one
in Spain, “the greatest fighting force the
world has even seen” (Sydney “D.T.”)
The groundwork was prepared by an
issue of “guerrilla” books with ap-
propriate illustrations, clenched fists
and hammers and sickles, in one of
which Ned Kelly was ranked with
Washington as a guerrilla leader of credit
and renown. Mr. Fallon, of the
A.W.U., Public Enemy No. 1 to the “local
committees” in the sheep country, ob-
jected that the “Civilian People’s Army”
was “not to be trusted with shanghais.”
Then there uprose an indignant young
Sydney man, self-described as “Chairman
of the Provisional Committee of the
People’s Army,” who said “We are not
going to stand for any sabotage of our
movement by outside reactionaries. We
do not ask yet for .303 rifles, Lewis or
Bren guns, but merely for .225, .325., 44s
of even shotguns.” It was mentioned that
N.S.W. women were turning to the “Civi-
lian People’s Army” with enthusiasm, and
that “detachments” of men had been re-
cruited in coalmining districts.
This threw the “Daily Telegraph” into
a flutter. Though immersed in plans for
sending 500 Australian airmen to Vladi-
vostok, all the soldiers in Australia to
the Dutch East Indies (“that should be
the basic principle of our strategy ; that’s
where we should be fighting”) and all
the army in Britain, commanded by Timo-
shenko, across the Channel, besides being
busy denouncing members of the Federal
Opposition as “Anglophiles” and the
British generals in the Western Desert
as “Blimps,” the “Daily Telegraph” sent
a reporter in search of the “People’s
Civilian Army.” He found the makings
of a Queensland division in Townsville,
being primed with information by a man
who had been fined £4O for proposing to
tell Townsville Diggers, with the authority
of the municipal council, that they were
about to fight “in a war to decide which
group of millionaire exploiters is to domi-
nate the world.” From this person the re-
porter learned that the Townsville con-
tingent of the People’s Army alone was
to consist of “4000 able-bodied men,
with machine-guns, rifles and hand
grenades,” and that if his recommenda-
tion had any weight “the men” would
be “allowed to take their weapons home
at night.”
Mr. Forde’s opinion was sought. He
was not then occupied with the discovery
of the ’orrible plot to assassinate him
and Billy Hughes, so his opinion was
given with merely the delay incident to
calling for a report. It was unfavor-
able, though his words were mild. He
pointed out that Australia already had a
people’s army, composed of the A.M.F.,
the A.I.F. and the V.D.C.
The “Daily Telegraph” made light of
this objection. It came out with an
article in which it declared that “the
prospect of a People’s Army has kindled
tremendous enthusiasm,” against which
nothing could stand.
The Government hasn’t yet decided to
call for a nation-wide army of guerrillas,
but the people have decided. The Gov-
ernment should not neglect' this magnifi-
cent opportunity—not for a day.
Mr. Forde came back with a state-
ment that the formation of a private
army would be “a serious embarrass-
ment to those directing the country’s
defence.” But he babbled on in an
apologetic strain and the Prime Minister
had to intervene. With a flash of spirit
which has been all too rare, Mr. Curtin
said “Any organisation outside the
authority of the Minister for the Army
will be illegal, and the Government will
not allow it to be formed.”
That should have been the end of the
communist army; and possibly it was.
But in a country where so many lethal
weapons have gone astray and where so
many ruffians engage in unchecked
rackets and so many men supposed to be
held to service absent themselves at their
own sweet will, there can be no cer-
tainty about it without a thorough in-
quiry. In view of the bad things that
have happened in Europe and the worse
things that may befall, there and else-
where, a thorough inquiry, plus action
where action may be necessary, is fairly
owed by the authorities to the people.
This is definitely one of the matters in
which it is better to be sure than sorry.
"Old, Master Shallow"!
A secret imperfectly concealed from
writers of personal paragraphs and com-
pilers of thumbnail biographies was dis-
closed, to the gratification of all and
sundry, at Canberra on May 11, when
Mr. Joseph Silver Ceilings acknowledged
that he had turned 80. Mr. Codings is
Minister for the Interior. He has been
in the Senate since 1931, and was re-
elected for six years to June 30, 1950.
His fluency is still admired there, and
colleagues Have Been known to refer to
him as “the Nestor of debate.”
Taking the present Government as a
staridard, the early Labor Ministries were
absurdly young. Watson became P.M.
at 37, and Hughes, his No., 2, was 39.
Fisher, No. 5, was 42, The oldest Min-
ister (nine then; 19 now) was Gregor
McGregor, 56,
When Fisher formed his third Cabinet,
and Labor’s fourth and best, he was 51.
Hughes was 47, Pearce 40, Frazer 30.
Frazer was named Postmaster-General at
31, and Roberts, who then became Min-
ister without portfolio, was very little
older.
To the present combination youth is “a
thought of yore.” At 60 Mr. Curtin is
20 months older than Mr. Hughes was on
February 9, 1923, when, after figuring in
five war and post-war Governments, four
of which he led, he ceased to be Prime
Minister. Mr. Holloway’s age is with-
held from the inquisitive, but he was
“poor old Holloway” 20 years ago to Mr.
Bruce, who wasn’t 40 when he became
P.M. Mr. Holloway can certainly give
the Postmaster-General a few years, and
that gentleman. Senator Don Cameron,
owns to 67. Others in the sixties are
Senator Ashley, who was in the Boer War
with Senator Don 44 or 45 years ago, and
Mr. Home Security Lazzarini; and in
them also or near them are Acting Army
Minister Fraser and Repat. Minister
Frost. Treasurer Chifley will be 60 in
September.
In the fifties are Army Minister Forde,
Navy Minister Makin, Air Minister
Drakeford, Commerce and Agriculture
Minister Scully, Customs Minister Keane
and Attorney-General Evatt. Rising 50
is Mr. Beasley, now Vice-President of
the Executive Council. Mr. Dedman
(Post-war Reconstruction) and Informa-
tion Minister Mr. Calwell, who succeeded
a third Boer War veteran in Mr. Lawson
—the only change made since October 7,
1941—are just on 49. The baby of the
Ministry (and what a baby!) is Mr.
Ward, Transport and External Terri-
tories, who is 46. Like most of his elder
colleagues, his mind is dominated by
animosities and prejudices rooted in 1917,
year of the final defeat of conscription
and of the great strikes, and rooted deeper
in 1929, when the party sailed into office
and the depression and skittled the army,
in the first place by abolishing compul-
sory military training.
From the beginning some of the 19
Ministers had to be given light duties,
light duties being the only sort they were
capable of handling. Others, overbur-
dened or ill-cast, have to be apologised
for from time to time by friends on the
capitalistic press for their tendency to
crack up. Though the quality of young
members is not impressive, an infusion
of youth might help, and in these cases
it used to be expected. In the party
which stands for change, or says it does,
other views now prevail —to such an
extent that, should it be the will of Provi-
dence that this nation must expiate its
sins by having the Curtin Government in
office for another 20 years, Senator Col-
lings may fairly look forward to becom-
ing the first centenarian Minister, and
the Methuselah of debate.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Houses While You Wait.
Dr. Coombs, the Director-General of
Post-War Reconstruction, has had a
vision. His department has “set a target”
of 80,000 houses a year and will build
them from knowledge gained at an
“experimental building station at North
Ryde, N.S.W.” A staff is being appointed:
architects, engineers, surveyors and
“other specialists,” and there is to be
“close liaison” with the C.S.I.R.
Unfortunately, Dr. Coombs must start
from scratch. .
Statistics of building are so inadequate
that it is not known what the building in-
dustry did in the past nor what it is capable
of in the future.
Presumably all the existing houses were
erected secretly and at night, and nobody
can be found who is willing to confess
to having built one.
Now the first estimate was for 40,000
houses a year. Dr. Coombs will double
it. How? By doubling man-power and
“intensely simplifying designs.” But
wait; there are difficulties. One, is train-
ing enough men in the time; the other
is demobilising them when the job’s
So Dr. Coombs is no blind opti-
mist: —
We are unlikely to achieve anything like
the target of 80,000 houses a year unless
the work of the experimental station is
remarkably successful and State housing
authorities are equally successful in organis-
ing production on new lines as well as
using to the full the existing methods. The
department might yet be forced to use
small firms, labor and material at present
outside the industry.
When heads were last counted there
were 168 persons in Dr. Coombs’s de-
partment receiving upwards of “£5OO per
annum actual.” Forty-seven of them were
returned soldiers. There were fewer


architects (3) than journalists (5 with
a publicity officer, presumably a special
variety of journalist) and plain and
fancy investigators (19). Apart from Dr.
Coombs there were seven directors, three
deputy directors, two assistant deputy
directors and 11 assistant directors. Re-
search officers, mostly “senior,” though
the term “bibliographical” crept in,
totalled 13.
These Bulletin “researches” were in-
terrupted by the copy-boy, who barked
“Why don’t them blokes go an’ bag their
heads an’ give the blokes who’ve
been building houses all their lives a
break? My old man is a builder by trade,
an’ if he was given a fair go he’d shove
up half-a-dozen houses while them blokes
was muckin’ about with their targets an’
investigators an’ orficers an’ things.” He
was sternly rebuked and told he would
be punished by having to count the
executive, acting executive, administra-
tive, technical, materials, building-pro-
jects, building-resources, industries, trans-
port, sectional, legal, liaison apd chief
price-stabilisation officers listed in Mr.
Dedman’s reply to Mr. Harrison, also the
inspectors, co-ordinators, advisers and
supervisors ; but he backed out, saying he
hadn’t time.
Bad Weather.
“Bumpkin” on “a Federal matter”:
Even the weather is considered “a Fedeial
matter” in Victorian Parliamentary circles.
S. H. Ebery, the retired grazier who has his
own method of foretelling the weather and nas
been supplying uncannily accurate seasonal
forecasts to over 160 farmer-subscribers for
seven years, got a mention in the Leg. Assembly.
C.P. Stoneham (Maryborough Daylesford) asked
the Minister of Agriculture whether official
recognition of Ebery’s work had been suggested
to him. The reply was that it had, and that
departmental officers had “submitted a report
stating that they had not been able to learn
the degree of accuracy Ebery had attained.
Farmers who check his forecasts with the sub-
sequent weather reactions swear they have been
found to be up to 80 p.c. correct.
Asked what he was going to do about it, the
Minister said that his Government' would con-
sider requesting the Commonwealth Government
for a grant to encourage Ebery’s further re-
searches, conditionally on his disclosing in con-
fidence the methods on which his forecasts
are based.
Characteristic of the way in which official-
dom faces up to something new! How can
Ebery be expected to explain methods evolved
over 30 years of patient observation on a
mere promise of further consideration? His
ability to carry on his researches depends on the
fees he gets from his subscribers, who are
pledged not to divulge them. A Government
subsidy would remove this necessity and allow
the forecasts to be made public; but an Admini-
stration which thinks that prior information
about a drought or the breaking of one is not
a State but a Commonwealth concern can
scarcely be called a good audience for confi-
dences.
Enclosing a cheque a believer in Ebery
wrote:
I have now subscribed to your service
since 1943. I have to compliment you on
your uncanny accuracy in foretelling weather
conditions and I can say your service has
been of immeasurable assistance.
It has been estimated that, had Ebery’s fore-
casts before and since the beginning of the
drought been generally available and been
acted on, millions of pounds would have been
saved to the primary industries and Mr. Scully,
most conscientious of dogracing judges, might
have been restrained from grievous sins of
commission and omission as controller of those
industries. The amount asked for Ebery by
his supporters is less than the recent addition
to the pay of two members.
The Wool Position.
While the arbiters of the nation’s
destiny were wrangling over the tricky
Wool Use Promotion Bill at Canberra,
and getting nowhere with their usual
rapidity, the Winchcombe Carson concern
came out with its annual wool review,
a sobering production.
The review remarks that in N. S.
Wales particularly the drought has
caused serious losses of sheep and
Will cause more, the clip is likely to be
down nearly 350,000 bales, breeding has
stopped in many parts and properties are
falling into disrepair for want of fenc-
ing, tanks, man-power, while the rabbit
is rampaging through the land. The
nation’s revenue from wool for the 1944-
45 season will be about £66,000,000,
which is nearly £8,000,000 below that of
the previous year. It would be a lot lower
still only that the British Government
increased its war-time average price from
13.4 d. to 15,45 d, as from 1943.
This country can’t afford a decline in
sheep-carrying capacity, but decline
there is and it is still going on. Winch-
combes point out that a lambing of
13,512,500 in N.S.W. alone was neces-
sary this season to replace slaughterings
and losses by drought, non-breeding and
disease. The 1943-44 lambing was
15.068.000, but a very large proportion
has since been lost and it is doubtful if
this season’s lambing will reach
10.000.
All this would be bad enough if it were
a past story, but it is only the first chap-
ter or two. Drought was still ravaging
Riverina and parts of Victoria and S.A.
up to last week, and even if heavy rains do
occur now there’ll be small benefit from
them as far as this year’s wool and lambs
are concerned. On top of all that, the
shearing, which will soon be general in
N.S.W., is in chaos, with strikes and
hold-ups and communists rampaging
through the wool country as boldly and
damagingly as the rabbits. And all Can-
berra can do is wrangle about setting up
more boards to control wool use and
merchandising.
Winchombe Carsons see something to
be cheerful about in the fact that the
sheep-country has suffered badly in the
past and recuperated miraculously, also
in the growth of local woollen mills, the
tremendous world market awaiting
woollen goods, the popularity of wool
in the U.S.A., recovery in France, Bel-
gium and Yorkshire, prospects in India,
China and Russia and signs of recovery
in consumption. But there are about
13,000,000 bales in store, about 80 p.c.
of it the property of the British Govern-
ment, and the job of marketing this, to-
gether with incoming clips, will be “for-
midable.” Formidable it will be ; a job
calling for the attention of the best brains
associated with the industry, certainly
not one for the vote-hunting machina-
tions of party politicians.
"Tortured" by the Swiss.
“Poogie” : A friend of mine came in to
see me the other day. He had been a
p.o.w. in Italy, whence after the capitu-
lation he escaped to Switzerland, though
it took him a long time to get there.
Hiding out, all but dead from starva-
tion, in the mountains, sheltering in some
little village, doubling on his tracks across
the countryside to elude German patrols,
working in the fields disguised as a
peasant, once joining in a partisan attack
on a German convoy the partisans,
though well equipped, cleared out when
the fireworks started—he finally managed
to reach the haven of the little republic.
We exchanged impressions and experi-
ences. One thing we had in common was
an abiding admiration for the Red Cross.
“What about propaganda?” I asked.
“Well,” the returned wanderer said,
“propaganda is a funny thing. You get
immune. Take this, for instance.” He
picked up a daily and read:
“Izvestia” has featured a Cairo dispatch
reporting a statement by Red Army officers
who are on their way home after escaping
from Germany to Switzerland. They
alleged large-scale ill-treatment by the Swiss.
They say they were interned in camps under
commanders with Fascist sympathies and
set to work under terrible conditions. They
were given little food and were punished,
even tortured.
Then my friend told me how he had
been treated in Switzerland. He and
his companions from British Empire
countries had been welcomed with a
humanity and hospitality which they
would never forget. Their internment was
nominal, being under the supervision of
British officers and subject to British mili-
tary law. They were paid by the British
Consulate, and were at liberty to supple-
ment their pay by working for Swiss em-
ployers.
This my friend had done. He
lived in his employer’s home and was
treated as one of the family. When he
left the whole village turned out to say
good-bye: “It was almost as bad as leav-
ing home after final leave.” His back was
thumped and his hand shaken by every
man in the community, and he was kissed
by every woman. When his bus left it
was pursued far down the narrow street
by all the children and all the dogs.
He saw Russians there. They seemed
to be well-clothed, well-fed and happy.
None of them bore any outward sign
of maltreatment.
His impressions of the Swiss tallied
with my own. As p.o.ws., our world
centred in the Red Cross, and the Red
Cross representatives we met were Swiss.
They were unfailingly courteous and
helpful. Over and above their obligation
to send reports of camp conditions and
the like to our Governments, what they
could do they did with the utmost good-
will.
The main trouble with Europe is
that it is not all composed of decent and
humane States like Switzerland, which
centuries ago solved the problem of
minorities, raging elsewhere and likely to
go on raging—read any current report,
even of Left-Wing origin, of the situation
in Poland, Rumania, Bulgaria, Yugo-
slavia, Istria and Carinthia, to say nothing
of the extinguished Baltic States, out of
which no reports come.
"TRUSTEESHIP.”
"You say you did not become the Kind’s first Mimster to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire. The Court will take that point into
consideration.”
“And take that cigar out of your mouth! We allow no smoking here.


FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
R 0^ g
GGBt
GO
240
yoU*
and
dost
and
preset®
Damp
the
protect
shoe* '
from
o»
©nW
v/ttn
\ e athet
not
•nents
Shoe
pave
coupe* 1 *
desttoY
you*
VjGG tT
hut
save
leather
k<
oopon®
nd
costs
needs
other
tor
shoes
your
save
,I&1»
t.ne»‘
The
e» e '
PQUSb
P oUsh
jct . s^^ e ;
"'W e '' ,r '
, buy-
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts.or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal •
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BAKK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Molotov and Eden have left San Fran-
cisco, the latter to attend to “a number
of serious and disquieting issues, some
urgent.” In their absence, if incoherent
reports are to be believed, Dr. Evatt is
running everything. An unpublished
report, coherent though it may be apocry-
phal, says he and Forde are staying at
different hotels under armed guard (the
pubs, not the politicians), and are not on
speaking terms.
Most of the Agrarians in the Victorian
Assembly are against redistribution of
seats, and are moving the adjournment
of the House again and again to discuss
other matters. Thereby they are endan-
gering the Ministry, and in the long run
they may get a much worse redistribution
measure —that is, much worse for them.
In a State so compact that Melbourne
can be reached from the remotest part by
air in an hour and a half or so there is
really no argument against votes having
the same value.
Percy Spender has joined the Mosman
branch of the Liberal party. Mosman
is part of the division of Warringah for
which Percy was elected in 1937 as
U.A.P., unattached, unseating the U.A.P.
Minister of Defence, Parkhill. Admitted
to the party, he himself became U.A.P.
Minister of Defence, but after the resig-
nation of his Government was asked to
leave because he refused to give up a seat
on the Advisory War Council, Percy
realises that his electorate will have no
use for unattached members next year.
Minister Beasley to the Sydney Labor
Council (17/5/’45);
I desire to be informed by urgent tele-
gram whether, in the event of the Com-
monwealth Government making an order
under National Security regulations direct-
ing the [Bunnerong power-house] men to
go back to work forthwith... the men
will agree to accept....
Two days later Chifley issued the order, as
well as one to the County Council, and the
men agreed—to consider what they’d do
about it. Meantime, Sydney housewives
scoured the shops for candles, heaters and
hurricane lamps. If any election should
be a women’s election it should be the
next Commonwealth election.
A chemist, Read, wrested the Victoria
Park (W.A.) Assembly seat from Labor,
and the Victorian Liberals are run-
ning a chemist, Day, for Bendigo
against the Labor Mayor, Galvin. No
easy contract, for Cook, the late mem-
ber, held Bendigo for 18 years and Ben-
digo West for the previous three years.
However, the Liberals are going very
well in Victoria; and it is reckoned that
Cook, a friendly fellow, and never an
extreme party man, always polled a
strong personal vote.
The head office of a wool firm in Syd-
ney received from its Melbourne branch
last week a small parcel of wool samples.
On the top left comer of the address label
was the legend, set in a diamond, “3
Passed by Censor 220.” So, despite its
fervid protests to the contrary, there is an
internal censorship on mails in Australia.
The firm concerned must be wondering
what would have happened to the sample
had the censor decided not to pass it.
Victoria’s Parliamentary Public Works
Committee has recommended the making
of Portland, the old port of the Hentys,
into a dock with breakwater, reckoning
the cost at £2,300,000. Such a port be-
tween Adelaide and Melbourne is “de-
sirable” (it is) and freight savings on im-
ports to and exports from Victoria’s
Western District and S.A.’s South-east are
estimated to justify a capital expenditure
of £3,000,000. Only meat and dairy pro-
duce are mentioned in the press version
of the matter, but there are the wheat
and wool of the Wimmera and Mallee
as well as the dried fruits of Mildura,
for all of which Portland is the natural
port. The rail connection could be made
complete by a short line from Boort
through Charlton and Donald to Murtoa.
The idea is 40 years late, but better late
than never.
The wonderful Max Werner, who pre-
dicted that the Germans would be com-
pletely dished by the end of November,
1943, has now discovered that their mili-
tary catastrophe “began in the spring of
1944. According to custom, Maxie gave
the Russians most of the credit (“on the
flight from Warsaw to Frankfort-on-the-
Oder the German Army lost the war”),
ignoring not only the share of the Royal
Navy but that of the R.A.F. and the
U.S.A.F. Von Rundsted, a first-hand
witness (Maxie has never been within
EMPIRE IDYLL.
“Strangely quiet on the Hill, Leo !”
5000 miles of an y scene of combat, unless
n was a brawl m a i azz i° int caused by
the explosion of a toy balloon), has testi-
fied B lum ly that (1) invasion of England
in 1940 was stonkered by the R.N., and
“air-supenonty was the biggest single
reason why Germany lost the war; it
paralysed the German war machine.”
Kesselring has said much the same,
According to Geoffrey Reading, the
correspondent, Queensland Premier
Cooper is “having a pretty lean time in
England.” Though he succeeded in
organising a “general press conference,”
the only result was “a few inches in the
‘Times’ ”; there wasn’t a line in any other
paper. Reading preserved a passage for
Queensland consumption:
Mr. Cooper said that Australia’s allegi-
ance to the Empire was firm and unques-
tionable. Some years ago there was talk
about Setting adrift, but that was chiefly
fostered by the Sydney Bulletin, and
feeling is now dead.
The Premier’s age does not appear in
any reference book, but that dates him.
For “some years ago” read “forty years
ago.”
Believe it or notj « a proposal by
Semaphore A.L.P. electorate committee
tbat L abor should make an effort to have
a lottery established in S.A. on the same
‘ pr i nc ip le ’ as the Government lotteries in
other States was rejected by the State
A.L.P. Council.” It is almost too much
to expect that this is the end of the matter,
but for one night at least the S.A. Labor
Council put itself in line with the Gov-
ernments of Britain, Canada, Maoriland
and South Africa and the 49 Govern-
ments in the U.S.A., which refuse to
have anything to do with lotteries. In
many of the 48 States, the largest, New
York among them, there are constitu-
tional prohibitions.
The prohibition on Federal members
visiting the troops in the islands looks
silly in the light of the Holland-Doidge
tour of the N.Z. fronts in Europe —Hol-
land is leader of the Opposition and
Doidge is member for Tauranga. “Wear-
ing their silver R.S.A. badges,” they
motored 900 miles in Italy, crossing the
Apennines twice, spending three days in
the front line and addressing groups of
soldiers there, as well as in rear depots
and in hospitals. At Ancona Holland
met his son, one of Freyberg’s officers.
The devastation in Italy “appalled”
them; “there is scarcely a town that has
not been badly smashed, and the only
bridges are those rebuilt by the Allies.”
State Rivers and Water Supply, with
1300 horses, excavators and tractors, has
started on the huge job of emptying sand
out of thousands of miles of channels
supplying the 100,000 people in the
Mallee with domestic and stock water.
It is expected to take six months. This
in one of the areas of which Premier
Dunstan said “I saw no soil erosion.”
Under a plan prepared by the V.R.C.
and approved by the State Cabinet, race-
horses in training in Victoria are to be
reduced from something under 900 to
355 from June 1, as a means of conserv-
ing fodder. On the date of publication of
the ukase a cattle-drover was heard to
say he couldn’t get chaff for his three
ponies.
The latest will-o’-the-wisp being chased
in Melbourne by housing experts is the
notion that the pubs could, an they
would, accommodate thousands of the
houseless. They certainly could house a
great number, but while their trade re-
mains lucrative licensees aren’t likely to
be interested in turning their hostelries
into boarding-houses even if they had the
man-power ; and if they aren’t interested
how is it going to be done? You can’t
do anything with a reluctant landlord.
The only way to do it would be to take
over the establishments, put in managers
and give them the enormous staff re-
quired to run them. That would mean
another huge department and probably
more bureaucrats than guests,
Scully told a Wheatgrowers’ Federa-
tion deputation that he wants a Common-
wealth shipping line in order to “protect”
Australian trade. By the time Scully and
his colleagues have nationalised banks,
air-lines, shipping lines and B.H.P. there
won’t be much Australian trade to pro-
tect.
Anyone who sees stern, official figures
poking about rubbish tips, peering into
deserted air-raid shelters or probing hay-
stacks in back paddocks needn’t be
alarmed. It is a search not for tommy-
guns or black-market eggs, but for
2,715,687 gallons of fortified wine. Tariff
Board figures: Supplies for home con-
sumption, 1942-44, 16,603,000 gallons;
known consumption under quota sales,
13,887,313 gallons; deficiency, 2,715,687
gallons. Maybe somebody had a VE-day
celebration after all.
Talking to the Queensland League of
Women Voters, A. B. Corbett, former
Director-General of Civil Aviation, said
their State would be the worst off under
nationalised airways. Indeed, since Can-
berra already possessed all necessary
powers oyer civil aviation, about the only
beneficiaries of “nationalisation” would
be Federal members, who would get free
air travel for themselves and wives, and
friends of Labor who would get good
jobs out of it.
On Sydney’s Town Hall station a dis-
burbance broke out and a young police-
man was called. He found a brawl
amongst soldiers and civilians, stopped
it, arrested a soldier and led him aWay.
Then, in view of dozens of people, a mob
rushed the policeman and kicked him
into helplessness. He might have lain so
for any time only that “a passerby called
the police.” He was taken to hospital—
having lost his man—dazed and suffer-
ing from concussion and other injuries.
And all of those who stood by while the
poor devil was attacked would bitterly
resent any suggestion that they weren’t
decent fellows.
An authorised history of the Common-
wealth Bank when Denison Miller was
Governor was published at Sydney in
1923. Dedman and Wimmera Wilson
ought to read it before they pay out any
more flapdoodle about the immense
efforts made by Tories and “financial
institutions” to prevent its coming to
light or destroying it in infancy. It did
mostly savings-bank business before the
1914-18 war; and a Commonwealth
Savings Bank had been proposed by John
Forrest as Acting P.M. in 1907, When
general banking business was undertaken
(Jan. 21, 1913) Denison Miller made a
point of acknowledging “the many ex-
pressions of goodwill already received
from all sections, and the presence here
of eminent bankers who have had so
large a share in maintaining the finances
on a sound and solid basis ; the bank has
been launched under propitious circum-
stances.” Dedman wasn’t here then, and
Wilson can scarcely remember anything
about it, being a young fellow not long
out from Belfast.
Testimony of G. W. Pooley, secretary
of the United Co-operative Building
Societies:
When our housing scheme was launched
the societies were told they could get their
money from the Commonwealth Bank at
4i p.c. We were well received for about
two months; then suddenly we got a letter
from the Commonwealth Bank saying the
business didn’t suit, and were forced into
the arms of outside financiers at 5 p.c.
An amazing thing happened. The Bank
of N. S. Wales lent us over £4,000,000 at
3| p.c., and we appreciate it very much.
Pooley was quoted in the Westralian
“Primary Producer” by T. H. Bath,
formerly leader of the State Labor party
and Minister of Lands, and since a pillar
of voluntary co-operation in all its forms.


S NO-NOT
\ WEN WATER !
|f—
-6/44
The craziest of all ideas is to deny your
battery a drink. Stupid, isn’t it?
Consult your Exide dealer. Get him to give
your battery a once-over every second week
and add distilled water when necessary.
'Water does not weaken the acid. This is the
way to get months of extra service from your
battery.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited)
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Lieut.-Commander C. G. Bremner,
R.N.V.R., responsible for distribution of
mail to the British Pacific Fleet, lately
returned from the attack on the Ryukyu
islands and Formosa, where, for the first
time, mail from home has been delivered
to ships actually in action. Mail from
England can now be delivered in from
18 to 21 days, and the effect on morale
has been tremendous. Before the war
Lieut.-Commander Bremner was Admini-
strative Officer in the Foreign Mails sec-
tion of London G.P.O.
R.A.A.F. lads back from operations
overseas were proud to be welcomed at
Melbourne Cricket Ground by that
veteran of the skies Group Captain E.
“Pard” Mustar, here pictured by
Mcßeath. Collecting the D.F.C. and
Order of the Nile in last-war flying with
the A.F.C. in Palestine, after having
served with Sigs., Light Horse and
Camel Corps, “Pard” subsequently had
a go at cow-cockying, barnstorming and
a further crack at the Air Force ; also a
term with the Australian Aero Club as
chief instructor. Then he set out on the
hazardous adventure of pioneering fly-
ing for New Guinea gold. After hack-
ing the first crude air strips out of the
“PARD” MUSTAR.
malaria and croc.-infested jungles of Lae
and Wau, he went to Germany, brought
back the first Junkers 34 seen here, and
flew heavy mining and dredging equip-
ment up and over the ranges. Frank
Clune’s Daredevil gives a good idea of
what was encountered and overcome.
Born in Melbourne, a stickler for dis-
cipline and service tradition, “Pard”
Mustar’s present post is Senior Adminis-
tration Staff Officer, No, 1 Training
Group, with headquarters in the stately
old Toorak home of the Creswick family.
Passed his 88th milestone, John How-
lett Ross, editor, author, elocutionist,
teacher of public speaking and one of
Melbourne’s best-loved identities. He
has adjudicated at the leading elocution-
ary frenzies in Australia and M.L. for
the past half-century and his beautiful
diction can still be heard over the air on
occasions —he was a pioneer of elegant
speech in Australian broadcasting. Ross
is a link with John Pascoe Fawkner,
having once trespassed on the backyard
of the co-founder of Melbourne in
search of a missing ball. Among Ross’s
publications is a biography -of Adam
Lindsay Gordon.
Prince in Melbourne:
The Susuhunan of Surakarta, Java —to give a
portion of his titles —is the spiritual head of
Islam in the Netherlands East Indies and before
the Jap invasion lived in a walled kraton with
10,000 of his relatives and retainers, had
stables filled with Australian horses with an
Australian trainer in charge, and garages
stocked with Rolls Royces and replicas of
London Lord Mayors’ coaches. He maintained
a token army armed with lances and ancient
muskets, and a ballet composed of his own
children. A relic of the old Dutch East India
Company days, this potentate has become
modernised, and a typical member of his family
is his brother, Prince Notokoesomo, lately
arrived in Melbourne. When he was 14 Prince
Notokoesomo went to Holland, took a degree
in agriculture and was contemplating law when
the Germans invaded that country. He re-
fused to sign the declaration of loyalty to the
Nazi regime and had to continue his course m
the scholastic “black market” that was created
under “black market” Dutch professors. He
got his degree, and then went into the “under-
ground movement,” where his job was to use
his legal experience to provide members who
wished to disappear with forged ration cards
and identification papers. Prince Notokoesomo
crossed the Rhine several times through the
German lines to communicate with underground
workers; he was apt to be mistaken for a friend
from Nippon. He helped British Intelligence
before and during the recent invasion.
To the Smiths rescued from p.o.w.
camps in the clean-up in Germany (B.
16/s'/’45) can be added two more of
the name, sons of V.R.C. committeeman
F. P. Smith. The father received a cable
saying that one of his sons, Flying-
Officer F. H. Smith, had arrived safe in
England. A few days later came a
further cable saying that the other son,
Flying-Officer E. G. Smith, was back
in Blighty. The brothers, members of
the same Lancaster squadron, were shot
down on different missions over Ger-
many.
Arthur Robinson, who has passed on
in Melbourne at 73, was the legal member
of the family of Anthony Bennett Robin-
son (financial editor of Melbourne “Age”
in its Protectionist heyday) and Edmund
Barton’s sister Harriet. Like himself,
Arthur’s four brothers —Lionel (dead),
Fred, Gerald and William S—have all
had eminently successful careers, Arthur
in politics, in public life and in business
as well as in law, a knighthood coming
his way in 1923. He was an early presi-
dent of the A.N.A., and was chairman of
Scotch College council. Fred and Gerald
became prominent in the Victorian textile
industry ; W.S., who also had a spell as
financial editor of the “Age,” spends a
good deal of his time in London, where
Lionel successfully established himself on
the Stock Exchange. W.S. is managing
director of the Zinc Corporation, director
of the man'y other mining and associated
concerns, and acts as adviser to the Com-
monwealth Government when required.
He was a member of the Evatt mission to
London and Washington.
From John Brennan:
Lance-corp. A. R. Stewart, of Bathurst
(N.S.W.), has two distinctions. He’s the only
non-commissioned member of the A.I.F. with
the Russian Order of the Red Star, and on
Tarakan he was the intended victim of a Japa-
nese suicide attack. During the counter-attack
which the enemy launched to attempt to dis-
lodge the Australians from Sykes feature, a
Jap, armed with a hand-grenade, leapt from
the undergrowth a few yards from Stewart
and made as though to throw the grenade.
Then, suddenly, still holding the grenade, he
rushed upon the Australian. Stewart’s Owen gun
was jammed with earth and he could not clear
it. He tried to throw the Jap away from him,
but as he gripped the grenade exploded.
The Jap was badly torn, and killed instantly.
Stewart got out of it. He earned his O.R.S. at
Alamein. From Moscow, it seems, came a
few decorations for award to the Austra-
lians; Brigadier, then Lt.-Col., Hammer de-
cided Stewart was the man for one of them.
He’d been the colonel’s personal runner
through the battle, and he’d done a fine job.
Among the prisoners of war who have
arrived ip. England from Germany is
Lieut. W. R. Mann, son of the former
C.J. and Lieut.-Governor of Victoria.
Lieut. Mann was wounded and captured
in Greece in April, 1941,
After more than five years of soldier-
ing in pretty well every A.I.F. campaign
in this war, Brigadier D. M. Cleland has
left the Army and resumed legal practice
in Perth. A Guildford Grammar boy, he
joined the militia, was an artillery cap-
tain when the war arrived, went to the
Sixth Divvy artillery as staff-captain and
was in the first force to leave Australia.
In the Middle East he graduated from
Haifa Staff College, was D.A.Q.M.G. in
the first Libyan campaign, went to Greece
and Crete and was in the Syrian affair.
Later, as lieut.-colonel, he flew with Lava-
rack’s advance corps H.Q. to Java.
Evacuated to Australia, he went to New
Guinea in January, 1943, was subse-
quently appointed to A.N.G.A.U. and
was chairman of the N.G. Production
Control Board.
Dr. Henry Seidel Canby, in Australia
to lecture at the invitation of Melbourne
and Sydney Universities, is a noted critic
and professor of English. Born in Dela-
ware (U.S.A.), his forebears having
crossed the Atlantic with William Penn,
Dr, Canby was educated at Yale, and
DR. HENRY SEIDEL CANBY.
there was editor of the university prose
and poetry magazine, which had a circu-
lation most commercial magazines would
envy. In the last war he was sent to
Britain to act as a United States public
relations officer (though the title wasn’t
known then) to the British Ministry of
Information, and the British Government
sent him to Ireland and France on mis-
sions considered too delicate for anybody
not an outsider to handle. Later Dr.
Canby started the “Saturday Review of
Literature,” then founded the Book of
the Month Club, of which he’s chairman,
and books selected by which have in-
cluded novels by Eleanor Dark and Henry
Handel Richardson. Dr. Canby has him-
self written biographies of Thoreau and
Walt Whitman.
There’s the rest of 6ft. and 16st.
weight below the soldier’s head here
sketched by Coventry—Brigadier Thomas
Edgar Weavers, who has taken over as
military commandant in S.A. An original
officer of the old 12th Battalion, Weavers
BRIGADIER T. E. WEAVERS.
was delighted to find two former fellow-
officers of the batt. on his staff in Adel-
aide —Majors Jorgenson and Fraser.
From the Apple Isle originally, Weavers
has been on Staff Corps since 1914, and
has served in every State except W.A.
He was severely wounded on Gallipoli.
Earlier he played first-class cricket in
Tassy, and also threw his height about
with advantage in baseball, tennis and
footy; and he’s a capital rifleshot.
He’s 53.
Passed on in Sydney at 75, Thomas E.
Rofe, whose snow-white hair, bowler hat
and frock-coat were to be seen at the
Millions Club almost up to the day of his
death. He was convicted in 1895 of “con-
spiracy to defeat the due course of jus-
tice,” and struck off the roll of solicitors ;
in 1933, after 38 years of protest, Harvey,
J., in a unanimous judgment of the Full
Court, exonerated him “from any sug-
gestion that he was a party to the concoc-
tion of evidence to convict Mrs. Baker
of adultery.” Restored to the rolls, Rofe
was subsequently called to the Bar. A
successful investor and prominent church-
man, patron of the arts and philanthro-
pist, his gifts to the Church of Christ
are reputed to exceed £14,000.
A Royal Navy man, Rev. Dr. Haul-
tain Brown, is the Presbyterian General
Assembly’s pick for the Sydney Uni.
Chair of New Testament Exegesis
and Historical Theology, vacant since the
death of Dr. Angus. Rev. John Mcln-
tyre, of Fenwick (Scotland), becomes
Hunter-Baillie Professor of Systematic
Theology and Ethics, the post formerly
held by Dr. Kenneth Edward.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 87, Charles Francis
Summers, sculptor. He dropped the chisel
many years ago and had been chief Masonic
librarian in Melbourne for some time. Son
of a brilliant father, who varied ecclesiastical
carving and hotel decoration with an occasional
piece of lovely sculpture, he was born in Rich-
mond, studied in Rome, stayed in Europe for
32 years and had great prestige there as presi-
dent of the International Artists’ Society. A
commission from Ballarat to finish the famous
group, “The Flight From Pompeii,” which was
begun by an Italian sculptor, brought turn
back to Australia, and he stayed to execute a
great number of other official pieces, among
them the Burke and Wills statue in Spring-
street, Melbourne, and the four athletes in front
of the Exhibition building.
At 87, in Melbourne, John Gair, founder of
the Gair Manufacturing Co. He visited Mel-
bourne as a before-the-mast sailor on wind-
jammers before settling there in 1884.
In Adelaide, at 52, Keith Leon Rainsford,
vigneron, chairman of the Grape-growers’ Asso-
ciation and the Phylloxera Board, president ot
the Federal Grape-growers’ Council, and
growers’ representative on the Australian Wine
Board.
At 69, in Melbourne, Edwin Hamilton Serle,
0.8. E., an outstanding amateur runner in ms
youth and for many years hon. sec. of the Vic.
Amateur Athletic Association. He was Direc-
tor of Intelligence in the last war with the rank
of major.
At Roxburgh, Otago (M.L.), at 90, Signor
Squarise, violin virtuoso, composer and con-
ductor. Born at Vicenzo (Italy), he won his
Diploma of Maestro (equal to our Doctor ot
Music) in 1875, arrived in Melbourne m 1882,
and toured the Australian capitals for William-
son, Garner and Musgrove. After that he con-
.ducted at Adelaide Theatre Royal for seven
years, then crossed to Maoriland to take charge
of the orchestra at the N.Z. and South Seas
exhibition at Dunedin.
At Hokitika (M.L.), at 77, Frederick Bright
Hunt, one of M.L.’s shrewdest and wittiest
magistrates. Not one appeal to the Supreme
Court against his decisions was successful.
A Londoner, he retired 15 months ago.
At Wellington (M.L.), J. Bennie, architect,
who designed churches in many parts ot M.L.
and most of Wellington’s early picture theatres.
Earlier he designed the Hobart Exhibition, after
having studied for his profession in Australia.
At 80, in Brisbane, where he was born, Cap-
tain William J. Collin, who played a prominent
part in the early development of shipping on
the Queensland coast. He was a director ot
Blair Athol Open-Cut Colliery and vice-chair-
man of the Marine Board.
At 90, in Adelaide, Edward Smith Hall,
musician and one-time manager of the Tsairne
branch of E„ S. & A. A prodigy boy pianist
at the age of five, he later became organist ot
many churches, and had conducted the Park-
side College of Music for the past 50 years
He also composed many sacred works and
songs. His grandfather of the same name, who
came to Australia in 1811, founded and edited
in 1827 the Sydney “Monitor.”
In Sydney, Mrs. Emma Smyth, who, with
her husband, the late Dr. John Smyth,
membered by hosts of Victorian State school
teachers. Dr. Smyth was the first professor ot
education at Melbourne University and was
principal of the Teachers’ College for 25 years.
In Sydney, Miss Mary Fairfax, eldest of the
late knight James Reading Fairfax s family and
granddaughter of the original John Fairtax. a
great worker for a large number of good
causes she was identified with Sydney Un
versity’ Women’s College from it's inception, and
took active hand in helping along, among
others, the Y.W.C.A., Kindergarten Union and
District Nursing Association.


Socity
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
Clooter”; One of those bitter tragedies
that still the tongue struck Sydney in the
middle of last week. Six young doctors
set out in a 42ft. launch fitted with a gas-
producer engine, bound for the seas olf
the Hawkesbury mouth to celebrate their
graduation from Sydney University. They
were fishing on the reefs along the coast
when heavy storms arrived and big seas,
lashed by a south-east gale, arose. Ap-
parently the gas-producer was unable to
cope with the seas and the launch became
a wreck. Five of the valuable young men
perished, and the sixth. Dr. lan Collins,
was picked up by a collier nearly three
miles off the coast. He was afloat in a
life-jacket, barely conscious and with one
leg broken. The loss is the greater by
virtue of the young men’s training—the
community is likely to need all its medi-
cal men in the immediate post-war years
and the blow to parents, some of whom
no doubt made sacrifices to enable the
young fellows to graduate, may be im-
agined. It raises the question of whether
small craft, sometimes manned by inexperi-
enced sailors, should be permitted beyond
the Heads in an ocean as capricious as
the Pacific. The coast in the vicinity is
dangerous, and almost every week small
craft get into trouble,
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: For missing paintings apply
to Adelaide. Frank Salisbury’s portrait
grouping of the coronation has now
stayed there three years; it never got on
to Perth because of war restrictions. This
huge canvas, 15ft. by 10ft., had a year in
a railway-tunnel strong-room in the Hills,
with other art treasures, and still awaits
instructions from London. It is now on
view again in the Adelaide National Gal-
lery, Immured also for several years was
the odd “modern” European collection,
sponsored by some daily newspapers,
which made a sensation when shown in
each capital. The show opened in Adel-
aide, and after the various cities had
bought what they wanted the remains
got round as far as Adelaide again, and
stayed there, apparently forgotten. 'Phis
collection is now to be shipped to Eng-
land to take advantage of an art boom
there.
* * * *
“Inglegar”; Peat Bridge across the
Hawkesbury, now formally opened to
traffic, is a 100 p.c, Australian job.
George Peat, conceiver of the idea of
ferrying northern settlers over the river,
thus saving them a long trek to Wise-
man’s, was the son of a First Fleeter.
Born in Sydney in 1792, he was given a
land grant at Fairview Point, in sight of
the present bridge, in 1830. He blazed
the trail, now Peat’s Ferry-road, from
Pearce’s Corner (Hornsby), by way of
Berowra and Cowan, to his holding.
Though this trail has been credited to
David Milson, a Wollombi pioneer, Peat
was earlier in, the field. The bridge, so
aptly named, spans the course the ferry
phed 100 years ago. The much-be-cussed
Mam Roads Board, Clyde Engineering
and Balgue Construction Co. all took a
hand and carried the job through. Hitler
and co. notwithstanding, in seven years.
* * * *
“Tiki”: The shark is not a fussy eater,
and he doesn’t mind his meat being a bit
high, but —and this has proved to be im-
portant—he runs away from rotten
shark’s flesh. Acting on this tip, the
chemists of the Maoriland S.I.R. Depart-
ment have evolved tablets, a few of which
are attached in a pouch of every airman’s
life-jacket. If the wearer comes down in
the sea the tablets dissolve and the water
round about becomes shark-repellent, and
stays that way for 24 hours. Australia
had a part in this research—the tablets
were tested at Shark Bay, W.A.
* * sfc
“Scientia”; That 1.C.1. ad. picturing a
garbage heap and sketching some of the
new uses for waste material (B. 16/5/’45)
is a reminder that war-time searches for
synthetics always lead to such economies.
Even the ash-heap has been investigated
during World War 11, and has been made
to yield a cheap and absolutely fire-proof
building material. • Experiments with
“Two's company !”
cotton-waste have produced a new sub-
stance with the strength of metal which
can be cut into gear-wheels. These, in-
corporated in mechanism, are quite silent
in operation, and the material has been
used to make tickless clocks. Technicians
responsible for aircraft manufacture, ex-
perimenting with strength of materials,
have made some striking discoveries about
glass, which can now be produced (in
stranded cable form) with a tensile
strength seven times that of steel. The
engineers discovered, too, that a thin glass
rod, reduced in diameter by acid, grows
stronger in proportion to its thickness up
to a certain point, as its cross-section is
reduced. The study of wood hasn’t been
neglected. A substance called methylo-
lurea has been found which gives the
softest timber an outer skin as hard as
iron.
* * * *
“Kanyapella”: That rail-motor from
Wodonga to Corryong (Vic.) isn’t the
only “Beetle” (B. 16/5/’45) or maybe it
has inherited the name. Twenty years
ago one ambled to and fro between
Echuca and Kyabram. It looked like
a beetle, too, pushing across the flat, tree-
less plain near Echuca on its elevated per-
manent way, I’ve seen it barely able to
make headway against the terrific north-
west headwind.
* * * *
“The N.”: Mention of Sydney’s Como
(B. 16/5/’45) prompts me to ask if there
is another city in the Empire out of which
there are only two free main roads. To
go to Como and points south costs the
motorist a 6d. toll over George’s River
bridge. To go north entails 6d. for car
and driver and 3d. per passenger over
the Harbor Bridge and again over the
new Hawkesbury road bridge, and if you
try to dodge it by crossing the Ryde
bridge there’s another toll. The only free
trunk roads out of Sydney are the Main
Western and the Prince’s Highway, and
it’s a wonder some politician didn’t think
of smacking a toll-tax on those two
routes, A Melbourne man holidaying in
the Harbor City in pre-war days and see-
ing its sights by car, set out for the
Mountains. Just out of Penrith there
is a police patrol box beside the road,
done in yellow and black. So inured to
tolls was the Melbourne man by the time
he saw it that he dutifully pulled in and
proffered payment to the astonished cop.
* * * *
“Benbow”: So “Simon” (B. 28/3/’451
considers my sea temperatures “startling
and inaccurate” because they don’t agree
with his. “Simon’s” readings are ob-
tained at Bondi, at the ocean’s edge and
surface, subject to the influences of the
adjacent land bodies and atmosphere.
Mine are taken at ship’s inlet-valve level,
25ft. or so under water, several miles off
shore. A strong current sets southwards
on the eastern coast of Australia. Apart
from war-time, when mineswept areas
have to be considered, northbound vessels
keep inshore to avoid this. .We have
recorded the temperatures of two different
bodies of water, “Simon,” a few miles
apart.
* * * *
“Petermac”: If you see a lot of hungry-
looking men, many of them returned
soldiers, wandering aimlessly around
Sydney on Sundays and holidays don’t be
surprised. With bed and breakfast the
fullest accommodation procurable nowa-
days, the coming of holidays and closed
restaurants is viewed with dismay by
many. On VE-day three of us (misery
seeks company) linked up and sought a
meal in a land of plenty. A tour of
restaurants, chop-suey joints and ham-
burger dispensers—all closed-—filled us
with despair. Then one had a bright
thought: vVhat about the railway re-
freshment rooms?” “Tried ’em,” said
the .other. “Haven’t you heard about the
railway strike? They’re closed, too.”
We kept on tramping, restraining the im-
pulse to hurl a brick through fruit-shop
windows and grab an apple. Eventually
we sighted a long queue which Jed to a
hamburger shop, and impatient, though
buoyed with hope, sensuously sniffed
the odor of cooked sausage-meat as
we neared food. Just as we were
about to enter the shop the proprietor
emerged waving his arms. “No more!
No more!” he shouted. “I’m sold right
out.” We drifted silently away. We
know what VE means—Very Empty.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: There have been overseas
stage successes that have failed in Aus-
tralia (B. 2/5/’45). “Rain” ran for a
record season in New York, with Bar-
bara Hoff. Melbourne, where the show
was given its Australian opening, didn’t
like the play and stayed away in such
large numbers that the close-down came
within a week and Miss Hoff went home.
Later Australia’s own Judith Anderson
did better in Sydney, but not much better.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: The Supreme Court of
S.A. has upset the' ruling of one of its
Judges which gave £3OO damages against
the parents of a boy whose stone from a
shanghai had seriously damaged another
boy’s eye. “He should not have been
allowed to remain subject continuously
to such an insidious lure.” The Full
Court, however, agreed that the parents’
warning was “all that a reasonable person
could demand of them,” and that it was
not a reasonable assumption that the
weapon would be used by a boy of 13
so as to endanger other human beings.”
One of the members of the Court supple-
mented the verdict with the opinion that
if any other view were taken boys would
have to be classified as explosives and
their parents required to treat them as if
they were dynamite.
* * * *
‘Ear Punisher”: Melbourne prohibi-
tionists are doubtless patriotic, so it is
difficult to understand why they are so
antipathetic to the considered opinion on
the liquor question of such Empire figures
as Mr. Churchill and others. Asked why
he didn’t introduce total abstinence for
the nation the British P.M. said Britons
must have their beer”; and it was
brewed right through the blitz. A. V.
Alexander, First Lord of the Admiralty,
has announced that the latest ships in the
self-contained British Fleet fighting the
Japs in the Pacific have breweries on
board, it being his opinion that beer
should have high priority on the fighting
fronts. Sir J. C. Drummond, adviser to
the British Ministry of Food, says that
beer is a good source of riboflavin, which
is a necessity to the human constitution.
Finally, Australian service doctors have
stated that beer is beneficial to men serv-
ing ip the tropics. These authorities may
all be wrong; but I would sooner accept
their judgment than that of people who
regard beer as a dangerous poison with
disastrous hereditary effects.
* * * *
“A.C.”; Looking through an Austra-
lian pictorial magazine, which displayed
side by side a typical lass and a
dark island beauty, our Ambonese native,
with a gleam in his eye, pointed to the
sable one and said “Whacko!” Then,
indicating the other, he said soberly
“Very nice girl, mista.”
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: I can sympathise with
“'Brian Bureau’s” grammatical troubles
with “Casabianca” (B. 9/ 5 / ’45). At my
Sunday school a favorite hymn opened
with the lines
There is a green hill far away
Without a city wall.
I could never understand why it was
considered worth mentioning that any
hill, green or otherwise, should be minus
a wall, no hill in my experience having
walls of any sort except one called the
Stockade. The Stockade had a very high
one, being the site of the Adelaide gaol.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: Some honored old names
have been before S.A. Supreme Court.
Robert Barr Smith established a big trust
for his sons and daughters in 1913, and
died two years later. Since the death of
his son Tom Elder Barr Smith in 1941
the Law has been considering whether the
trust bequest was a straight out deed-off
gift, as claimed by Elder’s Trustee Co.,
administering the estate, or was a mere
settlement, as argued by the Succession
Duties Commissioner. The Court has
now decided in the Commissioner’s favor,
and his department is to collect over
£20,000 duty.
A FORECAST.
When war-drums are silenced and battle-flags
furled
...And the Jap’s shared the fate of the Hun,
When the white wings of Peace are spread over
the world
And the tumult and shouting are done,
When the Empire is paying the debt that it
owes
To its leaders, by land and by sea,
A'ow and aloft, is there anyone knows
What the guerdon for Churchill will be?
he ,?°P ular vo ' ce > I suggest, on the choice
there d be none to decry or rebuke
If, passing for blanks
Less glittering ranks,
The King should make Winnie a Duke.
There’ll be earldoms and titles like that to
besfow
On Monty and some of the best,
Along with a generous dollop of dough
Ihe nation’s regard to attest.
But what will be reckoned a meet recompense
For him who, of all, was the tower
Ot strength to his country, its rock of defence
In the darkest and deadliest hour?
As cigars to a clay are the odds, you might
say,
Or an ill-smelling Turkish chibouque
That markedly few
Wouldn’t hold it his due
Were Winnie created a Duke.
It s a rank, you may feel, might be lacking
appeal,
A change from life’s vortex and whirl
n< j* eacJ y f° r y £ t- But one mustn’t forget
Woyd George finished up as an earl.
* I” freely admit that I’m doubtful myself
/t his days would contentedly pass
Were he laid, while he’s still at his top, on the
shelf,
Turned out (as he terms it) “at grass.’’
bo the days may roll on before “Corporal
John,”
Arrayed in the old-time peruke,
Looks down from his place
On the wall at the face
Of one more of his race
To be titled “Your Grace,”
By merit, not birthright, a Duke.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
A TIP FROM THE DANES.
“The people of Denmark, which suffered materially
little during the war, expect and want their own
food rations to be cut so that large quantities of
their foodstuffs may be provided for Holland, Nor-
way and other countries sadly in need of them.”
—Copenhagen cable.
“There would be 50,000 tons of shipping space
ready to Australia this month with nothing in
it.”— Selwyn Jones, chairman of Overseas Shipping
Representatives, in Sydney.
Two items that render it harder
Than ever to swallow the pleas
That we’re doing our best for the larder
Of our suffering kin overseas.
Though Ministers stress it with vigor,
The mournful conviction remains
That we’re cutting a pretty poor figure
Compared with the Danes.
We bore no such burdens as they did,
O’erwhelmed in the whirl of the wheel
That saw them attacked and invaded
And held beneath Germany’s heel.
And, seeing the efforts they’re making
The hardships to stay and to stem
Of their neighbors, we well might be taking
A lesson from them.
They welcome their belts being tightened,
They cheerfully spare from their stores,
That famine’s fell grip may be lightened
And loosened on hungrier shores.
Whatever it cost them, their heed is
For those whom starvation ensnares,
The sore-stricken nations whose need is
More urgent than theirs.
And we, by privations unsmitten,
Are we keeping our promise of aid
On the food front to war-battered Britain,
And honoring the pledge that was made?
Are we paying the debt that we’re owing
In the staples of life, one may say,
When the ships that should bear them are
going
Unloaded away?
Are you with me in wondering, brother,
What hinders the Canberra crew
From speedily giving another
Slight turn of the rationing screw?
’Twould hardly be reckoned a rigor
By most. Till then, fairness maintains
We’re cutting a pretty poor figure
Compared with the Danes.
N.S.W,
T. THE R.


“Nuffin”; Regimental number VFXI
appears in the company roll-book of an
Australian Army unit in New Guinea,
and it belongs to Lik-Lik (native for “little
one”). Lik-Lik is an 18-months-old pic-
caninny, found in an abandoned burning
camp in N.G. The soldiers asked a neigh-
boring tribe to adopt the child, but they
said that custom forbade such an idea,
so Lik-Lik came on to. the company’s
strength as an honorary A.W.A.S. A
biscuit-tin was made into a bath for the
new recruit, and the lads ration their
drinking water so that L.-L. can have
two baths daily. The unit’s tailor made
VFXI a uniform, complete with shoulder-
straps and all regimental trimmings, from
a green shirt.
* » * *
“Jamwood”t The bureaucratic section
of our masters never fails to use
50 words when five would suffice.
In a solemn National Security (Gen-
eral) Regulations Manufacture of Toys
Order, manufacturers are informed that
in Sydney alone there is a Toy Ad-
visory Committee, consisting of represen-
tatives of the Department of Education
(2), the Kindergarten Training College,
Child Psychology, Tressilian Mother-
craft, the Red Cross, Repat., the Occu-
pational Therapy Training Centre and
Army Education, who “meet about once
a month to consider certain applications,”
and that “it is desired to co-opt as a
member of the committee a representa-
tive of the Toy Manufacturing and Dis-
tributing branch of the industry,” it being
“desired to have this committee function-
ing well before next Christmas.” And
ordinary persons can’t get permission to
paint a fence, much less build a shack.
* * # •
“Collector”; Victory stamps can be
expected from the many countries on the
winning side. In 1919 Newfound-
land produced an issue of 12, all
having the picture of a caribou, emblem
of the Newfoundland forces. Each stamp
was inscribed with an individual battle
place-name. Jamaica’s Victory stamps of
1919 comprised two values. One showed
the departure of troops from Port Royal
by transport, the other the contingent dis-
embarking at the war’s end. Eight stamps
celebrated the occasion in Maoriland.
Labelled “Peace” and “Victory,” they
were symbolical in design, featuring an
allegorical figure, the British lion, a Maori
chief and portraits of King George V.
From the Bahamas and Honduras came
stamps with portraits of the King
and the colonies’ coats of arms. Eleven
stamps appeared in Barbados featuring a
female figure of Victory.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Possibly to others beside
myself the tones of Big Ben, loftily proud
and victorious, provided the most effective
note in the VE broadcast from Britain.
Throughout the war multitudes of people
have listened to those chimes and accepted
them as an incorporation of the spirit of
London. It seemed that they changed
their mood to fit the occasion ; defiant
to the might of all enemies, disdainful and
contemptuous when the blitz swept Lon-
don, with a growing note of triumph as
enemies underwent chastisement. In the
worst days London endured Big Ben held
his head in the clouds and defied all the
assaults of the enemy. It was a com-
monplace to hear in any group of people
listening to the British news ‘Ah, theres
old Big Ben! They haven’t got him yet.”
We British are still an empire.
* * * *
“X.S.”: The stoutest known opponent
of centralisation is a Victorian woman,
who disliked the idea of large bus-
fed schools in central country towns
which withdraw children from the life
of their own districts. The local school
was threatened with closure, its attend-
ance having fallen below the minimum.
She has only one child of her own. She
induced her brother in Melbourne to
allow her to adopt two of Wv children ;
and the school remained open.
aft ♦ Jje ♦
“W.J.E.”: Red and Pint writing
boys * who profess to know every-
thing that goes on in Russia have
been concerning themselves with the
question of the succession to Stalin,
who is rising 66. Their favorite is
Zhadnov, a politician. Considering the
wholesale reversion to pre-revolutionary
military forms and the vogue of the
marshals, with their Order of Suvorov
and all that, the next man is far more
likely to be Zhukov or Konicv or some
other member of their caste—whether un-
successful aspirants will take it kindly is
another matter. When Cherniakovsky fell
in East Prussia his widow received a
princely gift in cash together with
promises of substantial pensions for her-
self and her children —a striking depar-
ture from communist practice on the
decease of politicians. And receiv-
ing General Bradley and staff at his
H.Q., Koniev turned on a banquet which
would have been considered sumptuous
by Peter the Great, once more—and very
significantly—a national hero. There is
no record of Comrade Ivan having ever
stoked up with 18 dishes, beginning with
caviare and ending with baked partridge,
washed down with “white wine, red wine,
champagne, vodka and cognac.”
* * * *
“Harold Hardupp”: What has hap-
pened to our Sydney? In Melbourne
“1000 youths and girls, many of them
“ Strike, I suppose. Still I always say if you Want a job done properly
you've got to do it yourself."
drunk... hurling garbage tins and traffic
signs into the roadway, where they were
struck by trams and cars” ; in Launceston
an “orgy of wrecking by gangs of youths
... upsetting rubbish tins, mutilating
hoardings and causing other damage” ; in
Adelaide “an ugly situation... in front of
Anzac-square”; in Auckland “beer
flowed like water .. . pandemonium
reigned in hotels, broken bottles and
glasses littered the streets.” And Sydney?
“Quiet day... services largely attended
... crowds of revellers in King’s Cross
dispersed quietly when advised by the
police to go home.” The once bad girl
of the family is now wearing a halo, and
not at a rakish angle, either. Never be-
fore in Sydney’s history were attendances
at church services the chief feature of her
holiday observance.
* * * *
“F.S.” on the permanence of pigments:
Considering the importance apparently at-
tached to art in this country, as instanced by
the appointment of droves of official artists,
Army Education experts, University Extension
lecturers, young men and women who talk
about art over the air and official utterances by
Lud Mayors, ministers and authorities of all
sorts, it would be imagined that the powers
that be would see to it that the ordinary, un-
official, practising artist could get the materials
of his trade. One of the most important
is white paint, in which lead acetate is
present. If this impurity remains in the paint,
under the influence of smoke and the atmo-
sphere it gradually turns to lead sulphide which
is black, cause of the greyness and deadness
often observable in old pictures. An artist
friend wanted materials for a process which
would remove the impurities and also some
cheap and simple apparatus with which to con-
duct experiments. He was turned down with a
thud.
* * * *
“Craiser”: With al| these biographical
films being made, why pot a film of
Melba? She was a much more unusual
individual than nine-tenths of the poli-
ticians, scientists and national heroes who
have beep immortalised by Hollywood,
and her life was much more colorful
than most of theirs were. But I fear that
no existing Australian organisation could
do it, and Mr. Calwell’s proposed
National Film Board should certainly be
warned off. The tendency would be to
try to make the portrait of a genius fit
in with popular delusions on the subject.
A very good attempt was made in Even-
song, by Beverley Nicholls, Nellie’s onetime
secretary, and though there was possibly
an element of spite about the picture, no
doubt was left in the mind of the reader
that he had been introduced to a real,
if most uncommon, woman. When the
stage version of the novel was performed
in Melbourne the loudest protests came
from those who should have known
Melba best —intimate friends and certain
members of her family. The vocal part
also presents difficulties, for the gramo-
phone records of The Voice never cap-
tured its unique quality.
*
' “Pip” orv-csome army problems of dis-
tribution and exchange:
With most luxuries strictly rationed in the
Islands, canteen issue day turns the camp into
a market-place. Two ounces of tobacco and
thirty cigarettes a week are insufficient for the
heavy smokers, but most of them are more than
willing to trade their half-pound of chocolate
with some non-smoker. The two bottles of
beer are worth about their weight in gold.
Teetotallers are fawned on perpetually. Usu-
ally they are satisfied to trade their issue for
“lollywater”—soft drink—which is also on a
two bottles'per man, per week, perhaps basis.
The standard trade is four bottles of soft to
one of beer, but the canny non-drinker can
strike an even harder bargain if he Irkes. Our
Allies, too, have things that we want; liberal
supplies of cigarettes, fountain-pens, lighters
and gaiters. Souvenirs can procure most of
them and tens of thousands of cigarettes and
innumerable other articles have changed hands
in return for watch bands “from the first Zero
shot down in New Guinea,” brooch.es from
pearl shell, carved kangaroos and Jap flags
(mostly made from cloth sent •up from the
south). That first Jap Zero, incidentally, must
have had more metal in it than a heavy cruiser.
Pawpaws and bananas are traded with the
boongs, who invariably demand twopela siling
—and settle for a safety-razor blade. Trading
of one sort or another is continuous and every-
body feels he is making the best of the deal.
It’s a game where both sides can win.
n * * *
“S.T.S.”: Australian music is being
featured on the radio now, and very
tuneful it is. But, as we have lots of
Australian poets too, why does the com-
poser of songs get hold of a Yank poet,
or, still worse perhaps, an Australian lib-
rettist who tries to imitate Chicago?
Within ten minutes, I have just heard
three ballads of happy Australian pros-
pective brides looking forward to a para-
dise where (1) There won’t be so much
rain, (2) “Bluebirds” shall sing, (3)
Everything will be “swell.” Are they all
engaged to American soldiers?
% * * *
“Pookie”: The sight of people racing
madly down the street at King’s Cross,
Sydney, the other night almost con-
vinced me that the Jap submarines
“It's orright fer youse blokes, but I got responsibilities!
had struck again, but it was only
a brawl. A fairish crowd had already
collected and it was impossible to
see the combatants without literally
fighting a way in, but judging by the lan-
guage there was more backchat than
mayhem. “Disgusting!” an indignant voice
said at my elbow. “I just can’t stand
hearing such horrible language.” Then
the owner of the voice, a lass in her
’teens, shoved past me ruthlessly, her
eyes avid with curiosity, butting, pushing
and boring her way further into the
crowd, presumably to further harrow her
feelings.
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: There is more talk of
freedom and less of it in these days than
is realised by the present generation. A
discussion arose in Melbourne on nation-
ality, naturalisation and similar subjects
—it was a polyglot collection of people.
I said that I had travelled most of the
world, lived in several countries and
never come up against any State
restrictions or any interference with
my personal liberty except Customs
examinations, which were usually per-
functory. “What!” said a Scottish-
Canadian. “Do you mean to tell
me that you didn’t have to have a visa
when you passed from one country to
another?” “I didn’t qven have to have
a passport,” I said, “except when I wanted
to enter Vladivostok.” When I further
asserted that I had never heard income
tax mentioned in my parents’ home,
because, if it existed at all, it was
so tiny as not to occasion my hard-
working father any inconvenience ;
never met' a person who was worried
about the necessity to become natura-
lised so that *he could get employ-
ment ; never heard of compulsory vaccin-
ation, compulsory flag-saluting nor com-
pulsory military service, and never heard
the dulcet tones of a barmaid saying
“Time, please, gentlemen,” they thought
I was romancing. They were so accus-
tomed to being bullied and ordered about
and insulted by bureaucrats of all des-
criptions that they were as unaware of all
this regimentation as they were of their
digestion. Yet they firmly believed that
their own was an age of freedom and
that all previous ages were ages of tyranny
and oppression.
* =i= * *
“Hackshaw”: I am glad to hear that
the memory of the Red Page’s Austra-
lian nursery rhymes still survives in some
families (B. 2/5/’45), Some of them are
gratefully remembered and are being
passed on in my own, I myself having
been their original ardent propagandist.
But I doubt whether there are enough
of us to cement a tradition, though,
generally speaking, traditions are created
by individuals. Aisop’s fables are a case
in point. A slave who 1 was freed by his
master for his originality in story-telling,
he was appointed Court fictionist to
Croesus, who foolishly sent ZEsop on a
mission to distribute money amongst the
people of Delphi. Apparently the Del-
phians objected to philanthropy, for they
threw AEsop over a high cliff—without,
however, affecting the popularity of his
stories. A deplorable attempt to cash in
on the nursery-rhyme tradition has been
made in Melbourne, where a - pictorial
pamphlet was distributed amongst kin-
dergarten children to encourage purchase
of war-savings stamps. An example:
Tom, Tom, the Piper’s Son,
Learned to shoot when he was young.
He buys stamps instead of toys
To help to arm the soldier boys.
“Tongs”: “Hamer” (B. 4/4/45) is
astray in his onslaught on “that literary
prop, the death-rattle.” The death-rattle
is a definite entity, present in everyone
dying on his back. The tongue, dropping
into the pharynx, becomes a check-valve.
Expiration is still possible, but further
inspiration is prevented. The sound of
the flapping of the tongue produces the
rattle.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Allwet”: Culloon, the storekeeper,
who invariably got molo on his monthly
buying expedition to the city, reeled off
the evening train with his old raincoat
flapping around him like a sail and a wild
and vacant look in his eye. Blundering
out of the station, he subsided into the
front seat of the utility-truck “taxi ser-
vice,” muttered “Take me home” to the
driver and promptly fell asleep. Culloon
lived a mile or so from the station on a
road where the unfenced paddocks were
in a three-to-one ratio to the houses. As
they neared home he awoke and began to
shout defiance at Mabel, his wife. Jack,
the driver, drove discreetly past Cul-
loon’s house and stopped a short dis-
tance further on. “You’d better get out
here,” he said. Culloon got down shakily
and staggered across the road into the
blackness of the scrub. Jack could hear
him threshing wildly about in the long
grass and sending out plaintive appeals
to Mabel to open the door. Presently
he emerged and stood swaying in the
lights of the truck. “My God,” he
moaned, “Mabel said she’d leave me next
time I came home drunk.” , He groaned.
“And she’s taken the blasted house with
her! ”
* * * *
“Trail Eye”: The Council has been
arguing the toss on the rotting of stitches
in saddle leather, and I insert this dic-
tum, which my dad drummed into me
at an early age. It *is that all lubricant
must be of the same derivation as that
on which it is to be used. Thus, on
metals one must use a mineral oil; on
leather an animal oil or fat must be
applied ; while on a vegetable fabric or
product a vegetable oil is essential. As
saddlery stitching is presumably of
cotton or linen thread, the application of
animal fat (the. basis of most leather
dressings) would be disastrous, whilst
castor oil, a vegetable product, would
fill the bill.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Curyo Charlie,” on the
way to Rosebery sports, put up for the
night at Warracknabeal. Having stabled
his horse and fed himself, he took a stroll
up the town, for he wanted to find out
whether the police at Rosebery would
give him and his sweat-wheel a run. He
ran into Bill Perrin. “Not a chance,”
said Bill. “They’ll have the bloke down
from Hopetoun an’ he’s a holy terror.
Pinch y’ on sight.” Charles strolled on,
moodily debating with himself. Then
he noticed some excitement and found
himself at a bazaar. Sundry bright-eyed
Mallee girls sold him threepenny tickets
in various raffles and, to his astonish-
ment, he won a portable gramophone
and six records. Slightly cheered,
Charles took his trophy home and was
about to retire when an idea hit him. It
was almost dawn when he got to bed.
He arrived at the sports and set up his
joint. After the first few spins someone
called “Nit!” “Curyo” whipped another
cloth over the betting cloth, whipped
the numbered record off the turntable,
yanked out the pointer, geared the
machine, wound it and swung the needle
on to a record. When the John got
through the crowd he heard a baritone
singing “When the Sunset Turns the
Ocean Blue to Gold,” saw a cloth bearing
the legend “All Donations for Warrackna-
beal District Hospital,” and withdrew in
embarrassment. “Curyo” showed a profit
of £6O-odd on the day and the Warrack
Hospital got a fiver from an anonymous
donor. •
* * * *
“Drum Net Edgar”: Hardly had I
finished reading “M.U.R.” on the subject
°f record Murray cod weights (B.
9/5/’45) when the mail arrived with the
Fisheries Department “Newsletter,” and
in it a list of big fish. It gives the record
cod at 6ft. long and 1501 b. weight, though
where caught or by whom isn’t stated.
The biggest big fish ever landed in Aus-
tralia was a tiger shark, 16ft. long and
13951 b. heavy ; the biggest little fish was
a 4|lb. whiting. I’ve never tried “Wakool
Will’s” bait for cod ; my own opinion is
that if cod are biting it doesn’t matter
much what’s on the hook ; if they aren’t
nothing will tempt them. All the same,
I’ve a leaning to rabbit meat.
* * * *
“Hum”: Henry Lawson would have
enjoyed the new type of cadger that food-
rationing has produced. Not sundowners,
but sunrisers. They “work” in turn the
little townships where in pre-war days
kindly families would always spare a bit
for the needy. As soon as the morning
smoke goes up the sunriser begins his
round. The black billy is produced.
“Could you spare me a billy of tea,
Missus?” “Tea! We’ve no tea to spare.
Why don’t you get your vn?” “Lost
"I'll just finish this chapter , Bosun — there's only another thirty pages
to go!"
me ration book.” “Well, we can’t give
you any; we’re black-marketing our-
selves.” “Oh, well, coffee or cocoa will
do.” Sometimes benevolence or admira-
tion of impfidence overcomes judgment
and cocoa is handed out. Then “Just a
fistful of sugar, missus. Can’t get any
without me ration book.” Or, perhaps,
“Just a color of milk now ; the cat won t
miss it.” Then, having used the “Lost
me ration book” plea for meat and “The
store’s out of it” for other necessities, the
sunriser returns to his camp with suffi-
cient provender for breakfast and a lay-
by for dinner and tea.
» * * »
“Lub”: “Honest” Fred’s place has a
wide frontage to a back road, and since
Fred went there as a young married man
he has surreptitiously ringbarked half a
dozen trees, mostly peppermints, along
the road each year. When dry they fall,
usually across the road, and Fred collects
12s. 6d. each from the shire council for
removing the obstructions. Then he carts
them home for firewood.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: The turtle won’t go far
overland without good reason. Extremely
dry conditions on the home lagoon or
reduction in the food supply due to a
large increase in the turtle population will
often set the reptiles in motion, some-
times over quite lengthy stretches of dry
land. In the Murray Valley during a
drought year I came across a tight bunch
of turtles travelling over arid, grassless
paddocks in perfect triangular formation,
apparently in search of water. I counted
more than 500 of the creatures as they
moved steadily forward, one as large as
a dinnerplate at the apex. As they pro-
gressed the turtles emitted a thin, tremu-
lous cry not unlike the bleat of a very
young lamb. Drying out of the turtles’
usually moist vocal apparatus, coupled
with the strain of physical effort, may
have been responsible for the noise, but
more likely it was due to the near ap-
proach to water. Just across the rise a
spring of fresh water bubbled, the only
liquid available for miles. They were
making for it unerringly.
* * * *
“The 0.D.”: “Propalong” began this
by asserting that some bloke used to
shoot at the ground just in front of tres-
passing sheep in order to scare them off
and that somebody tapped the shooter’s
foresight slightly to one side. Now, ac-
cording to “Prop.,” the bullet didn’t hit
the ground further from or closer to the
sheep on the same line, but somehow hit
the poor animile high up in the neck and
killed it entirely dead. Because I asked
him to explain how a moved foresight
would affect elevation, he wants the coun-
cil to start shooting at chaffbags —in
these hard times —though what the deuce
that would prove I’m blowed if I know.
But then I seldom can understand
“Prop.’s” involved arguments, especially
when he does his niit.
* * * *
“E. 2”: Humping our blueys along
a Victorian mountain highway, we
came on one of those picturesque ham-
lets wedged in a pocket between two
bends of the road. Sam led the way into
the little pub and ordered “crame-de-
mong.” Bung muttered something about
its not being a common drink, but after
ransacking his shelves found a bottle and
poured a pony-sized beer glass. Ever
sociable, I had one, too. Sixpence a
glass was giving the stuff away, so we
saw the bottle out. Later that day Sam
was riding a fractious creature that looked
like a long, lean billygoat with shining
horns, and I was cheering him on, when
the steed crashed into the iron rail-
ing along the embankment, exploded
and disappeared into the swirling river
below, leaving Sam sprawled on the road.
We never saw the animal again, nor,
1 believe, did anyone else. But it cost us
a tenner to buy a new bike for the John.
* * * *
“Rover”; Every week for 33 years
without a break Bill Walker has been
carrying mails on horseback over the
Gayndah-Ban Ban-Aranbanga (Q.) route,
a round trip of 150 miles. In that per iod
Bill has ridden close on 260,000 miles
with the mails —a record for Queensland
and probably the world.
* * * *
“Mat’s M^te”: The talk had turned to
cricket, and presently Mat got into his
stride: “Them blokes up in the Pilliga
scrubs is the boys for cricket. They love
it. One time I’m workin’ out of Mul-
laley at Black Bob’s Hill, and they get
a challenge from a team over Coona
way. They, accepts it and start makin'
a ground. Well, you know that Pilliga
scrub is so thick a hound can t bark
in it. We work night and day, but
we don’t get finished in time an’ on the
day of the match there’s one stubborn
old yellow jack left. Then, when we
come to pick the hardest bimfor a pitch,
we find that this tree is about two feet
in front of one wicket on the leg side.
It don’t look too good, but when the
other mob arrive we show it to ’em an’
explain that it’s as fair to one as to the
other, an’ they don’t mind, so the match
begins. Well, that tree wasn’t much
trouble, except if you’re batting an’ the
bowler’s pitchin’ ’em on the leg. Only
thing was that most of the blokes, being
cross batters, were swingin’ every swipe
to leg an’ they keep bashin’ the tree, see,
an’ ” Here the usual nark put in,
“Hey, couldn’t y’ have put the wicket a
bit to one side?” Mat ignored him.
“Well, it knocked the bats about a bit an’
there’s a lot of byes scored off that tree.
We make 102 and we get nine of ’em
out for 87. But their last two are tough
an’ look like passin’ us until one of ’em,
a hefty bloke, makes a mighty swipe at
a ball, misses it and whams that tree.
Then the wild bees in the nest get wilder
an’ swarm down an’ the match ends with
us runnin’ in all directions an’ eight runs
to the good. We” But the nark
wasn’t satisfied. “I think y’ must ha’ bin
a lot o’ goats,” he said, “f play cricket
with a tree on the pitch like that. You
ought” Mat looked at him. “Now
look here, mate,” he said, “how could
I bring in the bloomin’ bees unless I had
a tree in the yarn?” Whereupon a
thoughtful silence fell.
* * * *
“B-gar”; Horace, scion of a wealthy
city family, had sullied the escutcheon in
divers escapades and was bundled off to
the country to become a dairy-farmer on
a property his father had bought. Horace
knew nothing about cows. Going out
with an agent to inspect his future herd,
Horace listened while seller and agent
were extolling the quality of the milkers.
“What do you think of them?” asked the
'seller. Ignorant though he was, Horace
realised he’d better make a show of some
knowledge. “They look all right,” he
said ; “but trot them round a bit till I
see how their wind is.”
w w * #
“Bo”: When Brandon, who was
reputed to own half the district, died he
bequeathed a block of land to “Dopy”
Jack, who had been a wood-and-water
joey on Brandon properties since he was a
youth. Jack took an inordinate pride in
his new status as a, landholder, and an-
nounced that he would build himself a
“homestead” to suit his modest bachelor
needs. With patience and that plodding
energy which had distinguished his
career, he set about cutting the necessary
slabs, posts and bark. The block, which
sloped down towards a gully, was
chiefly remarkable for its outcrops of
stone, and, in the low south-east corner,
an enormous, burnt-out hollow gum
standing on a patch that was always
soggy. It was here that Jack dumped his
building material, and one day Kelliss,
his neighbor, strolled over as Jack was
digging the holes for the corner-posts.
“Coin’ to put yer shack here !” observed
Kelliss in surprise. “Fd’ve thought y’d
have shoved it up in the high part up
near the road. It’s dry up there.” “Wot,
an’ have t’ put up a chimbley?” said Jack
slowly. “I’m buildin’ this homestead slap
up against that holler gum, an’ I got a
chimbley there ready-made. It’s even got
holler spouts for the smoke to come out
of, an’ it’s tall enough to give a snifter
draught. I would be a mug to build any-
where else!”
He * * *
“X.E.D.”: The road we followed down
the Murray cut through a big sheep prop-
erty, and Sam, who’d been that way
before, recognised the two men at the
gate as the owner and a rabbit-trapper
who worked on the place. We stopped
for a yarn. I asked the one in ancient,
ragged clothes, whom I judged to be the
trapper, how the bunnies were poking their
legs at the traps. “Pretty fair, I reckon,”
he said, jerking his thumb towards his
prosperous-looking companion. “Joes
makin’ a fortune. I wouldn’t mind half
his luck.”
* * * *
“Nigel Dugan”: The abo. right round
the coast of W.A. showed considerable
ingenuity in the construction of fish-traps.
Where the Westralian Murray River de-
bouches into the Peel Inlet its waters are
shallow and spread over hundreds of acres
of sand. Long before the whites arrived
the primitive tribes had utilised this
feature as a constant fish supply. The
trap was simple, merely a huge V built
of slender jarrah saplings, the apex of
the V being of double walls about a yard
apart. This was to counter the nimble-
ness of the mullet (the main catch), mullet
having the propensity of jumping over
an obstacle when cornered. The trap,
however, had to be worked. When a
school of fish had entered, the tribe, each
member carrying as much twiggy brush-
wood as he or she could handle, formed
a line across the wide end, and, with the
brushwood in front as a hedge, waded
slowly to the apex of the V. So it was
possible to yard the school until it be-
came literally a seething mass, from which
sufficient for a feast was taken. After
that, by building brushwood right around
the pocket, it was possible to keep the
catch captive, dipping into it for as long
as it or the gorge lasted.
BISCUIT BOMBERS.
“Clear port and starboard” .. .and once more
Along the tarmac motors roar,
The flare-path springs to light.
The ground crew’s nightlong shift is done.
So get upstairs to greet the sun;
You’ve sixteen hundred miles to run
Ere you can rest tonight.
The dust may veil the desert creeks,
There’s snow on Nassau’s cloudy peaks,
You fly for fields unknown;
You’ll climb out of the tropic heat
And freeze at twenty thousand feet;
You’ll drive them blind through storm and sleet
Wherever ships are flown.
You’ll fly the routes the bombers do —
And when they’re grounded you’ll go through
With loads of shells and bread,
Of bully-beef and engine spares
And wounded men and office chairs;
And you will think there’s no one cares
If you’re alive or dead.
And yet, perhaps some Digger’s wife
May bless the crew that saved his life
Out on a jungle trail;
And lonely outposts scan the sky
To see the faded kites fly by
With mail that keeps their spirits high
When hope and fortune fail.
And you, unarmed, who dared the guns
And pioneered the courier runs
From battered drome to drome,
Fly on, like bridled birds of prey;
Unsung, inglorious, night and day
Your freighters of the Milky Way
Will speed the victors home.
R.A.A.F.
R. H. WEBSTER.


“A FINE sort of admiral a man goes and souvenirs—the dopey coot
doesn’t even know what bilgewater is!”
“Sister”; The soft grey smoke from the
cooking fires of Mauviavi rose above the
treetops like an opalescent cloud; a
Papuan native drum throbbed. Tauhiney
had almost completed the sale of his
daughter Kou-bebe, the village belle, to
Rahu for three pigs, a dogs’-teeth neck-
lace, a smoked hand pendant and an
Orikiva armshell when along came Rah u s
grandmother and swore that it was too
much; she wasn’t worth it. He could
have the chief’s own daughter for less.
Her high-pitched old crescendo shrilled
and shrilled. Shortly afte’rwards Kou-
bebe disappeared, and it was generally
accepted that a shark must have taken
her. Rahu married the chief’s daughter.
Three months later Baia, the bride, sit-
ting on the shore at Motu Motu sorting
out fish with the other women, bent down
to take a little shark in her hands to
throw it aside, when it sprang at her and
ripped the flesh from her thigh to her
ankle, stripping it clean to the bone. The
flesh around it turned black and she died.
Undoubtedly the shark was the devil
(ghost) of Kou-bebe.
* * * *
“Zake”: I had heard the opinion
expressed in the little Dorrigo (N.S.W.)
township I was passing through that
bullockies weren’t what they used to be.
One old-timer at the shanty pub had spat
viciously after recalling with bitterness
that one oxen-conductor had lobbed in
wearing a panama hat, a check coat,
bottle-green sports trousers and a pair of
shoes, that he spoke in polite tones to his
charges, and that not once had he been
observed to use his whip-handle on their
ribs in time-honored fashion. That a call-
ing which had been so intimately asso-
ciated with the pioneering days, which
was of the very essence of our country,
should be falling into desuetude I refused
to believe. And that very afternoon I
was sure my belief was vindicated when
an 18-bullock team came along the town’s
only street. The bullocky, an immense
man, who looked to be carved out of
the same substance as the logs on his
jinker, had on heavy bluchers, patched
moleskins, an ancient open vest over a
grey flannel and a battered felt hat. Be-
tween his teeth was clenched an old pipe,
and in a huge brick-red fist he held an
enormous whip. He made a picture that
an artist would have raved over. That
night there was a social and dance in the
School of Arts hall. Sandwiched in be-
tween women’s items there was a male
solo. It was my bullock-driver, most dap-
perly-dressed, who sang “Garden of
Happi-ness” in a pale, lyric tenor. After
he finished he danced a rhumba as to
the manner born, and later was quite at
his ease as he skilfully juggled a cup of
weak tea and a plate on which was a
piece of cream sponge, between bites of
which he prattled of inane subjects as
glibly as an insurance salesman. Sadly
I went out and bit a bullock.
“Nor’-west”: “Patrol Leader’s” test of
the responsiveness of the giant clam (B.
18/4/’45), poking a stick between its
open shells, leaves me cold. Let him
apply a similar test to a giant crab, first
offering a stick and then his finger. The
clam, like the crab, is well aware of the
difference between flesh and wood. It
is no more anxious to bite on to wood
than “P.T.” himself would be. I
agree with him that only a blundering
fool, would be trapped by a clam which
lay exposed on the top of a reef. But
the story might be different with a skin-
diver groping for shell 30 feet down, for
there are species of clam that dwell at
that depth. The only sea creature I know
of willing to bite on a stick is the
logger-head turtle, though it must be a
green stick, with the bark on. To such
a logger-head will fasten on so viciously
that it may be dragged along the
sooner than release its hold.
« 9jt * «
“Zake”: Harrison’s horse had gone
lame, so he left it at his brother-in-
law’s place and made for home on foot.
It was pitch dark when he got to the
track near the bridge at Platypus Creek.
He was cautiously feeling his way for-
ward when he stepped straight into a deep
bog, notorious around the district, which
the heavy rains of a week before had
made particularly glutinous. The harder
Harrison fought to free himself the
deeper he sank until he was up to his
chest in the clinging mud. He had been
shouting for help and struggling for half
an hour when he saw a lantern swinging
down the track. It belonged to his neigh-
bor Drake, who had heard his cries.
When Drake saw the plight Harrison was
in he went for help, and after a lot of
shovelling and manoeuvring with ropes,
they got the victim at last to solid earth.
“You were lucky y’ only went down to
your chest,” said Drake. “If it had been
any deeper y’d have been a goner.” Har-
rison looked up from scraping the mud
off. “ Cripes, yes,” he said slowly. “But
I blame meself a lot. I’m always sayin’
I’m goin’ to learn to swim, but I never
have!”
* * * *
“Murlonga”: As one who has attended
a couple of burials resulting from the
bone (B. 2/5/’45), let me tell how the
pointing works. So long as the victim
doesn’t know he has been pointed nothing
happens. It is when some well-wisher
whispers to Pituri that an old man has
boned him and sung him that the trouble
commences. I don’t know any full-
blooded buck who can stand up to that.
But the old man must chant his death
sentence when he points the bone. To
be effective at all he must also have a
witness who will spread the news. The
thigh-bone of a ’roo is mostly used.
* * * *
“C.F.A.”: Dave Anderson, of Oak-
wood (N.S.W.), has a room carpeted en-
tirely with cat-skins. Many years of rabbit
trapping supplied them, and he skinned
every wild cat caught. The colors cover
a remarkable range. Any rabbiter knows
it is pretty well hopeless to release a wild
cat alive. They generally need a tap on
the head before you can get near the
trap. A tame puss generally looks for
help as soon as the trap is^ipproached.
“Rover”: Mention by “Colonial Cove”
(B. 2/5/’45) of cats selling for £5 as rat-
killers reminds me. On Pitcairn Island cats
are considered so valuable as rat-killers
that one of the island’s laws provides
that “if a cat is killed without being posi-
tively detected in killing fowls, however
strong the suspicion may be, the person
killing such cat is obliged, as a penalty,
to destroy 300 rats, whose tails must be
submitted for the inspection of the rnagxs-
trate, by way of proof that the penalty
has been paid.”
“B. A. Ker”: That insult so beloved of
radio and film dialogue writers “You
Yellow Rat” jars my sense of justice.
Much as I detest the rodent, I can’t despise
his courage—neither will a certain ferret,
since making the mistake of thinking he
was dealing with rabbits when put down
a rat hole. My cat used to be sudden
death to rats, but for many months an
old veteran defied Tom’s (and my own)
efforts to dispatch him. Twice the feline
turned up for breakfast with ugly pieces
bitten out of his face. Finally, the outlaw
fell for a rabbit-trap set in a
run. The cat was with me
when I found the captive,
alive but securely held by
both front legs. Did Thomas
rush in aqd polish olf his
bitter enemy? No. Positively
refusing to see the victim, he
turned and stalked away. I’m
inclined to attribute the un-
natural behavior to painful
memories rather than chivalry.
But the rodent is not without
fear, as an old English pro-
fessional rat-catcher once
demonstrated to me. In a
cage filled with rats the pro.
thrust his hand fearlessly,
apparently catching which-
ever was closest to hand.
When only one remained,
however, the technique was
changed, the captive being
manoeuvred into position be-
fore the catch was made. The
’catcher explained: “When
they’re together they’re cowed,
one frightens the other; but
when only one is left he’ll
fight like a Kilkenny cat.”
“Esk D.”: “I’m boundary-rider on
Widgeegong station,” said Jimmy the
Liar, “and me hut’s in a small clump of
trees near a waterhole, with the open
plain stretchin’ out f’r miles on ev’ry side.
One evenin’ I get in late an’ find some-
one’s been an’ cleaned up half a damper
an’ most of the salt junk I’d cooked. I
don’t pay much attention t’ that, thinkin’
anyone passin’ through in a hurry is wel-
come to a bit of tucker. But it happens
agen the next day an’ the day after. I
get a bit worried on account of rations
not cornin’ out very often, an’ there bein’
little enough without it bein’ scrounged.
So the followin’ mornin’ I ride out of
sight of the hut, wait an hour an’ come
back at a gallop. Yair, me tucker’s gorn
agen, an’ there ain’t a livin’ creature in
sight, bar me horse an’ dawgs. That gets
me hoppin’ mad, so next momin’ I tie the
wildest of me dawgs at the door before
settin’ out. When I get back me supplies
are nearly cleaned out —an’ the dawg s
disappeared! But I’m determined t get
the thief. Before daylight I ride orf with
the last of the rations, an’ then sneak back
on foot t’ watch near the hut. Late in
the momin’ I hear a noise inside an’ rush
up with a yell. A whiskery little bloke
shoots out the door, streaks up the tall,
smooth trunk of the biggest gum like a
goanner an’ dives into the Yair,
I’d’ve shot the cow, on’y I hud t square
him t’ bring me dawg down.’L
“Cant y' read ?”
“X.P.8.1.”: Charlie* the orderly-room
sergeant, told us: “I wondered where I’d
seen one of the applicants for a commis-
sion who’d come up from the battalion
to be interviewed by the Brig. Tall, well
built, and his compelling manner showed
me that his civvy job had been to
give orders. Well, his papers, after
he’d seen the Brig., put me wise. I
remembered then I’d seen him somewhere
before —he was head liftman at one of
the big stores. Standing on the ground
fli d direct people into waiting
lifts with masterly technique. A wave,
a deep command and 50 hot, bad-
tempered, shoving women would be mes-
merised into moving meekly aside to
allow passengers to leave a down lift,
or a ringing ‘next lift please, Madam,
would halt in mid-stride some old girl
with an armful of parcels charging on a
full lift. Why, handling a platoon would
be kid’s stuff after that training! His
evident self-confidence must have made a
hit with the Brig., who had scribbled
approving remarks about leadership and
initiative on his papers. What must have
impressed the Brig, as much as anything
else was the occupation: Transport
Director.”
* * * ♦
“Sister”: I passed him on the Hanua-
bada road, a great gaunt old savage with
a face like a cassowary stalking along in
stately style, and followed by three small
attendants armed with fly-swots and sur-
rounded by motley dogs. Obviously he
had been told that clothes were de rigueur
in town, and conformed accordingly.
Reared two feet above his head was a
conical headgear of clay with a bird of
paradise plume streaming out behind like
a paying-off pennant. That was his kit,
that and a string round his circumference
from which hung an empty banana skin!
* * * *
“Dronestung”: Was interested in those
honey-eating wombats of “Moyhu’s” (B.
25/4/’45), though have yet to see a
hive assaulted in an apiary to which
wombats have had free access. Let
that pass as one of the peculiari-
ties indigenous to the Ovens Valley
(Vic.); but what does “M.” mean by
“small, black Italian bees”? The black
bee, introduced from England in 1822,
was the first of the A pis family brought
to Australia, and, among our great wealth
of nectariferous plants, soon became
established throughout the country. Later
introductions were the Italian and Car-
niolan bees, which proved their honey-
gathering abilities to be greatly superior
and have, by cross-breeding, completely
altered the strain of wild bees, so that
it is doubtful if a colony of pure black
bees exists nowadays. The hybrids are
good bees to work, and do well in parts
where extreme changes in weather have
an adverse effect on the golden aristo-
crats of most big commercial apiaries,
* * * *
“Solitude”: A rattle of stirrup irons
and Seventyfiver came into the hut. 1
greeted him with “Morrie’s got a mob of
Herefords up in the yards. Wants you to
start down-country with them t’morrow.”
“Well, I ain’t goin’,” he snapped, chuck-
ing a gunny sack against the wall and
starting on the job of shedding three over-
coats. “What’s he think a man is? I
tell y’ I ain’t goin’ ” He stopped to eye
me truculently. “I just get in from makin
a trip with a mob o’ starvin’ jumbucks
that won’t travel; it rained every inch
o’ the flamin’ way, and I bin wet t’ the
hide for a solid week. I tell y’ I ain’t
goin’.” He fished some stale eatables from
the sack, fed Granny and Blue, then, pull-
ing up a chair, began to feed himself.
“That cow Morrie never did give a damn
’bout nobody,” he mumbled between
bites. “Anyway, does he think I got nags
laid on? An’ what about me dogs, eh?
Blue’s footsore, an’ Granny’s as poor as
a crow. He c’n go t’ blazes.’’ He finished
his tea and began unlacing his boots. “Do
the lazy cow good t’ drove his own
cattle,” came from the direction of the
bunk, followed by the sound of his boots
hitting the floor. “Gripes, I m tired.
Better give us a call ’bout four if I am t
around before then, Sol,” the voice con-
tinued wearily. “I’ll have t* get his blasted
Herefords through t’ Long Gully before
dark.”
SUMMER.
When bushmen. tap the glass and strain
Their sight for smoke and damn the flies,
And while they search for fire or rain,
Get their back paddocks in their eyes;
When water’s short and sheep are poor
And bullocks tumble in the bore:
Oh, they and fat commercial men
Call barmaid Nell their sweetheart then.
When heat swamps on the dusty plain
Recede to mock the travelling sheep
And weather-prophets’ words are vain
And crows delight while cockies weep;
When kelpies tongue though Clancy calls
And loungers shoulder hotel walls:
Oh, tramps and fat commercial men
Call barmaid Nell their sweetheart then.
R.A.A.F.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M, MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVfLLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
What every Company Director
should know . . .
Insurance coverage for your business premises
and effects, as well as coverage for your honfe and its
contents, are best arranged through Edward Lumley
& Sons, who, as Bennie S. Cohen & Son, have built a
fifty-years’ reputation for integrity, service, variety
and scope of operation and prompt settlemept of
claims.
Full information and unbiased advice available on
request.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON (N.S.W.) PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
E6ELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Etve, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Rams dropped Oct./Nov., 1943,
are now ready for delivery.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gn>
per head.
r JT
/
H. E. KATER & SON - - - Egelobra, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without adhnucture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum ox
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. tune.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 75811 Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Fresh Blood Needed.
“Beefo”: Prices paid for top sires in
comparison with those for medium to
good bulls at the Sydney sales indicate
that stud breeders are in need of new
blood. Demand for mediocre bulls was
restricted, which was as it should be,
irrespective of what sellers might have
thought. Nothing but the best should be-
come sires at the studs, and one of the
first jobs for the Commonwealth Govern-
ment is to ease import restrictions on
good stuff from Great Britain. Other
beef-producing countries are procuring
top sires, but at present Australia ,is de-
nied them. Australia’s loss is Argentine’s
gain, and the latter country has been,
and still is, purchasing the cream of the
beef cattle studs in Great Britain. We
will have a big leeway to make up unless
fresh blood can soon be imported.
When imports are resumed from Great
Britain some central organisation in Eng-
land should be appointed to superintend
shipping arrangements. It could arrange
for all Australian purchases to be shipped
in one consignment instead of'in small
lots at various times. Thus overhead by
way of freight, fodder and attention
would be reduced to a minimum.
Breeders in Argentine follow this pro-
cedure, apd the saving from time of pur-
chase to the time of landing is substan-
tial.
Pig Husbandry.
“Nuffin”: Results of extensive scien-
tific research in U.S.A. reveal the follow-
ing to be among the more important
factors influencing profit and loss in pig-
breeding ;
Service ; Forty gilts bred twice during
heat produced 36 litters of 8.2 pigs; 43
gilts bred once produced 31 litters of
7.1 pigs.
Litter size; Litters of more than 10 at
birth resulted in more weaqers than
smaller litters, but just as heavy.
Weaning weight: Weaners of 15.351 b.
gained 1.41 b. a day to six months of age ;
those of 35.501 b. gained 1.51 b. a day.
Sow productivity: A good sow weaned
10 pigs of 321 b. each, which fed 2591 b. in
six months at a cost (including sow’s
rations from breeding to weaning) of
3411 b. of feed per 1001 b. of hog marketed.
The same feed cost for pigs of medium
sows was 4481 b. and for pigs of poor
sows rearing only four was 5711 b. Good
sows produced 42 p.c. good female pro-
geny, medium sows only 17.4 p.c. and
poor sows none.
Lantana.
“Blaze”; Why worry about lantana
scrub? There is no better fertiliser; no
growth sheds the amount of leaves, which
rot to humus; no pest is so easily eradi-
cated. I have cleared thousands of acres
of lantana so thick a man had to crawl
under it like a snake or roll along on
top of it. Provided I can get a wind I
have no fear of lantana.
Get a fire into it wherever possible.
Get little plots burned—areas of a few
square feet only. A heavy smoke pour-
ing over lantana will cause its leaves to
“Are you there. Bill? Can I borrer y' tractor?”
drop, letting the sun in and promoting a
meagre growth of grass. Even if no grass
grows the sun will dry the bed of rotting
leaves on the ground. Then, in the middle
of a dry time, preferably about Novem-
ber when the sun is hot, put several
matches into the rubbish on the wind-
ward side. If wind and other conditions
are right that will carry a smouldering
fire till a couple of hours after sundown.
A judicious repetition will complete the
job.
After the first burn the lantana will
shoot sparsely, but the enriched ground
will carry a surprising body of grass. If
left alone it will become lantana-infested
again.' But if another fire is put into it
the following November that will burn
the pest right out, and for a fortnight or
more dry roots will be smouldering be-
neath the ground. Once infested land
has been cleared it seems to develop an
immunity to further invasions.
S.A. and' Soil Erosion.
“Pat O’Day”: The absence of erosion
from the saltbush country of the South
Australian border was apparently over-
looked by “Cubberlie” (B. 28/2/’4sj.
Parts of South Australia, where droughts
are never known, and which are free of
erosion, include the south-eastern portion
adjoining the Victorian border. Many
years ago foresight was shown to a large
degree by settlers who planted subter-
ranean clover so extensively. On one
large holding in this area, timbered with
box, red-gum and dry-land ti-tree. and
possessing some portions of loamy soil,
200 acres of inferior soil, half-
sandy, was utilised for an afforesta-
tion scheme, and within ten years the
enterprising owner saw the culmination of
his scheme —80,000 Finns radiata, result-
ing in the 200 acres hitherto waste por-
tion becoming extremely lucrative.
In the drier parts of upper south-east
S.A. (with a rainfall of 14 to 18 inches
per v annum) the comparatively new pas-
ture grass, veldt {Ehrharta calycine), a
perennial, is proving successful.
Soil Fertility.
“K.Mc”: Cutting up stubble with a
disc harrow and ploughing it in instead
of burning it has its disadvantages. The
idea is to increase organic matter in the
soil. Continuous cropping and stubble
burning destroys the coarse crumb struc-
ture of soils, and on many farms the
soil now has a powdery formation which
readily erodes to either wind or water.
Turning-in the stubble helps to check
erosion, but farmers have found it takes
a lot of nitrogen out of jthe soil to de-
compose the straw. Decomposition is
much more rapid in a wet season.
James Turner, leader of the British
farmers’ delegation, advised Australian
farmers to put one crop in five back into
the soil. This practice in Britain has in-
creased soil fertility from generation to
generation. Leguminous crops, such as
cow-peas and lupins, ploughed under
would enrich the soil with both organic
matter and nitrogen. With modern
machinery for cultivating, harvesting and
threshing cow-peas it should be possible
to supply cheap seed to farmers in the
post-war period.
“Graz.”: One of the most successful
anti-erosion measures used in the U.S.A.
is to leave crop residues on the surface
by tilling the land without turning over
the sod. Acting as a mulch the stubble
reduces evaporation, increases absorption
by holding up rain-water and prevents
wind and water erosion. In Australia
we haven’t any special implements for
the job, but ploughs with mouldboards re-
moved will loosen the soil without turn-
ing it over. There will be no harm to
the plough if the frog is protected by a
steel plate. Disc drills are needed to cut
a track through the stubble for the seed.
If the stubble is too bulky a disc harrow
should be put over it before tilling. The
idea reverses the clean seed-bed methods
so long employed in Australia, but the
Yanks have found that it pays divs.
Hints for the Farm.
“Sheepo”: Bustling tactics, with dogs
yelping and men yelling loudly, cause
sheep to crowd and race circling round
near yard gates, and obviously a lot of
the dust raised must get into the wool.
If sheep are taken quietly yarding rarely
presents any difficulties and the mob
won’t raise much dust. In the yard and
during drafting sheep will run much
better if worked quietly and without un-
due noise. Watering the yards prior to
drafting helps, but not much if bustling
is followed.
“Myrrhee”: For cracked or chapped
teals apply a mixture made from lanolin
loz., salicylic acid powder |oz., twice
daily after milking. For wounds bind the
teat with adhesive plaster, drawing the
edges together. The side should not be
left unmilked for more than one day for
heavy milkers.
“Bennie”: Khaki Campbells and Indian
runners are good layers, but don’t be
led astray by “Hortus” (B. 25/ 5 / *45),
who says Muscovies are only table favor-
ites, and 100 eggs per year is the most
you’ll get. I keep track of all my Mus-
covies’ egg-production, expenses, etc., and
they help me considerably instead of eat-
ing their heads off. Last year four of
my Muscovies laid 931 eggs, while three
in a separate yard, with a drake, pro-
duced 802 eggs.
“Carmi”: In an American farm jour-
nal I found a tip to prevent fowls from
egg-eating by darkening the nests where
such offences occur. We’ve been troubled
a lot lately by egg-eating fowls, and
found that dark nests, no matter how well
layers patronise them, are ignored by the
culprits.
“Sari”: Mangolds, which progres-
sive dairy-farmers and pig-raisers in
Queensland value as fattening fodder,
can be conserved for a lean period if
care is exercised. Best storage is a
thoroughly ventilated pit. The ground
must not be very dry or the roots will
shrivel up and lose their tempting sweet-
ness. Excessive damp causes rotting.
Sugar mangels are highest in food value,
but should be gradually introduced into
the diet of stock to prevent digestive dis-
orders. Feed them chopped to prevent
cattle choking.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Defences and Peace.
(From a “Free World” article by Norman
Angell.)
It is very much to the good that the
San Francisco Conference is called not a
Peace Conference but a Security Con-
ference. For one of the major reasons
for our failure to establish peace has been
that we tried to bring it about, not only
before we had solved the problem of
defence, but irrespective of that problem.
We assumed that peace and defence
were not inter-related, that they could be
dealt with in separate compartments. The
truth is, of course, that the final cause
of war has been the failure of nations to
ensure for one another by the power of
the international community the secure
right to existence which men assure for
one another within the nation.
This, of course, is the first function of
any organised society: to defend for its
members the right to existence as the
basis of any other right whatsoever.
Just as we invert the order of defence
and peace, and argue that “if we get
peace we shall get defence,” so have we
been equally guilty of the same inversion
in respect to justice. We have said “to
get peace you must establish justice,” We
should have said “to get justice you must
first give nations security.”
Power politics, about which we shall
hear a great deal during the conference,
are the politics of not being overpowered.
A nation in fear of such a fate will ob-
viously seek power to prevent it. To
demand that a nation “give up power
though it leave you defenceless” is, until
we have offered an alternative defence, to
ask for national suicide.
So with disarmament even more
obviously. A few months after the failure
of the last Geneva Disarmament Con-
ference I asked its chairman, the late
Arthur Henderson, what, looking back,
he regarded as the major cause of the
failure. Was it the intrigues of the
armament makers, those Merchants of
Death that had so disturbed Senator
Nye and his colleagues?
“The reason stands out like the nose
on a man’s face,” Henderson replied.
“We failed because we did not put
security first; ‘ did not give the assembled
nations the feeling that if they did reduce
their arms they could most certainly
count upon the aid of others if attacked.
As long as nations feel that their own
armed power is all that stands between
them and extinction they will retain their
armed power.”
People still argue that “Germany and
Japan did not commit their aggressions
because of any fear of being attacked,
any fear of national extinction. A greater
assurance of their security would not
have deterred them.” But a greater assur-
ance of the security of their victims
would most certainly have deterred them.
If Germany and Japan had been faced
at the very outset with the certainty that
they would have to meet the combined
power of the United States, the British
Commonwealth, France and Russia —the
power, that is, which the Allies were later
compelled to use, such aggression would
not have been attempted.
Why have we been so hesitant in the
past to make national defence the main
objective of our policy—or more exactly,
its publicly avowed objective? The words
“peace and justice” have, of course, a
greater moral and emotional appeal than
“security” or “defence.” Thus, British
statesmen have frequently indulged in
such declarations as “The greatest interest
of the British Empire is peace.” It could
always be counted upon to secure a quick
emotional response.
Yet there is no reason to suppose that
such rhetoric was insincere. Everyone
wanted peace—including Hitler, though on
his own terms. But no British statesman
really regarded peace as his country’s
greatest interest. If Britain had been
attacked she would immediately have
abandoned peace in mere self-defence.
Not peace but defence, survival, was the
primary interest. If this simple fact had
been faced men would have seen that the
essential problem was not peace —any
nation can have peace by submitting to
aggression—but that of “peaceful de-
fence.”
The difficulty is not the use of power
for defence. The trouble is that power,
so used, makes the security of one nation
incompatible with the security of another.
Collective defence resolves this dilemma
when the combined strength of a group
of nations is pledged to the defence of
all. By that means the preponderance of
any one unit is cancelled by the power of
the combination.
This may seem academic in view of the
actual situation: that three great empires
hold such preponderance of power that
they can dominate the world. But that
is a superficial view. If any one of the
Big Three fears aggression in the future
from one of the others the Power which
is threatened will seek the support of as
many of the other nations as possible.
Out of that effort to secure co-operation
in defence the foundations of a real in-
ternational society may be laid.
“Japs Finished in the Air.”
(From a N.Y. “Times” report.)
The Japanese Air Force, which has lost
10,000 ’planes to the Far East Air Force
and the United States Navy since Sept-
ember I, last, is broken and no longer a
threat, Lieut.-Gen. George C. Kenney
asserts.
General Kenney, who has been General
Douglas MacArthur’s air commander
since September, 1942, said the 10,000
Japanese ’planes were destroyed in the
preparation and execution of the Philip-
pines campaign and subsequent opera-
tions. He added that his estimate was
conservative and did not include any
“probables” or enemy ’planes that were
merely damaged.
Some 3000 wrecked Japanese ’planes
had been observed on the ground on
Luzon, he said, adding that “Japan really
lost a big air force in the Philippines.”
General Kenney was asked if he felt
that dangerous air opposition would not
develop over the Japanese home islands.
Censors objected to his reply on the
ground that it involved “future opera-
tions.” General Kenney answered their
objections by emphatically asserting:'—
“I still think the Japanese Air Force is
no longer a threat.”
The Japanese airman is no good
any longer. General Kenney asserted,
although some of the foe’s new fighter
’planes are excellent. Occasionally a
good flight leader is encountered, but
most Japanese fliers, he said, are so un-
skilled they “have no business flying
modern ’planes.”
He was asked if, in view of reports that
Japan produced 1500 ’planes monthly, he
thought the enemy might be holding an
air force in reserve to repel decisive
attacks. He said he could not estimate
Japan’s ’plane production, but knew “the
Jap must be having trouble” for, while
B-29’s are curbing the enemy’s aircraft
production, shipping attacks choke off the
flow of his raw materials from the
Netherlands Indies.
“He hasn’t the pilots to fly the ’planes
if he had them,” General Kenney went
on, “and he hasn’t the mechanics to main-
tain them if you gave him the ’planes.
His good mechanics are down in Rabaul,
Bougainville, Wewak and in the swamps
back of Hollandia. He can’t evacuate
them because when he does try to send a
ship out our youngsters go out and sink
it on him.”
General Kenney said the Philippines
had been a remarkable .demonstration of
what air control means. With two or
three small exceptions, our forces there
had not been bothered by enemy aviation
since January 9, when the Luzon in-
vasion began.
Churchill Hits Out.
(From Mr. Churchill’s speech before the Con-
servative party conference in London .)
“No restrictions upon well-established
British liberties can be tolerated.
“Control for control’s sake is senseless.
“At the head of our mainmast we fly
the flag of free enterprise.
“You hear all this talk by the stay-at-
home Left-Wing intelligentsia that the
soldiers will hold us guilty if we do not
have a new world waiting for them on
their return.
“The brave new world is to be already
waiting for them when they disembark
at Liverpool, on the Clyde, at Southamp-
ton or Tilbury docks,
“But that is not what the fighting men
are looking forward to.
“They are not looking forward to a
new world constructed behind their backs
by politicians who seek their votes.
“Most of them have lived long enough
in uncomfortable proximity to another
world to be thinking of that.
“They do not regard themselves as a
slum-bred serf-population chased into
battle from a land of misery and want.
“They love their country and the scenes
of their youth and manhood, and they
have shown themselves ready to die not
only in defence of their material satisfac-
tion but for its honor.
“When they are home and settled down
and our country is again a going con-
cern, paying its way and Standing on its
own in the post-war world, then will be
the time for them to settle what form
and shape our society should assume.”
Plans for Germany.
(As reported by "United States News.")
The peace to be imposed upon con-
quered Germany will be fully as restric-
tive as that outlined by Henry Morgen-
thau late in 1944, when he proposed that
Germany be turned primarily into a food
and raw-material-producing nation.
There is to be rather extensive terri-
torial division of the country; boundary
details remain to be settled. Germany
then is to be stripped of her chemical
industry. She is to lose most of her steel
industry. She must give up her synthetic
industries, like gasoline and rubber.
Every vestige of a German aircraft
industry will be uprooted. Any German
industries that remain will be rationed
on imported raw materials. It may even
be decided that Germany is to be limited
in producing finished manufactured goods
of any kind, on the ground that she might
compete unfairly with other nations for
available markets, because of the low
standard of wages that probably will
prevail. At the least, Germany will be
rationed in vital imported materials on a
basis that will hold the standard of living
to a level no higher than that of her
neighbors—Poland, Rumania or Hun-
gary.
In addition, Germany will supply labor
to help in rebuilding the Europe that she
did so much to destroy? It has been
known that Russia intends to demand
between 4,000,000 and 10,000,000 Ger-
man workers to perform several years of
work in Russia, rebuilding what they had
destroyed. France and Belgium likewise
will want German labor in sizable
amounts.
The official view is that the standard of
living inside post-war Germany may be
so low that several million Germans will
desire to emigrate permanently and that
the millions sent to Russia or France will
be glad of the opportunity to do the work
demanded of them.
Influencing the planners is a determi-
nation to render Germany incapable of
rebuilding even the nucleus of a war in-
dustry for 25 to 50 years. To effect that
determination, the planners decided that
it is necessary to turn Germany into a
nation of few industries, depending for
a meagre livelihood on the production
of food and the export of raw materials
such as coal and lumber. The decision
is that, if the Germans have industry,
even on a small scale, convertible to war,
they would turn to preparation for World
War 111 just as soon as the present Allies
tire of policing them.
Another factor influencing the planners
is a desire to build up the industries of
Britain, France, Belgium, Czechoslovakia
and Poland at the expense of German in-
dustry. It is decided that the industries
of these Allied nations can move in and
take over markets that Germany once
filled, thereby easing for them the prob-
lem of post-war employment, and assur-
ing expanded markets to fill the gap when
the market for armaments shrinks. Some
businessmen of Britain and France, in
particular, are described as convinced that
there is much to be gained by absorption
of markets in shipping, chemicals, steel
and finished goods of many kinds that
Germany filled before the war.
Population Changes.
"From “United States News.”)
The discovery is being made that
among industrial nations that can under-
take modern war very significant changes'
are likely to take place in populations.
A study made for the League of Nations
shows that the population of North-west
and Central Europe, the dominant centre
of world power in the past, will be very
much on the decline, while the popula-
tion of Russia will be decidedly on the
increase.
A breakdown of this study shows the
following vital trends in man-power:
Russia entered the war with 30,100,000
men from 15 to 34 years of age—
the best fighting-age group. By 1970 Rus-
sia’s force of potential fighters will reach
43.300.000 men. This forecast does not
take into account Russian losses in this
war, but all signs point to a quick re-
covery from this setback in population.
In addition, Russian industrial expansion
is expected to speed up in the next genera-
tion.
Great Britain, which had 7,600,000
fighting men in 1940, will have only
5.700.000 by 1970 unless current trends
in population are reversed. This explains
the present concern in the British Isles
over the birthrate, and the official inquiry
into methods of increasing the number of
births. The Beveridge “cradle-to-the-
grave” security plan has a bearing on
population problems.
France had 6,000,000 men from 15 to
34 in 1940, but will have only 4,800,000
in 1970 if present trends continue.
Chances are that France’s fighting popu-
lation may be even smaller because of
the retarded birthrate and losses in this
war. Thus by 1970 France is likely to
become the weakest military Power in
Western Europe, and not much larger
from a man-power standpoint than
Rumania or Spain. French attempts to
reverse or even hg.lt this population trend
are not very promising. The birthrate
in France has dropped steadily since 1820.
Germany had 11,300,000 men of fight-
ing age when active warfare began in
1940. In another 25 years this number
will drop to 9,900,000 men if present Ger-
man boundaries are maintained. That
still would leave Germany with the largest
potential military force in Europe —
almost the equal of France and England
together—located in a country that also
has the most advanced industry on the
Continent.
This population factor is having an
important influence on post-war plans for
the Germans. In part, it explains Russia’s
desire to transfer millions of German
workers for post-war reconstruction in
other countries. It reveals a fundamental
reason why Germany’s neighbors want
to absorb slices of German industrial
resources. Finally, it shows why a per-
Can spent and tired men from
prison camps and labor camps cope
with the tasks that face France ?
How will exhausted people—and all
the people emerging from this con-
flict are exhausted-deal with the
immense labor of reconstruction ?
It cannot be emphasised too often
that the first problems the peace-
makers and international organisers
have to meet are problems like
these, elemental human problems.
Tired leaders have to take a tired
world and give it bread, safety,
belief in justice and hope in the
future. If they cannot satisfy these
hungers the military solutions and
political solutions will be vain, for
Governments will be unable to
govern except by force and repres-
sion. Poland, Holland, Belgium,
Italy, Yugoslavia, Greece, are not
abstractions to be discussed by
three men around a table. They
are not committees to be invited
or not invited to San Francisco.
They are aggregations of hungry,
suffering, frightened human beings.
— N.Y. ‘'Times” columnist Anne
O’Hare McCormick.
manent anti-German alliance in Europe is
sought.
Italy had 7,400,000 potential fighters
when the war began and will have the
same number in 1970. That will give Italy
a distinct man-power advantage over
France in 25 years, but Italian industrial
resources appear insufficient to rival
French industry. Chances are that if
given an opportunity millions of Italians
would emigrate in the next 25 years.
Poland would increase her male popu-
lation of military age from 6,100,000 in
1940 to 6,300,000 in 1970 if her boun-
daries were not changed and her war
losses discounted. The Poles, however,
have suffered heavy losses in this war.
and after the war can look forward to
losses of territory. On the other hand,
Poland now is being promised valuable
industrial areas once held by Germany,,
Post-war arrangements may result in in-
creasing the actual military power of the
Poles.
The United States, like the countries
of Western Europe, is reaching the end
of her population growth. In 1940 U.S.
had 20,100,000 men of military age.
Twenty-five years from'now the military
population is expected to be 21,600,000.
That forecast is based upon population
trends as they are seen today, and
assumes that U.S. laws barring immi-
gration will remain on the books. It
indicates that the U.S. military power
will be greater in 25 years from now in
relation to Europe, but relatively smaller
than Russia’s future strength.
World population trends thus promise
Russia an increasingly powerful voice in
future world affairs. The Russian people
are expected to total 251,000,000 by 1970,
compared with 174,000,000 in 1940, The
population of North-western and Central
Europe, on the other hand, is expected to
decline from 234,000,000 in 1940 to
225.000. in 1970. Russians, who were
40.000. fewer than industrial Euro-
peans in 1940, will outnumber them by


mmm
i A
ai^ussii
«^vw/y
<S*S
Wm&*i
>
AUSTRALIAN MR WATS
Six Thd
*&dX
•w
Al nw
ws
is o
»o 0
£2 millions
o# your taxes each
THE FIRST CHEQUE, £796,523, represents the
profit received during the last financial year
(1943-44) by the Government from the 3d. sur-
charge on Air Mails carried by the various Aus-
tralian Airline Companies.
THE SECOND CHEQUE, £1,250,000, represents
the conservative estimate of amounts paid each
year by these Companies in Registration Fees,
Primage and Customs Duties, Sales Tax, Company
Tax, Wages Taxes and Profit Taxes. Some ex-
perts place the figure at £2,000,000.
IF THE GOVERNMENT NATIONALISES AIR-
LINES this revenue will be lost and it will have to
make good the losses by additional taxes. And
to this increased burden of two million pounds
placed on the shoulders of wage earners will be
added the losses that follow every Government
experiment in transport.
Register Your Protest Now
Released by
AIRLINE OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT
50 Market Street, Melbourne
<1
a
FAC
TORI E S
WATER CONSERVATION
TIMBER. HOMES
5 H IPPINGC 11 TRAP I N Q
F A
ELECTRIC
TY
R.M I
NG
AUSTRALIA
and your Life Assurance
Y’ OUR Life Assurance policy is of vital Importance
to your Country, as it is to your wife and children.
It represents a valuable part of your contribution
to the Nation’s strength, and to its wealth and
capital. The Life Assurance Offices could not have
lent £110,000,000 to the Nation for War purposes
but for the premiums paid to them for safe invest-
ment by you and 3,000,000 other Australians.
They could not have lent £150,000,000 to Municipalities,
Electricity Undertakings, Manufacturers, Graziers, Ship-
owners and Home-builders, to develop Australia, if your
premiums had not helped to provide the money that was thus
turned into capital.
While your Life Assurance has protected you and your
family, it has directly benefited every man, woman and child
in Australia.
You can be proud of your Life Assurance. The more you
have of it the more you protect your family and your country
from financial stress and storm.
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
25,000,000 in 1970. The area includes
Great Britain, Ireland, France, Germany.
Switzerland, Belgium, Holland, Sweden.
Norway, Denmark, Czechoslovakia, Aus-
tria and Hungary—the most advanced
nations in Europe.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
.Tf 16 war m the air is now hurting Japan
Dddjy. We do not need to see the confidential
reconnaissance photographs of devastated target
ureas to know this. What Japan tells the
world about its own response to the recent
heavy attacks is evidence enough. When a
nation orders the evacuation of all but essential
war workers and defenders from its five largest
cities (cities with populations totalling well
over 14,000,000), closes down its schools and
colleges except for children under seven, and
oy decree of the Emperor empowers the
rrenner to sit in with the Imperial General
Matt an unprecedented measure—that nation
is worried. Christian Science Monitor,"
* * * *
Most of Japanese industry is on a small
scale. Nearly two-thirds of the workers toil
in establishments employing not more than five
persons. The typical factory is one in which the
employees are all relatives of the owner. These
little shops, while highly decentralised in one
sense; are concentrated as to area, because only
15 per cent, of the land in Japan is flat and
thus suitable sites for industrial purposes are
limited. For this reason an incendiary attack
on the heart of such a city as Osaka is likely
to destroy hundreds—possibly thousands—of
little plants doing war work for the Japanese
military machine. — N. Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Shall our forces make a strike for the China
coast perhaps in the area of a large port?
Or shall our forces head straight for the
Japanese homeland? The first alternative in-
volves a long campaign; the second a bloody
one. Iwo Jima proved that on their own
islands the Japs will fight even more fanatically
than elsewhere. But if our leaders decide to
pay the price, one school of thought here be-
heves this is the quickest way to win-r-quickest
by years, perhaps. The choice must be made
soon.— Scripps-H award Washington staff.
* * * *
“You can gauge the intensity and the vast-
ness of this war from a fact revealed by General
Marshall. In two months’ time alone, General
Marshall reported, U.S. sent more supplies to
the European Theatre of Operations than were
sent during all of World War I. And this
leaves out of account all sent by U.S. during
the same period to the Pacific and, through
lend-lease, to Allies.”— U.S, Secretary of the
Treasury Henry Morgenthau.
* * H:
In Europe virtually every ancient hatred has
been revived with new intensity. Frenchman
Italian, Russian, Pole, Czech, Serb, Greek,
Belgian, Netherlander, Rumanian—each in his
own way hates the German with a personal
frenzy. But worse, and not to be ignored, is
that hatred, renewed by the present war, of
Greek for Bulgar, Serb for Croat, Rumanian
tor Hungarian, Frenchman for Italian, Pole for
Russian. And worst of all is the fratricidal
hatred of Greek for Greek, Frenchman for
Frenchman, Serb for Serb and Pole for Pole,
based on differing social and political concep-
tions fostered and encouraged by chaos and
unleashed by the war —N.Y. “Times” 'corre-
spondent in Europe.
**- * *
Poland has suffered more than 10,000,000
civilian and military casualties during the war,
including more than 5,000,000 civilians killed
by the Germans and 662,000 who were de-
ported by the Russians and are still unaccounted
Polish Government-in-exile in London
official statement.
* * * *
The destruction, which reconnaissance photos,
show to be virtually total, of more than 16
square miles of Tokyo was a historic event.
Actually, according to some informed '■air
observers, it was the first time in the history
of air war that a conflagration of this scope
has been started ; no previous single incendiary
attack, they point out, ever has caused such
awesome, complete damage to a similarly large
area of a city.— Washington correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Both military and political experts have pre-
dicted that the Japanese would make their last
stand in an inner citadel made up of North
China, Manchuria, Korea and the islands of
Japan. There are strong indications that the
enemy has in progress now preparations to this
end, the latest being reports from China that
Japanese civilians and industrial facilities are
being moved northward from Shanghai and
other coastal cities. The move comes none too
soon, from the Japanese point of view, as sea
communications between Japan and North
China already are under attack. The position
of the Japanese in their inner citadel would
be exceedingly strong were it not for the devas-
tating weight of American air power. There
is no doubt the Japanese feared they might
have to contend with a blockade before the war
was over, but it seems improbable that they
foresaw that any aerial force could be thrown
against their indusnial areas as strong as the
American sky armadas now taking catastrophe
to one city after another. Despite these aerial
attacks, however, the Japanese may be tenaci-
ously clinging to a hope that they can hold out
for several years. If they could it would
mean no more than slow and painful suicide,
the only advantage to them being in the faint
possibility that their destruction might be inter-
rupted by a negotiated peace.— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
“Controls under the pretext of war or its
aftermath which are in fact designed to favor
the accomplishment of totalitarian systems, how-
ever innocently designed, whatever guise they
take, whatever liveries they wear, whatever
slogans they mouth, are a fraud which should be
mercilessly exposed.”— Churchill.
* * * *
Mr. Churchill, in his speech on the Yalta
Conference, admitted he had hoped that the war
in Europe would have been over by last
October. The hope must have been substan-
tial, for both Britain and America proceeded
to plan the progress of the Japanese war on this
basis. Supplies and troop reinforcements to-
ward the Pacific were stepped up so that “a
peak period,” to use Churchill’s words, of
Allied attack in the Pacific began in March of
this year. We know now that the calculations
made for autumn were wrong, that the dispersal
effort to the Pacific was just enough to disable
the European army and keep it on a level
insufficient to launch a decisive assault once the
Germans had had time to recuperate and to take
in the Allied propaganda and threats which
helped so much to stiffen the German will to
fight during the crucial period of last autumn.
—London correspondent "Free World.”
* * * *
The latest types of weapons—the robot bomb,
the rocket, the jet-propelled airplane—are, for-
tunately, coming into extensive use only as this
war draws to a close. If the collective intelli-
gence of mankind is unequal to the task of
preventing another war, these weapons and
others even more terrible will be used in per-
fected form at the outset, perhaps with in-
stantly decisive effect. In earlier times those
who were the strongest in mere muscular
strength were the ones who profited from the
anarchic lack of collective The stu-
pendous scientific developments of the last 100
years have now been brought to the point where
it is entirely conceivable that an anaemic pro-
fessor in an underground chamber may reach
over and touch a button and kill a thousand
men a thousand miles away.— George Fielding
Eliot; “Foreign Affairs.”
* * * *
France expects German reparations to com-
pensate her for a large part of the war damages
that she has suffered—estimated at the equiva-
lent of more than $40,000,000,000—it was
officially announced after a Cabinet meeting.
The Cabinet’s statement added that the com-
pensation that individual Frenchman might re-
ceive for destroyed property would depend to a
large extent on the “terms of the peace treaty
fixing the amount of reparations in kind to be
imposed on Germany.” It is pointed out
that, in addition to reparations that Ger-
many might be required to make, she owed
France the equivalent of $3,200,000,000 under
Vichy’s clearing agreements with Germany. The
total demands upon Germany are likely, how-
ever, to be so staggering when the international
reparations commission meets in Moscow that,
in the opinion of French officials, it will be
necessary to deal with Germany as with a
bankrupt firm. Since all the creditors cannot
possibly be satisfied, each nation will have to
accept a pro rata payment of part of its war
damages.— N.Y. “Times” Paris correspondent.
* * * *
Initial aims of the British Government, as
s< h forth by the Ministry of Reconstruction,
of which Lord Woolton is head, are t'o pro-
vide a separate dwelling for every family that
desires one—estimated at 750,000—and to
assure rapid progress in the slum-clearance
activities that were well under way before the
war began. To remove houses already con-
demned as unfit and to abate overcrowding,
estimates indicate that 500,000 houses will be
required.— London correspondent N.Y. "Times.”
The decks of U.S.S. Midway— heaviest,
strongest, fastest carrier ever built — will be covered
with a “1945 model aircraft” so new it has not
yet seen combat action. This was disclosed by
Artemus L. Gates, Assistant Secretary of the
Navy For Air, in a speech at the christening
of the 45,000-ton Midway. Mr. Gates gave
no hint of what the new ’plane can do. But
he predicted the 1945 model carrier and ’plane
will not be a “pleasant combination to be con-
templated by the Japanese war lords.” The
Midway, which will mount guns up to five
inches, is the first of five 45,000 tonners now
building or authorised. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * # *
Last November three States —Arkansas, Cali-
fornia and Florida —voted on proposed State
Constitutional amendments which were called
“right to work” amendments and which were
aimed at outlawing labor union membership
as a qualification for employment in any job.
The amendments were adopted in Arkansas and
Morton Downey, writing from
London : “When a Downey takes
his hat off to the British that’s
something. {And it’s praying I am
that my old Irish father reads not
these words.) My hat is off to the
British. And I mean especially the
little man and woman, the civilian
population, who cheerfully weath-
ered their sixth winter of war.
Cheerfully, and with the same grim
faith in ultimate victory that was
there when Churchill called on
them to fight to the death on the
beaches when the Nazi invasion
was expected. That’s the way they
would have fought.”—Syndicated
in America.
Florida, and lost in California. We are in-
formed that the servicemen’s votes on the
Florida and California proposals were rather
heavily in favor of the amendments. This
news bears out what you hear from virtually all
our war areas: that majority opinion in the ser-
vices is" pretty hostile to organised labor at
home, and grows more so every time some
strike affecting the war effort gets into the news.
— “Collier’s.”
* * * *
Out of the dark past now fading in a brighter
light the British Admiralty reveals some shock-
ing figures of an attack by a German task
force on one of our convoys bound round
the North Cape for Russia in July, 1942. The
raiders were headed by the battleship Tirpitz,
now lying boficom up in Tromsoe Fjord, and
the heavy cruiser Admiral Hipper. U-boats
and torpedo-planes accompanied the attack.
They sank 20 out of 35 of our supply ships.
— N.Y. “Times.”


CERTAIN DEATH
fd
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
Cva*pcaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
iZZ£.t 7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
>u—:\, lt t
3 ivrl:!:
\
il
ana
aao
BUSINESS TAKES A HOLIDAY
at the
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON
NEW ZEALAND
Where perfect cuisine ... luxurious appointments ... unobtrusive
service... and a warm -friendly atmosphere bring ease and relax-
ation from the tension of wartime travel.
RADIO, CABLE AND TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS s “SANGEORGE”
SG.I
FOR QUALITY!
RA
:
r
thirty years of experience in the
manufacture of Fur Hats in Australia is one
of the reasons why AKUBRAS are so popular
with men who care . . smartness of style and
long-wearing qualities, so essential at the
present time, also assist in maintaining the
demand for these value-for-coupon Hals,
K Y 0 MR BEST IN AN fI.K II BRA
n
w
€
.J
. ■
& y
a—
/
f
r>T
£<*
»*.. * M ~'«
7^
2S^l
AUSTRALIA’S TOUGHEST
PROVING GROUND . . .
Another owner, now congratulating himself on his
original choice of Ford, is a N.S.W. District Engineer,
operating from Broken Hill. His car, a 1938 Ford
VB, covered 85,000 miles without major overhaul, on
cross country tracks in the desert and semi desert areas
bounded by the Darling River and the N.S.W. and
Queensland borders .. . country described by the owner
as the “worst possible” for car travel. Performances
like this will guide the choice of many motor users
when Ford vehicles are again available.
FORD V-8 CARS, TRUCKS AND UTILITIES . . . MERCURY CARS
PREFECT 10 H.F. CARS AND UTILITIES . . . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
tm
F47-20C
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
SERVICE DEPARTM ENT.
Wants.
To buy The Navy in Action by “Taffrail.” —
3635.
To buy Shaw’s play “Man of Destiny, or
the volume “Plays, Pleasant and Unpleasant.”—
3636.
To buy J. R. Kinghorn’s Snakes of Aus-
tralia.—3637.
Information Sought.
Is it practicable to convert a wood-burning
stationary steam-engine to oil-burning?
Technically, yes, but it might prove an ex-
pensive job. Type of boiler, its age, condition
and working pressure affect the problem, also
relative cost of wood fuel and proposed oil
fuel. In most cases it would be better economy
to instal a new oil-burning boiler.
Is neck, belly and shoulder wool included in
the fleece of a sheep ?
The fleece portion comprises the back and
surrounding area after the fleece has been
skirted. It does not include the belly. Pro-
portion of fleece to skirtings varies at dis-
cretion of classer. In some cases the neck
portion may be removed or lightly skirted,
the bulk of it remaining with the fleece. Shoul-
der wool, with the exception of trimmings
from the forelegs, invariably remains part of the
fleece; it is the best wool.
What is the origin of the expression “the
real McCoy,” meaning the genuine article?
Many derivations have been suggested. A
popular theory is that when Kid McCoy was
world’s champion welterweight (1896-97) he
was stopped in the street by a drunk who, not
knowing the pug.’s identity and refusing to be-
lieve it when told, was determined to fight him.
When McCoy’s fists had convinced him, the
victim picked himself up saying “That’s the
real McCoy!”
How are points awarded in Sydney premier-
ship cricket club and championship matches?
Outright win, 10; win on first innings, 7;
loss on first innings, 1; outright loss, 0; de-
feated outright after leading on first innings,
7; tie on played-out match, 5; tie on first’
innings when match is not played out, 4; draw
(including matches in which no play takes place
owing to rain), 4. The club championship is
determined by multiplying the points secured
by each team by five in the first grade, three
in the second grade, and two in the third grade.
These points are then converted into percent-
ages, and the club obtaining the highest per-
centage of points is awarded the champion-
ship. In the event of two or more clubs being
equal in percentages points positions are de-
cided on averages.
Treatment for fowls affected by round
worms? How can infestation be prevented?
Dose with carbon tetrachloride at the rate
of 0.75m1. per lb. of body weight, with a maxi-
mum dose of 2ml. A chicken fib. in weight
should receive about fml., a 21b. pullet 1.5m1.
and an adult bird 2ml. Immediately after
dosing, place birds on wire netting so that
worms voided may be collected from the
floor. To prevent infestation, spell yards for
a portion of each year (if possible) and place
chickens on new ground or ground which has
not been used for some months. If there is
not enough space for this, remove the top inch
of soil from runs and replace with fresh soil.
Do not feed chickens with green stuff from a
patch treated with fresh fowl manure. Avoid
damp, shady areas in runs, as these retain
worm eggs and larvae for long periods. Arrange
food and water troughs so that contents will
not be contaminated by droppings. More de-
tailed information may be obtained from the
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture, Box 36a,
G.P.0., Sydney.
Brief Answers.
Ainslie: Send name and address J.R.M.:
Hydrated calcium sulphate would be a satis-
factory calcium supplement for pigs, and a
ration with \ p.c. salt and If p.c. calc sulph.
would prove suitable W.T.: The music only
was written by O’Hagen C.E.C.: Hand
catching is the only effective way to rid fish
ponds of frogs without harming the fish
Query: A pastoralist is assessable as a “prim-
ary producer” and is taxable on his income
for a particular year at a rate determined by
his average income over a period of five year®.
. ...K.M.N.: The Philippines were ceded to
the United States by the Treaty of Paris in
1898, following the Spanish-American war.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
8.L.: Dialect unconvincing _ and conclusion
trite S.E.S.: You need to clarify and sim-
plify thought and expression A.S.: Under-
world tale topical but thin A.E.H.: Precious.
J.H.L.: It has the merit of being the first
poem on the death of Hitler H.E.R.: Nearly.
G.W.: “It’s heigh-ho and a dilly-oh.” And
it’s far too blooming frilly-0h.,. : If it
were as amusing as the covering letter...'.
W.G.W.: Try it on the girl N.S.: A drought
poem would have to be a miracle T.G.W.:
Not badly done; but vague and literary....
G.M.F.: Usual remarks on pleasures of the
droving profession J. 1.: Picture what you’ve
observed and avoid vague ruminations about
the universe G.R.H.: Idea might make a
cartoon for a daily R.W.: Why do you call
her “you” in one line and “thee” in the next?
, ...F.M.R.: You will never reform the world
while you are content to rhyme “lathe” with
“grave” and “minds” with “times” J.E'.A.:
A tiny and repetitive trilling... .J.E.S.: Polish
and come again... .F.W.K.: Slight....A.P.G.:
Possessive mother overdone... .M.W.S.R.:
Might make a par J.W.: Condense and try
a woman’s paper... .R.H.H.: Labored....
C.W.8.: Come again M.D.: Pleasant but
slight D.M.: Reads like a social column.
H.H.: Lacks atmosphere R.L.: Con-
clusions too sweeping... J. 8.5.: The Duke’s
braces won’t stand the strain... .M.C.: The
memories are literary as well as geographical.
G.A.D.: Anyhow, you’re the first bard to
live under a mango-tree.


df
Have You Made
a Wi
Sometimes there is hesitation in making a
will because it is regarded as a final and
irrevocable step. But a will may be altered
or changed completely any number of times
during the life of its maker.
In all cases it is advisable to engage the ser-
vices of a solicitor, and, in appointing
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Ltd. as Executor, you avail yourself
of the services of Australia’s oldest trustee
company. It has more than 66 years*
practical experience in estate administration.
An explanatory booklet is available upon
application.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. O. Stewart)
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
J
tie*
m
NEW
REDUCED
PRICE
7/6
V
GOLDEN
Pl<itH*num
FOUNTAIN PENS
MADE JH JENfetAJtJD
ait
fl FINE HOltl
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
lit
T n 7
'Phone BW 1561 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Howard Smith, Ltd.
/ Dividends
Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. 6 p.c. 2* p.c. serves, serves.
1934.. 73,979 15,000 50,000 8,979 317,809
1935.. 84,570 15,000 50,000 19,570 337,379
3J p.c.
1936.. 97,649 15,000 75,000 7,649 345,028
From contingency reserve, £10,000.. 355,028
5 p.c.
1937.. 146,073 15,000 100,000 31,073 386,101
1938.. 141,821 15,000 100,000 26,821 412,922
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.*
r H.S. Divs. To Re-
Dcc., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 181,160 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 66,160 1,228,546
1940.. 132,554 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 116,000 17,554 1,246,100
Taxation written back, £9OOO .. 1,255,100
1941.. 106,073 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 11,073 1,266,173
Added reserve subsidiaries, £10,976 1,277,149
1942.. 120,006 6 p.c. 4 p.c. 95,000 25,006 1,302,155
Added reserve subsidiaries, £22,572 1,324,727
1943.. 131,130 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 16,130 1,340,857
Added reserve subsidiaries, £9,806 1,350,663
1944.. 128,709 6 p.c. 5 p.c. 115,000 13,709 1,364,372
* Deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and reserves.
The investor in Howard Smith, Ltd.,
which is mainly a holding concern, buys
a widespread equity in Australian indus-
try. At the end of 1944 £3,226,028 of the
co.’s £3,822,542 of assets was invested in
subsidiaries (£2,011,085), other cos.
(£939,443) and Government securities,
etc. (£275,500). The balance represented
the parent’s own freehold, etc, (£187,908),
book debts (£286,519) and sundry assets
(£122,087).
Shareholdings include;
Howard
Subscribed Smith’s
Capital. Holding.
Australian Steamships £1,850,002 £1,849,997
Australian Sugar .. 207,915 155,704
rwiHo,..-.*, 1 464,295 pref. 325,034 pref.
Caledonian Collieries 1,023,599 ord. 869,539 ord.
Invincible Colliery .. 104,000 65,791
B.H.P. .. ~ 13,862,054 354,180
Southern Port Cement 1 210,004 pref. 96,809 pref.
s>outnern ±-ort. uemera | 639,885 ord. 250,001 ord.
Southern Blue Metal.. 248,000 50,000
A. Goninan & Co. . . 179,262 85,559
J. & A. Brown .. 1,900,007 38,400
First four on the list are subsidiaries,
whose figures are combined with those
of the parent in the tables.
The shipping offshoot, which used to
contribute handsomely to the pool, hasn’t
paid a div. for the last four years. The
fleet has been taken over by the Govern-
ment ; vessels not required by the Navy
come under the Shipping Control Board,
the owners continuing to act as managers.
The trouble is that charter rates don’t
cover the increased costs of maintenance
and upkeep (which have more than
doubled since 1939), plus depreciation.
Thus the co. has been unable to make
adequate provision for post-war replace-
ment of obsolete tonnage, or tonnage lost
through accident or war causes. Last
year two major units of the fleet met with
mishaps. One has been repaired, but the
other is idle, and has been for some
time, owing to pressure on dock
accommodation, aggravated by strikes
and hold-ups. Negotiations between ship-
owners and the Government for adjust-
ment of charter rates have dragged for
so long that chairman A. Howard-Smith
has been constrained to declare:
It is becoming clearer every day that
the Government is little concerned with,
the prejudicial effect which its attitude will
have on the post-war position of the Aus-
tralian shipping industry It would ap-
pear that we will have to adopt other
means to obtain an equitable return.
Any policy which tends to destroy capital
by denying the owners of it means to
provide for its replacement must impair
the efficiency of enterprise, and, there-
fore, weaken the mainspring of progress
and all the national benefits that go with
it. Another ugly aspect of the position is
the high and increasing level of costs,
full effects of which will not be felt until
our war, or war-minded, economy can be
replaced by a less “controlled” and more
balanced state of affairs. This costs ques-
tion contains the seeds of much post-war
industrial and other trouble.
Similar remarks apply also to the dis-
traught coal trade, in which reduction of
output per miner, absenteeism and strikes
have all increased following extension of
Government controls. The Caledonian
co. has shown its ords. an empty basket
since 1928, and the prefs. got only half
a meal for the four years to’ the end of
1942, and nothing since. Invincible’s last
distribution was 1{- p.c. for 1942. B.H.P.
paid 5 p.c. over the last three years; the
cement co. lifted its div. from 3 p.c. to
3F p.c. for 1944. Figures for the sugar
and last three cos. on the list aren’t broad-
cast. The holding in the metal co. has
been entirely written out of Howard
Smith’s books.
After deducting equity of outsiders and
providing £56,824 (down £23,976) for
taxation and £85,894 (down £32,019) for
depreciation, net earnings of H.S. and
subsidiaries were £2421 lighter at £128,709
last term. That was enough to pay the
prefs. their £15,000 and show 5.6 p.c. on
the £2,000,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 5.8, 5.2, 4.5, 5.8 and 8.3 p.c. back
to 1939. The div. was kept at 5 p.c. In
addition, £9806 was added to reserves
(now £611,650), representing excess value
of net assets of subsidiaries over book
value of the holdings in the parent’s
accounts.
Here are combined balance-sheet
figures:
Howard Smith and Subsidiaries.
1939. 1943. 1944.
Pref. capital .. £250,000 £250,000 £250,000
Ord. capital .. 2,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000
Outside capital* .. 450,451 445,987 445,513
Deposits .. .. 42,355 12,065 13,371
Sundry creditors . . 187,366 337,397 345,911
Workers’ compensation 39,435 40,293 40,843
Tax provision .. 74,576 131,780 108,308
Freeholds and lease-
holds .. .. 468,320 440,538 436,997
Steamers, collieries,
plant, etc. .. 2,062,926 1,818,600 1,779,876
Shares other cos. ~. 1,026,319 1,025,296 1,001,712
Stocks, etc. . . 140,672 204,707 177,738
Debtors . . . . 168,746 455,052 418,628
Public securities
and cash, etc. .. 469,496 694,446 808,392
* Including proportion of reserves.
The tendency of activities of the group
to ease a little last year is reflected in
shrinkage in all assets except public secu-
rities and cash, etc. (up £113,946). The
more or less liquid surplus (£1,898,032)
was £40,066 stronger than at the previous
balance.
McDowells, Ltd. (Sydney)
To
r— >-—Dividends N Re- Re-
Feb., Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935 .. 30,193 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 25,027 5,166 131,802
Share premiums, £12,556 .. .. 144,358
1936 . . 34,276 8 p.c. 10 p.c. 26,082 8,194 152,552
1937 .. 34,940 8 „ 10 „ 30,000 4,940 157,492
1938 .. 42,265 8 „ 10 „ 30,072 12,193 169,685
1939 .. 53,104 8 „ 12* „ 37,390 15,714 185,399
1940 .. 53,788 8 „ 12* „ 37,391 16,397 201,796
1941 .. 58,286 8 „ 15 „ 44,70913,677 215,873
Staff fund inaugurated, £lO,OOO.
1942 .. 41,423 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 37,390 4,033 219,406
1943 ~ 44,101 8 „ 12* „ 37,391 6,710 226,116
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1944 .. 47,642 8 p.c. 12* p.c. 37,391 10,261 236,367
To staff fund, £lO,OOO.
1945 ~ 59,237 8 p.c. 15 p.c. 44,709 14,528 250,895
There was a “substantial increase in
turnover” and “careful supervision of ex-
penditure has produced a notable in-
crease in net profits despite a further
contraction in gross profit margins.” The
year’s gross earnings showed little change
(£343,527, up £500). The improvement
of £11,595 in the net result (£59,237) was
due mostly to a reduction of £lO,OOO in
allowance for taxation (£70,000). Trad-
ing exes, and the allowance for depre-
ciation (together £214,290) were only
£1095 lighter. After paying the small
pref, div. (£800), enough profit remained
to show 19.9 p.c. on the £292,726 of ord.
capital, compared with 16, 14.7, 13.8,
19.6, 18.1 and 17.8 p.c. back to 1939.
The div. was kept at 10 p.c., but the
bonus that went with it was lifted from
6d. to Is. per share, making 15 p.c. in all.
The average distribution over the last
decade was 12i p.c., a very creditable
performance considering the changes and
difficulties brought about by war-time
controls and restrictions. *
Clothes and drapery rationing, the
price ceiling and a host of other restraints
have stifled free competition and service,
as they existed pre-war, as well as re-
pressed advertising and other expenditure.
The effect upon aggregate turnover of a
number of Sydney retailers is seen in the
next table, which shows the percentage
change in sales compared with the cor-
responding period of the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
f - ... A
Sept. Bee. Mar. June. Year.
1939- . + 2.6 + 5.6 + 3.2 + 6.3 + 4.5
1940- + 7.5 + 7.8 + 10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 + 9.4 +11.5 2.4 + 8.0
1942- 6.0 —19.3 —lB.B 6.0 —12.0
1943- —19.3 1.6 + 1.3 1.8 5.7
1944- + 6.6 + 7.4
With the easing of war demands a few
more goods for civilian consumption
come on to the market during the last
half of 1944. As controls are relaxed,
and as the seller’s market developed under
war conditions gives place to a buyer's
markbt again, competition can be expec-
ted to get more of an edge on it, and
exes, will become increasingly difficult to
restrain. Turnover, however, should
benefit from deferred buying for a while,
at any rate. Judged on its history over
the last 20 years, and especially recent
performances, there are good reasons to
suppose that McDowells will continue
to give a satisfactory account of itself.
Service is the keynote of modern re-
tailing, and further developments in this
direction can be looked for after the war.
The real services rendered to customers
are broadly (1) convenient location of the
store, (2) comfort and facilities in shop-
ping, which means a bright store and
attractive displays, and (3) variety and
quality in merchandise, equity of prices
and extensive advertising. As buying
agent for the section of the community
he serves, the retailer’s success, or other-
wise, depends largely upon whether he
buys the right type of goods at the right
time and at the right price. Among other
things this involves a close study of family
budgets and the caprices of fashion.
Here are the co.’s balance-sheet figures:
1940. 1942., 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £802,726 £302,726 £302,726 £302,726
Mortgages .. 75,000 50,000 50,000 •
Overdraft .. 54,670 19,667 18,002 7,631
Sundry creditors 37,109 75,498 88,645 81,603
Tax reserve.. 41,614 111,496 160,011 176,475
Freeholds, fit-
tings, invest-
ments, etc... 390,945 406,385 452,601 413,667
Stocks.. .. 165,154 -211,261 251,67.7 262,324
Book debts .. 81,490 83,544 72,837 70,168
Cash, etc. . . 6,777 9,052 10,587 11,940
Shares subsid. 90,903 90,903 90,903 00,903
To carry an extra £10,647 of stock and
wipe out a mortgage of £50,000, freehold,
etc. —the etcetera is an unspecified
amount of investments, mainly Govern-
ment securities —were reduced by £38,934
last term. The year’s apparent improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£169,626) was £60,790.
Permewan Wright, Ltd.
To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935 .. 9,053 5 p.C. = 6,250 2803 74,633
To staff fund, £933 .. ~ 73,700
1936 .. 13,542 6 p.c. = 7,500 6042 79,742
To staff fund, £9Bl .. .. 78,761
1937 . . 18,064 8 p.c. = 10,000 8064 86,825
Share premiums, £lO,OOO .. 96,825
1938 . . 22,380 10 p.c. *= 15,000 7380 104,205
Share premiums, £5OOO .. .. 109,205
1939 ~. 24,719 10 p.c. = 19,438 5281 114,486
Permewan, Wright and Subsidiary.
1940 .. 2,734 2 p.c. = 4,000 113,208
1941 .. 22,717 8 „ „ 16,000 6717 119,925
To staff fund, £1403 .. .. 118,522
1942 .. 16,252 7 p.c. = 14,000 2252 120,774
Taxes charged to reserves, £2OOO .. 118,774
1943 . . 16,392 6* p.c. = 13,000 3392 122,166
1944 .. 17,617 7 „ „ 14,009 3617 125,783
1945 .. 31,179 9 „ „ 18,000 ]
To doubtful debts re- j- 10,790 136,573
serve, £2,389 .. J
Last term the businesses of P. Forbes,
Bunyip (Vic.), and Dalton and Saville
Pty., Noble Park (Vic.), were welded into
this 61-year-old produce, station supply,
carrying and general agency organisation.
The co. now has 20 country branches in
Victoria and 18 in N.S.W., as well as
offices in the two capital cities. And,
with an eye to post-war development, the
board proposes to continue its policy of


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort mala
support for everyman’t
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W
Cost Accountancy
THINK of the thousands of factories
that have sprung up during the
war —they will have to turn to
peace-time production of much needed
commodities after the war, and this
means that thousands of trained Cost
Accountants will be required to
ascertain the exact cost of Production.
Cost Accountants are even now required
by the hundreds in Government
Departments, and they will be increas-
ingly needed after the war.
Think, therefore, of the opportunities
that open up for the ambitious young
Australian who studies, trains and
qualifier NOW. At present there are
27,000 factories in Australia and less
than 600 qualified Cost Accountants.
The NEW H. & R. Course in Cost
Accountancy and Factory Organization
will not only quickly enable you to
pass the Examinations (some students
already qualified in Accountancy have
done so in from 3-5 MONTHS), but
it will also train you thoroughly in
Costing principles and practice. This
H. & R. Training will enable you to
secure and hold any position of Cost
Accountant.
Why not call, write or phone
in for full particulars which will
be gladly supplied.
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
ffovndsd oad Owiwd by Hwniogwoy t Sobertws Pr*, UdJ
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place. Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
Please send me FREE copy of your
96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.”
Name: Age
Address -
Caree^intojeste^iin^^^^^4/W^
PATENTS. —Have you an Idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney*
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advx.
* * * •
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Adtt.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BUY IVAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
Announcement
The Manufacturers of
* FELTEX
wish to advise the public that although
Feltex floor coverings are now being
manufactured, it is regretted that factory
production is not sufficient to meet all
demands, and intending purchasers may
have to wait for delivery of orders placed
with their furnishing store.
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
FELTEX HOUSE, 261 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
•She
Union Bank
OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET, 31 si AUGUST, 1944
LIABILITIES
7,519,154
Capital Authorised £12,000,000
Capital Issued 12,000,000
Less- Reserve liability thereon .. .. 8,000,000
Paid up 4,000,000
Reserve Fund ••• 3 ’m2’fifi7
Pinal Dividend payable January, 1945
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Currency Reserve , ••• ••: •••••• l.bim.ouo
Deposits, Bills Payable and other liabilities, including
provisions for Contingencies and Exchange
Adjustment Account ° 9,4;3 2 ! ’ii.
Notes in Circulation -i'g"
Balances due to other Banks 474 233
Acceptances, Confirmed Credits, and Engagements on
behalf of Customers 4,45*,244
NOTE: The Australian and New Zea-
land assets and liabilities are in-
cluded at the par rates of exchange
and the net difference which would
have arisen had they been converted
at the rates ruling at the date of
the Balance Sheet is covered by Cur-
rency R'eserves.
ASSETS £ £
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers f’fSo
Cheques of other Banks ■■ ■ ■• ■ ’ 49072
Balances with and due from Banks 350 (>OO
£83.049.629
Money at Call and Short Notice in London ■ . ■
Treasury Bins—Australian Government 3,450,000
1,415,000
2,370,102
11,098,495
3,022,995
402,078
4,865,000
-16,893,670
New Zealand Government
Public Securities (valued at or under Market Price) —
British Government Securities
Australian Government Securities
New Zealand Government Securities
Local and Semi-Government Securities
Tax Reserve Certificates—British Government 100,000
Special War-Time Deposit with Commonwealth Bank of
Australia 16,139,000
Balance of Remittances and Drafts in transit and Bills
Receivable at London Office and Branches 3,551,075
,737,687
,176,827
617,523
61,350
,456,242
Loans. Advances and Bills discounted (after making provision
for debts Considered Bad or Doubtful) 26,
Bank Premises in Australia and New Zealand, at cost, less
amount written off
London Leasehold Premises at cost ... 142,305
Less: Reserves against same and accrued Interest 80,955
Liabilities of Customers for Acceptances. Confirmed Credits
and Engagements per contra 4
£83.049.629
JOHN H. DAVIDSON,
HUGH FLOWER
M. N. HOGG
Directors.
LONDON, 9th January, 1945.
C. E. MURCH. Manager.
S. P. GARDNER, Accountant.
AUSTRALASIAN ESTABLISHMENT *
General Manager for Australia: A. E. B. GOODE. Head Office In
Australia: MELBOURNE. Manager at Sydney (Cnr. Pitt and Hunter
Streets, Sydney); W. H. THOMAS.
purchasing suitable business in other
country centres in both States as oppor-
tunity offers.
Combined turnover of the parent and
its subsidiary—P.W. Pty. (paid capital
£5000), formed in 1935 to handle the
wholesale side of some of the parent’s
business —doubled last term, passing the
£2,000,000 mark, which was a record.
The long drought in Victoria and the
N. S. Wales Riverina exhausted sheep-
and cattle-growers’ reserves of fodder,
and hand-feeding had to be resorted to,
with consequent heavy demand for pro-
duce. And with all lines of fodder in
short supply the co. was unable to meet
in full all the demands made upon it.
There was also a large increase in mer-
chandise sales.
The year’s spring in combined gross
earnings of parent and subsidiary
(£226,690) was £51,239. Including
£29,720 (up £12,720) set aside for the
tax-gatherer and £11,660 (up £1916) for
depreciation, exes. (£197,733) took £37,563
of the increase. Allowing for £2222
dropped from somewhere into the insur-
ance reserve (£50,621), the net result was
£13,562 stronger at £31,179, equal to 15.5
p.c. on capital, as against 8.8, 8.2, 8.1
and 11.3 p.c. back to 1940. A 2 p.c.
bonus was sent out with the 7 p.c. div.,
making 9 p.c, in all, and £2389 was
whisked away to the reserve for doubtful
debts, leaving £10,790 to add to the visible
lay-by, making it £136,573, or approx.
13s. Bd. per pound of paid capital.
Considering the difficulties in the way
of outback war-time trading, including
shortage of man-power, petrol and tyre
rationing and rail restrictions, the co.
hasn’t done badly. Over the last half-
dozen years divs. have averaged 6.6 p.c.
and £23,362 has been added to reserves.
For the six immediate pre-war years divs,
averaged 7.1 p.c.
Last term’s brisker trading is further
reflected in the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures:
,—Perm. 'P.W. & Sen.— N
1940. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £200,000 £200,000 £200,000 £200,000
Liabilities .. 215,719 143,948 152,911 210,939
Taxation prov. 6,080 16,462 31,306 35,651
Property & plant 137,183 125,586 120,348 123,442
Book debts .. 230,671 151,925 159,082 246,896
Merchandise .. 141,479 179,990 195,825 200,702
Shares other cos. 11,899 4,800 4,800 4,800
t Cash, etc. .. 18,755 30,701 43,574 22,092
The growth of £3094 in properties and
plant was due to purchase of the busi-
nesses already referred to. To meet this
outlay, carry an extra £87,814 of book
debts and add £4877 to merchandise
stocks, the co. leant upon outsiders for
a further £58,028. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£227,900)
was £14,464,
Since the close of accounts the drought
in western Victoria and the Riverina has
broken, though mostly too late to ensure
a satisfactory growth of winter feed.
The two not-very-extensive mica de-
posits recently discovered in Queensland
—one on the Einasleigh River about 40
miles nor’-east of Forsayth, and the
other on Branch Creek some 10 miles
south of the same township—aren’t
likely to amount to anything worth men-
tioning as commercial propositions. For
the most part the stuff occurs in small
4in. to Sin. books up to l|in. in thick-
ness, and much of it is feathery, of poor
quality and of the herring-bone type,
which is worthless.
* * * *
Wattle Gully Gold Mines, Chewton
(Vic.), netted £7031 for the last half of
1944, compared with a profit of £7771
for the first half. Two dividends, each
of 6d. per share (total £9000), were paid.
Mine development was well advanced
when war broke out, which means that
ore-breaking had not to be abandoned in
favor of development. Production is fairly
constant at about 300 oz. gold per four-
weekly period, average grade being
slightly more than 7dwt. per ton. Enough
pay-ore has been proved to keep the mill
fully employed for the next 4\ years.
When man-power and materials become
available development of No. 2 lease will
be pushed ahead.
« * * *
Sons of Gwalia’s f.p. 10s. shares have
advanced from 21s. to 275. in the London
market since the beginning of the year.
The rise is attributed to improved’appear-
ance of the two bottom levels (Nos. 30
and 31), and to better man-power out-
look, Estimated ore reserves at end
1944 put the mine about five years ahead
of the mill at full production. The
average grade was 5.8 dwt. gold a ton.
* * * *
Westralian Minister for Mines Panton
is enthusiastic about the future of
Ravensthorpe copper-gold field between
Albany and Esperance. After a flying
visit he says there is plenty of wealth
there, but the trouble has been to profit-
ably extract it. However, during the past
two years Kalgoorlie School of Mines has
done a lot of research work, and if re-
sults from a Government-financed pilot-
treatment plant now in course of erection
prove successful, and reports are that
everything points that way, an 80 p.c.
extraction of copper and gold will be
obtained. This, the Minister adds, would
mean re-opening old mines whose sul-
phide lodes are numerous and spread over
a large area. It is estimated that ore
and residues on the surface are enough
to keep the plant running for a couple of
years.
* * * *
“O.B.”: A statement about ore treat-
ment troubles at Blue Spec (W.A.) is
impatiently awaited at Perth. A share-
holder on the Spot says that only
10 p.c, of the gold in the ore crushed has
been recovered, the remainder being in
the tailings and antimonial concentrates,
mostly in the former. Co. claims, he
adds, that as the result of metallurgical
improvement it can extract 80 p.c. of
the wealth in the tailings, but can’t treat
the concentrates, which it is unable to
sell to the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, which has a six-figure 4 p.c.
mortgage ort the property. In certain
Government mining circles hopes are
entertained that Blue Spec will develop
into something really big.
* * * *
At the annual meeting of the Westralian
Chamber of Mines the other day presi-
dent F. G. Brinsden said operations
were, and still are, hampered by short-
age of labor, and that stores remained
expensive and difficult to get. Outback-
mine-owners were at their wits’ end to
retain sufficient labor to carry on, and
efficient maintenance of power and treat-
ment plants had produced many mana-
gerial headaches, owing to shortage of
spare parts and, in some cases, inability
to obtain replacement units. Statistics
compiled by the Chamber show that
1,777,128 tons of 5.31 dwt. ore were
treated in the West last year for 472,5880 z.
fine gold. After deducting Common-
wealth tax, average price received for
bullion was £9 15s. an oz. Dividends
paid totalled £814,715, wages £4,151,736.
Principal producers were Lake View and
Star 90,9900 z., Great Boulder 64,8780 z.,
Wiluna 39,0280 z., Central Norseman
29,6750 z., North Kalgurli 27,4420 z., Gold
Mines of Kalgoorlie 22,9690 z., Sons of
Gwalia 22,6570 z., Boulder Perseverance
20,3980 z., South Kalgurli 15,6030 z.,
Paringa 15,4460 z., Comet (one of de
Bernales group) 13,1250 z., Moonlight
Wiluna 12,0190 z. Ore produced by
Boulder Perseverance, htarth Kalgurli
and South Kalgurli was treated by Kal-
gurli Ore Treatment Co.’s mill on the
Boulder Perseverance mine.


\
ill firm basis for future business
There will be something symbolic in the extensive
post-war use of Steel Tubes for office furniture and
equipment. Even now, many far-sighted manufac-
turers in widely divergent fields are drawing up post-
war plans that incorporate Steel Tubes in place of
older, less satisfactory materials. Until victory is
won, however, warship boiler tubes
and other important munitions have
preference at British Tube Mills
(dust.) Pty. Ltd., Kilburn, S.A.
R 6i Me.
B65
f AVM n?
•OtSOJVd
»
m
The name “CAL-TEX” came into
being with the discovery of huge
oil resources in the British Protec-
torate of Bahrein (Persian Gulf) by
the CALifornia-TEXas Oil Company*
Texaco, a world-wide oil Company
which has served Australia for
many years had large marketing
and distributing facilities.
So . . by consolidation of the huge
resources of the two companies, the
name “CAL-TEX” was born and
it became possible to develop the
new and strategic source of supply
WHICH HAS PROVED SO VALU-
ABLE TO AUSTRALIA DURING
THE WAR YEARS.
The management and policies of
the Company remain unaltered.
You get the same friendly service,
unsurpassed quality and nation-
wide distribution you have enjoyed
for many years. From now on ask
for “CAL-TEX.”
THE PICK OF THE WORLD’S FINEST OIL SUPPLIES
Business, Rollery, Ete.
“Full Employment”
A maximum of employment is obvi-
ously part of the platform of any poli-
tical party which hopes to win or retain
office and conduct the affairs of the
country to the best general advantage.
But there is all the difference in the world
between an objective of maximum em-
ployment through wise use of economic
resources and “full employment” that is
to be achieved simply by legislative
action and the giving of work for work’s
sake, regardless of the value of the work
paid for or. the likelihood of sustained
conditions of healthy employment.
We have seen during this war that full
employment, or the capacity of the coun-
try to provide full employment, has been
followed by a desire on the part of a
section of trade-unionism to avoid full
employment. There have been many
strikes and much loafing, as well as the
payment of wages out of all proportion
to work done. White-collar workers
(outside some Government departments)
and many trade-unionists have worked
harder during this war than they have
ever had to work before; but this is no
denial of the fact that an irresponsible
section of trade-unionism does not want
to do a fair thing in the way of work, its
chief concern being the collection of the
biggest possible pay envelope at the end
of the week for the expenditure of the
smallest amount of time and energy that
will pass muster.
The prospect of possible unemployment
is the only incentive that will make a
small but noisy section of Austra-
lian wage-earners do a fair day’s work.
This section has been ip the habit
of contaminating a much larger body
when any industrial friction occurs,
minorities often being truculent as well
as noisy.
Federal Cabinet, according to press
reports from Canberra, has decided that
the Government’s post-war policy must
be one of full employment—“employ-
ment must be provided for everyone
able and willing to work.” Prior to this
decision there was a belief that the Gov-
ernment was content with the idea of
“fullest possible employment.” How-
ever, trade-union pressure is said to have
prompted the Government to commit
itself to ia “positive objective of full
employment.”
The difference between (a) “fullest
possible employment” and (b a “posi-
tive objective of full employment”
appears to be that (a) means the arrange-
ment of industry, finance and marketing
so as to promote the greatest possible
production, trade, employment, financial
stability and prosperity that are commen-
surate with each other, while (6) means
a Government edict under which every
man must be given a wage envelope
every week regardless of whether he has
done any wanted, useful work or not,
whether his wages are a dead loss to the
nation or not, whether his employ-
ment is a depressing charge on living
standards and national progress or not,
or whether the whole method is going to
undermine financial stability or not.
A great deal of nonsense has been
spoken, at the Trade Union Congress and
elsewhere, about the Labor Govern-
ment’s responsibility for raising wages
and living standards and at the same
time ensuring that unemployment and
depression are kept from Australia.
A Government so bankrupt of finan-
cial acumen, political ethics and indus-
trial planning could hardly ensure the
nation anything. It has chased votes at
huge cost and strain to the national
finances, it has given in repeatedly to
irresponsible elements which are striking
at the nation’s production and legal and
financial stability, and it has been
mothering a nasty-looking inflationary
chicken that is only awaiting an oppor-
tunty to expand into a large-sized bird.
The Government, urged on by the very
elements which are now howling for
freedom from depressions and unem-
ployment, has committed many, many of
the obvious sins which bring on those
economic ailments.
There will be no stability of industry
or employment in Australia so long as
Labor remains unrepentant for its war-
time excesses. It will have to learn to
work conscientiously for its pay, to give
service to the nation, and to obey the
law. Many wage-earners do this already,
but the organised militants have the big-
gest say and the greatest influence.
A great factor in national prosperity
is production per head. High per-capita
production increases internal living stand-
ards as well as overseas trade.
At the present time the Government
has no work for many unionists, and
some of its departments are using pres-
sure on private industry to keep men on
in worked-out jobs. There is much waste
of man-power and money in this sort of
thing, and the whole nation 'suffers.
Knight Harry Brown months ago com-
mented upon the lack of plans even for
“public works” ; but at the Trade Union
Congress Mr. Dedman is reported to
have said that the war in Europe ended
three months earlier than the Allied High
Command had expected—“the Australian
Government had based its planning on
the information of the High Command,
and was consequently today three
months behind schedule.” Mr. Dedman
underestimates the period by which his
Government is behind the times. This
sad lack of planning and lack of Govern-
ment co-operation with private industry
is indicative of the Government’s inability
to ensure full, useful and efficient em-
ployment of the population.
In order to achieve best results in em-
ployment there needs to be a productive
policy based on ascertained home and
export markets, a financial policy that
directs credit towards those productive
ends while upholding confidence in in-
vestments and the currency, and an in-
dustrial policy based upon fair rewards
for fair effort, with premiums for enter-
prise and efficiency. It is of no substan-
tial use to spend or lend money with the
object of employing men in unwanted
production, while men who do not pull
their weight in their jobs often become
a danger to all industrial stability.
The Institute of Public Affairs (Vic-
toria), while placing an onus upon Gov-
ernments and the Commonwealth Bank,
through budgetary and public-works poli-
cies, to regulate “the total volume of in-
vestment with the object of keeping it
both steady and large enough to keep
the nation’s physical resources fully em-
ployed,” insists upon the pre-eminence
of private enterprise as an employment-
giver. In a publication issued last year
the I.P.A. declared:
In regulating the volume of capital invest-
ment the State, apart from national pro-
jects which must be considered indispen-
sable, should give priority to investment by
private institutions, and should provide the
conditions which will give the maximum en-
couragement to such investment. Public-
works programmes should be primarily de-
signed to offset fluctuations in private in-
vestment.
It is a matter of hard, practical fact that
the greater part of a nation’s diversified
factory output is lowest in cost and most
up to date when produced by private
enterprise. Detailed planning and con-
trol of such activities should not be left
to Governments even where big employ-
ment considerations are involved. Public
works, which are usually within the scope
of Government planning, should be
arranged to help support and expand the
legitimate activities of private enterprise.
Financial arrangements and employment
policy should be made to dovetail with
the national programme of industrial
activity.
Australian war expenditure to April 30
totalled £2038 million; of that, £1357
million was met by borrowing and £6Bl
million by taxation. The Treasury-bill
debt within Australia was £363 million
on April 30, a reduction of £25 million
compared with a month earlier. Pro-
ceeds of the Third Victory Loan helped
in this movement, while income-tax col-
lections were particularly high during
April—£22 million, compared with £15.4
million in March, and a monthly average
of £13.8 million since the beginning of
the financial year. During May and June
even heavier collections of income tax
are scheduled. In April the cost of de-
fence was £39 million.
* * * *
The A.C.T.U., one of the most irre-
sponsible major factors in the Australian
economy, is to consider a proposal to
request the Federal Government to amend
the Arbitration Act to provide that no
new unions may be registered by the
Court without the approval of the
A.C.T.U. Another amendment sought is
to the effect that a registered union,
with the approval of the A.C.T.U., may
order the de-registration of another, union.
An A.C.T.U. monopoly of the whole in-
dustrial front, as it were.
* * * *
Australia’s housing shortage will, after
the war, place a heavy strain on our re-
sources of suitably skilled labor. It will
not be good enough simply to allow dilu-
tion of the building trades with adult un-
skilled labor; many more apprentices
will need to be trained, and union rules
will have to be relaxed to permit this, or
else new unions which are less “restric-
tive” and self-contained should be brought
into existence. Many unions have been
swamped by unskilled labor during the
war, and the real artisans have suffered.
It may be necessary, in the interests of
maintaining standards of skill, to upset
the trade-union dictatorships that have
sprung up in recent years.
* * * ♦
Whatever commitments Britain may
have in the war against Japan, there is
no doubt that the physical disruption to
British industry by actual warfare has
been greatly reduced by the capitulation
of Germany. Bombing of any kind is
now past, and shipping facilities should
be very much easier and more economi-
cal. There will also be a substantial re-
lease of man-power from the various ser-
vices. A prompt indication of the chang-
ing circumstances was the release of a
petrol quota to civilians higher than that
prevailing in Australia, though for years
British private motorists have been with-
out petrol. Factory production in Britain
should by now be turning more to civil
goods, and some may reach Australia
before long. But relief to European coun-
tries is going to take a percentage of
every country’s production in the early
post-war years, and Britain itself will have
a huge local market to satisfy. A long-
term view of trade, however, will make
many British manufacturers seek an ex-
port market long before home require-
ments are fully met.


m
wm
m
WSBSS
SSS
CHARTS
Circular Charts to* all types of
Recording Instruments lor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
| METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Got our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, O LD.
STOP™* Rupture
Wcmes'^^H
df
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27). 9 Martin Place. Syuiiey.
n
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
Rimm Tndine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
DON’T NEGLECT
A Common Case of Piles. It may
Lead to Serious Results.
When, people, generally, understand that all
such fatal diseases as Fistula, Ulcer of the
Rectum, Fissure, etc., almost invariably begin
in a simple case of Piles, they will learn the
wisdom of taking prompt treatment for the
first appearance of this trouble. DOAN’S
OINTMENT is unequalled for every form of
Piles —Bleeding, Itching, Protruding, and Blind
Piles, and hundreds of lives have been saved by
using this cheap but effective remedy right from
the start, because at such times a single tin has
often effected a cure, while in the old deep-
seated, chronic cases several tins are some-
times necessary.
DOAN’S OINTMENT is healing, antiseptic
and soothing. That is why it is equally suc-
cessful in overcoming Eczema and other skin
complaint's. But be sure you get DOAN’S,
PLAN NOW TO
I
Carry out
Post-war
Farm
r-9?
/■s
$
Repairs
/S 0# rS
ym
| LAN NOW to carry out post-war'
rebuilding and repairs in steel-'
'strong Lysaghfs Galvanized Iron, Unequal-
led for oil form constructional work because
of its gieat tensile strength, low cost, and
exceptionally long Gfe. it is particularly
valuable where water conservation and fire
protection ' are important factors. ■,
Deliveries when Victory has been J
won will be adequate for
all requirements and in
standard lengths from 6fi to
12ft. and in both 8 and 10
three-inch corrugation widths.
"m
QUICKER
CHEAPER
hf ***l .
MW m ;
THERE IS NOTHING
AS STRONG AS
(JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
ONE T - MELBOURNE'- BRISBANE •' AD E L ATO E •’ PERTH'
2960-4.45
m
m
o£hHu(4
44 4 Three-threes’ always please—the secret’s
in the 333’s blend.” Because so many
smokers prefer “Three-threes,” shortages
sometimes occur under wartime conditions
of reduced output.
But keep asking for State Express “333”
from your usual supplier.
T ke & crtt s /* tkt /
STATE EXPRESS
“THREE-THREES” CIGARETTES
Vs.
it's your fight—7OUß money is needed iVOfT.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps .
More Union Demands
The Trade Union Congress in Mel-
bourne appears to have been full of de-
mands on the national purse as well as
for the bending of the arbitration system
to ensure a win for the unions at every
toss of the penny.
A request for the reduction of taxation
on overtime was opposed by the Acting
Prime Minister and Treasurer, Mr. Chif-
ley, who said that a graduated scale
should apply to all income, whether it
included overtime or not. Mr. Chifley
told the congress that the profits of big
business had been heavily taxed, and
pointed to the comparative stability of
the Australian economy as justification
of the Government’s taxation policy.
Though not in every way justifiable,
particularly in respect of industry’s earn-
ings, the heavy taxation of Australian
income-earners during the war has been
unavoidable so long as Government ex-
penditure remained high. The alterna-
tive has been inflation of a gross kind.
We have had enough inflation with taxa-
tion as it is to indicate the dangers of a
less stringent financial policy.
In any case, it is the investment and
working-asset side of industry that needs
taxation relief, not so much the wage-
earning and spending side. There is
plenty of spending-money in spite of
taxation.
If the T.U.C. wants lighter taxation it
had better concentrate on questions of
wasteful Government spending and on
badly-conceived social welfare schemes
that depend for their financing upon
taxation revenue. While there is excessive
spending there is bound to be excessive
taxation. But the unions, as a rule, are
all for more and more Government ex-
penditure that will put money into the
pockets of their members. They want
benefits without having to pay for them
or work for them. This attitude is be-
coming an old A.L.P. custom.
At the T.U.C. delegates pressed for
the restriction of the powers of arbitra-
tion-court Judges and recommended
round-table conferences of interested par-
ties in place of judicial proceedings. The
fixing of the basic wage by legislation
(as in the case of old-age pensions) in-
stead of by arbitration courts was de-
manded, as well as a “liberalising” of
the wage-pegging regulations. In general,
the attitude of many delegates was that
they wanted an abandonment of indus-
trial law and economic order so that
unionists could put more into their own
pockets.
Having got as much as they appear
to be able to get out of the arbitration
system in present national economic cir-
cumstances, there is a desire to throw
arbitration to the dogs in favor of col-
lective bargaining. Comrade Ernie Thoi n-
ton, just returned from abroad, has been
an apostle of collective bargaining. W. A.
Holman in 1900 spoke of arbitration as
a means “to substitute the methods of
reason, arbitration,, commonsense and
judgment for the methods of brute
force.” Political pressure is now to be
the substitute for arbitration if militant
unions are to have their way.
The basic wage today is certainly based
on cost-of-living figures that are, in
several respects, inapplicable to present
circumstances. But the arbitration courts
are not to blame for any such anomalies,
the statistics being compiled by a Gov-
ernment department. War-time shortages
are mostly responsible for wage-earners
having to buy dearer substitutes for com-
modities included in the cost-of-living in-
dex that are not actually available.
In any case, the majority of unionists
are getting considerably more than the
basic wage, especially where overtime is
worked. Some are so affluent that they
indulge in strikes on the most frivolous
of excuses. Many of their militant repre-
sentatives really take the view that wage-
earners should not pay for any part of
the war, and that, on the other hand,
they should be allowed to make money
out of the war-time shortage of man-
power. If there is any reasoning at all
behind their demands they obviously
overlook the fact that trade-unionists and
those in their income class collect
approximately three-quarters of all the
income earned in the Commonwealth.
The more that is taken away from “the
boss” and put into the hands of wage-
earners the greater becomes the liability
of wage-earners to contribute to the
growing cost of government.
Labor has obviously yet to learn that
greater authority and a greater share in
the national income mean greater poli-
tical and economic responsibility. In
Melbourne we have seen much evidence
of trade-unionism gone mad.
In the latest financial year turnover of
General Motors-Holden’s fell from £11.9
million to £10.4 million. The board
points out that this is the result of declin-
ing war production, and stresses the need
for early conversion to other output so
as to maintain employment. Examples
like this show how foolish it is
to leave control and restriction of
production so largely to Government
departments. The Government should
ascertain the broad lines most suit-
able for full employment and then
set out to assist private enterprise
accordingly. During the war the Gov-
ernment has attempted to run almost
everything, and has tried to achieve poli-
tical results as well as industrial. It has
neglected practical post-war planning
based on Government co-operation with
private enterprise, giving entirely unne-
cessary attention to socialistic schemes
instead. As a result, its plans for recon-
version to peace-time production appear
to be actually years behind schedule.
Socialistic planning has been a danger-
ous waste of time. The proposed inter-
ference with the board of the Common-
wealth Bank is one of the most mis-
chievous proposals still standing in the
way of a return to confident industrial
and financial planning.
# * * *
The Tariff Board reports that nearly
three million gallons of wine have been
withdrawn from bond and have not been
sold within the quotas allotted to wine
merchants. This applies to the two years
to March 31, 1944. It does not appear
that merchants’ stocks out of bond have
increased by the amount of the discrep-
ancy, but there is to be further investiga-
tion of this aspect. There is a suggestion
that some part of the three million gal-
lons has gone on to the black market.
* * * *
Australia is one of the few democracies
in the world which have Government-
owned railways. It is one of the fewer
countries which have found it necessary
to burden and* restrict competitive trans-
port systems in order to save its rail-
ways from bankruptcy. Restriction of
motor and similar transport in order to
save Government railways has slowed
the wheels of industry generally in a
country which, to achieve its economic
ideals and maintain a White Australia
policy, must encourage speedier, cheaper
and more efficient production and services.
Yet the Federal Government, with this
lesson of State-owned railways staring
it in the face, proposes to nationalise the
banks. Heavens above, is there any com-
monsense or sincerity in this Labor
Ministry?


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Operations continue to
move steadily ahead in New Guinea and
Bougainville, and the Tarakan campaign
has been carried on overwhelmingly and
expeditiously. It has been brought to its
decisive stages within 16 days, in spite of
the limitations which nature imposed on
positions commanding vital tfacks and
approaches. Against some dominating hill
strongpoints it was possible for men to
move only two at a time in the final
stages.
Accounts of the Tarakan battle have
been full of stories of the nature of the
power applied. Admiral Barbey denied
that he had criticised the equipment, and
Lieut.-General Morshead says that “the
heavy equipment used is the same as used
by the Americans, and the quantity not
less than is used by them in an operation
of the same size”; also, that “no Aus-
traliati force was ever so well equipped as
this force.”
Reports of Tarakan proceedings were
punctuated with heart-warming stories of
naval, ground and air support from the
guns and of the complete battering down
of positions in difficult approaches. But
there appears to be no such copiousness
either in Wewak or in Bougainville. There
Lieut.-General Savige, G.0.C., of the
Second Corps, was reported by Army
Minister Fraser to have said that never
before had he been in command of troops
so well equipped for modem jungle war-
fare.
But nothing was said of naval or over-
whelming artillery support when real
battle areas were reached. Descriptions
of the fighting on Bougainville, where in
six months the Australians are said to
have killed 4000 out of 18,000 Japanese,
indicate desperate counter-attacks, in
which Australian positions are sur-
rounded or nearly surrounded by scream-
ing mobs of the enemy. The situation
on Bougainville is in strong contrast to
that on Tarakan, where there seems
throughout to have been a comfortable
Australian superiority in everything.
Bonis Cut Off
The forces on Bougainville have now
been revealed as elements of the Third
and Eleventh Divisions, under the com-
mand of Major-General Bridgeford.
The Bonis Peninsula, at the northern
end of the island, has been cut off by the
push of the Australians to the east coast.
But the enemy’s concentration in the
peninsula still has to be dealt with and
prevented from escaping across the strait
to Buka.
In the south the fight still rages along
the Hongorai. Here the enemy throws
in at intervals ferocious counter-attacks
which it ’takes desperate efforts to ward
off. It has not yet been possible to
break through to the east coast and form
a perimeter across the north of the Buin
area from sea to sea. Nor has any force
succeeded in breaking in strength through
the centre of the island by the Numa-
Numa trail, along the 30 miles crowfly
distance to the coast, opposite Torokina.
For so narrow an island, Bougainville
has a tremendous backbone which rises
up to 7000 feet and which presents the
enemy with almost impregnable defence
positions. The Jap still holds two-thirds
of Bougainville and progress against him
is in terms of hundreds of yards, some-
times only of yards, per week.
At the week-end fighting had flared up
on the Numa-Numa trail. It seemed
that the enemy might fear a new effort
to cut the island in halves and to be
fiercely preventing the A.M.F. from in-
creasing its foothold on the hill slopes.
The Squeeze on Wewak
In the Wewak area the advance was
faster. The operation in progress there
might be thus described: Two A.I.F.
forces from the Sixth Division were, with
great effort, closing a pair of sliding
doors behind Wewak to imprison the
Japs within it. Other forces were stand-
ing outside the doors trying to prevent
escape by the Wewak garrison while the
doors were still open. Closed in, the
Wewak Japs would be wiped out by the
squeeze.
By May 15 Wewak airfield had been
overrun and Wewak Harbor was under
control. Two forces held bits of the
“big road,” which runs inland south-
wards into the Prince Alexander Ranges
—they lie south of the coast and between
the Torricellis and the Sepik River.
One of these detachments had had to
deal with heavy m.-g. fire in the razor-
backs of Sauri. The other had cut the
road between Wirui Mission and Sauri
after a very unpleasant waist-deep wade
through mangrove swamps. Far inland
at Maprik fighting was savage, if piece-
meal. The Japanese were giving up no
position until they reached annihilation
point. But there was promise of a
brighter future in that an airstrip had
been completed which would make it
possible for transport aircraft to land in
the district.
The same tenacity was being shown
throughout the week in the flank
approaches to Wewak east and west. The
enemy was prepared to defend every
ridge and height. And every track
seemed to be under the control of skil-
fully-placed m.-gs., often in sites which
were assailable only over exposed
ground. At some stages electrically-
controlled minefields were encountered.
Two small naval ships bombarded
islands off Wewak,
On May 20 the converging forces were
about 3j miles apart. The force landed
10 miles to the east had taken the remains
of Brandi plantation, and was absorbing
the steep beach which marks the approach
to Cape Moem, whose rugged headland
promised to figure as the last-stand posi-
tion of the enemy.
The second force from the west had
made ground quickly after taking Wirui
Mission. Its spearhead was beyond Cape
Boram and well on the way to Boram
airfield, which presently was reached after
stiff resistance round an electrical mine-
field.
It seemed that the estimation made here
last week that the Wewak positions would
be in A.I.F. hands within a few days
would be realised, but so far the A.I.F.
has met only a proportion of the 16,000
Japs estimated by Generals Mac Arthur
and Blarney as being between Wewak and
the Damnap River and in strength in the
Maprik-Balif-Yambes areas, with patrols
at Yaramul and parties as far west as
Nunsi.
Break-through on Tarakan
By May 19 Tarakan, for all practical
purposes, was under Allied control, after
many desperate encounters, the fiercest
of which was on the crescent-shaped
Helen’s Ridge, which is about 180 ft. high,
with precipitous. sides. The slopes were
clothed in thick, scrubby cover, and the
declivity had a false crest and a saucer-
like depression near the top, like a filled-
in crater, approached only by a narrow
track. Pioneers attacked the feature on
May 12 with grenade and bayonet. They
encountered heavy m.-g., light m.-g. and
automatic fire, besides receiving the at-
tention of snipers who infested the trees
commanding the track.
Mounting casualties made a withdrawal
prudent, and another attack on the
left flank had no better luck. Next
morning a thorough naval and land bom-
bardment, helped out with bombing,
cleared the vegetation and the Japs out
of the depression and enabled the Pioneers
to climb into it. They were met by a
galling fire from new enemy posts, and
again had to retreat. There was a still
further retirement to give the guns play-
ing room.
This time the battering was more thor-
ough. Its horrors were increased by the
dropping of inflammable belly tanks
among the undergrowth. On the sixth
day of the little battle the Pioneers,
after many doses of artillery fire and
bombing had been administered, found
Helen Hill abandoned and the Japs with-
drawn again about a mile.
There was similar strong resistance on
every track leading east or north-east.
But the Japs were gradually rooted out or
battered out of existence until, at the
week-end, the good news was announced
that after 16 days Australian forces had
broken through to the east coast, cutting
the island in halves diagonally, while
Indonesian troops had been landed on the
extreme southern tip.
The A.I.F. and its allies then held two-
thirds of the island. The remaining third
is rugged country—a sort of volcanic rub-
bish heap full of hills and pimples and
patches of thick jungle. The dominating
hill feature had several times been
attacked before May 21.
The defence throughout was skilful
and thorough. The Japanese made the
most of their man-power and resources
and of the terrain, showing less disposition
to indulge in aggressive and wasteful
counter-attacks than usual. The price to
the A.I.F. is not light in proportion to
the numbers engaged. 1
The R.A.A.F, has done a very good
job in Tarakan and beyond, and came in
for special praise. But, like the remainder
of the forces, it will not feel regret when
it sees the last of Tarakan. Its airfield
only a few inches above ocean level seeps
sea and oil. Everything in the island
smells of oil and tastes of oil flavored
with the reek of cordite and T.N.T.
John Bull Gets to Work.
“Ek Dum”: A fortnight after the
capitulation of Germany British naval
shipping, unmolested, was streaming
across seas which the enemy claimed a
few months ago to control. Between the
Sakishimas and Trincomalee, British
rear-admirals are more common than in-
dividual Jap naval ships. The slow fleet
trains paddle their ways south, east and
north in imposing groups. The Nip-
onese never knows from day to day
what evidence of Royal Naval omni-
presence will turn up under his nose. He
is badly off for radio detection, and, if
his aircraft are not unusually alert, he
is apt to be caught on the hop.
One surprise packet during the Burma
operations consisted of Vice-Admiral
H. T. C. Walker’s squadron—Queen
Elizabeth, sunk, it transpires, but not
deeply enough, by one or Musso’s marion-
ette U-boats in Alexandria early in 1942 ;
the French battleship Richelieu, nearly
finished off at Dakar, but not quite;
H.M.S. Suffolk, sister of H.M.A.S.
Shropshire and heroine of some doughty
North Sea chases; H.M.S. Ceylon, a
Fiji-class cruiser; the Dutch cruiser
Tromp, well known in Australian waters,
and several new destroyers. With this
lot co-operating in the seaborne attack
on Rangoon there was no place in the
affair for the Imperial Japanese Navy.
Neither did the I.J.N. intervene when
the R.N, battered Car Nicobar —the
Andamans have now been attacked by
land-based heavies —and started beating
the Malayan coastal approaches in the
search for what seemed to be the last
heavy Japanese cruiser surviving in those
waters. On May 16, about 50 miles
w.-s.-w. of Penang, the escort carrier
Shah scouted in company with the very
modern destroyer Saumarez —a near rela-
tive of Lord Louis Mountbatten’s re-
doubtable Kelly—and four of the newer
“V” class, Venus, Virago, Vigilant and
Verulam. This sinister-looking pack
closed in on a 10,000-ton Nachi cruiser
—a powerful type carrying ten Sim guns,
eight 4.7 a.-as., two catapults, four sea-
planes and 12 above-water 21in. torpedo
tubes. The destroyers picked her up
at night, and her 33 knots were not
enough to enable her to show a clean
pair of heels.
The most she could do before the pack
made her look like a colander with
their torpedo attacks was to maul Sau-
marez a little and cause some casualties
in her.
Over by the Sakishimas Vice-Admiral
Sir Bernard Rawlings was still plastering
the island airfields at intervals and im-
proving his technique by experiment.
Jap aircraft, whether on airfields or slink-
ing in coastal caves and other natural
hideouts, were being winkled out and
disposed of in the systematic British
fashion to prevent air reinforcements
being staged into the Okinawa battle
area from concentration points in For-
mosa and Hong Kong. Latterly, it was
obvious that some Sakishima airfields were
not capable of carrying reinforcements,
even if they did arrive. But quarry had
become thin, especially after General
MacArthur’s bombers had begun to
operate consistently over Formosa fields
in collaboration with the naval harassers
of the Sakishima group.
Fourteenth Army Success
At the same time the land war in the
British zone was reaching a crisis. The
men of the Fourteenth Army, many of
them five years in the tropics, were not
far off the completion of their task of
re-conquering Burma, though very hard
last-ditch fighting lay ahead.
The campaign had been not merely
desperately hard in point of terrain,
climatic conditions and actual fighting,
but a giant laboratory test, in which fresh
techniques had been developed and
logistic methods designed for speeding up
large-scale, long-distance warfare in con-
tinental countries.
With the monsoon imminent, Japanese
forces in Burma are well split up, and a
very large percentage doomed, though
some pockets are capable of first-class
resistance.
There are three main pockets. The
most forlorn has a total strength of about
two brigades down in the swamps and
jungle between the ranges and the Akyab
coast. Another is in the triangle between
the Mandalay-Rangoon and the Ran-
goon-Prome lines. This group is round
divisional strength.
Lastly, there are about three divisions,
probably with a maximum strength of
45,000, east of the Mandalay-Rangoon
line, and bent on escaping via Moulmein,
across the Sittaung and Salween rivers,
and thence into Siam.
Allied heavy bombers already have
begun to chew up railways beyond the
Thailand border.
The country for which the enemy’s be-
draggled legions are making passes
through an evergreen forest belt into a
cultivated ricefield enclosure ballooning
out to the east from the Moulmein coast
to the edges of a considerable belt of
swamp forests.
To the south of the cultivation is more
league on league of evergreen forest, all
of it deluged with rain on a more than
New Guinea scale, with many of the
worst characteristics of Arakan, but with
a shorter dry season and a more bounti-
ful helping of pests and diseases.
Blood on Okinawa.
“Ek Dum”: Rumors spread that the
Japanese had sent out peace feelers dur-
ing the week. They were denied by Togo,
the Japanese Foreign Secretary.
Bombing of Japan, particularly of the
Tokyo and Nagoya areas, was continued
throughout the week by forces of up to
500 Superfortresses, and mining of seas
and straits around Japan was mentioned.
But mines are a nuisance rather than a
stopper in any area not small and con-
fined.
The Japs’ baka flying bombs, which are
said to travel at over 400 m.p.h. and to
differ from the German variety in that they
contain a suicide pilot, are increasing in
number. They are directed from mother
aircraft at Allied ships. Three years ago
they might have been decisive weapons.
Today they must come through a cloud
of anti-aircraft fire, and the chances are
in favor of their being blown to bits
before they reach a ship, though they may
be near enough to wreak some damage.
They naturally represent a very nasty
form of attack, and aircraft-carriers are
favorite targets. But even when they hit
an aircraft-carrier they are not likely to
damage her lethally if she has adequate
deck protection, unless they succeed in
hitting the ship’s “island” —a remarkably
small mark, even when approached
directly broadside-on, rarely possible.
The Franklin’s Story
A sad story was that of the U.S. carrier
Franklin,
Franklin, a new 27,000-ton A.C. of 1943
vintage, was one of the patrol forces
operating 60 miles off the Japanese coast.
At 7 a.m. on March 19 there were appar-
ently no Japanese aircraft within reach
of detection. The crew was not at action
stations. Suddenly an aircraft dived out
of the clouds at an angle of 30 degrees
and dropped two 5001 b, armor-piercing
bombs from 100 ft. above the deck. One
went off under the flight deck, the other
on the reserve hangar deck. The flight
deck was crowded with Corsairs, Hell-,
divers and Avengers fuelled, bombed-up
and ready for a run. The Franklin, armed
for defence with a capital 16 five-inch
high-altitude guns, went out of control,
with bombs and fuel tanks exploding over
her, while blazing petrol cascaded down
her sides.
It was three hours before the light
cruiser Santa Fe could come along-
side to take off wounded and give succor
in general, Franklin lost 341 killed, 431
missing and 300 wounded, even though,
after she had been in tow for a time by
the heavy cruiser Pittsburg, she was suffi-
ciently patched to make her way across
the Pacific for repair.
Grim Island Struggle
On Okinawa the battle is reaching a
new intensity. Naval support alone ac-
counted for 25,000 tons of ammunition
pumped into the area round Naha, the
main city and capital. Naha itself was
found smashed to pulp from end to end
when U.S. patrols entered it. Dead
bodies littered its streets. The river Asato,
north of the town, had virtually run red
before it was crossed.
The fight then shifted to Shuri, the old
capital and citadel, which lies cheek by
jowl with Naha in the narrow southern
waist of the island. Its ancient castle is
strongly built and resistant to shells, and
its environment was one vast excavated
field of bunkers and submerged posts,
from which fire was hosed against the
closely-packed U.S. forces. Even ances-
tral tombs were turned into forts.
Meanwhile, after the advance patrols
had been in the flattened remains ot
Naha, of which nothing seemed to be lett
but rubble, for five hours, U.S. detach-
ments in force entered the town. At
once Japs came from everywhere, like
ants out of a heap, especially on Sugar-
loaf Hill, which stands a few hundred
yards north of Naha and between the


Missing Friends.
TO WILLIAM ALFRED MURRAY formerly of Wak-
ool Avenue Mentone in the State of Victoria Clerk
but now of parts unknown TAKE NOTICE that
your wife ETHYL GRACE MURRAY has instituted
proceedings for a Divorce on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an Appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at
Melbourne on or before the Fifteenth day of June
1945 the case may proceed in your absence IF you
intend to defend the suit you must also file an
Answer in the said Office on or before the Twenty-
fifth day of June 1945 AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy Petition and copy
Citation in the suit may be inspected at the office of
JOAN ROSANOVE 415 Bourke Street Melbourne in
the State of Victoria Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM BRUCE MAYNB (also known as Wil-
liam Moore or William Miller). —TAKE NOTICE that
LAURABEL RUBY FRANCES MAYNE has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1749 of 1944 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Eighth day of July
next and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from WILSON & CLAPIN Solicitors 14 Martin
Place Sydney.-— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO EDGAR FRANCIS RICHARD WALLIS formerly
of Ashfield N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE that DOROTHY
MARGARET JESSIE ELLEN WALLIS has filed a
Petition in the Supreme Court of New South Wales
(No. 1318 of 1945) praying for a Divorce on the
grounds of your desertion without just cause or ex-
cuse for three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance by the 2nd July 1945 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from MESSRS. A. R.
BALDWIN & CO. Solicitors of 33-39 Hunter Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
d
town and Shuri, and which had been
overrun after nine desperate assaults.
The hill which dominates Naha now
proved to be honeycombed like the
mounds of Hit on the Euphrates,
and even more thickly and lethally in-
habited. Every American who stuck his
nose above rubble level inside Naha was a
clear target for somebody on the Sugar-
loaf. The hill and two other adjacent
features were secured and cleared only
after dreadful slaughter on both sides.
The Americans at the week-end were
still pushing reinforcements ashore, and
their position was improving, especially
since they now had the backing of land-
based fighter and rocket aircraft, operat-
ing for the first time from a coral air-
strip on the island.
The battle, however, is far from fin-
ished. Shuri, with its thick castle walls,
is a tough nut to crack, and the southern
part of the island is rough and suscep-
tible to an intense defence if the Japanese
have anything to defend it with.
To May 21 there was no slackening
in the ferocity of their resistance. It
would be easy to imagine what kind of a
showing they would have made if their
supporting airfields in the south in the
Sakishima group, on which they had
counted, had not been neutralised by the
R.N. with methodical efficiency and small
loss. Over the week-end Shuri was sur-
rounded.
The enemy has made considerable
efforts to prevent the Americans from
reinforcing their formations on Okinawa.
Japanese-controlled radio along the
China coast alleged that on May 17 a
battleship, a cruiser and several smaller
U.S. craft were sunk off the Okinawa
coast during a naval engagement,
but the Americans apparently had
not heard the bad news up to the week-
end. The Japanese have persistently re-
ported that a fresh U.S. task force is at
sea bent on new landings but suffering
huge losses inflicted by aircraft.
The enemy is still well supplied. His
contribution to the Okinawa artillery
duel is on a major scale, American esti-
mates place his dead at 48,000 to May
15. U.S. casualties. Army and Marines :
killed and missing 4332, wounded 18,258 ;
Navy: killed and missing 3978, wounded
3958.
Chinese Take Foochow
The Chinese Sixth Army of Burma
has been flown back to its native coun-
try. Like all Chinese armies, it is round
divisional strength. It is American-
trained and -equipped and was seasoned
in the advance along the Bhamo line.
Communist reports credit it with hav-
ing constituted the force which took
Foochow. Whoever did the job has
earned Allied congratulations if the oc-
cupation is permanent. The Japs on For-
mosa have had a bad battering from Gen-
eral MacArthur’s Luzon-based aircraft,
but it is nothing to what might happen to
Formosa if the Allies held a firm base
and a good airfield at Foochow.
The nearest Allied airfield is about 350
miles from the nearest Formosan objec-
tive at present. But Foochow is only
about 160 miles from the northern part
of Formosa, 400 miles from Shanghai
and 820 miles from Kyushu, against the
1450 miles which 829 s are flying from
Saipan. There will be some fine picnics
if the Allies find themselves solidly es-
tablished in that area.
In the Philippines not much was left
to be done to complete the recapture of
Mindanao. The Americans controlled
about nine-tenths of it on May 20.
The Kiwis Visit Trieste.
“Ek Dum”: When the Second New
Zealand Division began its drive against
the Bologna main defences on April 8
it could scarcely have dreamt how far its
thrust would take it from the Senio River
into the realm of Balkan unreality.
Within a fortnight of its first vicious
thrust the division had crossed four
rivers, the last the Idice, about nine miles
north-east of Bologna on the linkage rail-
way which ties that city to the main
Adriatic railway to Venice.
After that things happened very
quickly. The force romped in a dust
cloud to the Po in columns, using what-
ever roads presented themselves, and it
now began to be clear that the enemy
was thoroughly disorganised. The 25th
Battalion, heading one column, captured
a bridge intact, rolled on quickly'and
took other bridges across a substantial
canal and the Tartaro. Within 36 hours
after the Po was, reached it had pushed on
to the Adige, about 12 miles, and was
safely ensconced on the floodbank, with
armor and guns coming up at a com-
mendable rate.
From then onward rivers and canals
flowed out behind —Padua, Venice seemed
to flash by. Only 23 days after the in-
fantry began walking behind the barrage
at the Senio the spearheads of the divi-
sion had come up with Marshal Tito’s
troops at Monfalcone. And in their time-
table it had to be remembered that, first
across the Senio, the Santerno and the Sil-
laro, they had had to fight for the initial
15 miles or so for every inch of country.
Moreover, though resistance later was
small, there were the delays incident to
town occupations, and nine major rivers
had had to be crossed, apart from endless
small streams and canals.
Bridge After Bridge
Altogether 39 Bailey bridges had to be
built in three weeks, together with three
long folding boat bridges, and six floating
ferries for tanks and heavy vehicles, be-
side numerous repairs to cratered roads
and demolished culverts. The engineers’
tasks were the harder since they had to
build up a special technique to cope with
low-level crossings over rivers to whose
naturally high banks flood stop-banks,
sometimes 30ft. high and 100 ft. thick, had
been added. These often were sternly
defended, troops establishing on one side
being attacked from only 120 ft. away on
the other.
Building material had to be man-
hauled across the first stop-bank. ’ Then
a folding boat raft must be put together,
a short Bailey launched over the raft a
few feet above the water. While this was
in progress approaches were being pre-
pared—stop-bank blasted out, negotiable
track bulldozed down the slopes to the
bridge approach. Finally would come a
first crossing by a bulldozer to dig a way
out of the nether side.
A Record Bag
There had been adventures on the way.
About 40 miles from Monfalcone at Lig-
nano, on the swampy coast near the
Aquilegia of Augustus, the Maorilanders
had come up with 6000 Germans whose
surrender was negotiated with some argu-
ment as the division roared past. In the
end they held up their hands to the 21st
Battalion, bringing the total of the Maori-
landers’ bag to 11,000, the biggest helping
of Huns to the credit of any division in
the Eighth Army. Later this was increased
to between 30,000 and 40,000. N.Z.
casualties were light.
Lastly, the travellers from N.Z. had
come racing into Monfalcone, which is
the stopper in the neck between hill and
sea through which entrance is made to
Trieste, and where the country suddenly
changes from the time-worn civilisation
of Italy into a rocky Balkan terrain, in
which the mountains of Karst seem bent
on squeezing the traveller into the
Adriatic. Here in the square flower-
decked Maoriland officers, led by Sir Ber-
nard Freyberg, were soon pump-handling
Tito’s centurions under an Italian notice
which said “Viva, Churchill,” surrounded
by a forest of portraits of Tito done in the
best Stalinist manner.
Trieste is about a dozen miles from
Monfalcone. But S.S. Guards lay along
the pass between hill and sea. All round
were a fine collection of partisans: Tito
partisans, armed with British arms and
sporting light British Honey tanks ; Italian
partisans of the communist breed respon-
sible for the unspeakable brutalities of
Milan and Turin; Mihailovich Chetniks
on the vine and olive-clad hills. It was
not explained how these Chetniks sur-
vived the opposition of Tito’s remarkable
armies, which were supposed to have dis-
posed of German forces as strong as those
which had held up the Eighth and Fifth
Armies together.
At Gorizia
Gorizia held the limelight before
Trieste. It is a charming little town, gentle
in climate, sunning itself and its Golden
Lion hotel and its shabby old castles on
the Isonzo among the hills. But to the
26th Battalion it presented a sight like
something out of Balkan opera. The air
was full of the reek of battle, picturesque
dead lay in the gutters and wounded
groaned on the pavements. And every
roof bristled with Tito partisans, armed
to the teeth with m.-g. and automatic
weapons, while the Chetniks, driven
across the river, were setting up small
Italian mountain guns in the hills, where
they could be seen clearly moving about
only a few hundred yards away.
Tito’s men were bringing in a couple
of young Chetnik prisoners who —as the
N.Z. official war correspondent reported
—were just about to be shot “as a matter
of course,” this apparently being the nor-
mal procedure of Tito’s Lambs with
Serbian prisoners. However, a captain of
the Kiwis borrowed the two forlorn cap-
tives, and, displaying them prominently
in his jeep as an evidence of his friendly
intentions, set forth for Chetnik-land with
barrels poking at him from every direc-
tion. There was some argument with a
Chetnik brigadier, who claimed that New
Zealanders had disarmed some of his
men, but an overnight truce was arranged
while the negotiators were wafted further
up the road towards Udine.
At this point they met, firstly, a car
of the Sixth Armored Division and then
Mihailovich’s local commander, General
Damonovic, who declared that he had
been sent with 12,000 men to make con-
tact with the Allies and hand over Ger-
man prisoners. He reported that another
50,000 Chetniks lay between Gorizia and
Zagreb. He agreed that there would be
no hostilities with partisans if they
did not cross the Isonzo, so the Maori-
landers rolled back to their lines among
cheering Chetnik soldiery, who seemed to
have sprung suddenly out of the earth.
Surrender and “Demands”
You come on Trieste rather suddenly,
sneaking in along the seaboard to the
fringes of its two very up-to-date harbors
—the “Franco” and that named after the
Duke of Aosta. There, on the foreshore,
is the new town, as regular and as modern
as Melbourne, though, of course, much
smaller, with the Grand Canal piercing
its heart almost to the edges of the old
town. Beyond the Via del Corso, the main
thoroughfare, the old town struggles up
a mountain to the castle where Richard
the Lion Heart was a prisoner of war,
and the cathedral by which Laval’s proto-
type, Fouche, lies. Beyond the smells of
this venerable and straggling region the
terraced hills rise amid vineyards and
olive groves. Entry into Trieste is nor-
mally quite exciting, but rarely so much
so as when the Maorilanders came bang-
ing along from the Isonzo.
For one thing, there were 700 Germans
in the heights of the Old Town with
whom Tito’s legions had not been able
to deal. These were not liquidated
till a Kiwi emissary climbed up by
torchlight and persuaded them that
the game was up. Tito’s minions
were about in force, as were all
the other variegated patriots —Italian
communists, Italian patriots, Slovene
patriots and whatnot, amid the rubble-
heaped streets through which noisy Tito
processions wended their way, claiming
Trieste for their own.
Trieste has a population at least two-
thirds Italian, though there is a much
larger population of Slovenes on the hills.
Geographically it is Italian. As Presi-
dent Wilson remarked, “Nature has
thrown a great boundary round the north
of Italy and Trieste and the province of
Istria are within it.”
Tito had no welcome for the Maori-
landers when Sir Bernard Freyberg ac-
cepted the surrender of the German gar-
rison at 2.30 p.m. on May 2. His atti-
tude from the first was rather menacing.
Tito’s troops occupied some of the old
city and part of the new. The Maori-
landers.held the flat port area.
Tito presented demands for Trieste and
the province of Istria, which seem to have
been defeated only by the threat of the
United States authorities to prevent a
seizure by force, if necessary, and by the
arrival of a British squadron large enough
to take care of any situation which might
arise. He had seized part of Austria
without British-U.S. consent—Carinthia,
from which he was forced to withdraw by
British protests and a display of force.
Darkness Spreads in Europe.
“Ek Dum”: Europe made no pretty
picture last week. The picture press was
howling for blood, and General Eisen-
hower was hurriedly'damping down on
the over-chivalrous behavior of some
officers towards captured foes. Soldiers
are always inclined to be over-generous
in these matters. Editors are not.
Every small nation in Europe east of
the Elbe had disappeared into darkness.
Poland was in prison. The Baltic States
had been enclosed in Russia, a change
the western Allies do not recognise.
In Finland it was reported that 100,000
Finns were fortifying Hango for the
Russians. Against whom?
Under agreement an inter-Allied com-
mission should have gone to Vienna to
set up a control. But there, without con-
sulting its Allies, Soviet Russia has estab-
lished its own “free” Austria, which
means Austria has disappeared into dark-
ness.
The British-U.S. divisions which were
to go to Berlin with the Allied Control
Commission were still barred out.
Most of Czechoslovakia has been
walled off in the Russian quarantine, and
its two so-called leaders, Benes and
Masaryk, have become mere echoes of
Moscow,
Meanwhile, the Red Army arrived in
Ruthenia, the most easterly part of
Czechoslovakia and, as so frequently
happens in parts of the earth which Mos-
cow feels it needs, a National Commit-
tee of Liberation sprang up like a mush-
room and begged to be taken into the
Soviet Union. tt •
A gentleman commissioned by “Presi-
dent” Benes to establish civil government
in Ruthenia arrived at this stage. He was
given three days to leave.
Near the entrance to the Baltic the
Russians had seized the island of Born-
holm, refused to allow communication
with the outside world and packed it
full of troops. Bornholm is only 25 miles
from the Swedish shore. It controls all
the entrances to the Baltic west of Den-
mark. And it is Danish territory, to
which nobody has the slightest right save
the Danes. The Russians say they will
evacuate when the Germans are all dealt
with.
Dmitrov Goes Home
To Sofia, the former Secretary of the
Comintern, Dmitrov, has returned. Bul-
garia is his homeland. He fled from it in
1923 with a price on his head. As the
Sydney “Tribune” naively puts it, “he
hardly escaped with his life in 1923 when
a despotic military Government banned
his Workers' Union.” His “Workers’
Union” had done nothing to raise the ire
of the despots save foment a bloody in-
surrection, in company with the Gen-
eral Secretary of Comintern, Kola-
row, which had cost hundreds of inno-
cent lives.
Dmitrov later went to Germany,
where he was supposed to have saved
himself from conviction on the Reich-
stag burning charge by his eloquence.
His acquittal was probably more closely
connected with the fact that he was a
very big communist fish, and that Hitler
desired to continue to use Russia as a
training ground for his officers’ corps
which he did until four years later, in
1936, when he had reached the stage of
being able to train them in Germany in
defiance of peace treaties.
Dmitrov was Secretary-General of the
Comifatem until 1942. It was his in-
structions which were followed by the
Communist party of Australia when it
declared Britain and France aggressor
nations in 1939-40 and counselled sur-
render to Hitler.
On arrival in Bulgaria he was “imme-
diately elected a member of the National
Committee of the Fatherland Front,
which is Bulgaria’s governing party.” The
significance of this can only be gauged
when it is realised that he has been an
official of the U.S.S.R. Government, and
that when eastern Poland was seized
by agreement with Germany in 1939 he
was the Russian Government’s appointee
as Governor-General,
Communists all over the world have
adopted the line that the Western Powers
must “not again isolate Russia,” which is
so thoroughly isolating itself and a large
slice of Europe as well.


VJ ?cpx.a r
frE'Nfru £V
PQ
CNO
\v
V
\
>
m
TT
/
3
/
PARDONABLE PRECAUTION
Yes, there are better places to keep your Valet razor,
but the safest place is none too good! Your Valet razor
today is an irreplaceable treasure. Irreplaceable because
no more will be made while the war lasts; and a
treasure because in these blade-short days the
stropping Valet gives you weeks of perfect shaving
from every single blade. Take every care of both
razor and strop!
For instance: Hang your strop on a hook at breast
level. When stropping, keep the handle at right
angles to the strop. Don’t let the strop sag or twist
—keep it taut and straight
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades s\d. each
Public Notices.
I, JULIUS ARAM, Stateless, born at Breslau, Get-
many, and resident five and a half years in Australia,
now residing at 14a Manning Road, Double Bay,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, KAY VIGGO MATHIASBN, of Danish nationality,
born at Copenhagen, Denmark, and resident 20 years
in Australia, now residing at 42 Alfred Street, North
Sydney, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act, 1920-1936.
" SPECIAL VALUE BOOKS AT 7/6
“ cl0 “' s ‘"
The Story of Man’s Mind. By George Hum-
phrey, a famous teacher of philosophy and
psychology.'
World History at a Glance. The whole story
of mankind. By Joseph neither.
Astronomy for Everybody. By Simon New-
comb, revised, edited, and brought up-to-
date by Robt. H. Baker, Professor of Astro-
nomy. ... ,
The Story of Science. Accurate exposition o
the four great divisions of Science, Chem-
istry and Physics, Astronomy, Geology,
Biology. By David Dietz.
Old Civilisations of the New World. T . he
of Aztecs, Toltecs, Incas, etc. By A. idyatt
Freud/ His Dream and Sex Theories. By J.
Modern o Political Philosophies and What They
Mean. Democracy, Communism, Facism,
Christian Socialism, etc. By L. Wasserman.
This Puzzling Planet. An introduction to geo-
logy. By E. T. Brewster.
2500 Jokes for all Occasions. Arranged by
Your Digestive System. An easily understood
and thoroughly illustrated guide. By L.
Wanfleld.
Fundamentals of Physiology. A clear and com-
plete outline of the human body and how it
works. By E. Tokay, Ph.D.
Your Respiratory System. A Dependable,
practical, and fully illustrated guide in-
cluding common colds, pneumonia, etc. By
H. Pomeranz, M.D. ,
1680 Health Questions Answered. By Dr. W.
W. Bauer. Fully indexed.
The Joke Tellers Joke Book. Full of laughs.
The Home Book of Party Games. By J. b.
Meyer.
The Handbook for Home Mechanics. The first-
aid manual for home equipment. By E.
O’Hare.
Modern Chemists and Their Work. An amaz-
ing story. By Christy Borth.
The Basic Teachings of the Great Philosophers.
Ideas and Thinking. By S. E. Frost.
The Home Book of Musical Appreciation. A
simply written guide to the understanding
and enjoyment of music. By H. L. Kauf-,
mann.
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Form worked out soundly enough for most
winners to be well-backed favorites or there-
abouts at Mentone on Saturday, including the
form of A. Breasley, not only Melbourne’s
leading jockey this season but probably the
best rider in Australia at the moment. There
was extra-fine horsemanship in the first of his
two wins, and he was riding another neat race
on what looked a probable third winner, The
Ritz, when that Dromana Welter favorite sud-
denly toppled over and gave him a nasty
shaking. He was lucky to get out of it with
that much, V. Hartney’s mount, Amazed,
appearing to come down over him. So far
Breasley has ridden 41 outright winners this
season.
Successful in three-year-old company on this
track on May 5, when he beat Oxford Street
and a big field of others, the Valiant Chief-
Curlis chestnut colt Valcurl gave Breasley the
first winning ride of his double, in the 10-
furlongs Berwick Handicap for three-year-olds.
Timing if nicely, Breasley moved the colt up
very fast from fifth place nearing the turn, the
topweight keeping up the run to beat Gayness
and Beautara very easily, with the favorite,
Oxford Street, unplaced. The win established
Valcurl as the best of the three-year-olds at
present racing on Melbourne tracks.
If anything, Breasley’s other winning mount,
Simmering, put up an even better performance,
though in this case it was horse more than
horsemanship that won. Seeming a class above
the opposition, the Hellespont-Geyser four-
year-old mare was weighted accordingly, carry-
ing 9.8 in the Waverley Handicap
and giving the second horse, Arduli, 2st. and
a stone to the third horse, Gala Chief. A long
way back early, Simmering had to cover a
great deal of ground in the running and sustain
a long run over about the last half-mile to
overhaul the lightly-weighted Arduli and get
there by a neck.
Every run of the two-year-olds tends to
emphasise the superiority of Royal Gem. Gay
Lad, who ran a good second (with an advant-
age in the weights) to the champion colt, sub-
sequently justified favoritism at Moonee Valley,
where the John James-Merrily filly Tilly Black
filled second place. Herself favorite in turn
on Saturday, Tilly Black had a runaway win
in the seven-furlongs Hume Juvenile Handicap.
She was merely cantering at the finish to beat
Generalissimo by four lengths, with improving
Ski-Wakee third.
Other sound form wins included Walladale’s
three-lengths defeat of Hiatus and Modereen
in the Beach Hurdle, in which the ex-Sydney
welter performer Glendower, though he finished
a long way back, went very well till one faulty
jump unbalanced him about six furlongs from
home. It was Glendower’s first run over the
jumps, and he looks sure to improve on it.
Meenan had the mount on him. Night Life
(favorite), though he also finished out of a
place, ran a promising race.
Ava, second to Night Link in the six-furlongs
Autumn Stakes, is another evidently improv-
ing; but the most promising run in this event
may have been that of Irish Myth, who did
remarkably well to get up with the leaders
after being badly away. The Law Maker four-
year-old Burma beat the somewhat unlucky
Mananalaes and Lucifer in the Dromana
Welter, and Gamelin easily accounted for
Thrust and Buzharine in the other event, the
Balnarring Handicap.
* * * *
Quality wasn’t particularly strong at the
Hawkesbury Club’s meeting at Rosehill on
Saturday, but, as often happens when that is
so, there was more than a passable ration of
keen finishes, the best of them the Manitoba-
Nightlight colt Deliverance (J. Duncan) dead-
heating with the Brazen-Credant colt Bradant
(J. Coutts) after a dingdong race over the last
furlong of the Mulgrave Handicap for two-
year-old colts and geldings. In his win at
Canterbury Deliverance appeared to make hard
going of it, but he’s evidently better and
gamer than his galloping style suggests.
Another Manitoba colt, Personality (from the
N.Z. mare Du Barry), was a handy third. A
splendid type of youngster, who took the eye
at his first appearance at Randwick, Personality
should presently be doing his share of winning.
Tithonus’s run can be safely forgotten; the
Titan colt was bumped and knocked out of the
race at the start. Even so, Tithonus did a lot
better than most of those who struck no
trouble. He should get distance later._
The Pitt Town Handicap for two-year-old
fillies produced another capital finish, Fasgold
(Mr. Standfast-Golden S), with McGrowdie up,
getting there by half a neck from the Maharaja
Gaekwar of Baroda’s Golden Sovereign-Golden
Character filly Lakshmi Vallis, with the
Brueghel-Beam filly Tribeam a close third, and
not more than a head to the Brueghel-Tinella
filly Volley. Fasgold’s win seemed to support
the view expressed here that the Ajax-Bubbles
filly Sonning should soon win races. At
Canterbury a week earlier, though neither
filled a place, Sonning came from the rear of
the field to overhaul Fasgold, who had been
well-placed throughout.
The best-class horse present, Tahmoor (D.
Munro), passed the post yawning heartily
several lengths in front of Miss Sovereign and
old John Halifax in the seven-furlongs Flying,
but there were further excellent finishes in the
main event, the 10-furlongs Hawkesbury
Handicap, in which ancient Aralys (his last win
had been a Grafton Cup in 1941) ridden by V.
Faggotter, beat Windbrook (also somewhat long
in the tooth) by a short head, with Edigram
third, and in the six-furlongs Windsor High-
weight first division, in which Jungle King (H.
Dunn; his first winner, three rides) defeated
improving St. Quentin a neck, with Carbonne
next. Also, Magic Wand (W. Cook) had only
three-quarters of a length to spare from
Chatster (like the winner, a Chatham), with
Cherry Lad in third place, in the 9-furlongs
Wilberforce Encourage. Cargeonel (V. Fag-
gotter) defeated Brazier and Strathdarr rather
more comfortably in the Highweight' second
division, winding up a day that must have made
punters wish they’d merely had an appointment
with the dentist instead —the last three winners,
Aralys, Jungle King and Cargeonel, starting
respectively at 33 to 1, 14 to 1 and 20 to 1.
* * * *
A five-year-old brown gelding by Blank (sire
of Australian Cup winner Spectre), Blanken-
burg won the Adelaide Cup on Saturday by
three lengths from King Opera, with Silurian
third. The three of them were also the place-
gett'ers in the Fisher Handicap on May 12,
when King Opera beat Blankenburg by a head.
* * * *
For Canterbury (before acceptances).—Two-
year-old: Tithonus, Sonning, Personality.
Maiden Stakes: Prince Buzzard, Right
Dinkum Aussie. Flying: Kingsdale, Silverelda,
My Wish. Lord Mayor’s Cup: Wellesley,
Goose Bay, Boomanulla. Trial: Spearex, Mar-
quis, Wansey. Welter: Cragsman, Miss Sov-
ereign, Western Monarch.
* * * *
Deputy Premier Hollway has told the Vic-
torian Assembly that in the past five years the
State Government got £1,003,029 from metro-
politan totes and the relevant racing clubs a
similar amount, and that the two amounts were
10 p.c. of tote bets. So £20,060,580 went
through the machines in the period.
Why trotting can flourish in Adelaide, al-
though run bn the same day and at the same
time as the really important racing fixtures,
can be guessed from its tote figures. One
recent Saturday the only ticket taken out on
the winning double paid (for 45.) £515 10s. 9d.
The next Saturday there were two good pickers,
and they took £269 15s. 6d. each; with enough
left over to give the two people holding the
“second leg” a consolation of a mere £67 Bs. 9d.
each.
•
Checking up on his history, an American
turf writer has discovered that the present
war is the only one that has ever managed to
stop horseracing in his country. Even while
the Revolution was being fought there were
races in Brooklyn on a course called Ascot
Heath. In the Civil War racing was not halted
in the North; in fact, it was actually while that
war was on that the noted Saratoga track was
opened. While the dust-up with Spain was
going on Tod Sloan was making his name.
An attempt to get racing stopped was made
in 1917, but a big group of army officers
issued an appropriate blast, and the racing
went on, Omar Khayyam that year winning the
Kentucky Derby, which U.S. three-year-old
classic has been contested since 1875.
♦ * * *
F. A. Farquhar, of the Westralian Cheriton
stud at Gingin, offered the mares Selsey, Aristo-
crat and Love Words some years ago, swapped
35 mated ewes for them. A foal from Love
Words brought 95gns., was named Bobby
Breen and became a good Westralian per-
former. Later a foal from one of the other
mare brought 130gns., while one from the other
was passed in. At the recent W.A. yearling
sales a filly from Love Words brought the
State record of lOOOgns., Aristocrat’s yearling
made 500gns. and Selsey’s 200gns. The Love
Words filly is by Camelhair. Nobody has
bothered to keep tab on the 35 ewes.
* * * *
They’re racing in Russia! And how? Well,
according to a Moscow dispatch by the U.S.
United Press correspondent there, it’s done on
tracks operated by an agency attached to the
Ministry of Agriculture. The horses are owned
by State farms called Sovkhozes, which
specialise in breeding. Jockeys are attached
to the same horses throughout the season and
have to look after them, with the assistance
of women and girls who do the grooming.
There’s tote betting, but you have to be pretty
fly to collect, since you have to pick first and
second in that order. The rake-off presumably
goes to the State. And how would those who
complain about standing in the queues at Aus-
tralian totes take to waiting while the bet of
every “investor” is made out in triplicate by
elderly lady tote clerks? That, according to
this report, passed by the Russian censorship,
is how they do it in Moscow.
* * * *
Like a breeze from a saner and
sweeter world was the news that Test
matches had been resumed at Lord’s.
John Curtin was moved to send the cap-
tains, Hammond and Hassett, and the
M.C.C. a congratulatory message from
his sick bed, with kind regards to
Warner. All the players are servicemen,
with the Australians having the advan-
tage in youth and nimbleness in the field.
England batted first and made 267 (Ames
57, Robertson 53, Edrich 45, Stephenson
31, Hammond 29, Washbrook 28); two
South Australians, Williams (2-56), who
got Hutton (1) and Hammond, and Ellis
(2-59) rendered most service with the
ball, though three others secured better
averages: Cheetham (3-49), Miller (1-12)
and Price (2-24). Ellis, a left-hander
from Sturt, had in the previous week
taken 8-21 for R.A.A.F. v. an Empire
XI, and all accounts agree that he is a
star. He recalls Fleetwood-Smith some-
what, but, unlike that mercurial person,
he can keep the runs down; he bowled
31 overs at Lord’s. Sismey, the wicket-
keeper, had a hand in dismissing four
batsmen, and, with Hassett, was making
a useful stand when the first day’s pro-
ceedings closed, as also did this notice:
(Workman 1, Whitington 36, Hassett 27,
Sismey 11; 2-82). Keith Miller, Stan-
ford and Pepper and three wicket-bagging
bowlers were to go in.
* * * *
It’s many a long day since the “blood-
stained angels” of South Melbourne
found themselves the main attraction on
a Melbourne football Saturday. It hap-
pened when the side met Footscray at
St Kilda, the combination of the nippy
’Scray team and the resurgence of
“Sowth” drawing over 30,000. ’Scray
had a two-point lead at the first break;
after that “Sowth” used brilliant hand-
passing and accurate stab-kicks to get the
lead and hold it, 15.9 to 12.11. Out at
Essendon the home side and Collingwood
staged a hysterical finish for Essendon’s
one-point win, 12.16-12-11. Other games;
Melbourne 18.12 y. Geelong 15.10, Rich-
mond 20.11 v. Hawthorn 15.7, North Mel-
bourne 13.14 v. Fitzroy 11.10, Carlton
12.18 v. St. Kilda 11.13. South Mel-
bourne leads with five wins, Essendon
next with four wins and a draw ; then
come Melbourne, Collingwood, Foots-
cray, North and Richmond with three
wins each.
Harry Titus, the veteran Victorian
Aussie Rules forward, kicked his thou-
sandth goal in senior football on Satur-
day. He’s playing for Coburg now in
the Association and, well fed by his
mates, kicked 13 of the side’s 25 goals
against Sandringham. *
* * ♦ *
The unconquered joint Rugby Union
leaders, Randwick and University, had
easy wins on Saturday. The ’Wicks
routed Manly 29-8 ; Uni. scored at will
to beat Gordon 32-nil. In a hard, even
game Parramatta surprised by narrowly
beating East 14-12, a last-minute try by
winger Goffage clinching it for Parra-
matta. Getting a feast of the ball from
the scrums, Drummoyne made good use
of possession to down North 15-12. A
man short for most of the second half,
St. George fought valiantly but finally
succumbed 14-9 to West’s onslaughts.
* * * *
Oldish for a boxer, but fit-looking,
Able Seaman Johnny King, of the British
Pacific Fleet, undefeated bantamweight
champion of the British Empire, hopes
to get a match in Sydney. Since Febru-
ary, 1940, Johnny has seen a lot of a
sterner type of stoush (he’s a survivor of
H.M.S Prince of Wales and escaped from
Java by the skin of his teeth), and his
pugilistic opportunities have been limited.
In 1942 he was offered 2000 dollars to
fight in Trinidad, but his ship was sailing.
Last year, however, he managed to have
four fights in England, including two with
Nel Tarleten. Honors were even; Nel
won one and Johnny the other. He keeps
in half-training by teaching the art to the
boys on his ship. Johnny started boxing
at the age of 14 in boxing booths, since
when he has won the Lonsdale Belt three
times, the New Lonsdale Belt twice and
the British Empire Belt twice. He has
been champion now for 12 years.
* * * *
Demonstrating again the superiority of
Queensland form Dal Conway gave
Tommy Colteaux a boxing lesson at
Leichhardt. Colteaux tried to make the
most of his extra weight, roughing Con-
way often. Undisturbed, the Queens-
lander kept connecting with straight lefts
or right uppercuts, and these punches
earned him a very popular verdict.
The shade of Rafferty must have
beamed —if shades beam —on the Sydney
Stadium brawl between Alec Buxton (a
Marine) and Jack Day. Previous contests
had shown what a rough fighter Day is,
but Buxton turned out as rough or
rougher. Each scored short-count knock-
downs in the fourth, and a shindy in the
bleachers ushered in the fifth, wherein
a right floored Buxton for “six.” Day
was down for “nine.” Buxton, who is
colored —he was born in London of West
Indian parentage—was forging ahead
when Day butted him in the face, and
Joe Wallis waved the offender out of the
ring.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Duke and Duchess of Gloucester
are in town. The Duchess, apart from
the civic reception at North Sydney, has
made no engagements for official func-
tions, but the Governor-General has
been busy on a round of public engage-
ments, many of them visits of inspection
in various services.
Parma-violet hat and frock and a lus-
cious platinum fox were worn by the
Duchess of Gloucester at the reception
given in honor of the Duke and herself
in the North Sydney Council chambers.
Admiralty House is in the municipality
of North Sydney, so it was their own
Mayor and Mayoress, Alderman Fowle
and his wife, who gave them civic wel-
come. Billy Hughes flew specially from
Canberra to bow low over the ducal
hands. Mrs. Fowle handed a bouquet
to the Duchess, and citizens of credit and
renown were bidden to the function. The
Duchess’s face lighted up when Mrs.
Greg McGirr recalled that she had last
seen the Duchess in the gardens of Buck-
ingham Palace in 1937, just after the
King had invested Mrs. McGirr with her
0.8. E.
Lord and Lady Wakehurst, who have
been over eight years in Australia, are
on the eve of departure. They will be
missed. From the beginning of their stay
they have made themselves a part of the
community. They have not found it
necessary to hedge themselves or Govern-
ment House about with formality. With
the dignity necessary to the Governor's
office they have combined friendliness
and laughter, and now they are in the
throes of bidding good-bye to their in-
numerable friends.
A series of late afternoon parties are
packing the reception rooms of G.H.
At one early last week more than
250 guests made as varied a pat-
tern of the life of Sydney as might be.
Here were Australian and English service-
men and -women —navy and army uni-
forms edged about in the melee. There
was tall and upright Colonel Bennett of
Soudan fame, there was Matron Baker of
the Q.A.R.R.N.S. Major John Pye and
several Fairfaxes were glimpsed. French
was spoken by a group that included the
Hugh Poynters and Mrs. Ivy Moore and
some of France’s representative citizens.
Lady Wakehurst’s Sicilian-blue frock had
the garnishment of pearls.
One hundred and eight-five women’s
organisations were represented at a fare-
well party to Lady Wakehurst last Thurs-
day. The Trocadero was the battle sta-
tion, but this was a battle of flowers —
word flowers. Ruby Board, who presided
at the microphone, voiced the feelings of
the hundreds of women sitting at the long
trestle tables and told how much affec-
tion and esteem the women of the State
had for the guest. Mayoress Neville Hard-
ing followed and added her tribute, also
revealing that there was something more
than kind words for Lady Wakehurst.
Then the Claude Reading lady in a few
words presented the Governor’s wife with
a diamond wristlet watch and a diamond
brooch which comes apart to form two
clips. The women’s organisations had
been the eager donors.
The gifts were a complete surprise, and
Lady Wakehurst was very touched. Her
warm and vibrant voice shook with emo-
tion but she rallied her forces and made
one of the best speeches of her career.
In her speech she told the listeners that
Lord Oxford had said to her when she
was a young girl and he was Mr.
Asquith: “Keep the company of great
books ; let great deeds be your inspira-
tions and great failures your conso-
lations.” And that sounds good advice
to all who are facing the after-war
world and its problems. After tea, which
v was really coffee, had been drunk, Lady
Wakehurst moved among the guests
showing her gifts with pleased excitement.
Running neck to neck with Lord and
Lady Wakehurst in the matter of fare-
well parties America’s popular Ely
Palmer couple have been going at terrific
speed for the last few weeks. Big event
of last week was a 4.30 onwards recep-
tion in honor of the departing U.S. Con-
sul-General and his wife at the Town
Hall. Mayor Neville Harding and his
Mayoress were smiling host and hostess,
and the town Hall drawing-rooms were
thronged. The Papal Delegate, Dr.
Panico, gave a dinner party in their honor
last Thursday night at the Legation. A
week-end barbecue in the bosky sur-
rounds of the Maurice Samuels’ home
at Castle Hill was the something different
slipped info the round of more conven-
tional entertainments. The two journey
to Afghanistan and Mr. Palmer’s next
diplomatic appointment. It’s cold in that
little comer of Asia, and Mr. Palmer is
packing a kangaroo-skin coat lined with
sheep-skin, and Mrs. Palmer a sheep-
skin rug, to keep in some of the warmth
of Australia.
A few weeks ago in this Letter ap-
peared news of Margaret Baxter, who
had written cheerily of her meeting with
a flying bomb. Margaret had had a
rather terrifying experience, and had been
almost smothered beneath debris of
plaster and splintered gla’fcs. With her
usual pluck she had put that and other
trying happenings during war-time blitzes
in England behind her. But com-
ing home from a Victory Sunday-night
benediction and service of thanksgiving
she collapsed and died almost instantly.
Australians going to London in post-war
years will miss the countrywoman who
did so much to help brighten the visit of
travellers from her homeland.
The Red Cross popular-mother com-
petition is going well, and Mrs. E. M.
Merewether, candidate of the Newcastle
branch, is being very actively supported.
The closing day for the competition is
June 15, Red Cross Day. Mrs. Mere-
wether is a member of the well-known
Australian family after whom the suburb
of Merewether is named. She is one of
Newcastle’s staunchest workers. Her
photograph comes from the Boddy
studios.
The Royal Empire Society’s farewell
to Lord and Lady Wakehurst was set in
the wide entrance to the Trocadero ball-
room. It was a mild crush, just enough
to make moving around easy. President
Colonel Spain and Mrs. Spain received
the guests, and the speech was
apt, and the Governor’s pleasant to listen
to. Between the speeches and the tea
Lord and Lady Wakehurst walked about
having a few last words with old friends
of the society. Lady Wakehurst was dis-
playing her diamond wristlet watch and
clips with blithe pride. She laughed as
she told one group “My old ones were
only paste.” Mrs. Keith Morris was prob-
ably the only woman present who could
properly sympathise with the Governor’s
wife in the loss of her jewels—they were
stolen just before the vice-regals left Eng-
land. A week or two before the theft
Lady Wakehurst had worn her most
dazzling heirlooms when she and her hus-
band were at a Royal Empire Society
dinner speeding them on their journey.
The Keith Morrises were guests at the
dinner, and Mrs. Keith recalled the occa-
sion and told Lady Wakehurst how
greatly the jewels had been admired.
* A Town Hall reception on Monday
night and a farewell drive through the
city to the Town Hall steps on Tuesday
afternoon when addresses were delivered
by Mayor Harding were other excite-
ments tucked into a full week by the de-
parting Governor and, his wife.
Sydney is grieving over the death of
Miss Mary Fairfax, granddaughter of the
founder of the “S.M. Herald” family. Miss
Fairfax’s links with Australia’s past went
to the beginning of our history. Through
her great-grandmother, Mrs. Oakes, she
was descended from Sergeant and Mrs.
Small, who arrived with Governor
Phillip’s first fleet. Even those who did
not know her very intimately took a sort
of secret pride as the small, vigorous lady
made her appearance, trig and placid and
carrying her 87 years as though she was
not aware of them, at committee meeting
and concert.
Miss Fairfax in her youth had been a
talented pianist, and music remained one
of her delights. Her home, Ginahgulla,
provided the setting for fetes for many of
this good Australian’s innumerable in-
terests. Prominent among these was the
Boys’ Brigade, founded by her father,
James Reading Fairfax.
From Melbourne
Stormy weather could not daunt the
array of music-lovers who turned out for
the last concert conducted by Sir Ernest
McMillan. Fur wraps, coats and rugs
accompanied smart women. Featured in
the programme was Handel’s “Water
Music” felt by many to be ’ very
appropriate. Among those who braved
the rain was Peggy Fraser, warmly clad
in black and silver foxes. In her usual
hurry Iris Clarke burst into the foyer
at the last minute, a bright little flower
hat topping her frock of black, lavishly
trimmed with gold beads. Valerie Purves
(also in black) set off her delicate color-
ing with a turquoise blue hat. She was
accompanied by her mother, Mrs. W. J.
Purves, a smart figure in unrelieved black.
Blonde Mrs. Massey Burnside was an-
other who chose black. In the audience
was a large party of British W.R.N.S.
officers. Their smart uniforms and neat
tricorne hats attracted much attention.
When an elderly actress heard Grace
Angelau, the lady whose portrait appears
on this page, sing she predicted a future
in grand opera. Then appearing in
musical comedy in the U.S.A., Grace had
not thought of opera, but she told her
husband of the idea which had then
come to her and he, being a man of
courage, said “Then why not take 12
months off and study?” This Grace did
and went off to Italy, where she studied
hard and after 12 months made her
operatic debut. She returned to America
and appeared at N.Y. Metropolitan. Then
began tours over America, England and
Europe. In Italy one of the Tait brothers
heard her sing and engaged her to come
to Australia with the opera co. he was
forming. So Grace came to Australia
and fell in love with this land. When
she decided to give up singing she told
her husband she wanted to live in Aus-
tralia. Again proving that he was an
excellent husband, this American man
of business uprooted himself and the
two boys, Guy and Jay, and with his
wife made Melbourne his home.
In private life Grace Angelau is Mrs.
Hutchinson. Her husband, Guy, died
just a few years ago and Grace now
lives at Olinda in the Dandenongs. Her
home, Coonara Springs, has become the
meeting place at week-ends for singers
and artists. In the living-room are a con-
cert grand piano and a cabinet in which
is displayed the glorious costume jewel-
lery which Grace wore in some of her
operatic roles. A headdress, girdle, neck-
lace and heavy bracelets are relics of
Princess Amneris in “Aida.” They in-
corporate scarabs and the sacred Ibis of
Egypt, and glitter with gold and colored
stones. Here, too, are the jewelled heels
worn on shoes which danced their way
through “Carmen,” and many other
ornaments which this singer wore. On
top of a cabinet stands a small gold-
winged statue with a base of ebony. The
inscription reads “Commemorating the
elevation of Grace Angelau to the Hall
of Fame of the Grand Army of the
Republic, Washington, D.C.”
Lud Mayor Nettlefold gave one of his
happy “let-us-now-praise-famous-men”
speeches when he tendered Sir Ernest Mc-
Millan a civic reception. He was ably
supported by Prof. Bernard Heinze. The
guest of honor did the right thing, and
complimented the citizens of Melbourne
on the loveliness of their city. Mrs.
Beatrice Campbell pinned sweet-smelling
gardenias in her black frock, and was, as
usual, a charming hostess. A.B.C. was
well represented. Bonnie McCallum was
busy looking after Sir Ernest, and Mr.
and Mrs. Paul Fiddian were helping her.
Mrs. Fiddian chose a tailored brown
tweed suit and small, brown hat for the
occasion. Mrs. P. Coleman favored a
suil in soft blue tonings and a
pastel-pink blouse. These two shades
were repeated in her beret, which had a
double crown —blue on top of pink. With
her was niece Barbara Selleck, in a
tailored coat of soft cyclamen, her flat
beret embroidered in pink and cyclamen
flowers. The Fraser lady was a graceful
figure in black, with a small black ostrich
feather hat crowning her silver hair.
Mr. and Mrs. Bowen Pain were the
centre of a small group of friends ; Janet,
sporting a dainty little many-colored
ribbon hat finished with filmy lace. Her
grey squirrel coat covered a smart black
frock. Third-Officer Molly Westoven,
W.R.A.N.S., was with Mrs. T. J. Ryan
and daughter Jill Lambert, the last-named
smart in black. Marjorie Spry was with
Mrs. Wallace Mitchell, who at the
moment is full of plans for raising money
for incapacitated soldiers. First function
will be an Ice Carnival at the St. Moritz.
With knight John Latham was his lady,
who chatted amiably with all her friends.
Her absorbing interest, the Children s
Hospital, got its mention. With Arch-
bishop Booth, who proposed the toast of
the Lud Mayor, was Mrs. Booth, who
chose a mist-blue suit and navy-blue hat
and accessories.
University students presented their
revue, “Stop Press,” in the Union Theatre
with such acclaim that it was decided to
give the show for two extra nights. This
was the first revue in four years. Joy
Youlden, as producer, won great praise ;
so did Wilma Harrison, who taught the
women students to dance in the ballets
like professionals. Captain lan Baird
(A.1.F.) waved a baton, and an orchestra
of pros, and amateurs responded to his
conducting. “Stop Press” supposedly
takes place in a newspaper office. To
obtain atmosphere, the stage was framed
by a curtain bearing the front pages of
well-known Australian papers, among
them, of course. The Bulletin. Final
curtain brought men and women students
on to the stage as representatives of these
papers, and each had a little song to sing.
The “Argus” was represented by an old
lady in bonnet and shawl. By the hand
was led a small student dressed in the
clothes of a boy of five or six. He was
the “Week-end Magazine.” The Bulle-
tin was represented by a pretty girl
dressed in red satin, with much draping
and a large picture hat. Keith McCart-
ney and Joy Youlden, in their “Theatri-
cal Comeback” act, were especially
appreciated.
Among quite a crop of recent service
engagements is that of a couple of Brit-
ishers. Second Officer Ruby Cortez,
W.R.N.S., came to Australia and was
appointed secretary to Captain R. C. M.
Duckworth, R.N., Deputy Chief of Staff.
Shortly they will marry. Before joining
the W.R.N.S., Ruby was secretary to Sir
Alexanda Korda.
Melbourne has been saddened by the
death of a distinguished citizen, knight
Arthur Robinson. His career had been
one of achievement, and, paying tribute
to him, Scots Church was filled with his
friends and colleagues. Two laden cars
carried floral tributes, and the Governor
of Victoria sent a representative, as did
the High Court of Australia. The
Robinson lady is a great worker in the
cause of the services. Small son Tony
will be a great comfort to her in this sad
period of her life.
H. Shefik Bey and his son M. C.
Reschid Bey combined to give an exhibi-
tion of portraits and other works at the
Hotel Australia in aid of the Totally and
Permanently Incapacitated Servicemen
and Women Fund. First day brought out
most of Melbourne’s well-known women,
and the artists were busy receiving con-
gratulations on their exhibits. H. Shefik
Bey seems to have painted most of the
lovely women in this city. Mrs. David
Syme, whose portrait appears in the ex-
hibition, was at the opening in simple
black, with a snopd of veiling pinned in
place with a diamond clip. Mrs. Mickie
Paxton/ who also appears on the walls,
was another gazer, in aqua-green, with a
floral hat in soft pink and green.
Many flower pictures were exhibited by
M. C. Reschid Bey, whose talents as a
portraitist are exemplified in two excellent
pictures of his wife. Madame Reschid Bey
set off her hair coloring with a frock of
brown featuring a deep collar of pale-
pink crepe. Mrs. Larry Boler pinned a
shaggy yellow flower in her black frock ;
her hat was massed with yellow flowers.
With her was Mrs. John Lowry, who
topped a soft rose ensemble with a small
black hat. Mrs. F. A. Tennant, of
Adelaide, in black and silver foxes, with
a tricorne hat, was accompanied by her
niece, Mrs. Bruce Knuckey. Mrs. J.
Fitzgerald, who sat at the seat of cus-
tom, receiving donations for the fund,
was another smart figure in black. Strella
Wilson was in navy with a beflowered
hat.


oftwaf
woi
. ...A.or i««l !
m ir®®W r _
StßVltt
_ e i n aust**M
S tlie^atiow
Serves the
u e/\0 0^ C£
faCT st R'CHMONO
For Sf “* , 6 ,
s.B.^-% c BTU 9 A*nf *«*•
ggS 3 2 %St\ f $£ 894 T «ay
If A^.^T^ 8 A 3 6 Artf*
T It.'. »° balt;
Have a “Coke”
Dinkum Cobber
I
rr^
Vu.'..
m
■ VS£
iH w
.. or how Americans make friends in
New Zealand—or Australia
“You’re a dinkum cobber”,
says the New Zealander or
Aussie when he wants to
call you pal. The Amer-
ican soldier says it another
way. Have a “Coke”, says
he, and in three words he
has made a friend. It’s a
phrase that says,‘Welcome,
neighbour’ from Auckland
to Alice Springs. ‘Round
the globe, Coca-Cola stands
for the pause that refreshes
and has become the
high-sign between kindly-
minded people.
global
-the
high-sign
“Coke”=Coca-Cola. It’s natural
for popular names to acquire
friendly abbreviations. That’s why
you hear Coca-Cola called “Coke”
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.A.
(hiability Limited)
SYDNEY
SMOKE-OH!
“Ferret and four young ones, six weeks old,
hutches, 0/-.” — The “Advertiser’ 1 ’ ( Parramatta ).
Cheap at half the price.
•h 4* 4*
“Wanted—Woman 45, domesticated, drive car
casually Rose Bay.”— Suburban paper.
She’ll do it anyway.
•b d- 4*
“Natural thickness and coarseness in the eye-
brows is an indication of a physically adven-
turous disposition.”— Woman’s paper.
And lots of pluck.
4* 4* 4* • 4*
“Women’s shoes, size four, all good condi-
tion, cheap, no coupons, too small owner.”
—Suburban paper.
She’s not too big for her boots, any-
how.
“Blue U-.S. Naval Officer’s topcoat, left in
automobile, Tuesday night.”— S..M. ‘‘Herald.’
He feels the cold awfully, too.
“Sandy Turns a Heel” — Title of story.
With a sock in the ribs?
•j*
“Extension dining table polished beach.”
—‘‘Northern District Times” (Epping (N.S.W. ).
It would, no doubt, have a wavy grain.
Inns—And Outs.
“During the last few years a Newcastle
(N.S.W.) hotel, owned by a side-show promoter,
has been staffed by his troupe of freaks.”
—"Sunday Sun.”
My decision to take my own troupe of
freaks on to the pub staff when, after
years of doing the country shows, I
thought to have a well-earned rest by
dispensing foam by and to the mugs, was
prompted by “Glandular”’ Gertie, the
World’s Fattest Woman, who threatened
to sit on my forehead unless I did. In
the face of such a touching affection and
faithfulness, what else could a man of
fine feelings do but accept such a loyal
offer?
My shrewd allocation of the staff’s
duties was designed to preserve, and even
to increase, each one’s freakishness against
the day when nostalgia for the open spaces
urged me to tour with them again.
Gertie I made cook taster and scrans-
would have ample opportunity for over-
time molar-grinding, with a consequent
waistline expansion. The Skeleton Man
I made bell-hop, and he had to go every-
where at the double—this was to keep
any extra weight down consequent on my
liberalising his diet by allowing him four
caraway seeds, instead of three, and a
pint of vinegar a day. In his spare time
he was used as a clothes-horse,
The World’s Strongest Man I made
chucker-out and cellarman, in which
latter duty he could throw 27-gallon hogs-
heads around like cotton-reels. Mike
McGinty, the Hairy Man From Borneo,
was natural choice for barman, he hav-
ing long contended that were it not for
the constant soaking up of large quanti-
ties of beer he could never have retained
his remarkably hirsute appearance. Long
ago he had produced to me a doctor’s
certificate saying—so he said, for I
couldn’t read the handwriting myself—
that hops were essential to the nourish-
ment of his follicles.
The Snake Charmer I put to syphoning
beer from the casks into bottles for the
after-hour trade, this entailing only a
slight change in technique in that instead
of blowing a tin whistle he suclced up a
rubber tube. Also, he got plenty of the
charming part of his practice with d.-t.
customers. The Mesmerist I kept for the
specific job of convincing any snooping
inspectors that the bar drip trays were
colored violet; as a sideline he convinced
customers that they hadn’t put in for the
last round. The Pigmy amused the cus-
tomers and drank plenty -of schnapps to
further discourage his growth, and the
Pin-Headed Chinese did duty as an emer-
gency bung.
My judgment was soon vindicated,
Within a few months Gertie had gone up
to 52 stone and promised to be a bigger
attraction than ever. The Skeleton Man
started to rattle whenever a mild westerly
blew ; the shouts Mick enjoyed from the
customers had him so woolly he had to
plait the hair between his shoulder
blades; the Snake Charmer could play
“Drink To Me Only” in one suck while
a savage hamadryad crawled around his
schooner; the Mesmerist could easily
convince the inspectors that the whole pub
was purple-hued, and the Pin-Headed
Chow and the Pigmy were keeping re-
spectively if not respectfully pin-headed
and microscopic.
As the staff seemed to be running the
pub so efficiently I decided to leave affairs
in their hands while I wen: on a long-
delayed crocodile-shooting expedition.
It was some months before I returned,
and when I did I realised the folly of re-
moving the iron hand of discipline, so
essential to any freak’s well-being.
I noticed it first on entering the kitchen,
and I wondered who the emaciated hag
was peeling spuds. Then, looking more
closely, I caught a faint resemblance to
someone I had known before. It was
Gertie, but she had shrunk to around 36
stone. She had, it appears, fallen for the
spieling of a customer who was travel-
ling for Cassowary’s Reducing Capsules.
Gertie was convinced that she was on the
way to becoming a pin-up girl.
The Skeleton Man had promoted him-
self to assistant barman and now had a
bay window like a deputy mayor and three
chins. Mick, it seemed, was earning plenty
on the side as a demonstrator for a new
depilatory. Even worse, the Mesmerist
had mesmerised himself into believing he
was the pub owner, and the profits had
all vanished. There were no customers
left, anyway—the Snake Charmer had
sugar-bags of death-adders all over the
place and had frightened all the customers
away. Even the Pin-Headed Chow took
a in hats.
But the freakish instinct the staff pos-
sessed remained with them to the last. I
heard they had sold all the bottled beer
over the counter at the fixed price instead
of nocturnally at the side door at £4 a
dozen.
Only hopeless freaks would do a thing
like that in an Australian pub.
80.
Day of Reckoning.
If, in a food or clothing store,
You find the folk who heretofore
Would greet you with a hostile ‘‘Well ?”
Essaying meekly to foretell s
Your casual whim, when you attain
To normal consciousness again,
You will no doubt have apprehended
The war is pretty nearly ended.
This is the moment I’ve awaited.
Scowled at, berated and frustrated
By several thousand cold and distant
Varieties of shop-assistant;
The day will come when they apply
Their pre-war sales technique, and I
In tones with cool derision fraught
Will answer bluntly “Quota bought.”
P. M. LUSK.
Pasted.
He’d pasted Jack Johnson all over the
place.
And other great pugs in his day;
Yet none of them thought it the slight-
est disgrace
To be treated by him in this way.
He’s dead, but the newsrags ignored the
event;
Of his deeds he was never a boaster;
Nor was he a pugilist, punter or gent.:
He was only a humble billposter.
F. M.
Last Hope.
Turn off the wireless. Flashing Star has
lost.
And my affairs are ruined! When 1
think
How much that wretched barmaid’s tip
has cost,
It’s quite enough to drive a man to
drink.
Cursed be the racing game with all its
sins.
A plague on bookies and the dough 1
spent —
That is, unless that rank outsider wins
At odds gigantic in the last event!
T. W. NATHAN.
Lines Written at Sea.
If there be any underlying truth
Behind illusion, as we hoped in youth ;
Something enduring firm despite the
strange
Phantasmagoria of passing change;
If ’mid the transitory flux there be
A stable, permanent reality:
Ah! Would that I could find it now and
leave
This rolling ship that makes my stomach
heave!
NAT.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. pel: line; all others per line.
The Salaried Man and Income Tax
If there is one class in particular get-
ting it fair in the neck with income tax
it is the salaried man. He cannot dodge
a penny piece of tax, as his salary is made
known to the Commissioner by his em-
ployer and his tax is deducted from his
wage before he receives it.
Included in this unfortunate class are
bank officials, who in the course of their
daily work see evidence of evasions of all
sorts. They are supposed to smile at the
customers’ astuteness, and dare not point
out that as a result of these evasions they
have to pay at a higher rate than would
be the case if all paid their proper whack.
When the tax was at the pre-war scale
it did not perhaps hurt so much, but now
it is a very different matter.
Another thing which makes the salaried
man writhe is the extent to which the
farmer class, amongst others, is being
encouraged to accept doles and handouts.
Drought relief is an illustration in point.
A farmer with a substantial credit balance
in his bank account, a farm absolutely
free of debt, collects a couple of hundred
pounds for relief, paid for in part by the
unfortunate salaried worker, who, per-
haps, apart from his screw, hasn’t two
bob to bless himself with. Whether these
poor salaried fish are prepared to go on
being socked to the end of their days
remains to be seen, but what can they do
about it? — One of Them (Vic.).
Taxation on “Super Ann”
“Jaibee” (A.C.T.) (B. 25/4/’45) has
assumed that “Subscriber,” Tas., is a
contributor to the Commonwealth Super-
annuation Fund, and has wrongly based
his criticism on that assumption. I am
a subscriber to a superapnuation fund ;
not to the Commonwealth Government’s.
The Commonwealth Fund may be a
perfectly sound one, and “Jaibee’s” satis-
faction with it might be justified. We
are not all as fortunately placed as he.
Our payments are not exempt from taxa-
tion ; neither is our pension, if it exceeds
the sum of £2 per week, and we are,
therefore, paying tax twice on the same
money. Moreover, we are, by subscrib-
ing to the fund, precluding ourselves
from the benefits of old age or
invalid pensions—to which funds our
taxes, like everyone else’s, contribute. We
therefore not only provide for our own
old age or invalidism but help towards
providing for the other fellow’s.
“Jaibee” says “if there is a better way
of making provision for retirement the
powers that be have not yet been told
about it.” Is that so? Well, let’s tell
them now! The better way, under pre-
sent conditions, is to spend every bean as
it comes and be supported in your old
age or invalidism by the Commonwealth
Government tax free I Subscriber
(Tas.).
Japanese in the Islands
I can’t agree with the reasons “Jasby”
gives (B. 2 / 5 / ’45) why the Japanese rem-
nants could not colonise bypassed islands.
There have been numerous instances of
invaders imposing their culture on a
country by inter-marriage South
America is full of examples.
The Hindus imposed their culture, art
and architecture on Java, and the
Javanese, turned Hindu, imposed it on
Bali. The Malays left little trace of
themselves in New Guinea because they
were fly-by-night pirates, but it couldn’t
be said that the mysterious race which
invaded Cambodia in French Cochin-
China and built the magnificent temple
city of Angkor Wat left no traces, any
more than it could be said of the legions
Alexander the Great left in Hindustan,
whose influence is to be seen in the figures
of the dancing Siva.
The thing that perpetuated Spanish and
Portuguese influence in South America
was the unwritten rule that a white male
could inter-marry with a* native woman
but a European female couldn’t marry a
native without losing her European status.
In Bali this was assured by putting the
high-caste daughter of the invader who
married or went off with a male of the
subject race into a sack and dumping her
and her lover into the ocean. It was this
rule which prevented the absorption that
(in the case of the Japs) “Jasby” says
would occur within two generations. The
explanation of this is to be found in the
biological fact that it is the tendency of
a wife to follow and look up to her hus-
band, and she will try to do this even
when the husband is inferior in culture or
a numskull.
There are some European examples in
the Dutch East Indies. In the early days
of Dutch colonisation /a sergeant and a
platoon garrisoning a small island were
forgotten. Some 150 years later their
descendants were discovered, and they
were taller, fairer, better-housed, more
enterprising, educated and intelligent than
the natives with whose women they had
inter-married; they even retained traces
of their Dutch religion. Thpse who sub-
sequently immigrated to Java dis-
tinguished themselves above the average
in industry and commerce.
The reason why the Japanese won t
succeed in imposing their culture on the
islands on any large scale is the speed of
modern communications, which would no
doubt nip the enterprise in the bud almost
before it started. — Feng-Shui (Vic.).
A.I.F. Equipment
I differ from the views of J. G. Gunner
on A.I.F. equipment (B. 2/5/’45). He
praises the American carbine as “the
dandiest little weapon.” Maybe it is a
dandy, but it has neither the range nor
stopping power of a rifle, nor the rate
of fire of an Owen. J.G.G. implies that
the Tommy is superior to the Owen.
Perhaps he can explain why the Yanks
would give any amount to get hold of
an Owen, not for its lightness, for it
weighs about the same as a Tommy, but
for its simplicity and reliability and the
lightness of its ammunition.
Concerning other equipment I have
been offered £2O plus a U.S. .45 Colt
automatic pistol for my Webley .455.
“The cove with the buck teeth knows a few words of English , sir.
No't only fear of a court-martial but the
respective merits of the weapons led me
to refuse.
Regarding artillery, J.G.G. should
know that the 25-pounder is infinitely
superior to any weapon of its type in the
U.S. Army. Naturally, I am pot speaking
of the Aussie Short 25-pounder.
Not only is U.S. everyday equipment
not superior to ours, but there is too
much of it. Of the U.S. soldier going into
action all that can be seen is a huge pack
with a helmet sticking over the top. The
pack is filled with non-essentials from
gabardine and shower-proof zipper
lumber jacket to an extra pair of vastly
inferior boots, or the footwear referred
to as “jungle boots.”
However, on some points I agree with
J.G.G. The U.S. Army looks after the
private better than does the Australian
Army. It provides hot meals in the
front line, fresh fruit and vegetables at all
stations. It treats soldiers as heroes (even
though they were drafted), whereas our
public and Government treat volunteer
soldiers as suckers. —1940 Sucker (A.1.F.).
Lake Eyre Schemes
If we must have an inland sea at
Lake Eyre (I can’t see the necessity of it)
let us have done with ballyhoo and deal
with facts. The real originator of the
so-called “Bradfield Scheme” was J. C.
Warren, of Katanning (W.A.), who first
publicised the Burdekin idea in the “Pas-
toral Review” about 1927. A bigger
name and better publicity beat Warren
to the credit of giving the scheme a title.
Warren, a settler in the interior, who
knows it better than most men know
their prayer books, now has another and
better idea of flooding Lake Eyre. He
advocates bores of a size that can only
be termed shafts to tap the artesian water.
This wouldn’t rob Burdekin Delta
farmers of their irrigation rights, and it
would make use of water (at' present
going to waste) at one fraction of the cost
of the bigger schemes.
Hydraulic engineers and other learned
ones know there is a huge outlet of
artesian water in the Great Australian
Bight; there is another in the Gulf of
Carpentaria, another in the Burdekin
Delta, one more at Lake Yamma
Yamma. That flow is a couple of thou-
sand feet or less under Lake Eyre. The
lake is 47ft. below sea level. If a shaft,
or shafts, were sunk to tap that water,
then, instead of that good water going to
the sea direct, it would fill the lake to a
depth of 47ft., inundate thousands of
square miles, prove or disprove the
theory' of added rainfall and rob no* one
of anything ; all at a tiny fraction of the
cost of the more ambitious schemes. If
we must have something, let’s have the
Warren Plan. — Dowser (Q.).
Suits for the Discharged
Can anybody explain the principles
that govern the issue of civilian suits to
discharged personnel?
My discharge from the A.I.F. is dated
31/3/ ’44. At that time 1 was told that no
suits to fit were in stock. My applica-
tion for the cash was knocked back and
I was told the suit would be mailed when
stocks arrived. After seven or eight
months something arrived —a fill-in-mea-
surements form. Another three or four
months went by without results.
I wrote again. Came a reply inform-
ing me that War Cabinet had decided
that no more suits or hats were to
be issued to discharged soldiers and that
I could draw £3 in lieu of clothing—
some 13 months after discharge!
They s£em to manage these matters
better in Maoriland. — Suitless (N.S.W.).
Why “Dependents” ?
The idea that wives and mothers are
“dependents” is erroneous.. In exchange
for services rendered in the home women
have a just claim to recompense. An
independent wage for wives and mothers
should be encouraged, as their services
add to the nation’s credit by adding to
the nation’s human resources. Cecil
Brown (N.S.W.).
The Bush Bards
May I congratulate The Bulletin
on its publication (18/4/’45) of a verse
by Will Ogilvie, a bright reminder of the
past?
One of the finest of the old-time bal-
ladists, Will Ogilvie will long be remem-
bered by lovers of Australia. Along with
Henry Lawson and “Banjo” Paterson —
to mention two favorites —he helped
build up a fine tradition.
All honor to The Bulletin in whose
pages the songs of these grand old bush
poets so often appeared. —D. H. R.
(R.A.A.F.).
Queensland Shearers’ Strike
Part blame for this strike is placed by
“A.J.H.” (B. 11/4/’45) on graziers and
managers for having “defied National
Security Regulations by having shearing
and crutching done at rates in excess of
the award.” Unfortunately, this is true,
but “A.J.H.” should have explained the
circumstances.
Harrassed by blow-fly trouble, the
sheepman’s biggest nightmare in
western Queensland, he possible
serious losses from this or other causes
if his sheep are not shorn at the due
time. This predicament is a most unenvi-
able one, and to characterise his action
as a defiance of National Security Regu-
lations is grossly unfair. My dictionary
gives the meaning of “defiant” as “inso-
lently bold,” and that is certainly not
the sheepman’s attitude to established
authority. Rather is he bitterly resentful
that circumstances force him to action
of which he strongly disapproves.
Finally, since a great many Queens-
land sheepmen are heavily in debt to
banks and wool-selling 'firms, “A.J.H.”
might well inquire why these have not
taken action to assist their unfortunate
clients in such difficulties, but, on the con-
trary, have in some cases urged their
clients to take the “defiant” action
“A.J.H.” bewails.— Timothy Tywire (Q.).
War Memorials
Presumably when Australia’s war with
Japan is over the usual flock of war
memorials, man’s milestones of destruc-
tion, will be erected all oyer the conti-
nent —quite useless save to indicate man’s
pitiable inability to live at peace with his
neighbors. Surely something more con-
structive could be done with the money?
I would suggest that some of it
could be put to use in constructing
children’s playgrounds, particularly in
slum areas; also boys’ clubs. Money
for the more expensive type of memorial
could be diverted to the erection or exten-
sion of public libraries. If it must be
indicated what these things signify, a
small (and inexpensive) plaque should
be sufficient.
In this war, as in the last, we have
wasted fabulous millions on destruction.
To spend, in the post-war period, more
money commemorating this period of
destruction is surely ludicrous, and
against the good old army axiom:
“Never reinforce a defeator in other
words: “Don’t keep on backing a loser.”
—Sack (A.1.F.).
Taking the War Seriously
If I had had authority there would be
a few things missing from the civilians’
daily life by now.
There would be no dispute about
special transport to races or professional
football —there’d be none. All “sports”
would be out for the duration. Similarly
with all luxury manufactures. Social news
would vanish from the newspapers. Fun-
parlors, amusement parks and the like
would go overnight; lotteries would be
taboo and there’d be gaol without the
option for black-marketing or price-
exceeding folk. Similarly, the users of
fake petrol coupons would rue the day
they were bom.
So much on the negative side. On the
positive there would be delivery of
groceries and meat td’ elderly house-
holders and all women with children,
and an increase in dependents’ allowance
for servicemen’s wives with children. As
for the kids themselves, I think they could
have pink icipg on their lolly pigs with-
out impairing the war effort.
I may be wrong, but I think that the
Sixth, Eighth and Seventh Diwys would
have been a bit closer to discharge and
mum and the kids if my ideas were given
a spin.— Trail-eye (N.S.W.).
Australian Books
In one breath “W.C.C.” (B. 2/5/’45)
tells of Australian books being left dusty
on library shelves and being stolen be-
cause of their abounding interest to
readers:. A bouquet with one hand and
a brickbat with the other. Why all this
criticism of Australian books? Why not
take to some of the rubbish by overseas
writers which pours into this country
from overseas or from our own printing
presses?
I maintain that Australian fiction is
cleaner and healthier than most of the
imported stuff. European and U.S. novels
are mostly about murders and robberies —
“escape” books, they are called. After
all, if the Magic Door is opened 'on
Conan Doyle it leads into a world of
sordid crime.
Compared with motor-cars, our books
get a bad spin. Overseas experts declared
we could not make motor-cars. We in-
sisted we could, arid now English and
Americans concerns are preparing to build
them in Australia. If we adopted the
U.S. idea of having all books used here
printed here and the Canadian one of in-
sisting that a fixed proportion of them be
by our home writers we would not be
doing anything out of the way, yet it
would solve the problem.
For example, about 2,000,000 books were
printed, here for last Christmas market.
On a 10 p.c. quote 200,000 of them would
have been Australian authors’ work.
What is really wrong is not with the books
but with Australians who knock every-
thing made in Australia, either from an
inferiority complex or because they are
interested in importing.— Will Lawson
(N.S.W.).
I agree with Will Lawson’s analysis
of the position of Australian books.
But instead of Australian writers con-
tinually moaning about the raw deal they
are getting, why don’t they have a shot
ar creating their own distributing organ-
isation? This might be considered by the
Writers’ Fellowship and other mutual
admiration societies as something worth
while doing.
DIGESTER
(N.S.W.).


rlww
sin-- Vi -
m
&
as?**
t *»■*»
• <i *
\
* t t
FIR PEACE
<
ODAY it is still a race for Victory. In
1939, when the clouds broke, Yarra
Falls machinery began humming a night-
and-day War-time song which has never
ceased.
M ATUR ALL Y, we are still fulfilling service demands. The race'has not yet been
4 * run and won.
B
UT Yarra Falls peace-time planning has not been neglected. Just as quickly as we
swing into the race against enemy production so will we enter normal pursuits.
VARRA FALLS is poised for Peace—ready to give immediate effect to the far-
* reaching plans made for the widest presentation of all those latest weaves and
fabrics now awaiting release.
sift
■
...
wm
....
Wrnmmsm.
M
*
-tm
m
m
YARRA FALLS
Renowned for tAe excellence of/Is Worsted
Manufactures, a// made from Australian drain wool.
ABBOTSFORD- VICTORIA - AUSTRALIA-
-m
.
