

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
FINISH THE JOB—BUY ANOTHER BOND IN THE FOURTH VICTORY LOAN
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3428
Wednesday, October 24, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
QUEEN VICTORIA.
TOURING her reign Queen Victoria saw London become the
heart of the Empire. It is with a deep consciousness of this
great city’s importance to the world, and with a sincere appreciation
of the interest that London holds for all the world, that the House
of Seppelts announces the immediate commencement of a series
of views of London at the time of the Queen’s Jubilee. This new
series will present London at one of the most notable and histori-
cally important stages of its development. Many of the scenes
to be shown will have vanished, but their interest will, none the
less, be great. The House of Seppelts presents this new series of
Queen Victoria’s London as a contribution towards the further
development of good relationships between Great Britain and the
British Commonwealth of Nations.


w
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 246
AGE
The Re Page
PORTRAIT OF SOUTHEY.
He wrote 45 books, together with hun-
dreds of short poems and a mass of
journalism.
The total included five epic poems;
biographies of Nelson and Wesley; a
gigantic novel The Doctor; essays, criti-
cal and political; travel books; transla-
tions from the Spanish; The History of
Brazil in three volumes; five volumes of
Lives of the British Admirals —and all
these, Australians “too busy” to write
might note, as the result of no more than
three hours’ steady work a night, from
6.30 to 9.30.
He loved the macabre, the Oriental
and the impossible; his own writings,
his children, and—so Jack Simmons
recalls in Southey (Collins ; Angus and
Robertson) —cats.
Pious and an extreme Tory in his later
years, he was expelled from Westmin-
ster in his youth for writing in a scholars’
magazine a protest against corporal pun-
ishment held ,to be blasphemous and
seditious. At the age of 19 he estimated
that he had written 35,000 lines of verse,
of which he thought 10,000 had some
merit.
Being young, idealistic, impractical and
of a wonderful innocence concerning the
nature of man, he dreamed of establish-
ing a perfect society and, with Coleridge
and others, talked of emigrating to
America. The doctrine to be practised
was called Pantisocracy, and the “twelve
gentlemen of good education and liberal
principles” who were to “embark with
twelve ladies in April next” would live
in a state of eternal bliss, studying, in-
dulging in “liberal discussions” and
educating their children. Adam Smith
had argued that only one man, in twenty
was productive, so they reasoned that if
each of the twelve labored for one-
twentieth of his time they would produce
enough food to satisfy their wants. It
was noted, however, that “the regulations
relating to the females strike them as the
most difficult.” Exactly on what terms
should divorce be permissible? pondered
these as yet unmarried Utopians.
Coleridge, who was recuperating from
a heart broken by Mary Evans, and ex-
perimentally flirting with a few other
charmers, was uplifted by Pantisocracy
into an engagement to Sara Fricker (the
sister of Southey’s beloved) and, despite
some protests —“O Southey! bear with
my weakness. To marry a woman whom
I do not love ” was led to the altar.
Mr. Simmons is inclined to acquit
Southey of the “charge” of forcing Coler-
idge into the match; but —though
Coleridge’s weakness was the real fault
—he does not make out a very good
case. Coleridge seems to have been even
more afraid of Southey’s lofty opinions*
than he was of marrying Sara Fricker.
Southey was for ever putting Coleridge
in the wrong, and Coleridge, though he
did what the other thought was his duty
by rushing into a marriage bound to fail,
was annoyed:
“Southey! Precipitance is wrong. There
may be too high a state of health, perhaps
even virtue is liable to a plethora. I have
been the slave of impulse, the child of im-
becility. But my inconsistencies have given
me a tardiness and reluctance to think ill
of anyone... .Your undeviating simplicity
of rectitude has made you rapid in de-
cision. Having never erred, you feel more
indignation at error than pity for it.
Coleridge’s “inconsistencies,” endured
at close quarters as they were when he
and Southey years later shared Greta
Hall in the Lake country, might have
made anyone indignant: a bottle of rum
a day helped out by quantities of lauda-
num was more than a reasonable ration
of impulse and imbecility.
On that occasion, as it happened (and
as usually happened when he met his
antagonists at close quarters), Southey
behaved generously. But his exercise of
“undeviating simplicity of rectitude” at
long distances, in gossip or in print, could
inspire just as much indignation as Coler-
idge’s aberrations. He uttered (prob-
ably uttered; Mr. Simmons is inclined
to hurry over the incident) his notorious
lie that Byron and Shelley were
living in “a league of incest” ; he cer-
tainly said that Byron was “wicked by
disposition” and that his poetry “breathed
the spirit of Belial” ; and Byron (his in-
dignation flashing still in Mr. Simmons’s
pages) justly retorted;
He had written praises of a regicide;
He had written praises of all kings whatever;
He had written for republics far and wide,
And then against them bitterer than ever;
For pantisocracy he once had cfied
Aloud, a scheme less moral than ’twas'clever;
Then grew a hearty anti-jacobin—
Had turn’d his coat and would have turn’d his
skin.
He had sung against all battles, and again
In their high praise and glory; he had call’d
Reviewing “the ungentle craft,” and then
Became as base a critic as e’er crawled —
Fed, paid and pamper’d by the very men
By whom his muse and morals had been
maul’d;
He had written much blank verse and blanker
prose,
And more of both than anybody knows.
Because of his tremendous and, on
the whole, unsuccessful industry, and be-
cause he has never attracted the atten-
tion of biographers as have the other
great figures of his period, Southey has
come down to us as a pale and remote
figure. Mr. Simmons, surprisingly, asserts
that he was a “passionate” man ; and that
is borne out by the facts.
He was passionately a wowser. And
he lived at a time when the great men
of letters were passionately the reverse.
When he could regard even Tom Moore
as “a lump of lasciviousness,” what on
earth was Southey to make of the spec-
tacle of Byron and his affairs, Coleridge
and his laudanum, or SJielley (having de-
parted with Mary Godwin, leaving Har-
riet to commit suicide) serenely protest-
ing to him “Merely because I regulated
my domestic arrangements without de-
ferring to the notions of the vulgar.... ”)?
They drove him mad with rage.
As, too, did the political affairs of the
day. Even Walter Scott, who, at a dis-
tance, liked him well enough, said he was
“nothing better than a wild bull” in his
opinions. Carlyle left an unforgettable
portrait of him, black with fury:
Before the evening was over Carlyle was
unwise enough to ask Southey if he knew
De Quincey, whom he had himself met in
Edinburgh seven years earlier. It was a
tactless question. De Quincey had just been
publishing in “Tait’s Magazine” his .remin-
iscences of Coleridge; and the revelations
they contained of Coleridge’s weaknesses,
especially in the matter of opium, had
given the deepest offence to the poet’s
relatives and friends, Southey among them.
The effect of the question now was violent.
“ ‘Yes, I do know him,’ answered
Southey, ‘and know him -to be a great
rascal: and if you have opportunity I
will thank you to tell him so’: his brown-
dun face was overspread suddenly almost
with black.”
The obnoxious subject quickly dropped,
but Carlyle’s interest was now aroused,
and in the subsequent conversation he
noted the rapid changes of color on
Southey’s face—the red blush when he was
pleased, the “serpent-like flash of blue
or black blush” when, much more rarely,
something annoyed him. His final com-
ment shov/ed deep insight. “I said to
myself, ‘How has this man contrived,
with such a nervous system, to keep alive
for near sixty years? Now blushing, under
his grey hairs, rosy like a maiden of fif-
teen ; now slaty, almost, like a rattle-
snake, or fiery serpent? How has he not
been torn to pieces long since, under such
furious pulling this way and that? He
must have somewhere a great deal of
methodic virtue in him; I suppose, too,
his heart is thoroughly honest, which helps
considerably.’ ”
The fault of Mr. Simmons’s biography
—valuable and interesting though it is
—is that, though expressly aware of
Southey as a “passionate” man, he de-
picts, on the whole, chiefly the “methodic
virtue.” He attempts a praiseworthily
balanced study, and, when recording
Southey’s review of “The Ancient Mari-
ner” as “the clumsiest attempt at German
sublimity I ever saw,” frankly attributes
the error to personal malice; but when
noting that nearly all Southey’s literary
judgments “have been reversed by pos-
terity”—and even when recording his posi-
tive discouragement df Charlotte Bronte
on the grounds that “Literature cannot be
the business of a woman’s life, and it
ought not to be”—he submits these as
evidence of kindliness of heart. Which,
of course,' is altogether too innocent. If
Southey was not a dunderhead—and Mr.
Simmons does not think him one —there
was something more than kindliness be-
hind the praising of inferior authors and
the discouragement of good.
Southey found the writing of poetry so
disturbing to his nerves that for many
’years he abandoned it; and when he did
write he took pains to avoid intensity
of feeling. His nights were a torment:
“I am haunted in dreams more distress-
ingly than can be described.” He was
indeed a passionate man; but Mr. Sim-
mons has not really shown him as such.
Perhaps some inescapable dulness
in Southey defeated him; yet it seems
that, dramatically and imaginatively ap-
proached, he could be made a figure as
interesting as Hazlitt or Milton ; both of
whom, in many ways, he resembled.
Worshippers of Minnabooka.
One of the stage directions in Lynn
Foster’s There Is No Armour (Mulga
Publications) is significant of a funda-
mental weakness in the play:
Elizabeth ( suddenly realising that every-
one is' on tenterhooks, and striking like
a cobra): What’s wrong with everyone?
What’s wrong with this is the cobra.
Miss Foster is writing about station life
in Australia, and it would obviously be
more appropriate for Elizabeth to
strike like an Australian snake. In itself
the slip' is nothing; but it points to the
fact that the author has not really fixed
her eyes on the Australian landscape.
She is not breathing its dust or its sun-
shine as she writes; not hearing the bel-
lowing of its cattle or the bleating of its
sheep or the singing of its magpies; not
seeing the long pastures in their spring
green or summer brown, nor the blue
haze of its distances; she does not hold
in her left hand the crushed leaf of a
gum-tree or a bit of the red earth.
The play is wholly concerned with a
station called Minnabooka, but one does
not really learn anything about the prop-
erty. Its history, yes ; but not the feel,
the look, the life of the land itself. The
word Minnabooka —the theme of the
play is a family’s willing and unwilling
bondage to the land over four genera-
tions —occurs almost in every sentence ;
but when the sheep are being shorn at
Minnabooka the dialogue runs:
Fred: There’s no need to worry, Grand-
father. The day went well. No trouble
at all.
James: This is the first time I’ve missed
the shearing, Fred.
Fred: It’s time you had a rest. We’ve
got to earn our keep, you know.
And that is absolutely all that is said
about the shearing; which, in a story of
station life, should be an occasion of
some moment.
There are references, it is true, to
snakes, fire, flood, drought and the other
customary phenomena of country life,
but these are very lightly sketched in;
trappings, decorations, rather than an
integral part of the picture. The result
is that Minnabooka, instead of be-
coming in the reader’s mind a symbol
of the whole rich life of the Australian
earth, seems more like the name of some
curious heathen divinity the family is
compelled to worship.
That, of course, is Miss Foster’s theme.
She presents it clearly and strongly
through a complicated chronicle-play
that must have been difficult to write;
but she has concentrated too much on the
symbol, instead of presenting the actuality
—the family’s love for a specific bit of
land.
There is the same symbolic vagueness
in the theme that runs counter to the
love for Minnabooka throughout the
play—the desire of certain members of
the family to escape from it. The author
never specifies what they want to escape
to ; where they will go ; what precisely
they will do: merely, in a large, vague
way, they want to be “free.” So once
again one is given the picture of the
peculiar aboriginal deity Minnabooka
from whose dread clutches these rebel-
lious spirits yearn to escape.
In conception There is No Armour
may owe something to the novel Gone
with the Wind. The dominating old
woman Elizabeth who holds the land
and the family together (and who is sym-
bolised as a kind of incarnation of the
station) has a considerable resemblance
to Scarlett O’Hara in old age. She has
long been a familiar figure in Hollywood
films, and is probably descended from
Betsy Trotwood. Miss poster has handled
her with spirit and (the play has been
performed by Sydney Independent
Theatre) her comedy speeches should be
effective.
Which is also true of the play as a
whole. Costume and settings would help
to solidify, as it were, the station life,
and, in spite of the fundamental unreality,
the situations are interesting, the charac-
ters pleasing and the writing unusually
capable and lively. A scene in which a
child receives a thrashing should be
deleted; not because it is harrowing in
the Victorian manner, but because the
author is not fully aware of the psycho-
logical significance of what she presents
as comedy.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
A Performance of “Macbeth”:
Edward Smith, who played Macduff at the
first night of “Macbeth” at Sydney Indepen-
dent, was good enough to satisfy the most
exacting critics, and gave quite the best piece
of acting of the night. He was vital, forth-
right and, vigorous without once becoming
merely boisterous. Ivor Bromley Smith’s Mac-
beth was not quite Shakspeare’s. Stormy parts
seem to suit him, but he could have profited
by some of Smith’s restraint. When he came
to “ it is a tale Told by an idiot, full of
sound and fury, Signifying nothing” he did not
make the obvious mistake of shouting the last
word like a war cry; but instead of saying it
leadenly he couldn’t resist a snarl. The rest
of the cast were good but not outstanding,
and the stage management was effective, with
few hitches. One was rather through an excess
of care than lack of it. After the murder
of Banquo the hall was dramatically plunged
into darkness so impenetrable that the three
murderers who were in the act of carting the
corpse away fell down the steps, corpse and all.
Another faintly ludicrous scene was the entry
of the English army. Old Siward and his
henchmen marched on to the stage with a semi-
martial gait oddly reminiscent of a march past
of the Egyptian constabulary or the Albanian
Home Guard.
“Cauboy”: The theatrical intelligentsia
of Melbourne were surprised to learn, on
the word of Beresford Fowler, that
a recent performance by his Art Theatre
Players of “Othello” was the first un-
expurgated version of a Shakspearean
play to be staged in Australia. Mr.
Fowler should know, since he has been
producing the Bard’s works almost as
far back as anybody can remember. The
redoubtable Allan Wilkie always made
extensive deletions, either on supposedly
dramatic grounds or on moral. An indig-
nant patron of Mr. Fowler wrote
to the “Age” complaining that speeches
of lago must have sounded unpleas-
antly on many ears, “even though
written by a poet justly famed for the
most beautiful and noble language in our
literature.” But Shakspeare was trying
to describe something, not to please the
prudish, and he couldn’t have described
lago by making him talk like a Sunday-
school teacher.
At the talkies:
“Tonight and Every Night” (Sydney State):
Musical in color. For once the belief that
a musical must be a comedy, with a dull, heavy
comedian of the Andy Devine type emitting
machine-made wisecracks, has been tossed over-
board. This one is inclined to the dramatic,
the theme being the determination of manage-
ment and cast to keep a London theatre open
right through the blitz. The comedy which
does intervene on occasion takes the form of
vaudeville acts, the best being some clever
dancing by Marc Platt the accompanying
“music” a Hitler speech. Settings are
beautiful and original, and there is a gratifying
absence of herds of limelight-hogging discord-
makers led by a “famous” dance-band maestro.
The hidden orchestra is good, and it plays
quite a few tuneful numbers. Rita Hayworth
and Janet Blair as two showgirls bring the
house down with a witty duet, sung while clad
in very unglamorous heavy combinations.
“Old Acquaintance” (Savoy, Melbourne):
An admirably-done study by John Van Druten
of. the eternal problem of the woman who is
torn between loyalty to her best friend and
her interest in the best friend’s husband.
There is no better actress than Bette Davis when
she gets an intelligent part, and she gives a
living picture of the woman whose self-sacrifice
lands everybody in disaster.
Mo has only to walk on to the stage
to raise a laugh in “Laughing Room
Only,” at the Tiv,, Melbourne, but the
bill lacks the first fine careless rapture of
previous programmes. A gent, who suc-
ceeds in accommodating the mouthpieces
of two saxophones at once murders the
muse of music, and every time the corpse
revives it is massacred once more by a
lady whose affection for the microphone
almost amounts to an obsession. A por-
tent of the times is a racing ballet, in
which Mo wins the Cup or something by
a neck.
On Art and Nature:
It is not a fact that the sky over Lane Cove
River, near Sydney, is made of blue ink, noi
that the river runs green ink; consequently
Enid Cambridge’s impression of the locality
among her water-colors at the Macquarie Gal-
leries fails to provide the chief pleasure of
landscape painting, which is that of recognising
the rightness of the work, just as one recog-
nises the rightness of some inspired phrase
of Shakspeare’s. Enid Cambridge’s is not an
art which seeks a fresh revelation of the
beauties and dramas of the earth, but one
which insists that the landscape, wherever she
goes, must conform to her prearranged ideas
of color and design; so that, viewing her pic-
tures as a whole, one does not feel, as one
should, how much the Australian countryside
resembles an Enid Cambridge water-color,
but only how much one Enid Cambridge
water-color resembles another.... or resembles
the paintings of Cezanne, as diluted by the
present school of English water-colorists.
Sometimes, as when a couple of pine trees in
“Hartley Valley” suit the smudgy and inky
technique, or when the leafless willows in
“Bare Trees” suit the method of leaving streaks
of pencil or charcoal all over the painting,
there is a genuine contribution to the under-
standing of nature; sometimes, as m Boats at
Evening,” where the small craft are nicely
painted, there is an effective bit of observation
before inspiration gives way to mannerism m
the smeary sky; sometimes, as in the sketcn
of Scotland Island, where boats are floating
on pale-green water, a whole painting, it pale
and hasty, comes near enough to succeeding,
and sometimes, as in the Lane Cove sketch,
the colors, if unreal, are pleasing aesthetically.
But, generally, Miss Cambridge is painting not
nature but a fantasy; and that fantasy is too
dim and too vague to be attractive in its own
right. It is noticeable that she is happier with
English trees —the pine and the leafless willow
—than with the Australian gums, which too
often are represented as an indeterminate blob.
The 36th annual exhibition of the Mel-
bourne Society of Women Painters at the
Athenaeum is the usual mixture. Lina
Bryans has an “Old Road, Templestowe,
and “Boats on the River” which are
painted with vigor; Dora Serle strikes a
bright note in “June Sunshine, and^ there
is sincerity in P. Hurry’s “Still Lite.


o.
Q
Oo*
©
m
wp
i
Q*
r\
O 0
DEA
A
• • •
-fi-H
SONIA ,
o Is®
/a
GOLLIWOG"?
«
H
« *
W
□
■ ra
MOS6Y
BIMBO
MW
::
O
mm
ari
fl
ii
■■*'■</
#
o
on
O
m
u
A
A f
"V*
CORALie
1
00l /
I:
■
3»
r Jl
• ~’
a
o
o*
DEANNA - - -
SONIA
GOLLYWOG
BIMBO
TOPSY
MOGGY
CORALIE - - -
JEEPS
ANGUS
TEDDY
21” Dressed Doll. Pattern and mask, 3/6. Felt
and filling, 10/1. Total 13/7
16” Skating Doll. Pattern and mask, 2/9. Felt
and filling, 4/9. Total 7/6
18” Black Doll. Pattern and mask, 2/9. Felt
and filling, 6/9. Total 9/6
16” Bear. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and filling, 5/3.
Total 7/-
20” Black Doll. Pattern and mask, 3/6. Felt
and filling, 10/6. Total 14/-
The Cat. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and lifting, 4/3.
Total 6/-
17” Dressed Doll. Pattern and mask, 2/9. Felt
and filling, 8/11. Total 11/8
10” Dog. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and filling, 4/3.
Total 6/-
Scotch Terrier Dog. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and
filling, 4/3. Total 6/-
Toy Bear. Pattern, 1/9. Felt and filling, 5/3.
Total . 7/-
Sufficient pieces of felt for making, in suitable
colours, will be sent in each case.
TOPSY
JEEPS"
f
s^CCSd-


Written at Changi Prisoner-of-war Camp
LAUGHING GUNNER
By GEOFF BINGHAM
THEY began calling him
“Tiger” after a while. Not
that there was any reason
for it. Alan started it:
“He’s a tiger,” said Alan; “a
tiger with the thing.”
He was, too, but the word “tiger” in
that context is slang. Not that we didn't
use slang—we did. Even the kid called
“Tiger” used it, but it was not often he
spoke, not very often.
He was queer that way. In the Army
you find it hard enough to stop some
chaps talking. They want to go on and
on, and it means putting a drink into
them, or, if they’re sick, a thermometer.
No, they won’t stop, and it’s no use
giving them a drink either, when you
think it over, because they only talk a
lot more. Young “Tiger” didn’t talk
very much ; not much.
To look at him you’d think he’d do a
lot of talking. He was a good-looking
kid in his own way, and one you’d think
the girls would fall for, but you’d be
wrong. They shied away from him, as
though maybe there was something queer
about him. When you thought about
it, too, there was something queer
about him. He didn’t like people, and
they didn’t cotton on to him ; not quickly.
I liked him, but maybe I like most
people ; I don’t know. I liked “Tiger”
because there was something about him
I admired. Men don’t like a fellow who
keeps to himself, but “Tiger” was so
young that they thought he shouldn’t be
in the Army, and that would excuse any
faults he had. It wasn’t as though
“Tiger” worried very much about any
thoughts they had about him. He was
just self-sufficient, I suppose.
Sometimes I would catch him looking
at someone, and there would be a strange
gleam in his eyes. I don’t rightly know
what it meant. Even now I don’t know
what it meant, but then it’s hard to know
these things.
“If he wants to be left alone,” said
Alan, “then leave him alone.”
“I think we should pal up with him
a bit,” Jon said; but after a while they
all left him alone. They stopped saying
things to him, too.
At first they used to gig him on his
parade-ground work. He just couldn’t
march. Put him with a column of men
and you would see his legs moving
against the easy swing of the platoon.
Everyone in step except “Tiger,” and he
walked along sublimely ignorant of the
error of his step. Men hated marching
behind him, because they trod on his
heels; or in front of him, because he
trod on theirs. To see him with a rifle
would make you groan. Clumsy and awk-
ward it was in his hands, and it sent a
shiver through you to see him slope arms
or order arms or present arms. Officers
and non-commissioned officers tore their
hair trying to show him how to do it,
but with no avail. He just plugged along
—go your way, I’ll go my way—and what
could you do about it? Everyone gave
up trying.
They would keep him off the big
parades—you know, where you present
arms to a big shot with brass around his
hat. Yes, they were careful to keep him
off those, and yet I have seen sergeant-
majors nearly go mad when at the last
moment he would wander on to the
parade-ground, a vacant look on his face,
and his rifle trailing behind him, and
maybe a puttee trailing, too, and his but-
tons all undone.
In his eyes there would be an empty
look, and his face would be devoid of
expression. He comprehended none of
our urgent gestures. The sergeant-major
would look at him with agonised expres-
sion, and in a painful whisper would
mutter. “Get him off quickly, quickly.
I’ll go mad if he doesn’t. I’ll kill him,
that’s what I’ll do. I’ll kill him.” Some-
one would race over to “Tiger” and lead
him away. It seemed a pity, but there
it was.
You’d say he was no good for anything,
and at that time you wouldn’t have been
wrong. It was only when we started on
machine-gun work that the change came.
YOU should have seen that boy on the
machine-guns. It was uncanny the
way he picked up knowledge about them.
Any kind of machine-gun or sub-machine-
gun. He liked the Vickers the best.
When the lectures started he was there
first. He never turned up late for m.-g.
classes. He was first with the answers,
too. Knew everything there was to know
about rates of fire and lines and fields
of fire, and how many parts there were
to a Lewis, and he could dissemble and
reassemble with his eyes closed, and beat
even the experts. Yes, he was a “tiger”
on them, as Alan said.
If the lecturer asked about enfilading
fire and effective ranges, and questions
like that, then the class could sit back
and listen to “Tiger.” He knew. He
seemed to be in his element. The rest
of us h'; did not see. We did not count.
It was the machine-gun he liked. His
hand would creep over it in a caressing
way.
“That kid ain’t natural,” Alan whis-
pered to me.
I muttered something about no soldier
being natural, but he was right. There
was something strange about this young
fellow. I learned to become proficient
with m.-gs., but even now they don’t thrill
me, not even their stirring songs ; most of
us were like that.
1 When we went on board the transport
that took us to Malaya the platoon ser-
geants were busy giving the men their
bayonet drill, and you could see and hear
them trying to work up the troops.
“Point!” they would yell in a loud
voice. “Withdraw!” they would scream,
and then in a fury, “Point! Withdraw!
Point! Withdraw!” and the men would
be nearly mad with imagination, and the
bayonets would be like grim white flames.
And yet “Tiger” did not like the bayonet
any more than he liked the rifle. It was
queer when you came to think of it. In
the end they left him with his machine-
guns, and if you went up on to the top
deck you would see him there day and
night, staring over the sight, and at night
when the moon came out you could see
him, white and pale, as he searched for
aircraft.
The sergeant who wanted him to point
and withdraw was disgusted at “Tiger’s”
unseeing indifference. “Hell!” he would
say. “Call that a soldier!”
. “You should see him on the Vickers,”
said Jon, and after that the sergeant left
him alone. They forgot all about him
when we drew into Singapore.
Later when the war broke out they
remembered him. They put him on to
a Vickers right down on the Mersing
Beach, The chaps in that show remember
how open the beach was to attack, and
how “Tiger” fired laughing at a Jap aero-
plane that came nosing towards the yellow
sand. The aeroplane dived angrily at
him, but he only laughed and kept firing.
When the bomb landed near him he went
further along the beach and still kept
firing.
After that show we went to Singapore
Island. Things were grim there, much
different from the east coast, and all day
long the great ack-acks thumped away at
the sky. We were short of ’planes there.
The Japs had plenty, and they bombed
our positions on the north-west sector of
the island, and across the Straits of J chore
boomed about five hundred field guns,
and they landed one quarter of a million
shells in our sector in just about twenty-
four hours. Still we crouched in our
weapon pits and m.-g. nests, and we
waited. We knew they would come, and
in the end they did come.
"THEY came on Sunday night. The
I guns sang death into the yellow
hordes as they tumbled from their
armored barges into the water. The water
was dark with their dead, and our guns
sang loudly and madly, with a kind of
maniacal song. Sometimes it was an angry
mutter, and sometimes just a stammer
that died and was still.
After a while the guns were not sing-
ing. We just crouched over them and
we had tommy-guns over our shoulders
so that we could be ready if the guns
jammed. “Tiger” was close to the water,
and we could hear his gun and then the
others came through, those who had run
their guns hot or jammed them. Nod-
ding as they passed us, they left us bent
over our guns. There was no glory in
their eyes, and they seemed weary to
death. “Tiger” had come back with
them, and his gun was in an empty pit
near ours. Then the enemy came
through.
They had their old stunts of throwing
crackers, and screaming, but we were
ready for that. “Tiger’s” gun spoke first
in a crackle of joy, and then it became
a steady thrumming of some song of
death, his fingers holding it until they
ached. That was only to begin with, and
then the Vickers raked the long lalang
and the barbs that twirled and twisted
through the short rough scrub. The hil-
locks were kept clear of the enemy. They
jammed up against the wires. They
writhed in the now grey grass.
We were tired with weaving bando-
Hers into the guns, and snapping new
magazines into the Bren. The guns be-
came hot and sang their unending hatred
into the face of the enemy. Someone
had a tommy-gun, and it was doing good
work even at its range. Then our gun
jammed, and in the heat of it all we could
do nothing.
“We’ll have to get out of it,” yelled
Jon, and he grabbed his rifle with the
bayonet of white flaming steel above it.
He picked up a lump of iron and smashed
into the gun. After that we went quickly
because there was a hail of fire near us.
Alan, who had the Bren, fell and I
grabbed him. Jon said in a terrible voice
“Hell, they’ve got him.” After that he
cursed, but it was no good. He was
done for.
Only after we got away a bit did we
hear the other gun still singing, and Jon
said “Good God! That’s Tiger’ and his
gun! ”
I said “Maybe it’s just ‘Tiger.’ I
don’t know about the crew,” And we
were silent.
“He’s a fool!” Jon said, and we both
knew that, but didn’t like to think about
it at all.
We heard the gun for some time, and
then things were hot, and we lost the
sound of it. Jon and I spent the night
on the aerodrome. We had a tin of
bully-beef between us.
Next morning we saw “Tiger.” He
just stared at us. Our gun jammed, we
told him. He just nodded. “I knew
that,” he said ; nothing more.
Jack, who had been with him, told us
the other men had been killed and
“Tiger” had told him to go if he wanted
to. They had plenty of ammunition, and
“Tiger” was prepared to stay. Mad but
brave. The enemy had swung about on
their flank, and although things were
pretty thick they had managed to get
away.
“Nearly too late,” Jack had said ; and
then, softly to us., “He’s mad!”
/'“'NN the Wednesday night the enemy
came through and cut off our com-
pany. We did not know until suddenly
we heard their crackers and cries and
realised they were on our right flank.
We wondered if they would swing
across our front and then push us round.
They didn’t, but then we heard them on
our left flank, and we knew that was the
end. Jon and I looked at each other
and we were pretty sick, and then after
a moment or so the reiaforcement we
had on our gun just turned over and
groaned. He was dead.
The other chap said “They’ll get us.”
“So what!” said Jon savagely. “What
if they do?”
The reinforcement said nothing, but
looked unhappy. Then “Tiger’s” gun began
to spit, and we knew they were there.
We set ours spitting, too, so that the two
guns were singing a twin song, a rising
and falling song which had the tone of
madness through it, a sort of divine
ecstasy, a fearful joy. I heard it most in
the song of “Tiger’s” gun, and I shivered,
knowing I would never forget it.
The rounds were heating the gun, and
I was praying the heat wouldn’t seize it;
it didn’t. If it had we would have had
to leave “Tiger” and his gun aloue, and
we knew what that meant. It was all or
nothing here, and no soldier wants to die.
He wants to fight maybe, but not to die.
“Tiger” had two men on the gun with
him, but only one was in our view. A
moment later and he was over to us,
reporting progress. We saw him crawl-
ing through the grass, and then his sharp
excited tones told us all. The other man
was killed and “Tiger” wanted more
ammo. It was madness for us both to stay
there. It needed only one gun on this
short front. Maybe we could get through.
“Tiger” wanted to stay. Our ammo, would
do him. We’d better move pretty quick.
Jon took the gun, and I looked across
to where “Tiger” was. There was a red
glow from some fire or other, maybe a
burning dump, and I could see his face.
It was set with an intense joy such as I
have never seen on any man’s face. He
was staring ahead with the pale red light
flickering up into the set hollows of his
cheeks. The gun in his hands was sing-
ing the joy of the man, and the joy was a
terrible one.
Involuntarily I shuddered at this ter-
rible magnificence. No awkwardness
now ; no blundering on to parades and
being taken off. He was a man who was
a god, laughing at danger because he was
seized with the divine madness
of death. This was not death,
but life; as if the unhappiness
of the years he had known had
reached some wild climax that
was happiness. Here was the
joy he might never know again.
I gave the ammo, to the gunner, and he
went across with it to the pit. I saw him
crawl through the grass, and then I turned
to Jon. “He’ll stay there,” I said. “He’ll
.stay there till crack of doom, We’d better
get out!”
“Maybe that’s being a coward,” said
Jon, and it was hard to read his voice.
“Maybe,” I said, “but he’ll stay there
even if we don’t and he wants us to go.
There’s only ammo, for one gun.”
“I see,” said Jon, and his hand was
still on the trigger. For a moment, which
might have been years, I looked across at
the man who had been a misfit. Then
he had seemed but a boy, but now he was
full with his years and the glory was
through his face. With each rise and
fall of the mad song of his gun his joy
pulsed through him,
“Look,” I said to Jon, and he let the
gun go, looking at him.
“God!” he said sharply, and then the
other gunner was across to us again.
“He said to go,” he whispered excitedly.
“He’s mad ; absolutely dippy. So are we
if we stay.”
“We’ll go,” said Jon quickly, and with
pain in his voice. “Get the gun quickly,”
he said, and we made ready to go. Some-
how I got the ammo, and ran across to
where “Tiger” was. I felt the air thick
with bullets, and I laughed at that because
the madness of the boy reached out to
where I was and drew me with it. Jon
and the other two I could see moving
through the trees. I threw the ammo,
into the weapon pit, and he said “Good”
in an exultant voice, and without turning
his head,
“Luck! ” I said to him, and knew that
was a mad thing to say, and not effec-
tual. He took no notice, and when I
went through the trees I could see the
madness laughing from his face, and
leaping from the gun. “Guts,” I said to
myself, and for a moment was intensely
jealous of his grand courage.
Looking back I saw the smile on his
face, and then I had to run because thou-
sands of the enemy were coming, and
the night was thick with their bullets and
cries. Only a last glimpse I got of him,
crouching over his gun, his finger
pressed on the trigger, and his face laugh-
ing, laughing at the men who were com-
ing to kill him.
The Devil and the Angel (4).
In twilight groves alone with melancholy.
Not giving in to grief but momentarily
Indulging weariness; a faint depres-
sion . . .
This calling-up of souls, in confidence.
Is sometimes — well, I find it rather trying.
Why then I go the wooded walks among
And like some poor young poet muse on
Death - 1
Having a kindly fancy for oblivion.
Enough—l let you in on things Olympian,
Betray the secrets of my high vocation —
Meaning to say I walked alone on Friday.
Still, I have half a mind to tell the story.
Besides a placid pool I paused, reflecting
On my own image in the silent water.
And would have folded up my wings for
ever
In that same dim forgetfulness and dark-
ness,
But heard a sigh from the other slope
and movement.
Looked up, and there beheld the Prince
of Evil
Fixed in a pose of sad soliloquy.
Surprised with downcast eyes and yearn-
ing glances —
Exactly mine I fear one moment since —
Each playing Hamlet to his own reflec-
tion.
We read each other’s thoughts with
recognition,
And neither of us spoke, but in an instant
Plunged backwards by the ways we both
had come.
And yet I think the occasion had much
meaning.
A chance we missed —a gesture and some
humor.
Forgive my introspection in this matter;
I had a restlessness to tell the story.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3428
Wednesday, October 24, 1945
THE HAUNTED HOUSE.
“The Australian housewife, prey of black-marketeers, profiteers and strikers and plagued with queues, is an unacknowledged victim of the war.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
X 7 Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria; Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings topp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 4? Fleet Street.
London. E.C.4.
INFECTION ON THE BORDER
The tale being told in interested “Aus-
tralian” quarters— i.e., Communist quar-
ters-~is that the Indonesian crisis has its
origin in a starvation regimen fathered
by a brutal and greedy Dutch tyranny.
It is “supported” in the Communist
fashion by an array of “facts” which,
when sifted, prove to be malicious false-
hoods or half-truths taken from the pam-
phlets of international Communist agita-
tors like Comrade Gerald Peel, the offi-
cial A.C.P. instructor on British rule in
India, who, according to his own printed
statement of his career, has in a few short
years served the “cause” in Britain, Ger-
many, Sweden, India and now the Com-
monwealth.
A Peel pamphlet, fortuitously ready
for circulation when the first kris
was flourished in Java, attributes the
“low living standards” of the natives
of the East Indies to the “fact” that “the
Dutch policy is the same as that of Im-
perialists the world over: From them that
have let it be taken.” It alleges that “the
growth of industry in Indonesia has been
stifled as usual in a colonial country with
no say in its affairs.” Peel quotes Dixon,
assistant secretary of the “Australian”
Communist party, as pointing out that
“Indonesian exports were round the £225
million mark, whereas imports were
round the £125 million mark,” which
meant (according to Comrade Dixon) that
“Indonesia, with ten times Australia’s
population, imported very little more than
this country, for in 1938-39 Australia’s
imports amounted to £ll4 million.”
Actually this was the N.E.I. position,
expressed in Australian currency, with
the exchange rate between Australia and
Batavia (Jan. 13, 1939) at 6.83 guilders
to the pound:— *
Imports. Exports.
1938 .. .. £73,100,000 £105,000,000
1939 .. .. 77,900,000 116,000,000
With a public debt to be serviced, the
equivalent of £178,000,000 Australian,
there is no evidence of dishonest exploita-
tion in these figures, which are taken, not
from lying Communist publications, hut
from the Statesman’s Year-Book. Still,
it was in no way surprising to hear that
Mr. Anderson, of the N.S.W. Labor
Council, had turned aside from his
task of supporting (after opposing) the
Bunnerong powerhouse strike and pro-
viding a general 40-hour week, the “first
urgent necessity of the post-war period,”
to shout:
It is a reflection on the previous Admin-
istration in the Dutch East Indies that the
standard of living of 70,000,000 in Indo-
nesia is so low. Their trading purchases
have been less than those of Australia,
which has only one-tenth of Indonesia’s
population.
Comrades like Mr. Anderson are mere
echoes of Moscow in thought and phrase.
In sober fact the Indonesians are
among the best-fed Asiatics, nor is
any Asiatic people better cared for
or has a greater measure of liberty. They
are better fed than the average Russian
worker, infinitely better fed than the mil-
lions of Ukrainians who died of famine
in the decade before the war, and than the
several million political slaves who toil
under the whip and bayonet in Holy
Russia.
In any case, it ill becomes the “fol-
lowers” and bosses of a Labor Govern-
ment which has 260 acres of territory per
head of population, and which cannot
guarantee a sufficient supply of potatoes
to its greatest city, to gird at food-
production and -supply in teeming islands
which have only six acres per head of
population. That population has, since
the census of 1920, increased at the rate
of over a million a year. If Indonesia
were administered according to “Labor
principles,” with chronic strikes in
key industries and “controlled” food
distribution under which it is a crime for
an hospitable farmer to give a passing
stranger an egg or an orange, the Indo-
nesian problem would have been solved
many years ago, since all the Indonesians
would long since have been dead.
East Indies vital statistics speak for
themselves. They make nonsense of the
allegation of systematic starvation. “The
greater part of the soil of Java,” which
has much more than two-thirds of the
population, “belongs to and is cultivated
by the natives” {Statesman’s Year-Book).
The basic reason of the Indonesian
troubles arises not from tyranny, because
the kindly Dutch are the least tyrannous
of people, and not from racial discrimi-
nation, because there is none in any real
sense. “Religious liberty is granted to
all denominations” {Statesman’s Year-
Book) and Indonesians are eligible for all
public offices. Local government is almost
entirely in the hands of native civil
servants, and the Volkstraad, which is
partly appointed and partly elected, had,
at the outbreak of war, 30 Indonesian,
five Chinese and Arab and 25 Dutch
members. Actually Indonesians are
eligible even for the Parliament of the
Netherlands itself. To it Netherlands
constituencies have elected East Indies
agitators such as Rustum Effendi and
Sarejono, though the latter, who nomi-
nated on a Communist ticket, and who
since the outbreak of war has been in
Australia hatching his plans with local
Communist leaders, was,unable to take
his seat. At the time he was in jail as the
result of his attempts to promote mischief
and bloodshed.
In Java, as in Australia, the Com-
munist party was founded in 1920. Com-
rade Peel describes what followed in the
Indies:
The years 1920-27 witnessed a very rapid
growth of Communist influence in the
islands. Strikes continued, including a
strike in the State pawnshops in 1922, and
a transport strike in 1923. The Gover-
nor-General took drastic measures. He
restricted the right of assembly and made
it an offence to incite to strike. The main
basis of the working-class movement at this
time was the railway workers and dock-
workers, with some support from planta-
tion workers.
It is all very familiar.
By 1923 the main workers’ organisation
had been Red-anted, but a right-wing
group took control, as it did in exactly
the same year for a time in Australia,
where unionism also had been Red-anted.
The Communists formed a new organisa-
tion, as they later formed the “Minority
Movement” in Australia, and “1925 saw
a new wave of strikes* and lockouts, par-
ticularly at Samarang and Soerabaya, and
from November, 1926, to January, 1927,
there were violent clashes.”
The ultimate result was that 4500 Com-
munists were picked up by the authori-
ties and 1300-odd were sent to a concen-
tration camp on the Digoel River, in
Dutch New Guinea. Some of them
escaped to Australia and were sent back
by the Scullin Government. Out of the
E.I. Communist party there was formed
in 1929 the “National” party, a body,
similar in composition to the “Legal
Rights Association” which appeared in
the Commonwealth when the Communist
party was banned for subversive activities.
Thus the Communist progress has been
achieved along the same courses in Indo-
nesia as in Australia —by means of strikes
organised in “key” unions, Red-anted at
the top —but has moved faster because of
the prime advantages enjoyed by the Indo-
nesian agitators over their Australian
comrades.
One influence has been the tendency of
a primitive type of native to take knife
in hand and run amok, a tendency for
which it is noted throughout Asia. The
other is that while the navies of two
“brutal capitalist Powers,” the British
Commonwealth and the United States,
have kept the soil of Australia free from
actual intrusion by the enemy, the Indo-
nesian Communist has benefited by the
effects of a Japanese invasion. As Com-
rade Peel puts it:
The defeat of Holland (at home) and
then in Indonesia has not enhanced Dutch
prestige among the people, while the Japa-
nese policy of making the Dutch buna
sahibs wash latrines in public, and utterly
to discredit white rule in every way, has
had its effect.
The italics are in the original quotation,
presumably as a mark of the Communist
party’s rejoicing at this humiliation of a
friendly and decent white people which
suffered the twin horrors of German and
Japanese invasion and oppression.
Mr. Attlee’s statement of conditions in
Java during the week has shown that
Japanese generosity to Communist agi-
tators and their tools did not end with
acts calculated to degrade the European,
According to the British P.M., leadership
in the present disturbances was “spon-
sored by the Japanese while the East
Indies were out of touch with the world,”
and in the interregnum between the sur-
render and the arrival of sufficient Allied
forces “the Japanese largely relinquished
control to the Indonesian movement.”
The barbarous results of the Communist-
incited uprising also obviously owe
everything to Japanese example. The
British and Indian officers murdered
while trying to save civilian life were
done to death in exactly the same
horrible manner as the Australian militia-
men captured by the Japanese in New
Britain —shot and hacked to pieces with
knives or bayonets. The record of how,
at Depok, 45 miles south of Batavia,
mobs of fanatics, led by the youths who
are always the spearhead of Communist
disturbance, “wrecked the village and be-
headed with swords seven men and
women who had been lined against a
wall” reads like something out of the
Webb report, and was more horrible be-
cause the victims were compatriots of the
slayers.
The Australian people have a very
deep concern in all this, apart from their
natural anxiety for the fate of the white
women and children and the Australian
prisoners-of-war who may be at the
mercy of furious, fanatical, kris-bearing
ruffians whose hands are already stained
with blood. The events of Indonesia
are taking place in a country whose
borders run with those of Australian ter-
ritory in New Guinea, and are spon-
sored by an international organisation
which aims at the destruction of the
British Empire through the revolt of
native peoples.
It is a Communist axiom that “the ob-
jectives of the world revolution are in-
divisible,” and the plans laid down for
the “liberation” of colonial peoples apply
to the natives of Papua and Mandated
New Guinea as well as to Indonesia.
It is no mere coincidence that on the
day the Australian Communist party
issued its pamphlet on the Indonesian
question it issued a pamphlet on
New Guinea written by Comrade
Laurie, a Communist Opponent of
Mr. Menzies in his electorate and a
prospective nominee for the next elec-
tion. In this the “words of Lenin” that
the “Liberals are hypocritical everywhere,
but it is doubtful whether their hypocrisy
goes to. such lengths and such refinements
as in England,” are applied to the gentle
and benign Murray rule in Papua. The
“argument” is directed against the Austra-
lian and British white “capitalist” in New
Guinea as well as against the Dutch in
Indonesia. It is proclaimed that “it is
the responsibility of the working class to
link their struggle with that of their
colored brothers who are suffering under
capitalist oppression”; and that “the
future of the people of New Guinea is
of vital importance to the Australian
Labor movement because they are
directly exploited by the Australian capi-
talist class” and may be “used against the
rising strength of the Australian working
class.” All this leads to the pressing of
the “right ‘of the people of New Guinea
themselves and none else to decide when
independence is ‘necessary, feasible or
desirable.’ ”
Apart from the fact that New Guinea
is a vital platform for armed attack on
Australia, any agitation for independence
“according to the principles of Leniri and
Stalin” must produce evil effects among
a people still 80 per cent, savage.
Already long-standing residents of the
islands complain that the Ward “policy”
has resulted in a condition of affairs
which makes it unsafe for them to bring
their womenfolk home. It would be in-
teresting if the “responsible” Minister
were to reveal how many natives are at
present held on charges of murder and
atrocity.
Generally speaking, the native is a
faithful fellow when he is treated prop-
erly. His loyalty as a whole has been
demonstrated to the full during the
present war.. But it has been a loyalty
to individuals, whose advice is now being
discarded, and not to a system of gov-
ernment and way of life.
Being without heart or guts “Labor,”
while availing itself of Dutch mercy
ships to bring back Australian prisoners-
of-war, has permitted the Communist-
controlled waterfront unions to, hold up
a fleet of Dutch mercy ships bound for
Indonesia, and in the process to take the
control of Australian relations with the
Dutch out of its hands. It had better
have a care how it permits the extension
of Communist propaganda, on Indonesian
lines, to New Guinea. If lives are lost
in New Guinea through insurrectionary
incitement, it will share the guilt with the
Communists to whom it habitually
crawls.
"Information."
To keep an unnecessary Minister in office,
expenditure on the Department of Infor-
mation, for which there was some color
of excuse while the wars were on, is
being greatly increased now that the wars
are over.
Together with “rents, repairs and fur-
niture, Department of the Interior,” it
amounted, according to the Auditor-
General, to £160,880 in 1942-43 and to
£205,180 in 1943-44. But in that war
year £5256 of the £205,180 was charged
to “Post-war Educational Campaign,”
being actually “incurred in informing the
electors of the affirmative case for consti-
tutional amendments embodied in the
referendum” Dr. Evatt’s. Another
£43,050 was debited to “Post-war Educa-
tional Campaign” during the period to
the end of January, 1945. The Auditor-
General’s note on these barefaced tran-
sactions closed with a curt statement:
“I regret that I am unable to accept that
sufficient Parliamentary authority exists
to charge the appropriation for Post-war
Educational Campaign with expenses
relating to the referendum.”
With nothing down for “post-war edu-
cation” this year, though a lot of noisy
people want another referendum, “Infor-
mation” is to cost £326,000, or more than
twice the amount spent in the most criti-
cal war year. Judging by recent perform-
ances, a great part of it will go in en-
lightening the people of the United States
as to the views of the Chifley Govern-
ment and its hierarchy of officials and the
already well-advertised genius of Dr.
Evatt.
A “summary” issued on August 14 by
“the Australian News and Information
Bureau, 610 Fifth-avenue, New York, an
agency of the Government of the Com-
monwealth of Australia,” is presumably
typical:—
AUSTRALIANS SEE SLIGHT IN PEACE
NEGOTIATIONS.
Negotiation of the Japanese surrender
terms is being criticised freely in high Aus-
tralian Government circles. Officials in
Canberra point out that while Australia
was told only perfunctorily about the Berne
note and given no proper time to study it
or suggest amendments, Japan was appar-
ently given unlimited time to decide its
attitude. They regard this as cursory treat-
ment of Australia, which has a war record
in the Pacific second only to the United
States’. External Affairs Minister Herbert
V. Evatt, with the full support' of Cabinet,
has declared that Emperor Hirohito may
be a major war criminal, who should be
tried accordingly. The Government has no
fault to find with the actual peace terms,
but is concerned at the interpretation that
can be placed upon them. The Govern-
ment’s attitude has been made known to
the Allied Governments and consultations
have been proceeding.
No doubt there was a full issue of
“information” from the same quarter
about the other grievous wounds inflicted
on Australia in the person of Dr. Evatt
—how he wasn’t consulted about the
Potsdam ultimatum which preceded the
dropping of the Hiroshima bomb (as if
he could have been!), how he “objected
to ‘the unilateral orders’ which President
Truman gave for the occupation of
Japan,” how the Dominions Office con-
spired with the Foreign Office to leave
Australians out of the surrender cere-
mony in Tokyo Bay, and how on that
account there had to be another appeal
“without any inhibitions” from Can-
berra to Washington, which righted the
wrong. And it is improbable that
“the Australian News and Information
Bureau, 610 Fifth-avenue, New York”
(a most expensive address), was behind-
hand when “Australia claimed the right
to participate in the proceedings of the
Council of Foreign Ministers” and
“received an assurance from the”
humbled “British Government that it
supported Australia’s claim to take an
active part in the Council’s work,” with
the result that Mr. Chifley nominated
Dr. Evatt as “a special representative
able to speak with authority on behalf
of the Government” and to consummate
“a mission of even greater importance
than the very successful war-time mis-
sions he has undertaken abroad.”
But it will be beyond the power of
the Australian News and Information
Bureau or any other collection of press-
agents to induce the Americans to believe
that Dr. Evatt’s “mission” was not a flop.
The Council of Foreign Ministers was
itself a flop, made so by Moscow’s
return to double-crossing and its insist-
ence on the pacification of Europe, or
the part of Europe not immediately
marked down for Sovietisation, being a
Three-Power business. Dr. Evatt’s
“active part in the Council’s work” con-
sisted of one brief visit, made as
member of a party of small-Power men
whose representations were all ignored.
There is pressing work for the wan-
dering Minister at home, Here he has
to answer for his part in the Australia
First cases and for the breakdown of his
litter of National Security regulations os-
tensibly aimed at obliging men in key
industries, all “reserved” by his Govern-
ment in war-time, to perform their moral
and legal obligations. He has chosen
instead to repair to America to take part
in the Ten-Power Commission which is
to advise General MacArthur how to
manage affairs in Japan. At least it was
to have been a Ten-Power Commission,
the Philippines being one of the
“Powers,” but Russia, demanding Four-
Power control of Japan, has taken the
huff, and —probably out of consideration
for General MacArthur, who very war-
rantably fears that a profusion of unsoli-
cited advice from a babel of politicians
will spoil his job by causing him to lose
“face” —New Zealand has decided not
to be represented. At latest, the U.S.
Government had resolved on a postpone-
ment, giving the wandering Minister an-
other excuse for absenting himself from
the anarchy reigning in “the new pro-
vince for law and order” which is his
direct concern as Attorney-General.
In point of fact, Australia—meaning
the nation, not a set of politicians
dressed in a little brief authority is
grateful to General MacArthur for the
brilliant job he has done in Japan.
Though its name was dragged in, it was
guiltless of the disgraceful Left-Wing
attacks on him which were repeated in
the Sydney morning papers, and would
hate to see him forced out of his posi-
tion as Supreme Commander by political
meddling. Australia is grateful also to


the United States for bringing the war
to a sudden close, thereby saving the lives
of great numbers of its fighting men and
prisoners-of-war. It is grateful likewise
to the British authorities for returning so
many of these men in aircraft-carriers as
well as fast passenger ships when the
Australian Government, left to its own
resources and devices (contemptible
whenever waterfront strikers and loafers
are concerned), would have landed itself,
and with it the fighting men and the
prisoners-of-war, in a hopeless mess. A
tardy expression of this gratitude, deeply
felt by the people who throng the ports
to meet home-coming sons, husbands and
brothers and learn from them how well
they were treated aboard the ships flying
the brave old ensigns, was made at the
week-end by the Prime Minister to
Admiral Bruce Fraser, being in the
admiral’s company as guest.
Not all the “fat” marketed at 610 Fifth-
avenue is reserved for Dr. Evatt. Mr.
Chifley comes in for his share, as wit-
ness a “summary” issued on July 27:
Chifley Reveals Aussies’ New Role in
Pacific War.
Australian forces will fight in the main
offensive against Japan and in the libera-
tion of Malaya, Prime Minister Joseph B.
Chifley said.
There followed the bits about the re-
duction of the Army “from six to three
divisions” and of “Air Force squad-
rons from 53 to 36,” and the
unspeakably ignoble conclusion “if
possible, an Australian token force
will be associated with British troops
in the recapture of Singapore, where
the Australian Eighth Division was
taken after the fall of the city in Feb-
ruary, 1942.” Fine pabulum for the
Chicago “Tribune! ” Nor is the Minister
of Information neglected, A 2500-wofd
“release,” marked “for publication not
before 8 p.m. on August 1,” consisted
wholly of a cabled statement by Mr, Cal-
well on immigration. Lord, Lord, how
this crowd wastes the people’s money!
PLAIN ENGLISH
Two Stories.
Commonwealth Labor Ministers are
telling two stories about shipping with
an exuberance and apparent conviction
worthy of a better cause.
One story is addressed particularly to
servicemen in the northern islands and
beyond and to their families, longing for
a sight of them. It is to the effect that
there is a world-wide shipping shortage,
nowhere more acute than in these parts,
since they are so distant and there are
so many calls on the pool. So if meals
are not as sumptuous as they were the
week before the Commonwealth election
(though this is not admitted) and if
Diggers have to be kept in their tropical
paradise a trifle longer than they would
prefer to stay, it is no fault of the Gov-
ernment’s. “Every shipping service is now
a Government service,” and the Govern-
ment is doing marvels: requisitioning
every ship in sight or within radio call
and turning ’em round with miraculous
celerity so that the needs of every Digger,
homing or on garrison duty, may be
satisfied.
The other story is intended for general
consumption. It is, in substance, that
waterfront holdups don’t mean a thing.
There was one of these holdups in
Hobart which rendered that port idle
for three weeks. There have been others
in Sydney affecting a far greater number
of ships (one, the August M. Merriman,
booked to take supplies for the troops at
Morotai and Labuan, was held up for 18
days), and there has been the additional
affair of the 14 Dutch vessels which were
to have carried £32,000,000 worth of sup-
plies to Java and Sumatra, a merciful
traffic vetoed by Communists, the “Gov-
ernment” acquiescing.
And there was the chartering of the
Esperance Bay to carry 1300 or 1400 of
“our Indonesian comrades,” farewelled
in Sydney by Communists (complete with
“Republican” flag) and white wives and
lady friends, to ports approved of by Mr.
Calwell, whose Administration has an
amazing notion of its obligations to
accredited and friendly Governments.
And there was the waterside strike against
the A.U.S.N. at Townsville, which re-
sulted in there being no union labor for
the discharge of the Katoomba when she
put in from New Guinea with five-year
Sixth Division men from Wewak, though
“the ban was lifted later,” the union
being so highminded. And Newcastle
coal-trimmers and Communist-controlled
seamen calling at Melbourne have
brought shipping to a halt on their own
account, an effect of one of the Mel-
bourne pleasantries being that “nearly 600
Tasmanian p.-0.-w. and service personnel
on leave or about to be discharged were
stranded on the mainland, some of them
for more than a week.”
But the No. 2 Ministerial story is that
all these stoppages and diversions are
immaterial. They don’t delay by an hour
the provisioning of Diggers in the islands
or the repatriation of those listed for
immediate return, whether five- or six-
year men or prisoners-of-war.
The “Government” spinning these
yarns can’t have it both ways, but evi-
dently it thinks it can.
Victorian Puzzle.
Politically, the Victorians are the
soberest people on the mainland, and
they inhabit the most compact part of it.
Yet their State elections have a freakish
quality matched nowhere else.
For upwards of twenty years there
have always been at least three parties in
the field. None has ever gained a
majority of its own or ever looked like
getting one. Now and then the Labor
party has polled a majority of votes, but
it has never had much more than a third
of the seats. For eight years it kept a
Country-party Government in office, and
during all that period Melbourne, with
more than half the number of State
electors, was without representation in
the Ministry.
At present there is a so-called care-
taker Government, composed of Liberals,
Independents and a Country-party man.
This gentleman and the Liberals have
been repudiated by their parties. The
caretaker Government hasn’t a China-
man’s chance of surviving the election,
and the fondest hopes of the Premier,
Mr. who has been almost
everything by turns and nothing very
long, run to retaining his seat against
Liberal and Labor opposition.
All the confusion results from a sac-
rifice of principle. In a State with adult
suffrage and a well distributed popula-
tion there is no valid argument against
votes having the same value, with a fair
margin in scattered electorates. The
principle has been rejected by the
Country party, and the other parties have
never insisted on it. Nowhere in the
English-speaking world have electorates
been so ill-distributed.
After much turmoil in each party-
room, a “reform” measure was agreed to.
It provides for “approximate quotas of
25,000 electors for each metropolitan
district, 19,500 electors for each urban
district” (Geelong, Ballarat and Ben-
digo) “and 13,800 electors for each
country district, with a general margin
of allowance of 10 p.c. above or below
the quota and of 15 p.c. below in the
case of a sparsely-populated district.”
The general effect is to give Melbourne
32 members, six more than hitherto (the
total is 65), but Melbourne will still be
under-represented.
The general election is to be held on
November 10. The only thing certain
about it is that the caretaker Government
will go. There may be a Labor Govern-
ment or a C.P.-Liberal Government with
or without a majority, “without” being
the greater possibility in either case.
A commendable alternative would be
an elective Ministry. Admittedly, none
of the parties is that way inclined. Yet,
except in their periods of strife, their
relations are pretty good, and when a
member is struck down by illness or
death they seem rather like a band of
brothers. Indeed, though the product of
an unjustifiable electoral system, this
Assembly is above the Australian aver-
age in intelligence and conduct, and the
standards of debate are certainly not in-
ferior to those of the present House of
Representatives, taken by and large.
Falling in Our Duty.
Shattered Europe is in a condition
which staggers the imagination. Famine
and disease await millions of its popula-
tion in the coming winter. German wel-
fare leaders told the Ailed Control Coun-
cil that 4,500,000 of their people face
death by starvation. Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery has said that he ha 5.20,000,000
people in the British occupation zone and
he doubts “very much if they have the
power to ward off such a disease as
influenza.”
It is not part of my plan to pamper
the Germans On the other hand, I am
not prepared to see widespread famine and
disease sweep over Europe, as it inevitably
must if wc allow hundreds of thousands
of Germans to die.
This was addressed to Monty’s pwn
people, whose own “food situation, by
the testimony of Trevor Smith, an Aus-
tralian journalist from London, has be-
come desperate”:
The people are not getting enough to eat
on any day of the week.... We here have an
abundance of creature comforts and are
eating our heads off... .1 have been offered
here more in one meal than would be
forthcoming in several days in Britain....
The food is here; all sections pf our
people want to send it. Britain will pro-
vide shipping for every ounce we can make
available. The Food Minister told me this
categorically before I left London.
Such is the state of Britain, a victorious
nation. In Eastern Europe, where there
is a vast movement of repatriated and
depatriated peoples, mostly expelled by
Slav Communist “Governments” drunk
with power and cancered with hate, crops
are far below normal. Russia, besides
holding out both hands to U.N.R.R.A., is
seizing everything in sight.
“U.N.R.R.A.,” said the Canadian P.M.,
announcing the reintroduction of meat
rationing in July, “is at its wits’ end in
trying to amass food supplies. It is grab-
bing everything it can that can be pro-
cessed into food: horse-meat, weevil-
infested dried peas, condemned fruits.”
Every day the picture, as revealed by
news items from all over the world, be-
comes steadily worse. The plain truth
is that half the world is starving and star-
vation is spreading. And to starvation
succeeds pestilence, to which the seas
may be no barrier, as Australia found in
the 1919-20 influenza epidemic, during
which 12,000 Australians went west.
Before everything else, Australia is a
food-producing country. It has the capa-
city to feed a thousand million people
and, with the need clear before it, it
might have been expected that the Com-
monwealth Government would long since
have set about satisfying the need. In-
stead of which, though there is a Com-
monwealth Food Control with vast
power, vast sums at its disposal and a
huge staff, together with “controllers” of
practically every commodity the soil can
grow, it is announced that the potato
crop “target” is to be reduced 25 p.c.,
that the Commonwealth will no longer
buy canned and drying classes of mutton,
that beef, butter and.cheese production
is declining and that early joyful estimates
of the coming wheat harvest have had to
be revised downward. Not the slightest
sign of any practical attempt to increase
our food production is evident. Mr. Chif-
ley’s most recent utterances on the sub-
ject were an announcement that Australia
would be “adequately represented” at a
food conference in Canada.
As the political head of this Common-
wealth he should be announcing great
measures for the relief of Britain, as the
Canadian and South African Govern-
ments are doing. That Australians are
anxious to help is shown by widespread
offers to give up meat, butter and sugar
coupons, by the sending of private parcels
(though they are too restricted to be of
much use) and by the launching of an
appeal by the Lord Mayor of Melbourne
for £lOO,OOO worth of food for Britain.
Only a drop in the bucket, but a begin-
ning. Before Australia lies not only a
. sacred duty but a grand opportunity.
Because of “naked selfishness” the one
is being betrayed and the other lost.
Allergic Diseases.
“Galenus”: The opening of a special
clinic at the Liverpool (Eng.) Ear, Nose
and Throat Infirmary, for the treatment
of allergic diseases, provides an example
which might well be followed in Aus-
tralia, Much valuable research work
has been done on the subject by our own
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories, but
much more is needed, particularly on the
clinical side and for the determination
of the precise genc,.c factors involved.
Thousands of Australians are made
miserable at intervals by one or other
form of allergic ailment, and in a sub-
stantial proportion of cases they are dis-
abled intermittently from work for days
or weeks. Some become chronic invalids.
Respiratory conditions, such as “hay
fever” and asthma, are the commonest;
skin troubles are often allergic in origin;
headaches and even epilepsy may arise
from allergens, and almost any form of
digestive disorder may be caused by par-
ticular foods to which the victim happens
to be allergic. Plant pollens, particularly
rye-grass, house-dust, feathers, kapok, furs
and horse-dandruff, are all known causes
amongst susceptible people. Cat-asthma
—Lord Roberts was a victim to it —is
another form ; the mere presence of a
cat in the house will bring on an attack
in a disposed person. Other unfortunates
react similarly to dogs.
Anyone who feels like doing a bit of
really useful endowment would have an
excellent opportunity in following the
Liverpool lead at onO of our big city
hospitals, with the addition of a well-
equipped special laboratory and a couple
of properly-paid research scholarships.
Onus on Providence.
“The outcome of the barley crop is in the
hands of the Almighty; till that is assured no
consideration can be given to increasing the
civilian quota of beer.” —Senator Keane.
It was Homer, I think, who was first to
aver
There are certain events that can only
occur
Through celestial aid and Olympian nods;
That they lie, in his phrase, “on the knees
of the gods.”
And ever since then there are those who
maintain
There are problems which all human
effort is vain
To solve or unravel; such things must
await
The sequels arranged by inscrutable Fate.
And Senator Keane, it’s abundantly clear.
Includes in the list the production of beer.
It’s seldom that he or his colleagues are
stuck
At finding excuses for passing the buck.
At stressing that blame for mishaps
should be thrown
On other chaps’ shoulders instead of their
own.
But shoving the onus on powers divine
For aught that the future to us may assign
Has at least one advantage, you cannot
deny,
Because it can never provoke a reply.
Though the outlook ahead may be ever
so lean.
We’re asked to exonerate Senator Keane.
So, brother, when finding the hops and
the malt
In the bountiful measures you used to
assault
Growing scarcer and smaller and mourn-
fully less
ANOTHER TOTAL AND IGNOMINIOUS SURRENDER.
In the counters whereto you have man-
aged to press,
Don’t rail at the growers of barley and
hops
For failing to harvest more adequate
crops;
Don’t cavil at Keane, for the fault isn’t his,
He tells you, while washing his hands of
the biz
And making it clear that he can’t inter-
fere
With what Heaven decides in relation to
beer. >
Don’t growl at the brewers, it’s well
understood
They’d double their output, if only they
could.
And doubtless quadruple their profits as
well.
Don’t chip at the Bungs. How the deuce
can they sell
Any more of the avidly sought-after stuff
Than they’re able Ho buy. which is little
enough ?
Bethink that kind Providence only can
keep
A watch on the barley for cockles to reap,
And that matters like these, as ts readily
seen,
Are out of the province of Senator Keane,
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, IiTD.
“THE A.C.A ”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St; George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
AUSTRALIAN BOOKS
Signals. Story of the Australian Corps of
Signals. Large handsome illustrated volume.
8/6 (post. 6d.).
Tasmanian Birds. How to identify them. By
Michael Sharland (Tasmanian Museum).
Illustrated. 4/6 (post. 3d.).
These Are My People. Dwellers of the great
outback brought* close to the mind and heart
of the reader. By Alan Marshall. 8/6
(post. 3d.).
Valiant Youth. The Man of the R.A.A.F.
By J. Ce Waters. Illustrated. 12/6 (post.
6d.).
Such Is life. Extracts from the life of Tom
Collins. This Australian classic is recom-
mended by the advisory board of the Com-
monwealth Library Fund, unabridged
edition. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
Champions of the Turf. By Frank O’Loghlen,
with numerous photographs of champion
horses. 4/- (post. 2d.).
Australian Poetry, 1944, Selected by B, J.
Howard. 4/6 (post. 2d.).
Kirsova Australian Ballet. With drawings by
Trevor Clare. 10/6 (post. 6d.).
Coast to Coast. Australian Stories, 1944,
selected by Vance Palmer. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
The River and Other Stories. By Cecil Mann.
6/- (post- 3d.).
Wonders of the Great Barrier Reef. Ey T. C.
Koughley, with 52 natural-color photographs
by the author. A beautiful gift book. 12/6
(post. 9d.).
Place, Taste and Tradition. A study of Aus-
tralian Art since 1788. Over 100 illustrations,
including four in color. 31/- (post. 6d.).
The Australian Language. An examination of
the English Language and English Speech
as used in Australia. By Sidney J. Baker.
437 pages. 21/- (post. 6d.).
The Cousin from Fiji. A novel of Ballarat in
the “Nineties,” by Norman Lindsay. 8/6
(post. 4d.). , „ _
Kurrajong. An Australian novel. By Jane
Lindsay. 7/6 (post. 4d.).
The Background of Eastern Sea Power. By
F B. Eldridge. A study of the develop-
ment in the Pacific and Indian Oceans. Illus-
trated. 18/- (post 6d.). ...
Speak to the Earth. An inspiring story in
the great tradition of the Australian country-
side By Elyne Mitchell, author of “Aus-
tralia’s Alps.” Size, 9i x 7J inches, finely
produced and beautifully illustrated. Won-
derful value. 12/6 (post. 6d.).
Mostly Australian. Interesting essays on
. various subjects relating to Australia. 12/6
(post. 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD., 89 Castlereagh St„ Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Liberals found the just words for
Chifley’s “settlement” of the Bunnerons
powerhouse strike. Said Cr. Cramer, of
the County Council, “The Common-
wealth, its Governments and all its
people have been made to bow the knee
to a group of lawbreakers.” And Menzies
said “The so-called settlement is similar
in all respects to the one which used to
be effected between Mr. Turpin and
coach passengers in the old days of the
high toby.”
Instead of writing his “policy” speech
on a kite or a paper-boat Macfarlan, the
“caretaker” Premier of Victoria, chose to
deliver it in the Brighton Town Hall. In-
terjectors were thrown out at the rate of
one every four minutes until none was
left. The remaining audience listened
quietly to Macfarlan saying a number of
things, one being that “my Ministry will
adopt the Federal system of automatic
redistribution of seats every ten years.”
The Macfarlan Ministry will be out of
its misery in twice ten days.
The international situation has turned
very nasty. There are civil wars in Indo-
China and Indonesia, and one may break
out in Palestine at any moment. And
Russia, refused knowledge of the secret
of atomic-bomb manufacture, is throw-
ing its weight about everywhere, in Korea
and Manchuria as well as Europe, where
it is massing troops in Bulgaria for an
attack on or with the idea of overawing
Turkey, and perhaps Greece. Zhukov
has withdrawn his acceptance of an invi-
tation to visit the U.S.A., perhaps because
Stalin is ill and may be at the point of
death. There was a report that the British
had suspended demobilisation and an-
other that Fleet Air Arm pilots are
being offered £5OO apiece to remain in
the service. The world-wide waterfront
strikes are obviously of Moscow manu-
facture. It is conceivable that Labor will
have to abandon its attitude of complete
prostration in the presence of Commu-
nists, and it ought to be getting its back
rubbed at the very least.
Chifley and McKell ate, it seems, to
“enter into arrangements” for the acquisi-
tion of coalmines in N. S. Wales and the
distribution of the coal produced, with a
guarantee of “full employment” for
coalies. Optical firms are interested, for
microscopes will be needed to discover the
coal obtained under the “agreement.”
With a week to go desperate efforts
are being made to fill the Fourth Vic-
tory Loan. Everybody interested, from
the Prime Minister down, is pleading for
subscriptions. Coinciding with the spring
meeting, a rush of lotteries and a rash of
strikes, the thing is more unfortunate than
any previous loan in point of time and
circumstance. All the same, a full sub-
scription is a national duty and necessity,
and failure on the appointed date should
bring an embargo on lotteries and race-
course gambling till it is filled.
There’s a rush by the bhoys to get the
A.L.P. nomination for Beasley’s West
Sydney seat, Beasley being off to London
as Resident Minister. The A.L.P. execu-
tive is expected to veto the local elec-
torate council’s rejection of Kelly and
Taylor, president and vice-president of
the State A.L.P., under a rule requiring
their resignation from the executive three
months before pre-selection ballots close.
Electorate councils don’t take kindly to
being overruled. Meantime there remains
the problem of Lang, to whom Beasley
once gave fealty. A Lang candidate has
already been nominated and is sure to
poll well. It might have been wiser to
make Lang Resident Minister.
Archie Cameron to the Minister for the
Army:
(1) On what dates did Australian forces
occupy Ambon, Koepang and Rabaul as
part of defensive measures against possible
Japanese operations? (2) What was the
strength of each force, and of what units
was each force composed?
The reply was in a familiar strain —“1
am having inquiries made, but regret
that advice will not be available in time
to inform the hon. member in the House
today.” It was not “available” when the
House shut down for five months. Con-
sidering what happened to those forces
in Forde’s time as Army Minister, one
would have thought that their composi-
tion would have burnt itself into his brain.
It was stated over the air last week that
more than 50 per cent, of the wheat
reaching Britain and Europe is Canadian-
grown, and that Canada, besides setting
its meat ration at Hlb. a week to help
Britain, is reserving for the British nine
out of every ten hogs killed in its yards.
From South Africa came the news that,
notwithstanding a very bad drought, the
Smuts Government has set apart
£6,000,000 worth of produce for Britain,
and, by way of increasing its contribution,
is raising £5,000,000 by private subscrip-
tion. What is the Government at Can-
berra doing as a Government, and what
does it propose? As usual, nothing.
Found guilty of treason after a mockery
of a trial, and with cyanide swallowed in
his cell pumped out of his stomach, Laval
was shot by a firing party. He died game,
and nothing in his life became him so
much and showed his enemies in so poor
a light as the closing scenes. Along with
a blighted name he leaves the impression
that France has had no cleverer man of
affairs since Briand. But cleverness with-
out character can be a curse to a man
and his country.
S.A. Attorney-General Abbott enter-
tained a deputation from the Adelaide
Labor Council concerning unionists
thrown out of work because N.S.W, miners
won’t dig coal. A Mr. Crick, saying that
employers had “had a healthy financial
time during the war,” suggested that it
wouldn’t hurt them to pay wages for no
return. Thus does a dark hour produce
a great thought.
Chicago “Tribune” asserts that not
“Labor” but the campaigns in Guadal-
canal and Tarawa “saved Australia,” and
suggests that Australia should join with
Britain in handing them over to Uncle
Sam. Neither is Australian territory.
Manus is, and Uncle is obviously going
to ask for the transfer of a 99-years’
lease of Manus, having “built a
$130,000,000 base” there. Somebody at
Washington has discovered that any men-
tion of Manus “stirs up a political
hornet’s nest in Australia.” This is news,
but the subject may test Dr, Evatt’s ability
to conduct a defensive campaign as well
as to wage wordy attacks on unconscious
enemies.
Brigadier-General Blackburn, V.C.,
leader of the Seventh Division Diggers
who were sacrificed in Java when
“Labor” was “saving the country,” in a
speech at Adelaide, his home town:
The Dutch in Batavia, those who hadn’t
been interned, were absolutely marvellous
to our men. Men and women, girls and
boys used to cycle slowly past our prison
camp waiting for the Jap guards to look
away. Then they would throw fruit,
cigarettes, clothing and other articles over
the fence. They did this despite beatings.
One day I saw a young girl slapped across
the face and knocked to the ground; next
day she was there again. When working
parties marched through the streets the
Dutch used to give them the V sign. Even
after it was banned you would still see
Dutch civilians, one finger up to their
noses as a working party neared, to be
quickly joined by the second finger as the
party came abreast. A small gesture, but
it showed their spirit.
What an unspeakably rotten return
these brave and kindhearted white people
are getting from “Labor” and its A.C.T.U.
and its waterfront is, “if
our Indonesian comrades” have left any
of them alive.
It was thought in Queensland that
Forgan Smith’s name would be on the
list of Labor nominees for the House of
Representatives, but it wasn’t there when
nominations closed. In Herbert, an elec-
torate which might suit the long-distance
Premier, Martens, the member since 1928,
has half a dozen opponents, none of any
particular note.
In common with its Labor friends (“Mr.
Curtin is Our Leader”), “S. M. Herald”
was very glad to see General MacArthur
43 months ago. Now it makes him the
target for labored sneers:
General MacArthur’s broadcast testi-
monial to the Allied Supreme Commander’s
management of the demobilisation of
Japan lacks nothing in cordiality and very
little in objectivity . . . Nobody, not even
the Allied Supreme Commander, could give
General MacArthur higher praise. It was
a characteristic ... of General Mac-
Arthur’s war-time communiques that they
sometimes anticipated his resounding vic-
tories ; the event tended to lag behind its
picturesque announcement . . . Acceptance
of his military judgment, which is pro-
found, does not necessarily carry endorse-
ment of his opinions and actions in the
political field in Japan.
All the same, those “opinions and
actions” worked out infinitely better than
the “Herald” and a crowd of Leftist
papers thought they would. That was
one offence of the general’s ; another was
the alleged imposition of a quota system
on war correspondents. All he seems to
have done was to announce that he
couldn’t provide more than one big
Tokyo building for writing boys or treat
post-war arrivals as war correspondents.
Not only Dr. Evatt is winning Great
Victories for Australia in the diplomatic
field. The Sydney and Brisbane Labor
Governments are claiming Great Vic-
tories over the Dominions Office in the
matter of appointing Australiamborn
State Governors, though they are not yet
ready with the names. Without making
any particular fuss, a Westralian Labor
Government appointed a native-born
Governor, James Mitchell, in 1933 and
he is still in residence at Government
House, Perth. True he is called Lieut.-
Governor, but he does the full job.
In Australia, at least, there is no one
like Menzies for getting to the heart of
a matter in a few sentences, and the
Liberal convention in Sydney heard the
man at his best:
The very arguments used by those in
charge of Australian foreign policy—l
refer to the waterside workers —for throw-
ing the Dutch out of the East Indies are
the arguments that would be used for
throwing the British out of the Malay
peninsula, and out of Burma and India, and
for throwing Australia out of New Guinea
and Papua. They are looking on at a
process which is designed to hem m Aus-
tralia on the north by a series of Com-
munist republics. In those circumstances,
1 should have thought that from the lowest
possible motives Australia would like some
friends, but its foreign policy is to select
them almost entirely from Latin-American
republics.
Dr. Evatt was not on hand to reply to
that one. Having finished teaching his
British grandmother how to suck eggs,
he has gone to Washington to tell Mac-
Arthur how to run Japan.
N. S. Wales has a Minister of Labor
named Hamilton Knight. The name
sounds martial enough for anything, but
the owner can’t even be forcibly feeble.
He says, and McKell says, he is “opposed
to inflicting penalties” on strikers, though
penalties are prescribed by their own law.
Neither gentleman was opposed to “in-
flicting penalties” of up to £5OO on house-
wives who use a bit of electricity con-
trary to the restrictions imposed by the
McKell Government because of the Bun-
nerong strike.
N.S.W. Opposition-leader Weaver
tabled a motion calling for immediate
Government action to maintain industrial
law and order. There ensued what the
press called a “hot” debate, during which
McKell bleated that penalties ? would
bring “division and disruption.” Th e
debate was adjourned and the “division
and disruption” in the McKell city, with
200.000 out of work because of an un-
lawful strike at a publicly-owned power-
house, went on until “Labor” surrendered
to the lawbreakers. Surrender to law-
breakers has become a “ ‘Labor prin-
ciple.”
Victorian Labor candidates are mak-
ing much of their leader Cain’s piquant
description of Dunstan in the dying
Parliament: , , t
He was bowled, run out, stumped, caught
and given out leg-before. In addition, he
fell between the wickets and appealed
against the light. Lastly, he would not
accept the umpire’s decision.
Unmentioned is the fact that Cain kept
Dunstan in for eight years.
The brutality and low cunning of Mos-
cow have aroused opposition even in
countries like Rumania, Bulgaria and
Yugoslavia, as well as Austria. In that
country, according to “Newsweek,
soberest of picture-papers, Russian loot-
ing and raping have so antagonised the
Vienna workers that straw votes taken in
industrial quarters showed only a 5 p.c.
Communist poll. Now Moscow attempts
to exclude France from the settlement of
European affairs, along with Moscow
intrigues in Indo-China, have given a
substantial election victory to De Gaulle
and Bidault, whose Catholic Democratic
party polled strongly everywhere except
in Paris’s Red belt.
Westralia is having an Assembly by-
election for Greenough in sad circum-
stances. At the general election Labor
nominated Flight-Lieutenant Newton,
who was on service abroad, and he
wrested the seat from William Patrick,
an old Country-party member. But he
was fated never to occupy it, being lost
not long afterwards in an operational
flight over Europe. For the by-election
Labor is putting up another Newton, a
brother, and the Liberals and the Agra-
rians (now called the Country and Demo-
cratic League) are out with candidates.
Greenough was never exactly a Labor
electorate, though the gallant airman was
not the first to win it for the party.
One J. A, McCallum, who stood for
Federal Labor when Federal Labor was
out of favor, to the N.S.W. Liberals:
It is possible that the British Empire may
disintegrate. Whether it will and Australia
becomes a small people in the Pacific with
an independent outlook or remains part of
the great British tradition has yet to be de-
cided.
No decision is necessary. There can be
no place in the Pacific for a small white
people “with an independent outlook.”
Addressing the Poles in the British
Army, General Anders, their commander,
said two months ago that he would place
no obstacle in the way of those wishing
to return to Poland, but it was his duty
to issue a warning as to what might
happen to them:
According to information reaching the
Polish command, returning soldiers might
be deported to Siberia. They would cer-
tainly be forced to re-enlist, since at
present all men between 60 and 45 are
being held under arms.
For this General Anders was heavily re-
buked by the Manchester “Guardian”;
but his warning had such an effect that of
207.000 Poles in the British Army only
37.000 have volunteered to return to
Poland. This was stated in the Commons
last week by the Labor Under-Secretary
for Foreign Affairs. Simultaneously a
Warsaw decree called up all adult Poles
for general service (age-limits, 18-55 for
men and 18-45 for women), and there was
a note on their “thronging the streets’’
in places with “strong Russian garrisons,”
discussing excitedly a rumor that they
will be sent to Russia.


WHACKO IN WEWAK.
“But, gentlemen, I really don’t need a hot bath!”
“Who’s talking about hot baths?”


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“T.McN.”: Fictioneers who write for
the flapper market had better kill off
their big, bold, brutal male heroes and
concentrate on the runt with the
whine in his voice. I was standing at an
open-air entertainment in aid of a Gov-
ernment loan, listening with some
pleasure to a big, hearty cove with a fine
baritone voice beefing out a swinging
song about pioneers and wagons and
shoulder-to-shoulder. He was succeeded
by a small youth with a marcelled hair-
do, narrow shoulders and pinched dial
who began to wriggle his hips and then,
in what to me sounded like a cross be-
tween the bleat of a drought-stricken
lamb and the wail of a one-string fiddle,
got off something about luv and lips in
the moonlight. The four young women
in front of me went into ecstasies about
him, whereas I would cheerfully have
Wrung his neck. When he finished there
were loud female applause and de-
mands for an encore. What I want to
know is: Has Hemingway so overdone
the big oaf that women are tired of him?
Is it a manifestation of that maternal
instinct we hear about? Or is there
something in that kind of youth and that
kind of voice which stirs the female heart
in a way rougher blokes couldn’t under-
stand?
* * * *
“Tuart”: A unique contribution to the
late wars was the lady war correspondent.
Australia had them as well as the U.S.A.
One cast up in Malaya when the Eighth
Division was training, and her accounts
of the “glamorous” life the boys were
leading added considerably to their trials
before the avalanche came down. An-
other lady’s experiences, recounted in the
third person:
She went to Malaya as a war commen-
tator, then on to China. She was on her
way to Manila to interview General Mac-
ArtNir when she arrived at Hong Kong on
December 8, 1941, just in time to see the
clipper she was to take blown to pieces
on the ground by Japanese bombs.
And so to an internment camp for the
duration. In the next war there will be
a strong movement among uniformed
men to have lady war correspondents
excluded.
* * * *
“Bo”: The industrial psychologist (B.
17/10/’45) has been employed extensively
also by the Army. A servicegirl, applicant
for entry to an officers’ school, appeared
before one. The savant put the lass
through her paces over a variety of sub-
ject hurdles, probed for mechanical and
other adaptabilities, ran through her per-
sonal history almost down to why her
great-aunt had a passion for boiled lollies,
and wound up with a catechism on her
reaction to fried fish. After the lengthy
interview was finished the great man sud-
denly appeared to wake up. “But I can’t
get all these details into a report,” he
said. The lass studied him calmly. “Well,
it’s your party,” she observed. “Why not
pick out the best bits and put those in?”
He pondered this a moment, then jotted
down a few lines. As he put his pen
down the applicant leaned over. “Mind
if I take a peek at it?” she asked sweetly.
The savant’s face registered horror, and
he immediately covered what he had
written with his hand. “Certainly not,” he
said sternly. “This is secret!”
■** * *
“Clooter”; Harrowing was the case of
a young woman, apparently a happy wife
and mother, who is believed to have
bought a boftle of methylated spirits,
gone to a vacant piece of ground, laid
herself down, stuffed a handkerchief in
her mouth, poured the spirits over the
handkerchief, her head and clothing, and
then set fire to herself. It happened in a
Sydney suburb and was discovered when
firemen were called to quell the resultant
blaze in the surrounding bushes. It seems
impossible that the poor creature could
have calmly endured the agony, and
about the only seems to be
that the first gust of flame from the in-
flammable spirit rendered her uncon-
scious. Incidentally, sensation-seekers
and other morbid individuals were denied
an opportunity to indulge their unsavory
appetites. The date of the funeral was
advertised in the press, but the funeral
was held the day before.
* * * *
“Simon”: “Sixenate’s” reference to D.
R.,Hall (B. 10/10/’45) reminds me that
Dave had a book in contemplation—
Age Triumphant. Its object was to show
the splendid achievements of men of ad-
vanced years in almost every sphere,
soldiering and athletics excepted. About
the only Australian included in a long
list was Henry Parkes. I wonder what
has become of the records little Dave col-
lected. I remember he told me his chap-
ter on Michelangelo involved the reading
of 28 books.
* * * *
“King’s T.”: “Ike Hollar,” who has
never found a cricketing hero in any
Hollywood film (B. 17/10/’45), must
have missed “Raffles,” in which David
Niven, as the chivalrous crook with the
college education, is shown wielding the
willow. Also “Night Must Fall,” wherein
Rosalind Russell is seen watching a
cricket match in which her young man
is playing when Danny (Robert Mont-
gomery) comes to her with a message.
* * * *
“Bacchus”: In his amusing Misleading
Cases A. P. Herbert makes a Judge
explain to a jury that Magna Charta has
no authority in British law, and that as
a matter of legal fact the British subject
“Oi, is this a slopwork meetin'? Wot about my beer?”
has no rights and no liberties. An exag-
geration, of course, but it seems to be
increasingly difficult to assert such liber-
ties as remain. The N. S. Wales Full
Court has been investigating the case
of a Sydney businessman who was fined
£lOO by a special Federal Court for hav-
ing intoxicating liquor in his possession.
He had 63 bottles in his cupboard, and,
rash mortal, admitted freely that he used
his stock to entertain friends and business
acquaintances. There was, the Full Court
discovered, no evidence that the liquor
had been obtained by illegal methods, or
that it was stocked for the purpose of
illegal sale. The conviction was quashed,
Jordan, C.J., remarking that power given
under National Security Regulations had
been abused.
* * * *
“Derwent”: A Sydney man visiting
Hobart has helped to solve a mystery
and has been given a reward of £lOO. A
seven-year-old girl disappeared on her
way to Mass, and search by police and
civilian parties failed to reveal any trace
of her whereabouts. Months later the
Sydneysider, searching in Queenborough
cemetery for the grave of a relative,
from beneath a wooden grave covering
over which weeds had been placed saw a
foot protruding. A piece of material
was wrapped round the girl’s body, and
an arrest was made a few hours after
the discovery.
* * * *
“Cauboy”; Beresford Fowler’s recent
production of an unexpurgated “Othello”
in Melbourne is not without precedent—
at any rate in England. Some years ago
a manager tried it, but, as with Fowler’s
show in Melbourne, it aroused anguished
protests from the puritanically-minded,
and, as was done here, the English man-
ager decided to present it on alternate
nights “unexpurgated” and “with usual
stage cuts.” Unfortunately the second
performance was not quite well enough
rehearsed, with the result that Othello
bellowed at Desdemona “1 cry you mercy.
I took you for that cunning whore—l
beg your pardon, I mean that cunning
one of Venice, that married with
Othello!”
* * * *
“Free Jim”: I’ll wager no returned
soldier has had a more spectacular home-
coming than Corporal C. Stewart, of
Papakura (M.L.). When he lobbed home
in Auckland 54 members of the Stewart
family were at the station to greet him.
Obviously no cabbie could cope with such
a load, but the Stewarts had thought it all
out, and ushered the hero into a trarncai
(libelled “Stewart’s Special”), hired for the
occasion and gay with ferns and flags. It
got salvoes of cheers along its route.
* * * *
“Nuffin”: A contrast to the otherwise
grim record of Changi Camp (Singapore)
is the story of the deeds of A.I.F. doctor
p.-0.-w. One of their outstanding achieve-
ments was the production of alcohol of
80 p.c. purity, distilled from gula malacca
(a sweet sugary substance taken from
coconut trees), rice polishings, potato
skins, tapioca-root peelings and other
vegetable fragments. The residue of this
brew was found to be particularly rich
in vitamin B, and hundreds of men today
owe their sight to this mixture, known
to prisoners as Changimite. Complete
absence of riboflavin (necessary to pre-
vent eye and nerve diseases) in the Singa-
pore p.-0.-w. diet presented the M.Os.
with a problem. A small quantity of
riboflavin was discovered in young lal-
lang grass, hibiscus leaves and other types
of local flora. Doctors and technical men
combed the near-by junk heaps, and
presses and mincers were improvised. The
juices extracted were concentrated and
found to contain a high percentage of
riboflavin. The Changi “grass soup” fac-
tory became an institution, hundreds of
gallons being dispensed weekly.
* * * *
“Tiki”: Musical circles in Christ-
church, M.L. (which regards itself as a
city of superior culture), are abuzz with
unprecedented happenings at a concert —
a choral and orchestral affair, hooked up
with radio. The first item was an “elegy
for strings and voices,” composed by the
conductor. Late-comers disturbed the
performance to the manifest irritation of
the conductor, who, after twice interrupt-
ing the music and then resuming, strode
from his desk, took the score away from
the two soloists —soprano and contralto
—and left the stage. He returned in a
minute or two to find the house in an
uproar and his attempt to explain matters
was inaudible. He later told reporters
that the piece had been insufficiently re-
hearsed and that he, as conductor, was at
fault in not at once checking a mistake
in entry of one of the solo voices. He
felt that the performance had been so
hashed up that it was unfair to the audi-
ence in the hall, to radio listeners and
to himself as composer, to allow it to
continue.
* * * *
“X.S.”: Justifying the increased expen-
diture on his superfluous Department of
Misinformation, Calwell said the other
day that expansion of short-wave radio
and development of documentary films
would play a big part in publicity to
attract migrants to Australia, Why would
they? Russia has gone in for this sort
of thing for a generation, but its solemn
propaganda hasn’t attracted migrants,
even amongst Australian Communists, to
U.S.S.R. I once saw a film of a Soviet
railway being built. Everybody was smil-
ing. The coolies on the job smiled, the
commissars smiled and even the camels,
which were doing the work of trans-
portation were smiling. The only people
who weren’t smiling were the Australian
audience, which was bored by the fact
that the great Soviet could build a rail-
way—every country can do that. But
every country can’t produce a Monash,
a Melba or a Bradman, though they might
be able to produce local equivalents.
Monash, Melba and Bradman are the
best-known publicists this country has
had. \
* * * *
“Blonde!” on a fine old ballad:
The Melbourne parson who finds “Rule
Britannia” inconsistent with modem arrange-
ments for “collective security” (B. 3/10/45)
probably won’t make much of a dint in the
popularity of the old ballad, which has survived
many political vicissitudes. It first saw the
light in 1740, the words written for the masque
“Alfred” by James Thomson (of “The Seasons,
more famous in his time as the laziest man in
England) and the music by Dr. Thomas Arne.
The war in support of Maria Theresa of Austria
was in its first stage, and Admiral Vernon had
taken Portobello. Nevertheless, the ditty as
Thomson penned it did not boast that Britannia
rules the waves. It stated that when Britain,
at Heaven’s command, arose from the azure
main, her charter (sung by guardian angels) was
“Rule Britannia, Britannia rule the waves!
Britons never shall be slaves!” It was many
decades later, when Boney threatened to invade
England, that the second “rule” was changed
to “rules.” Southey prophesied that the ballad
would endure as “the battle hymn of England”
so long as Britain retained her political power.
Perhaps the old song is archaic in these days
when air-power rivals sea-power and atomic
bombs threaten both, but is there not some-
thing prophetic in the couplet that declares
“the last blast which tears the skies serves but
to root thy native oak,” and surely the spirit
of Britain in recent dreadful straits, as ex-
pressed by her dauntless leader Churchill, is
embodied in the boast:
Thee haughty tyrants ne’er shall tame;
All their attempts to bend thee down
Will but arouse thy generous flame,
And work their woe and thy renown!
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Touching induce-
ments offered to virtuosi to stay in Aus-
tralia (B. 19/9/’45), a musician who Back-
haus said was one of the eight greatest
living pianists ekes out a living by teach-
ing—recitals are the prerogative of visitors
from overseas. This particular virtuoso
won the Beethoven Prize against all
Europe. Yet the university where this
Australian once taught hundreds of pupils
has for years ignored his existence.
* * * *
“S.E. & O.”: Twenty years ago a story
went the rounds that the Prince of Wales
(afterwards Edward VIII, now Duke of
Windsor) heartily disliked his sister
Mary’s husband, the Earl of Harewood,
then Lord Lascelles, Edward P. was
supposed to have remarked: “Every day
and in every way I get commoner and
commoner and Lascelles grows royaller
and royaller.” I was reminded of the
yarn by the discovery of a record that
130 years previously another Prince of
Wales (the one who was afterwards
George IV) had an antipathy to a direct
ancestor of Lord Harewood’s. Joseph
Farington, the diarist, writing on June
25, 1796, has it that “Young Mr. Las-
celles, of Harewood House, is reckoned
very like the Prince of Wales. The Prince
is not pleased at it. He calls Lascelles
the Pretender.”
* ♦
“X.S.”: The prosecuting counsel in a
Melbourne fortune - telling case (B.
19/9/’45) who found a clairvoyant chary
of demonstrating her powers in court
would have the sympathy of a Melbourne
punter whose wife is “psychic.” Un-
cannily accurate have been her prophecies
with regard to Hitler, VP-Day and
kindred matters of world-wide import-
ance ; and she is equally precise in more
mundane matters. Unfortunately she is
religious, and won’t tell him what horse
is going to win the 3.30. His mental tor-
ture as the Melbourne Cup approaches
can be imagined.
LADY’S MAN.
“U.S. Girls Prefer Fragile Heroes.” —“Sun.”
No more the husky hero bold
Whisks maidens lightly to his pony;
Such pantomime now leaves tnem cold
And cave-man stuil is deemed boloney.
If Antony could live once more
He’d win no Yankee Cleopatra,
Unless he kept a draper’s store
Or learnt to croon like Frank Sinatra.
For if a strong man made too free
A girl might well in vain attack him;
But with a fragile hero, she
Can just reach out her hand and crack
him.
N.S.W.
D. H.E.
MORAL SUASION.
“Mr. McKell said that our industrial arbitration
system had given the workers of this country better
conditions than those in any country of the world.”
“Both the Premier and the Minister for Labor, Mr.
Hamilton Knight, opposed prosecutions or penalties to
enforce industrial law.” — N.S.W. Assembly.
We hold our Arbitration laws
The best in all creation,
Enactments to command applause
From every other nation.
The chances that we miss are few
Sincerely to endorse them.
In fact, there’s nought we wouldn’t do
To render them their utmost due —
■ Excepting to enforce them.
They give our hardy sons of toil
Boons goodlier and greater
Than those on any other soil
From Poles to the Equator.
It’s tough when beneficiaries whose
Own sense of that might sway them
Should, just as often as they choose,
Invoke these laws and then refuse
Perversely to obey them.
With laws in general, be sure,
We shall compel compliance;
No stubborn challenge we’ll endure,
No impudent defiance.
Blit when enforcement would displease
And anger Labor devotees
In crowds, there’s no occasion
For punishments and penalties;
The most expediency decrees
Is aood old moral suasion.
N-S.W.
MIDFOUD .


“Si Anu”: A single dash dropped in
telegraphic transmission turned a dis-
patch from an “Age” special correspon-
dent in Shanghai into one of the best
examples of typographical humor seen in
Melbourne for a long time. Anxious to
paint a telling picture of Generalissimo
Chiang Kai-shek quietly and grimly cele-
brating victory on his 59th birthday, the
correspondent recounted how, when the
news of the Japanese surrender was con-
veyed to Chiang, the only trace rif emo-
tion he showed was that “his eye gleamed
for one second and he grunted ‘Ham!’ ”
leader wasn’t asking for his
breakfast. The word is the common
Chinese expletive “Hao,” meaning
“Good!”
“Wodgil”: An ironic feature of the
Bunnerong business is that while all the
forces of socialistic unionism were con-
centrated on defeating the public enter-
prise, what time 200,000 or so unionists
were thrown out of work and trembling
socialist Governments looked on, the Bal-
main company was keeping up electricity
supplies without intermission. It reminds
me of a journey I made on the company-
owned Midlands (W.A.) railway just oft
40 years ago. Perth politicians were agi-
tating for the “nationalisation” of the
line, and I spoke to the guard about it.
“I suppose you fellows are longing for
the time when the Government will take
you over,” I said. “My ruddy oath we’re
not!” he replied. “We understand these
English Johnnies and they understand us.
We have our disputes now and then, but
we’ve got our own ways of settling them.
As long as things are going pretty well —
and they generally are —the company lets
us alone. What would happen if the
Government bought it out? Before we
knew where we were a swarm of panni-
kin bosses would be up from Perth and
our souls wouldn’t be our own.” That
company still exists, showing an annual
profit—small, because the Government
planted a trade-stealing line virtually
alongside, but steady, while the socialistic
railways are chronic losers —and its 1945
employees are as set against “nationalisa-
tion” as those of 1905. I was told this the
other day by an old pal who has special
opportunities of judging their temper,
being in the Railway Department him-
self,
* H= H= *
“J. 1.”: The earliest brick church in
N. S. Wales was St. John’s, Parramatta,
built in 1803. Its twin towers, all that
now remain, have a story. When Mrs.
Macquarie and her colonel were sailing
to their new home the lady felt a qualm
or two about the dangers of this voyage
to the unknown. As the ship slid through
the waters she sighted the twin towers
of Reculvers in Kent. There and then
she vowed, in return for a safe passage,
to have a church built. When St. John’s
was being prinked up about 1817
Mistress Macquarie remembered Recul-
vers, __ and the towers are her design. Re-
culvert itself was badly damaged by
Hitler’s bombers.
* * * *
“Longshoreman”: Outward and visible
signs of peace are beginning to burgeon
in Australian ports. Ships still wear their
grey, war-time uniform, but here and
there a skipper has been able to rustle up
some bright-hued paint with which to
restore the house colors to the funnel.
House flags, also, are being shown again.
Soon, it is to be presumed, the red and
black of the Union (and Cunard) liners’
funnels and the blue top of Matson will
return to the seas. Less certain seems a
return to the old-time black hull, white
upper-works finish of merchant ships.
The Royal Navy chucked that dress
during World War I and never returned
to it, sticking to its greys (there are several
shades of them) as the Army, for all save
rare ceremonial occasions, sticks to its
khaki. The Orient line, even before
World War 11, had adopted an all-buff
color-scheme, browns and tans were re-
placing hard-to-keep-clean white on the
cargo steamers of other lines, and braSs
work was disappearing. In the days to
be, it would seem, seafarers will have less
paint and polish in their lives.
m * * *
“J.E.M.”: Recent revelations as to
H.M.A.S. Sydney’s end will particu-
larly interest young officers. Just as
the junior officer on a destroyer
longs for the chance in action which
will jump him to command on the
bridge, so the officer of a cruiser’s
turret prepares himself (though not very
hopefully in these days of fire-control)
for the order “Local control.” At this
command he takes over his turret, orders
range and deflection corrections from in-
side, and runs a little war on his own,
choice of target resting solely with him.
Although the chances of going into local
are remote, the Navy, with characteristic
thoroughness, exercises the procedure on
every possible occasion. It was Sydney’s
locally controlled turrets, with her direc-
tor and bridge shot away, that sank
Cormoran.
* * * *
“Rooster”: “Bombo” overlooks some
recent developments in his reference to
the economics of atomic power (B.
26/9/’45). Dr. Malcolm Henderson,
physicist of Princeton University, follow-
ing up the experiments conducted by Dr.
E. O. Lawrence in his 85-ton cyclotron,
bombarded 13 grams of U 235. It would
require only 71b. of ordinary uranium to
obtain this minute quantity (less than £2
worth). He found that each uranium
atom that was split gave off 175,000,000
electron volts of energy. From this he
was able to calculate that 71b. of uranium
contain as much power as 5500 tons of
fuel oil. A little over a half-pound would
raise the normal temperature of a ton of
water to 3,377,500 deg. C. or boil 337,750
tons of ice water. To release and harness
this vast amount of energy Dr. Lawrence
conceived the idea of utilising the sub-
atomic smasher —the slow neutron.
Modern physicists are well on the way
towards achieving controlled “chain-
reaction” in atomic explosions. As for cost
in plants and research, means will cer-
tainly be found to reduce initial outlay.
“Bombo”: London’s “Daily Mail,”
which is troubled lest the Empire should
lag behind in the race for the industrial
development of atomic energy, is also
nervous about the danger of conducting
experiments in a country so densely popu-
lated as Britain. The ideal spot, the
paper suggests editorially, is “the great
Central Desert of Australia,” with
Canada’s “empty Northlands” as second
choice. Britain’s Atomic Inquiry Com-
mittee, the paper urges, should be ex-
panded into an “Empire conference.” A
canard to the effect that Dr. Evatt’s
nomination for a delegateship was in the
post five minutes after the “D.M.” hit
the street has been indignantly refuted.
H= H= H= H=
“Galenus”: Amongst successful trans-
fusion cases quoted by the Red Cross
Blood Transfusion Service at Brisbane in
appealing for more blood donors was one
of a three-year-old country boy, a vic-
tim of that curious inherited condition
known as haemophilia. In haemophilia
the blood will not clot to plug a damaged
vessel, and even a small cut may cause
fatal haemorrhage. Transfusion, of a suit-
ably grouped blood will provide clotting
power for long enough to stop bleeding,
as it did in this child’s case. No com-
pletely proved case of haemophilia has
ever been observed in a woman, prob-
ably because any female foetus with the
“Did you ring?”
particular genotype required for it will
die before birth. If a haemophiliac male
marries a normal female all their
daughters will be carriers. If any one of
them marries a normal man half of their
sons will be haemophiliacs and half of
their daughters carriers. Another curious
inherited condition, infantile jaundice in
a two-day old baby, provided another
transfusion success. Two previous in-
fants, not transfused, had died. This one
was sound and well two months later.
Come on you Aussie blood donors —any
reasonably healthy man or woman, lad
or lass within reach of a collecting centre!
There’s no risk, pain or trouble about it,
and your pint may save a life.
H= * H= *
“Boro”: “Oxmead’s” comments on
the pronunciation of Army terms (B.
3/10/’45) encourage me to reveal that
the whole English-speaking world of to-
day mis-spells the rank indicated by the
three chevrons. The spelling is serjeant
where the Army is referred to. It may
be sergeant when referring to the police
force or the Sallies. If you don/t believe
me, refer to Field Service Regulations,
Vol L
“Pot”; Though the Army has no
monopoly of mangling the pronunciation
of words (“Oxmead,” B. 3/10/’45) the
Navy cannot be accused of “Leftenant.”
It has always been “L’tenant” in the
Silent Service, The lower deck, though
not entirely free of blame in respect of
pronunciation—“leaf” for “leave” and
“pusser” for “purser” are almost official
—avoids most philologic criticism by
using a language of its own. “Hey,
Nobby! The crusher wants you. You’re
in the rattle for being adrift. I’ll bet the
Jimmie lashes you up to seven days’
scale,” is an intimation to a rating named
Clark that he is required by the regulat-
ing petty officer because he has been
made a defaulter for returning on board
after the expiry of his leave. His in-
formant thinks Clark will be punished
to the extent of stoppage of leave and
pay for seven days by the first lieutenant.
* H= * Hi
“Zake”: Not all “popular” songs (B.
10/10/’45) sound like a cats’ concert in
an iron foundry. Occasionally ftae is
thrown up that is hauntingly me odious,
and in such case it will be the s. fest of
bets that it has been lifted from a classic,
usually the work of a long-dead master.
Brain-thieving has long been Tin Pan
Alley’s most popular and lucrative sport,
choice of composition apparently being
determined by the current degree of
popularity of the composer and suit-
ability of the air to take a few lines of
the sloppiest sentiment imaginable.
Tschaikowsky is now the vogue. One of
the most popular of the current dance
songs is “Story of a Starry Night,” and
—wonder of wonders! —the first cover
carries an acknowledgment that it has
been “adapted” from Tschaikowsky’s
(Sixth “Pathetique”) Symphony. (It isn’t,
it is from the Fifth, but who cares?)
Then you turn to the inside page and
find “Music by A 1 Hoffmann, Mann
Curtis and Jerry Livingston.” Yes, it
never takes fewer than three strong Tin
Pan Alleyites (always at least two of
them will be Yids) to poke a few discSTds
in here and there and slightly alter the
time so that they can claim they “wrote”
the music.
“Bobells”: These be subversive and
disruptive times, and morals are all up
to putty. Even London’s Athenaeum Club
—so staid, so quiet, so dignified that no-
body dares to disturb a dead member till
he has lain inert for three days—is feel-
ing the breeze. The management commit-
tee has drafted and the secretary, Lord
Simonds, has signed a circular-letter to the
members - archbishops and bishops,
Ministers of the Crown, ambassadors,
savants, great authors and all which
reads, in part;,—
Between 1942 and 1944 the club paid
for 22 volumes missing from the circulat-
ing library, and now 15 more books are
missing. Eight copies of “The Times”
are received, but by 6 p.m. there is seldom
more than one left in the club. Other
periodicals disappear unaccountably. The
committee sadly reaches the conclusion that,
more than one or two of the 1500 members
are involved in these disappearances.
The encyclical winds up with a threat of
expulsion to any member caught snitch-
ing books or papers.
Sc * * *
“Visitor”; Celebrating the jubilee of its
settlement is Loxton, an irrigation colony
on the Murray in S.A. It is at the south
end of the great southerly loop which
the river takes between Wentworth and
Morgan, and latterly has been a bit over-
shadowed by its lively neighbors Beni
and Barmera.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Governor Norrie, of S.A., told
the S’African War Veterans’ Association
in Adelaide that their scrap, arduous as
it was, ranks as a really chivalrous affair
on both sides, and is likely to go down
in history as the last of that kind. He
said that many S’Africans under his com-
mand in the Western Desert in this war
were sons of men who had fought against
us in that one. Noblett, president of the
association, claiming that his veterans are
“not too old to be taken seriously,” re-
called I oat Churchill and Wavell, as well
as Smu Is, were in that campaign. A pro-
minent guest at this social was P. B.
Visser an old S’African, who claims to
have i aught in the Jameson Raid, and
altoge'her in over 20 wars, mostly against
natives, but (as a cousin of General
Botha) against us again in 1900. He
became a resident of Sydney in 1911, and
went to Gallipoli with the Light Horse.
He He H= He
“Mensa”: That picture of the great
hall of Warwick Castle (front page B.
19/9/’45) disproves a legend about that
stately home which has never seemed to
me very credible. One of its earliest
appearances is in Victor Hugo’s Laugh-
ing Man : —
Edward Rich, Earl of Warwick and
Holland, is owner of Warwick Castle, where
whole oaks are burned in the fireplaces.
Any whole oaks that could be used as
fuel in the fireplace depicted, huge though
it is, would have to be of the Japanese
dwarf variety. The chequered floor of
red-and-white Veronese marble so clearly
shown in the photograph is a reminder
that for two centuries Italian and other
marbles were the favorite materials of
English architects designing grandeur*


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”; Blue and Dutch, heading
into the western Riverina from Mildura,
decided on Blue’s suggestion to buy an
old grid. “But what’s the good o’ one
bike between two blokes? Y’ ain’t goin’
t’. double-dink me, are y’?” inquired
Dutch. Carefully Blue explained that
one would ride the bike a couple of miles,
leave it against a bush and walk on. The
other, having walked to the bike, would
ride it past the walker and again leave it
a couple of miles ahead. “In that way, y’
dope,” said Blue, “we’ll only have t’
walk half the distance.” Dutch seemed
slightly baffled. “I don’t see how it’ll save
any time,” he muttered. Blue ignored
him. Presently they were across the river
and Blue mounted the grid and pedalled
along the track for ten minutes or so,
then he parked the machine in a promi-
nent position and tramped ahead. Nearly
an hour later, wondering what had
happened to his mate, he looked back to
see Dutch toiling along on foot. “Where’s
the bike?” he demanded. Dutch, who
wore an absorbed look, came back to
earth, stared at Blue a moment, then
ejaculated “Cripes, I saw that ruddy bike
propped up way back there an’ wondered
who owned it. Y’ see, I was still tryin’
t’ work out how much time we’d save.”
There was a charged silence; then Blue
said “Well, when are y’ startin’ back t’
get the bike?” Then the real argument
began.
* * * *
“Mana”: A familiar landmark on the
north-south road from Alice Springs to
Darwin is “Churchill’s Head.” A large
rock bearing a striking resemblance to
the old P.M.’s head in profile, it over-
hangs the road where it passes through
a cutting between Tennant Creek and
Banka Banka. A sapling driven by some
wag into the “mouth” gives the added
touch of verisimilitude.
* * * * *
“Prop”: The new jackie was an all-
wool, double-weft know-all. He always
knew of a horse that bucked longer, a
man who could cut more posts, tougher
country and drier stages than anything
any of us could nominate. There was
green feed everywhere after the drought-
busting rains, and the flies were so bad
that eating after dark had become a
habit with us. And so one night we
were groping for the damper and damn-
ing the blowies when the jackie piped up
that he’d seen the flies a thousand per
cent, worse. There was a clatter as Dan
dropped his eating tools. “Look, you,”
he snarled, “y’ mighta seen more flies,
but I bet y’ never seen ’em stay round
like these. There’s flies here bin on the
place for years. An’ I can prove it.
Here’s a quid t’ say there’s flies here so
quiet they’ll eat.outa me hand. Y’ve
had a lot t’ say—now put up or shut up.
C mon, blast y’, make up y’r mind if y’
got one—drop a quid or sew up y’r trap.”
Flustered, the jackie took the bet. We
lit the lantern, waited till the buzzing
assumed Superfort proportions, and Dan
held out a lump of mutton. The jackie’s
quieter now.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”; Stopped for dinner at
Barney’s camp, and Barney put on the sort
of feed a man remembers when he’s on
salt mutton and damper straight. There
was a beef stew with particularly rich
brown gravy. The plates were flanked
with boiled greens, and, as Barney is a
long way from civilisation and any meat
except jumbuck, I was curious. “The
beef?” my host grinned. “J’ever see beef
make gravy like that there? That’s a
“Be careful with that insulator — it's the only one We got left."
bit o’ steak off an ,ol’ man euro I shot t!
other day. The spinach’s just young
annual saltbush —can’t beat it.” For des-
sert we had about the best stewed fruit
you can get in this world and “yaller
custard.” The fruit was dried wild peaches
and the yellow stuff was made with emu
egg.
* * * sH
“Gumsucker”: Speaking of quicksilver
and the human system (B. 19/9/’45), it
was common for the “amalgamator” on
Victorian mines towards the close of last
century to become “silvered.” Teeth
loosened and fell out, while it was not
unusual for the affected person to wipe
minute drops of mercury from a sweaty
forehead ; exactly the same symptoms as
are manifest in the miner working in
the cinnabar mine. If the sufferer found
a change of scene and employment the
mercury would gradually leave the body.
3IC JJC if:
“Billy See”: Good luck to the Tas-
manians if they really attempt to revive
Australian whaling. Economics killed the
industry before: lack of a market
for the oil; the advent of kerosene in
Australian household lamps. Coupled
with this came the vast increases of Aus-
tralia’s flocks and herds, supplying much
more than enough tallow for the making
of soaps, greases, and lubricants. On top
of this again came the development of
the copra trade in the islands. The Japs
had no such resources; they had a home
market for every ounce of whale fat that
their ships could gather. The Norwegians
much the same—they had the whole of
fat-starved northern Europe as a market.
It was the development of oil, with its
products of kerosene, lubricating oils and
petroleum jellies that laid up the once
great whaling fleets that sailed for Aus-
tralian waters from the “blue-nose” parts
of U.S.A. right up till the middle ’BO s
of last century.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Despite “Naturala’s” theorising
that snakes cannot spit out a frog (B.
3/10/’54), I contend that on occasion
they can. The reiterated and prolonged
squawks of a frog in the gloaming actuated
a poking with the clothes-prop in the
vicinity of the monologue. Suddenly the
disturbed diner with his pop-eyed dinner
well down the tunnel shot skywards, jerk-
ing the menu into long grass. He then
streaked along the batten fence, but lost
the race.
* * * *
“Avon”: On statistics Maoriland
sounds like a sportsman’s paradise. In
1944 more than 12,000 deer and 2300
wild goats were shot, in addition to scores
of thar (Indian antelope), chamois and
wild boars. But, as a matter of fact, very
little of the shooting was done as a
matter of pastime. Mainly it was a war
of extermination carried on by run
holders and forestry officials against pests
that seriously damage pastures and plan-
tations. The Dominions acclimatisation
societies, which sought to make the
Britain of the South a replica of the
Britain of the North in the matter of
game-shooting, had an embarrassing suc-
cess with the larger animals on their
agenda and in late years batteries of big
game have been undertaken. In the war
period sub-machine guns have been
largely •employed, and the expenditure of
.303 and larger calibre ammunition has
been prodigious.
* * * *
“Fang”; We were camped on a Murray
bend, and the day’s fishing yielded only
a large catfish. Joe appointed himself
cook, scooped a hole in the sandbank
and set about grilling slices of the catch
on a bed of glowing coals. But it didn’t
go off like Murray cod, and none of us
backed up for a second helping. Joe
washed his portion down thoughtfully
with a mug of coffee. “Not bad, mind
y’,” he said. “But what I don’t fancy is
the fishy flavor.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Queerest ship-
mate I’ve sailed with in the navy is Ordi-
nary Seaman Herbert (second-class), of
H.M.A.S. Potrero. Herbert didn’t join at
the Navy Board’s instigation, but was a
crash draft to the ship from the New
Guinea bush at Cape Gourdon, when
one of our native boys “belong navee”
brought him aboard. Contrary to regu-
lations, he didn’t report to the officer-of-
the-watch, Herbert being a mysterious
white - furred, friendly, possum - like
animal locally known as a “karpul,” and
“No. 1 kai-kai.” In looks, however, he
resembles a cross between a ferret and
a midget polar bear, and he has all the
manner of a koala. Nocturnal, he has
peculiar inquiring brown eyes. Some-
times I think he’s cock-eyed, but that’s
no reflection on his character. On board
Herbert’s never worried about nights out,
matrimonial troubles or even the ship’s
routine, and each sundown he comes on
watch strolling jauntily along the ship’s
rail, his destination always the nearest
bunch of bananas. He plays in the rig-
ging, goes mast-head lookout for hours,
and inadvertently gives a shake to his
shipmates sleeping in the watch below.
Once after we had painted the ship green
Herb became green also, and, unable to
prevent *him licking himself, we thought
he was a Union Jack and prayer-book
job. But Herb is tough; he even drinks
and washes in salt-water off the deck, an
action our native boys assure me is not
unusual. For “along bush” karpuls are
speared at night on the water’s edge as
they drink and damp their fur with a
salt wet paw. But what’s worrying me
now is our coons insist on getting a
“Mary belong Herbert.” After all, you
know how definite Admiralty instructions
are in regard to wives of personnel
being carried in H.M.’s ships!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: While agreeing with
“Old Camp” that the wooden wheel-
barrow has shrunk to an under-sized,
puny thing these days (B. 10/10/’45), I
must point out that the builder’s barrow
has, if anything, grown. Made entirely
of metal, excepting the wooden shafts, it
is capable of holding about four cubic
feet of blue metal—a trifle weighing
nearly' four cwt. —and has broken the
heart, if not the back, of many a new-
chum. But science is not above uplifting
even so humble a vehicle as the wheel-
barrow ; and the wise builder wno has
equipped his barrows with pneumatic
tyres and ball-bearing axles is reaping his
profit. I once saw a laborer wheel 90
bricks in a barrow thus equipped; a load
of 810 pounds. With an iron-wheeled
“pusher” he failed to wheel 50 across
the same ground. Beside the “spread”
that saves bogging, the rubber tyre can
also bounce a loaded barrow over an
obstacle three or four inches high, doesn’t
wear or mark floors, is so noiseless that
it can be trundled along corridors in
office buildings without disturbing the
staff and —anybody who has wheeled
concrete over long runs will appreciate
this—it doesn’t jolt the mixture into a
solid mass that won’t turn out cleanly.
But the advent of the rubber tyre has
scotched an old joke. In the old days
nobody ever oiled a barrow wheel with-
out being chiaked “Got a puncture,
mate?” or “Leave that alone and get a
mechanic! What the hell do you know
about machinery?” I never thought I’d
live to hear a boss say “Run that barrow
over to the garage and get him to fix that
wheel.”
* * * *
“The Piper”: Was walking along a
suburban street, passing a high, stone
wall, when a sparrow, hot on the heels
of a moth, shot over the fence. The moth
hovered, the bird made a couple of vain
dabs at it, sighted me and flew to a
spot along the wall. Then the moth* flew
after the sparrow, fluttered a second or
two in front of its face and the chase was
resumed. I’m a city bloke and not up in
bush lore; anyone explain that moth’s
apparent foolishness?
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: “I’m stayin’ at a little
house down in Collingwood once,” said
Mat. “It’s run be a young widder, not
a bad looker an’ one o’ them nice, quiet
sorts that don’t want t’ know your busi-
ness. There’s only me an’ another cove
stayin’ there, an’ he’s even quieter than
she is. Well, that sort of a joint suits me.
After I’m there a week or so I find out
that the other bloke is the landlady’s
brother, but what he does for a crust
has me beat, though I ain’t curious.
Then, a bit later on, I start findin’ a bit
of supper put in me room when I come
home at night. There ain’t a word said,
mind y’, but yoh know me, an’ when
young wimmen start feedin’ me supper I
can see it’s about time I did a bunk.
Still, she don’t do nothin’ or say nothin’
out o’ the way, an’ that puzzles me a bit.
I don’t want t’ leave such a good joint,
but I don’t want t’ run me neck inta
anythin’. Anyway, it gets that way in the
end that I got t’ know, so I pins his Nibs
down one night an’ puts it straight up t
him. ‘Well,’ he says, sorter nice an’
quiet, T won’t deny me sister’s a bit gone
on y’, Mister, but she ain’t likely t’ prat
in where she ain’t wanted. But y’ don’t
want t’ knock her back without thinkin’,
he says; ‘me an’ her has worked up a nice
little business, an’ there’s a good cop in
it.’ Well, I ain’t sure about meself, so 1
asks him what the business is. “We lay
out cawpses,’ he says. ‘Gripes,’ I says.
‘Yair,’ he says, ‘we’re in with a big under-
taker firm; me sister washes an’ dresses
’em an’ I help her with the liftin
that. There’s good money in it. Mister.
Mat fell silent. “What did y’ do? ’ I
asked. “Aw,” he said, “that was when I
sent y’ the wire t’ say we’d take that con-
tract out at Brewarrinna.”
CHANGI DAYS.
These Changi days float past the captive men,
Like heavy junks caught in a torpid drift.
Which ebbs through twining mangrove slimes,
and then
Riding the falling sea whirls swift
Downstream. Far down the timeless river slips,
flent as a verger’s reverend tread
nd on its burning waters sail three ships:
Today, Tomorrow and the Day just dead.
The prow of brave Tomorrow parts the dawn,
Today creeps on the tide without a sound,
And Yesterday, decks heaped with hopes un-
born,
Moves like a hearse to some vast burial ground.
Drag out that grappling iron and rusted chain!
Cast it across the knotty timbered rail,
Hold fast Today! Come, come aboard again,
Grasp the huge tiller, set the creaking sail.
On with the current of our days she goes,
Her beacon sunset and the dark her goal,
Snapping the tinsel moorings of our woes,
Farewell Today—a ship without a soul.
As schoolboys, drunk with legends of the sea,
Of pirates’ skulls and rotting chests of oak,
Hasten their truant footsteps to the quay
To mingle with the reefered fisher folk,
And fondle pitchy ropes with city hands,
Stroking domed binnacles tarnished with years
Of salty mistrals, dreaming of warm sands
Pungent with spices in strange hemispheres,
So dream the captive men.
Yet inverse dreams
Bewitch their fancies. Visions of wintry skies
Drenched in vermilion sunsets; quartz-bright
streams
Tumbling down sandstone valleys; throaty
cries
Of swift-eyed currawongs in windy trees,
Knotting their jointy feathers to withstand
The cutting bite of starlit westerlies;
Rain-shadows on wide chocolate-colored land
Sliced into gritty furrows by the plough,
And sun-burnt apples shrinking from the glare
In straight pruned orchard rows, where even
now
Arguing cider makers noisily prepare
To crush their juicy winesaps in the press;
Maids in trim aprons; tables out of doors;
Afternoon-tea-things at a smart address;
Armfuls of satin rustling on polished floors.
The wiry touch of hair on hungry lips
In pale moon-shadows scattered by a wind
Soft as the bloom on roses—
Pause, cruel ships!
Our lost enchantments shall not glide away
With fleets of years sinking on dim horizons
To magic islands sweet with yesterday.
Speak to me, phantom! Are these dreams of
old,
Or brief illusions that the night has sent,
False as the promises my stars foretold,
Wasted as years in timeless banishment?
These Changi days.... appearing endlessly,
Squandering the treasures our world has to give.
Great God, Power, Being, Force or Destiny,
Uproot these strangling wires and let me live!
EIGHTH DIV-, A.I.F.
DAVID GRIFFIN.


“Bo”: The bush shimmered in a heat
untempered by the slightest breeze, and
the drover dozed on his dozing horse as
the mob of woollies pushed along. The
young, half-trained dog was dragging well
to the rear. Suddenly the sheep wheeled
and spilled over a clearing where a slab
hut stood. The unfenced ground sur-
rounding it was mostly a blackish sand
carrying a low ti-tree scrub. One
lone geranium drooped, half dead, just
under the only window. As the sheep
milled around the hut the door opened
and a lean, slatternly, brown-faced
woman looked out. She leaned against
the jamb, looked at the milling sheep, then
glanced at the horseman. “Hey!” she
sang out in a voice like a saw cutting
across galvanised iron. The drover
started, then roared at the recalcitrant
hound to get to work. The woman still
leaned against the door jamb. Then, with
heavy sarcasm, she said to the drover
“P’raps y’d like to bring ’em right inside
the ’ouse.” The drover sat straight up,
then a light came into his eye. “Good-oh,
Missus ; thanks,” he said eagerly. “They 11
welcome the shade —but are y’ sure y’ can
spare the grass?”
* * * t-
“Betcha”: “Never” Dunn was skilled
in most farm work, from building sheds to
shoeing nags, but was notorious for spend-
ing working hours in the shade of the
nearest tree. So no one ever offered him a
job. Even Ted Murphy, urgently in need
of help, passed him on his ten-mile ride
to White Bridges in search of a man.
“Yair,” said the Bridges bloke, “I’m
lettin’ ‘Dill’ go. Too flamin’ stupid. Do
as much work as two blokes, mind you,
but I wouldn’t advise y’ t’ put him on
unless y’ c’n watch him all the time.
What y’ want him for?” Ted explained
about the span of fence, the new yards
he wanted and the fittings in the wool-
shed. “Not a bit of good,” laughed the
other. “You’d have to pull the lot down
and do it y’self afterwards. Never saw
such a goat as ‘Dill’ for gettin’ things
mucked up.” Ted thought for a bit and
decided the chap would do. “Awright,
don’t say I didn’t warn you,” concluded
the other. “I’ll send him over.” A fort-
night later Ted met the Bridges boss in
town. “That old hand o’ yours is doin’
fine,” he greeted. “Fact, I got a smart
team. Y’ see, old ‘Never’ knows just
how things should be done, an’ ‘Dill,
he’s doin’ ’em.”
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: Let me tell of a simpler
way of catching a crocodile than that
practised by “B.4’s” kanaka (B. 19/9/’45).
Procure a strong, light wire rope—a
clothes-line will do. Bend one end into a
small loop, through which make a
running noose about two feet in diameter.
With light twine or string fasten thfc
noose so that it stays open. Find a stout
branch overhanging water known to be
frequented by crocs. Suspend the open
noose so that it hangs just a few inches
above the surface. Bait the bottom por-
tion with meat, tied on with string. Then
retire to await results. Sooner or later
the saurian arrives, snaps at the bait,
inserting his upper jaw into the noose.
The rope tangles in his teeth, and as he
pulls away the string snaps’, allowing the
noose to tighten on his jaw; and the
harder he pulls the tighter he is held. He
can either be dispatched at once by a
bullet or left until exhausted by futile
struggles and then hauled ashore.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Fronting a fluted, limestone
blow on the Cape diggings N.Q., a black
opening in the cliff side invited investiga-
tion. A dank nauseating stench pervaded
the velvety gloom, from which isued eerie
twitterings and ominous hisses. With
a carbide lamp and a gun, I advanced,
only to meet the inevitable serpent
I gave Joe a barrel, and was almost
overwhelmed by a frenzied rush of the
cave’s denizens, A bolting wallaby cap-
sized the glimmer, and as things of the
darkness bashed into my face I too
dashed for daylight. In the blinding
glare of the sunshine wallabies hopped
round in a confused maze, while the air
was clouded with hundreds of dazed bats
which flew about or clung to the boles
of trees. Three more of Joe’s friends
hurrying from the echoing cavern were
woodened. With the aid of a firestick I
recovered my lamp ; then poked along
to a calmer camp.
* * * *
“Prop.”: Herb has his post-war project
mapped out. “Soon’s the shop gets some
other flamin’ brands I’m goin’ t’ black-
list these here sanguinary matches.
“Pretty shady mob if you ask me. Butch. I wouldn't hold their shares.”
Look” He pulled open his shirt
and jabbed a fingernail as thick as a bit
of sole-leather among the undergrowth
till he uncovered five or six small scars.
“That’s me blanky war record-blasted
match-heads breakin’ off an’ flyin’ down
me shirt front.” And as one who has
been similarly afflicted I’m with Herb.
■t! * * *
“Gill Guy”; .All mod. cons, are not
exclusively the attractions of city life.
Travelling a stock route in n.-e. S. Aus.
an abo. stockman with our outfit saun-
tered across to a near-by flowing bore to
wash some clothes after we had pitched
camp for the night. In a couple of
minutes the locality was brightly illumi-
nated, and investigation proved he had lit
the gas coming with the water from the
bore. A three-foot flame and steaming
hot water simplified the laundry work,
and a handful of sand put the light out
after it was over.
* * * *
“Munja”: The palm for toughness
must be awarded to the “embalmers” of
the head-hunting tribes of the Upper Fly
and Strickland Rivers (Papua). When
tribesmen returned from a raid with
newly-acquired heads, a ceremonial dance
and feast would be organised, the heads
being displayed for the whole village to
“Well, will you sub-let the upper portion?”
see. The ceremony finished, the heads —•
probably five to seven days old and in an
advanced stage of decomposition —would
be taken over by the embalmers for
curing. The hair first plucked from the
scalp, an incision would be made from
the back of the neck to the centre of the
scalp. On removal, the skin would be
scraped free of adhering flesh and dried
in the sun. The brains were drawn
through the teeth of the embalmers and
the skulls also sun-dried. After sunrise
next day the skulls would be filled with
mud, the skins drawn tightly Over them
and sewn up by the original incision.
Slivers of bone or bamboo were pushed
through the nasal septum and the grue-
some trophies smoke-cured for 48 hours.
Finally, the heads, now the color of
freshly-tanned leather, were festooned
with dried grasses and hung in the village
dubu—the conference house of the tribal
chief and wise old men.
* * * *
“Chelon”: “Patrol Leader” asks about
turtle eggs for food (B. 12/9/’45). Last
night’s are fit to cook today; tomorrow
they’ll have blood streaks and the forma-
tion of an eye in them. Tear the outside
skin open ; tip out the yolk and white. The
white, which has the consistency of a
jellyfish, is attached with a semblance of
an umbilical cord to the yolk. Removing
this usually fractures the yolk. The white,
though boiled or fried till the cows come
home, will never be other than the raw
edition which comes from the nest. The
yolk when fried goes crumbly, but keeps
its formation and shape. It tastes some-
thing like a weak imitation of sheep’s
brains and anaemic duck eggs. .
•#* * *
“Patrol Leader”: We obtained our first
close-up view of the formidable outer edge
of the Great Barrier Reef some 90 miles
n.-n.-e. of Cooktown. Here were no sub-
marine gardens, gorgeous with the ever-
varying tints of budding coral and en-
livened by a fantastic fairyland of finny
wonders, but a bare, cementlike rampart
of coral rock descending almost sheer to
the sea-floor hundreds of fathoms down.
Scoured bare by the swirling surf that
raced ceaselessly over it, the summit of
the wall was as smooth as a cement road,
the only imperfections in it being a few
“potholes” scattered here and there —
depressions containing living clumps of
Qoral. Nothing else could live or accu-
mulate there because of the mighty seas.
Towering 15 and 20 feet high, the
breakers of the Pacific came curling over
to slam down with the noise of thunder
and in a cascade of foam that swirled
over the reef’s surface ; and as the sea
sucked back after the breaking of a
wave the ragged outer edge of the reef
was revealed —an edge broken by narrow
ravines up which the hissing seas raced.
No man-made breakwater could ever
withstand the terrific battering to which
the Outer Barrier is subjected almost
ceaselessly. Within 100 yards of the
Outer Barrier fish were numerous, our
most interesting catch being a foot-long
“box-fish.” This bright yellow oddity’s
head and body were encased in a long,
three-inch square “box” of tough, bony
material and had no power of movement
at all. Only the fish’s short, thick tail
and small fins were free. We decided
against eating the freak, and, dropped
overboard, it was snapped up by a shark.
* * * •
“The 0.D.”: Ydirs, it’s me. Just r%de
all the way into Nectar Brook to mail
this. I want an option on all the seeds
of that “blue-flowered geranium” (B.
17/10/ ’45) “Propalong” can collect. If
it’s fair dinkum I’ll have the seedsmen of
the world after me.
* * * *
“Zake”: Champions of the “karasene”
tin, fencing wire and greenhide are ever
waxing loquacious about the multiple uses
to which their favorites can be put out-
back, so what about a word for the
humble dead marine? Mrs. Cocky finds
that it rolls the scone mixture as well as
any wooden rolling-pin ; as a candlestick
it gives height above the table ; upended
—bottom knocked out, wire through
cork, half-filled with water and sus-
pended from the hanging safe —it
beats ants; in the nursery it can be
hung with appropriate garments to imi-
tate a doll. Many a gate swings on one
that is buried to the neck. And when
Dad is away down the paddock and is
wanted up at the house Mum needn’t
nearly blow her front teeth out trying to
raise a whistle: she can merely place the
marine under her lower lip and blow —
it can be heard half a mile away.
sft * * *
“B. 4”: As the scraggy ’roo-mong was
jogging home happily carrying a weighty
hare he was suddenly assailed by a wedgy
which taloned his trunk and put him in
top gear. Another urgent back-scratch-
ing failed to induce the scarred battler
to appease his tormentor, who now dis-
carded his hooks in favor of his pecker.
Landing astride the galloping mong, the
ferocious fowl pecked savagely at the
tyke’s neck, but so absorbed was the eagle
in his audacious attack that he failed to
see the five-wire fence which tore him
from his mount as it hopped through.
Recovering quickly, the disgruntled
jockey soared away, but many weeks
passed before the kang-mong again went
hiking and hunting.
H* H* . H*
“Esk D.”: Thgre are cannibals among
trout, and that it’s a depravity among
these fish is evident from the deformed
shape a confirmed cannibal assumes.
Extra-large head with sunken eyes and
razor-toothed jaws and a thin, under-
developed body are the old man’s features,
and the flesh is rank and unfit to eat.
There’s a mountain creek or two back
from the Omeo Highway (Vic.) where
it’s possible to catch trout around the
pound mark in hundreds, but I’ve known
them turned down in disgust by anglers
who know the waters. Apparently the
creeks become greatly overstocked m
summer, as they ease off to a trickle be-
tween pools, and, lacking feed to
go round, a wave of cannibalism
sets in among the fish.
* * * *
“Cape Voltaire”: A hungry
shark will attack a black man
readily. A tiger will even attempt
the attack when the natives are
in their canoes. Which is one of
the reasons why the South Sea
islanders invented the catamaran,
it being a balance which prevented
the canoe being overturned. In
waters well stocked with big fish the
shark, naturally, is seldom hungry
enough to attempt so alien a diet
as man’s flesh. Kimberley natives,
who go seafaring on a sapling
raft; again called a catamaran,
have tales to tell of the shark
occasionally nosing around such
half-submerged craft. The dog that
is invariably part of the company may,
however, be the real lure. A native
swimmer, armed with a long knife, will
challenge a shark in his own element,
almost always winning a victory. The
main element of success in such en-
counters is that the shark suffers from a
change in tactics. Accustomed to seizing
a prey that vainly tries to elude him he
becomes flustered on finding that he him-
self is being attacked. The swimmer
“side-steps” the not overswift rush, then
slashes the soft under-belly as the shark
sweeps past. Once saw an Arnhem Land
boy stage such a show off the Darwin
jetty. Even a comparatively small cut
will sap the shark’s will to fight. With the
blood tainting the water he knows himself
doomed and at once makes for the
bottom.
THOUGHTS FOR HOME.
And in the fever of the dawn I woke,
To stare in silence out across the sea,
And near and far upon the jutting rocks
The foam of many oceans laving tree,
There in the dawn of thought I dared to mam.
And thoughts were fierce and sad and strong
for home.
There in the heat of noon I stared.
And with the haze my thoughts were all
And in the coolness of the sea there dashed
The tempest of my soul’s sad cry;
Ah, with the noon my thoughts had swiftly
flown , . ,
Across to'Austral land, isle of my own.
Still, with the sighing of the breeze I stared,
And caught the whisper of the sea s sad
moan, , , .
And on the sampan of my thoughts
1 set the sail with many a creak and groan;
Oh, how I stared across the moonlit sea
And longed to draw my land of love to me.
EIGHTH Div., A.I.F.
GEOFF. BINGHAM.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MORES,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
ẁ
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to recognised Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
Manufactured by
ẃ
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
#
Distributing Agents for N.3.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Melbourne.
Victoria; Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne.
STOCKISTS; Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., SOI Kent Street, Sydney.
CERTAIN DEATH
ẅ
w
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CVanogA!
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the Blb.
Cyan'ogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia .
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Jairy Stock
c
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
—— All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Export Beef.
■ A decade or so ago Austra-
liaft cattlemen were exhorted to produce
baby beef, 20-30 months old, the advo-
cates maintaining that it alone would
find favor in the Smithfield (Eng.) market.
But it wasn’t explained how any quantity
was to be produced with meatworks
situated on the coast hundreds of miles
away from the big breeding areas, and
the many other disadvantages this country
suffered in comparison with South Africa
and the Argentine.
Some baby beef was shipped, infi-
nitesimal compared with that exported
from the Argentine, and though the
quality in most cases was good the prices
realised for best Australian chilled hinds
were on an average Id, per pound below
that for the best Argentine. Under
present conditions it seems that baby beef
must remain a secondary consideration
for Australia, With meatworks situated
as they are and the refusal of the majority
of breeders to cultivate polled cattle, or
to dehorn, it seems we will have to de-
pend mainly on export of beef from the
H years to 44 years age-group. Weaners
can’t be travelled on the hoof for hun-
dreds of miles to trucking centres, then
jolted hundreds of miles further to fat-
tening areas on the coast, and arrive in a
condition that will permit of fattening
into quality beef. The few thousand fat-
tened as baby beef in coastal areas are
scarceley worth considering, and although '
dehorning and decentralisation of meat-
works might come neither is in sight yet.
Beef is bred in Australia equal to the
world’s best, but too much second-grade
stuff has been sent abroad. For this
breeders aren’t wholly responsible; criti-
cism can be levelled at the respective Gov-
ernments for not adopting the strict stand- ,
ards employed in the Argentine. We’ve \
got the cattle and the fattening country, |
but our beef exports won’t ring the bell '
at Smithfield until haphazard methods
are abandoned.
Pastures and Pests.
“H.F.W.”: In B. 10/10/’45 “R. Ney”
repeats an old myth which I thought had
gone by the board years ago: that improved
pastures increase troubles with disease.
A trial on Bald Blair (Guyra) many years
ago, at the instigation of Colin Blumer,
then D.V.O. for New England, and con-
ducted by the Glenfield field staff, to test
this very subject resulted as follows: An
old phalaris pasture paddock was stocked
at four times the stocking of an adjoin-
ing and similar natural grass paddock;
the sheep were seven-month-old New
England bred crossbred hoggets, showing
worm infestation. The trial started in
May and finished at shearing in Novem-
ber. The sheep in the improved pasture
made 25 p.c. more gain in weight, cut 71b.
more wool and showed a lower rate of
worm infestation throughout the trial.
Of course, lack of knowledge in hand-
ling improved pasture can easily lead to
trouble; it is common for a novice to
mistake bulk for quality. Here is the
result of investigation at the Waite Insti-
tute (S.A.) on the growth of phalaris
pasture; at early tillering stage it has a
nutritive ratio of 1 to 1.6, equal to linseed-
meal, is too rich and needs added rough-
age. This condition, with a lack of exer-
cise, leads to toxemia of pregnancy. At
advanced tillering (about five weeks’
growth) the nutritive ratio was 1 to 4.5,
ideal for fattening or milking ; at heading
the nutritive ratio was 1 to 10.4 or just
roughage ; at maturity it was 1 to 26, poor
roughage. The same results were obtained
in England and by other research workers
Australia. Time and state of growth
makes all the difference.
“R. Ney” is also astray with regard to
the value of soil analysis as an indication
of mineral requirement. If he turns to
“ That's the end of the small stuff —now We'll start on the big hogs!"
the U.S.A. Agricultural Year-Book of
1938, “Soils and Men,” he will find this:
“The mutual effects of all the various soil
nutrients on the yield of crops and their
assimilation of mineral matter under
different environmental conditions are so
complicated that the literature on the sub-
ject presents a chaos of contradictions.”
It says elsewhere that in America they
abandoned soil analysis as an indication
of the soil’s requirements of minerals over
100 years ago. I havh heard the same
expression of opinion from N.Z,
The matter of base exchange enters
into it and has a very important bearing
on the trace element position. The opera-
tions of the so-called laws of minimum
and of diminishing returns enter into all
the discussions of this and other related
problems. Analysis only shows what is
in the soil, but does not indicate its avail-
ability to- the plant. Practical trials are
the only way to find out.
Sir John Orr, of the Rowett Research
Institute, Aberdeen, takes milk as
Nature’s best guide as to the require-
ments of young animals and compares it
with good pasture and other farm crops.
He sums up; “It will be seen that there is
a fairly close resemblance between 'the
mineral content of good pasture and that
of cow’s milk. There is no natural food-
stuff so well balanced in this respect as
good pasture.” The U.S.A. Year-Book of
1939, “Food and Life,” says “Pasture-fed
cows give milk that is richer in all vita-
mins than stall-fed animals.” Before the
war somewhere about 60 p.c. of our ex-
ports came from pasture, so it behoves
us to study our pastures very carefully.
• On the Downs.
“Nuffin”: The Darling Downs (Q.)
have also had “a good season” (B.
26/9/’45) and a recent Toowoomba-
Warwick trip showed them in a Garden-
of-Eden condition. The famous proper-
ties Harrow, Netherby, Risdon, Canning
Downs and Toolburra were examples of
the extra-good season. Stock are in prime
forward condition, crops heavy, pastures
verdant and there is promise of a bumper
wheat crop: 8,000,000 bushels is re-
garded as a fair estimate of the coming
Downs harvest. Frost has affected the
crop in some parts, and the extent of the
damage is still unknown. Rust, of course,
has plenty of time, should weather con-
ditions favor it, to cut down the yield.
The area under wheat is about 400,000
acres (according to the Wheat Board, the
green feed position influenced a good
deal of this sowing). Where seasonal
conditions made it possible to avoid
grazing all the crop planted for that pur-
pose growers found it desirable, in view
of the better price prospects, to let it
grow grain. The wheat is well on and
harvesting of early crops should begin
towards the end of October. The farm
labor position is no better than last
season, although recommended release of
3000 soldiers to rural industries may help-
But control-harassed, restriction-ridden*
form-haunted farmers aren’t banking on
that.
Mediocre Prospects.
“Tub”: Though a bit early to judge
the outcome, there are possibilities of an-
other lean season in northern, north-
eastern and other parts of Victoria and
in Riverina. Grass came slowly after the
rains, and cold weather with frosts kept
it semi-dormant. Farmers, battling to
keep stock alive, have had to keep on
grazing what pasture there was, and
they’ve had no chance to get a sorely-
needed cover of grass.
Before the rains much of the country
was bare, the humus and dung swept into
windrows and scattered heaps or blown
away, and it’s not going to be easy to get
this land under permanent pasture again.
Clovers and soft grasses thrive best where
a good stand can be got before the hot
weather; eaten down closely they shrivel
away in the first dry spell. A lot of re-
seeding is necessary—it’ll be wasted seed
now if things don’t improve quickly —and
most of it will have to await the autumn
if conditions are suitable.
Those who grew oat crops will have
fodder for a time (if they were able to
keep stock off them), but a couple of dry
and windy months will see a lot of coun-
try suffering severe drought. The pointer
is for maximum storage of fodder in
more bounteous regions, as these parts
will need all they can get if good condi-
tions hold off much longer.
Hints for the Farm.
“Outback”: Malignant oedema has
been causing serious losses after lamb
marking in n.-w. Queensland. On some
properties wether weaners have been cut
by 50 p.c. The cause is a germ which
thrives under oxygen-free conditions such
as would be found in the purse of a
lamb after castration. These germs
(anaerobes) infest sheep-yards and camps
in the form of spores, which are highly
resistant to drought conditions, sunlight
and, in certain varieties, even to boiling
for a short period. The spores blow
about with the dust and are a constant
source of infection. The answer is the
use of temporary lamb-marking yards and
constant sterilisation. A specific anti-
toxin costs about 4d. per lamb, but be-
fore it can be used a correct diagnosis
must be established by a qualified vet.
Growers should not conduct postmortems
on affected lambs, as the germs of the
disease are particularly virulent,
“Bill C.”: Fat pigs are knocked about
by summer heat. The pig paddock should
possess some shade trees, and, if possible,
a wallow with a sandy bottom, so that
Dennis can get relief from the sun’s heat.
Temporary shelters in open paddocks
should be roofed with boughs or thatch,
such as the dried needles of the grass-
trees, and timber should be used rather
than iron in their construction. Taking
a few precautions is better than taking
heavy losses.
“Lub”: Broccoli is the coming vege-
table, say experts, though I’ve been grow-
ing it for a decade. The green or purple
sprouts are used much the same as cauli-
flower, with the advantage that the plants
stand up to a long succession of pickings.
Treatment, same as cabbage. Broccoli
takes a fair while to mature, and, in a
cold climate. I put the seedlings out in
February for picking in late September
and October, The cabbage butterfly
thrives on it if given the chance.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Molotov v. The Rest.
(“The Times,” 4/10/45, reported the aftermaths
of the disputes in the Council of Foreign
Ministers in London at some length. The fol-
lowing was its summary.)
Yesterday was a day of diagnosis. What
caused the Foreign Ministers’ conference
to break down? Three of the Ministers,
Mr. Byrnes, Mr. Molotov, and M.
Bidault, gave their opinions when they
met press representatives during the day
and, as was to be expected, their opinions
differed.
The three who spoke agreed in saying
that the conference, before it became
entangled in all the procedural difficulties
which finally stifled it, had done much
useful work. The Council itself was still
in being, and the Governments would
consult together in the hope of agreeing
on future procedure to allow it to meet
again. They concurred in saying that
the American proposal (strongly sup-
ported by Britain) for a wider Allied
share in the peace-making should be
examined with sympathy. None of them
dealt with the wide political differences,
of which the procedural difficulties are
only the symptoms. They confined them-
selves to -the procedural quarrel, and they
agreed in saying that the conference broke
down because of the different interpreta-
-1 ions put upon the Potsdam rulings.
It was at this point, when they gave
their own accounts of the last hours of
the conference, that they differed in em-
phasis. Mr. Byrnes dwelt at length on
his own last-minute attempt to save the
conference, his proposal that the Council,
for the rest of its session, should be bound
by the Soviet reading of the Potsdam deci-
sions (excluding France and China from
the Balkan discussions) provided that all
five delegations could debate whether or
not to call a peace conference of the
principally interested States. Mr. Molo-
tov said he could not commit himself to
such a general debate in the Council until
he had consulted his Government in Mos-
cow. Mr. Byrnes thereupon said that it
was fair to suspend the meetings to allow
such consultations to take place.
An Earlier Stage
Mr. Molotov, at his press conference,
dwelt on the immediately preceding stage
of the discussions. He put the responsi-
bility for the breakdown on the other four
delegations, who did not accept his pro-
posal that the protocols, embodying all
decisions taken up to that hour, should
all be signed on Tuesday, and that the
Council should meet again the next day
to discuss “matters on which no decision
had been reached.” If these proposals
had been accepted, said Mr. Molotov yes-
terday, favorable conditions for the Coun-
cil’s work would have been created. “It
would have moved the work from a tight
corner.”
Last night (it may be interjected here)
the reasons why the other delegations
could not accept this Soviet proposal
were made clear by members of the dele-
gations. It had been agreed that the
protocols should be signed very much in
the form that Mr. Molotov suggested, but
not until agreement on other procedural
difficulties was reached. For one thing,
the other delegations could not allow the
agreement of September 11 (allowing all
members to take part in all discussions)
to be struck out of the records because
Mr. Molotov alone objected to it. There
were other highly controversial matters
left outstanding. In short, Mr. Molotov
wished the other delegations to meet his
case by signing the protocols in the middle
of the debate, leaving them with no cer-
tainty that other matters on which they
set great store would ever be agreed upon.
In their view, Mr. Molotov’s proposal was
only a variant of his demand, put forward
halfway through the conference, that the
Council should revert to the strictest in-
terpretation of the Potsdam ruling—that
Britain and the Soviet Union alone could
discuss the Finnish treaty, that America
should be added for the Balkan treaties,
France for the Italian treaty and China
for general subjects.
The press conferences yesterday re-
vealed once more how widely the Pots-
dam rulings w ere interpreted, even among
the three Potsdam Powers. Mr. Byrnes
said that the American delegates, when at
Potsdam, believed that the decisions then
taken allowed France and China to take
part in all discussions. That also was
the belief of the British delegation, based
on sentences of the declaration which
stated that the Council could adapt its
procedure and invite other interested
Powers to join in the discussions.
One Sentence
Mr. Molotov held rigidly to a single
sentence of the Potsdam declaration, stat-
ing that the Council, when framing par-
ticular treaties, should be composed of
representatives of the States which signed
the appropriate terms of surrender. He
did not mention the other sentences, in-
viting non-signatory Powers (whether
members of the Council or not) to take
part in the discussions. There could be
no misunderstanding over the Potsdam
rulings, he maintained. “We hold,” he
said, “that the Foreign Ministers are not
entitled to violate a decision adopted by
'the heads of Governments. If anyone be-
lieves it is possible to reach agree-
ment with the Soviet delegation by violat-
ing a decision adopted by the heads of
the three Governments then disagreement
springs up between that view and the
view we hold. The Soviet Government
is true to its word and has never regretted
it.
“As long as the Potsdam agreement
remains in operation,” he added, “we feel
it is our duty to carry it out, and we be-
lieve that our friends will agree with us.”
The session broke up without that
agreement. Both Ministers were asked
by correspondents how it was that the
agreement of September 11 (acknowledg-
ing the right of France and China to take
part in all discussions) came to be made
and later challenged by Mr. Molotov. Mr.
Byrnes said flatly that Mr. Molotov stated
on September 22 that he had made a mis-
take on September 11 in joining in the
agreement and he wished to have it revoked.
Mr. Molotov, when he was asked about
it, said: “If you find such a decision of
the Council, show it to me, and show me
by whom it was signed.” When asked
whether there could be an agreement
without a signature he said “You know
well enough that the Council did not take
any decision, neither did it sign anything.”
When a correspondent read the text of
the agreement to him he said that it was
obvious that any opinions which run
counter to the opinion of the heads of
the Governments could riot be valid.
“You will act rightly if you stand by the
decisions and not by any notes, no matter
from whom you have received them.”
Mr. Molotov was, in fact, drawing a
line between a decision and an agree-
ment or an understanding. He made
known that heads of Governments had
exchanged messages on the Potsdam rul-
ings during the conference. “As a result
of this exchange,” he said, “it was estab-
lished that the Berlin decisions should
be observed.” It was learned in London
last night that Mr. Attlee did send a letter
to Marshal Stalin after Mr. Molotov had
asked for the strictest interpretation of
the Potsdam rulings. He hoped that Mar-
shal Stalin might agree to the wider inter-
pretation, but Marshal Stalin fully sup-
ported his delegation in their desire to
have the September 11 agreement re-
voked..
At his press conference, M. Bidault
explained the conflict as one “between
the advocates of the continuance of the
Big Three regime and the advocates of a
wider co-operation.” He made the French
position sufficiently clear in saying that
France must take part in all international
peace settlements, and that it was not
possible to leave any country out of those
settlements. “In other words, France
means to assert her own rights as well as
those of others.” If, after the Council
had been conducted on a five-Power basis,
it went back to a three-Power basis, that
would not be a good omen for any wider
conference, such as he favored. He em-
phasised France’s political and commer-
cial concern in the Balkans.
On Anglo-French relations, he said that
while in London he had had conversa-
tions, “and I think we have reached a
preliminary stage. X am confident of the
ultimate result.” Anglo-French relations
were based on old friendship, marred by
some small recent quarrels, disappointing
in themselves, but fully capable of solu-
tion. The character of a formal arrange-
ment, embodying the old relationship be-
tween France and Great Britain, was, he
thought, entirely simple.
Making the Atom Bomb.
(Condensed from the New York “Herald-
Tribune.”)
One of the most important books pub-
lished in our time is H. D. Smyth’s A
General Account of the Development of
Methods of Using Atomic Energy for
Militarv Purposes the official War
Department report on the creation of
the atomic bomb.
The slim volume begins with the
“simple equation” in which Einstein, in
1905, stated the hypothesis that:
E me 2
where c is the velocity of light. It ends
just before the apocalyptic moment in
which that hypothesis received, in the
vast flash of flame over Hiroshima, its
final and frightful experimental confir-
mation.
It had been, confirmed before in the
laboratory on a minute scale. By 1939,
as the report makes clear, all the basic
theoretical knowledge out of which an
atomic bomb could in theory be con-
structed had been amassed by the scien-
tific workers of many countries and dis-
seminated among them.
The fact that it was possible to split
the atom of the rare uranium isotope,
U-235, with an enormous release of
energy and that some of this energy
would split neighboring atoms and so
set up an automatic or “chain” reaction
which would detonate a small amount of
the material with an effect beyond any-
thing ever attained on earth, was com-
mon property to the scientific world.
The innumerable and inordinate phy-
sical, mathematical and engineering prob-
lems involved in applying these facts in
practice on a significant scale remained.
They fell broadly into two division.
One was to accumulate enough U-235,
or alternatively, enough plutonium, the
new synthetic element derivable from
uranium, which was believed to have
similar “fission” properties. The other
was to design a bomb utilising these
materials which would go off as desired.
It all had to be done at once; there was
no time for cautious, step-by-step de-
velopment, and, with a boldness only
possible in war, huge plants had to be
designed and built on the basis of theo-
retical calculation, without benefit of
“pilot” models and with no certainty that
all parts of the puzzle would be solved.
The Hanford plant in the State of Wash-
ington created plutonium by setting up
a slow and controllable nuclear “chain
reaction” in uranium rods, and there-
after extracting it from the rods in rela-
tively pure form. The Clinton plant in
Tennessee also produced and refined
plutonium; but much of its effort
went into separating U-235 from ordi-
nary uranium. The laboratory in New
Mexico designed the actual bombs. The
proportions of the two materials actu-
ally employed in them are not stated.
The amazing thing is that the puzzle
did all come out together—a remarkable’
tribute to the skill and thoroughness of
the theoretic work. The first test bomb
was fired on July 16 and the first com-
bat bomb less than a month later. A
long program of small-scale tests was
impossible for the interesting reason that
you cannot make a small-scale bomb.
The stuff will not go off at all until it is
brought together in a “critical” amount;
whenever that is done there are always
enough “stray” neutrons about to set it
off automatically. The bomb is built in
separate parts and exploded by firing one
part, as if from a cannon, into the other
part. The contact has to be swift, as
otherwise the beginning of the reaction
would blow the parts asunder again and
bring the reaction to a premature halt.
The bombs are thus completely harm-
less (except for local radioactivity effects)
until the moment of detonation. There
would seem to be no way in which a
defender could explode them prematurely,
and no technical reason why the United
States should not manufacture and store
enough of them to blow half the cities
of the world to bits on a few hours’
notice.
Peaceable uses for the new power are
less immediately promising. There is no
present prospect of chaining and utilis-
ing the energy’ released by the detonation
of the bomb. The controlled reaction used
to produce plutonium develops large
quantities of heat, but it has to be taken
off by the cooling water at a temperature
too low for use. Chain-reacting “piles”
operable at temperatures high enough
to drive steam plants may prove practic-
able ; but Dr. Smyth appears to feel that
the first important use of the new tech-
nique will come through its provision of
abundant radioactive materials for ex-
perimental and medicinal uses.
MacArthur in Japan.
(From a “Wall-street Journal" article by William
Henry Chamberlin.)
The method of concluding peace with
Japan may be considered a victory for
the men in the U.S. State Department
and elsewhere who are most familiar
with Japanese psychology, language and
political institutions.
It is a defeat for Left-Wing theorists
about the Orient, who have been arguing
for the proposition that there should be
a clean sweep of all organised leadership
in Japan, to be followed presumably by
the organisation of some kind of “popular
front’’ regime with Communist partici-
pation.
Inasmuch as such Governments in
Poland, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Rumania
and other European countries have proved
in practice to be unmitigated tyrannies,
the desirability of such a development in
Japan is certainly open to question. Far
preferable, from the standpoint of per-
manent peace, is an orderly evolutionary
advance towards a democratic non-mili-
taristic Japan.
Such a development is only possible
under Japanese leadership ; and General
MacArthur is showing qualities of states-
manship, as a climax to his distinguished
military career, in leaving details of ad-
ministration in Japanese hands under his
own supervision. There is danger, how-
ever, that uninformed criticism and cheap
talk about the necessity of a “hard” peace
may upset a sensible occupation policy
and lead to the almost irremediable chaos
and woeful distress which exist in Cen-
tral Europe.
Obviously a peace that is based on
stripping Japan of all overseas possessions
and that was preceded by terrific bombing
devastation is bound to be extremely
hard. It is not in American interest to
make it unendurable. Japan can never
be a threatening major Power unless it
can exploit the opportunities which might
be offered by a new global war. But, in
so far as it develops along peaceful lines
with a genuinely responsible form of gov-
ernment, it should be given the opportu-
nity to rebuild its shattered economy,
apart from war industries, and should be
permitted the shipping and foreign trade
which a densely populated country, poor
in natural resources, needs for its national
livelihood ___
Doubts on Germany.
(The Washington syndicate writer David Law-
rence views the Potsdam decisions on Germany
with misgiving for the future.)
The treatment of Germany that was
agreed on at Potsdam was in line with the
spirit of revenge that today dominates
the thinking of the Allied Governments.
Whether a peaceful or an embittered
Germany will ensue cannot be proved at
this time. But, human nature being what
it is, it may be expected that unless the
Allied Governments intend to maintain
'occupying armies and coercive measures
for a long, long time, the German popu-
lation will not accept the programme
over the years without repeated protests
and efforts to have the severity of it
modified.
The handling of reparations especially
presents an almost impossible task for the
Allies or the experts they put in charge.
Here, for instance, is a paragraph from
the communique which it would take the
wisdom of a thousand Solomons to ful-
fill:—
Payments of reparations should leave
enough resources to enable the German
peopie to subsist without external assis-
tance. In working out the economic bal-
ance of Germany the necessary means must
be provided for imports approved by the
control council in Germany. The proceeds
of exports from current production and
stocks shall be available in the first place
for payment for such imports
This is a very large order and will re-
quire more alphabetical agencies to man-
age Germany’s economic system and
more personnel than the United States
found necessary to run its war-time
economy from Washington. For Ger-
many has to be completely rebuilt while
her industrial system is torn apart. This
means a break-up the far-reaching effects
of which cannot be foreseen.
No surer way to promote anarchy and
to produce a spirit of underground resis-
tance can be found than to put a nation’s
economy completely in foreign control,
with the* right of the victors in the war to
take what resources or equipment they
please, subject only to the vague limita-
tion that there must remain “enough re-
sources to enable the German people to
subsist without external assistance."
The 60,000,000 Germans who fought a
war against almost the whole world have
exhibited an ingenuity and a capacity for
production which will not be erased by
commanding them now to become an
agricultural people. Armies can be con-
quered, but peoples are not as readily
subjugated. For the next few years the
programme, of course, will be accepted.
In time armies of occupation will be
withdrawn. No German Government
which can call itself Liberal or anti-Nazi
will stay in power very long against a
political minority that constantly calls for
the removal of the foreign yoke of eco-
nomic control. If added to this is eco-
nomic distress, unemployment and other
ills that flow from a managed economy,
or an economy mismanaged by three dif-
ferent sets of managers, there will be


* THINK OF BETTER
i VOUDAVS
AND YOU'LL REMEMBER PIONEER
There are fascinating holidays in store for you . . .
traveltouring . . . with "good companions to share with
you the scenic splendour of on Australia you've yet to
know. Pioneer traveltours are coming back again with
new luxurious Roadcruisers and superlative service from
start to finish. Apply now for advance information
■about Pioneer holiday traveltours.
MfcAU ui-MCt: s too owAMNoi vjin jiREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
tours
Airways will be made available
whenever war needs permit.
MADS BY
FORD SHERINGTON LTD
R£GI STERe°
TABLETS
FOR BLOOD. VEINS.
ARTERIES. ETC.
What is ELASTO? ... What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness: if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed ...
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries,
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing-.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble Is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained in
simple language in a free book-
let see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Blasto. Here la
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
"Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Blasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis."
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elastd”, Hox 1552 B,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Blasto” booklet
Or better still, get a supply of
Blasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Blasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
ŵ
serious trouble inside Germany within
five years.
The Russians in Persia.
(Extracted from an article by a Special Corre-
spondent in “The Times,” 6/10/’45.)
In North Persia the Russians have
built up the Tudeh party. The word
“Tudeh” means “mass” or “heap,” and
is probably the nearest equivalent to
“proletariat” in the Persian language.
When the autocratic Riza Shah abdicated
in 1941, among the political prisoners re-
leased from gaol were about 50 Persians
who had been imprisoned for alleged
hostility to the rdgime. Some of them
were Communists. The majority were
men of moderate liberal ideas. All of
th£m had suffered under a dictatorship.
They hoped to gather round them the
progressive men and the reformers and
do something for their country. They
banded together and formed the Tudeh
party. But support, and especially finan-
cial support, was not forthcoming from
the Persians. The wealthy classes were
not going to nourish a movement that
could prosper only at their expense. The
Persian peasants, after centuries of sub-
servience, were apathetic and uninter-
ested in politics. The artisans were better
material, but their poor contributions
would have had to be multiplied many
times before they were of signicant
worth.
The Tudeh leaders turned to the Rus-
sians, who at once offered substantial
help. The party started to gain strength
and prosper, but in doing so it changed
its character. Many of the new recruits
were self-seekers who believed that, with
Russian backing, they would obtain jobs
and the valuable pickings that go with
jobs in Persia. They included a number
of tough and adventurous Caucasians,
Armenians, Turks and near-Turks. Some
of these had been trained in Russia and
were genuine Communists ; most of them
saw in the Tudeh a strong and vigorous
party that would allow them scope and
opportunity. But few of them had the
real interest of Persia at heart, and all
were subservient to Russia. Within a
short time the genuine reformers in the
party were swamped by the newcomers.
In any case, they were powerless, for they,
too, were now beholden to the Russians.
In the area of Russian occupation the
Tudeh soon became all-powerful under
the Russians. All appointments and per-
quisites were given to Tudeh members.
Their opponents were dismissed, harried,
often imprisoned. In some districts a
Persian could not even visit the public
bath nor ride in a public bus unless he
produced a Tudeh party membership
card. In one town south of Tabriz the
Tudeh party demanded that the local
government officials should hand over
their offices to the Tudeh within five
days ; and when the Tudeh leader was
arrested by the gendarmerie a gang of
Tudeh roughs, accompanied by Russian
soldiers with tommy-guns, released him
and confined the gendarmes to barracks
under guard. In short, the Persians assert,
none but a Tudeh supporter would hope
to flourish in the northern provinces.
At the same time the Teheran Gov-
ernment was vigorously attacked. It was
accused of being unpatriotic, reactionary,
dictatorial and unrepresentative, the tool
of the “imperialists,” and the creature of
the “would-be restorers of dictatorship,”
though this regrettable method of allud-
ing to the British did not disturb the
good relations between British and Rus-
sian troops. In disregard of the fact
that Gilan and Mazanderan are the two
richest food-producing provinces in
Persia, normally sending a large surplus
to the much less fertile southern prov-
inces, glowing descriptions of conditions
under the Russians in the north were cir-
culated side by side with depressing pic-
tures of hunger and want under the
British and Americans in the south. The
area under Russian occupation was de-
picted as a land of freedom and plenty
in contrast to the servitude and poverty
of the rest of the country.
What was the purpose of all this? ask
the Persians. Was it to stimulate a
“spontaneous” demand from the people
of the northern provinces for incor-
poration in the Soviet Union? Was it to
prepare the ground for disturbances so
that Russia could show good reason for
remaining in occupation—the mainten-
ance of law and order? Or was it that
the Russians wished nothing more than
to ensure the survival in Persia, after she
had left, of strong Russian influence,
exercised through the Tudeh and the pro-
Russian deputies from the north and
using as mouthpiece the half-dozen
Tehran newspapers which take their in-
structions from Russia, writing simul-
taneously on the same subject, in the
same vein, using almost the same lan-
guage?
In the rest of Persia, except Tehran,
the Tudeh is weak. If the Tudeh should
have succeeded anywhere, it was in in-
dustrial Isfahan, where millowners
shamefully and shamelessly exploit
their laborers; but there it has been
outbidden by the millowners’ union
and further weakened when the Tudeh
leaders embezzled the local party
funds. In Ahwaz, Shiraz, Yezd, Ker-
manshah, the Tudeh counts for little.
In Hamadan it has had soml suc-
cess in persuading peasants to withhold
the landowners’ share of the crops, or
to pay at most one-tenth instead of the
usual two- or three-fifths. It is true that
the party has made some appeal to the
junior officers of the army, for they are
miserably paid, badly treated and resent-
ful at the blocking of promotion by cor-
rupt and inefficient seniors, but in general
the army is loyal, as witness the failure
of the recently-attempted mutiny. All
this will be conceded to you by the Per-
sians, but you will be assured that the
north is different; those who have pro-
fited from Tudeh membership in the
north will not easily give up their good
positions and valuable opportunities.
They are numerous and tough, they are
entrenched, they will fight-—and the Rus-
sians will not abandon them.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
No nation in history ever suffered as crush-
ing a defeat at sea as did Japan in this war.
She has one battered and crewless battleship
left of 12, four crewless and equally battered
carriers remaining of 22, two heavy cruisers
afloat of 19 and both of them damaged, no
light cruisers of 24, 26 destroyers of 165, and
22 submarines o( 140. Since it was not made
clear in the story from Guam for just what
date the totals in the various categories were
given it may be that her losses were even
heavier than this report would indicate. —
New York “Times.”
* * * *
The biggest single weakness in American
foreign policy is our habit of suppressing the
exchanges going on between our Government
and foreign Governments. Only this month
the Department of State has made public
documents of the year 1930 which throw an
interesting light on the efforts of the Japanese
Government to cultivate friendship with us
and our refusal to co-operate with a Govern-
ment in Tokyo that needed our help. Would
public opinion in the United States have
sanctioned such a hostile policy if the facts
had been disclosed instead of being sup-
pressed? This certainly is not the way to
transact the people’s business. It is not the
way to maintain peace. — David Lawrence,
New York “ Sun”
* * * *
The present mood of the United States por-
tends anything but a swing to the Left. The
Government is struggling with the need or
getting out of war socialism, rather than in-
creasing its burdens. Reconversion is our
major domestic problem. We are still at
war. Vast international questions are in the
spotlight. Everybody is working, and money
is more plentiful than goods. This is not
good ground for the seeds of reform.
Neither are the key men selected by Presi-
dent Truman the sowers of wild grass.—
New York “Times!”
* * * *
My Liddell and Scott Greek Lexicon gives
the following: Lasko: ring, rattle, crash;
shriek (animals); shout, scream, cry aloud
(men); noise abroad (of oracles); crack or
burst asunder. — “Voter” to the “Times.”
* * * *
The economic security of all western Europe
depends on the future of the Ruhr. If Ger-
many had the control of its yearly coal pro-
duction of 140,000,000 tons and of the Ruhr
factories she would regain her economic
power and with it the means once again
to become a menace. That coal, however,
is of vital importance to the European
countries —Italy, Switzerland, Holland, France,
Luxembourg and, to a lesser extent, Belgium.
Germany must have her share of coal, but
she must not be the distributor of it. If the
nations whose welfare depends on the Ruhr
coal and the Ruhr industry bad the boldness
to impose an international regime on that
territory they would have a common State,
the existence of which would lead the whole
of the Continent of Europe to co-operation.
—General de Gaulle, to a “Times” correspon-
dent.
* * * *
“In view of the tremendous changes of the
last few weeks and months it is essential to
reconsider the whole field of both revenue and
expenditure, which will necessitate a supple-
mentary budget this autumn. I warn the
public against harboring extravagant expecta-
tions of tax relief. The financial path for
some years is going to be hard. .1 am confi-
dent that the House is going to support the
Government and approach financial problems in
a cold and realistic spirit. We can’t expect to
find Utopia ready-baked for our next meal,
but there is no reason for not proceeding as
rapidly as possible.”— Dr. Dalton, British
Chancellor of the Exchequer.


octvr i
m
tip*.
1943
m
■am
Bn
m
fix
\M
m
iilli
m
m
&y\
m
i m
tßrvSh
m
mm
HURRY I
Only a few days to go I
Y on have only till Wednesday to buy
Victory Bonds and thereby do what is
best for yourself and Australia.
Best for yourself? Yes, Victory Bonds
are Australia’s best and safest gilt-edged
investment. They pay better than bank
interest. Buy them, and keep them, and
you’ll never be broke.
Best for Australia? Yes, this money will
help to pay the cost of repatriating our
service men and women. It will take
care of the sick and wounded. It will
maintain occupation forces in enemy
territory and those awaiting discharge at
home. It will pay for vocational train-
ing which so many in the services want,
and should have, to fit them for the
future. Finally, it will conserve millions
of pounds of spending money which can
be better employed when the goods you
really need are plentiful again. In the
meantime loan investment will help to
avert the threat of inflation.
Clearly it is just as important to buy
Bonds in this loan as it was in previous
loans. And with only a few days to go
it is also urgent.
FACTS ABOUT THE 4th VICTORY LOAN
All you lend will be used only for War and Repatriation. Bonds for £lO,
£5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO, or Inscribed Stock, may be purchased for cash
or by instalments, through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is payable each six months, at 2i% p.a. for five years or p.a.
for sixteen years. Repayment in full at maturity is guaranteed by the Com-
monwealth. Your Bonds or Inscribed Stock are readily saleable to meet
an emergency.
You lend, not give, your money. On your application form, credit your sub-
scription to your district to help its quota.
YOUR MONEY IS
NEEDED IN THE
FOURTH
w
iCTORY Loan
/
4Vl9— )ir
'
CRAVEN “A
XiXl mm
m
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding-Quality
■
Obtainable In 10% & 20%
I APE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS -
18
m
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy books on history and construction of
violins, also an old instrument in any con-
dition. —3664.
To buy August 13, 1941, issue of The Bulle-
tin. —3665.
Information Sought.
(1) Who is regarded as the world’s greatest
living tenor ? (2) Is any living soprano placed
in the same class as Melba?
(1) Beniamino Gigli would probably get most
votes. (2) Comparison is difficult, even in these
days, because Melba did not record well.
Speaking from memory, the living singer whose
voice most nearly approaches the disembodied
purity of Melba’s upper register is Galli-Curci.
In opera Marjorie Lawrence, Flagstadt and
Elisa.beth Schumann come nearest filling Melba’s
place. -
Details of the most powerful freight loco-
motive operating in N.S.W. ?
The D-57 class, used exclusively between Syd-
ney and Thirroul, Cootamundra and Lithgow,
has an overall length of 87ft. 6in. Its other
measurements are: Cylinders (3), x28in.;
coupled wheels, 60in. Heating surface: Firebox,
259 sq. ft.; arch tubes, 37 sq. ft.; tubes,
3094 sq. ft.; superheater, 773 sq. ft.; grate
area, 65 sq. ft.; pressure, 2001b. per sq. in.;
tractive power, 56,0001b. Weight: adhesion,
90 tons; engine, 138.74 tons; tender, 88.90 tons.
Wheelbase: Coupled, 15ft. 9in.; engine, 37ft.
7iin.; total, 77ft. Tender: Coal, 14 tons;
water, 9000 gallons.
Names of Australian magazines dealing with
education, and their publishers?
“Annual Reports,” “Educational Research”
and “The Future of Education,” a pamphlet
series published by Australian Council for Edu-
cational Research, 147 Collins-street, Mel-
bourne; “The Forum of Education,” Teachers’
College, Sydney; “New Horizons in Education,”
New Education Fellowship (N.S.W. secretary:
Mrs. C. M. McNamara, 27 St. John’s-avenue,
Gordon): “The Technical Gazette of N.S.W.”
Technical College, Harris-street, Ultimo; “In-
spectors’ Journal,” Inspectors’ Institute of
N.S.W.; “The Australian Highway,” Workers’
Educational Association, Sirius House, Mac-
quarie-place, Sydney; “The Australian Teacher,”
Teachers’ Guild of N.S.W., Assembly Hall
Building, Margaret-street, Sydney; the “Edu-
cation Gazettes” of each State Department of
Education; “Education,” N.S.W. Public Schools
Teachers’ Federation
Names of Australasians who have won events
at Olympic Games ?
H. R. Pearce (N.S.W.), single sculls at Ams-
terdam, 1928, and Los Angeles, 1932; A.-
Charlton (N.S.W.), 1500 metres free-style swim-
ming at Paris, 1924; R. Eve (N.S.W.), plain
high diving at Paris, 1924; A. Winter (N.S.W.),
running hop, step and jump at Paris, 1924;
Fanny Durack (N.S.W.), 100 metres women’s
free-style swimming at Stockholm, 1912; Claire
Dennis (N.S.W.), 200 metres women’s breast-
stroke swimming at Los Angeles, 1932; E. L.
Gray (N.S.W.), 1000 metres time trial cycling
at Los Angeles, 1932; .J. E. Lovelock (M.L.),
1500 metres running at Berlin, 1936; E. Morgan
(M.L.), welterweight boxing at Amsterdam,
1928. •
What nations have held the Davis Cup since
its inception ? Where did Australasia win ?
U.S.A., 1900-1-2; British Isles, 1903-4-5-6;
Australasia, 1907 (Wimbledon), 1908 (Melb.),
1909 (Sydney), 1910 (no challenge), 1911 (Christ-
church, M.L.); British Isles, 1912; U.S.A.,
1913; no matches in 1915-18; Australasia,
1919 (Sydney); U.S.A., 1920-1-2-3-4-5-6;
France, 1927-8-9-30-1-2; Great Britain, 1933-
4-5-6; U.S.A., 1937-8; Australia, 1939 (Phila-
delphia, U.S.A.).
Brief Answers.
I. : The Union flag with a red ground is
flown -by merchant ships and vessels not other-
wise provided for; the one with tire blue
ground is flown by ships commanded by officers
of the R.N. on the retired list or by officers
of the R.N.R. The Australian flag with a blue
ground is the official flag; the same ensign
with a red background is for merchant navy
use only M.J.: Special instruments are
necessary for the removal of the gold; consult
a dental technician M.McD.: Have not
been able to trace on information received;
more facts necessary before address can be
found A.J.: The buildings would appear to
be a fixture and as such not removable ex-
cept with the consent of the landlord J.S.S.:
The halfpenny is one of the “rat” halfpennies
(wear has produced on the leg of Britannia
the semblance of a large rat). It is worth 6d.
at most F.E.D.: (1) Probate is payable on
the whole of the deceased’s estate, including
superannuation, bank deposits, bonds, residence
and life assurance policies (surrender value less
loan). (2) If estate does not exceed £500 no duty
is payable, if estate exceeds £500 and not
£1000 no duty is payable on such part as
passes to widow or to children under 21.
In all other cases the whole estate is liable to
duty. (3) Payment is on a sliding scale on
estates up to £100,000, and there is a flat rate
thereafter.
Answers to Correspondents.
-*r>-
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
supbmitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor,
0.P.: Witch’s daughter disappeared over the
GPO on a broomstick 8.R.: Too many
large, empty words.... W.G.H.: “Wot’s orl this
I’m writin’? I’ve strayed from orf me theme.
They orl wander orf their themes P.K.: If
you really feel like that about Milly don’t
show her your poetry J.R.8.: “But nay,
I trow not so.” Wot you not this is the
twentieth century? 8.V.: No matter how
many gnomes you keep at the bottom of your
garden you can’t rhyme them with “groans.”
G.L.D.: You seem to have something to
say; then why not say it plainly?... .N.G.:
Bumpy J.T.R.: City-bushman stuff
H.K.: “The Rooster” suggests you would do
better with ppultry than with poetry... .F.T.:
“At these so rash my teeth I gnash.” Well,
if it’s any consolation, the poem bit the office
boy G.F.: Try elsewhere J.L.P.: For a
children’s magazine R - D : : m ? t Pr y b , ut
choked with cliches... .R.A.McM.: Unlikely.
BQ : You’ve been reading Lemmy
A O’H. : Background good, characters ready-
made T.W.: Rambling V.McM.: Many
times have I sought a plausible explanation in
vain.” It really is inexplicable.. . .R.D. •
Promising... .P.V.0.: “Drought” has a familiar
ring R.M.: Try again F.H.: Moral in-
dignation no substitute for grammar.... •
M.J.H. ; More dialogue needed.’.. .R.K..: Inin.


ẃ
Who Will Look After
My Family?
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 67 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and complete continuity of
service. Charges are fixed and moderate.
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962.437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D* Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Rawa, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton. M.S., Melfa,, F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager* W. Sydney Jonei.
Manager: K. M. Hughea.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS*
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager* J. W. Rut.ell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 187 S.
EARNING
£lO A WEEK
WRITING
An Interesting Occupation
A Paying Hobby
These days £lO a week Is still
good money for anyone to earn in
business, but isn’t it marvellous
TO BE ABLE TO EARN THAT
MUCH OVER AND ABOVE
YOUR REGULAR SALARY OR
WAGES?
You can, if you can write a
good everyday letter; in fact, it
is rather simple, but £ou must
learn THE RIGHT WAY TO GO
ABOUT IT. You must be trained
to know exactly what to write
about, how to write it, and, what
is just as important, where to
sell it.
Grasp the key to success now.
The British School of Authorship
makes all the difference between
just fanciful dreams and real
hard cash earned by good con-
vincing writing.
Sit down and write for a copy of
my free booklet, “Making Money
With the Pen.” BRITISH
SCHOOL OP AUTHORSHIP, Ist
Floor, Dy mock’s Building, 426
George Street, SYDNEY. Phone:
M 3696. ’'
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
[This OH Treatment Often Brings
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
three pints a day and so get rid of three pounds
of waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent
or scanty passages with smarting and burning
are further evidence that something is wrong
witih the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by millions of
people suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS,
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Farmer and Cos., Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends .
T , Ist Prefs. 2nd Prefs. Ord.
July, Profit. 6 p.c. 7 p.c. 6 } p.c. Reserves.
, _ *> £ £ £ £
1935.. 77,424 12,000 28,000 25,000 234,044
1936.. 90,187 12,000 28,000 WoOO I
To staff fund, £SOOO .. .f 249,231
1937.. 101.462 12,000 28,000 36,000 ) „ 70
To staff fund, £SOOO .. . f 270,693
1938.. 105,211 12,000 28,000 35.000 1 „ 0( . c , n .
To staff fund, £SOOO .. f 295,904
1939.. 106,659 12,000 28,000 35,000 )
To staff fund, £SOOO .. f 322,563
10 p.c'.*
1940.. 112,331 12,000 28,000 40,000 ) 349,894
To staff fund, £SOOO f
194!.. U 0 044 12.000 28,000 ssfloo’) QQa
To staff fund, £SOOO ~ j 379,938
1942 93,115 12,000 28,000 30,000 ) QQQ nKO
To staff fund, £SOOO f 898,053
1943.. 92,718 12,000 28,000 " 30,000 ) r
To staff fund, £SOOO .. .. j 415,771
1944.. 100,389 12,000 28,000 86,000)
To staff funds, £SOOO .. ~ J 486,160
1945.. 102,397 12,000 28,000 4(ROOO) ,
To staff funds, £SOOO .. f 453,557
* Including 1) p.c. centenary bonus.
Net earnings averaged £101,832 for the
half-dozen disturbed war years to end of
July last, compared with an average of
£91,880 for the preceding six years, which
included the backwash of the early 1930’s
slump. The improvement arose out of
the exceptional circumstances of war and
a war-time controlled economy. War
created scarcities, increased spending
power and gave rise to other ingredients
of a seller’s market. So, despite rationing
and a host of other restrictions which,
among other things, repressed expendi-
ture, retail turnovers and net earnings
advanced. The next table, which should
be read in conjunction with the introduc-
tory one, shows percentage changes
in aggregate turnover of a number of
Sydney department stores compared with
ẁ
rule of law; it must incorporate established
principles, and must be subject to appeal.
What the Government has failed to realise
is that the methods of administration
developed by Government departments
are unsuited for the conduct of business,
because they are incompatible with the
flexibility so essential to success in com-
mercial enterprise. Continued production
of standard goods, already in oversupply,
can only spell trouble for traders. The
public is already beginning to mark time
in anticipation of more appealing types
becoming available. Before long this will
mean adoption of a cautious policy by
retailers in stocking standard lines, which
in turn will force-manufacturers to follow
a hand-to-mouth programme in produc-
tion of such goods, with an effect upon
employment least to be desired.
Worse still is the widespread dislo-
cation of trade and industry caused by
the present strike at Bunnerong, Sydney’s
big central power station. Not until men
are animated in common by some motive
besides the personal desire for gain, and
a spirit of co-operation develops, based
on a consciousness of the rights of the
community as a whole, will labor have
enough sense to cease cutting off its nose
to spite its face.
However, at the end of July Farmer’s
management considered the market
hungry enough to risk carrying stocks
£115,590 in excess of the previous year’s
figure, as the following comparison of
balance-sheet figures shows;
1980. 1941. 1944. 1945.
£ £ £> £
Capital .. 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000
Mortgage .. 60,000 480,000 400,000 375,000
Creditors*.. 200,902 311,469 366,480 396,887
Freehold and
plant .. 1,467,511 1,406,829 1,250,575 1,243,273
Stock .. 373,644 478,930 417,845 533,435
Book debts 184,048 270,091 71,297 93,788
Cash and in-
vestments 29,263 40,557 487,923 379,948
* Including contingencies.
To meet the outlay on stocks, carry an
extra £22,491 of book debts (first expan-
sion of the item since 1941) and clip
£25,000 off the mortage the board drew
upon cash, etc., for £107,975 and added
£30,407 to the amount coming to sundry
creditors, etc —the etcetera is an unspeci-
fied provision for contingencies. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£235,284) was £24,699.
Castlemaine, Perkins, Ltd. (Brisbane)
To Re- Re-
July, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 83,539 8 p.c, = 57,115 ) Q „, .. 0
Provident fund, £2600 } 28,9 “ 4 109.625
1936. ■ 93,739 8 p.c. - 67,416 1 i>o coa -iqo
Provident fund, £2500 5 ~ 3,8 “ 4 183,449
1937.. 134,118 10 p.c. 104,167 1 27,451 210 900
Provident fund, £2500 $ ’ -U0.900
4938.. 102,555 8 p.c. = 90,101) oon 9?o ssa
Provident fund, £2500 \ ’ 220,854
1939. -140,669 10 p.c. = 126.000 1 18>lfl9 2 34,023
Provident fund, £2500 (
1940.. 133,307 8 p.c. -= 113,115 117 ok-j 71K
Provident fund, £2500 \ 451,/la
1941.. 138.683 8 p.c, «= 120,000 1 , s , «oa
Provident fund, £2500 j 10,18,5 267,898
1942.. 113,360 7i p.c.= 112,500 t
Provident fund, £2600 ( 266,258
Intangibles disappear, £ll,lOO .. 277,358
1943.. 139,204 H p.c.= 112,600 )„,
Provident fund, £2600 (24,204 301,562
1044.. 142,653 8 p.c. = 120,000 j 1K „ 09171 K
Provident fund, £2500 f 20,153 641, 11 a
1945.. 141,621 8 p.c. = 120,000 ) „ orn 836
Provident fund, £2500 j i 9,121 640,836
As the eye sweeps down the profits
column in the table it is necessary to
remember that during the half-dozen
years to the close of accounts in 1940
paid capital more than doubled, advanc-
ing from £625,000 to £1,500,000 by par
issues, and the board went outside for
an extra £152,699 as well. This new
money, and more besides, went mainly
into hotel properties (up £1,011,688) and
plant (up £147,049). It is evidence of the
keen competition that developed between
this co. and the Queensland Brewery ; to-
gether they produce most of the beer con-
sumed in the thirsty northern State. And
under war conditions the new assets
quickly found full employment. Brisbane
and the rest of Queensland were buzzing
with activity before civilian beer sup-
plies were pegged at two-thirds the
Jan.-Feb., 1942, level; this in order to
meet service requirements, which fall
outside the public rationing scheme.
Expanding turnover eased the pressure
of rising costs, including taxation, upon
the rigid ceiling maintained over whole-
sale selling prices, thus keeping fluctua-
tions in earnings and dividends within
narrow limits. The only recoverable costs
were lifts in excise, aggregating 2s. lOd.
per gallon since 1939, which were passed
on to hotelkeepers and over the counter
to customers. The breweries hand the
Government in excise about 73 p.c. of
their gross receipts for bulk beer. The
other 27 p.c., approximately ss. sd. in the
£, has to cover production, distribution,
other costs (including co. income tax) and
profit. The trade is one of the Treasury’s
rich uncles.
Appearances are that C.P.’s turnover
further expanded last term. Certainly
net earnings stepped back £1032. But
that was after £165,000 (up £15,000) had
been set aside for the taxgatherer and
£10,441 (down £2033) openly allowed for
depreciation. The £141,621 of profit
claimed was 9.4 p.c. of capital, compared
with 9.5, 9.3, 7.5, 9.2, 9.4 and 11.2 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was kept at 8 p.c.,
£2500 was sent to the staff fund and
£19,121 was put on the shelf, lifting visible
reserves to £340,836.
As for the outlook, subject to relaxation
of beer rationing and other controls, the
Government programme of post-war
spending and “full” employment should
mean much to brewers and others, pro-
vided monopolistic trade unions exercise
their control over labor in the public, in-
stead of purely sectional, interests. As
demobilisation proceeds service require-
ments will diminish and civilian demand
strengthen. In the interests of even-
handed justice and to keep black-market
operations at a minimum, progressive re-
laxation of civilian quota restrictions is
called for. In the background there is the
declared aim of the Queensland Labor
party to “nationalise the liquor trade” —
a very old Labor aspiration.
When manpower and materials become
available deferred repairs to hotel proper-
ties, etc., will call for substantial outlay.
The next table shows what preparations
the board has made to meet the position;
1035. 1940. 1944. 1045.
-f*. jJJ
capital .. 781,250 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000
Creditors* .. 2fi1,984 3J6.898 271,215 293,515
Tax reserve 30,000 106,000 150,000 165,000
Brewery, ware-
houses, etc. 329,732 471,720 498,957 489,102
Hotels .. 774,170 1,523,471 1,512,613 1,511,686
Stocks . . 74,244 122,764 127,455 133,942
Debtors . . 64,710 95,159 100,659 83,381
Cash, etc. .. 13,715 32,237 73,245 143,749
* Includes unstated provision for contingencies.
Last term cash, etc., was strengthened by
£70,504. When the books closed the amount
coming to outsiders, including an unspeci-
fied provision for taxation, exceeded more
or less liquids by £94,731, an improve-
ment of £25,125 over the twelvemonth.
Winchcombe, Carson, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1935.. 46,034 7 p.c. = 35,000 11,034 188,296
1936.. 57,884 8 „ „ 40,000 17,884 206,180
1937.. 65,089 8 „ „ 40,000 25,089 281,269
1938.. 50,047 7| „ „ 41,240 8,807 240,076
1939.. 47,910 7 „ „ 38,500 9,410 249,486
1940.. 53,226 7,. „ 38,500 14,726 264,212
1941.. 43,908 7 „ „ 38,500 6,408 269,620
1942.. 37,782 6., „ 33,000 4,732 274,352
1943.. 49,548 7 „ „ 38,500 11,048 285,400
Inner reserves disclosed .. 100,000 385,400
1944.. 56,809 7 p.c. = 38,500 18,809 403,709
1945.. 63,659 7 „ „ 38,500 15,159 418,868
Avery satisfactory showing consider-
ing the effects of drought upon pastoral


HARTS
Circular Charts all type* of
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTY. LTD. BRISBANE. o*lo.
STOPvour Rupture
Worries/
Mark;® loeoHon
of YOUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
mbles you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days'
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27). 9 Martin Place, Syuney.
BRANDADER'S
PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD., BIRMINGHAM, ENG.
ẅ
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney;
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. Advt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Advt.
x
„ teS a V vj6 ?t*t*
Pt° tCC 'sVvO eS *J»°^. V sle* b °*
|gp#»
e 000p c r^
e »«^^ o#fcol "
's£>■> e-e*
<OA
vH
N^O
mg*
l\
v*
K
r
V?
i>4'
*UP£i.. //
Complete protection against any contingency while
motoring is the key note of Edward Lumley & Sons’
new cover to car-owners. Get particulars early. You
will be surprised that so much can be provided for, at
such a modest premium.
COMPULSORY THIRD PARTY INSURANCE. When the
time comes to renew, send registered papers, together
with cheque for registration and insurance, to Edward
Lumley & Sons, who will attend to all details.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St., and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
w
, the co. is in the wool- and
productio p as toral - finance and
stock - broking, R s Wales and
Queensland Last season the clip was
fiehter and carried more “doggy,” tended
afd thin-fibred fleeces than usual. And
there was a decline in the number of fat
and other livestock arable, as fol-
lowing comparison of the co. s sales
shows:
rE). Sheep. Cattle.
907 354 395,256 29,272
" 259 596 434,870 28.500
" 239 856 504,617 17,346
’ 242,581 493,326 18,931
'' 238,900 569,271 23,183
255 330 616,852 23,347
Hit 222,995 521.743 21.727
The contraction was wool 32,335 bales,
sheep and cattle 95,109 and 1620 head re-
spectively And the shrinkage would have
been more but for the opening up of a
new branch of the business at Armidale
(N S W.). Communist strikes, shortage of
manpower, fodder scarcity and cost of
handfeeding made matters worse. The
machinery department (Brisbane) con-
tinued to be affected by the supply posi-
tion, but turnover in the produce sec-
tion was “satisfactory.” Brightest spots
in the picture were a steady price for
wool (15.4 and. a pound) under the British
contract, and higher figures for livestock,
thanks to British and service demands.
After providing for taxation and other
contingencies, the net result was only
£3105 lighter at £53,659, equal to 9.4 p.c.
on capital as against 10.3, 9, 6.8, 8, 9.6
and 8.7 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was
kept at 7 p.c., leaving £15,159 to put by.
Capital and reserves combined have now
to turn in approximately 4 p.c. to show
7 p.c. on capital alone.
As for the future, most important de-
velopment has been formation of the new
Empire joint organisation (J. 0.) scheme
for orderly marketing of the staple. It
promises to take the worst of the sting
out of the threat to prices contained in
an accumulated war-time stock-pile of
some 10,000,000 bales. These stocks are
to be used to appease market appetite
in excess of current clips ; and it may
take a decade or more to clean up the
position. The 1945-46 clip will be dis-
posed of under the present contract with
Britain already referred to. After that
the staple will be sold at auction, subject
to reserve prices fixed by J.O. under a
modified system of appraisal. Growers
will have the right to place their own
reserves on their wool, and J.O. will buy
that portion of the clip, if any, not sold
to commercial buyers at or above reserve
figures.
Success of the' scheme will depend
largely upon the skill with which it is
handled. In the past orderly marketing
plans have failed because they sought to
exact too high a price for the commodity
concerned. The world-wide shortage of
clothing, owing to rationing and destruc-
tion, and the demand for replenishment
of wardrobes that will follow demobili-
sation of Allied and enemy forces are
strengthening factors in the immediate
outlook. On the other hand, the staple
is faced with competition from new syn-
thetic fibres. For Australian growers the
big problem will be to keep production
costs, many of them outside the grower’s
control, below average selling price.
Pastoral prospects are better than they
were a year ago. Good winter rains over
most of the areas where the co. operates
should mean better lambing and a more
plentiful supply of fat stock. Still, further
shrinkage in the current clip can be ex-
pected, owing to shortage of breeding
ewes, following the effects of drought
upon flock numbers.
The effects of drought are again re-
flected in an increase of £278,298 in the
co.’s advances:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Capital . . £550,000 £550,000 £550,000 £550,000
Creditors . . 285,862 254,056 337,291 347,365
Overdraft . . 282,759 225,333 50,061 285,291
Freeholds .. 220,624 255,901 260,241 260,241
Plant.. .. 16,452 15,618 11,270 10,686
Stocks . . 65,775 77,821 56,016 48,828
Advances, etc. 1,107,380 944,045 996,427 1,274,725
Investments and
cash .. 11,851 26,856 36,356 26,294
To meet the call from clients the board
added £235,230 to the overdraft, £10,074
to the amount coming to sundry creditors
and drew upon cash, etc., for £10,062.
When the books closed more or less liquids
exceeded outside liabilities by £717,191,
or £15,744 more than at the previous
balance.
Pato Consolidated, which holds some 16
miles of auriferous flats on the Nechi
River, Colombia (S. America), and other
properties on the nearby Cuturu, Tigui
and Force rivers, has five dredges and
five hydraulicking plants together capable
of handling 16,000,000 c.y. p.a. For the
year to end April last 12,346,000 c.y. were
treated for a recovery of $5,480,000, of
which $2,826,000 was profit. That was
after allowing for all exes., except depre-
ciation. Div. will be declared at the
annual meeting on Oct. 26. For each of
the two preceding years 30 p.c. was paid.
Paid capital is $3,200,000, of which Placer
Development holds $1,150,000.
* * * ♦
Big Bell Mines, Ltd., working a low-
grade proposition at Cur (W.A.), is about
to start production again. Operations
were suspended in January, 1943, owing
to shortage of labor and supplies. The
property, held on a long-term lease from
a London syndicate at a royalty of 5 p.c.,
is equipped with fine grinding and direct
cyaniding plants capable of treating 1400
tons a day. When production began in
1937 manager Dale Pitt put- ore reserves
at 3,000,000 tons, averaging 3.7dwt. To
end of 1942 nearly 2,200,000 tons had
been treated for 286,3950 z. gold and
98,3990 z. silver., Divs. paid total 17s. 6d.
per pound share. The £400,000 of paid
capital is held by American Smelting and
Refining Corp. 39.2 p.c., Premier Gold
Mining Cos. 40 p.c., Terra Nova Properties
15 p.c. and Mining Trust 5 p.c. J. Krutt-
schnitt, chairman of Mt. Isa, is managing
director.
* * # *
After nearly a quarter-century’s unsuc-
cessful effort Freney Oil (W.A.) has ap-
proximately £BSOO left, and shareholders
are assured that prospects of further Com-
monwealth and State financial assistance
are bright. Intention is to send the bore,
now down 4271 ft., to bedrock —a further
1000 ft. Owing to proximity of the area
to places then under enemy attack, boring
was ''stopped by order of the Common-
wealth Government in Feb., 1942.
♦ *
South Kalgurli’s chairman, Thomas
Pryor, is visiting the mine at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), having arrived by air from Lon-
don. He is a mining engineer, and is also
interested in the Indian Mysore goldmines,
where concrete and steel are used instead
of timber in supporting the levels. With
the aid of air conditioning mining there
is carried on to a depth of 9000 ft.


Your Executor’s
HEAVY TASK
T HE administration of estates is no longer a
simple procedure easily handled by a man
in his spare time.
The many complex and difficult questions
that arise in these times of rapid change call for
experience and knowledge such as no one man
could possess.
By the appointment of Perpetual Trustee
Company (Limited) as your Executor you ensure
that your Estate will be managed in the best
interests of your family.
There is a booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee,” which is well worth studying. We shall
be pleased to post you a copy upon request.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.H.R,
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for absentees
and others, Administrator, etc.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION EXCEED £64,000,000.
(The average Estate being less than £10,000.)
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
£1,000,000 REFINERY
FOR THE PRODUCTION OF
CALTEX
In this great refinery, the most modern in the world,
Caltex perfected the motor oil that gives a new lease of
life to tired engines .., and NOW with the strain on its
resources relieved by Victory this refinery provides for
Australia the finest motor oil ever imported. Try it in
your car or truck. It will definitely improve the per-
formance of your engine, minimize carbon and reduce
running costs.
somfrrmr
MOTOR OIL
TOMORROW'S OIL TODAY.'
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Labor Defies All Reason
Australians who have, in a gradual
process extending over t many years,
handed their individual industrial rights
oyer to trade-union bodies, and who have
aided in the building-up of the weapon
of solidarity and internal “discipline” in
the union movement, should by now be
as alarmed about the actions of the
machine to which they have become en-
slaved as are those millions of people
outside the trade-union movement.
The dictatorship of trade-unionism
seems destined to end like all other forms
of dictatorship; in going from excess
to excess, in repeatedly flying in the face
of reason and decency, the mere mechani-
cal strength of the dictatorship must even-
tually crash. Like Fascism, Nazism,
Communism, trade-unionism that is un-
reasonable, dictatorial, ever more grasp-
ing, all-embracing and undemocratic can
only continue on its inflating way so
long as it has others to exploit, others
to make demonstrations against. There
is a limit to economic exploitation by
trade-unionism or anything else. And
in a country that retains the fundamentals
of democracy and traditions of freedoih
and fair-play trade-unionism must come
up against dogged resistance from many
people long before it has brought about
its own logical downfall. If allowed to
career madly on to its inevitable down-
fall, however, many other standards and
institutions of the country may be
brought down with it.
There are trade-unions in Australia
which are exceptions to the growing rule
of irresponsible selfishness. But as time
goes by we see additional sections of the
movement indulging in crazed behavior.
Certain key industries in the Common-
wealth at the present time are in the con-
trol of unions whose policy is militant
and predominantly destructive of the
economic, social and legal system of the
country.
The Communist party, which has never
received much support at Federal or State
general elections, has made it its business
to infiltrate unions engaged in key indus-
tries, and thus exercises an influence in
the country out of all proportion to its
numerical strength. The Communist
party owes no allegiance to British forms
of government, to our laws or to our
traditional way of life. Its objective is
revolution, and it has been found many
times in other parts of the world that
economic breakdown is the most success-
ful basis on which to build for a political
and social upheaval.
It is not likely that the majority of
unionists are deliberately trying to bring
about an economic breakdown in this
country, whatever fairyland; they have been
promised in a “new order.” But agitators
within their ranks often have other ideas.
They usually thrive on industrial dispu-
tation and distress. Peaceful relations
between wage-earner and employer are
discouraged. The Parliamentary Labor
party itself, by word of mouth while in
Opposition, by omission and commission
when in office, has itself done much to
strain industrial relations.
The present Federal Government,
especially its junior Ministers, is respon-
sible for a very great deal of the lawless-
ness and undisciplined selfishness now
visible in many parts of the Common-
wealth, more particularly N. S. Wales.
“The bosses,” the banks, investors and
men of enterprise have been discredited
and blackened in order to win votes for
Labor politicians at Parliamentary elec-
tions. Thousands of wage-earners have
fallen for this kind of dope. In falling
they have engineered their own ruin.
“The bosses,” in spite of what short-
comings they may be charged with, repre-
sent the backbone and essential organi-
sation of industry and finance. They
carry the brunt of the burden imposed
by bureaucracy, including dictatorial
taxation departments. It is perfectly
clear that the Labor politicians for whose
benefit they have been blackguarded and
libelled are, as a body, parasites of a
calamitous kind. The present Federal
Labor Government is an administrative
failure and a rickety support for the law
of the land and economic stability. Time
and again it has sacrificed vital national
considerations for mere political expedi-
ency. But it exercises a tyranny of weak-
ness over all political minorities, regard-
less of how economically and industrially
important those minorities may be. The
Federal Government is quite incapable
of acting for the general good of the com-
munity. It is simply a portion of the
Labor-party machine which is partly in
the control of racketeers and partly out
of control.
Australia has to break out of this
destructive mechanical trade-union con-
trivance ffiat is attacking production and
living standards with obvious effects on
all sides. Militant unionism has gone mad,
and the commonsense and self-respect of
the community is about due to re-assert
itself after six years of war strain. The
more outrageous trade-union behavior
becomes the more powerful will be the
flood of general resentment against this
tyranny, which is obscuring the outlook
of all, more especially the younger
generation.
But the problem will have to be studied
seriously and tackled with energy, A
young country’s national character is
shaped by the way it meets its problems,
and in the Commonwealth’s industrial
problems of the present day we have
something worthy of the mettle of the
brightest brains and strongest characters
in the community. In industry, in law,
in economics, in literature and in the
press there is a need for refortification
of sound principles and an upholding of
honorable dealing and other social and
political decencies. In addition, all over
the land there must be a recognition of
the fact that, while a hard day’s work is
a thing to be respected, the loafer and
the extortioner in industry are the blight
of prosperity and industrial harmony.
The country needs the re-emergence
into public life of men educated in in-
dustrial and social realities. It is true that
we are in the midst of great world
changes. But wishful thinking, imprac-
tical theorising, undisciplined selfishness
and political adventurism are not going
to be more successful principles in gov-
ernment than they ever were. In the
Labor party today Australia is cursed
with “sports,” cranks, windbags, humbugs,
nitwits, Communists, theorists, anti-British
advocates, machine politicians, political
adventurers and racketeers.
Though the Labor party has a huge
majority in the Federal Parliament
it is chronically opposed to discus-
sion of the dangers, difficulties and
degeneration of principles and admin-
istration all too evident in the Com-
monwealth. Though it invariably dis-
credits supporters of thrift, hard work,
private enterprise and economic indepen-
dence, and at the same time favors social-
ism, it would be impossible to find a
collection of men so highly paid and en-
trusted with such powers who are so ig-
norant and incompetent when it comes
to dealing with any of the practical prob-
lems of the present-day world. After
years of destructive criticism the
Federal Labor party appears to be in-
capable of planning or doing anything
constructive. Its gods, whatever it once
believed them to be, are taking shape as
the demons Anarchy and Incompetence.
There is a problem in the Common-
wealth today that can be expressed very
simply but which Labor politicians always
avoid facing, even though it involves the
whole future welfare of the land. The
problem is approximately this : There is
a nation-wide agitation for a shorter
working week and longer holidays the
demand has been conceded. Additional
paid-for holidays have been asked for
and, in some instances, granted, up to a
month’s holidays a year being allowed in
certain trades. Notwithstanding the shorter
working week and longer holidays the
general experience throughout the Com-
monwealth has been that production per
hour worked has fallen. Despite statisti-
cians’ figures which purport to show that the
national income has risen during the war,
it is quite plain that the volume of goods
and services available for consumption
has fallen, and that, at present rates of
production, the ending of all expenditure
on defence output would not of itself
bring living standards back to pre-war
levels. In astonishing contrast to this
picture of industrial degeneration we find
the Labor party endeavoring to obtain
(a) a far greater non-contributory provi-
sion for old-age, sickness, unemployment,
etc., and ( b ) a higher current standard
of living.
The essence of this problem outlined
is that out of a smaller amount of pro-
duction the Labor party is endeavoring
to get for itself a greater present and
future consumption. It is tying the coun-
try in knots in order to obtain the im-
possible, Labor, great producer though
it has been, is also the huge consumer of
goods and services. Its welfare depends
upon its own productive efforts and the
organising ability of “bosses.” It is en-
deavoring to frustrate both.
With the war barely over, and with its
aftermath all too clearly now upon us,
there are sections of the community
already seeking ultra-prosperity along
lines already outlined. Many of the
people so energetically seeking to better
themselves devoted very little energy to
the winning of the war. Disillusionment
awaits. The cost of war to the people of
Australia is represented not only by taxes
paid out of their wages, out of other in-
comes and by the borrowings of the Com-
monwealth and/or its inflationary or bur-
densome effects; it is also reflected in
debt, in the fall in our present produc-
tive capacity and in the arrears of civilian
production and maintenance resulting
from the demands of war.
Australia’s position is really one where
a longer working week or a miraculous
increase in mechanical efficiency is
needed to make up for the wastage of
war ; also, where a high rate of contribu-
tion to the national finances is required
not to encourage Government spending
but to assist in redeeming the national
debt and to restrain inflation.
In spite of the “12-| p.c. income-tax”
and sales-tax concessions, the tax burden,
direct and indirect, on the Australian
population is officially estimated at £46
3s. 9i± a head for 1945-46, compared
with £47 Is. 4}d. in 1944-45 and £42
17s. H-d. in 1943-44. It is interesting to
note that while individuals paid at the rate
of £2l 3s, ll|d. a head in income tax,
companies paid at the rate of £8 3s. per
head of the population—indicating the
extent to which company profits subsi-
dise the Budget in favor of individuals.
In 1944-45 company earnings before
taxation were £145 million (against wages
and salaries of individuals totalling £584
million and pay to servicemen of £l9O
million); companies paid £6O million in
direct taxes and individuals £166 million.
Shareholders received only £3B million
in dividends; on these they paid taxes at
the property rate, no rebate being made
in respect of taxes paid by public com-
panies, which amounted to at least 6s.
in the £ —sometimes twice that or more.
Canada, incidentally, made a 16 p.c. cut
in personal taxation on October 2 ; excess-
profits tax has been reduced from 100
p.c. to 60 p.c.


PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies—are
all banished. Approved by Board ot
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating i£ by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR DIST. CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindiv forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS 8N.5.44
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
October 31, 1914. —I find myself becom-
ing more methodical about things and
can deal with problems more clearly and
quickly. In fact, Pelmanisin has ful-
filled exactly what I wanted. It has
widened my horizons socially and cuI-
turaIIy.—LIEUTENANT.
March 3, 1944.—1 am afraid force of
circumstances had caused my fires of
interest to die down. Now I feel that I
have regained ray grip and have defi-
nitely laid the basis of a successful
Course.—MAJOß.
November 10, 1944—My ibemory is good.
I have an interest in life, and I am no
longer a mind-wanderer. I have gained
a great deal of general knowledge, and
I find I can accomplish more work_ and
take more interest in people and things.
—NURSE.
September 6, 1944.—1 feel I must thank
the Institute for the co-operation and
the almost unbelievable benefits I have
received through the Course, but most
of all for the happiness that 1 have
derived since I started. —CORPORAL.
September 17, 1944.—My interest and
powers of concentration have increased
to a surprising extent. I look forward
to each day with pleasurable anticipa-
tion and undertake each new.matter as
it arises with added confidence in my
ability to see it through to a satis-
factory conclusion. SOLICITOR, EX-
SOLDIER.
September 17, 1944.—1 must tell you how
much you are helping me and how
very encouraging your advice is. About
three months ago I dreaded the thought
of meeting people or mixing with them.
I just could not do it. I thought my-
self inferior to them. Well, now I am
just the opposite. I love meeting
people: I have found how very interest-
ing they are.—GUNNER,
September 18, 1944.—Prankly, I feared
my future when I returned to civil life.
Now I feel I am advancing towards the
goal of the fuller man. Fear of the
future has been replaced by willingness
to embrace it with open arms and a
desire to serve my fellow-men in my
own caIIing.—PRIVATE.
September 30, 1944.—Without a doubt, I
have made progress. My original aims
—clearer perception, concentration and
more astute mental employment—have
become clearly defined. In covering the
ground I have found other information
of which I had not previously thought.
—CAPTAIN.
March 11, 1944. —My work in the Pelman
Course was of immense value, and to
my surprise I mastered the tricky sub-
ject “Engines," to the extent of 95 p.c.
I have never been “mechanically”
inclined, and the mechanics of the
simple egg-beater were formerly about
my Iimit.—FLIGHT-SERGEANT.
October 30, 1944.—0ne of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and
reference numbers. By using the Pel-
man methods 1 was pleased to find I
bad the whole list correctly reproduced.
Similar instances often occur. —COR-
PORAL.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Interest - - Power
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the
Pelman Course which makes it of peculiar usefulness to members or
the Services.
Interest makes duty purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the
subject matter of training and educational courses, adds to the
pleasure and profit of free time and keeps the mind in trim for re-
entry to civil life. Interest discovers the real meaning, the energy and
movement of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company. •
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of
other qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual
pupil. These qualities are;
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Alongside we publish extracts from a few hundreds of letters received
during 1944 from members of the Services referring to the qualities
developed by Pelmanism.
The same full service is given to civilians with similar results.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of person-
ality in “The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
isjrn-n • Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute.
JNOTE ‘ ' Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with .he
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane. Melbourne,
please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
171
w
Talks in Washington are still going on
with regard to trade and financial rela-
tions between Britain and the Empire and
the United States, even though the
matter does not make headline news at the
moment. The sudden ending of lend-
lease is in distinct contrast with the pro-
tracted negotiations now concerning the
form of commercial intercourse there is to
be between Britain and America. It is to be
noted that the Bretton Woods monetary
plans are not yet in operation, nor have
they been agreed to by the Governments
of all the signatory countries. Probably
a good deal of the success or otherwise
of the planning will depend upon
whether the United States is able to put
up a workable proposition in regard to
Britain’s difficulties. America is con-
fronted with two problems. It doesn’t
want to see Britain economically smashed
for a number of reasons, one of them
being it would like to have a strong demo-
cratic friend in a world which, for the
moment, has gone rather heavily to tne
Left; and, in any case, a country which
wishes to export to the world on a large
scale wants solvent customers to do
business with. But a second problem is
the political attitude of the United States
people themselves. In matters of inter-
national trade they are inclined to take
the view which our trade-unionists adopt
im their disputes here —that is, they want
everything their own way. One-way
traffic won’t work either in international
trade or in industrial bargaining. The
United States is an extraordinarily
wealthy country, endowed by Nature and
by its own energies with an immense pro-
ductive capacity, and it* is deserving of
far less therapeutical treatment in matters
of world trade than Britain. Yet in ask-
ing for the abolition of imperial tariff
preference there is no real evidence yet
of a quid pro quo beyond the mention
of a long-term dollar loan at low interest.
What would be of more value to world
trade would be a reduction in U.S. tariffs
to allow competition in those trades
where Britain and other countries are still
much more efficient than America —wool-
len textiles, for example. Australia, too,
would like to see the U.S. duties on wool
and lead abolished. If an American
financial hegemony of the world is to be
dictated by political consideration for the
Middle West States there appears to be
disaster ahead just as certainly as if inter-
Empire self-sufficiency is carried to excess.
* * * *
Federal and N. S. Wales Labor Min-
isters and the Miners’ Federation have
been discussing a proposal whereby the
Federal Government may buy and dis-
tribute ail N. S. Wales coal for five years,
at the same time guaranteeing continuity
of employment in the industry. So long
as the Federal Government can guaran-
tee “continuity of employment” in
periods when the unions don’t as well as
do want to work the proposal may have
some value. As R. G. Menzies has said,
production, not distribution, is our real
coal problem.
* * * *
In the nine pr ten weeks since the
end of hostilities against Japan there
have been a number of sharemarket re-
visions in the Commonwealth, including
stocks like 8.H.P., Bank of N. S. Wales,
Tooth, British Tobacco and Howard
Smith. The revisions have been more
speedy lately, but they still have not
allowed any freedom in the market, sellers
not being tempted out by the higher
prices offered. In nearly every case front-
rank stocks are undervalued at Treasury
figures in the eyes of both buyers and
sellers. Under present arrangements
Treasury supervision of Stock Exchange
quotations will run out six months after
the end of the war, whenever that may
be deemed to have occurred. Though
control of commodity prices will con-
tinue for three years after the end of the
war by Commonwealth agreement with
the States, there has been no discussion
of share or real-estate prices. Australia
has been the only country to control
Stock Exchange quotations, and, though
the control has not been without some
benefits, it has entirely failed in beget-
ting support for war loans. At the same
time it has inflicted hardship on people
forced to sell shares to meet taxation
assessments. The one benefit of the con-
trol has been to restrict gambling in
shares. This the Stock Exchanges have
done far more effectively than in cases
of direct Treasury control of land sales.
* * *' *
A body called the United Democrats,
“non-party political advise/s,” is operat-
ing in Adelaide with the object of “actu-
ally controlling the various Parliamen-
tary representatives in each division or
district” on the taxation question. It
recommends for perusal The Answer to
Tax-slavery, written by C. Barclay-Smith.
This author has put out a number of
booklets in the past advocating a money
system similar to the Douglas Credit idea,
and the United Democrats are also ad-
dicted to the same fallacy. The U.Ds.
plead there is not enough money in cir-
culation at any time to buy back the pro-
duction of industry, and there is a sug-
gestion (though nowhere an explanation)
that by overcoming this “shortage” taxa-
tion may be wiped out. As is usual in
the pleadings of currency cranks, there
is one correct contention in the U.D.
pamphlet: the claim is rightly made that
taxation at present is in many cases ex-
cessive. But the idea that to put “extra
money into circulation, instead of trying
to pick the pockets of the people,” is the
answer to it all can be immediately re-
futed by our present position. An issue
of £360-million worth of bank credit
during this war has resulted in an excess
of money that is threatening disastrous
inflation. And we still have excessive
taxation!
* * ♦ ♦
The Commonwealth and State national
debt owing in London totalled £522 mil-
lion sterling on June 30 last. The in-
terest bill thereon was at the rate of £l7
million a year. In New York at the same
date we owed £4l million, taken at $4.86
to the £. Interest on that was £2 million
a year. Worked out in Australian money,
the total cost of servicing the overseas por-
tion of the national debt is more like £25
million. Australia has reduced its Lon-
don debt by about £25 million sterling
since war began, and New York in-
debtedness has been pared down by £3
million. Commonwealth gold stocks and
London balances total about £l6O
million Australian, and are subject
to constant fluctuations, as well as
to special post-war contingencies, such
as a hangover from lend-lease. We
are committed to outlay on Army and
Air Force equipment ordered before
lend-lease arrangements were cancelled.
Australia’s external-debt position, though
showing improvement at this stage of the
post-war period by comparison with the
1939 condition of things, is not notice-
ably strong. Furthermore, our wool
cheque in the peace may remain com-
paratively stable during a period in which
our bill for essential imports, including
™ anl^
s„r;r d w -
j”f ng P “ p ra- ™ s t°anLd s °and toVo°
fof rehabilitation an d expansion of
Qur p roduc tj ve resources may more than
absorb what could reasonably be expected
t be income from exported c0mm0....
.... *
d,tles - .
* • *
Broken Hill Proprietary has a paid
capital of £13,885,012, ail put up in cash
out of their pockets by shareholders. It
is the biggest undertaking in the Com-
monwealth, and it has been responsible
for a great part of our munitions effort,
All shareholders have been receiving on
tbeir investment in recent years has been
5 „ a ver y j ow return f or t hi s k j nc i of
investment. The co has provided the
na ti Q n with the cheapest steel in the
worm d„rinf? this 5 nc nerind imt the
Z? asTwas dotag ' before’the war.
For industry to be venturesome after the
war and ven t ure me ans employment
there will need to be better than 5 p.c.
dividends. The sharemarket obviously
looks for better than 5 p.c. from B.H.P.
eventually when it pays 445. for the £1
shares.
* * * *
The Bunnerong blackout in N. S. Wales
brought home to many people the very
poor value in hurri cane lamps that one
could buy for half a note. Possibly
h"**, reSponsible for ‘ he
fafllted""enormous?/ tteTasf half!
year , s - 'L Sydney r es
had a surplus of kerosene lamps the Bun-
ra™", 8 ? * godsen ? ; whatev “
the stock position, some thousands of
pounds’ worth of lamps were sold, many
even the day before the strike broke. The
majority of last-minute buyers consoled
hemselves with the thought that buying
the lamps was just insurance, anyway.
and that, whatever the position at the
moment, you never can ell.” Even
SO a Cla i danc . e basemen . ts bke , P ;'"“ s
and Romanos were reduced to tallow
candles and kerosene lamps, and no air-
conditioning. Fortunately for these places,
the weather cooled after the first day of
restriction on commercial usage.


Missing Friend.
WELDON.—THE TRUSTEES of the Estate of the late
BEATRICE MAUD MACDONALD (nee Weldon),
formerly of Sydney, desire to communicate with any
surviving brothers of the deceased or with their issue.
—Trustee. PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
N.S.W., LTD., 25 O’Connell Street, Sydney.
MAASEASE
the perfect comfort male
«upport for every man’*
everyday wear.
(All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Manaease Oo., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTie'^ulIeiZTi.
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: —
12 months .. .. ..£140
6 12 6
3 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia; —
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3 „ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£180
THE SERVICE MAN
Report on the R.A.A.F.
The Barry report on R.A.A.F. disputes
at Morotai highlights facts with which
everybody in touch with that arm of the
service was familiar.
A “balance sheet” concerning the ex-
penditure of life and machines in rela-
tion to the military value of targets was
compiled by Group Captain W. A.
Arthur from First Tactical Air Force
Intelligence reports at Morotai. Group
Captain Arthur showed his “balance
sheet” to Air Commodore Cobby, Air
Officer Commanding. There was no reply
from that quarter, but Group Captain
Arthur secured endorsement of his views
from Group Captain C. R. Caldwell,
who holds this war’s Australian record
for machines destroyed; from Wing
Commander K. Ranger and Squadron-
leaders Mick Grace and Vanderfield, ad-
venturous characters with fine service
records. These, with other officers with
national reputations, Squadron Leaders R.
H. Gibbes, J. L. Waddy and S. R. Harp-
ham, agreed that an unsatisfactory state
of affairs existed at First T.A.F., and that
this was generally symptomatic of condi-
tions in the R.A.A.F.
An allegation that Group Captain
Caldwell had been trading in liquor was
to be the substance of an inquiry. Antici-
pating a decision on the part of most of
the eight officers involved that they
should ask to be allowed to resign, Group
Captain Caldwell requested on April 9
that his commission be terminated. On
April 14 the rest decided to resign simul-
taneously on the grounds that the
R.A.A.F. lacked leaders who could resist
outside pressure and carry out the “honest
economical prosecution of the war,” and
that they desired to call public attention
to this deficiency. This action was to be
taken after Group Captain Caldwell, in
Australia on leave, had seen Mr. J. P.
Abbott, M.P., and the Air Minister.
Other matters of dispute arose before
the actual resignations. Eventually, when
Air Commodore Cobby interviewed all
the officers concerned except Group Cap-
tain Caldwell, they refused to give reasons
for their actions.
Air Vice-Marshal Bostock, after
attempts to smooth over the difficulties,
secured an alteration of the request by
the malcontents that their resignations
be accepted “forthwith” to one that they
be accepted at the end of current opera-
tions. He then urged that Air Commo-
dore Cobby and Group Captains Gibson
and Simms be relieved of their positions,
General Morshead, the A.M.F. Corps
Commander, agreeing that he was taking
the only possible course.
Air Marshal Bostock reported;
Morale throughout the T.A.F. is at a
dangerous, low level... .Seven officers and a
Wing-Leader have submitted applications
for permission to resign their commissions.
The demeanor of all officers during my
interview with them was respectful but
bitter and unrelenting From general
observations I am convinced that the atti-
tude of the officers who have asked to re-
sign is a reliable index to the widespread
dissatisfaction which pervades the whole
T.A.F.
On May 12 Air Commodore Scherger
replaced Air Commodore Cobby as
A.O.C. First T.A.C.
Mr. Barry reported that the chief of
the Air Staff, Air Vice-Marshal Jones,
had told him that the eight officers who
had resigned “sincerely held their beliefs,
no matter how ill-founded, coupled pos-
sibly with a rather exaggerated sense of
national duty.”
The Commissioner quoted U.S. com-
manders in the South West Pacific area
as saying that the R.A.A.F. did not and
could not pull its weight, but that “any
flying units using the limited aerodrome
space had to justify their existence.” He
himself was convinced that there was
widespread dissatisfaction within the
T.A.F., and that other officers were pre-
pared to follow the example of Group-
Captain Caldwell and his friends, the ap-
plications of seven other officers to be
allowed to resign not being connected
with the concerted proceedings of the
Caldwell group.
Mr. Barry found that Group Captain
Caldwell and Squadron Leader Gibbes
had imported liquor in considerable quan-
tities, and that both at the time they
bought it intended to sell it for cash in
Morotai. But “almost every witness at
the inquiry candidly admitted that he
used aircraft for importing liquor for
his own or others’ consumption.” In
most cases the only evidence of this was
the officers’ own admissions. Air Com-
modore Cobby was aware of the impor-
tations of liquor, but did not regard them
as a breach of the law; in April, 1945,
he himself imported two cases of beer
from the mainland. Court-martial pro-
ceedings against Group Captain Caldwell
were justifiably taken, and there was no
ground for any suggestion that Group
Captain Caldwell was discriminated
against. Air Commodore Cobby would
have failed in his duty had he not taken
those proceedings. The Commissioner
considered that no action should be taken
against the officers involved in the liquor
charges, and that their answers should
not affect them in the service.
The most staggering few words in con-
nection with the inquiry were uttered by
the complacent Mr. Arthur Drakeford,
the “responsible” Air Minister:
The report speaks for itself . . . Any
action that may be taken, disciplinary or
administrative, is a matter for the Air
Board.
If ever there was a case for the
thorough overhaul of a vital service of
the country’s defences, there is one in
relation to the R.A.A.F. And it is the
duty of Cabinet to see that the whole
matter of R.A.A.F. discipline and ad-
ministration is thoroughly sifted and any
weaknesses rectified.
The R.A.A.F. is the key to the whole
of the primary defence of the Australian
mainland. The idea that it should ever
be allowed henceforward to fall below
the highest peak of discipline and
efficiency would be appalling.
Demobilisation.
Mr. Dedman, Minister for Post-war
Reconstruction, says “there is every in-
dication that the first stage of the de-
mobilisation scheme —the discharge of
200,000 men and women —will be com-
pleted by the middle of January.”
So far the scheme seems to be running
fairly smoothly in Australia itself, and any
delays outside it are likely to be due not
so much to the management, which is in
the hands of a veteran corps commander,
Lieut.-General Savige, who has always
had a reputation for being considerate,
but through shipping “difficulties.” As Mr,
Menzies pointed out, the Government’s
“abject retreat before a handful of Com-
munists on the waterfront” has tied up
Dutch shipping, forcing the British to
use their vessels, which otherwise could
have been applied to the repatriation of
Australians, for the supplying of Java
and starving Dutch and natives, of whom
4,000,000 are said to have perished dur-
ing the Jap occupation.
Before the week-end, apart from the
Dutch ships immobilised by a Communist
minority, two vessels were idle and 10
held up in Sydney because wharfies “de-
manded the right to place themselves in
working positions contrary to the Steve-
doring Commission’s instructions.” The
port of Townsville —notorious for water-
front treatment of soldiers on the way to
the battlefront —was the scene of a strike
against A.U.S.N. ships because some
surly lawbreakers had been fined.
All this while it is urgent to get long-
term A.I.F. men home from the tropics,
of which they have had more than their
fill, and to succor 150,000 civilian in-
ternees who are in peril of death and tor-
ture at the hands of Indonesian terrorists.
The Great Wewak Delusion.
“Ek Dum”; The creaky vessel Forde’s
Mind spent a storm-wracked week, steer-
ing badly, before being hove-to before
the gale on a sea anchor consisting of
“two businessmen” who are to “inquire
into the allegations touching Wewak food
shortages,”
First, Mr, Forde issued a statement that
the troops in the Wewak area were re-
ceiving full-scale rations, though he ad-
mitted that they had not had fresh food
for two weeks. This he attributed to
“irregular deliveries” over six weeks.
Obviously babu rubbish, since it could be
completely confounded by the Army
order issued late in September placing
the Sixth Division from October 1 on
a diet devoid of fresh vegetables and so
meagre that it needed the supplement of
vitamin pills.
In any case dozens of soldiers whose
stomachs are better indicators than Mr.
Forde’s “mind” were convinced that they
still were enduring two very meagre meals
a day of iron rations and biscuit.
Mr. Forde, blithering:
It is not possible in tropical areas to
maintain continuous supplies of fresh food.
But Army policy is to ensure that 30 days
supply of preserved and tinned rations suf-
ficient for the full-ration scale of three meals
daily is on hand. Available records show
that these supplies were available to troops
in Wewak' and Aitape, and at no time
during September, at least, did the reserve
of ration supplies fall below 25 days.
There is no truth in allegations that ship-
ping hold-ups in Sydney caused shortage
of rations in New Guinea. One ration
ship sailed on October 1 and arrived in
Wewak on October 10. A refrigeration ship
left on October 11, and will provide for
issues of fresh rations for the next three
weeks. From September 8 to September 29
fresh supplies of apples were quite satis-
factory. Field baking units in the area can
produce 31,000 rations of fresh bread daily
and this is more than is needed at present.
To this the Minister added that
Brigadier P. S. McGrath, supported by
General H. C. H. Robertson, C.O. of the
division, now reported that “full rations
of normal issues or their equivalent” had
been “issued daily to troops at Wewak,”
and that "complaints were largely caused
by the reduction of fresh-food issues.”
These fresh-food issues, according to
the earlier part of the Minister’s state-
ment, had stopped for a mere two weeks.
Yet this apparently had prompted not one
or two but hundreds of members of the
division to begin writing protests against
starvation as early as the third week in
September, and had caused divisional
H.Q. to issue orders imposing shortages
on a scale which necessitated the issue of
vitamin pills as a supplement before
October 1.
There was no report from the divisional
commander except through the mouth of
Mr. Forde, and there was no explanation
of why hundreds of officers and men —
the writer has never seen such letters or
such a number of them from troops in
an experience of over 35 years—should
be convinced that they were starving
when Mr. Forde positively says they were
not, and why, writing from different units
they showed such unanimity as to the
nature of their starvation.
The possible excuse that the division
has been loaded with some thousands of
Japanese mouths to feed has not been
pleaded.
However, after being first satisfied with
Brigadier McGrath’s report and then hav-
ing toyed with the idea of himself going
to Wewak, from which he may have been
deterred by rumors of cannibalism in
the area, the Minister appointed the “two
businessmen” one a director of
Standard cars and the other “assistant
business adviser to the Minister” —to
make further inquiries. Some even more
searching inquiries are necessary as to
whether the country is prepared to allow
demobilisation to proceed under the
“control” of a Minister whose whole
career has been marked throughout by
flabby incompetence almost outside the
realm of political experience even in
Australia, where political incompetence
has long been the norm.
Meanwhile, the waterside workers
killed two birds with one stone by asking
that Dutch ships (which Australia does
not own but which, presumably, are to be
seized by a sort of act of piracy) should
be used to take food to the Sixth Divi-
sion and bring prisoners-of-war back on
the return voyage.
On this Mr. Chifley declined to com-
ment, but no doubt he will do so when
the Communist party has issued its orders
through the A.C.T.U. or one of the
rabble of Labor councils.
The Bennett Inquiry.
“Ek Dum”: Last week it was an-
nounced that, as a result of a report from
General Percival to the commander-in-
chief, General Blarney, a Court of
Inquiry, consisting of Lieut.-General
Morshead (chairman), Major-General
Stantke, formerly Adjutant-General, and
Major-General Wootten, till recently in
command of the Ninth Division, would
investigate the circumstances of the
escape of Lieut.-General Gordon Bennett
from Malaya.
Though sections of the press, showing
the usual rank partisanship, have in-
veighed against “Army hush hush,” the
method adopted was the only one avail-
able.
There had to be an inquiry; it was
inescapable since there is almost certain
to be a British inquiry. If that had been
held and findings had been made un-
complimentary to General Bennett it
would have been awkward for the Gov-
ernment, which in any case is in an awk-
ward spot. The court has to sit at least
partly behind closed doors, since matters
must come up subject to the Military
Secrets laws, some of them matters in
which secrecy depends on British judg-
ment.
Without inquiry—inquiry being impos-
sible with all the main witnesses in
Japanese prison camps—the Government
soon after General Bennett’s return not
merely exonerated him but praised him
in glowing terms and expressed its con-
fidence in him. It then had no evidence
but his own to go upon. Its action made
the appointment of a committee of in-
vestigation by the Cabinet well-nigh im-
possible, and General Bennett had not
asked for the court-martial which would
have been quite in order in the circum-
stances.
The method adopted keeps the pro-
ceedings free of politics if not free of
partisanship on the part of the daily press,
some sections of which, having made
use of General Bennett as a commen-
tator, are inclined to anticipate events.
A painful duty has been placed upon
the three generals who form the board,
since they and General Bennett are all
old comrades of the last war, in which
the general proved himself a very gallant
field commander. But they are all men
in whom public and troops alike have
confidence, and whose finding will be ac-
cepted in all quarters which matter.
Report on the Red Army.
“Ek. Dum”: Little by little the truth
about the Red Army is coming out,
and it confirms everything which was
written here about its sketchy equipment
and its substitution of huge hordes of
wild Asiatic troops for disciplined shock
units and formations, well armed and
equipped, which were the staple of British
and U.S. Armies.
The latest description of them comes
from Captain William Knowlton, U.S.
Army, the American regular officer who
was given the duty of making the first
contact between Yankees and Russkis in
Germany (“Reader’s Digest”);
I expected a military machine, manned
by stern-visaged men, with a lot of mechani-
cal equipment. We found a conglomeration
of horses, German trucks, bicycles, civilian
waggons, rusty old fieldpieces, Cossacks,
tommy-guns, motor-cycles. There seemed
to be no system, and people just wandered
in and out of the column at will with
apparently no orders or particular jobs.
Every other man was an officer When
.... we finally caught up with the colonel
he was a farmerlike individual, serenely
driving a two-horse waggon as though it
were Sunday in Central Park. Sitting be-
side him was a girl in uniform. I learned
later that she was a Russian nurse named
Maria.
The colonel later picked out “a good
command post” for the divisional com-
mander who was due to arrive. He
said;
“I’ll take that.” Immediately several
Cossacks galloped up to the house, hurtled
off their horses and strode into the house.
There were several crashing sounds; I
heard some glass break, a few splintering
noises of wood, probably doors, one loud
crash, a scream—and then the door opened
and two aged Germans came flying out,
evidently propelled by a large Russian boot.
They had no sooner lit than a Cossack
appeared at the door carrying a German
boy by the seat and neck. He cleared
the hedge with that one. There were more
noises of doors smashing and glass break-
ing.
Captain Knowlton gives the answer as
to how the Russians “hold all that liquor.”
He says: They don’t. He watched the
task-force commander give the order to
assail the Germans through whose lines
the. small U.S. contact force of 100 already
had passed safely for 60 miles:
He reeled out of the house to the field
where his officers were assembled, all alert
with notebooks poised He held up the
map, back to the officers so that no one
could see it He went on with (his) mumbo
jumbo for a while, until the officers looked
at each other with that “the-old-man-is-
drunk-again” look, folded up their books
and yelled the Russian for “Hey, gang—
the Wankers are over there. Let’s go!”
Looking back as they made their way
through the German lines, the astonished
captain saw the Russian task-force com-
mander “sticking out of Clark’s armored
car, looking like a jack-in-the-box,” a
“towel over one arm, a huge razor in
his hand, laughing uproariously while
he tried to shave the gunner.”
And, later, on a final stage of the
journey to the American H.Q., Knowl-
ton reported, “a Russian captain side-
tracked me and made me drink and share
a chicken with him, while he alternately
hit and kicked a German SS major he
had in his car with him.”


e
, 0
0
s/
\ -
Every day in some way , you use an
EXIDE BATTERY...
In your choice of a car battery be guided
by the Air Forces. They and the world’s leading
passenger air lines depend on Exide. They
still keep going when the rest have stopped.
whin iTsgir
we
2.45.
PERSONAL ITEMS
As a Deputy Controller of Demobi-
lisation, the Government has appointed
Brigadier H. li. Hammer, C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
to take charge of Victorian dispersals. The
brigadier should know the new Digger, for
he was one of the originals of 1940, and
had a large hand, while brigade major of
the 16th Brigade, in organising the evacua-
tion from Greece. Promoted C.O. of the
2/48th, his glorious battalion, which at
the end had a record of gallantry second
to none, he held the position at El
Alamein which General Montgomery, at
the senior officers’ ’ conference before the
battle, described as the most important
on the Eighth Army’s front. There he
was wounded and won the D. 5.0., being
afterwards sent to the British Tenth Army
to elucidate for its officers the lessons
of Alamein. Hammer took over the 16th
Brigade the following March and com-
manded it in the Salamaua and Ramu
operations. He saw the end of the war
on Bougainville. Born at Southern Cross
(W.A.) nearly 404 years ago, he had
acquired the training which enabled him
to build the Qatara defences under the
Tenth British Corps at the Ballarat
School of Mines. He follows a curious
profession for a mining engineer—repre-
sentative of the British indent and manu-
facturing softgoods firm of I. and R.
Morley.
Passed on on October 14 at Sydney,
Percy F. Rowland, for many years head-
master of Townsville Grammar School.
A scholar of Hertford College, Oxford,
and winner of the Chancellor’s English
Essay, he came to Australia abou( 1900
and wrote the “New Nation,” still one of
the best descriptions of Australia, just
after Federation. Its prefatory verses,
which appeared in The Bulletin, are still
among the best attempts at an Australian
national song. Scores of Queenslanders
remember Rowland as the most amusing
of headmasters. He wrote for many years
on educational subjects for the Queens-
land press. After resigning he returned
to England, but was back among his
children and grandchildren before the end
of the war.
As a family contribution to the
national war-effort that of the Prestons
of Brisbane seems hard to beat. John
Preston, father, now 71, served in India
under Baden Powell, went through the
Boer War, was in France in World War
I and tried hard to enlist with the A.I.F.
in 1940. -Eight of his sons (the eldest now
47 and with 27 years of R.A.N. service,
seven others, from 40 to 23) and a 17-
year-old daughter in the Land Army have
put in a total of 51 years in uniform
among them, 30 years of it during World
War 11.
“Diorite”: As Australia’s happiest pen-
sioner I nominate Walter Mattie, once
a mate of Paddy Hannan, discoverer of
Kalgoorlie. At 82 he is still dryblowing
at Golden Ridge, 14 miles from Kal-
goorlie, and is so hale that it is only
recently that he condescended to accept
the pension. He still often walks in to
the races of a Saturday. Quiet and
dapper, the little man has always had a
welcome at his neat camp for the children
of his neighbors, the fettlers on the
T.A.L. and other visitors —they used to
motor out in the days before petrol-
rationing. His partnership with Hannan
was later than the discovery of the Kal-
goorlie field, Walter confirms the tradi-
tional view that Paddy, while a shrewd
prospector with a good eye for “country,
was among the world’s worst bushmen.
After service since 1930 as secretary,
Deputy Administrator, Acting Adminis-
trator and (for three years) Administrator
of Samoa, A. C. Turnbull is returning to
Maoriland next February, retiring after
47 years in the public service. He will
hand over a territory which has been
financially self-supporting since 1931 to
London-born Lieut.-Colonel F. W. Voelc-
ker, D.S.O. Voelcker, who served in the
1914-18 scrap with the King’s Shropshire
Light Infantry, came to M.L. in 1928.
When the Pacific war flared up he went
to Fiji as a major in the 30th Battalion,
eventually commanding the training and
reserve battalion and the 34th. He took
the 3rd Battalion in 1942 to Bougainville.
One of his men was the Fijian Corporal
Sukanaivalu, the first member of the
colonial forces to win the V.C. in the war.
He himself won the D.S.O. and American
Bronze Star,
“Ek Bum” interprets a drawing:
The drawing of Vice-Admiral Sir Bernard
Rawlings, who commanded the Royal Navy Fleet
during its bombardment of the Sakishimas and
the Japanese coast, is on the head of Currie, an
official naval artist, who seems to have cap-
tured his likeness in a moment which was not
one of his subject’s lightest. The admiral is
one of the longest flag officers in the Royal
Navy. He is also one of the mildest and most
companionable when not at action stations.
One of the daily press boys who interviewed
him at his first press conference in Sydney be-
fore the fleet sailed for Japan remarked after-
wards “He seems a pretty harmless old gentle-
man,” which was a fair enough comment undei
the circumstances, provided the wom old
were used in the Shakspearean sense ot good.
One of his flagship’s officers added ‘ 1 think
the Japs will learn otherwise.” Like many
a great sailor, Sir Bernard Rawlings is a
Cornishman, one of the, last of the old Britan-
nia boys. He served through the last war, and
1918-21 he spent attached to the Foreign Office
and Military Missions in Poland. Then he
commanded several cruisers, was Naval Attache
at Tokyo for three years ending 1939, was
VICE-ADMIRAL SIR BERNARD
RAWLINGS.
mentioned in dispatches as captain of the
battleship Valiant, took command of the First
Battle Squadron in 1940, that of the Seventh
Cruiser Squadron during the dire period of Crete,
had a brief reign as C.-in-C. West Africa in the
anxious period when the Allied invasion forces
were establishing themselves otf the African West
Coast, and was transferred as C.-in-C. Eastern
Mediterranean, whence he came to the Pacific.
Through all these solid years of sea-fighting and
travail he has kept his equable poise, his urban-
ity and his unassuming manner. It would be
impossible to imagine a vice-admiral of any
nation but the English sliding silently back
to the British port of Sydney after a glorious
share in a series of great sea victories and
succeeding almost completely in escaping the
attentions of the press and radio uncles.
Many stories of heroism are coming to
light with the repatriation of p.-0.-w. from
Singapore, Siam and Borneo, but none is
more moving or more gallant than that of
Captain Lionel Matthews, of Marryat-
ville (S.A.), who, having won a Military
Cross in the operations in Malaya before
the fall of Singapore, was sent to Sanda-
kan. There he organised the makings of
a p.-0.-w. insurrection which it was hoped
would synchronise with an invasion by
U.S. commandos in the Philippines with
which an escape party hoped to make
contact. Through some native treachery
all the leaders in the plot were captured,
taken to the Gestapo H.Q. at Sandakan,
tortured, remitted to Kuching and tried
for their lives. Throughout the ordeal
Matthews, who previously had saved
many a sick soldier by smuggling in drugs
and medicines from Sandakan to the
p.-o.w. camp, remained steadfast, know-
ing that a few unguarded words from him
would send many of his comrades and
loyal natives to their death. When he
knew his sentence he cheerfully indicated
it to his fellow-prisoners by signs, and
was taken out with a party of loyal
Indians and natives to execution, with
head high. At two o’clock that day, when
they knew it was all over, the survivors
of his band bound for Outran! Gaol
callpd each other to attention by tapping
on the walls of their cells, and by pre-
arrangement stood in silence in honor
and memory of a valiant officer.
Australia acquired two new diplo-
mats during the week. Professor D. B.
Copland leaves the Prices Commission to
go to China;, land of the abacus. Nor-
mally Myer Professor of Commerce at
Melbourne University, his habitual in-
scrutability is likely to appeal to the
Chinese ; and Copland himself will doubt-
less heave a sie& of relief when he reaches
Chungking, where there will be no W. M.
Hughes to clamp a bony talon on his
shrinking shoulder and intone loudly (as
Billy did recently in a full lounge at the
Hotel Canberra): “Well, what have you
fixed the price of salvation at for next
Sunday, Copland?” The second appoint-
ment —charge d’affaires to The Hague —is
J D. L. Hood, one of the new school of
Australian higher civil servants, 41, sar-
torially English, outlook and education
Oxford, topped off with a period on the
“Times.” For a time he was acting-
secretary to the External Affairs Depart-
ment, and then went to London with
Dr. Evatt. He replaces, temporarily,
S. M. Bruce, who has been Minister to
the Netherlands, and will follow Bruce s
example of living in London, making
frequent visits to Holland and other Euro-
pean countries” —presumably until Mr.
Beasley takes over.
“C.Q.R.” on some survivors:
Up to the week-end the only member of the
Reps, who had visited Blain, the NX's p.-0.-w.
member in the military hospital at Concord, was
W. M. Hughes, who was there within an hour
of " hearing that the Territorian was an inmate.
All in all, these old members of the House
appear to be more spry than many of the
youngsters. Hughes is the only original M.H.R.
still in the House, and if there was any tote
betting on his survival for 45 years in 1901
he should pay long odds. The other Ms.H.R.
still extant, though no longer in public life, are
nearly all men whose physique scarcely sug-
gested enduring age, with one exception
Richard Armstrong Crouch, a legal scholar
and a soldier who commanded the Y arra
Borderers at home and the 22nd Battalion on
Gallipoli. He is 76. The age of the eternal
King O’Malley, who moved the resolution
acquiring Canberra, is a secret. Someone
tried to worm it out of him when he appeared
in Sydney not long ago, recognisable but shorn
of most of his hirsute glory. All the satisfac-
tion the inquirer got was; “Ah, brother, 1 m
immortal, like my reputation. An eternal chunk
of granite out of the cliffs of history. Ihe
other surviving originals of the Reps, are
Joseph Cook (85 in December), Isaac Isaacs
(90 on August 6 last and still going strong),
John Kirwan (76), once editor of the Kalgoorhe
“Miner” and “Western Argus,” who sat for a
single term, and Henry Willis. Willis served
three terms as member for Robertson and then,
after defeat in 1910, reverted to State politics,
and had a term in the N. S. Wales Assembly,
two years of it devoted to an eventful Speaker-
ship, being finally defeated in 1913.
Dudley Bruce Ross, here very dourly
interpreted by Coventry, is scion of an
ancient line of legal Croweaters. His
maternal great-grandfather was first Police
Commissioner of S. Australia, his grand-
father an Adelaide stipendiary and he
himself, at 53, has just taken silk. He
was called to the Bar in 1914 just in time
ADELAIDE’S NEW K.C.
to serve in France as a 51st Battalion ser-
geant, but on his return he made up for
the hiatus in his legal life by hard work,
and has been able to spare time to act as
lecturer and examiner in law at the Uni-
versity, to take a prominent part in Free-
masonry, to be Chancellor of the Anglican
Dioceses of Adelaide and Willochra, and
even to play a little golf and tennis not
up to the standard of his law.
Henri Van de Velde has carried the
banner of Felt and Textiles of Australia
for more than 21 years. At first he found
it difficult to get finance for the busi-
ness, but now paid-up share capital is
HENRI VAN DE VELDE.
almost a million and a half, and to this
is being added a million of debentures.
“Van” himself is a business head who
believes in delegating responsibility. He
has built the Feltex enterprise that way ;
when a business has been bought the
former head of it has been asked to carry
on, with an interest in the profits and
the backing of the organisation. About
18 stone on a 6ft. 4in. frame, “Van” played
for Australia against the All Blacks early
in the century, was a good golfer and
tackled anything in the boxing, wrestling
and weight-lifting line that presented itself.
Now he has turned to making his moun-
tain home at Leura (N.S.W.) something
for the landscape gardener to dream
about. Shifting a few tons of earth at
week-ends has helped both physique an •'
landscape. Perhaps the love of horticul-
ture sprang from his Belgian forebears.
Into the silence:
At 58, Stuart Doyle, who grew from an
assistant-librarianship of the N.S.W. Law Insti-
tute to be king of the movies. He was latex-
chairman of the broadcasting co. that controls
2UW and other stations. He was an ardent
yachtsman and commodore of the Royal Yacht
Squadron (N.S.W.).
After a short illness in London, C. C.
Dawson, director of the Australian News
Bureau in London and formerly editor of the
Department of Information publications. He
was a pleasant fellow, only 43. Bard woik
helped to aggravate the London type of influ-
enza cold which has robbed Australia of many
citizens not inured to it. Norman McCauley,
the man behind Lang when Lang was m power,
predeceased Dawson when about to join him in
London for the Department of Information,
dying suddenly in Sydney. ,
In Adelaide, at 75, Dr. Ernest Lincoln Borth-
wick Son of an Eyre Peninsula pioneer, he
graduated at Edinburgh and Adelaide Unis, and
practised at Payneham since 1899— for many
years in partnership with his late brother, D .
F S. Borthwick. An uncle of the same name
was health officer in Adelaide many years back.
At 77, in Adelaide, J. A. Southwood, secre-
t„rv nf the Theatrical Employees Union for
Kea s and former M.H.A. for East Torrens,
and Wallaroo in the .days oji Verran tote
youth on the composing staff of,** 1 ® Earner
Miner” and Melbourne Argus, he set tled
at Kadina where he and a colleague founded
the “Plafn Dealer” and. he became mayor
Dr A R. Southwood, chairman of the Central
Rnard of Health, and Dr. Harry Southwood,
deputy superintendent of the Enfield Receiving
Home, are his sons.
In Adelaide, at just on 80, R. A. Cilento,
father of Raphael, expert on tropical diseases,
now with U.N.N.R.A. The original Cilento
came to Australia in 1855 after lighting as
Sorter of Garibaldi. R.A. became traffic
manager on S.A. Railways, also a past-master
in Freemasonry, and (by virtue of ffis Scottish
mother) a prominent member of the Caledonian
Society. , .
In Brisbane, at 81, E. A. Johnson, former
Brisbane manager for Reuters, and since 1936
senior member of a leading advertising firm.
He was a devoted churchgoer and a goiter.


//x
r
r:
9
/
•r
1
0
ra
1/ <■
I \ f
Kiyc.o2.AX* ,
&e^?ru£y
i ' • •-
TREAT AS TREASURE
What the artist means, of course, is that you should
take the greatest care of your self-stropping Valet Razor
nowadays. For one thing, no more are available at the
moment. And for another, it gives you weeks of perfect
shaving from every single, blade. You can buy Valet
Blades more freely nowadays but you must still treat
them with care. Even a Valet pays for a little coddling.
So remember; Never let the strop get gritty or
dusty. Scrape it clean occasionally with the back
edge of a used blade and work in a little strop dress-
ing or lanoline to keep it smooth and supple.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades S\d. each
VICTORIA RACING CLUB
FLEMIMGTON
CUP WEEK
DERBY DAY
Saturday, 3rd November.
CUP DAY
Tuesday, 6th November,
C. B. FISHER PLATE :: OAKS STAKES
Saturday, 10th November.
£lO,OOO added to Melbourne Cup and £5OOO added to the Derby.
ARTHUR V. KEWNEY, Secretary.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The V.A.T.C. had a record crowd, 90,200,
for the 1945 Caulfield Cup, and the old
“Heath” never looked better. The first two
races went to rank outsiders, but the favorite
won the Cup. St. Fairy was at 7 to 2, it being
10 to 1 bar one.
In a field of 27 St. Fairy could have easily
struck trouble lumping 9st. over the tricky mile
and a half, but Breasley kept him out of it.
Stablemate Huntingdale, accompanied for six
furlongs by High Play, set a rattling pace
which soon had the field strung out. The
favorite seemed in danger for a moment as they
bunched up at the turn, with Huntingdale still
leading. Streaking away to lead past the
Guineas stand, the 66-to-l chance Duntroon
looked a possible answer to the bookies’ prayers.
Then St. Fairy came through, caught Duntroon
in the last 100 yards, and, finishing in fine
style, held off Rainbird and Punctilia, who also
came home well. Duntroon hung on in fourth
place, which carried a £250 consolation prize.
Spearmain, Leonard and Rubontine followed the
place-getters.
While St. Fairy dispelled all doubts as to his
ability to get a mile and a half, the Melbourne
Cup distance may be too far for him. Origin-
ally weighted at Bst. 91b., he is up 71b.. Law-
rence, who has beaten him at w.f.a., has
9st. 61b. Lawrence, who has come on well,
is naturally a warm favorite.
The ride he acquired through the accidental
sequence of Heather’s suspension and Munro’s
disablement placed Breasley ahead of all jockeys
in Caulfield Cup history. He has been on the
last four winners, though in one case the prize
had to be divided. He has an excellent chance
of bringing home the big double, having en-
gaged to ride Lawrence in the Melbourne Cup.
Porter, the owner of St. Fairy, is alleged to
have presented Breasley with half the first prize.
He is a boot manufacturer, aged 35.
As usual when the favorite wins the first leg
of a big double loud tales of woe are being
pitched on behalf of bookmakers. They are,
of course, up for “heavy liabilities” and are
facing “terrific payouts.” Any bag-swinger
who cannot finance a book on the Cups double
or stand a loss when there are so many mugs
about and so many outsiders rolling home
should take to some milder form of philan-
thropy.
Following wat-time precedent, war bonds were
substituted for the Caulfield Cup trophy, but a
Melbourne firm is working overtime on the job
of making the traditional bauble for the Mel-
bourne Cup.
Royal Gem had only four opponents
in the Caulfield Spring Stakes, six furlongs at
w.f.a., evens being the price. Breasley kept the
Dhoti colt behind River Hero till they started
the run home, and once he gave him his head
the race was over. David’s Last and River Hero
were in the money.
Melbourne punters are learning to their sorrow
that two-year-old fillies can be fickle creatures.
Nestani had let them down badly when beaten
by Joystream, and the latter, sent out an even-
money favorite for the Mona Nursery, failed
to fill a place. A Portofino filly, Pam’s Dream,
won at 33 to 1 from two other outsiders,
Siesta and Zanette. In the Gwyn Nursery the
colts proved more trustworthy, the favorite
Dampier (Law Maker-Trinity) downing the
second-favorite Woodrow, with Tarbolton
third. A protest was dismissed, but Dampier’s
rider, Badger, was suspended for three months,
a severe penalty for a leading jockey at this
time of the racing year. Otherwise it was a
good day for Badger: two winners and three
seconds from six mounts.
W. Cook seldom has the opportunity to bring
home a rough ’un in Sydney, but his mount
Viva was at long odds for the Burwood Handi-
cap for three-year-olds, 20 to 1 in the ring and
23 to 1 on the tote. Viva led all the way to
win from Kinderson and Greensborough. He
is by John James and may be given a start in
the Derby.
Sending Typhoon, High Play and Immediate
to Melbourne has been very costly for their
owners. Well backed for the Moonga Handi-
cap, Immediate failed badly, Night Link (5 to 1)
getting the best of a great finish with Approve
and Nagation (“half-head, half-neck”). Pur-
tell’s riding of the winner was excellent.
On Caulfield form Rainbird, an honest' mare,
with the same weight, 7st. 41b., as in the Caul-
field Cup, should win the Moonee Valley Cup,
with chances for Russia and Punctilia.
* * * *
The Randwick track has seldom been faster
than it is these days. The slowest mile run
at three meetings was 1.38 in a Novice Handi-
cap. In the Denman Stakes on Saturday Tah-
moor, who is no champion, galloped six fur-
longs in I.los.
Trimmer helped to make the good time. The
three-year-old Titan colt Tactician disputed the
lead with the old fellow for half a mile, and
when Trimmer folded up at the Leger the
youngster was still going strong. Tahmoor and
Felbeam beat Tactician to the post, but only
the judge could decide it; a head and a half-
head. With Trimmer out of the field Tac-
tician might have got there.
Another of the Titan breed in Marshal Tito,
confirming the promise of his second to Purple
Heart in a fast mile, won the Three-year-old
Handicap from Field Captain and the favorite
Melos. Field Captain is a good-looking son of
Nuffield. Nuflield’s stock have not met with
much success, but this fellow is on the improve.
The two-year-olds raced over five furlongs, at
level weights except for Vigaro, who was penal-
ised 51b. for his Canonbury Stakes win. The
Fresco colt had it over all his opponents for
class. Betwixt and Tragedy were the only
others in it with credentials, and inside the
first furlong the three were together lengths
clear of the main bunch headed by Onyx. A
furlong from home Vigaro was given his head;
he bounded away, passing the post four lengths
clear of Betwixt, with Tragedy third and Onyx
finishing on well. His two wins in fwo starts
make Vigaro a bargain yearling at 500 guineas,
and it will be interesting to see how he goes
against his stablemate Havoc, who won the
Breeders’ Plate.
War Eagle, hurdled off from a big field in
City Tattersall’s Jubilee Cup, missed the jump
and was last when Petulance and Turn Again
were noticed among the leaders. War Eagle’s
jockey waited in vain for an opening and
was then forced to take him round every horse
in the field. He finished well, just failing to
overhaul the consistent Good Idea, Nightbeam
being third. Good Idea raced in father Brown-
ing’s colors, son Browning having leased the
animal to pa—both are bookmakers. The time
only half a second outside Mayfowl’s course
record of 2.17$ for a mile and three furlongs.
War Eagle now seems ready for his annual win.
Tribal set a strong pace in the Club Welter
and held the lead for six furlongs. With his
big weight (9.12) he had had enough when En-
thuse led the stampede past him at the Leger.
Here the Harinero mare looked a winner, but
Etching, after failing to secure an opening,
was taken to the outside and a comfortable
win. Etching’s time for the mile, 1.365, was
as surprising as his win after a spell of 18
months without scoring. Twenty to one with
the bookmakers, Etching returned tote sup-
porters £l2 14s. 9d. and £2 4s. for ss.
* * * *
For Rosehill before acceptances;
Two-year-old: Persian Prince, 1; Onyx, 2;
Tragedy, 3. Maiden Plate: Open Air, 1;
Dancing, 2; Hijacker, 3. Flying: Tactician, 1;
Tahmoor, 2; Nobleman, 3. Encourage: Chat-
ster 1; Whistler, 2; Asset, 3. Three-year-old:
Field Captain, 1; Melos, 2; Marshal Tito, 3.
Rosebery Handicap: War Eagle, 1; Nightbeam,
2; Petulance, 3. Welter: Loyal March, 1;
Right Royal, 2; Gold Ross, 3.
* * * *
Edgar Britt, the Sydney jockey, has ridden the
winner of the Cesarewitch: Kerry Piper, a 25-
to-1 shot, owned by Sir Hervey Bruce. Second
was another outsider, Lady Crusader, and
third was Voluntary, owned by Vic. Oliver, who
married one of the Churchill girls, though the
affair has gone west.
An Australian-bred horse, Merman, racing
in Mrs. Langtry’s colors, won the Cesarewitch
in 1897, and, in subsequent years, the Good-
wood Cup and the Ascot Gold Cup. Australian
bloodstock was rather wonderfully represented
in England at that period: Georgic won the
Cambridgeshire, and Newhaven, The Grafter
and Australian Star the City and Suburban in
successive years. Afterwards, with the export
of Carbine and the introduction of poor-
quality English sires—Carbine was worth a
paddockful of them —the standard of Aus-
tralian racing stock fell away. It recovered
with the importation of Magpie, Valais and
some good mares, but the experiment of send-
ing racehorses to England has never been re-
peated on the scale reached in the last years
of the last century.
* * * *
Manly, the Sydney course where Jim
Ferrier cut his golf teeth, put up a £250
purse on Saturday. Von Nida broke away
with a 66 record for the changed layout,
shot a 73 over the second 18 and won the
money. Eric Cremin was second with 141.
About 4000 followed the rounds. Pros,
back from the services were out of touch
or too fat or too thin or something, but
a good time was had by all.
Von Nida and Cremin are talking about
a world tour, which probably means
America first. There’s big money for
good golfers in the States, and Von Nida
is the stuff that makes news —as the
Yankee sports writers see it.
* * * *
“Sevener”: In the expectation that
golf balls will soon be on the market
again there’s a rush by holders of new
and second-hand pills to unload. Until
the Jap war ended these people made a
good thing, being able to get anything up
to 10s. a time for anything passably
round and not too cracked, so long as it
was well smothered with white paint.
Men and women spent their spare time
combing the rough around the fairways
for lost balls, much to the disgust of the
small boy, who found the adult competi-
tion in a lucrative field a bit too much.
I’ve seen elderly ladies up to their eyes
in swamp-mud, probing and squelching
with their toes for sliced or hooked balls,
and at least one family made ball-hunting
a week-end regular job. The eldest
daughter confided that they averaged 30s.
a week among ’em.
• ♦ • *
N.S.W. cricket has lost Colin McCool
to Queensland. He has gone to Brisbane
under engagement to the Q.C.A. and
is to play for Colts. McCool is a capital
all-rounder and a peerless slip-field. He
is still only a youngster, and it wouldn’t
need much improvement of his batting
and bowling to earn him a place for
Queensland in the next Australian Eleven.
* * * *
Best performances in Sydney cricket on
Saturday: W. Walmsley, 105, and E.
Crossan, 108 —187 in 185 min.—for
Wests against Paddington; left-hander
Bruce Cook, 120 out of 252 scored
for Manly against Northern Districts;
Donaldson, 94 for Balmain against
Norths, and Sievers, 85 not out, for
Mosman—three sixers and nine fours.
Bowling: G. Powell (Randwick), 7 for 97
v. Petersham ; W. Wilson (Gordon), 5 for
12 v. Waverley ; and W. French (Marrick-
ville), 5 for 27 v. Cumberland. Premier-
ship points at the end of the third round;
Marrickville 24, Gordon, Wests and Bai-
main 21, Mosman and St. George 15,
Randwick 12.
* * * ♦
“Golesneek”: One of the things the
Australian National Football Council
might occupy itself with in the off-season
is the hold-the-ball rule, confusing alike
to players and onlookers and regarded
by umpires as hopeless to interpret.
The rule provides that the man in posses-
sion must either kick or punch the ball
when tackled; should he drop it, fumble
it, have it knocked from his hands, bite,
throttle or bark at it he’ll be penalised.
I’ve played, umpired and roared at Aussie
rules for 35 years, and 1 defy any umpire
to be consistent on holding-the-ball.
Many of them don’t bother; they just
blow the whistle against the man in pos-
session, irrespective of whether it’s pos-
sible for him to get rid of it by the per-
missible methods or not. Introduced to
overcome the doubt of the throw in the
old flick-pass, the thing now maddens
everybody, slows the game and spoils
good play. My solution is introduction
of the Rugby throw-pass. The Aussie
game is a forward one ; players kick, tap,
or punch the ball forward, and I believe
the addition of the throw would improve
matters. It’ll probably make anti-Rugby
cranks howl in agony, but why not try
it in an experimental match or two?
* * * *
Queensland sporting p.-0.-w. released
include Clem England, a Rugby Union
centre and representative in 1930; Jim
Dixon, who played R.U. for the G.P.S.
club; Thor Long, winner of an Aus-
tralian surf life-saving championship;
Harry Sinclair, former N.S.W. golf
pro.; and “Vok” Nicholson, one of
the most colorful wingers produced
by Queensland R.U. “Huck” Fin-
lay, mentioned in a former Bulletin
par., gave R.U. a boost in Queensland
when with A.B.C. in Brisbane and
even appeared as a reserve-grader—such
is the spirit that pervades R.U.
* * * *
There is so much scrapping nowanights
in Sydney and matchmaking is so hap-
hazard that the enforcement of strict pre-
stoush medical examination is called for
in the interest of pugs. It is the least the
authorities can do for them since the
poor devils are excluded from the
workers’ compensation law.
* * * *
Eric Macready was much too fast for
Joe Bissaker in the Leichhardt bout be-
tween these featherweights. Bissaker’s
attacks —and he attacked repeatedly—
were generally unproductive, and all the
first eight rounds went against him. In
the ninth Macready wrenched an ankle,
and spectators thought he would turn it
up. He didn’t, nor did the handicap pre-
vent his going on to a comfortable win
on points.
Frank Duff, a late substitute for
George Cook against Alec Buxton
at Sydney Stadium, was plainly over-
matched. Buxton loafed during the
first round; in the second a right
uppercut and a left hook to the chin
dropped Duff so cold that Joe Wallis
did not trouble to count. In the other
twelve-rounder Bob Peters and Johnny
Rice —another substitute —boxed a draw,
A Royal Marine, like Buxton, Rice, after
having been floored in the seventh, dis-
played plenty of aggression in the eighth,
and his forceful fighting from then on
earned him an even break and a share
in a “shower,” that ancient custom
having been revived,
* * * *
“S.F.”: When a Sydney sports writer
recently stated that “Griffo wrote to a
Sydney friend from New York” he was
a bit wide of the mark. Australia’s
“champeen fedder,” as his pals of “the
Rocks” called him, could neither read
nor write. It was Griffo’s habit to drop
into a barber’s shop near Argyle-street
on publication day of the old “Referee,”
and, picking up the paper, he’d pretend
to be reading it, until one of his
“edicated” cobbers would drop in. Then
Griffo would hand him the “Ref.” with
a whispered invitation to “See if they is
saying anything about me this week.”
So ignorant was Griffo of type that he
frequently was noticed “reading” the
paper upside down, but no one was game
to tell him so —aloud.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
In brilliant sunshine 90,000 racegoers
saw St. Fairy win the 1945 Victory
Caulfield Cup. In its own casual fashion
the weather decided to be fine and hot,
and so caught many women racegoers un-
prepared ; consequently dressing was
mixed. Warm tailored suits rubbed
shoulders with gay little floral frocks, and
the winter hat was put in the shade by
little floral bits of nonsense. Caulfield
course was a riotous mass of color, with
a background of soft green lawns and
trees. The flowers in the beds scattered
around the course were rivalled by the
hats and dresses worn by the women who
had guessed the afternoon would be
warm, and the whole effect was exhilarating.
But by no stretch of imagination could
Cup day be called notable for fashions.
Perhaps the coupon question was one
reason ; the sudden burst of heat could
be another. Making an appearance after
years of eclipse, London tan, a delightful
shade, was worn by a few well-dressed
women. Mrs. Frank Watts was one, her
frock matched by a waist-length jacket.
Her matching hat was a flat straw with
lime-green, blue and brown flowers inter-
spersed by. golden wheat ears. Marjorie
Spry favored a small flower-laden hat in
London tan tonings, and matching acces-
sories set off her grey flannel suit. Mrs.
Eric Cottrell’s suit was in grey and black
overcheck tweed, with black hat and ac-
cessories. Mrs. Edgar Noble, with her
grey and black check suit, wore a small
black hat tied up with white veiling. An-
other who used veiling to advantage was
Jean Darragh. With her tailored black
suit went a large off-the-face hat of black
shiny straw, tied on with veiling which
finished beneath her chin in a large bow.
Some women made an unhappy choice
of color for their ensembles. The hot
Australian sun is not kind to the bright
purples, to chartreuse and to brick reds.
One lass got herself into a blouse of lime
green, wore a wide red belt and put these
with a dirndl skirt of bright lime green.
The Hyde lady used pastel shades
effectively in a suit of lavender blue
worn with a white organdie tailored
blouse. Her small white boater had
white daisies massed under the brim at
the back. All other accessories were
white. Grey was another shade that came
into its own. Betty Marron wore a white
hat and accessories with her short-sleeved
frock of pale grey sheer wool and the
hemline revealed a white serrated muslin
edging. Wife of Commodore T. B.
Drew was dressed for the day in mist-
blue linen with white accessories. With
her was the wife of Brigadier Brockman,
whose black crepe ensemble was topped
by a tiny hat of green straw, flower-laden.
A happy ending to the Caulfield Cup
was the party given by Mrs. T. J. Jones
at her home Ripponlea. Guests were
greeted in the reception-room and dinner
was served in a large marquee on the
lawn. Assisting their mother to receive
the guests were daughters Betty, in a
short draped frock of navy-blue crepe
and an unusual yoke of gold-and-silver
beads, and Pat, in dove-grey crepe with
a deep yoke of matching lace. Mrs.
Jones chose black lace, in which she
pinned a spray of gardenias, grown in
her own hot-house. Sylvia Green’s black
dress was beaded in black, and her hat,
so she said, had been “chosen in five
minutes.” It was of natural straw, tilted
forward over the eyes, and the crown
was filled in with pink organdie roses.
Shirley Watts was with her mother and
father. Her simple frock of white silk
was patterned in burgundy.
Among the guests who danced, saun-
tered round the garden or sat at small
tables arranged around the flood-lit
swimming-pool were Mr, and Mrs, Hors-
fall, she wearing a turquoise-blue wool
ensemble and large flower-trimmed black
hat. Mrs. S. Tonkin sported a waist-
length silver-fox cape over her black
frock and wore a small floral hat. Mrs.
Bill Cook was also in black, and her small
hat was of multi-colored ribbon. Olive
Haines’s cherry-red crepe was beaded in
white with a matching hat. Husband
George helped his hostess look after the
guests. Among the younger guests were
Peggy Porter, receiving congratulation on
the success of her father’s horse St. Fairy
in the Caulfield Cup. She set off her
fair coloring with blue crepe. Elizabeth
Fry was smart in a red wool frock. Dr.
and Mrs. Shilladay talked of plans they
have made for a party to be held at their
home in the near future. Money raised
will go to the funds of the Totally Dis-
abled Soldiers.
Mayor Connelly, with Mayoress Heinze,
gave a reception to the delegates who
attended the Y.W.C.A. Conference. The
do was attended by councillors and their
wives and was most enjoyable. The new
Mayor is not exactly popular among cer-
tain sections of the community for he is
insistent that the city should become
brighter and more attractive to visitors.
Certainly something seems to be lacking,
especially on Sundays. The Mayor has
been accused of wanting a Continental
Sunday, but he says he only wants to
make life a little brighter for Melburnians.
This is Margaret Scarlett, a member of
the cast of “Jane Steps Out.” This play
is being presented by the Clyde Old Girls
Association and feminine members of the
cast are former pupils of Clyde Girls
School, Woodend. Margaret is taking the
role of Margo Kent, the title role being
played by Margo Thomas. Producer is
Peter Randall, who, with his father, Brett
Randall, has brought the Little Theatre
to its present status in Melbourne. Ticket
secretaries are former Clyde girls Pam
Boler and Joy Murray. The Murdoch
lady is to manage the flower stall, and
proceeds will help the work of Red Cross
and the Free Kindergarten Union,
The social event of last week, apart
from the Caulfield Cup, was the party
given by Air Vice-Marshal George Jones
and members of the Air Board to the
women who for the last five years have
kept Air Force House going. With the
host was Mrs. Jones, smart in a cherry-
red ensemble with matching hat. The Air
Vice-Marshal and Minister for Air Drake-
ford eulogised the work done by the
volunteer workers, and Air Force House
committee’s president Mrs. J. V. Fair-
bairn made one of her rare speeches, and
added her thanks to those of the other
speakers. Those present were thrilled to
hear that in November the Duke of
Gloucester would pay a visit to Air Force
House.
The party was held in Ormonde
Hall, which during war years has been
R.A.A.F. headquarters officers’ mess. An
R.A>A.F. band supplied the musical back-
ground. Mrs, J. V. Fairbairn wore a
smartly-cut suit of ink-blue tweed and a
matching felt hat, a lacey white blouse
supplying a highlight. With her was Mrs.
Ross Grey Smith, in a tailored suit of
brown tonings. Mrs. Alec Russell, whose
energy, especially in the early mornings
at Air Force House, has been abounding,
and who is also a member of the com-
mittee, wore an all-black ensemble, and
pinned lily-of-the-valley in her fur. Mrs.
Russell, with her husband and family, lives
on the Russell station home, Mawollok,
Beaufort. They have furnished a cottage
on the property and intend inviting re-
turned prisoners-of-war and their respec-
tive wives to occupy it for holidays of a
fortnight’s duration.
Not everybody went to the races. Quite
a number went to the French Legation,
where members of the French community
held a garden party to aid the funds of
the French Red Cross. Colonel Renucci,
military attache at the Legation, was
host, and received the women guests in
traditional French style by kissing their
hands. A Punch and Judy show was
arranged for the children in the lovely
garden, and there was also a slippery
slide. The flower stall took up most of
the front garden, and was arranged with
glorious blooms. Naturally, it did a roar-
ing trade. Assisting Mrs. Maurice Belz
was the Robinson lady, whose glowing
sunflower linen frock was set off by a
wide, white, straw hat and accessories.
She has had two house guests for some
time Huntley and Nan Griffiths.
Huntley has a rubber plantation in Cey-
lon, and is also a member of the Ceylon
Legislative Assembly. June Aslungul,
cool in a white frock, sold posies to which
were attached numbers. A prize went to
the lucky number.
From Sydney
Last week, owing to what was politely
referred to as the dispute at the Bunne-
rong Power House, and what housewives
bluntly called “that damn’ strike,” Sydney
was a city of semi-darkness. There was
no electric light for shops and restaurants
except for the lucky two or three with
their own power plants. In big city stores
shopgirls and customers alike groped
about by the light of hurricane lamps
and a few gas mantles. It was particu-
larly trying for the assistants, as many
of the lights were just at the height to
throw their beam direct into the eye, and
many suffered from headache, and even
the more troublesome migraine. Many
women held over their shopping alto-
gether, and, as for library books, changing
them was like rummaging for hidden
treasure in a smugglers’ cavern.
One good thing to come out of it was
that the doors of public-house bars were
thrown wide to the daylight and fresh air.
Thousands were thrown out of employ-
ment, and there were unexpected and un-
announced blackouts in various suburbs.
When this happened just as a meal was
being prepared there was loud lamenta-
tion in the land. Hurricane lamps were
eagerly bought—electric hot-water sys-
tems were forbidden under penalty of
£5OO, (Never has the all-electric home
had such a bad advertisement.)
In restaurants the city ate by candle-
light, and somehow there was nothing
festive about it. On the first day one big
city restaurant had two candles on every
table, unshaded and, therefore, a bit hard
on the eyes. One woman, drawing in
a reluctant male for a cup of tea, said
“Look, dear, aren’t the candles pretty-
just like a Christmas birthday party?”
“Is it?” he snapped. “I think it looks
like an outsize in wakes, with the Gov-
ernment set down as the dear departed.”
Singer Mary Adams will give her
second recital at Sydney Conservatorium
next Wednesday. Her programme will
include “Five Songs to Poems of Mary
Stuart” (Schumann) and works by
Brahms, Handel, Elgar, Hill and Bridge.
Mary, who is a mezzo-soprano, was a
finalist in the 1945 A.B.C. vocal competi-
•tion and has sung with the Sydney Sym-
phong Orchestra in the Town Hall. She
hails from the Newcastle-Maitland district,
where her people were on the land. She
studied under Edith Hannell at New-
castle and under Madame Mathy in Syd-
ney. Marcel Lorber will be at the piano.
Mary’s husband, John Taylor, also a
musician, is with the" Australian Army
Education Service. John Lee photograph.
In the cold, clear sunlight of Wednes-
day that part of the Domain just around
the corner from St. Mary’s was a blaze
of flowers, for Sydney’s Chelsea Flower
Show was in full bloom. The flowers
seemed to be growing in plots and in
beds and in borders, as is the way of
England’s famous flower show. This was
an effort for the Red Cross and all the
branches had taken part. The flower
carpet sent in by the Ashfield branch was
a gorgeous affair of roses and daisies on
a background of green geranium leaves.
In the borders was the purple of statice.
The Czech cottage might have come
straight from a nursery rhyme. On its
white walls was a decor of small red
hearts, and in and out of its doors came
attractive girls in the Czech national dress
carrying tarts and other confections which
they offered for sale. America’s flag was
effective. Red geraniums, lilies and small
white flowers formed the stripes ; the stars
were of white paper fastened to daisies.
All the Allies were represented by pretty
girls (many in national costume) and
flower displays. Chinese girls sold lucky-
number tickets for beautiful embroideries.
Greek girls were grouped about a model
of the Acropolis. A graceful statue of
Peace by Fleischman was one of several
pieces by this artist that stood among
the flowers. Large tents housed the cut
blooms. In semi-darkness (regulations
forbidding electrics) the visitors walked
/down the aisles between the trestle tables
admiring the orchids and the roses and
carnations.
There were hats made of real flowers.
A feature of the show was a display ot
model homes and gardens. The Swiss
exhibit, arranged around a three-branche
tree, told the story of the Red Cross from
its very beginnings. Old and young pai
a visit to the Wishing Tree Stall.
The wife of Lieut.-Governor Frederick
Jordan said the opening words. Her
suit and hat were of navy blue. Her
white kid gloves were gathered in at the
wrist, and then flared out into deep so
gauntlets. Later the Duchess of Glou-
cester arrived. Her ensemble was ane-
mone pink, her shoes the same shade
of wine as the velvet that banded her
small pink hat.
Still our former prisoners-of-war
return and each group finds a welcome
that perhaps grows warmer with the pas-
sage of weeks. Some came back on
Saturday by the Tamaroa. Among these
were eight each of whom had had a
leg amputated. These operations, neces-
sary to save worse disaster, were per-
formed by Melbourne medical man Col.
•Coates, under unheard-of conditions, in
a Siam prison camp. The only instrument
available for surgery was a carpenters
saw. Also in this ship came ex-p.-0.-w.
Noel Maxwell Grattan. He is one of the
Leichhardt Grattan family, eight of whom
have served in this war.
The lawns of the R.S.Y.S. at Kirribilli
were animated on Saturday afternoon for
the first gala opening of the yachting
season since 1938. The sky was clear,
the breeze fresh and the day ideal for
racing, though the wind proved a bit
chilly for many of the women watchers.
Suits and fur necklets were worn by those
who knew their Kirribilli Point. Here
and there a linen suit was crisp in the
clear day. An all-white rig was worn
by Mrs. Gerrard, of Maqriland, who, of
course, after Wellington’s blast, finds our
winds gentle zephyrs. With Mrs. Gerard
was her tall lieutenant-commander (R.N.)
husband.
Lots of Navy uniforms were seen,
R.A.N. and R.N. A'dmiral G. D. Moore
and his wife were there. Her suit was
of dark-green. Mrs. Don Taylor and
Mrs. Marquis, Mrs. E. F. Goddard, the
David Garments (who had with them
their just-returned p.-0.-w. son, Lieut.
David Garment) and Mrs. Meyer were
well-knowns. Vice-Commodore Jimmy
Milson and his wife were noted. The
H. J. Brady couple, her grey suit very
trig, were among the tea-drinkers on the
sheltered top lawn near the entrance
gates.
Edna Bowden, just waiting passage to
other lands to further her singing studies,
was the vocalist at the English-speaking
Union’s music circle last Thursday. Bar-
bara Kearns was the afternoon’s violinist,
and'Betty Jones was the pianist. A musi-
cal monologue of her own composition
was the offering of Sylvia Barnett. Mrs.
Harry Twigden was the hostess, her en-
semble and feathered hat showing shades
of delphinium blue. Edna had just re-
ceived a letter from the Hugh Poynter
lady which told of hearing a performance
of “Tosca,” in which Sydney girl Joan
Hammond was starring. Mrs. Twigden
was eager in anticipation of her soldier
son’s return. His arrival was set down
for that very night. Lilian Frost was the
afternoon’s guest.
Mrs. Fabian Chow, the clever little re-
presentative of the People’s Foreign Rela-
tions’ Association of China, returned last
week to her own country, having only two
days in which to get ready for her travels.
Shanghai, she believed, would be her first
dwelling-place. Mrs. Chow, who had
had a perilous journey with her children
flying from the Japanese after the fall of
Hong Kong, became well known in Aus-
tralia as an accomplished speaker. She
knows the history of her land, cultural,
political and industrial, thoroughly, and
she made a deep impression wherever she
was heard. She is deeply interested in the
work of U.N.R.R.A.
One of the shining lights in the black-
out week was the party of the N.Z. Club.
This took place in Federation House, and
hurricane lamps hung high on the wall
were the illuminations. The party was a
welcome home to ex-p.-0.-w. Allan Hemp-
ton, son of the club’s popular president.
M.L. Trade Commissioner W. Taylor was
at the party, and he voiced the joy felt
by all in having Allan once more with
them.
Shirley Poynter has just announced her
engagement to Lieut.-Commander Camp-
bell Meiklejohn, R.N. She is a step-
daughter of Sir Hugh Poynter ; her fiance
is the son of the Campbell Meiklejohns,
of Surrey, England.


sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a courser*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 3/S
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!)
o
BARKO
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT ,0P NEW SOUTH
WALES — Ilf Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN RAWSON late of Carrington
New South Wales—TAKE NOTICE that AMY
LOUISA RAWSON has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2390 of 1945 on the ground of desertion with-
out just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards. You may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court 'King Street Sydney by the
Fifth day of November 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition from W. H. BAKER BOWRING &
COHEN Solicitors 27 Bolton Street Newcastle or
JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors Assembly Hall 2
York Street Sydney.— (L. s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JOHN EDWARD STANLEY late of Mitchell
Street Glebe.—TAKE ■ NOTICE?' that FLORA AMY
STANLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 1015
of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 21st day of December 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from A. S.
BOULTON LANE REX & CO. Solicitors 12 O’Connell
Street Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO JAMES CROWLEY late of 33 March Street
Richmond.—TAKE NOTICE that FLORENCE
CROWLEY has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3041
of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 21st day of December 1945 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from A. S. BOULTON
LANE REX & CO. Solicitors 12 O’Connell Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. BODY, Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MATTHEW JOHN STAPLETON late of Byron
Bay.—TAKE NOTICE that PHYLLIS MARTHA
JANE STAPLETON has filed a Petition No. 4055 of
1945 for Divorce on the ground of desertion for 3
years without just cause or excuse and is asking the
Court to exercise its discretion and overlook her
adultery under Section 19 of the Matrimonial Causes
Act 1899 You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney be-
fore the 21st December 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from DENSLEY &
DOWNING Solicitors 39-49 Martin Place Sydney,—
(1.5.) O. K. BODY, Registrar.
ẁ
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN
ẃ
Made from highest quality
material processed to retain its
shape and colour, the“AKUBRA”
is surely a “coupon-saver.” . , .
Smartness of style, comfort
and long all-weather life, com-
bine to give utmost satisfaction
to the wearer. . . .
You’ll be pleased with the
smooth, fine finish of these
Australian Pure Fur Felt hats.
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND BONDS
SMOKE-OH!
“Wanted mother’s help, gird under 18 or
over 45, 9 till s .—Suburban paper.
Must be one who stays. ,
An impeccable suit is a good ambassador.”
— Advt.
But a few spots often win goodwill*
also.
jt *l*
“Strong Lady’s Bicycle, in excellent order,
£6/10/-.” —Suburban paper.
Applicant must have plenty of push.
•I- 4*
Hot Number.
“Ice-man cited as co-re.” —Divorce item.
Some women get romantic dreams
In most peculiar fashion :
Although he brought her ice, it seems
He fired her soul with passion.
Nat.
For sale Lounge Suite, covered in cham-
pagne.”—Suburban paper.
Terms—spot cash.
•h -I- »I- »h
As far as the bankroll is concerned, a
bad run at the trots can result in gallop-
ing consumption.
•b -I- -I-
The Scientific Touch.
“Anew science, known as constitutional psy-
chology, is being developed to assist women in
choosing husbands.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
The discovery of the new science was,
of course, followed closely by the estab-
lishment of my Institute of Constitutional
Psychology. We were soon doing a roar-
ing trade consulting prospective brides
about their impending dooms.
A series of experiments in psycho-
analysing gibbering Romeos caused such
an alarming decrease in the marriage rate
that we soon turned to providing hus-
bands, so to speak, according to specifi-
cation. It often took months of condi-
tioning, grooming, bullying and even
hypnotism to reduce the more likely can-
didates to the degree of abject subservi-
ence required by our clients. The
neurasthenia chart took a steep climb, but
we persevered.
Our most trying client was a stalwart
lady with a face like the front of Long
Bay jail who asked us for a man with
a constitution like an ox, a light hand
with pastry, expert at dish-washing,
sweeping, answering the back door and
being kind to cats, also of stainless
morals. We sent a rather robust angel
which had injured its undercarriage in a
crash-landing on our roof the previous
week.
The resulting action for breach of con-
tract put us out of business. We should
have remembered that it was a fallen
angel.
Plum.
Curious to think that when you see fine
feathers making a fine bird it often means
that some poor sheep has been fleeced.
•b *J* *J* 4*
“Only the heroic stand of Britain and Russia
saved the United Slates from fighting on her
own soil,” said U.S. General George Marshall.
“Our close approach to that terrifying situa-
tion should have a sobering influence on
Americans for generations.”— “Sun.”
But isn’t Hollywood a big enough one
already?
Getting a Suit on Tick.
“Suits in pre-war English material, navy
marble, with bronze bas-relief panels, chimes
i hrs., excellent movement.” — “S. M. Herald.”
“You’ll find,” my tailor said, “that this
material will hold its shape well when
made up, and it has good, lasting quali-
ties. The French-polish mirror finish and
maple beading are quite the latest.”
“Well, I suppose that’s all right, if it
is being worn,” I replied. “Usually my
suits—especially the navy ones —don’t
start to shine till I’ve worn them a few
years.”
The tailor took an edge of the roll and
ran the selvage appraisingly between
thumb and forefinger. “Double weft,”
he purred, “and this filigree work on it
has been done by a master craftsman.
This end grain should show up beauti-
fully when the stain gets on it. Note
the nap on it, and this faint pencil stripe
is in faultless taste. It has, of course,
a Swiss movement —most dependable. I
am sure you will —ow! I forgot this
material hasn’t been double-dressed yet.
It’s full of splinters.”
“I must have a suit that chimes,” I
said firmly. “Wouldn’t a Swiss movement
yodel?”
The tailor’s smile was full of confid-
ence. “No, sir—definitely a Westminster
chime. Our three-piece sac suits chime
the half-hour, and if you take an extra
pair of trousers they chime the quarter-
hours. A two-piece double-breaster
chimes the hours only. Now, how would
you like the coat?”
“Oh,” I said, “hand-carved, say with a
satyr-and-fawn motif. Fourteen-jewelled
lapels, pendulum-action back, three ease-
ments with jigger buttons, flap pockets,
and mainspring, not too exaggerated, in
the shoulder paddings. What linings have
you?”
“We can do you something in a nice
silky-oak, though blackwood is popular
now. But the really well-dressed man
usually demands something in Carrara
marble. It sets the hands off better.”
“Good. By the way,” I went on, “I
suppose the lapels will be rolled.?”
The tailor sadly shook his head. “I’m
afraid not,” he said. “Shortage of wood-
turners. Flat lapels with stainless steel
edges are the latest—the suit doesn’t rust
if you are caught in the rain.”
“Well, about the vest?”
“Luminous is undoubtedly the only
style to consider, sir. Handy, too, for
crossing busy roads on dark nights. We
arrange the buttons so that they don’t
interfere with the workings of the deli-
cate hair-springs. For the inside pocket
I’d suggest fluted columns and a tasteful
ŵ
Cool Reception.
“The pride of the Brigade of Guards is 6ft.
9m., 19-stone Alfred Ernest Nightingale, but
he is too tall for the girls.”
“Sunday Telegraph.”
Though worsted in the lists of love,
Alfred would be the envy of
The blokes who find, through lack of
inches.
The warmest of their ardent clinches
Turns out to be an upward peck
That lands no higher than the neck....,
Or else a fellow looks a fool.
Carting around a little stool.
And yet it seems, though he might claim
With all that range behind his aim
He’d hardly run the risk of missing.
The temperature, on chilly nights.
On Nightingale’s sub-alpine heights
ALust be a trifle cold for kissing.
P. M. LUSK.
Summing-up.
“In moments of retrospection,”
Said the ancient ginger cat,
“Life looks horribly futile —
I am convinced of that!
For I have had fifty kittens.
All born strong and sound.
But — oh, the wasted effort! —
Forty-seven were drowned!”
T. W. NATHAN.
Broken Fortune.
“To hold big money at Randwick book-
makers had to gamble heavily. Apart from
the spectacular £13,000 to £2OOO bet on Babil-
lard, business was only ordinary.”
—Sporting paper.
Not long ago, when biz was good
And luck was with the Brotherhood
Bets of two thousand quid and more
Were commonplace. Long-shots galore
Romped home to make the fielders’ trot
Too good to last —they won the lot.
But now ( we’re told) the rot’s set in,
They’re asked to take a risk to win.
Which means that they’re in ruin’s clutch
And winning only half as much!
P. O. M. C.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Bureaucracy in Papua
The disadvantages of being an Austra-
lian with an occupation other than that
of a wharf-lumper or coalminer are now
being demonstrated to most of the Aus-
tralian and other British subjects in
Papua. An edict has terminated practi-
cally all N.L. contracts of employment
as at October 14. Whatever production
has not already ceased will do so on or
before that date.
Those affected most directly are rubber
and coconut planters. Australia will lose
up to 150 tons of rubber a month, and
this at a time when the rubber position
is very critical and tyres cannot be ex-
pected in fair supply for months to come.
Most of the plantations affected con-
tinued to produce right through the Jap
invasion period.
The modicum of manpower needed to
carry on this production and so keep
busy those indirectly concerned could
have been provided without any fuss, but
the Canberra bureaucrats have decided
that, while manpower in the transition
period is very essential in Australia, it is
not necessary in Papua.
The outcome will, I think, be surpris-
ing to those who formulated and sanc-
tioned the edict because of the claims for
compensation which will surely follow
and the job of feeding, housing and trans-
porting to their homes the thousands of
Fuzzy Wuzzies who, from October 14,
will be guests of the Australian taxpayer,
not to mention the noise that should be
made by those who need tyres and soap.
—Moale (Papua).
End War-time Controls
How much longer must the long-
suffering Australian public put up with
“control” of food and other necessities?
In January, 1944, the “Federal Guide”
(published in Canberra) informed its
readers that there existed some 268 war-
time councils, commissions, boards and
what not to control foodstuffs, etc. These
“boards” are too easily slapped together.
Some politician has an out-of-work friend
whom he engineers into a job as, say,
“controller of sausages.” Once established
this mew parasite requires a typist, an
office-boy and telephone, and lo! a “de-
partment” is set up, which in due course
calls for a deputy controller, assistant
controller and a bevy of satellite chair-
warmers, all on snug salaries.
No decent citizen objects to paying his
share towards the defence of his home-
land and the rehabilitation of the men
who defended it, but the taxpayer will,
and does, strongly object to. keeping a
pack of miscalled “National Security
officials” in jobs the excuse for which no
longer exists. — Heights of Albion (Q.).
Lacepede Bay
The claims of Robe and Beachport as
possible deep-water ports for S.A.’s south-
east trade (B. 5/9/’45) are not worth
considering in comparison with those of
Lacepede Bay. Even at the cost of
£1,000,000 it is very questionable if either
Robe or Beachport could be made more
than a one-large-ship port with limited
draught. Lacepede Bay, stretching from
Cape Jaffa past Kingston, some 20 miles
north, could provide safe anchorage for
the Royal Navy.
This strange coastline —it is hardly even
an indentation —is one of the maritime
wonders of the world. It is exposed to
seas that sweep from Africa, yet open
boats and small fishing craft anchor there
in all onshore winds. Admiralty experts
say that contributing factors are the
gradual shelving of the seabed from 20
miles to seaward, the presence of a thick
wire-grass bottom and the presence of
underwater currents.
Kingston, 12 miles north of Cape Jaffa,
is, unfortunately, built on a site where
the water is too shallow for modern re-
quirements, Yet from the jetty there
wool brought by railway from Naracoorte
was for decades lightered into clipper
ships anchored in the bay and shipped
direct to London, Later, up till the war
years, the wool was carried from King-
ston to Melbourne and Adelaide by the
1000-ton s.s. Mulcra, which called
periodically.
Four miles south-east of Kingston a
depth of six fathoms exists two cables
from the shore. Here is the site where
the south-east’s colossal fertiliser require-
ments and bulk fuel should be unloaded.
From here meat, butter, grain, potatoes
and even wool —if wool sales were held
locally as at Albury—could be shipped
overseas. A modern wharf and a few
miles of road and railway are all that is
required.
The south-east is S.A.’s most go-ahead
farming district. With soldier settle-
ment and the clearing of virgin
land it will continue to go ahead.
In the past the 10,000-square-mile
district, more than 300 miles from
a capital city and modern port, has been
hampered by an out-of-date narrow-
gauge railway, a break of gauge and
transhipment -charges at the small-ship,
bad harbors of Port Macdonnell, Beach-
port and Robe and the ill-adapted wharf
at Kingston.
The war should have impressed on
South Australians the futility of pro-
vincial and State jealousies and of the
necessity for far-sighted policies. What
is required by the south-east of S.A. is a
safe, deep-water port, easy of approach,
capable of expansion, with modern
facilities for handling 15,000-ton tankers
and freighters. Lacepede Bay is the only
harbor in S.A.’s south-east that can
give all this. Horseless Horseman
(R.A.N.V.R.).
Decentralisation
“Taurus” (B. 26/9/’45) does not seem
to comprehend that there are very good
reasons why industry clings to the big
coastal cities. The cost of transporting
raw materials inland and consigning
finished products to the seaboard is too
big a burden for most industries. If the
Government subsidises the industry to
"Now let me see. Was it two for No. 6 or six for No. 2?”
offset such costs the burden is merely
shifted to the taxpayer.
Some industries could be sent inland
Without noticeably influencing the cost,
such as fertiliser factories, farm and
orchard, machinery works, tanneries and
fellmongeries, woollen mills and other
such ventures which could obtain their
raw materials or sell their finished pro-
ducts in their own districts.
Private enterprise has already taken
over a lot of factories built in the coun-
try by the Government, but trade com-
petition sets a limit on the extent to which
this can be done.
Ballarat, when a goldmining centre,
had big engineering shops,' some of which
still carry on. The Phoenix Foundry em-
ployed more than a thousand hands. Ben-
digo and Castlemaine also had large and
comprehensive engineering industries.
One services at Castlemaine —Thompson s
—but is more noted today for marine
engines than mining machinery. Its prob-
lems are more difficult than those of the
Melbourne firms.
Centralisation of industries and mergers
have not brought benefit to mankind, and
it would probably be better for everybody
if we had dozens of small factories under
personal and family supervision than one
huge factory catering for the entire needs
of the State.
Perhaps a reduced tax on privately- or
personally-conducted factories in the
country would help. Proprietary cos.
might pay a heavier tax and public cos.
could make up the difference. —J. F.
(Vic.).
Sport Report from N.G.
According to Melbourne “Argus,” after
winning the V.F.L. premiership (in a
match which set a new standard for
offensive behavior and foul play) each
member of the winning (Carlton) team
was presented with a ten-guinea teaset at
the club’s victory celebration dinner, and
it was expected that about £5OO in dona-
tions would be divided among the players.
Later the players were to be treated to a
motor tour in the country (presumably
as a recuperative measure after a hard
season).
This reminds me of another grand
final which was played out in New
Guinea. In this competition the teams
were very much larger, but players scat-
tered about the ground, each operating
as an individual, gave some similarity to
the Melbourne game.
On many occasions the home team
(white) complained of foul play, but no
action was taken by the visiting team
(yellow) to eliminate this. Each game of
the four-year season was rough and dirty,
and the final was equally bad.
In one case a member of the yellow
team was seen to hold a grenade to his
chest and blow himself to pieces to avoid
being shot at. Once a member of the
white team was detected giving a cigarette
to a member of the yellow team who had
been injured, an act which infuriated
many of the spectators.
Not the least repulsive aspect of a
game marred by unsporting tactics was
the continuous hostile barracking by those
who were, supposed to be the white
team’s supporters. On several occasions
one section of the spectators became so
disgusted that they refused to allow their
club to send reserve players and oranges
at the intervals.
On one occasion, in a forward pocket,
a white-team man, after bayoneting five
out of six of the yellow team opposing
him, allowed the sixth to break away.
using the lame excuse that he couldn’t
be in six places at once. This and
several other instances of slipshod
and lackadaisical play no doubt caused
many of the spectators to withdraw their
moral and financial support from the
white side.
When the game closed there was very
little applause from the supporters of the
white team, and none at all from the
yellow-team supporters. Neither team
gave cheers for the other.
By the time the white team had packed
up and was ready to leave the field most
of its supporters had lost interest in the
game and the players, and arrangements
to get the players back to their homes
were sadly inadequate. However, a few
eccentric people made use of their cars
to allow some of the more badly injured
players to be driven from the wharves
to their club rooms.
It is understood that a bonus will be
paid to each white player five years after
the final bell, and as an additional ges-
ture the club will present each player with
his playing togs, and his plates, knife, fork
and spoon.—VXs2o99 (A.1.F.).
Rice
The public of Australia has been with-
out rice for four years.
Last year’s N.S.W. crop was 73,000
tons. This year’s crop is estimated not to
exceed 31,000 tons. Rice consumed in Aus-
tralia before the war was valued at over
£400,000 a year. Rice is a major world
food, in short supply and urgently
required.
Queensland, which is in the world’s
“rice belt,” is ideal for rice-production.
Rice would supplement stock feed in time
of drought.
The heavy rains which fall on the
Queensland coast, regularly between
January and March have enabled crops
of over 80 bushels to the acre to be grown
Rice seed should be made available in
Queensland and restrictions on cultiva-
tion removed. —H. G. S. S. (Q.).
A Cry from Wewak
Sitting idly and discontentedly in what
we are told is one of the most disease-
ridden spots on earth are about 10,000
troops of the Sixth Division, waiting to
go bank to Australia.
The troops are conscious of a job well
done, and feel entitled to a quick return
and a couple of months of peace and rest
preparing themselves for the future—as
civilians. We have been promised that.
But we have been warned, unoffi-
cially, of a food shortage. Meals have
already been reduced in some units to
two per day. Most of the division are
having their rations (95 p.c. of which is
tinned or dehydrated food) supplemented
by two vitamin tablets per day to safe-
guard health and strength.
Another point causing discontent is that
men who joined the Army at 18 or 19 up
to four years ago are asked to volunteer
for the occupational force, or (this is in-
ferred), having fewer than 130 points, to
remain and garrison this Godforsaken
hole. Married men of 30 who didn’t find
it convenient to fight for their families till
two and a half to three years ago are,
having over 135 points, to go home. We
assume this is because a country prodigi-
ous in war-time spending has suddenly
become penny-conscious. The married
men’s preferential points system stinks.
Give us the opportunity to become
good Australian citizens, make us
welcome in your ranks, and we will
do our best. Compel us to fight for that
right and the strikers will soon realise
how, why and by whom the Japanese were
prevented from invading Australia. — An
NX Bunny (A.1.F.).
Churchill Memorial
Of all the great figures in English his-
tory none stands out more nobly than
Winston Spencer Churchill.
Australia should honor Churchill’s
memory, and if some public man capable
of doing so will give Australians a well-
directed lead there will be no lack of
support. The London memorial would
be well placed in the new House of Com-
mons or in Trafalgar-square, where Nel-
son’s splendid column stands. We have
no Trafalgar-square, but in Canberra
there may be a site fit to be so honored.
—A. H. P. Moline (Tas.).
Paterson Memorial
I suggest that the “Banjo” Paterson
memorial be erected on top of the Jinda-
byne Hill which overlooks the Snowy
River valley. Not only would this posi-
tion be appropriate, but the monument
would be seen by the thousands of
tourists who travel to the snowfields and
trout streams around Kosciusko.
Wonga (N.S.W.).
Opponents of Migration
Many workingmen and their wives are
hostile toward proposals to invite people
to migrate to Australia. The cry is “No
immigrants until every Australian has a
job.”
Such an attitude is short-sighted.
Though this country’s industry was dislo-
cated by the demands of war its produc-
tive capacity has remained unimpaired,
and only the application of skill, energy,
intelligence and goodwill is required to
make it a land that can employ all its
own people and at the same time absorb
into contented employment a large yearly
increase in population. By their opposi-
tion opponents of migration imply that
there should be no expansion beyond
what is sufficient to support the present
population. Converted into policy,, this
argument would only build one thing—-a
bumpy road to national decay. A nation
content to produce only enough to sup-
port its own people has no hope of im-
proving their wellbeing.
Recognition by the majority of the
people that only productive work can
supply the wants of the individual and of
the family has been the stimulus which
has always enabled us to produce more
than sufficient to support our own people.
This surplus production becomes a re-
serve which can be drawn on to support
new entrants into the employment field
until the results of their work build up a
still greater margin to support new-
comers. This principle has brought our
progress to its present stage, and its ex-
pansion will open avenues to absorb
migrants.
The future of the country depends upon
its willingness to receive migrants from
every white race, including Germany,
Migrants from any country, however,
should be carefully selected by competent
immigration committees operating in all
countries from which good types of
future Australians could be obtained. —•
Goodwill (Q.).


a nm
I’ODAY Victory has been achieved. In
1939, when the clouds broke, Yarra
Falls machinery began humming a night-
and-day War-time song which has never
ceased.
M ATURALLY, we are still fulfilling service demands. The race has been run and
1 won.
OUT Yarra Falls peace-time planning has not been neglected. Just as quickly as we
swung into the race against enemy production so will we enter normal pursuits.
Y' ARRA FALLS is poised for Peace—ready to give immediate effect to the far-
* reaching plans made for the widest presentation of all those latest weaves and
fabrics now awaiting release.
-•>
" Ti
■ t ■
*
.. ..
mmm
■
sag
s-gm
.-v-W- g.
m
:: 1
S 3
*s
. .
<SSr
e**im*~*m&- mm
YARRA FALLS
fienoimed for tie excellence of /is Worsted
Manufactures, all made from Australian virgin wool.
ABBOTSFORD- VICTORIA - AUSTRALIA
T
D
wm
mm
V
