

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66~N0. 3389
Wednesday, January 24, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
FAMOUS PALACE OF THE SALISBURY’S HATFIELD HOUSE.
Kj ORTH a short distance from London, in Hertfordshire, is the
* town of Hatfield, and near the site of famous Hatfield House
was the palace of the bishops of Ely, from which comes the town’s
proper name, Bishop’s Hatfield. At djfferent times, Hatfield House
has been a royal possession. In 1538 it was resigned to Henry VIII
by Bishop Thomas Goodrich, of Ely, in exchange for certain
lands in other parts of the kingdom. After that monarch, Hatfield
House was successively the residence of Edward VI, of Queen
Elizabeth during the reign of her sister Mary, and of James I. It
was that James who, in 1607, exchanged Hatfield for Theobald’s,
near Cheshun, an estate of Robert Cecil, the first Earl of Salis-
bury, in whose family Hatfield House has since remained. One
of the principal features of this palace is its galleries, that on the
first floor of the south front being a hundred and sixty feet long.
The building contains many priceless portraits and old carvings,
and its library is rich in historical documents. The pictures here
include a Zuccharo of Queen Elizabeth, and Oudry of Mary
Queen of Scots, and others by Van Dyke, Kneller and Sir Joshua
Reynolds. Under one of the oaks in Hatfield s ancient park
Elizabeth received news of her accession to the Throne and held
her first Privy Council. In the neighborhood is Hatfield’s lovely
old church of St. Etheldreda, with its Salisbury Chapel built by
Robert Cecil when he came here to live. One of England’s few
surviving walled vineyards planted by the monks is also in this
vicinity.


df
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
the Red Page
STYLIST IN A CARAVAN.
Alan Marshall, of Melbourne, who is
known to Bulletin readers as a short-
story writer, has published in These Are
My People (F. W. Cheshire Pty., Ltd.)
the story of a tour he, his wife and his
dog made through western and north-
western Victoria by caravan.
One chapter from the book, slightly
altered, appeared in The Bulletin as a
short story, and another was in the last
Coast to Coast. The first about a man
wandering around in the night to shoot an
Italian who had hit him with a batten,
and the other a portrait of a fossicker
named Silent Joe, these are two striking
pieces of writing.
A third chapter, which also would have
made a good short story —possibly
Marshall has used it as such —is a picture
of an old “hatter” who was starving for
something to read. Marshall took him a
few magazines.
“I’ve brought you along a few papers,” I
said. “I hear you like reading.”
His expression changed to one of in-
credulity, then his confusion returned, and
he stammered unbelievingly, “P-papers.”
He came to me to take them, and he
looked only at the papers as he walked.
He held them in his hands and looked up
at me. He did not speak. The shy smile
was still on his face and I felt that, in
some way, he was bound there by his shy-
ness; that he needed words of mine to
release him.
I said “That’s all.”
He turned away from me and sat down
on the grass* with his legs twisted, black-
fellow fashion, beneath him. He had placed
the papers on the ground beside him, and
he took the top one and began at the first
page.
1 waited, thinking that he was only read-
ing the headings and that, in a minute,' he
would speak. But he kept on reading, so
absorbed that when I asked “Do you keep
bees?” he did not hear me.
I looked round at the banksia trees and
the tall grass by the river. It was evening,
and the air was still, transfixed on long rays
of sunshine that were visible because of a
haze rising from the moist earth.
I felt I would like to look at kangaroos.
I said loudly, “Do the kangaroos feed near
here in the evening?”
“Kangaroos?” he repeated, looking up
at me.
I looked into his eyes and I saw there the
gradual emergence to comprehension as if
there was an intermediate state of transi-
tion between each interest.
“Kangaroos,” he repeated, and this time
’ the word had meaning, and he added
quickly, “They are always on the flat be-
hind the hut.”
He turned to his reading again and
forgot me.
There follows a picture of the kanga-
roos feeding and then fleeing in alarm —
“They passed through the low scrub, and
all I could see was their curved backs
rising and falling above a foam of blos-
som”—then Marshall comes back to the
old man:
He was still reading. He had reached
the second page. I stood and looked
down at him. His lips were forming the
words he read “I ain’t met a word yet
I can’t read,” he said.
Resembling the Silent Jo© story in the
curious, almost dead tranquillity in which
the* action takes place, and extremely
effective in its double contrasts —the old
countryman and the magazines, the city
man and the kangaroos—this is something
more than just a chapter in a travel book ;
it’s a work of art.
So, too, though less certainly because
Marshall hasn’t taken such pains with it,
is the anecdote of yet another “hatter”; or
rather, a pair of “hatters”:
“Who is that chap?” I asked Scotty,
who had seen the man leaving.
“He is mad,” said Scotty. “He says
I stole his rabbit traps.”
“He’s mad, all right,” I said.
“He lives in a humpy over on the other
side of the lake,” continued Scotty, “and
when he couldn’t find his traps he used to
walk six miles round to my place with a
kerosene tin and a gun. He’d put the kero-
sene tin in the fork of a tree near the hut,
then shoot it full of holes. He told me he
was training to shoot me.”
“Whatever did you do when he was
shooting at the tin?” I asked.
“I sat and watched him.”
“Weren’t you afraid?”
“Afraid!” he snorted. “Of course I
wasn’t.”
With these as its highlights, with Nutter
Buzacott’s charming illustrations, and
with dozens of little incidents by the way-
side, some humorous, some informative ;
with notes on the birds, beasts, fishes and
wildflowers encountered, These Are My
People certainly makes pleasant reading
as a travel book. Since it consists mainly
of personal adventures and misadventures
and meetings with “hatters” and drunks,
the title is a bit misleading: it is to be
presumed that in Victoria there are a few
citizens both sane and sober: but that
doesn’t stop the book from being interest-
ing.
In fact, it draws attention to Marshall’s
progress as an artist, which is much more
important really than the fact that he has
written a readable book of travel.
There is something not quite right
about Marshall’s art in his short stories,
and it is difficult to say precisely what
that something is. It’s a matter both of
style and of tone. In all his best work
there is that strangely dead calm, in-
triguing, compelling the interest at the
opening and sustaining it to the end,
effective but somehow not fully effec-
tive. It is almost as if one were meeting
dead “hatters.”
In the tone, the “approach” of his
stories Marshall has certainly thought
seriously about his art, has striven hard
for an effect. And so, too, with the style.
It is nearly very good; there is a fine
feeling for the landscape ; yet there is no
single passage one would care to quote as
overwhelmingly beautiful. It just misses.
The answer to the mystery is—Heming-
way.
A hut stood by the edge of the lake.
Geranium bushes clustered against its walls.
A red-gum sheltered it. An aged chestnut
horse grazed quietly near it's front door.
We walked down to speak to the man.
He turned and watched us approach. He
had a face burnt red by the sun. His
lower lids hung away from his eyes like
a spaniel’s. The inner skin was blood-
shot and open to the air.
The Hemingway influence is responsible
both for this stutter of short sentences and
for the fact that the portrait of the old
man (who turns out a pleasant and amus-
ing character) is cold and repellent, like
a policeman’s report on the victim of a
murder.
Marshall should look for a better
model. He takes the problems of style
seriously, he tries for an effect; but how
limited an effect can be achieved with the
short sentence! The writer who uses it
restricts not only the reader’s enjoyment
of his prose, but his own fun in composi-
tion ; for surely there is more real en-
joyment in trying to build cathedrals as
Scott did, or at least Conrad’s strong and
graceful sailing ships of words, than to
restrict one’s endeavor to the humpy or
the bungalow.
The short sentence is used, most likely,
to give an effect sometimes of starkness,
sometimes of colloquial naturalness.
Starkness it does achieve; that is its
proper function. But in descriptive pas-
sages, where the prose should flow
smoothly and grandly as the landscape
flows, it sounds the reverse of natural:
forced, harsh, a bit precious.
The tone likewise fails in its purpose.
The detachment, meant to eliminate the
author, makes the reader continually
aware of a technician at work; the cold-
ness, intended to present a character
exactly as he is, presents him frozen —
at its best, like a tree in the frost; at its
worst, like a carcass in a freezing cham-
ber.
A lack of good taste is apparent in
some of Marshall’s stories of “hatters.”
As in the portrait of the man with blood-
shot eyes, he becomes —though only
momentarily—crude and repellent. It’s
not the subject-matter that’s at fault; it’s
the tone, the “approach.” If he hadn’t
approached his art with gusto Rabelais
would be revolting and unreadable.
Though a course in Rabelais or Field-
ing might help Alan Marshall to learn to
love with irony, it doesn’t seem likely
that he will turn to comedy. It is the
strangeness rather than the absurdity of
his “hatters” that fascinates him.
The masters in that field are the Powys
brothers John and Theodore, whose
strange and sodden rustics, springing like
an emanation from the English country-
side, correspond very closely to Mar-
shall’s “hatters” —hard, harsh and as
madly gay as the kookaburra from the
hot earth of Australia. From John
Cowper Powys Marshall could learn to
cultivate and intensify his vision so that
his occasional sentimentalities and pre-
ciosities (“I felt I would like to look at
kangaroos”) will disappear; and from
the stylist Theodore to avoid such lapses
as “different to” and “commence” instead
of “begin”—minor flaws, but jarring in
a prose style so nearly of the first class.
More Platypusiana.
Platypuses continue to make a splash
in the publishing world. Accompanied
by the second edition of Charles Barrett’s
The Platypus (reviewed here some time
ago), Robertson and Mullens, Ltd., has
brought out We Breed the Platypus, by
David Fleay—chiefly an account of how,
aided by the author. Jack and Jill, of
Badger Creek Sanctuary, produced late in
1943 the first baby platypus ever bred in
captivity.
Adding some general information, Mr.
Fleay observes that the platypus isn’t at
all as rare as it’s popularly believed to be:
“Three years ago the job of capturing five
pairs of duckbills for liberation in the
streams of Flinders Chase, Kangaroo
Island (S.A.), which fell to my lot, was
accomplished within a fortnight.”
For the plural of “platypus” he favors
“platypuses”:
The correct plural still remains a matter
of debate. “Platypi” is disqualified be-
cause of the incompatibility of a Latin
plural with a Greek noun. “Platypodes,”
though possibly correct, is awkward and
unwieldly, and would probably never find
its way into the vernacular. So why not,
for the sake of popularity and clarity, refer
to a “platypus” in the singular and “platy-
puses” in the plural?
Concerning Corrie, the world-shaking
baby, Mr. Fleay learned that the young
are blind for their first 11 weeks.
The youngster left the tunnels for its
first observed outing in the water at 5.15
p.m. on 26th February [1944], unattended
by the mother, and fed sparingly upon small
yabbies, beetle larva; and other items of
adult food. Its length was still 131 inches,
and its age, corresponding to the length
of time it had spent in the nest, was 17
weeks... .There is little doubt that for 16
weeks the young animal remained immo-
bile in the nesting-chamber, feeding from
its mother during her presence at home, but
otherwise curling up and spending its entire
time asleep.
The booklet is extremely interesting,
of course ; and there are good illustra-
tions.
Shaw and "Peregrine Pickle"
Everybody knows G. B. Shaw’s
“Pygmalion.” Fewer people nowadays
know much about Tobias Smollett’s
Adventures of Peregrine Pickle. In vol.
2 of that classic there are certain interest-
ing resemblances to Shaw’s play.
Of course, there are differences. In
“Pygmalion” the father of the girl Eliza
was paid £5 for her. She was perhaps
about 18 years old. Whereas, when “for
a small sum of money Peregrine pur-
chased the property in the wench from
the mother,” Smollett’s Eliza was about
16.
The highlight of “Pygmalion” is the
delightful use of the adjective “bloody”
by Eliza, which was a throwback to her
flower-girl days. Peregrine’s Eliza also
was endowed with an eloquence which
flowed like hot lava from her lips when
she erupted.
Shaw’s girl in “Pygmalion” often em-
phasises that she is “a good girl.” Eliza
in the Adventures, though not described
in identical words, was also a good girl,
as Pipes, who was ordered by his master
to wash the girl, discovered to his cost.
Peregrine was a wealthy young gallant
of fashion. Annoyed with a lady who
disdained him, he had decided to take up
with the first wench he met on the road-
side ; and, meeting a beggarwoman and
her daughter, he bought the girl from
the mother. She was ragged and dirty,
but seemed to have potentialities. The
first step was to have her washe4 by his
/nanservant.
When Peregrine next saw her he could
hardly believe his own eyes. He was ex-
tremely well pleased with his purchase,
and then resolved to indulge a whim. He
believed that the only difference between
the “upper” and “lower” classes was edu-
cation, and he determined to take the
young mendicant under his own tutor-
age ; hoping in a few weeks to be able
to produce her in company as an accom-
plished young lady of wit and under-
standing.
Eliza’s inveterate habit of swearing
didn’t help; but she had good sense, she
learnt quickly, and Peregrine ventured in
a few days to present her at table among
a Set of country squires, to whom she was
introduced as niece to Lieutenant Hatch-
way. She sat with becoming easiness of
mien, bowed graciously to the compli-
ments of the gentlemen, and though she
said little or nothing because she had
been cautioned on that score she more than
once gave way to laughter, and her mirth
happened to be pretty well timed. She
won the applause and admiration of the
guests, who, after she was withdrawn,
complimented the lieutenant upon the
beauty, breeding and good humor of his
niece.
Upon the foundation of a slight
primary education Peregrine built a most
elegant superstructure; he culled out
choice sentences from Shakspeare, Otway
and Pope, and taught her to repeat them
with emphasis and theatrical cadence.
He taught her opera tunes, whist and the
names of leading actors, so that she be-
came wonderfully proficient in the polite
graces of the age.
Everywhere she passed for a young lady
of uncommon learning and taste, until
one night at a party in London she caught
a lady cheating at cards. During the
quarrel that ensued Eliza burst open the
floodgates of her own natural repartee
and told the lady just what she thought
she was. As a parting shot the ex-
beggar-girl left the room with an exceed-
ingly rude gesture.
Peregrine was constrained to explain
to his family and intimate friends the
whole mystery of her promotion, to-
gether with the motives that induced him
to bring her into the fashionable world,
and repeated among his companions the
extravagant encomiums which had been
bestowed upon her by the most discerning
matrons of the age.
The theme of the beggar-girl made
lady is as old as King Cophetua, but
Shaw does seem to have come pretty
close to Smollett’s rendering of it.
F. A. KEEN
SUNDRY SHOWS.
These are strange times, artistically
speaking. Young men and women fresh
from school or college paint horrific pic-
tures of what is in their unconscious or
what somebody who has read somebody
who has read Freud tells them is in their
unconscious. On the other hand Gordon
Speary, who is in the Department of
Army Psychology and who would
naturally be expected to be interested in
mental states and suchlike, in his show
at the Velasquez Galleries, Melbourne, is
exclusively concerned with country roads,
old houses and similar pleasant bits of
landscape. His unpretentious array of
watercolors and his drawings of children
bathing suggest that, years in advance of
his time, he has come to the discovery
that there are gay and even beautiful
images as well as monstrosities in the
subconscious.
American war art:
The muddle in which contemporary art finds
itself is illustrated by the U.S. official war
artists’ exhibition at the N. S. Wales National
Gallery. Accused in Sydney (by “Granny,”
of course) of being insufficiently gloomy and
horrible, and reproached in other centres for
unrestrained and brutal realism, the show has
satisfied no one. The artists represented,
Capt. Barse Miller, Capt. Frede Vidar and
Lieut. Sidney Simon, drenched as they are with
“contemporary” notions as to the functions of
Art and its practitioners, are not equipped either
as realists or representationalists. Vidar, the
most gifted of the trio, has produced some
very vivid and striking fantasies —“Hollandia
Drome,” the four Death studies and “Cape
Gloucester, D-Day” stand out —but their
stylised eccentricity, distorted color schemes
and primitive perspective put them out of touch
with emotion. Barse Miller achieves one im-
pression that carries conviction —“Interior of a
Liberator” —but the grotesqueness of his human
figures shuts them off from sympathy. Simon’s
quick sketches are sound enough, but his
finished pictures do not appeal.
Sydney National Gallery also houses just now
a fine collection of collotypes illustrating the de-
velopment of American Art. There is a prim,
beautifully finished portrait by J. S. Copley (inter-
esting to the modern generation chiefly because
Kenneth Roberts brings him back to life in
North-west Passage), Gilbert Stuart’s simplest
and best George Washington, a Winslow Homer
sea piece, a dashing Sargent water-color, and
Grant Wood’s priceless “American Gothic” —
these supplemented and buttressed by a great
many other interesting, if less distinguished,
examples of a national school of art that
flourished briefly and has been moribund for
30 years.
Of Six South Australian Painters, who
show their work at David Jones’s Gal-
lery, Sydney, the most ambitious is H-
Trenery, who lays paint on large can-
vases in large chunks with a palette knife,
but, when not muddy, ‘is tame and trite.
Jeff Smart scores with “General Store
of the Far North,” which completely em-
balms the type; Jacqueline Hicks does
the same for “Port Adelaide Pub” ; Mill-
ward Gray, who has imagination and can
draw gracefully, is at his best in a sketch
of ’possums; Gwen Barringer, a water
colorist not afraid of color, sparkles in
various moods. The best thing in the
show is George Whinnen’s “Encounter
Bay, Victor Harbor,” with his “Picca-
dilly Valley” a close runner-up.
An American paper recently published
a story about Australia. The characters
were unmistakably American. One got a
similar impression from Sydney Indepen-
dents’ interpretation of “The Cherry
Orchard.” If one knew the plot it was
possible to enjoy the show but many
turns of speech and thought were obvi-
ously alien to some of the audience and
detracted from their enjoyment. To over-
come this, the most polished acting is
needed. The Independent Theatre de-
serves praise for attempting Chekhov—
and so does the audience.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
FOR THE HOME!
X
81
-
V-
m
m
*
m* i
A
mm
m
*
W
if: : :
'
m
m
: « ***•< V
m
5 *;£«£*?
IP
ft
sll
il Htlm
. , V % ******
UCj
IMS
£~-£
MS
XT*
cSw8S^5v: : : : ::: : :
■
SS
*&s*s< tt\VA«Vj
m
mm
m
m
m
mm
m
m
...-
%
m
m
r\T-f iTfer^lfirT|3ar.j3J
jS*
ill
111
*•%
*•
4-. ;•:•;••:>*;*».
SS. **v
fcv '■••,
m
>' S»:
« »*;
"' 1 ■**
Ifcfc mi
gp»
mm
mm
m.
m
:m
mm
mm
Mm
mm
mm
mm
ipilMi
mm
i
ii
i
> v *
mm
mmm
mm
isBS&SBB&#**
mm
H
r
ir
f
*
*
ip
Hi
IasSsiSSSSSSSSS^
SiSSSSSSJKssss^SSfSSSS®®^
Coloured Border Kitchen Towels,
an absorbent weave, reliable
wearing quality. Red, Blue or
Green borders. Size 24 in. x
34 in. Price .2/9 each
2 coupons.
Coloured Border Kitchen Towels
in Blue, Green or Gold Borders.
A serviceable quality. Size 22 in.
x 32 in. Price 3/10 each
2 coupons.
• Manchester Dept. —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
Surf Towels, Red, Blue or Green
Stripe on Fawn and White
ground. Dependable quality.
Size 24 in. x 44 in. .. 3/7 each
3 coupons.
Coloured Turkish Towels, an
attractive design. Blue or Red
stripe predominant on half
bleached ground. Reliable
quality. Size 24 in. x 47 in.
Price 4/2 each
3 coupons.
UNILLUSTRATED:
White Turkish Bath Towels. Soft
absorbent weave. Size 24 in. x
48 in. Price 5/2 each
3 coupons.
36-lnch Anti-Scatter Curtain Net which
was originally treated with an adhe-
sive. This can be rinsed out, leaving a
good wearing net. Price, yard .. 2/11
No coupons.
14-inch Parchment Lampshade, hand
painted in attractive floral designs
and trimmed with contrasting
coloured tufted fringe of Blue,
Cream, Rose, Rust or Green, 7/6 ea.
No coupons.
Wadded Edge Cushions made from
Cotton Repp and filled with best
quality woollen flock. In Rust,
Green, Fawn or Burgundy, 22/6 ea.
No coupons.
Alternative Net which can be used for any-
furnishing purpose. Ivory colour only. Makes
excellent curtains and bedspreads. *
Widths .... 72 90 108 120 ins.
Prices .... 3/10 4/10 5/9 6/5 yd
No coupons.
• Soft Furnishings—Third Floor.
* %
I
§W W 1 fAMOUS LOV
LOW P6ICES
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
Attractive Printed Bedspreads made
to fit your double bed. Obtainable
in Rose, Blue, Green, Burgundy or
Rust. Style as illustrated, £6/6/-
No coupons.
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE MORNING TIDE
By J. K. OSBORNE.
n.. BOUT midday the wind had finally
f \ swung into the south. The shift
I \ was normal enough during the long
bright days of midsummer. In the
mornings half-hearted breezes from any-
where at all would flirt with the water
of the lake, ruffling its blueness into
prattling little waves which ran this way
and that. But as the day wore on they
would tire of their pranks one by one
and a short calm would follow. Then
came- the first whispers from the south ;
sudden dark flickerings across the water,
the whispers swelling to a voice, to a
song, and that was the music for the
afternoon.
Holding the launch close in along the
sheltered shore, I could see white horses
already ndmg the crests out in the open
water. It would be a bumpy trip down to
the sand flats, and in that wind probably
nothing when we got there, but 1 couldn’t
let Old Martin down. It had done me
good yesterday to see his eyes light up
when I’d suggested trying the fish, and
then again my spell was nearly over, and
no matter what was blowing I knew I
wouldn’t have been too happy sitting
around watching the latmch tug at its
mooring lines. There’s something about
an anchored boat that gets into one after
a while—each lift of the tethered bow
is like a finger beckoning. You think
of it when you’ve gone from the lake
and are glad you didn’t let it beckon in
vain.
Rounding a point, I could see Old
Martin waiting on the jetty in front of
the shack where he lived alone. Standing
there in his faded brown sports coat and
battered hat, he hailed me as I came
alongside. At his feet lay the old green
canvas fishing bag and the dented thermos
he always brought.
“Blowing out there,” he said, nodding ;
“did you get any worms?”
“Some,” I told him; “we’ll have
enough.”
He handed down his gear, and I held
a pile while he clambered aboard. Then
I eased in the clutch and wept back to
the tiller.
PUNCHING across to the flats, we had
A to take the southerly three-quarters
on, and as soon as we drew away from
the shore it hit us properly. But it was
only a stiff breeze, not really vicious, and
the worst that happened was an occa-
sional lash in our faces from a whip of
silver spray.
Old Martin sat with one arm on the
quarter-decking over the engine, looking
ahead beyond the dipping bow, his face
to the wind. He had taken off his hat
and little salt dewdrops sparkled in his
few grey shreds of hair. It was impos-
sible to talk without shouting above the
wind and the steady beat of the engine,
but sometimes, when we hit a lumpy one
and the spray flew aboard, he would turn
to me with a smile on his wrinkled, brown
face.
It was something of that quality in him,
that unspoken yet obvious love for the
feel of a boat under you and all that goes
with it most times —white clouds riding
in the blue above, the sun sparkling on
the water, maybe a lusty breeze slapping
into you like this one or making the
waves boil under your stern when you
went with it —that made it a pleasure to
take Old Martin fishing.
He wasn’t an expert at the game by
any means, but there was consciousness
of his zest for the sheer adventure of it
all. I don’t know how he had spent his
life, or how it was that he’d come to
the lake apparently to spin out the last
of it, but my guess was that some indoor
job had kept his nose down pretty hard
and perhaps made him dream a lot about
the world outside under the sun. And
now he was free it was as though he
wanted to hold all the things he’d
dreamed about tight in his old arms be-
fore their strength finally ebbed away.
Anyhow, that was how I figured his keen-
ness, and if he didn’t get those few extra
yards in a throw, and was inclined to
strike too soon when a cautious bream
nudged at the bait, what did it matter?
THE sand flats curved in a great arc
across the head of the channel which
joined lake and ocean, and over them
swept the tides, always restless, forever
pouring up into the arms of the lake or
surging back to the sea. In the light and
shade of sun and drifting cloud they were
a vast mosaic in changing colors. There
were golden shallows where a man could
wade, deceptive emerald mid-deeps where
a man could drown, and sudden shely-
ings into narrow blue gutters where two
oars joined would not reach the bottom.
Across the sands, on good days, came
shoals of silver sand whiting and school
bream, nosing and rooting at the tiny
worm hillocks which pitted the bottom.
In the warm shallows were stray flathead
and stingrays basking half-covered by the
sand. But today when we reached the
flats it was as I had feared. The wind
and an incoming tide made a rabble of
the water, giving it that inhospitable look
which meant few, if any, fish. We tried
here and there, in favorite places, but it
was hard to make the boat hang just
where it should, hard to get the lines
out properly, and, anyway, there was
nothing biting.
By about mid-afterpoon we’d got a
bit tired of it, so we hauled the anchor
aboard and made across the flats to where
a few ragged mangroves fringed a small
island of sand and reeds; Lying just off-
shore, in the lee of it, we drank some tea,
and Old Martin lit his pipe while I
smoked a cigarette or two. I was think-
ing that while they weren’t biting on the
flats today they might still be all right
in the deeper water.
From the flats the channel ran a gently-
curving half-mile down to where it was
spanned by a road bridge. Then it swung
away to the left for about the same dis-
tance until it reached the bar and the
open sea.
“I wonder if they’re getting any down
below,” I said ; “the wind mightn’t be
troubling them there.”
We could see the top woodwork of
the bridge across the low banks of the
channel, and Old Martin looked towards
it before he answered.
“We could go down and see 1 Otty, per-
haps,” he said. “He always knows what’s
doing.”
So we started the engine again and the
launch thrust its way slowly down the
channel against the current.
OTTY lived in one of the small wooden
cottages which were strung out along
the high side of the channel. He had
lived there for so long—hiring out a few
skiffs,' selling prawns and whitebait in
season and doing a bit of fishing on his
own account —that he had become virtu-
ally a tradition in the little village which
clustered about the bridge. Anyone who
knew the locality knew Otty. Nowadays
he had reached the stage when he was
content to leave thing like scooping white-
bait at dusk to his two sons, and only
rarely would he go with them to the reefs
outside after red fish. There were more
and more days when he was content to
sit on the old horsehair sofa on his front
verandah watching the boats in the chan-
nel and the run of the tide.
We found him there today, sitting in
the kind of clothes he always wore —grey
flannel undershirt beneath a dark waist-
coat and trousers, and his great feet bare
as usual, calloused and bulbous from long
years of unfettered living and contact
with salt water; they seemed almost to
swell from his rolled trouser ends.
He greeted us without getting up.
“Heard the boat cornin’ down—thought
it was you.” His words and tone dis-
regarded the months since we had last
seen him.
We went through the small front gate
and sat on the edge of his verandah.
“We’re looking for the fish,” I told him.
“How are they down this way lately?”
Otty’s pale-blue eyes, set deep in the
brick-red frame of his face, strayed away
down the sliding surface of the channel
before he answered. “Few good bream
in the right water,” he said. “Be too
moony tonight, but they should be on
when she’s full in the mornin’ early.”
“What are they taking?” I asked him.
“Prawns mostly,” he replied, and then
in answer to a further question, “Boys’ll
have some later on tonight.” After a
pause he added, “Bloke got a forty-pound
jewy at the bridge yest’dy.”
I saw Old Martin start. He had been
flanging on Otty’s words like a boy listen-
ing to the voice of his hero, and I could
see the effect which the casual mention
of such a fish had upon him. An added
brightness gleamed in his eyes, and I
guessed that old pulses were racing as
in fancy his fingers felt the monster’s
reefing ppll. I couldn’t help smiling a
little, because, apart from anything else,
I knew we had no tackle with us to go
after fish like that. Still, the bream
sounded til right. We’d only come out
for the afternoon, but I was a starter
if Old Martin was.
As though reading my thoughts, his
eyes swung round to mine. In them I
saw the answer, and I knew then tomor-
row would find our launch swinging on
the morning tide.
WE yarned on with Otty until dusk
crept up the channel, then sauntered
along the bank past the little houses in
which lights were already shining. The
southerly had sunk away to a faint breeze
and a waxing moon was climjbing the
clear sky.
At one of the small shops we. ate a
meal and afterwards strolled about for
a bit and then back to Otty’s place. It
was in darkness, but he had left our
prawns in a parcel near the gate. We
took them down to the boat and spent
some time re-rigging our lines. More lead
was needed, and a longer trace in the
swift-flowing channel water.
The tide was making out strongly now,
and we went down on it and anchored
about forty paces above the bridge. In
spite of the moon, we thought we’d put
in some of the time having a try. But
Otty was right; they were no good. I
got one bream, hardly big enough to keep,
and Old Martin pulled in a small tailer.
When the tide started to go round I
got out the oars and sculled the launch
under the bridge, and we anchored again
on the other side.
That was the usual thing down there-
to fish back on the bridge. Then I got
out some old coats and bags from up in
the bow and we settled ourselves as com-
fortably as we could to pass the next few
hours.
Old Martin seemed to fall asleep almost
immediately. I heard his breathing deepen
as I lay watching the stars. The night
had become very quiet. One by one the
lights along the shore had gone out, and
except for an occasional car rattling
across the bridge there was little to break
the silence. The surf pounding on the
beaches which stretched away from the
bar made only muffled thunder in my
ears. Near at hand there were soft gurg-
lings as the water, like liquid glass in the
moonlight, eddied past the launch. The
thin sad cry of some water bird came
to me, vaguely, as I dozed.
IT was the beat of a launch engine,
a echoing beneath thi* bridge, which
roused us, and we sat up, stretching
cramped limbs. A fishing-boat was
slipping past, heading for the bar. The
water was still running fairly strongly,
but full tide could not be far away. The
night was a lot darker now, and I saw'
that the moon was about to sink below
the hills circling the furthest waters of the
lake. Seawards the morning star was
high, and beneath it the horizon already
greying.
We got our lines in, letting the current
take the baited hook, paying away line,
then following with the lead. You could
feel it sinking right down the gut until it
reached the stop, then the soft thud as it
touched the sandy bottom.
They soon started to pick at us the way
the bream do there*/and it wasn’t long
before I had three nice ones flapping in
a bag on the floor of the boat.
Old Martin was getting the bites, too,
but somehow he wasn’t hooking them.
It often goes like that, even fishing side
by side, and there was nothing I could
do about it, badly as I wanted him to be
sharing the fun. I was busy enough with
my own line. The run in the water was
slackening, and it was necessary to keep
fishing while it lasted.
I was changing a hook when I noticed
him winding his gut line back on to the
cork.
“You had enough?” I asked, surprised.
It wasn’t like him.
Old Martin grinned at me, and then I
saw a twist of heavy cord on the seat
beside him, and I guessed what was in
his mind.
“How much is in that?” I asked,
nodding at the cord.
“Should be thirty or forty »yards,” he
answered, “but it’ll hold anything. I’m
going to put the tailer on.”
I opened my mouth to speak, to tell
him that it wasn’t enough, that if he did
hit a big jew or something he wouldn’t
have a chance with that scrap of line —
but, I shut it again. Let it go, I thought;
let him have the fun of getting the line
down with the big bait on, and that odd
pleasure of knowing that if something
did come at it it would be the real
Mackay.
He got out an old tobacco tin and,
bending to the light of me lantern we
had burning, took from it a large black
japanned hook, I could see that it had
never been used.
It was about a 6/0, and had one of
those bent shoulders I don’t like. Old
Martin put it on with painstaking care,
baited it with the tailer and threw it out.
“Good hunting,” I said, as it went over.
The bream were still picking at me,
and I got another. Then I fastened on
to a shovelnose, which cost me some
time before I hauled it aboard and cut
the hook out. When I was straight again
I was surprised to see how much lighter
it had become.
It’s like that at daybreak when you are
busy with something or other, you don’t
notice the new day spreading its pale
stealthy fingers across the water, and then
when you happen to look up things that
were only dim shapes seem to have got
clearer all of a sudden. The bridge looked
queerly naked in the grey light, and I saw
a couple of boats on the other side of
the channel that I hadn’t known were
there. On the water was that near-opal
look that comes just before the sun.
Here and there round* the bridge piles
were sudden swirlings that told of tailer
hunting amongst shoals of small fry.
Every so often you could see the flash
of their silver-blue sides as they shot out
of the water in their eagerness.
I was watching them idly when I heard
a sudden cry from Old Martin. Turning
quickly I saw the reason —the slack of
the cord line he had been holding was
pouring away across his knees and over
the gunwhale with burning speed. Fran-
tically, with desperation on his face, he
was trying to stop it, to get a grip on it.
But things were out of control, and he
knew it.
“Take it!” he shouted at me, but be-
fore I could move the end of the slack
came and the short stick on which the
line had been wound was jerked,
spinning, along the floor of the boat. The
line must have fouled something under
the stern seat, for there was an instant
of awful strain —and then it went limp!
It was all over
I looked at Old Martin. His face
’Seemed drained of color, and there was
a stricken look in his eyes. He was
breathing heavily from the excitement of
those flew mad seconds. I saw him fight-
ing dbwn the bitter disappointment of
feeling the big fish only to lose it, and I
saw a grin win the struggle on his face.
Then he found his voice. “You should
have felt it,” he said. “You just should
have felt it; some tremendous thing. I
didn’t have a hope of holding it Had
to let go.” He started to pull in the dead
line in an absent-minded sort of way.
“Hard luck,” I said, “it must have been
a beauty.” I would have given anything
for him to have got the fish.
“You should have felt it,” Old Martin
said again, and then the end of the line
came into the boat. We saw what had
gone—the fancy black hook had snapped
clean off at the shoulder. Old Martin
peered at it as though unwilling to be-
lieve his eyes.
“It wasn’t the line, after all,” he said,
and it seemed to cheer him to think
that it hadn’t let him down; that he’d
been right about its strength.
I wound in my own line. The anchor-
rope hung slack from the bow.
The run-in was finished, and with it the
■ best of the fishing. But we had enough
for our needs, and the thing to do now
was to go ashore and light a fire. A cup
of tea would taste pretty good.
I WAS forward, getting the anchor in,
A when I noticed Old Martin standing
erect in the stern and something about
his face and attitude caught my attention.
He was looking down the channel to-
wards the bar, shading his eyes from the
growing light, and I followed his gaze
to see what held him. The sun was start-
ing to climb out of the sea, and its first
rays, striking through the, mist which
hung above the bar, made it seem as
though a cloud of powdered gold floated
on the ridge of breaking waves. Between
it and our boat the water was alive with
gleaming mellow light.
We stood in silence for a short while,
and, as we watched, the first gulls came
streaming in from the rocky island just
offshore, making for their feeding
grounds up in the lake. Straight up the
channel they flew, three and four abreast,
in long flowing lines. The swish of their
wings, snow-white against the clear morn-
ing sky, came softly to our ears in the
still air. Beaks thrust forward, legs held
tight against their bodies, they swept over
us in an endless winged procession.
I looked again at Old Martin. The
sun was on his weathered face, turned
skywards now as he watched the birds,
and there I saw peace and utter content.
He caught my eye after a moment, and
a slow smile crossed his features. “Does
you good,” he said. “All this....”
I nodded, knowing what he meant, and
knowing that the sting of losing the big
fish was gone from him.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3389
Wednesday, January 24, 1945
“SCAB!"
“Shortly after the outbreak of war...members for the dispaich overseas of a number of Australian divisions. We then pointed out that
the meat effective role Australia could play was that of the great supplier to the Allied nations, and that we should devote our efferts to up supplies to that
and That view has since been proved to be correct"-Minister Ward, encoring himself eleven months ago.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney ;
, Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand; Nathans Buildings ( opp .
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
THE BOOM IN CRIME.
Years ago two Kalgoorlie detec-
tives who had gone into the bush after
gold-stealers arid caught two ruffians with
the goods were ferociously attacked, being
themselves unarmed, and shot dead. Their
bodies were thrown down a shaft. A
Labor Government was in office, and had
events taken their usual course when
Labor Governments are in office the mur-
derers, after being found guilty and sen-
tenced to death, as they were, would have
been transferred to Fremantle jail to
undergo, nominal life imprisonment, can-
celled when some Labor yoomanitarian,
acting upon the representations of other
Labor yoomanitarians and interested
parties, should decide that they had “re-
formed.” This had actually happened in
the West, a Labor Attorney-General who
had more sentiment than sense having
been caught effecting a jail delivery of
men under sentence for crimes of
violence, killing among them.
Remembering this episode, the West-
ralian police took a strong stand. The
two murdered officers had been men of
character and position—one was head of
the Criminal Investigation Department in
Perth before he voluntarily returned to
the goldfields—and their mates put it to
the Government that if such men could
be murdered without the murderers pay-
ing the penalty provided in the criminal
code the force would be placed in an
intolerable position in its campaign
against crime. If the life of an officer
was to be forfeit and not that of his
slayer there would either be more mur-
ders of officers or fewer arrests. Im-
pressed by the reasoning of the force or
by its attitude, the Labor Government
decided that the law should take its
course ; and, although there were angry
remonstrances from Labor yoomanitarians
in other 'States, the murderers were
hanged.
This case must be much in the minds
of N.S.W. policemen since three of their
comrades were shot while trying to arrest
“wanted” men, all in the space of 12
hours. One, a first-class constable, re-
ceived a mortal wound at Blayney; the
man accused has been charged also with
the murder of a Sydney gunsmith, who
with fiendish cruelty was battered to death
in broad daylight, just after he had opened
his store. The others, detective-sergeants,
were badly wounded in Redfern by a
young criminal who knew he was to be
charged with at least one crime
of violence —knocking a Sydney pawn-
broker on the head in his shop—and who,
after trying to send the officers out of
the world, took his own life. He seems
to have been cursed with an ungovernable
temper, which did not admit of his
reasoning things out. Had he killed the
officers and spared himself he would have
been deprived only of liberty, and when
irked with prison life —which nowadays
has all sorts of alleviations, from
“pictures” to s.p. betting—would have
been assured of yoomanitarian backing
for release as an injured, though penitent,
victim of a capitalist society. And in the
end yoomanitarianism would have pre-
vailed.
Yoomanitarianism is in the ascendant
in N. S. Wales these days. It reaches from
the Executive Council, where the murderer
sentenced to be hanged automatically be-
comes a (nominal) “lifer,” to the magis-
trate’s bench, where a looter who would
be shot in his tracks if caught, in an occu-
pied town in France or Belgium may look
forward to being fined or let out on a
bond. Though the war has brought a
new class of criminal into existence, the
N.S.W. criminal law has in no way been
altered ; and there is scarcely a known
instance of a stiff sentence being handed
out in a criminal court. So it is not to be
wondered at that looters, black marketeers,
booze and other racketeers abound,
or that petty theft has become a pastime
in which thousands of people otherwise
decent indulge with impunity, or that
assault and robbery, housebreaking,
“slashings, stabbings,” stranglings and
shootings have reached the proportions
of an epidemic.
An attempt has been made to show that
the crime wave coincided with the Ameri-
can invasion, though it is admitted that
most of the criminals were homegrown.
Actually, cases of murder and attempted
murder have shown a substantial increase
since most of the Americans left —carrying
away with them, no doubt, a very poor
opinion of N.S.W. criminal law and law-
enforcement, so many of them having
been robbed right and left by racketeers
of rent, booze, taxi-rides, cafe meals,
flowers, curios and even cool drinks.
Queensland has a continuous Labor
Government, which long ago abolished
capital punishment. This led to a delicate
situation when an American paratrooper,
on leave from the islands and mad with
drink —which can be got as easily in
Brisbane as in Sydney and in Melbourne,
where the black market is reputed to have
fixed ceiling prices, by anyone, whatever
his condition, with the money demanded
for the stuff—was found guilty of de-
stroying a female partner in- his debauch.
In their own jurisdiction U.S. Army
authorities are very rough on soldiers con-
victed of offences which in Australia are
met with fines when cases —possibly
one in a thousand —are sheeted home. In
Paris they have sentenced a.w.l. petrol
thieves to death and cigarette thieves to
imprisonment for 40, 45 and 50 years. In
Queensland they deferred to Labor
yoomanitarianism, so they had the para-
trooper taken back to the islands and
executed there.
That messieurs les assassins were not
grateful—they never are —was soon shown.
A U.S. Army lieutenant, also in Brisbane
on leave, and with a good record, though
foul and baseless insinuations appeared
in print, was shot in a public lavatory
near the Customs House. Before the lieu-
tenant staggered out dying, “a tall man,
clad in a dark grey suit, was seen to leave
the lavatory,” but when this report closed
no arrest had been made.
Brisbane is one of the cities in which
pillaging is rife, with Australian and
Allied servicemen special victims of the
plague, and with admonitions and fines
applied as general treatment. Justice
Philp, inquiring into the grievances of
countrymen who send produce to Bris-
bane, and informed that there was large-
scale stealing of fruit and vegetables con-
signed at owner’s risk, was moved to
comment on the magisterial practice of
letting dishonest Government railwaymen
off with fines. In one case the value of
the stolen goods was £4OO, the fine £2O.
His Honor said it was “a fairly light
premium for the license.”
Melbourne, in addition to being Sub-
jected to the depredations of robbers,
racketeers and black marketeers, few of
whom are caught and fewer still punished,
has had a special issue of sex-crimes.
Case-history of one degenerate, “an
assistant engineer, 32, of no fixed abode”:
August 1943: Presented on nine counts
of offences against girls and on three
counts of attempted interference with girls.
Convicted on all counts; and there was a
previous conviction. Released on a good-
behavior bond conditionally on his entering
the Ararat mental hospital as a voluntary
patient, undergoing prescribed treatment
and undertaking not to leave without giving
three days’ notice in writing and coming
up for sentence if called upon.
October, 1943 : Gives notice of intention
to leave hospital. Comes up for sentence.
Asserts that he has received no treatment,
and would get treatment privately if he
could raise the money. Goes back to hos-
pital on learning the alternative, three years’.
April 1944: Back in Court with medical
report. Released on a four-years’ good-
behavior bond —his own.
January 1945: Charged with an indecent
assault on a 7-year old girl. Admits that
“the offence went on for a considerable
period, the final result being that he infec-
ted the girl with a disease.” Two years’.
This may be written down as another
attempt to cure a criminal by kindness.
The consequence to the child whose body
was defiled and diseased, whose life has
conceivably been wrecked, and whose
parents must have been reduced to de-
spair, is an appalling commentary on
yoomanitarianism in practice.
Nobody objects to mercy being ex-
tended to “first offenders,” if they are
first offenders—that is, persons who may
be reasonably held to have yielded to one
bad impulse and to possess the will and
capacity to atone for it by their future
behavior —and if it doesn’t mean letting
vileness, violence and other forms of evil
calling for salutary correction go un-
punished, Often when racketeers and the
like are fined or let out on bonds it is a
fair presumption that they are “first
offenders” only in the sense that they
were never caught before.
In any case, the protection of
children and women and of the
persons and property of decent citi-
zens and of the safety and credit of
the community must be the first con-
sideration. With the law weak and
hobbled and justice no longer admini-
stered by the stern hand of a Windeyer
or a Docker, it is being sacrificed to a
false and dangerous lenity, the effects of
which show up in the multitude of
rackets which are weakening Australia's
war effort and staining its reputation, and
in the spread of larrikinism, that ugly
manifestation of the decline in manners
and respect for authority.
Crime can be held in check only when
criminals or persons with criminal ten-
dencies are made to fear. Fear is such
an absent quantity and crime has become
so profitable that a strange and brazen crop
of criminals has sprung up. They and
the regulars of the criminal classes may
furnish the makings of a private army
if a counterpart of the E.L.A.S. insur-
rection is plotted here ; and after read-
ing Mr. Churchill on the E.L.A.S. com-
position and programme and noting
the sinister parallels which this country
affords, who can be sure that it won’t
be attempted?
Soldiers' Badges.
To show they had served, the Old
Diggers, returned to civilian life, could
wear the familiar circular badge sur-
mounted by a crown, or the distinctive
R.S.L. badge, or else the equally distinc-
tive badge of such an organisation as the
Limbless Soldiers’ Association. That old
war had been, for Australia, purely an
A.I.F. war, as far as the Army was con-
cerned. The R.S.L. had no trouble
deciding who should be admitted to mem-
bership. Returned men were eligible,
and those this left out were negligible.
The present war is much more involved
—in soldiers’ badges, among other things.
There is, for one, the new returned-
men’s badge ; distinct from the old one,
but hardly any different in shape from
that issued by one of the crop of soldiers’
organisations which the present-war
arrangements for Australia and other
causes are producing. Earlier a special
badge was issued to every man who had
volunteered to serve his country. It was
given, as well, to every man honorably
discharged from the forces but not quali-
fied for the returned-men’s badge, and
hence not qualified for the R.S.L. badge.
Perhaps on the ground of economy in
essential metal, the authorities decided to
discontinue issuing that volunteers’ badge.
They decided to issue none but the
returned-men’s badge. The position now
is that a man may have been in the A.I.F.
or any other branch of the forces for
years—in such a unit, for example, as
the Armored Division —but if he had not
been able to get away, or get to one of
the “operational areas” inside the country,
he would receive on discharge no offi-
cial badge to show he had served. This
curious action is having an effect which
should have been foreseen and which
may strongly influence R.S.L. member-
ship policy.
Practically any man discharged from
the forces, and especially the conscien-
tious fellow who knows he has done his
best to serve, feels the need of a service
badge of some sort. Apparently healthy-
looking young men in particular feel it
an embarrassment to move about back in
civilian life without one. These —there
are increasing thousands of them —are
ineligible for R.S.L. membership ; also,
of course, ineligible for the returned-
men’s badge. It would cost the Govern-
ment a fraction of a penny each for
badges for them. Through the only
means of getting a badge indicating ser-
vice left open to him —by joining one of
the varied crop of ex-service organisa-
tions —it costs the individual up to 12s. 6d.
In many cases there is no other incen-
tive than that for getting into one of
these organisations. If some of them can
do nothing else for him, at least they can
enable him to show that he has served.
Already various service organisations
have enrolled many thousands, and every-
thing seems to be going along nicely for
those interested in having the servicemen
as divided after the war as they now are
in it.
Largely it is an outcome of the Gil-
bertian Australian service system. On
the one hand, there can be returned men
who never volunteered, all eligible for
both the R.S.L. and the Government-
issue badge; on the other, there are the
thousands who volunteered to serve any-
where but who have had to stay in Aus-
tralia, and will still have to so long as
this country continues to be—what it was
not, of course, in the last war —a main
base. This latter group—many thous-
ands of them already have been dis-
charged over the years—can wear neither
the Government-issue nor the R.S.L.
badge.
With certain qualifications, the R.S.L.
admits —as it certainly should —returned
Militia. Apart from their having fought
magnificently on some famous occasions,
many of these men were Militia before
the war, and for thus giving up their
time trying to keep some sort of defence
going in Australia they got little but
ridicule. As well, a lot of them, when
pressure was brought to try to get them
into the A.1.F., decided to remain Militia
from a sense of pride of unit. The
R.S.L., however, still does not admit
the many thousands —A.1.F., R.A.A.F.,
R.A.N. —who volunteered to serve any-
where, and who have been or will be
discharged without having seen service
in “operations areas.”
■ It has been suggested that the R.S.L.
could decide what it considers to have
been genuine Diggers, outside the
“returned” status, and by examination
process let them in. This would obvi-
ously be involved and difficult. A simple!
plan put forward has been for admitting
all those who volunteered to fight any-
where, as well, of course, as those at
present eligible for the R.S.L. badge,
including the returned Militia. Yet
another plan, which is strongly favored
in some R.S.L. quarters, is to keep the
R.S.L. much as it is at present, but to
have a subsidiary organisation made up
of all volunteers who had not been able
to see service. Members of this sub-
sidiary organisation could wear the fami-
liar League badge hollowed out with a
“V” for volunteer in the centre. Prob-
ably the best suggestion in the League
interests so far put forward, this would
have the effect of bringing under one
roof the great majority of ex-servicemen
sharing an identical outlook.
As it is, thejse men —simply to get a
badge to wear showing they have served
—are going into organisations which, if
they should later combine, could make
a formidable rival for the League. The
badge of one of these organisations—the
Australian Legion of Ex-Servicemen and
Women — is certainly no mean thing to
possess. R.S.L. men insist that at a few
yards it is hard to distinguish it from the
Government-issue returned-men’s badge.
In shape it is practically the same, though
it can be distinguished by having color
on it, while the returned-men’s badge is
a plain bronze affair. Still, the approxi-
mation is so close that R.S.L. men ask
bluntly why the Government ever
authorised it, and also whether its
authorisation and the decision to issue
no official badge but the returned men’s
badge have any connection. *
At all events, that decision, plus the
failure, so far, of the R.S.L. to solve the
admittedly knotty problem of who do
and who do not merit consideration as
members, or perhaps as associate mem-
bers in a subsidiary organisation, is re-
sulting in many thousands having to
resort to Wearing—at their own expense
-—such badges as that to which R.S.L.
men emphatically object.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Government Factories.
“If the Government employs only a
hundred people by retaining a factory,
whereas private enterprise could engage
a thousand by taking it over, it is obvi-
ous what should be done.” Mr. Chifley
said that at Bathurst —rather surprisingly,
there being two Government factories in
his own electorate. In this matter at least
•the Treasurer seems capable of learning
from follies like the paternalist experi-
ment in coalmining at Coalcliff and ready
to shed one of his old illusions, if Caucus
permits.
He has obviously been studying British
policy as stated on October 20 by Mr.
Dalton, the (Labor) President of the
Board of Trade. The position in Britain
is that the Government owns many fac-
tories and is building more, especially for
the war against Japan:
The final decision of the Government is
that in only very exceptional cases are these
factories to be sold. When they are not
required for munitions or for Government
purposes they will be allotted, not in accord-
ance with any competitive bidding in rent,
but in accordance with the contribution that
can be made to employment, having regard
to getting diversified and balanced industry.
Other things being equal, preference will be
given to an applicant who is bringing a new
industry into the area.
Regard will also be had to the import-
ance of the industry to export, and to
whether arrangements can be made, should
the need arise, for switching the factory
back to war production. Among other con-
siderations is the question of getting a quick
start with peace production, and prefer-
ence will be given to an applicant whose
needs do not require a long process of
structural alteration. These considerations
have been in mind a long time, and I am
urging the Ministers in charge of the Supply
Departments to give the longest possible
notice of factories that will no longer be
needed for war production.
As soon as I know that a factory will be
available for peace production the list of
applicants is surveyed. It is not difficult
to make a choice. Since the invitation to
industrialists last November a very large
number of applications has been received,
and there will be no difficulty in finding
very good tenants. I am concerned to see that
there is the least possible gap between war
and peace production, that as much employ-
ment as possible is offered, and that the
product made is of high utility, whether for
the home market or the export trade.
Another Cabinet Minister held forth on
the subject of Government-owned fac-
tories at a Trades and Labor Congress:
The Government cannot compete with
private industry in marketing goods through
ordinary channels, either at home or
abroad. Therefore it must be the objec-
tive of the Government in the reconstruc-
tion period to dispose of Government-
owned war plants to private industry.
There should be a full partnership of private
enterprise, organised Labor and the Gov-
ernment.
It was a Canadian Minister —C. D.
Howe, lately appointed to the Recon-
struction portfolio. A colleague spoke at
that Trades and Labor Congress, which
was held at Toronto. There would have
to be a great change in sentiment heroic
such things could happen here. It won
be a decided change for the better.


"Soldiery-Miners.
In one well-remembered moment of
bluster, the strongarm Curtin Govern-
ment had a number of striking coalminers
called into the army as a punishment —
that indicating, incidentally, Govern-
ment outlook on army service. Here, in
brief, is the record of these fellows’
service:—
Called into the army and taken to
Sydney, they were sent home “on pro-
bation.” That is, they were still in the
army, but were back -in their ordinary
mining jobs.
At the end of their six-months’ pro-
bationary period they came to Sydney
again—on army passes. While in Sydney
they were paid by the the army and the
mines.
They were then given honorable dis-
charges, entitling them to all the benefits
discharged soldiers have (except, of
course, rethmed men). They got 56
coupons and a chit for a £6 10s. suit, and
they retained their military clothing.
None of them, as far as'is known, was
given a commission or decorated, but
that must have been an oversight. •
The Rubber Bone.
The American habit of giving the hound
an imitation bone made of hard rubber
has never taken on here. No self-respect-
ing Australian dog would give such an
article more than one morose glance.
Maybe the urbanised American dog is
more easily taken in than his Australian
counterpart, having perhaps had his finer
perceptions blunted by a life that is made
easy from morn till night—it is to be
noted that life in a city impairs the senses
of smell, sight and taste.
All the same, it can be assumed that
only the more obtuse and foolish of
American dogs continue to be satisfied
with the rubber bone after thoroughly
testing it for those juicy and satisfying
attributes which every genuine bone,
irrespective of age or condition, possesses.
And the feelings of the sensible canine
when, having been thrown one of these
hollow shams, he seizes upon it with de-
light and an access of saliva, only to
find that he has been duped, should be
well appreciated by any Australian of
ordinary intelligence.
In August, 1943, the Australian elector
was offered a handsome-looking bone. It
had all the appearance of being covered
with meat, and the Australian elector
grabbed it, rejecting all other bones.
Disillusion came to him early, and is
staying on. Chew, worry, bite at it as
he will, he finds the thing without sus-
tenance, empty, dry. Yet he can see no
way of avenging himself this year on the
party that took him in. Certainly it
wrecked itself by internal discords in 1917
and 1931, and the hope, the dream arises
that it may do so again, another 14 years
having elapsed.
Meanwhile many Australians can sym-
pathise with the embittered American dog
as they morosely eye the rubber bone
they fell for in 1943.
Ryde and Reason.
After a temporary* difficulty caused by
conflicting ambitions or something of the
sort, the Liberal party of N. S. Wales
has got fairly started as part of a nation-
wide organisation which the things done
and threatened and the things left un-
done by “Labor” Administrations has
made very necessary. It has an Old
Digger, W. H. Spooner, as chairman, and
another, Eric Hearnshaw, as candidate
for Ryde, where it will have its first test
in the field. A businessman with an
Economics degree and a Diploma of
Public Administration, and a pillar of
Legacy and kindred associations, Mr.
Hearnshaw has unusual qualifications for
a seat in the Legislative Assembly, as is
freely recognised by 16 other aspirants
to the party nomination, who are all
helping him.
His only opponent to be considered is
the McKell Labor nominee. There are
90 seats in the Assembly, and McKell
Labor is asking for a 58th, and that on its
record —God save the mark! What that
record amounted to before the general
election was summed up by “S. M.
Herald” in words that make Granny sick
and sorry whenever she thinks of them:
Mr. McKell may fairly plead that he
has best served the State and the nation by
going along quietly.
What “going along quietly” has meant
since has been brought home cruelly to
trusting people, with the grim presage of
more and worse to follow when effects of
the wheat shortage become evident.
No houses for the many who need
them, though the S.A. Government,
always attentive to the requirements of
a population less than half that of Syd-
ney, has built thousands. No milk for
a week because the cow-farmers refused
supplies. No butcher’s meat for a week
because the union went on strike. No
daily and Sunday newspapers for a fort-
night, save for an emergency sheet which
McKell trams and trains refused to carry.
No work at the Homebush slaughteryards
after midday on Friday and no continuity
on other days because the slaughtermen
refuse to be bound by self-sought McKell
awards. No sleepers on Government
trains because of the chronic coal short-
age, which has had other and all-too-
patent consequences, plaintively admitted,
on its own account, by the McKell Rail-
way Department. No action against
strikers or loafers of any description by
Mr. McKell or any of his mob.
No bottled beer except on the black
market. No interference with the Trade,
even where its abuse of its privileges is
enough to sicken a scavenger, though the
licensing laws and what passes for their
enforcement are McKell Labor responsi-
bility. No legislative effort to cope with
the crime wave, though it is the most
serious in the oldest inhabitant’s memory.
No capital punishment, though “there
were 40 murders in N. S. Wales last
year,” and more in January, 1945. No
provision against the drought or against
the idiotic optimism of old-pal Scully,
though in the latter part of 1943 N. S.
Wales was blessed with a flush season,
the most wonderful on record.
Nothing much of anything except
a Government-backed horseracing club,
measures designed to benefit that “good
and useful sport dog-racing” (Min-
ister Badly), and a lot more Govern-
ment lotteries, especially when war loans
are on the market. Horseracing, dog-
racing and lotteries seem to be all that
McKell Labor is interested in over and
above its easy jobs.
McKell Labor’s stock excuse for its
settled inaction is “Oh that’s a Federal
matter.” Yet it is charged with the good
government of the foremost State of the
Commonwealth, in population and re-
sources far more so in proportion than
New York is the first State of the Union.
Nobody could imagine Governor Dewey
shirking a task tha,t would promote the
welfare of the New Yorkers with the plea
that it was “a Federal matter,” nor would
any of the Premier’s predecessors, from
Parkes to Mr. Mair (albeit there were
some unheroic specimens among them)
have sheltered behind so unspeakably
paltry a pretext.
Thrown upon South Australia’s poor
resources by the surrender of the
Curtin and McKell Governments to com-
munist larrikinism, Mr. Playford has de-
veloped a useful coalfield out of what
wasn’t even a hole in the ground. To
the Curtins and Fordes and McKells and
the communists of the Miners’ Federa-
tion Mr. Playford, the Old Digger, is a
“Tory.” He is certainly a leader.
If Ryde is satisfied with the results of
“going along quietly” and not in the
mood to impose a check on this “policy”
and on the wild ways and wilder pro-
posals of Canberra, it will elect the Mc-
Kell Labor- nominee. But in that case
it will deserve what it will assuredly get.
Fair Dealing.
“Avon” : Whenever I hear that the
British Empire was founded by scoun-
drels of the basest sort who heartlessly
exploited native races I think of Maori-
land’s Treaty of Waitangi, It is a straight-
forward document, meaning what it says,
and, considering all the circumstances, a
remarkably fair agreement. And it has
been administered, speaking generally,
with conspicuous fairness and imparti-
ality. If the balance has ever been tipped
a bit it has gone down in favor of the
original owners of the soil, not of the
pakeha.
A recent case in point was brought
before the M.L. Native Appellate
Court, the question at issue being the
rather curious and knotty one of the
ownership of the bed of the Wanganui
River. The Crown claimed that the natives
had no title. Counsel for the natives con-
tended that the title was inherent. The
Treaty says such matters must be “deter-
mined according to the ancient custom
and usage of the Maori people.”
The Appellate Court found precedents
establishing a native title in the beds of
non-navigable rivers, and held that, as at
the time of the Treaty the Wanganui was
not navigated (there being no traffic to
sail on it), its bed came within the
valid claim of the natives to a right
over “everything within their tribal
boundaries.” Crown’s appeal dismissed
with costs by unanimous judgment of the
Court—six members.
“GREATEST OFFENSIVE OF ALL TIME.”
“We must now concert our plans for settling the hash of our enemies. , "
“What, the Germans and the Japs?”
“No; the airlines and the banks.”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
CTE
PNA
By
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts.or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months.
Inst at.
7 9
15 5
I 3 I
I 10 10
I 18 6
3 17 0
Instal.
16 8
1 13 4
2 10 0
3 6 8
4 3 4
B 6 8
4 th Floor
” ILII a wvi
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept.,
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Monday saw Curtin return from the
Prime Minister’s Lodge to the Prime
Minister’s Department. It was time ; and
not only because Australian affairs, par-
ticularly on the industrial and food
fronts, had drifted some furlongs further
towards chaos. In war there can be no
concessions to sentiment. It exacts stern
duties, and demands stern decisions when
anything goes wrong. And no embattled
country can afford to have a sick man
at the head of its armed forces or of its
Government.
General Blarney has earned another
distinction ; he has become the Only Man
who Ever Silenced Calwell. That gentle-
man having blamed the Public Relations
branch of the Army for the long silence
about the A.1.F., the C.-in-C. Land
Forces said that “a complete release of
the news was made,” at General Mac-
Arthur’s instance, as soon as it was com-
patible with the safety of “the great con-
voys carrying our men,” and that “the
basis of” the Calwell “attack” was “a
direct lie.” “I do not intend to enter into
a public discussion with General Blarney,”
was Calwell’s only reply, but Fraser, the
member for Eden-Monaro, a sensitive
chap from the “Terewth” office, where
delicate susceptibilities are nurtured, pro-
fessed to be horrified or scandalised or
something.
The strike of Sydney cow-farmers has
been settled, Canberra having belatedly
discovered that “drought payments” are
necessary. They are to come out of tax-
revenue. People at Wyndham and Burnie
may wonder why their taxes should be
drawn on for Sydney purposes when
there is a Sydney Labor Government
which for three years or more has been
socking away millions, fruits of Common-
wealth over-payments, but such curiosities
of Labor Government finance have be-
come commonplaces.
Dunstan has for the first time attended
an Australian C.P. conference, held in
Sydney, as a member of the C.P.’s Federal
Council. Saying that the wheatgrowers
had been “robbed of ten millions” by
the Scully measures, the conference told
Scully’s crowd that unless it agreed to
pay ss. a bushel at siding for 1945-46
wheat, “the present grave shortage will
still menace the community.” Condemn-
ing also the Government’s “half-baked
migration plans” and its Big City leanings
in general, the conference closed by elect-
ing PSge as chairman.
To the astonishment of Australian poli-
ticians, for whom Saturday is a no-work
day, even when their, seven Parliaments
are in session —none is—the President de-
livered his Fourth Inaugural on a Satur-
day. It will scarcely be compared by
historians with Lincoln’s Second In-
augural, one of the noblest speeches of
all time ; all the same, it struck a grave
and deep note. There was no “peace-is-
just-round-the-corner” poison in it, that
sort of stuff being left by Roosevelt, as
by Churchill, to’ Red and Pink writing
boys, who have compounded another
“Greatest Offensive in History, Most
Colossal Victory of All Time,” en-
venomed in the worst cases with vicious
sneers at the Anglo-Americans in the
west, their battle tactics and equipment.
An American delegate to the Hot
Springs (Virginia) conference of the In-
stitute of Pacific Relations suggested the
internationalisation of the Straits Settle-
ments. A parallel case would have been
if the British delegate had suggested
the internationalisation of Hawaii, the
Panama Canal and Cuba. Congress would
be as likely to ratify the one proposal as
the Commons would the other.
Lord Mayor Nettlefold has been baited
into announcing that all the talk of what
Melbourne city dads are going to do in
the way of tearing down old buildings
and putting up ornate new ones is con-
ditional on the housing shortage being
dealt with first and decent dwellings going
up where there are now slums. He must
be impressed with what a Labor Govern-
ment is doing in Maoriland and a “Tory”
Government in South Australia.
In Melbourne at Christmas table birds
were 15s. a head. They are now 3s. a
pair, and there are so many on offer that
dealers haven’t the time to collect them.
Fearing the effect of Scully’s “quota
scheme,” poultry-farmers are selling fowls
in thousands, and in dt least one Sydney
district they are considering the desper-
ate expedient of turning their ebooks
loose to fend for themselves. And pre-
sently, perhaps, Scully will be boasting
that his measures have placed a chicken
in every pot, the aspiration of a King of
France, though that departed worthy
never paid farmers for not growing wheat
nor did he have any particular acquaint-
ance with subsidies and doles.
Scully, the inextinguishable optimist
and renowned greyhound-racing judge,
“DISCORDS NEED FOR HELPS TO GRACE THEM.”
“A.B.C. Igenores ‘Herald.’ The action of A.B.C. in omitting all reference to the part played
by the ‘Herald’ in the settlement of the milk strike was strongly criticised. Herald.
“ ‘Where have you been to, my pretty maid?’”
“‘A-settling the milk strike, sir,’ she said.”
“Share and I don’t admit it.”
has come out with a “wheat-quota
scheme,” maximum quantity for stock-
feed to be “one-sixth of the quantity
sold by the Australian Wheat Board
during the nine months to September
30.” Amidst roars of rage he moved off
to meet a board of British farmers who
have come out to learn how he works
his wonders. He left the task of answer-
ing the angry host to officials, who ex-
plained “that some form of co-ordina-
tion” had become necessary. Some-
body has said that co-ordination is a
process of bringing organised chaos out
of regimented confusion.
“Peace, though based on unconditional
surrender, would bring to Germany and
Japan immense amelioration of the suffer-
ing and agony now lying before them.”
Churchill said that in his speech in the
Commons last Thursday; and there was
more:
We, the Allies, are not monsters, but
faithful men trying to carry forward the
light of the worlc^... .trying to raise a
structure of peace, justice and law which
will be an abiding shelter for all. We
do' not seek territory, we do not covet
oilfields, we do not demand bases, we have
not set ourselves up in rivalry with any
community in the world.
If faithfully reported—only greatly con-
densed accounts have appeared that
looks like a return to the Atlantic Charter,
and a return to the Atlantic Charter is
very necessary. Unfortunately, its prifl-
ciples have been watered down, and the
process seems to be going on.
In protecting the Greek people from
a communist coup d’etat, 2100 British
servicemen have been killed, wounded and
taken. This was revealed last week, and
Mr. Churchill came in with an account
which was precise, detailed and crushing,
as was illustrated by the voting in the
Commons —340 to 7.
E.L.A.S. arrped bands played a very
small part in the resistance to the Germans.
When the Germans left armed com-
munists began a reign of terror throughout
the country When they reached Athens
all seven communist Ministers resigned, a
general strike was declared, and E.L.A.S.
stormed or occupied all the Athens and
Piraeus police stations, slaughtering every
inmate. For three or four days it was a
struggle to prevent a hideous massacre.
Brutalities increased. Men, women and
children were murdered in large numbers.
Thousands of hostages were dragged along
the roads; many were left to die. A
British officer, going to a place in an
Athens suburb where exhumation had be-
have been executed, mostly with knives
and axes.
At latest the communists had promised
to surrender still-surviving hostages, ex-
cept “criminals” and “collaborationists.”
Meanwhile their friends in other countries
continue to denounce Britain, though in
Britain, at least, Conservative Leftist
organs seem to be having a very bad
time with indignant readers.
Commonwealth Food Control, which
spends large wads on display advertise-
ments, finished 1944 with charming pic-
tures of cows and things and large-type
assurances that “the dairy-farmers won’t
let Australia down.” When 1945 came
in with a strike of N.S.W. cow-farmers
C.F.C. was running a large picture of
British warships, and urging all and sun-
dry, cow-farmers included, to grow veges
and avoid black markets and waste, the
final injunction being “Don’t Let the
Navy Down”!
During the strike which deprived more
than half the population of N.S.W. of
an essential commodity for several days
a positive blast of silence came from Mr.
Scully. Yet he is Commonwealth Min-
ister of Agriculture,,and as such respon-
sible for what he calls hitting “the food
targets.”
McKell’s Housing Commission is call-
ing for -tenders for 29 timber dwellings
at Fairfield (Sydney), to “be built in four
groups : six, five, ten and eight.” Some
of the Fairfield schoolchildren hope to
find them ready for occupation when
they qualify ,for the old-age pension.
“S. M. Herald” has belatedly dis-
covered that something nasty happened
to the Russians in “the summer campaign
in White Russia”:
That effort clearly petered out when the
Germans, having retreated to the Narew-
Visfula line, stood there under orders to
yield no more ground. In fact, they did
more; as is now known, they heavily de-
feated a Russian attempt to force the
Narew and recaptured some towns inside
East Prussia which the Russians now an-
nounce they have occupied again.
During that summer campaign there
wasn’t a hint in the “Herald” or any
other daily publishing the claptrap of
Moscow correspondents of what is “now
known.” What they did publish made
great communist propaganda.
Pen-picture of Minister Keane, at “a
banquet gathering” in Washington, with
the compliments of the U.S. Office of
War Information:
He twirled his watchchain in his fingers
and came upon a gold badge. He looked
at it and said “This is the badge of the
Australian Labor party. Its motto reads
‘The Unity of Labor is the Hope of the
World.’ This sentiment is the only real
hope for world peace. When the Labor
organisations of the world get together in
understanding tHfen there shall really be no
more wars.”
The A.F.L., which claims 6,300,000 mem-
bers, was so overcome that it refused to
send delegates to the international trade-
union conference in London on the
ground that Russians would be there.
And, let’s see: how long has Keane’s
Labor party had Unity since 1917? Quite
four years.
Father Tucker, one of the two clerics
who shared a six-weeks’ vigil on a Mel-
bourne suburban verandah in order to
draw public attention to the housing situa-
tion, has been continuing his researches.
Among cases he vouches for are (1) a
soldier, his wife and five children for
whom he could find only one room; (2)
a woman of 70 evicted from her room
and compelled to sleep two nights in a
park ; (3) a room in Coburg in which
five children shared one bed and the
parents another ; (4) a t.b. patient, living
with his family in one room, who was
ordered to the country by the doctors-
he died before he got there. On the same
day it was reported that the 1944 Mel-
bourne Cup winner will have “a rest,” no
doubt in comfortable surroundings, be-
fore being placed “in serious work”
again.
When an elderly man fell into the water
off a Port Phillip (Vic.) jetty, a bystander
rushed to the box where the life-saving
equipment was supposed to be kept and
found it empty. An inquiring press
photographer went the round of the
beaches next day and found every jetty
in the same condition. A Government
spokesman promised that the next
offender would be'prosecuted if the police
could catch him, and muttered some
derogatory remarks about vandalism
amongst children. But children tend to
imitate their parents and the amount of
pillaging that goes on on Melbourne
wharves is nobody’s business.
'Chambers of Manufactures and of
Commerce have been invited by “poor
old Holloway’s” department to nominate
an employers’ representative on “the civil
employment reinstatement committees to
be set up in each State and the Federal
Territory.” And some people are opti-
mistic enough to visualise a time when
taxation will be reduced!


(Viiart
Special Old
SHERRY
PERJONAL ITEMS
Going on ancestry, John Frederick Bed-
well, the oldest member of the council of
the Royal Agricultural Society of Vic-
toria, and one of the State’s pioneers of
farming, ought to have been a sailor. His
grandfather fought in many naval actions
against the French and Dutch; two Bed-
wells were in Australia!} waters in the
early days; one of these surveyed the
coast from Port Jackson to Whitsunday
Passage, and his son was in the Jutland
battle. A great uncle was an officer
aboard the ship which took Napoleon to
St. Helena. Needing exercise', Boney
used to fence with the young officer, who
on one occasion lifted a button olf the ex-
Emperor’s coat —it is now in the Bedwell
archives in northern N.S.W. Bom at
Rushworth 86 years ago, J. F. Bedwell
was the oldest of a family of four
brothers and six sisters, eight of whom
are still living.
Maoriland’s first R.C. native priest, Rev.
Wiremu Te Awhitu, was a first-class
Rugby player and athlete. His father
was Toa Te Awhitu, whose mother was
a chieftainess of the Arawa tribe.
Grandfather was a direct descendant of
Chief Ngatihaua, reputed to be ope of the
crew of the canoe migration to M.L.
Reached his 91st milestone and still in
harness, Frederick Heath, the oldest
company director in Melbourne. Chair-
man of directors of Robertson and Mul-
lens, the oldest bookselling firm in the
city, he manages Gaunts, the old
jewellery and clock firm in Bourke-street,
and has been hon. timekeeper to the
V.R.C., V.A.T.C. and Royal Show for
close on 50 years. The g.o.m. was born
in Plymouth (Eng.), and it’s 80 years since
he landed in Batman’s village.
There is a certain amount of poetic
justice about the latest Archibald Prize
award. Last year Dobell made Austra-
lian art history by capturing the prize
with an unsparing representation of
fellow-painter Joshua Smith, whose por-
trait of Dame Mary Gilmore was runner-
up for the prize. This year Dobell, made
a Gallery trustee and ineligible to com-
pete, is one of the judges who awarded
the prize to Joshua Smith, for a com-
petent but not at all striking portrait of
House of Reps. Speaker Rosevear. Smith
has been exhibiting portraits for some
years—generally of members of his own
family—has won prizes in portraiture and
is generally regarded as a very sound man
in the old-fashioned tradition that places
importance on craftsmanship and “like-
ness.”
Commissioner T. J. Hartigan has com-
pleted 52 years with N.S.W. Railways,
starting as a junior clerk in January,
1892. He became Chief Accountant in
1920, next year toured England, Europe
and America looking into railway de-
velopments, and has been Commissioner
since December, 1932.
U.S. correspondent’s tribute;
In a dispatch from Leyte, Gordon Walker,
°f “Christian Science Monitor,” has paid a
striking tribute to Bulletin war correspondent
John Brennan. Referring to Brennan’s gal-
lantry in going out to bring back a mortally
wounded U.S. press photographer, Walker
wrote: “They will never forget this Digger.
Brennan rushed out under a hail of enemy
machine-gun fire, picked up the cameraman
and his equipment and carried him back from
the fine of lire. Brennan,” Walker added, “is
no ordinary war correspondent. This is only
one of the- many instances in which he has
shown disregard for personal safety, not only
in gathering stories but in fulfilling a strong
sense of duty to those of whom he wrote. He
has literally stalked from one heated battle-
front to another. He is almost a legend with
the Marines, who have rubbed their eyes in
disbelief more than once as they have watched
his tall, gaunt, unhelmeted figure weaving in
and out among mortar shells and machine-
gun bursts. Brennan is a figure to excite one’s
imagination. Well over 6ft. Bin. and weighing
only lOst. his sparse frame is accentuated by a
broad-brimmed Australian Digger’s hat, "with
a chin-strap disappearing in a mass of blackish
brown beard reaching down to an open neck
shirt front. Brennan is not exactly a Holly-
wood type of war correspondent. We sophists
reasoned that he was nice enough, but a mis-
fit and not tough enough. About a month
later we were in a real hot spot. Many boys
were hit, but so intense was the fire that rescue
work was deemed impossible. As the with-
drawal was speeded up there suddenly bounced
from the dense jungle foliage a tall, gaunt
figure in an Australian soldier’s slouch hat'.
Crouching low as each mortar shell burst
around him, Brennan leaped out in front of
our lines, picked up a wounded Marine and
carried him back to safety. The Marines
recommended him for a high award for rescues.
He has won the esteem of the American
troops on the broad Pacific front, where his
unforgettable figure promises to become one of
the legends of the war.”
Col. Arthur Murray Cudmore, of
S.A., who became a knight in the New
Year honors, has had half a century’s
experience in surgery, having gained his
M. 8., B.S. at Adelaide Uni. in 1894. At
London Hospital he became L.R.C.P.,
M. in 1896 and F.R.C.S. in 1899.
Returning toS.A.,he became lecturer in
clinical surgery at Adelaide Uni. and con-
sulting surgeon at Adelaide Hospital. In
the last war he was chief surgeon of No.
3 A.G.H. in France, he is now chief sur-
geon at No. 7 A.G.H., Keswick, and
between' wars was A.A.M.C. Reserve
consulting surgeon. He has been presi-
dent of the Medical Board in S.A. since
1938.
Fellowship of the Australian Chemical
Institute has been conferred on three
N. chemists by the Council of the
Institute —A. K. Butler, manager of
B. Steelworks, Newcastle ; Professor
C. E. Fawsitt, retiring from the chair of
chemistry at Sydney Uni., and Dr. R. K.
Murphy, head of the Science Department
at the Sydney Tech.
Herewith Colonel G. G. L. (George)
Stening, as seen by Bill Prior at the 113th
A.G.H., where the colonel is now C. 0.,
after A.I.F. service from the beginning,
taking in the Middle East and New
Guinea. A Sydney High and Sydney Uni.
product (M. 8., 8.5., Sydney; F.R.C.S.,
Edinburgh), Stening was born on Febru-
ary 16, 1904, in the leafy N.S.W. town —
beg its pardon, cathedral city—of Graf-
ton, which has a way of fastening itself
on to its native-born for life ; one of the
Gs stands for Grafton, as does the G in
Earle Page’s baptismal handles. Of four
Stening brothers, S.E.L, (Sam), a surgeon-
lieutenant with the R.A.N.R., was with
H.M.A.S. Waterhen when she was sunk
in the Mediterranean, and with H.M.A.S.
Perth, sunk in Sunda Strait in the Java
Sea fight. He’s now p.o.w. in Japan. An-
other, M.J.L. (Malcolm), a surgeon-lieut.-
COL. G. G. L. STENING.
commander, R.A.N.R., served ip R.N.
hospitals in England and then with
H.M.A.S. Australia for two and a half
years. The other, W.S.L., is an A.I.F.
major (Middle East and New Guinea),
and is now at the 103rd A.G.H.
The mild-looking young gentleman in
Scorfield’s portrait is Guy Edward Warre
Harriott, who was born in July, 1914,
just as the last ingredients were being
added to the devil’s brew which made
World War I. One of the ingredients
which went into the making of Harriott
was some blood from a grandfather who
had fought with the Royal West Kents
in the Maori War and who had passed
on a military tradition. Educated at
Shore and Sydney University, young Guy
was one of the pioneer correspondents
who set out with the Sixth Division of
the A.l.F.’s first convoy to the Middle
East. He had six months with the Greek
Army—wounded, dispatches and deco-
rated by the Greeks. Then he saw the
Syrian campaign through with the A.I.F.
Seventh Division, went to Persia to look
over the Russian army of occupation,
spent a year with the Eighth Army, finish-
ing up with the Ninth Division at Ala-
mein. Then he had 12 months in Britain,
GUY HARRIOTT.
covered the Cairo and Tehran confer-
ences and came home —for the time being
—after going through the Saipan and
Guam occupation battles. He was one
of the first Australians to make a repu-
tation for himself as a war writer, and
is rated overseas far higher than in this
his own country. Some of his reporting
is among the best and most accurate
done in this war.
Retired from the M.L. Post Office, of
which he was director-general, J. G.
Young joined the department at the little
town of Wihton, in Southland, in 1902.
He saw active service on Gallipoli and
in France, starting as a sarge and return-
ing a captain. Since its inception in 1940
he’s been a member of the Tasman Air
Commission, and has had much to do
with Empire air mail services.
L. A. Hooke, appointed managing
director of Amalgamated Wireless, has
been with the company since it was incor-
porated in 1913. lie became g.m. in 1936.
The W.A. Government has selected
W. V. Fyfe, its Surveyor-General, for the
new post of Director of Land Settlement,
with soldier-settlement as his special care.
Like so many other Westerners, Fyfe
arrived from Victoria at an early age
and served in the First A.I.F, In 1938 he
went to Canberra hs chief administrative
officer of the National Insurance Commis-
sion, resigning to become Surveyor-
General. He had previously declined the
post of Administrator of the Northern
Territory. Among his various jobs has
been the chairmanship of the Pastoral
Appraisement Board. Licensed surveyor
and qualified accountant, his greatest
attribute, apart from his experience and
knowledge of pastoral and agricultural
problems, is his quiet, determined and
objective approach to the job in hand.
His new appointment has been well re-
ceived, notably by the R.S.L,
Squadron-Leader R. G. Foskeft, D.F.C.
-—the ending of whose fine war career
was mentioned on this page a month or
so back —has been posthumously awarded
the 0.8. E. “for outstanding service during
the recent reoccupation of Greece by
British forces.” His brother, Flying-
Officer B. W. Foskett, was killed when
the Halifax of which he was navigator
was shot down over Berlin last February.
Their folk live at Roseville, Sydney.
Assistant Judge Advocate-General of
the American Army in Australia, Briga-
dier-General E. H. Burt, who a month
or two back opened an American
war artists’ show in Melbourne, can
claim another connection with art. As
a young man in Paris he visited the
Louvre on a certain day in 1912 which
is likely to be long remembered at that
gallery of treasures. When he got back
to his hotel and opened an evening paper
he read of the theft of the Mona Liza
and a surprisingly accurate description of
himself as one of the persons the police
wanted.
V. G. Cole, an A.I.F. captain released
to become Australian Wool Board exten-
sion officer, graduated in veterinary
science at Sydney Uni. in 1936 and be-
came parasitologist tc the Maoriland
Department of Agriculture. Later, as
vet. to the Graziers’ Co-operative Shear-
ing Co., he travelled the N.S.W. sheep
country, gaining a great store of know-
ledge that will come •in handy in
his new job. He takes charge of the
Wool Board’s mobile unit carrying the
results of research to interested districts
in all States.
M. J. Hogan, chairman of stipendiary
stewards for S.A. Jockey Club (he learnt
his job in Sydney), had an unusual
tribute on retiring, from ill-health, after
long service. In addition to the usual
farewells, the jockeys got together, told
him he had been “like a father to them,”
and handed over a £25 purse for him to
buy his own present.
“R. 8.” farewells R.A.A.F, chaplains:
The sky-pilots with the R.A.A.F., a good
crowq, have taken their share in the knocks
, that seem inevitable with the flying men.
Gordon Woods was killed when the Guards’
Chapel, Wellington Barracks, London, was
wrecked by a robot bomb. The first padre at
8.A.G.5., Evans Head (N.S.W.), he will be
long remembered by the men who passed
through that station, many of whom he met
later in England. He was a good sportsman
and mixer, and .very keen on music. His air-
c^lo’r was beard several times over the
J8.8.C,
Hilford Easton joined the R.A.A.F. early in
the piece and became a sergeant. There was a
shortage of chaplains, and, being a parson, he
was pulled out for that job. Easton was killed
m a plane crash up North.
Jack Rundle saw service in the last war in
Mesopotamia, with the Devonshires, attached
1° the Bengali. He became a missionary
in Papua. The Jap invasion pushed him out
of there, but he returned—as an R.A.A.F. chap-
lain. He was killed in a car accident in the N.T.
They were all Methodist parsons from
N.S.W., and the Church and Australia are the
poorer for the passing of men of their quality.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, suddenly, at just under 60,
McGregor Reid, an outstanding figure in the
commercial world of S.A. He had been presi-
dent of the Australian Chambers of Commerce,
as well as of the local body and of the Tax-
payers’ Association. Companies competed for
him as a director;' and at the end he was
chairman of the Abattoirs Board, and on the
boards of Bank of Adelaide, Elder’s Trustee,
Onkaparinga Woollen, Wood Son and Co., and
the S.A. Brewing, Gas and Salt cos.
At Christchurch (M.L.), at 85, Henry Holland,
ex-M.P. and father of the Leader of the
Opposition in M.L.’s Parliament. A Yorkshire-
man, he was mayor of Christchurch for seven
years, and, entering Parliament in 1925 for
Christchurch North, was there 10 years before
retiring.
In Christchurch (M.L.), at 89, ex-M.L.
Supreme Court Judge Walter Stringer. “Ad-
mitted” in 1879, he became Crown Solicitor in
1893 and K.C. in 1907. He received a knight-
hood in 1928.
In Wellington (M.L.), at 83, William Hughes
Field, who held the Otaki seat in the M.L.
Parliament for 33 years before retiring in 1936.
A native of Wanganui, he practised law in
Wellington over a long term.
At Cremorne (Sydney), at 90, Henry M. L.
Pike, who practised in Sydney as a surveyor
in the ’eighties, and in 1891 went to Moree to
survey the town and stayed on there for 50
years. Possessor of a fine baritone voice,
he sang with the old Apollo .Club. He was
interested in trotting and racing generally.
Pike, J., and F. E. Pike, of Chatswood (Sydney),
are his brothers.
In Melbourne, Ernest William Greig, who
probably held the record for the amount of real
and personal estate handled by one individual.
He was probate clerk to Blake and Riggall,
Melbourne’s biggest legal firm, for 50 years,
and some of the estates handled by him exceed
a million.
In London, at 61, after a throat operation,
Malcolm McEachern, great basso and good
fellow, who hailed originally from Albury.
Concert-platform man and gramophone-co. and
broadcasting-station standby, he had a singing
part in Asche’s “Chu-Chin-Chow” and was
“Jetsam” of “Flotsam and Jetsam.” He
married a Sydney pianist, Hazel Doyle, and
toured Australia as a soloist with Melba.
In Glasgow, Nicholaas Dick Lammers van
Toorenburg, general rep. of K.P.M. (Royal
Packet Navigation Co.) in Australia, and for
many years connected with Dutch shipping here.
He lately went to Britain for discussions with
Netherlands Government officials.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Oxmead”: The “Foul Libel on The
King” article lifted from an Irish paper
and published by the Melbourne “Toc-
sin” in 1901, for which Findley was ex-
pelled from the Victorian Assembly, con-
tained no reference to Mrs. Langtry or
ice-cream (B. 17/1/’45). But there were
insinuations in it very much on a par
with the gibes directed at Mr. Pickwick
in the Eatanswill election when a
facetious crowd noted him kissing his
hand to Mrs. Pott, seated on a near-by
room. The “Tocsin,” by the way, wasn’t
the only Australian paper that published
the high-colored stuff. Two Westralian
Sunday sheets followed suit, and nobody
called their proprietors to account. But
Hugh Mahon, M.H.R., who had been
closely connected with one of them, was
asked by Barton, then Prime Minister, to
clear himself of any imputation of being
still connected with it, and did so.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: Like “Wodgil” (B.
10/1/’45), I only heard Deakin once (in
Adelaide). I was disappointed, both by the
manner and the matter of his discourse.
But then, I never had much time for
fellows of his trade. The only Parlia-
mentarian I can admire is Isaac Newton.
As a professor at Cambridge, the dis-
coverer of the law of gravity represented
the University in the House of Commons,
which he attended from 1688 to 1699. It
is recorded that he spoke but once in the
11 years and then only to ask a page to
close a window so that the member who
was elocuting shouldn’t catch cold.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Clement (B.
10/1/’45) was remarkably successful with
his forecasts, considering the very incom-
plete data with which he had to work.
It was he who paved the way for a better
and Australia-wide system of reports.
It was he also who pioneered the cycle
theory which Queenslander Inigo Jones
finds so valuable. Wragge had a habit
of christening the various cyclone distur-
bances he forecast. Of one he said “It is
likely to be very changeable, shifty and
uncertain, veering first to one direction
and then to another. I have named it
George Reid.”
* * * *
“D.R.”: Our colonel was of the old
school, and to him a smart-looking sentry
betokened an efficient unit. Therefore,
upon the regiment moving into a new
area the sudden appearance of a hand-
some pointed-roofed little construction
at barracks entrance caused no surprise.
One morning the Old Man, on his way to
a brigade conference, spoke harshly to
a sentry surprised at his post sitting on an
empty beercase placed in the sentry-box.
An immediate and swift return by the
Old Man to the orderly-room resulted in
a harassed adjutant having to tear him-
self away from his Applications for
Leave, Casualty Returns and Routine
Orders to put out an order for the sentry’s
box to be burnt at once. It was late in
the afternoon when the Old Man returned
from his conference, his naturally
apoplectic outlook on life probably accen-
tuated by having had to submit to the
will of an acid-tongued brigadier. An
awful sight met his eyes at the regimental
entrance. There before him, squatting
on the empty beercase, cigarette in mouth,
rifle between his knees and wearing the
vacant look common to dreaming sol-
diers, was our sentry, back on duty for
his second shift; and rising about him
in thin bluey wraiths was the smoke
from the still smouldering remains of
that handsome little structure the sentry-
box. No one has since dared to ask the
Old Bloke whether he has discovered the
difference between a sentry’s box and a
sentry-box.
* * *
“Hamer”: My refugee friend, proud
of his prowess in English, airs his mastery
whenever possible, A chess opponent
in a postponed match complained that
he had not put in an appearance.
Apparently there had been a misunder-
standing as to the date. My friend’s de-
fence was eloquent: “I to the City Chess
Club go downwards, and I vait and vait
until on me the spiders grow; but ze
other man he did not op-turn.” It was
decided that a man whose opponent did
not op-turn could not be held culpable.
* * * •
“Esseph”: Our household cherishes a
specimen of the imperishable army bis-
cuit which was sent home by a N.S.W.
lancer from the South African war 45
years ago. While in hospital he had
carved on it with a hammer and jack-
knife the following legend:
This biscuit is one of the five
Which every day keep me alive.
Though somewhat hard and rather dry,
We have to eat the stuff or die.
The biscuit is still intact, having with-
stood an attack by furniture borers that
has almost completely destroyed the box
that, with groundless fears, was made
for its protection.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”: I used to know the
skipper of a tramp steamer who every
midsummer made a point of call-
ing at Greymouth (M.L.). The thaw of
Alpine snow brings down torrents that
cause the Grey River to spume and fret.
With the melted snow come down
millions of pebbles, which are tossed
about in the rushing waters without a
chance of sinking until the flood has
lost itself in the ocean. People on vessels
moored to the wharves are kept awake
while the flood is on by the rattle of the
pebbles against the sides of the ships.
And that’s why my friend found a visit
to Greymouth profitable at that season.
I met him in Lyttelton about New Year
time, and he asked me to look through
the clear waters at the below-water por-
tion of the vessel. “Just out of dock?” I
guessed. “Just out of the Grey,” he
grinned. “The flood pebbles scraped the
bottom of the old tub as clean as a
whistle. I won’t have to pay docking fees
for six months at least.”
* ■* * *
“Nipper’; I draw attention to a re-
markable circumstance. Lord Nuffield’s
photograph has appeared in the Sydney
press on a score of occasions, but not
in one instance is he depicted in the act
of signing or handing over a cheque for
thousands for charity!
* * * ♦
“Zake”: One of the keenest frustrators
of the smuggler (B. 17/1/’45) was Fred
Bragg, for many years Chief Boarding
Inspector for the Customs, whose
stocky, bowler-hatted figure was a
familiar sight on the Sydney waterfront.
On one occasion, running his gimlet eye
over a ship just arrived from Asia,
he noticed a woman, a first-class pas-
senger, apparently on the verge of
motherhood, whom he remembered as
having been in a similar condition on a
previous trip. There was no toddler with
her. When approached and asked a few
questions the woman drew herself up with
icy dignity and allied herself with names
which were among the most respected in
Melbourne. Bragg knew that if his
reckoning was astray he’d be deep in hot
water, but he ordered a search, which was
conducted by one of the department’s
matrons. His hunch was right—hun-
dreds of yards of purest silk had been
wound around a slim woman. During
another fine-toothcomb search of a ship
from Eastern waters a Chinese member of
the crew was found in his bunk in the
fo’c’sle with a leg in splints. On being
ordered to turn over he spoke in calm
pidgin: “Me bleakee leg big typhoon
China Sea. Doctor say stop one placee
all time. No savee turnce over,” Turn
he did, propelled by gentle hands, but
when the bandages started to unwind he
gave a wild kick, scattering tins of opium.
Then, dashing up the companionway* be-
fore he could be grabbed, Bung Lung
dived overboard with his splints still
dangling, and swam with such resolute
purpose that he escaped.
J|: * * *
“Jihoe”: Just how or why two-up be-
came “swye” to the forces is obscure.
My theory is that the change occurred
in the M.E., and that the correct title is
“swahi.” About the same time came
the innovation of the third coin,
which itself requires some explanation.
Nobody seems to know whether the third
penny was introduced owing to the preva-
lence of “double-headers” or to speed up
the winnings and losings by securing a
decision at every throw.
* * * *
“Mountaineer”: A new sort of marks-
man has developed since the advent of
the motor-car in the paper-delivery busi-
ness. In the old days the sheet used to be
flicked over the fence by a cyclist; now
an open car comes down the road at a
steady 20 m.p.h. and an expert shoots
from it rolled newspapers with the speed
and precision of a practised grenade-
thrower. Up here at Katoomba (N.S.W.)
there’s one who can put the paper into
your ready hand from 40ft. away. I’m
thinking of matching him against one I
know in a Sydney suburb. He’s a champion
in his own right, for be there the smallest
puddle of water on the front lawn he can
be relied upon to drop the paper into
it at a range of from 30 to 50ft.
♦ * * *
“Adelaide”: South Australia has de-
veloped a legal drama out of a bush
tragedy. In April, 1943, a boy of under
16 in a mustering party took offence at
being ordered to cook, and walked out
of the camp. In December a body pre-
sumed to be his was found at a water-
hole and buried. Later the identity was
queried. An S.M. sent to far-north Ood-
nadatta to hold an inquest ordered the
body to be exhumed and sent to Adel-
aide for examination at the Uni., where
Prof. Goldby said “Undoubtedly white,
and probably about 15.” The coroner
remarked that the youth was “ignorant
and petulant” and clearly headed for
trouble, and that failure to send a black-
boy after him showed “reprehensible in-
difference”; but “there was no indictable
offence by anybody.”
* * * *
“Avon”: N.Z. Alpine Club had its
Christmas brightened by a sort of jubilee
—it was on December 25, 1894, that three
Maorilanders, T. C. Fyfe, G. Graham
and J. Clarke, made the first ascent of
Mount Cook. They had been stimulated
to the attempt by the news that a leading
member of the English Alpine Club, E. A.
Fitzgerald, was on the way to the colony,
with the notable Swiss guide Zurbriggen
in his entourage, to conquer the Cloud-
piercer. Fitzgerald was huffed to dis-
cover he had been anticipated, and by
dam’ colonials at that, and left Cook
alone, but Zurbriggen gave it a burl and
made a solo ascent by a route of his own.
Dozens of Alpinists from all lands have
climbed over the Southern Alps since then,
but only two of the visitors seem to be
held in high esteem by the guides—Zur-
briggen and Freda de Faur. At latest
advices the three indigenous pioneers,
Fyfe, Graham and Clarke, were hale and
hearty.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: Was there ever a city
with so many bewildering duplications
and misapplications of street-names as
occur in Sydney? There are two Ocean-
streets, which are tram-stops on the same
route, one in Woollahra and the other
at Bondi. Anyone looking for Quay-
street would expect to find it near Cir-
cular Quay, but it is near the Central
railway station. Botany-street is nowhere
near Botany —it is at Bondi Junction.
The three View-streets I know haven’t a
vestige of a view. Beach-roads are to be
found in suburbs far removed from any
existing beach. I know a man who,
seeking a house in Bent-street, Padding-
ton, passed it twice because it was per-
fectly straight. The name as used in Syd-
ney sometimes perpetuates the memory
of some civic worthy, sometimes refers
to the shape of the street. It goes without
saying that Bellevue Gardens is a thor-
oughfare three miles or more < slant
from Bellevue Hill.
JUST A MAN.
“Widely-travelled woman, office worker, good
appearance, wishes to meet man, view matrimony.”
— “8. M. Herald” advt.
These mating calls and wedlock invitations,
To which I sometimes casually turn,
Mostly embody certain stipulations
For benefit of all they may concern.
Some indispensable considerations,
One’s always apt to find, are tacked astern.
But here is one at least that no one can
Fault on that score: She only wants a man.
His age, his creed, his physical and mental
Equipment, what he gets his living by,
Are immaterial and incidental
If he’s a fancy for the proffered tie,
The conjugal (and possibly parental)
Role that he’s coyly asked to occupy.
Mere maleness furnishes a full and free
Credential of eligibility.
His height and habits merit no attention;
Whether he’s one of the inhabitants
Of town or country isn’t worth a mention,
As long as he’s a human being in pants.
She doesn’t even touch on the abstention
(So oft insisted on) from stimulants
As being essential for whatever mate
She chooses for the matrimonial state.
A travelled dame and one of good appearance
She turns to print to make it understood
She’s. definitely ready for a clearance
From what you’d call the port of spinster-
hood ;
And one may hint a hope her perseverance
May be rewarded, as it surely should,
If only for the point that needs no stress,
Its quite unusual reasonableness.
One pictures hosts of lonely souls reacting
To this extremely comprehensive call,
A rush of candidates for the contracting
Of bonds attesting the connubial thrall.
Note, though exact, she’s not a bit exacting,
The sheer antithesis of “choosy.” All
She seeks to end her loneliness and plan
A joint existence with is—just a man!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
MORE WORK FOR JUDGES.
“In Victoria last year 1916 divorce petitions were
lodged—an easy record.”
It’s never contested that marriages soar
In the troubled conditions created by war;
And statistics suggest that it’s equally true
There’s a bit of a boom in dissolving them, too,
Giving judges and juries more yacker to do
In loosing the bond; and unlocking the gyves
Of querulous husbands and petulant wives.
Between Venus and Mars, we have often been
.told,
Some subtle ielation existed of old,
The Slayer who ruled in Olympus above
And the Lady whose symbol is found in the
dove,
The Spirit of War and the Goddess of Love.
It started when Paris, that broth of a boy,
Audaciously bolted with Helen to Troy.
In the spring—well, you need no quotation to
learn
Whither juvenile fancies are likely to turn.
And whether it’s springtime or winter so hoar,
Whether autumn’s behind us or summer’s
before,
One season’s the same as another in war
For men or for maidens who’re wishful to link.
Yet the boom in divorce may “give you to
think.”
There’s a moral perhaps which therein may be
placed
Regarding the perils of clicking in haste.
Still and all, it’s as plain, when all’s done and
all’s said,
As the nose on your face or the eyes in your
bead , , .
That the bigger the tally of couples who wed,
The more of each sex to the altar who’re
witched.
The more will be, sooner £r later, unhitched.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“Craiser”: One of the younger pro-
fessors at an Australian university has’a
reputation for being somewhat' less con-
ventional than most of his colleagues.
There had been complaints of poor
attendances at lectures, and the council
sent this prof, an instruction that the
tom of calling the roll of students must
be rigidly observed. The prof, ignored
the instruction and received another,
which he likewise disregarded. Sum*
moned before the professorial board he
agreed to abide by its wishes. The
next day he brought into the lecture-
room a huge volume, which he slowly
“Faulty brakes, me foo t—I haven't got any."
opened. Solemnly clearing his throat, he
said ; ' “I will now call the roll. Abbott? "
“Present” “Anderson?” “Present.”
“Brown?” “Present.” “Johnson?” There
was no answer. “Johnson?” Still' no
answer. “Johnson, Johnson?” exclaimed
the professor with a tender note of
appeal in his voice. There was still no
answer. The professor’s eyebrows rose.
“Hasn’t Mr. Johnson any friends?” he
queried.
* » * *
“Wodgil”: In the last war Flora
Sandes, sister of Johnny Sandes, whom
all old journalists remember for his work
in prose and "verse on the Melbourne
“Argus” (he was “Oriel”) and Sydney
“Telegraph,” was known as “the Serbian
Joan of Arc.” In this war the
“Joan of Arc” title has been vul-
garised by the flapper press, having
been given for “glammer” and leg-
appeal. Miss Sandes fought. She
carried a rifle in the terrible Serbian
retreat to the Adriatic, was severely
wounded, promoted sergeant and given a
commission, also the Karageorg Medal
with Swords, the Serbian equivalent of
the V.C. It transpires that when the Ger-
mans swooped down on Belgrade in this
war they found her there, and she was
still there when they left. They im-
prisoned her for a time, but, according to
a Reuter report from Belgrade published
in the “Christian Science Monitor,” re-
leased her under surveillance,’' permitting
her "“to give" English lessons' to rhaiiitain
her incapacitated husband and heTSelf.”
Whether the Nazis thought her too old to
be capable of injuring them or whether
they were moved by the deep respect in
which she is held by the Serb nation the
record doesn’t state. Flora Sandes Visited
Sydney in 1920 or thereabouts to see her
brbther, who died a few years ago ; Ms
Sort is a Sydney doctor. Since there is
a vogue for Australian verse, it might- be
worth some publisher’s while to issue a
collection of her brohter’s “Oriel” writ-
ings. At least one of his Boer War bal-
lads, with the refrain “The rooibdtje sing-
ing on the Toad,” is familiar to South
African veterans remaining in these parts.
« * * *
“Pip” on the difficulties of the soldier
writing hortie;
The home folk are sometimes inclined to
criticise the 'Soldier’s’lack of news. But -writing
from-camp is not easy. Extremes of heat and
cold, or lain pouring through leaky canvas,
are normal- irritations. So, too, are pencils
that fall to pieces in the wet or crumble in
the heat, and stamps arid envelopes that gum
themselves: automatically. Guns, small arms,
new methods in warfare-and instructions are the
world around which the soldier’s life is built,
but these subjects are taboo. His- new-type
weapon can make him the most pleased man in
the- army,- but ire must not even hint at his
pet’s- existence. Places he has come from or is
going to, the big move that has been antici-
pated for days—these are all-important, but must
be forgotten when writing home. Even the
weather can be Ccnsorable. The nicely-equipped
writing, rooms provided by the welfare organisa-
tions make letter-writing a pleasure, but there
are no such luxuries up forward, where even a
smoky hurricane lamp is counted a boon.
“Strict Veg,”: Oswald Barnett, the out-
spoken member of the Victorian Hous-
ing Commission who rattled civic authori-
ties in pre-war dayswithT/?e Unsuspected
Slums and The Making <of a Criminal, is
finding that planning a better world has
its problems. Wishing to fit religion
into his schemes of model suburbs, he
approached the heads of a dozen or
so denominations (there are over 100
in Victoria) with a suggestion that they
should co-operate in using the church
buildings in rotation, thus obviating the
necessity for building suburbs largely
composed of churches, Ndt one agreed
to the proposal. Barnett recalls
that aii attempt was made at Fisher-
men’s Bend' to accommodate three re-
ligious bodies in ■ one building, but the
parsons all wanted to hold their services
at the same time.
* * * *
“D.A.”; Duststorms, soil erosion,
bushfires, etc.? Remarks of a world-
renowned scientist on this country:
We experienced this day the sirocco-like
wind of Australia, which comes from the
parched deserts of the interior. Clouds of
dust were travelling in every direction; and
the wind felt as if it had passed over a fire.
I afterwards heard that the thermometer
out-of-doors had stood at 119, and in a
closed room at 96.... I was told at Sydney
not to form-too bad an opinion of Aus-
tralia by judging of the country from the
roadside, nor too. good a one from
Bathurst; in this latter respect I did not
feel myself in the least danger of being
prejudiced.... The next day we passed
through large tracts of country in flames,
volumes of smoke sweeping across the road
The climate is splendid, and perfectly
healthy; but to my mind its charms are
lost by the uninviting aspect of the country
.... I am not aware that the tone of
society has assumed any peculiar character;
but with such habits [the native-born open-
ing up new areas with the company, only
of convicts], and without intellectual pur-
suit's, it can hardly fail to deteriorate,...
Nothing but rather sharp necessity "would
compel me to emigrate to Australia. -<
The writer was Charles Darwin, then 27 ;
the dates- in-Ths l :v^'aiyH Jahhafy- -20-22*
years ago. Ah • ou'tsp'oken
yOufig he even- ventured into com-
mercial prophecy: “There-is-a not-very-
dislarit point beyond - which the land-
carriage of wool will not repay the ex-
pense of shearing and tending sheep.”
As'our Government-Owned railways and
transport regulations did not even- exist
in those days, that was rather a rash
prophecy to make. Returning to Eng-
land in the Beagle, Darwin married his
cousin in 1839- and settled down to re-
search and writing." t ~ :c * v *'" -
' . * 1»1 . •ff-S * *
“Ercy”: Films are served , lip with
trimriiihgs in Tel-Aviv. There’s a- bar in
the foyer, -everyone can smoke during
screenings, and a multiplicity of nationali-
ties is catered for'.' The talkies are in
English (mostly from Hollywood), but
dialogue in French is superimposed on the
film at the foot of the frame. Three
srtvaller screen's supplerhent the'main one.
One carries dialogue in Arabic script,
another in Hebrew and a third in Ger-
man. Ohe of our felloes discovered
“C’est vrai” as the French rendering of
“0.K.,” and in no time “Say vray” was
on the lipS Of every man in our Unit.
*. ‘ * * *
“Jesmond”: Dickens in Bleak House
paints ah unforgettable picture of'-the
death’of an aH soak through- spontaneous
combustion, and claims -precedents'in the
annals of medical jurisprudence. Now
there is a report from England of a 60-
year-old women- breathing-fire from her
nostrils, evidently authentic, for the
medico who treated her wrote to the
“Lancet” -about lb. The-story is that two
sisters decided to have an after-breakfast
cigarettes One lit her own and held the
match across the table to her sister,
whereupon there was an explosion and
two small blue flames came out of the
sister’s nose and burned for a second or
two. The fire-breathing lady, was treated
for burned nostrils and lips. Alcohol
wasn’t her trouble. The explanation given
was that gases, including methane and
hydrogen, are produced by the body;
these must have leaked into the stomach
and were being expelled through the nose
just as the sister was lighting her fag.
* * * *
‘‘Melbn”; Victoria has had a useful
lesson in bushfire-prevention by modern
methods. A fire-control officer had been
informed that local authorities were
having difficulty in locating a fire in the
rough bush country near the Eildon Dam.
He set out by ’plane, and in a few
minutes had ' located the potential
menace. Advice was sent to the local
Forestry officer with instructions as to
the route to follow to reach the outbreak,
and it was quelled before much damage
was done.
* * * *
“Sixenate”: A Judge having remarked
that a document “seemed to have pounce
rubbed cm it,” a young legal gent, sur-
prised ’Sonah by admitting he’d never
met pounce. Pounce, once an essential
of every law office (J. B. Dailey used the
word as a pen-name when writing pars,
on legal matters), was the powdered nesin
that had to be rubbed into sheets of
parchment before it Would take the pen
of the engrossing clerk—greasy patches
had to be pounced over many times. But
parchments have almost disappeared,
along with the ancient idea (for which
legal traditionalists fought hard for
several decades) that deeds must be hand-
engrossed, not typed. The term “inden-
ture” sprang from the early habit of en-
grossing or binding a deed in duplicate on
two halves of a broad sheet of parch-
ment ; the parchment was then cut in two
with a curvy line (the indenture), the
fitting together of the two halves being a
proof of authenticity. Even when the
practice waned and engrossing was done
on separate sheets, the “indentured” edge
was retained. Old-fashioned Judges tooic
a lot of convincing that good typing on
tough paper is sufficiently durable to re-
place a qUill-inscribed sheepskin.
**♦ ' *
“Si Anu”: There certainly are anoma-
lies in war-time taxation. A man picked
up an ancient piece "of carving in Asia
and sold it to a gallery. If'he had carved
it himself he would have had to pay at
least half the amount in taxation. But
because some long-dead and forgotten
craftsman carved the thing 1200 years
ago he pays nothing. The worship of the
antique is all the fashion these days, and
this is another of the ways in which it
works out to the detriment of the living
artist.
* * * •
“Lao-dah”: Fsee that Professor Chau,
Director of the Chinese Ministry of Infor-
mation in Australia, wants to take Wil-
liam Dobell to China on the ground that
“ Don't worry about it. Bill — they'll come back for it.”
his work would appeal to the art-lovers
of the Flowery Kingdom that was-and
that Dobell would be a missioner of
goodwill. Possibly he is right, China no
longer being a-stranger to the modern
movements r but there was a previous
occasion when an Occidental encouraged
to introduce modern portraiture to China
didn’t produce goodwill. The old Empress
Dowager who tyrannised Over the country
before the Manchu downfall invited an
American woman painter to the For-
bidden City. This artist painted a faith-
ful impressionistic portrait of the Empress,
but one half of the face was shown in
shadow. In traditional Chinese art there
are no shadows, and to the Empress s
Manchu eyes she had been painted as
half Chinese and half degress. It took the
persuasion of the whole Court to dis-
suade the terrible old lady from having
the artist’s head chopped off.
* * * *
“Bo” : I hand the world’s cham-
pionship to the compilers of film exhibi-
tors’ press sheets, known to the trade as
“dope” or “blurb.” One of the-usual
four pages about-the super-coloSSal film
to be shown is invariably devoted to
“publicity,” consisting mostly of ready-
cut criticisms, done by the studios’ pub-
licity hounds, in which ‘ trernertdouses,
magnificents, stupendduses and' scihtillat-
ings jostle for rail position in the Guff
Stakes." Another page ; is devoted to
“exploitation.” Exhibitors ate urged to
“tie up” with local dealers. If the film
title is, say, “He Gave Her Hell,” the
obvious snap “line”' will be “But when
Brian makes love to Katherine it’s just
Heaven!” Then there are suggestions
for “teasers” for the local press. ‘“He
Gave Her Hell’—but you’ll burn up with
laughter at the antics of Bri and Kathy.’
This is supposed to be snappy stuff. But
the choice bit is the “official billing”—
a system, apparently, of credits. One I
came by (titles and players altered)’read:
Stoopendous Productions .. - • 40 p.c.
Pictures Inc. presents .. • • ' „
Katherine Simper .. •- 'OO ~
Brian Twerp .. • - • • 'OO „
'■*■■■■ Hi- ! .
He Gave Her Hell .. ■ • • • 'OO „
with ; A
Milton Wiggles, Joe Plunker .. 40 „
Directed by Anton Ziggelwicz .. 25 „
Screen play by Ted Borocci and Sig
Buhwold.. . . - r I ”
Based on the novel by T. Hardy _ „
Noting Hollywood’s assessment of the
value of its authors and scrip-writers, I
don’t wonder that they retaliate with so
much tripe.
* * * *
“F.D.R.P.” (Johannesburg) takes to a
compatriot:
Allow me to express the delight of all
British South Africans on hearing --from
“M’FundishT (B. 30/8/’44) that- they -are
known as “Vaalpens.” When the Voorfrekkers
made their epic trek a" great iftahy of J them
settled down in what we know today as the
Orange Free State. Others pushed on to theVaal
River. They crossed if; hence their' name of
Transvaalers. Some of them returned to the
Orange Free State- and were promptly dubbed
Vaalpens Vaal means muddy and pens
means' belly. The Dutch people--of the Trans-
vaal and Orange Free State were known in the
war 6f 1899-1902 as Boers, which means farmers.
After the peace of Vereeniging in May, 1902,
they were called Dutchmen, and their original
language “taal,” meaning tongue, afterwards be-
came known as Afrikaans. ‘ The people were then
called Afrikaners-. - The- country 4s. a bi-lingnal
one, and a. .sort of patois; combining English
and Afrikaans, is spoken at the Diocesan Col-
lege, and more * especially at that" hotbed ;of
republicans Stellenbosdv University. -For in-
stance, at a Rugby match between the South
African College of Capetown and Stellenbosch
University, deadly rivals, when a three-quarter
was making a break : for the line an enthusiastic
Stellenbosch supporter, jumping up and down
in excitement, shouted “Kom, kom, kerel, moenis
vooloer a golden opportunity.” (“Come, come,
young many do hot overlook a' golden oppor-
tunity.”) A South African of British 'parentage
and named, say;"John James Jones, -is called
a South-African, whilst anyone named Smuts,
Krige, - Swancpoel, Du Toit, Van dcr Merw© or
the like is known as an Afrikaner. So are
descendants of Calvinistic ministers from Scot-
land' who bear names' such as Johannes' Ghris-
toffel Fraser and Jan Macgregor. ' C.'.;u


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: Harry had reached 30
and had never been more than five miles
away from home, an isolated spot near
the Neimur Bridge on the Wakool. For
his birthday his father presented him
with a tenner and. lent him the
sulky and horse to drive down to Mildura
to spend a week or so with an uncle.
Harry went by easy stages, camping on
the roadside, spending little, evidently en-
joying the trip as an adventure. But
when he got to Euston he found that
floodwaters had blocked the Euston-
Mildura road, and the only way he
could get through was to take the
river steamer. Feeling like Marco Polo,
Chris. Columbus and the Burke and Wills
party all rolled into one, Harry stabled
the horse, shedded the sulky and boarded
the Marion. Three days later the old
boat tied up at Mildura wharf and Harry
stepped ashore to meet his uncle. They
shook, then Harry threw his head back
and said “By cripes, this sailing life is
all right, but it’s good to get back on dry
land again an’ stretch your legs.” And
with a slightly exaggerated roll he walked
off the wharf. That’s how he got the
name “Sailor.”
* * * *
“Rob Roy”: Mick Burns, of Jundah
Plains (Q.), will hotly refute the old belief
that lightning won’t strike twice in the
same place. Half an hour after his Here-
ford bull was struck near a fence Mick
and one of the hands were inspecting the
scene when another flash struck Mick,
stripping his clothes off him and knock-
ing him unconscious. The station hand
escaped with his hair singed and Ms boot
heels torn off.
* * * »
“Patrol Leader”; One morning, near
Turtle Head Island (N.Q.), a pair of 2ft.-
long sucking-fish (Echeneis naucrates)
attached themselves to the side of the
patrol-boat just below the water-line, and
for nearly three months we carried them
about. Only when scraps of meat or
fish were thrown overboard did the non-
paying passengers stir; then they would
promptly detach themselves, swallow the
food and return leisurely to their accus-
tomed place. Vegetable peelings, scraps
of bread, etc., did not interest them.
Christened “Darby” and “Joan” by the
boys, the suckers stayed with us even in
the roughest seas. Their clinging powers
were astonishing: several attempts were
made by swimmers to dislodge the fish,
but it was found impossible to remove a
fish merely by pulling < it. The sucker
clings with the aid of a large, lamellated
sucking-disc on the upper surface of the
head, the disc containing anything from
two dozen to three dozen lamellae, each
formed of a single spine split lengthwise
and bent laterally to right and left. So
securely does the disc fasten to any sur-
face that the fish can only be dislodged
by being pushed forwards ; this depresses
the lamellae and so destroys the vacuum
by means of which the disc adheres. E.
naucrates is of ancient and ungallant
repute. After Actium Mark Antony’s
failure to take his trireme to Cleopatra’s
aid was attributed by the discomfited
general to a huge sucking-fish, which,
attaching itself to the rudder, brought
his war-galley to a standstill. The suckers
are poor swimmers and are useless for
the table. “Darby” and “Joan” accom-
panied us up and down the western coast
of Cape York Peninsula, leaving us only
when the schooner was berthed for over-
haul.
* * * *
“Gill Guy”; The Inland Flying Doctor
service, begun as a life-saving measure,
now has a finger on every pulse, sick
or otherwise. The pedal wireless set is
the stealer of the heroics. Installed for
the purpose of calling the doctor for
advice or more direct assistance to some
sufferer hundreds of miles out in the bush.
“Almost human, aren't they ?”
the sound waves of the “dust bowl” are
in constant agitation with inquiries as to
where the mail coach was last heard of,
when do you think it is going to rain,
has our butter melted on the way up, can
anybody tell where Bill So-and-so was
last seen returning with plant horses after
trucking those cattle a fortnight ago, etc.
More and more subscribers are putting in
sets and linking up with the Flying
Doctor Base at the several centres, and
the operator at these stations is a busy
man, with part of one ear open for any
medical calls and the rest of his atten-
tion forcibly directed to steering, switch-
ing and controlling inter-membership
calls and talks, receiving and transmitting
telegrams for all on the network and jot-
ting down endless memos, of commis-
sions it is fervently hoped he can find
time to attend to. From a highly essen-
tial medical service is developed in addi-
tion a super-general-purposes boon and
blessing.
* * * *
“Wang”: The lecturer had described
with a wealth of dreary detail an inci-
dent he had witnessed on his travels. “It
was,” he concluded, “a most moving
scene, the like of which I never expect
to witness again.” “Don’t yer?” came a
strident and bored voice from the rear
of the little country-town hall. “Well,
jest give it out that yer turnin’ it on at
the pub on the other side of the street.
Yer’ll witness an even more movin’ scene
then, I bet.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: The balcony of the
Albion Hotel at Cootamundra (N.S.W.)
overhangs two streets, a fact which
bothered Mat the night we stayed there,
for the only beds available were in two
rooms at the extreme ends from each
other. W® had to be up at 4 a.m. to
pick up a motor-truck that was going to
Coolac, where we knew of a contract,
and the lorry driver said he’d give us a
lift if we were on time, but wouldn’t wait
for us. “Righto,” said Mat; “if you wake
first come round an’ call me, an’ I’ll do
the same if I wake first.” Mat awoke
first, jumped out and ran along the bal-
cony in tire dark, but turned the corner
too sharply and blundered into a room.
There was a soprano scream, and he got
windy and shot through another door,
along a passage and around a corner. By
this time half the pub was awake and
chasing him. He charged through
another door and found himself on a
balcony, and ran to where he thought my
room was. But it was the back balcony,
and the room he burst into, yelling my
name, was a bathroom in which some
cove was having a shower. The cove let
out a yell and Mat retreated, to be fallen
upon by a team of boarders. After we’d
sorted ourselves out he said, grinning,
“Well, we ought t’ catch that truck.”
“Get back t’ bed, y’ chump,” I said ; “it’s
only half-past eleven.”
* * * #
“The 0.D.”; Yes, it’s me. This time
I want to know what “Ned” (B.
10/1 / ’45) meant by saying that bag-
sewer was happy only when “his gullet
was satisfied with the gargle that runs in
the Castlereagh”? Except at flood times,
I’ve never seen anything in -the blasted
river except sand and an odd bagman,
new to the district, hopefully looking for
surface water,
* * *
“Plane Creek”; We North Queens-
landers have always been proud of our
sensitive plant (Minosa pudica) _and de-
lighted to point.it out to southern tourists.
The low-growing prickly plant, with its
pale-pink spherical blossoms and queer
habit of closing its leaves and drooping
sadly on being touched, never failed to
attract attention. Now we are watching
with dismay the rapid spread of its vigor-
ous ally, the giant sensitive plant, through
the North. Minosa invisa, the new intro-
duction, is a canefield pest. In some
Innisfail canefields this spring it was so
thick and tall that cutters had difficulty
finding the cane. Then they couldn’t cut
it in 3ie ordinary way, but had to don
rubber gloves and hand-pull the cane
from the thorny thickets. The new-
comer is a shrubby plant and has no
value as a stock feed, unlike the dwarf
variety, which contains 25 p.c. crude pro-
tein when young and is relished by cattle.
* * * *
“Rip”: Bill Buckley, one of the tallest
men in the First A.I.F. (he was a First
Battalioner), recently passed into the
silence. It was on a 1916-winter morning
that the battalion for the umpteenth time
moved out from billets at around 3 o’clock
on the trek to the forward area. As we
trudged drowsily along in the murk there
was no sound except the rhythmic beat
of marching feet. Suddenly a light ap-
peared on a hill about a quarter of a mile
away. “What’s that?” queried a new re-
inforcement ; “a street light ahead?”
“No,” replied one of the “babbling
brooks,” a former shearers’ cook,from
Dubbo ; “that’s Bill Buckley of A com-
pany lighting a cigarette!”
* * * *
“Harap”: An experiment in fish cul-
ture which should be of interest to Aus-
tralia is being carried out by Edinburgh
University staff at Loch Craiglin, Argyll,
Scotland. In 1941. the loch, which has
an area of about 18 acres and a depth of
15ft., was roughly dammed off from the
sea and 6001 b. of super-phosphate and
12001 b. of ammonium nitrate added to its
waters in an attempt to stimulate marine
growth. Within a few months plankton
had increased from 1600 to 8000 units per
cub. mm., and 21,000 year-old flounder
were then liberated. Regular observa-
tions have shown that the fish are grow-
ing rapidly, even during the winter, when
normally there should be no increase in
size; and the latest figures of results ob-
tained up to April of last year reveal
that the fish have completed five-six years’
normal growth in less than two years.
* * * *
“Fancar”: When thanking us for some
family photographs, our English grandma
wrote congratulating us on keeping up
the family tradition of big flower gardens.
As the photos were all backyard snaps
taken in drought-time, we were puzzled
till we turned up our own copies. Then we
realised that the übiquitous horehound,
with its round clusters of seed capsules,
borne in long, spikes and bleached a deep
cream, and its velvety-green-and-grey
leaves with the afternoon sunlight on
them, had created the illusion of a sea of
garden flowers in the backyard. But the
tenacious seed capsules of ripening hore-
hound is the farm woman’s bane,
especially when it grows near clothes-
lines.
* * * *
“Bennie”: Old Harrigan had put the
new hand on to do a bit of fencing. A
few minutes later he saw the hand come
out of the kitchen carrying a chair, which
he took and placed near the fence line.
Harrigan came hurrying up. “What the
hell’s that for?” he asked. “You can’t
put up a fence while you’re sittin’ down.”
The hand looked at him coldly. “I didn't
intend to try,” he said sharply, “but I’ve
got to think the job out first.”
# ♦ * #
“Maleesh”: Mac, a bearded Wes-
tralian with a strongly developed sense
of humor, was a p.o.w. with me in Ger-
many. We had odds and ends of every
nationality in our camp, with the possible
exception of Eskimos. One day (it was
before the Red Cross got into its stride)
a young French sous-officier, probably
attracted by Mac’s fantastic beard,
accosted him as he was morosely inspect-
ing the ghost of a bumper. The French-
man’s polite inquiry in perfect English
about Mac’s health provoked a flood of
gibberish. Bewildered, the Frenchman
offered him a cigarette. Then Mac
explained in weird pidgin English,
interladen with exotic words like
Cootamundra, Tumbarumba and Cooka-
midgeree, that he was a real Aus-
tralian, and spoke only a little English.
Every day after that the fascinated sous-
officier brought over a few friends to see
the vrai Australian savage, and, with
the aid of interpreters who spoke his par-
ticular brand of Arunta, Mac told them
wild tales about his 12 native wives and
head-hunting in the wilds of Woolloomoo-
loo, meanwhile partaking freely of their
cigarettes. One night the sous-officier
came in in time to hear Mac conversing
loudly in colloquial English. After that
all Mac received from a Frenchman was
a venom-laden look.
« . * * *
“Julia Creek”: At the stock camp a
frisky young mare bounded off before
the abo. was properly in the saddle;
striking at the bit and rolling awkwardly,
she rooted away. Twenty yards from the
camp was a steep creek bank with a
sheer drop of 12 or 15 feet, over which
the mare rooted. We rushed over expect-
ing to find a dead blackboy. The mare
had broken her neck;"the “boy” was
looking at her. He said “If that one
Judy not bin buck over that creek bank
she been throw me!”
* * * *
“Aratta”; “I’m workin’ for Dawkins
when the long dry spell broke,” said
“Bogan” Bob. “About dinner-time the
day after the rain stopped the new hand
came rushin’ inter the kitchen in a great
stew. ‘Hi! ■ Mister Dawkins,’ he yelps,
excited. ‘What do y’ think? There s a
military camp in that paddick of yours on
the other side of the hill, on the flat down
be the creek. They’ve got a couple of
hundred bell-tents erected, I’- Ole
Dawkins didn’t wait for any more. He
tore out, roarin’ about the blankers usin’
his paddick without permission an’
ruinin’ the young grass springin’ up, an’
scooted like a rabbit up the hill, me an
the new hand close behind him. When
we got to the top ole Dawkins turned on
the hand, mad as a snake. ‘Damn an’
blast yer,’ he yelled, ‘what sorter game
d’ yer think yer playin’?, Draggin’ a man
all the way up here jist to look at a lot
of damned toadstools!’ Yair, that s the
sorta country the Wimmera is when it
rains! ”
THE PARCEL.
To-day Joe got a parcel in his bleak Silesian
camp.
He thinks of those who sent it.... and he hears
the steady tramp
Of the cattle drifting slowly down to Ada-
minaby,
Where Dad will leave the mare tied up beneath
the twisted tree;
He sees the grey mare drowsing there, tail
swishing at the flies,
And Dad will have a “beer-and-dash” —Joe
smiles and then he sighs.
For all the time a devil’s rhyme keeps capering
in his brain,
“Oh, life is vain, for wasted years can never
come again.”
A bitter blast sweeps through the room, and
through the barrack door
The snow flies in and turns to mud upon the
concrete floor. .
The savage wind from Poland paints pale blue
on every face .
With icy, brutal fingers; then it howls a wicked
grace . ,
To the evil-smelling cabbage, with water, swedes
and sand,
That Joe is eating slowly with his spoon in one
good hand.
Despite his choice, the devil’s voice repeats
again, again,
“Oh, you are young, but four long years have
passed away in vain.”
The searchlights sweep the darkness, and a
grim, forbidding cowl
Of clpuds chokes brightness from the moon;
and through the shadows prowl
The wolfish dogs that roam at night, whose
task it is to guard . ....
The narrow strips of frozen snow in each still
prison yard. , . , , ,
The room is lined with every kind of rank
humanity, ~ .
And bunks in row on horrid row stretch to
infinity: . ,
Joe lies and dreams, but when if seems he sees
Talbingo Hill,
The devil mockingly remarks ‘Were here in
Deutschland still.”
“The vilest deeds, like poison weeds, bloom well
in prison air,”
True bitter words, but may not here grow
other deeds as fair?
Like Dick’s, who shared his tiny crust of
bread upon the train .
That dragged them through the Balkans in then-
misery and pain. . . _ .
Some wisdom, too, and what is more, the final
saving grace ... ,
Of humor that restores the soul in every hellish
pris-
on one fair day he’d yawn and say My years
in Germany? . , , A . ,
They’ve vanished like the winter clouds at Ada-
minaby.”
N.S.W.
8B.


“Martin Place”: This is, I hope, the
last word on the wild-bull-stopping con-
troversy. Picking up a handful of ordi-
nary pebbles and throwing them at an
infuriated bull would be about as effi-
cacious as a Forde threat. You have to
use a special sort of rare multi-colored
pebbles that are found only on the Great
Barrier Reef, When thrown the bull be-
comes cross-eyed endeavoring to sight
their actual direction, and then you have
him at your mercy. You should then un-
screw both horns, tie his tail to the nearest
fence and leave him bellowing for mercy.
Incidentally, I have left a few hundred
of these special pebbles, which were sold
to me by a beachcomber some years ago.
I am prepared to sacrifice them for a
mere ten shillings per dozen to any bull-
peltefs interested.
“Sundowner”: Well, if “Eureka” (B.
27/12/’44) does fail to nonpluss a charg-
ing bull by his pebble-throwing trick, he
can secure safety by lying perfectly flat
on the ground. Barney’s horns can’t
reach sufficiently low to become a
menace, and, curiously enough, he hasn’t
developed the elephantine technique of
trampling on his victim.
* ♦ *
“Cubberlie”: The goldfinches of
“Narrin’s” nipperhood (B. 27/12/’44)
must have migrated to Kangaroo Island,
though we don’t see them during the
winter. In the spring the bright flocks are
seen, but they split up for nesting. Though
they frequently nest in fruit-trees, they do
very little, damage (to our trees, anyway),
and no doubt pay handsomely for their
dessert. Spinebills are other spring
comers. The handsome crescent honey-
eater shouts his cheerful greeting in
Christmas week. Our kids don’t collect
birds’ eggs, but there’s not a nest in the
vicinity that they don’t know and watch.
They had a win when they accidentally
found and handled eggs in a thrush’s
nest. I had known thrushes desert their
nests for less, but this one stuck to the
job, and duly brought forth her brood.
H= * * £
“Moyhu”: I’ve seen fellows, when
trapping for a snake, lay the two jaws
flat the same as for a rabbit, and they’ve
met with no success. Usually, as the
jaws come together, the snake is tossed
harmlessly aloft. Best method is to block
all holes but one, outside which the trap
should be set with the free jaw at right
angles to the other. Joe 'must then pass
through one jaw and over the other, rest-
ing enough belly-weight on the outer edge
of the plate to do . the trick.
“Hey, Jim, there's a snake in y'r bunk!"
“Aw, leave him there till I get back tonight — he'll keep the possie Warm."
“Wang”: Australian town names com-
prise some oddities, with Come-by-Chauce
and Dead Finish leading , a good field,
But for quaintness American small towns
can give us a run for our money. In
North Carolina there is a place called
“Faith” ; in Kansas is “Hope,” and in
Montana stands “Charity.” And one can
follow the track of some fervid evan-
gelist through the country when you
strike “Onward” in Indiana, “Christian”
in West Virginia and “Soldier” in lowa.
Nebraska holds “Elsie,” “Rose” and
“Beatrice” ; Alabama has “Blanche” and
“Catherine”; Louisiana has ’’Lucy”;
“Luella” is in Georgia and “Pearl” in
Illinois. For “Comfort” you go to North
Carolina; if you want a “Happy” place
Texas will provide it, and Montana will
give you “Content.” If you’re feeling
thirsty you can get “Coffee” in Georgia
and “Tea” in South Dakota, and if you
wish it you can find a “Straw” in Minne-
sota to make things last longer. Further-
more, if in Montana you strike an “Acci-
dent,” you slip along to North Carolina
and you’ll find there a “Hospital” wait-
ing for you. If you wish to visit—after
the war —many of the capital cities of
Europe you’ll find them all nice and
handy for you in U.S.A. —London, Paris,
Berlin, Rome, Moscow, Vienna, Athens
and Warsaw. But the daddy of the lot
is to be found in Kentucky; it’s “0.K.”
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: Don’t know about
white nags being susceptible to various
maladies (B. 20/12/’44), but I’ve had
plenty of trouble with white-legged nags.
Sunburn, greasy-heel, sand-crack and
various other complaints constantly
handicap such horses. Vets, say all the
trouble arises from lack of pigment in the
white legs. In my wet N.Q. locality the
hooves of white-legged horses become so
brittle they cannot be shod or worked.
* * * *
“Esk D,”: George was in the bar
when a stranger called and asked for
directions to an old mining show on the
creek. The old chap dipped his finger
in a pool of beer on the counter. “Now,”
he said, “you take the road out like this
a coupla miles to that dead fly—that’s
Mullins’s place. Then y’ turn t’ the left
here where there’s a gate. Don’t go
in there, but the next one, which ain’t a
gate at all but a coupla wires to keep
bush cattle out. There’s three gullies
there ; foller the one with water f’r a
mile t’ the left branch —here’s the spur
y’ go up, an’ the show’s right there over
the saddle on the other fall.” After the
stranger had bought him a drink and
gone George turned to Riley behind the
bar. “Oughter get a quid to take him
there when he lobs back,” he said.
“Mullins shifted that fence opening a
coupla weeks ago.”
* * sis *
“Bad Australian”: The peculiar depres-
sions known as “crab-holes” found in
parts of N.S.W. and Victoria are not, as
popularly supposed, the work of crusta-
ceans, The fact that yabbies are often
found in these depressions appears to
have suggested the misnomer. The surface
of crab-hole country consists of shallow
depressions, separated by correspondingly
low ridges. These depressions are filled
with water in the rainy season, but they
are quite dry by midsummer, partly
through evaporation and partly by ab-
sorption in the lower strata. Crab-holes
are confined to the stiff clay soils of the
moister areas, and it has been suggested
that they are due to shrinkage and ex-
pansion of the clays with the alternate
flooding rains of the wet season and
long-continued drought. I have seen evi-
dence in support of this theory
in the construction of a road over
crab-hole country in n.-e. Victoria. The
roadway consisted of the clay scooped
from each side topped with a few inches
of fine gravel. After a few months de-
pressions began to develop in the surface
of the road, each of those depressions
corresponding to the position of one of
the crab-holes. The surface of the road
was made good at each of these points,
but the .subsidence appeared again in the
following spring.
* * * *
“Sans Changer”: It was a mystery to
the whole camp why Rowdy never
seemed as thirsty as the other dogs in
camp. Then one day his boss, after re-
“Would you mind making the lions roar? It's the only thing that ever
quietens 'em here."
filling the water-bag at a boundary rider’s
hut, placed the bag on the ground while
he was attending to the cut-off gear on
the mill. From his vantage point he saw
Rowdy come up and press one paw
steadily down on top of the bag, thereby
forcing a stream of water between the
cork and porcelain mouthpiece into his
wide-open jaws. Later we saw him do the
same trick by standing on his hind legs
and leaning against the bag as it hung
suspended round the horse’s neck or even
against a tree-trunk in camp. He
never once touched the water-bag with
his mouth.
* * * *
“Bo”: Hawkins, a naturally garrulous
man, teamed up with Milham for a post-
splitting contract. Milham was a stringy,
ginger fellow who could work steadily
for 14 hours without turning a hair while
the mercury was climbing up to 110, but
his conversation was limited to an occa-
sional “Good-oh” or a grunted “uh-huh!”
After several weeks away from other
human habitation, Hawkins was a seeth-
ing cauldron of suppressed verbiage. One
Sunday Hawkins had just finished making
a damper when Milham wandered in
from a roam around and casually said
“There’s a prospector along past the red
outcrop.” With a cry of gladness Hawkins
grabbed his old felt and made off. An
hour later he came on the prospector, a
dynamic old fellow with matted whiskers
and a cold, pale eye. The phrase-starved
Hawkins opened up. Just as he reached
the 500-word mark —which was within
three minutes—his host, who up to that
time had uttered two words, “Name's
Devlin,” reached for an axe leaning
against a tree, said “Blokes who mag a
lot are agents of the devil,” went purple
around the gills and started swinging
Kelly—so thoroughly that Hawkins
bolted. When he got back to camp Mil-
ham, who was sitting meditating on a
stump, looked up, “Back, I see,” he
drawled in the longest speech Hawkins
had ever heard him make. “Does old
Devlin still shove an axe at coves ’oo
like to mag?”
He * * *
“Moyhu”: When I inhabited Timor
(Vic.) in the town’s gold-winning days
the Echidna Race was one of the high-
lights of the New Year sports meeting.
The straight course, 15ft. to 20ft,
wide, 20 yards long and bordered
with sheet-iron, terminated on an
antbed. The surface was stone-
paved to discourage prema-
ture burrowing. Intending con-
testants were fed a ration of slop
food without ants for three weeks
prior to the race, and the animals’
appetite for their natural fodder
was further stimulated by housing
them near a large antbed. The
creatures were marked by dipping
in a harmless, colored fluid and the prize
went to the owner of the first echidna to
disappear into the antheap.
* * * *
“Zake”: The little, apologetic mam
entered the store-cwm-post office at Bun-
gumbi. As the door swung open a bell
fastened to it tinkled. Five minutes later
a woman opened the door leading to the
private dwelling, put her head in the
shop and asked what he He
would like some flour and “Ain’t
no flour till Friday,” she said, and closed
the door. Another five minutes of knock-
ing on the tallowwood counter, and the
door opened again and a head came out.
“You still here?” the woman said ; “I
told y’ there’s no flour till the train gets
in from Grasstree Crick Friday.” Again
the door banged. The little man, think-
ing of his bruised knuckles, went out
the door, spent five minutes looking at
the few fly-specked tins in the window,
and entered again to the tintinnabulation
of the bell. Ten minutes passed, and the
woman, holding a bundle of folded
sheets, put her head again through the
door. This time the little man got in
first. “I don’t want any flour,” he said,
“I’m after jam.” The woman came into
the shop. “I wish customers’d make up
their minds,” she remarked to a-festoon
of billycans, “before they come in. What
sort d’ y’ want?”
* * * *
“Aspros”: I saw a platypus struggle
from the reeds of a pool of the Gara
River, out from Armidale (N.S.W.), and
give its last despairing gasp on dry land.
It was covered from bill to tail with
hundreds of black, bulbous ticks, which
were thickest in the folds of the legs.
How the parasites survived the frequent
prolonged immersions is puzzling.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Some of the arrivals
by Westralia’s First Fleet had to learn
the selection of edible fish the hard
way. Landed on the desolate Fre-
mantle beach, where they had ex-
pected to find a land flowing with
milk and honey, many, faced with semi-
starvation, not to mention turned
to the sea in search of sustenance. Fish
were plentiful, and none more so than
the “blowey.” Bags of “bloweys” were
readily caught; and dreadful was the
travail that followed a feast on the
little fellows. But even then there were
newcomers who failed to recognise the
relationship between the small “blowey’’
and a giant of the species running to a
couple of pounds. These toadies, skinned,
promised a fine feast, but two deaths
resulted. Even the gulls refuse the giant
“blowey,” though it may be skinned and
cut to a choice-seeming tit-bit.
* * * #
“W.P.T.”: Witnessed an unusual acci-
dent to a teamster at Rock Flat; near
Cooma (N.S.W.). With rain threatening,
he climbed on to his loaded wagon to
fasten the tarpaulin over the load. A
sudden gust of wind caught the tarpaulin
and blew it over him and rolled him and
the tarpaulin off the wagon. Before he
could regain his feet another and fiercer
gust tightened the tarpaulin around him
and sent him whirling over the plain,
* * * *
“Bar-din”: “T.J.” was a stock-owner
of the old school; apart from race-
horses and whisky, he took very little in-
terest in anything but stock. When his
son Tom was still of early school age
“T.J.” did his best to inculcate right
ideas, being particularly desirous of his
heir developing an “eye for country.” On
his periodical returns from college Tom
was always put through his paces. Years
passed, and Tom joined the A.I.F. When
he came back from overseas his-father
met him at the station. “T.J.” shook
hands and asked him where he had been
last. “Egypt,” said Tom. “Oh, yes,’
said his sire, “and did you notice what
the feed’s like there now?”
THE MOWER.
The mower drones in the pasture,
The knife, running sweet through the comb,
Is shearing the stems of the sweet-scented grasses;
And paring down lumps
And decomposed bones
And pieces of wire in the pasture.
The pitman hums in the pasture,
The drives are all geared to the hum,
The knife sings a song through the sward as it
passes;
And bumps over stumps
And chips upon stones
And pieces of wire in the pasture.
The mower sings in the pasture,
Rejoiced at the harvest-time come,
The knife glibly slips through the succulent
masses;
And moans as it drones
Over stumps and old bones
Over lumps and odd stones
And pieces of wire in the pasture.
VICTORIA.
GWAN.


mv*
ir
'W
Don’t wait years for a sewerage system. Plan your new home NOW. No matter
where you wish to build the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR will provide all the
conveniences of city sewerage.
The HYGETA DISSOL VENATOR is a COMPLETELY SELF-CONTAINED sanitary
system. All sewage material is chemically transformed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. Any handyman can instal. No water supply necessary. Spare
yourself the embarrassments of emptying... .flies... .unwholesome odors and the
dangers of disease. Thousands are installed in homes, offices, hospitals throughout
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVEN ATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygeia. Sanitary 00. Pty., Ltd.,
30. Bridge St., Sydney.' ’Phorue, 81052.
Kindly forward, me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOK.
Name
Address
♦ 8TW.2.44
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY,’ MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
fd
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
cra»”i»rbiowSr BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Australia, 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Flock Improvement.
“Jumbuck”: If merino wool is to defy
synthetics and remain supreme there’ll
have to be a reform in breeding by those
small graziers who apparently introduce
rams not suitable for their peculiar local
conditions. Climate and pasture must
always be the guiding influence as to the
most successful type to cultivate, but
while growers follow fashion instead of
concentrating on types that conform to
environment there can only be one
result.
Each district has its own particular
type and that type can only be improved
by culling the ewes and using rams true
to type and adaptable to the conditions
of the district. Introduction of wrong-
type rams —no matter how good they
may be—can bring only expensive and
unsatisfactory results. Many make the
mistake of going to extremes in ram
selection in an effort to attain either a
finer or stronger fibre in the flock. In-
troduction of a fresh strain must be
gradual ; if it isn’t, uniformity of the flock
can never be attained. Many times has
a reasonably good flock been ruined by
the introduction of rams both unsuitable
and unadaptable for local conditions.
You can’t produce super-fine merino
wool in country not adaptable to its pro-
duction, but you can improve the wool
by sticking to the best type of sheep for
the district and by judicious culling and
wise selection. Chopping and changing
about with ram types is bad management.
Yet not a few graziers have paid high
prices for rams apt to lower instead of
raise the standard of their flocks. In
any flock a ram of adaptability is worth
a dozen high-priced rams that conform
neither to environment nor type.
Itch Mite.
“Bungaree”; The McMaster Labora-
tory h is established that the trouble has
been known in various parts of Australia
for 20 years. The actual cause, however,
has only recently been discovered, be-
cause the mite is too small to be seen
with the naked eye. There is little doubt
that sheep lice were blamed for the out-
ward appearance of the fleece, caused by
rubbing, though on opening the fleece
the usual indications of lice were absent.
Spread of the mite can be controlled
by regular annual dipping in an arsenical
powder dip, but this wifi not eradicate it.
That means all sheep should be dipped as
soon as possible after shearing in lime-
sulphur dip. They should be given time,
however, for shearing cuts to heal before
dipping.
Make up a dip by adding five gallons
of lime-sulphur concentrate to every
100 gallons of water. The lime-sulphur
“Better go an git the kid's airgun, Ma, in case he surfaces !”
should be guaranteed to contain not less
than 21 p.c. of polysulphide sulphur.
To facilitate wettipg in swim dips, 6 fl. oz.
of Agral L or Wetsit should be added
to each 100 gallons of water. When re-
plenishing the dip 3 fl. oz. of the wetting
agent to each 100 gallons should be suffi-
cient. In shower dips add 6 fl. oz.
of the wetting agent to each 100 gallons
of water in the first sump-full only.
Lime-sulphur soon loses its strength,
and when a dip has been filled it should
not be held over several days without
additions to keep it up to strength. Suc-
cess depends entirely on thorough wetting
pf the skin, for it is there that the mites
are —not in the wool. Sheep should, there-
fore, be examined in the draining pen to
make sure that wetting is thorough. This
dip will have no effect on ticks or lice.
For them infested sheep must be put
through an arsenical dip in addition to
the lime-sulphur. This should be done at
the usual time, four to six weeks after
shearing.
Erosion in the Cane.
“Plane Creek”: Erosion needs watch-
ing in Queensland cane areas (B. 6/9/’44).
Although a lot of cane land is flattish
and rather impervious to water erosion,
cultivated soils in the Childers and South
Johnstone have been spoiled by serious
erosion. Loss of top soil hits sugarcane
very badly, for it is thus robbed of a
great deal of much-needed nitrogen.
Loams lacking in humus seem to move
off quickest when the rains find ’em un-
protected. Clays erode less speedily, while
“sands” and light soils lap up a great
deal of water without moving. But they
travel downhill like greased lightning on
becoming saturated.
Checking erosion by water depends on
making the water soak in after hitting the
ground, or op causing it. to run off with-
out carrying much valuable surface soil
with it. Deep ploughing and grubbing,
by opening up the sub-soil, enables the
land to absorb more moisture. During
the wet season fallow cane paddocks
should be put under a green-manure crop
to prevent gullying, or sheet erosion.
When the cowpeas are ploughed under
after the rains they enrich the land with
plant foods and humus. Contour-plough
erodable slopes.,
Ratoon paddocks can be saved from
much erosion if the trash is left, after
harvesting. If the cane was burned before
harvest leave the cane-tops on the
ground. Trash ratooning does away with
cultivation of ratoons, helps to prevent
weed growth and stops flowing water
washing away the surface soil. But it
always pays to grow only hardy, strong-
ratooning canes. Many cane varieties
will not succeed when ratooned without
inter-row cultivation.
Remember, too, that drains and water-
furrows can onty function as safeguards
when kept clean and open. Vegetation
along the banks of streams that run
parallel with canefields shouldn’t be dis-
turbed, but lantana growths or rubbish
deposits that tend to block up water
channels should be cleaned up. Shallow,
silted stream beds need deepening to pre-
vent overflow.
600 Miles of Trees
“Farmer Bill”: That N.S.W. Main
Roads Board idea (B. 10/1 / ’45) that the
great post-war road from Goondiwindi
to.Tocumwal should be embedded in a
shelter belt of trees one mile wide em-
bodies a notion to split the great strip
into two, each 40 chains wide. On the
western side would be Callitris glauca
pines planted in mass formation, to
defeat the erosive action of the westerly
winds, and the east would again be
divided into two 15-chains-wide belts
with a 10-chain roadway between.
Main trees for this second belt would
be eucalypts and acacias, the latter to
provide tan bark and fuel. Eucalypts
for the northern end of the belt could
include Pilliga, Bimble and yellow box,
bloodwoods, ironbarks and Carbeen;
those for the southern portion, sugar
and red river gum, Mugga, ironbark and
Westralian species. Some sections of
this second belt may be planted with
trees for fodder and farm timbers.
The Forestry Department’s idea is to
plant 40 square miles of trees per annum
and to complete the belt within 15 years.
For the annual planting from 20cwt. to
30cwt. of seed or from 9,450,000 to
16.750.000 plants would be needed.
Mobile nurseries with a capacity of
500.000 plants—equal to about one mile
of planting—may be established each
mile. Planting and after-care would pro-
vide permanent work for about 1000
men for 15 to 20 years.
There should be something joyful to
Australians in contemplating the depart-
ments concerned as they juggle with this
monster conception. Whatever else it
does, it proves that in the dim corridors
and hidden offices of the great Sydney
departments there are dreams walking
about.
Hints for the Farm.
“Jumbuck”: You can’t be too careful
with empty sheep, especially those that
have been trucked long distances and
been without food for several days. Any
plant or dry fodder containing the
slightest toxic content is apt to have
harmful effects, particularly if the hungry
sheep are allowed to gorge themselves.
If poison doesn’t account for some of
them bloat will. If not empty it takes
a good dose of poison bush or weed to
knock sheep over.
“Myrrhee”: Water the horse before
feeding. If fed and then watered some of
the undigested food may be washed into
the intestines, causing gas and possibly
colic. It is safe to water a horse when
heated, provided he is not exhausted. If
he is let him settle down before receiving
water and feed.
“Flay"’': Sweet potatoes are ready for
digging when the sap on an open cut
dries white, rather than a greenish black.
Most satisfactory method is hand-digging
with hoe or fork. If large areas are to
be ploughed out for stock attach a disc
coulter to the ordinary single-furrow
mouldboard plough. Use care. Tubers
bruise easily.
“Portergaff”: Summer is the time for
cleansing stables and outhouses. Run
the broom over walls and remove dust
from shelves and ledges. Apply a coat
of whitewash. Paint feed-boxes and
drinking troughs with hot water and
chloride of lime ; place in the sun to
dry. Greasy floors and dairy utensils
are best scoured with a strong solution
of washing soda.
“Bennie”: Shell-less or soft-shelled
eggs will immediately suggest that the
hens are receiving far too much stimu-
lating food, and the quantity must be re-
duced at once.
“Hux”: In Victoria they prolong the
life of wattles and render them more use-
ful and ornamental by an annual pruning
after flowering.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
The Next Meeting.
(From the “United States News.")
The next meeting of the Big Three is
expected to be the most important con-
ference in recent world history. This
meeting is to decide the fate of Ger-
many, the details of a new world orga-
nisation, the relationship of Russia to
the Japanese war and the whole question
of postwar spheres of influence. There-
fore an understanding of the viewpoints
and methods of the three key leaders of
the world takes on a special importance.
Stalin retains a deeply-rooted sus-
picion of the outside world. This sus-
picion, and a fear for the security of
post-war Russia, dominate his attitudes
and his acts. There has been more than
a hint that he is wondering whether
Roosevelt and Churchill are trying to
erect a world organisation that would
put Russia at a disadvantage or leave
the Soviet Union on an insecure basis.
Churchill is more determined than
ever that a strong British Empire shall
emerge from the war. Churchill is
steeped in the tradition of balance of
power as the stabilising influence in the
world. Also, like Stalin, he fears that
his country will be in a vulnerable posi-
tion after the war unless alliances are
cultivated in Western Europe.
Roosevelt is anxious to use the vast
new power of his country, both military
and economic, to ensure a stable world.
He would use this power to underwrite
a strong peace. The President can
assume a more detached position where
the details of the European settlement
are concerned and use that position to
reconcile the divergent viewpoints of
Great Britain and Russia,
The sort of world that comes out of
the war depends greatly on whether this
little group of men can agree.
Stalin is 65, but is in robust health.
He would be considered an excel-
lent insurance risk for five or more
years longer. Roosevelt is 62, and there
is no reason to believe he will not sur-
vive the four years in office that lie
ahead of him. But his term in power
ends then. Churchill, at 70, is not so
well as formerly. No one doubts that
he will weather the remaining months of
the war. But whether he can withstand
the hard work and heavy responsibilities
of his office for long after that is uncer-
tain. There also are the uncertainties of
a postwar election in Britain.
All this points directly to the conclu-
sion that the Big Three must move
rather rapidly if they are to finish the
tasks they have laid out for themselves.
In De Gaulle’s France.
('Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Demaree Bess.)
At the end of last August General de
Gaulle returned in triumph to Paris —
extravagantly welcomed and exuberantly
hailed as the undisputed leader of liber-
ated France. With him, a smoothly work-
ing political machine which he had organ-
ised during his years abroad, and an am-
bitious programme of planned economy
and social reforms.
But General de Gaulle had not been
home more than a few days before he
discovered that French politics, as prac-
tised in France, is very different from
French politics as planned in exile. He
was besieged by the 20-odd political
groups organised inside France, all ex-
pecting to be represented in his Govern-
ment.
At his return General de Gaulle was
leader by default, simply because no com-
parable statesman emerged tp rival him
in public favor. He has learned that to
maintain his position he needs the back-
ing of a curious hodgepodge of diverse
and contradictory elements: communists
and Catholics, thrifty peasants and city-
bred Labor politicians, deferential mil-
lionaires and importunate paupers. To-
day the Government in Paris represents
so many groups of such diverse motives
and objectives that it is by no means cer-
tain how much of De Gaulle’s own pro-
gramme will survive.
For example, one of De Gaulle’s first
moves was to institute a widespread
purge. Every day for many weeks the
French newspapers carried lists of per-
sons arrested for political reasons—
former Government officials and bankers
and industrialists, editors and authors and
actors, politicians and policemen. The
papers published only the most prominent
names; the arrests actually averaged 500
per day in the first weeks, and totalled
thousands. Concentration camps near
Paris and in other cities were soon over-
flowing, and others had to be created.
The vast extent of this purge naturally
aroused grave uneasiness, not only among
Frenchmen with guilty consciences but
also among the substantial middle-class
folk, who dislike anything that smacks
of dictatorship. But the purge was soon
limited and regularised by popular
demand, and that pressure for its restric-
tion came from those supporters of Gen-
eral de Gaulle who had never become
emigres, but remained in France all
through the German occupation.
One day, when the purge was at its
height, I talked with a French friend, a
doctor who was an officer in the resist-
ance movement in Paris,
When I mentioned the arrests to him
he replied: “Yes, there are too many of
them. About one hundred Frenchmen
deserve to be shot for their dealings with
the Germans. Another thousand deserve
long terms of imprisonment As for the
others, they were trying to Keep alive dur-
ing those four years, just as we all were.
Frenchmen who lived abroad came back
here with preconceived notions about so-
called collaboration, notions which are
now being altered. It was easy in New
York or London to be openly defiant of
the Germans, and it was tempting for the
emigres to be self-righteous when they
first returned home. But as they talk with
those of us who stayed here they are
beginning to understand better what it
meant to live under German occupation.
The overwhelming majority of French-
men never left France, and their judg-
ments about who were and who were not
collaborators are beginning to prevail.”
My own observations confirm this view
of the purge. I lived for years in Japan
and Russia and Nazi Germany, and I
could see here that the French purge
never seriously imitated those of the
totalitarian regimes.
There still is difference of opinion here
in Paris concerning the guilt of some of
the Vichy leaders, including Petain and
even Laval.
The test which many Frenchmen apply
to the Vichy leaders is whether or not
they acted in good faith as French
patriots. And Petain and Laval contrived
to convince many Frenchmen that they
met this test.
The French communist newspaper
“L’Humanite” conducted a bitter cam-
paign which resulted in the arrest of Louis
Renault, the automobile manufacturer,
who subsequently died in a hospital, and
the confiscation of his plant. While the
campaign was being pressed I spent a
day at the Renault plant with some
American officers, Jean Renault, son of
the industrialist, and his executives gave
us their version of what happened to
them during the German occupation.
When the Germans occupied Paris,
they said, the company was confronted
with the choice of closing down, and thus
throwing 12,000 skilled workers out of
employment, or of manufacturing trans-
port vehicles for the German Army. The
Germans warned that if the Renault plant
closed down its workers would be drafted
for German factories. After consulting
with their workers, the Renault directors
said, they decided to keep the plant going.
Twice in the succeeding years the
Renault plant was heavily damaged by
British and American bombers, which re-
sulted in almost total stoppage of pro-
duction. Each time the Renault execu-
tives persuaded the Germans to supply
them with materials to rebuild the plant,
and to permit them to employ all their
own workers for several months on these
repairs. Thus the Germans actually got
less production from the plant than they
would have obtained if the plant had been
closed in the first place. Moreover, the
Germans helped to rebuild the plant, so
that it is now in good working condition.
I have been surprised to discover how
many ordinary people in France fear
Russia and communism. Some of them
have even urged me, as an American, to
use my influence to ensure that an Ameri-
can garrison will be retained in Paris for
a long time to protect French properties.
This fear is partly the result of pro-
longed German and Vichy propaganda,
but it derives chiefly from the average
Frenchman’s ingrained respect for
property —even now, when war is con-
suming vast areas of property through-
out the length and breadth of Europe.
Small property-holders are the chief bul-
warks against communism or any other
form of State control, and small property-
holders are more numerous in France
than in any other European country.
When 1 entered Paris with the first
American troops I was surprised to see
that every building was adorned with
identical French, American and British
flags. I assumed that the French people
had made and concealed these flags for
this day of liberation. But later I learned
that the propaganda branch of the Allied
armies had rushed these flags into Paris
and distributed them from trucks in
almost every street. They did not dis-
tribute flags of the third great Allied
Power—Soviet Russia.
Nevertheless, in working-class districts
the Russian hammer and sickle was soon
in evidence everywhere. These Russian
flags were home-made and comparatively
crude, but their display was spontaneous.
Can any significance be drawn from this?
Perhaps not, except that Anglo-American
propaganda was well organised outside
France, while Russian propaganda was
well organised inside France.
A fairer picture of French public
opinion would have appeared if Allied
propagandists had distributed Russian
flags along with those of Britain and
America, because the dynamic influence
of Russia is as apparent in France today
as it is in the whole of Europe. To ignore
this Russian influence is unrealistic, and
cannot lead to satisfactory results.
France has only a small army, a very
weak navy and practically no air force.
More than 2,000,000 of its most vigorous
men have spent years in Germany as
prisoners of war or as forced laborers.
France’s rate of population growth has
declined sharply during the past four
years, accentuating a tendency which
already existed before the war. Its rail-
ways, its ports and some of its cities have
been wrecked. Its currency has been so
Admiral William F. Halsey's
famous prediction about the end of
the Japanese war led the list of
optimistic “boners” but Gen. H.
H. Arnold has not been far be-
hind; he has “destroyed” most of
Germany’s economy many times,
and is now engaged in doing the
same thing for Japan. Gen, Doug-
las Mac Arthur’s communiques
speak for themselves; they have
often been prematurely and overly
optimistic. Gen. Dwight D. Eisen-
hower’s hopes of ending the Euro-
pean war in 1944 misled many
people, and even Gen. George C.
Marshall, in an article, wrote that
“before this statement is published”
(on Dec. 7) “hostilities might have
terminated in the European
theatre.” Such optimistic mistakes
of judgment are understandable,
and merely reflect one fact of the
American character. But they have
contributed to the. public oyer-
optimism. —Hanson W. Baldwin;
N.Y. “Times.”
inflated that bankers frankly admit they
have no idea what the paper franc is
really worth.
Nevertheless, France remains one of the
best-balanced countries in Europe. Its
natural resources are abundant, and the
French Government expects them to be
augmented by annexation of some Ger-
man territory. Its large peasant popula-
tion is industrious and frugal and mostly
owns its own land. Its luxury exports
are in demand all over the world. France
could quickly become a pleasant and
prosperous country again if Frenchmen
were content to leave the game of Great-
Power politics to these who are better
able to afford it, while they concentrated
their own energies upon restoring their
country’s shattered industry and economy.
But not one French political group has
appeared which proposes such limited
objectives. General de Gaulle seems to
reflect widespread popular feeling when
he demands the immediate restoration of
France to the ranks of the Great Powers
and calls for vast expenditures from this
now bankrupt country to rebuild its
army, navy and air force.
It is not surprising that General de
Gaulle, following the example of politi-
cians everywhere, seeks to divert his
people now with sparkling visions of
France’s future greatness and with
peppery criticisms of America and
Britain for not immediately including
France in their own highest councils and
arming the French more powerfully.
For De Gaulle’s own position is pre-
carious. While he was a self-appointed
leader in exile he had a personal political
creed called Gaullism and a personal
symbol—the Cross of Lorraine—which
many of his followers seemed to .consider
more important than the national flag of
France. Like the traditional military
hero astride a white horse, the general
rode home to political triumphs on the
basis of his record in the war.
But the Cross of Lorraiqe and De
Gaullism have begun to recede into the
background. The general saw that most
of the French people are very little
interested in these phenomena, while they
are very interested in the revival of
5 French republicanism, strongly nationalis-
tic in spirit and unmistakably capitalistic
in content.
General de Gaulle today no longer
suggests the conquering hero sitting on a
strong white horse. On the contrary, he
resembles a circus rider delicately perched
over several prancing horses intent upon
maintaining his own balance while con-
triving to hold the assorted horses in
line.
Replacing the Ruins.
(Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor”
article by Homer Metz.)
It is said authoritatively that Allied
aerial bombs alone have destroyed one
out of every four dwelling places in
Greater Germany, a nation of more than
70.000. population. In other words.
Allied bombs have smashed 17,500,000
homes.
Can you visualise 17,500,000 homes in
ruins? In the German blitzkreig of 1940
only 42 of Belgium’s 2671 cities, towns
and villages escaped damage from bombs,
artillery fire or flames.
A Boston contractor has estimated
that the construction of the average six-
room house represents at least 100 man
hours of labor. On this basis it will take
1.750.000. man hours to rebuild bomb-
destroyed homes in Germany alone.
What do 1,750,000,000 man hours
mean in understandable terms? Well, if
round figures are to be trusted, they repre-
sent approximately 66,000 men working
24 hours every day for 70 years.
And what of the cost in money? Here
we get into a realm where even a slide
rule won’t help. After World War I
Germany was called upon to pay a bill
for damages of $32,000,000,000. The
Russians say that the Nazis might owe
something around $500,000,000,000 by
the end of the war.
Corns, not Corns.
(From a N.Y. “Times” article by Brooks
Atkinson .)
To understand the nature of the
Chinese Corftmunist-Central Government
feud it is necessary to keep certain essen-
tial things in mind. In the first place, the
Chinese communists are not communists.
Although they began as followers of the
Russian system they abandoned their
sovietisation programme about eight years
ago, when they concluded that China was
not ready for socialism and would not be
for at least a half-century. They now
say that the chief mistakes that they made
in the past came from being too Leftist.
Their system now might be described as
agrarian or peasant democracy.
Since the peasants are not politically
developed, I suspect that their democracy
has a strong authoritarian direction to
educate the peasants, improve their
standard of living, increase production
and promote co-operation with the army
and the people’s militia in guerrilla war-
fare against the Japanese. Since the
communists lack capital, they accept
landlordism as a part of what they
describe as the “new democracy.” They
are actively seeking capital to build up
their small industries*
In the second place, they have, as far
as I have been able to discover, no politi-
cal or military connections with Russia.
Foreign Commissar Molotoff has specifi-
cally declared that the Chinese com-
munists are not communists and Russia
is not interested in them. All this is
hotly denied by the Central Govern-
ment, and, of course, it is difficult for a
foreigner to investigate. The propaganda
on both sides is staggering. But it is a
subject that I investigated for two years
as well as I could.
I have always regarded it as significant
that the Russian Embassy in Chungking
made a point of maintaining a neutral and
disinterested attitude toward the Chinese
communist liaison group there. What
Russia’s attitude may be in the future if
and when Russia joins the war against
Japan is a matter for speculation. But at
present the Chinese communists are not
a branch of Russian communism.
Nor is it correct to assume that the
Chinese communists want to take over
the Government of China now. 4 hey
lack the trained personnel for such a
colossal job of administration. They lack
experience in foreign relations. By work-
ing with a homogeneous population of
peasants their experience has been
limited. They want to be recognised as
a legal political party, and they would
like to participate now in a coalition Gov-
ernment organised and administered on a
democratic basis. They also are inclined
to think that the Generalissimo would
naturally become the leader of such a


THE WORLD FOLLOWS RRiTAiJVS LEAD,.
?"iaPßg
IS
ivv
•'Xn-<
<V
:- s •
asssT*
'-i'
->■
-Oi
>f7
r •■ • »
2^
§f-
>** *
E
r<s
6xX«
LLj*
fr
>'
?a^w
u&sa/
7**^.
o'U.h(ii
L;i../
--^SPIS
"■feSa
SS** *•-*«-
BT
JOSEPH
ASPDIN
of Leeds. Invented and
patented Portland Cement
in 1824. The perfected
cement in use to-day was
developed from this. Bri-
tish invention. Vast quan-
tities of cement were used
in the construction of the
Assouan Dam in Egypt,
a part of which is illus-
trated above.
PORTLAND CEMENT
A MONGST all the discoveries in history, Portland
Cement has probably had more “ monuments ” erected
to it than any other. Buildings and bridges, roads and
reservoirs, do permanent honour to the British discoverer
of this magic powder, this indispensable ingredient for
all concrete structures.
There is, however, a discovery of parallel importance in
the textile trade. Less than fifty years ago Courtaulds
initiated the rayon industry in England. Through their
enterprise Courtaulds have been instrumental in estab-
lishing a rayon industry of vast proportions, not in
England alone, but also in the United States, Canada
and other countries.
Courtaulds rayon yarns and the lovely fabrics made from
them, have done much to foster the love of beautiful
things and raise general standards of taste and comfort
everywhere. Unfortunately Courtaulds rayons are
scarce in war time, but peace will restore them, made
even more beautiful and serviceable through the research
and development which continue with unabated vigour.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World T)istributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry, England
A Partnership
of the whole
PEOPLE
REAL man strives to make his own
way in the world. He takes the
rough with the smooth. He guards his
family and his future by his own efforts
and by his own thrift, as did his fore-
fathers.
Without freedom, energy, enterprise
and thrift our forefathers would never
have made Australia into a nation, and
they would not have prospered as they
did.
The man who is free to prosper is free to provide
independence and protection for his family and him-
self. For generations, in good times and bad, mil-
lions of Australians have relied on Life Assurance for
independence and protection.
Life Assurance has grown into a great co-opera-
tive partnership of the whole people. Only through
this partnership can a man create an immediate
estate for himself out of what he earns.
It is Good Citizenship
to put Savings into
LIFE ASSURANCE
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
Government, and they would accept him
as a political but not as a military leader.
But their programme is a long-range
one ; they have their eyes on the future.
They do not regard themselves now as
ready to govern a China that by and
large does not want a communist Gov-
ernment. If they seem less eager now to
make a settlement with the Central Gov-
ernment it is because they feel stronger
all the time, while they believe that the
Central Government is getting weaker,
and they are making a simultaneous suc-
cess of harassing the Japanese and rais-
ing the standard of living of the peasants.
The purpose of current negotiations is
to unify China against the Japanese. Per-
haps the negotiations are already a year
too late. But the communists profess to
have a regular army of 474,000 men and
a semi-trained, haphazardly equipped
militia of 2,500,000, and they say that
the population of the areas that they con-
trol is 88,000,000, although the Central
Government denies all this. The com-
munists, under General Chu Teh, would
accept an American commander to co-
ordinate their army with the Central
Government’s armies. Although the im-
pediments to a truce or settlement are
enormous, China and the United Nations
would be greatly strengthened if some
working agreement could be arranged.
Internationale Resurrected.
(From N.Y. “Journal-American.”)
Under direct orders from Commissar
Earl Browder, the U.S. Communist party
whipped its controlled unions, its in-
numerable “fronts” and all other Red
organisations into line to support Stalin’s
followers leading the bloody revolts in
Athens.
At a special meeting at Manhattan
Centre Browder told several hundred
Red C. 1.0. and A.F.L. leaders as well as
other important key comrades to go all
out in demanding public support of the
communists in Greece, Belgium and
Italy.
This Red pressure, exerted on Labor,
Government and other fields where the
communists feel they can gain support,
was already evident in the form of emer-
gency mass meetings and “protests”
staged by the many Left Wing organi-
sations from coast to coast.
This evidence of the resurrection of
the Communist Internationale as a world
force for the carrying out of Russia’s
foreign policy became more obvious as
Communist party groups rapidly joined
the campaign.
Canadian, Mexican, Cuban and other
Red groups are expected to follow Brow-
der’s example and throw their entire
membership into the drive to gain sup-
port for communist revolts that may
increase throughout Europe.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Throughout liberated Europe, revolutionists
are fishing in troubled waters behind the Allied
lines —that is to say, behind Anglo-American
lines, because behind the Russian lines order
is maintained, or else. And in almost every
instance local communists are spearheading the
unrest. If, in line with the Atlantic Charter,
Moscow were to pass the word that the first job
is to lick Germany and Japan and to attend
to domestic politics afterward, the belief is
widespread that the danger behind Gen.' Eisen-
hower would vanish overnight and Chiang Kai-
shek’s difficulties would be vastly reduced. —
Washington correspondent N.Y “World-Tele-
gram.”
* * * *
Mr. Ickes having said that in 1932 40 p.c.
of the newspapers supported Franklin D. Roose-
velt; that thereafter the ratio steadily declined,
being 36 p.c. in 1936, 23 p.c. in 1940, less than
18 p.c. in 1944, Professor Raymond Moley in
a syndicated article, replied: “Very well, Mr.
Ickes, let us put down some other figures be-
sides yours. In 1932 572,091 people were on
the Administration payroll; in 1936, 824,259;
in 1940, 976,831; in 1944, something under
3,000,000, or about F.D.R.’s majority. If
these figures are broken down by States it will
probably be shown, after all of them are in,
that the F.D.R. majorities in some cases about
equal the number of Federal employees.”— N.Y.
“Sun.”
* *
Unless all the Great Powers —not just one or
two —honor their pledges the whole collective
peace proposition will fall. Even if Britain
and America maintain a model hands-off atti-
tude and Russia proceeds to organise Europe
to suit herself—which is what she is doing now —
U.S. soldiers will have died and U.S. billions
will have been spent merely to shift world domi-
nation from one totalitarian Power to another.
Few United Nations observers believe even a
Congressional majority, let alone a two-thirds
vote of the Senate, would bind the United States
to send it's armed forces to maintain an inter-
national status quo thus established. — N.Y.
“World-Telegram” Washington correspondent.
* * * *
Each of the new coalition Governments in
the liberated countries of Europe is facing a
crisis; Poland, Greece, Belgium, Italy, France,
Finland, Rumania, Holland. Whether we like
it or not, the United States is involved. We
have already intervened in some degree in the
domestic affairs of European nations. We
cannot escape responsibility. The military
leaders cannot tolerate chaos and civil war to
interfere with the job of defeating Germany.
And after the war ends it is the duty of the
United Nations to guarantee the free election
qf a democratic Government, not a dictatorship
imposed upon the people by terrorism. — Liston
M. Oak, in die U.S. Liberal-Labor organ the
“New Leader:”
* * # *
At one time Premier Stalin made some esti-
mates about Russia’s population. Later a
census was taken. The population fell far short
of the estimates. So the Government just
liquidated the census, takers. There is the
ultimate in Government planning. You make
your estimates, draw your charts, etc. Then
if the facts seem not to agree with the esti-
mates you just shoot the man that reports the
facts. This will soon teach people not to be
Tory reactionaries or interfere with the plans
of planners.—“ Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Joseph Grew, named Under-Secretary of
State, is finding that his views on post-war
treatment of Japan and the Japanese Emperor
are being misrepresented. Mr. Grew believes
that it is important to get Hirohito alive, as
the one individual who can direct Japanese
forces scattered all over the Pacific to lay down
their arms without waging a prolonged guerrilla
war after the main war ends. Mr. Grew does
not believe in a soft peace £pr Japan.—
“United States News.”
* * * *
Flying-bombs have damaged nearly as many
homes in Greater London as all the previous
blitzes combined. Britain’s post-war housing
problem grows apace as the flying-bomb
wreckage is added to that of early bombings.
—London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The French communists did so well in the re-
sistance movement that official recognition of
them was inevitable. Their aid is likewise
essential to getting on with the war. But the
fact remains that in the dying days of the Third
Republic they were interdicted for sabotaging
the war against Germany. Some of them com-
pounded their sins by deserting from the French
army. One of them was Maurice Thorez, secre-
tary-general of the Communist party and former
leader in the French Chamber, who has re-
turned to France almost as a conquering hero.
The welcome to him is an embarrassment to the
French Government in trying and punishing
the collaborationists. But the main embarrass-
ment stems from Thorez’s connections with
Moscow. There he fled when he deserted the
French army, and from there he returned when
France was liberated. It is a safe guess that
he will retain a direct pipeline to the Kremlin
and work for an orientation of French policy
toward Russia at the expense of France’s re-
lations with Britain. — -Washington “Post.”
* He * *
One basic consideration in dealing with Japan
is the need to avoid making the post-war era
in the Far East look like a “white man’s peace.”
To do so might estrange all the peoples of the
East from their friends in the Western world.
It has been proposed that the United Nations
therefore should follow China’s leadership in
post-war treatment of Japan. But it may be
that to do so would result in a more radical
treatment than some Western students of the
Japanese problem are prepared to endorse.—
“Christian Science Monitor. I'’ 1 '’
* * * *
If loans are to be made seriously as loans
really to be repaid Britain will be slow to
borrow; will need to think of her impaired
ability to repay. Russia will need to restrict
her purchases severely, will be able t'o buy no
more than $200,000,000 or $300,000,000 worth
of goods a year, if that. The problem is to
find a basis on which Russia can pay for what
she buys. France, Holland, Belgium, Sweden
can buy moderately. China will be a meagre
market owing to her low earning ability.
Latin America will be a very big temporary
market. Latin Americans have a big war-time
accumulation of dollars they will want to spend.
The chances are, however, that U.S. plans are
not to be based upon any very strict ideas
about repayment of loans. They will be re-
lated to the purpose of getting the world back
in operating shape again, to the purpose of
affording big markets for what will be an
immense U.S. ability to produce. Tariff re-
duction will be urged, but not pressed too
aggressively, as a means of opening American
markets more widely to foreign sellers. There
will be an effort to scrap most of the new
synthetic rubber industry. The trouble is that
nobody has figured out how to accept and dis-
tribute a great new increase in imports without
affecting American producers. Yet if U.S. balks
at liberal lending, if it balks at large imports,
the other countries have ways to work out of
the hole they are in. They can then go for
autarky, for import quotas, barter deals, ex-
change manipulation. That’s just one of the
basic post-war problems. — “United States
News.”
* * *
Few realise that Camille Chauteraps, former
Premier of France, has been in Washington four
years. He was under suspicion as representative
of Petain, and Petain did help facilitate his
escape. Chautemps and his family, including a
baby, escaped in a fishing boat and had a
rough time evading invading Nazis. Chautemps
convinced friends since that he is no Vichyite.
He has been hard up, supported his family by
lectures. Several times he turned down fees
rather than criticise Roosevelt or the U.S. Now
Chautemps’s financial troubles are solved. The
baby is four, very precocious, has been signed
by Hollywood.— Drew Pearson’s column, N.Y.
“Daily Mirror.”


EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co..Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 Snilei
of tiny tubes or filters "which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood
are the cause of frequent or scanty passages
with smarting' and burning, nagging back-*
ache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-*
pches and dizziness.
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
pet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will take up these
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE J£IDNEY PILLS gt JOU£ fibemisj
pr ptore, '
r.
'im
Small supplies of
Platignum nibs
(to fit STANDARD
type Platignum pens
ONLY) have arrived
from England. You
will now be able to
utilize your Platignum
Fountain Pen that is
at present without a
nib. Ask your station-
er or storekeeper.
PNI
Platigimm
MADE IN CSap ENGLAND
FOUNTAIN PENS
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL, BILL JOHNSON, Carpenter, who worked at
Urisino, 'N.S.W., please communicate with the
Manager of Urisino.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA —
In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ALAN WYATT formerly of Hobart
in Tasmania last heard of at Sydney in New South
Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been
filed in this Court endorsed with a Notice to you to
appear and answer the charges in the Petition of
Irene Ellen Gertrude Wyatt of Hobart in Tasmania
praying for a dissolution of marriage In default
of your so appearing you will not be allowed to
address the Court and the Court will proceed to
hear the said Petition proved and pronounce judg-
ment in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid within forty
days after the date of this publication an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania Macquarie Street
Hobart. — (1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM, Principal Regis-
trar.
JOHNSON MITCHELL & LAUGHTON, 88 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA—
In Divorce.
TO ROBERT EAST formerly of Mole Creek in
Tasmania last heard of at Melbourne in Victoria.
—TAKE NOTICE that a Petition has been filed in
this Court endorsed with a Notice to you to appear
and answer the charges in the Petition of Barbara
East of Moonah in Tasmania praying for a dissolu-
tion of marriage In default of your so appearing
you will not be allowed to address the Court and
the Court will proceed to hear the said Petition
proved and pronounce judgment in respect thereto
AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for the pur-
pose aforesaid within forty days after the date of
this publication an appearance must be entered at
the Principal Registry of the Supreme Court of
Tasmania Macquarie Street Hobart. — (1.5.) R. G.
BINGHAM, Principal Registrar.
JOHNSON MITCHELL & LAUGHTON. 38 Elizabeth
Street, Hobart, Solicitors for the Petitioner.
STRONGER... LIQ'HTER ... LONGER-LASTING
*/aMe
CAS E S
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
fiss
%
I *•
i
: m
NtfISPRP 1 *
toTMS
RUN
RiUiS
&
. . , 1938 FORD V-8 TRUCK'S
OUTSTANDING SERVICE ON
GRUELLING STRICT - ON - TIME
SCHEDULE . . .
That is the record achieved by the oldest unit of a transport fleet,
operated by Mr. Les Deal, Cootamundra, N.S.W. Placed in service
during March, 1939, this truck, averaging 3Vz ton loads, travelled
189,000 miles on newspaper distribution deliveries throughout
the state.
A further 19,000 miles were covered on incidental hauls ... a
grand total of 208,000 miles. The unit is still going strong. Now
fitted with hoist and tipper body it is being used on excavation
and road work.
to
9 F 43
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office; Geelong, Vic.
lllir
CRAVENA
tketfbe always,,
smcctit * peak!
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
‘
4
57Q7
M A
SPECIALLY
EE
PREVENT
JUXUJ
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy a stereoscope and cards. —3570.
To buy electric Mixmaster. —3551.
To buy needle speaker and arm for Edison
Console phonograph.—3s7l.
Information Sought.
Who were the first and last bushrangers to
operate in Australia?
The first act that could be called bushranging
was a highway robbery reported by David Col-
lins in June, 1794. No name was given. The
Kelly gang, broken up on June 29, 1880, was
the last of the bushranging gangs.
* * * *
World’s five highest waterfalls ?
(1) Ribbon Fall, Yosemite (U.S.A.), 1612 ft.
(2) Upper Yosemite (U.S.A.), 1430 ft. (3)
Uitshi (British Guiana) 1200 ft. (4) Takakaw
(Canada), 1200 ft. (5) Wollomombie (N-S.W.),
1100 ft.
* * * H=
Information on pollination of pumpkins?
Natural pollination is carried out by bees,
who transfer the pollen from the male flower
to the stigma of the female flower. If pollina-
tion is not effected, the embryo pumpkin turns
yellow and finally drops off the plant. This may
be prevented by artificial pollination; the male
flower can be brushed over the stigma of the
female, or the pollen of the male may be trans-
ferred by a camel-hair brush to the stigma of
the female. Most suitable time for this is in
the early morning. Male flowers may be dis-
tinguished from the female by their long stems:
the female has a shorter stem and carries the
embryo pumpkin.
* Sp * *
Where could a copy of evidence given in a ,
Sydney court three years ago be obtained?
Application should be made to the Clerk of
the Peace, Queen’s-square, Sydney, stating case,
date and place of hearing.
Brief Answers.
R.H.P.: John Bull’s score represents the
number of years since Alfred the Great mounted
the throne W.G.S.: Seeds for Vete-
mould tomatoes from Rumsey’s Seeds, Ltd.,
331 Church-street, Parramatta, N.S.W., or H.
Gilham, Toongabbie, N.S.W E. 8.: Chemi-
cals now unobtainable C. 8.5.: For sale ads.
are not admissible to Wants column... .P.G.:
The Secretary, Australian Shipping Officers’
Association, 74 Pitt-street, Sydney, could supply
information J.C.T.: Procedure is in order
if rules provide for an open ballot and not a
secret one J.D.: Employee must work an-
other 12 months to benefit by new holiday legis-
lation... .J.H.L.: No restrictions on method
of delivery.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted • and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
R.W.: Rhyme scheme too hard for you in
“Christmas”; in “Occident” you say you can’t
write about the East and then write about
nothing else; and both are too full of noble
sentiments H.F.: You might risk a rhyme or
two... .E.S.E.: If you mean “blue sea” why
do you say “azure main”? ... .J.W.S.; Reads
like a school exercise G.P.T.: “Washing
Day” is nothing but suds, bubbles and water.
E.C.: “Boots” does not rhyme with
“troops”... .M.F.L.: “Kanaka” too impression-
istic. Put some detail into your descriptions.
... .0.H.: Come again R.C.: Can’t see the
point of it... .N.M.: You need to present one
at least of them as a personality and to say
precisely what happened. Should make a short
story... .J.W.T.: Don’t use all those elemen-
tary “see-me-be-lea” rhymes E.D.: Cant
imagine fireflies “roaring with laughter”....
A.C.: You seem to know the country all right;
now try to tell something that happened there
instead of talking in generalities C.G.W.:
Thought interesting; writing diffuse N.W.:
Keep at it, but change your “greenhorns and
“rustlers” to something Australian.


;A
It’s your fight—your money is needed now.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
; n
m
mmm
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type bf gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N-3-W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co.
—Written
Sept., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
■' _ _ £> £ £
1934.. 38,972 2J p.c7=“38,750 32,480 1,377,172
Ho’ 751 Nil 61,672 1,443,251
263,958 5 p.c. = 77,500 76,759 1,568,130
iooq 420)404 15 „ ~ 232,500 76,472 1,664,562
1938.. 224,149 12* „ „ 193,750 73,556 1,621,405
* 7J„ ~116,250 91,186 1,666,362
ij o4o -- 275)860 „ 135,625 92,935 1,713,662
4044 • ' 265)346 SJ „ „ 135,625 95,975 1,747,378
1942.. 226,811 8f „ „ 135,625 71,132 1,767,432
4043 -- 234)183 8|„ „ 185,625 64,760 1,801,240
U 44.. 161,927 8|„ ~185,625 52.67-3 1,774,870
About 16 years ago end of the co.’s
high-grade ore reserves was not far dis-
tant. That meant finding a way of profit-
ably treating low-grade stuff, or before
long going out of the copper-mining busi-
ness. Costs were the problem ; and they
yielded to quickened throughput and
better recoveries, following' changes in
mining and metallurgical practices, in-
cluding introduction of large-scale
mechanised open-cut operations and im-
provements and extensions to plant. In
1928 the mill handled 127,425 toils ore,
assaying 5.88 p.c. copper, whereas
1,085,933 tons, assaying only 1.34 p.c.
copper, werb treated for almost as much
profit in 1939, despite a substantially
lower price for the metal.
For security reasons a black-out of
actual production, treatment, assay and
recovery figures has been maintained
since war broke out. Qhief factors affect-
ing earnings have been mining problems
arising from shortage of skilled labor and
delay in delivery of equipment, with con-
sequent declifte in the average grade of
ore treated. Together with lifts in taxa-
tion, wages and the price of materials,
this bumped up the cost of producing a
ton of copper. Qri the other hand, there
has been “marked” improvement in
recoveries. The selling price of electro-
lytic copper has remained fixed at £lO5
per toff.sirice May, 1942. Producers,
however, teceive only £lOO, the other £5
being pooled for payment of a bonus on
all other copper from Australian sources.
■ The contraction in last year’s profit
was due to slight 'reduction in the quan-
tity of ore mined and treated, drop in
average grade, decline in copper output
and rise in costs. Over a year ago it be-
came necessary to remove more waste
material in order to maintain the grade
of ore from the open tuts. Delays in
delivery of additional excavating and
transport equipment—a 2j- c.y. electric
shovel and four new 20-ton semi-
trailers— resulted in a greater pro-
portion of low-grade material from
outside measured ore reserves being
sent to the mill. Still, overall metal
recoveries further improved, thanks
largely to the new flu-dust filter plant,
to which four units were added last term.
The weekly basic wage rose from £5 9s.
to £5 135., of which Is. is refunded by
the Government under its cost-of-living
stabilisation plan.
The labor problem reduced prospecting
and development practically to a stand-
still. There was a shrinkage of 1,188,000
tons in Ore reserves, reducing them to
12,882,000 tons, assaying 1.14 p.c. copper,
0.0750 z. silver and 0.0120 z. gold. The
contraction represents ore mined during
the year, less tonnage from outside meas-
ured limits. The Lyell Comstock mine
was closed in May last, because labor
there could be better used in other parts
of undertaking. Resumption of prospect-
ing can be expected to increase ore
reserves.
Gross return from mining (£1,100,075)
was down £122,765. Divs. from share-
holdings (£62,250) were up £5650. In-
cluding provision for depreciation, etc.
(shown as written off in the table) and
the tax bill (£37,558/down £32,961), exes.
(£1,053,183) were got back £57,183.
Allowing for minor reserve adjustments,
the net result was £60,178 lighter at
£109,255, approx. Is. sd. per pound share.
Divs. paid during the term amounted to
Is. 9d. per share or 8| p.c. Another 6d.
was “ handed out in Dec., as against
Is. 3d. a year earlier.
Finances are comfortable. Excluding
shareholdings, mainly in fertiliser co.
(£1,797,997), more or less liquids ex-
ceeded the amount coming to outsiders
by £339,412 (down £16,416) when the
books close. Freeholds figured at
£16,012, mine £520,551, plant £271,503,
hydro-electric equipment £183,501/ rail-
way £213,136. " ' '
Post-war prospects for copper pro-
ducers will depend largely upon how the
huge stockpiles of virgin metal held by
Allied Governments'are handled. Hopes
are that portion of this accufnulation will
be permanently held as a reserve against
future emergencies and the balance fed
to the market slowly, so as not to unduly
depress prices. Existing stocks, together
with scrap—the quantity of which is
likely to be large—and current mine pro-
duction are likely tb keep supply Well
ahead of anticipated post-war demand for
a few years at any rate. And there will
be competition from other frietals," par-
ticularly' aluminium.' The co. proposes
to make a fresh assault upon costs by
further mechanisation of open cuts as
soon as circumstances, including DTP.
arid WOT, permit'. - • ; • '
Carreras, Ltd. (Melb.)
1 '..O'.'. Dividends To
Net Pref. Re- Re-
June, Profit. X 0 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
1934.. 18,558 6800 43.7fp.c.= 4,379 7,379 47,594
Bonus scrip issued, £40,000 .. .. 7,694
1935.. 21,720 6800 12* p.c. = 6,250 8,670 16,264
1936.. 31,823 6800 20.p,c. =-10,000 15,023 31,287
1937.. 45,130 6800 33* „ „ 16,666 21,664 52,951
Obsolescence reserve taken in, £ 10,000.. 62,951
From contingency reserve, £26,000.. 87,951
Reserves capitalised,. £75,000.. 12,951
1988.. 81,452 680,0. 33J.p.c.= 41,666 32,986 45,937
Carreras and Subsidiary.
Subsidiary Reserves* etc., £6474 .. 52,411
1939. .119,707 6800 33* p.c.=66,667 46,240 98,651
1940.. 156,404 680.0 52.* „„ 105,00.0 44,604 143,255
Oct;.j
1940 f 54,369 2267 70.5 ,' 47,000 5,102 148,357
1941. .153,226 6800 71 ~,,142,000 4,426 152,783
1942.. 99,536 6800 45 ~,, 90,000 2,736 155,519
1943. .112,172 6800 45 „„ 90,000 15,372170,891
1944. .151,583 6800 28.4 „„ 142,000 •2,788 173,074
-* -10 p.c. -on ord. capital and share premiums
combined- , ,+. Four .months. ...
Before the English Carreras people,
who specialise in manufacture of Graven
A cigarettes, bought the ords. at a sub-
stantial premium in 1930, and with them
control, it had been a struggle to keep
up payments to the prefs. History of the
business since has beeri one of extra-
ordinary progress, as the figures in the
table clearly show. About four years ago
the long-sighted British Tobacco Co. de-
cided it would be advantageous to have
the vigorous • and promising Carreras
stripling in its own stable. So it bought
the £200,000 of Carreras ord. capital for
£1,463,335 in its own scrip—22s,B6l
6-|- p.c, cum prefs., 618,737 ords. and a
like number of B ords., deferred as to
return of capital only. At B.T’s present
rate of distribution (9 p.c. to the ords.),
that lot calls for £122,665 p.a. Over the
last four years Carreras’s net earnings
have averaged £122,080, after allowing
for its own pref. requirements.
With war came a crop of problems, in-
cluding civilian rationing, price-fixing,
rises in the price of imported and local
leaf, and lifts in the tariff, excise and
taxation, together with difficulties created
by bureaucratic controls and shortage of
skilled labor. Though outturn of
cigarettes and tobacco is now greater than
ever, demand still runs ahead of produc-
tion, which-is largely governed by labor
available. To meet heavy service re-
quirements, including releases to Red
Cross, Comforts Fund and special classes
of workers, a basic cut was made Of 25
p.c/ofOTp ’supplies"to civilian retailers'.
Distribution to retailers is supervised by
State committees, and fluctuates from
month to month, the retailer-being left
to his own devices to regulate sales to the
public. 1 ' 1 ,l ' u 4 ■-••••*
The sharp drop in 1942 profits was
largely the result of lifts in’ tariff and
excise, which Had to be borne by the co.
until permission was 1 received-to pass them
oil.' Their' jri 1943' the price-ceillrig stood
in the way of passing on lifts in landed
cost of imported leaf. After long delay,
the Government brought down legislation
in April last ■ providing for rebate of
tobacco duties' amounting to about
£750,000. Meanwhile, the co. borrowed
£250,000 from B.T. to help finance the
extra cost of stock, permission to increase
capital having been refused. All lifts in
the retail price of tobacco since the out-
break of war have been on account of
Government imposts ; discs in other'costs
have been absorbed within the business.
Last term the co. built up stocks while
shipping was available. And since the
policy is riow to carry heavy stocks,
£300,000 of fresh, ord. capital was sub-
scribed by B;T. at par.; this in addition
to the £250,000 loan, which was still being
used in the business at the end of
October last. One effect of investing more
capital in stocks without an adequate ex-
pansion of turnover has been to ease the
ratio of earnings to capital. Allowing
for minor reserve adjustments, declared
net earnings sprang £39,411, reaching
£151,583. This was enough to pay the
prcf. div. and show 28.9 p.c. on ord.
capital as it now stands, as against 52.6
p.c) and 46.3 p.c. for- the two preceding
terms.
The year’s growth in the stocks item
was £285,519, 'making the expansion
£544,576 over the last two years:
Carreras & Subsid.
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £268,000 £268,0.00 £268,000 £568,000
Liabilities .. 170,814 176,644 f ro- sm is? mr
Taxation, etc. 128,175 120,172 j 535 ’ 870 48l > 546
Freehold .. 68,964 68,-964 68,964 68,964
Plant, . etc .. 41,873 36,856 26,572 21,771
Stocks . . 395,586 417,209 676,266 961,785
Book debts .. 161,258 139,229 136,285 127,568
Cash, etc. .. 52,220 60,834 67,302 50,710
The improvement of £308,584 in the more
or less liquid surplus (£652,517, including
stocks) mainly reflects the introduction of
fresh capital. Direct public interest in
the business is confined to the well-pro-
tected 68,000 £1 10 p.c, cum. prefs.
,Hume Pipe Co. (Australia), Ltd.
To Nominal
June. Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 5,015 Nil 5,015 63,256
1935.. 23,045 4 p.c. = 20,000 8,045 66,301
1936.. 84,006 5 „ „ 25,000 9,006 75,307
Unexplained reductions, £1126 .. 74,181
1937 .. S5-,986 6 p.c. = 30,000 " 25,936 100,117
1938.. 52,115 7*„ „ 37,500 14,615 114,732
Special depreciation, £10,000.. V. 104,732
Pref. Ord.
7$ p.c.
£ £
1939.. 67,403 10,547 7J p.c. = 37,500 19,356 124,088
Unexplained addition, £29,775.. .. 153,863
Written off shares, £2OOO ~ .. 151,863
Sale of Far East patents, £50,000 .. 201,863
1940.. 39,230 8,438 6 p.c.= 30,000 792 202,665
1941.. 31,263 8,438 4 „,, 20,000 2,825 205,480
1942.. 22,550 8,438 2* ~,,12,500 1,612 207,092
1943.. 25,572 8,438 4 ~,.20,000 204,226
Written off shareholding, £2,426 .. 201,800
1944.. 30,312 8,438 4 ~,, 20,000 1,874 203,674
Too much notice need not be taken of
the spring of £4740 in last year’s profit
figure. It was due entirely to a sharp
drop of £21,500 in provision for taxation
(£7500), mainly because of over-provision
in the past. Allowance for depreciation
(£19,631 =9.6 p.c. book value fixed
assets) was £1991 lighter, too. The
£30,312 of profit shown leaves out of the
reckoning a loss of £2426 on shares in a
small subsidiary. The £30,312 covered
the p.c. pref. div. and 4.3 p.c. on the
half-million of ord. capital, compared
with 3.4, 2.8, 4.5 and 6.1 p.c. back to
1939. The div. was kept at 4 p.c., and
the co. will be fortunate if it nets suffi-
cient to cover a similar distribution dur-
ing the current term.
Pre-war the co. turned out from a
chain of subsidiaries scattered through-
out the Australian States and Mabriland
reinforced concrete pipes for water
supply, drainap, irrigation and sewerage,
as well as coricrete paving slabs, septic
tanks, telephone boxes and light stand-
ards, etc. War changed the direction and
nature of public spending, and the busi-
ness is now confined entirely to defence
and essential service contracts. These
continued to fall away last term, while
costs remained on the up-grade, and, says
the chairman, “it is difficult to obtain
adequate arid prompt relief under exist-
ing methods of price control.” Consoli-
dated accounts of Hume Pipe and subsi-
diaries show net earnings, less outride
interests, at £30,413 ; so the pups didn’t


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
L Cost Accountancy A
THINK of the thousands of factories
that have sprung up during the
war—they will have to turn to
peace-time production of much needed
commodities after the war, and thi*
means that thousands of trained Cost
Accountants will be required to
ascertain the exact cost of Production.
Cost Accountants are even now required
by the hundreds in Government
Departments, and they will be increas-
ingly needed after the war.
Think, therefore, of the opportunities
that open up for the ambitious young
Australian who studies, trains and
qualifies NOW. At present there are
27,000 factories in Australia and less
than 600 qualified Cost Accountants.
The NEW H. & R. Course in Cost
Accountancy and Factory Organization
will not only quickly enable you to
pass the Examinations (somg students
already qualified in Accountancy have
done so in from 3-5 MONTHS), but
it will also train you thoroughly in
Costing principles and practice. This
H. & R. Training will enable you to
secure and hold any position of Cost
Accountant.
Why not call, write or phone
in for full particulars which will
be gladly supplied.
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
founded nd Owned by Hemtngwoy & tobomoo fty, Udl
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
Please send me FREE copy of your
96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.’’
Name Age
Address
Career interested in ’’4/643
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent. Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Ad Vt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks,—Advt..
Mistakes in Wills
are Common
Therefore be doubly sure yours
is carefully drawn, to mean what
you intend, and that the executors
to administer it arc competent
and experienced.
One of the commonest mistakes is to
assume that the testator desiring to
leave his property is the only person
who will die. Bequests to relatives are
made as if those relatives were immortal.
If any of the beneficiaries should die
first the administration of the Will may
be complicated and the testator’s
property may go where he never
intended.
Wills also become complicated when no
provision is made for possible additions
to the family.
Another serious mistake in the careless
Will is failure to differentiate clearly
between a life interest in property and
the fee simple, or straight-out gift.
Finally, much trouble and loss may
arise when the Executor named dies,
or becomes incapable, or is unsuited
for the duty of administration.
The safe course is to have your Will
legally drawn, and to entrust the
administration of it to those who possess
the requisite knowledge and experience
and are always, impartially, at your
disposal.
The Union Trustee meets all require-
ments, For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., C.8.E.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager ; Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager ; John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, K.B.E. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C, Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b,e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, M.C., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., F.F.1.A., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C, Neville,
PRETTY PICTURE!
\ i
wm
mm
mm
W§MM
m.
VyM
* - *.
Hi
WM
mmm
/, ' v ~ 7 u/iaf'u/// \ \
GOVERNMENT AIRLINES COST ?
Look at the Government’s record in the field of commer-
cial transport. £4,004,678 is what it cost taxpayers
to end the steady drain on their wage envelopes as a
result of the Government’s entry into shipping.
The Railways’ immense pre-war losses, which, in one
State, culminated in writing off thirty millions of the
Taxpapers’ money, have long been accepted as part of
the taxation cross we have to bear.
Socialisation of Airways will, according to a Canberra
estimate, cost two to three million (air experts say eight
to ten million) in “taking over” alone.
What the annual burden on taxpayers will be time
alone will tell, but the history of the Government’s com-
mercial undertakings makes it quite clear that you will
have to pay and pay and pay.
RELEASED BY,
THE AIRLINE OPERATORS' SECRETARIAT
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
bury anything worth mentioning. And
little, if any, improvement in the busi-
ness need be looked for until after the
war.
Chief subsidiary interests are 'Hume
Steel, Ltd., and Hume Pipe (Far East),
Ltd. The steel co., engaged mainly on
defence contracts, sent along 2\ p.c. for
each of the last three years. The Far
East business, whose interests extend from
Singapore to the Philippines, and in which
parent has £269,218 invested, has been
in enemy hands for the last three years.
A representative of the co. is now nego-
tiating with the Colonial Office in London
on matters relating to reconstruction in
Malaya. However, “various legal com-
have arisen—no hint is given
as to their nature —and the board is
“pursuing a course which it believes to
be in the best interests” of shareholders.
Before the war this Far East co. was a
good profit-earner and dividend-payer,
with expanding connections.
Hume Pipe’s smaller turnover last
term is further reflected in a shrinkage
of £33,621 in book debts and of £62,870
in advances to subsidiaries :
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £608,900 £612,500 £612,500 £612,500
Liabilities .. 113,385 209,863 202,405 86,892
Freeholds, etc. 73,862 75,854 77,414 80,844
Building, plant,
etc 189,442 147,520 131,245 121,613
Stocks . . 95,773 82,188 103,453 99,459
Uncompleted
work .. 40,659 15,921 15,311 8,865
Book debts .. 112,973 147,506 112,574 78,953
Advances subsid. 94,244 211,945 237,155 174,285
Cash, etc. .. 25,589 14,733 21,101 22,267
Shares in other
cos. & invests. 67,919 69,019 63,469 63,469
Shares in sub.
cos 168,900 281,537 281,537 277,529
Advances to subsidiaries include £93,399
(down £63,358) to Hume Steel and
£53,194 (unchanged) to Far East co. Ex-
cluding shares in subsidiaries, the year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£360,406) was £9658.
The board expects substantial contracts
for public works post-war, and a pro-
gramme of plant expansion and improve-
ment is being planned for the purpose.
Much will depend upon this, upon the
level of costs and upon what happens
in connection with the Far East business.
Golden Plateau, N.L.
Owing to the manpower position and
difficulties connected with the power
plant and the pumping equipment at the
Dawson River, since overcome, the co.’s
6500-ton-a-month treatment plant at
Cracow (Q.) operated intermittently last
term. It worked only one shift daily for
five days a week at times. However,
enough gold was won to show a profit
after paying all exes., plus cost of de-
veloping the wolfram areas and erecting a
small plant to treat the ore by concen-
tration, and writing off £7164 for depre-
ciation. Work on the wolfram leases,
36 miles away at Kidmore, has proved
all reefs patchy in values, and, as the
price of the metal is undependable, it is
proposed to take out ore developed and
discontinue prospecting. This venture
was undertaken as a national effort, with-
out expectation of profit.
A sharp drop of 18,082 tons in ore
treated at Cracow, together with increased
price of materials, further bumped up
working costs and depressed profits:
Re- Mine
Year, Treated, covery.cost,*
June, Tons. Ton. Ton. Surplus. Share.' Amt.
1942.. 74,592 57/3 18/5 £115,006 2/- £84,000
1943.. 38,722 44/3 21/- 29,942 1/- 42,000
1944.. 20,640 44/2 26/6 8,005 -/6 21,000
Gold yield in fine ounces was 20,547,
1942; 9522, 1943 ; 4641, 1944. Average
recovery per ton of ore last term was
4,49 Idwt. as against 4.9ldwt. and
s.sldwt. for the two preceding years.
The profit, which includes £1570 from in-
vestments, was a shade over 2d. per
share. A 6d. div. was distributed. Ore
reserves are put at 92,000 tons positive,
containing 21,615 fine ounces, and 23,300
tons probable, containing 6060 fine
ounces. When prospecting can be re-
sumed more ore is expected to be dis-
closed. When the books closed the co.
owed no man and held liquids totalling
£93,987. The £113,750 of capital is in
840.000 shares of 3s. 4d. each, of which
210.000 are fully paid and the balance
paid to 2s. 6d. each.
“Iona”:
A while back I made a prospecting trip
to the old Sandy Creek goldfield, some 20
miles from Wodonga (Vic.), in search of
quartz crystals, now in demand for Allied war
purposes. The main auriferous bodies in this
district are much-faulted, mullocky quartz
dykes in granitic country, while a number of
well-defined quartz fissure reefs, showing little
or no gold values, outcrop freely. Practically
all quartz examined was highly crystallised, and
specimen crystal plentiful. Single specimens
to 6jn. in length with a diameter of 2in. were
found, all showing growth lines, but though
some were fairly clear, a certain amount of
cloudiness and flawing rendered them value-
less. These were from the surface, however,
and small specimens taken from the mullock
heaps of the deepest workings showed all the
desirable qualities. Indications are that ex-
perienced prospectors with some capital backing
would have fair chances of success on this
field, which has been neglected for more than
40 years. More gold may yet be found, and a
nearby antimony show was worked recently.
* , =H *
Discovery of alluvial tin has been
reported in practically virgin country*
10 miles from Whitemark, Flinders Island
(Bass Strait). The stanniferous flats are
reported to extend for about two miles.
Nature and value of ground have not yet
been established by systematic boring.
* * * *
Only two of the seven remaining
London-controlled Kalgoorlie Golden
Mile cos. —North Kalgurli and Paringa
—now issue periodical statements locally
about underground operations. Both
generally have good widths of ore and
values to report. The latest from North
Kalgurli mentions assays ranging from
Bdwt. to 33dwt. a ton from samples of
lode stuff exposed at the Nos. 3 and 7
levels of the main shaft, and of 7dwt.
from exposures at No. 4 level of the
Kalgurli workings. This is one of the
Westralian gold stocks expected to move
up when ceilings are removed.
* * * *
Hill 50 (W.A.) is about to resume gold
production after a short spell, during
which the power plant was overhauled.
Necessary spare parts had to be made
locally because they couldn’t be got from
England.
* * * *
South African Minister for Mines Stal-
lard recently said borehole results on the
new Orange Free State goldfield were
extremely encouraging, but had to be
checked and corrected by shaft sinkings,
which couldn’t take place at present be-
cause it would divert men and materials
essential for the war effort.


Smooth, Strong, Hard...
I— p. -rn Pi. 1k Q-
Free * r hardball
concord har
o r
p
Li m e
LASTER
CONCORD Hardwall Plaster is an exception-
ally hard gypsum plaster especially recom-
mended for dadoes and other wall surfaces
subject to more than ordinary wear. Used neat,
it ensures a smooth, glossy, pure white, sanitary
finish of great strength and hardness. It has no
alkali or lime to stain wall linings or papers or sa-
ponify the oil in paints, hence it is the ideal base for receiv-
ing any decoration as soon as the wall dries out. Special
grinding and processing provide easy mixing and working
properties and facilitates its gauging with lime putty when
less hard surfaces are required.
Packed in Jute Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
tiff'
' •" ; '•»
mL
: '• 4
a
«
r
m
sm
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD., Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
Pl 4-44
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
" under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trdstee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years’ experience.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee*” that explains the Company’s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS; T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.0.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
, Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others. Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £63,800,000,
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
Taxes and Living Standards
The production of a nation is the basis
of its living standards. Specially since
production has become largely a muss-
production matter, the output of a coun-
try may be pictured as a pool into which
the population both contributes and dips,
each man his individual share. His share
of dipping may be fixed by arbitration-
court award, by Parliament, by a Gov-
ernment official or by the forces of free
competition and his own skill or good
luck.
Even the halt, the maimed and the
blind may be contributing to this pool of
production and service as well as draw-
ing from it. There are some people who,
though fit and well, draw from it without
contributing. But, collectively, the popu-
lation can draw from the pool no more
than is contributed. Some of the con-
tents, too, are required to help future pro-
duction—to erect new factories, instal
new plant, etc., and are not for imme-
diate consumption.
The Government also dips into it for
taxation to pay for a number of. things.
Sometimes benefits from this taxation
are returned to the producers. Some-
times taxation is a dead loss to living
standards. In war-time taxation has to
pay for national security as well as for
incidental war waste. Such taxation is,
or is supposed to be, for the purpose of
protecting our lives, our mode of livifig
and our living standards, not for raising
our standard of life immediately.
There has been considerable recent specu-
lation as to what a civilian community
within a democracy will be able to stand
in the way of taxation when the war is
|inished and full employment and im-
proved living standards again become
matters of first-class national moment.
At present taxation rates are a most seri-
ous source of income loss, especially in
the case of medium and high incomes,
even though some wage-earners whose
pay during war-time has risen have not
felt the burden as much as those whose
incomes have remained stable or have
fallen. High taxation also dulls industrial
incentives.
The excuse for a fourteen-fold rise in
Commonwealth income tax since war
began has been that every fit person is
obligecTto make some contribution to the
cost of the war, which is a national re-
sponsibility— that is, something which
every citizen should help to meet. War
is not a thing which can be pursued by
each individual separately, or by guerrilla
forces working haphazardly; armed
forces are organised on a national scale,
and where that organisation reaches
something like what is now termed a
“total” stage it becomes necessary also
to place munitions and other production
under national supervision. Thus the
citizen hands to the Government a cer-
tain part of his income in direct or in-
direct taxes, and the Government spends
it (with loan and other moneys) in a
Government-controlled war effort.
The income of the community, on
which the Government levies its taxes
both for war and other purposes, is ap-
proximately the value of goods produced
and services rendered by the people. Gov-
ernment taxation of the people’s income,
therefore, places the Government in a
position to buy a proportion of the
people’s production and services almost
in the ratio which the taxation bears to
total incomes. The amount of taxation
by a Government represents, roughly,
the extent of its encroachment upon the
living standards of taxpayers —its “dip-
ping” into the production pool. But some-
times taxation is levied for the purpose
of redistributing incomes, and the amount
that is handed back represents a return
of that much “living standard” to the
people, though possibly to a different
group of individuals. Usually, however,
a proportion of the value disappears in
purely administrative costs.
In the instance of a private business,
administrative costs very often add to the
productivity of the business as a whole.
In the case of Government affairs they
too often merely represent double-hand-
ling charges. A number of Government
services for which taxation has to be
levied are absolutely necessary under a
democracy. But there is always a ten-
dency for departmental ambition to bring
about inflation in Government services
beyond the point of necessity. And there
is an urge in politics to take taxation
from the people in order to give some
part of the proceeds back in another
form. This double-handling may have
the result J ‘of putting money into one citi-
zen’s pocket at the expense of another.
But it does not add to the living
standards of the community as a whole.
And frequently it discourages enterprise
and attempts at greater national produc-
tivity by penalising, through taxation, the
energetic person in order to give some-
thing to the less energetic, and, frequently,
less deserving.
During the present war the Govern-
ment of Australia increased its right to
dip into the national pool until at the
peak of the war effort it was taking very
nearly half of all the production of the
Commonwealth. It did not take all this
by means of monetary taxation. In the
present year, for instance, it is estimated
that, of a total Commonwealth Govern-
ment expenditure of £653 million, taxa-
tion will provide only £286 million, other
revenues and borrowing covering the
greater part of the rest. But the produc-
tion and services used for war are taken
away from the reach of the people never-
theless, and our living standards are
assailed roughly to the extent of the cost
of the war and our assistance to other
countries, less their assistance to us.
The cost of defence to Australia this
year is estimated at £505 million. Civil
expenditure (apart from recoverable costs
of departments) is put at £ll6 million,
part of which returns to the people in the
way of pensions, etc., but a proportion of
which also is non-productive administra-
tion expenses.
Income tax, as already stated, has in-
creased 14 times in the Commonwealth
since war began. It is a major item of
cost in the average civilian budget. But,
because war expenditure, as already
shown, is far greater than war-time in-
come tax, the Government has taken from
the civilian market a quantity of goods
and services considerably larger than the
amount of the income tax. This has re-
sulted in a shortage of food, clothing,
petrol, liquor, etc., being much more
noticeable than a shortage of money
among the population as a whole, and it
has also Resulted in the creation of black
markets and the danger of inflation. All
sorts of Government controls have been
introduced to prevent inflation.
In order to withdraw some of this ex-
cess purchasing power after the war, and
at the same time encourage the build-
ing-up of a stock of civilian goods and
preventing inflation in the price level, it
might be advisable to continue high
monetary taxation for a period after tlje
declaration of peace. But such taxation
would need to be used for redemption of
the war debt, not to be spent by the Gov-
ernment ; otherwise it would have no anti-
inflationary virtues.
It is entirely inconceivable that the
present Government would possess the
economic foresight or the political
courage to tax the people as a whole for
the purpose of debt redemption. Its
philosophy has always been to spend more
than it rec®ives in taxes, and to leave a
subsequent Government to clean up the
ultimate mess. Therefore, there is every
reason for the people to demand a very
large reduction in taxation soon after the
end of the war.
The cost of Commonwealth civilian
services, including interest on the 1914-
18 war debt, imposed taxation of £76
million on the people in 1938-39. The
cost of similar services during the current
year, excluding interest on the debt in-
curred in the present war but including
the cost of the national welfare fund, will
be about £ll6 million, showing an in-
crease of £4O million over the pre-war
figure. The interest cost on the war debt
arising out of the present conflict is
already in the vicinity of £3O million,. It
may be expected to rise to at least £4O
million. Added to the cost of the civil
expenditure, that would indicate an in-
crease of £BO million on our 1938-39
taxation commitments when we return
to peace-time pursuits.
The £BO million increase is very large.
But it is not nearly so large as the total
increase in Commonwealth taxation
since war began. That figure is
no less than £212 million. It would
seem possible, on this comparison,
to reduce taxation by something like
£l3O million when the war ends. During
war-time income tax has risen by £155
million and other direct taxes by £l9
million. Indirect taxes have increased £3B
million. There us ample room for reduc-
tion in each of these classes of taxation.
The Commonwealth Government,
through various Ministers, has indicated
a reluctance to reduce taxation when the
war ends. It wants the right to dip into
the production pool on much the same
scale as it does now even after the need
for the national mobilisation of our re-
sources fbr war has passed. It desires
this right in order to further Govern-
ment ambitions in the industrial and
“social-benefit” field. It wants to be able
to say to taxpayers “We, the Govern-
ment, are giving you something,” even
though more than the something may
already have been taken from the tax-
payer in income and other taxes.
v The Bulletin believes that as much
as possible of a man’s individual earn-
ings, whether by way of salary or wages
or by way of business earnings, should
remain with him for his own spending or
investment, and should not be taken from
him merely to be spent on his behalf or
on the behalf of others by an interfer-
ing Government. Double-handling of the
national income by the Government re-
sults both in waste and increased social-
isation, and these things assail living
standards by making production costly,
difficult and confused.
A policy of low taxation of industry,
coupled with enterprising, realistic credit
planning based on production and
marketing possibilities, would ultimately
bring in more revenue to a Government
than would a policy of taxation so high
that enterprise was, discouraged from the
start. This paper has been all in favor
of taxation being levied during war-
time at a rate high enough to produce a
maximum war effort. But when the war
is over it believes that taxation no higher
than is necessary to pay for ordinary
democratic administrative services should
be levied, plus what is necessary to sub-
sidise a contributory social welfare plan
and to maintain reasonable defence
establishments.
Metal Prices in 1944
Following are the average Australian
metal prices for 1944 according to the
records of Frank Hambridge Pty., Ltd.,
Sydney. With the exception of gold
(present quotation £lO 125., including 16s.
tax), the average prices are also (he latest
prices. Figures are shown both in Aus-
tralian currency and sterling:
Average Australian Fixed Prices.
Australian
Currency. Sterling.
Copper—
Producers’ price
(basic) ..£lOO 0 0 ton £BO 0 0 ton
Gougers’ bonus 5 0 0 „ 4 0 0 „
Lead .. .. 22 0 0 „ 17 12 0 „
Zinc .. .. 22 0 0 „ 17 12 0 „
Tin—•
Producers’ price
(basic) .. 371 0 0 „ 296 16 0 „
High-cost prod.
price .. 376 0 0 „ 300 16 0 „
Wolfram
(scheelite) .. 5 10 0 unit 4 8 0 unit
Molybdenite
(nominal) .. 4 15 0 ~ 3 16 0 „
Gold (fine) .. 10 10 1 oz. 8 8 0 oz.
Silver (fine) .. 31.5 d. „ 25.3 d. „
Average London metal quotations
during 1944, expressed in both curren-
cies, were as follow:
Australian
Currency. Sterling.
Copper—
Electro bars .. £77 10 0 ton £62 0 0 ton
Lead .. ~ 31 5 0 „ 25 0 0 „
Zinc .. .. 32 3 9 „ 25 15 0 „
Tin .. .. 375 0 0 „ 300 0 0 „
Wolfram
(scheelite) ~ 3 8 9 unit 215 0 unit
Molybdenite .. 3 2 6 „ 2 10 0 „
Gold (fine) .. 10 10 0 oz. 8 8 0 oz.
Silver (fine) .. 31.7 d. „ 25.4 d. „
Those averages, too, represent latest
prices. In London bismuth is selling at
6s. 3d. sterling a pound, and quicksilver
at £33 13s. 4d. a flask.
The following are latest New York
metal prices (with Australian-currency
equivalents), supplied by Frank Ham-
bridge :
Copper, electrolytic, 12 cents per lb.
(A£B3/4/5 per ton)
Tin,-52 cents per lb. (£360/12/5 per ton)
Lead, 6.35 cents per lb. (£44/0/9 per ton)
Zinc, 8.25 cents per lb. (£57/4/3 per ton)
Silver, 44.75 cents per oz. (2/9.12d. per oz.)
Gold, 35 dollars per oz. (£lO/16/9 per oz.)
Wolfram, 24 dollars per unit (£7/8/7 per unit)
Quicksilver, 105 dollars per flask
(£32/10/2 per flask)
One striking feature of these figures is
the comparatively low price that Aus-
tralian producers are receiving for lead
and spelter. In the case of spelter, Lon-
don pays £32 3s. 9d. Australian a ton,
New York £57 4s. 3d. and Australian
manufacturers £22. Which goes to show
something of the extent to which the
Barrier mines (and miners) have contri-
buted to the war effort. The Common-
wealth Government has shown no appre-
ciation.
In Australia tin, which was kept under
rather stern price control early in the war,
was given more latitude later on ; even
now it is not out of step with world
quotes. Copper has been Australia’s
problem metal.
A few years ago Australia had so much
surplus wheat that the Commonwealth
Government decided to erect grain dis-
tilleries in four States and use the re-
sultant alcohol to eke out our war-time
petrol supplies* among other objectives.
The N. S. Wales distillery has been in
operation, but is now inactive because of
wheat shortage. The Victorian plant (in
Mr. Wilson’s electorate), though finished,
as previously mentioned here, has never
operated because of (a) a shortage of
coal and (b) a shortage of wheat. The
South Australian and Westralian under-
takings may never be completed.


Queensland
Insurance Co
Head Office;
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders' Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
fd
nets
LIKE THE HRIIO
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lo), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
BRANDALERrS
m
fPENIS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations,
a BK.uriu.6» * an. lmu kikmikwhau. kno
f
df
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei _ .. ~
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY
ALL CHEMISTS.
The MARS High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from
df
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.; Thomas Herbert &. Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence
Street, Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 2S Market
Street, Melbourne. For N.Z.: A. Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street,
Christchurch. STOCKISTS: Goodafl & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
Safe and Profitable —
AN “A. C. A.” POLICY.
9 Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
® Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
• Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/ 43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria; A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank op N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
•;•;,'.. '■ ' '>%x' '
'•.. “.. .7
' X-&
*aa
A„-
W
m
rn?:'*
•m
.. *
/in outstanding “ private venture ” production of the British aircraft industry—The
de Havilland Mosquito ( Rolls-Royce Merlin engines). Most versatile high-speed
aircraft in service, equipped for duties ranging from night fighting to long-range heavy
bombing, the Mosquito is in quantity manufacture in Britain, Canada and Australia
BOLD ENTERPRISE
The battle honours achieved by British warplanes in every
zone of the global war testify to the great and virile industry
that stands as a background to the fighting air forces.
Right up to the present day British official policy has
entrusted the design of all aircraft and engines to the
individual companies of the aircraft industry—a system
which has produced, among other rich dividends, bomber
fleets carrying bigger unit war loads than any other Service
in the world, fighters whose supremacy has remained
unchallenged for five years and flying boats which range
the oceans.
Most of the more successful warplanes and engines which
equip the Empire Air Forces owe even more than then-
design to private enterprise. The genius of the industry’s
designers frequently enables them to foresee, more clearly
than the official technicians, the future operational require-
ments of the fighting Services. Thus are created the “private
ventures”—aircraft and engines of which both specification
and de*sign have been evolved by the manufacturer and
developed through his initiative.
When its war task is completed, the British aircraft industry
will direct to the pursuit of peaceful objectives the inventive
genius, technical skill and adaptability through which air
mastery in war has been achieved.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
It Affects the Individual
Australia has much evidence of the
damage done to financial confidence
by political interference with the
national economics. The people, how-
ever, are not always aware of the
real influences behind industrial break-
downs, price inflation, black-marketing,
etc,, or that a great deal of the respon-
sibility for carrying on democratic gov-
ernment rests in the administration of the
national finances. Unless the finances of
a country are fairly and expertly ad-
ministered great unfairness can be in-
flicted upon different sections of the com-
munity. Australians, therefore, need to
ask themselves what results various
politico-financial developments are likely
to have upon the nation’s industries, the
distribution of incomes and the standard
of living.
An immediate matter is the proposed
nationalisation of banking. In it are in-
volved many questions affecting the wel-
fare of the individual and the nation
rather than just the future of bank share-
holders and bank employees, though their
case is important enough. There were
no exaggerations as to past or future in
the statement of C. Darvall, general
manager of the Commercial Banking Co.
of Sydney, made last week:
Banking is dependent upon confidence, co-
operation and competence.
The present banking system has done its best
to preserve public confidence, and it has had
the complete co-operation of every unit, not-
withstanding many difficulties and onerous
burdens borne by particular members and the
strain on the various staffs.
The degree of competence with which it has
discharged its duties will be best judged in
calmer post-war years.
The reports from Canberra suggest that the
new banking system contemplated by Cabinet
and yet to be moulded to the wishes of Caucus
will be a hybrid form of nationalisation based
on theories and not on the practical experience
of generations. The people it is designed to
benefit will be the greatest sufferers should
Australia be so unfortunate as to experience the
perils of political interference with the national
credit and currency.
The responsibilities upon the Commonwealth
Bank today are greater than at any time in its
history, and far greater than in the war of
1914-18.
It is imperative that its chief executive officer
should be a trained banker, this notwithstanding
the valiarft effort's of a Treasury officer who
quickly spent himself in filling the post a few
years ago. In any event, it would be difficult
t'o find better material for the post than is
readily available amongst the large number of
competent bankers on the bank’s staff.
It is equally imperative that the chief execu-
tive officer should be assisted, guided and sup-
ported, and even protected, by a board of men
of undoubted probity and sound experience
divorced from political associations.
With these essential safeguards the public
would give its full confidence, and all financial
organisations, State and private, would give
their full co-operation.
The present war-time regulations afford the
Commonwealth Bank complete control of the
credit structure within the domination of the
Government’s policy. If that policy enjoyed
the full confidence of the people it would be
unnecessary to hold circuses to assist War Loan
campaigns, as the experience in Great Britain
and Canada demonstrates.
If, by legislative interference with the bank-
ing structure, the Government departs from it's
election pledge not to implement the Labor
party’s policy of socialisation during the war, it
will inevitably impair public confidence in the
national credit and currency, increase ,the diffi-
culties of maintaining a full war effort and
damage Australia’s reputation abroad.
Many of the strikes and production
failures of the present time are due to
political mismanagement of the Australian
economy. Some sections of the people
have too much money, some too little.
The city unionist is protected at the ex-
pense of the rural food-producer. One
of the greatest dangers to Australia is the
use of the public purse and National
Security Regulations for vote-catching
purposes. We have seen a lot of this
already ; we shall see much more if bank-
ing becomes nationalised.
The Australian seamen’s war-risk
bonus comes up for review as from Janu-
ary 31. Interest in this matter has not
slackened since the resignation of Judge
de Baun from the Maritime Industries
Commission. The bonus was to be re-
vised in November last, but direct action
by some seamen soon had the Govern-
ment palpitating, and chairman de Baun
resigned in disgust, claiming that certain
members of the commission had failed
to abide by its decisions. With January
31 approaching, there has been a good deal
of speculative comment in shipping circles
as to what view the reconstituted commis-
sion will take in the matter of war risks
in coastal waters. It was the wish of the
Government that thei revised rate of bonus
should be suspended until January 31.
The new (suspended) rates of bonus
were “zoned.” The Government has
shown a great deal more concern for the
claims of seamen defying the law than it
has for N. S. Wales dairymen.
* * * *
For the six months to the end of De-'
cember Australian war expenditure was
£233,000,000, rather below the rate of
£505,000,000 for 1944-45 set by the
Budget. It is usual, however, for greater
charges to come in during the second
half of the financial period; financial
adjustments with Empire and Allied
countries often take place late in the
term. Of the £233,000,000 spent during
the first half, £89.5 million was provided
out of taxation revenue (against an esti-
mate of £177.6 million for the year), and
£143.6 million out of loan money (esti-
mate £327.4 million for the year). The
higher-than-expected proportion paid for
out of taxation had the result of lifting
revenue’s share of the defence expendi-
ture to 38.4 p.c., and the all-over pattern
of the Budget, including civil items with
defence outgo, was one of 52 p.c. revenue
and 48 p.c. borrowing. For the first half-
year on record Labor’s war-time
finances have reached a 50-50 stage —
that is, revenue is providing at least 50
p.c. of the Budget money. This position
has arisen partly because of the fall in
war expenditure, it is true, but it is also
true that taxation revenue has risen, par-
ticularly that from income tax. Some of
this increase has come from the 25 p.c.
surcharge that accompanied the introduc-
tion of pay-as-you-go, and is non-
recurring. However, from various causes,
at this late stage of the war the Com-
monwealth has reached that 50-50 state of
finance that has been operative in Britain
and Canada almost since the beginning.
And that is something which goes to
prove that what is being done now in
this country in the way of raising revenue
could have been done equally well at any
time since Japan came into the war. One
result of the improved revenue position
has been the decreasing reliance on
Treasury-bill finance. On December 31
this type of indebtedness -stood at
£367,000,000, compared with £343,000,000
at June 30. The expansion of £24,000,000
in six months compares with £113,000,000
during the seven months to January 31,
1944, and if last year’s experience is re-
peated it may be that the final figure
for the current term will show a substan-
tial reduction on that at the half-way
mark (December 31). In such an event
it is possible that the total Treasury-bill
indebtedness at June 30 next will be lower
than that at the end of the preceding
financial year. Much will depend upon
. sncces fth next nu blic loan the
me success or me next puouc iuuii, me
course of the war and the influence of
politics on public financial matters.
* * * *
a H P Moline general manager of
r - general manager ui
Mt. Lyell, has been elected president of
the Australasian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy for 1945. He was on the
Tasmanian staff of Lyell for many years,
t „ nnerir : ten dent
being appointed general superintendent
in 1931 “to assist the general manager
(R. M. Murray). Mr. Murray resigned in
September last (after 44 years’ service)
ocprciiru v
and Mr. Moline


THE SERVICE MAN
In the Pacific.
“Ek Dum”; Operations in the Luzon
campaign are still in their preliminary
stages. They have been aimed at scour-
ing the Japanese from General Mac-
Arthur’s flanks along the foothills of the
ranges east and west; at driving to the
sea on the west, and on the east at
securing the northern roads into the
interior, which run to Baguio, via
Rosario, and then on to Aparri, the
enemy’s most northerly port facing across,
the Luzon Channel to Formosa. At the
same time the general’s spearheads have
continued their way down the axis of
the main road and rail towards Manila.
This main forward drive had at the
week-end brought U.S. troops to the edges
of the Tarlac defence area, where the
enemy must make a stand if he proposes
to hold Clark Field and the Cape Stot-
senberg area and local communications
to the east and west coast. The Ameri-
cans had met little resistance, though
they were within 70 miles of Manila,
having occupied Tarlac.
On the Baguio drive, however, the
Japanese flung in a little armor sporadi-
cally in the fight for Rosario, and, after
that town had fallen, they showed signs
of even stronger coming defence of
Baguio, which is a fortified area, in
peace-time the summer capital, and the
key to the western mountain area of the
north. At the week-end Baguio was cut
off from the southern plains by the
severance ol the main road in several
places, but the enemy still had another
communication highway between Aparri
and Manila, on the eastern side of Luzon.
Reports suggested that the enemy in-
tended to base his defence of the island
on the north. It is a natural mountain fort-
ress in which much time could be gained
by defenders, but it is not suitable for a
trial of strength between heavily-equipped
forces. Correspondents are optimistic
that Manila and southern Luzon will be
given up easily. But it would be imagined
that the Japanese would think twice
about the abandonment of the capital—■
despite the fact that Manila Bay,
obviously blockaded, can be of little use
to them —because of the moral effect
upon their people. Among Asiatics
“face” is a great matter.
R.A.N. at the Landing
. It is now announced that the R.A.N.
ships which took part in the landing
operations on Luzon were H.M.A.S.
Australia (wearing the flag of Commo-
dore H. B. Farncomb, Captain J. M.
Armstrong, R.A.N.); H.M.A.S. Shrop-
shire (Captain A. G. Nichols, R.N.);
H.M.A.S. Arunta (Commander A. E.
Buchanan, R.A.N.) and H.M.A.S. Warra-
munga (Lieut.-Commander J. M. Allis-
ton, R.N.). With them were the veteran
auxiliary cruisers Kanimbla, Manoora
and Westralia, which carried U.S. troops
to the landing beaches ; the survey vessels
Gascoyne and Warrego and Benalla and
HDML 1074 —baby of them all, 80ft.
long, but always the vanguard of inva-
sion along the north New Guinea coast,
at Leyte and at Lingayen; first to sidle
in under enemy guns and explore the way
to the beaches.
The Australian ships were in the thick
of things during the four days before the
beaches were reached. Shropshire
narrowly missed taking aboard several
enemy aircraft, which crashed beside her.
She warded off several vicious dive-
bomber attacks. Arunta bore a charmed
life —she shot down one attacking aircraft
almost on her own decks, and bits of
flaming and exploding Jap at another
period made her vicinity like something
out of an old-fashioned Chinese New
Year celebration,
Shropshire was bombarded by shore
batteries, but, with her eight-inchers, gave
more than she got and finished mistress
of the situation, lingering round to draw
fire, but getting no response.
On the days before the landing the two
R.A.N. Tribals were working in support
of the gallant little R.A.N. survey ships,
and the two eight-inch cruisers took part
in the final blasting of the shore in sup-
port of the assault waves. Shropshire
fired nearly 2000 rounds, from two-
pounder ack-ack shells upwards. Her
gunnery and that of Australia were re-
ported very accurate.
Outside Mandalay
As in Luzon, the real Japanese strength
in central Burma is an unknown quantity.
They have resisted comparatively little
during the British drives from the Chind-
win and Myhkyina, right up to the out-
skirts of Mandalay, of which British,
Indian and Bast African forces are within
a few miles —at least, by air.
The British - Indian columns are
approaching by all available routes from
the north and west. They held Monywa
surrounded on January 21, and were
about to begin the final attack following
heavy air battering then in progress.
Mandalay is roughly set in a box of
hills tied with river loops. The hills on
the east beyond Maymyo are the furthest
away. All round, the Japanese appear
to have dug in- on the heights and to be
prepared to make a stand. Fighting on
a large scale seemed about to begin on
January 22.
Chinese columns coming down from
Bhamo linked early in the week with
other Chinese columns from across the
Chinese border. Thus the Bhamo route
into China was re-established, but its
capacity is too small to make much dif-
ference to Marshal Chiang Kai-shek’s
supply problems. British-Indian forces,
including R.A.N. and R.A.A.F., have
effected a new landing on Ramree Island,
60 miles south of Akyab.
Bombing and strafing continued all
round the Pacific from Osaka to For-
mosa and from Formosa to the China
coast, where Vice-Admiral McCain’s
carriers attacked Hongkong dock areas
in a daylong shuttle raid with both
heavies and dive-bombers. The main
target was Taikoo dry-dock.
On January 21 Tokyo reported heavy
carrier-borne attacks on Formosan ports
and airfields and on Okinawa in the
Ryukus. The enemy claimed to have
destroyed 38 American aircraft and
damaged 21, Tokyo showed great ner-
vousness about naval operations, and
appears to believe that some attack,
possibly against Indo-China, is imminent.
The Admiralty reported during the
week that British submarines had sunk
84 enemy vessels in Far Eastern waters,
many of them carrying fuel, ammunition
and supplies to Japanese garrisons.
The A.I.F. at Work
“Ek Dum”: Australian troops have
not yet met heavy fighting in the
part of New Guinea they took over
from the Americans. On New Britain
their patrols are edging forward in the
Wide Bay-Open Bay area, preparing for
the assault on Rabaul.
On the mainland north coast in two
months’ patrolling Australians have killed
900 Japanese, apart from dead due to
bombing and disease.
The Japanese appear to be seeded in
small parties throughout the Torricelli
foothills, whence they are being winkled
out by Australian tank, mortar, artillery
and infantry units, after they have been
found and bombed by the R.A.A.F. So
far, there has been no report of the where-
abouts of any large cohesive forces,
though the Australians have worked
deeply into the mountains from their
Walum base, 45 miles s.-east of Aitape,
and have reached a coastal village 57
miles to the east, via the Danmap River.
Three enemy bases have been bombarded
heavily from the sea by an Australian
destroyer. A Japanese general, believed
to be Lt.-General Manogoro, was killed
by Bren gunners.
On Bougainville, according to the
Maoriland official correspondent, the full
weight of the joint Australian-N.Z. offen-
sive has not been developed. The cam-
paign was opened by A.I.F. mortars
along the Numa Numa trail, apparently
surprising the Japs, who had no inkling
of what was to come, of the changeover in
personnel on the perimdter. But the first
attack was only to remove a threatening
flank position. Since then the A.I.F.
have widened their perimeter.
So the enemy has already had good
reason to know that he is in the presence
of seasoned and enterprising soldiers who
have seen service in battle both in Africa
and New Guinea. These keep up heavy
pressure with artillery and mortar and
harass him continually with patrols.
Ground forces have ample air support
from experienced M.L. Corsair Squadroqs.
H.M.S. Howe.
“It is upon the Navy, under the good Provi-
dence of Go’d, that the wealth, safety and
strength of the Kingdom do chiefly depend.”
“Ek Dum”: She turned up out of the
sand curtain in Port Jackson and made a
ladylike way up the harbor, ship dressed
and wearing her colors with an air. She
was the first ship seen in Port Jackson
for many a long day wearing the
St. George’s Cross, which in England
is the flag of an admiral and of Anglican
Churches; the blazon which from before
Agincourt decorated the breast of every
English soldier for centuries.
As a ship, Sydney had never Seen her
like, with her quadruple 14-inch turrets,
her heavy armor, the bristle of anti-
aircraft defence about her and the great
cliff of steel towering above her fo’c’sle.
For several days Howe and her com-
plement lay in Sydney Harbor, so quietly
that half Sydney did not know for some
time that she was there. The only signs
of her presence to those whose business
did not take them in her direction were
a busy-looking set of signal halyards on
a tripod mast and a fire-control top stick-
ing up over a green promontory.
But she was there, a very grim and
solid fact and an object-lesson for those
of little faith, or none.
Three years before, within a few days,
Pearl Harbor had been filled with tangled
wreckage, and Prince of Wales and
Repulse had gone down in the oily waters
off Malaya. Then the flapper press
screeched that if only the British had
built bombers instead of battleships there
would have been no disaster, but that,
anyway, the day of the Navy was done,
and that the only way to save the world
for civilisation was to let the Americans
settle the problems of India and arm the
400,000,000 Hindu, Chinese and Malayan
“democrats” —they were not fighting be-
cause they had been oppressed by
British capital. The cry of “Send for
Timoshenko!” was heard. It was impos-
sible to attend a picture show without
seeing a large, white-faced representation
of little Mr. Heffron, the Minister for
Home Security, whispering “It can
happen here.” And the remark of Mr.
Churchill that he had not assumed office
to liquidate the British Empire was treated
as if he had jested on the gallows.
Now, three years afterwards, the lap,
who had been expected by thousands
every morning with the milk in De-
cember, 1941 —wasn’t the Blue Mountains
road prowded, and weren’t flats round the
harborside empty?—wasn’t here. And
the Royal Navy, represented by Prince
of Wales’s sister, was going about its law-
ful occasions in work-stained white rig,
but without fuss, refusing to be put out
by anything so common, in the life of
the Navy as the war.
Prince of Wales had been sunk; but
Howe had been commissioned in her
place, and due provision had been made
so that no such accident would happen
to her.
In the three years between December,
1941, and December, 1944, various
momentous changes had, after the un-
obtrusive British fashion, been brought
about on the High Seas. The navy and
the mercantile marine had toiled and
moiled and become pock-marked in pro-
cess of saving Malta. In 1941 on all seas,
892 British merchant ships were sunk;
by the end of 1943 these losses had
reached 2921. Yet Royal Navy and Mer-
chant Navy had stuffed Egypt with the men,
the gear and the guns that had won Ala-
mein and set the tide pouring back towards
Germany. They had fed and armdd
North Africa. They had plastered Sicily
and battered Salerno —Howe, was in both
those picnics and she went to Taranto
to lead Musso’s armed gondolas towards
Valetta, The U-boat had been defeated.
The enemy had been swept from the
Murmansk route, from the Channel, from
the Atlantic, the Mediterranean and the
Indian Ocean. The dolphins were scratch-
ing themselves on the hulks of the last
two German battleships somewhere near
North Cape.
And these little tasks accomplished, all
in good time and without noise, the Navy
had moved southward, with Howe in the
van, pausing a while to sharpen its
teeth on Sumatran bases, and ready at
its leisure to pay off all scores without
heat of excitement.
It is a sovereign lesson in the superior-
ity of actions over words in time of crisis.
Rundstedt's Salient Shrinks.
“Ek Dum”: Amidst all the excitement
about the Russian offensive, events in
Belgium, not unimportant, were scarcely
noticed save by Mr. Churchill.
In a generous account of occurrences
since December 16 the Prime Minister
said that the defeat of the German
counterstroke was the greatest American
battle of the war, and would, he thought,
be regarded for ever as a famous Ameri-
can victory. Only one British corps was
engaged ; the rest, more than 30 divisions,
were American, and the Americans lost
70 to 80 men to every one British.
The British-Canadian armies, the P.M.
proceeded, lost 40,000 men in opening
the Scheldt. When the battle of Decem-
ber 16 began the bulk of the British
forces were “scores of miles” from the
battleground. There were trying days.
But
Field-Marshal Montgomery and General
Bradley handled their forces in a manner
which may become a model in the future,
and all troops fought magnificently.
A Stubborn Retirement
The unfortunate fact remains that there
has been no German debacle. Neither
has the enemy’s line of retreat ever been
seriously threatened. He holds the great
Elsenborn concentration areas, which
were assembly ground's for German mili-
tary masses both in 1914 and 1940. And
a start is only being made by General
Patton at Diekirch, on the south, and by
General Bradley’s First Army, on the
north, at St. Vith, to retake the St. Vith-
Luxembourg road and to invade the
valley of the Our, which runs north and
south parallel with this strategic road
and about 20 miles east of Bastogne, and
wipe out the remainder of the salient. At
some points the enemy front at the Week-
end was 20 miles nearer the Channel and
Paris than it was on December 16 along
the American sector. Bitter weather is
hampering both sides, and the air forces
have not yet gained full play.
In the Rhine Valley on either side of
Strasbourg, when the P.M. spoke, the
Germans still held the bridgeheads which
they had retaken on the western bank
of the river, and were still on the offen-
sive, though not making much ground.
South of Strasbourg their bridgehead was
an extensive one, reaching right into the
passes of the High Vosges, and their de-
fence of Colmar had so far been effective.
But the French First Army had begun to
make an impression on the southern Ger-
man flank. North of Strasbourg the
enemy was on the point of establishing a
new bridgehead and gaining fresh ground,
besides adding to his forces from across
the Rhine.
It is to be presumed that the Americans
planned to go on the offensive contem-
poraneously with the opening of the
Russian offensive. But while the Rus-
sian offensive was in full swing the First
and Third Armies were still engaged in
desperate, snow-clogged fighting to re-
gain the St. Vith-Bastogne Plateau and
about 700 square miles of valuable stra-
tegic front which von Rundstedt captured
and from which he was receding at the
week-end with measured and orderly
slowness, covered by rearguard, and
apparently without any crippling losses.
British Attacking
On the British sector along the Maas,
about 60 miles north-east of the area of
the hottest fighting in the bulge, British
troops have launched a series of drives
which seem to be aimed to straighten out
a tangled situation. The main objec-
tives are to break up a German bridge-
head still held in Holland, in the bleak
marsh country between Venlo and Roer-
mond, where the Roer joins the Maas,
and to push forward the flank sector
next to the American Ninth Army and
clamp Allied fingers on a bit more of the
Roer itself. In bitter cold and driving
snow the British have been edging for-
ward in all sorts of directions on a front
so confused that sometimes the advance
is being made from Holland towards Ger-
many, sometimes from Germany towards
Holland, sometimes inside Germany to-
wards the Rhine. The operation is limited
to about 300 squares miles of country, and
is not a main offensive —its objectives are
purely local.
Casualties
One factor which has to be considered
in relation to recent operations on the
Western Front is that of casualties. Mr.
Stimson, the Secretary for War, last week
estimated German losses in the Battle of
the Bulge at between 110,000 and 130,000,
including 50,000 taken prisoner. Nothing
is said of the nature of the troops taken,
and this is a vital factor. The core of
the German fighting forces is formed of
comparatively small and highly trained
specif combat troops. One platoon of
these is worth a regiment of shambling
Russian conscripts or Poles or of the
ancient Volksturm.
U.S. war casualties at September 28
and since:
Army, Navy and Marines.
Sept. 28 Nov. 1. Jan. 1.
Killed .. .. 90,082 109,265 143,108
Wounded .. 202,106 258,654 380,880
Missing.. .. 56,910 62,933 77,931
Prisoners .. 53,205 58,108 61,940
Total •• 402,303. 488,060 663,849
Thus in three months the U.S. forces
on land and sea have been losing an
average of 87,000 men a month from the
front line. Mr. Stimson placed U.S.
casualties on the Western Front for De-
cember at 74,000. It has been admitted
that the losses in Europe are “taxing re-
placements.”
If the estimated German casualties
contain even 70 per cent, of real front-
line troops, the enemy has put up a re-
markable performance in keeping his
movements under control. Never before
in operations against Western Allies has
he been able to support such attrition
without suffering a rout.
Tough fighting lies ahead.
Back to Silesia.
“Ek Dura”: More than a year ago—
B. 22 1 12/’43—it was here written:
On the Russian front the Germans
might continue to go back until they reacn


Personal and Missing Friends.
IN the Estate of MARY JANE CLAYFIELD late of
■Coonawarra Widow Deceased.- —WILL PERCIVAL
LINDSAY CLAYFIELD, last heard of as a builder
near Rainbow, Victoria, please communicate with
the undersigned.—WALLACE & CLARK, Solicitors,
Naracoorte, S.A.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME .COURT 0F NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
BETWEEN JOSEPH MATTHEW MALLON Petitioner
and ELLEN MALLON Respondent.—TAKE NOTICE
that JOSEPH MATTHEW MALLON has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 4603 of 1944 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards You may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by 31st March 1944 and obtain a copy of
the petition from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solici-
tors Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
BETWEEN MOLLIE McORATH Petitioner and
WILLIAM McGRATH Respondent.—TAKE NOTICE
that MOLLIE McGRATH your wife has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 3701 of 1944 on the grounds
of desertion without just cause ,or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the Second day of
March One thousand nine hundred and forty-five and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
BRADY & GADEN Solicitors 110 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— (l.s,) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
the natural battlegrounds and defence lines
of their own border country. Every mile
they move back they would lengthen the
Russian communications and leave behind
the fresh responsibilities for the Russians
in the shape of a devastated countryside,
devoid of power and fuel and populated by
millions of poor people, ill-clad and ill-fed;
many perhaps dying in the snow. At the
borderland of Germany proper the natural
defence positions ’are strong and diverse,
and the strategy of holding them and using
them for offensive purposes has been
worked out for a century and more.
It was added that German border de-
fences could be manned with a third the
number of men needed by the Germans
when the Wehrmacht covered the 2600-
mile line from Lake Ladoga to the Cau-
casus —the defence line round eastern and
southern Germany, Koenigsberg to
Trieste op the Italian edges, would be
about 1000 miles. It was written also that
the eastern borders of Germany were
contiguous to organised internal war-
industrial areas and communications, and
that the distance between eastern and
western fronts was so small that switch-
ing of corps was a trifle compared with
the problems of switching in 1942-43
from the Volga to France. It was pointed
out that some German strategists be-
lieved that the proper place to fight Rus-
sians was inside Silesia.
When these things appeared the enemy
held the Upper and Far Lower eastern
banks of the Dnieper. He has followed
almost exactly the programme outlined
above. He has defended one after
another the river barriers, each period of
defence being preliminary to another long
retreat. The Russians have never been
able to bring him to decisive battles.
But now this must come, for the Ger-
man possibilities of retreat have been
almost exhausted, and the Russians —
they have a better terrain for attack
than the Anglo-Americans—will have to
fight against a closed defence on lines as
short as those in western Europe. Their
doing this at an advantage will depend
upon their ability to smash through
quickly. In a few weeks weather condi-
tions will be less favorable to them, and
they may be assailing fortress positions,
well stocked, they themselves having long
communication lines over bad roads.
Reporting as Usual
Reporting of the Russian drive is
running true to form. Communiques are
not published, though scraps of them
are, often irreconcilable with the general
purport of these effusions. This is no
new thing, the public having never been
trusted to learn of events unfavorable to
the Russians. Newspaper readers in
general, for instance, are blissfully un-
aware that the Russians in East Prussia
had to fight in November a Battle of the
Bulge there similar to the Battle of the
Bulge in Belgium in December, and that
they lost more ground than did General
Bradley. “History,” as written by the
peahen press, has been silent about the
failure of the Russians to annihilate the
30 German divisions in Latvia, whose
destruction was declared to be beginning
on November 6.
In the present operations the Germans
have abandoned one line after another ;
in Poland, the Vistula line south of Mod-
lin and the Kielce-Cracow hill line in the
south ; in East Prussia the Johannisberg-
Tannenberg defence positions inside the
southern border of the province and the
Niemen line in the north. They have
been retreating everywhere to main Ger-
man defence lines similar to those which
they occupy in the west, from the Dutch
border to the upper waters of the Rhine.
Key base points are Koenigsberg,
Danzig, Thorn, Posen (Posnan), Bres-
lau, Neisse and the Beuthen-Gleiwitz
groups of industrial towns, of which
Katowice is in Poland. Whether they
can or wish to hold these positions re-
mains to be seen. They might easily fall
back to the Oder in the north as in the
south, leaving Danzig and Koenigsberg
as enclaves as they have left Dunkirk and
St. Nazaire.
They have retreated in the same way
as they retreated from the Volga and
from Normandy, but without preliminary
battles. The length of their retreats has
been determined by the distance .from the
original front of the main German border
defences, which also has determined the
fierceness of their resistance.
Contrasting Retirements
On the southern sectors of the Sando-
miercz-Baranov bridgehead the enemy’s
retirement began. His forces in that region
travelled at a great pace right inside the
German Silesian border. Next, the area
further north, centreing on Warsaw, gave
way, the northern flank in the Modlin
area being cleared at the same time and
allowing the Russians to move up into
the region within the East Prussian
frontier. Warsaw was left in ruins; not
a living soul was found when the Rus-
siqns entered. The German fronts along
the eastern face of the East Prussian
border shrank back a maximum of
24 miles on both sides of the Romin-
ten Forest, over country which the
Russians already have once occupied,
but from which tjiey have once already
been driven. Then the Niemen line on
the extreme north caved in. In the far
south of Poland, Cracow and part of
the Gorlice-Tarnow area were aban-
doned.
From the Carpathians to the Baltic the
Germans were pursued by the Russians,
who travelled 100 miles westward from
Warsaw in three days and 150 miles
from the Sandomiercz bridgehead in five
days. Sometimes garrisons were left to de-
fend crossroads or communication knots
and to complete belated demolitions.
Where these were encountered there was
fighting. Towns and cities were usually
empty save for the rearguards—in Tilsit
there was a division, and 4000 prisoners
werfe claimed. In the main, the Russians
crossed even broad rivers without opposi-
tion.
But by the week-end great tank battles
were developing on the Silesian and
Posen approaches and round East Prussia.
As the Red Army neared the outskirts of
the main defences the pace of the ad-
vances slowed.
All this the hermit correspondents im-
mured hundreds of miles away in Mos-
cow reported with colorful detail, and
Australian headline writers and critics
elaborated. Composite picture as pre-
sented in the press:
The Russians with consummate art spent
five months secretly assembling such forces
as the world had never known along the
German front of the Vistula and East
Prussia, covering large stretches of plain
country and open roads without giving the
Germans the slightest inkling of what was
in store for them.
Suddenly one morning they opened* a
thunderous barrage “for two hours” with
300 to 400 guns to the mile as a preliminary
to another “greatest offensive in history.”
Instead of retiring to deep shelters or out
of range, as he has a habit of doing on
the western front —a habit which enabled
him in Normandy to survive heavier and
much longer bombardments than that men-
tioned, plus the effect of naval shelling
with 15in. guns and of bombing with thou-
sands of tons of heavy bombs of kinds
which the Russians haven’t got—the-enemy
sat down and when the “avalanche” or
“steamroller” fell on him was discovered
with blood pouring from his ears and his
brain matter reduced to pudding by the
terrible concussions.
The Russians then “surged” on, sweep-
ing down on pillboxes, “giant defences,”
minefields, tanks, big and little guns and
the usual hordes of fugitives in a flood
against which all defences were powerless.
One writer said that the Russians were
moving so fast that correspondents—that is,
Red Army correspondents, no others being
present—could not keep up with them.
Another said that the Russians were so
eager to get to Berlin that- they were not
waiting to count the German dead and
prisoners and booty—in previous battles
they were sometimes able to count 100,000
dead Germans spread over 1000 square
miles of battlefield in a few hours, while
still forging ahead.
And over the week-end the Russians were
“only” 220 miles from Berlin.
Germans Not Surprised
The transports of triumph needed con-
siderable taming. In the first place, the
Germans certainly were not surprised.
They began withdrawing the civil popu-
lation from Warsaw and other cities in-
volved last October, and early in Novem-
ber the Polish Telegraph Agency reported
that the bulk of civilians were out of War-
saw, whose power stations and water
supply facilities were then blown up.
Marshal Stalin announced on Novem-
ber 6 that a “decisive blow” was shaping
itself. Berlin said on November 8 that
the Russian winter offensive was immi-
nent. Berlin has' frequently mentioned the
matter since. It prophesied correctly the
area of the first attack a week befo|fe the
blow fell. And a fortnight before that
the Russian command allowed a pritish
correspondent, Russian by birth, to tour
the Vistula front and tell the world of
the magnitude of the offensive prepara-
tions, and where they had been made.
This suggests that the Russians knew that
they would not meet immediate resist-
ance across the river.
A commander whose troops are to cross
a large stream in force or who is about to
strike from k bridgehead at a formidable
adversary does not give his hand away.
Moreover, though the advance was
swift in some sectors, the theory that
those battle-races were achieved through
the inability of a seriously defending
enemy to resist the overwhelming power
of the Russian “steamroller” does not fit
some of the facts. Nor, of course, does
it tally with the strong enemy effort in
the Ardennes and on the Rhine.
First, though the Russians had it all
their own way in Poland, and though
Kielce, Radom, Warsaw, Lodz, Czesto-
chowa and Cracow, as well as Tilsit in
East Prussia (in ‘October the Russians
w'ere only a few miles from Tilsit and
Gumbinner), fell without any cardinal
resistance, the Germans usually an-
nouncing evacuation 24 hours or so be-
fore the Russians announced that they
had stormed each successive city, there
was no galloping at the extreme ends of
the line where the Red Army was already
in the vicinity of German main defences.
In East Prussia, on the Insterburg-
Rominten sectors, the Russian going was
in terms of two or three miles per day
in the outpost line over country which
had been held before. And it paused
20 miles or so from the frontier when
the first main outpost defence line before
the Angerapp River and the Lakes was
reached. The fall of Gumbinnen was
reported on January 21. The Germans
declared that there was bitter fighting in
Gumbinnen that day.
Resistance in Hungary
Though two Russian armies, one
battling inside Budapest, reported the
capture of blocks of buildings, the capital
of Hungary had not fallen while these
tumultuous events were occurring in
Poland and East Prussia. Berlin even
alleged that the Germans in Buda had
pierced the Russian investment ring,
though the Russians claimed 65,000
prisoners. Further west towards the
Vienna Gap, south of the Danube, and
at Komarno, north of the river, towards
Bratislava, the Russian advances seemed
actually to have recoiled.
Unfair Comparisons
All the shouting and tumult about the
German debacle in the east would do no
harm if it were isolated from comment
on the rest of the war. But the hysteria
of daily-paper writers is much like that
produced among bobby-sock brats when
Mr. Sinatra raises his voice in “song.”
And there are commentators who draw
invidious comparisons between Russian
energy and alleged British-American
sloth. A young gentleman accommodated
at Western Front H.Q. wrote in a strain
reminiscent of the impertinences of Mr.
Jimmy Aldridge;
In one week Koniev’s armored columns
have driven forward 130 miles. In the
same time, against the Ardennes bulge,
we’ve advanced 10 to 15 mi1e5...,.T0 win
sweeping victories on a grand scale you’ve
got to be prepared to take risks and suffer
heavy casualties... .We haven’t. We still
insist on archaic, outmoded tactical methods.
don’t secure decisive results which, of them-
selves, save lives Then there’s the ques-
tion of morale. Every Russian going into
battle is prepared to die for the cause.
He regards the cause as sacred. Every
' Anglo-American going into battle goes
into battle with the hope, possibly even
the expectation, that he won’t become a
casualty.
If speed in the almost unopposed ad-
vance in Poland is the Russians’ great
weapon, what was the weapon which the
British and Americans used when they
took 160,000 square miles of France and
Belgium save for small enclaves, between
August 9 and September 8? And when
General Montgomery’s armies, bursting
across the Seine on August 26-27, took
Brussels, and Antwerp, 211 miles away
from their start, on September 4? Russian
troops fresh from a battle of the magni-
tude of Caen have never approached that
performance.
And if there has been any event in
which greater risks were taken than in the
landing of a vast army in uncertain
weather on the hostile Norman shore,
history has not recorded it. If there has
been any “sweeping victory on a grand
scale” to surpass the victory of the Battle
of France, it would be worth hearing
about.
British methods in a three-dimensional
war in which Britain has battled with
Germany for nearly 5i years and with
Japan for upwards of three years, as well
as beating Italy in three years, have cost
the Empire over a million casualties.
The Americans have lost just under
700,000 in three years. And while the
Russians in upwards of years have
only just reached the point where they
can attack Germany proper, the British
and Americans have put Germany put of
the sea war and virtually out of the air
war, have suppressed Italy, reconquered
Africa and a large part of the Pacific
islands, smashed a large number of Ger-
man cities flat and done huge damage to
German war industries and communica-
tions. Russia has done little damage from
the air. And the Western Allies’ methods
brought them inside Germany far' ahead
of the Russians, even though they had to
invade across the sea.
As for the cowardly suggestion that the
British and American troops —parti-
cularly the British, whose families have
been in hourly danger of death from
bombs for five horrible years, and whose
children have known semi-starvation and
the lack of everything that makes life
bright and leisurely for all that time —do
not realise that they are fighting in a
“sacred cause” and go into battle intent
to avoid becoming casualties, the shades
of the dead of Normandy, of the Scheldt,
Arnhem and Bastogne and of the air and
the Seven Seas rise up to brand those who
promulgate the foul libel as the con-
temptible creatures they are.
Five Years' Casualties.
Empire casualties to November 30 were
reported from Canberra on January 17 —
killed, 282,162; missing, 80,580; wounded,
386,374; and prisoners, 294,438.
Australia: Killed, .18,015; missing, 6913;
wounded, 34,336; prisoners, 25,597. Total,
84,861.
Maoriland: Killed, 8919; missing, 928;
wounded, 17,115; prisoners, 7153. Total,
34,115.
Britain: Killed, 199,497; missing, 39,383 ;
wounded, 235,207; prisoners, 161,020.
Total, 635,107.
Canada: Killed, 28,040; missing, 4807;
wounded, 39,010; prisoners) 7128. Total,
78,985.
South Africa: Killed, 5783 ; missing, 599;
wounded, 11,796; prisoners, 10,765. Total,
28,943.
India: Killed, 17,415; missing, 13,935;
wounded, 45,224 ; prisoners, 76,023. Total,
152,597.
Colonies: Killed, 4493; missing, 14,015;
wounded, 3686; prisoners, 6752. Total,
28,946.
Civil and sickness casualties, both
heavy, are not included.
In brief:
Fighting on the Eighth and Fifth Army fronts
in Italy was limited to sharp patrol clashes in
the blizzard of snow, sleet and hail which made
large-scale operations well-nigh impossible, be-
sides grounding aircraft.
* * * *
The sorry Greek business appears to be
nearing its end with the reported agreement
by E.L.A-S. to release a large proportion of
civilian hostages. But it has cost 2100-odd
gallant British lives and Heaven alone knows
how many civilian lives or how much misery
and destruction.
* * # *
German V-2 bombing continues to add to the
miseries of one of the worst winters Britain
has known in a century. But Allied bombers
have had their own back from several large
German industrial and communication centres—
Heilbronn, Magdeburg, Munster and Mannheim
included —and the German Official Mews Agency
and Berlin Radio have admitted that Munich,
Nuremburg and Freiburg have ceased, because
of bombing, to function as organised city units.


Production is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty in
obtaining Gillette blades.
Keep ’em fit! You’ll have to make your Gillette
“Standard” blades last longer, just as you did the
Blue Gillette and the 7 o’clock blades they have
replaced. They can take it and give you the
finest shave you can buy.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
SPORTING NOTIONS
Randwick has been sorely smitten by the dry
spell. The flat is brown. In front of the tote
collect-windows in the paddock you churn
through loose sand like that back on a beach.
Yet the galloping track has been kept a picture,
and the going last Saturday was a credit to
those responsible for it. Attendance was 43,500,
and £130,728 15s. passed through the tote —
nearly £40,000 more than on the corresponding
day last year.
The defeat of Tea Rose in the Adrian Knox
Stakes was “an upset” rather than a surprise,
since her conqueror, the Talking filly Ribbon,
certainly was not lacking in form. Ribbon had
won at her only two previous starts, both
within the past month —the Bunnerong Handi-
cap (7f.) at Rosehill, in which she beat a big
field of fairly good three-year-olds, and the
New Year’s Gift at Randwick (Im. 13yds.; the
distance of Saturday’s race). On the other
hand, Tea Rose had failed in a race at Canter-
bury on January 6 which should have been an
exercise gallop tor the Craven Plate and Derby
winner.
Despite that recent form of the pair, and also
the fact that —to the present observer, at least —
Tea Rose, viewed in her stall and elsewhere be-
fore the race, looked a shade “thick,” backers
went at the books with fistfuls of notes, laying
up to 4 to 1 on this certainly most beautifully
conformed filly. She was rated such a good
thing that Ribbon and Miss Sovereign (third)
were joint second favorites at 7 to 1. Ribbon
led practically from start to finish. Tea Rose
ranged up to her with over a furlong to go,
but Ribbon had no trouble drawing away to win
comfortably by a length and a half.
Evidently the form in the Canterbury sprint
in which Tea Rose was beaten by Hedui
most misleading. Tea Rose on fhat occasion
was badly away, but was quite close enough
to the winner two furlongs from home to have
beaten him on her earlier form, which made
Hedui’s win look exceptionally good. In conse-
quence Hedui was one of the most favored
in the Challenge Stakes, at 5 to 1, along with
the winner, Felbeam, and Trimmer, with Abbe-
ville a point shorter. The backing of Trimmer
was an even stronger comment on human odd-
ness than the way they had gone for Tea Rose.
Though still a staunch galloper, he is rising 10,
was carrying 9.7, giving considerable weight to
everything else in the field (201 b. to the winner,
who had finished in front of him at their recent
previous meeting), and making his sixth attempt
to win the Challenge! And in his six attempts
he had only once been placed, though that was
a second last year to a good horse, Yaralla.
Perhaps that backing of Trimmer was a com-
pliment to his rider, D. Munro. The result was
certainly a compliment to Felbeam’s rider, J.
Thompson. Till then Thompson had ridden 24
successive losers, though not from lack of riding
trim or good horsemanship. He never rode
better than in getting Felbeam through to beat
Cooringwang narrowly, with Barnsley third.
Cooringwang might have won but for lugging
out nearing the judge; but, even so, Felbeam’s
win was full of merit. Hedui finished so far
back that he seemed completely outclassed, but
it would be as well to see him in another run
or two before accepting that. Abbeville was
back there with him, but will probably do better
in another sort of race. Grand Prodige was a
fast-finishing fifth, after being slowly away.
Thompson again rode at his best in bringing
Russia along in a nicely-judged finish to beat
Salivant in the January Handicap (about Ifm.).
Skip Bomber (third) once more finished excep-
tionally fast, and the extra two furlongs of
the Anniversary Handicap next Saturday should
allow him to show whether he is better at
actually winning than merely at finishing. He
meets Russia several pounds better in the
Anniversary, but Russia must have a good
chance again.
Another betting curiosity of last Saturday was
the neglect of Daramul (Dark Lover-Pyramul)
in the Valicare Handicap fqr two-year-olds. A
Randwick winner two starts back —when he
beat, among others, Monmouth and Double
Gift, who have both since won—Daramul was
then a 20-to-l chance, and was at even longer
odds on Saturday. He and the Le Grand Due
colt Edinburgh (6-to-4 favorite) dead-heated,
Daramul being in front in another stride.
Excusing beaten horses is like blaming the
prawns for the sore head next morning; but
the sturdy Nuffield colt Strauss looked decidedly
unlucky not to finish ahead of Daramul and
Edinburgh, instead of third. From No. 1 at the
barrier he was sent to No. 18 and a lot was
taken out of him in holding a place early. He
was in front at the leger but weakened.
There were two more of the unlucky brigade
in the Encourage Handicap (apprentice riders),
won by Severus (K. Day) from Silver Spear
and Waratah. The unlucky were Dinkum
Aussie (fifth) and R. Johnson, rider of Welling-
“Private Wilberforce, you’re still footfaulting!"
ton. Dinkum Aussie having suffered interfer-
ence which may have cost him the race, John-
son was adjudged responsible and suspended
for a month. Present writer had his modest
place-tote on Dinkum Aussie, so is unbiased
in stating that Wellington seemed extremely
difficult to handle. However Johnson may turn
out as a jockey he is no mean rider. Welling-
ton did not canter his prelim., but bucked it,
and sticking on him at all in that sort of
saddle would have been a credit to Skuthorpe.
Incidentally, another Bill (W.E.) Kelso, a son
of the Bill Kelso who recently passed on (he
has a Bill of his own at school) began well as
a trainer in this event. Waratah was his first
starter.
Active Service (Doon) missed the jump
slightly, but still easily accounted for Bru-
maire and Kimbell in the Paddington Handicap.
Active Service’s opening and remaining favorite
at 4 to 1 was attributed to “black market
betting operations the previous day. There isn t
now a meeting without such operations getting
considerable publicity. It raises the question
as to why if “black market” betting is so ram-
pant and so apparently well known it isn’t also
known to those responsible for checking that
sort of thing.
For Randwick next Saturday, Night Parade
looks on the weights (before acceptances) an
Anniversary possibility. Skip Bomber, Russia
and Royal Peer should also make a showing.
For the Australia Day Handicap (also before
acceptances), Hall Stand, Felbeam, Barnsley,
and for the Havilah Handicap, Strauss, Dara-
mul, D-Day.
.■p * * *
Although entries were taken only this week,
David’s Last became nominal favorite for the
Newmarket after his brilliant success in the
£1250 William Reid Stakes at Moonee Valley
last Saturday. Always favorite, he was quickly
in front, and streaked way to win easing up
by 34 lengths from Chatfield, with Busybody
third." A four-year-old entire by David from
the Comedy King mare Queen Carnival, David s
Last is bred to get any distance, but sprinting
is his forte. He is engaged in all the rich
autumn sprints.
Claudette, Australia’s most versatile mare,
carried 9.6 to success in the £lOOO Cranmallan
Handicap. The fast pace suited this genuine
stayer, who easily outstayed Huntingdale after
the latter had momentarily looked the winner
at the top of the straight. Claudette eased in
the betting from 10 to 1 to 20 to 1. She has
raced throughout the spring and summer
months, but looks as well as ever and is to be
kept in w-ork for the Australian Cup. Triton’s
fast-finishing third drew attention to his
immediate prospects. He failed when favorite
for the Australian Cup last year, but might do
better this autumn.
Royal Gem and Britisher gave bookmakers
50-to-l results in the Niddrie Handicap and
first Tweedside Handicap respectively. Royal
Gem, a two-year-old colt by Dhoti from French
Gem, is bred well enough to win almost any-
thing. His dam, also owned by G. Badman, of
Adelaide, won the Oaks. Britisher, a three-year-
old gelding by John James from Redgrass,
looked beaten at the top of the straight, but
raised another effort to defeat the warm favorite,
Kinder Chick, by a head.
First, last, and first is the latest record of
Evidence, whose 15-to-l success in the Calder-
meade Highweighf was not appreciated by many
backers. It transpires that there was a good
excuse for his failure at Mentone a week earner.
While in the mounting enclosure he had been
kicked by another horse. His win on Saturday
completed a double for owner A. G. Silk,
who mid won the Warrook Hurdle with Promise
Me. With two successive wins, Promise Me
has proved a fine bargain at the 325 guineas
he cost his new owner, and he might develop
National form.
« * * *
Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing Club is to adapt
i,ts big picnic meeting on Easter Monday to war-
time conditions. Difficulty of transport in the
hills makes it for the second time leave home
for the city. It will have two days at Morphett-
ville, Easter Saturday and Monday, giving in
stakes £9OOO, a record for this club. The Great
Easter Steeple of three miles, with maximum
weight 13 stone, is worth £2lOO, including a
fourth prize. There will also be a trial gallop
over ten furlongs in a Jumpers’ Flat the preced-
ing Saturday, limited to the acceptors —being
publicly-kaown performers —in the Steeple.
* * * *
In Sydney grade cricket O’Reilly has
taken 51 wickets this season. For St.
George v. Randwick he bagged 14 for
,65 ; and then his side lost, being thus
relegated to seventh position—there are
16 clubs. Waverley, a good even side
with no stars, leads from Randwick and
North Sydney (bracketed), whose main
attraction, when not otherwise engaged,
is the much-discussed Barnes.
No man bearing a name associated
with international cricket has gone higher
in any war than Air-Marshal Sir Arthur
Coninghan. In 1943 he commanded the
First Tac ical Air Force in the Mediter-
ranean A r Command ; in January, 1944,
he was n vmed Air Officer Commanding
the Secon I Tactical Air Force in Britain;
since ;he end of October he has been
C.-in-C. Second Tactical Air Force, with
administrative control of all R.A.F. units
in north-west Europe. The Air-Marshal
is a son of the Coningham who played
for Queensland, N. S. Wales and Aus-
tralia —not a great cricketer, but a useful
all-rounder, and an interesting fellow to
watch. He was Johnnie Briggs’s Aus-
tralian rival as a humorist, and he upset
even the gravity of belltoppered old
English gents, sticklers for the rigor of
the game, when, on a cold day at Lords,
he made a heap of bits of paper and dry
grass and set a match to it to warm his
hands. The present Arthur Coning-
ham was educated and grounded as a
warrior in Maoriland —he was in the first
N.Z.E.F. —but Brisbane can claim him as
a son, as it can R. G. Casey, latest of the
line of Governors of Bengal which be-
gan with Warren Hastings.
* * * *
“Tuart”: To the delight of “S. M.
Herald” Mr. Westbury won his argument
with Mr. McNamee at Mr. Miller’s
Stadium. Mr. Westbury is the “Herald’s”
favorite pug, and while he was getting
into shape for Mr. McNamee—very
necessary in Mr. Westbury’s case, as Mr.
Westbury runs to corpulence the
“Herald” beat all its contemporaries in
photographing Mr. Westbury in various
attitudes and giving interesting details of
his private life, though competition was
brisk.
Certain that the war was nearly over,
since the Russians were leapfrogging to
Berlin, about 11,000 “sports” surged into
Mr. Miller’s Stadium, so Mr. Westbury
and Mr. McNamee were richly repaid for
their exertions. So, of course, were Mr,.
Miller and party. Mr. Westbury’s
methods of argument were more ener-
getic than those of Mr. McNamee, and
it was obviously for this reason that Mr.
Wallis, an adjudicator of width and wis-
dom, laid his massive hand on Mr. West-
bury’s head, which, as a result of inces-
sant study, is somewhat deficient in hair.
Inches taller, and longer in the reach, Mr.
McNamee scored heavily, emphasising
his arguments with “lefts,” in the early
part of the debate, but after the fourth
interval Mr. Westbury brought all his
powers to bear. A solid attack, pushed
home with the right, muddled the Mc-
Namee mind, and Mr. McNamee could
not think fast enough to miss another
right that knocked him halfway through
the ropes. Thenceforward Mr. McNamee
was on the defensive,' and though he
scored points with long, straight lefts
there was little between them when they
retired for a twelfth spell. Mr. Westbury
proved to have a greater amount of logic
—and bash —in reserve. The end of the
fifteenth tussle of wits found both tired
but happy in anticipation of the cheques
that awaited them. Mr. Westbury had a
clear, though slight, advantage.
SjC * * *
“Wodgil”: “The ever-popular Eddie
Ward” (Sydney “Labor Standard”) is far
from being the only Labor politician who
goes to the fights—that is, the box-fights,
as our allies say. Do these worthies ever
give a thought to the future of the young
fellows who entertain them? Boxing is
a dangerous trade. Over the years not a
few men have been killed in Sydney rings,
and many more have been blasted for
life by taking too many punches on the
head. Yet pugilists were excluded from
the N.S.W. Workers’ Compensation Bill
a Labor measure, though other contract,
laborers —unionists, of course- —were in-
cluded, No protest against this discrimi-
nation has ever been made in Parliament
by a Lqbor member, nor is there any
recorded objection from the same
quarter when, in the name of “sport. ’ a
word with a hollow sound, a bad match is
blatantly urged on a pug who
been warned that he should retire. A
case of this kind is common talk in Syd-
ney at the moment. “The ever-popular
Eddie Ward” should look into it.
* * *
Quite a mild fellow outside the ring'
A 1 Walker is a very rough customer in-
side. Reappearing at Leichhardt after a
six months’ suspension, he tried to reduce
Max Cameron to submission by buttm-
him. Cautions had no effect on
Walker, and when he began the nttn
round by bringing his head sharpy
against Cameron’s kisser he was waved
back to his corner, it being more than even
a Leichhardt referee could stand.
Brander, now a serviceman, stopped
Harry Phillips in the second' round or -
supporting bout.


Woman's Letters
From Sydney.
Over 2000 people viewed the portraits
in the Archibald prize contest last
Saturday. Joshua Smith’s' portrait of
J. S. Rosevear, Speaker of the House
of Representatives, is the winning
entry. It is an alive and virile
statement, and would win attention in any
gallery. Such is the psychology of the
thing that, following last year’s contro-
versy over the award, the public was so
anxious to view the display that long
before ten o’clock, opening hour at the
National, there ‘was a small crowd
clustered about the entrance. Fathers
had brought their children, servicemen
their girls, ordinary blokes their news-
papers and pressmen their cameras. A
passing taxi-man stopped to inquire the
reason for the gathering, and said he’d
certainly bring the wife to see the show
the next day.
The conscientious observer is liable to
develope callouses before he gets around
the entries—there are 185 of them. On
the whole, the portraits of women sub-
jects are not as striking as the males.
Dame Enid Lyons, by Mary Edwards,
is very blithe and gay in diaphanous
frock, her decorations and a cloud of
blue feather fan. Sylvia Davis has
painted herself, so has Phyllis Shillito.
There is Gladys Moncrieff, in miniature
effect. Down at the end of the Gallery
is Alison Rehfisch, in black taffettas, by
George Duncan. There’s a dashing pic-
ture of Commodore John Collins,
R.A.N., and Dr. Katie Ardill Brice,
0.8. E., has been put on record by Henry
Minton. Art critic Jimmy Macdonald,
of Melbourne, was an early comer.
The V.A5.—3500 of them —will parade
through the city streets next Friday
morning. Usually the yearly parade
is in the sylvan seclusion of Cen-
tennial Park. This year Principal
Commandant Lady Wakehurst, who
will take the salute at the Town Hall, has
asked that the girls take the service march
route, starting at the Mitchell Library
at half-past ten. From there the blue
uniforms will flash along Martin-place,
George-street, along Bathurst and Eliza-
beth streets and so to the Domain. Here
there will be lunch and then follows a
harbor cruise. Fifteen hundred of the
V.As. come from country districts, so
that should be a pleasant item.
On Friday night at the Town Hall the
Wilfred Johnson Cup will be presented
by Lady Wakehurst to the team scoring
highest in general proficiency. Visits to
Red Cross convalescent homes, theatre
parties and church parades are listed.
Joint Assistant State Controller Dorothy
Wilby has a busy time ahead meeting
country trains and arranging hospitality
for the visitors.
The third of February is the date set
for the Nuptial Mass at which Margaret
Fagan and Peter (Mit.) Loneragan will
exchange vows. Margaret is having a bit
of flower trouble—drought conditions are
responsible for a limited choice of blooms
—but there are to be large baskets of
flowers on the bridal table and smaller
ones on the guests’ tables. These will be
spread at the Australia following the Mass,
which will be at ten o’clock in St. Mary’s
Cathedral. Margaret is a daughter of the
late R. J. Fagan and Mrs. Fagan of Sunny
Ridge, Mandurama, and ’groom is one of
the well-known Mudgee clan. Mrs. Cliff
Gearin will be matron of honor; Marie
Fagan will be her sister’s bridesmaid. An
outsize pre-wedding party for both Mar-
garet and Pam Parsons (who will marry
Dr. John Cahill tomorrow) was given
yesterday at the Australia by Mrs.
Gearin. About a year ago these two
acted as her ’maids.
When actress Connie Hobbs said
revoir to the Firm ten years ago and went
off to England she never in her wildest
dreams visualised the thousands of miles
she would travel, the many lands she
would visit, before sighting Sydney Heads
again. Almost since the outbreak of the
War she and husband Jack Murray have
toured the battlefronts with E.N.S.A.,
totting up about 48,000 miles. They were
in France just before Dunkirk. West
Africa, Egypt, Palestine, Syria, Iraq,
Egypt, Tripoli are some of the spots
Where the two have unpacked their
greasepaints. They arrived in Sydney
last week, by way of India, where they
had been giving shows. They are staying
in Chatswood with Mrs. Murray’s family.
Died recently, “Bay” Booth, of Kirri-
billi, who, like her sister, Dr. Mary
Booth, had a fine record of work during
and after World War I. One big achieve-
ment was the founding of what was first
known as the Belgian, later the Allied,
Baby Kit movement. The sending of
these kits to sorely-tried mothers at the
other ends of the world was revived in
this war under the direction of the Anzac
Fellowship of Women. AtThe suggestion
of General Wallack, Base Commandant
of N.S.W. during 1914-1918, Miss Booth,
with a group of helpers, opened the first
Centre for Soldiers’ Wives and Mothers
at 86 Pitt-street.
The Centres multiplied till there were
24 in and around Sydney. At them every
form of welfare work was explored, and
in addition they became a sort of popular
and pleasant club for the women whose
men were away fighting. In the interval
between upheavals the need for the
Centres faded, but two monuments
remain: one the fountain at the Gates
of Remembrance at Woolloomooloo, the
other the use of rosemary on Anzac Day.
This sweet-smelling herb, with tragic
Ophelia’s words “For remembrance,”
were adopted by the Centre. Now it is
the nation’s emblem on April 25.
In addition to his life work of build-
ing bigger, better and brighter babies,
knight Truby King was one of Maori-
land’s leading alienists, so the news of
the marriage of his daughter Mary will
be of interest across the Tasman. Mary
was married in St. Xavier’s Cathedral,
Adelaide, after an engagement of one
week, to Flying-Officer Anthony H.
White. Her suit, Leghorn hat and
shoulder spray of water lilies were in
yellow tones. She was given away by
Dr, Eugene McLaughlin, and Mrs.
Eugene McLaughlin was matron of honor.
Flight-Lieut. Peter Siebert was best man.
Mrs. Tony White is pictured here.
Flying-Officer White is the son of Mrs.
Marcelle White of Araluen, Aldgate, Adel-
aide Hills, and of the late Thomas Edward
White, of Moura Estate, Parkes, N.S.W.
He has served four years overseas, mostly
in the Middle East, where he was
wounded. His only brother, Flight-
Lieutenant Alan Maxwell White, was
killed in action in Malaya.
There can be nothing but admiration
for the New Year aims of the Feminist
Club. The members are opening a fund
to provide a home for an aged couple.
Nor will they be satisfied with one —presi-
dent Mrs. P. A. Cameron and her sup-
porters visualise" a whole settlement of
comfortable homes for both married and
single of declining years* If the scheme
is realised —and, of cqurse, no‘start can
be made until building restrictions are
relaxed —all Feminists will go straight to
heaven, because the tenants in these good-
will houses will offer so prayers of
thanksgiving. Club members have even
decided on the name for their settlement.
It will be called Eventide Village.
Lapstone will supply pleasant surround-
ings and .other amenities for the
U.N.R.R.A. conference, which will com-
mence on February 15. Delegates have
already arrived in Sydney from overseas
and from other States. Several of them
have had direct contact with the work
of U.N.R.R.A. - , among these Dr. Dorothy
Jacquelin, of San Francisco, Mrs. Mar-
garet Hall, a graduate of Oxford, and
Mrs. Dorothy Jamieson, of Washington.
Mrs. Carlile Mac Donnell, president of the
Australian Federation of Women Voters,
is over from Adelaide for the discussions.
Sydney’s well-known Eleanor Hinder is
among the delegates. She is a represen-
tative of the United Kingdom on welfare
and industrial rehabilitation committees.
On a Chatswood-bound tram a short,
dark man and a tall red-head were deep
in discussion. “Well, anyhow,” said the
short one with determination, “I still say
Charlie Chaplin’s a bit barmy.” “Oh,
go on,” growled his mate ; “look at all
the money he makes. He must be a
good actor.” “Oh, his acting’s all right,”
agreed the first speaker; “but didn’t you
see the other day in the papers that he
asked a girl if she didn’t think he was like
Peter Pan”— — “Is that fair dinkum?”
asked red-head. “Well, of course, he
must be nuts —fancy a man thinking he’s
like a racehorse!”
From Melbourne
Last week’s most imperial social affair
was the garden party given at Govern-
ment House by the Mann lady, wife of
the Acting-Governor, to the next-of-kin
of Victorian prisoners of war. Over one
thousand guests were present. The nos-
tess greeted most of them personally.
Among them was the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, who is one of
the lucky mothers who have heard from
their sons. Edward Campbell has been
a prisoner of war in Japan for three years,
and his mother has received several cards
from him. After three weeks’ holiday in
Tasmania, this busy lady has returned full
of fresh energy and new ideas.
Many of this city’s smart lasses who
have done well in the services open to
women have now given up a uniform and
become } steeped in domestic bliss. The
smiling lass pictured here by Athol
Shmith was Joan Coleman, but is now
the wife of Captain Ralph Freedman and
the fond mamma of three-months-old
Anne Susan. Joan, who was educated at
St. Catherine’s, joined the Australian
Women’s Medical Service when members
were known as V.A.D’s and wore navy-
blue uniforms instead of army khaki.
For 18 months Joan wore her smart uni-
form and worked hard ; some of the time
in the Seymour Camp Hospital, but later
in Melbourne in a clerical job.
Now domiciled in a charming flat at
Pasadena, St. Kilda-road, Joan is busy
caring for the welfare of her soldier hus-
band and rearing Anne Susan, who is
daily growing strong and beautiful.
Baby’s greatest admirer is godmother
Freda Avery, who until her marriage was
Freda Connelly, and sister of Iris, now
Mrs. John Russell Clarke. The three
sisters were often s'een together at big
race meetings.
The staff of the Melbourne branch of
A.B.C. has its own patriotic fund. To
swell this bank account the members re-
cently produced “Three for Luck,” a play
by Mabel Constanduros. All members
of the cast were chosen on their merits
and did a good job. Roland Strong, as
the diffident English husband, was excel-
lent; and Valerie Paling, as Sweetbread the
maid, gave a good character study. Pretty
usherettes were Sheila Sawrey, striking
in royal blue crepe, and Diana Howard
in a long floral frock. Smartly garbed in
black and sporting a tiily black hat with
tulle rosettes at either side of her well-
groomed hair, Helen Lockhart managed
the musical part of the programme. In-
terested members of the audience were
Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Medley, who were
accompanied by daughter, Diana, a
pretty lass in dusty pink. Prof, and Mrs.
A. C. Taylor were also in the audience.
A conference arranged by the Federa-
tion of University Women considered the
question of “Education in the Post-war
World.”. Delegates, representing every
State in the Commonwealth, met in the
Commerce School at Melbourne Univer-
sity. Dr. Helen Mayo, of Adelaide, deli-
vered the presidential address. Later jthe
delegates were entertained at afternoon
tea in the Union House. Mrs. R. Wo
McKellar, Victorian president of the Fed-
eration, and Prof. Rivett’s wife repre-
sented Victoria. “Physical Education”
was presented for discussion by N. S.
Wales delegates. Among those represent-
ing the Senior State was its Director of
Infant Welfare, Dr. Grace Cuthbert. She
was accompanied by Miss Margaret Wal-
kom and Miss Commins. Victoria
initiated talks on “Vocational Guidance”
and Tasmania presented a paper on
t
“Schools.”. Queensland, Westralia and
South Australia also contributed interest-
ing papers. A dinner in the Victoria Ban-
quet Hall, to which delegates and their
friends were invited, closed the proceed-
ings.
Bonnie McCallum, whose job in life
is looking after celebrities brought to this
country, had a busy time recently getting
together a few kindred souls to meet Fred
Hartley. Fred is from England, under
contract to the A.8.C., and will do his
best to lighten the musical moments of
national programmes. He was in Mel-
bourne for just a few hours and then
went on to Sydney, but he’ll be back
again, he says.
Pianist Vera Bradford, after a holiday
in which she tramped many miles over
Gippsland, is making plans for the com-
ing musical season. Phyllis Batchelor,
composer-pianist, is making ready for a
recital she will give later in the year.
French residents in this city are at work
on a scheme to make local lads and lasses
au fait with current French literature and
art. The French Charge d’Affaires, M.
Monmayou, was most enthusiastically
greeted when he received many guests at
a late-afternoon party at Menzies re-
cently. Prof. Chisholm, one of the guests,
broke forth into a paean of praise for all
things French. Maurice . Belz brought
his charming spouse, Marjorie, to the
party. Jeanne Gautier, the violinist, im-
peccably tailored, was another important
guest.
St. Hilary’s, Kew, provided a beautiful
setting for the wedding of Nan Cooper
and Wing-Commander John Phillips.
Nan wore a glorious gown of chalk-white
slipper satin, which fitted her slim figure
admirably and ended in a long flowing
train. Her filmy veil was held in place
by gardenias, and from her ivory prayer-
book fell a long trail of the same flowers.
Her only attendant was sister Barbara,
gowned in ice-blue satin. On her head
she wore a close-fitting cap of pale-pink
ostrich feathers with a grouping in front
of the same feathers in matching blue and
pink. Her posy of hydrangeas repeated
the same delicate tonings. John was sup-
ported by a brother officer, Group-Cap-
tain Vaughan Marshall. Mother of the
bride, Mrs. L. K. Cooper, was an attrac-
tive figure in deep blue with a small hat
in the same tonings, and she was accom-
panied by her bevy of daughters, among
them Margaret, who was garbed in white
linen with a wide sailor hat, the pink
ribbon trimmings matching the pink scroll
trimming on her suit.
It was an Air Force wedding with
many high-ranking officers present,
among them Group-Captain C. S. Wig-
gins, Wing-Commander L. J. Gibbes and
Wing-Commander George Pither. At the
reception, which was held at Grosvenor,
Toorak, the officiating clergyman (Rev.
Mace), the father of the bride. Brigadier
W. D. Chapman, a lifelong friend of the
Cooper family, and the bridegroom made
speeches. Pam Forster wore a chrome
yellow blouse with her short black moire
skirt and a skull cap of chrome yellow
feathers. Her fiance, Ned Holland, was
well in evidence. Phil Curtain wore a
navy-blue crepe suit, the pockets of
the jacket embroidered in tiny cry-
stal beads. Her tiny blue hat featured
deep red flowers and a swathe of veil-
ing. Mrs, Vaughan Marshall, wife of the
best man, was in beige, and Mrs. John
Madden was smartly gowned in parma
violet with a tiny flower hat in matching
tones. Emmie King, another friend of
long standing, wore sapphire blue, tiny
flowered hat and silver fox bolero.
Parents of the bridegroom, Mr. and Mrs.
J. Phillips, of Neutral Bay, Sydney, were
unable to be present at the ceremony, but
sent a telegram welcoming the lovely
bride into the family.
Claire Stott and Roland Kelly ex-
changed vows at St. Andrew’s kirk, Gar-
diner. War-time conditions and rationing
have wrought many changes, and the
modern bride accepts with pleasure the
offer of wedding attire worn by a friend ;
so Claire wore the gown of her friend
and matron-of-honor Audrey Milner.
Fashioned of ivory French lace, the gown
was outlined in seed pearls, and was worn
over magnolia satin. The long tulle veil
was held in place by a tulle crown, also
studded with seed pearls. A sheaf of
regal lilies completed a charming picture.
Mrs. M. D. Stott, mother of the bride,
was a distinguished figure in a pervanche
blue dinner gown, relieved with silver
beading, and she carried a loose spray of
stephanotis; the mother of the bridegroom
wore a long-sleeved black lace gown with
red roses as highlight. Pat Macdonald
and husband Spencer were among the
guests. Pat wore her wedding gown of
ice-blue satin minus train. Another lass
who put her wedding gown to further
use was Elaine Armstrong, who wore
white satin. Mrs. Jim Nankivell, gowned
in black velvet, was with husband, Cap-
tain Jim Nankivell.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAXSEASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Brummoyne, N.S.W
ds
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The" National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
Btnlt tnrirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ,
6
6
How to get at the
last few drops of
BRYLCREEM
All the Brylcreem at present being made Is going to the
Services, So that with Brylcreem being difficult to get,
those last few drops In your jar have become very precious
indeed. And because Brylcreem has such excellent tonic
ingredients, there's a lot of good in those few drops. So
we suggest you get them out by adding a teaspoonful of
clean, cold water and shaking the jar vigorously. You'll find
every drop of cream will come cleanly away from the jar.
Save or Slave—Buy War Savings Certificates.
I
m
m
m
■ vr7
-V"
m
I
h
IT WON'T BE LONG NOW!
-—we hope, before you’ll be able to buy all
the tyres and petrol you want —or a brand
new Masse. But, meantime, a fortnightly
check-up from your nearest Masse dealer
will keep your battery in service and an
occasional re-charge may mean many extra
months of life.
•Masse
ARE TIGERS
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
gained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions Of the blood-
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the inherent healing*
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly-
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally; piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet —see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
that Elasto is not a
drug but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
fd
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric or
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It is this restoration of
proper- circulation that brings
ihe quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.” ,
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.” ~ , . mv
"My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto’ , Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the Interesting Elasto Cookie.
Or better still, get a supply or
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, on
month’s supply.
S£ajt<r unM Mm& y-o-oo fitnarwU*
SMOKE-OH!
“As Muriel went about amongst their re-
latives and friends telling them about Nancy,
she was haunted by the thought that there was
something in her talk with Nancy that she
had forgotten.”— Woman’s paper.
■ Perhaps it was her promise not to say
a word to anybody.
•h4*
“It is difficult for a woman to learn the great
good that lies in silence.” — Woman’s mag.
Preferring the evil that lies in gossip.
►I- -I* 'h
Designs.
“It was Private Watson’s drinking activities
which precluded his being promoted.”
—War story.
At the go-ahead soldier he’d laugh.
For this lover of pots
Considered that stripes were not half
As attractive as spots.
Nat.
•f. ,T, .J.
“Dog, wire-haired terrier, answers name of
Mr. Chips, lost in Killara.” — “S.M.H.” ad.
Good-bye, Mr. Chips!
4 1
“To Mr. and Mrs. a daughter, Joy Eliza-
beth, 275.” — Suburban paper.
Cash on delivery.
•J*
“Danes of the peasant class often leave
suppers on the table for the spirits.”
— “World’s News."
Australians prefer to put spirits on the
table for suppers.
•i* •i*
“Even his clothes suggested that he was a
professional fighter.”— “Sun:"
His hat was a hard-hitter, his clothes
were of a striking pattern and his socks
seemed to hit the eye. He had a guard
on his watch-chain and he carried gloves.
And his boots had noticeably heavy welts.
P. P.
•J*
Rejuvenation.
“The widow of the editor of ‘Borneville Life’
found it hard to carry on. A retired journalist
arranged with her t'o conduct it as a joint
affair. His 73 years rolled back.”
— Woman’s paper.
So the old warhorse smells the fray
And feels his pulse grow quick for
strife :
Although they said he’d had his day,
He took another lease of “Life."
•h
Drums in the Night.
“Loud snorers should only keep sleepers in
the same room awake for the first hour after
lying down, says an ear, nose and throat
specialist. ’’ —‘ ‘Sunday Telegraph. ’’
This particular specialist probably
never heard of my brother Sidney, who
had a snore that only Homer could have
done full justice to.
It wasn’t so bad on the farm, with the
nearest, neighbor 10 miles away, although
one of them used to expect rain every
night until he got to know about it. Our
family first tried earplugs, but they
vibrated so much we couldn’t sleep for
sneezing. In time we became inured,
and in fact would wake up feeling there
was something wrong if Sid woke up
during the night.
When we moved to a flat in the city
the fun began. On the first night Sid
started off with an effect, in the confined
space, rather like seven brass bands play-
ing the overture from “William Tell” in
seven different keys. Inside 10 minutes
there were 15 knocks at the door to ask
if we had to play Wagner on our Wur-
litzer organ at that time of night. Later
a representative of the R.S.P.C.A. called
with a Court order instructing us to kill
our pig somewhere else.
When efforts to rouse Sid failed, we
tried chloroforming him. This caused
him to switch to an imitation of a blunt
circular saw cuttting knotty jarrah, and
an air-raid warden, hastily dressed in a
nightshirt and fishing waders, knocked us
up to ask if we had had an Incident.
After that we used to make Sid drink
black coffee all night and sleep during
the day. When the flat began to de-
teriorate under the strain we bought him
a bottle of sleeping mixture and got him
a job where he turned out a great suc-
cess. He now provides bass effects in a
hot swing orchestra.
Plum.
Confessions of a Spy.
“The writer of an article on spies mentions
one who used to meet his confederates in
cafes and communicate with them by means of
loud sniffs.”
This exploiting of physical peculiarities
has been found to work better than the
old-fashioned method of chanting crypti-
cally “The owl hoots by the thatched
barn!” until a fish-faced fellow with a
drooping cigarette and a polished
monocle murmured “He tires betimes
that spurs too fast betimes!”
I recall my last assignment in Paris.
I had had word from the Foreign Office
to contact P24, who was doing counter-
espionage work, at the Hotel Petit
Couchon. I was to look for a square-
shouldered man, somewhere between 4ft.
5in. and 4ft, 5iin., with marcelled red
hair and beard and a pronounced limp,
carrying a yellow lily—in short, a man
who would pass in a crowd without at-
tracting the slightest attention.
This was, of course, a blind. Probably
the real spy would turn out to be a man
about 7ft. high with a scholarly stoop,
a sword scar running from his left temple
to his deeply cleft chin, wearing a
feathered Homburg and an ox-blood
overcoat and carrying a shooting-stick.
When the head waiter bowed me
obsequiously to a table in full view of the
whole room I ordered a sumptuous
dinner, then took out my handkerchief,
unostentatiously tipped the pepper-pot
into it and blew* my nose. Immediately
I began sneezing. By the time I had got
17 —the prearranged number —off my
chest the tablecloth had disappeared,
every member of the orchestra had had
to don a greatcoat and muffler, the crystal
chandelier was oscillating violently and
a waiter, holding an open umbrella with
one hand, was trying to mop up the floor
with the other.
Before the eighteenth sneeze could
come I jammed my finger under my nose
and waited anxiously. There was no
response. My colleague, whoever he was,
was exercising unusual caution.
After ten minutes of terrific struggling
to suppress nine sneezes, what time I had
got through the fish, I released another
17. By the time I had finished my iron-
clad collar had parted from its boiled-
shirt anchor, five women had fainted and
the ballroom floor was beginning to cave
in.
Again I stemmed the flow, but there
was still no response. I was becoming
alarmed. I thought that it might look
slightly odd to ask for more pepper. I
was just about to cautiously raise one
half of my false whiskers to give my
fellow-spy a better glimpse of my
features, should he be still uncertain,
when a man with a snowy sideboard
beaver sidled up and slipped in the
vacant chair.
“I heard you sneeze, M’sieur” he said.
“Seventeen,” I replied.
“H’m, you look rather older,” he re-
marked, surprised. “The whiskers prob-
ably.” .
“Have you the plans?” I asked.
“You think I am the architect, no?”
he laughed.
“Monseer is blarzay,” I said,
“I heard you sneeze,” he went on. He
leaned over confidentially. “You have
the catarrh badly, m’sieur. You need a
reliable oral vaccine. I have here the
best available. I am selling them at fifty
francs a bottle. You can have five bottles
for two hundred francs, cash down. 1
have them here”
I hit him with a passing waiter.
It’s things like this that make spies
discouraged.
80.
Precautionary.
In days when maiming motor-cars were
few
People could stroll secure in all direc-
tions ;
But now it takes a special squad in blue
To shepherd them from harm at inter-
sections.
So when the heavens are swarming far
and wide
With myriad ’planes we hope there’ll
be seraphic
Air cops at danger points to safely guide
The souls of the departed through the
traffic.
BRIAN BUREAU.
The New Penology.
“Pictures of nude women are being collected
by police in San Antonio, Texas.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
The columns of the press reveal
That men in blue have tended to
Maintain a rather jaundiced view
Of even Art in “dishabeel”;
But this new enterprise evokes
The thought that, in a quiet way,
Policemen generally may
Be quite a sporting lot of blokes.
Good luck to them 1 For, one supposes,
If San Antonio can supply
A plethora of undraped Roses,
Some ChloeI shy may beautify
The charge-room wall, with (who can
tell?)
A pin-up girl to every cell.
P. M. LUSK.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4j£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
The Bad Soldier
“Recco’s” persistent “ack willy” (B.
27/12/’44) would not be welcomed in
the front line. If a defaulter cannot be
relied on to do his duty in training camp
in his own country he most certainly
cannot be relied on when facing a savage
and wily foe in the jungle, where team-
work is essential to the success of any
operation. In contact with the enemy, no
man would feel happy supported by one
whose energies in the past had been
directed towards evading the hard work
of becoming an efficient soldier.
The crucial test of a man’s discipline
occurs when he comes under enemy fire.
If he cannot stand up to army discipline
in safe areas the chances are he will let his
mates down badly when the bullets are
flying.
Though from the defaulter’s point of
view a tour of duty in the front line
would probably be the toughest punish-
ment he could suffer, the army
would be better off without this
type of man. He is useless as a
soldier, a menace to his mates and a need-
less expense to his country. After having
been punished up to the limit allowed
by the existing military law, he should be
dishonorably discharged and drafted to
work in some essential war industry at a
rate of pay equivalent to that of the fight-
ing man. — Arty Hill (Q.).
A Reinforcement Talks Back
As a “Reo” I cannot let the cheap jibe
of “NX Two Figures” (B. 20/12/ ’44) at
reinforcements go past without comment.
He says he assumes that “Reo’s” (B.
29 /11 / ’44) failure to strain at the leash
for another fray is a reflection of the fact
that he is a reinforcement. Would he
have us believe that those tens of
thousands that stormed the recruiting
offices after Dunkirk, when most Aus-
tralians first realised that this was to be
a long and bitter war, would be less
likely to see it out to the end than an
original that joined up in the first few
months?
Most of the 1940 enlistments became
reinforcements, but the despised “Reos”
fought and died in every Second A.I.F.
campaign. They were in Greece and
Crete.
On the strength of the infantry bat-
talions of the 6th, 7th and 9th Divisions
today the “Reos” far outnumber the
originals. Can “NX Two Figures” find
one of their C.Os. who will say that the
reinforcements’ morale and will to fight
the war to a successful conclusion are
any less strong today than five years ago?
I think not. —VX Five Figures (A.1.F.).
Batmen
“Army Girl” (B. 3/1 / ’45) raises a big
issue when she questions the provision of
personal servants for officers in the Aus-
tralian Army. The theory is that batmen
are necessary to relieve officers from
menial .duties, so that their time
can be devoted to military work.
But junior officers have purely routine
duties, which make no great de-
mands on energy or intelligence. There-
fore, although I do not deny the neces-
sity of batmen for senior officers, there
is no real necessity for their employment
by juniors.
In my army experience batmen had
v ery little real work to do, and their mili-
tary training was neglected. They were
being paid, fed and clothed by their coun-
try to fight, not to polish subalterns’
shoes. Batmen owe their existence less to
military reasons than to precedent. In
the European armies of the past officers
Were drawn exclusively from a class
Which considered a personal servant a
necessary part of life.
In the Australian Army batmen may
be detrimental in more ways than one.
One of the best junior officers I knew had
his leisure seriously curtailed owing to
his practice of taking his batman a cup
of tea and aspros after the latter had had
9. night out —which was fairly frequently.
Bar Din (N.S.W.).
Helping Fuzzy-wuzzy
With New Guinea soon to be rid of
l he Nip arises the problem of the native,
his place in the post-war world.
Occupation by the various services has,
to a certain extent, changed the course
°f native life, and will continue to do so
Wnless steps are taken to ensure a re-
turn to the environment which the native
understands.
He is now tending towards a state of
civilisation. By “civilisation” I mean the
organisation of society that lands the
nations in a terrible conflict every 20
years or so. I think the native would
be just as happy if left to remove heads
with primitive instruments as, if he were
taught to do the job with bomb or
machine-gun.
Why not administer and control these
territories with a view to the happiness
and well-being of the native? Make him
forget money and the greed that goes
everywhere with it. Don’t allow him to
get into our clothes and ape us, or learn
the meaning of power and pride. Teach
him some of the really civilised features
of our way of life —industry, hygiene,
medicine and agriculture. Show him how
to live in peace with his neighbor (unfor-
tunately, we can’t use the method of
example). More important still, steer
him clear of politics and race conscious-
ness.
Do that and we may succeed in de-
veloping a society as near perfect as any-
thing yet. We would be amply repaid
for our efforts because, in time, a stream
“If you can't hear me for static, consult our radio repair service."
of black missionaries would go out into
the world teaching the nations how to
live in peace. — Sac Sac (A.I.F.).
Seamen’s Bonus
Why does “Seaman” (B. 13/12/’44)
say he is receiving more on a 25 p.c.
than on a 50 p.c. bonus? During the
recent and very temporary reduction half-
monthly wages dropped from £42 Is. lOd.
to £35 Is. 6d. Tax dropped from
£11 2s. to £8 8s. and pet from £30 Is. 6d.
to £26 13s. 6d. That is £4 5s. 4d. more,
not 4s. less. Again, if Mr. Chifley col-
lects £18 out of the £28 bonus, it is un-
true to say that “we never saw anything
of it.”
Actually, the maritime industry unions,
along with others, have done very nicely
out of this war.
I agree about convoys on a dark night,
but think what it must be like in an
Atlantic convoy in mid-winter! — Ship-
master Two (M.S.W.).
Why Pick on the Pioneer?
Here in Northern Victoria, in 1875, we
came to a vast forest of grey-box and
scrub, and put fire and axe to it. As
the land was then, it was almost worth-
less for sheep and cattle and entirely
worthless for cereal growing. You can’t
grow grain or grass round grey-box trees.
Naturally, we cleared the land.
We left, however, hundreds of green
trees on every square mile, and planted
many round our homesteads also. Now
people seem to regard us old men as
criminals.
Where' did we go wrong? It is impos-
sible to run stock or grow wheat without
some wind erosion taking place in this
region. Everybody is howling about
erosion, but nobody shows us any simple
or even difficult method of avoiding wind
erosion, and still carrying on with sheep
and wheat without going bankrupt. All
the reasonably easy methods that I have
seen suggested up to date may mitigate
the evil, but only very slightly. But why
blame the pioneer for the whole of the
trouble? — Double One (Vic.).
Rabbits and Soil Erosion
What can be done to arrest the destruc-
tion of Australia’s water-scoured surface
if the most active contributory cause,
the rabbit, is not recognised as such?
In any of Victoria’s north-east or
Gippsland mountain or foothill country
any suggestions yet put forth to combat
water erosion would be waste if bunny
is still present to undo the work and add
to the menace.
True, we have declared periods for
poisoning, when Government inspectors
call in their motor-cars and antagonise
distracted landholders with threats of
prosecution if the hordes —mostly bred
in near-by Crown lands, to depasture on
the open country —are not destroyed at
once, but a lot more than that is neces-
sary.—N. L. C. (Vic.).
Poultry and Wheat
One of Australia’s veteran wheat
growers who still owns wheatlands in
W.A. but now, at 86, lives in Melbourne,
has been driven to making calculations
and comparisons.
He ordered two capons from a
poulterer. They cost him 325. 6d.
When he weighed them they turned the
scale at 81b., so he had paid a shade over
four bob a pound. The Government
took control of his wheat in 1939 in
order to feed the nation. An acre of
wheat in a good W.A. season produces
15 bushels, for which the grower gets 60s.
Allowing ss. for graded seed, ss. for
super, and 2s. for handling, he is left
with 48s. So 121 b. of poultry equals
one acre of wheat! — Bumpkin (Vic.).
The Price of Fruit
Commonwealth Bureau of Census and
Statistics returns for the main fruit crops
of the 1943-44 season (excluding grapes
and raisins) show a total bearing area of
219,896 acres, compared with 218,323
acres for 1942-43. There were over
million apple-trees, million banana-
trees and more than three million citrus
trees —oranges, lemons and mandarins —
in bearing.
The production of the standard
varieties of Australian fruit — apples,
pears, peaches, apricots, citrus and
bananas —given in the last published Com-
monwealth Year Book (1941) was over
27 million bushels. This big harvest
was gathered in war-time, despite all
the difficulties of lack of man-power,
financial obstacles and the shortage of
chemicals used in the orchards in spray-
ing to destroy insect pests and fungoid
diseases.
Yet today in .Australia fruit is a luxury
because of the excessive selling prices,
purchasable only in limited quantities.
Some varieties are quite beyond the
purse of the average housewife. It is
true that a large proportion of the crop
canned by the big preserving cos. is sold
under Government contract to feed the
Australian and Allied troops, but the sur-
plus is more than sufficient to supply the
whole civilian population at reasonable
prices.
Today in Canberra a single eatable
apple costs 3d.; three bananas are 8d.;
oranges are and 4d. each; for a
single large pear 8d. has been asked, and
a small Queensland mango is sold for
Is. —2s. earlier in the season.
It has been my job to examine the
balance sheets and trading accounts of a
number of N. S. Wales fruitgrowers.
Few are making reasonable profits, and
in some cases a year’s hard work has re-
sulted in a loss after the sale of a fair
average crop.
Charges for cool storage in Sydney and
marketing expenses constitute far too
high a proportion of selling costs ; wages,
costs of cases and spraying materials,
and packing are continually rising, and
the running expenses of necessary motor-
trucks are 50 p.c. higher than pre-war.
Who are the big profits going to? Cer-
tainly not to the grower! The cool-store
proprietors deny that their charges are
unreasonable, marketing agents protest
that their handling charges are not ex-
cessive, and retailers maintain that they
make small profits at the prices fixed by
the Prices Commission. Certainly the
financial results shown by the Apple and
Pear Board, which handled the bulk of
production in war years prior to the
present season, have been disastrous.
Isn’t it about time a determined effort
was made to pierce the mysteries of
fruit marketing?—T. C. A. (Canberra).
Cheap Electricity
“Charlie” (B. 27/12/’44), who wants
to see W.A. electrified, probably lives in
Perth, and looks upon the rattle-trap
trams that career up and down Hay and
Murray-streets as the ultimate in modem
locomotion. He is evidently in agree-
ment with the gentleman who has a vast
and complicated scheme for harnessing
the waters of the Murray and Hotham
Rivers, with sundry tributaries, and
building a mighty dam on what he asserts
is a watershed at the junction of these
two rivers. The pictures invariably show
an enormous gorge, across which a
wedge-shaped and curving wall hundreds
of feet high is constructed, so forming an
artificial dam behind it where untold mil-
lions of gallons of water back up and
provide unceasing power for the turbines.
No such geographical peculiarity is
available between here and Pinjarra, 50
miles away slightly north of west, and
I write in the heart of the valley of the
Hotham. But even overlooking the diffi-
culties of getting sufficient fall of water
anywhere to supply such an immense
reserve of power at any-point on the map
inside a huge triangle formed by Perth,
Narrogin and (say) Donnybrook, the tech-
nical details present some problems, too.
The cost of laying out mains over
hundreds of miles on 50-cycle AC., with
transformers, poles, lead-ins and so on,
would run into fabulous figures, and in
many instances would supply a wattage
quite inadequate to recompense for the
outlay. A “town” might be able to take
only 20,000 to 30,000 watts on peak load,
and might be 50 miles or more away
from the main trunk. Yet if these insig-
nificant consumers are to be ignored, ana
still smaller ones, what becomes of the
theory that the country is to be ‘ opened
up”?
Such grandiose schemes at present are
on a level with tales from Jules Verne
and H. G. Wells. They may come true,
but not for a long time, and, as usual,
artificial services will follow, not precede,
settlement attracted by natural resources.
—Hothamite (W.A.).
Australian Novels
There has been a lot of talk about the
expected emergence of the “great Aus-
tralian novel.” What I should like to see
is “an Australian best-seller.”
I run a small library for men of my
unit. Invariably they refuse any book
about Australia. There seems to be a
prejudice against anything written by or
about an Australian. As far as I can
see most Australian novels are either too
good or too bad for the Australian taste.
The Pea-Pickers may be brimming over
with literary worth, but so far nobody
here has been able to read it. They say
it is dull, and I agree with them. Capri-
cornia has been more successful, and
Signed With Their Honor has been re-
commended by some. Nobody but my-
self, I’m afraid, has read The Timeless
Land. A complaint often heard is that
all Australian novels seem to cover the
whole of Australian history, e.g., All That
Swagger. /
s Literary critics are inclined to raise
their eyebrows at the success of the aver-
age American or English best-seller. Just
the same, these books are read widely
because they are readable, and the men
here enjoy them. For these reasons I
appeal for two or three Australian best-
sellers to overcome the average Austra-
lian’s prejudice against the literature of
his own country.-
NX. GUNNER (A.I.F.).


SSS
m
O'
m
sc
y
%
h/
-o
• Vaa.
\
"72a
:o
///
m
During THE WAR amazing progress has been
made in every branch of wireless —at sea, on land and
in the air.
In this work the extensive research and manufacturing
organisation of A.W.A. is playing an important part.
It is to-day producing in ever-increasing quantities
high-grade wireless equipment for the Navy, Army,
and Air Forces of the Allied Nations, as well as manu-
facturing stations for vital Wireless Communication
Services. ,
When Victory is burs, most of these wartime develop-
ments will be applied in giving the public better service
in communications, in broadcast transmission and
reception, and in other phases of wireless.
The post-war Radiola , incorporating many
wartime technical developments, will again take
its place as “Australia’s finest broadcast receiver.”
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
