

h
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No, 3393
Wednesday, February 21, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaocr.
seppelts
THE ORIGINAL MEMORIAL THEATRE, STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
'"PHIS view shows the first theatre built as a memorial to William
Shakespeare, the world’s greatest dramatist, at his birthplace,
Stratford-on-Avon, in Warwickshire, England. This original Shake-
speare Memorial Theatre was sponsored by Charles Flower, of
a notable Stratford family. It was opened in 1879 with a per-
formance of “Much Ado,” with Barry Sullivan as Benedick and
Helen Faucit as Beatrice. Every great Shakespearean actor and
actress of the time played in this theatre, and for many years
Sir Frank Benson made it famous as a national training school
for Shakespearean acting. Frank Benson was knighted by King
George V in Drury Lane theatre while still in his stage costume as
Julius Caesar during the Shakespearean tercentenary performance
in 1916. The original memorial theatre was destroyed by fire in
1926. On its ashes arose a new Shakespeare Memorial Theatre,
designed by Miss Elisabeth Brown, and to finance which £250,000
was subscribed from over seventy countries—surely a remarkable
tribute to the esteem in which the world holds the immortal Bard
of Avon.


h
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write Jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. u
My Name
My Address
The Red Page
BRETT YOUNG ANTHOLOGY
Any quiet, scholarly old gentleman
with plenty of time to spare could spend
some happy years tracking down the
“echoes” in Francis Brett Young’s The
Island (Heinemann ; Angus and Robert-
son).
A poem of prodigious length about the
history of England, The Island is a kind
of anthology in which the standard Eng-
lish poets from Chaucer to Masefield
are all fully represented. A simple
example from page 176:
For oft, as in my bunk I dream.
Which is, of course, a borrowing from
Wordsworth’s “The Daffodils”:
For oft, when on my couch I lie.
On page 171 (this section is a ballad
about the discovery of the North-west
Passage) the echoes are from Coleridge;
We looked to see the whole hull riven
And her timbers fly apart,
And vowed our sinful souls to heaven
With fear in every heart;
Till, strange as was the miracle
Christ wrought in Galilee,
The gale that so misused us fell
And with it fell the sea.
On page 227 there is a fine passage
describing the departure of the May-
flower :
As fair a sight it was
As Moses from the Mount of Pisgah saw
Gazing on Palestine: beneath our feet
The close-packed roofs of Plymouth; before our
eyes
The firth, within its greening girdle, flecked
With tawny wings of fishing-craft that skimmed
The crinkled waves like seamews —and far, far,
Dipped in the watery horizon, a tower
Of lonely canvas, alabaster-white
In the seaward sun’s pure radiance; a ship
Transfigured, yet so far away she seemed
Moveless and visionary. But I knew
niis was indeed the Mayflower, and that she
moved
With crowded sail to Westward on the course
Of the Virginias.
A fine passage —but echoed, every line
of it, from Masefield’s “The Wanderer.”
Surprisingly, for Brett Young has else-
where chosen more distinguished models,
the conclusion repeats the peroration of
Alice Duer Miller’s The White Cliffs.
Mrs. Miller said that despite all the
nation’s faults she would not care to live
in a world where England was “finished
and dead.” Brett Young puts much the
same sentiments in the same metre:
Our anguished world would show a sorrier
scene
If Britain had not been.
The really astonishing thing about The
Island, however, is not how bad it is but,
within its limits, how good. Its thousands
of lines, telling the story of England
from the creation of the world to the
present war, are nearly all capable and
eloquent; monotony is avoided by vary-
ing historical narrative with ballads, little
dialogues and plays, stories in the manner
of Chaucer and monologues in the man-
ner of Browning. Some of the ballads
and monologues—“ The Episode of the
Garrulous Centurion,” for instance —will
probably have a permanent life in Eng-
lish anthologies.
The monologues are the best passages
throughout. Whatever the debt to
Browning, Brett Young has the novelist’s
understanding of character and makes
good use of it. Because he is dealing
here with something he is sure of, his
verse —too derivative everywhere else —
becomes assured and natural.
The worst passages occur when the
author sets out to write Poetry with a
capital P. Here he invokes the Muse ;
he uses inversions and archaisms; there
is absolutely nothing to distinguish these
sections from any long, bad poem of the
eighteenth or early nineteenth centuries:
But those there were, fashioned of finer clay,
Knew war’s vile worst, yet, counting well the
cost,
Took up the unwelcome gage with open eyes,
Deeming far more staked in this hateful fray
Than empire gained or lost;
Nay, Freedom’s self
[Etc.]
“Nay” and “deem” and “fain” and
all the other tags of convention are harm-
less enough as words, no doubt; a
genuine poet such as Walter de la Mare
can use them with impunity. But nearly
always—as in Brett Young’s poem—the
conventional language is symptomatic of
a conventional style. Conventional style
is the reflection of an unoriginal mind ;
and the mind is unoriginal because it is
not illumined by that intensely individual
vision which is the only source and fire
of true poetry as distinct from capable
versifying.
Linklater in Heaven.
Eric Linklater seems to spend most of
his time in heaven these days—a some-
what unexpected refuge for the author
of Juan in America and Poet’s Pub. His
scries of celestial “conversations” — Soc-
rates Asks Why, etc. —has culminated in
a three-act “Elysian Comedy” Crisis in
Heaven (Macmillan ; Angus and Robert-
son).
When the play opens a huge audience
of immortals is waiting to hear Burns
and Pushkin debate on the poet’s duty
to society. The debaters forget* their ap-
pointment, and the immortal throng, argu-
ing the matter in their absence, falls to
brawling and then to open war, in which
one side is led by Frederic the Great and
the other by Volumnia. The theme of
the play is then revealed as “How can
war be prevented?”
Peace, it is decided—chiefly by Aris-
tophanes—must arise out of love and be
guided by reason. Chosen as the embodi-
ment of reason, Voltaire is invited (some-
what to his dismay) to marry Helen of
Troy and produce with her the child
Peace. When Peace is born —and this is
the only really amusing moment in the
play—she turns out to be a fully-grown
and fully-uniformed London police-
woman. She settles the war, marries a
soldier who symbolises Courage, and
Elysium lives happily ever after.
It is a kind of modern Morality Play,
in which the unreal and stylised char-
acters move mechanically through a lot
of improbable situations in order to
demonstrate the not-very-original theory
that Britain (or possibly an International
Police Force) must remain armed after
the war. Or, perhaps, since it is a topical
political play with some comment on a
“poet,” Froust, who went to Mexico when
the war broke out, Linklater modelled his
work on the comedies of Aristophanes. #
Probably because of their topicality,
Linklater’s experiments seem to “work”:
that is, they can hold the attention of
radio listeners or even of a theatre audi-
ence. But they seem to have no literary
merits that will sustain them when their
topical interest has passed. If John
Drinkwater’s re-creation of Abraham Lin-
coln is measured against Linklater’s —the
one an honest and subtle portrait drawn
at full length; the other a cardboard figure
pulled out of history or other men’s writ-
ings like a puppet out of a box — Crisis
in Heaven immediately looks cheap and
superficial.
Although it is set as prose throughout,
a good deal of Crisis in Heaven is written
in blank verse ; as becomes obvious as
soon as it is set out as such. Pushkin
says, in frank iambic pentameter:
I say you shall not marry that old man;
thereafter follows a bit of unscannable
stuff, then Helen says:
For I must think and count the cost of
this.
Aristophanes comes in with
To please herself, to please a wheedling boy
Love gives herself entire;
and Helen answers:
Again and yet again. Ah, spendthrift Love!
When lines in this style, clearly in-
tended as a parody of imitation Eliza-
bethan drama, are given to Volumnia, the
effect is mildly amusing; but it is not at
all certain that the author is trying to
be funny on most of the occasions when
he falls into fustian. As a humorist
Linklater was delightful; as a heavenly
poet and philosopher —for heaven’s sake!
Quiller Couch Autobiography
At the time of his death Quiller Couch
was engaged in writing his autobiography
—a task he undertook reluctantly. The
five chapters he had completed are pub-
lished by the Cambridge University Press
under the title Memories and Opinions.
The fragment, which runs from infancy
to the publication of his first novel, is
mainly a picture of his life at school and
university.
There are oddments of interest: a
recollection of Alexander Pyne, who be-
came headmaster of Melbourne Gram-
mar ; a glimpse of Tennyson on a visit
to “Q.’s” grandfather—“ His personal
appearance is not prepossessing, having
a slouch in his gait and rather slovenly
in his dress, though his clothes were new
and g00d... .He admired the wildness of
our scenery, deprecated the breaking in
of improvements, as they are called....
He inquired after traditions, especially
of the great Arthur ; his object in visit-
ing the county being to collect- materials
f y.. a P“ em / n . th ,? t ct y®* fte r TemS-
k a lovely pfay, but a
confession of preference escapist
trv .
I can just imagine a future age in which
the Divine Comedy, Paradise Lost with
Otheilo and Lear have passed into ca™ os . l "
ties; as I can barely imagine a world m
which the murder of Desdemona, the fate
of Cordelia will be considered curiously as
brute happenings proper to a time out-
diviner tears, tears'for sheer beauty; with
a royal sense of this world and how it
passes away, with a catch at the heart of
what is to come.
There are one or two charming scenes
recalled from childhood: a landscape
with violets—“On the orchard side and
close by the duck-pond leaned an old
apple-tree, its base .embedded in a mass
of white violets famous for their scent,
a low swing hanging from a lower
branch and a portrait of Q- g
a A proud man, stiff in his Methodist
ancestry, he strode his domain as its un-
challengeable great man, in top-hat, high
tit £%
buckled shoes—a costume which forfeited
no dignity as he would sit, after his wont,
on an inverted fish-basket by the quay,
they discharge something rare, however
minute.
And among the school and university
reminiscences there is one really notable
portrait; quoted, however, from a His-
tory of Clifton by another writer;
The School Marshal came into his form-
room one morning with school notices and
found Dakyns kneeling in front ot a boy
and praying Almighty God to grant the
boy a ray of intelligence. To another trying
pupil he exclaimed: “Would that you
were under the green sod and that 1 were
dancing a can-can on your grave!”
The gleanings are few. Too much of
Memories and Opinions, as it stands, is
of interest only to the limited number
of readers who have attended “Q.’s”
school and university; and the many
recollections of occasions when the
author was bullied, snubbed or thwarted
at school or university give the book an
unfortunately complaining tone. S. C.
Roberts’s introduction is too short, too
bare and too flat to do justice to “Q.”
either personally or as a man of letters.
Billions of Fish.
In The Humble Dutch Herring (F. W.
Cheshire Pty., Ltd., Melbourne) W.
Preger tells a fish story that happens to
be true: how the discovery by Willem
Beukelszoon in 1380 of a method of pre-
serving herrings in salt was the founda-
tion of Holland’s trade, empire and pros-
perity.
It was the pursuit of the herring, says
Mr. Preger, that made the Dutch a
nation of seafarers. And the seafarers
gave Holland her empire.
As an example of what the herring meant
to the prosperity of Holland one need
quote only one or two official figures. In
1938 the herring catch amounted to
210,000,0001 b. Counting five herrings to
the pound, this would mean a catch of
about 1,050,000,000 herrings. At an average
retail price of 2d. each this catch repre-
sented a value of £A8,750,000.
Mr. Preger’s pursuit of the herrings,
from the early exciting years when the
first, fish of the season was borne to the
palace in state in a carriage decorated
with flags and bunting down to the
modern pre-war times when the shoals
were hauled from the North Sea in nets
three miles long, gives him an oppor-
tunity for a quick survey of Dutch his-
tory ; slight; a bit fulsome at times; but
interesting. One fact he recalls to mind
is that during the great age of Dutch
painting, the times of Rembrandt, Franz
Hals and Vermeer, Holland had a popu-
lation of about two millions. When Aus-
tralians and New Zealanders are tempted
to say that their populations are “too
small” to produce great movements in
art or letters they should remember
Elizabethan England with its five mil-
lions and Rembrandt’s Holland.
Mr. Preger’s survey is accompanied by
some excellent photographs of the modern
Dutch herring fleet and of types of Dutch
fishermen.
The book is finely produced. The half-
title page of the Red Page’s review copy
is adorned (as was Alan Marshall’s These
Are My People, another very nicely-made
book from the same publisher) by a
stamped imprint “Specimen Copy” in
half-inch lettering, with the price of the
book written in ink beside it. This is good
publishing policy, of course; book re-
viewers are given their jobs because they
hate books and rejoice to see them de-
faced. F. W. Cheshire Pty. might win
even greater popularity by tearing their
books into small pieces and sending them
out for review in a cardboard box.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Hilda Rix Nicholas’s paintings and
drawings at David Jones’s gallery, Syd-
ney, are thoroughly Australian in subject,
individual in treatment and universal in
appeal. The landscapes are an uneven
lot, but such canvases as “The Home-
stead,” “Inspiration Point—Blue Moun-
tains” and “Snow—Tombong Mountains”
are a delight to the eye. The painter is
at her best in figure studies—particularly
the group of drawings in chalks and
water-colors. The figure compositions in
oils—“ Madonna of the Backwoods,”
“Son of the Land” and “Bringing in the
Sheep” stand out—recall in their clean-
ness of color and nice balance of design
the earlier work of Rupert Bunny.
A “Show of Fives” (each picture priced
at £5 55.) at the Macquarie Galleries,
Sydney, contains many examples of
“primitive” art which, painted presum-
ably by survivors from the Stone Age,
may be regarded as promising. There
are also intelligently painted canvases by
Robert Campbell, Douglas Dundas,
George F. Lawrence, Arthur Murch, Noel
Wood and Frank Medworth, graceful
drawings by Muriel Medworth, Thea
Proctor and Sydney Ure Smith and a
characteristic heavy-skied water-color by
J. D. Moore.
The company which played “Arsenic
and Old Lace” at the 5.30 show at Syd-
ney Royal is now playing “Claudia.”
Like the former show, “Claudia” is no
novelty to Sydney. The acting is good,
and for an audience unacquainted with
the play there is the additional charm of
having one’s biological education brushed
up by the irrepressible. Claudia’s ques-
tions and the answers given by her hus-
band or mother. So purely educational
are some of these replies that they have
a kind of pedantic obtrusiveness like some
of the passages in Aldous Huxley’s novels.
The umpteenth Gilsullivan revival
came to a close at His Majesty’s, Mel-
bourne, with a repetition of “The Gon-
doliers” as the traditional ending. One
performance was considerably enlivened
by a departure from the script by Ivan
Menzies which had much more human
merit than most of that comedian’s in-
terpolations. In the middle of the second
act a woman in a modern coat, skirt and
hat and carrying a suitcase, having lost
her way in the backstage labyrinth of
the theatre, walked into the ducal party.
Mr. Menzies’s comment: “Would any-
body else like an audition?” brought the
house down on both sides of the foot-
lights.
At the talkies:
The tragedy of a boy (in khaki) and a girl
who met, loved, wed and were torn apart after
an acquaintance of four days is the excuse for
“The Impatient Years” (Sydney State). Jean
Arthur sniffles at the slightest provocation, and
the distraught husband hurls quarter-smokea
cigarettes away with reckless abandon. Owing
to the unorthodox methods and preternatural
cunning of Divorce Court Judge and pa-in-law
everything turns out happily and Jean is
gratifyingly starry-eyed in the final clinch.
Mr. Winkle, somewhat unwillingly inducted
into the U.S. Army, sits down to his first army
mess. Cautiously he unscrews a bottle beneath
the table, places a couple of pills on a piece
of bread and furtively swallows the whole. A
friend whom he has met ten minutes before
asks “What are the pills for?” “I take them
before meals.” “What happens if you take
them after meals?” A second bottle is produced
from another pocket. “These are for after
meals,” Mr. Winkle confides in a whisper, m
time Mr. Winkle, a timid bank clerk, becomes
a hero, returns to the hometown in a blaze m
glory and leads his own life independent of puls
and other people’s opinions. Not a very repre-
hensible life, merely the exchange of office
routine for a repair shop. Edward G. Robin-
son as Mr. Winkle and a few faithful scenes ot
army life do much to redeem this slight story.
“Mr. Winkle” at Sydney Capitol.
In “The Big Noise,” a Laurel and Hardy
offering at Sydney Civic, the pair are assigned
as private detectives to guard an inventor and ms
new devastating bomb. Wicked gangsters, ot
course, are determined to wrest the secret from
Uncle Sara, and halfway through the picture
most of the audience-even those who base
loved the comedians in the past are wstun r
they’d get it and throw it at Laurel and Har .
Melbourne Tiv. frequenters have an
inexhaustible appetite for Mo, and m
“Let ’Er Go,” the current entertainment,
they are getting as much of him as any
respectable vaudevillean programme wi
stand: Mo on a horse; Mo off a horse
(possibly an unrehearsed performance).
Mo as a ventriloquist’s dummy (one o
his finest interpretations); and Mo as a
incubated baby. Other items are a sing-
ing lady who stalks the microphone wim
dire intent, and Desmond Tanner with
his Hammond Organ. The Leotards
tinue to defy the laws of gravitation t 1
a living.


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121 Years of Service
m
m
"THE SENIOR STORE'
7 coupons.
mm**
R.N. and R.A.N. NAVAL OFFICERS'
UNIFORMS to measure. Service ma-
terial, tailored by Anthony Horderns'
to regulation style. Coupon-free.
MEN'S SLEEVELESS PULLOVER. All
wool, V-neck. Ripple stitch, ribbed finish.
Light and Blue, Grey and Navy. Men's
and OS 13/6
SPORTS COAT made to order. All Wool
Sports Tweeds. Bright, attractive designs
and shades. Patch pockets, lined sleeves
and padded shoulders 89/6
12 coupons.
%
MEN'S HALF HOSE. All
Wool Cashmere, medium
weight. Blue Grey, Light
Grey, Marone and Navy.
Sizes 10 to .Hi inches. 3/9
4 coupons.
HALF HOSE. Super quality
Heavy All Wool Knitted. Soft
finish. Light Grey, Dark
Grey, Blue Grey or Navy.
Sizes 10 to 12 inch. 4/- pair
2 coupons.
J
\
/*■ • : ’S
• M,en’s Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
Tailored - to - Measure
SAC SUIT tailored to measure. All
wool materials, reliable trimmings and
Anthony Horderns' tailoring. Styles in
conformity with Government Regula-
tions. Price £8/8/-
38 coupons.
THE BRITISH CENTRE has been
organised to provide our guests of
the British Navy with meals,
accommodation and comforts. Will
you help to raise funds necessary.
Communicate with the British Centre,
321 Pitt Street, Sydney.
MEN'S ''JUMBUK'' UNDERWEAR. Nat-
ural wool and cotton, medium weight.
Sizes 34- to 44-inch chest or waist.
Undershirts, short sleeves .. 8/11 each
5 coupons.
Underpants, ankle length .. 11/8 each
6 coupons.
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
'PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) BOX 2712 C, G.P.O., SYDNEY


Peace will bring new beauty...
'
■
m
,^md
mm
■? ■ ■
Si’**
m i
m m
ft.
mm
'
■v
-*-» -*
-
>;
¥'■■■
‘ J *>■
*
>^-
c-V <
: -rn'
. Sw
'" *' ,
■<>
>■" .■*
*-
JSStSEffi
«** 4r
:-«»!»'
*#ss
~ ■
■
■ m
m
v *r
ii
II
~.-X
>' ■!. .?# X,./
:**•■•■■
*
k ~
''•V* i?fl
- ■
' -w . *<,
- «i
v ...?* •* *
*&**
H
■
.
# * ’*),---
r*^s
1
.
iilil
V ;
i V
wiSilSI
.• .
; i
*
m
IK
■ *•• '
* K. i%;<
*
jdBM
: »
3888 9
*
1 H
?
■
■w
' V . • ".y
.:Jfi ifli
■
ra :
m
a
When the clouds of war have passed, and
Australia is able to settle down to the tasks
which have been set aside while all the
energies of the nation were directed towards
the achievement of victory, there will be
many opportunities for making this country
a better, more beautiful place in which to
enjoy the new era of peace. That is an
obligation which rests with everyone.
Even such utilitarian necessities as drains,
culverts and bridges can be converted into
things of beauty. This picture gives you an
excellent example of such a transformation.
Here, in place of an ugly wooden structure,
is a safe and permanent bridge designed to
fit appropriately into its surroundings . . .
made possible by the use of an Armco
Multi-Plate Arch.
ARMCO
7
Co
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No, 3393
Wednesday, February 21, 1945
OPPOSITION CONFERENCE OF THE LITTLE THREE.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors: •
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp .
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WHO SAID “APPEASE-
MENT"?
If challenged on his part in the arrange-
ments made in the Crimea, and set forth
in a statement signed by himself and his
two associates, Mr. Roosevelt could fairly
apply to it some of the terms used by
Abraham Lincoln in the proclamation
(January 1, 1863) emancipating the slaves
in the Confederate States. In that great
instrument emancipation was described
as “a fit and necessary war measure,”
enacted “by virtue of the power in me
vested as Commander-in-Chief of the
Army and Navy of the United States”
and “warranted by the Constitution
upon military necessity.”
This is unassailably true of Mr. Roose-
velt’s contribution to the military clauses
of the statement issued at Yalta. As Field-
Marshal Montgomery said months ago,
the German war has lasted too long. To
Europe, so much of which is in ruins and
so many of whose surviving people are
in a dreadful plight—hungry, cold, work-
less, diseased, threatened with a pesti-
lence like that of 1918-19 and a prey to
civil disorders —it is essential that the
war should be brought to an early close.
It is essential also to Britain, where the
devilish flying bombs and rockets are still
falling and taking many lives as well as
daily adding to the immense destruction,
and, though not in so extreme a degree, to
the United States. So to all the suffer-
ing peoples except those of Germany
and Japan the opening sentences of the
Yalta statement brought a message of
hope:—
We have considered and determined the
military plans of the three Allied Powers
for the final defeat of the common enemy.
The military staffs have had daily meetings
[which] have resulted in closer co-ordina-
tion than ever before. The timing, scope
and co-ordination of new and even more
powerful blows to be launched by our
armies and air forces into the heart of Ger-
many from east, west, north and south
have been fully agreed and planned in detail.
For purposes of comparison, part of
the communique issued at Tehran on
December 1, 1943, may be here tran-
scribed :
Our military staffs joined our round-table
discussions and we considered our plans
for the destruction of the German forces.
We reached complete agreement as to the
scope and timing of operations from the
east, from the west and from the south.
The word “north” added at Yalta is
especially welcome to the Norwegians.
They were the first of the Little Peoples
to be attacked by Germany, and it would
ill requite their sacrifices on land and
sea, and their sturdy expenditure of their
treasure as well as their blood, if they
should be the last to be liberated. The
promise of “closer co-ordination” is wel-
come on general principles. There has
been precious little evidence of co-ordi-
nation these last few months. General
Eisenhower’s great summer and'autumn
offensives did not find the enemy assailed
with corresponding strength in the east on
the shortest route to his country, though
military —and political —advantages were
gained by Russia in Finland and the
Balkans. Von Rundstedt’s blow at the
American First Army, delivered when
the Western Allies had in the previous
two months suffered serious losses of men
and used up great store of equipment,
(anticipated the present Russian offen-
sive by four weeks. One of the Leftist
arguments for a Second Front, for which
even Australians were agitating early in
1942, a year of disaster for Anglo-Ameri-
can arms and shipping till the eleventh
month, was that continuous pressure would
be applied east and west. Expectation of
this was certainly in General Marshall’s
mind when he wrote that the German
war might be over by December 7.
Co-ordination under a Foch would
certainly shorten the war, as it did in
1918, and a Foch may be available, but
apparently no effort is to be made
to find him. Great reliance is placed
on “the very close working partnership
among the three staffs,” it being stated
that “Nazi Germany is doomed” and that
“the German people will only make the
cost of their defeat heavier to themselves
by attempting to continue hopeless
resistance.”
As at Casablanca, “unconditional sur-
render” is the sharp medicine prescribed
for the German case. The full “terms”
are “not to be made known till armed re-
sistance has been finally crushed” ; but
there are to be a tripartite occupation,
with leave for France to come in as “a
fourth member of the Control Commis-
sion” —the other members, “the Supreme
Commanders of the Three Powers,” with
headquarters in Berlin —and reparations,
to be worked out by another commission
with headquarters in Moscow. “To
destroy the people of Germany” is no
part of the plan. “A decent life and a
place in the comity of nations” are
offered to them, but Nazism and mili-
tarism must be “extirpated” first.
It is our inflexible purpose to destroy Ger-
man militarism and Nazism and to ensure
that Germany will never again be able to
disturb the peace of the world. We are
determined to disarm and disband all
German armed forces; to break up for all
time the German General Staff that has
repeatedly contrived the resurgence of Ger-
man militarism; to remove or destroy all
German military equipment; to eliminate or
control all German industry that could be
used for military production; to bring all
war criminals to just and swift punishment;
to exact reparation in kind for the destruc-
tion wrought by the Germans; to wipe out
the Nazi party, Nazi laws, organisations
and institutions; to remove all Nazi and
militarist influences from public office and
from the cultural and economic life of the
German people, and to take, in harmony,
such other measures in Germany as may be
necessary to the future peace and safety of
the world.
A supremely ambitious programme
for three men whose combined ages ex-
ceed 198 years. Though it is very desir-
able that the General Staff should be
broken up, it is impossible for the three
to ensure its being broken up “for all
time.” Enough for the present to have
some assurance that the German officers
and communists who have been sending
“hands-up” messages to the German
people from Moscow are not to be set
up as a “Government” or as the mak-
ings of another General Staff, to be “ex-
tirpated” when other German officers
should be in a position to take control.
“Never again” is another' expression at
which time and circumstance may mock.
To the rest of the programme the only
objection is that, point by point, it will
be difficult to carry out, especially the
bit about punishment of war criminals,
which if overdone will inspire the deepest
aversion among the English-speaking
peoples; but then difficulty is inherent
in all proposals for making the Mad Con-
tinent sane.
The one great blot on the Black Sea
Charter, as it has been called —very un-
fortunately, for a previous Black Sea
charter, subscribed to after the Crimean
War of 1854-56, was blacked out by
Russia not many years later “for all
time” —consists in its giving Anglo-Ameri-
can sanction to another partition of
Britain’s unhappy ally, Poland. In the very
first sentence dealing with the arbitrary
arrangements for the Poles there is “a ter-
minological inexactitude.”
A new situation has been created in
Poland as a result of her complete libera-
tion by the Red Army.
A gross injustice to the officers and men
of the Royal Navy, the Merchant Navy,
the R.A.F. and tfie British Army, in all
which Poles to the number of many
thousands have served nobly. The
German abandonment of Poland was
decidedly not enforced by the Red
Army alone. What would have hap-
pened to the Red Army if the
Battle of Britain, in which Polish
squadrons had a grand part, had not been
fought? Hpw would it have fared if it
and the Russian people had not been
supplied by Britain, the United States and
Canada with everything of which they
were short, from tanks to tommy-
guns, railway trains to jeeps, drugs and
anaesthetics to shoes and flour, and all
carried in British and American bottoms?
If Russia had not received 16,000 to
20,000 Anglo-American ’planes and
ammunition beyond reckoning, and if the
R.A.F. and the U.S.A.F. had not, despite
these sacrifices, knocked the stuffing out
of the Luftwaffe, taken a heavy toll of
the Wehrmacht and introduced a desper-
ately uncertain factor into all its calcu-
lations in respect of transport, munitions,
fuel, food and morale, would the Red
Army be in Poland now?
Others, millions of plain people, will
ask these questions, and two of the
triumvirs will be expected to answer. At
Yalta, “in the former holiday mansion
of the Czars,” these two triumvirs were
concerned with adapting themselves to
consequences of the “new situation,”
which they did by surrendering to their
colleague from Moscow on nearly every
point.
In the case of Poland they began
by abandoning the Polish Government in
London, which commands the loyalty of
the Poles serving in the British forces
and the great majority of the Poles in
the United States, and accepting the
communist outfit at Lublin, called first
the National Liberation Committee and
then the Provisional Government, and
distinguished by its threats to hang the
leaders of th» Warsaw rising, of which
the Red Army was a strangely inactive
spectator from the other side of the Vis-
tula. The abandonment of the Govern-
ment which had the heroic Sikorski for
head till his untimely death was an-
nounced with a preliminary flourish
about.the “new situation” calling “for the
establishment of a Provisional Govern-
ment more broadly based.”
The Provisional Government which is now
functioning in Poland should therefore be
reorganised on a broader democratic basis,
with the inclusion of democratic leaders
from Poland itself and from Poles abroad.
This new Government should then be called
the Polish Provisional Government ot
National Unity.
M. Molotov, Mr. Hardman and Sir
Archibald Clark-Kerr are to “consult
with members of the present Provisional
Government, and with other Polish demo-
cratic leaders from within Poland and
from abroad, in Moscow with a view
to the reorganisation” of the Lublin
“Government” and to the arrangement of
“free and unfettered elections,” of which
the reorganised “Government” is obvi-
ously to have full control. “A Polish
Provisional Government of National
Unity” having been formed, the Polish
Government in London will be presented
with its walking ticket.
The Government of the U.S.S.R., which
now maintains diplomatic relations with the
present Provisional Government of Poland,
and the Governments of the United King-
dom and the U.S.A. will establish diplomatic
relations with the new Polish Provisional
Government of National Unity, and will
exchange ambassadors.
And fighting Poles from Lwow and
other historic places are not only to be
without a Government chosen by Poles
but without a country;
' The heads of the three Governments con-
sider that the eastern frontier of Poland
should follow the Curzon Line, with digres-
sions from it in some regions of five to
eight kilometres in favor of Poland. They
recognise that Poland must receive substantial
accessions of territory in the north and west.
They feel that the opinion of the new
Polish Provisional Government of National
Unity should be sought in due course on the
extent of these accessions and that the final
delimitation of the western frontier of
Poland, should' therefore await the peace
conference.
On the face of it, a complete sell-out
to Russia. An inexpressibly ignoble sac-
rifice of principle to expediency, of the
weak to the strong.
It may be claimed for Mr. Roosevelt,
who in newspaper photographs taken in
the Crimea looks a changed man, worn,
worried and old, that his Government
has given no signed and sealed under-
takings to Poland. But, being the man
he is, he would scarcely apply the words
of Lincoln the Emancipator to the
Polish, section of the Yalta agreement
(“Upon this act, sincerely believed to be
an act of justice I invoke the con-
siderate judgment, of mankind and the
gracious favor of Almighty God”), nor
would his closest friend have the face
to contend that the capitulation in the
Crimea fulfils his pre-election assurance to
the American Poles, repeated at Yalta
in his own language, that Poland will
be “strong, free, independent and demo-
cratic,” How can it be when it will be a
dismembered Poland, with counties and
cities as Polish as Surrey, Gloucestershire,
York, Canterbury and Bristol are Eng-
lish perforce ceded to Russia ; when it
will begin again with a communist Gov-
ernment taking orders from Moscow, and
when it will be entirely dependent on
Russia for the holding down of great
masses of Silesians and East Prussians.
For the idea that in years to come the
British Empire and the United States will
take up arms to keep Germans in sub-
jection to Poles and Poles to Russians
implied in a high-sounding “Declaration
on Liberated Europe” may be dismissed
as fantastic.
The other, parties to the fifth partition
of Poland (the fourth was the work of
Germany and Russia in September-
October, 1939, whereupon M. Molotov
announced that “the Polish State and its
Government have virtually ceased to
exist”) chose to ignore specific declara-
tions beginning with the British Agree-
ment of Mutual Assistance with Poland,
August 25, 1939. In that agreement there
is not a word which admits of any Brit-
ish Government sanctioning the transfer
of any part of Poland as it existed then
to another country without the express
consent of the Poles. Other declarations
are subjoined;— ,
Article 5 of the Anglo-Russian Alliance,
May 26, 1942: “The High Contracting
parties agree to work together in close
and friendly collaboration after the re-
establishment of peace for the organisation
of security and economic prosperity in
Europe. They will take into account the
interests of the United Nations in these
objects, and will act in accordance with the
two principles of not seeking territorial
aggrandisement for themselves and Of non-
interference in the internal affairs of other
States.”
Russo-Polish Agreement, signed in the
British Foreign Office on July 29, 1941, by
M. Maisky, then the Soviet Ambassador,
and M. Zaleski, then Foreign Minister in
the Polish Government in London: “The
U.S.S.R. Government recognises that the
Russo-German treaties of 1939 regarding
territorial changes in Poland have lost their
validity.”
Note handed by Mr. Eden to General
Sikorski, then head of the Polish Govern-
ment in London, same date: “In con-
formity with the provisions of the Agree-
ment of Mutual Assistance between the
United Kingdom and Poland, August 25,
1939, his Majesty’s Government has entered
into no undertakings towards the U.S.S.R.
which affect relations between that country
and Poland. His Majesty’s Government
does not recognise any territorial changes
which have been effected in Poland since
August, 1939.”
Mr. Stalin to the Moscow Soviet of
Working Peoples’ Deputies and Moscow
party and public organisations, November
6, 1941; “We have not, and Cannot have,
any such war aims as the seizure of foreign
territories and the subjugation of foreign
peoples, whether it be peoples and terri-
tories of Europe or peoples and territories
of Asia, including Iran.” ,
Iran was mentioned by Messrs. Stalin,
Churchill and Roosevelt in their Tehran
declaration as “Our Ally.” It has been
looking for a Foreign Minister, the late
Foreign Minister having been whirled out
of office by an agitation headed by the
Russian representative, and marked by
communist mob demonstrations familiar
in London, New York, Sydney and many
other cities where English is spoken,
because he and his Government refused
a Soviet demand for oil concessions.
Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania were not
mentioned at Tehran or at Yalta, their
“Sovietisation” being evidently regarded
as an accomplished fact. Yet these re-
publics and Poland are members of the
League of Nations, which guaranteed
their political independence and terri-
torial integrity, and Britain, Australia,
Canada, South Africa and New Zealand
are at least professing, by continuance
of their annual payments, that the League
is a going concern.
And from Yalta, as from Tehran, there
came no reference to the war against
Japan. A visitor from Mars could read
both declarations and the Anglo-Russian
treaty as well without divining that there
is a war in Asia which preceded the war
in Europe or that there is a war in the
Pacific which is in the fourth month of
the fourth year. Neither was there any
reference in either document to Russia’s
Five-Year Pact of Friendship and Neu-
trality with Japan, signed by M. Molotov
on April 13, 1941.
These omissions have not been noted
by people who are beside themselves with
enthusiasm for the appeasement of
Stalin ; and that goes for Leftists and
Liberals of all shades, and even some
Conservatives. The same people are
never done railing at Chamberlain for
appeasing Hitler, though Chamberlain’s
object was to avert the Horror, not to
raise up new causes of war, and he agreed
only to the cession of Sudetenland, which
Czechoslovakia, not an ally, could no
longer hold, and for which Daladier, who
had much more to do with Munich than
Chamberlain, was unwilling to fight,
while Russia, already meditating its ac-
commodation with Hitler, stood aloof.
These peculiar people are positive that
Mr. Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt must
have got it straight from Marshal Stalin
that the Five-year Pact of Friendship
and Neutrality with Japan would be de-
nounced, though a year’s notice is re-
quired, probably at San Francisco, where
“a conference of United Nations” is to
be held on April 25. There is no evidence
one way or the other, and it is no good
sign that “a high Washington official
broke into the cheers for Yalta with an
abrupt invitation to Moscow to make its
Japanese policy clear. However, it is
scarcely conceivable that without some
promise of Russian entry into the war
against Japan, in the first place by mak-
ing Siberian bases available to the United
States and the British Empire, Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt would have
given up so much for so little.
In the Atlantic Charter the leaders of
Britain and the U.S.A. placed on record
their “desire to see no territorial changes
that do not accord with the freely ex-
pressed wishes of the peoples concerned,”
“the peoples” being unnamed, and their
“wish to see sovereign rights and self-
government restored to those who have
been forcibly deprived of them.” Above
their signatures and that of Marshal
Stalin at Yalta are the words “By this
declaration we reaffirm our faith in the
principles of the Atlantic Charter , also,
“This is the principle of the Atlantic
Charter: the right of all peoples to choose
the form of government under which
they will live; the restoration of sovereign
rights and self-government to those
peoples who have been forcibly deprived
of them by aggressor nations.” _ Though
it may be the intention to give more
than lip-service to the Atlantic Charter
when Germany is defeated, this stuff tastes
bitter in the mouths of Poles, Estonians,
Latvians, Persians, Czechoslovaks (threat-
ened with the loss of Ruthenia to one ot
the Soviet republics) and all those others
who believe that the Atlantic Charter
is far and away the best thing of its
kind that has come out of the wars.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Limited Digger Preference.
On the third anniversary of the fall of
Singapore, with the passing into Jap
hands of the Eighth Division, the Aus-
tralian Government’s bosses met at Can-
berra to decide whether preference to
Diggers should be granted after this war,
as it was after the last.
Having no doubt had their ears to the
ground and heard things since loud oppo-
sition to preference of any kind for Dig-
gers was lately voiced from their quarter,
the bosses listened to Mr, Curtin’s pleas
—which must have been pressing—and
agreed to “recommend acceptance by
State executives of the Government’s plan
of preference to returned soldiers, pro-
vided a time limit of seven years was set.”
That will now go to Caucus and to
others who pull the strings that make the
Government dance. It is expected that
it will be accepted.
The time clause is a matter of compro-
mise all round. It is a come-down by the
Government, which had no such clause
in its tentative bill. In his last policy
speech Mr. Curtin blamed the wicked
“Senate Opposition” for preventing his
Government from “passing a measure
which would have dealt fairly, justly and
effectively with the question of preference
for members of the forces.” The Little
Digger, slightly enlarged. But such come-
downs are now familiar enough.
On the part of the Government’s bosses
the time clause represents a considerable
concession. It represents the difference
between nothing and at least something.
That being so, the clause will no doubt
be accepted by Diggers. The N.S.W. and
Victorian R.S.L. presidents have expressed
opposition to it; but most Diggers will
probably reconcile themselves to the
change, as they have done to much else
since, and will most likely have to do to
much more. They realise that there is
small likelihood of a Labor Govern-
ment being at Canberra in 1952.
What snags are still hidden will not be
known till the bill finally goes through.
The new Federal A.L.P. president Mr.
Walsh wrapped a possible one up in a
mouthful of jargon when announcing the
orders the Government had been given;
The Federal executive insists also that all
beneficiaries under the proposed legislation
should conform to the provisions of any
industrial law.
Other snags may lie in the date from
which the limit is to operate. Give the
parties the credit for not venturing any-
thing so shabby as ? date short of the
war’s ending, there could still be a con-
siderable difference in dates of discharge.
But even date of discharge could be
wholly unfair to all those* who will have
to have some technical training before
they will be fitted to compete pn an “all-
things-being-equal” basis with home-
frOnters they protected. And what of
the maimed who will have to undergo
hospital treatment for years? When will
preference for these men date from?
A point that should not be overlooked
by all parties to this business —including
the great majority of decent Australians
who hold to the simple principle of a
fair go—is that preference is not, after
all, the granting of any great favor. It
is merely a matter of filling vacancies in
jobs when these occur. All things con-
sidered, it is a small thing.
What should be guiding all those con-
cerned is ensuring fair, sympathetic treat-
ment for those who will most richly have
earned it.
"That Fellow Menzies."
Every night last week he was address-
ing meetings in Sydney suburbs on
behalf of the Liberal party, which
had scarcely been formed when its can-
didate, Eric Hearnshaw, polished off his
Labor and Independent opponents for
the Ryde Assembly seat. This success
seems to have stirred many people who
had given up hope of unity against the
drift to the twin despotisms of bureau-
cratic socialism and union bossism.
Anyway, the Leader of the Opposition
not only got crowded meetings but was
listened to with close attention and with-
out interjection. Not even a “Pigiron
Bob!”
Had that old communist cry been
heard, Mr. Menzies could have quoted
the words of Mr. Joseph Grew, formerly
U.S. Ambassador to Japan and now
Assistant Secretary of State. Replying in
December to a question asked by
a member of a Senate Committee,
Mr, Grew characterised the immensely
greater American shipments of scrap
to Japan, and of oil as well, “at a
time when we were not prepared for
war,” as “absolutely sound, a policy of
plain commonsense.”
But, though the speeches of the man
from Kooyong are always interesting and
salted with humor, and though his politi-
cal stature is undeniable, to the Sydney
daily press he is much less important than
pugilists, footballers, racing men
owners, trainers, jockeys, bookmakers and
punters —and even bike-pushers, whose
unintelligible wrangles are now consum-
ing a great deal of ink and paper.
“S. M. Herald” dismissed his Kil-
lara. Five Dock and Mosman meetings
with an average of 6in. of space and did
not report the Double Bay meeting at all.
Yet the speaker packed the hall and had
an overflow into the street. The “D.T.”
ignored Killara and Double Bay, gave
Five Dock Sin. and Mosman 7in.
There must be news value in a man
who is restoring the vogue of the public
meeting when i£ seemed doomed, and
who can pack suburban halls and hold
his audiences rapt 18 months before a
general election. Obviously the morn-
ing papers find it very hard to forgive
the fellow for what happened to the
“outstanding” candidates they ran
against him, but at the beginning of
this week there were indications that
forgiveness would be forced on them.
Singapore Week.
Last week, pregnant with memories of
the Australian Eighth Division, brought
reports of continuing drought and failing
sources of food supply, and saw men
constructing a platform from which to
launch war-loan appeals in Martin-
place. It was marked also by an
upsurge in the war between industrial
anarchy on the one hand and law and
order on the other. From one paper’s
columns:
Monday; Sydney firemen strike and leave
city and suburbs exposed to fire risk.
“Cause”: A fireman was suspended for re-
fusing, “for the first time in the history of
the brigade,” to “compile a daily report on
the number of men available”— i.e., to do
a bit of clerical work while killing time.
The weather was hot and all wooden con-
structions dry as tinder. A 24-hour rail
strike over some pettifogging matter ended
at South Grafton.
Tuesday: Firemen’s strike extended to
country. Reluctant striker “loudly hooted”
when he declared that the men owed a duty
to the public and should remember there
was a war on. And “there was a stormy
scene when a striker said the officers from
one station had worked with policemen on
a fire.” Newcastle war-workers down
tools because a man refuses to pay a six-
penny levy for a Sunday sport stunt. Air-
craft workers in Sydney strike. Men on
important ship work strike against members
of a registered union whom they don’t like.
Diggers have t'o load foodstuffs for their
mates when cold-store workers refuse. News
filters through of big Queensland shearing
strike engineered by communists.
Wednesday; Firemen still out. New-
castle levy strike involves 1000.
Thursday: Firemen’s strike ends. Sus«
pended man reinstated; strikers paid for
being on strike as “goodwill gesture”;
officers —who had remained at their posts
—ordered to do the “clerical work” to
which the strikers objected. Commo. v.
A.W.U. fight threatens paralysis of war
industries at Port Kembla. Engineers strike
at Waterloo. Counsel for the Common-
wealth urges Arbitration Court Judge to
declare for striking union against non-
striking union in former’s appeal for deregis-
tration of latter.
Friday: Tram and bus strike threatened
because men object to carting crowds to a
charity “carnival.” “Carnival” prohibited
by a Canberra Minister. Ships Held Up
by Wharf Disputes; General Stoppage on
Sydney Waterfront Feared.
Saturday: Eight ships engaged on vital
war work idle in Sydney: 1000 wharf-
laborers refuse to work because 80 were
suspended for refusing to transfer to coastal
shipping.
Sunday: Servicemen work as wharf-
laborers in Sydney. One vessel without
labor. Labor Council secretary says water-
front dispute has “all the possibility of de-
veloping into another 1917 upheaval unless
something is done.” State secretary of the
A.R.U. recommends a State-wide strike of
all members because of an Arbitration
Court decision holding South Grafton men
liable to £lO fines if they fail to work under
the railway award. Federal strike of loco
enginemen proposed by Enfield (N.S.W.)
branch.
Not once during, the whole period,
though Australia’s largest city was ex-
posed to an unprecedented fire risk,
though war work was stopped while
communists sought to bully anti-corn,
unionists and tie up war plants in the
process, though Diggers had to leave
military duties and perform civilian
tasks, though transport and food and
war supplies and repairs of ships were
halted —not once was a word heard
from either the Federal or the State
Minister for Labor and Industry, and
a positive blare of silence came from
the “Labor” Prime Minister and the
“Labor” Premier. Yet strikes are illegal
under a litter of laws and National Secu-
rity regulations and there are unexer-
cised powers, such as the power of dis-
franchisement.
“SEE THE CONQUERING CHEER-OHS COME.”
"Out for half a week, the sydny firemen returned to work on practically own terms officers on duty, were obliged to do clerical
work to which the men had objected, a suspended fireman was reinstated, and ‘as a goodwill gesture’ the firemen were paid for the time they were on strike,”


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers'
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Making
H
!!£-
OF
gCTE
UNA
' WE
PAS
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE GO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a "Sly confidential basis for_the
purpose of paying such items as
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ; j
(d) Other pressing debts,or approv
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5/o P*'
and the following table ind, = a ‘ esintt f|p
ments which will fuUy repay a loan mr
amounts mentioned within 12
LOAN Weekly Fortnightly M°r£h |y
inc, Disct.
£lO
£2O
£3O
£4O
£5O
£lOO
Instal.
3 II
7 9
II 7
IS 5
19 3
I 18
Instal.
7 9
IS 5
1 3 1
I 10 10
I 18 6
3 17 0
Instal.
16 8
1 13
2 10
3 6
4 3
8 6
may
A longer P er! .°.'L t ° instances
granted according to circum h#
with a corresponding reductio
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURALBANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITYICAL POINTS
Back from what was literally a flying
visit to servicemen in Queensland, the
Duke of Gloucester is to open Parliament
today. Somebody has pointed out that
the date, February 21, is exactly 18
months from the date of the general
election, which gave Labor 49 seats
in the House. More than it ever had
before or is likely to have again while
the memory of its performances during
the 18 months remains.
One of the young gentlemen who write
stuff with a Labor bias for facing-both-
ways papers went to a great deal of
trouble to “prove” that the defeat of the
Labor man in Ryde (N.S.W.) had no sig-
nificance whatever. Another exulted in
the downfall of the Liberal in Victoria
Park (W.A.), where a stranger to the elec-
torate with no political ancestry or hope
of posterity, though personally estimable,
was “endorsed” as one of six. Labor
ran a Victoria Park tramwayman, Harry
Martin, whose slogan was “Labor will be
attacked by Big Business : Hold What
You’ve won.” The Liberal vote went to
W. W. Read, a local chemist and coun-
cillor, who stood- as an Independent. In
an effective poll of 7661, he beat Martin
by 1019. Labor had held the electorate
since it was established in 1929, its last
majority being just on two to one. Any
Labor scribe who thinks he can laugh that
off is welcome to try.
Lloyd George once more (The Truth
About the Peace Treaties,” p. 324-5):
The most formidable and irrepressible
protagonist of an anti-Bolshevik war was
Mr. Winston Churchill. He was horrified,
as we all were, at the savage murder of the
Czar, the Czarina and their helpless children.
His ducal blood revolted against the whole-
sale elimination of Grand Dukes.
At Yalta, in the Crimea, 25 years later,
his ducal blood seems to have been, at
most, tepid,
Sydney firemen, who went on strike
and left the city without adequate
fire protection, were paid for the
strike period as a “goodwill ges-
ture” by the Fire Commissioners,
headed by a former Labor politi-
cian. Nobody has asked the fire insur-
ance companies for an opinion, though
they probably have one. They contribute
large sums —£249,000 in 1941-42 and
£266,000 in 1942-43 —to help maintain an
efficient anti-fire service ready for duty
at any moment.
Menzies at the Sydney suburb of
Double Bay;
England, dubbed as effete and capitalist
and several other things by so-called pro-
gressives, communists and a variety of other
animals, astonished the world by produc-
ing, under her Parliamentary system and in
spite of many difficulties, a generation that
has proved since 1940 that it is one of the
most magnificent of all history.
It brought deafening applause, but no
Sydney daily thought it worth reporting.
Menzies is not a professional leather-
chaser (Narvo Will Place Football First)
or a boot manufacturer with a private
racecourse, or another who travels from
city to city punting, or a night-club pro-
prietor with a racing stable. And he is
certainly no flapper with Sex Appeal.
Before the last war N. S. Wales had
a coal-export trade with the Philippines,
China, Chile, Peru, Hawaii and the U.S.A.
itself. More N.S.W. coal went to Chile
than to any Australian State except Vic-
toria. All these profitable Pacific markets
were fooled away by strikers and short-
sighted employers, and part of the Vic-
torian trade was lost when the Victorians
were baited into developing their brown
coal for the generation of electric current.
Now another large slice of it is
threatened. According to the Colonial
Gas publication “the complete gasifica-
tion of brown coal briquettes has been
demonstrated as feasible by continuous
research work, and if Box Hill experi-
ments, now under way, are successful,
raw brown coal may eventually provide
all the gas requirements of Victoria.” So
in aiming at the public, regardless of war
duties, union larrikinism will have socked
unionists.
Calwell’s term for communists when
he tackled them —as he did once, and
that as vigorously as Cremean and Mul-
lens have done all along—was “Red
Fascists.” The same expression appears
in the report of the British Trade-Union
delegation on the communist insurrec-
tion in Greece. “One hundred and four-
teen Greek trade-union officials,” the re-
port says, “were killed by Red Fascists,”
and “the widows of 41” were interviewed.
As for collaboration, with the Nazis, so
“much evidence was offered that the dele-
gation found it difficult to decide who,
trade-unionists included, was guiltless.”
That oddity among trade-union secre-
taries William Fletcher, of the National
Union of Railwaymen, has been pitching
into the corns, again, this time at Laun-
ceston (Tas.):
Soon after the Curtin Government lifted
the ban on the Communist party a concerted
attempt was made in two States to persuade
it to authorise the formation of a people’s
“army,” equipped with machine-guns,
rifles and hand grenades, to be taken home,
similar to the E.L.A.S. of Greece.
And he quoted a Wollongong (N.S.W.)
com. as saying, “shortly after,” that “if
owners will not make sacrifices violent
revolution will be necessary to bring
about a new order,” Nothing was done
to the Wollongong gentleman or to the
projectors of the “people’s army,” but
there were summary arrests and long-con-
tinued internment of returned soldiers
and retired bank-managers and the like
on the ground that they were Australia
Firsters who were plotting terrible things.
Dwyer-Gray, the Tasmanian Treasurer,
pleading for a substantially increased
Commonwealth grant:
During the five years 1934-39 inclusive
N.S.W., Victoria and Queensland accumu-
lated net Treasury deficits totalling
£9,828,000. During the five years to June
30, 1944, their Treasury position improved
by £12,527,000, even on the figures as pub-
lished, whereas Tasmania’s aggregate deficit
for the war period was £257,000.
It couldn’t have happened in Britain,
Maoriland or South Africa. The Com-
monwealth Government, as sole distri-
butor of income-tax revenue and war
expenditure, should and could have pre-
vented any State Government becoming
one with the hard-faced men who have
done very well out of the war.
Another from Canberra on a subject
that smells like a pre-war emu egg:
Inquiries by Commonwealth authorities
have disclosed that the ports where the
pillaging of cargoes is heaviest are Sydney,
Melbourne and Fremantle.
No mention of the fact that Fremantle
is represented by the Prime Minister,
Melbourne by the Minister of Informa-
tion, Melbourne Ports by the Minister of
Labor and National Service, East Sydney
(with Woolloomooloo) by the Minister of
Transport and West Sydney (with the
rest of the wharf region) by the Vice-
President of the Executive Council, till
recently Minister of Supply and Shipping.
It was added in the Canberra dispatch
that “the death penalty for pillaging is
seriously suggested by a high Govern-
ment authority.” Excellent; but is any
of these Ministers game to name him?
Westralian wheatgrowers are wistfully
recalling Earle Page’s plan for their in-
dustry. Introduced in 1940, it proposed
registering of farms, licensing of growers
and a guarantee of 3s. lOd. (f.0.b.) f° r a
140-million-bushel crop, half the proceeds
exceeding 3s. lOd. to go to the growers
and half to a hard-times fund. In came
Scully with his guarantee of 4s. a bushel
at sidings,'limited to 3000 bushels, and
with him and it —stagnation. J. W. Diver,
of the Westralian Primary Producers,
declares that had Page had his way
growers would now be getting ss. lid.
a bushel f.o.b. “with another 2s. Id.
going into the reserve fund.”
Cheer up, all you Diggers and workers
pigging it in leaky tents and congested
back rooms! Cheer up, all you distracted
mothers searching for shelter! Cheer
up, all you folk waiting to be married
as soon as you can get a home!
Cheer up, all, for a five-story block
of administrative buildings, estimated
to cost £900,000, is to be built at
Canberra as an urgent work, as soon as
man-power and material are available
from present urgent work.
The inhabitants of N.S.W., Victoria
and Queensland have a common lan-
guage, State Parliaments, Parlia-
ment and more or less common national
interests, dreams and outlook. It
isn’t hard to imagine the row there’d be
if the Canberra Government decided to
give Victoria all the Riverina up to the
Lachlan and to compensate N.S.W. with
the Darling Downs. That’s pretty well
what the “Big Three” propose for Poland
and adjacent territories, all with different
languages and races.
Members of the A.W.C. administrative
staff in Queensland are snorting because,
they allege, they are being retrenched
while “southerners” kept on are receiving
“away-from-home allowances” ranging
from £2 10s. to £3 a week. Sometimes, it
is further alleged, husband and wife are
employed and both draw allowances,
yearly cost of which is reckoned at
£20,000 —“as much,” one Queenslander
remarked sourly, “as the war-loan quota
of many Queensland towns.” The
“heads” have replied that “careful con-
sideration” has been given to the thing
' and an “investigation” is going on.
W. H. Ifould, Deputy-Director of
W. 0.1., explaining why the Communist
party was granted permission to renovate
and improve its Sydney headquarters:
The Communist party’s application was
treated in the same manner as that of any
other political party, organisation or busi-
ness house which establishes its need for
greater office space.
Now all the father of a homeless family
has to do is to buy a block of land, sign
forms, have himself declared an organ-
isation and hold out his hand for a permit
to build. He won’t get it.
From “Clooter”:
I am a union member. The members of
the Firemen’s Union in my city are on
strike. My house is on fire. If I put the
fire out am I a “scab” and can my union
expel me and call upon Man-power to keep
me out of my trade? I hope you will
answer promptly because the fire has now
reached the kids’ bedroom.
The letter —like the pardon—came too
late. While its contents were being
digested it was reported on Reliable
Authority that, to the strains of the
“Red Flag” coming from the fire station,
the flames licked up everything in the
house, all the inmates being burnt to
death.
In the Moscow “News” and papers of
the sort, Stalin is always “Chairman of
the Council of People’s Commissars of
the U.5.5.R.,” and he is so described in
the Statesman’s Year-Book. He was
styled “Premier of the U.S.S.R.” in the
reports issued from Tehran and Yalta and
signed “Joseph Stalin.” A small thing,
but perhaps significant —in any case, com-
munist rags circulating in Australia are
always months behind the fair.
A Ward preview of the opening of
Parliament by the Duke of Gloucester:
“You will see the greatest orgy of spend-
ing and extravagance. There will be
assembled here the greatest collection of
snobs that the country can provide.” This
need not be taken to mean that friends of
Ward had no hope of getting seats.
Lloyd George left a son and a daugh-
ter in the Commons when he went to the
Lords. The daughter spoke first in a de-
bate on Welsh affairs, and said “it was
the first for 400 years—somewhat over-
due, I think.” Other members laughed.
Then she pointed out that “there is not
a single Minister of Cabinet level to see
that the interests of Wales are safe-
guarded or even understood.” Again
other members laughed, for the witty
lady’s brother is Minister of Fuel, not
yet “of Cabinet” level.
There’s a yarn of a Digger who saw
a queue at a slot machine in New York,
joined it, and for his coin got a ham sand-
wich. Charmed, he put in more coins.
When he had received his 34th sandwich
the men behind him suggested that 34
was enough. The Digger turned round
and said “Cripes, you wouldn’t want a
man to knock off while he’s winning,
would you?” It must annoy Sydney
firemen when they hear it. They went
on strike last week, got what they wanted
and were paid for the time they were
on strike. Unlike the Digger, they
knocked off while they were winning.
Melbourne’s city fathers added another
blunder on the housing problem to the
one they made when they sanctioned the
proposal to build a million-pound com-
mercial building in Melbourne prin-
cipally to house cars. While they
were discussing the housing, shortage at
the quarterly civic dinner it was sug-
gested that a new authority to build
houses be created. There are roughly six
already.
v Some Canberra members and their
press friends are fond of pointing out
that they are badly off compared with
U.S. Congressmen, and that there should
be more seats with higher pay. Here is
the Congressman’s position, as stated by
Robert Taylor (N.Y. “World Telegram”):
His $lO,OOO a year is no longer tax-
exempt, he has to maintain a home in his
district and another in war-crowded Wash-
ington, travel back home at his own expense
and run for re-election every two years.
During one period 70 p.c. of House mem-
bers had drawn advances on their salaries.
Considering everything, our M.H.R. can
probably get nearly as much for his £lOOO
as the Congressman for his $lO,OOO. And
triennial elections, free travel, fees fot
committee work, no obligation to live at
Canberra and accommodation there at
reduced rates when Parliament is sitting,
which is seldom, more than make up tne
deficiency, if any.
Do bureaucrats ever think? A Vic-
torian orchard inspector, who had been
15 years an orchardist and had had 25
years’ experience with the Agricultural
Department as a field officer, was due
for retirement. Not feeling like retiring,
he applied through Man-power for a job
under Food Control. He was told young
men were being taken out of the army
and trained for administrative positions,
so old men with field experience weren t
wanted.
“Mrs. V. Cluse”: A lot of people I
meet in queues and during the early
morning meat and egg rush at the local
shops growl a fair bit about things in
general. Then, inevitably, there arises
the usual gloom-chaser to remind us o
our narrow escape from invasion and a
fate “wuss than death.” Well, when you re
standing long hours in queues you get
time to think and it occurs to me that
our escape is much greater than we
realise, for, Japs or no Japs, we couldnt
have lasted much longer. That should
be obvious to anybody who reads the
books, pamphlets and advertisements an
listens to the broadcast statements of the
brilliant fellows who are planning our
future at Canberra. How on earth did
we manage before?


(yOondo
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
King’s College, Adelaide, is to have
Engineer Lieut.-Commander C. C. Shink-
field, R.A.N., for its head after next
May. A Cambridge M.A., he has had
over 20 years’ teaching experience in
Victoria and in England, and is a promi-
nent figure in the New Education Fellow-
ship. In 1914-18 he was in destroyers,
and in this war has had nearly five years
with the R.A.N. Two of his sons hold
commissions aboard H.M.A.S. Australia,
and were in the Philippines actions. Their
two brothers are in the R.A.A.F.
The entry of Eric' Hearnshaw into the
N. S. Wales Assembly was no little-by-
little affair, though he was spoken for
by two other Erics (Spooner and Harri-
son). Hearnshaw crashed into the Ryde
seat from a standing start, and thereby
raised the tail of the newly-formed
Liberal party very considerably. Hardly
the conventional politician, he was
thought by some to have no chance either
for pre-selection or at the polls. He
himself learned about his winning the
party endorsement only by a casual
glance through the morning paper.
Although a student of politics for years,
LIBERAL M.L.A. FOR RYDE.
Hearnshaw’s first active association was
with the recently-formed Democratic
party, which succeeded the U.A.P. in
N.S.W. He was born in England 51
years ago, came to Australia in 1914,
served in the A.I.F. in World War I,
studied economics, public administration
and accountancy to the extent of gaining
degrees, and is now managing director
of vSilk and Textile Printers. As Bill
Prior’s sketch shows, when Hearnshaw
smiles he really smiles.
Entering the bar of their clubroom
after iattending the funeral of fellow-
member Harold Herbert, members of
Melbourne’s Savage Club were con-
fronted with a freshly-posted notice:
“Mr. Harold Herbert,” it read, “desires
that all drinks between noon and 2 p.m.
today should be on him.”
If Harold Herbert had been questioned
about his art training and the acquisi-
tion of that simple formula which he
applied to the Australian landscape with
such facility that he could run off half
a dozen pictures in a day he would
probably have recalled a brief but con-
crete lesson he got from Hans Heysen.
A shy, diffident and untried painter, he
had provided himself with a magnificent
array of boards and brushes and the
largest, latest and shiniest box of pig-
ments money could buy, and he sat down
on the banks of a creek on Heysen’s
property in S.A. and looked nervously
at the scene before him. “How shall I
start?” he asked the older painter. Hey-
sen silently stretched out his hand, picked
out one expensive block of color after
another and threw them into the water,
leaving him with a Chinese white, an
ultramarine blue, a red and a cadmium
yellow.
Michael Francis Troy has been re-
appointed for another three years as W.A.
Agent-General in London —in effect, for
a third term. Troy saw the worst of
the air raids out, and with his family
has been able to render useful service
to uniformed Westralians who fipd
themselves in London. N. S. Wales can
claim him as a son, but he has been a
Westralian most of his life.
One of the big jobs in U.N.R.R.A.
has gone to a young Australian, Com-
mander R. G. A. Jackson, R.A.N., little
known in his own country despite fine
work in the Middle East in recent years.
Born in Melbourne 33 years ago, he
was paymaster lieut.-commander on
H.M.A.S. Australia early in the war.
While things were at their dirtiest in
Malta Jackson was sent to the island
to organise supplies, and though little
has been heard of the job he did when
official records are made available Aus-
tralia will realise why C.M.G. and 0.8. E.
are now tacked to his name. From
Malta he was seconded from the R.A.N.
to charge of the colossal under-
taking in Cairo known as the Middle
East Supply Centre. Later he was
appointed principal assistant to the
Minister of State in the Middle East.
That’s another story that will have to
wait. Now he is senior deputy director-
general of U.N.R.R.A. with headquarters
m Washington.
Going back to his native heath, U.S.
Minister to Australia Nelson T. Johnson,
one of the most widely popular diplo-
matic representatives ever known here.
Previously he was for many years Uncle
Sam’s chief representative in China, end-
ing there in 1941 as Ambassador Extra-
ordinary, He’s been doing a fine job,
both for his country and this, ever since
the war with the Japs started.
A governing director’s rise:
What can be —or, at any rate, could be —
done m Australia by a youngster with the right
amount of nous and enterprise was never
better illustrated than in the career of Alfred
Oeorge Healing, who passed on in Melbourne
on Sunday at 77. When he was a boy ads.
were appearing in Australian papers to the
, that £3 sent to a firm in England would
land here a Mead bicycle; at the time bikes
here cost eight quid or so. With two other
lads, young Healing sent to England for three
bikes, to be paid for on a c.o.d. arrangement.
When time of arrival was getting close the
partners got cold feet and left young Healing
holding the baby. Healing, who used to speak
with the rapidity of a machine-gun—Norman
Lindsay had nothing on him —went to an E., S.
and A. bank manager and fired such a volley
of words at him that the manager, seeing the
amount involved in the requested advance was
only a matter of less than a tenner, agreed to
back the bill. Bikes having arrived, young Heal-
ing went back, to find that the banker —who’d
probably been bewildered by the volubility in
the first place—had completely forgotten. How-
ever, another volley or barrage of words did the
trick. Young Healing got his bikes, sold them
at a profit, then opened a bike-parts shop in
about six-by-eight premises; and so on, till at
the end he was governing director of A. G.
Healing, one of the biggest bicycle, radio, re-
frigerator and so forth concerns in the country.
T. J. Parker, director of Huddart
Parker, has been appointed chairman of
directors of Amalgamated Wireless. He
has been on the board for many years.
After 40 years on it, Frank Walker
has resigned from the council of the
Royal Historical Society in Sydney, de-
ciding to take things a bit easier. An
original member of the society, he was
its first hon. treasurer, a former president
and for many years a vice-president. He
has written on many phases of Australian
history for its journal.
Retiring after over half a century in
Adelaide in the Government service,
G. P. Howie has had warm farewells
and presentations. Latterly he has had
to run all Federal elections, State elec-
tions and referendum polls, plus the
issue of ration books and of identity
cards.
A. E. Walters, of the A.M.P., the
president-elect for 1945 of the Insurance
Institute of S.A., has been transferred to
Brisbane, and G. A. Mollison, of the
Northern Co., will be president instead.
G. H. Leech, of the North British, be-
comes vice-president.
Flying-Officer E. A. Coates, whose pic-
ture appears herewith, hails from
New England, is a bank officer in private
life and something of a prodigy in the
R.A.A.F. Well on in the war before D-
Day, when France was very tightly
packed with Germans, he was pilot of a
Wellington bomber. Returning from a
mission over the Reich, his somewhat
tattered Wimpy decided to go to earth.
AN ESCAPEE.
Coates went with it —not a rare adven-
ture for R.A.A.F. men at that time.
Landed not far from the borders of
Luxembourg, Coates decided that it could
be no colder walking to Spain that it
would be waiting for a German patrol.
So he set out, crossed the Marne on
Attila’s old battleground of Chalons, and,
after many adventures, during which he
tramped, rode a bicycle, which was not
much better in condition than his aban-
doned Wellington, sneaked, crawled and
rode furtively in trains, he passed out
occupied France into Vichy France and
out of Vichy France by an uninviting
route into Spain. He was the first British
airman to do it. In all- he must have
covered more than 400 miles en route,
but he gives the credit for his escape to
two influences —the unfailing readiness
of the French to risk their lives in help-
ing and his desire to see New England
again.
For more than 20 years Col. Frank
Charles Lloyd has been secretary of the
S.A. Local Government Assoc., and for
the past eight years has been an Adelaide
City Councillor. As well, he’s managing
director and owner of an Adelaide
FRANK CHARLES LLOYD.
printery, which he joined as a book-
keeper at £1 per week 21 years ago. He
was the old 32nd Battalion’s adjutant in
t- . jr- , 3 , i
Egypt and France, was severely wounded
on the Somme and was invalided
home. Altogether Col. Lloyd had 30
years’ military service, mixing artillery
j ■ r . J r- rv i > t „
and infantry. For 20 years he s been a
member of the Central Board of Health,
was on the committee which framed the
big S.A. Local Government Act, and
„,, .• , , c 0 A J. , „
makes time to. be sec. of the S.A. Tuber-
cular Association.
Air-Commodore F. R. W. Scherger,
D. 5.0., A.F.C., temporarily on the Air
Board as Air Member for Personnel, is an
Ararat (Vic.) native who graduated from
Duntroon into the R.A.A.F. in 1925. As
a Wing-Commander he was chief flying
instructor, at Point Cook when the war
arrived, became Chief Test Pilot, got
special mention for his work on Wirra-
ways and collected the A.F.C. After
serving as Director of Training at
R.A.A.F. headquarters, he became C.O.
of the Service Flying Training School at
Wagga, was appointed C.O. of No. 10
Operational Group and subsequently
Task Force Commander of the whole
Allied air attack and landing at Aitape
and Noemfoor.
Maorilander Elsa B. Kidson has been
elected to Fellowship of the Royal Insti-
tute of Chemistry of Great Britain and
Ireland, the first woman in M.L. to gain
such distinction. Miss work
has been with the Cawthorn Institute,
Nelson.
Peter Board, dead at 87 in Sydney,
made N.S.W. educational history between
1880 and 1922, when he retired. From
his native Wingham he went to Sydney
Uni., got his B.A. and M.A., became a
pupil teacher and thus entered the edu-
cation service at a time when ideas and
equipment were primitive. He saw what
the bush teacher was up against and by
the time he became an inspector was ob-
sessed with the need not only for free
education but for providing educators
with all possible assistance. When he
became Director he rapidly put his ideas
into effect, with enduring results. Back
from England in 1903 he introduced a
new primary-school syllabus, and after
visiting U.S.A. in 1909 he planned the
present high-school system and reorga-
nised technical education. He inspired
a sheaf of measures—Free Education,
University Amendment, Bursary Endow-
ment and Public Instruction amendments.
Some of his best work was done as
chairman of Repat.’s Education Board.
His daughter Ruby is president of the
National Council of Women.
Into the silence:
At Camberwell, Melbourne, Mrs. Anne Brown
Murdoch, widow of the Rev. P. J. Mur-
doch, and mother of Keith Murdoch, of the
'Herald.” The daughter of a Scotch divine of
Aberdeenshire, she came to Australia with her
husband in 1885. She had seven children, three
of whom predeceased her. .
In Sydney, Maud Fanning, widow of Charlie
Fanning, the old cornerman, and herself a
favorite on the halls for many years.
In Melbourne, the widow of Vice-Admiral
William Creswell, who commanded South
Australia’s first gunboat, the Protector, took
her to China during the Boxer Rebellion,
subsequently fought for an Australian navy in
lieu of a subsidy to the R.N., and became
First Naval Member of the Commonwealth
Naval Board, retiring in 1919. His wife
was a daughter of Justice Stowe, of Adelaide.
In Sydney, at 68, painter Fred Leist. Sydney
born, he was trained in Julian Ashton’s school,
with later study in Paris and in Italy. Years
back a Bulletin black-and-white contributor,
he exhibited for many years at the Royal
Academy; was an official Australian War Artist
in World War I, and for many years was in-
structor in pointing at East Sydney Tech. His
field embraced landscape and figure studies, and
in recent years he mostly specialised in semi-
decorative compositions based on abo. or other
characteristically Australian motifs.
At Christchurch (M.L.), Ursula Mary Bethell,
whose first book of poems, From a Garden in.
the Antipodes, was published in London in
1929 under the name of Evelyn Hayes. Two
subsequent volumes were published before she
assumed her name as a poetess. She was largely
responsible for the establishment in Christchurch
of the Gordon Hall for boys.
In Melbourne, Mrs. T. C. Blackburn, mother
of the late Maurice Blackburn. Gifted, like her
son, she was an excellent vocalist and musician.
With her death goes the last surviving member
of the family of Captain Alexander McCrae,
Victoria’s first Postmaster-General.
At Port Adelaide, Charles Deverson, a useful
all-round cricketer for S.A. a few years back.
Don Bradman, on settling in S.A., seemed to
find his fast-medium bowling specially difficult,
and Deverson five or six times took a wicket
which at that time it was an honor to get at all.
In Melbourne, at 76, John Linane, the pas-
toralist. He had grazing interests in N.S.W.,
Q. and the N.T. and was connected with the
firm of Naughton and William Naughton.
In Melbourne, Miss Maud Harvie, lover of
animals and founder of the Purple Cross Ser-
vice of Victoria. Formed at the beginning of
the last war for the special care of war horses
the society sent large consignments of supple-
mentary fodder with horses going overseas; in
this war it consigned special leather boots for
horses in New Guinea. Miss Harvie belonged
to the R.S.P.C.A. and the Animal Welfare
League.


SERVICE STATION
o
IT WON'T BE LONG NOWI
«—we hope, no matter what priority you have,
before you can get yourself a brand new Masse
Battery to put pep into that car of yours. But,
meantime, get your nearest Masse dealer to give
your present battery a fortnightly check-up. An
occasional re-charge may mean many extra
months of service.
tfasse
A B I II OCRS
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
5-44
YOUR FAMILY’S FUTURE
N
OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
- - under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many. _
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desiredto m
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with he
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility, t a can
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 y P
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains t e o
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C., E. R
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
a fi Armvtaee, Manager.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. ■ a - ' & A ,i„; n islrator. etc.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees an o lers.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed ’
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY. _
Business. Rollery, etc.
Stand By for Squealers
This war is dragging on longer than
the 1914-18 affair, however hopeful the
signs may now be of a conclusion sooner
than could be reasonably expected two
years ago. Though there have been
no five divisions in France this
time, for Australia it has been a
much bigger show than the previous war,
both as regards mobilisation of man-
power and utilisation of industrial re-
sources. It has upset our way of living
and our outlook on life to a greater
extent. The Cdmmonwealth Govern-
ment has exercised far wider powers on
this occasion, both for the prosecution of
the war and the furtherance of political
ends*
The Government payroll has been
huge, and the three years or more since
Japan entered the conflict have been suffi-
cient to establish a new standard of their
own importance in the eyes of thousands
of Australians who have found the shak-
ing-round in the dice-box of war-time
chance a matter for their liking. Many
who have been lucky don’t realise that
their apparent elevation has been due to
good luck. Many others don’t realise
that they are associated with a great
amount of wastage and inefficiency —as
well as real effort —that is dragging down
the living standards of others in the com-
munity.
Over a million Australians have been
given new occupations as a result of the
war. Some of them are in the fighting
forces, others in war-time industries and
such Government bodies as the Allied
Works Council. Others again are in the
employ of Allied Governments in the
South Pacific area. Many of the men
in the forces have suffered reductions in
their income by joining up. Some have
had their pay made up by their former
employers. Others have risen to a much
higher rate of pay as a result of their
military activities. Some have never pre-
viously been employed, being youths upon
joining up ; and among this number there
are those who have gained a standard
of values that will not harmonise with
the changed circumstances of peace-time.
Communist influences have been hard
at work in the army, as elsewhere, during
this war, making sure that the post-war
unrest that will certainly arise in difficult
economic circumstances has every oppor-
tunity to blossom to the full. The
referendum campaigning of the Federal
Government was charged with misrepre-
sentation of national economic factors,
particularly as regards post-war employ-
ment prospects, and Labor-party policy
has been one of economic fallacy for
generations past. Labor has held the
reins during the “total” period of the
war in Australia, and it has pushed its
propaganda hard.
Inevitably in the post-war period there
will be those who were good service men
and wffio gained rank accordingly who
will not rate so high in 'ivil occupations.
That has to be accepted, and is accepted
already in the minds of many young
officers who had a civilian job before the
war. They know pretty well the circum-
stances to which they will have to come
back. But the services as a whole have
not been overpaid by any standard, cer-
tainly not by comparison with unionists
and old-age pensioners. Generally speak-
ing, it is not the fighting men who will
suffer most disillusionment when the war
ends and competitive trade and the need
for economy and industrial efficiency re-
turns to the world. The squealing is most
likely to come from the inflated war-time
bureaucracy, from the political appointees
in their thousands, and, particularly, from
the great Labor camp which has opposed
national service of all kinds, which now
opposes preference to returning service
men, and which is forever wailing about
the boss, the banks and the national credit.
With over half the national income
passing through its hands, and with the
power to tdx according to inpome classes,
to grant “priorities,” to ration essentials
and to push man-power around, the
Federal Labor Government has seized the
opportunity to make a huge political
effort as well as carrying out a war effort.
The Allied Works Council has spent
money merrily and wastefully in more
than one part of the Commonwealth.
Wharf-laborers get dazzling money when
working overtime. The war-risk bonus
on the coast has brought an inflated
income to merchant seamen of all ranks,
and the spinning-out of overtime has de-
veloped into a racket. The coalmining
industry works when it likes, and seems
sufficiently well paid to experience no
economic hardship from such a policy.
One of the noticeable things in indus-
try since war began has been the scarcity
of boys for ordinary tasks. It has been
too easy for boys just leaving school to
make. £2 or £3 a week at some job that
will end with the war. Such jobs might
last three years before a lad became
liable for a call-up, and the unusual cir-
cumstances of war-time employment
would cease to seem unusual, making
the psychological problem all the more
difficult when man-power becomes more
readily available after the war and
munitions and similar mushroom indus-
tries disappear.
For over three years we have been
living in a state of emergency that has
put defence demands ahead of all
others. In the confusion of the prepara-
tions and in the light-hearted political
manner in which some of the preparations
were made there has been a high rate of
waste and an excessive strain on living
standards. Office-seeking has become an
industry, and all sorts of oddities have
come to near the top, including a
variety of racecourse, Domain and Yarra-
bank talent.
Spending of a huge war fund by the
Government has put plenty of money into
circulation, even if there has been a
shortage of goods, transport and other
services. Burdens have been borne by
the population, and financial risks have
been taken by the Government. Heavy
taxation has been accepted fairly willingly
in view of the sacrifices obviously called
for, but it won’t be suffered in peace-time
at the same rate. Inflation has gone on
as a result of the use of bank credit
freely to make up what was short in tax
revenue and public borrowing ; but in-
flation must stop eventually to prevent
prices from soaring out of sight and bank
balances and life policies depreciating to
nothing in purchasing power.
When the excessive taxation, public
borrowing and bank-credit inflation finish
the Government will cease to have power
to control the employment of Sb many
people and to make jobs regardless of
their economic value simply by taxing the
productive population.
The state of emergency in which we
now live will finish with the end of the
war. People will then demand to be
allowed to save money to make homes,
etc., and will resent fiercely any sugges-
tion of continuing to pay for bureau-
cratic grandiosity, an excessive number of
deadheads in the civil and similar services,
or men in unproductive work of a kind
that has been wasteful during the war
even by wasteful war-time standards.
It has to be remembered that the hun-
dreds of millions of pounds which have'
been paid out in war-time remuneration
have been paid out only at a cost to the
nation that is most visible in the growth
of the national debt, the financial exhaus-
tion of the higher-income-earners, in the
depreciation of factory assets, railways
and houses, and in the shortages of
homes, clothing, food, motor and other
transport and a hundred other things that
were accepted as the right of the pre-
war peace-time community. The effect is
also evident in the lower buying power of
money (higher costs 'and prices) and in
the rise of the black-marketeer.
Full employment —often overpaid and
vainly-directed employment —has been
achieved in Australia at the cost of a
great tax on general living standards. The
reason why this full employment has
meant lower living standards is that much
of it has been directed towards purely
defensive objectives, and that too much
of it on the civil side has not earned its
pay. The attack on living standards by
war has been unavoidable. But un-
duly high wages to some unionists, go-
slow policy on the part of others, waste
of man-power in Government and similar
services and cost-plus jobs, as well as a
waste of materials, have assailed living
standards heavily, apart from legitimate
demands of the war effort. Labor has
not always pulled its weight, even where
actually working for a Labor Govern-
ment.
After the war we shall have to change
our course. High living standards
and general prosperity depend largely
upon economical and well-planned pro-
duction, increased output per head, the
right man in the right job, rewards to
citizens reasonably in keeping with their
contribution to the national welfare (with
due recognition of brains and organising
ability) and stability of the money system.
Under competitive conditions of trade
and employment those who have risen
to a good war-time income through luck
or political favoritism rather than ability
are certain to find themselves, as a body,
in changed circumstances. Trade-union-
ists who have made an excuse of war-
time necessity for production at any price
to further their own exorbitant demands
are likely to find their pay cut drastically
or their industries collapsing through
excessive costs.
Even if the general high demand for
man-power which seems likely after the
war defers the inevitable day for a year
or more, high costs and inadequate pro-
duction must tell their own tale sooner
or later, and the road back.to hard work
for fair pay will be all the stiffer for the
delay.
The change-over from war to peace is
going to require high administrative skill
and an absence of that political humbug,
opportunism and waste which have been
a feature of our war-time management.
The danger of inflation will be great, and
stability in finance and industry will not
be easy to achieve. It will be necessary
to clear away obstructions to economic
efficiency that have arisen through war-
time politics—vested interests of politics,
Labor and Capital will have to make con-
cessions where the general interest de-
mands it. But it will be found that most
vested interests which have arisen during
war-time are those of either politics or
Labor. Capital has been in a state of
eclipse.
The spoiled children of the war —those
who have bettered their economic posi-
tion during the conflict without doing a
fair thing—will squeal when the natural
post-war reaction sets in. Communist
bodies are providing them with ampli-
fiers and propaganda to enable them to
squeal loudly. Australians will be con-
fronted with false issues as well as dis-
tressingly real problems, and the right
way out will be decried by the squealers
just the same as the Premiers’ Plan was
denounced by militant Labor years after
the plan helped this country out of the
depression.
Squealing, especially if it is tied up to
a subversive communist element, can be-
come a grave danger to the democratic
way of life during a period of economic
confusion or distress. Let us then be pre-
pared for it, and be sure in our minds
of what are likely to be the real causes
of our post-war economic difficulties,
even if for a time the difficulties are
masked by an industrial boom based on
accumulated civilian war-time demands.
According to a Brisbane press report,
Queensland Minister for Mines Gair has
said that any action by the Government
in opening up the Callide coalfield (B.
10/1/’45) had to date been impeded by
the fact that L. G. Neill held a mineral-
oil prospecting area covering the same
ground from which it was proposed to
obtain coal. He added that Mr. Neill
had refused to forfeit his license so as
to facilitate the granting of coalmining
leases. Mr. Gair indicated that he thougnt
the coal deposits, which were not of so
great an extent as some people believed,
should nevertheless be developed, and he
had no intention of renewing the oil-
prospecting license when it expired on
March 2. When the field was clear ot
this license coalmining leases would be
granted to both L. G. Neill and Julin
and Co. The Julin concern has had an
application in for a coalmining lease for
some time.
* * * •
The other day a customer of the
Commonwealth Bank received an un-
stamped envelope (costing him sa.
in excess postage) advising him that
his overdraft limit had been
Meanwhile, outside the bank’s head office
in Sydney the big Ministerial fluid-drive
Chryslers came and went. Perhaps the
Ministers were discussing the nationalisa-
tion of the trading banks; it is unlike.}
that they were proposing a reduction m
their salaries as an Austerity measure.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of TireS Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them. Nature
may be warning you that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t work
well, poisonous waste matter stays in the blood, causing
nagging backaches, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, swelling, puffiness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent and
scanty passages with smarting and burning show there
is something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used successfully by
millions for over 40 years. They give happv relief
and will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes flush out
poisonous waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy that will
make you well and keep you well.
Shake the BRYLCREEM jar this way
As all the Brylcreem at present being made is going to the Services, please
make the most of it when you have a supply. A few drops, well rubbed in,
W ‘ v^rJ^s° ient to keep your halr smart and healthy. And remember.
bk
"expert" shaking makes the
cream fluid, enabling you to con-
trol the flow. In a few seconds
you'll be able measure an
»eeflomt6«l quantity hem the
overflowing cream.
®- OD * *pend. Put your money into 5/- National Savings Stamps.
THE SYMBOL
OF SERVICE
»« «,lr —4.
" I *‘» o«
u u <-
aeaa
esD
m
AH the refinements of a Great
Hotel will make your next
visit a really pleasurable one
... if you “guest” at the
Radio, Cable and
Telegraphic Address:
“SANGEORGE”
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON NEW ZEALAND
SG.2
fy/hcd 3suJcuyL/iaA ckm
By March, 1943, over 900 warships, ranging from
trawlers to battleships, had been completed in British
shipyards, at home and overseas since the outbreak
of war. Up till the same date, over 8,300 British and
Allied merchant ships had been filled with guns and
other devices to protect them against aircraft and
submarines.
{BRITISH MINISTRY OF INFORMATION)
will do-
Although you cannot at present obtain that
Imperial Typewriter your office needs, produc-
tion of Imperials has not ceased, but increased.
This vastly enlarged war output has been
diverted to the Fighting Services. When Peace
comes we promise you a more beautifully de-
signed “IMPERIAL” with an even greater
capacity for work . . . proud to be British.
«
m
X
Imperial
Typewriters
Standard and Portable
Models
DOBELL PTY. LTD.
29 REIBY PLACE, SYDNEY
Tel.: BW 1227
J 2868
TURNED 71 YEARS
AND STILL GOING STRONG!
R.U.R. BENEFITS NEURITIS
AFTER YEARS OF SUFFERING
Why put up with pain from rheuma-
tism, neuritis and such disorders when
relief Is so readily available? Read
what Mr. Billy Hinde writes in the
letter quoted below and you will dis-
cover the secret of pain-free, active
living. Mr. Hinde says:—
“Being a great sufferer for years
with neuritis, I was advised to try
R.U.R. (Thanks to my friends.)
The result was after a few days’
treatment I was greatly relieved, and
today, I am most happy to say, it
has completely disappeared.
I still take the above twice a week to
keep fit and well. I have turned 71
years and am still going strong. Many
thanks for your valuable treatment
and the very best wishes.”
R.U.R. owes the benefits it provides for
so many people who suffer from rheu-
matism, neuritis, lumbago, sciatica and
similar disorders, to its commonsense,
natural method of healing. It is the
only remedy which, at the same time,
contains a laxative, liver stimulant,
kidney cleanser, blood purifier and acid
corrective. It is truly the five-fold
health remedy praised by thousands.
So take the shortest cut to robust.
pain-free health, stamina and energy.
Take R.U.R. for a while and you will
see how quickly it restores you to health
and good spirits.
Take R.U.R. regularly for a while.
Smaller size, 4/-'; the money-back
guaranteed full treatment, 7/6.
Obtainable at chemists and stores
everywhere. •
BXGHTYOUMR
Political Control of Banking
From an outback Queenslander who
has lived a long time;
I am one of many outbackers who wish to
give the Labor party credit for legislation of
other days that has been of national benefit.
In recent years not only straightout Labor
supporters but even more conservative electors
have cast their votes in favor of the party
in order to give it a chance to carry out pro-
gressive legislation. But the conditions brought
about by the present Federal Labor Govern-
ment’s direction of affairs is forcing us to the
conclusion that, in addition to its one-class
legislation, on the all-important subject' of
finance the Government has been weighed and
found wanting.
Concerning the proposed nationalisation of
civil airlines, we think that any reasonably
intelligent' man, after reading the comments of
that experienced ex-official A. B. Corbett,
would, if given the opportunity, vote a decided
“No” against the socialistic venture.
But we are concerned more about the pro-
posed dislocation of the Australian banking
system, which, for flexibility and as a means of
developing the country, has had no equal in
any part of the British Empire or elsewhere.
We read that many bank customers will be
anxious about the safety of their funds under
a system entirely controlled by politicians; but
there are many thousands in every State who
will be more concerned about their credit
arrangements.
Trading banks do not rely upon forms and
regulations as does a Government institution;
they consider every application for advances
on its merits, and are guided to a great extent
by the character of their customers in many
cases where the margin of security is slender.
It takes years for bankers to get into the posi-
tion of knowing the individual reliability and
capacity of their numerous clients.
It is of great importance to remember that
the competition between the banks has been a
guarantee that their customers have had the
advantage of favorable terms. Under a political
banking system the advantages of competition
would be completely wiped out.
That applies more to the granting of accom-
modation promptly when urgently required by
industrialists and primary producers than to
the mere question of interest rates. A Govern-
ment concern could keep interest rates at a
low level, but it cannot avoid its inherent delays,
which are fatal in business operations. And
there is the question of soundness; beyond
everything else, banking must be maintained
in a sound condition, and that’ can only be
ensured by experienced bankers who are directly
responsible to their clients.
There are many instances where political con-
trol has jeopardised banks, but to get a fair
view of the matter one need only read the his-
tory of the Bank of England up to the time it
was freed from political control by Peel in
1844, when the Bank Charter Act was passed.
And what a bulwark of financial strength the
Bank of England has been to the British Empire
ever since!
Another consideration for Australians is that
there is at present no monopoly of banking.
Any person or syndicate of people can start
a bank if they comply with the law; also, it
may be noted that the proprietors of existing
banks are usually small shareholders, many
of them with limited means. Even the five big
trading banks of England for the most part
have lower-middle-class shareholders.
It is interesting to observe that in Canada,
where war loans are oversubscribed, the Gov-
ernment encourages the trading banks to go
ahead and do their utmost to assist their clients.
What a contrast to Australia, where our Gov-
ernment, threatening the banks and other
private enterprises, has to go on its hands and
knees practically to beg loan support, and
even then has to depend on savings banks and
insurance companies—which, ironically, have
been built up over a long period by individual
effort of the people (otherwise private enter-
prise).
It is generally admitted that a central insti-
tution like the Commonwealth Bank is a neces-
sary part of our financial setup. But surely it
was only necessary to establish branches of
that bank in the capital cities; the trading
banks already established in every important
centre could have been made agents for the
central bank on terms the Gov-
ernment,
Perhaps not all members of the Labor Gov-
ernment are bereft of financial acumen. But
they would not listen to the warnings of the
people regarding the probable fate of the refer-
endum, and they may again turn a deaf ear to
the uneasy murmurs of the business people.
If so, and if all the arrangements taxpayers
have made with their bankers, all the goodwill
established over years, are to be wiped out, and
all the arrangements which people wish to make
personally, free of bureaucratic control, are to
be vetoed, then the Government, I forecast,
will reap die whirlwind at the next elections.
During the seven months of the
financial year to January 31 Australia
spent £270 million on war, £102.9 million
out of revenue and £167.1 million out of
borrowed money. Interest and sinking-
fund allocations in respect of the debt
arising out of the present war are in-
cluded in the cost of defence. At January
3 the Treasury-bill debt in Australia was
£3Bl million. A new war loan is soon
to be put on the Australian market.
• * * ♦
The Tennessee Valley Authority, high
in the news these days, is a U.S. Govern-
ment organisation which in ten years has
transformed the Tennessee Valley from an
impoverished and flood-devastated region
into one of the most promising in the
United States. Twenty-one great dams
prevent floods, and have an installed elec-
trical capacity of over 2,500,000 horse-
power. Great programmes of soil rehabi-
litation, fertiliser manufacture, electrifi-
cation of farms and industrial develop-
ment have been established. In the region
where the T.V.A. operates the average
householder used a certain quantity of
electric power at a cost of $35 ten years
ago. The average consumption is now
nearly three times as great and the aver-
age light-and-power bill nearly $3 less.
It is a pity that Australia hasn’t gone
further with the investigation of water-
conservation and hydro-electric possibili-
ties. Earle Page has put out a booklet
covering a plan to provide the N. S.
Wales North Coast and Brisbane with
electricity from the Clarence, contingent
upon co-operation between N. S. Wales
and Queensland authorities. Not many
people realise how much Australia will
rely in the future upon power derived
from sources other than coalmines and
upon water-conservation. Water-conser-
vation can in addition be allied to soil
rehabilitation.
* * ♦ *
The immediate oversubscription on
January 25 of a 15-year loan carrying
£3 6s. 3d. per cent, put out by the Metro-
politan Gas Co., Melbourne, has a sharp
lesson in it for the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment. The rate of interest was only
Is. 3d. per cent, above that on war loans
of similar term, and to persons with a
taxable income of over £2OO a year the
income-tax rebate of 2s. in the £ on Con-
sols income would have made the
3i p.c. war loan more profitable
holding than the gas debentures.
Only £165,000 of the debentures was
offered, while subscriptions totalled
£270,200. Certainly the quantity
available was a fleabite alongside, say, a
£l5O million war loan. But the speedy
oversubscription of this low-interest
“private enterprise” stock contrasts so
decidedly with the slow progress of war
loans that one cannot help drawing the
conclusion that there is something about
Commonwealth Government financial
methods that the investing public doesn’t
like.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTES
WITH WIMNLES INKS"
“Jamwood”: Mention of the Big
Three in the Crimea, if anyone did men-
tion it, recalled a Small Three affair in a
Perth (W.A.) court long ago. Oldj
Horace Stirling, member of a family that
gave the West one of its first newspapers
and an unsuccessful candidate at the first
Senate election, used to tell the story
with gusto. A scapegrace barrister, who
belonged to an eminent Anglo-Irish
family, was cross-examining a witness
with polished irony. Pressed beyond
endurance, the witness picked up an
inkwell and flung it at his tormentor.
It connected, the contents making a mess
of wig and gown and one side of a broad
chiv. Still cool, though a hideous color
scheme, counsel got to work with a red
handkerchief, and with meaning looks
awaited the pleasure of the Court.
The Court, which didn’t like him,
pretended to be busy with papers. “Ah,
I see,” said counsel suavely; “to Inker-
man is no Crimea.” Then he dropped
the handkerchief on the floor and resumed
his cross-examination.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A.B.C. chairman Cleary
wants a national conference of interested
authorities called to discuss the broad-
casting of sex talks. But why? Sex
instruction can’t be imparted over the air
any more than over the school-
master’s desk. All it would do would be
to surround the subject for a majority ot
the listeners, presumably to be children,
with unfortunate associations. The same
thing occurs even with subjects that
haven’t the emotional content that sex
has. The fact that I have the greatest
difficulty in seeing the difference between
100,000 and a million, and make the most
fantastic errors when I try to work out
the simplest equations, may possibly be
due to the fact that arithmetic was im-
parted to me by a schoolmaster who took
an obvious delight in whacking me almost
daily.
* * * #
“Abi Tonus”: Treatment analogous to
“a hair of the dog” is now recommended
for methyl (wood) alcohol poisoning.
Methyl exercises a selective action on the
optic nerve and retina, and investigation
has shown that this is caused by the prop-
duction of formic acid, the resulting
acidosis interfering with the high con-
sumption of oxygen by the retina. Ordi-
nary (ethyl) alcohol has the power of
displacing the methyl alcohol from the
tissue cells, so part of the treatment
devised is the administration of large
doses of beer or spirits. As with many
other discoveries, this was purely fortui-
tous, for it was noted that patients who
had started a binge on ordinary beverages
and then switched to whatever the boot-
legger could supply recovered to a
greater degree than those who had in-
dulged in metho. concoctions alone.
4c % * *
“Melbn”: When it was announced that
the Corranderrk (Vic.) aboriginal settle-
ment was to be cut up for soldier settle-
ment and the operation might involve the
destruction of the small native cemetery
there an unexpected protest came from
a Melbourne suburb. The aborigines of
Fitzroy asked their pastor, Douglas
Nicholls, of the Fitzroy Aborigines’
Church of Christ, to speak on their behalf
at the next Sunday service. Very few
Melburnians knew there was an abori-
gines’ church or that in Fitzroy alone
there are 250 aborigines.
* * * •
“Julia C.”: Film producers who spend
a lot of money on getting historical
details correct are sometimes, it would
appear, better informed than their critics.
A film of Nelson’s affair with Lady
Hamilton was faulted everywhere on the
score that the great Horatio wore his
eye-shade over his left eye, whereas
it was his right eye that he lost. But
Admiral Mahan, in his Life of Nelson,
says Nelson wore a green shade over his
good eye for protection against glare,
wind and possible minor injury. The
injured eye he never covered.
* * * *
“Si Anu”; The oddest bit of smuggling
I have heard of was performed by a
young rubber-planter, the son of a par-
son. On leave from Malaya he was
going down the gangway of his ship in
Sydney when a Chinese sailor thrust a
"No doubt about that cove —when he blows his tanks he DOES blow ’em.”
parcel into his pocket and said “Only
one pound, master.” The son of the
parson know what it was all about. Cus-
toms searchers were aboard the steamer.
After a moment’s hesitation he passed
over the money, and a few minutes later
W'as walking through the barriers into the
city with the parcel still in his pocket.
It contained opium worth £2O to any
buyer—and the young planter knew
where to sell it.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Some critics want Melbourne’s
National Gallery, a fine building, aban-
doned and the art collection transferred
to the new site at Wirth’s Park. A better
method would be to maintain the old
gallery for the masterpieces of the past
and to build a new one on the new site
for the work of contemporary artists. As
a purely precautionary measure, the trus-
tees should provide for one gallery on
the lines of the Independents, in Paris,
where artists pay for the wall space they
occupy and don’t have to submit their
pictures to a committee.
* * * *
“Anna Chembi”: I’ve come across an
account of the origin of “Thomas Atkins”
different from that given by “Ek Dum”
(B. 25/10/’44). In a magazine article
Robert Graves quotes an Army Order
dated August 31, 1815. This gives “The
Form of a Soldier’s Book in the Infantry
when filled up,” and shows “Thomas
Atkins, Private, No. 6 Company, Ist
Battn., 23rd Regiment of Foot.” Graves
theorises that this form would have been
finally passed for the press by Adjutant-
General Calvert, whose military career
began in the 23rd Foot in 1778, and so
accounts for the regimental name used.
Graves goes on to suggest that 30 years
later few soldiers’ names would remain
in Calvert’s memory. But he would not
forget his batman’s name, and after a
campaign might owe him much. So he
assumes that Thomas Atkins was Cal-
vert’s batman or “orderly man.”
* * * *
“Robby’s” tribute to an unobtrusive
service:
My unit of the Ninth Division had the
good fortune to be camped next door to a
Fleet Air Arm base on the outskirts of Alex-
andria, and very good fellows we found them.
They don’t get much publicity, those flying
sailors, except on suicide stunts like the Gnei-
senau show, but they played a great part m
foiling the Axis aims in the desert. Rommel
was at that time making his last desperate bid
for the Delta, and the last British carrier at our
end of the Mediterranean was out of action.
So these blokes were flying their old, slow
crates from desert aerodromes. They’d fought
all the way back from Benghazi in their Sword-
fishes and Albacores, using up petrol and bombs
from each desert ’drome as the army moved
back. Now Rommel had been stopped, and
they were operating from Alex. We marvelled
that they ever survived in daylight against the
M.Es., which were a trifle over twice as fast.
Some days they’d go aloft with a whopping
great torpedo slung under each aircraft, and
we’d know there was trouble ahead for
Rommel’s supply convoys. They were mostly
big bearded chaps, as Navy as Bruce Fraser,
"and told great tales of the never-ceasing battles
of the Inner Sea. Never about their own ex-
ploits, though. I liked best the yarn about a
squadron which had been operating from a for-
ward ’drome during the “Benghazi Handicap,”
as our retreat was called. These birds had
bombed and strafed the advancing Jerry until
every bit' of ammo and every bomb on the
’drome was expended. There was nothing to
do but pull out for the next ’drome to the rear.
But the “Bloke,” on his last look around, saw
something that made his eyes gleam, and he
ordered some strange objects to be loaded on
the Albacores. Then off they went, and
dropped their cargo on the Fritz. I wonder
what Ludwig and Tony thought, as they
advanced through the stony wastes, when those
crazy Englanders flew over and dropped
depth-charges on them !
* * * *
“Tuart”; In 1939 Rabbi Max Schenk
came to Sydney from the U.S.A. at the
invitation of the Liberal Jewish Congre-
gation as Chief Minister at the Temple
Emanuel, Woollahra. Son of a rabbi
and married to a rabbi’s daughter, he
became a rabbi himself at 23, having
studied at the Columbia, lowa and
Oiicago universities the Hebrew Union
College and the College of the City of
New York. In addition to his rabbinical
duties be has been busy in many fields-
as co-editor of the Jewish Review, Army
Education Service lecturer, Australian
director of the American Jewish Wei-
fare Board, president of the N.S.W.
Zionist State Council and member of
the United Emergency Commission for
European Jewry. But a storm has blown
up, and the rabbi has resigned from the
Temple Emanuel, and “several members
of the Temple board of management
have resigned, and the president, Mr. C.
Luber, has booked the Maccabean Hall
i ~ . . , £
for a general mee mg on the night of
February 21, when both sides, it is be-
lieved, will voice their views.” So says
the “Hebrew Standard,” deploring what
it describes as “one of the most unhappy
communal disputes in the history of Syd-
ney Jewry.” Private individuals and
“representatives of several organisations”
have tried to persuade the rabbi to “re-
consider his decision,” with results “not
disclosed.” Before he resigned he had
been granted leave of absence to go to
Palestine as a guest of the Jewish Agency,
and to proceed on to England “to parti-
cipate in the United Palestine appeal for
£1,000,000,” and “so far as it is known
it is Rabbi Schenk’s present intention
to avail himself of the invitations.”
“Travelling” is set down as one of his
favorite recreations.
* * * *
“Boghi”: “Rufus Rawhide’s” refer-
ence to his experiences as a McKay
traveller in S. Africa (B. 10/1/’45) re-
minded me of the first reaper and binder
that came to Capetown, about 1906 or
1907. The machine remained for some
days on the railway station platform
and hundreds came from all around to
inspect it. We Australian farmer-soldiers
were astonished that so familiar an im-
plement (to us) should cause such amaze-
ment. In 1906, at the Capetown Exhibi-
tion, a sheep-shearing machine was
shown and demonstrated. English and
Dutch farmers crowded round, eyes
goggling. They just couldn’t believe it,
even when they saw the fleece rolling
away from under the cutters. All the
S. African dairy farmers I met in those
days refused point blank to believe my
tale of a milk-separating machine, though
Australia had been using the Alfa-Laval
for years. But S. Africa even then far
surpassed our present methods in her
ways of handling many farm products,
and, being still on the land, I often wish
her ways were our ways.
* * * *
“Kenwood”: The proposal to plant
Bourse-street, Melbourne, with the “red
flowering gum” is supported by “Ear
Punisher” (B. 31/1/’45),
who doesn’t like the
monotonous symmetry of
the plane-tree, and imagines
the magnificent specimen
of flowering-gum at Oak-
leigh golf club can be
duplicated in a city street.
Even St. Kilda-road, with
flowering-gums growing in
garden plots, has never
produced a specimen re-
motely rivalling the Oak-
leigh tree, which is well
away in the country, grow-
ing in a lawn set in sandy
soil, with the probability of
water beneath. No city
soot, no forced draught of
wind caused by buildings,
plenty of root room, better
soil further inland, and,
above all, plenty of mois-
ture, such as the hermeti-
cally-sealed city street can
never give—these are the
main reasons why the pro-
posed Bourke-street trees
would never be anything
but pathetic caricatures of
the Oakleigh tree, which
is considered the finest
specimen in the world. As
for the term “red flower-
ing-gum,” the famous dis-
play at King’s Park, Perth,
is made up of all colors
from white and cream to
a color almost like port
wine. The objection to the
symmetry of the plane-
tree is not the fault of the
trees, but is generally due to the muni-
cipal passion for “lopping” and “shap-
ing.” The fact that the plane is decidu-
ous ensures a clean change of leaves
each year, a very desirable feature in the
matter of city soot.
$ sfc $ #
“Avon”: The American “fundamen-
talists,” whoj* headed by William Jennings
Bryan, succeeded in getting some of the
mid-western States to make the teaching
of evolutionary theory a punishable
offence, have their parallel in Maoriland.
The Majestic Theatre, Wellington, was
filled with a protest meeting at which
speakers condemned the inclusion in the
State school syllabus of such works as
Mainwaring’s Man and His World,
Howard’s The Proper Study of Mankind,
Whitcombe’s Vivid History Reader and
a survey of civilisation entitled From
Flints to Printing. It was made clear that
the principal objection to these books was
that they either specifically or tacitly en-
dorsed the Darwinian view of man’s
origin. The principal speaker, a Dr.
Pettit, declared:
The suggestion that man has evolved from
something between an ape and a man is
grotesque, untrue and without a shred of
supporting scientific evidence. To prove
it true, not one but innumerable missing
links would have to be found, and the
reason they had not been found is that
they do not exist. God made man in His
own image.
A crowded meeting endorsed this fortn-
right championship of Genesis and de-
cided to appeal to the Government to
rise up and do something about it-
WEALTHY PARTIES.
Speaking at Mosman Mr. Menzies declared that
the party best supplied with funds in Australia was
the Labor party and the second-best was the Com-
munist party.
It’s true of parties as of men, I’ll venture,
To say they’re narked when things which they
condemn
As meriting unmitigated censure
In others are attributed to them.
They’ll moan that no one can escape defamers
Or be immune from undeserved decrials,
And make the welkin ring with hot disclaimers
And vehement denials.
How easy ’tis to rail and rant at riches
And those who’re more abundantly endowed
Therewith than that bare competency which is
(We’re told) the portion of the toiling crowd.
Yet it must jar, just when you’ve finished slating
The power and privilege that go with pelf,
Should it transpire you’ve been accumulating
A tidy wad yourself.
When lusty cheers reward your contributions
To politics (and solid votes as well)
For cursing banks and suchlike institutions
And giving what you term Big Business hell,
You may reflect ’twould disillusion many
To learn the business you proudly boast
You’re in for love pays divs. as sure as any,
And better ones than most.
It suits you, if you’d keep your pot a-boiling,
At bloated Capital to shake a fist',
But when the very cause for which you’re toiling
Blossoms itself into a capitalist
You well may feel, albeit your will to injure
Remains, a certain consciousness that must
Take all the wind out of your sails, the ginger
Out of your cut-and-thrust.
Ah, well! How Labor keeps its war-chest bulg-
ing
With boodle for electoral largesse
Is what it can’t be blamed for not divulging—
Its own affair and anybody’s guess.
A far more baffling problem, I suppose, is
(Unless it’s wafted down from heaven’s roof
Like manna to the hungry hosts of Moses)
How corns, acquire their oof?
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“V. Cluse”: An ingratiating newcomer
to our suburb has introduced us to a
new sort of logic. After he’d sojourned
awhile he borrowed £2 from a neighbor
with a promise to repay “as soon as pos-
sible.” Weeks went by. The lender
threw out a hint or two. Finally he made
a direct request for repayment. “Well,
I can’t do it just now,” said the borrower,
then added “Anyhow, what are you so
anxious about? So long as I don’t pay
you the money I can’t very well borrow
any more from you, can I?” Staggered
by the force of this argument, the lender
withdrew. He has since discovered that
he shares with five others the privilege
of being safe from further ear-biting.
* * * «
“D.C.L.’s” tale of a ship:
“W. 0.2” (B. 7/2/ ’45) is wrong in nominat-
ing H.M.S. Gayundah as the oldest R.N. ship
afloat in the Pacific. Penguin, late H.M.S.
Penguin, is still in service after a much more
active life than Gayundah. Penguin was
launched at Napier’s yard on the Clyde on
March 25, 1876, a composite, unprotected screw
sloop 170 ft. long, 30ft. beam and 1130 tons dis-
placement. She mounted six guns and was
barque-rigged. She first came to the Pacific
in 1877 and returned to England four years
later. Later she was on the East Indies station,
and also took part in the blockade of Zanzibar,
and the suppression of the slave trade. She
left early in 1890 for surveying service in Aus-
tralia, which duty she continued for 15 years.
Few charts of the Pacific without Penguin sur-
veys detailed on them are in existence. In
1909 the vessel was commissioned at Sydney as
a depot and receiving ship, and thus began the
tradition of Garden Island being known as
H.M.A.S. Penguin, for the ship was tied up
there. Penguin was sold out of the Navy in
1923, and while being broken up at Cockatoo
Island was bought by H. P. Stacey, who fitted
her out as a floating crane. She has raised
and relaid moorings for the R.A.N. for nearly
20 years, and for nearly five and a half years
has lifted armament and equipment on to
R.A.N. and Allied warships, placed guns on de-
fensively-armed merchantmen, lifted the heavy
or bulky pieces of munition cargoes such as
guns, tanks, barges, ’planes, lorries and bull-
dozers. But perhaps the proudest task of her
old age was when she worked alongside the
mighty battleship Howe.
* * * *
“James W.”: At an R.A.A.F. training
area a bloke flying an Anson, a bit un-
certain as to the exact location of a pro-
hibited area, spotted a Vengeance ahead
and going his way. He reckoned the
other cove would be on the right track
and followed him up. He was enjoying
the scenery when his observer, white, pop-
eyed and almost inarticulate, gulped out
“That b-b-beastly thing’s towing a
drogue!” That Anson whirled left like
a Hurricane, and was over the next parish
when the ack-ack gunners below started
to perforate the drogue. It was at the
same centre that a pilot towing a drogue
saw a shell burst ahead of him. He
radioed the ground “What sort of a shot
was that? I’m towing this damn’ thing,
not pushing it! ”
* * ♦ *
“M’fundishi” defends his terminology:
While the interpretation of the word “vaal-
pens” as given by “F.D.R.P.” (B. 24/1 /’45)
is linguistically correct, it is as well to recollect
that time effects changes. As a youngster in
tlie B.S.A. Police, circa 1897-1900, in which
British S’Africans were a considerable leaven,
the term “vaalpens” was used to denote the
less sanguine (i.e., muddier) tint of skin of the
average S’African-born Englishman, in contrast
to the fresh-faced “rooinek” or newly-arrived
Britisher. “Vaalpens” was also used as the
“taal” word for the buff-bellied sable antelope.
While arranging for the handing over of the
body of General Erasmus, killed by Pilcher’s
Column in an engagement at Locke’s Kraal
(Jacobsdaal vicinity) in 1902, I heard myself
referred to by one of the Free State Boers with
whom I was negotiating as a “verdomde vaal-
pens.” I have been referred to similarly, and
good-humoredly, by Boer transport-riders while
on the trek, under Captain John Carden, to
the occupation of Barotseland in early 1899.
In the 30-odd years from when I last resided
in the land of my birth, Afrikaans has been fos-
tered rather than English. This, beyond doubt,
has affected the once superior English of the
boys of the Diocesan College. Stellenbosch,
and the S’African College, Capetown, always
were notorious for the “patois”—a more than
kindly term —mentioned by “F.D.R.P ; ”
* h* * *
“Kanberry”: Yarralumla, the Glouces-
ter’ gunyah, has no ghosts to harry the
new occupants. It is a modern product,
having been built in 1891. The pioneer
resident, a stockman, came in 1827 when
the site of the vice-regal residence made
its bow on the map as “J. Taylor’s cattle
station.” Succeeding owners were Sir
Terence Murray and Thomas Walker, of
Yaralla, Augustus Gibbes and (in 1881)
the Duntroon Campbells, descendants of
Robert the Merchant. It was Frederick
Campbell who built Yarralumla House.
The name, which is abo., may have been
chosen by Yaralla Walker. In Binghi’s
lingo Yarra is either river, gum-tree,
hiding place or birds singing. Lumeah
or luma means “Here I rest.”
* * ♦
“Publova”: “Hayseed’s” mention of
the defunct Eagle and Child Inn (B.
31/1/ ’45) brings back memories. This
old-timer was under the shadows of
Hassan’s Walls, two or three miles east
of Binning’s and near the junction of
Lockyer’s Line, one of the early trial
roads to Bathurst. Eagles did keep house
in the lofty timbers of the loftier Has-
san’s Walls, but the source of the name
was in the crest of the Earls of Derby, host
John Mylecharane having been a Derby
retainer. The Woodman’s Inn was at
Solitary Creek, now Rydal. Governor
Fitzroy also dropped in there, but his
pub connoisseur, Munday, was not im-
pressed. “The Woodman’s” he said, “was
kept by a villainous-looking old man
with a pretty young wife.”
* * * *
“Eureka”: Parramatta can claim more
“firsts in Australia” than any other place.
“My subconscious says it's a cathedral, so it IS a cathedral!”
The district grew the first apples, hops,
grapes and oranges ; had the first farmer
(James Ruse), the first Australian aviator
(Bill Hart), the first blood horse foaled
in Australia, the first brewery (Squire’s)
and was the location of the first land
grant. The district also had the first
Wages Board and (no doubt) the first
strike. It boasts the oldest house (though
this is actually in Granville municipality)
and the oldest existing cemetery. In this
historic St. John’s churchyard there are
more really historic figures buried than
in any other Australian plot of similar
size.
* * * *
“Hamfat” on old-time melodrama:
Dora Mostyn, gone where the good mummers
go, did most things on the stage, but I re-
member her most vividly as the pert Cockney
servant in “The Ladder of Life,” one of Bill
Anderson’s melodramas. Three professional
strong men supplied the human ladder for an
escape, and the play was a great money-spinner
for Bill, good for revival whenever business
needed a lift. That was an era when “entre-
preneurs” (always so called by themselves, if
not by critics) had a habit of ringing in per-
sonalities which might draw the sporting crowd.
“The Flying Scud” featured racehorses. A
boxer, McCarthy, was engaged to appear as
Boy Jim in “Rodney Stone”; he became an
actor and left the ring. Larry Foley played
Charles the Wrestler in “As You Like It” in
a manner that made stage history. But that
story has been told a thousand times.
* * ♦ ♦
“Harap”: The prefabricated house
mentioned by “X.S.” (B. 31 /1 / ’45) as
shipped from England in 1851 had a
happier history than a prefabricated pub
that the English directors sent to the
little mining camp of Whim Creek, nqr’-
west W.A. The first section to arrive
proved so palatable to termites that the
wharfinger—a veracious Scot —asserted
that they overlanded the 14 miles to the
port of Balla-Balla, and parked them-
selves on the jetty to await the arrival of
the steamer bringing the subsequent por-
tions along.
“Eureka”: One of the first prefabri-
cated buildings in Australia was imported
from Scotland —the first St. Stephen's
Church, Macquarie-street, erected in
1855. Because of the scarcity of
skilled labor in Sydney the Presby-
terians decided to import an iron
building from Glasgow. The church
arrived in sections and was erected in a
very short time. It served as a Presby-
terian church for 20 years, and for
a further 24 years it was used as the
lending branch of the Public Library.
The building was then taken down in sec-
tions and re-erected in the grounds of
the Lidcombe State Hospital and Home
for Old Men, where it has been used ever
since as a chapel and recreation hall.
# •
“Tiki”: The elderly poet who sang
“Make me a child again” probably had
his tongue in his cheek, but it is possible
sometimes to envy the younger genera-
tion. I’d like to have been one of those
two boys, one 13 the other 14, who did
a 300-miles’ tour of Maoriland’s North
Island. Transport was provided by a
pony trap (which the youngsters fashioned
for themselves out of parts of a scrapped
motor-car) and a fat little pony, 10 hands
high. Cash in hand was £l. The kids,
fond of the pony, which finished up fatter
than ever, averaged 35 miles a day. Meals,
prepared and eaten swaggie style, were
largely provided by friendly butchers and
grocers. Of course, nothing was paid for
a night’s lodging—any farmer was good
for that. The boys toured from Palmer-
ston N. to Lake Taupo and back, en-
joyed every minute of the trip and arrived
home with a cash balance. The memory
of that journey will be something for
those lads to cherish.
♦ * * *
“Bo”: “The world,” said O. Henry, “is
full of Come-ons,” an observation con-
firmed by the success of mushroom re-
ligions. America is the happiest hunting-
ground of these prolific ventures. The
latest effort is by a gent, who at least
shows some imagination. He calls him-
self the Great Kum Bum and his sect
the “Neological Foundation.” He
preaches that only those can be assured
of happiness in the hereafter who “breathe
through the left nostril by day and the
right by night to offset the polar solarity
of the universe.” If Laurel and Hardy
had thought of that one it would have
brought roars ; but the Come-ons fall for
it in large numbers. Unfortunately for
the G.K.8., who owns to the monicker
of Carruthers, the fraudulent-use-of-mails
was the rock which cracked his Foun-
dation, There is only one question I’d
like answered —did the G.K.B. automati-
“ Nonsense , Miss Reeves—old Bob's only showing his affection!"
cally excommunicate any follower who,
having a cold in the head, had to breathe
through his mouth?
* * * *
“Vin”: Before the war, when liquor
was of a reasonable quality and one could
quaff wine without worrying about invert
sugars, whenever a bottle of spirit was
cracked it was a custom in my circle to
strike a match and drop the light down
the neck of the empty bottle. A blue
flame shot up either from whisky or rum
vapors, generally to a few inches beyond
the top of The bottle, and the exploding
“plop” was accepted as evidence of good
liquor. The ceremony is performed in
various posts of the Empire, and is a
regular practice among West Indian
planters, where Jamaica rum punch is
mixed to this easily remembered recipe:
One qf sour, two of sweet.
Three of strong and four of weak.
One evening at an R.A.A.F. mess in the
Far North a bunch of pilots were saying
“Bung-ho” fairly frequently, as it was
pay-day. Beer was off, but there was
plenty of O.P. rum, and it wasn’t long
before the first bottle was emptied under
the soothing swish of the punkahs. One
of the boys, following the custom, put
his hand over the empty bottle, tilted it
up and down and then invited a pilot to
drop a match. A three-foot flame shot
out with a roar, severely burning all the
fingers of the fellow holding the bottle.
The pilot who had his fingers burned was
grounded for weeks until the burns
healed. Next day an order who pro-
mulgated prohibiting the dropping of
lighted matches in empty rum bottles in
all R.A.A.F. messes under that command.
* * * *
“Ceg” also mourns Melbourne’s
Bohemia:
After reading “Arris” (B. 31/1/’45) I went
back 40 years and took a mental stroll, starting
from the top end of Collins-street, where the old
carbon arc lamps splutter and hiss. First call
on my way down the Hill is at the City Club,
licensee Mrs. Craig. A large white cockatoo
has its cage at the front door. A favorite haunt
this of the men on the “Argus.” Beck’s lager,
bottled in Hanover, Germany, is the great
drink here. A small glass at threepence will do.
Out again under the arc lamps and, resisting
the temptation to call on Gregory Matoreekos
for some of his oysters, I dive into Politzer’s
basement cafe, near the “Age” office. An
unusual place this, with scrubbed wooden
tables and continental dishes. A cup of coffee
will do here while we look at the pictures round
the walls. I know an artist who earned his
daily lunch by doing a picture a week for
Politzer.
Keeping to the south side of Collins-street,
the old Paris and Vienna cafes across the
street on the “Block” look inviting. Doing
the Block and having a drink at the Vienna
used to be a favorite Saturday morning occupa-
tion, the bucks all wearing Woodrow’s straw
deckers (imported) at 7s. 6d. each. The Vienna
was one of those places with a smell all its
own, and I can still recall the <pdor of rich
chocolate pastries and such-like dishes wafting
through the doors. Passing the Francatelli, and
approaching the old Royal Bank corner, once
again a dive underground info the Bodega for
a glass of wine—the host a dark and handsome
man of Spanish type. Good talk here with a
few of the lads “resting” and a debate on the
merits of supper at Hosies, a grilled flounder
at Grundens or a call at the Savoy and a yarn
with host Hossenloff. After supper let’s stroll
OI Up Little Collins-street and through Bank-
place (where the Old Mitre Tavern stands) and
on to King-street to have a look at Fasoli’s—
which at this late hour is just getting busy.
Little Dr. Maloney and Walter Kirby, the
tenor, are holding forth at the long fable, and
would you please pass the potato salad? —there
is none better in Melbourne. Spencer-street
being nearby I suppose we should catch'a
train and so home to bed. But in the tram
there is no harm in remarking that we might
have gone to the Cafe Denat (“Honi son qui
mol y mange” over the door) or to the Fran-
qais at the comer of Little Collins and Swan-
ston streets upstairs. The atmosphere one ot
opulence, although the waiters’ dress suits are
a trifle greasy. But on table are two large
bottles of red and white wine—drink as much
“VhiiaT s hl??atfaf.Ke Slp'Sd’S
Bourke-street (later owned by the Cobbs, of
stage fame), where some of the J.C.W. No. 1
Comic Opera Company, including Florence
supSr^Offi 1^ Melbourne! b Vgood city
t 0 jj ve in Today, what have you? A nice glass
of malted milk and the pictures.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Pitt-st. Bushie”: The man from Win-
ton was telling us his troubles: no bore-
casing for repairs, timbered wells falling
in for want of labor, station-owners
wives compelled to cook, launder and re-
pair for five or six men as well as super-
vise the children’s education, shortages of
machinery parts and tyres, droughts, no
wheat for sheep feed, incredible losses of
time waiting on war-time departments for
permits to buy essential things like axes,
netting; and so on. “I’ve brought the
missus down to Sydney for a spell, he
said. “I’ve got a pretty reliable man at
last who can run the place. Maybe well
stay here for a few months. Struth, you
don’t know what we’re going through out
there.” We downed our drinks thought-
fully, then slowly and carefully we told
him about life in Sydney. Half-way
through he stopped us and said Gripes,
I wonder how soon I can get seats for
the trip home!”
* ♦ * *
“8.A.”: “Pine Creek’s” claim (B.
7/2/’45) that the second crop of timber
on cut-over areas is seldom of any use
is too sweeping. The so-called “mess-
mate” of North Queensland is found on
poor flats associated with stunted gum
and paper-bark trees, and “P.O.’s” con-
demnatory remarks apply with equal
force to primary as well as secondary
growth, as the tree is as useless a hard-
wood, for building, fencing or fire-
wood, as we have. I have seen many
fine stands of second-growth blue-gum,
mountain-ash, blackbutt, peppermint,
mountain messmate and stringybark in
our coastal districts on areas which were
cut over 35 or 40 years ago. Much of
these areas has been cut over for the
second time, and the timber has been
found in no way inferior to that of the
original forests, and some of it cut from
second-crop blue-gum and mountain-ash
has proved little inferior to hickory in
toughness and durability. On the drier
areas the original red-gum, red, yellow and
white box and ironbark forests have been
destroyed long since, but wherever a few
seedlings have been allowed to remain
they have developed into trees quite as
vigorous and healthy as their predeces-
sors,
* ♦ * ♦
“Cuchulain”: No need to wonder that
the ticks which were thick on that platy-
pus (B. 24/1/’45) survived long immer-
sion. When fowl ticks became bad I
ripped out an infested board and, weight-
ing it with stones, dropped it in the river.
A week later I pulled it up—the parasites
were still alive. After that a firestick
seemed the only thing for the hen-house.
♦ * * *
“MB”: It’s Jim Wilson’s tale: “Yes, I
tried a couple of Land Army girls on
the station. Good with stock, too, and
both good Ijorsewomen, and both liked
the work and were keen. But I couldn’t
get the men to do anything. They’d row
with each other over the right to catch
and saddle the girls’ neddies or to un-
saddle them and rub ’em down. When
we mustered cattle they’d hover round
the girls with some idea of protecting
’em from wild bulls; they were always
trying to outdo each other in advice and
busting to do things for the girls. The
girls themselves didn’t want it; they
wanted to prove they could do the job
without help and were capable of ordi-
nary stock work on their own. They
were good girls, but I had to let ’em go
after old Hereford Harry shaved his
whiskers off and started cleaning his elas-
tic sides every morning.”
“Zake”: Heather, the new landgirl,
was in the cream-shed when the cocky
she worked for brought in the afternoon’s
milk. Heather surveyed it pop-eyed.
“Gee!” she said, “the cows did much
more this time than this morning, didn’t
they?”
He * * *
“Sarina”: Whilst Westralia undoubt-
edly leads the rest of this continent in
the variety and beauty of its wild flowers.
North Queensland doesn’t suffer from a
scarcity. The pink lantana bears its
verbena-like flowers in millions several
times a year ; the wild cottonweed is pro-
lific of orange-red blossoms; the morning
glory vine is a feature of our cane pad-
docks, and several other members of the
convolvulus family, two varieties of pas-
sion flower —the prized purple variety of
England and a cream-colored Australian
—and the Star of Bethlehem creeper are
happy in the same quarters. We have
the sensitive plant with its summer-borne
flowers resembling balls of pink woof, the
greyish-blue-flowering billygoat plant and
the yellow-flowering wild gherkin of the
damp gullies. These are but a few. But
their beauty will never be really appre-
ciated by North Queenslanders whose
time is taken up controlling them with
hoe, scythe and slasher.
sH H 1 * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were snatching
grapes at Mildura one year, and the
boss’s wife took it into her head to come
out and do some picking. It annoyed
Mat and didn’t please the rest of us, for
not only did we have to be circumspect in
our conversation with the woman
amongst us, but some also felt that she
was a sort of spy. She was in the row
“Buf, boy , you should have seen the one that got away.”
behind Mat one afternoon, and we spoke
in low voices about an adventure we d
had in Gippsland the year before. The
recollection set Mat laughing loudly. The
boss’s wife gave us an indignant look.
We grinned at her and went on picking.
That night the boss stopped us as we
were knocking off and said to Mat “The
missus tells me you was pokin’ borak at
her.” Mat denied it. “Well, you was
laughin’ at her, anyhow.” Mat eyed him
and said “Look, I’m pretty blanky care-
ful what I laugh at. I’ve laughed at all
sorts of things in me time, good, bad and
indifferent, but there’s always bin some-
thin’ funny about ’em. 1 never talk about
wimmen, mister, but I’m damned if I can
see anythin’ about your missus to laugh
at.” He told us to get our pay and be
off the place in the morning. In the
morning, as we hit the road, he met us
at the gate. “I’d like y’ t’ know,” he
said, “that I got no choice about this. I
Was satisfied with your work, but I got
no choice.” Then he gave us a long look
and added “An’ I’m blowed if / can see
anythin’ t’ laugh at, either.”
* * *
“Naturala”: Fishing having proved a
failure, we were delighted to find a tide-
washed reef well covered with oversize
mussels. But those bivalves were hard to
detach from their dwelling-places; for
each one was anchored to the rock by
what seemed a loqgish tuft of exceedingly
strong seaweed. Queerly, this tuft went
right through a small opening in the
hinge of the shell and linked with the
mollusc body within. So we boiled our
mussels with the weed still
Now, the oddest thing is that this sea
weed” was not of animal growth but
entirely vegetable. The silkworm produces
its cocoon, the spider its web, but no one
would mistake either product t f° Wv
thing other than animal. So the .IWY
mussel enjoys a distinction a »
of being able to produce a vegetable fibr|
from its animal body. In primitive times
this “beard” of the giant mussel was
gathered along the shores of Europe and
woven into garments, worn only by kings
and high priests.
jJ; H* *
“Bill C.”: Dairy-farmer J. E. M as ° n ’
of Maryborough (Q.), is another who as
reason to curse the vagaries oflightning
(B. 24/1/’45). Th<? blazing fluid first
caught a fence post, slightly damaging i -
It next jumped across to two cows B™z-
•ing near the fence, skittling them. Bounc-
ing back to the fence it ran along it to
half a chain, then hopped off and gave
another cow her ticket Then it wen
back to the fence, shot along for anothe
half-chain, and exhausted itselt on a
fourth milker.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: The toughness of the wom-
bat’s rump may protect it from the more
elementary forms of attack (B ; .31/1/ 4b),
but the same virtue will considerably re-
duce the creature’s chances of survival
when the value of its rump hide is fully
realised. The hide makes an excellent
helmet for horsemen in the snowline
country where saplings and young trees,
arched by the snow, have been the cause
of innumerable head injuries. Little
fashioning to fit the head will be neces-
sary if the hide is dried in the shape or
the rump. Strapped to the forehead just
above the eyes, the helmet is also useful
as a protective device for stud rams.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Fire was the acid test that
the primitive abo. applied finally to any
unfamiliar object. John Forrest used to
tell of how on his first expedition in
1869 a revolver was lost. Knowing that
the abos. scrutinised every inch of the
party’s tracks, Forrest at once turned
back. Tbfe blacks had the weapon. Around
a fire the tribal elders were holding an in-
quiry. They had learned how the barrels
spun round, but fortunately had not dis-
covered the trigger. Now they were sub-
mitting it to the ultimate test, baking it
in the ashes. What their reaction would
have been had all chambers exploded
Forrest did not care to contemplate.
Lifting it gingerly from the coals he laid
it aside to cool, meanwhile rewarding the
finders with some sugar. Less lucky were
those same Mt. Isa tribes in the early
Coolgardie days. A ship of the desert
having succumbed by the wayside, its
cargo, mostly of explosives, was jetti-
soned. To the tribe that happened along
the gelignite looked eatable —and was
eaten, though without fatal results. But
the detonators, although attractive,
seemed useless. So finally they were
placed on the fire to see if that would
extract any hidden virtue. The speed
with which that council went into recess
was for years after a popular corroboree
theme with all the other tribes of the
North Coolgardie goldfields.
“The 0.D.”: Bulletin artists have
been picked for faults in their drawings,
particularly of bush articles and scenes,
but they’re not alone. In a Walt Disney
comic strip Mickey Mouse is made walk
the plank by pirates, and a herd of great
sharks are shown waiting for him. Then
the sharks do a bunk, a voice shouts “A
killer whale! ” and into the picture swims
a good old sperm whale nearly as big as
the ship.
i|c * ♦ *
• “C.E.”: Dad dropped his hat alongside
the step and came in heavily. “Don’t
think I’ll kill t’night, Ma,” he decided.
“Won’t hurt us t’ go without meat another
day.” Ma nodded. “All right. Dad, but
old Toby came in this afternoon and ate
all the bread,” she said wearily. “H’m,
musta forgot to tie him up,” drowsed the
old bloke. “Y’ better make some damper
or somethin’.” Ma looked worried. “Yes,
but I can’t make anything till y’ get more
supplies, Dad,” she told him, “Those
half-dozen scones were all I could manage
with the flour we had.” “They’ll do.”
Dad glanced round absently. “I’ll go in
t’morrer prob’ly.” At tea Ma tightened
her belt, and breakfast she eked out with
a handful of oatmeal from the corners
of the bag. Mid-day found her making
another vain search through the cup-
board ; then placing the two remaining
scones on the table she eyed them
hungrily, and was turning to make the
tea when a babble of voices reached her.
“Go right in. Bill,” came Dad’s hearty
voice at the door. “Mr. an’ Mrs. Bill
an’ the fam’ly, Ma,” he informed,
cordially waving in the six kids. “They
didn’t want t’ stop, but I told ’em how
downright offended y’d be if they didn’t
wait ’n’ have dinner with us.”
* * * ♦
“X.E.D.”: Snodger, the retriever be-
longing to Riley at Crossroads pub, has
free run of the premises, and gets into
the taproom after hours by rattling the
knob of the door, the recognised signal
for admission. Knocking on the door is
ignored except when it becomes too in-
sistent, whereupon Riley packs up. A
few nights ago there was a knock on the
door, followed shortly by a rattle of the
knob, and one of the drinkers opened the
door. Entered Snodger—and two hefty
johns. Riley has invested in a dogchain.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: As a burglar the abo-
riginal might be reckoned a non-starter,
judging by the equipment he had at his
command; yet there were few places
into which he would not manage to
enter, if unguarded, and few from which
he would not manage to escape. On my
first trip up the Fitzroy (n.-w. W.A.) I
was shown a storehouse which the abo-
riginals years before had robbed. Built
by some of the first whites in that
locality, it was of heavy slabs, sunk quite
three feet into the ground so as to pre-
vent burrowing ; roof of the same weight,
everything being fastened with 6in. spikes.
The door was of similar construction,
hinged by pivots sunk into the top lintel
and the doorsill. As fastening a length
of heavy trace chain passed through a
hole in the door, then around the mas-
sive door post, being secured by a strong
padlock. This building was considered
black-pro6f, and on the departure of all
hands with a herd of cattle for Derby,
it was filled with stores, flour, tea, sugar.
Yet it was opened and looted. With
nothing other than their stone axes the
abos. chopped at the hole through which
the chain passed until it was no longer
a hole, but a slot through which the
chain slipped—and the door was open.
“Anthropo”: To the eye of a white all
seemed peaceful in the big aboriginal
camp. Then suddenly from the midst
of a circle of youngish warriors one
leaped to his feet, his hand in the same
moment sweeping up his beard, to be
gripped with his teeth. Instantly another
of the circle was up, his beard simi-
larly gripped. Pandemonium started,
women screamed, old men expostulated,
even the dogs joined in and howled But
the fight was on. The challenger ahead
had his bundle of spears, and the cha-
lenged was not far behind. Out from
the camp both rushed, taking places at
opposite ends of what was evidently
accepted duelling ground. Spears flew,
to be marvellously evaded by a quick
twist of the body, or even of a limb, or
to be turned aside by the slightest touch
of the long narrow shield which eacn
carried with his left hand. Each com-
batant threw four spears in quick suc-
cession, and each one was aimed with a
deadly earnestness. Wives hovered i
the rear gathering up the sped shafts an
returning them quickly to the owner.
Finally a spear through a shoulder
brought the affair to a close. Honor
was satisfied, and only then did teeth
relax and allow the beard to escape. Ages
further along the scale of evolution mem
eval duellists started their little affairs
by throwing down a glove.
THE SWIMMERS.
By snow-gowjied Olympus their gun-wagons
came ,
Through hamlets whose names were faint echoes
of fame; , ‘ ...
But a hail of death cut them down like
ripe grain „ , . .
And left them strewn over the flower-haunted
plain.
They swam in the mornings when frosts chilled
the air , ± , . ... *
By banks where the willows were bathing tneir
At night-time they thrilled to the keen song of
speed
As their warm bodies glided past cool water-
weed.
On Olympus perhaps in the dim sylvan glades
They make love to the languid Olympian maids,
Butf despite love and laughter, they sometimes
Of shadows drifting down Berribong
stream.
N.S.W.
J.F.


“A fine map-reader YOU turned out to be !”
“Bo”: Josh Burton and his son Tim
both drew the old-age pension, and they’d
been living together in a river-bend shack
just out of the town ever since the rest
of Jersey Flat could remember. Also,
nobody could recall ever having seen
them in their habitat doing anything else
but lolling against the slab walls arguing
the point about some item in the week-
old paper they would be sharing. Then
one day Jerry the mailman was rocked
back on his heels to see Tim, with his
hat and coat on —possessions which Jersey
Flattites never suspected were his —and
a hessian swag up, trudging along the
road towards the Nine Mile. He looked
up surlily and just grunted and walked on
when Jerry chatted Jiim, Five minutes
later Jerry, sensing that history was being
made in Jersey Flat, was at the shack.
Tim’s ancient, bewhiskered and none-
too-fragrant sire was sitting against the
w T all in his usual position. “Has Tim
left y’?” asked Jerry breathlessly. Old
Josh screwed his eyes up at his questioner.
“Yair, he ’as!” he quavered. “We ’ad
a argyment about the flood in ’05 —he
reckoned it was in ’95. Mind y’, an’ ’im
only a nipper o’ twenty then, as if ’e
could remember as good as me. When
I called ’im a liar he left —reckoned ’e’d
take a job with ole Milligan along the
ridge.” “He looked pretty miserable
when I struck him,” said Jerry. Josh
spat, then considered the mailman for
some seconds. “Well, wasn’t you all
dithery w’en y’ went for yore first job?”
he asked.
* * * *
“Betcha”: For the most persistent and
pugnacious of creatures I nominate a
blue wren round these East Gippsland
parts. Last September he sighted his re-
flection in the glass panel above the door
and immediately gave battle. Early and
late, every day for over four months now
the feud has continued, with short spells,
presumably for feeding. The family has
grown accustomed to the continued light
tapping above the door, though the sound
still wakes me regularly at daylight. As an
experiment I one day placed a mirror
behind the glass, with the result tba* *he
wren broke into a flood of profanity and
renewed the attack with increased vigor.
Removing it perhaps saved him apoplexy.
And still the war goes on. What I can’t
make out is why all this long-absorbing
hatred? There are plenty more blue
wrens in the garden, and so far as I can
see he never scraps with any of them.
* * * *
“Bill C.”: No doubt the belief that
you can always rely on finding water at
the base of a pandanus patch (B. 31/1/ ’45)
arises from the fact that there is nearly
always plenty of moisture in the queer
branching palm. I have known horses
to go through months of drought in
waterless mountain paddocks because
their owners were not aware they were
still there, having assumed they had
migrated over the mountains —a favorite
trick. The prads had got water by chew-
ing the fronds of the pandanus palm.
* * * *
“Plane Creek”: No sense in thrashing
two mongrels to make ’em terminate hos-
tilities (B. 31/1/ ’45). Each dog blames
the other for every crack he cops, and
adds weight to his own onslaught. In-
stead, just grab the uppermost dog by
the hind legs and lift him well off the
ground. Hold him there until the other
dog lets go and drops off. If the latter
turns to renew the assault, boot him in
the ribs—hard. He’ll see that you, and
not the other dog, committed the offence
and will desist; but if you let him jump
at the snarling dog in your arms you
might get a bad bite. After grounding
the dog whose hind legs you grasped, a
well-placed boot will discourage him from
renewing the contest. But if you find
nine or ten foxies grappling in a heap,
as I’ve done, heave a tin of cold water
over ’em, then lay about you with a whip
or stick.
* * * *
“E. 2”: Out of tobacco, I called at
Dan’s for a smoke, and he passed me a
tin of cigarette butts to roll one from.
Sadly I told him the stuff was too strong
for me at second smoking. Later Dan
drew his material from another source,
and he rightly interpreted the look I
bent on him. “Aw, this stuff’s been
smoked down to the third generation,”
he said indignantly. “Those butts in the
tin are selected. I keep only the best f’r
my visitors.”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: George came to Alluvial
Creek about 15 years ago, shortly after
Andy had taken up the scrub selection
at Bobtail Gully, ten miles down, and
both have lived in solitary state ever
since. A while back I called at George’s
stringybark hut and found him packing
a few things in a sugarbag. “Goin’ t’
stay with Andy f’r a week,” he told me.
“Y’know, me an’ Andy’s bin neighbors f’r
a long time, an’ I don’t mind doin’ him
a turn. Anyway, a bloke’d be better orf
givin’ him a bit of company now an’
then than chance him turnin’ queer an’
cranky. I don’t wanf a hatter f’r me
nex’-door neighbor,”
* * * #
“Blirne”: Is this country getting drier?
I don’t know about the rest of it, but
this eastern corner of the Cabbage Patch
certainly is. What 20 years ago were
good streams, unknown to go dry, are
now scorched ribbons of sand that trickle
a drop of moisture for a few winter
months only. Even larger creeks once
used for irrigation have dwindled year
by year till they are saved now exclu-
sively for stock, and a mile of one-time
marshy bog is indistinguishable from the
surrounding grasslands. Those unsus-
pected spongy patches, too, once the bane
of teamsters, have disappeared from the
district, while more and yet more dams
are built yearly to help overcome this
growing water problem. When the water
in the homestead creek of one neighbor
got too low to work his hydraulic ram
a well and windmill was substituted with
some success for just a few years. Now
even the mill stands idle, mute but elo-
quent testimony to better days. Recently
asked the opinion of one old-timer who
looked about ready to blow away,
“Dry?” he rasped weakly. “Gripes, I ain’t
even had a decent drink these last six-
seven years. They say the wet spells comes
in cycles, so I’m just hangin’ on t’ see
what’s goin’ to happen now Bung’s bought
a big free-wheeler.”
* * * *
Propalong ’; “Fodgie” (B. 17/l/’45)
may like to know that on one N.S.W.
run we used to play the quoting game
as a morale-booster all through long
days in the yards, crutching green tails
and marking iambs. As it was a point
of honor always to have an apt line to
fit any situation or to reply to one from
your mate, we knew a little about some
of “our country’s bards.” And I learned
the context of “Stick to him, Bill, for
another round” when “F.” was probably
in diapers. On stations in western
N.S.W. and far northern S.A. that line
in my time was the universal form of
ribald encouragement to anybody in a
difficulty, riding a tight horse, wrestling
with a calf or a ram, lifting a heavy
weight or even cranking a recalcitrant
car, There were few of us who did not
know “Saltbush Bill” by heart, not to
mention such other old favorites as “The
Riding of the Rebel”—always referred
tp as “The Outlaw of Glenidol” —
“Mulga Bill’s Bicycle” and a host of
others like “Boko” and “The Horse that
Bucked Off His Brand.”
* * * *
,“Sur Cingle”; Tell “Simon the
Saddler” (B. 17/1/’45) that as I have a
heavy headstall bridle, which I made
myself in 1934, still going strong, I’m
not a complete mug at the game. Said
bridle has no rivets and doesn’t need ’em.
But when I’m riding a horse with any
barrel the buckles of the short-folded
girths I favor come below the sweat-
flaps and, consequently, get soaked daily,
Hence the need for rivets.
* * * *
“Prop.”; Since young Jim got married
and took over the farm there have been
a lot of improvements. The old draft-
ing yards have been pulled down, there’s
a modern dip, and a lot of super, and
grass seed has been dumped in the pad-
docks. The chooks have been shut up
in a model poultry run and their old dust
bath in the backyard has become a vege-
table garden. But, as Jim says, it’s head-
work that counts on the land nowadays,
and Dad has been retired to a chair on
the side verandah. And then the other
day Jim’s missus and the nipper, cross-
ing the yard, nearly trod on a six-foot
brown Blake which promptly slid into
the flourishing vegetable marrows. Jim
arrived with his neck stretched out and
Dad watched while he made frantic
attempts to encircle the marrow patch,
But Joe had camped somewhere in the
thick green tangle and, short of rooting
up the garden, Jim hadn’t a hope. Then
“Well, what is it ?”
Dad came out with the old 12-gauge.
Jim, disgusted, said something to his
missus, but the old chap went straight
on to the barn. Coming back with a
hatful of wheat he opened the fowl-
house door, scattered the wheat in the
marrows and called. Then, while 40
Leghorns commandoed through the
jungle, he waited. Pretty soon there was
an hysterical outburst from a couple of
hens, a rustle and bang went Dad’s blun-
derbuss. They say Jim’s got Dad help-
ing him with the plans for the new
yards now.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Cpryo” Charlie’s old
horse, which had towed Charlie and his
sweat-wheel and other gear around the
north-west Victorian race meetings and
shows for 15 years, went in the legs at
last. Charlie, conscious of the change
that had come to country transport, pen-
sioned the old fellow off in a paddock on
the Yarriambiack and bought a second-
hand Ford. Fie got the hang of the thing
and set off for Willenabrina, arriving on
the course in a whirl of dust, petrol
fumes and cheers from those of the crowd
who knew him, “Curyo” did good busi-
ness that day, drove the Ford into the
town and put up at the boarding-house,
Though there was no pub in those days,
refreshments were available, and “Curyo,”
proud of his skill with the car and pleased
with his winnings, became slightly ele-
vated. About 10 that night the store-
keeper found “Curyo” on his doorstep
demanding a butt of oats and some bran,
He supplied both, and “Curyo” departed
with them. A half-hour later the mob
found “Curyo” almost in tears beside the
Ford. “I always bought old Pompey a
good feed on a whinin’ day,” he said.
“Reckon I just naturally went up to that
store an’ bought ’em without thinking.
Now howinell is a man to make a mate
out of a flamin’ thrashin’ machine like
this an’ treat it to a extra good feed after
a good day?” Then he gave the Ford a
disgusted kick in the back tyre and
wandered disconsolately off into the dark-
ness.
* * * *
“Eureka”: “Meat rationin’ don’t
trouble me,” remarked an old battler I
met near Eden (N.S.W.). “Y’see, I go
them man-power birds—good eatin’,
too.” I confessed my ornithological igno-
ranee. “You know,” he said, “there’s
some of ’em up there now.” Then I
cocked my ear and heard a few gillbirds
repeating their cry,of “get-to-work.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: Jim was so taken with the
guest’s thermos flask that he borrowed it
the other day on his fencing job. Finish-
ing lunch, he left the thermos with his
coat and got up to lever a 2ft strainer
into its waiting hole. Heaving and sweat-
ing, he had the gigantic post almost up-
right when the bar slipped and down
she crashed on top of the flask, squashing
it flat. Jim was much concerned. Rescu-
ing the treasure, he pressed the thin edge
against the strainer, against his stomach
and against the ground, till after much
grunting it was at length restored to a
semblance of its former shape. Then,
searching for a stone the right shape, he
sat down to the job, tapping out the dints
and polishing the case on his trousers.
At last it was finished, and with a satis-
fied grunt he unscrewed the top and held
it aloft admiringly. Several small pieces
of glass dropped out. Jim gaped fool-
ishly, shook the flask and tipped out more
glass. “Well, I’ll be damned,” he gasped
wonderingly. “The flamin’s thing’s
broke.”
LAMENT FROM A MESS.
I wish that people wouldn’t show
The things they find in food;
I cannot see that moths and grubs
Will do me any good.
I feel no urge to goggle at,
I’ve no desire to see
The weird, repulsive wog that floats
In Harry’s M. and V.
And as I take my final gulp
I don’t enjoy it fully
If forced to see the battered corpse
In George’s curried bully.
My poor old stomach baulks at beans
With tropic bugs to sweeten —
Oh, why must all these things be found
Just after I have eaten?
I know there’s something in your tea
That met a sticky end;
Well, be a man and drink the brute,
And don’t show me, my friend!
A.I.F.
G.W. WARREN.


a
v
Op
e **fc
*tlA
®o©
®4jy#»
®®iro
4iro
®»iro
4 ®»*
*4u
4
Are made by
DUNLOP
% Listen to the Dunlop Road Show
with Jack Davey every
Wednesday evening at 9.30 on
Stations throughout A ustralia.
0 N
j Throughout the British Empire most people ride on Dunlop Tyres ~~|
<•£ . y •-.* *9&
- ■>>'-■■■
■tipW
?V
***.
2s^S
*V
wflfea
;■
The JfoyoZ Navy pioneered the technique of torpedo air attack.
Fairey Swordfish torpedo-bombers most successful of Britain s
operational biplanes made history the night they crippled the
Italian battle fleet at Taranto. They have been a major weapon in
defeating the U-boat menace to Allied shipping. The Swordfish
is powered by a Bristol Pegasus engine.
COMMAND OF THE SEAS
Many are the complicated
problems which British
aeronautical engineers have
solved in design and pro-
duction of sea-going air-
craft.
The intricacies of folding
wings, the peculiar struc-
tural stresses and strains in-
volved in deck flying, and
the development of special
radio equipment —these and
many other difficulties have
been mastered.
Numerous honours have al-
ready gone to British naval
aircraft in this war. The
first enemy aeroplane to be
shot down at sea; the first
successful torpedo air attack
against a capital ship; the
first ship to be sunk by dive-
bombers; such achievements
star their history.
Aircraft of the Royal Navy
are built to withstand ex-
tremes of climate. In the
first weeks of the war the
squadrons of one carrier
alone swept more than seven
million square miles of sea.
In ice, fog, sandstorms and
burning suns these aircraft
have satisfied the most exact-
ing demands of active
service.
World air transport like-
wise calls for fitness for
diverse duties and immunity
to climatic extremes.
British industry which has
made thousands of formid-
able sea-going warplanes
can be trusted to produce
the merchant airliners and
airfreighters of Tomorrow.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
“Japs Will Want Peace.”
(From a N.Y. “Times” report.)
Broadcasting over a nation-wide net-
work Joseph C. Grew, former U.S. Am-
bassador to Japan, said there were many
shrewd, level-headed, coldly-calculating
Japanese, including not only some of their
statesmen but also men such as those who
built up the great business houses and
shipping companies and industrial con-
cerns of Japan. Before the complete ruin
of Japan these men were almost certain
to make an attempt to save something
from the wreckage.
The Japanese would try to make peace,
he said, because a growing number of
them realise “beyond peradventure that
they are going to be defeated, that their
merchant fleet is being whittled down to
the vanishing point, that their war plants
are gradually being blotted out of exist-
ence, and that their gangster loot will
eventually be taken from them.
“We must not, under any circum-
stances, accept a compromise peace, no
matter how alluring such a peace may be
or how desirous we may become of end-
ing this terrible conflict.
“Should that moment come the United
Nations would be put to a most severe
test. The temptation to call it a day
might be stronger than we can now
visualise. That would be the moment
to fear, not for ourselves but for our sons
and grandsons, lest they should have to
fight this dreadful war over again in the
next generation.”
Russia’s Quislings.
(Condensed from an article by Albert Parry
in the US. publication “Asia.” )
Out of the 56,000 prisoners taken by
the Anglo-Americans in their first month
in France captives of Soviet origin num-
bered 3640 or 6.5 per cent. Many of
these were at first described as ‘ Turks
and Japs.” They were neither. Swarthy
or yellow-skinned, they were men from
the Caucasus, from Turkistan and other
regions of Russian Central Asia, and
from the Lake Baikal area and similar
Mongol lands of Siberia.
In Italy, too, the Allies met such foes,
and in French Jura, especially between
Bellegarde and the Swiss border, 3000
Russians, both Asiatic and European, re-
ferred to as “Vlasov’s Cossacks,” con-
ducted punitive expeditions against the
local Maquis. Some of these men were
indeed Cossacks from the Don, Kuban
and Terek regions of South-east Russia;
others were Kazaks, a Turkic people
from West Siberia. For a time another
detachment of “Vlasov’s Cossacks” was
stationed in Denmark.
On the Eastern Front these Russian
quislings were less and less used by the
Nazi High Command. The peak of such
employment dates back to 1942, when
camps for “Vlasov’s Cossacks” were es-
tablished by the Germans in the Crimea,
along the lower Dnieper in the Ukraine,
and in Belorussia. The nuclei and some
of the officer personnel were old emigres
—White Guard Russians—gathered from
all over Europe. The main body was of
a recent ex-Soviet vintage.
Some were Soviet Russian civilians
caught in their homeland by the blitz of
1941-42; but, naturally, most of the
Transcaucasians, Turkomans and Mon-
gols did not belong to this category.
They were chiefly Red Army prisoners
taken by the Nazis in those horrible
years. “What could we do,” said a Rus-
sian to his Yank captor in Normandy in
June, 1944, “when they wouldn’t give
us anything to eat unless we joined their
army.”
The German treatment of Red cap-
tives had been truly shocking from the
very beginning. American and British
prisoners in Nazi camps, protected by
the Geneva Convention and aided by
Red Cross parcels, wondered how any
Russians, whose sufferings they saw daily,
could hold out. Soviet statistics indicate
that out of the 4,000,000 Red Army sol-
diers captured to the Stalingrad turn of
the tide some 2,400,000 were eventually
shot or starved to death. All the time,
in one prison camp after another, the
Nazi jailors made it known that Russian
captives would get better treatment if
they would agree to fight against their
brothers on the Eastern Front and against
their allies in the west and south. This
was, indeed, an effective argument die
as slaves if you don’t want to join the
masters!
Many Red captives were turned into
soldiers after first being impressed into
Hitler’s labor battalions. A smaller pro-
portion joined Hitler of their own free
will. Melancholy though the fact is,
there were willing quislings from the
Caucasus, from Turkistan and from Mon-
gol lands, as well as from European
Russia. Joseph E. Davies, former
United States Ambassador to Moscow,
was sadly wrong when he declared that
Hitler had found no Russian knaves to
serve him. All such men, according to
Davies, had been purged in advance in
the Moscow trials of the thirties. But
Hitler did discover Russians ready to sell
out their country and not only among
the White Guard emigres outside Russia.
The very purges of which Davies
spoke so approvingly may have left a
bitter memory in their wake, helping
these men to say “yes” to the Nazi pro-
pagandists. During the thirties many
native communist leaders of such Asiatic
lands as Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turk-
menistan, Kazakstan,Azerbaijan, Georgia
and Armenia were liquidated. The
charges brought against them included
separatism —a desire to break away from
the,Soviet Union, to make their lands
into independent capitalistic States. It
is possible that separatism among the
national minorities of the U.S.S.R. may
not have been entirely uprooted by the
purges; or the purges may have left a
longing for revenge among the relatives
and friends of those executed. And so,
while many Siberians, Central Asiatics
and Transcaucasians have fought well
for the Soviet Union, others did cross
over to Hitler’s side with hardly any
pressure.
The Nazis boast that Hitler’s quisling-
in-chief for Russia, General Vlasov, is
no mere White exile, but an ex-Soviet
general who came Up the Red Army
ladder the hard way. Andrei Alexeie-
vich Vlasov himself claims that he is a
peasant’s son from the province of
Nizhni-Novgorod (now called Gorki),
and that his services in the Red forces
spanned a period of 24 years and included
important Asiatic assignments.
Both in Yugoslavia and France these
diehard “Cossacks” appeared to be most
faithful to Hitler. Ruthless in battle,
they were just as merciless to noncom-
batants. They tortured and shot their
prisoners; they robbed and raped and
killed peaceful inhabitants. Some of
these “Cossacks” could be counted upon
by the Nazi masters for any appalling
job. In Lithuania even the native quis-
ling militia baulked at killing Jewish
women and children. Two Kirghiz bat-
talions were brought to Kaunas to do the
ghastly work.
The Epic of Malta.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
Among the decisive failures of the
Axis Powers in this war was the failure
of Germany and Italy to capture the
island of Malta. The British Govern-
ment has told the story of the 28-month
siege in a published booklet.
There were 2315 air-raid alerts, or an
average of nearly three a day. There
were 1569 civilian deaths by enemy
action, or about one in 200 of the popu-
lation. Malta has an area of 91 square
miles. It received 99 tons of bombs for
each square mile. The island was sup-
plied and reinforced through waters com-
manded by enemy air-power. Sicily,
where such power could be based, is only
60 miles away at its nearest point. It is
probably safe to say that at the grim
height of the siege no convoy ever got
into Valletta without some damage, and
no ship ever unloaded without being
attacked by air. At the beginning of the
siege the British had four obsolete fighter
’planes. Before the battle was over they
had enough ’planes and enough anti-
aircraft guns to bring down about one
enemy ’plane for each civilian killed.
Malta held out when the Mediter-
ranean was so dangerous that supplies
for the British Eighth Army were being


Made hij
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO B I T E Travel Cases,
can’t
Q’ft wasted
——so *B.£& toasters are in short supply for
civilian needs, the same as other of the company's
household electric appliances, to reappear after
the war in new and better designs to give you a
fresh appreciation of how much electricity can
do in the home; but until then metal and labour
must be diverted to priority requirements.
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH . HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd,
TOMATO SAUCE
LEA & PERRINS
invite you to listen to a
session of fun and fancy at
12.30 p.m. every Sunday from
2GB.
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN” OFFICE.
. » v
carried around the Cape of Good Hope.
One would think it might have been taken
by paratroopers and glider troopers, as
Crete was. The attempt was not made.
The island remained unconquered, a
light and a symbol. If we want to find
the spot where the tide began to turn,
Malta is as good a spot as any. If the
British had been capable of surrender
they would have surrendered there. If
they had surrendered there Mussolini
might still be in Rome and Hitler still
free to wash his red hands in the waters
of the English Channel. But the flame
did not go out. It spread.
Communist Trend.
(As seen by N.Y. “Daily News.”)
As the war goes on, it becomes clearer
all the time that it is something more
than a war among nations. In many
nations it is also a revolution.
General de Gaulle, who seems to have
plenty of de gall, came back from a
Moscow meeting with Stalin. At this
meeting De Gaulle said Stalin assured
him that France after the war would
have western Germany up to the Rhine,
while Poland would have eastern Ger-
many up to the Oder, which is about 30
miles east of Berlin. This Polish Gov-
ernment, now that the British have virtu-
ally abandoned the London exiled Polish
Government, will be the Lublin outfit,
or, in plainer English, a Communist Gov-
ernment.
France itself is nationalising its indus-
tries. There are strong communist move-
ments in Greece and Italy. There is a
clique of captured German officers in
Moscow who keep urging the Germans
to toss out Hitler. It is logical to expect
some of these men to head whatever
post-war Government Germany may
have.
All Europe, in short, is drifting toward
communism after the war. Whether Eng-
land will go communist eventually is an-
other question. Certainly there is much
radical sentiment in Great Britain, and
an election now would probably turn
Parliament’s complexion several shades
pinker if not redder.
Confusion Their Business.
(From a “Tricolor v article by Frederic
Sondern .)
Weeks before D-day in Normandy the
crew of an American bomber dragged
themselves out of the wreckage of their
crash-landed ’plane and held a despon-
dent council in a ditch near by. They
knew they were somewhere in central
France, in the heart of German-held
territory.
Suddenly a jeep, bristling with machine-
guns and driven by an officer in British
battledress, was bearing down on them.
“Hello, chaps,” said the apparition as
the jeep came to a halt. “If you’ve any
wounded we’d best get them to hospital.
It isn’t far.”
The fliers goggled with open mouths.
“Oh, everything’s all right,” the English-
man assured them. “We’re the Special
Air Service—behind the German lines,
you know. Glad to have you.”
That was their introduction to Britain’s
phantom army, and its most irregular
regulars. From El Alamein, through
North Africa, Sicily, Italy and France, to
the German border these men have
written one of military history’s most
fantastic chapters. In Africa their para-
chutists and jeep-bome commandos
struck Nazi airfields 500 miles behind
Rommel’s front line, destroying more
German ’planes on the ground than the
R.A.F. did in the air. They kept Axis
supply lines in an almost continuous state
of disorganisation. In the battle of
France they did the same thing again, on
a much larger scale.
The designers of the invasion knew
that its success depended in great measure
on preventing the Germans from getting
heavy reinforcements to the beachheads
before our armies were securely planted
there. The Tactical Air Force was to do
a major part of the job by bombing key
transportation points. But even under
the best circumstances they could not be
expected to hit as many targets as the
Allied tacticians wanted knocked out
simultaneously. The various French
underground units were very efficient, but
they lacked the unification necessary to
guarantee execution of the intricate
schedule of destruction and panic which
must synchronise precisely with the Allied
landing and advance. The hardened,
experienced super-commandos of the
Special Air Service —each man a veteran,
expert in close combat, scouting and
demolition work—were the only outfit
for the job. They were brought up from
Italy to tackle their toughest assignment.
The first S.A.S. parachutists began
landing on French soil at night in groups
of two or three long before D-day. With
the help of Frenchmen these “reception (
committees” reconnoitred their areas to
find fields where men and supplies could ;
land and woods and houses where they
could be hidden. When ready they re-
ported to S.A.S. headquarters over small
portable radio transmitters, and the main
forces of the secret invasion began
arriving.
In a few cases the S.A.S. landing parties
chanced on German patrols and had to
fight for their lives. In general, however,
they got down safely with their equip-
ment, also dropped by chute, which in-
cluded jeeps, folding motor - cycles,
machine-guns and other types of light
ordnance.
Each party moved frequently, to avoid
betrayal by the sympathetic but incau-
tious population. The men rarely used
tents, but slept in bags on the ground
around well-dispersed jeeps, encircled by
outposts on guard. Everyone had a
tommy-gun within reach day and night.
According to plan, D-day found the
main S.A.S. forces astride the German
communication lines from the Cher-
bourg peninsula to the east and south.
Each party—ranging in size from five or
six to 20 or 30—had been exhaustively
briefed on railroad, power and telephone
key points and the other installations it
was to destroy.
Besides demolitions, S.A.S. did other
jobs. One was guiding the Tactical Air
Force. After T.A.F. bombers hit at a
railroad bottleneck one day an under-
ground scout working for S.A.S. went to
assess the damage. “How long will it
take you to fix that?” he asked a work-
man. The burly Frenchman looked long
and carefully at the questioner. “Not very
long,” he replied finally. “But half a
mile farther up, where the signal-box and
switches are, the bombs could have made
a real mess.” Shortly thereafter the
T.A.F; dropped a stick of bombs in the
right place.
The German Paris command, in a
desperate attempt to stamp but the in-
visible army, unleashed the Gestapo and
the so-called French Militia —auxiliary
police recruited from felons and dregs of
the population—on a furious reign of
terror. Throughout Normandy people
remotely suspected of helping were
rounded up by hundreds, tortured for
information and shot. But despite all
measures the S.A.S.' and their helpers
continued striking.
One of the exploits of Sergeant Chalky
is considered only mildly unusual among
the regiment’s veterans. In the Morvan
district of central France a unit of Ger-
man soldiers had just been drawn up at
attention in the village square when
around a blind corner tore a jeep con-
taining two British soldiers. It slithered
to a halt, and before the Germans knew
what happened ~one of the men was
running straight at them with a Bren gun
blazing. The Germans broke for cover,
but not before Sergeant Chalky had
littered the street with gray-clad bodies.
Then he and the jeep disappeared around
the corner. He had been instructed to
join a larger party in an attack on these
Germans, but when the others failed to
show up he decided to do it himself.
On another occasion a group of 50
encamped in a wood was informed by a
Maquis agent that the Gestapo had
learned of their hiding-place. That night
200 German S.S. troops were to close in
from one side and 300 French Militia
from the other. “The Englishmen should
withdraw at once,” the Maquis said. “Not
at all!” replied the commanding officer.
The S.S. and Militia men attacked at
dusk, and walked into a withering hail
of bullets. The undergrowth and ditches
were alive with machine-gunners. For
hours the stalking and shooting went on,
until a German officer discovered that the
battle was being waged exclusively by
the S.S. and Militia. The S.A.S. had long
since withdrawn and were busily raising
hell among near-by supply dumps that
had been stripped of their guards. Ger-
man prisoners and captured documents
have since revealed the extent of the con-
fusion caused by this campaign of dis-
ruption.
Four years of trial by fire have gone
into S.A.S. operations. At the begin-
ning of 1941 the British position in Africa
was so desperate that the Middle East
command was willing to listen to the crazy
scheme of two young lieutenants of
the Guards. David Stirling and Jock
Lewis were obsessed with the idea that
small groups of picked men, carefully
trained, could live and wreak havoc far
behind the enemy’s lines. They talked
their way through all opposition to the
commanding general. “Stirling’s rest
camp” was set up in a remote Egyptian
wasteland. Volunteers were gathered from
the best Middle East units and were
taught everything from parachuting to
fieldcraft and Arabic.
Stirling s results were quick and sensa-
tional. A German airfield 500 miles be-
hind Rommel’s front line was bowled
over one night by a squadron of wild men
ip jeeps who blew up its ’planes and
levelled its installations in a half hour


ssm
mm.
- < :
It
mm
<i-nv
V;
f
M
\ (kf
\ 4r~*\ 9
w*#
R & MC 524
BUY WAR S AVI NG S CERTIFICATES
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, for unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns 9
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given if you call. Or
write for illustrated catalogue R 2.
AGA
RE© 0 . \T RAD E ; MA R K
The Original Heal Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 18 52 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street. Melbourne.
S.A. Agents; Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. G. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
pld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
k
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, whc* will quote you price for the original.
flat, and vanished into the desert wheiice
they came. Remote secret German supply
dumps in the desert were located and
destroyed. Axis operations along the
coastal road were constantly interrupted
and convoys waylaid and annihilated.
The Luftwaffe lost 300 ’planes in a few
months by S.A.S. forays and was
weakened just when Rommel needed] it
most for the push into Egypt.
When Cherbourg fell S.A.S. men moved
northward and eastward to help prepare
the way for the drives of Montgomery
and Patton. On the Paris-Amiens line
alone—the vitally important main line
from Paris to the coast —they wrecked
almost 50 trains, blew a dozen bridges
and totally disrupted communications.
Montgomery, who had thanked them
officially in North Africa, thanked them
again after the Battle of France even
more enthusiastically. And they may in
the future be thanked yet again. For
these incredibles are still going strong.
Where and how is a story yet to be told.
Airways Conference.
(From N.Y. “Times")
For six weeks delegates of 52 nations,
called together by the American State De-
partment, worked over green-baize tables
in a flag-bedecked Chicago hotel ball-
room trying to fashion a mutually accept-
able policy on the economic and technical
aspects of international post-war aviation.
The conference wound up its affairs
far short of the goal it had set for itself.
On technical problems agreement had
been complete; on the more vital eco-
nomic problems agreement had been im-
possible. Thus the United Nations had
a measure of the difficulties they would
face in maintaining in the post-war period
the unity they had forged on the battle-
fields.
Of the conference’s achievements, the
most positive was the adoption of a tenta-
tive world air pact. The pact consisted
of certain definite provisions plus a flex-
ible arrangement for future agreements
on disputed points. It included a con-
vention for a permanent body, the Inter-
national Civil Aviation Organisation,
which was to begin functioning as soon
as the various Governments ratified the
necessary treaty. This was expected to
take two to three years. Meanwhile con-
trol was to be vested in an interim coun-
cil so airlines could be started as soon as
military conditions permitted. Technical
annexes provided for uniform standards
on such matters as airport facilities and
weather reports. Separate agreements
were provided to give signatory nations
the right to some or all of the five “free-
doms” of the air. Finally, it was decided
that those nations that do not accept all
the freedoms could exchange airline
privileges through bilateral agreements.
The conference’s troubles had centred
around these five “freedoms.” They were
(1) the right of innocent passage across
designated routes of any nation; (2) the
right to land on any nation’s soil for
technical reasons, such as refueling; (3)
the right to carry traffic from the home
country to any point in the world; (4)
the right to bring through traffic back
home from any point in the world; (5)
the right of free competition for traffic
throughout the world. On the first two
freedoms there was general agreement;
the British delegation had also agreed to
the third and fourth freedoms, but when
the Americans insisted on including the
fifth in the pact they withdrew this agree-
ment.
The fifth freedom the American dele-
gates, with Latin-American backing,
maintained would stimulate business for
all and result in better service at lower
fares. They had argued, for example, that
if a New York-to-Paris route were estab-
lished its operators should be able to
pick up and discharge passengers at Dub-
lin, London or other points along the
way, and that the same rule should apply
to other nations. The British said that
this method would, in effect, put the air-
lines of smaller nations —having smaller
resources of equipment and experience-
out of business. They asked for safe-
guards in the form of quotas (amount
of traffic carried) and frequencies (num-
ber of trips allowed).
“War Criminals Can Escape.”
(From a “Christian Science Monitor” article.)
The peoples of the United Nations
should not be too sure that the leaders of
Nazi Germany will get justice.
Changing identity or “diving under,”
as the Germans put it, has become a
general practice in Germany. Taking ad-
vantage of the air raids after which hun-
dreds of people have been missing, crimi-
nals or army deserters have taken false
identifications. If these simple elements
will dodge justice this way, the Nazi
leaders, with their skill in underground
operations, may be counted upon even
more to do so. .
We can hardly imagine the Nazi
leaders fighting to the end and then
calmly giving up to await trial by the
Allies. If they flee or hide they will cer-
tainly first change their identity. Since
they have complete control of all Ger-
man records, this is easy. As to appear-
ance, only a few top leaders are well-
known, and skilled plastic surgeons can
easily enough change their looks. Refine-
ments of police identity such as measure-
ments of these men are not available to
Allied nations and will be destroyed in
Germany itself. Of course, Gbring’s
figure would be a little difficult to con-
ceal, but some rigorous dieting, which he
undoubtedly would face rather than a
firing squad, could make a distinct change
even in him. The Germans officially
admit at least five million persons have
been killed in the war, which offers a
wide variety of choice of identity for fit-
ting even some complex Nazi leaders.
Uncle Sam’s War Record.
(From a N.Y. “Times” article by Hanson W.
Baldwin.)
In the first three years of this war the
United States performed air industrial
miracles, but only at great cost.
In those three years the Navy lost about
230 combat ships, including two battle-
ships, nine carriers, nine cruisers, 51 de-
stroyers, 33 submarines and many mis-
cellaneous types. But the nation replaced
these losses many times over, and has in
commission today a balanced fleet prob-
ably larger than the combined navies of
the world.
Since Pearl Harbor the U.S. Army Air
Forces have lost some 42,000 ’planes,
14,600 of them on combat missions. But
since Pearl Harbor the nation has built
something like 240,000 aircraft of all
types.
In three years tire U.S. has lost perhaps
3,750,000 gross tons of merchant ship-
ping, but has built about 42,000,000 dead-
weight tons.
It has mobilised armed forces nearly
12,000,000 strong (men and women) and
shipped between 5,000,000 and 6,000,000
overseas, plus something like 74,000,000
ship tons of supplies.
In money the cost already approxi-
mates $400,000,000,000. In blood the
cost is high. U.S. Army and Navy deaths
in this war are already considerably more
than twice those in World War I. More
than 121,000 Americans were killed or
died of wounds in the first three years
of this war, and about 430,000 others
were listed as wounded, missing or
prisoners. -
For Bombing Japan.
(The Superfortresses and their performances, as
described by Hanson W. Baldwin in N.Y.
“Times.”)
The Superfortress ’plane that has been
bombing Japan was originally described
with a blast of superlatives that it has
never lived up to and could not be ex-
pected to justify. Even to sober-minded
engineers its initial performance figures
were disappointing and when it com-
menced its first operational missions last
June 15 from China bases it still suffered
from many “bugs”—particularly engine
failures —that marred its performance and
probably cost us far more ’planes than
were lost in combat.
But most of these “bugs” have been
eliminated ; today the Boeing 829 “Super-
fortress” is a good, workmanlike, and,
on the whole, dependable ’plane, which
can carry more bombs farther than any
other ’plane. It is constantly improving
in performance.
The 829 has a wingspread of about
141 ft. and a length of 98ft. It is powered
by four 2200-horsepower Wright Cyclone
18-cylinder air-cooled engines, that drive
the largest propellers yet fitted to any
’plane. It carries a crew of 11. Loaded,
it probably weighs more than 60 tons. The
ship is a pressurised cabin job ; that is, the
crew does not have to wear oxygen
masks, and usually puts them on only
when in combat, in case the fuselage is
punctured by gunfire. Canvas chairs,
with sponge-rubber cushions and other
conveniences to decrease the crew s fatigue
during long flights, have been fitted to
the ’plane. The ’plane has a tricycle lan
ing gear, but with double main and nose
wheels. Its defensive armament has
remote-control features. There are a
“chin” or forward turret, a dorsal, a ban
and a tail turret, each with two .50-calibre
machine-guns. The tail turret also has
20mm. cannon. There are two wais
turrets on either side of the plane, th
giving the Superfortress a total of 10 or
12 .50-calibre guns and a 20mm, cannon,
all controlled by a new system. The wing
is of new design and large flaps, wmcu
really form an extension of the wing,
permit relatively low landing and take-
off speeds, and the runways used need not
be so long as is commonly believed to
a ’plane of this weight. . . .
The all-important characteristics of
i 829 are its range, speed, altitude an


w
From Australian?"
de Haviiland
factories jt«lii
MOSQU
ffyTo (he
W
ES
(a
m
The de havilland war effort is strategically
world dispersed. War found an established chain of
factories, forged from 1927 onward for the service
of civil flying, ready to expand and turn over to
combat aircraft.
Mosquito production in Britain and Canada is now
augmented by a mounting flow of fighter-bombers
from the Australian plants.
de Havilland propellers and Gipsy engines also are
manufactured in the Commonwealth.
When war is won, de Havilland enterprise will be
ready again to serve the needs of peace.
DE HAVILLAND
AIRCRAFT PTY. LTD.
!Australian Branch of the de havilland world formation
Great Britain » Australia » India • Canada • Africa • New Zealand
DH.IB
39
Wa
£s^
s
It’s your fight—your money is needed
now. Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/- National Savings Stamps.
ft *O-7.44
bomb capacity. These details are still
secret, but published figures indicate a
tAn mAp j . OAA 5 i
p p ed of about 300 miles an hour, a
cruismg speed of about 250, a service
ceiling of probably 30,000 feet, perhaps
more, and a maximum bomb load of ten
tnns It 1c u „
* ’ , ", 1S un hkely, however, that any
sucn load can be carried over the 1500-
mile distance from Saipan to Tokyo,
Probably the initial raiders carried no
r,-.,,_ , . . nni •
more than tour to seven tons apiece. This
means that 100 Superfortresses would be
able to drop between 400 and 700 tons of
bombs on Tokvn a email ficnirp rnm-
n 3 c ftg CO / n :
p red to those of the European war, but
a major bombing raid in the Pacific war.
So far, opposition to our Superfortress
M pa v nd r r „ ,apanese in -
dustnes in Manchuria has been surpns-
mgly Slight. Pilots have spoken of total
absence of fighter opposition
Thlc failure ic
o is probably the result of
a combination of causes. The Super-
fortress moves very fast at rather high
altitudes ; unless a fighter has a high rate
of climb or sufficient warning, these
bombers will bomb and be gone before
• .. , ,
tne interception can be made. The Japa-
nese radar and warning system and
fighter-control system which direct
fighters when to takf* off and how to
‘♦ •“ l ° sake5 ake ott and , n ° W l tQ
steer to intercept the enemy bomber,
have never been equal to the U.S. or to
the British or German systems, Japanese
anti-aircraft fire is also light to moderate,
as compared to the European, and it is
considerably less accurate than the Ger-
man.
Riit . , r , i
But we cannot expect such favorable
conditions to continue. The Japanese
will try every expedient to halt our
bombers, and may even send fighter
. i„_ on , • , &
planes to crash into them, as a Japanese
communique claimed was done on the
China-based 829 raid against Omura,
of Japan has been highly favorable, but
the air battles of the Orient are just
Opening.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
The U.S. Army failed to supply U.S. airmen
and paratroopers with the quick-release para-
chute harness despite the fact that nine months
earlier General Newton Longfellow, of the
U.S. Eighth Air Force in England, warned
Washington that “anything but the quick-release
harness is murderous.” The Army ordered
100,000 of the single-point quick-release para-
chute harness, then 300,000. However these
orders did not come soon enough to save hun-
dreds of lives in the Normandy invasion. A
very large proportion of the U.S. paratroopers
who came down over Normandy had to use the
old slow-release harness which tediously un-
buckles in three different places. Detailed re-
ports of what happened as a result were hushed
up at the time, but it is now possible to reveal
that many United States paratroopers were shot
down by German snipers before they were able
to get out of their harnesses. Brig.-Gen.
Anthony C. McAuliffe, artillery commander of
the 101st Airborne Division, later awarded the
Silver Star for gallantry in parachuting over
Normandy, had to cut his harness off with a
knife. A “Time Magazine” correspondent got
hung up in a tree head down, nearly choked
to death on his parachute harness before some-
one climbed up and cut him free. It was
especially bad when men landed in trees. There
they had little chance to unsnap the three cum-
bersome buckles before German snipers shot
them down. Dead bodies in the trees of
Normandy gave mute, gruesome testimony to
United States Army bungling on the home
front. — Drew Pearson; Washington “Post."
* * * *
Russia is not likely to go out of her way to
help Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. She feels
toward him pretty much as she once did toward
Gen. Mihailovich, of Yugoslavia. Before Gen.
Tito arrived on the scene Russia was cold
toward Mihailovich, although the United States
and England were supporting him. But after
Tito raised his communist guerrillas and these
began to trade bullets with those of Mihailovich
Tito got Moscow’s full support. Mihailovich
was then charged with being a “Fascist” and a
Nazi “collaborator.” Soon, under a sustained
barrage of laudatory propaganda, London recog-
nised Tito as boss of Yugoslavia and sent him
arms and equipment. Mihailovich was forgotten
and Washington went along with London. A
similar situation seems to be cooking for China.
—Washington correspondent N.Y. “World-
Telegram."
* * * *
“The defeat of Germany this time will be
complete, so complete that tremendous results
may ensue. It is permissible to hope that for
a long lime no central authority will be able
to revive in Germany. A dictatorship, which
kills all round it, kills its own successor before
anything else. A period of chaos seems certain
to me. I think, moreover, that it will be very
long, so long that the entire disintegration of
Germany appears quite possible.”— Belgian
Foreign Minister Spaak.
* * * *
A giant conflict will take place in the world
after the war, between collectivism and indi-
vidualism, and between autocracy and democ-
racy. Education must provide the final answer,
and must shoulder the terrific responsibility of
teaching people how to be free. Everywhere the
tide is running strong toward Government con-
trol, Government domination, Government
ownership. AH over the world man is uncer-
tain, confused, frightened. He is throwing
his problems back upon the Government, re-
linquishing and assigning his economic freedom
to the State. — U.S. Chamber of Commerce
president Eric A. Johnston.
* * * *
The largest empire in the world is Soviet
Russia, the major portion of her territories and
peoples is in Asia, and her imperial historic
policies look rather to the East than the West.
It is to Russia that Asia will turn for deliver-
ance from what she considers is European ex-
ploitation. The secret Indian Youth Movement,
of which few have heard and even fewer can
'fully appreciate, is but an indication of the
coming storm which will not only affect India,
but all those countries adjacent to her seas.
If Britain wishes to surmount the storm, the
unfortunate attitude of “Herrenvolk” dis-
played by so many on the flimsiest grounds in
pre-war Malaya must never be allowed to re-
appear. Asia today is awake: when she unites
she will be the master, unless Europe in the
meantime becomes her friend and partner as
well as overlord. — James R. Tannock; London
“Nineteenth Century ."
* * * «
“In Russia there is only one employer, the
State. In America there are millions of em-
ployers. In Russia if a worker get's in dutch
with his boss he is out of luck. In America
if a worker gets in dutch with his boss he goes
around the comer and gets another job. Can
you have real economic freedom in the Ameri-
can sense when there is only one employer?
In Russia they said ‘yes.’ I said ‘no.’ ” — U.S.
Chamber of Commerce president Eric A. John-
ston.
* * * *
“The Russians had men but lacked material,
lacked the sheer weight of arms. According to
a report a few months after the turn came at
Stalingrad, from June 22, 1941, when Hitler
marched against Russia, until June of 1943 the
Russians paid for their lack of material with
4,200,000 killed and missing.”- U.S. Lieut.-Gen.
Somervell.
* * * *
Unconditional surrender by Japan is a neces-
sity. Every intelligent student of Far Eastern
affairs knows that only by liquidating Japan’s
military clique, as well as by racial reforms
within Japan itself, can we lessen the threat of
World War 111. But there is such a thing as
creating an atmosphere within which our de-
mand for unconditional surrender will appear
reasonable to large numbers of the Japanese
people themselves. Contrary to a lot of propa-
ganda one hears these days, the majority of
the Japanese people are reasonable human
beings and they will view our desire to be
freed from the menace of World War 111 as
reasonable. But that demand of ours has been
interpreted to them in terms of the traditional
western imperialism.— J. S. Kennard, in the U.S.
publication “Asia.”
* * * *
Considering that civil war was generally ex-
pected, that civil war was latent for a decade
before the war, it is remarkable that France
is today by far the most stable of the liberated
nations. This country manifests an inner equil-
ibrium, a recuperative power that amazes all
of us who have watched during two hard months
its swift progress toward recovery. At the rate
it is going rebuilding bridges, opening railway
lines, forging one link at a time in the broken
communications system—France will be running
on her own steam long before any other con-
tinental Power. — Paris correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * m
The U.S. Army and Navy are spending mil-
lions of dollars for the production of rockets,
which have developed as one of the principal
weapons of this war. By the first quarter of
this year the Navy plans to spend nearly
$100,000,000 monthly on rocket ammunition
alone, as much as has been spent a month for
all types of naval ammunition. Rockets have
been mounted on amphibious ducks to cover
advances beyond the range of naval guns and
have been used for the last two years against
Axis submarines. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The significance of every third British man
or woman service member and salaried worker
belonging to a union can hardly be overesti-
mated. Union membership in 1943 exceeded
7.400.000. Over 6,200,000 workers belong to
unions affiliated with the British Trade Union
Congress. The power of British Labor is
further highlighted by the enormous growth of
union treasuries in recent years. Financial
assets have risen from 16 million pounds in
1939 to over 50 million pounds in 1943. Th'e
Transport and General Workers’ Union,
1.300.000 members strong, has reserves of three
million pounds, half of it invested in war loans
and non-interest-paying savings certificates; the
Railwaymen’s Union, three million pounds.—
London correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Between Sept. 20 and Oct. 20 the First,
Third and Ninth American armies on the
Western Front fired more mortar shells per day
than were used in a month in the North Africa
campaign of late 1942 and early 1943. In the
first three months after D-Day (last June 6),
three American armies in France fired about
300.000. rounds of small-arms ammunition,
4.426.000 rounds of 105’s, 1,248,000 of 155’s
and 3,500,000 mortar shells. — N.Y. “Daily
News/’
* * * *
A minor dislocation of populations caused
by war is that of uncounted thousands of
war brides. Fifteen thousand young English-
women, brides of American fighting men, have
applied to the London Embassy for visas to
the United States, and doubtless a few more
thousands will get around to visas later. Ship-
loads of war brides from Australia and New
Zealand and from North Ireland have already
been welcomed on these shores. Further re-
ports are that G.l’s have imported, or are pre-
pared to import, brides from Greenland, Ice-
land, Italy, North and South Africa and Burma.
— N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”


TROJAN SEA HORSE.
'JTHESE mighty engines of war “ dock ” where there are no
docks. They just push up to the shore and unload their
troops and tanks, reminiscent of the Trojan horse of Greek
mythology.
Unfaltering performance from engines is required in such
war service. To get such performance, Caltex Lubricants
are universally used.
Caltex engineers and laboratory chemists have rendered
Caltex lubrication unfailingly reliable. Insist on Caltex ~,
There is the correct grade of oil for every purpose.
k
ķ
ĸ
CALTEX LIMITED
Swing fhe
Importers of Caltex Motor Spirit) Kerosene and Lubricating OIU
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
E6ELABRA MERINOS
of tfee Stonehaven Cup. W»
Eton. Also wiwwn a# Grand
<rf Ist and 2nd
Sydney Sheep Sheer, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Orders are now being booked for the
Rams to be classed before the end of
February.
5 gas. to 15 gns. pear bead.
H. E. KATEft & SON
/
- Egelobra, Warren, N-S.W.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
k
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
v
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON THE LANS
”DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Wool in the War.
“R.N.”: As late as December, 1944, the
U.S. Government was believed to be on
the point of freezing the country’s entire
wool textile output for military require-
ments, and in a report to the American
Wool Council, F. Eugene Ackerman said
things that should interest Australians.
Some of them:
Previous conceptions as to immediate
and future wool needs for both Army and
Navy are being radically revised upward.
Needs of U.S. and Allied armies and of
war prisoners are far greater than was
anticipated The invasion of Normandy
involved about 2,000,000 men in such a
rapid advance that they ‘left behind every-
thing except what they wore; consequently,
complete new issues of blankets, overcoats
and uniforms were required. All blankets
in U.S. training camps had to be collected
and sent abroad. The large number of
enemy prisoners taken has to be outfitted
with clothing and blankets. The new French
army of 2,000,000 men has to be outfitted
“from the skin out” with American equip-
ment. There are heavy obligations to the
Russians and the Chinese.
Ackerman points out that U.S. mili-
tary authorities are revising their opinion
of the length of the Pacific war and mak-
ing provision accordingly.
Until the Allied Pacific forces crossed
the Equator the authorities asked for cotton
material because of tropic conditions. Now
it is evident that the war will have to be
fought on the Chinese mainland and in,
Chinese seas, where the winter climate is
severe, and Allied forces will “require as
much, if not more, wool than is required
in Europe,”
Immediate needs are for Melton over-
coats, 18oz. serge and blankets. The Army
wants up to 24 million yards of serge for
delivery in the first quarter of 1945. There
is a critical shortage of underwear and
socks (in December, 1944), and the services
want tropical worsteds for offices and for
Wacs and Waves. The Q.M.G. estimates
that the Army alone will require up to 90
p.c. of American mill output for the first
1945 quarter.
According to Ackerman, American
wool-dealers and -appraisers aren’t too
hopeful about supplies of Australian fine
wools, having heard of our drought and
its likely effects. Ackerman’s conclusion
is that
Aside from reducing civilian business
almost to vanishing point, it seems mills
will need to reappraise their raw material
sources ‘ f of which there now threatens a
shortage instead of the surplus about which
all have been complaining.”
The report was written mainly to
bolster the American wool-growers’
demands for prices on “a competitive
parity with prices which the British Gov-
ernment has established in U.S. for Aus-
tralasian wools,” and as such is a purely
American domestic report. All the same,
it indicates that a big increase in world
wool consumption can be expected.
Dressing the Killer.
“Bugaldie”: Not being a “three-minute
man,” lay the sheep on its left side, bal-
ance the right knee on its right hip, put
the left foot under the head directly be-
hind the ears, draw the head back, cut its
throat, break its neck and sever the spine.
Open up the legs, but do not pull the skin
down any further than the shanks ; this
is the secret of keeping the carcass clean.
Puli or punch the skin off the brisket
before you open up the neck, also split
the brisket before the sheep goes on the
gallows; if you don’t there’s a danger
of puncturing the paunch whilst hanging,
nearly a major disaster. Put the sheep
on the gallows,, and when the hind-
quarters are off the ground skin round
the tail, etc.
Open up the belly and punch the skin
from the body, starting from the brisket
end, using the knife as little as possible.
This makes a far better job of it and is
quicker. Hang up in a cool place and cut
up next morning.
Always pick out a killer commensurate
with the size of the family—you don’t
want it too fat. Have it in some hours
beforehand. If you have a man-size
family and want big joints or chops kill
a big one, and the reverse for a small
family, but don’t have a joint that can-
not be eaten the day it is cooked; not
only does it dry up and is unpalatable,
resulting in waste, but cooked meat kept
overlong, especially in the summer, is
more injurious than beneficial.
Land Loss.
“Jock Pick”: The city press, having
got all the sensation it could out of soil
erosion, has now given it away.
I have a folio of press clippings going
back to- 1927. The scare headlines of
today’s “Daily Yell” could have been
lifted bodily from the “Weekly Scream”
of 1929. There are the same demands for
action, the same commissions of inquiry
and soil erosion committees. And not a
ton of soil has been saved or an acre
rescued by official action in all those
years.
Some will quarrel with my estimate of
the progress that has been made, some
will construe the foregoing as an attack
upon the authorities set up to deal with
it. As to the former, consider the dust-
storms. This drought hasn’t reached record
proportions. It is the land itself that has
degenerated, because of wasteful exploita-
tion of its resources. As to the erosion
authorities, they have been so inade-
quately provided with the means and the
power to carry on that no fair-minded
man would hold them responsible for
failure. Here in S.A. one lone conservator
has been charged with the responsibility
of the whole State. This year he will
be given the assistance of three rather
junior officials. The total finance that is
available to deal with the most urgent
problem in the Commonwealth would not
reach six figures. In S.A. it does not
reach five.
The fact is that neither Governments
nor individuals have found the moral
courage to face up to this job. Soil con-
servation cannot be done without hard-
ship, and that hardship will have to be
equally apportioned between everyone
who is concerned. Governments that have
fixed rents on inflated valuations will have
to be content to accept a loss in direct
revenue. Individuals who have paid ex-
cessive prices for their land, based on
temporarily-inflated prices for their pro-
ducts, will have to be content to realise
that they have lost a proportion of their
capital investment. And, finally, financiers
who have lent money on farms and
pastoral properties will have to accept
their share of the general writing down.
To do all that would require a measure
of political fortitude that seems to have
been left out of the make-up of Australian
politicians.
Since the basic cause of erosion is over-
exploitation, the basic cure is reduced
exploitation. The pastoral industry has
made no effort to reduce stock numbers.
Despite all the publicity given to erosion
control measures and the all-too-evident
devastation, the country outside Goy-
der’s line of rainfall in S.A, has been
carrying a steadily-increasing number of
sheep ever since 1900, and the actual rate
of stocking per mile of the older-settled
country has increased rather than
diminished.
Unless we are prepared to face up to
these and similar facts and correct the
abuses, the whole of the back country
will become a desolate waste in no way
superior to the deserts of North Africa,
to which the saltbush country bears a
painful resemblance in every- significant
characteristic. If we are prepared to face
up to them, we may manage to save all
but the worst devastated regions.
Keep Phalaris Low.
“Pat Ater”: Phalaris tuberosa has been
condemned by some dairymen as being
too rank and unpalatable for pasture
grass. Like paspalum, it must be grazed
continuously and kept low, when flavor
and texture are all that can be desired.
Its main value is as winter fodder in
tableland districts, where its strong tus-
socks and prolific greenstuff fill a need.
Even in those altitudes Phalaris must be
cut and used for stored fodder if the
growth warrants it in spring and early
summer.
At Bundanoon (N.S.W.) last season on
poor soil Phalaris put up a fine perform-
ance in a winter that was mostly dry, a
few late autumn falls of rain moving the
stands into splendid growth. That pad-
dock was grazed by dairy cattle and was
top-dressed with |cwt. of super, per acre.
A few spring showers gave it enough
kick to send it into stalk and seed. It
could have been cut earlier for hay.
The late R. Mate Thomson, of Tii'mut,
used to grow his Phalaris patches on flat
land, well watered from surrounding hills,
and right through winters of exceptional
severity there was green grazing pasture.
Grown with sub.-clover on good soils
and with a 32in. rainfall, there was no
fodder problem there. Wimmera rye
helped, and later the perennial rye and
cocksfoot with red and white clover took
up the running.
Sub.-clover is the natural associate of
Phalaris where autumn and winter rains
are good. Even on the warmer coastal
dairying districts this mixture is proving
its worth. At Gerringong the Phalaris
has been productive enough to cut for
hay or silage and still provide splendid
grazing right into warm weather.
Subterranean Clover.
“Myrrhee”: Sow seed in March or
April. Break the surface soil with pas-
ture harrow, rigid-tyne or disc-cultivator.
Sow seed and manure through a drill or
broadcast it, but the drill is preferable
as it places seed and manure close to-
gether in the soil. On light soils both
operations may be done at the one time
with the combine.
When sown with oats or pasture mix-
tures mix clover seed and manure, and
half-fill the manure box to reduce the ten-
dency of the seed to separate itself from
the manure. The grass seeds or oats are
sown through the seed-box. In districts
of good rainfall it is customary to in-
crease the rate of seeding beyond the
usual 21b. per acre, sometimes from 41b.
to 61b., with a reduced sowing of peren-
nial rye grass to 101 b. or even 51b. per
acre. Mix seed and manure as required
and sow within two hours. If the super,
is quite dry little damage to the seed will
result.
Molybdenum.
“Larry”: Application of molybdenum,
usually as molybdenum trioxide, to cer-
tain S.A. soils, particularly ironstone
soils, has brought about almost unbe-
lievable changes in crops and pastures.
This is very noticeable in the Meddows
district. Officers of the Waite Institute
are conducting extensive experiments to
determine what soils are affected and to
what extent. Only a small amount of
molybdenum is needed, about loz. to the
acre. To distribute this over an acre
would be an impossible task for the
farmer, and super, companies have agreed
to mix it with their super, at an extra


EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty„Ltd.. King Street, Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei
ķ
ĸ
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant smutch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine L'>'g Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/»
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
n
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies —are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED-—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY,. LTD.,
30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR,
NAME •
ADDRESS
8N.5.44
'IV IUK I
SERIES
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
* %
• ■ ■
«:::S
-r
m
m
War
Savings
Win
Battles 1
•THIS 50 h.p. type “CK” Ronaldson-Tippett Diesel
1 Engine coupled to a marine gearbox is doing a big
job in small craft operating in the S.W. Pacific war zone.
Our reputation for dependable power units will be
greatly enhanced when the work of these small craft is
made known.
With a return to Peace we hope to place before
prospective buyers a range of engines with a back-
ground of brilliant achievements extending over 40
years.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourko Street, MELBOURNE
H.S.W. Distributors; Bonaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Bonaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Par bury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
\
\
b
%
ms, *->~rc£
3S
II
ir
z:
OSt3S&r
-
. *:
v* 'V',' ' £“<«' JijiilfgmL
Peacetime strapping
- drafted For War ..
GERHARD
MODEL
“L”
MACHINE
Our specialised service—result of long experience
in efficient packaging of all commodities—is now
almost entirely concentrated on packaging vital
war supplies.
But peace will come again, and with it, equipment
that will be as always, soundly engineered and
honestly built to carry on the Gerrard tradition
of stronger, faster and more economical
reinforcement.
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
iOOBd
SAI
SJJH
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
W\
-
J»
■
'
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT’S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
cost of about Is. 6d. a bag. Since molyb-
denum costs about 20s. per pound, the
charge is very reasonable.
Hints for the Farm
u » „„ • . , .. .
. Myrrhee': Wheat ,s a fair substitute
f" a ? a green crop It isn tas pro-
£ a .!£ doeS ? t .’“ST ■ fro ”i gr l Z i' B f£
dle same extent, but is valuable for
"‘™ a " d ™‘ er feed aad wdl pr °f‘
ha y cr °P at * e “ d ° f
S
i P ? '• lh ~r P ,, ottse *
B ra f t m * and aUo "!
ua to . make a bett .! r recovery. If two
paddocks are sown the hay crop will be
improved. Graze one paddock early and
the other later in the winter. If the crop
is to be saved for hay don’t graze it twice,
as wheat makes a poor recovery from a
second grazing.
“N.-nine”; When a horse blows badly
it suggests that the stomach is unduly
dilated, causing pressure against the
diaphragm and interfering with the
action of the lungs. Supply a more con-
centrated ration easily digested, the bulk
of the concentrates at morning and mid-
day feeds and bulk of the roughage at
the night feed. Always have ample rock-
salt available. While symptoms of blow-
ing persist give the following powder
twice daily: Powdered nux vomica Idm,
bicarbonate of soda powdered gen-
tian 2dms, powdered aniseed 2dms.
“Jesmond”; When painting a low-set
metal gate take it off and give the bottom
rail an extra coat. Moisture hangs there
long after the rest of the gate is dry, and
unless it gets extra protection rust, which
cannot be seen until it is too late, will
soon eat through the metal.
“Bumpk”: A. C. Everett, of Warrack-
nabeal (Vic,), who is a member of the
Wheat Board, has invented a delver blade
harrow attachment which fits with a
single bolt on to the back tynes of har-
rows. Made of a flat piece of 4in. iron,
it throws up a ridge of soil which is effec-
tive in conserving the soil even when the
Mallee sirocco blows. The soil on the
top of the ridges is preserved by being
blown into the furrows, and the ridges
form a bulwark against duststorms. Out-
lay is a few shillings, and a tractor can
cover 150 acres with the device in a day
at a cost of 2\d. an acre.
“Mt. White”; Run separator at speed
directed by maker to obtain the maxi-
mum skimming efficiency. The fat loss
in skim-milk is increased in proportion
to the decrease in number of proper nor-
mal revolutions. Turning at too high a
speed gives a richer testing cream, but
you will gradually injure the mechanism
of the separator.
“Hux”: Surround the bottom of the
gatepost with cement to secure it. Dig
the hole 2ft. 6in. deep and place the post
in position. Pour in ligal. of cement and
drop in a layer of stones. Repeat until
the hole’s filled. No brace is needed,
“L.C.”: Continuing the fence across
a creek may necessitate rebuilding several
rods after a flood. Stop the regular fence
at each bank, ram in a couple of extra
posts against the last posts of the main
fence, and makes these the supports for a
short fence. If heavy rain does raise the
creek to flood stage only the short fence
will need repairing.
“Bennie”: Ducks and drakes which
are to be fattened should be penned in a
small yard. Take about 9iq. of soil
from the ground at the entrance and re-
fill with stones or gravel. Ducks like to
assemble near gates during wet weather
and the stones will prevent quagmires.
“Plane Creek”: There should be an
abundance of nitrogen in North Queens-
land tomato-land, also a fair measure
of phosphoric acid and potash. All three
can be provided by ploughing in plenty
of old animal manure and ashes from
burned trees. Tomatoes are certain to
get wilt if planted in badly-drained
ground. In districts where summers .are
very wet winter planting of tomatoes
is best as long as the plants can be well
watered during the dry months. Keep
the stable manure up to them constantly ;
pick the fruit when it whitens, and they’ll
grow and bear for months.
“Sarina”: No better bait for dingoes
than a dead horse or cow. After drop-
ping the decrepit one in the bush, make
small incisions in the flesh with a sharp
knife and put as much powdered strych-
nine as will cover a threepenny bit in
each. There’ll be a wholesale slaughter
when the dogs find the ripening carcass.
All rot that dingoes won’t die from
strych. poisoning unless they can get a
skinful of water. I’ve found ’em stiff
with chewed horse-flesh still in their jaws,
and no water within two miles,
“Barolin”: Fowlpox is infectious and
spread mainly by mosquitoes, fowl ticks.
lice, flies and red mite. Best treatment
is to paint the head with 10 p.c. carbolic
acid in glycerine to repel mosquitoes and
so check spread. Canker lesions may be
carefully removed and the base painted
with tincture of iodine. Affected eyes
may be bathed in a solution of 4 p.c.
boric acid and 4 p.c. zinc sulphate.


V |
:-;-Xv
lllili |M| I Hpi
PROTECTION during Peace and War is
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE,
throughout Australia.
ECHERSLEV . SONS PTV. LID.
35-IQ3 CLARENDON ST.. STH. MELBOURNE SC.S
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
w/m
m
m
ifrusaoer
m
m
>e
v v
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINjC
SMOKE-OH!
“A barber in. Honolulu has overthrown the
tradition that barbers talk too much to their
customers.”— “World’s News.”
He cuts them all short.
4* 4* 4 1
“Laughs at Fracture.” — “Sun” heading.
Side-splitting, undoubtedly.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“She that his hobbies were riding,
golf and tennis, and that he had his own nine-
hold course.” — Tenterfield (N.S.W.) “Star. 1 ”
Where, no doubt, he wrestled with his
golfing problems.
4* 4* 4* 4*
The Difference.
I think that I shall never see
A poem like a cup of tea.
For poems with a fiery spot
Mix very well, while tea does not.
T. W. N.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Refined.
“He used to tell her to get out in such a
nice way.”
—Divorce report, “Sunday Telegraph.’'’
Reminds me of my late Uncle Arbuth-
not, ever a courteous gentleman, and my
equally gracious Aunt Matilda. J re-
member, as a boy, my first dinner with
them.
“Forgive me, my dear, if I seem
over-impulsive,” said Uncle in his cul-
tured, old-world manner, “but I cannot
possibly defer for a moment longer this
expression of my genuine feeling for
you”—and with that he crashed the roast
on her skull. “Oh, Arbuthnot, how man-
fully direct of you,” Aunt replied sweetly
when she had recovered, and then she let
him have the full gravy boat. “Touche,"
he acknowledged graciously. “And now,
if you will have the infinite patience to
bear with me a little further” —crossing
to the sideboard—“l should be delighted
to express my affection with this” —
and she caught the heavy pineapple
behind the ear.
As he gallantly helped her to her feet
he said: “Forgive me, sweet, I meant it
for your face,” Bending on him a charm-
ing smile. Aunt lifted her ankle-length
skirt and caught him a terrific kick on
the knee. With that she swept majesti-
cally out of the room, pausing for a
moment in the doorway to glance back
and say: “I shall be gone within the
hour. Take care of your asthma, Arbuth-
not, and be sure to see that Dora polishes
the silver properly.” Gallantly he
hobbled to the door and made her a
stately bow. “Good-bye, my pet,” he
croaked, tenderly nursing his throbbing
knee.
Ah, those were the days! You don’t
find many like Arbuthnot and Matilda
now —more’s the pity.
Cal.
a .j. 4. .j.
“As a boy I used to grow tulips in very
chalky soil and nsver'had one miss.
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Too keen on gardening to worry about
the girls, eh?
4* 4* ■J 1
Important.
“Three more claim gem found in fowl.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
But Hungry George, in misery,
Puts forth this worried howl:
“Forget the gem! What worries me
Is —who has claimed the fowl ?”
Eve the Orpington.
•I*
“Mrs. Welch said she believed Cuddles to
be the only singing dog in Sydney.”— “D.T.”
Chief item in his repertoire no doubt
being “The Song of the Flea.”
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Still to be won over is the tummy, however,
and on no account must this be left to sag.”
— Women’s paper.
Ip short, don’t let your figure go hang.
»!' * *
Jungle Idyll.
“An American submarine on patrol was
wooed for several days by a whale.” — “S.M.H.”
I am reminded of the experience my
Uncle Egbert had at Poona.
Uncle, who took no risks in his blood-
sports, was hunting tigers in a 1918-
model tank, which he had reconditioned
from its previous status as a local war
memorial. As he was sighting the 75mm.
gun cautiously on a small leopard his
aim was disturbed by a resounding blow
at the back of the vehicle. Glancing out
of the rear gun-slit, he saw an elephant
about as large as a medium-sized moun-
tain about to give another playful whack
with its trunk on the tank’s stern.
With his habitual resource, my uncle
instructed the tank’s mahout to go full
speed ahead, and they shot off at a full
5 m.p.h. The elephant, gambolling play-
fully and skittishly uprooting forest
giants, followed.
The mahout, after suggesting cyni-
cally that it must be something in the
diesel fuel, entered into the spirit of the
thing, and even managed to give the
elephant a playful dig in the ribs with
the forward gun. This so delighted the
love-sick pachyderm that it trumpeted
hysterically in circles until they nearly
lost it. However, an elephantine giggle
at the starboard observation slit an-
nounced that Jumbo was still on the trail,
and as the tank was beginning to shed
rivets wholesale under the buffeting, they
decided it was time to abandon ship, and
took refuge in a near-by nullah.
They were not a moment too soon.
Peering over the edge my uncle observed
the bull elephant picking bananas with an
air of elaborate unconcern, while the tank
was pounded to scrap iron by an outsize
in cow elephants. Plum.
•I*
“William , an old man charged with
obtaining money by false pretences, was
acquitted by direction of the trial Judge, who
pointed out that' accused had been clever enough
to keep on the right side of the law.”
—Court case.
You are old, Father William; your
methods are snide
When the mugs from their money you
sever;
Yet you managed to keep on the right
legal side —
What made you so lawfully clever ?
F. M.
+ 4*
Modem Fable.
“Divorce rather than marriage is becoming
the more durable institution,” says a clergyman.
Once on a time (don’t ask me when or
where,) a prince (or someone) met a
maiden fair. They clicked and clinched ;
he swore that he’d be true. Fixing her
hair, she vowed she would be, too.
They married and lived happy ever
after (I’m wounded, children, by your
doubting laughter).
P. O. M. C.
•!«
“Lost, Brooch in Bar.” —Sunday paper.
—Sunday paper.
This will surely be spotted by some-
body.
-I*
Among the Liars.
“According to the Dome! Newsagency
General Yamashita greeted the fall of Manila
with a ‘broad smile,’ saying ‘Now the enemy is
in our bosom.’ He expressed ‘complete satis-
faction’ with the way the Luzon campaign was
going.”
“Oh, boy, what a peach of a slice!”
exclaimed the golfer delightedly as the
ball screwed off the fairway back into a
reedy swamp. “Myself, I can’t understand
these Alecs who take a queer sort of
pleasure in belting the pill straight up the
fairway for 350 yards. Any idiot could
do that. But it takes a real golfer to
dribble a shot with the No. 2 a good
seven yards, or hook a drive square into
a bunker like I can. The other goats
don’t know what they’re missing. If
ever I happened to do a round under par
I’d be so ashamed I’d give my sticks
away and shot the game up.”
Interviewed after a rival beach girl had
been declared the winner of a beauty con-
test, Miss Kitty Kerr-Vayshas beamed.
“Isn’t it wonderful news! ” she said gaily.
“I really am terribly sorry for Lena
Luscious in winning it. She can never
know, poor dear, the thrill of being de-
clared a loser. I can honestly say this is
the happiest day of my life.”
On receiving a sentence of 10 years’
hard labor, Billo the Basher leaped up
and down in the dock in manifestation
of his delirious joy. “You little beaut.!”
he said to the Judge exultantly. “I
thought fer a bit y’ was goin’ to knock
me ’opes rotten be makin’ it a light
stretch. Ar, the ole double-faced
’ammer and the pile o’ blue metal for me
ev’ry time. It’s better than all y’r loafin’
on a yacht an’ soakin’ up champagne
an’ doin’ wot y’r like. If there’s one
thing I ’ate more’n another it’s bein’ able
to do wot I like. Yerronner, I’d like to
see’ em double yer screw!”
“Ladies and gentlemen,” said the
Chairman of Directors at the annual
general meeting, “I feel sure that you
will all heartily acclaim the good work
of the board in turning what threatened
to become a big profit into a handsome
loss. The board is highly gratified that
its untiring efforts on your behalf has led
to its being able to thus save the company
paying out what must otherwise have
been a very high sum in taxation. That
another company turning out the same
line of goods as ourselves has with a
smaller capital a bigger, turnover and a
large profit is something to sympathise
with. As chairman I may, with due
modesty, take a little credit for the state
of our p. and 1. account, and no doubt
shareholders will wish for a bigger and
better loss next year, with a com-
mensurate saving of an even greater sum
in taxes.”
After he had tottered to his corner at
the end of the 11th round, his second
shaking his head sadly as he observed
that his charge’s second eye was rapidly
closing, Mick Mugg jerked his thumb
toward the opposite corner, “How’s he
goin’?” he gasped.
“Fresh as a daisy,” replied his second.
“Only one more round to go an’ y’
haven’t laid a glove on him yet. Y’r both
lamps are doused, y’r got a lip like a
motherless foal, y’r conk’s roamed another
few points t’ starboard, he’s made a pie-
bald outa ya and you was down for eight
twice last round. He’s piled up more
points than a porcupine has, while you’ve
got as many to y’r credit as a billiard
ball. Why, y’U have to be led out when
the bell goes—y’ can’t see an inch in front
of y’.”
“That’s me strategy, see?” said Mick.
“‘Seein’ me gropin’ round in the centre
he’ll get dead careless, but I’ll be listenin’
hard, see? An’ me hearin’s still good.
I’ll hit ’im by ear. I’m an absoloot soda
to win. In fact, I even feel sorry to think
how the poor coot’s goin’ to thud. I’d
get y’ to hop round and get another
tenner on fer me at long odds on’y I don’t
want to bust the poor hard-workin’
books.”
80.
Week-end Sport.
“Three golfers playing on Bonnie Boon links
were struck by lightning.”— “Daily Telegraph:”
On Sunday, mornings golfers go •
To take their pleasure in the sun
All heedless of the risk they run
From casual lightning strokes, although
Since this occurred I’d like to know
What many Sabbath-breakers won-
dered,
And from how many pulpits thundered
The gloating words: “I told you so.”
It’s likely, though, when you recall
The fate, in phrases poly-hued.
Which golfers call down on the ball,
If Thor was in a yielding mood.
The searing bolt, you might conclude.
Was not designed for them at all.
P.M. Lusk.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD DESMOND KIMBALL, last heard of 1942,
or anyone else knowing his whereabouts, please
communicate with P. J. RIDGWAY, Solicitors, 379
Collins Street, Melbourne.
TO WILLIAM ROBERTSON MUIR formerly of 50
Little Page Street Albert Park in the State of Vic-
toria and South Africa Boiler Maker but now of
parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
FLORENCE ALEXANDRINA MUIR has instituted
proceedings for a divorce on the ground of desertion
UNLESS you enter an appearance in the Office of the
Prothonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at
Melbourne on or before the 14th day of March 1945
the case may proceed in your absence If you intend
to defend the suit you must also file an answer in
the said office on or before the 24th day of March
1945 AND' FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the
sealed copy petition and copy citation in the suit
may be inspected at the office of the Petitioner’s
Solicitor.—JOAN ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
ELLEN KEMPTON, formerly of Conewarre, near
Geelong, and of Melbourne, Spinster, daughter of
Elijah Kempton and Sophia Kempton, late of Cone-
warre. Last heard of about 1891. She or her next-
of-kin will hear of something to their advantage if
they communicate with the undersigned. Reward
for information.—CßAWCOUß & HOLLYHOKB,
Yarra Street, Geelong, Solicitors.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO ANTHONY MAURICE LANDAU late of
Katoomba.—TAKE NOTICE that JEAN THELMA
LANDAU has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3397
of 1943 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by 11th day of April 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from C. P. DIGRAM Solicitor
160 Castlereagh Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY’
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO CECIL JOHN GILMOUR sometimes known as
CECIL JOHN BYRNE as JOCK BYRNE and as
JOHN GILBERT BYRNE late of Cowra and of Bega.
—TAKE NOTICE that MARIONNE MARIE GIL-
MOUR has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 463 of
1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 11th day of April 1945 and obtain a copy
of the petition without charge from C. P. DIGRAM
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO CATHERINE ALEXANDRIA McLEAN SHEP-
HERD.—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERT EDWARD
SHEPHERD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4150 of 1944 alleging that you have been guilty of
desertion for three years and upwards without just
cause or excuse If you desire to defend the suit
you must enter an appearance in the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 10th April
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from JAMES E. CARRUTHERS & CO. Solicitors
of 72 Pitt Street Sydney.—(l.s.) O. K. BODY
Registrar in Divorce.
r>
'/'K
mm.
I f """" \
I i
y
\
j, ■•■■-.
%
Churchill
proved that
It takes an old dog
for a hard road
In other words, experience counts, and you get it in full
measure in Top Dog Men’s Wear! That is why it wears so
much longer, keeps its shape and smartness, and gives such
satisfactory service. In cut, fabric and finish Top Dog gives
fuller value for every shilling of its cost. So bring the day
nearer when civilian supplies will be unrestricted by investing
in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
greater
ing enjoyment
AVENA
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Rose Innis’s Beginner’s Dictionary of
Chinese-]apanese Characters and Compounds
and a Japanese-English dictionary.—3580.
The words of verses “Oh! How I Envied
McGinty” and “How the Fire-Queen Crossed
the Swamp,” and names of authors. —3581.
Copies of Bulletin from Jan.-July (inc.),
1944, and Nos. 3322 and 3323 (October), 1944.
—3582.
To buy Phantom Crown and Golden Fleece,
by Bertina Harding.—3583.
Information Sought.
(1) Details of Sqr.-Ldr. “Bluey” Truscott’s
death ? (2) Name of an Australian flyer killed
while operating off Townsville ?
(1) He crashed into sea on March 29, 1943,
off n .-w. coast, while carrying out a mock
attack on a Catalina. (2) Flt.-Lieut. Virgil Paul
Brennan.
# * * »
Some details about the Suez Canal ?
Projected in 1852 by Ferdinand de Lesseps and
completed in 1869. The total cost to time of
opening was £12,000,000. It has a length of
100 miles, width of 147ft. and depth of 30ft.
Britain in 1875 acquired shares giving her a
controlling interest, largely through the efforts
of Disraeli,
Who would win a contest between boxer and
wrestler, assuming each to be a master of his
mode of fighting?
The only important match of the sort on
record was that between wrestler Ray Steele
and boxer King Levinsky at St. Louis (U.S.A.)
on November 20, 1935. Steele pinned Levinsky
and won the match in 35 seconds.
* * * *
(1) Qualification for membership of Caucus?
(2) Is it an extra-Parliamentary body ?
(1) Membership of a Parliamentary party,
usually Labor. (2) Yes; in the sense that it has
no functions recognised by any Constitution.
♦ * * *
How to renovate a leather coat?
Remove all stains by going over entire surface
with saddle soap, wiping off soiled soap as you
go. Repeat process.
Information Supplied.
Re obtaining copy of an English will (B.
31/1/’45). If name and address of testator are
known and date of will a photographic copy
may be obtained for Is., plus Is. 6d. per folio
of the will. If a manuscript copy is required,
and particularly if the copy must be searched
for, it is best to employ a London searcher.
Usual practice is to send £1 Aust. with full
instructions as far as known. The searcher will
locate the will, make the copy and pay the
fees, charging only these fees and 2s. 6d. per
hour for the time occupied in actually copying.
Any balance will be returned. At present all
the wills have been removed from London
for safety and are not so easily accessible,
but copies can still be obtained. H. G. Rum-
StalJl in
assistance 111 such matters.
D . £ .
tSner Answers.
A.W.; Information cannot be traced
8.M.: Pronounced as spelt W.G • The ex-
pression is from Shakspeare’s “The Tempest”
and was spoken by Miranda 8.G.: The co.
mentioned was reviewed in The Bulletin of
23/2/’3B; another review will probably
appear in the “ ‘Wild Cat’ Monthly” soon.
....A.W.: An R.S.L. committee has sent pro-
posals to the Federal Government, and a dis-
cussion is to take place J.H.: Apply to
Building Publishing Cos., 20 Loftus-street, Syd-
ney H-L.: The Handbook of Horse-owners,
from D’ymock’s Bookstalls, Ltd., 12s.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
F.McC.: A harmless ditty... .A.C.F.;
that’s what drought does to you we will join
you m prayers for rain....E.8.: “To a Gum-
tree” is far too slender a sapling R.H.A.:
Borrowed from A. A. Milne Come
in and sing:
Now I’m loitering in this turbulent city
With its greed and feverish haste,
But I long to be with my mountain
Where my thoughts and emotions are chaste.
. ...E.J.T.: If you are under twelve, write of
the life you know; if over eighty, chuck it.
. ...G.S.P.’: Pretty but unreal W.P.: Nice
notion at the end of “Rain,” but you’re too
kind to your obvious faults of technique
H. :If submitted by the authpr and guaran-
teed original we’d probably publish it
A.V.8.: More amiable than publishable
I. : Try a woman’s paper J.G.S.:
“Cruel”-“stool” rhyme is exceptionally crook
.... R.M.: Padded... .8.E.: Ever tried short
stories? ... .C.P.McC.: The form deceives you
into thinking that thin, chopped-up prose is a
daring experiment in poetry C.G.W.: At
least it’s an unusually interesting elf D.V.:
A grin.


44
I
want
a good start
*9
to give her
"She is our daughter. She takes a lot of
time, attention and money, but we think
she’s marvellous. Her father is doing his
bit in this War and I haven’t seen much of
him since baby was born. But, we have
our dreams . . . and our plans.
We want to have more children and give
them every possible advantage. We want
them to have plenty of good food to
make them strong and healthy in body,
and we want them to have the best
possible education. It’s for the sake of
these children that I’m investing every-
thing I can in Victory Bonds.
It means making sacrifices, but the future
is worth it. From a really commonsense
point of view it’s much better to have
your money in War Bonds earning either
3£% for 16 years of 2|% interest for
5 years, than to let it lie in the bank or
to waste it. With the money in Victory
Bonds Fm not tempted to unnecessary
spending, though if I really need cash
for an emergency I can get it any time
I need it. 0
I want to do my share to bring an end to
this wasteful war, and I think most other
women do, too. So let’s all make it a
promise to invest in the Third Victory
Loan and put everything we’ve got into it.”
if The Third Victory Loan opens on March 13.
Start saving now for YOUR Bonds. If you have
cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and
upwards. Full loan interest is paid on advance
subscriptions from the day you lodge your money
with any bank, savings bank, or
stockbroker. Then start sav-
ing more to buy more Vic-
tory Bonds by instalments
when the Loan is open ,
Victory Bonds are issued
in denominations of £lO,
£5O, £lOO, £5OO or £l,OOO.
mmsk
mm
m
mm
/
Hi
1
:
■:
The Conversion of Skinny Malcolm
By VAL CAREW-SMYTH.
AT our school there was a boy named
Skinny Malcolm, and for some
reason the rest of us always seemed
to have it in for Skinny.
We would gang up and wait for him
after school. When he’d see us he would
start to cry, and we would all howl at
the top of our voices, mocking him, and
chase him home. Skinny always ran for
his life howling, with his schoolbag flop-
ping about on his back and his socks
hanging down over his boots.
Every evening he went to collect a
kerosene-bucket of scraps from Wilson's
boarding-house for his father’s pigs. We
kids, who lived in the township, always
caught him on the way home. We would
chase him leisurely for a bit, laughing at
the lop-sided way Skinny ran, with the
heavy bucket banging against his leg and
slopping over the sides. When he was
crying enough to satisfy us we would
put on a spurt to catch him, tip his bucket
over and pelt him with vegetable peelings
and soaked crusts. We never actually
hurt Skinny ; we just liked to scare him.
One day when Skinny went for Wil-
son’s scrans his big brother Ed waited
for us with a shotgun loaded with salt-
petre. I still have the marks on my be-
hind. After that we had it in for Skinny
more than ever.
We had a gang at school called the
Black Brotherhood. We all belonged to
it but Skinny, whom we would never
allow to join.
Podge Miller, who was the leader, said
that Skinny’s brother catching us with
the shotgun was a disgrace to the Brother-
hood, and the disgrace would not be
wiped out until Skinny'Went down on his
knees and apologised. We sent a note
to him in school one afternoon saying
if he didn’t promise to go down °n “is
knees and apologise to the Brotherhood
Podge Miller would fight him after
school.
Podge Miller sat in the back row of
the eighth grade. He was the biggest kid
in the school. We were all scared of
him, even Miss Thompson, our teacher,
Podge had a top-heavy sort of look,
He had long, thin legs that sloped out
from the knees like an inverted V, and
a tight, fat stomach. He was proud of
his stomach, and used to invite small boys
from the lower grades to punch it and see
what punishment it could take. He was
also proud of a big, brown mole on his
left cheek. It was furry, and looked like
the back of a mouse.
Podge was always threatening to lick
the living daylight out of some kid, and
none of us was ever game to take him
on. That’s why we were all so surprised
when Skinny Malcolm sent a note back
to say he would fight Podge Miller after
school.
I remember the look on Skinny’s face
when he handed the note under the desk
for me to pass on. It was a half-scared,
half-defiant look, and the freckles across
his nose stood out like splotches on a
turkey’s egg. I’ve often thought about
Skinny since, and have never been able
to understand what made him decide to
fight Podge Miller. Maybe it was some
remnant of pride we didn’t know Skinny
possessed ; or maybe his brother Ed had
threatened him with a charge of saltpetre
if he didn’t stand up for himself in future.
Anyway, it caused a stir amongst us
kids, and word spread like a grassfire on
a north-winder. Skinny Malcolm’s going
to fight Podge Miller after school! The
room buzzed like a buzz-saw until Miss
Thompson threatened us with detention if
we were not quiet.
FTGHTS were always held behind a
clump of wild boronia bushes on
a hill at the back of the schoolhouse.
When school came out that afternoon
everyone made for there.
Kids pelted along on bikes, some raced
along on foot, others rode horses. Every-
one was yelling “Come an’ see Podge
Miller fight Skinny Malcolm.” Girls
flocked along together like agitated hens.
They wouldn’t have missed it for worlds.
Podge Miller was dinkied up on some-
one’s bike. He kept beating his stomach
and giving the dingo call of the Black
Brotherhood. Skinny walked up by himself.
The kids had already formed a ring
by the time he arrived. Podge was in
the centre. He stood with his stomach
thrust out, betting any kid threepence he
couldn’t wind him. Someone grabbed
Skinny and pushed him into the ring, and
he and Podge stood looking at one another.
Skinny’s freckles seemed to be stand-
ing out blacker than ever, and he kept
wiping the back of his hand under his
nose and sniffing. Skinny had top teeth
that sat out like a front verandah. He
ran his tongue over them, moistening
them, in between sniffs.
Podge kept saying “Come on an’ fight.
Come on. Come on an’“fight.”
Skinny put his hands up and doubled
his fists. He and Podge got no closer.
Then Podge grabbed Skinny’s schoolbag
which was lying near the edge of the
ring. He tore it open and scattered books
in all directions.
Skinny broke out in big red splotches
all over his face and down his neck, made
a wild-bull rush at Podge with his head
down and butted him in the stomach.
Podge went down with Skinny on top of
him. Podge’s stomach couldn’t have been
as tough as he would have us believe.
Skinny was like a mad thing. x He was
crying, with his eyes shut and his mouth
wide open, and punching blindly into
Podge’s face. Podge was covered with
blood. He was crying louder than Skinny
and yelling “Mind me mole. You’ve
busted me mole. I’ll bleed to death.
You’ve busted me mole.”
Skinny stopped as suddenly as he had
started. He scrambled to his feet, still
crying. His eyes glared around at us
with a wild, mad look, and the splotchesj
on his face were almost purple.
“Any more of youse want to fight?” he
roared.
None of us said a word. We were
all too surprised. Skinny collected his
scattered books and stalked off.
AFTER that Podge Miller didfft go;
around inviting kids to punch him in
the stomach, and he seemed to have lost
a great deal of his hold over us. But
he was still head man in the Blade
Brotherhood. I suppose he had become
a habit. _ f
Skinny Malcolm was still not one oi
us, but his isolation was different from
what it had been before the fight. No
one waited for him when he went for
Wilson’s scraps or chased him home from
school.
To tell the truth we were all more,
scared of Skinny than we had ever been
of Podge Miller. We remembered We
mad look in his eyes, the purple splotches
and what he had done to Podge s face.
Skinny’s isolation was different, too, m
that he seemed to foster and revel in i
whereas before he had tried to break i
down. I think he liked to feel that
stood alone against the world like rse
Kelly—wild and free and an outcast.
Although none of the kids would eve
admit it, I think they were all a Utt
envious of Skinny in his new role,
know I was.
THE DEVIL AND THE ANGEL.
Chancing upon the Devil in the doorway
(We being ourselves acquainance of some stand-
ing),
The Prince of Darkness with his whips of flame
Slack and suspended idly from his arm,
Leaning against the lintel airily,
I tipped my halo in a friendly greeting.
“Sir,” I said, prudently polite, “you know my
friend
So honest, upright, jovial and kind?
Or is it, perhaps, that you mistake the
entrance?”
He smiled and I fell silent while he knocked.
“When we go in,” he said, “you think you’ll
see
A cornucopia of falling brilliance,
Light trembling from the chandelier and music,
Rustle of talk and laughter, flame on silk.
I think a shell, its hollows filled with shadows
Where spiders plot devices in the corners
And dust dries up the dregs from fallen glasses.”
We heard the footsteps, then the handle turn-
ing , f
And, like the Queen of Spam and Queen ot
France,
We bowed each other entry through the door-
way.
N.s.w.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.


LEND NOWs—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS
mvmn RELIEF
AND IMMUNISATION
FOR UP TO 2 YEARS FROM
CATARRH
INFLUENZA. HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA. ANTRUM, S SINUS TROUBLES
-
These distressing complaints are all
caused by germs in the bloodstream,
and lasting relief can only be ob-
tained by defeating thesp germs.
Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a
Vaccine which, instead of being in-
jected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth), and is
produced under Government licence
by an eminent physician. Upon
absorption into the bloodstream, Vaxos quickly sets to work
destroying the attacking germs and neutralising the poisonsj
created by them; with the result that the patient soon feels
brighter, headaches and body pains vanish, and health steadily
improves. With continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to
the disease is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for
children and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer
needlessly; obtain Vaxos from your chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe Type) Vaxos No. 3 for Boils. Pimples,
for Rheumatism, Neuritis, Sciatica, Carbuncles. Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
Myositis, Fibrositis, Lumbago and matitis. Eczema, Impetigo. Septic
Spondylitis. Sores and most Skin Infections
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
Large size (24 c.c.’s), 6 weeks’ll/ Medium size (IS c.c.’s), 3 weeks’l'WA
treatment for Chronic Cases ..Al * treatment for Acute Cases ..IA O
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to:—
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lt. Collins St., Melb., Cl
ķ
sg-
For Fast-Tempo Drama Keep Tuned To
p£tto CkefyMfy'S
“THE URGENT HANGMAN.”
9 p.m. every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
from all Major Network Stations.
1
JUqki
of£eadeuki^
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT
mass produced to microscopic precision standards
is another Pyrox “Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian
Industry*
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection
Equipment is a manufacturing achievement that
further strengthens famous, nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
BIS O
i
In all Australian Capitals, Diesel Service Depots,
under the management of Pyrox=tralned experts,
are fully equipped for testing, overhaul, repair,
general maintenance, and the supply of Injection
Spare Parts for all makes of Diesel Engines.
kW :
DIESEL
SERVICE
In SYDNEY:
PYROX PTY.
LTD.
COWS In the lane
BY BRIAN JAMES.
FATHER used to say that the cows
might as well have the* “bit of
picking” there often was in the
lanes. In late winter and spring
the trefoil, clover and crowsfoot seemed
to grow there much better than they did
in our rocky paddocks.
In any case, it meant giving our place
a rest. Some of the neighbors also
turned their cows out at times. Certainly,
the Shire Council was not in favor of
such grazing, but then, as Father used
to say, look at the rates and what do we
get for it all?
Father would mention this with what
little heat and bitterness there were in
him, as he guided the buggy through the
ruts in our lane. Legal or not, there was
Uncle Farley—and he turned out his cows
quite a deal, and Uncle Farley always
knew what he was doing. A great man
was Uncle Farley, everyone said. He
hated the Shire Council and its ways, and
he had even bigger ruts in his lane than
we had in ours.
After morning milking the cows
gathered at the rails. They always knew
somehow when they were to go into the
lane. When the rails were lowered Lily,
in her easy fashion of leadership, would
w T alk through and the rest would follow.
There was a very strict etiquette about
it, and no cow would dream of going out
of turn. So Grut and Poley were always
last. Lily then decided whether they
would go up the lane or down.
After a long browsing round the cows
would be back at the sliprails for the
evening milking. It was a convenient
arrangement, and any uneasiness about
it was soon set to rest by the thought of
the high rates and the ruts in our lane,
Uncle Farley and the ruts in his lane.
And if people only had kept their
road fences in proper repair there would
have been no worry at all.
These fences were a worry sometimes.
When the cows did not return in good
time in the afternoon we knew the
fences were to blame. Then it was a
matter of grave concern whose place they
were in. Father used to say that, strictly
speaking, the cows were not altogether
to blame. That was a precise way Father
had.
Then he’d send us to find them, not
such an easy task since we had taken
the bell off Lily. At least Father took
it off because Mrs. Wicks complained
that it “inflamed her neuralgia something
awful.” We could never understand how
the rather pleasant donging of the bell
could affect this mysterious ailment,* but
no doubt there was something in it, and
the cows often did feed in front of Mrs.
Wicks’s place. Anyway, Father wouldn’t
think of adding to anyone’s distress.
If the cows were in Ryan’s place
we’d be scared of their falling down the
diggers’ holes, and of the risks and labors
of getting them out safely. Ryan’s place
was just pitted with dangerous holes, and
they lost most of their cows down them.
The Ryans were always as anxious as
we were that our cows were driven safely
off. Then Mr. Ryan, or Jack, would
mend the broken fence with a bit of
rusty wire from somewhere, and would
reckon “the whole fence wanted doing
up.”
If it were Mrs. Bolton’s place the
matter was serious. She would have the
cows yarded or cornered, and would be
addressing them in such terms as even
cows understood. She knew a lot about
the law, it was said, and on these occa-
sions she was fierce and nasty, as well as
legal. She mentioned such matters as
damages, rights, wrongs and poundage.
We just listened, fearfully, even though
our people were made to appear in a
most unfavorable light. It was a great
relief when she reached “for the last
time, remember!” Then we drove the
cows out, and left her arguing savagely
with herself. She used to talk to her-
self, and to imaginary victims when there
was no one else to talk to, which was
very often. When we told Father he
was not nearly as upset ,as he should
have been.
On a few occasions our cows and Mul-
ligan’s bull meant interviews with Mr.
Mulligan. These talks were not pleasant,
but interesting none-the-less.
Mr, Mulligan had a medium-length
white beard, and a defective palate that
made his beard waggle delightfully over
many of his words. He blamed our cows
for the straying of his bull, who, it
would seem, was a creature of singular
innocence and virtue. We became quite
ashamed of our cows for being what they
were. But we were fascinated too by the
movements of the beard as Mr. Mulli-
gan accused our cows of sending his
“p-hoor bl-hoody b-hull madt.”'
Then Mr. Mulligan would belt his
horse over the rump with a considerable
gum sapling, and creak and rattle off in
his spring dray. He always went in
the spring dray to search for his bull. We
went the opposite way, and- we never
found the bull with our cows, so Mr.
Mulligan might have been libelling them.
How he got the bull home with a spring
dray was a mystery.
THE worse of all the sins done by the
cows was their getting into Billy
Rosen’s wheat.
Billy was already there when we
arrived, and was giving the cows so
many excited and confused orders that
their bewilderment could easily be under-
stoqd.
Then he said “Hitch ’em” to Blue
Speck. Blue had very vague notions as
to the higher duties of cattle-dogs. He
“hitched ’em” ah right—at a smart gallop
in the wrong direction. The trampling
of the wheat was sad to see.
As Blue Speck and Grut passed by Billy
threw a large clod which took neither,
but made both increase their speed
greatly. Grut lifted her tail high, and
bellowed to show that she considered it
terrifying and exdting. The other cows
did the same.
Adolf Himmelman came to lend a
hand, and surveyed the excitement with
a detached sort of interest. Then he
decided that little could be dope with
cows in that frame of mind. Billy, how-
ever, ran after Blue Speck and yelled
things to him that should have made a
much less sensitive dog wince. But Blue
Speck evidently thought it was applause,
and almost redoubled his mistaken efforts.
He was really a vain dog.
Old Jim Bower, Windy Holt and Abe
Newton rushed down from the house as
reinforcements. Only Abe was of any
use. Old Jim was too upset to do any-
thing but moan. “Loo-ook at the bloody
crop! ”
Abe picked up a stone as big as his
two fists and placed himself strategically.
When Blue Speck and Grut next passed
that way he let fly, and bowled Blue Speck
over. Blue Speck howled miserably, and
Abe gloated over his good shot. Then
lie called on all to drive the cows to the
creek fence and get them off that way.
“Cows is like that,” said Abe. “They
always want to go the other way.” The
tactics were sound.
On the way Abe spoke to the cows
individually—and only cows guilty of the
gravest transgression should be spoken
to as Abe spoke to them. They seemed
quite glad to go through the creek fence
and on to the lane the other side.
Billy Rosen hobbled along—gesticulat-
ing and voluble. No one took particular
notice. We tried to tell him —brokenly—
how sorry we were. Then Billy became
distressed at our distress and apologetic
for anything he might have said. But
that was Billy all over —heart of gold and
a neighbor in a thousand. He reckoned
a “bit of stirring up did any wheat crop
good—that is, at this time of year, any-
way.”
We hoped he meant it, and that he was
right.
As we hurried the cows along the last
sounds were of Adolf Himmelman and
Abe Newton. They were in high converse
on what Adolf descriped as the “legal
aspect.”
Father went over to see Billy, but Billy
got quite excited, and said he “wouldn’t
hear of it, and the crop was all the better
for it.” But we felt guilty, nevertheless.
In a way it really ended putting the
cows on the lane. Shortly after that, too.
Uncle Farley was elected Shire Coun-
cillor, and his whole outlook was changed.
Also, the ruts in his lane were filled, and
a nice piece of macadam took their place.
He now viewed straying stock in a public-
spirited sort of way, and had a word with
Father about it —“just privately, for your
own good, you know.”
So the cows stayed in the paddocks.
It might welljbe said that an exciting
phase of their lives was over.


All Men Think
All Men Mortal
But Themselves 99
And that is why so many other-
wise careful and provident heads
of families neglect the most
sacred duty they owe to those
dependent upon them.
That is to ensure by the careful drawing
of a Will that the provision made for
those who follow on passes to them
without loss or inconvenience.
Your wife and family are dependent
on you now ; they will be much more
dependent when you are gone. Now
they have your counsel and support;
what they will have when you are gone
will depend very largely on what you
do before you go.
So, remember that you, too, are mortal.
Have your Will properly drawn and
attested, and be sure you leave the
administration of it in good and
experienced hands.
The Trustee Company—such as the
old-established Union Trustee—is the
ideal executor. It possesses experience
and business judgment. It is com-
pletely impartial ; it does not grow old
or die ; its charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
T. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager ; Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larntt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon, Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); T. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, m.c., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.x.A., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., k.a.is,
TOWNSVILLE. 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors: C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
TiJT'r
'Vi
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers;
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
the WILD CAT
COLUMN
Westrahan Farmers, Ltd.
July. Loss. Dividends. safest fidt.
£ £ £ £
lilt'.’. 126 Nil 50’,i9'7
Profit.
Ss?:: 3 969 NU SoeS
1938.. 36,536 Nil 36,536 8,528
1939.. 6,522 Nil 6 ’ s22 Reservesf
1940.. 34,652 5 p.c. = 10,739 23,913 21,907
1941.. 50,853 5„ „ 10,774 40,079 61,986
Milk rounds written off, £10,025 .. 51,961
1942.. 41,130 s p.c. = 10,803 30,327 82,288
1943.. 18,212 4 „ „ 8,654 9,558 91,840
ssr r P Tt f "«»r 11 738 Z'l st
Rebate bonus, £5985 ’ ’
Activities of this big semi-co-operative
selling organisation cover all the most
important branches of primary produc-
tion in its home State, as well as manufac-
ture of stock and poultry foods and dehy-
dration of fruit, and include merchanis-
ing, insurance and other services, too. To
get the business into perspective it is
necessary to remember that it ran into
trouble at the beginning of the 1930’5,
because it had borrowed heavily to lend
to wheat-farmers before the big break
in the markets. For the next decade sur-
plus earnings were swallowed in wiping
out bad debts and in repayment of
money borrowed.
By the time war arrived the deadwood
had been pruned out of the accounts,
Hence the better showing over the last
five years, despite the fact that war
bumped up costs, deprived the co. of its
chartering business and the profits that
went with it and reduced turnover in the
merchandise, agricultural machinery,
motor-agency and liquid fuel sections.
Also, Government acquisition and
marketing of many primary products dis-
placed some of the co.’s services and
affected earnings from others.
In October, 1943, the working agree-
ment with Co-op Bulk Handling—formed
in conjunction with the trustees of the
Westrahan wheat pool in 1933—ran out,
and the undertaking was handed over to
the toll payers. The co., however, main-
tains its connection with grain as paying
and shipping agent for the wheat board
and as sole receiver in the State for
bagged wheat, which accounts for about
2 p.c. of deliveries. Last term the egg
section of the business passed to Govern-
ment control, but the co. continues to act
as receiving and distributing agent, as it
does also for its wool, barley, potato,
dried fruit and jute clients.
To relieve the serious position that has
developed owing to shortage of wheat in
Australia, the Federal Government has
abandoned its wheat planting quota re-
strictions for 1945-46 and lifted the
guaranteed price to 4s. 3d. a bushel
bagged at sidings. The shortage is the
result of the Government’s stabilisation
and restriction scheme —under which
growers were paid 4s. l|d. a bushel up
to 3000 bushels and a much reduced rate
on all grain produced beyond that limit
—combined with drought in the eastern
and southern States, shortage of super-
phosphate, machinery and man-power.
What result the lifting of restrictions,
etc., will have remains to be seen. It will
depend largely upon seasonal conditions
and will not be apparent for another 12
months. Current Westralian crop is
officially estimated at 15| million bushels,
or over a million bushels more than last
season’s.
Last term the co. handled more wool,
livestock and skins, and, owing to short-
age of materials, the factory set up about
three years ago to turn out stock and
poultry foods was unable to cope with
demand, and buildings and plant are to
be extended. So is the co.’s James-street
garage, which handles International trucks
under lend-lease. The Pascomi milk
business continues to expand, and “some
capital expenditure is being incurred to
increase efficiency and cope with grow-
ing demand.” The new dehydration plant
at Bridgetown worked to capacity, and
turned out 110 tons of dried apples.
Bigger turnover was also recorded in the
machinery department, and in the co-op.
wholesale section, which supplies country
co-op. stores. And more business was
written in the Insurance department.
Altogether gross earnings (£234,049)
were £19,134 lighter. Exes. (£209,715)
were got back £15,892. After allowing
for reserve adjustments, the net result
was £BlBO stronger at £26,392, equal to
•12.1 p.c. on capital. The div. was kept
at 4 p.c., and clients, who are mostly
shareholders, got £5985 in bonus rebates.
Another £6OOO earmarked for the same
purpose at the close of accounts in 1943
went out last month. They are the first
rebates paid since 1929. A decade ago
nearly a quarter of the capital was un-
represented by tangibles, now share-
holders’ funds equal 295. per pound o
paid capital.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
iqqa 1941. 1943* 1944.
Paid capital.. £213,978 £214,730 £210,357 £216,727
Debentures .. 124,371 117,256 66,051 oia’7s9
Sundry creditors 672,991 290,823 244,873 318,759
Tax provision.. 97,680 12,000 14,000
Freeholds, etc. 118,188 123,092 134,628 142,788
Plant, etc. .. 43,512 48,044 55,861 50,441
Shares in other „ . , ..
cos. .. 87,037 42,134 32,546 34,144
Loans .. 35,613
Stocks .. 122,432 118,749 112,876 151,327
Debtors .. 630,564 286,269 212,398 239,500
Cash, etc. .. 13,807 114,607 91,651 103,192
When the books closed more* or less
liquids exceeded the amount coming to
outsiders by £129,750, up £3203 over the
twelvemonth. As war-time shortages of
agricultural products become less acute
and surpluses begin to appear there will
be less of a seller’s market for these
staples and a stronger call from clients
for assistance.
Squatting Investment Co. (Melb.)
Towards
Dec., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £
1934 .. 23,843 Nil 23,843 81,648
1935 .. 24,224 3.3 p.c. = 8,111 16,113 65,635
1936 . . 44,680 10 „ „ 24,333 20,347 45,188
1937 . . 45,512 11.6 „ ~ 28,389 17,123 28,065
1938 •. 3,089 Nil 3,089 24,976
1939 .. 29,698 10 p.c. = 24,334 5,364 19,612
1940 .. 23,854 8$ „ „ 20,278 3,576 16,037
1941 .. 17,011 3J „ „ 8,111 8,900 7,137
Reserves.
1942 .. 24,722 6$ „ „ 16,222 8,500 1,363
1943 .. 25,318 10 „ „ 24,334 984 2,347
1944 .. 14,803 3.3 „ „ 8,111 6,692 9,039
Squatting outback in N. S. Wales and
over the border in Queensland, where
this co. has been a run-owner for the last
63 years, is a precarious business. The
big gamble is with Nature and prices.
When rainfall becomes scanty, and the
hot sun dries up the watercourses and
leaves the runs bare, the inevitable mor-
tality of livestock, cost of hand-feeding
and adjustment and poor condition of
surviving stock bite deeply into takings,
and sometimes into savings and capital,
too, and cause owners to go into debt
as well.
Since the outbreak of war the
British wool contract (it is for the dura-
tion and one year after the struggle with
Japan and/or Germany ends) has elimi-
nated risks so far as price of the staple
is concerned —a flat rate of 13.4 d. per
pound was paid until mid-1942, when
the figure was lifted to 15.4 d. to help
offset rising costs. Also, the British meat
contract, which runs until the end of Sep-
tember, 1948, together with service re-
quirements for Allied forces in the s.-w.
Pacific, has been very helpful in main-
taining livestock prices at satisfactory
figures.
Last term drought prevailed most of
the time, except at Tondeburine (30,230
acres freehold, near Gulargambone,
N.S.W.), where conditions have been
fairly satisfactory since the co. bought
the property in 1940. Rainfall in inches
on the co.’s three properties over the last
five years has been as follows:- —
1940. 1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Thurulgoona .. 5.48 12.70 17.37 6.86 5.80
Quantambone .. 7.95 13.69 19.93 11.24 5.76
Tondeburine .. 9.19 17.31 20.26 19.95 10.39
Seasonal conditions on Thurulgoona and
Quantambone have steadily worsened
over the last two years. Last year the
co. marked altogether only 9325 lambs
as against 41,988 during the previous
term, while 17,078 sheep (9051 in 1943)
were struck off for mortality and a
further 55,615 (35,869 in 1943) had to be
sold because of temporarily reduced
carrying capacity of the properties.
Nor is that all, as a consideration of
the next table will show:
t Sheep x
On Books Wool, Pro- Average
Shorn. Dec. 31. Bales, ceeds. per Bale.
1936.. 131,167 160,344 3912 76,769 £l9/12/5
1937.. 116,696 104,589 3520 67,198 19/1/9
1938.. 74,505 98,618 1842 25,455 13/16/5
1939.. 95,212 125,508 2958 48,381 16/7/1
1940.. 111,120 102,310 3532 56,951 16/2/6
1941 98,807 131,479 2894 50,259 17/7/10
1942.. 123,272 148,565 2946 62,587 21/4/10
1943.. 132,494 145,964 3919 80,750 20/12/0
1944.. 91,493 82,771 2296 48,671 21/4/0
During the year 41,001 fewer sheep were
shorn, the clip was 1623 bales lighter.
and there was a contraction of £32,079 in
proceeds. Also, there were 63,193 fewer
sheep on the runs at the end of 1944
than there were a year earlier. Gross
earnings from all sources (£70,093) were
down £26,637. Including provision for
taxation (£9532, down £16,654), exes.
(£55,290) were £16,122 lighter. That left
the net result £10,515 short of the previ-
ous year’s at 6 p.c. on capital, as against
10.4 p.c. for 1943. The div. was lowered
from 10 p.c. to 3.3 p.c., making the aver-
age over the last decade 6.6 p.c.
It needs to be remembered that the
bad behavior of Nature and an anaemic
wool market left the co. with a hobbling
capital deficiency of £112,692 in 1930.
It has been an arduous 15-year job to
wipe it out, pay a moderate average rate
of div. and accumulate a modest £9039
of reserves.
When the books closed leaseholds
figured at £64,401 and freeholds at
£126,614:
1941. 1942 1943. 1944.
Capital .. £243,338 £243,338 £243,338 £243,338
Liabilities .. 42,13 1 31,13 5 25,992 19,407
Tax reserve .. 8,5 00 10,00 0 26,500 13,500
Stations, plant,
etc. .. 213,590 208,502 202,515 198,046
Sheep, cattle,
horses .. 62,630 64,761 52,49 8 83,431
Wool unsold.. 105 597 1 3,916 274
Cash, etc. .. 10,5 0 7 28,198 4 5,470 61,643
Sale of livestock, etc., enabled the co.
to meet a reduction of £13,000 in tax
reserve and strengthen cash, etc., by
£16,173. The strain on cash will largely
depend upon when the drought breaks.
And after the war there will be much
deferred maintenance and improvement
of properties to be made good.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividend. serves. Reserves,
£ £ £ £
1934.. 3,054 2} p.c. = 4,813 51,093
1935.. 9,944 5 „ „ 9,626 318 51,411
1936.. 9,188 5 „ „ 9,626 50,973
1937. . 13,690 6i „ „ 12,033 1657 52,630
1938.. 11,887 6i „ „ 12,033 52,484
1939.. 15,669 „ „ 14,440 1229 53,713
1940.. 14,479 „ „ 14,43 9 4 0 63,763
1941.. 11,819 6i „ „ 12,033 53,540
Loss.
1942.. 628 Nil 52,912
1943.. 6,519 Nil 46,393
Profit.
1944.. 8,032 2j p.c. = 4,813 3220 49,612
The collapse of earnings is due to the
almost complete cessation of building,
brought about by Government restric-
tions aimed at strangling speculation and
channelling available funds and man-
power into the war effort. New
buildings or alterations costing more than
£5OOO came under Treasury control at
the end of 1940. Control, which became
progressively more stringent, passed to
W. 0.1. in June, 1942. After that only
alterations costing less than £25 could be
made without authority.
The next table illustrates what hap-
pened—it shows average monthly value
of private building permits issued by
local-government bodies in the Victorian
metropolis:
1935-36 .. £597,000 1940-41 .. £865,000
193 7-38 .. 669,000 1941-42 .. 343,000
1938- .. 702,000 1942-43 .. 77,000
1939- .. 774,000 1943-44 .. 86,000
About the only other demand left for
this and some 13 other Melbourne brick-
makers has been that for which Govern-
ment and A.R.P. bodies didn’t require
cement. At the same time wage, material
and all other costs, including taxation,
advanced at the double.
Hence the losses shown by this co. in
1942 and 1943. Besides making bricks
it also turns out stoneware pipes, sanitary
fittings and other forms of pottery, while
shareholdings in brick-and-tile concerns at
Auburn, Oakleigh and Blackburn pro-
vide an interest in the trade south of the
Yarra. Conditions improved a little last
term, owing to erection of dwellings under
the Government housing scheme, and a
profit of £8032, or 4.1 p.c. on capital, was
recorded. Shareholders were handed h
p.c.; they went hungry for the two pre-
ceding terms, and received an average or
6.75 p.c. for the five years before that.
Satisfactory returns on capital need not
be looked for until present official taboos
on new buildings are removed and a start


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. C. Alder, A.1.A.,
General Manager.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAASEASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
k
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
■ Has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National” Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
Suth entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
--- ; SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Mode in England
?*\<*
'h.
'o
<0
y FIXED PRICES
' Supreme .. 16/5
Diploma .. 18/11
Autoflow .. 26/3
I4ct. solid gold nib,
iridium pointed
XMJ
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassei and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Conimonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * «
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
Public Notice.
I ALFREDO DESPAS, of Italian nationality, born
at Rome, Italy, and resident 12 years in Australia,
now residing at Hawkesbury Road, Springwood,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
■ r
-Hr
iSI
f'r* J =S
Wy* - ■ >■**
The "MARS”
Plain MILLER
A Sturdy Machine of Great Accuracy,
Maximum Output and High Quality
Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne; New Zealand: A. M.
Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christchurch. Stockists: Goodall & 00. Pty. Ltd.,
301 Kent Street, Sydney.
SECDETADIAL
SCHOOL
A competent private secretary to a businessman must have more than the high skill in stenography and
typing that she acquires at the Macquarie Secretarial School. She must have the tact, judgment A
initiative and understanding of the problems of the day, in which Macquarie students are also trained.
The Principal (Miss D. Chapman ) may be interviewed by appointment.
149 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY MA5644
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BUY WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
INVEST IN WAR BONDS
“Our co-operation
keeps ’em
rolling .
says Leo Devine
Production Superintendent
\
■ ■ <S
“In Richards, we’re turning
out all kinds of munitions, from half-ounce parts to
three-ton truck bodies, practically under one roof, it’s
our job in the office to co-ordinate, what amounts to
many factories, into one smooth-working unit —to make
one family of a whole township’s population with a hundred
different jobs to do. We aim at high production now to
bring speedier victory —and, when peace frees us, to
provide the work and the amenities
that will ensure a high living standard <
for all.”
RICHARDS INDUSTRIES LIMITED
R. & mc. mmnwwnmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmßmammmm
made to overtake the acute lag in home-
construction, etc., which is one of the
most, if not the most, important of early
post-war jobs. It has been estimated that
tasks involving about £19,000,000 a year
face Victorian builders for several years
after the war. That is about double the
previous peak, and does not include
public works. What profits are likely to
be won by the various sections of the
industry will depend largely upon the
level of costs and the nature and extent
of Government interference.
Supplies of essential raw materials for
building seem likely to remain subject to
some control, for a while at any rate,
because of the need for priority of essen-
tial over less urgent demands. Some
form of control over prices for the said
materials might also continue, in order
to avoid inflation of building costs. In-
flation here would tend to bump up rents
and wages, and to stiffen the price of
commodities generally.
There is nothing to worry about in the
co.’s finances: —■
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities . . 11,222 7,199 3,906 8,585
Freeholds . . 77,721 78,014 73,290 73,280
Plant, etc. . . 61,272 55,162 55,602 55,359
Stock . . 26,412 27,194 24,942 25,453
Shares other cos. 44,321 44,946 44,946 44,946
Book debts . . 21,834 16,114 10,527 7,942
Cash, etc. . . 35,974 31,613 33,924 44,050
Last year’s surplus earnings, together
with a reduction of £2585 in debtors’
balances, enabled cash, etc., to be
strengthened by £10,126. The improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£118,606) was £8172.
Zinc Corporation, Ltd.
After alterations and adjustments, the
scheme for recapitalisation of the under-
taking received the blessing of the British
Association of Investment Trusts and
approval of the appropriate Government
authority. Now shareholders are asked
to put the final seal on the board’s pro-
posals. Paid capital stands at £572,261 in
245,692 £1 cumulative participating prefs.
and 653,139 ords. of 10s. each. Prefs.
are entitled to a cumulative div. of 20
p.c. p.a., after which all shares rank alike
for distribution of further profits.
It is now proposed to offer for cash
to those on the register (prefs. and ords.
alike) 224,708 new £1 ords. at a premium
of 20s. each, one for every four old shares
held. Then each existing pref. share is
to be exchanged for new scrip with an
aggregate face value of £4, made up of
one and a half p.c. cumulative redeem-
able prefs., one and a half 5| p.c. cumu-
lative prefs. and one ord., all of £1 each.
It is also proposed to convert existing
10s. ords. into £1 ords. as soon as
circumstances are considered propitious.
The pref. conversion and capitalisation
on account of the ords. together will involve
the issue of additional scrip with an aggre-
gate face value of £1,063,645. To do this
the value of the mine is to be written
up from £355,393 to £1,419,039 in the
books. Of the difference, £326,570 is to
be reserved for capitalisation later on
ord. account. When all the money from
the new cash issue is in and the pref.
conversion complete, paid capital will be
£1,534,045 in 737,076 5£ p.c. cum. prefs..
of which half will be redeemable, and
the balance ords. And reserves will bene-
fit by £224,708 of share premiums.
On that lot the pref. div., plus. 20 p.c.
of the ords., will call for £199,933 p.a.
For the five years to the end of 1943
declared profits averaged £122,497, and
the prefs. and ords. received divs. averag-
ing 31.5 p.c. and 23 p.c. respectively For
the five years before that profits aver-
aged £309,652, and pref. and ord. divs.
43.5 p.c. and 47 p.c. respectively, while
the price of lead fluctuated between £36
7s. 6d. and £lO Is, 3d. per ton, average
£l7 4s. lOd. Since war began the price
of lead has been pegged at £22 in Aus-
tralia and at £25 stg. London. Reduc-
tion of throughput, owing to shortage of
labor, has bumped up unit costs, and so
has lifts in taxation, wages and the price
of materials. As for the future, earnings
will depend largely upon the level of
metal prices and costs, and nobody can
say what they are likely to be until a lot
more is known about what the Govern-
ments intends to do in the way of con-
tinued controls.
At the end of 1943 ore reserves were
put at just under 4,000,000 tons, and
there is a lot more pay-ore outside meas-
ured limits. The Corp. is g.m. (for 20
years from July 8, 1936) for the adjoin-
ing New Broken Hill Consolidated, and
owns approx. 30 p.c. of its £507,884 of
paid capital. According to Consolidated’s
own chairman, the co. has “the makings
of a mine which may one day equal in
size that of Zinc Corp.” Ore from both
mines is to be hauled through the Corp.’s
new Freeman shaft and treated at the
Corp’s new mill. Capacity is in excess
of 750,000 tons p.a., but treatment of
more than 450,000 tons annually will be
subject to market and other conditions.
Consolidated’s property is still in the de-
velopment stage, and not much progress
need be expected in this direction until
war conditions permit removal of present
restrictions in connection with man-
power and equipment.
N. S. Wales Minister for Mines has
refused to grant dredging leases over
areas embracing Adelong Creek until
after the war. Meanwhile, he proposed
to investigate the claims of all whose
applications have been turned down.
Among these is Alluvial Gold, which, in
conjunction with Victorian interests,
asked for gold-dredging leases over
approx. 1100 acres in this area. Allu-
vial’s assets consist of shares in Gold
Mines of Papua (Misima Island), Allu-
vial Gold Oceania (New Guinea) and
Taranakau Gold Dredging (M.L.), and
£30,888 in cash, etc. Equipment of the
property of the last-named co. has been
postponed until after the war.
* * * *
Dividends paid by Westralian gold-
mining cos. in 1944 totalled just on
£BOO,OOO as against £597,000 in 1943.
Kalgoorlie’s seven Golden Milers distri-
buted the bulk in both years.
* * * *
Westralia’s coal production increased
by 28,000 tons, reaching 558,322 tons, in
1944. Best month was July, when 50,801
tons were mined. Biggest producer was
Collie Pty. with 143,000 tons. About
800 men are employed in the industry.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
MacArthur's Crowded Hours.
“Ek Dum”: Manila and its surround-
ings have gradually been cleaned up.
By the week-end Manila Bay was open,
or about to be opened, and most of its
shores were in American hands.
Cavite had been taken. The U.S.
XI Corps made its way down the Bataan
Peninsula without meeting anything like
the opposition which the Japanese en-
countered “in the foxholes of Bataan.”
On February 15 its advance guards
looked across the narrow strait which
separates the peninsula from the tad-
pole-like island of Corregidor.
Within 24 hours of the fall of the
historic area, after a long and intensive
naval and air bombardment of Corregi-
dor, the island fortress was rushed
simultaneously by paratroops, landing
on the easier inland end, and by land-
ing parties who hurled themselves across
the narrow strait from Bataan. What-
ever garrison there was seemed demora-
lised, and made little resistance. The only
enemies on the island on February 17
seemed to be a few miserable remnants
hiding in the honeycomb of tunnels inside
Fort Mills, where Wainwright and his
men held out to the last in March, 1942.
In Manila itself the clearing up of the
city continued. It was no easy or
pleasant task. Here, though not in Cavite
or Bataan, the Japanese resisted bitterly.
The commercial centre of the town had a
mined area three-quarters of a mile long
and nearly as broad. The General Hos-
pital had been fortified. The attack on
the old walled city (Intramuros) had
been hampered by the presence within
it of large bodies of civilians, who would
be destroyed with it if it were bombed
out of existence.
Major-General Griswold, ip charge
of the XIV Corps operations, which
had been pushing the remnants of the
enemy street by street from the area,
issued a final ultimatum offering honor-
able surrender terms, at the same time
asking the Japanese commander to free
the civilians. Presently “thousands of
civilians streamed into the American
lines,” but a later report said there were
still many in the walled city.
Though Manila Bay has been liber-
ated, it will be some time before it will
be fit for full use by Allied shipping.
The main channels will have to be sur-
veyed and cleared of mines—if any—
and obstructions, which include a large
number of blackened hulks sent to the
bottom in the various raids on the port.
The next phase will be the wiping out
of the enemy in the north and extreme
south-east of the island —he still holds
the whole northern mountain area and
the fertile “tail” in the south-east. The
operation should provide valuable infor-
mation about his future strategy.
Tokyo alleged that Jap submarines on*
February 18 sank a large U.S. aircraft-
carrier, a cruiser and a destroyer in
Lingayen Gulf and a cruiser and another
warship off Corregidor.
Tokyo and Iwojima
Iwojima, 750 miles south of Tokyo,
has been under constant air assault
for nearly three months. While it
was being blasted in a three-day bom-
bardment by 30 naval craft, which in-
cluded battleships, with help from the
upper air, Tokyo declared that three U.S.
attempts at landing on the island had
failed. There were the usual fanciful
Tokyo additions: 23 American ships lost
or damaged, among them a battleship,
four cruisers and four transports and
some small ships.
The island is an old volcano, much
eroded round the coasts, and with only
three possible landing points. After the
blasting had continued for three days a
U.S. Army Air Force spokesman pointed
out that possession of the island would
make regular fighter attacks on Tokyo
possible. Chichijima, further north in
the Bonins, also was attacked.
While these operations were beginning
829 s hit hard at Nagoya, wreaking con-
siderable destruction and drawing off
fighters from other areas. As smoke still
swirled round the Mitsubishi factory on
Nagoya’s fringe, Tokyo announced that
for nine hours the capital had been under
raid by machines from an American task
force standing off the coast. It was said
that the attack by the first waves had
mainly been directed against aerodromes
from which interceptors previously had
attacked raiding 8295, and that this opera-
tion was apparently preliminary to the
second attack on military installations.
The fleet was described as spread out
over a line 200 miles long about 300 miles
from the coast, and it was said that it
included a score of carriers, some of
which were British. The attacks were
mainly concentrated round Tokyo’s bay
suburbs, and Yokohama and the Yuko-
suka base near the mouth of the bay.
Further attacks were reported from
Tokyo on Saturday, when it was de-
clared that another 600 aircraft had
been involved, apart from 200 machines
from carriers which were striking at
Hachijo Island, in the Izu group, off the
mouth of Tokyo Bay. After that, it was
alleged that the fleet had “retreated
south” after losing nearly 200 aircraft.
Admiral Nimitz’s reports referred only
to “heavy” damage to the Iwojima de-
fences and to the sinking of ships and
barges off Chichi. The fleet was no
doubt praying for the intrusion of a fat
Japanese squadron anxious for a fight.
On Australian Territory.
“Ek Dum”: Operations in Mandated
areas were limited to the normal mono-
tonous jungle-trail and ridge-cap battles
in dank forest and swamp.
Those in the Aitape area of New
Guinea, in the labyrinthine trails behind
the Torricellis, brought the enemy’s losses
to 1400, including 1200 killed, since the
Australians took over, and 10,458 killed
and 200 prisoners since April 23, 1944.
In Bougainville the Australians con-
tinued to carve their way both north and
south along the west coast. Every
yard calls for caution, and progress is
slow and difficult, though as yet there are
no signs of a major battle being fought.
A few Japs were met on New Britain,
and the first Australian soldier was re-
ported killed in current fighting there.
In the Halmaheras 200 Kittyhawks
and Beaus of the R.A.A.F. carried
through one of the largest operations
which has fallen to Australian squadrons
in the Pacific —five days of raids, during
which the base of Tomohon in the Celebes,
which apparently housed two regiments
with all equipment and stores for a long
stay, was made to look like a dissipated
colander.
The Growth of Sea Power.
“Ek Dum”: The arrival contem-
poraneously of Admiral Mitscher’s bom-
bardment force off Tokyo Bay—the
greatest carrier armada with the greatest
heavy support ever seen in one spot —
and of Vice-Admiral Spruance’s task
force off Iwojima, in the Volcano Islands,
750 miles to the south, advertises both
the astonishing nature of the growth of
the Allied effort in the Pacific and
much the war against Japan is a naval
war.
Though the land fighting has been
strikingly successful, it has rarely passed
the magnitude of single-division combat
and it is so far accessory to naval opera-
tions.
Never has the naval ship been so highly
in repute as an engine of war. A fashion-
able cry in pre-war days was that navies
were “done” and that air power would
soon replace them. Mr. Curtin pointed
out that 300 aircraft, which he deemed
sufficient for the defence of Australia,
could be bought for the price of a battle-
ship!
Fortunately, the Board of Admiralty
and the British Government had no such
delusions. It was realised at the Admir-
alty that, while air power would change
sea warfare, it would do so rather
through the power of reconnaissance than
through striking power. The aircraft-
carrier was accepted as just another gun
platform able to throw missiles further
than the big guns of battleships, but per-
haps a temporary expedient which a de-
cade or two might displace. Already the
rocket and the flying-bomb seem to offer
a prospect of considerable extension of
the range of ship fire.
The battleship, instead of going to the
junk heap, has become an even more
powerful weapon than before. The use-
fulness of the fast, hard-hitting cruiser
and destroyer has been increased by the
gift of sight from the air and through
radar.
The basis of the lessons which have
given the Pacific war its shape has come
from the Royal Navy. The Royal Navy
evolved most of its primary techniques,
with the advantage of a monopoly of
advanced R.D. and operational control of
the Coastal Command, plus the impetus
imparted to its efforts by problems aris-
ing out of the German choice of the
mid-Atlantic and outlying routes as the
main venue of U-boat campaigns, and by
bitter experiences under land attack in
the confined waters of the Mediterranean,
the North Sea and the Murmansk route.
The results of the Royal Navy’s opera-
tions brought home to the world that the
power to discover the enemy expedi-
tiously, instead of by an exhaustive pro-
cess of surface search, was the most
revolutionary innovation which the air
arm had brought to naval strategy.
New Concepts Applied
British experience also taught the need
for the development of carrier fighter
protection for a fleet and its potency
when brought to a standard of speed and
hitting power which would make its
machines capable of buffeting it out with
land-based craft. Development along this
(line has made it possible for carrier
forces to come within reach of land, and
for battleships to give continuous sup-
port to shore operations and to compete
with heavy land batteries, often at an
advantage, while adequately protected
against air attack.
Out of the new facilities there has
been evolved a new concept of naval
warfare —primarily offensive against land
positions rather than against other sea
forces.
To make this attack most effective
the seagoing range of large naval for-
mations has had to be increased along
with their mobility and self-dependability.
Something has been produced which com-
pletely suits the cast of the American
mind—a sort of application of big busi-
ness and its engineering to sea war
through the medium of the battle fleet
and the bulldozer.
The result looks like a sea version of
one of the British armies of the
Napoleonic days, self-contained with its
own siege train, its own scouts, its
waggon-train of supplies, its tumbrils,
its breweries and its bakeries and camp
followers. It can go anywhere and it
can move so fast and so freely that no-
body knows where it may go next; the
times have the natural corollary to aerial
reconnaissance —an aerial superiority
which is an effective antidote to spying
on fleet movements.
Ready for anything, the new large
naval formation can sail round in its
majestic way sending out reconnaissance
missions and grinding up in its aerial
mills the sneaking destroyer or the slink-
ing convoy thus' found. It can cover the
building of its own immense frontal bases
—that at Manus, in the Admiralties, took
8000 men six months working round the
clock to complete. Or it can line up off a
coast and close off an area of sea against
intruders, plaster the shore lines with a
barrage such as is only possible to heavy
naval guns, support the troops when
they get ashore and provide occupation
for enemy aircraft while the fight is on.
Or, as Admirals Mitscher and Spru-
ance have been proving, and as Rear-
Admiral Vian and his carrier squadron
and battleship and cruiser support
proved at Palembang, in January, it can
form up opposite powerful land defences,
without its commanders feeling trepida-
tion. It can ward off fighters, while it in-
dulges in a butchers’ picnic which leaves
military installations, factories and any-
thing else which .gets in the way smoking
in ruins.
The aerial enemy who likes to try a
fall is welcome in these assemblies; so
is any naval visitor. The scale of the
hospitality may be judged from the
armory of the new American lowas,
of which the details were released
officially a few weeks ago. The capital
armament of these 45,000-ton monsters
is nine 16-ipchers of abnormal calibres,
plus 20 5-inchers—in all a total of 158
guns from 20mm. upwards. The ships
are 880 feet long, and their speed is
given as 30 knots. Their crews are
2500 men each, of whom more than half
are needed to man the guns. Four of
these vessels already are in service, and
more are due shortly, with some bigger
ones.
What the carrier power of the Pacific
Fleets is will be only a matter for guess-
work till Japan is beaten, but the
standard works recorded 22 A.Cs. from
19,000 tons to 45,000 tons building for
the United States at the beginning of
last year. And Britain is able to make
a substantial contribution.
The Shape of the War
The war of Allied communica-
tions is over, because the range of the
task fleets has placed the great depots
and bases which are operating to keep
the fleets in activity far beyond the
reach of land-based enemy aircraft. The
Japanese submarine campaign no longer
has much meaning. The Japanese fleet
skulks where it may, with an ever-
restricted choice of lairs.
The Allied fleets available in the
Pacific and Indian oceans, with capital
ships and aircraft-carriers able to look
after themselves in any shore company,
are now so numerous that major activity
can be kept up continuously at widely
distributed points calculated to disperse
Japanese strength fatally.
The advent of the R.N., in vast num-
bers and delighted at the new chances
offered by the present type of war, will
add a new flavor to Pacific operations.
Apart, from the fact that assurance has
been given that the bulk of Britain’s Navy
will, if necessary, be used against Japan,
the transfer brings to the Indian Ocean
and the Pacific great numbers of young
men already old in war and led by bold
commanders trained in the Nelson tradi-
tion.
The opening of Manila Bay will pull
up somewhat the bottom of the bag of
sea and land now accessible to the enemy.
And the gradual taking over of the ports
of China, up the coast of which the Allies
will probably climb till they reach the
vantage points of the Wei-hai-Wei Penin-
sula, will progressively increase the
squeeze. Whoever can control the China
Coast and river mouths also holds the
strategic control of China as a whole.
The question arises whether Japan can
be beaten by use of maritime power
—naval and naval air-power, supported
by long-distance land squadrons. Japan
can be. Its empire is a body of land
cultivated to the limit, dependent for a
large quantity of its food on sea fishing
and on import of rice and grain ; depen-
dent for its war-material output on im-
port of oil, coal and metals. Unlike Ger-
many, its home industry is mainly con-
centrated at one end of its islands, and
there is a real chance of paralysing its
w ; ar factories once the Allies can get
within regular medium bomber range and
acquire the material needed for whole-
sale attrition.
But it may be one thing to beat Japan
and quite another to finish off Japan.
That might and probably will need large
land forces and desperate fighting over
the whole'width of the islands and coun-
tries from Australia to Manchuria.
Montgomery on the Rhine.
“Ek Dum”: The week of fighting on
the Western Front proved the toughness
of the German defence in the 21st Army
Group’s sector, as well as the toughness
of conditions.
Despite the fact that the Germans are
supposed to be in the direst extremity
in the east, Marshal Von Rundstedt
chose to reinforce the front covering the
approaches to Goch, on the Flush-
ing - Berlin railway, with first - class
elements of seven divisions —panzer
grenadiers, armor, paratroops and excel-
lent and well-trained infantry—instead
of sending them off to prevent the cap-
ture of Berlin, timed by Sydney papers
for February 22.
The advance swept over Cleve to the
Rhine, opposite Emmerich, taking the
Rhine Canal in its stride. The number
of prisoners up to the fifth day of the
offensive was about 5000; by the tenth it
was 8000.
By February 14 Canadians, Scots and
Welsh had cleared the Reichswald, but
in the wetter areas the war was of a kind
made more for carabao than for men.
The “duck” and the “buffalo” were badly
needed through the flooding of the coun-
tryside by the enemy, who was reported
{Continued on page 30.)


u
m
■A,
-a*
R
ip
mm.
mm-.
y-x
m
m
r
m
m
m
m
Ml
■
H
1
-*sr
Iff
s
—r.
m, A \, '■
Architect's drawing of
the proposed new Davies
Coop plant on a 60 acre
site in Ormond, Vic., to
employ up to 3,000.
. ; .v :V
9 :. ‘v*
»
EWmm
F 4
“ ' x-'O'-yc;
<M*o
555
»*
‘ v" ' '
SnPssSSssPss
'X.^P-vcU
HI
. goes to war
The growth of the Davies Coop Organisation from its small start in
192 j, when three ambitious men started a small plant engaging 17
employees, to its present ramifications, which will now culminate in
one of the largest textile plants in Australia, is a story of Australian
industrial achievement which reads like o romance.
The Davies Coop Organisation—already operating plants in Mel-
bourne, Sydney and Adelaide—is now preparing to erect a modern
plant that will employ up to 3,000 hands in the production of cotton
goods for Australia's civilian population and the country's war effort.
With every possible amenity for employees, the new up-to-date
plant being erected in Ormond, Victoria, will be on outstanding
achievement.
Cotton's contribution to the
wor effort.
• TYRE CORD • TYRE DUCK
• ARMY TENTS • AEROPLANE
WING FABRIC • NURSES CAPES
• CLEANING WASTE • GUN
COVERS • NAVY CLOTH •
• TRUCK TARPAULINS • FIRE
HOSE • ANTI-GAS PROOFED
DUCK • KHAKI JEAN FOR
ARMY SHIRTS • COTTON UNI-
FORMS • UNDERWEAR • COL-
LAPSIBLE BOATS • SERVICE
KIT BAGS • CAMOUFLAGE
METS • SHEL.L CASES
DAVIES COOP & CO. LTD.
MELBOEBNE - - SYDNEY - - ADELAIDE
WJ.H.
D.C.2


ķ
ROMANCE,
OLD GOLD,
GOLDEN GLORY
three famous chocolate
assortments remem-
bered for their
QUALITY!
ROMANCE —It is delightful to
dally with memories of the de-
licious past and to dream of
pleasures yet to come.
ROMANCE fitting gift for
charming companion choice,
gracious compliment for an anni-
versary occasion.
ROMANCE
Welcome relief from
nagging
m
m
mat.
■ # >l+j*U*&**7*< r
*2k*.
mm
SmWm
m
w.
MMM
.■ ■ ;
m phis
WEAK KIDNEYS are often the
cause of nagging Backache.
Assist the Kidneys in their action. . .
help them to become stronger
. . . more active. . . and free from
inflammation by taking a course of
GIN PILLS.
Dr. Sheldon’s Gin Pills act directly on
the Kidneys, stimulating their action,
relieving inflammation. Gin Pills
quickly help the Kidneys to work
normally again, so that they filter out
accumulated poisons from your body,
bringing welcome relief from nagging
Backache.
DR. SHELDON'S
B
27 pills 119—60 pills 219.
O R T ' M E K 1 1
to be three times as numerous on the
sixth day of the offensive as on the first
day.
The general direction of the advance
was now south-east, rather than east,
through the arc formed by the towns of
Kleve, Hau and Kessel, and between the
Rhine and the Maas: The course of both
these rivers was being followed so that
the drive would eventually bring the
British troops to a position at the great
crossing-place of Wesel, on the east bank
of the Rhine, as well as opening the
Venlo routes. In effect, Field-Marshal
Montgomery was rolling up the enemy
flank from the north.
On February 15 the Canadians had
ten miles of the west bank of the Rhine,
and were half a mile across the stream
from Emmerich, which was under their
gunfire. On their Netherlands flank they
had crossed the flooded Niers, a tribu-
tary of the Maas, by “duck” and “buf-
falo.” They had absorbed Gennep,
pushed down the Gennep-Venlo road on
the Maas side and were fighting in the
first tough defences of Goch, one of the
hardest nuts they have attempted to
crack. The main weight of their drive,
however, was then swung to halfway
between the Maas and the Rhine, and
on February 18 Canadian armor and
Scots were reported to have cut the road
which leads from Goclvacross the Rhine
to a point 10 miles or so up the Rhine
from Emmerich, at Rees, which is on the
east bank.
The British troops taking part in the
drive include some of the cream of the
Scottish regiments—the Black Watch, the
Seaforth and Gordon Highlanders—
but they found it difficult to make
headway. The Germans were well sup-
plied, and late in the week turned a
stronger tide of flying-bombs against the
front line of the invasion until their
blitz was the heaviest of its kind used
during the war.
The Scots on February 18- were
approaching Goch from north and
south-west. The northern force made
three miles on February 17, with the
Canadians on their left flank engaged in
the Calcar-road drive. The other Scottish
claw from the south had, in a 12-hour
battle through the night, forced its way
to a point slightly west of the town,
inflicting heavy losses and taking 1000
prisoners.
This battle was fought in a heavy
mist, which, with the flooded conditions,
placed the attackers at a considerable
disadvantage. At the week - end im-
proving weather brought Allied anciaft
into action, but. German resistance con-
tinued very strong. Though the enemy
crumbles back from the edges, his front
does not break or burst.
On the U.S. Front
Meanwhile, far away to the south,
after flinging down the usual heavy ar-
tillery barrage, the Americans took
Priam, linked up their Echternach and
Wallendorf bridgeheads over the Sure
and pushed them forward to a depth of
two miles. They threw back heavy
counter-attacks and fought their way
into Vianden. They were still inching
forward and warding off savage counter-
blows on February 18 both at Priim
and in the south.
Their moves put them across the main
road from Trier to Cologne, but also
bring them to the outer screen positions
of another German line of defence, along
the gorges of the Kyll in the north, and
the Priim in the south of the sector.
This front also has been wrapped in
the eternal rain and fog.
German attacks on the Luxembourg
border were pot, however, so heavy as
those which developed in the Reichswald
and to the south of it.
On the Saar sector the U.S. Seventh
Army made a little progress at a few
points during the week. On February 18
it was three miles from Saarguemines.
But here, as everywhere else on the west
fronts, every inch gained was marked on
the map in blood.
Inner Defence Line Reached.
“Ek Dum”: The Russian campaign
continues to follow its course of success.
The battle of the Lower Danube was
virtually closed with the capture of Buda.
On December 12 it was announced
from Moscow that “beautiful Budapest
is now going the way of Warsaw, and is
being reduced to ruins.” A few days later
the Germans asserted that they had with-
drawn their main forces and had left
behind, a rearguard garrison. Moscow
said that these—“a few thousand”—were
holding a narrow strip of about 3000
yards along the river, so that it seemed
that the enemy was playing his usual
game of clamping down on a key com-
munication point, closing the Russians
off from the bridges over which the roads
from eastern Hungary thread their way,
and thus forcing on the Russians round-
about routes far to the south and to the
north.
Inch by inch since that time the enemy
has been winkled out. At one stage Mos-
cow correspondents had 2,000,000 refu-
gees trapped in this burning city. There
has since been no word of their fate. But
Moscow declares that in six weeks the
defence of Budapest—or, rather, of Buda,
since Pest, the flat section of the twin
cities on the Hungarian side, had been
under occupation most of the time —
cost the Germans and Hungarians 49,000
dead and 110,000 prisoners, including
General Wildenbrugh and his staff. But
the booty included only 269 guns. At
the final round-up 12,000-odd prisoners
were mentioned in various estimates. The
German Radio asserted that a large part
of the garrison fought its way out of
Buda; that the Russians had used 15
infantry divisions and four artillery and
10 armored corps against the city, and
had lost 80,000 men in reducing it.
Moscow further announced that “the
way to Vienna” was “now open with the
elimination of this major obstacle.” It
certainly should help. Buda closed some of
the Russians’ most valuable routes. They
were compelled to fight off incessant
thrusts towards the capital from the west.
The Russian forces which were reported to
have cleared the southern end of Lake
Balaton of Germans by December 12,
and to have penetrated to the northern
end of the lake, had been thrust back
for considerable distances.
Very little was left of lovely Buda
when the battle was over. Each building
had to be destroyed before it could be
taken. When the Germans retired they
left their abandoned positions in flaming
ruins. In the end they fought in the old
rabbit warren of Turkish tunnels which
honeycomb the' underpinnings of Buda.
These probably were the “sewers” in
which the German staff was captured.
Koniev’s Drive
On the southern Oder front Marshal
Koniev continued his advance with
heartening and still mysterious ease and
lack of serious interruption. Frequent
reports came forward of Marshal
Zhukov’s troops on the Frankfort-Kiistrin
sector “pouring” across the main river
into the western bridgeheads. Meanwhile
the R.A.F. and the U.S.A.F. pounded to
bits Dresden, Chemnitz, Magdeburg and
all the bottlenecks along the great
through motor roads which lead from
the Ruhr and the Saar to the front.
The smoothness with which these offen-
sives have been going makes it certain
that thus far there has been no major
resistance. And though it is an attractive
theory for communists and bobby-sox
reporters that the Russians are moving
forward with such huge concentrations
of artillery and armor power that nothing
can resist them, practical considerations
put this engaging myth out of court.
The Oder, the Bober, the Queis and
the Neisse are all rivers of respectable
size which are major military obstacles.
The Russians, even if they are drawing
all their supplies from dumps on the Vis-
tula, which seems unlikely if the opera-
tions are on a scale in which hundreds
of tanks and guns are lost every day, as
is represented by both sides, are faced
with the task of carrying everything they
need over 300 miles of country which is
in the grip of the thaw. Moreover, unless
they have been and are able to bring for-
ward an almost unimaginable tonnage of
ferry craft, their routes are bottle-
necked by bridges and pontoons, and
not even a Moscow correspondent can
push across a bridge more than it will
withstand or hold at a pace which will
not tear it to pieces. Shifting heavy sup-
plies across pontoon bridges or impro-
vised wooden bridges or even Bailey
bridges, which the Red Army is said to
scorn, is a slow business which must be
conducted at little better than a walking
pace.
The moving forward of river-cross-
ing facilities for a large army is in itself
a major task under the climatic conditions
of western Poland and eastern Silesia and
Pomerania in the thaw. And it takes
time to get those installations working to
carry substantial traffic.
If Marshal Koniev is involved in first-
class operations with even 50 divisions—
a huge force by western standards, but
chickenfeed to Moscow reporters—he
must be carrying forward anything from
25,000 to 50,000 tons of supplies a day
and moving it over a battle-ploughed
road, choked with wrecked tanks and
guns and all the debris which trails out
behind major fighting, at the rate of any-
thing from 10 to 20 miles a day. All this
while keeping up, on the hundreds of miles
of roadway behind, the hundreds of thou-
sands of tons of supplies which must be
on the move to assure that on no day
will there be any delay in front-line re-
plenishment.
West v. East
The salient fact is that the Russians are
certainly advancing, or have been, and
that even major barriers have not checked
them. In the west, on the other hand,
even canals have formed lines which
it was hard to force —as the Canadians
learned on the French side of the Scheldt
in lessons written in blood. And the
Maas bridgeheads both on the approach
and the enemy’s side have been contested
bitterly for weeks.
The Roer, small as it is, has been an
obstacle which along much of its length
has provided unsolvable problems unless
the Allies are prepared to sacrifice large
masses of men. The Saar was crossed
only after dear payment in American
lives. The Moder, little more than a
brook, has been held tenaciously.
But over the Oder, the Bober, the
Queis, as over a dozen Polish rivers, the
legions of Zhukov and Koniev swept,
though those of Rokossovsky and the
others involved in the drives towards the
Baltic have not been able to achieve their
valuable objectives. The 30 divisions of
Germans which supposedly were about
to be annihilated in Courland, over 400
miles away from Berlin on the coast be-
yond the Niemen, at the beginning of
November, are still apparently fighting
Konigsberg, supposed to be in flames and
on the point of penetration three weeks
ago, is being defended against obviously
receded Russian forces.
In Samland, on the amber coast to the
north-east —a beautiful dreamy district
along the Baltic shore —a pall of silence
has fallen over Russian operations. The
Germans claim to have surrounded a
Russian force and to have wiped it out.
Rokossovky’s drive towards Danzig has
made little, if any, progress. The same
applies to Marshal Zhukov’s drive to-
wards Stettin, which stalled on the
approaches to the lake district, 20 miles
or so from the capital. There the Rus-
sians reported fierce counter-attacks late
in the week.
However, surrounded cities which were
blocking communication lines were being
reduced. Schneidemiihl, which was form-
ing a blockage on the Berlin-Danzig
A utobahn, fell, and it was announced that
the German-held area of Posen had been
reduced to the citadel on the west bank
of the Warthe and some of the suburbs.


Missing Friends.
TO MARGARET MARY WORCESTER formerly of
59 Henry Street, Northcote.—TAKE NOTICE that
your husband CHARLES LESLIE WORCESTER has
instituted proceedings against you for divorce on
the ground of desertion Unless you enter an appear-
ance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the Supreme uourt
in Melbourne on or before the Fourteenth day of
March 1945 and file an answer on or before the
Twenty-fourth day of March 1945 the case may pro-
ceed in your absence and you may be ordered to pay
costs—W. A. PRENDERGAST, M.A., LL.B., 17
Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
WILL HERBERT LADD formerly of Kyabram and
Tongala, Victoria, or anyone knowing his where-
abouts, communicate with John W. Fairlie, Solicitor,
303 Collins Street, Melbourne.
WILL KATIE ELIZABETH NATHAN nee Bonner,
formerly of StaweH and Tongala, Victoria, or any-
one knowing her whereabouts, communicate with
John W. FAIRLIE, Solicitor, 303 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EMILY JANE CRUMMY—TAKE NOTICE that
KEITH GORDON CLARENCE CRUMMY has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 4110 of 1944 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the 10th day
of April 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from PARKER, KISSANE AND
EDMUNDS Solicitors Casino or their Sydney Agents
FREEHILL HOLLINGDALE AND CO., Solicitors 44
Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERNEST STANLEY WILSON of Creave Street
Mayfield—TAKE NOTICE that EVELYN DOTSY
WILSON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3963
of 1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 16th April 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from SHAW, McDONALD
& CO. Solicitors for Petitioner 11c Castlereagh Street
Sydney.— '(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Legal Notice.
IN THE MAGISTRATES COURT OF
QUEENSLAND — Held at Muttaburra.
No. 1 of 1943.
BETWEEN MISS H. M. FAHEY Plaintiff and S. C.
WALDEN Defendant.
TO S. C. WALDEN C/o Graziers’ Co-operative Shear-
ing Co., Ltd., 46 Young Street, Sydney, New
South Wales.
TAKE NOTICE that the above action has been com-
menced against you the said S. C. WALDEN in the
Magistrates Court of Queensland at Muttaburra by
the abovenamed MISS H. M. FAHEY in which she
claims the sum of One hundred and sixty-five pounds
(£165) balance of moneys loaned by her to you at
your request and for moneys found to be due by you
to her on acounts stated between you and it has been
ordered that service of the Plaint Summons and
Particulars in this action on you be effected by send-
ing to you by registered post addressed O/o Graziers’
Co-operative Shearing Co. Ltd. 46 Young Street
Sydney N.S.W. a copy of the said Plaint Summons
and Particulars and by publication of this Notice
twice in the Sydney Bulletin (being a newspaper
published at Sydney aforesaid) once within a period
of Thirty days from the date hereof and once
within a period of Thirty days from the said first
publication If you desire to defend this action you
must On or before the Thirty-first day of March 1945
file a defence at the Registrar of the Magistrates
Court Queensland at Muttaburra and in default
of such defence judgment may be entered against
you.
DATED this Twentieth day of January One thou-
sand nine hundred and forty-five.
DANIEL DOYLE,
RGS'istrflr
REGR. MAGIST. CT., Muttaburra.
REES R. & SYDNEY JONES, Solicitors for the
Plaintiff, 178 Quay Street, Rockhampton.
SAVE RUBBER!
Don't Overlap
4 tyres under normal tyre load will do as much
work as 6| tyres run at 50% above normal
tyre load.
Overloading wastes tyres, and tyres are precious.
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
INSULATED
CABLES
Olympic mis
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
I FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRAII"
mt
m
in
m
vm
\
mm.-
A
>■ 4 ,'A's % ''
f ~ , ? .•■ ~ .
: ; 'f : '
W' ---"■■ W *#(
1&95-1945
50 YEARS OF LEADERSHIP IN
LUBRICATION...
This year Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd. cele-
brates its Golden Jubilee. Established in Mel-
bourne,lB9s, in a small office with a staff of 3,
Vacuum has grown to a Nation-wide Organi-
sation with a staff of oyer 3,000 —serving
Australia in Peace and in War, in good times
and bad, in city, town and country, with
Petroleum Products of the Highest Quality.
VACUUM
ouflimr product
Mobihril
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA
The fall of Posen, like that ®f Konigs-
berg, was on February 16 declared to be
imminent.
The enemy asserted that “all the Rus-
sian forces” which had “crossed the
Neisse” had been “accounted for” and
“wiped out”; that all Soviet bridgeheads
over the Bober had been “cleaned up” ;
that the fighting at Breslau was in its
initial stages and that a great battle in
which all Soviet operational reserves were
involved was reaching its climax between
the Riesengebirge and the Oder Bend on
February 18.
The Alternatives
It is possible, of course, to explain the
contrast between the Russian success on
the Oder and the delays on the Baltic
fronts by the fact that everything is being
subordinated to the needs of Marshals
Zhukov and Koniev. But it is not so
easy to explain the marked contrast
between the Germans’ stubborn defence
in the west against considerable British-
Canadian and American armies, far
better placed in the matter of supplies
and transport than the Russians can hope
to be in their present frontal positions
and during their present rate of advance,
and the entire inability or seeming in-
ability of the Germans to delay Russian
progress in the east.
The theory of the overwhelming
strength of Russian artillery and tank
formations can be disregarded, if the
Germans have anything like the strength
which they have arrayed in the west. The
only tenable theories are:
(1) That the Germans are deliberately with-
drawing without resistance to the Neisse or the
Spree. But this seems to involve complications
in the defence problems of Czechoslovakia and
Austria and perhaps their abandonment, since
it opens the way for attack on the passes on the
upper Neisse (Gorlitz) and at the other points
along the Sudeten Range.
(2) The advances are being accomplished by
huge swarms of Russians who are living off
the country, and who are so multitudinous that
they sweep forward like a tide, suffering enor-
mous losses, but too numerous for the enemy
to kill off enough of them to stop them as they
flood across the countryside. But if this is so
they must have made a tremendous footrace
across the Polish plains.
(3) That in consonance with an agreement be-
tween the “free” German generals in Moscow
and the Red Army German resistance has been
allowed to collapse on the assurance that the
purpose of the advance is “not to destroy the
Wehrmacht but to lead it back within its own
borders and preserve it for the German people.”
This kind of propaganda, which had flooded
Moscow Radio for some months, spoken alleg-
edly by General von Seydlitz and his aides,
ceased during the Yalta conference to a large
extent, but there was a revival of it after the
conference, though in a milder form.
It seems curious that no military
orders of the day have been issued by
the German High Command regarding
the defence of Berlin, on the doorstep of
which the Russians stood at the week-
end. All the exhortations have come
from Dr. Goebbels and the Nazi party.
Yet it is a juncture at which either Hitler
or Marshal Guderian might have been
expected on the scene to exhort the Army
to greater efforts if Berlin were in grave
danger.
The Russians are now on the inner
defence line of Greater Germany. It is
anchored to four main military centres
north of the Sudeten Ranges, each the
H.Q. of a corps in peace-time—Stettin
(II Corps), Berlin (111 and XVI), Dres-
den (IV). This line links with the de-
fences of the Moldau and the Moravian
heights north-south across Czecho-
slovakia and Vienna (XVII and XIX
Corps H.Q.).
The test must soon come as to whether
the enemy can put up or intends to put
up in the east the same sort of desperate
defence which marks his holding of the
Rhine.
In brief:
Little fighting took place on the Fifth and
Eighth Army fronts, though a Negro division
with the Fifth Army was heavily counter-
attacked and forced to abandon frontal posi-
tions. Allied aircraft vigorously blasted the
Brenner Pass region. And General Mark Clark,
G.O.C. 15th Army Group, remarked that
attempts by the Germans to withdraw from
Italy were increasingly likely and that the full
might of Allied air power was being turned on
the northern routes to prevent a retreat,
* * * *
The advances round the Mandalay perimeter
continue slowly. The 14th Army troops advanc-
ing on Mandalay have made another crossing
of the Irrawaddy. Ramree Island was finally
cleared of the enemy and a fresh landing made
on the mainland opposite the southern tip of
the island, where British-Indian troops pene-
trated II miles inland.
* * * 4c
Feb. 19 was scarcely remembered in Sydney
as the third anniversary of the terrible bombing
of Darwin, which the American correspondent
Weller described as “the most destructive raid,
after Pearl Harbor, of the Pacific war.” But
Sergeant J. M. McDonald, the only Territorian
to win a D.C.M. in World War I, and still
serving in the present war, laid a wreath on the
Cenotaph on behalf of himself and absent
soldiers of the N.T.


BRANDALERS
wt
*
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BKAHBAinU * 00, US, SIR MEMO HAM. ENO
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB INCORPORATED
AUTUMN MEETING, 1945.
\ Saturdays May 12, 19, 26, Morphettville Racecourse.
£15,450 TOTAL PRIZE MONEY £15,450
GOODWOOD HANDICAP,
Saturday, May 12, 1945.
Of £2OOO. The first horse to receive £l4OO, the
second £4OO, and the third £2OO out of the prize.
For three-year-olds and upwards. About six furlongs.
ADELAIDE CUP,
Saturday, May 19, 1945.
A Handicap of £3'500 (including War Savings
Bond, value £150). The first horse to receive £2300
and War Savings Bond of £l5O, the second £7OO,
and the third £350 out of the prize. For three-
years-old and upwards. About two miles.
NOMINATIONS (£1 each) close with the Secretaries of the V.R.C., Melbourne, A.J.C., Sydney,
W.A.T.O. Perth, Q.T.0., Brisbane, Lockington’s Agency, Melbourne, or at the Club s office, 4.
Waymouth Street, Adelaide, before 4 p.m., TUESDAY, MARCH 20.
R. HYNES, Secretary, S.A. Jockey Club Incorporated, Adelaide.
rupture
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. Yon
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
FREE LITERATURE.
ķ
DUBH 3HI 3XII
SMB
BABREKE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lQ). 243 EEIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
THE POWER
behind oar
WAR EFFORT
A GREAT part of the power behind our war effort
is industrial and agricultural power. As a people
we have been building up this power over many
years. Building it up called for all that we had of
initiative and enterprise.
It took faith and courage and vision on the part
of those who organised and managed our thousands
of stations, farms and factories, and our great elec-
trical undertakings, to bring them up to the point
they had reached when the war broke on us, and they
were swung over to war production.
It took millions of pounds saved and invested in
the work of graziers, farmers, builders, engineers,
boiler-makers, electricians, carpenters and plumbers
to develop these stations, farms and factories and con-
stantly to improve them.
A substantial part of this money came from the
Life Assurance Offices. It came through these Offices
from the nearly three million Australians who put
their savings into Life Assurance to provide security
for their families.
To-day practically all the millions that these
good citizens are putting into their policies are going
into the War Loans to serve another national need,
but when the war has been won, these millions will
again be turned to developing our country and rais-
ing our standards of living.
To put Savings Into
LIFE ASSURANCE
Is Good Citizenship
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
/
1
t L
m
»
5a
Battle is the testing
ground for the researches of war-time labora-
tories . . . among them those of Stromberg-Carlson, as
suppliers of communications equipment keyed to
commando conditions.
From their war-time experience, Stromberg-Carlson will
evolve post-war radio products that will be an achieve-
ment as distinguished as their war production record.
Post-war, too . . . there will be nothing finer than a
Stromberg-Carlson.
ST ROMBERG - CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia,
SO Years of Communication Engineering
SPEED THE VICTORY...BUY A BOND
SPORTING NOTIONS
A winner in two of his previous four races
and second in another, Drum Net continued
a model of consistency by nicely winning the
Futurity Stakes at Caulfield last Saturday. De-
spite that recent good record, he started at 10
to 1, but was solidly backed at that price-
Fourth away in the field of 23, Drum Net held
his position well, and at the turn had moved
into second place behind Mysticus, who had
done all the pace-making. His margin over
Mysticus at the end was only a neck, but he
was holding that horse safely as he had done
from when Purtell moved on him in the run
home. Tea Cake (third, twoand-a-halr
lengths away) was making up some ground at
the finish, but, though he met slight interior-
ence, he was always well enough placed to win,
and was well beaten on his merits.
A five-year-old entire by Midstream-Ranier,
Drum Net adds another to the long list of
racing “bargains.” He changed hands for 60
guineas when the V.R.C. placed its ban on
bookmaker-owners. Raced since then by P.
Hickey, of Werribee, Drum Net is not in the
Newmarket, and is reported to be an unlikely
starter in the Australian Cup, for which he was
entered before showing his recent fine sprinting
form. St. Fairy, the early Futurity favorite,
“blew” from 9 to 2 to tens, started at 8 to 1
and finished a long way back. Zonda, on
whom Purtell won the race two years ago,
finished last, but was much in need of racing,
. . . . . •
C.^ he oVr t StaLs W on k Dmm’Net r thi 1 s ridTr had
been so much out of luck that giving him the
mount was considered rash. He had been on
no fewer than 64 successive losers. Purtell is
certainty now making up for it. He scored a
double for the day in winning the six-furlongs
Hawksburn Handicap on the St. Magnus
three-year-old La Patrice, and will be on that
filly in the Newmarket, for which she looks
like being favorite, as she was (at 2 to 1) for the
Hawksburn. It was • another good finish, La
Patrice beating Unfurl by halt a neCk, with
Solon a distant third.
„
. New Yorker (Olsen) became Australian Cup
favorite after he had defeated Philander
an d Cavallo ill the somewhat muddling-run
Woodcliffi Handicap. The pace was against solid
stayers; nevertheless New Yorker could not
bave won better, and he should manage the two
mdes> Bootle, favorite at 5 to 2, suffered
some checks and finished a close fourth. Still,
bis per f orma nce did not look as good as that
ew Yorker,
, , , ~ , , . ..
Olsen also had a double-day, having earlier
won a division of the Alma Stakes (two-year-
olds) on the Manitoba Lipstick colt Lincoln, an
easy win from Figleaf arid Starred. Lincolns
time (1.13) was a second faster than Lmd Camp-
bell (Lawmaker-Chantant) had taken in winning
the other division from League and Tilston.
Lord Campbell, who led most of the way and
won even more easily than Lincoln, is raced
by W.A.T.C. chairman W. J. Winterbottom.
With the V.R.C. Sires Produce Stakes the
mission of both these winners, the difference in
times might prove misleading in view of how
the respective races were run. Lincoln, who
cost 1400gns. as a yearling, had “the run of
the race” in his division.
At Canterbury Park on Saturday S.T.C might
have stood for Santa T. Claus, benevolent to
the weak and kindly to the young. The seven
handicaps included a Novice, a Two-year-old
Maiden for colts and geldings, ditto for fillies,
a Trial and a Three-and-Four-year-old. They
were won respectively by Silver Clare (W.
Cook), Impudence (W. Cook), Translucent (G.
Weate), Culnooy (W. Streeting) and Wintune
(C. W. Perry). There is little further to add
about them. Apprentice Perry has ridden a
winner at each of the last four meetings. Im-
pudence, from M. McCarten’s stable, was a
case of Virtue Triumphant or Consistency Re-
warded. Placed at his three previous starts,
the Brazen-Blue Gown colt looked certain to
beat the mostly moderately-performed lot he
was meeting p yet, instead of odds-on, connec-
tions and others got as much as 5 to 2 against.
Another note; Sweet Brue (Brueghel-Milrama),
fifth to Translucent, is too good-looking not
to be good. Also, the placed horses in the
Trial —Culnooy, Garryowen and Geoff —all hail
from Newcastle.
Of the other two events, the S.T.C. Handi-
cap was won by the bottomweight, Flying
Cloud (A. Mulley), from Bon Terre and Mar-
contine. In a better mood Bon Terre might
have won it easily, instead of being beaten a
head. Brumaire was in an even worse mood,
mistaking the starting time of the race by
several seconds, and even then running fifth;
he will do a lot better. Flying Cloud is from
the Payten stable, now striking its old wmmng
vein.
That leaves only the Flying Handicap, won
by Hedui (A. B. Sinclair) from Brazidon and
Cragsman, with Nobleman, Lagoon and several
other fair performers behind them. Hedui,
Sinclair and trainer Plant are of the successful
Queensland invaders. Interesting, considering
the notable staying strains they have up there,
these winning Queenslanders are sprinters. Bah-
theon, who can get a bit of distance, failed
and went home. Moreover, Sinclair, as noted
here before, is a sprint-riding specialist. Since he
came down he has ridden quite a lot of winners,
all in sprints. He rides a six-furlong race bril-
liantly, as he did on Saturday. Three furlongs
from home Hedui was trying to gallop on his
hind legs only. Sinclair brought him to earth,
and then timed his finishing run ' perfectly.
However, Cragsman should be kept in mind.
He appeared to have been near a melon-patch
since he last raced, and his run seemed to be
made too soon. Brazidon is a staunch galloper;
the best is yet to be seen of him.
» * * •
When Mrs. Alex. A. Apcar’s El Obro won
the latest King-Emperor’s Cup, run in Cal-
cutta, it was the first time a woman owner had
led in the winner of that big Indian event.
There were other Australian associations with
the win besides Bengal Governor R. G. Casey
handing over the trophy. The forerunner to
the King’s Cup was called the Trial Plate, and
back in the first year it was run (1901) the
winner was the Australian horse Stand OS—
oddly enough, also owned by an A. A. Apcar.
* * * *
Despite the vast proportions horse-racing had
reached in America, the ban imposed on it
“till the war situation improves” would not
be such a public shock as a similar ban might
be in Australia. Here racing has been so long
a national pastime that it may be surprising to
read it had no such comparable grip on the
American public until the recent ’twenties,
though, of course, there hai been American
horse-racing for a couple of centuries. Even
now it is legal in only 22 of the States, and
of these Nevada and South Dakota do not go
in for it, while before the ban was applied to
all Nebraska had suspended racing for the
duration. The general growth of American
racing in these past 20-odd years has been really
colossal; even since three years ago it is
reckoned to have increased all round by 100
p.c., with the staggering total of over a billion
dollars wagered on the tote last year. The
extraordinary rate of increase probably in-
fluenced the ban.
* * * *
Since 1940 bookies have been outlawed in
every U.S. State, New York having come into
line with the rest that year. Even so, there
is no more trouble getting set with a bookie
than with an s.p. merchant in Australia. In
fact, American bookies are estimated to do a
volume of business in excess of the huge tote
figure.
* * * *
Speaking of “demonstrations,” the worst of
them aren’t a patch on the running com-
mentaries of stand patrons. If some of the


F 0
LII Y !
1
I
iH
AKUBRA
mts
ALTHOUGH war-time require-
merits for the services have
restricted the output of these
famous Australian Pure Fur
Felt Hats for civilian needs,
you should always select an
AKUBRA. . . . Style and long-
wearing qualities, combined
with comfort, ensure sound
money and coupon value.
|A*
LOOK YOUR BEST IN AN AKU BR A
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BOND:
CM
6®
Thl
'e/o
left
U-fc
9 r dr~j
JQcf
4c#
✓//«t
'S?
O/JW
®en
i-e c
<?/v
®9(i/
d '>c/
e/v
*e/
'Or,,
?OA^
C.0^
eutf
egr^A
off,
Off;
'c e
p osr
J sa
Ow
r '9in
9e.
c*
Op
A,
£>£p
03
f ” SK)®. '■'^egg-Sp/^
1 CA *B B „„ °' la -3A
S^S0^ BSS * >
co *^.Jg
**»*»■ STAl,DA1)D S SBcnr )UATlC T0T^lS^
** Ll *r Pj>t . SAT °ss
*****
t*TKf
Vo
t/vr
•' 5S '><
fhS ‘ 9r d/s ° P, '°‘
h * tin,*** /,
l n J h °*n
Od
yrr
=^0,
e*
***cd
£&qx
BttOJvif
B
A.T.L. Offers. posf
must be engineered to limits of super-occurocy.
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS i
SYDNEY . . . . MELBOURNE .... PERTH .... BRISBANE
A317-A
riders could hear these their ears would frizzle.
Men loudly use the foulest of words without con-
sideration for the women present, and without
ever being checked. No doubt it’s a manifesta-
tion—an equally nasty one—of the poor spirit
which leads men to knock women aside in the
rush to crowd into race trains.
* * * *
Already more than a bargain at the 80
guineas she cost (five guineas more than the
price paid for Flight), Ribbon looks a sound
argument for those who hold that too much is
often taken out of our youngsters—especially
fillies —by too-early racing. In the past 20 years,
certainly, a remarkable number of fillies that
showed dazzling speed as two-year-olds have
subsequently been washouts either as sprinters
or stayers. Tea Rose—quite one of the finest-
looking thoroughbreds of either sex in train-
ing in Sydney—may not be one of these. She
was well beaten in suburban flying company
this time up, and then by Ribbon at Randwick;
but on the first occasion she started badly,
and on the second she at least beat the rest
of the field easily. Tea Rose began racing
soon after she turned two, and shortly set up
a course record for about 4J furlongs at Rose-
hill. Ribbon did not have her first race—also
on that course —till last December 16, *as a
three-year-old, and has been unbeaten in her
three starts so far. She may be a St. Leger
possibility.
* * * *
The idea obtains with many racing men that
a horse given an ordinary name can never
reach the top. There are, however, exceptions
to every rule, and one of the best three-year-
olds in America is By Jiminy.
* * * «
Racing on the turf was a prominent feature
last year in Chicago, where, in 1940, Arlington
Park was the first track to give it a trial.
In 1942 Washington Park (also Chicago) went in
for a grass course, and it took the public fancy
to such an extent that last year races ranging
in value from $2500 to $lO,OOO were run every
week it held a meeting. California was also
going in for grass tracks when the blow fell.
* * * »
Queensland has a rattling good sprinter
in Graham McLachlan, built for speed
and only 21. At Brisbane’s Exhibition
Oval on February 3 McLachlan won the
State 100 yards championship by yards
in the good time of 9.9-10 sec., the track
being on the slow side. Getting a rail
priority for a wonder, he made the same
time in winning the N.S.W. 100-yards
championship at Erskineville, With the
chivalry that distinguishes them Sydney
“critics” recorded that there was “a
breeze behind him,” one pointing out
that “his arm action is stiff.” There
seems nothing wrong with his leg action.
* * * *
“M.”: What must be one of the most
extraordinary sporting achievements ever
recorded has been reported from Rich-
mond (Eng.). In 1943 Lieut. B. Frank,
who when at Sandhurst three seasons
ago was a Rugby reserve forward for
England, was the sole survivor when a
mortar shell exploded prematurely in a
gunpit. The doctors told him he would
never play Rugby again. Lately, though
his left leg is paralysed from the knee
downwards and supported by irons, he
turned out for Rosslyn 'Park against
Aldershot Services —and scored two tries!
* * * *
“Wodgil”: Apropos of the 1938
Australian Eleven appearing in a
book (B. 14/2/’45), John Buchan, in
a novel he wrote before he became
Governor-General of Canada, when
he ceased writing novels, introduced
the Waratahs playing a Rugby Union
match with Scotland, notably Sid
Malcolm. But there is no humor in the
Buchan description. Footba’ in Scotland
is a serious business, and that day the
money was good.
« « * *
“M.C.”: If Monty’s cricket-authority
father—-H. H. Montgomery, D.D., who
w!as Bishop of Tasmania —could look
down now on his beloved Kennington
Oval, as he used to do when he was Vicar
of Kennington, he’d be a shocked man.
“Long may the Oval,” the Bishop wrote
in his book on cricket, “continue to
afford good sport and the best of recrea-
tion to hard-working South London!”
But there’s been no cricket at Kenning-
ton for some time, and probably won’t
this year. The Oval was taken over by
the Government and prepared as a p.o.w.
camp, and, though no prisoners have
actually been sent there, hundreds of con-
crete pillars are still sunk in the turf.
* * * %
“Pat Ater”: It doesn’t always pay to
adopt the style of a Master. Watching
Lacey bowl for Western Suburbs C.C.
was like looking at Bill O’Reilly,
Same run, arms like flails, balding
patch on dome, height and build alike
—and the same apparently perfect-length
deliveries. But Lacey does not take
wickets like O’Reilly. He keeps the runs
down and bothers batsmen all the time,
sneaking odd 'balls between bat and
wicket which miss by the proverbial coat
o’ paint. What is wanting? Guile? No
—according to batsmen. Luck, pace,
style? No. Just that little bit of devil
which all great bowlers have had. Could
he acquire that extra bit by changing a
style apparently modelled on the Master
and return to natural? I wonder!
♦ * * *
“T. McN.”: For any of you fellows
Who can’t get set on the dogs, horses, pugs
or 18-footers I’m running a book on day-
to-day possibilities in Sydney, It’s 2to 1
against milk being short, threes meat,
fours eggs, fives to tens veges. and fruit,
according to variety. And you can bet
against strikes ; fours the field bar coal-
mines, and liberal odds you can’t pick
one-two-three wharfies, slaughtermen,
butchers, doughies and trammies. I’m
getting out a doubles chart on the
A.W.U. v. Thornton’s ironworkers at
Port Kembla. Send in now for quotes
on Sydney, Newcastle, Wollongong and
Lithgow events!
* * * *
In a Leichhardt bout with Cliff Bowen
Dal Conway was the latest to show that,
leaving out Patrick and one or two others,
boxing standards are higher in Brisbane
than in Sydney. Having stopped Tommy
Colteaux last December, Bowen was said
—at Leichhardt—to be the Australian
middleweight champion. Against the
stylish and purposeful Conway he looked
more like a novice. He couldn’t get his
countenance away from Conway’s
straight lefts, and weighty rights had him
groggy more than once, while his own
blows, ill-directed more often than not,
brought many clean counter-punches.
For once there was not a solitary objec-
tion when the referee crowned the
Queenslander.
When Bobby Fuller met Archie Rash
at Sydney Stadium last year he was
favorite, but Rash beat him to the
referee’s blessing. Fuller had his revenge
at Rushcutter Bay on Saturday night,
scoring heavily with lefts to the dial and
right rib-benders. Attacking in the
sixth, Rash had Fuller muddled at
“corners,” but Bobby recovered during
the minute’s respite, and Went on to
gain an unquestionable decision.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The second day of the autumn meeting
at Caulfield dawned dull and sultry, and
women were undecided as to apparel.
Consequently dressing was mostly nonde-
script, although a few achieved smartness.
Mrs. Norman Martin topped a sage-green
suit with a matching felt Matador hat,
tied up with brown veiling. Mrs. Ross Grey
Smith associated a smart brown-and-
white polka-dot frock with a wide brown
straw hat. The white linen jacket of Mrs.
James Dalziell (formerly of Hong Kong)
was banded in navy blue to match her
skirt. A white blue-banded Baku hat
completed an attractive ensemble. Mrs.
Dalziell was happy in the fact that she
had heard from her husband, still in
Japanese hands.
Another visitor to Melbourne was
charming American Red Cross worker
Florence Des Baillets. Although her
family is of U.S.A. origin, they have
made their home in Montreal, and it was
from this city Florence joined up with
the Red Cross. Over from Sydney to see
her mother and to fulfil radio engage-
ments,. Sheila Helpman took time off to
have a day at the races. She looked stun-
ning in a tomato-toned suit and was
with Mrs, G. Heslop. Winsome Dane, a
student at the University, wore a simple
pink-and-white candy-striped frock. With
her was Diana Oliphant in grey tweeds
and novel knitted fisher cap. A few
spots of rain fell during the afternoon,
but the weather was kind to the thou-
sands who turned up at this very pleas-
ing racecourse.
Devotees of culture are having a busy
time. Recently four art shows were
opened in one day and flying from one
to the other kept the aesthetic busy. Mel-
bourne art-lovers have been eager to see
the much-discussed work of William
Dobell, and the Town Hall was thronged
with a crowded mass of humanity when
his pictures were displayed there. Also
there was a show of pictures by well-
known artists to help the Victorian
Women Artists’ War Fund. This col-
lection was managed by Pegg Williams
housed in the Blue Door, a quiet
little residence in a small lane off Collins-
street. The Blarney lady made a short
speech in opening the exhibition and
spoke glowingly of Harold Herbert and
the way in which he had helped young
artists. On the same day Dr, John Dale
opened the Alma Figuerola show with
some trenchant remarks about “modern”
art. The day ended with University Vice-
Chancellor Medley presiding at George’s
Gallery, where four artists displayed
North Queensland paintings.
Well-known folk who went to all the
shows in one day included Mrs. John
Heath, who wore a well-cut tweed suit
and featured a gay red pullover; Mrs.
Don MacKenzie, in blue and cyclamen,
a matching floral creation atop her
Edwardian hair-do, and Margaret Saker,
declaring that she needed not a surrealist
painting of a cup of tea, but the real
thing. Mrs. Michael Hall enjoyed a day
among the pictures, and Lieut. Gordon
Blackburn and wife Royal went the
rounds, fostering a love of art in small
son Tony, who preferred above all pic-
tures the portrait of Smoky, a very life-
like study of the cat who keeps the mice
away at the East Kew home: of Alma
Figuerola. This is one of the mansions
built in the fifties of last century, and
was the home of the Stawells.
Melbourne is shaking off the effects
of the Christmas holidays. The various
war organisations are once more in full
swing, and plans for the reception of the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester are set-
ting society agog. The Victorian Gov-
ernment’s levee will be held on Friday
in the Art Gallery, chosen for its lovely
background and because it will hold the
many guests comfortably.
Helinka de Tarczynska, who last year
was the outstanding student at Mel-
bourne’s Conservatorium and won the
prize at the Beethoven Festival, is back
home again. With three other girls,
Helinka went on an 11-days’ tour, giving
concerts to army and air force personnel.
The Army Educational Service, which
was responsible for the tour, evidently
has an eye for a pretty lass, for all four
girls are attractive blondes, as well as
outstanding musicians. Making Albury
their headquarters, the girls visited camps
in the district and gave seven concerts.
As well as playing the piano, Helinka
sings, and it was in this capacity that she
joined the concert party. Mavis Ward
was the accompanist, Poppe Olsen
violinist and Mary McLeod pianist.
Helinka says they were all terrified when
they saw the huge audience, but the boys
were appreciative and liked the music.
Schubert’s “Ave Maria” and “Waltzing
Matilda” were frequent request numbers.
An interesting musician now living in
Melbourne is ’cellist Artos Martelli.
During Sir Philip Game’s term as Gover-
nor of N. S. Wales, Martelli was a fre-
quent visitor at G.H., and his drawing-
room recitals were greatly appreciated by
Sir Philip and his lady. When in Eng-
land this ’cellist often met Sir Henry
Wood, and he often hears from Lady
Wood, now living in Maoriland. Mr.
Martelli will shortly give two recitals in
the Assembly Hall.
The Spitfire exhibition, in Melbourne
Town Hall, was a marked success.
Attendance was over 80,000, and takings
exceeded £6OOO.
Just a few weeks ago Joy Beattie (pic-
tured here by Ritter-Jeppesen) was living
in Oamaru (MX.). She loved to sing
and when the local operatic society pro-
duced “The Belle of New York” she
played the feminine lead. Then fate came
on the scene in the person of Harald
Bowden, manager of one of the Firm’s
touring companies. He saw and heard
Joy as the Belle, and considered she had
possibilities. On his recommendation,
she was flown to Melbourne, where she
was engaged to play Margot in “The
Desert Song.” The new star has an
attractive smile and figure, and the com-
plexion for which Maoriland girls are
famous. Her ambition, till a stage career
lay before her, was to sing in oratorio.
She made an 80-mile trip to Dunedin
every week-end for her singing lessons.
Her voice, the critics here say, has fresh-
ness and charm.
Busy times are ahead of the committee
and workers of the A.I.F. Women’s Asso-
ciation. They have planned many func-
tions, and their president, the Herring
lady, has gathered around her many en-
thusiasts. Mrs. Walter Carnegie, a vice-
president, and General Steele’s wife were
co-hostesses at a luncheon party given
recently at the association’s rooms in
Collins-street. The committee responsible
for the good things to eat had spent time
and care on their preparation, and the
result was very goodly fare. Mrs. Walter
Carnegie spoke of the competitions which
will be sponsored to help launch the fete
to be held on March 9. An apron com-
petition for which prizes of £2 2s. and
£1 Is. are offered is open to all, and there
are also prizes of £1 Is. and 10s. 6d. for
the most original article made from hes-
sian, costing not more than 2s. 6d. The
best-made string bag will be rewarded by
a prize of £1 Is. There are no entrance
fees, but the articles will become the
property of the A.I.F. and will be sold
at the fair. All articles must be delivered
to the A.I.F. Women’s Rooms before
March 6, and the name and address of
competitor in a sealed envelope clearly
marked to which competition it belongs.
Mrs. Vasey, wife of the general,
recently placed by a newspaper among
the 12 most handsome men in Australia,
is a member of this association, and will
manage a stall at the fair, which will be
held in the Town Hall. Some pretty
lingerie will be sold on that day, hand-
made, with rolled seams and excellent
stitchery. The women who have made
the garments have surrendered their own
precious coupons for the material, and
the product is sold to thd buyer coupon-
free. Auxiliaries to the association will
lend their aid both at the fair and on the
button day on March 2. These auxili-
aries, all busy women, have done a great
job on behalf of the A.I.F. holiday home
at Seaford.
From Sydney
Lord and Lady Wakehurst had a
pleasant afternoon for their reception to
U.N.R.R.A. importants. Probably no
Government House roof has ever covered
so many brains at once. Certainly tins
conference has been the grandest argu-
ment in favor of high-voltage develop-
ment of woman’s intelligence, and, look-
ing around the vice-regal drawing-room,
even a male cynic had to own chat polish-
ing their brains had not dimmed the
allure of women delegates. As remarked
before, they are an attractive group. Lord
and Lady Wakehurst received in the ball-
room, and guests could then stroll out
on to the long verandah that leads to the
gardens.
Church dignitaries and the British Navy
were among the changing groups. Vis-
countess Clive, down from Canberra to
do some shopping, was a guest who at-
tracted the gaze. Later, with the Gover-
nor and his wife, she went to the Town
Hall to hear the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, conducted by Dr. Bainton, in
a programme of British music—another
of the British Music Festival series. Sir
Paul Butler, leader of the United King-
dom U.N.R.R.A. group, was a notable
at the party. Lady Wakehurst wore
pearls with her attractive black afternoon
frock.
U.N.R.R.A., which for so long has been
a recurring note in the chorus of this city’s
sounds, last week swelled in volume and
became a leading solo. The reason, of
course, was that the much-talked-of and
looked-forward-to U.N.R.R.A. confer-
ence commenced its gigantic task at Lap-
stone Hotel. Dr. T. F. Tsiang, China’s
representative, who has presided at the
conference, arrived only the day before
the opening. He was just in time for
the reception given to the delegates by
Sydney’s Mayor and Mayoress. This
filled the civic drawing-room at midday
last Wednesday, and greeting overseas
visitors were Australia’s Attorney-
General Dr. Evatt and his wife and R. G.
Menzies. Dr. Evatt led the Australian
delegation.
Preparations for the big talks, which
were planned to put the people of war-
stricken countries back on their own feet
so that they will build their own better
world, were long and arduous. The small
hall or theatre has practically disappeared
from Sydney. No matter how they
searched, from the University to the
Quay, the seekers could find no tempor-
ary home for the discussions. Then the
bright idea of chartering Capstone flashed
in someone’s brain. Guests were asked
politely but firmly to go to other accom-
modation which the management found
for them. And there, at the foot of the
Blue Mountains since last Thursday, the
70 delegates (with their attendant secre-
taries), representing nine Governments,
have talked, eaten and slept. In between,
no doubt, they have found time to delight
in the far stretching vistas, the distant
lavender-blue haze and the swimming
pool.
Just as soon as fiance, Lieut. Barry
Lyle (A.1.F.), arrives from the North,
and he is on his way now, attractive Julee
Helen McGrath, of Vaucluse, will pause
in her ministrations at C.U.S.A. canteens
and the American Centre to put the finish-
ing touches on her wedding arrangements.
Barry’s home address is Rose Bay, and
the Church of St. Mary Magdalene in
the same suburb will bless the vows.
Juice’s attendants will include sisters Mrs.
Platt Hepworth and Ann, who will be
a flower-girl, and Inez Lyle. Lee photo-
graph.
One night last week groups of workers
in the St. Andrew’s Cathedral huts
gathered first in the cathedral for their
fifth birthday service, and later in the
Chapter House for friendly reunion. All
the work of C.E.N.E.F. is voluntary,
and many of the helpers have been on
active service for five years. Archbishop
Mowll complimented them on their
achievement. There are more than 1500
C.E.N.E.F. workers, and they give in-
valuable aid in hospitals as well as in
the canteens. Incidentally, two and a
half million meals have been served in
the cathedral hut. Counted in terms of
washing up alone, any housekeeper will
know what that means. Lady Wakehurst
was at both the service and the party
following. So were the Archbishop’s wife
and Mayoress Neville Harding, who has
been a voluntary helper at the hut since
opening day.
Seven hundred thousand handkerchiefs
and 300,000 face-washers are needed for
the A.C.F, by the end of March. The
Women’s War Comforts Section of the
fund has this matter in hand, and is mak-
ing appeal for help in the hemming of
the articles. Hankies and washers are
two necessities even in war zones. They
are needed by the private as urgently as
by the field-marshal, so acting supervisor
of the section, Mrs. J. G. Farquharson,
urges that now is the time for all good
machinists to come to the aid of the
party. The handkerchief manufacturers
of the city are cutting up bales of ma-
terial to the required size, so all that
remains to be done is the hemming. Will-
ing helpers can learn all details by call-
ing at the A.C.F. Comforts Depot, Pru-
dential Buildings, Martin-place.
Young China in Sydney never slackens
in its efforts on behalf of the “War-
phans,” special proteges of the wife of
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. Already
these, young people are deep in prepara-
tions for their yearly dragon festival
ball, on June 19. On that night the
Trocadero ballroom will be all the
brighter for 20 pretty Chinese debutantes.
These will be presented to the wife of
China’s Minister to Australia, and the
girls are already rehearsing the some-
what elaborate ceremony surrounding
the big moment. Dragon souvenir
brooches to be sold at the ball are
being made by a group of ardent workers
in their spare hours.
Large and airy rooms with two and
three beds in them are brighter than tiny
separate cubicles. That has been the de-
cision of all concerned in the designing
of the A.C.F. Women Officers’ club at
Elizabeth Bay. This was once known as
the Garden Club. It is very handy to
transport and the bright lights of King’s
Cross. It is, for good walkers, just a
nice-sized tramp to the city. The club
has been re-decorated and furnished, and
is a very bright spot indeed. Some of the
guests have already become familiar
with the pleasant place, though the
official opening by Lady Wakehurst
does not happen till next Tuesday after-
noon.
U.N.R.R.A. delegate for the U.K.,
Eleanor Hinder, is a native of Maitland
(N.S.W.), and a science graduate of Syd-
ney University. Eleanor knows as much
as any of conditions in China. For ten
years she was chief of the Industrial
and Social Division of the Shanghai
Municipal Council. She was in Shanghai
until August, 1942, and was repatriated
in the only exchange ship for British out
of China. Since Shanghai Eleanor has
been in Canada, where she was on the
staff of the International Labor Office
in Montreal. She was a special consul-
tant on Asiatic labor and social ques-
tions. In military parlance she has been
seconded (that is she has retired tem-
porarily from that service, but has taken
another job under the Government; m
the case of an officer he would forego his
pay, but retain his rank) for a year to the
service of the U.K. to represent it in the
councils of U.N.R.R.A.
Friday, June 15, will be Red Cross
Day. R.C. branches are already busy
on the ground work for the “popular
mother” contest, which will be the back-
bone of the appeal. All mothers are
eligible. Entries must reach Red Cross
Day office in Martin-place by February
28, and the contest closes on Mother’s
Day, May 13, at midnight. There are
three prizes of £250 each, and these will
go to the branches whose mothers scoop
in the largest number of votes. Every
vote represents a penny.
The Sydney Savage Club is offering a
yearly scholarship q| £5O “to assist a
young Australian in the study of the
Arts.” Applicants must be natural-born
British subjects, and must be between
18 and 25. Applications must be made
on forms to be obtained from the hon.
sec., Sydney Savage Club, Adrian Ashton,
27 Hopetoun-avenue, Mosman, N.S.W.,
Shore chapel was a centre of in-
terest last Saturday afternoon for Kirn-
billi residents. Donald Taylor, whos
father, W. D. M. Taylor, was one of the
best-known members of the Royal bp
ney Yacht Squadron, which has its hoffi
on Kirribilli Point, and whose mother»
one of the club’s most active associates
was the bridegroom in a matrimony
tableau. His pretty bride was Pamei
Shortland, whose parents are Judge an
Mrs. P. D. Shortland, of Strathfield,


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others per line.
Servicemen and Civil Life
I disagree with the reiterated cry that
“nothing is too good” for returned ser-
vicemen, if it is to apply to all of them,
irrespective of where and how they served
and their physical condition when dis-
charged. To admit that returned men
must have special consideration because
so many of them will find it hard to refit
themselves to civil life will lead only to
industrial and social chaos. If any author-
ity holds the idea that men must be sup-
ported in idleness until they feel inclined
to tackle civilian jobs, another think about
it is recommended. These youths and
men had promptly to adapt themselves
to Army life, and should understand that
speedy re-adaptation to civil life is just
as necessary.
A group of men who enlisted in
1914 and spent far longer abroad than
the average Second World War man
slipped back into place within a few
weeks of being repatriated. All those
chaps, not having wasted time complain-
ing how irksome work was, climbed pretty
high in the commercial world or the
public service. A big percentage of
present-war men have not seen any fight-
ing or suffered any privations worth men-
tioning, except the “hardship” of knuck-
ling down to Army discipline, which is
distasteful to most Australian youngsters.
To encourage them to think that the
months (or years) subsequent to discharge
are to be similar to the loafing leave spells
they have had in the old home town
would be madness, leading to an excess
of useless loungers.
History is an alternation of peace and
war, and the intervals between must be
filled by making up for the waste,
deterioration and marking-time of years
which, had there been no war, would
have been devoted to progress. Everyone
must lend a hand if Australia is to catch
up those arrears and at the same time
prepare for its own defence against the
next threatened invasion.
A campaign to get that idea into the
majority of the men’s heads before they
step out of uniform would achieve more
than any “rehabilitation” schemes an-
nounced so far. It could be launched
through the Army journals, films, radios,
lectures and in letters from home. Men
who enlisted to defend their country must
be practical patriots, and it should not
be hard to convince them how best their
patriotism can again be expressed after
the war. Certainly they won’t help this
country by hanging around waiting for
congenial jobs.
Allowance will be made, of course,
for the men who have inhaled and swal-
lowed the grit of North Africa and per-
spired in the jungles of New Guinea, for
men bearing the scars of battle and the
maladies of those climates. Suitable
jobs must be found for those of them
capable of doing some work. But let’s
not forget that idleness is the door
through which all the other vices enter.
—I/A.I.F. (N.S.W.).
A Serviceman’s Party
I can’t agree with “Sans Changer” (B.
10/1/’45) that a Serviceman’s party is
a desirable political development. Most
members of the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. decided
their political affiliations before they
donned uniform, and they have no desire
to split the league with debates on matters
of principle that can’t settle anything.
Anyway, what practical influence is a
Serviceman’s party likely to exercise?
From 1928 until the commencement of
this war the main platform of the
League’s policy was “Adequate Prepara-
tion for Defence.” Its recommendations
were treated with contempt by the poli-
ticians, though there probably never has
been, and perhaps never again will be, a
subject on which Diggers will be so
wholeheartedly in agreement. Possibly
had the League issued an ultimatum and
threatened to advise its members to vote
against the Government unless its wishes
were respected more notice would have
been taken. But that course can still be
adopted whenever necessary without
going into general politics.— Eye Wonder
(R.A.A.F.).
Why Anzac House?
I cannot understand the proposal to
spend £1,000,000 on Anzac House. The
main aim of any organisation claiming
to have the welfare of returned service-
men at heart should be social security—
freedom from want and fear.
Those who died, if they could be con-
sulted, would not ask for a block of
offices as a memorial for their sacrifice.
Rather would they wish laughter, happy
faces, brighter homes for all those they
hold dear. They would appreciate a
roomy house and a garden for their fami-
lies, and for their cobbers who did come
back, with a background of good jobs
and every possible assistance in rehabili-
tation.
Compared with Maoriland, Australia’s
treatment of returned men is paltry. A
lot of cash has been collected, but there
seems to be very little return for it. Men
going back into civvies need lorries,
furniture, clothes, cash, a whole heap
of assistance. I suggest “Houses for
Anzacs,” not “Anzac House.” —NX 9109
(A.1.F.),
Helping Fuzzy-wuzzy
“Sac Sac” (B. 24/1/’45) apparently is
unaware that something is already being
done on behalf of the natives of New
Guinea. A.N.G.A.U., with the co-opera-
tion of the broadcasting station 9PA
Port Moresby (under the aegis of
A.8.C.), has undertaken a promising
project.
Each week periods are devoted to
broadcasts for native listeners. These
are made in the widely-known 'Motu
language, and aim at educating the native
in hygiene and agriculture. To provide
further interest, native fables and tribe
histories are broadcast also. Friendly
“That reminds me—I've come away without something!”
relations with neighbors and a sense of
communal responsibility are fostered.
A.N.G.A.U. also gives food, clothing
and medical attention to the native in
return for labor. This scheme, if not
wholly philanthropic, is at least prac-
tical, and evinces interest in the future
welfare of the natives. —D.H. R.
(R.A.A.).
Seek American Immigrants
If “E.M.” (B. 17/1/’45) is right and
there is “no possibility of large-scale
American emigration to Australia after
the war” we are up against a stiff prob-
lem. Population we certainly need—2s
millions at least. We can’t breed the
additions in time; we must get them
ready-made. From where? A million
or so possibly from Britain, certainly
not the 18 millions we are short. From
Europe? It may be a possibility, but
with 18 million people speaking foreign
tongues we would cease to be part of the
Anglo-Saxon family ; we would risk the
ultimate loss even of our English speech.
America retained hers and a majority
of British descent —there are more people
of British origin in the U.S. than in
Britain, since more than half the 138
millions derive from the foggy isles. Obvi-
ously our only hope if we must have a
big increase in population is to get immi-
grants from Uncle Sam. The American,
even of European parentage, is already
semi-Australianised.
It’s true Americans are a home-loving
lot, but this didn’t stop them from mov-
ing across the plains last century when
the Western States were farther away (in
time) than Australia is from the U.S.
today. Post-war airlines will almost en-
able the immigrant to fly home across
the Pacific for the week-end.
The American may be a businessman,
but why must he have “a factory in a
densely-settled population”? There are
some pretty good business opportunities
in the field of distribution (employing
far more than manufacturing in peace-
time) and opportunities look as attrac-
tive in this sphere here as in the U.S.
But it must be remembered that agri-
culture is still the biggest single peace-
time industry under the Stars and Stripes.
More money is paid out to farmers than
goes into the pay envelopes of all the
factory workers in the country. But
opportunities for farm-raised boys to start
on their own are not what they were.
In normal times there is a large surplus
farm population.
Doesn’t it look as if we have some
tempting chances for those farm boys
when the war boom is over? We could
have probably half of the U.S. annual
increase of farm population, 445,000,
if we went the right way about it.
Enveen (las.).
Variety and Prefabrication
“T.P.V.’s” recipe for avoiding mono-
tony in post-war housing by mass-pro-
duction (B. 7/2/’45) is to have numbers
of styles, using different external finishes,
placing prefabricated houses in different
positions on allotments and varying
fences, paths and driveways. This is no
new thing and “T.P.V.” has only to look
down the sort of suburban street where
each successive villa has a different sort
of pillar, each more screwy than the last
one, to see that such devices don’t banish
monotony.
If “T.P.V.” thinks that individuality
in housing will be achieved in that way
he is likely to be disappointed. There
was once a beautiful “colonial” archi-
tecture in Australia which could have
been developed, but Australian archi-
tects chose other paths, with results we
can see all around us. Anyway, the road
to individuality and art is not through
mass-production.—F. S. (Vic.).
Price of Booze
At Mitchell (Q.), 370 miles s.-w. of
Brisbane, a publican was fined £8 and
costs for charging 2s. 6d. for two nob-
blers of Australian whisky, with a dash
of aerated water, the maximum price
being lid. a nip. That happened a year
ago.
My town is 250 miles nearer Brisbane
than is Mitchell, and the man who could
obtain a nobbier of Australian or any
other whisky for lid. at any time during
the past two and a half years would have
achieved notoriety as a miracle-maker.
The minimum charge here for Australian
whisky, with water, has been Is. 2d. a
nip. A dash of aerated water or cordial
brings the price up to anything from
Is. 3d. to Is. 6d. So far there have been
no prosecutions of publicans for over-
charging.
Bottle prices of spirituous liquors are
supposed to be fixed, but, in effect, Bung
uses his fancy about the price—never less
than twice the official figure. Why is the
law a dead letter? —How Much Longer
(Q-).
A Telephone Annoyance
Telephone subscribers, particularly
those in country districts, are still being
annoyed by the regulation which compels
operators to withhold the origin of trunk-
line calls.
This, we were told, was brought in for
security reasons shortly after Pearl Har-
bor. In spite of repeated requests in the
country press and protests by graziers’
associations and similal: bodies, the regu-
lation has not been relaxed though the
reasons for it have long disappeared.—
Marjorie Maclean (N.S.W.).
Film Fashions and Families
Milady sits before her mirror trying a
new hair-do and experimenting with a
daring and different make-up. She lets
her nails grow like talons and paints them
in vivid colors. She has come to believe
that drinking cocktails and smoking
chain cigarettes is smart.
And who or what inspired the new
make-up, the change iri hair-style, the
painted claws and the drinking and smok-
ing? If you answered “The films” I
think you’d be about 99 p.c. correct. A
popular actress has just to start a new
fad or fashion and she is followed re-
ligiously by the big majority of feminine
movie fans.
The authorities are continually look-
ing for ideas to increase our population.
Why not make use of this most powerful
instrument of propaganda? Why not
start a fashion of film stories featuring
big families ; good interesting, well char-
acterised yarns with the hero and/or
heroine members of large families?
Plenty of such stories and unconsciously
audiences would be thinking, talking and
acting on the idea. But the pill will have
to be very subtly sugar-coated. — Peter
(Q-).
Future of Wool
Last year I suggested that instead of
antagonising British buyers of our wool
by excluding their manufactured articles
from our market it might be more profit-
able in the long run to retain them as
friends to help us in our fight against
synthetics.
Since then it has been reported that the
synthetics threat has been intensified by
the production of near-wool from pea-
nuts. As time goes on, doubtless other
cheap sources will be found, and it is
unlikely that the cheapening of produc-
tion of the natural article will be suffi-
cient to stave off this competition.
It is estimated that the amount of
natural wool available in America and
Australia at present is equal to three
years’ production, and pressure of these
stocks, added to the increasing output of
substitutes, is going to make woolgrow-
ing a precarious business for some years.
But in spite of this and in order to supply
our own market of a mere seven mil-
lion people we are jeopardising our chief
source of income. Added to this there
is the prospect of an economic world
price for all primary products being es-
tablished after the war —including wool
—and if this takes place Australia will
suffer in proportion to the magnitude of
her tariffs.—A. W. Aster (W.A.).
Official Tree Destruction
Windbreaks which would counter
erosion in areas where most lands
are under plough have been, and are
being, ruthlessly destroyed by Govern-
ment-controlled undertakings in all States.
Wherever a telephone or telegraph line
has been erected the Postmaster-General s
Department has made a wholesale slaugh-
ter of trees on roadsides, though a little
lopping now and then would have been
ample safeguard for the lines.
Then, when the electricity undertakings
come along and extend their lines, they
take the other side of the road, and the
trees on that side get the axe. Why the
P.M.G.’s Department and the electricity
undertakings cannot erect their lines on
the same side of a country road has never
been explained.
They could do much to counter wind
erosion by co-operating with shire coun-
cils and other bodies in the planting of
leafy, short-trunked trees along highways
and feeder roads. Roadside tree-planting
might spur some landowners to plant trees
or hedges boundary fences.
Dusty Skies (Q.).
Need for Thrift
Australians show singular incom-
petence in the manner in which they dis-
burse their incomes. How can they ex-
pect economy and wise husbandry on a
national scale whilst individually they
pave their ways to hell with unwarranted
largesse?
Despite rationing and certain short-
ages, enough food goes into the garbage
tins of, our cities and hamlets to feed
amply the starving Greeks. Men who
complain about high taxation tip bar-
maids. Women bemoan depleted purses
as they squander pounds on a wisp of
straw and lace.
A little more time spent in the garden
and more careful food purchasing could
halve the weekly food bill of most
families, with a growing savings account
as the result. Sudden affluence appears
to have turned our heads, until we seem
to glory in the artlessness of prodigality.
—T. R. E. (N.S.W.).


w or
M
MS
• • • • his Dad works with
Nestle’s . . . and so does his eldest sister.
And although they never boast about it,
they’re doing a war job of which the boy
can be truly proud.
Without limelight or public praise, and Without seeking
either, they are measuring up to the vital, urgent, over-
whelming and increasing demand for more and more milk
and milk foods . . . sustaining, energising, life-restoring milk
for the Forces, for women and children in war-racked countries
overseas, for the mothers of babies, for invalids, and for
families all over Australia.
No sooner do they break one production record than they are
called upon to break another. And they do it . . . not because
they enjoy the added strain . . . but because they know the
need is real—and because they have over a thousand workmates
in the fighting line.
They are part of an organisation which must think of milk in
terms of millions upon millions of gallons. That is a lot of milk
... a lot of work ... a lot of responsibility.
They belong to an organisation which deals with milk from the
stage of veterinary service and the provision of farm machinery
to the dairy farmer up to pasteurising, processing! canning,
labelling, packing, transportation and delivery of unparalleled
quantities of milk, condensed milk, powdered milk, baby foods
and invalid foods. Their job is vital .
fIOPTTJTOTTT R2OOS
As the war approaches its climax their work
becomes harder, as does that of the dairy
farmer with whom they ' co-operate . Produc-
tion must go on increasing. and they will
not fail So—back them up! If war imposes
some slight hardship, be patient, exercise
all possible economies . Do that, and these
people, backed by thousands of colleagues,
will progressively make yourfull requirements
easier to meet
Nestles
A HOUSEHOLD WORD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
