

VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,’* VoL 66 —No. 3392
Wednesday, February 14, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at .he Genera! Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, lor Transmission by Post as a Newspaper
Seppelts
THE MARKET PLACE AND CATHEDRAL TOWERS OF WELLS.
1 i ROBABLY the smallest “city” in England, Wells in Somerset
* owes its importance almost entirely to its ecclesiastical asso-
ciations, for it has little trade or manufacture to make it great.
The principal building of Wells is its magnificent cathedral, built
mainly in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, and of which the
west front, considered one of the best examples of Early English
work, is ornamented with over three hundred statues, many being
perfect specimens of medieval sculpture. Wells, with its famous
beautiful cathedral, is encircled by the Mendip Hills and still
remains almost as it was in the Middle Ages. The market place
in Wells is surrounded by a number of picturesque old houses
and from it two ahcient gateways lead ; one, the Bishop’s Eye,
to the bishop’s palace; and the other, the Dean’s Eye, to the
beautiful cathedral close which is rivalled only by that of Salis-
bury. The city of Wells owes its origin and its name to local
springs dedicated to Saint Andrew.


Tt-ru
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
lioolclet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.’’
My Name
My Address •
S-B, 245 AGE
The Red Page
ROBERT GIBBINGS AGAIN.
Conversation-piece from Robert Gib-
bings’s Lovely is the Lee (Dent);
Standing about were elderly farmers in
swallow-tailed coats and wide black hats,
younger men in caps, mackintoshes and
leggings, old women in red petticoats,
madonnas in shawls. Here and there an
Aran islander in his distinctive dress of
speckled blue and white homespuns and
sandals of rough hide—pampooties, they
call them.
On all sides bargains were being struck,
and not only concerning cattle. When I
went back to the hotel for breakfast two.
men were talking in the hall.
“What sort of a girl would she be?” asked
one.
“A nice quiet little thing,” was the
answer.
“And how many five-pound notes might
she bring?”
“There’d be 40 or 50 anyway.”
“I’ll see what I can do,” said the first
speaker.
“You ought to be ashamed of yourelf,
Paddy Muldoon,” said Miss McGovern,
pushing her head through the open hatch
from the bar. “Selling girls for money.”
“They’d get good homes,” said Paddy.
In Lovely is the Lee Robert Gibbings
has made the same sort of book as his
Sweet Thames Run Softly and Coming
Down the Wye: a word-picture of a
countryside, illustrated by his celebrated
wood engravings. This time the engrav-
ings seem fewer and less striking than
previously, but the text makes up for the
lack by an added richness. Centralised
by the river Lee, the narrative wanders
happily about Southern Ireland and
brings in the land and the farmers, the
bogs and the bogeys, the sea coast and
the fishermen ; an idle, informative, non-
political, care-free travelogue to the
accompaniment of running water:
On all sides from the tailor’s house
gigantic rocks dominate the heather-covered
landscape. Into their crevices hollytrees
and rowans eat a way, and ferns lux-
uriate in the crannies. Over their surfaces
crinkled lichens spread themselves like
splashes of gold and silver paint, while
ever in one’s ears there is the sound of
running water, a high-pitched note above -
the falls, a mellow murmur in the pool
below.
Gibbings meets a young man who is
sincerely “very much obliged to him”
for coming to tell him he has run over
one of his hens. He learns that the fisher-
men of Galway believe it is unlucky to
save a man from drowning because “the
sea must have its due.” In the limestone
country around Lough Mask and Lough
Carrib he was told of trout that lost
themselves in the fissures and would
appear mysteriously in waterholes remote
from lake or river; and while he was
staying at Cong somebody caught a
fourteen-pound trout in the lake.
He investigated crannogs, the island
retreats of primitive times. He heard
tales of mirages of Atlantis and Hy
Brazil seen and even sketched from the
Aran Isles and the mainland. He visited
Dun Aenghus and Dun Cathair, the
mighty stone forts of the Isles whose
origin is still unknown. He gives the his-
tory of three redoubtable ladies of Cork
—the Hon. Elizabeth Aldworth, the only
woman ever to become a freemason;
Miss Thompson, who became Empress
of Morocco ; and Anne Bonny, who be-
came a pirate. And five miles along a
mountain track on his way to Gougane
Baira he met Jerry and Mikey and
Taedy, the proprietors of a whisky-still
in a cave. One of his best chapters is an
odd glimpse into the mind of a tailor:
He ran his fingers across my shoulders,
and pulled at the tail of my coat. Still he
said nothing; but he clapped his hands.
Then he took an old envelope from his
. pocket and wrote on the back of if: “Your
backbone will never cut your shirt.” Then
he clapped his hands again. Writing was
ms only means of communication. He was
a deaf-mute.
He disentangled a measuring tape from a
collection of string that was in his pocket
and began to take measurements. Sud-
denly, in quite an irrelevant way, he wrote:
“The crows will soon be building.” While
I read that he took another measurement.
Then he continued: “They start on the
Ist March. If that’s a Sunday they wait
till the 2nd.” While he was on his knees
dealing with my trousers he wrote: “If you
get the rheumatics boil a heron and rub in
the oil.”
The book is a bit padded, perhaps;
myths and superstitions are dragged in
at every possible opportunity to such an
extent that one’s inclined to agree with
one of Gibbings’s old Irishwomen,
“Ring-a-dora! Listen to the ould divil
there in the shmoke, with his backside
glued to the box like a statoo. Glory
be! Always the lies and the carry-on.”
But most of “the lies and the carry-on”
are interesting enough, and the book is
certainly very good in its pictures of
scenes and characters, especially in re-
mote districts ; in one of which a woman
said when Gibbings asked if there would
be many cars passing along the road,
“Indeed there would. I declare to God
you’d see one every day.”
Landau Attempts fiction.
“It is very seldom that life produces the sort
of types that fiction writers are wont to create,
or plots such as they revel in. There’s usually
a unity about both their plot's and their charac-
ters which you would never find in reality.
It seems to me that life hardly ever proceeds
in accordance with what you call logical de-
velopment. It’s too incalculable, too mys-
terious....! refuse to believe that you can de-
scribe life truthfully in terms of fiction.”
The statement is made by a character
in one of Rom Landau’s short stories in
The Brother Vane (Faber). Another
character in the story—a novelist —
objects:. “If you are right the entire
body of fiction-writing would be of no
value whatever.” The other retorts:
“Not at all. The great novels are great
because they are great works of art and
faithfully obey the laws that govern art.
But they are not life. And it is right that
they shouldn’t be. For if they try to be life
they merely, turn into photographs. And
even the best photograph is only two-
dimensional and can never be taken from
more than one point of view. If you took
a thousand photographs of the same object
you would still be unable to convey the
truth about it. But even great fiction can
never aspire to be truth. It is something
of its bwn. The laws by which it is ruled
are vaguely related to truth and thus
to actual life.”
The novelist submits that even life is
governed by laws and rules. The other
proceeds:—
“Yes, but they are extremely complex
and subtle and altogether outside of the
novelist’s own province. If he were to
write according to those mysterious laws—
known only to God—and yet were a good
writer, he would probably turn into a
philosopher or even a mystic. They alone
are concerned with Truth with a capital
T, and not with individual snapshots of it.
Life is truth; the domain of the novelist
is fiction.
Which is a most pernicious piece of
false logic. Though it is highly mislead-
ing to speak of the great novelists as
“revelling in plots” as if they dealt in the
machine - made situations of cheap
comedies and magazine fiction, it must
be admitted that life is too complex to
be grasped in all its detail within the
compass of a work of art. And, it is
also true that merely to photograph life
doesn’t make a novel.
As Rom Landau says, great fiction is
“something of its own.” But what is
that something? If great fiction isn’t
picture of life in all its complexity whai;
is it? Rom Landau’s novelist should
have known the answer. Great fiction is
an image of life. A simplification and a
clarification ; not something “only vaguely
related to truth and thus to actual life,”
but something most directly related to
both —their essence ; the essence of truth,
the essence of life. The hairs on a man’s
head may be too many for the novelist
to number; but a simplification that says
the man is ginger-headed cannot reason-
ably be described as “only vaguely related
to truth.”
The views put into the mouth of the
novelist’s opponent may not be Rom
Landau’s; but, asserting in effect the
superiority of mysticism and philosophy
over fiction, they seem very much the
views that would be held by an author
who has written much about religion and
morals and who in The Brother Vane is
struggling towards the far more difficult
achievement of the creation of character
in fiction. , And if he is to succeed in
fiction Rom Landau will have to approach
the art with considerably greater respect,
for only one of the stories in this book
is fully acceptable as a work of art.
That one, “The Bottles of the
Marquis,” dealing with a French soldier
of the old styles—one whom shallow
writers might see as a kind of cross-
Channel Colonel Blimp, but whom Lan-
dau portrays as a lion of the desert and
the incarnation of France —is an out-
standing piece of work. Opening with a
view of the marquis at his lunch table
surrounded by the innumerable bottles
of sauce and pickles which he takes with
him everywhere on his travels around
the military posts of Tunisia, proceed-
ing to the odd revelation that he carries
also in his baggage a collection of rare
and exotic perfumes, and ending with his
accidental death when he is encouraging
raw soldiers to learn to shoot straight,
the portrait is remarkably rich and re-
markably complete.
But the other stories are sermons. As
in the title story, which opens with the
promise of an interesting character study
of a murderer and turns out to be a lec-
ture on morals, the reader is continually
being invited to a theatre, as it were,
and finding himself in church. Or, if it
is not lay-preaching that the author
adopts in his attempts to improve on the
“vague” revelations of fiction, the reader
finds himself in the psycho-analyst’s con-
sulting-room listening to some shadowy
case-history. The result, of necessity, is
precisely the opposite of what Rom Lan-
dau intended: his characters are mere
dummies, consequently his stories have
only a vague relation to truth and life.
New Zealand Essayist
New Zealand has an essayist of genuine
quality in F. L. Combs, whose Half
Lengths has been published by the Pro-
gressive Publishing Society. He Hhs a
pleasing style, in which the polysyllables,
archaisms and tags from the classics, used
ironically rather than pedantically, may
be not merely pardoned but admitted
as virtues ; he has humor, a sharp eye for
character, a love for good literature and,
though he claims to be “half a Marxist,”
is much too human to be anything of the
sort.
His “half Marxism,” which might
equally well be described as liberalism,
appears to be the basis of his book since
most of the essays have some sort of
social comment in them—usually on edu-
cation —but his real inspiration comes
from a source much deeper. He is not so
much a man of politics as a man of letters,
and, like all true men of letters, he is
fascinated by the spectacle of the world
—the New Zealand world—as it is; life
as it is, and man as he is. \
Men amuse him, life amuses him ; and
that is why his essays amuse the reader.
Mr. Combs is, or obviously has been, a
school-teacher. He would probably call
himself a “pedagogue,” and would be
delighted if, as he deserves, the appellation
was at once dignified and humanised into
“dominie.” His subjects are “How Rua-
poko Got its School Baths,” a comedy
of smalltown villainy reminding one of
Brian James’s story of “The Scandal of
Cookabundy Bridge,” which was pub-
lished in The Bulletin some time ago ;
“An Old Pupil,” which comes resignedly
to the conclusion that it doesn’t pay to
have brains in this world ; “Two of the
Teaching Trade,” giving portraits of a
weak master bullied by the pupils and a
successful tyrant rejoicing in the nick-
name of “Broad Beans”; “Charlotte
Criminal,” a delightful picture of an
urchin of the slums, at once gay and
pathetic ; “The Store,” a rural comedy;
“To an Old Flame,” “On Being the
Youngest,” “My Janitor,” “A Mother,”
and three or four more.
The essays are by no means for an
audience of school-teachers (or peda-
gogues) only. Mr. Combs writes for
everybody who has ever been to school
and laughed at the master, wondered at
him, revered or hurled an inkwell at him.
His small boys, particularly in “On Being
the Youngest,” are remarkably well
observed, and the essays in which they
appear have the magic proper to all good
studies of childhood, the power of evok-
ing in the reader memories of his own
youth.
The essays are really fragments of
autobiography. Mr. Combs must certainly
have more to say about himself, the
pupils he has taught and the men and
women he has observed. He might do
w T ell to say it in a full-scale story of his
life.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“Curtain Raiser”: Brett Randall, who
runs Melbourne’s Little Theatre, has been
protesting in the press against the critics
and public who excuse poor perform-
ances of stage shows—not necessarily his
own —with the phrase “Not bad for ama-
teurs.” He says, quite justly, that we
rarely see a musical recital advertised for
public support unless it is from thor-
oughly trained artists, and that it is
equally necessary that a public perform-
ance of drama should be of like standard.
If it isn’t, it should be condemned,
not excused on the ground that it is only
an amateur production. Manet put the
same idea in a nutshell when Gauguin
showed his some of his first pictures,
painted in the leisure moments he
snatched from his profession as a banker.
“Of course, Master,” said Gauguin apolo-
getically, “I am only an amateur.” “There
are no amateur artists,” retorted Manet.
“There are only good artists and bad
ones.” Most amateur producers in Mel-
bourne collect a crowd of young men
and maidens more interested in matri-
mony than the drama, slap up a bit of
ridiculous scenery, hire a few costumes
from the theatrical clothing shops, and
after a couple of rehearsals give a per-
formance. They are hurt when the critics
fail to record enthusiastic approval.
Adelaide National Gallery is showing
a valuable loan collection of paintings
brought with him by Governor Norrie
The most striking is by Frank Salisbury
(whose Coronation picture is now here
too). It shows two of the King’s horses’
resplendent harness on life-sized heads’
with groom. His Ex. has distinctly sport-
ing tastes, and fox-hunting scenes old or
new make up much of the collection •
also Peter Scott, a son of the Antarctic
hero, gives vivid renderings of mallard
geese and teal in the wilds. As contrast’
Russell Flint has his brilliant girls of
seashore or studio. Algernon Hubbard
paints St. James’s Palace and the Mall,
Bert Nicholls has Shrewsbury and
Bridgnorth; both are artists of the
present century, yet with an oddly smooth
old-world touch.
“Melbn”: I wonder how long these
“modern” paintings, of which the Mel-
bourne National Gallery during Daryl
Lindsay’s term of office has acquired an
extensive collection, will last. To hasten
drying painters of today add terebene or
similar driers. But paintings dry from
the outside inwards, a process that, un-
assisted, may take years, and the uneven
pressure in time causes cracking. The
Old Masters used all sorts of methods to
prevent this— Titian, for instance, pre-
served his work by applying as many as
20 coats of glaze. Most modems are
too concerned about making a sale or
winning a prize to bother about such aids,
so their work isn’t likely to last much
longer than the ugly fashions they follow.
Just as well, perhaps.
At the talkies:
“The Way Ahead” (Sydney Embassy) intro-
duces a sergeant (Billy Hartnell) whose parade-
ground roar makes all other screen n.c.os.
sound like puling infant's. Following the
pattern of “The Gentle Sex,” the film takes
seven raw recruits, dumps them together and
lets the dreaded sergeant mould them into
fighting material for North Africa. Humor,
coming mostly from Stanley Holloway as an
ex-boiler-firer with forthright views, is strong
anti salty. The picture of the British Army is
convincing.
In the Patrick Hamilton play “Gaslight”
(Liberty) the playing by a husband on his wife’s
fears with the intention of driving her mad is
no new t'heme, but it is treated with freshness
and subtlety, and the director has achieved a
gripping tension. The wife is played with in-
telligence by Ingrid Bergman, with Charles
Boyer as the suave and polished husband
and Joseph Gotten the assistant Commissioner
of Scotland Yard who becomes interested in the
case personally and professionally. May Whitty
is a delight as a gossipy neighbor.
Bing Crosby’s easy screen manner in “Going
My Way” (Prince Edward) gets him by as an
athletic young priest sent to pull a slum parish
out of the financial doldrums. As the aged
. incumbent with his sly humor and human
foibles Barry Fitzgerald steals the show. His
at first reluctant and later skittish effort at
learning golf from two curates is genuinely
funny.
In “A Wing and a Prayer” (Empire) the audi-
ence is taken, as it were, into the Navy’s confi-
dence and the Americans’ Pacific strategy from
Pearl Harbor to the Battle of the Midway
Islands is explained. Newspapers are screaming
/‘Where is our Navy —why doesn’t it fight?”
and the question is echoed throughout the pic-
ture in varying accents by the men of an air-
craft-carrier running a gauntlet of Japanese
attack up and down the Pacific and forbidden
to strike back for strategic reasons which they
do not understand. The interest lies in the fact
that the audience, like the audience at a Greek
tragedy, knows the answer; and the historical
significance of the battle of the Midway Islands
overshadows the entire film.
“Mac Hoots”: Delighted as I always
am to encounter delicacy of mind, I was
mildly troubled to find that Hollywood’s
refinement had made nonsense of Somer-
set Maugham’s “Christmas Holiday.”
The theory behind this play is that people
must live fully; so that they may meet
their fellow-sinners with understanding
they must themselves have sinned and
suffered. To illustrate this, Maugham
takes the extreme case of a rich young
wastrel who is married to a completely
innocent girl. Her mere niceness is not
enough to hold him ; he falls into worse
errors than ever before and she, perceiv-
ing the inadequacy of mere niceness, be-
comes a harlot: so that when her hus-
band is released from the prison he has
landed himself in she will meet him
with sympathy and understanding. Ad-
mittedly, this is a pretty nonsensical busi-
ness, the mechanical working-out of a
psychological theory; but at least the
theory has something to it and, correctly
presented, would have been interesting.
Hollywood’s singular delicacy steps in
and makes the wife (Deanna Durbin,
who can’t act and whose face is a blank
mask) merely a singer in a nightclub.
It is not sinful to sing in a nightclub:
Maugham’s theory is not honestly pre-
sented, the whole film becomes meaning-
less. “The Bridge of San Luis Rey,” I
am told, was murdered in the same way
and for the same reason. Everybody
understands the motive of Hollywood’s
loftiness of soul; it’s not worth com-
ment. But I find it Staggering that
authors of such repute as Somerset
Maugham and Thornton Wilder can con-
sent to such mutilation of their work.


‘The Senior Store”
llv
/ys
I?-
■m vi
,7^
>W
r &T~~L
Os X
:
T~/S? A *
-sr
'!_ / -
7,
m
j
a
!>
-C
4
' -1
I
&
'V
E\ \
121 Years of
‘‘TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
A m honest man is deemed to be the noblest work of the Creator;
ot because "honesty is the best policy ,” but because
T be world finds inspiration in those who respect the truth above all.
|J —| onest principles are likewise the bedrock
n which this great Store is founded.
othing less * will satisfy us than that in every transaction, large or small, for cash
or on credit, within the building or a thousand miles away,
ou, our valued customer, should be able to place absolute reliance in the goods we
s offer you through the medium of the Press.
IB I ow often have you noticed that grand slogan of ours, "Truth in Advertising ”
<■ * marching proudly across the top
f every advertisement we publish, irrespective of the type of merchandise, "from
t needle to an anchor”?
ead it, and accept it without reservation: it is our pledge to you that we shall honour
your faith in us,
espite wartime difficulties such as reduced staff and restricted stocks
j ntailing extra work —which we cheerfully perform.
esponsibilities must be shouldered by everyone who would assist the nation at war,
ot least by a great commercial institution such as this with its time-honoured policy
of fair dealing.
ervice to the community along these lines is, we believe, our own particular respon-
* sibility and privilege.
Service
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
SYDNEY


"IT ALWAYS TAKES TWO"
By T. HUNGERFORD.
S the darkness faded into pearl-
/ I grey, the dense green mangroves
V I stood out more and more dis-
tinctly where they marched right
out into the water on gnarled black legs.
Soon the rising mist that curled above
the trees showed plainly where a tidal
creek wound back into the jungle, and,
as the water beneath the boat became less
opaque, Adam could see a fantastic world
of coral and weed, colorful and serene
beneath the surface.
Two lakatois sped out of the mouth
of the creek and, dipping and bobbing
through the light surf, glided at length
under the bow of the corvette. The boys
in them stood up and waved -their
paddles, and their voices rang out clear
and happy in the cool morning.
Adam thought of Lae.... no welcome
committee there; and yet he seemed
almost to have forgotten it already. It
must be the mind, building up a defence
against what it didn’t want to know or
remember; shying off the things that
would make it throb with hate and
misery, and make the heart face madly
when you woke up in the night with the
water up to your armpits, and the surf
sucking you back, and stabs of flame like
a bright amber necklace along the edge
of the jungle... .no ; you had to forget
or go batty. And so you forgot, just like
that, and started the next phase with a
clean slate—almost; you remembered the
things that your body had learned to
ensure its survival, every time something
new, until it grew, like everything in the
army, to be a drill: On “One!” leap clear
of the ramp. .,.
“Nice an’ quiet, ain’t it?” said Bob at
his elbow, and Adam replied “Yair.
Wonder when the Mayor an’ brass band
will show up?”
More lakatois were shooting towards
them, and one of them carried a wiry,
red-headed soldier in shorts and boots.
His hair hung down the nape of his neck,
and he was conversing fluently in pidgin
with the natives who paddled his canoe.
“Hi!” he yelled. “Nice work! Just
in time for breakfast,” and he swarmed
up the landing-net that hung over the
side, trailing in the clear water.
He was one of a party which had been
patrolling back of the beach for a couple
of months. As he reached the deck the
boys were crowding around him —how
were the boongs? Were there any Japs
close in? How close?
The stranger turned and pointed to
the frowning mountains that poked their
woolly crowns through the clouds a few
miles back from the sea. “Up there,”
he said, “any amount of ’em. In a bad
way, though; poor skinny brutes”....
Adam looked at the hills again. Some
of the upper slopes were flushed deep
pink in the growing light, and harsh
gashes of indigo showed where jungle-
matted re-entrants cut far back into the
ranges. Again he experienced the queer
feeling that he was being irresistibly
drawn toward them ; that, no matter what
he did, it was another link in the chain
of events that would one day confront
him with his destiny.
HE had felt it first when he stepped
on to the corvette that had brought
them here, a sudden realisation that the
step he took, severing him from the land,
was the first move in a new round. Death
or fate, whichever you preferred to call
it, had chased him halfway round the
world, from the Middle East to New
Guinea ; but now he knew that it was he
who did all the chasing, and that fate just
sat in its pre-destined place and waited
for him to come, jerking him like a man-
nikin on the end of a string that stretched
through four years and thousands of
miles ; and something told him that the
end of the string was somewhere in this
island up in those hills, maybe
He had been in other, bigger shows.
There it had been whole battalions that
had fought out their destinies, which were
inescapably the destinies of every soldier
fighting ; but here it was different, more
personal, somehow, and Adam felt fatal-
istic about it. Whatever happened in the
big war all over the world, for him things
were going to come to a head. He had
come halfway to his appointed climax —
or almost.
Someone else had travelled the other
half, someone whose slit eyes might even
now be fastened on the corvette from the
dark hills.
Wally had said the other night “I wish
I was a pilot, up there in a world all your
own.” But no man ever lived in a world
of his own, and Adam had replied “We’re
too much the creatures of circumstance,
and, no matter how much we kick, it’s
what the other fellow does to us, as much
as what we do to ourselves, that makes
us either this or that. It takes two to
make a cycle complete.” Someone kills
you, whether he breaths a ’flu germ down
your neck or drops a grenade behind you,
whether he know it or not; and through
all the years and all the places he went,
every move he made was designed to
bring him to just that place at just that
time when he would complete your run,
and then move on till he found someone
who would clinch the deal for himself;
and so the game went on. No matter
how you fancied yourself, you simply
were not the master of your own destiny.
The hills held Adam’s gaze, so lonely
and withdrawn, and yet seeming so lovely
and fragile where the white clouds clung
to the rain forests on the upper slopes
and the pink glow turned to gold.
He found himself thinking of his oppo-
site number, up there, crouching in the
dripping undergrowth. I suppose he’d be
about the same age, he mused ; but that’s
about as far as it would go.
What did a Japanese youth do—leave
school, start smoking and take his first
girls into the back seats of the pictures
to play at love in the close darkness, and
then proceed to dances, grog and maybe
a car, and then marriage? Or did this
black-eyed enemy dedicate himself to the
spreading of the seed of Yamato, as
Adam had read; work and study, and
deny his body for the Emperor, and take
his holidays in some national shrine in
the quiet of the cedar woods, marvelling
at the beauty of a spray of blossom etched
against the grey sky? All that was most
likely heifer-dust, anyway ; and yet, they
were a queer crew.
Adam had lived in Broome, on the
north-west coast, when he was a young-
ster, and had known plenty of Japs, espe-
cially the quiet, grave, button-eyed kids,
children of the divers who worked the
beds for shell, and, as it turned out,
systematically plotted every shoal and
inlet, reef and tidal creek along that wild,
lonely coast, right up around Arnhem
Land, where they went after trochus and
beche-de-mer, to the grey waters of the
great Gulf. Plotted it against the day,
twenty years later, when they would walk
in ; only their plans had gone astray. Few
had dreamed about that then; and if
they had, had been howled down.
ONE night every year the whole town
had turned out to watch them parade
in the feast of the lanterns.
In the velvety tropic dusk they gathered
on the white shell road down to the
beach, young and old, mostly dressed in
vivid kimonos, and each carrying a
colored paper lamp on a pole—glowing
flowers of light, red and green, yellow
and gold, that swayed and bobbed in the
soft dark as they walked in procession to
the beach. They sang as they walked,
plaintive songs in a minor key that
mingled uncertainly with the dull throb
of the sea and the sad cries of night birds,
and the pale young moon that stood on
tiptoe to peer over the feathery tops of
the palms.
When they reached the beach, glowing
palely in the gloom, they lit strings of
fire-crackers, and then the wives and
children of divers who had lost their lives
during the season in the warm waters
from shark or groper or the dread bends
would stand at the water’s edge, where
the turning tide lapped quietly in the dark,
and launch a tiny oil-paper ship that
carried a light.
The tide carried the fairy fleet offshore,
lonely points of golden flame that danced
on the ripples like giant fireflies, and the
people stood on the beach in perfect
silence and watched them out of sight.
Some sank, some just disappeared in the
night; no word was spoken, and the only
sound was the hushing of the tide and the
sigh of the wind in the palms
Funny coves, all right; loving beauty
with one half of their souls and wallow-
ing in beastliness with the other. The
things he knew about them made Adam’s
blood run cold. No wonder the boongs
said “Japan—no good! Me kill!” and
drew the back of a finger across their
throats, grinning and rolling their eyes.
A MOTOR launch had been lowered
and nosed along the side to the net
where the boys were going over four at
a time. It filled and moved off, and its
place was taken by a big lakatoi, and
another, and soon the whole company
was formed up on the beach to march to
the village.
It wasn’t far —a smooth coral path that
wound between the palms, under a couple
of huge old lime-trees, and gave on to
a dear space with a bit of a rise between
it and the sea. The houses, the few that
there were, were new, and a few were
building ; some distance off the black-
ened ruins of others showed where the
Nips had passed.
Adam saw only a couple of Marys, the
rest were most likely out in the taro-
patch, but there seemed to be no picanin-
nies at all except a few very young ones.
As a rule, you’d see two or three outside
every hut, rolling-in the dust, annoying
the scrounging pigs or just sitting in the
warm sunshine, gravely regarding the
phenomenon of their own distended little
black bellies; but here there were none,
and Adam found himself thinking again
of the yellow men in the hills.
His section was assigned to an area
on the far side of the village, and soon
had things shipshape. Adam had dug a
hole and stowed his gear handy, and
was sitting in the shade of a palm study-
ing a map of the island which had been
given him on board, when the lieutenant
walked over to him.
“Look, Adam,” he said, “You’ll take
out the first patrol. The cutter’s broken
down, arid number four section is out
loading, otherwise they’d have gone. Now,
here’s the d0pe....”
Adam looked out to sea. “I told you
so,” he said to himself. Number four
couldn’t go . . . another link. Mechani-
cally he listened to what the lieut. was
saying: “....An old Jap track; not
shown, on the map. Find out where it
goes and map it ; . . be careful, still
plenty of Nips around in the hills.”
Well, that’s how it was. Four section
couldn’t go, and so you . . . Adam sat for
a while, looking at the map, although it
didn’t tell him much ; spurs and contours
were apt to be any old how, and creeks
and rivers were very sketchy. He stood
up, and went over to warn his section,
thinking as he went “This is it.”
Before the war, when crisis followed
crisis, and every day started and ended
with the threat of hostilities, the thought
of dying had appalled him.. What?
Leave all this to lie cold and still and for-
gotten? And he’d plunge with greater
abandon into the business of living, just
as people fill tanks and tubs when there
is a threat of the water being cut off.
But now, if ever he did think of it, it
was with nothing but curiosity— at all
events, he would know what he didn’t
know now ; only, his body would cool,
ants and beetles would wander un-
molested over his face, and his eyes
would see nothing, and he’d be like . . .
well, anything left by the tide of war—
an old boot, a busted gun ; people would
soon forget, and in the long run it
wouldn’t make much difference to the
course of history.
The mind again . . . telling itself since
death appeared likely that after all it
wasn’t so bad. Don’t worry; if you
come through—all right; if you don’t,
then you don’t know much about it, do
you?
'T HEY left the village an hour or two
1 before midday. In preparation, just
another patrol—check the gear, ammo.,
tucker; tell each man where you’re
going, and show him the approximate
route. “You’ll take over, Ted, if any-
thing happens; and after you, Ernie.
Okay ; then let’s go.” But all the time
the feeling of unreality, as though this
time, at least, it really didn’t matter.
It was hot, hard going, and the after-
noon was already well advanced when
they struck what appeared to be the old
Jap track and plunged into the foothills.
Adam didn’t like it much, slopes all
around, and good ambush positions every
few hundred yards.
When a single Shot rang out, rattling
the echoes op the hillside, and a slug
spat viciously in the dust beside him, he
wasn’t greatly surprised. The section went
to cover, and the echoes died away in
the ravine, and a few moments later Era
rustled through the bushes and stopped
a yard or so away from him.
“What’s the set-up, Era?” Adam in-
quired. “See anything?”
“Only the smoke,” Era replied. “About
two hundred yards up the track, and
just into the right . . , better take a look-
see.”
“Right.”
Adam glanced up the track. On the
left a very steep slope, with little cover ;
couldn’t go that way without being picked
off. On the right an even rise with suffi-
cient cover, boulders and some creepers
—better go that way.
Ted had brought the rest up in cover
behind him, and Adam said over his
shoulder “Bring the Bren up and cover
up along the track, Ted. Sandy and Art
can take the left, and Wal keep a look
out behind. Ern and I will go around the
right and see what’s there. If anything
goes wrong scoot back down the track
and try to by-pass this place. All right’
See you later, then.”
[ F anything happens . . . another link.
1 Must be just about the end of the
chain.
Adam wormed cautiously forward, ears
and eyes alert for what lay ahead. Era
was about five yards off to his right, body
sloped forward, Owen at his hip. Almost
two hundred yards, he’d said . . . should
be about on them now.
He looked over at Ern, and raised his
hand, making an O of his thumb and
forefinger. Ted and Ern would take the
section through. It was like reading a
book of which he had been told the
ending, so sure was he of it; and, try
as he did, he could not keep his whole
mind on the job. He edged round a
boulder, and came face to face with a
Jap.
Time stopped while they stared at each
other, the blue eyes and the black.
Automatically, Adam’s finger, ready
curled around the trigger, contracted, and
the bolt shot forward with a futile click.
Stoppage. Faulty round or something.
The last link ... if that round had been
fed in one or two later, if he’d picked
up the ammo, box on either side of the
one he had taken, if . . . but he hadn’t;
and as the Jap’s weapon swung deliber-
ately to cover him he thought—surely
this slant-eyed bastard would have some
mark of identification, a red carnation,
or the other half of a cut coin, especially
since they had both come so far? He
found himself grinning; it was almost
perfect.
There was a sudden ear-splitting burst
of fire from his right, and the Jap’s hands
clutched at his belly. Adam watched in
a curious daze ; the yellow face puckered
like a baby’s, crying, and a strangled word
or two tumbled from his lips just ahead
of the blood. He lurched to his hands
and knees, head down as though looking
for something in the grass, and with a
soft moan rolled over, one hand twitching
grotesquely, trying desperately to grasp
the thread that was slipping so quickly
between the fingers.
No more shooting; must have been a
lone wolf. Adam stood and stared at the
body, trying to focus his thoughts. What
had happened? He had come halfway;
so had the Jap, but destiny had slipped
him up. It was the Jap who had com-
pleted the journey, and he, Adam, who
would go on. His premonition had been
all screwy, must have been nerves.
A sharp stone struck him on the
shoulder, and Ern rasped from behind a
rock, “Adam! What the hell you doin’?
For God’s sake, get into cover!”
Skinny little runt, the Jap was; cov-
ered with sores, too. Well, thought Adam,
he’s out of it, and I go on. He turned
and looked at Ern, who stared back, lips
parted, eyes questioning. “Adam!” he
whispered again, “what’s the matter? You
crook?”
“No, Ern, I’m apples,” Adam replied.
“Looks like that’s that, eh?” He looked
up the ravine where the shadows were
thickening. “Better get out of here
before it’s any darker. Think we’ll go
back to the entrance.”
They started to pick their way back,
and Ern said “What was wrong with you
then? You were like a stunned gosling.”
“Was I? I had a funny feeling about
that Jap. I dunno”-
“What d’you mean, you dunno? Dunno
what?”
Em’s words trickled into the cool
silence that had settled on the ravine
with the dusk, and it was some moments
before Adam answered. From where
they were he could just see Ted crouched
by the track; the others were there, but
hidden in the shadow.
“It’s hard to explain,” he muttered,
more to himself than to Ern, “but some-
how it seemed like the wrong ending to
a story” . . .
They merged into the gloom, and the
Jap was left wrapped in stillness on the
hillside. The fingers of his outflung hand
clenched, and a green lizard wriggled
over them, paused on the skinny wrist
to listen to the watch that still ticked
there, and then ran up the arm inside
the sleeve looking for the warmth that
was not there. This was where the story
really ended.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3392
Wednesday, February 14, 1945
THE HOUSE THE JAP BUILT.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P* H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westkalia : 33 Barrack Street, Berth.
JNew Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings (.opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
HOUSING, RACING, ETC.
In one of those moods in which he for-
gets Our Party the Prime Minister
allowed that South Australia had the best
housing scheme in Australia. If he chose
to review results under the Common-
wealth quota plan introduced ten months
ago he would have to admit, unless parti-
sanship imposed silence on him, that the
States with non-Labor Governments
have far better actual records than the
States with Labor Governments. Figures
for the mainland appear in a Common-
wealth Labor Department bulletin cover-
ing the period to December 31;
Quota of Under Con- Corn-
Houses. struction. pleted.
Victoria .. ..1160 486 188
New South Wales.. 1765 268
Queensland .. 680 95 5
South Australia .. 355 224 8
West Australia .. 265 75
The Dunstan Government and its
Housing Commission have many critics
who complain, often acrimoniously, that
they are not doing nearly enough, the
demand for houses being so great; but
houseless people in Labor N.S.W. can
only regard what they have done with
envy and wounding comparisons. And
in Victoria there has been built the first
prefabricated plywood dwelling. It has
stood the test of a capricious season and
has drawn missionaries from other
States, even N. S. Wales.
The S.A. Housing Trust, a Playford
Government creation with a small
measure of Ministerial control, has in
seven years built and let 1963 houses,
465 of them in country towns. They are
capital houses, good to look at, com-
fortable and convenient for the house-
wife and are in great demand. With
few exceptions, they are built of brick,
with tile roofs, “in semi-detached pairs,
within easy reach of centres of employ-
ment,” and are set on 4500 sq. ft. of
land. They have all been designed by an
architect, though designs vary, and have
been constructed by one contractor.
Before the war a very neat S.A. Hous-
ing Trust four-roomed cottage cost £450.
Everything having gone up, present costs
are approximately £7OO for a four-
roomed house, £BOO for five rooms, three
of which are bedrooms (now the stan-
dard), and £9OO for six rooms. Rents
run from 14s. 6d. a week to 255. a week,
the 14s, 6d. being for upwards of 1000
“four-roomed homes with sleep-outs.”
Houses built to accommodate families
with six or more children carry the highest
rent, but the great majority of tenants
pay 18s. 6d. a week or less. Roughly, a
65 per cent, preference is given to ser-
vicemen.
Applications are coming in at the rate
of 200 a month. Present rate of con-
struction is about 450 houses a year, but
it is hoped that the 1945 quota will be
700. Post-war plans provide for the
building of 1100 houses a year, 5500 in
five years, to cost £3,808,000.
The population of N. S. Wales, which
figures so awkwardly for “Labor” in the
Commonwealth Labor Department bulle-
tin, exceeds by quarter of a million the
population of Victoria and South Aus-
tralia combined. Still, it would be unfair
to infer from the blank in the bulletin his-
tory that all work has ceased on the 268
dwellings listed as under “construction.”
The “Labor” Government proudly an-
nounced that some fibre cottages had been
turned out, complete with fuel stoves, if
not with paintwork, and that the cost
was a bagatelle—£s3o. A specimen was
photographed for publication, though not
by the “Labor” Government. It is a
dreadful-looking place, not to be men-
tioned in the same breath with S.A.
Housing Trust bungalows let at 14s. 6d.
a week.
There followed a brisk argument as to
whether the Government’s fibro cot-
tages, described by an architect as
“monstrous rabbit-hutches,” were worth
the money or worth living in except at a
time when any shack with a roof on is an
object of desire. The architect said he
had “found drainage from the sink, bath
and laundry running into an absorption
pit, which was overflowing.” Master
builders offered to erect fibre cottages at
least equal in all things to the Govern-
ment improvisations for £375, condition-
ally on their receiving the same “priori-
ties” and on the Government’s ceasing
to desecrate the landscape with any more
of its fibro cottages. Conditions, compe-
tition and requests for precise and detailed
accounts of Government expenditure on
the fibro cottages, which are being built
by day labor, were refused.
The controversy was coincident with the
Ryde by-election campaign, during which
Mr. McKell, extolled by “S. M. Herald”
for having “best served the State and the
nation by going along quietly,” said some-
thing about “a housing programme for
which a State-wide survey is proceeding.”
Also with an eye on Ryde, Mr. McGirr,
the Minister of Housing or No-Housing,
in a voice broken with emotion referred
to the plight of the houseless, mention-
ing harrowing examples: a family of ten
living in a tent near Hornsby, another —
husband, wife, invalid father and three
small children—living in a tent in Mat-
raville and a soldier “unable to keep
his mind on soldiering” because his wife
and children had for nine months had
no place to lay their heads but “a dirty
garage in Enfield.” Ryde electors were
no doubt moved by these cases, which
could be multiplied many times, but if it
was expected that they would come to
the conclusion that the two “Labor” Gov-
ernments were moving heaven and earth
to provide decent shelter for all those in
need of it the expectation was vain.
Perhaps some of the Ryde electors had
heard of privileges granted to higher-ups,
such as a Commonwealth Minister, the
proprietors of a boxing joint (ambitious
of providing pugs with dressing-rooms
in the Australia Hotel style) and members
of a sailing club which furnishes Sunday
recreation for tired bookmakers and
punters, and denied to unknowns in dire
need. The case of the Commonwealth
Minister, though matter for lively discus-
sion in the neighborhood, has not been
reported, but other instances have ap-
peared in the papers. The “Sun” men-
tioned two last week, one with high appre-
ciation.
Exhibit A:-
Members of Bill Barnett’s 18-footet
crew [eight named, all apparently civilians
in reserved occupations] are devoting their
spare time to building a five-roomed
cottage for Barnett, recently married.
One brought along his father, a stone-
mason, to build a 30-foot retaining wall on
the waterfront. Said Barnett: “We work
until one o’clock on Saturday, then go out
on Havoc, winner of Saturday’s 16-footer
event. The boys are up for the job early
on Sunday morning. When the cottage is
finished we will erect a shed in which to
build boats, and we should soon be
back in 18-footer sailing.”
Exhibit B:
For adding two rooms to his home to
accommodate members of his family with-
out W. 0.1. permission, a returned soldier
of the last war, B. G. Johnston, of Har-
bord, was fined £2O. He was unable to
attend court because he was in hospital.
When reference was made to a son killed
on active service in this war defendant’s
wire burst into tears. Johnston wanted
the extra space to accommodate his
daughter-in-law and son.
Presumably the sailing-club gentleman
received from W.O.L what that organi-
sation refused to the returned soldier of
the last war who has lost a soldier-son
in this war. Such of the Old Digger’s
surviving mates and those of his dead
son as read both reports must have
been at a loss for printable words in
which to express their opinion of the dis-
crimination. All the same it cannot be
held inconsistent with “Labor” practice.
With two “Labor” Transport Ministers
in the picture, professional “sports,” es-
pecially pugilists, are never known to go
short of inter-State rail priorities, who-
ever else, in or out of uniform, service-
man’s wife or mother, is turned away.
That was the experience of a Young
Digger who enlisted in the A.I.F. at 17,
was twice wounded and came out of the
war minus a hand. A noted amateur
runner, he was invited to Brisbane for a
championship meeting, proceeds going to
the A.C.F., but had to remain in Sydney,
being told by Authority that the trains
were full. On the night of the day he was
to have appeared on the Brisbane trapk a
boxer from Sydney, newly arrived though
no stranger, figured in a bruising match
at the Brisbane Stadium, haunted by
memories of the great John Wren.
Ryde suggests that people who are not
particularly interested in pastimes in
which money talks, often to the exclu-
sion of every other sound, even the throb-
bing of the war drum, are turning away
from “Labor,” but “Labor” commands
the enthusiastic allegiance of “sports.”
The Rugby League, which has had aston-
ishing luck in securing turnstile attrac-
tions throughout the wars that have de-
prived the amateur Rugby Union of
many of its best men, is 100 per
cent. Labor. So are the dogmen
and the bruisers and the professional
bike-pushers and the bookmakers, and
their clerks, whether operating on race-
courses or in clubs, shops, offices or flats
(now apparently comprehended in the
term “black market”), or in parks, pad-
docks or lanes. Randwick and Watson,
of which Randwick is part, have become
“Labor” electorates, which they never
used to be. “Labor” is also supported by
Booze; and, liquor-law and -enforce-
ment being in palsied hands. Booze has
become a law to itself. And if the crimi-
nal classes, new and old, are not appre-
ciative of “Labor’s” inertia in the pres-
ence of an outbreak of crimes of viol-
ence and crimes against property, the
latter marked by the wholesale stealing
of comforts for fighting men, which has
made Sydney’s name stink they must be
an ungrateful lot.
“Labor” has repaid the devotion of
“sports” in divers ways. For one
thing the McKell Government has
given more time and what passes
for thought to its Sydney Turf
Club Act than to almost any other
of its measures. And when the lights
went out in the dogracing world because
the miners, though tin-hare addicts, re-
fused to hew more coal (a minor impedi-
ment, brushed aside, was a running fire
of objections to the hounds being fed on
steak), the Deputy Premier called the
dogracing administrators together, with
a horde of departmental experts in the
background, to concert measures for re-
storing prosperity to the “good and useful
sport.” And with the prospect that the
lights will go on again, if the miners con-
descend to work, the hopes of night-trot-
ing people, always hanging round, have
revived. In the U.S.A. the trotters and
the gallopers and the dogs are “off” until
further notice, and all professional
athletes, beginning with footballers, it
being their season, have been called upon
to prove that they are not at least as fit
to fight as the 18-year-olds being 'sent
to the Western Front. By Sydney
“Labor” standards, a singular country!
A "Government" Decides.
Fighters can be sure of some sort of
preference in getting jobs, not on the
merits of their case, but because giving
it to them may help to keep a “Labor”
Government in office and denying it
would certainly put that Government out
and keep it out.
Mr. Curtin has been for preference all
through, but there are enough opponents
in Cabinet and Caucus to drop him and
preference with him if they thought they
could do it and survive. With Mr. Curtin
absent, Cabinet disagreed on the matter
last month. The “principle of prefer-
ence” was accepted, but there was con-
siderable difference as to whom it should
be given. There were enough of those
present who wanted it given to everybody
engaged in any form of war work —which
would take in mine and wharf “workers”
on an equal footing with men maimed in
fighting—to have the discussion post-
poned.
At this stage the Government’s main
directors took a hand. The A.C.T.U.
decided there must be a conference, of
it and the “Government,” before any
decision was reached. It telegraphed the
Acting P.M., Mr. Forde, insisting on the
conference. Its president, Mr. Clarey,
then got into print with a statement that
“the policy formulated by the Inter-State
Executive of the A.C.T.U. last March
still stands.” That “policy” is “against
any employment privilege or
preference for war-time service being
given to any section of the community
on the grounds that the all-embracing
nature of the war requires the contribu-
tion of the whole community to bring
about an all-in war effort.” Also “pro-
posals for preference to ex-service people
carry with them the implication of there
being competition for jobs in the post-
war period, which is contrary to the
objectives for which the war is being
fought.”
It would be hard to pack a greater
amount of twaddle. into as many sen-
tences. The “all-embracing nature of
the war” requires a contribution from
“the whole community” but does not get
it by a very long chalk. It is a matter
of proportions, with fighting men
such easy winners that they are in a
class by themselves. Others loaf and
pillage on the wharves and loaf at the
mines; other again enjoy themselves in
their thousands at the races and the
matches, on the beaches, in the pubs and
restaurants and theatres. They have their
excuse the terrible strain of thinking
about the war. To all of this breed the
fighters are merely away somewhere un-
known ; in remote and unimaginable
places with funny names, like Bougain-
ville. They went there of their own
accord, by volunteering. If they die
there, “Didn’t they volunteer?” —the
country, the race Will survive.
A much larger number of home-
frenters has no lack of sympathy for the
men who are away. If among these home-
fronters there are persons who overlook
the fighters at times it is largely because
the country’s leaders overlook them. And,
taking press and radio accounts day by
day, who can visualise the Diggers en-
gaged in their fighting? The Russians,
yes ; the Americans, yes ; the British, pos-
sibly ; the Diggers, no. This is one of
the things about Australia that might
interest some psychologist. Nobody read-
ing the Russian, the American or the
British press has any doubt about the
fighting part of the men of those nations,
nor have Australians. There the em-
phasis is in each country on its own men’s
part; in Australia, too, it is on their part.
The Sydney “Government” has even
“completed arrangements” for controlling
traffic, “when the Armistice is signed,”
as a precaution against all those who will
forget the war the Diggers will still be in.
Yet every day Australians are fighting
up North. Every day some men born in
this country are dying up there. Their
part, as far as it is treated at all, is apt
to be treated as a joke—eight of them
shooting one Jap ; the seat of the Jap’s
pants looking like a colander —and so on.
It is no wonder there is all this com-
placency on the home front. Luckily
there is a conscience here also —a national
conscience based on the old Australian
tradition of a fair go. It is in the great
majority of Australians. Even where
appearances might suggest it absent—as
particularly about the cities—it is a
hidden quality.' It has not spoken, but it
can be felt; and the Curtin Government
and its union bosses are now feeling it.
It is being brought home to them that
the Diggers and their supporters represent
this country’s majority by a handsome
margin.
Hence, after the shillyshallying, the
“compromise” reached in Melbourne.
As reported, an “advisory committee” of
the party decided that preference to
Diggers was, in effect, unavoidable.
Therefore it agreed to let the Govern-
ment grant a measure of preference, “sub-
ject to a time limit in ratio to the service-
man’s period of service.” Delegates in-
cluded Mr. Clarey as chairman, from
which might be gauged the extent of the
somersaulting. The mess of the party on
the issue was shown in Mr. Calwell’s
having to be given the face-saver of
being allowed to stand aside as a dele-
gate to this “important” meeting. Mr.
Calwell was thus “temporarily relieved
of an invidious and contradictory posi-
tion” :
As a Minister he was committed to the
bill, but as the Federal A.L.P. had pro-
nounced against it he would have been
simultaneously committed against it. The
question now arises whether he will attend
the Federal executive meeting in Sydney
on February 12.
That meeting was to “further consider
the matter.” That is, preference to fighters
was still subject to the decisions of
this and probably other meetings. Still,
there is no question about what will ulti-
mately be done. The “Government” will
make a virtue of necessity. There will
be preference—bred by expediency out
of fear. It will be granted as an extra-
ordinary favor. At that it will probably
have camouflaged strings to it.
As for “the objectives for which this
war is being fought,” as far as this coun-
try is concerned they can be summed up
as one —to keep going as a nation which,
despite all the vicious elements of its
home front, still has the promise of great-
ness ; a nation which is worth preserving
for the larger part represented by those
who are fighting to preserve it and those
fairly supporting them.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Chequered Times for Coms.
It was here stated (B. 31/1/’45) that the
Labor men carrying on the fight against
the communist conspiracy, notably the
Victorians Cremean and Mullens, were
getting no help from any of the 71
Federal Labor members or any of the
80 N.S.W. Labor members, none of
these gentlemen having been known to
vex the corns, with an unkind word.
H. V. Johnson, the member for Kal-
goorlie, has since taken his stand with
the two Victorians and Mr. Walsh, the
Queensland Minister of Transport.
The man from Kalgoorlie is Federal
president of the A.W.U., and in his intro-
ductory address to its convention at
Adelaide he delivered a concentrated
attack on communists, “this anti-Austra-
lian clique, with their lying and unscru-
pulous propaganda.” In communising
unions, he said, “their method is to attack
leaoers and play up to weak officials
who will bend to their wishes.”
They are masters of intrigue, and they
delight in championing any move that has
an anti-Australian purpose. They are mostly
professional magsmen with no industrial
record who see the opportunity of dodging
their responsibilities and living on funds
provided from God knows where. I feel
sure such funds come from underground
channels.
The A.W.U. was invited to send a dele-
gate to the so-called World Trade-uniom
Congress in, London. It refused, and so
did the American Federation of Labor,
both having the notion that the congress
would develop into a predominantly com-
munist show. This came to pass when
the admission of delegates from alleged
unions in Finland, Bulgaria, Rumania
and Italy and from “the Polish Govern-
ment ht Lublin” was decided upon, at the
instance of a Standing Orders’ Committee
composed of gentlemen from Russia, the


U.S.A. (C. 1.0.), France, Mexico, China
and Australia, the “Australian” being the
communist Thornton. S’Walter Citrine,
the secretary of the British Trade-union
Congress, vainly objected to the admis-
sion of the strange foreign gentlemen,
most of whom were enemies till recently.
Equally futile was his protest that “Con-
gress should be consultative and advisory,
without binding the delegates to decisions
and without taking votes,” that having
been the T.U.C. idea.
The communist delegates obviously
had it in for S’Walter, who, as head of
the T.U.C. delegation to Greece, had
just given to the press an interim report
on the communist insurrection in that
country. It was to the general effect
that the communists had done “little
actual fighting” against the Germans, “as
distinct from sabotage,” but had fought
British servicemen and their own coun-
trymen and -women with merciless bar-
barity, being prevented from carrying out
a general massacre only by the British
coming between. There had already
appeared a White Paper in which the
Australian-born British Ambassador
Leeper, attacked in the British Leftist press
and in the' Sydney “Daily Telegraph,”
gave a short history of the insurrection
with a list of atrocities committed by
communists, among whom were mur-
derers from Bulgaria, a bitter enemy and
ruthless oppressor of the Greek people.
It added up to a frightful story of com-
munist treachery, mass murder, mutila-
tion, starvation and senseless destruction,
particularly in Athens and the Piraeus.
The A.W.U. will no doubt get the
Citrine reports and the White Paper and
publish them in the “Worker.” Nothing
could give the Australian public a more
vivid idea of what a rising of a “people’s
equipped with weapons “taken
home” at night and decorated with “guer-
rillas” and “beautiful” women and little
boys who shoot and stab, really means.
The A.W.U. can be sure that the White
Paper and the Citrine reports will not be
reprinted in papers like the “Telegraph.”
From such papers “Australian” com-
munists have taken the substance of their
most effective propaganda, rounding it off
with the story that the Russians are all
marvels because of their marvellous
system.
Manila and Singapore.
When General MacArthur could not
hold Manila with the men and Equipment
he then had he declared it an open city.
Returning three years later with adequate
forces, among them Australians whose
share in the liberation has been gener-
ously acknowledged, he had to exert him-
self to save Manila, with its loyal people
and its precious remains and living evi-
dences of Spanish culture, from incen-
diary and explosive squads, operating in
a spirit of destruction militarily useless
as well as barbarous. The contrast will
impress and be remembered by the whole
Asiatic world.
Though much fighting remains to be
done, the doom of the Japanese “co-pros-
perity sphere” has already been pro-
nounced. The failure of the enemy’s
efforts to make it a ( war of color has
been evident wherever our fighting men
have encountered him in battle, and there
is no reason to suppose that it will be less
conspicuous in the parts of his “empire”
still to be regained. Leftist railing at
“imperialism” notwithstanding, Filipinos,
like Chamorrans and Papuans, have
shown that they infinitely prefer this “im-
perialism” to “co-prosperity.” American
and Australian “imperialism” has a short
history. The stem test of war has shown
that it has been identified with justice,
fair dealing and humanity in the treat-
ment of the natives, and they have re-
sponded with noble examples of gratitude
and devotion which have put communist
Europeans to shame.
General MacArthur is not only a
soldier of genius but a merciful man
Re-entering Manila he could have had
no prouder moment than when he was
greeted by 5300 internees and prisoners
of war, Americans for the most part, but
among them many Australians, British
and Dutch and a few French. They were
in poor physical shape, having been
systematically underfed and exposed to
various torments by gaolers without a
spark of pity in their composition, but
they never lost their courage or resource-
fulness. And they nearly all came through,
and that affords hope for the greater
number remaining in captivity, taken in
the Bataan Peninsula, on Corregidor, in
the Dutch and Australian islands, in
Malaya and at Singapore.
It will be three years tomorrow since
Singapore fell. The Red Cross has pre-
pared a statement showing, on the evi-
dence in its possession, how our lads have
fared. The statement is worthy of that
great institution, and it will bring some
comfort to many hearts, but it needs to
be supplemented by regular reports from
Canberra concerning our prisoners of war
everywhere. Such statements as have
come from that quarter are scrappy and
inexplicit compared with the information
given in the House of Commons, gener-
ally in reply to questions, but not seldom
in the course of debates, the treatment
of prisoners of war being a live subject
in the Commons, though not in the House
of Representatives*.
The Wheat Tragedy.
“Sabotage!” howled Mr. Scully when
attacked on the silly wheat policy which
has brought this country to a sorry
pass. It was “scaremongering” in July
last year when Mr. Scully was told that
Riverina crops had been cut by half be-
cause of lack of super, and that the N.S.W.
wheat area was much below the “goal.”
It was “idle talk” in September, when
all hands and the cook as well as Mr.
Graham, the N.S.W. Minister of Agri-
culture, became alarmed over the drought
in three wheat-growing States.
Last week Mr. Scully went into figures:
Stocks of old wheat at January 1,
65.000. bushels; deliveries from new
harvest at January 27, 38,000,000; total
Australian stocks in January, 103,000,000;
less allowances for seed, export and flour
reserve, 95,000,000; civilian and service
(Australian and Allied) needs this year,
47.000.
So he has about 48,000,000 bushels
in hand. He cheerfully asserted that
15,000 tons of Westralian wheat would
be moved to the seaboard per week for
shipment to the Eastern States. But
nobody familiar with the Westralian rail-
way system, the shipping position (made
worse by the Fremantle wharf-laborers’
strike, which lasted a month) or the
handling arrangements would back Mr.
Scully with bad money.
His latest outburst was a reaction to
a shout of alarm and indignation from
sheep owners when told that they couldn’t
buy wheat as a drought ration. Mr.
Scully knows about droughts—“ For the
past five years we have had the most
disastrous drought in our history and
two partial droughts.” Actually we had,
in 1943, one of the richest seasons
known, and though Mr. Scully was
warned that bad times might follow and
urged to make it possible for all the sur-
plus fodder to be stored, he never raised
a finger.
The truth is that the Labor Govern-
ment’s wheat scheme was foolish in con-
ception and foolish in execution. With
much less super, available average yield
must drop, yet Mr. Scully was allowed
to cut acreages below normal and so
confuse and harry growers with forms
and regulations that many turned the
game up in disgust. The guarantee of
4s. a bushel, limited to 3000 bushels,
was useless or worse. It drew bitter com-
parisons with the sky-high harvesting
award before farmers went “into muni-
tions.”
With a worth-while guarantee and no
limits, Westralia, which escaped the
drought, might have doubled its crop.
Now the country faces heavy losses of
sheep for the want of feed and there is
even talk of a shortage of flour. Further,
the drought is still on in many parts, and
seeding time is almost due. But Mr.
Curtin and party wouldn’t have a
national Government, so instead of a
man with knowledge of the land indus-
tries Australia got Bill Scully, the grey-
hound-racing judge.
Departure from Practice.
From Molongloside:
For many years it was the accepted thing in
Commonwealth politics that one of the Ministers
in the Senate, nearly always the leader, should
be Vice-President of the Executive Council.
Barton established the tradition by giving the
post to O’Connor; then came Playford (First
Deakin), Drake (Reid), Keating and Best (Second
Deakin), McGregor (Watson, First and Second
Fisher), McColl (Cook), Gardiner (Third Fisher
and First Hughes), Russell and Earle (Fourth*
Hughes), Barnes and Daly (Scullin). Then there
were breaks, Hughes becoming Vice-President
of the Executive Council for a time, and Lyons
himself when Billy fell out of favor during the
sanctions period. The old practice was reverted
to in the cases of McLeay (Menzies and Fadden).
Keane and Ashley (Curtin). It has been de-
parted from again because Beasley is reckoned
a special case. He may be, but in years devoid
of sentiment this would not have been recog-
nised.
THE KELLYS RIDE AGAIN.
“Back to the bush, boys! This is no place for us.”


ŵ
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging, painful
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often, caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated in the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and Alters
don’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait 1 Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years.
They give happy relief and will help the 15
miles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
Jhat will make you well and keep you well.
THE BEST NEW BOOKS.
The Critical History of English Poetry. An
outline of 1200 years of English poetry. By
Grierson and Smith. 33/6 (post 9d.).
A Polish Anthology. English translation
along with the Polish Text. Selected by T. M.
Eilip. 15/3 (post 6d.).
The Island. The Story of Our Island in
Moving and Memorable Verse from the dawn
of history to the Battle of Britain. By Francis
Brett Young. 14/9 (post 6d.).
Memories and Opinions. By “Q.” 9/6
(post 4.).
Good Sight Without Glasses. By W. H.
Bates. 16/9 (post 6d.).
The Economies of Advertising. By F. P.
Bishop. 9/- (post Bd.).
Nectar in a Nutshell. An Anthology of Wit
and Wisdom. 4/- (post 2d.).
Autumn Pie. A Miscellany for Men and
Women. Paper cover. 2/5 (post 2d.).
They Are People. Modern Short Stories of
Nuns, Monks and Priests. Selected by Sister
Marietta Gable, 0.5.8. Stories by Hemingway.
Katherine Mansfield, Phyllis Bottome and
others. 17/6 (post 6.).
Keep the Peace Through Air Power. By
Allan A. Mickie. 16/9 (post 6d.).
Four Quartets. Poems. By T. S. Eliot.
>O/- (post 3d.).
Ten Years in Japan. The remarkable
record of Joseph G. Grew, United States
Ambassador to Japan, 1932-1942. An important
historical casebook, which no student of inter-
national affairs should neglect. 27/6 (post 9d.).
Onwards to Victory. The fourth volume of
Winston Churchill’s War Speeches. 12/6
(post 6d.).
Flowers in Britain. Wild, Ornamental and
Economic. By L. .T. F. Brimble. With colored
and numerous other plates. 19/6 (post 9d.).
Colour, Race and Empire. By A. G. Russell.
12/6 (post 4d.).
God Is My Co-pilot. By Col. R. L. Scott.
Best account of Air Fighting written in this
or any war. 12/6 (post 4d.).
James Joyce. A Critical introduction. By
Hans Levin. 13/9 (post 4d.).
English Painting. By R. H. Wilenski. With
202 monochrome illustrations and 4 plates in
colour. 47/- (post 1/-).
Poets at War. An Anthology of Verse by
Australian Fighting Men. Compiled by lan
Mudie. 6/6 (post 3d.).
The End in Africa. A true picture of how
the end in Africa was brought about. By Alan
Moorehead. 13/6 (post 5d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £l/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
?9-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8WX931 for particulars
POLITICAL POINTS
Just when all the Sydney dailies were
carrying articles about the pillaging
plague, which has become so bad that
in infected quarters it seems to be re-
garded as an offence not to steal, the
Norco people reported the disappearance
of a lorry laden, with 14,1121 b. of butter.
Lucky there is no black market in battle-
ships or H.M.S. Howe wouldn’t have
been safe.
There has always been a substantial
Labor vote in the Ryde Assembly electo-
rate, especially in Ryde and the surround-
ing neighborhoods. It elected a Labor
member, Evan Davies, in 1929, and
another, A. J. Williams, in 1940. Spooner
unseated Davies in 1932, and Spooner was
twice re-elected, but he would have been
hard pressed last time but for the opposi-
tion of the “Daily Telegraph,” then, as
now, “giving Australia leadership” which
Australia obstinately refuses to follow.
On primaries, Hearnshaw, the Liberal,
had a majority of 1601 over the McKell
Labor man in Ryde ; in May the late
Shand’s majority over the McKell Labor
man was 227, and the combined McKell and
Lang Labor vote totalled 7180 against
Shand’s 5327. But whereas Shand’s final
majority was 4109, Hearnshaw’s was
2916. Weaver is held responsible. Elec-
torates with a weakness for Independents
need delicate handling, and Weaver is
never delicate.
Trouble continues to dog the Mac-
kenzie King Government in Canada.
General McNaughton, its new Minister
of Defence, failed of election for Grey
North (Ontario), being beaten by a Con-
servative. Grey North was won by a
Mackenzie King Liberal at the general
election in March, 1940, when the Con-
servatives were reduced to 38 seats. They
are conscriptionists.
One of the more amazing statements of
our Mr. Scully broke from him when he
was asked to make wheat available for
sheep feed. Saying that it couldn’t be
done, he remarked “It has never been
the practice in previous droughts to feed
wheat to sheep.” To which the oldest
and wrinkliest ewe on the Namoi replies
“Baa!”
It came from Canberra and was pub-
lished a week ago:
Pillaging in Sydney is reported to be the
worst in the Commonwealth, and to have
reached a scale not exceeded anywhere else
in the world.
And what were McKell’s police doing
when this tremendous indictment smote
the city of his soul? What Mac Kay, the
Great Detective, who solved the Pyjama
Girl Mystery inside ten years? Round-
ing up jay-walkers and prosecuting them
with the utmost rigor of the law.
The unhappy man who tries to run
the N.S.W. Government abattoirs at
Homebush and is left in the cart by the
Labor ’ Government every time the
union breaks its award, which it does
every week, had slaughtermen summonsed
lor stealing meat. The “Labor” paper
slated him for interfering with an old
custom of the trade. Undeterred by this
experience, or perhaps rendered desperate,
he called in the police again last week,
an electric fan being missing, and when all
hands struck and the usual threats were
circulated he said he would “welcome
any inquiry into the management” pro-
vided it was “wide enough to cover the
theft and sabotage at the abattoirs for
the last two years.” McKell made some
ignoble remarks, and the strikers con-
“TWO SOULS WITH BUT A SINGLE THOUGHT.”
(And the artist has gone and mixed them up.)
“In no circumstances must rye be fed to cattle.” — Goebbels.
“There is no prospect of any wheat being allocated for feeding flock sheep.”— Scully.
descended to return to work. At least
some did; but housewives went short
once more, and Australian soldiers, like
American soldiers and British naval men,
had to lift cold-storage meat, the
“workers” having refused to handle it
because the timber smells.
Bruce will laugh if he reads what
Downing, the Sydney “Labor” Minister
of Justice, bleated last week, that if pillag-
ing has blighted Sydney’s name (he didn’t
say that) the law is not to blame.
Any person convicted before a Judge and
jury of an offence under Section 152 of
the Crimes Act could be sent to jail for
seven years.
Can anyone see any unionist being
charged under the Crimes Act? All de-
scriptions of pillagers when caught, which
is seldom, are into magistrates’
courts, there to be fined or sentenced to
a month or so, with a very good chance
of being treated as first offenders. Then
back to the scene of the looting, the
offence purged.
Saying that “the intensification of the
war against Japan” meant that “man-
power re-allocation would have to wait,”
the P.M. went on to make some remarks
which, earning from such a source, had
the charm of novelty;—
I refuse to believe that the Australian
people who have stayed at home have
been suffering unduly. They have been
SfoSrS asked C tc/work ffl-no.
so terrible a thing in time of war. I could
recite a long list of industries and occu-
pations whose hours have been no longer
in time of war than in time of peace.
Meaning 40 (or fewer) hours a week,
worked in five days. The persons thus
engaged have been told by Laborites and
corns, that they are all wage-slaves who
have to work their fingers to the bone
for the capitalist and are then robbed
of the fruits of their industry. It may
be reckoned “terrible” for Curtin to dis-
tnrb this imnrpssinn
f P , f .»i h
TTie favors of 2FC, from which N. S.
Wales gets national news are shared
by two minor Labor Ms.H.R Hay.en
and Daly. It is an unusual Sunday when
the listening public is not bored with the
irf a war-news “session.” Haylen sits for
Parkes and Daly for Martin, electorates
which put in Labor members for the first
A
time in 1929, and then only for a single
term. A.B.C. puffing won’t save the
uninteresting pair from the fate which
overtook all the other Labor candidates
for their divisions, in Parkes since 1901
and in Martin since 1922.
Brisbane “Courier-Mail” wants more
Federal members, advancing as an argu-
ment that there are 245 men in the Cana-
dian Commons. Actually, in proportion
to population, Canada has fewer politi-
cians than Australia and much fewer
elected men —the 96 Senators are nomi-
nees. In the nine provinces (population,
11,500,000) there are 520 members, and
in every case the pay would be scorned
by our State politicians, as also would
the modest provincial debts. Our State
politicians number 498, and they draw
their pay whether they attend Parliamen-
tary sittings or not —Canada has sessional
allowances, with deductions for non-
attendance. What Australia needs is not
more but better politicians.
Victoria is without an Agent-General
in London, Bussau having returned to
Melbourne and retired. Lienhop, the
Minister of Works, has been mentioned
as his successor, but nothing has been
done about it. Dunstan says the A.-G.
should be more than a figurehead, and
be given more freedom of action than
he has had. This is the first time a State
Premier has admitted that Agents-Gen-
eral are figureheads, though many people
had suspected it for years.
Gaps in the curriculum of the Henry
Lawson Labor College are being pointed
out by ill-disposed persons. One morosely
remarks that there is no provision for
instruction in ethics. Others, noting that
socialism is to be taught in large quanti-
ties, comment on the absence of assur-
ances that the anti-social character of
gambling will be emphasised, with parti-
cular reference to Government lotteries
and racecourse betting, and that the state
of the liquor traffic, with its bottle-beer
racket, black market and tied houses, will
be cited as evidence of the need for com-
munity ownership. Surely these persons
ought to be satisfied with the promise im-
plied in Billy McKell’s Cato-like condem-
nation of “a world steeped in material-
ism.”
After an acrimonious debate during
which Lud Mayor Nettlefold threatened
to eject some members, Melbourne City
Council sanctioned the development of
the Western Market site in Collins-street
by the erection of a £1,350,000 building
whose chief apparent purpose is to
net parking - space revenue. George
Wales, one of Nettlefold’s predecessors,
said the Western Market is a disgrace.
It is a perfectly good building which an
intelligent architect could turn into a
block of flats that could accommodate
thousands of homeless people with a mini-
mum of reconstruction.
A .question agitating the minds of many
people just now is what price eggs will
be on the black market when the new
egg-rationing system begins?
“Strict Veg.”; At a time when tales
were coming from the Mallee of starving
stock and farmers shooting their cattle
for lack of transport to greener pastures
this happened in Melbourne. A woman
in one suburb was looking for cows be-
cause she could give them pasturage. In
a neighboring suburb another woman
shot two worth £35 each because she
could get no chaff to feed them.
Sad tale told in headlines:
1944 WAS BLACK YEAR FOR BOOK-
MAKERS.
THIS YEAR MAY BE HARDER.
But not in Sydney or Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Adelaide or Perth. In all these
places war years are years of plenty for
McShortodds, and though it has come
out that some of the brotherhood found
bail- and defence-money for the abscond-
ing Woolcott Forbes, who robbed trust-
ing investors right and left and lost most
of the proceeds to bookmakers, nothing
is likely to happen to them or to their
calling. The black years are reserved for
Maoriland, where, in 1944, “243 persons
were convicted for bookmaking, conduct-
ing, using, keeping or assisting in manag-
ing common gaming houses, two others
were admitted to probation, two were
jailed (one for 12 months’ hard labor)
and one convicted to be called up for
sentence.” As for money penalties;
In the larger range of fines—and these
predominated —one operator was fined
£250; one £200; two £150; 30 £100; one
£80; 14 £75; one £7O; 10 £6O; 62 £5O;
total £11,780.
And all under a Labor Government. It
is a wonder the 243 don’t emigrate to
“Labor” Sydney in a body.
The Australian newspaper grandee
who left the U.S.A. with the impres-
sion that its population had reached
125,000,000 will be interested in a Census
Bureau estimate: “including members of
the armed forces overseas,” 138,100,874.
And the estimate, though issued last
month, goes back to July I, which would
mean that nearly another million has
been added since. In 51 months since
the 1940 census was taken the increase
was “more than 6,400,000.” The In-
vincible Republic indeed!


OKI HOUR
iPABMHCj
ON
3/44
Some men are so crazy they keep the motor
running while their cars are parked. They
think this re-charges the battery.
Don’t be fooled with crazy ideas. Take your
battery to your Exide dealer every second
week. He’ll help you get months of extra
service from it by keeping it properly ser-
viced and re-charged when necessary.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Due to retire this year, Tasmanian
Governor Ernest Clark will be 81 on
April 13, and on August 4 will have been
Governor for 12 years. Only one of his
predecessors has held office longer —Gov-
ernor Arthur, from May 14, 1824, to
October 30, 1836.
Albert Leonard Read, new County
Court Judge in Melbourne, to help his
fellow-Judges catch up with a mass of
belated law business, comes of a legal
family, being a grandson of another
Albert who was one of the first Gent.
Ones in Batman’s village. Born in Mel-
bourne in 1893, Judge Read was educated
at Melbourne Grammar and University,
graduated LL.B. in 1914, and then had
H years against the Kaiser in Europe.
He returned to build up a thriving prac-
tice in common law. In this war he has
been Judge-Advocate in courts-martial.
He appeared for the Crown with M. L.
Cussen in the Pyjama Girl case last year.
Squadron-Leader Roy Reeman, the
bright-looking lad here depicted by Mc-
Beath, commands No. 6 R.A.A.F, Re-
cruiting Centre, Hobart. It is declared in
the service that Reeman has never let the
SQUADRON-LEADER REEMAN.
mainland down yet in supplying scollops
and crays for R.A.A.F. unit farewells and
such-like functions. Despite some ugly
scars on various parts of his anatomy,
through becoming too involved in the
last war, he’s still capable of a useful
hand in most forms of sport. Reeman
gave up a lucrative post in Launceston to
get into the R.A.A.F, at the declaration.
His cheery disposition disguises a strong
determination for 100 per cent, efficiency
in all service matters.
E. H. Scott, of Dunedin (M.L.), always
dabbling in machinery, invented a
device to locate trouble in motor engines,
and offered it to the British Government,
which decided to carry on without it.
Offered to the United States, it was ac-
cepted in ten days, and a cheque for
552,000 was paid Scott. His low radia-
tion radio, found by the U.S.A. authori-
ties to eliminate the defects of other
equipment that revealed the presence of
ships to U-boats, is standard in U.S.
vessels. Scott is head of Scott Radio
Laboratories of Chicago, which holds
contracts for $20,000,000.
One of Australia’s best soldiers, Lieut.-
Gen. Henry Douglas Wynter passed on
at Heidleberg (Vic.) Military Hospital at
58. C. 8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., he was com-
missioned in 1907, and was a permanent
from then on. Serving through the last
war in France and Flanders, he returned
to Australia as Director of Mobilisation
in 1931. He sailed overseas in this war
in 1940 as a brigadier, and was with the
A.I.F. switched to Britain in 1940. There
he became Commandant, H.Q., A.1.F.,
and was given command of all Australian
forces in the U.K. Back in Australia, he
was appointed G.0.C., Northern Com-
mand.
A man who knows the inside of a mine
as most men know the inside of their
hat, E. J. Laun, retires in March from the
post of Chief Inspector of Mines, at
Charters Towers. Before he joined the
Queensland Mines Department in 1907
he’d been in and out of mines all over
the north, mainly as an engine-driver.
In the Mt. Mulligan colliery disaster of
1921 he did splendid work organising the
rescue operations.
“Old soldiers never die, they”—do this
sort of thing: Flight-Lieut. J. S. Bapty,
M.C., discharged from the R.A.A.F.
after four years’ service, is with the
Americans as chief engineer on a boat.
He joined the Indian Army Volunteers
in 1899, serving in the ranks until the
outbreak of war in 1914, when he was
granted a commission. He collected his
M.C. in Mesopotamia. Afterwards he
served irP'-the South Persian, Afghani-
stan, Waziristan and Mahsut campaigns,
adding two “mentions” to his record.
While serving at sea in 1913 he was
awarded the Royal Humane Society’s
medal for saving life, and added a bar
to it in 1915 in Mespot. He joined the
R.A.A.F. in 1940 as a pilot-officer, turn-
ing down an offer of his majority in the
Royal Australian Engineers. If he grows
a beard again on the American ship he
will doubtless be called by his old nick-
name of “John the Baptist.”
“H.W.”; G. Matoorekos, reported to
have passed on in Athens at 90, was one
of the old band of Melbourne bohemians.
When he ran the Athenaeum Cafe in
Queen’s Walk he vied with his compat-
riot, A. J. J. Lucas, the Greek Consul,
in making his hashhouse Melbourne
bohemians’ rendezvous. In those days
Gruden was noted for his flounders,
Matoorekos for his steaks. Matoore-
kos was a founder of the East Melbourne
Greek Orthodox Church.
Herbert Wade Kent, hon. curator of
Chinese Art at the National Gallery in
Melbourne, himself collected the bulk
of the magnificent lot of Chinese
ceramics, some of them dating b.c., and
by presenting them to the nation hot only
got himself a congenial post but avoided
being parted from his treasures. In ship-
ping, first with the Orient, then with
Butterfield and Swire, he put all his sav-
ings into acquiring on the spot examples
of old Ming and Tang, most of it salvaged
from ancient tombs and graveyards dur-
ing civil wars and revolutionary up-
heavals. Some of his best pieces he
stumbled on in Japan, until a National
Treasure Act compelled owners of
precious objects to register their pos-
sessions, which they could keep them-
selves or sell within the country, but
could not dispose of to overseas collec-
tors. Kent expects that the end of the
war will find the Japs impoverished and
ready to sell their antiques, and, as a
National Gallery Trustee, he has prepared
a plan for filling the gaps in the finest
collection of Oriental art in the Southern
Hemisphere. Born in Melbourne and
educated at Melbourne Grammar, Kent
was self-educated in Oriental art in the
field, and few men know more about it.
Adelaide is losing C. A. Hutchinson,
U.S. Consul for the past nine years. His
successor is Erik W. Magnusson, who
comes from Winnipeg (Canada). Swed-
ish-born, Magnusson was U.S. naval
attache in Sweden and Denmark, legation
clerk in Amsterdam, vice-consul at Stutt-
gart and consul at Hamburg and Copen-
hagen.
Wing-Commander Colin G. Milson,
D.F.C. and bar, of Winton (Q.), now com-
mands an Australian fieaufighter “ship-
busting” squadron. Milson, a fifth-gen-
eration Australia, is a son of the Milsons,
of Springvale, out from Boulia, which is
4SQ on the inland transceiver radio
circuits. A Middle East veteran, he got
his D.F.C. in a Wellington raid on an
enemy convoy thereabouts, the bar for
good work over the North Sea, shooting
up minesweepers off the Dutch coast and
shipping in heavily-defended harbors.
He’s 24.
In his day the late Frank Hambridge
wrote many mining pars for The
Bulletin, and was among the first direc-
tors of Mt. Isa, His son, Surgeon-Lieut.
Rhodes Hambridge, sketched here by Bill
Prior, has been back to Australia twice
doing a job in boats of somewhat dif-
ferent construction. At present he’s with
the R.N.; in 1938 he came with the Eng-
SURGEON-LIEUT. HAMBRIDGE.
lish crew that won the Empire Games
“eights” on the Nepean. He then had
had an unusual variety of boat experi-
ence. First, he rowed for The King’s
School, Parramatta ; started his medical
studies here ; finished them at Cambridge,
rowing for Cambridge also ; and when
the movie “A Yank at Oxford” was being
made he doubled for Robert Taylor in
the rowing scenes.
After 34 years’ membership of the
board of directors of Sydney Y.M.C.A.,
Chas. Luke has retired. In 1939 he was
granted life membership, denoting 40
years’ Y.M. membership. He a Griffiths
Bros. man.
Secretary and organiser of the S.A.
Blood Transfusion Service since its foun-
dation in 1935, Walter Joseph (“Wal”)
Murphy has been mainly responsible for
its growing from four calls a month to
90. Meanwhile it has become inter-
nationally known, and inquiries regard-
ing the successful methods adopted are
received from other States and countries.
The organisation has fulfilled all civilian
blood transfusion requirements on a
voluntary basis; has enrolled 6000
donors, and has a 24-hours’ service with-
W. J. MURPHY.
out cost to those benefiting. Also, it
supplied half the donors for the A.I.F.
dried serum appeal. Murphy, who’s 42,
is himself the leading donor, and he has
travelled all over the State at his own
expense to enrol new members.
Retired after 24 years in the chair of
history at Otago University (M.L.), Pro-
fessor J. R. Elder was born at Gibraltar,
but Aberdeen is his spiritual home, and
the university there his Alma Mater. He
wrote extensively on Scottish history, and
in M.L. delved into the Dominion’s his-
tory and compiled several valuable
works, including the Journals and Letters
of Samuel Marsden. Last year Aberdeen
University conferred on him the LL.D.
William Angliss, M.L.C., who pioneered
the Australian frozen-meat trade, has
passed his 80th milestone. Angliss has
made many gifts to Melbourne, the one
likely to be most remembered his school
of modern cooking. Instead of the old-
style chef, there are scientists in every
department and laboratories where every-
thing from a chop to a doughnut is
measured for its vitamin content. Hun-
dreds of cooks have passed through it
into the services. Angliss started in the
meat trade with an uncle in London, and
in 1886 was in business in Carlton, Mel-
bourne. The Westralian gold rush of
the ’nineties launched him into the frozen-
meat trade, and the Boer War brought
him into the overseas market. He repre-
sented Australian meat interests at the
Ottawa Conference.
John Gordon Jensen, one of the vic-
tims of the ’plane crash at Redesdale
(Vic.), was a son of the Department ot
Munitions secretary. He himself entered
munitions as a cadet engineer at the Gov-
ernment factory at Footscray after a bril-
liant career at Melbourne University, and
in 1943 was production manager of the
Commonwealth munitions factory at Mil-
dura. The scene of the crash saw one of
the early attempts at flying in Australia.
F. Duigan, a Redesdale farmer, built an
aeroplane as a hobby and flew it success-
fully there, from the same ground where
the Stinson twin-engined aircraft was
smashed to pieces.
Mrs. Aeneas Gunn, who is living in
retirement at Hawthorn, Melbourne, no
doubt never imagined that the white,
halfcaste and full-blood abo. inhabitants
of Elsey Downs station, scene of We of
the Never Never, would one day sit down
to a full-length sound-movie programme.
The screening was arranged by the Direc-
tor of Army Amenities in the N.T. in
return for hospitality extended by station-
manager Giles to servicemen and -women
who drop in to inspect the historic
station 350 miles from Darwin. The
programme included “Hey, Rookie,”
“Two Latins from Manhattan,” news-
reels and a colored cartoon. The native
section split its sides at the cartoon.
Elsey these days belongs to H. E. Thone-
man, M.L.A, for Toorak (Vic.), and a
partner, who a few years ago set out to
give the local Binghi a new deal, which
included the previously unheard-of pro-
vision of maternity allowances for nurs-
ing mothers. The result was a big in-
crease in the population.
G. P. Brooks, Brisbane’s assistant city
engineer, has become chief engineer and
manager of the works department in suc-
cession to L. J. Price, who has gone to
Melbourne as Assistant Director-General
of the A.W.C. Sydney-born, Brisbane’s
new chief went to Broken Hill and from
there was appointed deputy chief at
Brisbane in 1941, He got his B.E. at
Sydney University and is an associate of
the I.E. (Aust.). G. R. Goffin, who suc-
ceeds him as assistant engineer, is also
an associate of the I.E. (Aust.) and be-
fore joining the city council had had wide
experience in private and departmental
practice.
Into the silence:
At Cowwarr (Vic.), at 77, Denis Michael
O’Brien, whose father helped to found the
Long Tunnel mine at Walhalla when that town
was the State’s Eldorado. The son studied
medicine in Dublin, but returned to the farm
in Gippsland.
At 82, “Pussyfoot” Johnson, who had a brief
Australian association when the fight for pro-
hibition was on. He developed his anti-booze
ideas while policing the anti-liquor laws on
Indian reservations. A missile hurled at him
when he was addressing a prohibitionist rally
in London after the end of the last war cost
him an eye.
Harold B. Herbert, dead at 52 after a long
illness, was probably the best-known and the
most popular of Australain landscapists in water-
color. Ballarat-born and trained in art at
that city’s Tech., he was for a while an in-
structor. The success of his first exhibition in
1915 decided him to depend on his brush. He
toured Europe in 1922 and more recently was
in the M.E. as an Australian official war artist.
Ambidextrous, he was a remarkably quick
worker—a fact reflected in the directness and
freshness of his work.


Society
“Balander”; Like others, I keep a wary
eye out for signs and portents that may
or may not indicate a return to normal
conditions after the war. Imagine, then,
my delight as a Queenslander on reading
that Mr. Cooper, our Premier, is to leave
for England in March “to attend to
matters of importance to' the State.” The
paper describes it as “one of the best-
kept political secrets for years.” Need I
add that the head of the Government is
to be accompanied by an extensive staff.
“What of it?” you ask. Let me remind
you that in the good old days before this
war a feature of our national life was
the constant flow back and forth of Pre-
miers from this to other countries. That
our Mr. Cooper has bought his tickets,
arranged his priority and so forth can
mean only one thing and I, for one, am
now happily contemplating the future
when the guns shall be silent and the
war-lords at rest and sea and air alive
with travelling Premiers. Godspeed you.
Cooper, harbinger of peace.
•I 5 H*
“Ceg’s” mind casts back to Anzac
Cove;
“Caballer” (B. 31/1/ ’45) and “Keg” (B.
17/1/’45) writing about the Huntley and Palmer
No. 4 Biscuit, universally known to the troops
as the “Anzac Waver” (wafer?), do not properly
cover the subject. Postal address of my dug-
ouf at Anzac Cove was on Hell Spit, Brighton
Beach, and growing round about was a small
aromatic shrub, possibly thyme. Many a good
rissole have I made with crunched-up “Anzac
Waver” mixed with bully beef, fried in either
the fat from the beef tin or a scrap of bacon.
(Yes, we did have bacon sometimes!) A,very
good porridge was made by pounding the
waver into a fine flour and boiling it up with
water thickened with “Carnation” unsweetened
condensed milk. I don’t remember bread
arriving as often as “five times a week,” but I
recall that it was baked at Imbros and brought
over in barges. Often when it was handed out
by the q.m. it was so sodden with sea water
as to be uneatable. Johnny Turk evidently
envied us our good biscuits, for one bright
morning a Taube came over and bombed our
biscuit dump at Anzac. The flying pieces made
good confetti. Later, in France or Belgium,
I remember a particularly “sticky” corner of
one road that was “stabilised” (blessed word)
by dumping into the mudholes many tins of
Army biscuits. Heavy traffic, including guns,
then passed over quite comfortably.
* * * *
“Philatelist”: The issue of Australian
stamps to commemorate the inaugura-
tion of the Duke of Gloucester as
Governor-General adds to an already
large gallery of the Empire’s Royal family
stamps. To celebrate the coronation of
King George V in 1911, 11 stamps were
printed by Newfoundland, portraying
George V, Queen Mary, Prince Edward,
Prince Albert, Prince Henry, Prince
George (killed in an aircraft acci-
dent), Princess Mary and Prince John
(who died in 1919), with Queen Alex-
andra and the Duke of Connaught. All
parts of the Empire during 1935 signal-
ised the monarch’s silver jubilee with
other special issues. Most countries
illustrated Windsor Castle. Britain put
forth a new portrait of the King;
Canada adopted portraits of the King,
Queen Mary, the Duke of York, the
Duke of Windsor, Princess Elizabeth and
pictures of Windsor Castle and the royal
yacht Britannia. When King George VI
and Queen Elizabeth visited France in
1935 the Republic printed a special stamp
also. This illustrated the Houses of Par-
liament in London, coupled with the Arc
de Triomphe, Paris. In 1939 their Majes-
ties toured Canada, which event the
snowy Dominion celebrated with stamps
showing portraits of the King and Queen
and the two Princesses. The War Mem-
orial in Ottawa, which the King unveiled,
was also represented.
“Hist”: German propaganda takes
some queer twists. Stamp collectors have
been receiving, via neutral countries, fac-
similes of British postage stamps with
Stalin’s portrait substituted for that of
George VI, and with the Hammer and
Sickle or the Jewish Star of David intro-
duced into the design. Others bear such
inscriptions as “This War is a Jewish
War” or “Liquidation of Empire.” The
latter slogan is accompanied by the name
of one or other of the British West Indian
colonies where bases have been leased to
the United States,
* * He *
“X.S.”: A queer mishap was the sub-
ject of a Melbourne inquest. An A.I.F.
“Yair, the wife left me —got sick o' the housework!"
sergeant, a good swimmer, dived into St.
Kilda baths, and when he emerged he was
seen to be unwell. After swimming un-
certainly about he sank. When his body
was recovered it was found he had been
stabbed through the heart by a stingray
which had pntered the baths through a
break in the surrounding pickets. Fisher-
men often see these deadly brutes about
Port Phillip and dread their stings, which,
though not poisonous, are liable to cause
infected wounds which may take a year
to clear up. This is the first Australian
fatality of the kind. There is a record of
a girl who perished in this way in MX.
* * * •
“Elbow”: “Ear Punisher’s” reference
to W.A. flowering gums in Melbourne’s
Bourke-street (B. 31/1/ ’45) reminds me
of a visit to Los Angeles in 1937. Our
taxi driver told us he would show us
something Australian we couldn’t see in
Australia. There are flowering gums all
over Los Angeles, but we sat up when
our guide drove us through a street over
a mile long with gums on both sides in
full bloom (of all shades, from crimson
to pink). Their bougbs arched over the
street and met in the centre. This, it
struck us, was something of which Aus-
tralia could be proud and also might
emulate. I had a color-process movie
camera and proceeded to record the
scene, remarking to an American by-
stander “I’m just putting these gums on
a movie to take back to Australia.” His
reply made me jump: “Them ain’t gums ;
they’re eucalypts!”
* * * *
“Taniwha”; A delegation of British
farmers that has been travelling in Maori-
land penetrated as far south as Invercar-
gill, where the guid folk, mostly offspring
of a century-old Presbyterian invasion,
showered special hospitality on Mr.
Young, the Scottish member of the party.
Mr. Young was surprised to find that
these second- and third-generation trans-
planted Scots affected a broader accent
than his own —which came direct from
Lanarkshire. I think the explanation is
to be found in the almost truculent
nationalism of the Scot in a strange land.
Whatever it is, these Otago and South-
land Caledonians lose no opportunity of
making clear their link with the Land o’
Cakes. I was never so near death in my
life as I was just after I asked a Dunedin
man (an elder of the kirk, too, foreby)
if he’d read Crosland’s Unspeakable Scot.
* * * *
“Bo,” with a masculine complaint:
N’York fashion experts have laid it
down that woman is to have “luscious
curves.” There is no talk of “going back” to
them; the curves are apparently new ones, based
on the war-born physical expansion of women,
due to service food, exercise, heavy factory
work and other causes. But to mere man this
welcome swing-away from the knobs-and-angles
school, for so long cherished by Hollywood, has
a catch in it. Shoulders will be so much
squarer and broader that shoulder pads in frocks
will be unnecessary. Also, feet will be larger,
due to increased walking. Worse than these,
muscles, once regarded by my lady as un-
sightly excrescences, will be in evidence. After
World War I woman cropped her hair, adopted
man’s trousers and became flat-bosomed and
snake-hipped so as to appear mannish. This
time she’s going to try to mix feminine curves
with a display of bulky biceps, shoulders like
a wheat-lumper’s and foot coverings like ukelele
cases. It won’t work. No man wants to
come home and be embraced by a he-wife the
muscles of whose brawny arms are strong as
iron bands, who uses an oxy-acetylene torch
to prune her eyebrows and who needs only
one hand to cover her face when she sobs.
“Pedantic Pete”: Homer nodded occa-
sionally, but he has been dead a long
time. The “new” “S. M. Herald” hasn't
that excuse for its mistakes. An illus-
tration in a Saturday edition ornaments
an article concerning Surgeon Bowes,
R.N., who came in the First Fleet
to look after 104 female convicts
aboard the transport Lady Penrhyn.
The drawing shows a number of
nursing mothers on the upper deck,
each equipped with one or more
infants, a. disgruntled-looking seaman
seated amongst them, and in the back-
ground a modern 4in. gun with a canvas
cover over its mechanism and articles of
baby’s wear suspended from its barrel.
The 12-pounder gun from H.M.S. Sirius
which adorns Sydney’s Macquarie-place,
alongside the ship’s anchor, would have
been a better model.
* * * «
“Lao-dah’s” memory of the Philip-
pines:—
I was in Manila when the Americans, in
the first flush of their surprise in finding a
colonial empire in their lap, were setting out
to show the world that education was the key
to the management of subject races. They
found apt pupils in the Filipinos. Young
men and maidens walked around each with
enough books under his or her arm to furnish
a university course. Schools and colleges arose
in all directions. The dark gowns of Spanish
priests still flitted about the narrow streets
of the Intramuros as symbols of the old dis-
pensation, but an independent Filipino church
had been founded which denied the possibility
of miracles. By 1924 the public school system,
free, secular and co-educational, was afford-
ing instruction to a million and a half Filipino
children, 10 p.c. of the population. The
Filipino took to journalism like a duck to
water. Before the war there were 148 news-
papers, mostly very vigorous in the matter of
invective. The political democracy offered by the
new masters was also grasped with both hands.
Less than eight years after Aguinaldo, the man
who tried to found a Filipino republic, had been
crushed a legislature was created, with two elected
Houses and an infinite capacity for lengthy de-
bate. Most of the public offices were filled by
Filipinos, there was practical home rule from
1914 to 1921, and Woodrow Wilson was so
convinced that the Filipino had justified his
right to self-government that one of his last
acts before going out of office was to advise
Congress to grant the islands independence. There
were critics who murmured that this branch
of the Malay people was not organised eco-
nomically nor from the standpoint of national
defence to maintain its independence. These
critics pointed out, too, that U.S. trade with
the islands had risen in 30 years from 6 p.c. to
55 p.c. of the total. Nevertheless, most Ameri-
cans were pretty well convinced that economic
factors would not finally prevail over the be-
lief in self-determination. Then came Pearl
Harbor.
* * * *
“Bar Din”: Princess Beatrice, young-
est child of Queen Victoria, who died late
last year at 87, was entrusted with her
mother’s journals, to modify and delete
at discretion. Beatrice faithfully obeyed,
re-writing all the bulky volumes in
her own hand. From an historical
point of view it is a pity the originals are
lost, but the Princess, who was merely
respecting her mother’s wishes, is not to
blame for that. Valuable documents have
been suppressed with far less justification.
The wife of the great Orientalist Sir
Richard Burton destroyed a large por-
tion of his translations after his death
because the lady considered the subject-
matter indelicate. Several pages of the
original manuscript of Cardinal de
Retz’s memoirs, preserved at the Biblio-
th£que Nationale, have been torn out by
some unknown hand, presumably because
of the coarseness of the matter contained
in them. De Retz em-
ployed monks as amanu-
enses, and when they pro-
tested at some particularly
outrageous anecdote the
Cardinal would blandly
remark that if it didn’t
shock him ecclesiasts of
lesser calibre needn’t
worry.
* * *
- “Hamer” sighs for a for-
gotten institution:
When I was a boy January
26 was “Regatta Day.” One
of the big shipping cos. would
always have a liner in port to
act as flagship, decked with
bunting from stem to stern.
The sport started early and
lasted until sundown, and
practically everybody in Syd-
ney had a look at some part
of the doings. One of the
events was a “march past” of
competitors, a procession pass-
ing round the near-city fore-
shores in which many comedy
floats and the home-made
canoes of the small boys
joined. The kids used to cut
cement casks in half, nailing
the two halves together length-
ways, adding a keel and stretch-
ing canvas or sacking over this
framework. That made a canoe
at a cost within any boy’s
pocket. The vast hinterland
that has become densely popu-
lated suburbs was in my young
days mainly bush; settlement
was confined to a fringe around
the harbor, and the population
was naturally aquatic-minded.
Tourists of old timed their
arrival from England so that
they could witness the Sydney Regatta. Lord
Jersey, as Governor, pronounced it an institu-
tion that “would stand for all time.” It looked
a very safe prophecy then.
AMAZING.
“Mr. Scully’s statement that it has never been
the practice in previous droughts to feed wheat to
sheep shows a lack of knowledge that is amazing.”
' —Daily paper.
What books they’d fill, what bulky books,
A bare recital of the things
That someone always overlooks
Among our rattled Canberra kings.
What ignorance, profound and deep,
Through careless words they’re apt to show.
What else, one muses, touching sheep
Is there that Scully doesn’t kfiow?
Men unfamiliar with finance
As aborigines with Manx
Unhesitatingly advance
Their views on ways of running banks.
Scholars who never milked a cow
Advice on dairymen bestow
About their trade, ignoring how
They learned the points they kid they know.
Never was greater truth, I’ll swear,
Into a pithier line compressed
Than that contained in Pope’s “Whate’er
Is best administered is best.”
But what a muddle it betrays
When the Pooh Bah of some bureau
Sets people gasping in amaze
About the things he doesn’t know!
Square pegs, round holes. That’s what it is.
And with the sheer misfits incurred,
How, one may ask, could any biz
Be capably administered?
Of what' a file it would consist.
How arduous the task would grow,
If one essayed to make a list
Of things poor Scully doesn’t know.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
A NEST OF SINGING BIRDS.
“Proportionately, there are more poets in Aus-
tralia than Jn any other English-speaking - country,
and they write more.’—' “S. M. Herald” reviewer.
Never —and take it for a sign and token
Of progress no observer disregards—
Has any land where Shakspeare’s tongue is
spoken
Been so abundantly equipped with bards.
No haunt of emus or of kangaroos is
Too lone to lure, too rugged to inspire
Blokes who assiduously court the Muses
And coves who smite the lyre.
Few, passing few, we know, of those who start
up
Parnassus’ side and scale some lower slope
Will reach the peaks. But, brother, keep your
heart up,
Always rememb’ring while there’s life there’s
hope.
Among the crowd continually working
To clothe in tuneful numbers deft conceits
Some Swinburne, still un-laurelled, may be
lurking,
Some undiscovered Keats.
Forbear from petulance, though in requital
For stately ode or rippling roundelay,
No guerdon in the form of rank and title,
No wad of wealth should come your wistful
way.
Take comfort from the old asseveration
That those whom balladry to action draws
Are more important assets to a nation
Than they who frame its laws.
What does it matter though the urge creative
For stirring staves posterity may prize
Is lamentably less remunerative
Than arts whereby glib politicians rise?
Stick to your task, determinedly and grimly,
And lasting eminence may be your lot
When Curtin’s name is but remembered diml)
And Bill McKell’s forgot.
And you, Australia —sometime Felix christened—
Here should be happiness that thrills and
cheers;
You, who to glowing tributes oft have listened
On sons who’ve won to fame in other spheres,
May hail the news your shores are ever waking
To witching melodies in well-winged words
Trilled by a host of poets (in the making),
A nest of singing birds.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“A Major”: If I had any pity to spare
for the German people it surely would be
evoked by the only musical composition
of any note evolved during the Nazi
regime—the song “Lili Marlene,” which
has been so industriously plugged oyer the
radio and the Wurlitzers that milkmen
whistle it. It is not, musically, an achieve-
ment worthy of the nation that produced
“Adelaide,” the “Standchen” of Schubert
and the “Wiegenlied” of Brahms, but its
very weakness adds to its pathos. It
opens rather in the style of “John took
me home to see his mother” and proceeds
to lay on grief with a shovel after a
recipe first extensively exploited by Ira
D. Sankey. I’m told that homesick Saxon
and Bavarian conscripts sing it round the
campfire. If it makes them as sad as it
makes me I’m almost sorry for them.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Although “No Beer” is
chalked on Sydney hotels most of the day
you can generally get a drink in the
“lounge” if you’re prepared to pay the
price. Entering one the other day at (for
1945) an early hour and expecting to find
it practically empty I saw (when my eyes
became accustomed to the semi-darkness
and pall of cigarette smoke) that it was
filled with humanity, and it seemed that if
1 did any lounging it would have to be
on the floor. But no. A grimy-looking
gent, near the door proffered me a beer-
case. “ ’Ere you are, sport —only two bob
and you kin take it away with yer.” I
then noticed that many other patrons
were astride beer cases, some with girls
on their laps. I found that I was expected
to tip the waiter handsomely in addition
to paying extra for the beer. Headed
for the fresh air I knocked over one of
my grimy friend’s beer-cases. “Hey,” he
yelled, “don’t knock the furniture
about!” Nobody even smiled.
“Lawnston”: The Speck has a beer-
rationing system. It operates at Butler’s
Gorge, where hydro-electric construction
is in progress. The camp canteen is con-
ducted by the H. E. Commission, which
issues 28 coupons to each worker,
drinkers or non-drinkers, every fortnight.
Non-drinkers who had not disposed of
their coupons in some other fashion
offered them for sale at a patriotic func-
tion, and each card fetched ten shillings.
The issue enables each holder tq wet his
whistle to the extent of not more than
two beers daily.
* *
“Balander”: Brisbane has witnessed
one of those amusing interludes which
occur when a Government department
sets out to assert itself and a private con-
cern refuses to be sat on. Tenants of the
T. and G. Building, mainly dentists
and doctors, had to find other roosts
when the army grabbed the place.
The army got out, and the former
tenants prepared to return. Then the
owners were told by the Department of
the Interior that the building was wanted
for the Prices Commission and the
tenants couldn’t come back. The tenants
formed a committee and wrote to Mr.
Forde. His reply wasn’t published. The
owners said they didn’t want to let to the
Prices Commission, -and went on putting
the place in order for the returning
tenants. The Department snorted that the
building would probably be impressed.
The tenants said they’d go to law. Then
Conelan, M.H.R., was informed by Forde
that the tenants could return, that one
floor would be occupied by the Crown
Solicitor and that the Prices Branch
would find “other accommodation.” Both
owners and tenants are full of relief,
being convinced that had the Prices Com-
mission won they’d never have recovered
their building.
* * * *
“Tuart”: In Fly Envious Time, a curi-
ous novel dealing with the immediate past
and a most fantastic future, Lou King-
Hall, member of a family with Austra-
lian associations, has a chapter dealing
with the 1938 Australian Eleven. The
Van Diemens, as she calls them, arrive
af Westhampton to play a match with
Bankshire County, desperately hard up,
which is washed out by rain; and Mary
Gray, wife of the Bankshire secretary,
discourses on some of the Van Diemens:
Ed Prettyman, known to millions through-
out the world as the greatest batsman of
the age, some say of any age; Pat Sulli-
van, demon bowler; Jock Mackenzie, with
the safest hands in the world behind the
wickets; Bob Hunt, the freak left-hand
bowler.
Ed, Pat and Bob are easily recognisable,
bdt Jock cannot be identified with Ben
Barnett or Charlie Walker, two of the
nicest members of that team, now (alas!)
war casualties. Apparently Jock was
meant for Oldfield, but Oldfield was not
a member of that side. It is arranged
that five Van Diemens are to dine with
“the president and Lady Margaret” and
go on to a club dance. None turns up.
There is a picture of “most of the side”
in “the hotel lounge, with their hats on
the backs of their heads”; they are “gruff
and short in their replies, still smarting
from the comments of a crowd who had
barracked them.” At the ground, with
the rain pouring down, they can be seen
playing cards.
At 1.30 Ed Prettyman strolled out, fol-
lowed by his supporters. Another examina-
tion of the pitch took place. Shortly after
the Van Diemens could be seen at their
cards again.
It went on raining:
After luncheon on the third day the Van
Diemens left. Ed Prettyman had a cup of
"Just found that ounce o' tobacco I lost , Joe!"
tea with us at 11 o'clock. He booked
accommodation for the return visit of his
Eleven in 1942. He is a modest young
man.
‘Worn out with reaction and annoyance,”
the Grays find it “difficult to forget the
visit of the Van Diemens, the rain and
the disappointment they brought with
them.” But “Jim,” a relative, “rang up,
told us to cheer up as there was bound
to be a war before the club went bank-
rupt.”
* * * *
“Strict Veg.” A row in Melbourne over
the alleged refusal of a Church of Eng-
land girls’ school to admit a Jewish
pupil unless she attended divine service
and submitted to the institution’s religious
instruction recalls the case of another
Victorian private school which permitted
girls of other denominations to attend
and made attendance at Scripture sessions
optional. The daughter of a leading
member of the Hebrew community
staggered the headmistress by getting top
marks in the theological section, with
which went a prize at the annual break-
up. She had not been seen to attend a
single Scripture lesson. She had got her
acquaintance with the forbidden subject
by diligently listening at the classroom
keyhole. Her father was just as staggered
as the headmistress when his daughter
brought home her prize—a beautifully
bound copy of the Bible.
* * * *
“Visitor”: S.A. has got over the in-
vasion scare, and is putting up again the
hundreds of direction-posts it took down
“Funny Wot a bloke sees after drinkin' this black-market stuff!"
in 1942. The R.A.A. is giving country
district councils a helping hand in the
matter. Also Adelaide has filled in the
trenches in the city squares and the hide-
ous concrete pipes, buttressed by bitumen-
tins and sandbags, which have so long
spoiled the beauty of Nbrth Terrace are
being carted away. But the scars will be
long remembered.
* * * *
“Abi Tonus”: The report that a man
and a woman had been killed in England
by “a rare poison, leaving practically no
trace,” is not the prisoner’s dream come
true; the announcement is qualified by
the statement: “Faint traces of an alka-
loid from the calabar bean were dis-
covered.” Amongst the primitive inhabi-
tants of Calabar this bean was used to
provide ordeals for various purposes. The
alkaloid concerned is physostigmine
(eserine), used by ophthalmic surgeons to
contract the pupil. In over-doses it causes
giddiness and paralysis of voluntary
muscles; the latter action was at one
time thought beneficial in allaying the
spasms of tetanus poisoning. In lethal
doses death occurs from asphyxia follow-
ing the paralysis of the respiratory
muscles. Physostigmine itself has never
been used, so far as is known, for crimi-
nal poisoning, but in 1864 about 70
children in Liverpool (Eng.) were
poisoned by eating calabar beans which
had been thrown out with some rubbish.
One boy who died was known to have
eaten six beans. Some years ago cargoes
of the beans were used as ballast, and
constituted a potential danger in sea-
ports.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I hope The Bulletin will
be pleased—and I bet it will be surprised
—by this unsolicited testimonial from the
Adelaide C. of E. “Guardian”:
It is fortunately unnecessary to be a
member of the Australian Church Union
or to conform to the Notes on the Kalendar
in order to enjoy the “Australian Church
Quarterly”! Indeed we are inclined to
rank it with The Bulletin for courage and
plain speaking, although the angle ot
approach is, naturally, somewhat different.
* * * *
“Warrawing”: Woodford, out Auburn
way (N. S. Wales), one-time academy for
boys, has gone up a step, for a notice-
board tells Presbyterians that kirk is now
held there. When the old house was built
in the eighteen-twenties Captain Bull and
his soldierv ruled the roost; and a full-
time job they had, keeping the Bull’s
Camp convicts well up to the mark. If
all that is written of Bull is true, up-to-
the-marking was his long suit. Then the
convicts were moved westward, and the
former quarters were out of the public
eye till the ’sixties, when James Buss,
judging that would-be diggers bound for
the western gold finds would have thirsts,
made the premises into Buss’s Inn. Even
if his patrons didn’t always “strike it,”
Buss did and he retired rich. Next came
the academy phase, and many later well-
known public men conned the gerund and
the gerundive under the convict-cut
shingles. A period of obscurity followed
the closing of the school, and now the
gospel (thundering being a lost art) is
spoken there. The broad-arrow influence
remains in a fine deep well and well-cut
stone flagging at front and rear of the
house.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Maldon, a picturesque hamlet
89 miles from Melbourne, has become
the Victorian Government’s first example
of its new policy of decentralisation. The
other day Assistant Minister for Decen-
tralisation Lienhop opened two shoe fac-
tories in the town, which boasts three
pubs and a population of 1500. It will
be interesting to see whether the politi-
cians will be as successful decentralisers
as gold was. Sixty or seventy years ago
at the height of the gold boom Maldon
had 20,000 inhabitants—and 65 pubs.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The writer of an article
on Melba made it appear that the diva
was tolerant of any sort of music, good,
bad or indifferent. It is true that she
would patiently listen and suffer aesthetic
torture when fire-brigade bands came up
from Melbourne to Coombe Cottage to
do her honor by blasting the leaves off
he trees for hours in the garden, though
her sotto-voce comments as she sat on
the verandah would have surprised some
of the musicians if they had heard them.
But she had a short way with the preten-
tious, the incompetent and the arty-crafty.
On one occasion she was the guest of
honor at a metropolitan concert in aid of
some hospital or other. The audience sat
bored while a succession of young things
assaulted the piano, and it sighed with
relief when the show was over. The
crowd was murmuring the usual expres-
sions of conventional admiration when
a voice which there was no mistaking was
heard exclaiming: “What do / think of
it? I think it was the most awful concert
I’ve ever had to listen to!”
* * * #
“Strict Veg.”: I should like to ask
“Friday Island • (B. 31/1/ ’45) what is
inaccurate in a reference to Pasteur as
an example of what he calls “my theory”
that most advances in science and know-
ledge have been made by individuals who
were regarded as quacks? It isn’t a
theory, it’s a fact. Pasteur was professor
of chemistry at the Sorbonne, but when
he formulated methods for the prevention
of “diseases,” isolated the bacillus of
anthrax and proposed to use a vaccine to
cure the dreaded rabies he was officially
denounced as a cheat and a liar, if not a
scoundrel. That charlatans and their
dupes associate themselves with Pasteur
doesn’t alter the fact that Pasteur’s con-
temporaries associated him with quacks.
* * * »
“Adelaide”: Do other States use the
untruthful term “indecent assault” for
intimacy with a girl under 18? In a
S.A. case there were charges, on dates
a month apart, against a young West-
ralian visitor and one against a Vic-
torian, and all with the same girl of 15-
odd, whom they “thought to be 18.”
Granted that girls must be protected
(these Soldiers were punished), why brand
youths with the criminal label, so absurdly
untrue in such cases? ~
if * =f if
“Traymon”: Prices of Rudyard Kip-
ling first editions, according to a London
authority, have doubled in the past four
years. A copy of Schoolboy Lyrics
brought £325 at a New York auction. A
first edition of The Smith Administra-
tion sold for £1025. One of many signs
that the world is weary of fakers and pre-
tenders and going back to genius.
* if if if
“C.Q.”: Touching literary hoaxes.
None so far advanced has equalled the
case of an American Encyclopaedia of
Biography, which was a standard work
for several decades in U.S. The editors
called for names of selected individuals
suitable to be placed in the national Val-
halla and when they were approved of
contributors would submit their stories
and be paid on the length of their contri-
butions. For years that publication con-
tained the lives of 47 Americans whose
achievements in art, commerce, industry,
politics or what not were described at
length, though they had never existed.
if * * *
“Spokeshave”: The sensation caused
by the discovery of what looked like two
big grey nurse sharks cruising up the
reaches of the Maribyrnong River, Mel-
bourne (they turned out to be porpoises),
reminds me of the only occasion in my
life when I played the part of a hero.
Being of the age when I was permitted
to bathe in the altogether in the ladies
enclosure at a fashionable seaside resort
in South Australia, I was amused when
the whole posse of women scattered for
the beach screaming “Shark! Shark!”
while I stood unshaken. I knew enough
about fish to identify the menaces as a
school of dolphins.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Blime”: “Happy,” a firm believer in
the befriending of dumb animals, had
mothered the orphaned Too till the
animal became too great a nuisance
round the place ; then he returned it to the
haunts of its own species. A few morn-
ings later he was tickled pink at finding
Joey waiting for him on the back step.
“Just shows his appreciation,” he grinned,
exhibiting the Too proudly to all-comers.
Joe went on showing his appreciation
for months after that, “Happy’s”, trips
into the bush becoming regular weekly
jobs, and his morning greetings varying
from “Well, I’m damned!” to “Back
again, blast y’! ” and later “ You! Cripes,
I—l’ll .. .” Then he got the idea Joe
couldn’t locate his own family, so riding
outback once more he spent the day locat-
ing a big mob of Toos, and shepherded
Joe carefully into the bunch. A few days
later I dropped in to find a very tame
Too occupying the armchair on the back
verandah, and a very mild bloke survey-
ing a row of heart-less lettuces in the
garden. “Well, I did me best,” “Happy”
defended heroically, as I came up, “but
you can see” —pointing to the half-eaten
vegetables—“there ain’t no livin’ with
him. Only thing I can see for it is to go
an’ live in the flamin’ bush meself.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; Towards the close of
a long, hot day we came on a deserted
shack on the back road from Patchewol-
lock to Underbool, and a croaking sort
of cheer broke from us as we saw that
the house tank had a rim or two of
water in it. Presently we had a fire
going and the billy on and were just sit-
ting down to enjoy ourselves when an
indignant cocky charged from the scrub
and wanted to know what the hell we
thought we were doing. We told him.
“I bin savin’ that water for me house,”
he roared, “an’ I ain’t goin’t’ have every
thirsty bagman in the country drinkin’
it.” “Mean t’ say,” roared back Mat,
“y’ wouldn’t give a man a drink of your
flamin’ water! ” “ ’Course I would,” he
snorted, “but y’ never asked for it. That’s
what I’m goin’ crook about —the prin-
ciple o’ the thing.” Mat cooled down.
“Well,” he said, “principles is precious.
I’ll see y’ don’t lose by it.” Somewhat
mystified, the cocky withdrew. Three
days later Mat posted him a bottle of
water from the Underbool railway station.
Both of us would have given something
to have seen that cocky’s face when he
opened the parcel and read Mat’s note.
* * * v
“Hanko”: When the station governess
left, her bike against the kitchen verandah
she also left temptation in the way of
horse-breaker Jackie Snowflake. Soon
there was a yell of “Whoa, dere, you silly
flamin’ wheel,” followed by a squeal of
wrath from Wun Sin, the gardener. Snow-
flake came bounding for the huts, closely
pursued by Wun Sin brandishing a Dutch
hoe. “Hell,” gasped Big Joe. “He’s cut
the abo.’s guts out,” and he threw him-
self upon the Chinaman. Snowflake kept
going and disappeared into the ram pad-
dock. On the ground Wun Sin was
squealing protestations of innocence, but
Big Joe had seen Snowflake’s blood-
bedabbled shirt. Wun Sin was trussed
and locked in the meat house. It took
the overseer and a slick mare to overtake
Snowflake, and then the riddle of the
abo.’s stained shirt was found to be that
he and the grid had skidded in all direc-
tions through a plot of red beets. , So the
rumpus ended just as flatly as that.
* * * *
“Wang”: “Y’ know that bloke I had
workin’ fer me,” said Jimmy Lynch to
Dad and Joe Briggs. “Well, I had t’ sack
him, he wus that slow. Useter take an
hour t’ dress himself of a mornin’,” “Call
that slow,” cried Joe Briggs; “why, he
wus a quick-change artist compared t’ a
feller I had graftin’ fer me last year.
He wus that slow he never went t’ bed.
It’s a fact. Be the time he’d finished un-
dressin’ it wus time to start work next
“Am I in on this?”
day, an’ he had t’ begin puttin’ his
clobber on again.” “Humph! not too
fast, I’ll admit,” remarked Dad. “But
did I ever tell y’ ’bout a chap I had toilin’
fer me once? I on’y had him four days,
then I paid him up an’ sacked him. An’
he had the gall t’ summons me fer a
month’s wages.” # “Why?” asked Jimmy,
“’count of you not giving him notice?”
“ ’Count of notice be blowed,” said Dad.
“He wus that slow that each day seemed
a blanky week t’ him.”
“Taniwha”: The seaside township of
Petone, at the head of Wellington Harbor
(M.L.), feels itself honored. In May,
1943, a large sea lion, 12ft. from nose to
tail, called at various points around the
coast of the North Island. He seemed
to like Petone, for he rambled up and
down the esplanade for several hours and
at night parked himself on the tramway
line. The police pushed him off, where-
upon he shook the dust of Petone off his
tail and gave other seaside villages a look
over, eventually vanishing in the general
direction of the South Pole. Now he’s
returned to Petone, has made himself a
permanent home on the bank of the Hutt
River, evades vagrancy charges by doing
a spot of fishing each day (he loves
eels, flounder and kakawai) and on Sun-
days he entertains the populace by flip-
ping, diving and disporting himself under
a bridge. He likes applause, stands up
in the water to receive it after every few
evolutions, and bows gently in recogni-
tion of the crowd’s kindness. Petone re-
gards him as an acquisition.
* * * *
“Aratta”; The new hand had arrived
at the farm the previous afternoon, and
it wanted an hour to daylight next morn-
ing when Dad dragged him from his bed
and into the kitchen for a snack before
starting work. The hand glanced at the
clock on the mantelpiece, “Cripes! ’
he exploded, “that there clock
of yours is a couple of hours fast.” “No
fear it ain’t,” answered Dad, cheerfully.
“That clock’s a great timekeeper; don’t
gain or lose a minit in a twelvemonth.
An’ I’ll tell yer how I know.” He
pointed to an uncurtained window. “See
that there star shinin’ there,” he said
pointing; “well, from this chair at the
head o’ the table y’ can see it shinin’ in
exactly the same spot ev’ry momin’ at
this time.” “A great idea, be cripes,” re-
marked the hand sarcastically ; “but it’s
got yer tricked when it’s cloudy.” “No
fear, it ain’t,” answered Dad, “I’ve seen
to that. I’ve made a mark on the winder
showin’ the exact spot the star’d be
shinin’ in if it wasn’t cloudy.”
* * * *
“Old Camp”: I can’t say that I ever
felt any enthusiasm for sleeping direct
on Mother Earth, Even when one’s
couch is of sand, the softest she offers,
it gets pretty hard before morning, whilst
ordinary soil almost immediately dis-
covers on the human anatomy two promU
nent protrusions, the shoulder knot and
the hip. Digging a hole for the hip bone
offers some relief, but to the fellow who
turns over often in his slumbers even
that becomes a mocker, it being difficult
to relocate oneself exactly in the same
spot. Finally, sleeping on a bed of gib-
bers offers the last word in discomfort.
Then there is the unwanted company one
is likely to meet. I still feel the fearsome
sensation of the night the centipede
crawled across my moist forehead; a
chap in the next camp had a small centi-
pede crawl right into his ear. There is
also the possibility of a scorpion sharing
one’s couch, not to mention cockroaches,
who find free lunch dining on one’s toe-
nails. And don’t let us forget the ants.
Necessity may compel a man to sleep on
the ground, but an elevation of even a
few inches spells comfort and security.
* » * *
“Bo”: I note with interest that the
dogs in Illinois (U.S.A.) are chasing cars
with greater vim than ever before. Their
exuberance has nothing to do with the
usual canine urge to nibble at the revolv-
ing wheels or to cause curseful drivers
of oncoming cars to step on their brakes.
Wartime number-plates made from soy
beans are the attraction, and motorists
have complained bitterly that when they
come back to their parked cars a pack
of dogs will be joyously munching at
front and rear plates. America is the
land where the unusual is to be met with,
and that the dogs of Illinois are vegetari-
ans does not therefore surprise me. In-
deed, it is a wonder that the hit-song
that has swept both sides of the Pacific
didn’t start off with “Dogsy doats.”
There seems only one thing for the Illi-
nois motorists to do to make their
number-plates safe from the vegetarian
doggy depredations —have their plates
made from compressed slabs of beef-
steak.
* * * *
“Swanlo”: It certainly pleased the
Tothersider to tell yarns illustrative of
the backwardness of the Groper (B.
27/12/’44), but here’s a few things the
same Groper did on his pat long before
the slick easterner invaded the State.
Over nearly one-third of Australia he had
investigated, and to a considerable extent
exploited, its pastoral and agricultural
possibilities before 1885, which about
marks the beginning of the invasion.
Besides landing stock by sea as far north
as Beagle Bay, just beyond Broome, he
had also established an overland route
from the extreme south to the De Grey
River, something like 1000 miles. The
opening of this route developed the
Murchison, where, long before the
Duracks settled in the Kimberleys, horses
were bred by the hundred and shipped as
“walers” to India. That was one of the
current trades of the old West. Coincident
with this was the exploitation of the pearl-
ing waters, from Shark Bay to well north
of King Sound. Young Westralia had
this wonderful trade all on its own. And
since no one gave or sold it boats, West-
ralians built its schooners, luggers, brigs;
and in such 100-tonners not seldom sailed
to London. Singapore they took in their
stride. I doubt if any generation ever had
such a splendid heritage of the sea as had
those Gropers all through the ’seventies,
’eighties and ’nineties.
* * * *
“Lyons River”: The summer day on
the Murchison was so blazing hot that
when we eventually came to a pool the
cattle hesitated about plunging muzzles
in, the surface being near to scalding.
Ourselves were parched ; the billy would
be boiled in due time, but at the moment
our throats cried out for water. “Can’t
drink that stuff, though.” But Billy, the
half-caste, had spotted something. Lift-
ing aside a mass of dry leaves and twigs,
he showed us a small waterhole a couple
of feet in diameter and about the same
depth. The contents were clear, and,
though not exactly icy, were certainly re-
freshing. “Just a trick of the bush
abos.,” Billy explained. “When they
camp alongside a pool like this they dig
a hole about four or five feet from the
edge and let the water soak in. Sort of
filters it a bit, but the main thing is they
can cover it with twigs, and it’s always
pretty cool even on the hottest day.” Be-
fore leaving he replaced the covering,
using fresh twigs and leaves. “Nothing
narks the bush myall so much as to go
away and leave his waterhole so that
dying stuff can crawl into it.”
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The suggestion that a
three-quarter-grown rabbit could inflict
facial injuries on a boy seems as fantastic
as the thought that a kick from a horse
could cause extensive burns; but I saw
both phenomena occur in one day.
Seeing the bunny take refuge in a blind
pop-hole in a hillside, the boy got a short
stick, dropped on his knees and gave an
experimental poke. Until then I’d never
seen the rabbit that wouldn’t endure an
unmerciful prodding rather than take a
sporting chance on escape. This one,
an individualist, shot out full into his
tormentor’s face. Result: a bleeding nose
and split lip on the lad’s part, and a head-
ache —presumably —and freedom for
bunny. That afternoon, after an un-
successful three hours of tinkering with
the car, the boy’s father decided to fall
back on the pony. Nigger stood un-
usually quiet—until he saw the winkers;
then, suddenly spinning around, let drive
with both hind ’uns. One shod hoof
thudded solidly home on the thigh ; there
was a report, a flash and, ablaze from
knee to waist, a sorely-hurt man only
saved himself from serious injury at the
expense of blistered hands and a burnt
upper leg. The kick had exploded a box
of matches in the trousers pocket, and
the garment, being covered with splashes
of oil and petrol, was highly inflammable.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Re that Charles
Eaton affair (B. 27 /12/’44), here is a
previously unwritten chapter. On Sep-
tember 18, 1834, the ship Mangles,
William Carr captain, put into Murray
Island, Torres Strait. Several canoes
came out, and in one a white man was
noticed. Spoken to by the first mate this
white declared himself a survivor from
the Charles Eaton, wrecked a couple of
months earlier, and expressed a desire to
come on board, but said natives were
preventing him and eight other whites.
Carr sent the first mate and six men, well
armed, off in the cutter. The canoe was
overtaken, but the castaway now refused
to leave the canoe, even throwing himself
on the floor trying to hide among the
natives’ feet. Thereupon Carr recalled the
boat, but later took it himself and stood
off the beach for two hours; The natives
massed in strength, refusing to let him
land. No whites appeared, though the
natives brought a little European boy
down. Carr also saw a European boat
partly built. Nearly a year later Carr
reported the matter to the Commander
of the East India Station, who took
prompt measure for rescue. But the relief
vessel found only John Ireland, cabin-
boy of 12 years, and little Wilhe
D’Oyley.
PRISONERS OF WAR.
We marched through Serbia’s capital one softly
sunny day,
And past us poured the Wehrmacht in a shim-
mering array,
With gleaming ranks of ponderous tanks in
arrogant display.
And there a bitter contrast showed between this
armored might
And our ragged band of weary men who
stumbled in the sight
Of beaten Serbs who lined the sides of every
ruined street
And stared in pitying silence at our clumsy,
shuffling feet
While the Germans made the pavements ring
to martial swing and beat.
We’d come in cattle-trucks that crawled re-
lentlessly as fate,
We’d slept in the Palace stables beside the
guarded gate
That looks upon tall gracious trees untouched
by war and hate.
Through, shady eaves and yellow leaves the sun
shone faintly down
On the stately park upon a hill above the
broken town,
And past the restful shadows then the sunlight
seemed to glare
Reflected from the Panzers’ steel; and we could
only stare
At the wreckage of the city in a helpless, dumb
despair.
The Panzers passed, but we went on through
each dead boulevarde,
With, watchful always, by our side the strut-
ting S.S. guard.
Ihaki said “Pononga I” then he swore and swal-
lowed hard;
I felt the same self-loathing, for I knew that he
meant “slave”;
And round us there still brooded that strange
silence of the grave.
Australians and New Zealanders and men from
the Motherland,
We trudged along in a straggling throng like
some weird mummers’ band,
Then suddenly we stiffened to a sharp word of
command.
An English sergeant-major from our ranks had
fallen out,
And ere the guards could drive him back we
heard his ringing shout
Of “Left, you cripples! Pick ’em up!” Then
all that ragged rout
Fell info line and swung their arms and marched
in step again.
The words we’d cursed in other days now beat
a gay refrain;
The crowds broke into muted cheers on the sad
streets of Belgrade
As round the city square we marched beneath
some hero’s shade,
Swinging along to a soldier song like Guards-
men on parade.
N.S.W.
SB.


“Zake”: The two well-sinkers who’d
taken a contract with Purdy were always
getting into verbal holts with his vitriol-
tongued spouse. Purdy had been away
for a few days, and when he came back
he went straight out to see how the job
was going. He found the sinkers timber-
ing sides and hit the roof, saying he
wouldn’t have a timbered well at any
price. “What timber are y’ using?” he
asked. -Bland, who handled the busi-
ness side for the duo, said it was iron-
wood. “Ironwood!” exploded Purdy.
“When that wood’s soaked in water it’s
deadly. You’d be poisonin’ us!” “You,
perhaps, boss,” said Bland quietly. “It
wouldn’t have the slightest effect on yer
missus—one poison always counteracts
another, they reckon.” /
* * * *
“Rooster”: “Stringy,” entered for the
buckjumping, was getting some unsoli-
cited advice from “Sirocco,” the town-
ship’s notorious hot-air merchant. As
“Stringy” placed a tentative foot in the
stirrup “Sirocco” opened out. “This ’ere
mount is a trickster,” he cautioned. “Last
time I rode her she ’ad a way of catchin’
y’ unawares like. Y’ know —head down,
hind legs up an’ a snaky wriggle that makes
y’ wonder which side y’re goin’ ter fall off.”
“Don’t worry, old-timer,” said “Stringy.”
“ ’Spect I’ll stick on as long as most—T
hope.” “Sirocco” looked doubtful. “list
the same, don’t grip the saddle too tight
with y’r knees. Hold y’rself loose. An’
keep y’r eye on the ground jist a bit
ahead of the pommel. Y’ cam’t go
wrong.” “Stringy” mounted and his
steed plunged away .into the arena. He
hit the ground in record time on the first
gyroscopic convolution. Said “Sirocco”
later: “I told y’ t’ keep y’r eye on the
ground in front of the pommel.” “Sfringy”
exploded. “Yair—l know!, But when
I looked f’r it the fiamin! ground wasn’t
there!”
* * * *
“Rabbit’s Eye”: Puzzled at register-
ing four clean misses with the old single
barrel with four easy running rabbit
shots, I sat down to think. Bill, who was
with me, looked a bit numb, knowing
how good I was, and suggested spreading
my Bulletin and trying out the pat-
tern. Well, I pegged it up at forty yards
"Now, Pilkington, cut out this ‘ bedside-manner stuff!”
'and had a go. Would you believe it,
there was a‘ gap in the middle of that
shot pattern the exact size and shape of
a nmnincr rabbit'
a running rab ,
“W. 0.2”: Most interesting sea-creature
encountered by our patrol along the
eastern shores of Cape York Peninsula
was an odd little crab equipped with
horns. A pair of the freaks, each about
four inches across, was picked up at
low tide on a sandbank, where the crus-
taceans’ mottled-grey bodies so closely
resembled the shell-strewn ’sand that it
was only by accident that they were
sighted Each had an inch-long, blunt,
® . : j ut tine out from both sides
body Each o£ their two
claws was equipped with a tiny,
smooth horn. We could not discover
, t nv „ horns but our
how the crab employs its boms t omou
M.O. subsequently learned that the crus-
tacean, known as Ixa inermis, is a rarity
previously known only in the East Indies.
* * *
„ M ta „. As a double event the
Kelso girls’ forthcoming marriage to the
g 0 j ger hoys created more than usual
interest and I strolled over to cong«tu-
late the old man. Bill was turning the
separator handle. “Don’t congratulate
me ” he said before I could speak. “Unless
you reckon being left thirty-five cows to
hand-milk on my own something to crow
about » “I suppose your wife’s old man
fdt pretty much the same when you got
hitched,” I observed. Bill grunted. “Well,
t h ere ’ s ’ one trick I wouldn’t have played
Qn bim »* he said. I took a quick look at
the booklet he handed me. “Them boys
sent this over last n i g ht. They thought
p. m j g ht come in useful.” It was a cata-
j for milking-machines,
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: As a munition maker
oW Bunyah ran ked high, so high that he
sddom needed tQ hunt A spec ies of ti-
tree that grew tolerably slender saplings
wag the wood he favoret i. But however
slender the sapling might be it bore little
resemb i ance to the finished spear. First
tbe rou gb stick had to be cleaned of all
twigs and bark; then laboriously scraped
'fire “and' a Vato-worn
he regarded as possessing
almost sacred properties, -re next
implements Into , Ule n “ h “'Te
several ill-shaped sticks Then when he
judged that a stick had heated through
fndVmSVktak
by judicious bending this way and that
pirs * bL|rnt t 0 a rough point, which also
harfnt XT& charcoal°
over with blackboy or spinifex gum
added both smoothness and polish,
* * * *
“Solitude ; Seventy-fiver was touring
the dams when he struck the f * eshl 7"
bogged Hereford. Dismounting, he
pulled and shoved, walked round her
several times, airing his special language
for such occasions, and finally, with the
aid of his surcingle and a length of fefic-
ing wire, got the beast hitched to his nag s
tail. Then, calling on the grey f or her
best effort, he resumed his thrust on the
bally’s rear tm presently the beast
struggled up the bank. There, true to a
Hereford’s ungrateful disposition, it
charged. The nag didn’t wait tor m-
stmetions. Heading south, still mtened
together with the fencing wire, the pair
were half a mile up the paddock before
Seventy-fiver had hauled his own carcass
and a few stray minor effects from the
bog. First in my line of vision as I
logged homeward about then was a first-
class red-and-white circus that had me
flabbergasted. Before I’d hardly blinked
my eyes back into plumb, along raced a
weird unud-encrusted apparition making
strange noises and pointing frantically,
I wheeled back over the ridge in pursuit,
The old bloke’s developed a new respect
for me lately, and I see no necessity to
mention that when I arrived the bally,
was down and the old grey clean knocked
up
*•* * *
“Old-timer”: Thirteen-feet snakes with
red diamonds on their backs aren’t the
only curious things that have bobbed up
around Koroit (Vic.) (B. 31/l/’45). A
mate and I were humping our blueys just
“I didn't have to ask the Yanks for picture-money!”
outside the town one year, looking for
spud-digging, and just on evening a herd
of bawling calves came galloping down
the road, fleeing from an empty chaff bag
which hopped along behind them like a
giant frog and emitted strange yells. We
captured the creature and pulled off its
bag skin, to be told in a wild Irish brogue
to mind our own business, and if we
knew of a better way to get stubborn,
blankety things like calves home after
buying them at a sale then he’d be glad
to hear of it, because this leap-frogging
along took it out of a man sufficient
enough, be’gob, widout blankety fulcs
holding him up with inane questions. It
took three shots of our special Kirkstall
potheen to restore him to normal.
$ * * *
“Betcha”: My latest addition to the
kennels is a cross between a champion
sheep dog and a wild dingo. As an enter-
tainment I had a shot at training one of
the pups. The result is interesting. Natu-
rally timid, the mong works well at timeSj
her great fault being a maddening stop-
work strike which is liable to occur at any
moment and which nothing will appease.
As suddenly as she stops she will, after
a lengthy interval, re-appear and carry
on with the job in hand with all her origi-
nal enthusiasm. Nor can I wean her
from her early-established weakness for
hunting, sight of a rabbit or similar quarry
being always sufficient to sidetrack her
from sheep work. With no more pace
than an ordinary kelpie, she shows great
care and thoroughness after game, slink-
ing along the ground with a caution sel-
dom met with in more civilised breeds.
Left unchained, she unfailingly returns
to her all-absorbing pastime of watching
the fowls, for, though all birds are of
interest, fowls are her delight. As a
sheep dog, she is a failure. As a dingo,
well, I’m taking fine care this mong never
gets the chance to go “bush.”
* * * *
“B. 4”: Watching dragon flies dipping
their rudders into the turgid creek, I
decided that, according to the textbook,
they were merely laying their eggs, A
broken reed stem provided an especial
attraction, as here the couples alighted or
chased off others. The smaller metallic-
colored male clutched his larger, sombre-
shaded partner behind her ears as she
swayed and dipped to the current. Pres-
ently one couple, ignoring the jetty,
landed on a sunken, swaying duck-weed,
the female gradually submerging till both
disappeared. In about a minute the male
surfaced and flitted away. Five minutes
elapsed, and I had just concluded that
female dragon-flies sacrifice their lives to
perpetuate their species, when the lady
rose and lay inert. As the current wafted
her along two Lotharios in turns tried to
grab her, but, recovering, she flew to the
shelter of a nettle-weed. She must have
been cementing her eggs to that weed
stem, or worked her way down to the
bottom to deposit her eggs amid the ooze,
I wonder which?
* * * *
t Plane C ieek i The giant stinging-tree,
common along the N.Q. coast, yields a
timber which has been found to be a
good substitute for the imported balsa,
used for model ’planes. Although its sting
is not to be compared with that of the
dwarf variety, a lung-tantalising dust
emanates from the giant when the axe is
used on it. Even dogs that happen to be
round when the tree is being cut up get
running eyes and noses and a chronic
cough,
* *
“Patrol Leader”: Visiting Stephen^
Island (Torres Strait) we landed at a small
cove where some 170 years before half
a dozen castaways had staggered ashore
after their ship (a Spanish trading vessel
travelling to or from the East Indies) had
been smashed to pieces on a reef. Five,
all men, were killed ; the sixth, a woman
(apparently the captain’s wife) was spared
because of her jewels, used to decorate
the natives’ idol —a repulsive human
figure carved out of stone. Locked in the
chief’s hut, she escaped, threw herself
from a cliff and was drowned. We had
the story from one of the island coun-
cillors, who claimed that his grandfather
took part in the massacre. Later at
Thursday Island we were told of a
trepanger who unearthed the idol and
found alongside it a few pieces of the
woman’s jewellery. Several old Spanish
gold coins have also been picked up on
the island at different times. The islanders
could hot do enough for us, and that
night we were the guests of honor at a
feast which concluded with each member
of the party being presented with a carved
shell ornament. It was just off Stephen’s,
on our journey to T. 1., that we ran down
a school of sea-snakes —scores of them
banded or ringed with vivid reds, blues,
yellows and greens. Motionless, like
floating pieces of gaily-painted drift-
wood, they did not stir until the vessel
was almost upon them; then, in the
twinkling of an eye, they sped down into
the depths.
* * * *
“3.4”: As to the word “soar,” I con-
tend that while to fly upwards is the
literal meaning, the verb is generally
employed to describe a circular flight on
motionless wings, widely extended. Eagles
and hawks soar while quartering the open
country below. Only an occasional
angling of a wing is noticeable as the
bird sweeps heavenward or glides around
without flapping its wings, as obtains in
the act of flying. Lying on a swamp bank,
I watched a blue crane vainly endeavor-
ing to fly against a strong breeze. Buf-
feted back, the heron, with wings widely
extended, commenced to glide around
but ever upwards on a spiral incline, till
as a tiny dot it reached a counter air
current and melted like a bullet into the
desired direction.
* * * *
“Walkabout”: Woolbale’s lambs were
in good condition, and they struggled and
kicked a lot whilst being shorn. So much
so that Larry, a learner, finding it diffi-
cult to straighten out the hind legs, was
leaving the wool on from the hocks down.
Walking on to the board after counting
out, Woolbale watched Larry critically as
he finished off a lamb and pushed it down
the chute. - “Hey, lad,” drawled Wool-
bale, “the snakes ain’t bad at this time
of the year; no need to leave leggings
on 'em.”
FOREIGNER.
Wrapt in a bitter beauty stands the fir.
Waiting to stab the snow that never came,
The sap wood listening through the wintertide,
The heart wood quieter than quietude.
Gew-gaw with parrots, jostling summer light
Shouldering the shaggy hills untidily;
And gangling gums that craze the glazing sky
Dwindle to pin-point dark the foreign fir.
As cross-tipped church above a city street
Cries to the little hucksters down below,
Bawling their belly-wares, cries softly there
Flutes above clamor —“I am lonely here,”
So in a crowded gully stands the fir,
Lacking snow’s gepis like some lost Ethiop
queen,
Till children come with bells and stars and
toys,
And dig it mp to make a legend green.
VICTORIA.
MARY FINNIN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, .NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
jy\JL* Sterilised
T _ , BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from ; •
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
E6ELABRA MERINOS
Four times vaneis of the Stodbroi Cup. Winners of 2ad
prizes on tvo occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram w
Evre, Sydney Sheep Skw, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Orders are now being booked for the
Rams to be classed before the end of
February.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
/
H. L KATER & SON - - - Egelobra, Warren, K.S.W*
• Telephone: Warren 10
ẅ
to RABBITS
w
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out ail
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
C^NOGAS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
LTD.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Wool After the War.
“R. Ney”: The problem of what to
do with it is worrying a lot of people, and
growers, who suspect that the steady
return they get under the British purchase
scheme may be jeopardised when the
scheme cuts out, are cocking anxious ears
to statements that come out of Bradford
and Washington and Canberra, few of
which have satisfied anybody.
J. P. Abbott, the wool-growing member
for New England, wants an association
to handle war-time surpluses and post-
war clips, the association presumably to
comprise Britain, Australia, New Zealand
and South Africa. He also wants the
U.S. tariff on wool abolished and the set-
ting up of village co-operative spinning
and weaving mills in places like India
and China. Abbott isn’t afraid of the
future provided the national Government
realises that wool is our greatest wealth-
producer and remembers it “in the field
of external political and economic rela-
tions.”
By the end of the war wool stocks might
reach 15,000,000 bales or more. New clips
would be pouring in at the rate of
12,500,000 bales a year. There is nothing
in pre-war world consumption figures that
would indicate much hope of moving this
mountain of wool for some years After
the last war the market was weak until
buyers were assured that BAWRA wouldn’t
throw the surplus on to the market... .That
assurance should be given again.
To attain stability he suggests that the
association should adopt a 10-year agree-
ment, with the right of renewal, growers
to be paid by their Governments and pro-
portionately by Britain if she wished to
keep an interest in the new clips. The
association would then auction the wool
or sell it by private treaty, and hold any
profits as a stabilisation fund against
years of poor prices. He wants a confer-
ence of the wool-producing Dominions,
producers and the trade, to be held in
London as soon as possible.
J. F. Guthrie, the Victorian Corriedale
breeder and wool expert, points out that
the Empire produces over 50 p.c. of the
world’s clothing wool supplies and about
80 p.c. of its merino and finer grades.
Since the beginning of the war Britain
has paid Australia, New Zealand and
South Africa over £500,000,000 for wool.
Shortly Britain will have paid for 10,000,000
bales which she has been unable to use.
What the quantity will be by the end of the
agreement nobody can predict, but it must
be so enormous that experts predict a
difficult future for wool.
Guthrie sees synthetics as a danger,
points to the great advantages Britain and
her Allies have enjoyed through being
able to clothe their service people in wool,
and urges world-wide propaganda to capi-
talise this and stress the “incomparable
virtues” of the staple. He also urges that,
if Britain is to get some recompense for
the treasure she has expended in fighting
the war, she will need to increase her ex-
ports to Empire and foreign countries by
50 p.c. over 1939 figures, and that, since
she has kept the Australian wool industry
afloat during the war, Australia should at
least buy British goods where and when
possible.
Large Stomach Worms.
“Pookie”: They’re common in wet dis-
tricts and are found in the fourth
Stomach, the male being bright red and
the female striped and white, both
from fin. to Hin. long. The female can
lay 5000 to 10,000 eggs a day, which are
passed by the sheep on to the grass and
there picked up again. They become
adult underneath a blood clot, pierce the
wall of the stomach and suck blood.
When the is opened up they can
“If that's the best the old fraud can do, it's time We got another rainmaker."
be seen clinging to the wall of the stomach
or swimming in The semi-fluid contents.
Animals may throw off the infection in
three to four months and become im-
mune, but where they have been infected
from day to day they will probably die,
even after ten months.
For treatment, 11b. copper sulphate
mixed with 2/rgal. of water will cost about
.03d. per sheep, and a gallon will be
enough for 160 sheep and 320 lambs.
Give sheep loz., two-tooths |oz., lambs
(over four months) foz. to \oz. and under
four month
Carbon tetrachloride is mixed with
liquid paraffin (1-4), 10 cc. for sheep,
five cc. for lambs or a double-strength
mixture of two parts of carb. tet. to three
parts of paraffin may be used, in which
case five cc. are given to sheep, 2 \ cc. to
lambs. One gallon of double strength will
treat 800 sheep or 1600 lambs, and a
gallon of single strength will treat halt
the number. In*six-months-old lambs this
mixture has given an almost 100 p.c. cure.
Carb. tet. is convenient to use, and gets
rid of fluke at the same time, but is some-
times dangerous.
Shade for Pigs.
“Hux”: Being non-sweaters, they suffer
more from heat than other animals. Only
means of keeping them cool is by giving
them free access to pure drinking wafer
and adequate shade and shelter. Trees
don’t provide sufficient protection in
excessive heat. Low sheds roofed with
iron are hot in summer and cold in
winter A shed with a good straw roof
and plenty of ventilation is best.
Don’t throw water over pigs in heat
waves. Get them in a cool shady spot
and pour water around them and under
them ; sluice out their mouths with it, and
let them drink if they will. Pigs allowed
to wallow in mud baths in summer rarely
go under to heat, but permanent wallows
not kept in sanitary condition can become
a breeding-ground for disease.
Tempering.
“E. 2”: More reliable work will result
from a study of how the different types
of Teel respond to heating and working
at high temperatures. On close examina-
tion steel will be found to have a porus
texture; heated, the pores open and
expand, and quick cooling leaves the steel
brittle.
A good temper for general use is a
hardened shell with softer core. With
good-quality steel this can be obtained
by heating to cherry-red and dipping by
degrees until the right shade of color
runs down the steel, when it is plunged
in and cooled off. Some experience will
determine the appropriate color at which
various types should be cooled off. Water
should be of a fairly even cold tempera-
ture.
Hard, tough cutting faces can be ob-
tained by tempering off the hammer. This
is done by working the steel together so
as to close the pores and compress the
cutting edge; then, when the color is
dulling to blue, plunge into water. Plenty
of hammering up till dipping is required.
The tool, steel ploughshare, etc., should
show no more than a faint speckle of
white at the cutting edge when tempered.
Lucerne and Pasture.
“E.H.S.”: There are large areas of allu-
vial flats in the foothills of *he N.S.W.
dividing range, where the underlying sand
and gravel contains water in greater or
less abundance, usually at a depth of
10ft. or 12ft. These flats carry a fine
sole of clover and other grasses during
spring and early summer. As the sub-
terranean water is not available to sur-
face rooting vegetation, the pastures are
entirely dependent on natural rainfall,
and dry off about the end of December,
when the carrying capacity is reduced to
a minimum until new growth appears
after the autumn rains.
Unfortunately, the benefit accruing
from autumn rain is of short dura-
tion, as the low temperature of the
succeeding winter months imposes a very
serious check on all vegetation. If these
areas were sown with lucerne they would
be at the peak of production during the
summer, the pastures would remain green
throughout the year and their carrying
capacity increased by at least 50 p.c.
Lucerne is an exceptionally deep-root-
ing plant (I’ve seen roots 60ft. long) and
is little affected by low temperatures. The
roots go down until they strike water,
and when this occurs the plant is abso-
lutely independent of the rainfall on
which the life of surface-rooting vege-
tation depends.
Hints for the Farm.
“Steve”: A brother of mine ip
Riverina had a bad time with sheep low
in condition and not responding to hand- -
feeding. Then he saw a marked improve-
vent in his stock although pastoral con-
ditions hadn’t improved. He attributes
the improvement to the use of carbonate
of lime. It can be mixed with salt about
fifty-fifty and put out anywhere when
there is firm bare ground. Ground lime-
stone can be given in many ways—in
feeders with chaff or oats. Although hard
to get at the present time in ’N.S.W., in
other States it should be procurable.
“Ninety-nine”: An effective drench for
horses affected with colic is one to 1|
pints of raw linseed oil, in which |oz.
of chloral hydrate has been mixed by
shaking thoroughly. If pain persists give
chloral hydrate in a quart of water
every four hours.
“Barolin”: The diet of most horses in
the cane country —chop-chop, molasses
and pollard —repeatedly produces chronic
dyspepsia. On this diet horses are liable
to develop all sorts of digestive troubles
and knock up easily at work. Best cure
is to change to a diet of wheaten or
oaten chaff, maize and bran. The teeth
should be examined. Use of the follow-
ing powder twice daily for six days will
help: Powdered nux vomica 2dms, gen-
tian 2dms, powdered ginger 2dms, Epsom
salts loz. mixed with a little treacle or
molasses and placed on the back of the
tongue.
“Myrrhee”: In Victoria bracken is
best cut in February and burnt as soon
as it is safe to burn. Sow grass seed and
spread super, in the ash to be ready for
the autumn rains. Prevent the fern from
developing into the leaf stage by knock-
ing off the fronds with a piece of No. 8
fencing wire. Graze the treated area
judiciously to enable the pasture to stool
and to prevent it from seeding during the
first year. _________
“Fancar”: Re “Plane Creek’s” conten-
tion that lack of pigment exposes horses
to numerous leg and hoof troubles (B.
24/1/’45), it’s a curious fact that the
presence of pigment in poultry makes
them more liable to attack from leg-scale
mite. In most mixed flocks the yellow-
legged fowls seem almost immune from
leg scale, while the dark, heavy breeds
require constant attention to keep then*
legs free from scale.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Report on Russia.
[From a “Reader’s Digest” condensation of
a book by William L. White, war correspon-
dent, editor of the Emporia “Gazette” and
author of They Were Expendable .]
Russia has the most rigid political
censorship in the civilised world. My
first experience with the censor was
when I submitted a news story on my
trip to Leningrad, which included the
sentence: “The Finns were fighting hard
for Viipuri, which prior to 1939 was Fin-
land’s second largest city.” The censor
struck out the italicised words. Yet they
contain no military information
nothing which is not in every child’s
geography.
The foreign reporters explained to me
why this cut in my copy was made. When
the Soviet Union claims territory no
Moscow story may mention the fact that
this territory once belonged to another
nation. For example, the Baltic States
—Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia —are
now parts of the Soviet Union and no
hint can be cabled from Moscow that
they were ever independent republics.
The censorship, of course, excludes
everything which might give the outside
world an unfavorable impression of
conditions within Russia. A correspon-
dent may not give the size of the
monthly bread or meat ration allotted
to each citizen, nor may he say that fav-
ored classes get special rations.
While correspondents may never visit
the front, they are occasionally taken en
masse on visits to recently liberated cities
or to rear-area military headquarters.
They are always escorted by an assistant
censor, one of whose dqties is to verify
everything which happens. If the cen-
sor fails to see or hear something on the
trip, the reporters are not allowed to re-
port it. v /r didn’t happen. Even in rou-
tine stories from Moscow the censors
usually blue-pencil anything which has
not appeared in the Russian press. A
reporter can work for weeks gathering
material for an article, only to have it
killed because it has not appeared in
“Pravda.” They view his independent
activity as bordering on espionage.
Americans frequently express amaze-
ment that the Red Army was able to
resist when the Germans attacked
Russia, and feel that its exploits are a
miracle.
The Red Army is good. Russians
make good soldiers. They are well
disciplined, competently led, equipped
with good rifles and plenty of heavy
artillery, which they use with skill. But
let us consider statistics.
Soldiers must be young, and the mili-
tary strength of any nation is determined
not by its total population but by the
number of boys in their late teens and
early twenties. Because of the enor-
mous population and the high Slav birth-
rate, in the Soviet Union 2,000,000 boys
each year attain the age of 18, compared
to only 500,000 Germans —a four-to-
one superiority.
Considering only military effectives,-
the miracle is that any German soldier
was able to set foot on Russian soil. They
were able to penetrate to the suburbs of
Moscow and Leningrad and range as
far as the Caucasus (1500 miles from
Berlin) not only because of Russia’s tech-
nical poverty and the disorganised state
of her industrial development but also
largely because at the time the Red Army
lacked experienced officers. Her initial
air force, for instance, could not com-
pare with that of the Germans ; much of
it was smashed in the first few weeks of
fighting.
Russian pilots rank among the world s
best, but Russia lacks the skill to turn
out good ’planes. Long-range bombers,
such as the British Lancaster and Ameri-
can Fortress and Liberator, require the
highest degree of industrial skill for pro-
duction and operation in large numbers.
They are almost totally absent in the
Red Air Force.
By the middle of 1944 the German
superiority in modern equipment had
been reduced by three factors. Russian
industry behind the Urals was getting
into its stride in tank and artillery pro-
duction ; German factories were slow-
ing down owing to Anglo-American air
pounding ; and Russia had by then re-
ceived from America 5750 million dol-
lars’ worth of lend-lease aid, which in-
cluded 10,000 ’planes, 40,000 jeeps, 225
million dollars’ worth of machine tools
and 210,000 trucks. Without those trucks
it would have been impossible for the
Russians to have followed up their major
victory at Stalingrad in 1943. Without
American trucks the Red Army would
still be stuck in the bottomless Ukrai-
nian mud.
The top Russians do not underestimate
the value of American aid. If the lesser
ones seem unappreciative it is only be-
cause, in spite of vigorous protests such
as that of Admiral Standley, they have
not been told the extent of it.
After pricing food in the Moscow
Government-run stores and in the un-
controlled free public markets I under-
stand how and what these people eat.
In America a worker who lost his food
coupons could still live magnificently
on unrationed goods—milk, eggs, fish,
poultry, bread, fruits and vegetables. In
the Soviet Union everything which has
any food value is rigidly rationed or is
unobtainable except at fantastic prices.
There are several categories of ration-
ing corresponding to different strata of
the Soviet caste system. The Red Army
is extremely well fed, particularly in the
front lines. Soviet officers are given a
50 per cent, discount at the “commer-
cial” stores. The Kremlin is luxuriously
fed through its own commissary. For-
eigners are about as well fed as the top
Bolsheviks, They get ample meat and
bread rations, may buy four pints of
vodka a month, and so on. Writers,
actors, singers, musicians and other
artists are also in a special luxury cate-
gory, not only for food but for clothing
and living quarters.
In the free market, or Rynok, farmers
bring produce for sale. Nine-tenths of
what a farm raises must be sold
to the State at the low-pegged
official price. The rest is distributed
among the farmers, who are free to eat
it or bring it to town and sell in the free
market at any price they care to ask.
To counteract hoarding of wages the
Soviet Government in April, 1944, re-
opened “Commercial Stores,” In them
the Government will sell you almost any
luxury item in food or clothing you
want, without ration coupons. Thus the
Soviet Government is running its own
black market as a State monopoly.
Unused Allies.
(From the "United States, News.”)
American youths are fighting and losing
their lives in Belgium and France while
French and Belgium youths sit on the
sidelines, out of danger and, more often
than not, out of jobs that have any rela-
tion to war.
This strange situation is giving rise to
much questioning on the part of American
troops. This questioning is aggravated by
the fact that American youths with a
minimum of training are being thrown
into battle while young Frenchmen and
young Belgians go their own way.
An estimated 3,000,000 French and
Belgian men of best military age are
available for military service. Approxi-
mately 400,000 youths in these countries
are reaching the age of 18 each year. Yet
there is no draft of these men for mili-
tary service and there is no effort
to build an army, to join in the war
against Germany. The seven French divi-
sions, totalling 105,000 men, in service in
the South of France are nearly ail from
North Africa and are, in important part,
made up of Senegalese and other colonial
troops.
Instead of drafting and training French
youths, who are vitally concerned with
the war against Germany, the U.S. Army
is stepping up the draft of American
youths. This step-up is made necessary
by the fact that the rate of American
Army casualties is at a level that, if con-
tinued, would result in more than
1,500,000 casualties this year. •
Inquirers are told that the United States
has a trained and equipped army, ready
for immediate battle. Many months
would be required to train a French-
Belgian army and to equip that army for
use. The American youths who are going
into battle after a very few months of
training are said to be replacement troops
for existing army units, and the French
have no regular army into which to feed
troops with this shorter training. Plans
to build a French army in North Africa,
as a nucleus for a much bigger army of
Frenchmefe in France, were not fully
carried out.
The next reason for not training an
army from available man-power in
Europe is said to be the shortage of ship-
ping for use in transporting needed equip-
ment and supplies to arm the added
soldiers. Instead of using shipping space
for arms made in the U.S.A., present
plans call for U.S. to send cotton, wool,
synthetic rubber, food and other
materials, plus locomotives and freight
cars, to France, partly on a lend-lease
basis. French youths then would use
these goods and this equipment to pro-
duce materials that American youths can
wear or use in battle.
Present plans represent a complete re-
versal of the original lend-lease idea that
* ■ 7
the United States would supply arms that
other people then could place in the hands
of their youths to wage war. Now the
United States is to supply the materials
and the men for battle, partly on a lend-
lease basis, and other nations are to
supply the labor to process the materials,
some of which will be used by Americans
in battle.
One major reason why French youths,
in particular, are not being trained for
use in this war five months after their
training could have started is related to
questions of high politics. The U.S. has
not wanted General de Gaulle to have
an army for fear that he might use it to
perpetuate himself in office and to reduce
his dependence on U.S. and Britain.
In some quarters of importance there is
fear that a French army, if created, might
get tangled up in civil war, rather than
devote itself to training for a fight with
the Germans. Class and group divisions
in France are considered so deep that
arms placed in the hands of citizen sol-
diers might be used as arms are being
used in Greece. This fear definitely is
not shared by French leaders, who insist
Today I watched a graves-regi-
stration detail pick its way through
a minefield, searching for our dead.
Whenever they’d find one they’d tie
a long rope to him, back up to a
safe distance and then give him a
yank to make sure he was not
booby-trapped. Several times I’ve
been in ordnance maintenance
when knocked-out or burned-out
tanks were brought in. Before the
mechanics can start work they have
to clear fragments of human bodies
out of the hulls. It’s a nice busi-
ness —to be out of. —From a letter
written by a U.S. soldier on the
German front, quoted in N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
that they want, above all else, to have
the opportunity to create a French army
to join in the fight against Germany.
American commanders are impatient
to get the war over and have not con-
sidered that there was time to train a
French-Belgian army. That training
might take six months and the war could
end in six months. This attitude has re-
sulted in wasting five months that could
have been used. The setback suffered by
the American Army suggests that another
mistake in policy may have been made.
American commanders, however, prefer
to fight with American troops who are a
known quantity to them.
Those are the arguments and the
reasons as gathered in Washington. The
Germans, however, have used man-power
of both their allies and their captured
enemies, as well as the men of occupied
countries, to build an army that has func-
tioned effectively against a coalition of
enemies that outnumber and out-gun
them heavily. Thus, the Germans are
not concentrating all of their casualties
in their own population, but are permit-
ting those casualties to be shared by
others. The American policy is some-
what different.
New-style Blockade.
(Condensed from a “Harper’s Magazine” article
by David Gordon, acting chief of the blockade
division of the U.S. Foreign Economic
Administration.)
Although Britain in this war could no
longer police the great flood of neutral
traffic by means of naval patrols, she still
had an arsenal of other weapons for im-
posing blockade on Germany. The most
powerful of these were the War Trade
Agreements, the ship’s warrant, the navi-
cert and the blacklist.
The War Trade Agreements were
treaties negotiated by England’s Ministry
of Economic Warfare with European
neutrals. The typical agreement provided
thkt the neutral country would not im-
port any more of a long list of commodi-
ties than required for its domestic needs,
and that none of these items would be
re-exported to the enemy. In return,
England promised to permit goods up to
this ceiling to flow into the neutral coun-
try without interruption, and in some
cases to use British sources of supply and
British buying facilities to make sure
that the neutral would not starve.
Frequently neutrals were asked to limit
or halt completely their exports of certain
strategic items to Germany, even when
these goods were produced entirely within
their own borders. For example, Sweden
agreed first to restrict and finally to cut
off entirely shipments of strategic types of
ball bearings to the Luftwaffe’s aircraft
plants. Similarly, Sweden was persuaded
by the Allies to curtain drastically the
flow of wood pulp, iron ore and other
critical commodities to Germany.
The Germans, of course, were not
blind to what was going on. They, too,
negotiated War Trade Agreements with
the neutrals, with the aim of getting the
largest possible volume of goods from
these strategically located neighbors. If
Sweden reduced ball-bearing shipments
too sharply, they threatened Germany
would cut off its vital supplies of coal
for Swedish homes and industries. More-
over, Germany could —and for brief
periods did—close the mouth of the Baltic
to those few Swedish ships which plied
regularly between Gothenburg and the
Western Hemisphere. Throughout nearly
all Ijhe war, however, this Gothenburg
traffic went on, with the consent of both
belligerents, and subject to inspection by
both British and German naval forces.
In this economic struggle the neutrals
were —literally and diplomatically—in the
middle, subject to almost crushing pres-'
sure from each side. They were never
quite crushed, because each of the neu-
trals held a few strong weapons of its
own.
Switzerland —surrounded by German-
held territory—managed to carry on a
life-saving trade with the outside world
throughout the war. She had a simple
but unanswerable threat to hold over
Germany’s head. If Switzerland were
invaded, or if her access to the seas
through Genoa were cut off, Switzerland
could close the great railway tunnels
through'the Alps. If necessary, she could
even blow them up. The explosives were
laid ; the switches were guarded by in-
corruptible Swiss officers, on watch 24
hours a day in little fortresses strong
enough to hold off afty parachute attack
for at least the few moments necessary
to touch off the charges. Through those
tunnels ran the life line between Germany
and Italy. In particular, they carried a
million tons of coal a month, which
Italian industry had to have to survive,
and which could not be moved through
the Brenner or any of the other passes.
One curious result of this situation was
that Switzerland was able to buy silk
from Italy and make it into a special
kind of bolting cloth which was badly
needed in one of America’s chemical in-
dustries —and which no American textile
firm, in the early days of the war, was
able to manufacture. This cloth was
then moved in sealed trains over Italian
railways, under a German permit, to
Genoa, whence it was shipped by way of
Lisbon to the United States. Such a
transaction might almost be described as
indirect trade with the enemy. But it was
a deliberate trade carried out cold-
bloodedly by the economic warfare
experts of Great Britain and America,
after careful examination of the balance
of forces and advantages on both sides,
and in the firm conviction that the Allies
were getting the best of the bargain.
There were, in fact, a good many such
deals.
The ship’s warrant is simply a piece of
paper, issued by United Nations authori-
ties, which certifies that S.S. Neutral
Trader is a well-behaved vessel carrying
only those cargoes approved by Allied
officials. Without such a warrant no
neutral ship could get fuel or supplies or
even a keg of water in any port under
Allied control. Neither the ship nor its
cargo could be insured, since virtually all
maritime insurance has for many years
been dominated by London and New
York. Moreover, every time an unwar-
ranted vessel hove within sight of an
Allied warship or patrol ’plane it was
liable to be stopped with a shot across the
bow, shepherded into a British control
port, and searched. These searches might
take days—especially if the blockade
authorities were a little unsympathetic—
and often involved the unloading of every
ton of cargo and the opening of hundreds
of boxes and bales. This tedious process
was likely to prove ruinously expensive,
even if none of the cargo, were confiscated
as contraband. If much contraband was
found, the ship itself was subject to
seizure.
It was, of course, theoretically possible
for an unwarranted ship to get its fuel
and stores surreptitiously from some com-
placent neutral, such as Argentina, to
operate without insurance, and to try to
slip home through waters where Allied
patrols dared not venture. This kind of
voyage was hazardous, however, and a
second trip was sure to be even more so ;
the economic intelligence service of the
British Ministry of Economic Warfare
made a special point of finding out about
such unco-operative ships and setting
Allied navies to watch for them. Before


Who serves progress
Thus, in the field of Aviation,
Qantas provides increasingly
important Service to the Nation.
Inseparably linked with Austra-
lian historical progress, and ful-
filling a vital responsibility in
maintaining essential air com-
munications, Qantas is proud of
the Empire-wide prestige its
record of Service in Peace and
War has won.
Accredited Representative of the
Commonwealth Government as
sole Overseas airline operator,
Qantas is ready for still
greater tasks in the
Victory years.... On
His Majesty’s Service—
and Yours !
i
1
Empire
u«' N
kHi HO-
SYDNEY MELBOURNE
BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE PERTH
mi
i
m
m
x;SS
mm
m
mm
i y'es
HARMONY OF DECORATION
IN THE MODERN HOME
Streamlined furniture needs the distinctive
• smoothness of Feltex floor-covering to com-
pletely set it off.
Though, at present, the Feltex colour range is
necessarily restricted, there are many soft, warm
shades still available. Your furnishing house
should be able to show you a toning just made
to “go with” your home-decoration scheme.
Product of
FELT AND TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
Manufacturers of Plain and Marbled Feltex.
NVEST IN COMMONWEALTH WAR BONDS
F 1.36.16
the end of 1940 virtually every neutral
captain afloat had decided that it was
good business to get a ship’s warrant and
to submit his cargoes and routes to British
approval.
A companion weapon was the navicert.
This is another piece of paper which cer-
tifies that an individual shipment—■
whether ten thousand tons of wheat or
a half-ounce of platinum-has been ap-
proved by a United Nations official at
the port of loading. It was granted only
if the shipment came within the quarterly
quota for that particular commodity, as
prescribed under the War Trade Agree-
ment with the neutral to which the item
T. • t a -e .u
was destined. It might be refused if the
shipment were consigned to a firm un-
friendly to the Allies or guilty of trading
with Germanv if fbe earrier cnc
M „ ! u a
pected of having run contraband on
earlier voyages, or if the neutral country
had imprudently permitted forbidden
goods to trickle over its border into Ger-
manv Anv ebinment frav«llinn withnnt
many. Any shipment travelling without
a pavicert or any vessel carrying such a
tainted cargo faced the danger of search,
seizure and a variety of other penalties,
Even an individual captain or merchant
seaman who handled unnavicerted con-
signments might find himself unable to
get a post on any “good” vessel, denied
entry to Allied ports, and subjected to
prolonged questioning.
All these devices were strengthened by
still another instrument of economic
strangulation, the blacklist. Every busi-
ness firm or individual in a neutral coun-
try who sold goods to the enemy, handled
contraband, or served as cloak for Axis
financial transactions was likely to be
blacklisted by both the United States and
Grpat Britain ThN rrmant that thp firm
Great Britain, inis meant mat memrm
became an economic leper. It could not
deal with any Allied firm, or move goods
across an Allied boundary, or use Allied
if Borl
transport or communications. If it had
funds in a United. Rations bank or busi-
ness enterprise they were frozen. Any
person — even in a neutral country — who
dealt with a blacklisted Arm might be put
on the list himself. Most discouraging of
all, it has been intimated from time to
time that the blacklists may not be tom
. r ~ . j r .
up and forgotten at,the end of the war ,
neutral businessmen who have been flag-
rantly friendly to the Axis may find it
difficult to deal with Allied countries for
many years to come,
With these paper tools the United
Nations wove around Germany a block-
ad®. a f . J^ an T an y thin g ever
ach.eved m World War I.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Captain Frederick I. Entwistle, assistant chief
°| research and development in the U.S. Bureau
holder ofThe
British have asked for the sight almost con-
tinuously, but because of other difficulties we
went a tiead with our own organisation.” He
added the Russians had also unsuccessfully
requested the sight. Decision to retain it for
American ’planes only was based on American
emphasis on high-level precision daylight bomb-
in 8- T he British have carried on night safura-
tion raids, while the Russians use aviation mostly
tactically, both with their own sights.— N.Y.
“Herald-Tribune , v
* ,
Sweden is now crowded with 200,000 refu-
gees f rom the Scandinavian countries, 70,000
of them children. There are 46 refugee camps
and 60 quarantine camps where refugees are
medically examined.” Mrs. Olof IT Lamm,
tormer Swed,sh Consul-General in
* * * *
“We have been casting our pearls of demo-
cracy and equality before swine. Europe needs
t; n n H ee ff Itlo r ll a rm 7 , more
,han “ y , other k ” d of a,my ' -U-dyAjlor.
British Minister of Labor Ernest Bevin has
disclosed that mobilisation in the United King-
—London correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
The new League of Nations as proposed in
outline at Dumbarton Oaks has much in com-
™n. wi . t jl th® old - But does it supersede the
°. ld juridically? Are the contractual obhga-
tlons that bound the members of the old to
one another and gave each of them a juridical
status with certain rights invalid, and do those
eights exist no longer? If so, by what right has
this work of invalidation and obliteration been
accomplished? Does the old League exist,
juridically, or does it not? If it does, what
has it—or what have its members, severally,
° r collectively—to say about the new League?
Vtoui
Powers—of whom one was expelled from the
League and one was never a member? And if
they do not accept these proposals, is the old
League to be transformed or abolished at the
desire of but two of its members? — London
“ Nineteenth Century” editorial comment.
Even after many changes, requested by the
German delegation, had been /made in the
Treaty of Versailles in 1919, all six members
refused to sign it, as they did not want their
names on such a document. So they sent to
Berlin for two men who would undertake this
humiliating duty, and Berlin sent Hermann
Muller, a college lecturer, and Johannes Bell,
the second violinist in a small orchestra. —
“Collier's.”
* * * *
Being a backward country with primitive
social standards, China tolerates war profiteer-
ing, smuggling, trading with the enemy, graft
and corruption, arrest and imprisonment with-
out trial and many gross abuses of private
rights. In recognition of foreign criticism, the
Central Government has recently been making
an attempt to bring university students into
the armed services But traditionally China looks
down on soldiers as a class. If puts the worst
rather than the best it has into the army. Hav-
ing conscripted the army from the most ignor-
ant and helpless classes of Chinese, China
treats them with a callousness and inhumanity
that shock enlightened Chinese people.— N.Y.
“Times” correspondent Brooks Atkinson.
* * * *
The form of Europe and of the peace are
going to be very different from the outlines set
up by the Dumbarton Oaks Conference, and
accepted by so many politicians and editorial
writers, and Uncle Joe Stalin and the Russia
he represents will be the reason for the differ-
ence. The whole of the Dumbarton conference,
save the Russians, made its tentative plans
on the basis of a world which existed before
this war and will never exist again, for the new
world before us is one "in which sovereign
States and even empires will no longer have
the wealth, the power and the prestige they
once possessed.— Louis Bromfield; N.Y. “Jour-
nal-American.”
* * * *
India politically is somewhat more stable—
probably a temporary, but nevertheless a defi-
nite, trend —than she was a year ago. The
Japanese invasion of Manipur State has been
thrown back, and the uprising that the enemy
hoped for in India has not occurred. There
has been relatively little sabotage or espionage
on behalf of the Japanese. The propaganda of
Subhas Chandra Bose, the Indian puppet work-
ing with the Japanese, which once had some
effect, is now falling more and more on deaf
ears since the Japanese defeat in the field.
Indians are becoming more conscious of Japan
as an enemy. Military prospectsvin India are
also brighter than they have ever been. The
army of India is slowly becoming a homo-
geneous military force, and the welding together
in this military organisation of men who speak
many different tongues and who have widely
different religious beliefs and customs may
help in time materially to bring some sense
of unity and nationality to immense and dif-
fuse India. —Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y.
“Times.”
* » * #
China is to be respected because she has not
made peace with the Japanese. Now that the
chief United Nations, with the exception of
Russia, are successfully fighting the Japanese
China’s basic contribution to the war in the
East does not cast so grand a shadow. But
China fought or resisted the Japanese for four
and one-half years with no assistance. In
1937, when the “China incident” officially
opened, most foreigners and many Chinese
thought China’s prospect of resisting Japanese
aggression was hopeless. Right now China is
absorbing 800,000 Japanese troops that might
tip tire scales against our war in the Pacific
if they were free to fight in the islands.—JV. Y.
“Times” correspondent Brooks Atkinson.
* * * *
On high authority in Paris it is said that
Stalin counts upon the French Government's
support for the Russian view that the Dum-
barton Oaks security scheme must permit a
Great Power, accused of aggression, to vote
with the other Powers as one of the judges in
its own case. Some even assert that when he
was in Moscow to negotiate the French alliance
with the Soviet Union Gen. de Gaulle accepted
this Russian view regarding the Dumbarton
Oaks project. This view is understood to be
counter to the American and British view, which
has been that with a unanimous vote required
in the Council of the security organisation an
accused Great Power might so tie up the
security system as to make prevention of war
impossible.— Paris correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
Seeing that our amphibious power was great
enough to cut their sea communications, the
Japanese have hacked out land communications
through the heart of China to the riches of
South-east Asia. This means that the military
power of Japan cannot be destroyed, but can
only be contained, by the amphibious forces
of Nimitz and MacArthur. It means that
Japan can be defeated conclusively only by a
great land campaign on the Japanese homeland
and on the Asiatic mainland. — Walter Lipp-
mann; N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* * *
Mr. Churchill, sketching the future frontiers
of Poland, agreed to let Lwow go into the
part of pre-1939 Poland to go to Russia.
Lwow is the capital of the old Province of
Galicia. The province itself was never under
Russian sovereignty. In the days of the Czars
Galicia was part of the Austro-Hungarian
Empire. It includes oilfields which the Poles,
certainly with much factual justification, con-
sidered to be essential to their economy.
It also includes phosphate beds important to
their agriculture. And Lwow itself is pre-
dominantly inhabited by Poles. The “Curzon
Line” was never drawn down to the southern
border of Poland. It went only as far south
as the border of Galicia. Washington has for
some time taken it for granted that the area
lying east of the Curzon Line and north' of
Galicia would go to Russia. But Galicia and
Lwow are different matters. If Poland is to be
economically strong it needs the oil and phos-
phates of Galicia. If ethnographic considera-
tions mean anything Lwow should be Polish.
And if history means anything, the Polish claim
to Galicia is much better than the Russian.
The only challenger on historic grounds would
be Austria-Hungary—which ceased to exist in
1918. Russia has no historic claim.—Washing-
ton correspondent “Christian Science Monitor.”


MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’a
everyday wear.
:Aii mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is ns»
less, won’t ehf
or is out of
sorts —he Maay
be suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course,
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Bog Soap. „ _
u
BARKO
CONDITION POWBEKS 1/fi
SKIN POTION 2/B
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/**
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
O' iviet
FHCIHB R PHRK
The one tiling you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
'Phone BW 1361 {lO lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
Public Notices.
I JACOB IHLEN, of Norwegian nationality, born
at Oslo, Norway, and resident 17 years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 11 Grosvenor Street, Croydon,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I VINCENZO APAMO, of Italian nationality, born
at Poggiareale, Sicily, and resident six years in Aus-
tralia, now residing at 389 Anzac Parade, Kmgsford,
N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation under the
Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — Matrimonial Causes Jurisdiction.
TO MARY CYNTHIA SANDILANDS of 6 Midelton
Avenue North Bondi in the State of New South
W a ] es .—TAKE NOTICE that JACK EDWIN SANDI-
LANDS has filed a Petition for Restitution of Con-
iugal Rights No. 202 of 1945 on the ground that you
have withdrawn from cohabitation with the said
JACK EDWIN SANDILANDS and have kept and
continued away from him without any just cause
and have refused to render to him conjugal rights
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Twenty-sixth day of February One
thousand nine hundred and forty-five and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from BRAUNU
SON & RITCHIE Solicitors of 5-7 O’Connell Street
Sydney in the State aforesaid. — (1.5.) O. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER WATSON formerly of Sydney.—
TAKE NOTICE that NORMA JOYCE WATSON has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4878 of 1944 on
the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you desire
to defend the case you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the 11th April 1945 and obtain a copy
of the Petition without charge from JOHN
BARNETT GREAVES Solicitor 92 Pitt Street
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
0
SECRETARIAL
SCHOOL
a »*»■« •.*<« <• T,:VAX
a *'“ tort *
MA5644
149 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
How con 1
make the most oi
the Back lirandah:
JT
mni
nc
j
x
UJ
V\
The back verandah can become a family
recreational centre. Bevelled panels of
sturdy Masonite Presdwood with its natural
nut-brown colour make an excellent wall
finish. Tempered Presdwood is used for
the ping-pong table top and wainscoting.
Masonite Flooring provides a high grade,
attractive and durable floor finish at
moderate cost.
♦PRESDWOOD
♦TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
QUARTRBOARD
Manufactured by;
MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD*
SALES DIVISION, 369 Pitt Street, Sydney, and
529 Collins Street, Melbourne.
• Limited supplies note available from all leading builders*
suppliers, timber merchants and hardware stores. ma#j
0.
END THE FIGHT WITH VICTORY BONDS
5.
ms
¥
m
B 786
P R E V E NT SORE
T H R
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
Obtainable in 10’s & 20’s
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Census of Victorian Plants, published
by the Victorian Field Naturalists’ Club. 3577
Sufferer from asthma wants to buy atomiser.
—3578. , , _
To buy Man, Microbe and Malady, by Dr.
John Drew.—3s79.
Information Sought.
Qualifications necessary for membership in
the Pathfinder Club, and its aims?
All officers and aircrews who served in No.
8 Pathfinder Group are eligible; others are
subject to approval by committee. The aims
are to encourage interest in aviation and to
aid returned p.o.w.
Biographical details of Quentin Reynolds?
Born April 11, 1902. Joined N.Y. “Evening
World” 1924, then International News Service
as foreign correspondent. Joined “Collier’s” as
associate editor 1932. Publications: The
Wounded Don’t Cry, London Diary, Don’t
Think it Hasn’t Been Fun, Only the Stars Are
Neutral, Dress Rehearsal and The Curtain
Rises.
Is it necessary to renew a 50-years’-old State
naturalisation certificate?
It would be advisable to apply for a certifi-
cate under the Nationality Act.
What amount may eligible old-age pensioners
hove in bank (1) with own house (2) without
own house?
(1) An unmarried pensioner can possess
property, including money in bank, to the value
of £59, and a married pensioner to the value
of £ll9, without causing reduction in pension.
(2) A pensioner’s home is exempt for pension
purposes no matter what its value.
• Brief Answers.
R.P.D.: (1) Highest possible cribbage score 29
—three fives and a jack in band. Five of jack
suit turned up. (2) Rules of Pedro are to be
found in Hoyle-up-to-date, published by U.S.
Playing Card Co., about 2s. 6d. from any large
bookseller....P.G.: Apply Deputy Director of
Navigation and Lighthouses, G.P.O. Box 41/ ,
Sydney J.A.P.: Your local National Service
Officer could help... .1.G.: Word meaning
cannot be traced, but might come from Kurra-
bun, meaning murderer... .F.S.W.:
obtained from Lloyd’s Calendar.. . .C.W.U..
Apply to this office Westerner: Bondho ders
in N.Z. Perpetual Forests are now shareholders
in N.Z. Forest Products, Ltd., whose prefs. and
ords. (fully paid to £1 each) recently sold m
M.L. around 11s. 6d. and 75., 6d. respectively.
D.McC.: Information unprocurable....
j.G.: Impossible to trace without further details.
....E.D.; Send full name and address
F.E.G.: Man Shy is obtainable frona most
booksellers H.L.D.: “The Owl Cntic,
by J T. Fields, in Reciter’s Treasury of v jrse.
J.R.W.: State name and address.. ..L.P.:
Value of stamp is 3s. 6d. per 1000 M.u..
Dickens’s principal references to Christmas cele-
brations are to be found in Christmas Caro .
The Chimes, The Cricket on the Hearth and
Pickwick Papers.... R.E.G.; The little princeis
fourth in succession to the throne; preceding
him are Princess Elizabeth, Princess Margaret
Rose and the Duke of Gloucester... .K.u..
No strings tied to that commission.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
H.E.; Fail to see why, the sight of a lubra
should make a magpie want to climb a tree.
... .G.C.: Aeroplane is like anything except
an aeroplane... .R.S.H.: “Equality of oppor-
tunity” is all right as an ideal, but limp as a
line of verse... .M.K.: Give us a picture of
something you’ve seen and forget about tyrants,
war, everlasting peace, etc.... .0.C.M.: Improve
the “stars”-“vase” rhyme and try a woman s
paper D.D.: Bowled first ba11...-K.C. :
Kipling’s property N.W.: Keep at it, but its
a long journey... .T.H.N.: “Is some strange
national malady abroad?” Yes. Poetry....
R. 8.: “Here’s three cheers.” Hooray, then;
hooray, hooray... .F.H.: No roses in the valley,
please L. 8.: Many a poet has hanged him-
self on a string of rhetorical questions....
N.M.: A glimmer in all of them A.l.t>.:
Come in and sing:
Though Adolt does his level best
To stem assaults from east and west,
He very evidently lacks
The power to stop their frightful whacks.
A.W.J.: Try a definite story form with clear-
cut characters... .A.H.G.: Empty and uncon-
vincing... .F.N.F.: It’s beeb done a thousand
times... .K.J. and A.F.K.: Thin... .J.T.; Write
about the things you know H.H.: unreal
and dingy....A.H.: You must have imagined
Duncan in a nightmare after haggis.. C.A.H.:
Not a story but a sermon K.A.D.: Life-
less MJE.F.: Even if it’s true, it’s incredible
as told P.A.; Dickens and water
P.E.G.: “The Humorist” would make a cat
weep... .M.O’D.: “Out of the Night” should
be shrouded for ever in impenetrable darkness.
C.H.: Not sorry the swaggie was strangled,
but you should have pushed the others over
a cliff.


How Will My Estate
be Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company ~
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over 66 years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
%eldT e n KCMr ar V ( ? hairma o ! D ‘ StU3ft Muffa s r ? Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.-
Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Melts., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Managers W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS;
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Managers J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated In Victoria in 1878.
%
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Queensland Meat Export Co.
„ T 1 _ To Re-
JNov., Profit:. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£, £>£,£,
' 13 > 038 2 J p.c. = 12,281 757 52,037
1935.. 11,057 2| „ „ 12,281 50,813
1936.. 20,046 4 „ „ 19,649 397 51,210
P >sls 6 » >. 29,474 41 51,251
7 ? 38 -- 21,291 4 „ „ 19,649 1,642 52,893
7939 -- 24,685 7 „ „ 34,386 299 53,192
inf?" 3S ’ 872 7 „ „ 34,386 52,678
1941 33,261 7 „ „ 34,386 51.553
1942.. 35,033 7 „., 34,386 647 52,200
79 f 3 -- 34,821 7 „ ~34,383 435 53,635
1944.. 35,215 7 „ ~34,386 829 54,464
War stiffened earnings, which have
remained fairly steady around 7 p.c.
over the last half-dozen years. Fol-
lowing the outbreak of hostilities, Britain
took most of our exportable meat surplus
at prices above pre-war levels. Soon
shortage of shipping, the kindness of
nature —Queensland’s cattle herds in-
creased by over 6 p.c. during the four
years to the end of March, 1944—and
the price incentive threatened to bring
about an embarrassing position in the
export section of the trade.
Then Australia’s new role as supply
base for the Allied forces in the
s.-w. Pacific altered the outlook, and
the Federal Government stepped in
and bought for export at fixed prices
graded lamb, canned mutton and pig
meats. Later frozen meat was added
to the list, and more beef was diverted
to the canneries. As additional ship-
ping space became available it was*
used to send meat to Britain. The prob-
lem locally, aggravated by forays of
slaughtermen, became one of maintaining
killings for all purposes. So at the begin-
ning of 1944 the Government set about
to control the industry from grazier to
consumer, and has continued to do so
since.
Co.’s chief difficulty last term was
shortage of labor in nearly all depart-
ments of the business, with consequent
irregular operation of plant. Also, there
was less demand for canned meats, and
operations in this section were reduced.
Still, after providing for “all contingent
liabilities that might result in loss to the
c 0.,” including depreciation (£8650, up
£230) and something for taxation, the
board figured net earnings £394 better
at 7.1 p.c. on capital. The div. was kept
at 5 p.c., and for the sixth year in succes-
sion a 2 p.c. bonus was added, making
7 p.c. in all.
Although a lot of money has been
spent on plant over the last five years, a
large part of the works is getting old,
and is to be replaced as soon as equip-
ment and labor are available. Here is
the position so far as the published
accounts show it:
1939. 1911. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £491,232 £491,232 £491,232 £491,232
Creditors* . . 319,459 233,358 306,756 300,649
Fixed assets,
etc. .. 329,155 422,178 436,024 429,838
Stock.. .. 283,079 85,752 18,510 35,092
Stores . . 18,992 39,639 30,004 36,752
Debtors . . 65,143 50,801 97,574 97,088
Cash, etc. . . 201,900 220,000 226,500 197,500
Shares subsid. 40,000 50,000 50,000
Advances subsid. 2,161 20,391 33,460
* Including provision for contingencies.
Last term £6186 more was spent on fixed
assets than was written off, leaving their
book value still £100,683 above the 1939
figure. They include an unspecified hold-
ing in Singapore Cold Storage, in at book
value at the time of the invasion. Re-
serves are more than adequate to meet
any contingency in this respect. The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£149,243, including shares
in the local can-making subsidiary) was
£7014.
Outlook for the industry was brightened
toward the plose of accounts by the British
contract for purchase of Australian sur-
plus meat. This runs from October, 1944,
to September, 1948, at prices around pre-
sent levels, subject to review at the end
of two years at the request of either
Government on grounds of substantial
alterations in conditions. Another pleas-
ing feature of the agreement is provision
for progressive export of chilled beef
when the shipping position permits. Ex-
port of canned meat is subject to annual
negotiation.
After World War I the Argentine got a
strangehold upon British and Continental
markets with chilled baby-beef, while
high prices, drought and labor
conditions bumped up costs. For 11 yea
following 1920 Q.M.E. paid only tw
divs., totalling 9 p.c., and it drew upor
reserves for £BO,BOO to do it an
extinguish trading losses.
Adelaide Electric Supply (S, Aus.)
, —Dividends Nom
Net Ords. To Ke- nal K
Aug,, Profit.* Prefs. 10 p.c. serves, serv
£ £, £, £, £
1935.. 334,073 172,500 66,250 105,323 873,5
Underwriting, etc., exes., £2404 .. 871,19
Premium repayment debentures, £14,633 856,5
Written off plant, £20,108 .. .. 836,4
1936.. 352,929 172,500 62,500 117,929 954,3
Written off plant, £22,520 .. .. 931,8
1937.. 397,902 174,683 62,500 160,819 1,092,6
Written off plant, £90.990 .. ..1,001,68
Cost debenture conversion, £10,432 .. 991,2
1938.. 374,008 185,000 62,500 126,508 1,117,7
Written off plant, etc., £105,377 ..1,012,38
New capital exes., £3887 .. ..1,008,49
1939.. 388,889 185,000 62,500 141,389 1,149,88
Written off plant, etc., £102,572 .. 1,047,31
New capital exes., £2597 .. .. 1,044,71
1940.. 400,459 193,854 62,500 144,105 1,188,82
Written off plant, etc., £28,120 . . 1,160,70
1941.. 427,095 197,500 62,500 167,095 1,327,79
Written off plant, etc., £12,062 ..1,315,73
1942.. 437,732 197,500 62,500 177,732 1,493,40
Written off plant, etc., £6,674 .. .. 1,486,79
1943.. 432,547 197,500 62,500 172,547 1,659,34
Written off plant, etc., £0,429 .. .. 1,652,91
1944.. 451,860 197,500 62,500 191,860 1,844,77
* Includes provision for debenture sinking fund.
So rapid has been recent industrial de
velopment of S. Aus. that this big elec
trical undertaking has been hard presset
to meet the demand for current placet
upon it. Every unit of the generatin
plant has been brought' into continuou
production, and much maintenance won
has been stood over until sufficient labo
and materials become available. Also
to guard against any possibility o
delay in meeting additional industrial ant
other post-war requirements, a new
power-house (Osborne B) is bein
erected at an anticipated cost of aboui
£2,000,000.
The next table illustrates growth o
the business, which covers approx. 4116
sq. miles, with a population of abou
370,000 people;
Maximum
Capital Load on
Expend!- Generating Kilowatt
ture. Number of Plant in Hours
Aug. 31, £ Consumers. Kilowatts. Sold.
1934 . . 4,879,393 85,753 26,000 74,171,00
1939 . . 6,191,694 102,015 43,000 139,837,71
1940 . . 6,336,039 104,985 43,600 149,696,66
1941 . . 6,546,335 107,649 50,000 173,885,35
1942 . . 6,712,796 110,078 65,000 ■ 222,948,96
1943 . . 7,045,767 111,593 63,800 241,140,11
1944 .. 7,535,134 ,112,855 65,500 222,379,445
Although 1262 new consumers were con-
nected last term, kilowatt hours sold de
creased by 7.78 p.c., owing to reducec
demand for power from munition estab
lishments.
Still, gross taking increased £ll3l
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
„ £ £ £ £
Gross
Revenue 1,134,017 1,451,237 1,532,603 1,533,734
Operating exes,
and taxes 653,384 962,326 1,032,868 1,023,697
Net revenue 480,633 488,911 499,735 510,037
Operating exes., etc., were pulled back
£9171. After deduction of debenture in-
terest £80,998) and allowing for reserve
adjustments, the net result was £19,313
stronger at £451,860. That was enough
to pay pref. divs., give the ords. 10 p.c.,
send £21,843 to debenture sinking fund
(£156,141), add £20,000 to contingency
reserve (£125,450) to cover deferred
maintenance and leave £150,017 (= 1.99
p.c. of capital value of the undertaking)
for general reserve. Since no annual
allowance is specifically made for depre-
ciation, reserves are labelled nominal in
the table.
Concerning the use of Leigh Creek coal,
the chairman says:
Your directors and officers are still of the
opinion that Leigh Creek coal cannot be
economically used by the co. in competi-
tion with New South Wales coal, and I
may add that this view is strongly sup-
ported in a report which we have received
from one of the highest independent
authorities in Australia.
Experiments have shown that the coal
cannot be successfully burnt in the co.’s
existing boilers. However, it is to be
tested as a sandwich with N.S.W. coal
in the co.’s new boilers, which have been
specially designed for the purpose.
As for the new power-house, most of
the building is complete, or nearing com-
pletion. The foundations were ready for
the boilers nearly three months ago, and
the first turbo-alternator is due to arrive
next month. Subject to man-power and
delivery difficulties, the whole installation
is expected to be complete and operating
by the middle of 1946.
To help meet the outlay 1,125,000 new
£1 ords. were offered at par on Nov. 1
last to holders of preferreds in the pro-
portion of one for every £3 of stock, and
to the ords. in the proportion of one for
every £1 of stock. At the same time
holders of £743,348 of 8 p.c. preferreds
agreed to convert their stock into ord.
stock at par. Although they will receive
1 p.c. less div. —the ords. are not now
expected to get more than 7 p.c. for some
years to come—they will enjoy the right
to participate in new issues of ord. capi-
tal in future. And such new issues will
be in the nature of bonuses to share-
holders, according to the premium the
scrip commands on the market.
Conversion of the preferreds, and of
£250,000 D 6 p.c. debentures which matured
on Sept. 1 last into a like amount of K 3|
p.c. debenture stock with a currency of 20
years, together mean a saving of £13,125
p.a. to the co., and a widening of pro-
tection for the prefs.
When all the new ord. money is in,
share and debenture capital will be as
follows:
Stocky Debenture Stock—,
Adelaide. London. Adelaide. London,
p.c. £ £ p.c. £ £
Pref. 0 180,657 69,343 4 E 197,750
„ 5 A 250,000 44 P 200,000
„ 8 B 249,950 50 44 G 200 827,894
„ 6J C 753,513 246,487 44 H 250,000
„ 5 D 500,000 Sf J 250,000
Ord. .. 2,486,327 13,073 8} K 250,000
Total £4,170,447 579,553| £1,147,950 827,804
On the basis of 7 p.c. to the ords., that
Jot will call for £396,681 p.a., or 4.6 p.c.
on debenture and share capital and re-
serves combined. Since the percentage
cost of the old capital set up was the
same, consumer won’t be affected by the
recent changes in capital structure.
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- De-
July, Profit. 5.4 p.c. 18.9 p.c.* 24 p.c. serves, ficit.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1934.. 23,787 1627 9923 9,542 2,695 15,753
6.2 p.c. 4 p.c.
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3255 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3255 '22,901 11,074 10,857
5.4 p.c. 5 p.c.
1938.. 26.850 1627 3255 19,084 2,884 13,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 3255 19,084 8,003 21,744
1940. . 29,195 1627 3255 19,084 5,229 26,973
1941.. 32,439 1627 3255 19,084 8.473 35,446
1942.. 31,593 1627 3255 19,084 7,627 43,073
1943.. 23,972 1627 3255 19,084 6 43,079
24 p.c.
1944.. 11,697 1627 8255 9,542 40,352
* Including arrears.
The board makes no comment on the
sharp drop of over 51 p.c. in last year’s
net earnings. Collapse of demand for
furniture, etc., on Government account,
including demand from the Allied forces,
appears to be largely responsible. The
extensive and expensive bureaucracy set
up to man our war-time controlled
economy created a new and strong de-
mand for office furniture and furnishings.
This partly offset the reduction of turn-
over that followed the cessation of home
and other building and the furnishing
that goes with it, the limiting of expen-
diture on replacements and renewals and
the rationing of furnishing drapery and
household linen. Also, steady depletion
of stocks—many of the co.’s lines,
especially in furnishing drapery and
chinaware, are imported—further re-
stricted the limited amount of business
available.
After setting aside £8346 (down
£6724) for taxation and allowing £4239
(down £1410) for depreciation, there was
a contraction of £12,275 in net earnings.
The £11,697 of profit claimed was the
poorest for over a decade. It covered the
reduced pref. divs, and 1.7 p.c. on the
£381,687 of ord. capital, compared with
5,7, 7.2, 6.3 and 7.1 p.c. back to 1939.
The div. was cut in half, reducing it to


Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
bolds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 0 Martin Place, Sydney.
HAIMS
Circular Charts lor all types o*
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEN SIREEI PTV. LTD. BRISBANE, O LD.
EYE LOTIONi
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Ply. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting!
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, S6O Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
m
m
m
li
1945 and YOU
DOES the year 1945 find you with the feeling that
prospects ahead are poor?
Or do you feel strong and resolute, determined
that you will face the battle of life in 1945 and
aferwards, courageously and soundly? That you
will be ready for any emergency?
Money is not everything, but it is a precious
help in time of opportunity, as well as in time of
trouble. It is a galling experience to be without it
when times are bad, or in old age.
Be strong in 1945! If you have a job, make up your mind
that you will invest portion of your income in A.M.P. Life
Assurance. Gather strength to yourself by making this
decision to-day. Even to-morrow may be too late.
Talk the matter over with any representative, or office, of
the Society. The Society wants to help you make 1945 a year
of wise and fruitful decision.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation .
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
CL '- 'i- \ \iir *
■ -
S&BS
1 -. ‘ :-•
w
THE ROYAL WAVY
IS WOT A MIRAGE
Within the horizon of our drought-stricken land
there will soon be appearing, not a mirage, but a
real and mighty naval force.
The British Pacific Fleet requires from Australia,
by June, 1945, £10,655,000 worth of food. And as
part of our service to the British people and its
unmatchable navy, we will supply this food in
spite of the drought; in spite of our limited man-
power; in spite of the fact that we are already
meeting the heaviest food commitments in our
history.
Producers and food workers cannot supply this
food unaided. .It can be supplied only with the
co-operation of the entire civilian population.
YOU can help by resolving now that —
You will grow your own vegetables. Every home
vegetable garden relieves the drain on the
nation’s food supplies.
You won’t be a black market buyer—this is the
meanest form of sabotage.
You won’t waste food in any way.
YOU WON’T LET THE NAVY DOWN
Issued by Commonwealth Food Control.
F 59.82.15
24 p.c.; and reserves were tapped for
£2727 to pay it, leaving them £40,352 in
excess of goodwill (£67,660), not
as an asset herein. The prefs. 30,000
first 7 per cents, and 52,500 second 8
per cents. —are rationed, and have been
since the early 1930’5, when the now out-
moded N.S.W. Interest Deduction Act
imposed a cut of 224 p.c., lowering the
rates to 5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively.
They are entitled to advance with the
ords. beyond these points to their full
contract rates.
Inability to secure suitable stock re-
placements and reduction of debtors
balances, etc. —the etcetera is an unstated
bank balance —enabled the outside debt
to be reduced:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1911-
Capital . . £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* . . 99,981 111,245 93,456 19,288
Freeholds, etc. 272,252 272,252 272,252 272,252
Machinery, plant,
etc. . . 26,586 25,077 15,185 11,275
Stocks . . 181,718 240,242 193,357 103,466
Book debts, etc. 117,088 85,040 131,658 82,563
Cash . . . . 250 250 250 6,250
* Including provision tor taxation.
Last term reductions of £29,891 in stock
(now below the 1939 level) and ol:
£49,095 in debtors’ balances, etc., enabled
a mortgage of £61,000 to be repaid and
the amount coming to sundry creditors,
etc., to be lowered by £13,168, The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£232,991) was £llB2.
As for. the outlook, the big home and
other building programme in prospect, and
the deferred renewal and replacement re-
quirements for hotel, flat and home
furnishings, etc. augur well for sales,
when controls are relaxed. Meanwhile,
the capacity of this and other co.’s to
enter into firm contracts for future de-
livery is restricted, and so is their earning
power.
At New Broken Hill Consolidated,
which adjoins Zinc Corp., at the Barrier
(N.S.W.), a 90ft. section of the main drive
on No. 16 level averaged 9.7 p.c, lead,
2.20 z. silver and 22 p.c. zinc over a width
of 4ft. A borehole from No. 18 level
intersected ,864 ft. of average grade ore
(13 p.c. lead, 2.90 z. silver and 11.9 p.c.
zinc), true width approximately 70ft.
Another bore from the same level inter-
sected “sections with many high values.”
This leaves no doubt about continu-
ance into the Consolidated co.’s prop-
erty of the main ore bodies now being
worked by the Corp. Shortage of labor
and materials has handicapped develop-
ment, and will continue to do so until
war conditions permit removal of restric-
tions. Meanwhile, representatives of both
cos. are abroad studying latest develop-
ments in deep mining in N. America and
S. Africa. Chairman J. R. Govett says
the co. has “the makings of a mine which
may one day equal in size that of Zinc
Corp.” The Corp. owns approximately
30 p.c. of Consolidated’s £507,884 of capi-
tal, and has agreed to act as g.m. for 20
years from July 8, 1936. The Corp. s
new Freeman shaft will service both
mines, and all ore will be treated in the
Corp.’s mill.
* * * •
Apart from the water trouble, chief
difficulties confronting the big mining
cos. at the Barrier today are shortage of
skilled labor and rising costs. The labor
problem has retarded both production
and development, and contributed to the
rise in costs, which are now about 50 p.c.
higher than they were five years ago.
The contract between the smelters at
Port Pirie and the British Government
for sale of lead assures disposal of the
lead concentrates produced by the mining
cos. for the duration of the war with
Germany. The silver obtained from the
lead concentrates is being absorbed
locally, mainly for Government require-
ments, and there is no immediate indi-
cation of any surplus being available for
export. Zinc concentrates are sold partly
to Electrolytic Zinc (Tas.) and partly to
Imperial Smelting Corp. (England).
¥ * * *
Although cinnabar (sulphide of mer-
cury) deposits at Kilkivan (Q.) cover an
area of some 50 sq. miles, prospects of
successfully operating fresh deposits of
pay-ore are not encouraging. Some 35
deposits have been identified, of which
only five are being worked, and these are
not expected to turn out more than 10
tons per annum. For the most part, the
stuff occurs in veins varying in thickness
from a fraction of an inch to 6ft. There
is a low-grade deposit within 20ft. or
the surface, but whether it can be worked
at a profit remains to be seen.
* * * *
Holding cash and investments of
£52,278 at Aug. 31 last, A 1 Consolidated
(Vic.) now appears to be distributing pro-
fits as they are earned. Owing to a drop
in ore-grade, these are on a lower plane
than last year, but another 2s. a share
goes out on February 23, bringing dis-
tributions since close of accounts to 12s.
a share. Yet Treasury ceiling for the
scrip (Bs. paid) stands at 10s., which is
more than covered by the liquid pile
alone, and which allows nothing for profit
in remaining ore reserves. On No. 14
level these are estimated at 10,000 tons,
ranging from 18dwt. to 4oz. gold to the
ton, the average being nearly 2oz. At
least a further two years’ feed for the
mill is in sight.
* * *
After examination of Maude and
Yellow Girl, in the mountainous coun-
try at Glen Willis, about 35 miles from
Omeo (Vic.), J. C. Coldham considers
that the ore channel to the north presents
opportunities for favorable development,
and that lateral investigation for parallel
ore-bodies is desirable in the southern
portion of the field. A feature of the
mine is that the proportion of pay-ore to
length of reef varies from 41 p.c. at No.
5 level to 60 p.c. at No. 8 level. This
suggests undertaking major development
and exploration at depth, which is ex-
pensive. Ore shoots are said to continue
along the line of strike for some 20,000 ft.,
but they are irregular in size and dis-
tribution, and the reef is faulted. There
is probably three feet of untested lode
for every foot now being worked. Altera-
tions in treatment methods, including pro-
duction of a concentrate for smelting,
are recommended to increase recoveries.
The board is considering a plan of
attack, which, of course, cannot be
launched until war developments enable
man-power and materials to be made
available.
$ * * *
Western Petrolem’s bore at Nelson
(Vic.), which is being jointly drilled by
the Victorian and Federal Governments,
has reached a depth of 6721 ft. in consoli-
dated fine-banded sand with pyrite. This
is the deepest borehole yet drilled in Aus-
tralia by a rotary plant, and is also the
greatest depth of tertiary formation pene-
trated by a drill in the Commonwealth.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp. announces that the
financial position of Wiluna Gold Mines,
Ltd., the Westralian operating subsidiary,
remains strong, cash and liquids at Sept.
30 last amounting to £A914,973. To en-
sure continued production of essential
war materials, the Government has
guaranteed Wiluna Gold Mines against
operating losses up to a “fixed and satis-
factory amount” for 12 months ending
March 31 next, or until prepared ore
above the 2000 ft. level is exhausted.
Closing down of the outlying Bulle-
tin lease since close of accounts has made
certain plant and equipment available
for operations at the Mt. Charlotte group,
Kalgoorlie. Mt. Charlotte is marking
time pending the lifting of man-power
restrictions.
* * * *
Boomerang, at Burtville (W.A.), con-
tinues to produce more gold than any
other privately-owned mine on the eastern
goldfields. December crushing, which
followed one of 35 tons for 4570 z.,
yielded 3030 z. over the plates from 50
tons treated. Past six years’ production
totals. 30000 z., an average of approxi-
mately 12oz. a ton. Workings are down
to water level.


What do
honest people make
out of the war?
1 SUPPOSE we all ask that question,
one time or another. I know I did—
and I found the answer.
It’s not what we make out of the war, but
what the war makes out of us,
I know my husband up North, and I, are
much better people for it. We’ve never
been so far apart, and yet so close to each
other. It’s a feeling we’ll share all our
lives—how we fought and worked and
made sacrifices together.
. . . The war has given us a new purpose
in life, too. We’re not drifting any longer.
Now it’s clear to us we want security . . .
peace of mind . . . freedom from money
trouble. How pleased I’ll be to show Bill
our growing pile of Victory Bonds! Every
penny I save from my wages and Bill’s
allotment helps to make life more secure
for us after the war. And, meantime, the
money is helping to arm and feed and
clothe my Bill . . . and bring him back
sooner, safe and well, I hope.
Victory Bonds? I wish I had twice as
many! They bring a good, regular in-
terest — 3\°/o for 16 years, or 2 \°/o for five
years, and they’re backed and guaranteed
by all the wealth of the nation. I’m going
to buy all I can and hold all I can, secure
in the knowledge that if I want money
for an emergency, I can easily sell my
Bonds to get it.
You can be sure I’ll be among the first
to invest in the Third Victory Loan.
I make the promise now!
The Third Victory Loan opens on March 13. Start saving now for YOUR Bonds. If you have
cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan interest is paid on advance
subscriptions from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank, or stockbroker.
3PX6.83
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. O. Dawson, T. O. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Secondary Industries Conference
In Canberra last week Federal Min-
isters, including the Prime Minister, con-
ferred with more than 20 delegates from
the Chambers of Manufactures in vari-
ous States. A discussion of the prospects
and problems of post-war industry took
place, and there appears to have been an
unusual degree of harmony in the pro-
ceedings. From' The Bulletin’s 'view-
point, there were a few flowing political
generalities that later on might be inter-
preted any way, like the Prime Minister’s
assurances about socialisation of industry
on a previous occasion, and which need
more detailed clarification ; but, on the
whole, there seemed to be an awakening
to economic realities that is long overdue,
The Government, for its part, acknow-
ledged the need for a virile private
enterprise, and even Mr. Dedman empha-
sised this. It was indicated, however,
that Commonwealth factories basic
to an adequate defence policy will,
after the war, be controlled by the Gov-
ernment. When not fully occupied on
defence jobs they will do civilian work ;
“it is probable that this work will be
carried out on a sub-contracting basis for
commercial firms,” says the Prime Min-
ister, adding that other factories would be
made available for private industry, per-
haps operating jointly with the Crown. He
believes that the maintenance of Govern-
ment munition factories is essential for
defence purposes. Apparently the Gov-
ernment intends to continue with aircraft
production and shipbuilding. “This
policy,” said Mr. Curtin, “will result in
the expansion of the range of coramodi-
ties which we can manufacture in peace-
time. Production will supplement rather
than compete with existing industry. It
will not be obstruction to the field in
which private industry can operate—
rather it will tend to broaden that field,
Enterprising manufacturers will readily
adapt themselves to this pojicy, and the
policy will be found to be mutually ad-
vantageous.” Like the promise to make
“some” reduction in taxation after the
war, and a reference to an “enlarged
r pi e of Government activity in the finan-
and industrial field, more must de-
P end u P on the performance in this respect
than upon the promise,
Mr. Curtin claimed that “for several
years after the war” the Government
would need to have a modified form of
control over prices, the right to grant
priorities in the building industry and
power to prevent unnecessary overseas
expenditure. Depending upon the period
and nature of controls, the need for some-
thing of the kind cannot be reasonably
denied. They must not be controls
merely for the sake of control or for
the sake of politics. They must serve a
plain economic purpose
Mr. Curtin stressed the need for full
employment after the war. With the
obvious lag in the production of civilian
goods during the war “there would be
no place for wasteful projects designed
solely to make work for work’s sake.”
He expressed the opinion that “a high
level of employment could be maintained
by ensuring that the total expenditure by
private individuals, businesses and Gov-
ernments was sufficient to buy the greatest
output of which the economy was cap-
able.”
The belief was expressed that “in the
transition period immediately following
the cessation of hostilities the Govern-
ment looks to manufacturers to resume
full peace-time production as soon as
possible. To do this effectively, and with
the minimum delay, all possible prepara-
tory work by individual manufacturers
must be done in advance.” The Second-
ary Industries Commission would be a
direct link between the Government and
manufacturers. Exports were vital to the
economic life of Australia. Competitively
with the world, Australia must keep costs
down to an absolute minimum. All
elements in costs, including wages, must
be stable. Our demands for overseas
goods after the war would make it neces-
sary to enlarge our export income by
finding markets for new exports, includ-
ing manufactures. Trade representatives
would be appointed by the Government
in various countries. A policy of tariff
protection would be continued consistent
with Australia’s international obligations.
The Government would continue to
accept the advice of the Tariff Board in
the continuance of old duties and the im-
position of new ones.
Mr. Curtin apparently couldn’t avoid
wrapping up a reference to the proposed
banking legislation with the rest of the
programme outlined. To ensure that
long-term capital would be available to
new industries the Government proposed,
“in its forthcoming banking legislation,
to supplement the existing sources of
capital funds for industry.” But if the
Government, by its proposed banking
legislation, creates a Government mono-
poly of the function there will be doubts
about the economic effectiveness of its
discretion and aid in this direction.
The Prime Minister went on to say:
Government policy for the post-war
period is based on the fact that the people
of Australia will not tolerate unemployment
and will look to the Government to ensure
that unemployment does not arise. If the
Government is to accept this responsibility,
it means an extension of its functions. That
should not be to the disadvantage of indus-
try. The policy outlined for the future of
Australian secondary industry is one in
which the management is called on to play
a major role. But it will do so in a state
of continued high employment. It will be
able to take advantage of conditions of
sustained maximum demand, giving long-
term security of markets and sound pros-
pects for initiative and enterprise and the
rewards of enterprise. Further, the suc-
cess of the Government’s policy will mean
that industry will be able to plan its future
with the assurance of freedom from slumps.
To give Australians an assurance of free-
dom from slumps the Government'will
have to conduct the national economic
affairs with far more skill than it has
shown during the war. It will have to
show more regard for costs than it has
done in the past. Apd, so far as
unemployment is concerned, it is not
worth while extending the functions of
Government to a totalitarian extent in
order to eliminate the last decimal point
of unemployment. A small percentage of
unemployment is not entirely a disadvan-
tage from the point of view of industrial
psycholpgy.
Mr. W. Queale, president of the Asso-
ciated Chambers of Manufactures, said
that price control in its present form
should continue no longer than absolutely
necessary; it should be drastically
amended to a simple formula, and price
control should be divorced from any
question of profits control. The subsidy
plan under the prices ceiling involved ex-
traordinary delays, and seemed to em-
brace the idea that a loss on one line
could, and should, be carried by the
profit on another. The system had pro-
duced discriminatory treatment among
firms in the same industry.
He urged the speedy removal of all in-
dustrial regulations and restrictions out-
moded by the progress of the war, and a
return to the manufacture of such lines
previously regarded as unessential which
might now be turned out without inter-
fering with the war effort. It was neces-
sary to get ready for post-war demands.
Where possible, inter-State trade should
be resumed on a free basis. Ready access
to raw materials for civilian production
should be allowed as early as possible.
The war-time system of procuring goods
from overseas should not be prolonged;
individual firms should be allowed to do
their own buying, if necessary under
license from the Customs.
In the matter of taxation, Mr. Queale
said he and his associates felt the Gov-
ernment had lagged behind in these
matters, and “we cannot urge too strongly
the need for the earliest possible con-
sideration of provision for adequate re-
serves for expansion, depreciation and
obsolescence to ensure rehabilitation of
industry on lines which will mean maxi-
mum employment”
Mr. Queale said a Government-regu-
lated banking system would restrict the
manufacturers’ right to obtain accom-
modation on a competitive basis, and
references by Ministers to proposed poli-
tical control of banking “must tend to
destroy public confidence in the aims and
objects of the Government.”
The policy outlined by Mr. Curtin is
the first coherent indication by Federal
Labor of a willingness to co-operate with
private enterprise that has been seen
since it assumed government. It is
somewhat later in arriving than the post-
war policy of the Institute of Public
Affairs (Victoria), which was substan-
tially endorsed by Mr. Menzies in his
inaugural address at the foundation of the
Australian Liberal party. A hindrance
to the carrying-out of any major eco-
nomic policy by the present Government
will be its dependence on Caucus, its
inherent weakness for socialisation and
inflation, and the infiltration of many
unions by communists.
From the British Government’s second
report on mutual aid:
The total of mutual aid furnished by
his Majesty’s Government in the United
Kingdom to their allies exceeds £lOOO
million. All this has been given, without
payment, in furtherance of the principle
that the resources of the United Nations
should be pooled for the common war
effort. The United Kingdom has been for
five years in the front line, and the needs
of its own forces and its own people have
been such as to require unparalleled efforts
on the part of the whole population. It is
no small achievement that notwithstanding
these calls on its resources and production
capacity it should have also met the needs
of its allies on so substantial a scale.
The total of £1079 million (to June 30,
1944) in mutual aid provided by Great
Britain and its colonies (but not
dominions) went to the following allies
and friends:
£ Million
Sterling.
U.S.A 604.7
U.S.S.R 269.5
China 9.0
France 13.6
Poland 120.0
Greece . . .. .. 12.4
Czechoslovakia .. .. 18.6
Portugal .. 11.1
Turkey 20.7
1079.6
In the year to June 30, 1944, Britain sup-
plied Russia with £5l million-worth of
aircraft.
* * =1! T
Television development has made great
strides in Britain, the country which led
the world in developing - radio-location.
The radio trade is now really interested.


STRONGER... LIGHTER ... LONGER-LASTING
Under war condi-
tions. only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
CASE S
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see * Bulletin, 17/3/ 43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Budding, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane. _ m
South Australia; Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
THAT*
M
tHE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R, J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitche I
Manager—C. H.« Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 ©-P- 0 -. Sydney.
BP 444.
PQ
w
\v
1762*
t?
/
jCAS
~J (
m=,
/ 1
f=?
JC
■^O
PARDONABLE PRECAUTION
Yes, there are better places to keep your Valet razor,
but the safest place is none too good! Your Valet razor (
today is an irreplaceable treasure. Irreplaceable because
no more will be made while the war lasts; and a
treasure because in these blade-short days the self-
stropping Valet gives you weeks of perfect shaving
from every single blade. Take every care of both
razor and strop!
For instance: Hang your strop on a hook at breast
level. When stropping, keep the handle at right #
angles to the strop. Don’t let the strop sag or twist
—keep it taut and straight
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades s\d. each
Seems almost no time, doesn’t it, since
the Commonwealth Government acquired
20-odd fluid-drive Chryslers, mostly for
Ministerial use? Last week two of these
Ministerial beauties were the attraction
of a crowd outside the Commonwealth
Bank in Martin-place, Sydney. Inspec-
tion of car No. COl6 showed 5632 miles
up on the speedometer ; car No. CO 19
showed 4770 miles. Later car No. C 3
rolled in, recording 6331 miles. Few
private motorists have been able to build
up anything like those mileages in all the
time since Japan entered the war. Per-
haps some Ministerial gentry feel they
have to run up a big mileage in order
to justify the initial cost of the splendi-
ferous vehicles.
* * * *
Munitions Minister Makin has an-
nounced that six 9000-ton Australian-built
merchantmen have been commissioned
under the Government’s building scheme,
and a seventh will be delivered this
month. Two more launchings will take
place soon, and “good progress” is being
made on four other vessels of this
“River” class. The Department of Supply
and Shipping owns and runs the vessels,
management being delegated to private
shipping companies. Eight 2500-tonners
are now planned, with four 6000-tonners
and seven 550-tonners contracted for.
About 95 p.c. of the hulls and fittings,
including engines, are Australian-made.
Mr. Makin says building costs are “favor-
ably comparable with those in many
countries in which the industry has been
carried on for a long time.” It is to be
hoped in this respect that Mr, Makin
knows more of what he is talking about
than did Senator Cameron when, as Min-
ister for Aircraft Production, he used to
speak about the cost of aircraft made in
this country. In order for the shipbuild-
ing industry in Australia to have any-
thing like “permanent” prospects it will
need to get production costs reasonably
near those of overseas countries. And
there will have to be a clear financial
and industrial atmosphere round the un-
dertaking.
An amendment of the wage-pegging
regulations has been made in Canberra
to expedite the process by which
“anomalies” or unusual circumstances
in awards may be provided for.
Chief Judge Taylor, of the N. S.
Wales Industrial Commission, says the
amendment won’t expedite anything.
It will be no longer necessary to get
a Minister’s approval for alterations, but
industrial authorities will have to pass on
their recommendations to the Chief Judge
in Arbitration before a decision can be
made. Until now only anomalies existing
before February 10, 1942, could be con-
sidered. The new regulations provide for
the review of anomalies and changes in
circumstances of employment arising since
that date. The first wage-pegging regula-
tions, incidentally, were introduced at the
same time as the Stock Exchange control
regulations. The Government is making
little effort to correct “anomalies” in this
latter case, even though Morris Hedstrom
shares, which have a price ceiling of
275. 6d. in the Commonwealth, are at
475. 6d. in New Zealand, where there is
an open market.
* * * *
One of the objections to the continu-
ance of war-time regulations and controls
a moment longer than necessary is that
the multiplication of arbitrary restrictions
leads to the multiplication of opportuni-
ties for graft, as well as opportunities for
black-iparketing and other illegal traffic.
* * * ♦
The issue of 200,000 £1 ords. by Ready
Mixed Concrete, Ltd., which has its head
office in Sydney, with an associate co.
in Brisbane arid offshoots planned for
Melbourne and Adelaide, has been under-
written by brokers in all three cities.
There was a review of the co. in B.
20/12/’44.
* * * *
Overruling the Tariff Board, Senator
Keane has permitted an increase of 10s.
a ton for grapes for the 1945 vintage,
with 155., 10s. and 10s. a ton extra in
the case of frontignac, riesling and shiraz
types respectively. Fortifying spirit is
being raised in price from 6s. to 7s. a
gallon, as recommended by the Tariff
Board.
♦ * * *
The importance of the small businesses
in a nation’s economy is being realised
in the United States and Great Britain.
British banks during the last couple of
years have been making preparations to
assist small businesses financially when
the war ends, and the matter has received
Treasury recognition, even to the extent
of some taxation concessions being made
now to small enterprises. In the United
States a commercial body, the Committee
of Economic Development, has given
detailed consideration to the question of
the future of small businesses, and has
urged that post-war taxation policy should
give special attention to enterprises
of small size. It urges Government re-
search into the problems of these private
enterprises—including Government-made
problems —and asks that after the war not
only should war-time casualties among the
2,000,000 small concerns be given first-aid,
but that the total number of small enter-
prises be increased as rapidly as pos-
sible. It is revealed that of the total
business employment in the United States
45 p.c. is normally provided by enter-
prises having fewer than 100 persons on
their payrolls. The Committee of Eco-
nomic Development makes out a strong
social as well as economic case for an
increase in the number and security of
small private enterprises when the war is
over. It asks for the encouragement of
risk-taking by the rising generation.
“Through risk-taking new businesses and
new men are developed... .Public under-
standing of the importance of risk-taking
is vital.... Initiative and the spirit of risk-
taking can be fostered through education
of our youth... .Educational programmes
should be provided to encourage and
train demobilised soldiers, sailors and
other servicemen to go into business for
themselves after the war... .Many will
have acquired an unusual degree of inde-
pendence and self-confidence as a result
of their experiences.” A bit of the same
economic philosophy freshening up the
socialistic stuffiness of Canberra would
lay the foundations of something worth
while in Australia.
* * * *
In 1944 the United States was to re-
ceive under reverse lend-lease 70,000 tons
of Ceylon rubber, 3100 tons from India,
as well as the production from British
territory in the Western Hemisphere
(which includes the West Indies and
Central and South America). The United
States allotment comprises more than
two-thirds of the rubber output of Cey-
lon, and most of the balance of Ceylon’s
output has gone to Russia, the rest to
Australia and New Zealand. Under
lend-lease, however, the United States has
supplied about 86,000 tons of synthetic
rubber, equivalent in manufacturing pro-
cesses to about 70,000 tons *of crude
rubber, together with tyres, etc., mostly
for military use. Production of rubber
in Papua, which has been stepped up
quickly, partly through early tapping of
the trees, is taken into account in
United Nations allocations. It does not
belong exclusively to Australia. New
Guinea growers recently have had
cause to complain about a cut in
the official price. Representations have
been made for a readjustment. Specially
high prices are being paid in Ceylon and
other parts of the world provided
growers reach a specified level of in-
creased production.
* * * *
The query has arisen in many minds
as to whether Australia had to meet the
bill for American servicemen’s pay while
they were stationed in the Common-
wealth. There was an idea that Australia
paid the servicemen as a part of reciprocal
aid. This idea is entirely refuted by an
official publication on the subject. Ac-
cording to the Commonwealth Year
Book : —
The Commonwealth will, in accordance
with its potentialities and responsibilities,
authorise the provision on lend-lease terms
of the following types of assistance to the
armed forces of the United States in Aus-
tralia or its territories and in such other
cases as may be determined by common
agreement: —
Military and naval stores, equipment and
munitions. Other supplies, material, facili-
ties and services of United States forces,
except for pay and allowances and admini-
strative expenses of such forces. Supplies,
materials and services needed in the con-
struction of military works.
Those are conditions of the Reciprocal
Aid Agreement, under which Australian
lend-lease conditions are defined.
* * * *
U.N.R.R.A. has to revise the expendi-
ture budget of its Chinese office every 10
days in order to keep step with the infla-
tion in the Chinese currency.
*,* * *
Whakatane Paper Mills ord. shares are
quoted unofficially on Sydney ’Change
at ss. 3d. buyer, 6s. seller. The prefs.
are above par—in Maoriland they are
changing hands at around 255. New
Zealand Forest Products ord. scrip is sell-
ing at 75., prefs. at 11s. 3d.
# * * •
The International Business Conference
held in the United States recently affirmed
a growing conviction in higher U.S. busi-
ness circles that countries which increase
their capacity to produce industrially
tend to raise not only their own living
standards but those of the rest of the
world as well. Eric Johnston, of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, has ex-
pressed the view that the more backward
countries are brought “forward” the
greater will be their external buying
power, and that the resulting contribu-
tion to world trade will be two-way.


THE SERVICE MAN
MacArthur in Manila.
“Ek Dum”; The first week in Feb-
ruary, 1945, was a joyful anniversary for
well over 5000 Allied internees and
prisoners of war, immured for three years
in Manila and rescued by General Mac-
Arthur’s forces. Among them were many
Australians, though five of the originals
had died.
The First U.S. Cavalry Division, the
37th Division and the 11th Airborne
Division from the south-west, which
made a 35-mile advance overnight, shared
in the honors. But entry into the northern
part of Manila did not end the fighting
in the city or prevent Japanese recourse
to barbarous destruction.
South of the Pasig River is the business
and port section of Manila. This the
enemy held after the northern part was
in General MacArthur’s hands. When
the south ultimately was entered, across
the river, the commercial city had been
reduced to a blackened ruin, seeded with
enemy resistance points and hundreds of
snipers.
On February 9, according to a New
York “Times” correspondent, U.S. troops
held 8000 square miles of Luzon, which
has an area of 41,000 square miles. Still
in enemy hands were the rich “tail” to
the south-east and all the main mountain
regions ; Bataan from the main line of
defence southward; Corregidor (Fort
Mills) and the other islands closing the
mouth of Manila Bay. However, the
positions round Manila Bay were isolated
and the enemy there seemed to have little
chance of survival or escape. And
General MacArthur’s communique (Feb.
7) looked forward to fresh triumphs:
We shall not rest until our enemy is com-
pletely overthrown. We do not count any-
thing done so long as anything remains to
be done. We are well on our way, but
Japan itself is our final goal. With Australia
saved, the Philippines liberated and the ulti-
mate redemption of the East Indies and
Malaya thereby made a certainty, our motto
becomes “On to Tokyo.”
The South-east Asia Command and
the United States and Royal Navies have,
of course, had a great part in making the
redemption of Japan’s conquests a cen-
tainty, and will have a great part in the
operations to come.
The Japanese still continued to Shell
various parts of southern Manila and
around the bay in strong posts set behind
difficult minefields. On these fortress
positions the elements of the three U.S.
Divisions were on February 10 converg-
ing on the dock area.
Many of the buildings on the south
side are very old, with thick.stone walls
which have withstood the centuries, and
these, drilled with loopholes, are hard
nuts to crack.
Northern parts of Manila, including
the internment area, were still at the
week-end within reach of long-distance
Japanese shellfire, and during the week a
Japanese'shell had fallen within 30 yards
of General MacArthur at the Santo
Tomas University, where liberated Allied
nationals gave him a rousing and de-
served ovation.
The Japanese noisily declared through
Tokyo Radio that the fight was not
over; that the Americans held no
strategic areas and had only 11 divisions
in the Philippines, and that this repre-
sented the limit of the possibilities of
U.S. man-power for land warfare against
Japan.
The test of Japanese strength or weak-
ness as a main body seemed, however,
imminent as the U.S. forces further north
pushed eastward ip an attempt to divide
northern Luzon into two compartments.
They were still meeting far greater resist-
ance than on the drive to Manila. In the
thrust across the Lingayen neck toward
the east coast roadhead at Baler Bay,
U.S. forces were reported on February 11
to be 22 miles only from the east coast.
Bombers were active again throughout
the Philippines, along the China and
Formosa coasts and —operating from the
Marianas against Japan proper.
R.A.A.F. Liberators added considerably
to the damage already done to the Siman-
Mendalin hydro-electric system in western
Java.
#
The Campaign in Burma
The conduct of the enemy in Burma is
far different from that in the northern
approaches to Manila. His resistance to
the establishment of a British-Indian-
African bridgehead on the Mandalay side
of the Irrawaddy,- 50 miles north of the
city, was stubborn, and implemented not
only with artillery and m.-g. fire but with
fierce attacks with the bayonet.
His measures for a time were so effec-
tive as to cause a crisis, which was
weathered only after bitter fighting and
considerable casualties had been inflicted
on squealing waves of Japanese. The
bridgehead, however, was firmly estab-
lished, and the way prepared for further
advances which were in progress at the
week-end.
British drives had penetrated to the
Burma oil-field region west of Manda-
lay, and were within nine miles of Man-
dalay itself, but the river system and
difficult canalised country still had to be
dealt with.
In the Akyab area the enemy forces
trying to break through south of the main
base were well under control after suffer-
ing heavy casualties. The Lincolns,
veterans among British troops on the
Arakan front, had taken Ramree, the
main town on Ramree Island. Consider-
able mopping-up was being done in the
area.
British naval carrier raiding of Suma-
tran oil bases led by H.M.A.C Indefatig-
able, one of the latest pair of British
monsters, and under escort which in-
cluded H.M.S. King George V, sister
ship of H.M.S. Howe, served further to
advertise the complete supremacy of the
R.N. on the sea and in the air west of
the Malacca Straits
New Guinea Patrol Actions
Fighting in the Australian areas of the
Mandated Territory continued to be
limited to patrol actions. There were
some lively small brushes in the Torri-
cellis behind Aitape. The enemy was
on February 11 still holding to a pocket
position six miles west of Balif, now in
A.I.F. hands.
On New Britain, first contact with the
enemy on the north coast was reported
in a clash with a small body of Japanese,
of whom three were killed. On the
south coast the advanced troops who
made a new amphibious landing met
none of the enemy, who seems to have
immured his main forces closely in the
Gazelle Peninsula, where they are sup-
posed to be concentrated for the de-
fence of Rabaul.
On Bougainville progress was more
important. The Japanese were driven
from positions on Tsimba Ridge—6o
miles north of the Empress Augusta Bay
area —which barred the way to further
advances along the west coast north-
wards.
The victory was gained on February
6 after intense artillery preparation, a
dawn attack and a fighting climb up
wooded slopes which revived memories
of the fighting on the Salamaua perimeter.
In the south of the Empress Augusta
Bay area small but tough fighting is pro-
ducing progress through the swamps.
Vian off Sumatra.
“Ek Dum”: The attacks by Sir Philip
Vian’s squadron on Palembang must
have sent a cold shudder down the backs
of Japanese admirals.
It showed three deadly facts:
(1) That the R.N. could venture coldly right
inside the island ring of Japanese conquests in
the East Indies without naval molestation.
(2) That one of the boldest of British raiding
admirals —hero of the Cossack and of many a
foray—was in the area.
(3) That the bulk of the capital R.N. aircraft-
carrier fleet was in the East Indian station
with several of the newest British cruisers.
One of Britain’s two new monster car-
riers, Indefatigable, was present, with
three out of four of the Illustrious class
—lllustrious, Victorious and Indomit-
able (23,000 tons) —all completed since
the outbreak of war.
The escort included George V (35,000
tons) and the new cruiser Black Prince.
The raids began on January 24, the
Pladjoe refinery, where there was power-
ful Japanese defence, strengthened by a
balloon barrage, through which naval
aircraft dived, being first attacked. In the
subsequent dogfight 13 enemy fighters,
some twin-engined, were shot down, and
34 aircraft were destroyed on airfields.
Then the Soengei Gerong refinery got its
issue. Aircraft were badly shaken at
3000 feet by the explosions as oil tanks
were directly hit. Fifteen enemy air-
craft were destroyed, including six out
of seven which got through to the fleet.
In the two operations the British lost
15 machines, suffered no ship damage
and only light casualties.
And much of the Sumatran oil instal-
lations is now represented by ash heaps.
Montgomery at the Door.
“Ek Dum”: Late in the week, with
little of the trumpeting and blare with
which the “tremendous Russian drives”
were announced, it was reported that
Field-Marshal Montgomery and his 21st
Army Group had gone on the offensive
on the northern Maas front.
Not for nothing have the seasoned
armies of Britain, Canada and Poland
been allotted this sector of the front.
For it is here of all sectors that Germany
has least elbow room to play with. The
drive on the east was a drive to the
garden gate of Germany. Field-Marshal
Montgomery, since November, has been
sitting on Germany’s kitchen step, piling
up his strength-, getting his armies into
position and generally flexing his muscles
to apply the axe to the door of the Reich
so soon as the first breath of spring gave
the signal.
The Russians might take Berlin without
defeating Germany or wrecking its main
defences, however much the loss might
affect the German people. But the Ger-
mans could not lose control of the
northern Rhine and the Ruhr valley with-
out facing early disaster. A break over
the Rhine into the Ruhr would mean that
the way was open across the Westphalian
plain to the Elbe and the North Sea.
The doorway to the possibility of
actually and imminently breaking into the
vitals of the Reich is a stretch of country
between the Neder Rhine at Arnhem and
the point where the Roer runs into the
Maas.
This triangle of country, of which
Kleve is the apex, has as the outer skin of
its western side a stretch of the Maas
between Roermond and Kleve, roughly
50 miles apart as the crow flies. From
Roermond to a point on the Rhine due
east is about 30 miles. From that point
to the Rhine above Kleve at the apex of
the triangle is again 50 miles.
Though the Maas forms the western
border of the triangle the main defence
does not begin until the German main
roads well back towards the Rhine are
reached. A road runs down the Maas
inside Germany, touching Venlo and
Roermond and eventually sweeping along
the north bank of the Maas, where it
bends towards the sea, to Nijmegen.
Kleve (Cleves), Goch, Rheydt and Jixlich
are the frontal bastions of the defences of
the west bank of the Rhine in the north.
The country is not all of a piece. It is
mainly plain with some foothills intrud-
ing from the south in the State Forest
and near Geilenkirchen, a few miles
south-east of Roermond, where the Ninth
U.S. Army has its flank dovetailed into
that of Field-Marshal. Montgomery’s
group. Here the Eifel mountains end.
Immediately north of the Roer, be-
yond Geilenkirchen, the plain begins with
a few hills and much land which has the
characteristics of Holland. This latter
section, which is particularly in the apex
of the triangle in the Nijmegen region,
consists of land below river-level, with
floodwaters held in by dikes, which some-
times serve as roadbeds. It is dreary in
winter-time. The Germans rendered it
even more dreary by abandoning its pill-
box defences and flooding it, feet deep,
to the edges of the mature, monotonous
Reichswald the State forest which
covers much of the southern part of the
area east of the Maas. Out of the flood
several feet deep the houses and bams
stand like islands.
On the Ruhr Road
There are two main sets of routes into
Germany from this area.
One goes across the flooded area from
Nijmegen to Kleve, which can be counted
the extreme northern flank of the Ger-
man defences inside Germany west of
the Rhine. From here it is a jump over
the Rhine by an adjacent bridge to the
Hook of Holland-Rotterdam-Essen rail-
way. The next is from Gennep, via
Goch, which is the direct route from Lon-
don and Vlissingen across the Rhine
to Wesel, and thence to Hamburg and
Bremen. Goch also is the junction where
a line breaks off on the way to Hanover,
Berlin and Leningrad.
South of this are the Venlo routes.
These are formed of a fan of roads and
railways. From Venlo the great Rhine
port of Duisburg is distant 26 miles on
the other side of the Rhine ; Essen about
40 miles; Wesel about 30 miles to the
north-east. Miinchen and Gladbach and
Diisseldorf, on the south, and all the
great industrial area of the southern part
of the Ruhr are on another road from
Venlo.
It is, however, a case of “so near and
yet so far.” To reach the Ruhr and the
Westphalian plains the attackers must not
merely fight their way through 750 square
miles of solid defence lines, obstacles
and fortress cities west of the Rhine, but
must also cross the river, an operation
which General Eisenhower has declared
will partake of the nature of a naval
invasion. It can be taken for granted
that Field-Marshal Montgomery’s present
attack is only a first stage. But every
mile gained here is worth ten miles in
Poland. v
Shaping Up
Before the attack began there was fitful
fighting on the southern part of the north
front, in the Schnee Eifel mountains along
the main route to Coblenz and further
south in the region of Priim. Command
of the First and the Ninth Armies had
been handed back to General Bradley in
January, He, in common with other
group commanders further south, did his
best to confuse the enemy and lead him
to believe that attacks were developing
on a large scale in other quarters than
the real one. General Patton’s Third
Army along the Luxembourg border
broke across the flooding Sauer and the
Our rivers, between Echternach, about a
dozen miles from Trier, and past the
junction of the two rivers to the north-
east of Clerveaux (Clerf).
The First Army in its southern flank
regions was about five miles north-west
of Priim, in the region of the highest
point in the Ardennes (the Schwarzer
Mann). In the Monschau region, still
further to the north, U.S. troops were
fighting successfully about Schmidt, which
they had abandoned in December, wrest-
ling for control of the hydro-electric dam
systems of the Upper Roer, which had
proved a substantial obstacle. Flood-
waters from this dam system held up the
U.S. advance. But on February 10 U.S.
troops had control of the main dam,
though it was not so important as corre-
spondents suggested. The Germans
seemed to have been pushed back to
the Gemund-Schleiden line beyond the
headwaters of the Roer,
But claims that the West Wall
main defences had been perforated
were retracted. As was here pointed
out months ago, the main line in
this region is further east, along the
Erft, and the Allies will have to fight
their way not only through a gluey mass
of defences all the way to the Rhine, but
through another and probably more
powerful system in the mountains east
of the Rhine, unless Germany in the
meantime collapses internally.
A stage, however, had been reached
on the First Army front which called for
consolidation before further advances
were attempted.
Monty Strikes
Field-Marshal Montgomery took up
the torch immediately after an announce-
ment had been made that since D-Day
the Germans had lost 860,000 prisoners
and probably 400,000 dead and long-term
wounded on the Western Front. The
technique was that made familiar by
Montgomery and copied by Von Rund-
stedt.
The attack was begun by the Canadian
First Army, under General Crerar, on the
sector facing the Rhine, between the
Dutch border in the Nijmegen region and
Wesel, 17 miles or so down the Rhine.
The First Canadian Army includes
Canadian, British, Polish, Netherland and
American units. Its British and Canadian
divisions were used to open the drive on
a narrow front, thus providing for con-
centration to the utmost limit of com-
munications and support.
The sky was even blacker with bomb-
ing and strafing aircraft than is usual in
a Montgomery battle. Some machines
had to be switched to other objectives,
since there was no real room for them
to operate or targets to justify their
presence. The artillery barrage was main-
tained for Hi hours, beginning at 4.30
a.m. on February 8. At 10.30 a.m. in-
fantry began to move forward on a front
of about six miles, with the north flank
about five miles south-east of Nijmegen.
The drive was making for the main road
and rail which join Kleve to Goch and for
those two towns. The barrage moved
steadily ahead amid smoke, flame and
crashing buildings, mowing ground which
often already had been pulverised by the
R.A.F.’s heavy bombers.
The flail tanks and flame-tanks came
next, breaking up minefields and hosing
down positions which were likely to hold
enemy pockets.
Then came infantry, probing into the
smoke and fire and the splintered forest.
By 1.30 p.m. the first waves of foot-
sloggers, with their ponderous armored
support, were across the border and
entering the forest. The resistance,
according to F.-M. Montgomery, was in
spots,” and so it continued to be.
By four o’clock, when the last shots
of the bombardment had been heard, the
whole landscape had the appearance ot
having been through a combination of
the Tokyo earthquake and a Victorian


Public Notice.
Notice to Creditors.
CREDITORS of JOSEPH WILLIAM HOPKINS, late
of Ashfield, Grocer, who assigned his estate on or
about 19th July, 1905, are hereby galled upon to
send in their claims to the trustees of the will of
MARGARET JANE HOPKINS, deceased within 14
days from the publication hereof at the following
address: In care of W. A. DOWE, Solicitor, 92
Pitt Street, Sydney. _
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA
(Divorce.)
TO GEORGE RHEUBEN WIGNALL formerly of
Hobart in Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a Peti-
tion has been filed in this Court endorsed with a
notice to you to appear and answer the charges
in the petition of SARAH WIGNALL of 11 Andrew
Street North Hobart in Tasmania praying for a
dissolution of marriage on the ground of desertion
In default of your so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will
proceed to hear the said petition proved and pro-
nounce judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE
FURTHER NOTICE that for the purpose aforesaid
within Thirty days after the date of this publication
an appearance must be entered at the Principal
Registry of the Supreme Court of Tasmania Mac-
quarie Street Hobart. — (1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM JOHN MARTIN.—TAKE NOTICE that
HILDA ELSIE MARTIN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3890 of 1944 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and up-
wards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance on or before the 15th day of March 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
MR. J. M. HOUSTON Solicitor of Prudential Building
39-49 Martin Place Sydney Upon the hearing of
the said petition the Petitioner intends to ask the
Court to exercise its discretion under Section 19
(2) (a). —(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
w
bushfire. From Arnhem southward, well
away from the main battlefield, the
R.A.F. had made a tremendous mess of
habitable places. Arnhem had lost its
power station; strategically placed vil-
lages, some of them full of enemy troops,
and hundreds of pillboxes and strong
points had been chewed up and spat out
behind the advancing tornado.
In the northern section of the advance,
where the Germans had flooded the
countryside, they were treated to a kind
of warfare new to Europe, as hundreds
of spluttering and spitting “ducks” and
“buffaloes” full of Canadians raced upon
them in a choppy flood. Many vehicles
shipped large quantities of water.
As night fell the infantry, with 12
hours’ fighting behind them, could see the
whole horizon afire, with some special
conflagrations burning along the enemy’s
communications and in marshalling
centres across the Rhine.
Behind the advancing troops, suffering
the eternal rain which has soaked them
at intervals for months, lay what had
yesterday been the villages of Wyler,
Kranenburg, 10 miles south-west of
Nijmegen, Bruk, to the south-west, three
miles more, where the enemy fought
tigerishly.
It had been a great day, but the crust
had only been chipped. The main de-
fences had not been reached. Many miles
of countryside painted red and black in
blood and fire were ahead before the
Rhine could be reached. In the south,
that first nightfall of the battle, the
Canadians were not far from Kleve,
whose surroundings, however, are con-
ducive to a strong defence.
At Kleve Scottish troops encountered
parachute troops, whose presence means
a German stand. On February 10 they
were reported fighting in the streets of
the old town which gave its “Flanders
Mare” to Henry VIII. They were then
four miles from the Rhine, across which
the Germans declared that they had with-
drawn the main bodies of their troops
before destroying the bridge.
The battle may be reckoned as the be-
ginning of the spring offensive in the
west. The weather, with some interrup-
tions, is due to improve steadily; but
there is no room to expect an easy or
early victory. In the first three days of
the offensive 3000 German prisoners
were taken.
Comparative Strengths
The fact now is that, leaving out the
East Prussia area, the Allies in the west
are holding lines almost as long as tire
Russian lines. The Germans are not in
the same position as they were in Nor-
mandy. There they were compelled to
make do with the troops on the spot,
putting in tired divisions time and again.
On the German border fronts they have
so far shown themselves able to alter-
nate divisions, taking tired ones out and
putting fresh ones in. The one whose
units have been chiefly met by the
Canadians is the 84th, which was mauled
on Cherbourg Peninsula and afterwards.
The troops which Von Rundstedt used
before Christmas were fresh troops, em-
ployed in sufficient strength and numbers
to drive 40 miles into the main front of
the Americans and to suck themselves
out again without disaster. There is no
real sign that these reserve forces have
been exhausted in the west to the point
at which the Allies have anything like
superiority.
In December there were 53 or 54
Allied divisions in the west. About 40
had seen action. The First Canadian
Army had not then been used ; neither
had the First Airborne Army. Of the
divisions on the front 32 were American.
Their transport arrangements were far
from perfect, and even when they are
complete the Germans are at an advan-
tage because the distances from their
front to supply fighting centres are so
short as to be negotiable by night. Allied
air superiority was sadly discounted by
the weather. And the fact that Allied
weapons and carriers and guns were
more numerous was sometimes offset by
German superiority in power or quality.
The German Royal Tiger tank is a
huge weapon which only very good
guns at short range can knock out
normally. Its long-barrelled 88mm. gun
packs a tremendous punch. The JUB7,
with its two long 37mm. guns and rocket
equipment, may not equal the Mosquito
with its new six-pounder or the tank-
bursting rocket-Typhoon, but it is a hor-
rible weapon against moving troops and
light armor. The six-barrelled German
rocket-gun is very light and mobile, and
can discharge a broadside comparable in
pov/er to a medium-cruiser broadside.
The German parachute and Panzer
Grenadier divisions are trained and
seasoned, and their new machine-guns
are excellent —one is claimed to fire 3000
shots a minute —and the latest type of
heavy German mortar is described as
being equal to or better than the latest
U.S. white phosphorous firing 4.2.
On the Western Front in December
there were at least 72 German divisions,
the bulk arrayed against the northern
sector from the Luxembourg border to
Arnhem and the Zuyder Zee. This was
almost as many as at the beginning of
the Normandy landing, in spite of heavy
losses of prisoners in which the Allied
commanders would Jike to see less quan-
tity and more quality.
German Policy
So far, enemy policy—as stated by
General Dittmar —has been “to abandon
ground rated as an outpost zone, but to
fight to a finish when vital needs require.”
Where the outpost zone is fought for
the troops are not first quality except
for stiffenings. Every endeavor is made
to withdraw from the battle the core
of troops which are considered prime,
while leaving for exasperated Allied
adjutant - generals masses of Russians
and Poles, who also comprise a large
proportion of the “German” dead, along
with considerable numbers of second and
third - grade German infantry divisions
numbered from 500 upwards. These
formed the bulk of the true Ger-
man losses in France and Belgium, in
the battle for which less than 10 German
divisions of first-class fighting quality
were badly mauled, nearly all on the
British front.
Inferior German divisions are below
strength, poor in artillery—their divi-
sional artillery often consists of meagre
quotas of captured Russian and French
guns which they have little transport to
supply. As rearguards these forces are
not intended to win battles ; merely to
impede Allied advances.
The German command does not yet
seem to have even needed to throw in
the Volksturm in great numbers; but
when the Volksturm is used it may prove
to be better than scornful young critics
expect these “old men” to be. A large
proportion of them are veterans of the
last war, tough survivors of many a
battle. Old Diggers would not under-
rate them. For stormtroop-fighting and
for mechanical battle they may be of
little use. But it is a chance that they
already form a large cross-section of
those snipers who sit pat in Budapest and
other German-held towns and shoot on
with tenacity and accuracy bora of
trench-warfare experience.
It is healthy to remember that French
scorn for German reserve divisions which
were used to make the weight of the
German drive in the north in 1914 nearly
cost France her victory.
Colmar Bridgehead Wiped Out
On February 10 slow but steady pro-
gress was being made along the front
from the Roer headwaters southward.
General Patton’s troops were over the
Priim River in three places in his
northern sectors.
But in the Hagenau Forest area north
of Strasbourg, between Hagenau and the
Rhine, the U.S. bridgeheads across the
flooded Moder River were hit by heavy
German counter-attacks, and withdrawal
became necessary at one point on Feb. 9.
In the French zone of the Colmar
pocket the Germans succeeded in with-
drawing across the Rhine, but only with
considerable casualties which, in the last
phases, included another 17,500 prisoners
and 5350 dead and wounded.
The little French Army in this area had
done a grand job, which is an earnest of
greater things to come as French mili-
tary power expands.
The Oder Line.
“Ek Dum”: On February 4 the Rus-
sians were reported—for about the nth
time—to have reached the Oder at seven
points east of Berlin. Moscow said Mar-
shal Zhukov was operating in the central
region on a front of 40 miles “linked by
a series of strong points within 10 miles
of the river.”
In some organs of opinion the suburbs
of Berlin were stretched. By the short-
est route (rail) Frankfort-on-the-Oder is
miles from Berlin. The main road,
which runs —north of the rail route —to
Miincheberg, on the main Autobahn
from Berlin to Danzig, is some miles
longer.
Moscow newspapers “Pravda” and
“Red Star” began to picture the enemy
as resisting with the “desperation of the
doomed.” The breaking of the ice on the
Oder, due to the sudden appearance of
the thaw, was given as the reason why
correspondents’ assurances that the Rus-
sians were about to sheer through the
broken remnants of the Wehrmacht had
not been realised. The plain fact was
that Berlin had described the Oder as in
flow days before Marshal Koniev’s
spearheads were first supposed to have
reached the river round Breslau.
Up to February 9 Moscow had
not officially confirmed any report of
Russian crossings of the Oder in the
Frankfort sector. Berlin had admitted
the establishing of Russian bridgeheads
across the Oder.
Marshal Koniev’s Operations
At this stage correspondents, agreeing
that Marshal Zhukov was “regrouping
for the final drive,” turned their
attention to the south, where, it was said,
Marshal Koniev had forced the Oder on
a substantial scale at two pointSi —at
Steinau, between Breslau and Glogau, and
at Brieg, between Breslau and Oppeln.
Steinau is the approach to Liegnitz,
where the distance between the foothills
of the Riesengebirge (“Giant Mountains”;
they average 4000 feet in height), along
the Czech border and the Oder, narrows
down to 20 miles. Liegnitz is a sieve
through which several main lines of
communication are strained —the main
Hindenburg road, via Kottbus, to Berlin
and places west; the railway from Bres-
lau to Dresden and Leipzig, the strategic
areas of the Upper Elbe and the roads
to the passes into Czechoslovakia. The
drive across from Brieg, however, was
aimed at the main German concentration
point of Neisse and the railway systems
which it links, Brieg is the approach
from the east to the passes of Glatz.
The Germans admitted at the week-
end that they had “retired” from Lieg-
nitz. On February 12 it came out in an
Order-of-the-Day that Marshal Koniev
had smashed 100 miles of German de-
fences along the Oder to a depth of 37
miles. A report placed Russian spear-
heads at Bunzlau, on the Bober, 70
miles from Dresden.
The Bober is a tributary of the Oder,
which it joins where the Oder begins to
sweep northward south-east of Fiirsten-
burg. Further west is another stream,
the Neisse, which crosses the whole area
from Gorlitz to the Oder. It is on this
river rather than the Bober that the
enemy might try to stand.
In Zhukov’s Zone
“S. M. Herald” represented the con-
census of views of what was happening
on Marshal Zhukov’s front:
With his big guns laying down a con-
centrated barrage along a 50-mile stretch
of the River Oder, opposite Berlin, 45
miles away Marshal Zhukov prepared
to continue his offensive against the
German capital. Berlin had earlier re-
ported Zhukov’s troops across the river at
five ’ points, and admitted two further
crossings in the Kiistrin and Frankfort
areas, but Moscow, which is exercising an
operational silence, has not yet claimed a
single breach of the river... .According to
official Russian reports, Zhukov’s troops
have captured Kunersdorf, three miles east
of Frankfort, and have entered the
northern suburbs of Kiistrin, which stands
on the east bank of the river, where he
took 4000 prisoners.
It was said that Russian spearheads had
broken into Dammvorst, the eastern
suburb of Frankfort on the Polish side of
the river, and were approaching the
bridges. They could not approach the
bridges without taking a substantial part
of the city.
Within a few hours Marshal Zhukov,
instead of driving on towards Berlin
across the Oder, was pictured as con-
tinuing his drives north-westward to-
wards Stettin, through Arnswalde and
other centres, but seemed to be meeting
strong resistance.
Enemy Reports
The Germans asserted on February 9
that every bridgehead across the Oder
from Fiirstenburg, south of Frankfort, to
Kiistrin, on the north, had been either
“wiped out” or narrowed. They claimed
that Russian forces surrounded near
Landsberg, which is far behind the Oder,
were being “wiped out.”
The position in East Prussia led
to a maze of conflicting assertions. To
Moscow correspondents on February 5
“the end” seemed “near in Konigsberg,
which, swept by fire and steel, is crumb-
ling before the Russian attack.” But the
Germans declared that, though fighting
round the perimeter was heavy, they had
“no undue worry about the situation.”
On January 29 it came from Moscow that
the fighting round Konigsberg was fin
its last hours.” By February 10 the
Russians seemed to have receded if any-
thing ; anyway, capture of Kreuzberg
was reported, and that place is 20 miles
south of Konigsberg.
The Russians had evidently receded
also in Samland, north-east of the East
Prussian capital. Elbing had been claimed
as a Russian prize, despite German in-
sistence to the contrary. It transpired on
February 9 that fighting for Elbing was
still going on. A.B.C. on February 10
reported it “now encircled by the Rus-
sians.” Next day the Russians officially
announced its fall with great slaughter
and the capture of 4300 prisoners. The
taking of Pr'eussisch-Eylau, 20 miles from
Konigsberg, with the killing of 4000 Ger-
mans also was announced. Preussisch-
Eylau was the scene of one of Napoleon’s
bloodiest battles, the adversaries of the
French being 60,000 Russians and 15,000
Prussians.
The Germans seemed still to have
direct land communication between
Konigsberg and Danzig, and even to
Berlin via the Stettin and Swinemiinde
routes. The Russians had not been able
to break across the Werder, the delta
inland between the Nogat and main
arm of the Vistula, across which the road
to Danzig, runs from Elbing. They had
not taken Schneidemiihl or Posen, which
still held out, threatening important main
line communications.
Still Not Decisive
Earlier it was claimed that the Red Army
had nearly three men in the field for
every German and 12 tanks for every Ger-
man tank, and that the Red Air Force
was ten times as strong as the Luftwaffe.
It was stated that Marshal Stalin had
given Marshal Zhukov orders not to
halt for regrouping, but to go all out for
the German- capital.”
The figures, of course, are fantastic.
There is no sign of operations by any
Russian strategic air force—a staff officer
at General Eisenhower’s H.Q. was
quoted on February 10 as saying that it
did not exist. The bombing of Berlin and
of the routes by which German supplies
reach the Eastern Front have had to be
undertaken by British and American air-
craft flying up to 1600 miles out of Britain
in bitter winter weather and operating
right up to within 40 miles of the . Oder
bridgeheads.
This been a particularly strenuous
operation in the north along the Baltic
shore to the Swinemiinde-Stettin area.
But it is safe to say from the sound of
German Radio that it has done as much
damage to German moral and contri-
buted as much towards the final German
collapse as the Russian advance.
The real test of Russian strength has
not yet come. The Germans have not
committed any strategic reserves on the
east and will not do so until the mam
Russian forces are arrayed. The battle
or campaign which then will be fought
will be decisive if the attrition of the
Western Front has not by that time
settled the fate of Germany.


1
Mi
v O 17
sov) c^’ t
, - H g VJtfJ
sgS«S,
v»f> »°v
co»»V ne V\O e5 ‘ „«*-
, 600? 6 >«» te
k \S <S . \)UK*
»»“«»■»»■-- 1 0 ”
tsi*
\ iN
SPORTING NOTIONS
Ava defeated Aggressor and Mysticus in a
sensational race for the Oakleigh Plate at Caul-
field on Saturday. Rider C. Sanderson weighed
out at 7.6, 111 b. over, but weighed in at 7.8£.
Stewards now have discretionary powers when
a jockey weighs in too heavy and, although
there was some delay before correct weight was
announced, they decided against altering the
judge’s placings.
The mystery of the extra was solved
when Sanderson informed the stewards he had
been wasting and that after weighing out he
had had a cup of tea and a sandwich. Ava
actually won with almost a stone more
than her handicap weight—a good performance
for a mare who had not previously won a race.
Despite her indifferent record, there was good
backing for her and her price firmed from 25
to 1 to 16 to 1. She is a four-year-old by Beau
Pere from Princess Pam, owned and trained
by Harry Freedman.
David’s Last and Kintore, first and second
favorites, were the big disappointments of the
Plate. David’s Last looked a possibility in the
straight, but weakened under his 9.13, and
just missed a place. He should do better in the
Newmarket, in which he has 9.9. Kintore led at
the half-mile, but Ava slipped away from him
coming to the turn, and Kintore dropped right
out. Ava was not entered for the Newmarket,
but the minor place-getters, Aggressor and
Mysticus, are engaged with 8.2 and 7.3 re-
spectively.
Tranquil Star was given a wonderful recep-
tion after her defeat of Tea Cake and
Three Wheeler in the St. George Stakes. The
prize took her earnings to £23,240, and she has
deposed Desert Gold as Australia’s greatest
stake-winning mare. An aged mare, her record
is all the more remarkable when it is remem-
bered that she fractured her jaw in a race
smash last year. Second favorite to Three
Wheeler, .she won easily after momentarily
appearing likely to be hemmed in at the turn.
Great Britain disappointed, but Precept shaped
well at his first start since a spell.
Centenary beat Philander and Zalmon in a
muddling-run race for the Bond Handicap.
There was no pace early, and the time was eight
seconds outside the course record for a mile
and a half. Each of the place-getters is en-
gaged in the Australian Cup, Centenary with
8.2, Philander 7.9 and Zalmon 7.4. Zalmon is
being trained for the Cup, but his best chance
appears to be over jumps.
Royal Gem, a colt by Dhoti from the Oaks
winner French Gem, stamped himself one of the
best two-year-olds in Melbourne by his defeat
of Tilston and Apropos in the second Federal
Stakes. He ran the five furlongs in 59|, only
half a second outside Ajax’s course record, and
H seconds faster than Maroondah took to win
the first Federal Stakes. French Gem has faced
the barrier three times for two wins. He dis-
lodged his rider at the start of the other race.
* * * *
Though Bahtheon failed, others of the Queens-
land contingent lately invading Sydney tracks
have shown the northern form to be fairly good.
The four-year-old gelding Repshot (Calshot-
Repartee mare) added to the number by hand-
somely winning the Flying Handicap at Canter-
bury Park last Saturday. There were one or
two quite good performers* in the field, but
generally it was not overstrong. Repshot got an
exceptionally clear run. Well-drawn, he was
always in the first three, and raced right away
in the final furlong to beat Scene by three
lengths, with Beauhead a handy third.
Repshot came south with a big reputation,
earned by runaway wins at Albion Park, on the
strength of which he was backed at both his
previous Sydney starts. On Saturday he was so
heavily backed that one had to be in the condi-
tion of a prizefighter to get on him in the ring.
He went out at a nominal 6 to 4. Repshot’s
two previous Sydney starts had been over six
furlongs, at Rosehill and Randwick, whereas
all his Albion Park wins had been over seven,
and the Canterbury Flying was seven and a
quarter. He cut it out in the good time of 1.29.
At the present rate there will be a whole
team of well-fancied runners in the Doncaster.
Every meeting lately has produced a new one,
with Repshot the latest, and he looks as if he
would manage the mile all right. On the other
hand, Cold Shower, one of the more strongly
fancied lot for the Doncaster, appeared to have
every chance on Saturday, but was a good four
“ Don't frighten him away—he eats the mosquitoes."
lengths behind Repshot at the end. Cold
Shower’s run was subsequently questioned and
explanations were accepted. In any case, Cold
Shower had much the worse of the weights,
and he goes well at Randwick. Castle Frontenac
(fourth) ran a very good trial for the autumn
distance events, and, as well as the placegetters,
Beau Monde’s sixth looked a good run.
This page expected Night Parade and Bon
Terre to run well at Canterbury. Both had pre-
viously won there, and, though a good track
now, it does not suit all horses. The Frank
Underwood Handicap, over 11 furlongs, proved
practically a match-race between them, Night
Parade leading from the start to within a few
yards of the winning-post and Bon Terre get-
ting up to win. Some lengths back third, Etch-
ing seems to be improving.
* * * *
Onkaparinga (S.A.) Racing Club, which will
have a two-day meeting at Morphettville at
Easter, is keeping up and improving its own
course in the hills. The course is even being
lent to the local hospital for a picnic meeting—
which is just how the O.R.C. itself started 80
years ago. The past year’s profit of £8476
gives the club great hope for the future, when
traffic from the city is restored. Meanwhile it
will keep up its steeplechase reputation by
giving this year £4OOO in four jumping events
at Easter.
* * * *
The American ban on racing put 1800 jockeys
out of work —or into work. It ended the earn-
ing capacity (or otherwise) of 5000 horses. The
jockeys’ yearly earnings have been put at an
average of $lO,OOO, with leading riders earn-
ings as high as $90,000. About' 15,000 men were
employed in stables, about 10,000 on stud farms,
and another 10,000 as racing officials, including
tote hands. Before the ban there was a reported
dearth of exercise boys, despite pay of $4 an
hour.
* * * *
After almost every meeting in Sydney these
days considerable publicity is given to “demon-
strations,” some of which sound much louder
in the reports than on the course. Perhaps this
publicity may have influenced officials at Rand-
wick a fortnight ago to warn a spectator who
had “appeared to lead a demonstration” that
if he offended again he might be refused
admission. He had aired the view that an emi-
nent jockey had gone to sleep. But, after all,
what is the difference between “demonstrations”
and the barracking that is taken for granted
in all other sports, except perhaps croquet?
In the main thing there is certainly no differ-
ence —the jibes of both “demonstrators” and
barrackers are usually groundless.
» * * *
“Eastlakes”: A sporting writer, be-
moaning the shortage of golf balls in
Sydney (he can get ’em for 10s. each and
upward on the black market), says that
so far no satisfactory ball has been made
from synthetic rubber in any part of the
“Allied world.” For a long time we’ve
been hearing of the marvels achieved by
Russian scientists, such as false teeth for
cows and perennial wheat. Surely a
non-rubber golf ball isn’t beyond them
—or is eolf a fascist
s& :K $ , 4s
Gordon Tamutyn, a st. Kilda smiter,
made 165 n.o. against Hawthorn-East
Melbourne on Saturday. It was his
18th century for the club, a record for
St. Kilda. Tamblyn’s average for the
season is 72.
Boys and girls from five States figured
in the junior swimming championships at
Manly baths, and among them was a
future Olympic representative in Nancy
Lyons, a well-developed 14-year-old from
Brisbane. She won the 110-yards breast-
stroke in 1.29| and the 110-yards back-
stroke in 1.27 - —both Australian records
for her sex. Her time in the breaststroke
was only three-fifths of a second slower
than that of Allan Quist, winner of the 110-
yards breaststroke for boys—rather won-
derful for a girl, especially as the water
was choppy. Bruce Picone, of Moree
(N.S.W.), won the 110-yards freestyle in
1.5| from Vernon Oliver (of Perth,
W.A.), who took the 110-yards backstroke
in 1.20. Victoria also sent over a
champion in Margaret Farrar (110-yards
freestyle, 1.14|).
* * * *
“Golesneek”: Melbourne is getting
ready for its football season, and about
the first casualty tipped is the Coulter
“law,” which limited the payment by any
V.F.L. club to a player to £3 a week,
and was broken with abandon. What
the V.F.L. proposes in its place remains
to be seen, but the sky’s the limit at the
moment and the players have become
“militant” in their demands. In recent 1
years they agreed to the £3 being cut to
30 bob on the understanding that the
other 30 bob went to war charities. It
didn’t. The Association, which went out
of action when the war became serious,
is to open up again and the V.F.L.
wants disqualification of League players
crossing to the Association increased to
four years. Gripes, it’ll be tough if a
man pays his 9d. only to find the teams
holding a stopwork meeting on the
ground, what time some local commo.
spouts to the crowd about democracy!
* * * *
Beaten on a foul by Tony Villa in
November, Tommy Colteaux never left
the issue in doubt when he met Villa
again at Leichhardt. Concentrating on
the body with long left rips, Colteaux
walked away with the first five rounds.
Villa once shook him with a left to the
chest, but Tommy again took charge, and
“Colteaux on points” was the only pos-
sible decision. Announced weights were
Colteaux 11.10|, and Villa 11.5. Colteaux
claims to be middleweight champion.
At 34 Ron Richards shouldn’t be too
old for the game, especially as 'he has
taken no excessive amount of thumping,
but in a Sydney Stadium match he was
too slow for Jack McNamee. He couldn t
get away from Mac’s busy left, and most
of his counter-punches missed. Now and
then he got home with a blow that made
the McNamee phiz assume the pale cast
of thought, but he could never follow it
up. To McNamee went the most popular
decision he has yet received and the most
substantial reward.
* * 9|C $
iI S. Gumm”: The film “Gentleman
Jim” has as characters four pugs who
visited Australia —Jack Burke and Choyn-
ski as boxers, John T- Sullivan and
Corbett as actors. Only the man who
impersonated Burke is really convincing.
Flynn overacts the part of Corbett, who
was much more of a man than Flynn
makes him. Choynski is presented as a
rough waterside scrapper whom Cor-
bett sewed up in a few rounds; old
Sydneysiders remember him as that rare
combination a scientific boxer with a
terrific wallop; an intelligent fellow, too,
as was Corbett, Nor was John L. (Jamesj
L. to one picture-show reporter) a mere,
pro-beer braggart who felled his oppo-
nents with crude swings. Certainly hej
drank to excess for years —in Australia
as in America —but he had sufficient force
of character to swear off and keep his
oath; and at the Johnson-Jeffries fight,
when introduced to the Reno crowd, as
were Tommy Burns, Bill Lang, Fitzsim-
mons and many others, he impressed thei
London “Times” reporter as being the.-
only pug among them with a Presence. &


Women's Letters
From Sydney
There was a full house at the Over-
seas Club to welcome British naval
officers and nurses. This was a five-to-
seven do, and the five-thirty comer had
difficulty in worming a way inside the
doors, Within, all was meeting and greet-
ing, sherry and sauterne, and that cosy
“children of the Empire” feeling that
puts a whole company at their ease.
This was the feeling stressed by a
surgeon-captain in his reply to knight
Arthur Rickard’s speech of welcome. He
voiced yet again the feeling of England,
in the dark days after Dunkirk, when the
soldiers from Australia arrived. It was a
good speech and deserved the applause
it got. So did Padre Hill’s. He, inciden-
tally, was the hit of the party.
All the personnel of the Q.A.R.N.N.S.
have been made honorary members of
the club. Many already belong to the
London branch, and their uniforms and
pleasing accents seemed to fit into the
Sydney setting. Matron K. Baker, slim,
small and dynamic, in command of all
the naval nursing sisters in Australia,
Matron Westaway and Matron Bentley,
who arrived with a covey of eight fresh-
complexioned sisters, were great fun.
These women of Britain have warm
voices and steady eyes, and they are smil-
iijg proof that the “cold formality of the
English miss” is an exploded myth. Mrs.
Murray and Elizabeth Macdonald Wore
their cool white V.A. uniforms. Eliza-
beth started her work at the outbreak
with the St. John ambulance, in India.
In 1942 she went to England (and 1942
was a pretty grim year in England) and
was transferred to Red Cross.
There was no housing problem for the
19 cases of Australiana which recently
came into the possession of the Mitchell
Library trustees. Cosily ensconced in
the right type of case, and on suitable
stand, the leaves of these documents are
shadowed for a moment by gazers from
the world of today. But the days they
tell of are the days of Robert Louis
Stevenson, of Leichhardt and of others
who roamed wide and free in a world
that seemed limitless. One morning last
week there was quite a ceremony in the
library when an exhibition of these color-
ful letters and papers was opened. Dr.
Evatt was a speaker, so was State Premier
McKell. Though the hour was eleven in
the morning there was a great rally of
the city’s historical and artistic and
educational brethren. Women came
fluttering, Mrs. Evatt, Mrs. John Met-
calfe, Miss Harriet Root, of the Ameri-
can Library of Information, and Mrs.
Gladys Moore among their numbers.
According to Town Hall tradition,
Sydney’s new Mayoress, Mrs. Neville
Harding, had the city’s press women as
guests at one of her first receptions of
the year. The time was late afternoon, the
decor cool banks and baskets of fern and
juicy shoots, the drinks soft, slightly tem-
pered by alcohol. Entertainment was the
spoken instead of the written word. The
city’s Mayor and Frank Crane were the
strong, silent (at least by comparison)
men of the party. Mrs. Harding wore
pearls and a white hat with her black
frock.
France’s Consul-General Dr. Boris
Eliacheff is proudly introducing daughter
Alexandra France to Sydney. Alexandra,
who spent her early years in Paris, has
jhst completed studies in social welfare
at the University of California. One of
her first acts on arriving was to arrange
to do voluntary work with U.N.R.R.A.
here.
Representatives of U.N.R.R.A. in Syd-
ney straining at the leash to get their
teeth into the conference at Lapstone are
a likeable, and in the case of the women,
a very attractive group. Nobody, for
instance, could help liking big, blond
Glen Briggs, from deep in the heart of
Texas. He knows all about agriculture,
and he is keen on seeing our irrigation
areas and our areas which cry aloud to
heaven for irrigation. His work on
U.N.R.R.A. is concerned with growing
things for a hungry world to eat. Talk-
ing to him about the future of farming,
and hearing him describe some of the
new mechanical aids to the toiler in the
field, is to visualise a future for the
ploughman both easeful and leisured. On
the side, the listener wonders if Bobbie
Burns, caught up in these speedier
methods of tilling the soil, could have
stopped the machinery long enough to
voice his immortal lament over the dead
field mouse. Man was lord of the plough;
will the future make him the slave of the
tractor?
Deputy-Director in S.W.P.A. Frank
S. Gaines has a quiet and impressive
manner. He is big, well tailored, and gives
the impression of being a businessman who
yet * s tlde ” B * lt one to ave * n charge
a cargo of ideals. Other delegates: Mrs.
Ja ™ eson > a]ert and smiling ; Dr.
i aC ff el 4 n ’,, 0f i he rT e 0 ffnfi
L - M - Ha lL English economist of Mord
pretty and dark-haired Eleanor
Hinder, experienced and much-trav ,
Duncan from Melbourne Di.
OBn ™'* ot 'gf fr °™ Nor f urt
graceful Mrs. Helen Suttor, who will act
as official hostess; and clever little Mavis
*? ot ong rom * adia - „„ A , ,
these and more U.N.R.R.A. ee-
gatf and personnel were gathered to-
ge u ther at the invitation of Mrs Fabian
£how one afternoon last week Mrs.
Clr° w , who represents the Pe°P. e s
F° re p Relations Associa ion of China,
had her sister, Mrs. Pon, helping her to
receive the guests, among whoni were the
Consul-General for China, Dr. Tuan, an
J^ rs - Tuan, and such tnends of China as
Mr. Lm and China s Director of Infoi-
matron Dr. Chau
Over from the West for a holiday m
Sy dne Y is Joyce Shern, one of China s
pretty daughters, pictured here. Her family
settled several generations back in Perth,
and she herself is well known there as a
gifted pianist and a teacher of music.
Recently as “Miss China” she won her
city’s Allied Queen competition, thereby
raising thousands of pounds for the
effort.
Friday will be Sailor’s Day. There will
be buttons on sale, and all should re-
member, when buying one, the hazards
of the sailor’s life, the long voyages in
fair or bitter weather, the ever-present
danger of being torpedoed or wrecked
and adrift. Then, instead of a shilling
button, a two-shilling or even more ex-
pensive badge should find its way to
many a lapel. There’s a dance, too, in
the Town Hall in the evening. The Mer-
chant Navy benefits.
On Saturday, February 17, and on the
Thursday night of the following week two
more concerts in the British Music Festi-
val season will be given by the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra in the Town Hall.
Percy Code will again be the conductor.
Previous concerts attracted the large
audiences they deserved. Elgar, Bax,
Vaughan Williams and Delius were
among the composers whose inspiring
works were on the programmes.
Yesterday Sydney Ure Smith, president
of the Society of Artists, was opening a
show of paintings in Melbourne’s Town
Hall. It was a show of present-day art,
and the works were by painters in all the
States other than Victoria. While .down
south Mr. Smith is conferring with Mrs.
R. G. Casey about the exhibition of
Indian art which will be displayed in Syd-
ney later in the year. Mrs. Casey has
interested herself greatly in this enter-
prise, and the result in embroideries, carv-
ings and delicate*, hand-wrought metal
work promises a feast of color for Aus-
tralia’s gaze.
Seventy-four Australian soldiers who
'were captured in Greece and Crete, and
who have been prisoners of war in Ger-
many, were recently exchanged through
Marseilles. Mrs. Boyd Moriarty, of
Sydney, a commandant of the Australian
Red Cross Field Force now in U.K.,
journeyed to Marseilles in the Arundel
Castle with the German exchangees, met
the Australians and travelled back to
U.K. with them. Mrs. Moriarty has
been with Australian Red Cross for four
years, working amongst the troops in
the Middle East and Northern Australia,
and is now with the U.K. unit preparing
for the reception of Australian prisoners
to be repatriated to England, where they
are to be housed in a camp area in Sus-
sex. Huge hostels are now in readiness
to receive the men, who will be under the
care of a unit of Australian field workers.
From Melbourne
Warm sunshine and an exhilarating
breeze enticed many thousands to Cgul-
n ~, £ i. iit - , x
field for the first of the two autumn meet-
mgs. The racecourse was at its loveliest,
The committee of the V.A.T.C. and secre-
tary Fred Elbeshausen are justly proud
of their efforts to make this course one of
the prettiest in Australia. The roar of de-
light which rose from thousands of throats
when the popular Tranquil Star won the
St. George Stakes affected even the mare,
who skipped and tossed her head in truly
feminine style.
Enjoying t£e racing on the first day
were Mr. and Mrs. Zeffert, visitors from
Perth, she attractive in a dusty pink suit,
small brown hat and accessories. Mrs.
Fred Dennett, who recently lost her only
son in a raid over Germany, was as
usual smart and well groomed. I With
her fitting b ack suit she wore a small
black hat with a modish black veil tied
under her chin Among the wives o£ com-
mitteemen m the committee box was Mrs
R. Thomas in a mist-blue cloth coat with
a smoky fox collar her tiny hat of
blue felt adorned with blue and cyclamen
ostrich tips. With her was Mrs. J. Me-
Roberts, a waist-length cape of lustrous
mink over her brown frock. A brown
straw tricorne hat wreathed in soft beige
patterned veiling completed her ensemble.
Fashions at this meeting predicted
things to come in the realm of winter
styles, and many well-tailored suits were
on show. Coats tend to be longer, and box
pleats, pressed or unpressed, are a feature
of the skirts. The two-piece skirt has
disappeared. - Materials are better also.
Tweeds are in all shades. Among those
well suited for the occasion was Mrs.
Bill Shelton. Her suit was in hyacinth-
blue tweed and went with a wide, up-
turned felt hat in matching tones. The
hat had a regimental badge in the brim,
following what is becoming a fashion,
Mrs. Robert Rose chose a smart all-black
ensemble. Wearing a lime-green coat
over a black frock, Ethel King completed
a smart outfit with a small black hat
trimmed in deep salmon-pink roses,
Dulcie Fraser’s high Breton felt beret,
simply trimmed with a diamond clip,
topped a black tailored frock. Mary
Ward, the laurels of her fine performance
in “Peter Pan” still fresh, was another in
black, with a wide-brimmed straw hat.
Women racegoers in Melbourne are
looking particularly trim about the feet,
Stockings have improved greatly, and
shoes are well cut and appear to be made
of excellent leather. Hats also have been
restored to favor; very few women went
hatless to this meeting. Perhaps the many
beautifully-cut tailored suits are the fore-
runners of the fashion for these clothes
set by our new Governor-General’s lady,
If so, it’s a most becoming style for all
figures.
Wilma Harrison, the delightful lass
pictured here, always knew she wanted
a stage career, and at seven began danc-
ing lessons with the idea of becoming
premiere danseuse in Russian Ballet. Lack
of opportunity was evident with the world
at war, -so she joined up. with the Firm,
and at 14 was appearing in the chorus
of musical comedy and taking small
parts. Then she turned to drama, and
is now a figure in am. dram. ass. circles.
In the National Theatre’s presentation
of “Heart of a City,” Wilma had the
leading role, and later juvenile lead in
the Brett Randall production of “Little
Foxes.” At the moment she is bringing
her charm and ability before the public
as Dr. Mary Murray in “Jupiter
Laughs,” A. J. Cronin’s drama about
doctors and nurses in the setting of a
nursing home. Irene Mitchell, producer,
worked hard with the young actors and
actresses who appear in the cast.
Most important of last week’s dos was
the party given by Alyce Wyatt, one of
this city’s well-known hostesses, at Ames-
bury House, South Yarra, when 70 British
W.R.E.N.S. were entertained. As it was
impossible for the hostess to provide all
the coupons needed, many friends sent
offerings of food, butter and other
rationed food. There were gasps of
pleasure and amazement from the
W.R.E.N.S. when they found themselves,
in Weller’s phrase, “in the midst of so
many and various vittles.” The ice-
cream was eaten enthusiastically, and
the eggs were given an ecstatic greeting.
One friend sent a large box of chocolates,
and decorating one of the tables was a
large cake bearing the legend “Welcome
to Australia” in pink icing.
Many of the young men friends of the
hostesses came along to entertain the girls,
among them Hedley Ladd, who accom-
panied his sister Gloria, a recent bride
—her husband is Lieut.-Col. Myslis.
Flight-Sergeant Dudley McGibbon was
one of the Air Force lads present—he
later introduced the girls to the pleasures
of Luna Park. Squadron-Leader Bob
Barwell, Flying-Officer Lockie Fairbairn
and Pilot-Officer John Felix, of Adelaide,
saw to it that the British visitors
enjoyed themselves.
Also being entertained at the party for
these W.R.E.N.S. were several members
of the B.E.F. Among them were Captain
George Brown and Major Howard. Just
returned from a long trip, Major Bert
Oldfield had a great time discussing his
cricketing tours abroad with the British
W.R.E.N.S. Eve Clarke and Monica
Sheffield, who are both English, felt a
little homesick for their native land as
they talked with the English visitors.
Many other parties are being arranged in
honor of the W.R.E.N.S., who have come
from the four corners of Great Britain.
For many months owners of large
shops* by arrangement with Red Cross,
have taken turns in displaying Lucinda,
a doll with a layette and clothes worthy
to be worn by a princess. This doll was
the gift of two sisters, the Misses M. and
E. Johnson, who made all the clothes. The
lace which fashioned the christening robe
and the bonnet came from India, as did
many of the fine materials used for the
dfesses. Lucinda has swim suits, play
suits, in fact, clothes for all occasions,
and many little hearts have sighed to
owp all this beauty. Finally, Lucinda was
raffled, the sale of tickets realising the
amazing sum of £2892. The committee
sponsoring the doll received more than
3000 letters enclosing postal notes and re-
quests for tickets. A four-year-old girl,
Marlene Suckling, of Ballarat, was the
winner, but her parents accepted an offer
of £5O for the doll on the understanding
that it was to go to Frankston ortho-
paedic hospital, and this money was in-
vested in the War Loan for Marlene.
The Murdoch lady and Miss Johnson
bought the doll for the hospital. Lucinda
is one of three dolls the Johnson sisters
have given to the war effort. The fust
was called “Everything for Baby” and
the second Susan, and £BOOO has been
gathered in for Red Cross by their
agency. At a small morning-tea party
given by the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Beat-
rice Campbell, in her reception-room, the
doll was officially handed over to the
Murdoch lady, who represented the hos-
pital. Among those who gathered for a
cup of tea were the Angliss lady and Mrs.
Konrad Hiller, who in thanking the
Misses Johnson said that since the incep-
tion of the Red Cross Shop in Collins-
street the Misses Johnson had worked
continuously for it.
The A.I.F. Women’s Association, a very
live body, is constantly working to raise
funds for p.o.w. and the Holiday Home
at Seaford. Latest news from the com-
mittee tells of preparations for the
monster fair which will be held in the
Town Hall early next, month. One of
the most popular stalls at such bazaars
is the used clothes stall, for no coupons
are needed, and this has not been over-
looked for the fair on March 9. There
will also be an abundance of jams and
pickles, and, most important of all, there
will be a stall stocked with hand-made
nighties and undies of all description.
Mrs. C. E. Steele is on the organising
committee which is planning not only the
fair but a button day on March 2.
The pre-war spirit prevailed at the gala
performance of “The Desert Song.” Furs
and furbelows long hidden came out of
wardrobes, long frocks were seen on
many well-known women, and flowers
were worn pinned in the hair or as cors-
ages. The Lud Mayor, knight Nettlefold,
was accompanied by the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, a graceful figure
in her long, black gown, and her daughter
Margaret. This was their first official
function for the year. The boxes were
occtipied by parties who had dined before
coming to the theatre. Every hotel had
catered for hosts and hostesses bringing
guests to dine before going on to the
theatre.


When he's an Ci ordinary
listener"again. . . he-n stmbe
a wireless expert. And his
radio will have to be a
real engineering job.
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE’’
True-to-life RADIO
After the war your local
dealer will once again be
fully equipped to serve you
with new “ His Master’s
Voice” Radio Receivers and
Radiograms.
, i
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH
N.S.W.
R7/U
ON 24 HOUR-A-DAY JOB
V-8 UTILITY'S RECORD OF
TROUBLE-FREE OPERATION ON
VITAL WAR WORK . . .
Here's a V-8 Utility that never sleeps. Owned by
Mr. J. W. Scott of Whyalla, South Australia, it is
driven 24 hours a day by three drivers working 8-hour
shifts. It's job is conveying officers .to and from
essential work such as ship-building, maintenance of
blast furnaces, power lines, and loading of ships with
vital war materials day and night. "This V-8 Utility
has never had a major overhaul," writes Mr. Scott,
"it is running perfectly and giving approximately
20 miles to a gallon.
TOM
UTILITIES
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vie.).
Reg. Office: Geelong, Vic.
SMOKE-OH!
“Better to risk a ladder in the stocking than
a ladder in your back muscles?”
— Women’s paper.
In the first you’re only risking a run,
in the other you’re running a risk.
•F q. q. q.
1 am to be married in December and would
like to know if it would be in order for my
father to sing while the register is being signed.”
—lnquirer to Dorothy Dix.
He’ll do it anyway.
q. q. q. q.
You can’t propose to a girl in an air-raid.”
—"Australian Journal.”
Not even if you’re completely bowled
over?
Great Invention.
“Has the war yet brought about any great
invention? ” — Correspondent.
Indeed, yes. Why, at this very moment
I am in bed with twins. “Twins” is the
trade name for a new double-bottomed
hot-water bag. You keep a sponge in
the bottom bottom and the hot water in
the top bottom. You enjoy the hot-water
bag all night and, come morning, you
press a button and the hot water from the
top bottom soaks down into the sponge in
the bottom bottom. You then withdraw
the sponge and have your morning wash
while still in bed.
The invention will not be considered
perfect, however, until a side-car has
been added in which the breakfast eggs
can be hhrd-boiled during the night.
Eve the Orpington.
Sometimes a dream-girl can be amaz-
ingly wideawake.
*F »F *F
“White cockatoo, quiet, good talker.”
—Hornsby ( N.S.W .) "Advocate.”
A garrulously taciturn bird.
•i* *F *J*
“Of course, we can’t all glide through life
looking as lovely and leisured as swans.”
—"New Idea.”
Such a life would soon get us down.
•J«
“Make a very conscious effort to rise out of
your waist.”—' "New Idea.”
But first take a firm grip of yourself.
“Fish Altar Oil.” — "S.M.H.”
Holy mackerel!
+ •!• +
On Edge.
“He admitted that he had threatened his wife
with a long penknife, but declared that he had
only been joking.”— Divorce item.
’Twas seldom he amused his wife
By cracking jokes about the joint,
But when he jested with a knife
No doubt the lady saw the point!
Nat,
•F *F *F *F
Talks for the Toddler.
“Part of an A.B.C. Children’s Hour pro-
gramme discussed ‘The Right of Inheritance,’
death duties, etc.”
“Now, chickabiddies, this afternoon I
have some quite thrilling things to talk
about. Stop pulling pussy by the tail
and listen! No doubt your little minds
have often pondered as to how and when
and in what circumstances the appoint-
ment of a Receiver under the Equity
Act is made by the Court, Well, I shall
tell you, and you will get a great big sur-
prise, I’m sure, I know also that you
are all clutching the arms of your high-
chairs, excitedly anticipating the answer.
“Well, here it is. First a suit in Equity
is commenced by filing a Statement of
Claim, alleging the facts and asking for
general relief (for example, for a dissolu-
tion of partnership or removal of a
trustee) and incidentally ‘praying’ for
the appointment of a receiver. The State-
ment of Claim is verified by an affidavit,
and pending the hearing the Court is
asked (upon motion, notice of which is
served upon the other party) to appoint
a receiver. But remember this, pets,
the Court can always appoint a re-
ceiver either absolutely or upon terms!
There, now, wasn’t that thrilling?
“But now, ducky-wuckies, too much
about the Law of Receivers might get
you so worked up that after having your
bickies and milk —and don’t forget you
must drink the milk all down to the last
ickle drop—you’d be tossing around in
your cots and wouldn’t get enough bye-
bye ; and you must have plenty of that,
mustn’t you? so that you’ll grow strong
enough to stand some more wonderful
stories about contango and backwardation
and other exciting subjects which I know
you’ll all be looking forward to
“Now you have all heard of the Babes
in the Wood, of Little Red Riding Hood
and her adventure in the forest with the
bad wolfie, and Cinderella and her glass
slippers, but have any of my times heard
about the Barrier Treaty? No, Im sure
you haven’t, but I know you 11 be all
ears to hear about it. Now if it makes
your spine tingle while I tell it Mummie
will be close by to hold your hand, I
know,
“Now in the seventeenth century dur-
ing the events which led to the Restora-
tion, and while Charles the Second
and his Court were living on the
bounty of foreign treasuries and soliciting
foreign aid to re-establish the monarchy,
the High Tories looked to the Court of
Versailles for support, whilst the Whigs
sought assistance from Holland. With
the Dutch the Whigs concluded a poli-
tical agreement known as the Barrier
Treaty. Now, didn’t that wonderful ad-
venture of the Whigs bring my little bub-
sies all out in goose pimples?
“All my totsies, I know, are able to say
‘Little Miss Muffit’ and ‘Little Jack
Horner’ off by heart. Well, here’s an-
other delightful little thing to learn, and
every little boy and girl will be pleased
to, I know, because it is so interesting.
And what will make it so much more
interesting for all my little dears is that
it doesn’t rhyme. Now, isn’t that funny.
Here it is. It’s from Macaulay’s essay
on Hallam’s ‘Constitutional History’:
‘Warning, it is said, is the end of punish-
ment. But punishment inflicted not by
a general rule but by an arbitrary dis-
cretion cannot serve the purpose of a
warning. In the first place, punishments
ex post facto are not altogether useless
even as warnings.
I know that you 11 all be wanting to
rush to Daddy as he comes in the door
tonight and say it to him, so don’t for-
get to memorise it It s mnc/i better than
anything from Ah Baba and the Forty
Thieves or Jack and the Beanstalk.’ But
you must put the emphasis on ex post
facto or you won’t enjoy saying it.
“Well duckies I’ve reserved the best
till the last, and Im sure all of you will
want to talk it over eagerly with your
playmates tomorrow when you see them,
and as a big secret you can whisper it
to Mumsie, too, when she tucks you in
to bisey tonight. No, it isn’t about how
Eric slew with his great two-handed
sword the fire-breathing dragon. It’s
much more exciting than that. This is
about Company Law as it affects Hold-
mg Companies! You see, the Stock Ex-
change makes special demands on Hold-
mg Companies: for instance, seven days
before the convened meeting shareholders
shall be in possession of a copy of the
balance sheet which is to be considered
at such meeting, and two copies of the
balance sheet shall be forwarded to the
Stock Exchange, where the company’s
shares are listed. Now, hasn’t that made
your little spines go all a-tmgle?
Well, kiddies, that’s all the stories
for this afternoon. Tomorrow we’ll have
some rousing adventures with some
aspects of Constitutional Law as well as
self-balancing ledgers, and, if you’re very
good and eat up all your vegetables, I’ll
let you have some really romantic stuff
about Industrial Arbitration—or, if you
prefer it, about Karl Marx and the eco-
nomic interpretation of history.”
80.
The Green Light.
“A man never shakes hands with a woman
unless the woman makes the first advance.”
— “D.T.” letter.
Although a hand-clasp might convey
Affection calm and dignified.
Advances from the distaff side
(Especially when made, let’s say.
By the discreet but quite propitious
Occlusion of a roving eye)
Are very seldom followed by
A counter-move so unambitious.
If, on the other hand, you’d shun
An invitation to romance
From someone willing to be won.
Then, when she makes the first
advance.
Be sensible, don’t take a chance,
Don’t even take her hand —just run.
P. M. Lusk.
Reversed.
Once pale, gaunt artists with their paint
Gave form unto their chosen theme.
And to a sunset or a saint
Withal “the visionary gleam.”
These “modernists” are far from gaunt;
At things portrayed as seen they storm :
Art is no more a form of want;
It’s something worse —a want of form.
BRIAN BUREAU .


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4id. per line; all others 24c*. per line.
past-war Defence
Australia was less prepared militarily in
1939 than she was in 1914, when the com-
pulsorily-trained Citizen Forces provided
a useful partly-trained nucleus. In 1931
the compulsory training provisions (Part
XID of the Defence Act were rendered
inoperative, and reliance was placed on
voluntary enlistments. These numbered
70.000 or less in 1938, and after a recruit-
ing campaign reached 45,000 in January,
1939. Financially the services had been
starved since 1931 and earlier. Such a
position should not be allowed to recur.
Upon the issue of a proclamation that
the war is at an end the war-time armed
forces will melt away. Post-war forces will
have to be drawn from lads as they reach
the age of 18. Voluntary enlistments will
not produce sufficient personnel for a
modern army, even in proportion to our
scanty population.
Even the revival of the compulsory
part XII of the Defence Act will not
meet the requirements of the situation.
The average number of Australian male
births in the years 1928 to 1931 was
about 59,000, so that in the years 1946
to 1949 about that number will reach the
age of 18 annually. Allowing for mor-
tality and exemptions for munitions- and
armament-making requirements, it is
likely that about 40,000 will be available
each year from 1946 to 1949 for the three
armed services. The present Part XII of
the Act, if revived, would give these
40.000 youths eight days’ camp training
and 64 hours of drill parades each year—
a total of less than 11 days’ training per
annum. At the end of the first post-war
year we would have 40,000 men with 11
days’ training, and at the end of the
second year 40,000 with 22 days’ training
and 40,000 with 11 days’ training, and so
on.
Preparedness, in terms of our popula-
tion, entails having at least 100,000 men
fully trained by the end of the first post-
war year, or at any rate by the end of the
second year. Even before the present war
it was considered that at least six months’
continuous training was necessary to pro-
duce a fully-trained member of any of
three services. Since then the intricacy
of weapons and instruments of war has
considerably increased, and advances
have been made in the science of joint
action among the three services.
If Australia’s armed forces are to be
adequate for post-war defence and inter-
national obligations under the peace settle-
ments Part XII of the Defence Act will
have to be amended before it is revived.
Instead of 11 days’ training a year some-
thing like six months’ continuous training
in the first year after attaining the age of
18, followed by refresher courses of a
week or so each year up to the age of 25
or 26, will be necessary. The alteration
should be undertaken before the war is
over so as to operate from the proclama-
tion of peace.—Ex 2 Wars (S.A.).
A.W.L.—lts Cause and Cure
While lack of a good home environ-
ment is mostly the cause of persistent
leave-breaking, the Army is not altogether
blameless. An unsympathetic attitude to
a Pplications for compassionate leave has
Parted many men on the wrong track.
Every C.O. should have the power to
grant leave at once in urgent cases. As
this would not give time to check the
hcts there should be severe penalties for
making a false declaration.
Also, many of the pin-pricking irrita-
tions that breed a defiant attitude could
be avoided with a little foresight. For
instance, there is no sense in censoring
the mail of men in unthreatened areas in
Australia. The practice serves, no pur-
pose, as the men are mixing with civilians
a hnost daily. In England in 1940 there
w as no censorship of mails, military or
Lilian, within the country, and Eng-
land, then was threatened more seriously
than Australia has ever been.
Still, a.w.l. is a crime, and there must
be effective and equitable punishment
tor offenders. At present there is no
Uniformity. If the C.O. is lenient the
Pten regard his penalties as merely a fair
Price for a bit of freedom. If he is
e hatic the whole thing is a lottery, and
Miat Australian can resist a gamble? I
rilew a man who got £3 and 14 days
tor his first offence and £1 and seven
hays for the second from the same C. 0.,
Ppd the offences were as nearly identical
they could be. Another C.O. gave
% maximum £5 and 28 days for every-
thing, so if one of his men overstayed
his leave at all he reckoned it wasn’t
worth while to return till his money ran
out.—X.Q.X. (Q.).
Treatment of Over-age Soldiers
Let me draw attention to the treat-
ment meted out to the older returned
men of the 6th, 7th and 9th Divisions
who through wounds or ill-health have
been re-classified 82, which is next to a
discharge. They are being drafted back
to the islands.
I am 43, and have been classed 82,
after attacks of malaria and stomach
trouble. When I was told I was due for
another trip north I saw the O.C. and
told him I was getting a bit too old to
be in it again, seeing I was 82. He re-
plied that he had orders that B 2 men
should be sent back to the islands regard-
less of age, classification or disability.
That seems absurd when there are thou-
sands of young soldiers who have never
seen service. Not so long ago Mr. Forde
gave an assurance that men oyer a cer-
tain age and suffering from disabilities
would not be sent out of Australia again.
Why is the Army’s policy in direct contra-
diction to that undertaking?—Methuse-
lah (A.1.F.).
“C'night, Elsie—what time are you starting in the morning?"
Plea for Batmen
“Bar Din” (B. 24/1/’45) is out of gear
when he says junior officers do not need
batmen.
In combat areas a batman is a neces-
sity. His boss may be a platoon com-
mander, who is responsible for 30 or
more men. He must see that they are
properly fed, bedded down and protected.
He must be required to take out a patrol.
While in touch with the enemy he will
not have much time to prepare his meal
and make up his bunk for the night.
A well-trained batman is an asset to
his officer and to his unit. He must have
a knowledge of map-reading and elemen-
tary tactics, and be as fit as any man in
his unit.
A good batman must be trained as
such. He must learn his officer’s moods
and characteristics, so that when the test-
ing period comes the officer has a trusted
assistant at his side and a competent
runner at his disposal.—SX Lieut
(A.1.F.).
Brisbane Servicemen’s Hostel
When our allies announced the closing
of their luxury centre in Brisbane various
patriotic bodies made strong represen-
tations to the authorities to have the
centre taken over for Australian service-
men.
The Canteens Service investigated, and,
in the face of press publicity and photo-
graphs showing our soldiers sleeping
in parks and tramway waiting-sheds,
reported that there was no shortage of
hostel accommodation in the city. Also
that the centre could not be operated at
a profit, so taking over could not be
recommended.
Now a Brisbane businessman has
offered to run it for Australian troops.
He is quite prepared to bear any financial
loss, and if there are any profits they will
be used to make things even more com-
fortable. The Governrfient and Canteen
chiefs think this is a good idea, and are
quite prepared to let him go ahead. But
it does not occur to them to use some of
the £5,000,000 canteen profits in this
direction.
The Tommies are better treated than
our own men. —J. K. D. (Q.).
Banking Reform
For upwards of 50 years the trading
banks have conducted their affairs, with-
out causing loss or even anxiety to de-
positors (this cannot be said of a gone
but unforgotten Government Savings
Bank in N. S. Wales), and at the
same time have treated the busi-
ness and farming community liber-
ally in providing funds for develop-
ment. We have come through the
difficult period of two world wars and
one major world-wide depression. There
are no complaints from either depositors
or borrowers—both receive the maximum
of service at the minimum of cost.
Why then should the Commonwealth
Government propose legislation which
would change the present satistactory
position** Legal restrictions on the acti-
vities of the trading banks are quite un-
necessary, because they have always co-
operated with the Commonwealth Bank
in adopting a policy suitable to ruling
conditions.
Nationalisation of banking wouid be
a retrograde step. Those who deal with
banks would not welcome a continuance
of the restrictions and red-tape procedure
which exist under war-time conditions.
They would be all the more upset if they
were forced into the position of having
only one Government bank to look to
for banking facilities.
As the activities of banks and their
clients do not inflict any injury or handi-
cap on the general public, why is Gov-
ernment action called for at all? The
public revenue gains from taxation levied
on banks. Before changes are made the
clients of banks should be first consulted ;
not the general body of voters.
It seems that action is to be taken merely
to satisfy the whims of political partisans
and zealous advocates of reforms (so-
called) which have grave elements of
danger in them without the possibility of
any permanent benefit to the community.
—lnterested (W.A.).
A.W.U. Indicted
In Queensland the A.W.U. sued an old-
age pensioner—a soldier of two wars —
and was instrumental in having him
heavily fined. The “crime” was that he
was assisting on a sheep run at a time
of acute man-power shortage without
being a member of the union.
In this State the A.W.U. is the Gov-
ernment. The behind-the-scenes execu-
tive of the union is the tail that wags the
Government dog. It is hard to under-
stand anyone, not being a rabid union-
ist, voting for a Government of that
kind. Cases have been known in
this State where unions have expelled
members chiefly for quite reasonable
criticism of their methods. Under the
nefarious “preference to unionists” clause,
which means preference to the unions’
yes-men, those ex-members have been
prevented from earning a livelihood in
the industries to which they have been
apprenticed all their lives.
And Arbitration Courts stand for that
sort of thing being fastened on Australia!
—S.E. P. (Q.).
Booze
“What is more wrong with over-drink-
ing than with over-eating?” “Ear-
Punisher” asks indignantly (B. 17/1/’45).
One instance from many. From my
window I can see a row of little houses,
in one of which lives what a few years
ago was a nice little family. Mother was
a busy, clean little woman with five clean,
intelligent, attractive kiddies. Father was
a soldier; his allotment came regu-
larly, and, although making ends meet
was a tough job, it was being splendidly
tackled. Then father was demobilised
and returned home to a good job. But
he drinks more than is good for him.
Today the mother is a trembling, over-
worked, unhappy woman; the kiddies
are bullied, neglected and pitiful cari-
catures of what they once were ; the little
home is a place of misery, and it is
almost impossible to find the father sober
enough for a reasonable talk.
Does “Ear-Punisher” wonder that some
of us object to seeing creatures that might
be —once were—men, turned into beer-
swilling, wife-bullying swine? Or seeing
a family of potential good Australians
becoming social misfits?
Remedies? Abolition of “shouting,” de-
bunking of the idea that insobriety is manly
and a little more commonsense on the
part of people like “Ear-Punisher” would
help. Or what’s wrong with the religious
approach? St. John Ervine’s God's
Soldier, an objective life of General
Booth, would be my recommendation for
reading to “Ear-Punisher” and his ilk. —
Upagdm (S.A.).
Only a Picture Frame
A friend gave me a picture she had
painted. 1 tried to get it framed.
The picture-framer told me only origi-
nal paintings could be handled. On being
assured that the painting was original, he
explained that I must have a permit from
W. 0.1. An application must be submitted
certifying that the picture was original
work, giving size and stating name of
person I wished to do the work. If a
permit were granted W. 0.1. would in-
form the framer who, in turn, would in-
form me,.and I could then take the pic-
ture along to be framed. This, I was
told, would take about three months.
With expensive office staff devoting
their time to such circumlocution, it’s no
wonder that man-power is not available
to build homes. —E. M. B. (N.S.W.).
Servicemen in Politics
Discharged after nearly five years’ ser-
vice at home and abroad, I have now
been a civvy for nearly six months.
Many things have become evident. One
is that the voice of the serviceman, serv-
ing or discharged, is never heard on post-
war ideas. Another is that if we of the
services who endured for so long an irk-
some but necessary discipline want a free
life again we will have to fight for it as
civvies just as hard as we fought as
soldiers. We can only do this through a
Returned Servicemen’s party, and its plat-
form should have these planks:
(1) National Security. This means con-
scription, a trained nation around the
solid core of a standing navy, army and
air force. Defence should be set above
all parties by legislation, no Government
having the power to reduce the forces be-
low a fixed limit for a period of (say)
50 years.
(2) Individual Security. There must be
a decent living for everyone without
exception, with opportunities for progress
according to initiative and brains.
(3) Australia must be populated and de-
veloped. This country can be the white
man’s continent. South Africa and
America have their racial troubles. Aus-
tralia starts off with a united, untainted
white race. — Keep Step (Vic.).
Seeds of Peace
Apropos the dismemberment of Ger-
many, France’s Foreign Minister Georges
Bidault stated in a press interview that his
country wants a peace that will work, not
a peace of vengeance ; in post-war years
“not an enslaved Germany, but a Ger-
many that will not be able to wage an-
other war.” M. Bidault seems to favor
international control of the Rhineland,
and has shown little enthusiasm for any
plan entailing the handing over of Ger-
man territory to France.
After the Franco-Prussian War in 1871
Gambetta expressed his views on dis-
memberment. “Bismarck,” he wrote,
“has transformed a divided and impotent
Germany into a great, disciplined and
powerful empire, but the annexation of
Alsace-Lorraine is the death-germ of his
work. In such an advanced civilisation
moral conquest never follows material
conquest. Till they have repaired their
error no one will lay down his arms. The
peace of the' world will remain at the
mercy of an incident.”
The Iron Chancellor vetoed the an-
nexation of Austrian territory in 1866, but
allowed the generals to have their way
in 1871. He was uneasy about the situa-
tion, however, and said on the morrow of
Sedan, “After this war we must expect
another aggression, not a durable peace,
whatever conditions we impose. France
will consider any peace a truce, and will
try to avenge her defeat directly she feels
strong enough, alone or with allies.”
Later he said “I did not want too many
Frenchmen in my house.”
Anyone who has ever been in Poland
will realise how the cession of portion
of that country’s territory to Russia will
be the “death-germ” of any hopes for
future European stability, just as surely
as annexation of portion of Silesia by
Poland will set the fires of racial hatred
burning again, and leave the world “at
the mercy of an incident.” — Pookie
(N.S.W.).


Workers get houses
at Whyalla
The B.H.P. has assisted in the erection
of more than 500 homes for employees at
Whyalla. And they are good, solid homes
too. Look at the photographs.
Don’t think that there isn’t a Manpower
problem at Whyalla. There is. It is the
newest and also the busiest town in Aus-
tralia. Everybody works at Whyalla, but
these B.H.P. employees are so determined
to acquire homes for themselves that many
of them have set to and built their own.
You can see whole families at work
making bricks, digging gardens, and effect-
ing improvements around the house.
Whyalla is rapidly becoming a town of
homes . . . and children, it has the highest
birth rate in Australia.
When the war comes to an end you will
be able to go to Whyalla and see for your-
selves the lawns and gardens and houses
that go to make an attractive town.
There are no Manpower problems for Max Devich, B.H.P. worker, who builds his
home. in his spare time.
Everything is all spit and polish in Whyalla... or it will be soon. These new
homes are really attractive.
George MacGregor, a machinist in the tool room at
Whyalia, not only lays the bricks for his new home —
he made them as well! His wife and son both lend a
helping hand.
Look at the solidity and simple beauty of this home.
It has been made to last for generations.
When men have the heart to work, they can make
homes for themselves even where there were never
homes before.
