

GRAPE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3390
Wednesday, January 31, 1945
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LLANGOLLEN AND CROW CASTLE.
OPANNED by an old stone bridge, one of the Seven Wonders
of Wales, the river Dee runs through Llangollen Vale, the
famous and lovely “Jewel of Valleys.” One of the features of the
town of Llangollen is its Church of St. Collen, which has a
fifteenth-century oaken roof brought from the Cistercian Abbey
of Valle Crucis, the most important monastic ruin of North Wales.
In country noted for long names, it is not surprising to discover
that this church is dedicated to Collen ap Gwynog ap Clyddwg
ap cowdra ap Caradoc Freichfras ap Llyr Merini ap Einon Yoth
ap Cunedda Wledig. Higher on the hillside is Plas Newydd, head-
quarters now of the Welsh National Theatre, formerly the home
of the romantic “Ladies of Llangollen,” Lady Eleanor Butler and
Sarah Ponsonby. Over the old arched bridge a path to the hilltop
leads to the ancient ruined fort called Castell Dinas Bran, or
Crow Castle, of which an old Welsh bard once wrote what George
Borrow translates:
Gone are thy gates, Dinas Bran on the height,
Thy warders are blood-crows and ravens, I trow.
Now no one will wend from the field of the fight
To the fortress on high save the raven and crow.


IJmI
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
I'lease send, without obligation, your New Free
h 'uklct, explaining how to Write _ lor Profit, at
aduertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.'’
M y Name
A d drees
S.U. 245 AGE
The Red Page
ARCHIBALD PRIZE.
Having awarded this year’s Archibald
Prize to Joshua Smith’s straightforward
and capable portrait of Speaker Rosevear
and the Wynne Prize to S. Hermann’s
“McElhone Stairs” a melancholy
account of one of metropolitan Sydney’s
slummiest aspects —the trustees of the
N. S. Wales National Gallery have re-
peated in reverse, as it were, their last
year’s performance, when a “con-
temporary” picture won the Archibald
and a (very) conventional painting the
Wynne.
This obvious lack of a consistent view-
point may mean, of course, that the trus-
tees as a body have a praiseworthily open
mind ; but occasionally the unkind sus-
picion arises that the mind is a wide, open
space.
Into this space, inevitably, flow sugges-
tions from the public thought of the day.
In opposition to such trenchant latter-day
critics as H. L. Mencken, who declares;
“I think it is craftsmanship that I admire
most in the world,” Granny “Herald” has
been making noises like an angry mouse
about “the tedious and careful realism
which lacks any imaginative quality;
which owes nothing fo art and all to
patiently-acquired ‘craftsmanship’ (so-
called).” And this last view—that art
exists by a divine right of intuitive in-
spiration and must be divorced from
skill —has very powerful social and news-
paper backing in the Australia of today.
Its influence on the decisions of judges
in art competitions is becoming very
marked. It was surely responsible for
last year’s Archibald decision and this
year’s Wynne.
Sometimes, too, it may be guessed, that
opposing claims of two or three outstand-
ing artists have cancelled each other out,
allowing a mediocrity to carry off the
prize. More importantly, the rule of what
Admiral Fisher called “Buggins’s turn,”
has operated.
Faced with a dozen good Australian
landscapes and twenty dozen duds en-
tered for the Wynne, the trustees chose
a slum theme in which the composition is
trite, the coloring kipdergartenish and
the execution clumsy. City-dwellers who
have toiled up from the ’Loo to Victoria-
street may realise that something might
have been made of the McElhone Stairs
if the sandstone rock at the top and the
sky beyond had been tellingly painted ;
but the scene as treated here is spiritless
and depressing.
Slum “landscapes” are, of course, tech-
nically admissible ; but, as The Bulletin
pointed out on another occasion when
the backyard of a city hovel was the
scene of the prize-winning picture, the
trustees ignore the real wishes of the
gallery’s benefactor in giving the prize to
such subjects. The object of the bene-
factor was to foster the great tradition
of Australian landscape painting and to
encourage artists to reveal to Australians
the beauty of their countryside.
On a plane a thousand miles higher
than the prize-winning entry stand C.
Dudley Wood’s “Winter Sunlight,”
Howard Barron’s “Burrinjuck Dam” (his
finest achievement to date), H. R. Gallop’s
“Erina Farm Lands,” Douglas Dundas’s
“Seven Shilling Beach,” S. T. Scammel’s
“A Good Haul,” Alice Turnbull’s water-
color “Dry Creek,” W. Peisley’s
“Approaching Storm,” Rupert Keahner’s
“Natives’ Camp,” Miriam Moxbam’s
“Suburban Garden,” Will Rowell’s
“Silver Lake,” Max Ragless’s “Mannum,
River Murray,” and Syd Sullivan’s “Near
Northbridge.”
For the Sulman Prize (for 1944 awarded
for genre, a term which seems to have
been interpreted widely enough to include
anything) the outstanding entry was
James Cook’s “Night Convoy.” This
caught the eye of judge Douglas Dundas,
but alas, it wasn’t the right width or
breadth or something.
Presumably there were also reasons
why other nice-looking entries, such
as Dattilo Rubbo’s colorful “Coun-
try Life,” Freda Robertshaw’s grace-
ful “Bush Walkers,” J. N. Kil-
gour’s elaborate “Pattern for Tomor-
row” and James Phillips’s splendid
piece of realism “Fish Market” had to
be over. The award went to
“Iphegenia in Tauris,” by Jean Bellette.
Exactly what this muzzy figure composi-
tion, lit apparently by scarlet Roman
candles, is supposed to represent, and by
what stretch of imagination this sup-
posedly mythological subject can be
classed as genre —the latest dictionary
gives the definition “realistic painting of
every-day scenes”—are mysteries that
must be left to the intuitive unconscious
creative mind.
The choice of Joshua Smith’s painting
for the Archibald Prize can be more
easily defended than any other recent
award. The likeness is excellent; the
pose, particularly the disposition of the
hands, is natural and effective; the color
composition is restful and pleasing. It
shows a distinct advance on Joshua
Smith’s work in other years, and there
are few other entries that could seriously
compete with it.
With a larger number of competitors
than ever before —the hanging committee
excludes no entry—the proportion of
first-class work is lower than it has been
for 15 years. James Quinn, Arthur
Murch, Will Rowell, Fred Leist (his J. T.
Lang is almost imperial in dignity), Nor-
man Carter, H. A. Hanke, Mary Edwards
(not at her best this year), J. Wolinski
and Lyall Trindall are well-knowns who
are worthily represented, and portraits
worth a second glance are put in by Frank
Kane, W. G. Collins, Harley Griffiths,
L. S. Pendlebury and Linda Bryans.
For the rest, about ten per cent, can be
dismissed as competent but undis-
tinguished, while the balance is either
deliberately or unconsciously revolting.
While admitting the generally lowered
standard of entries in both the Archi-
bald and Wynne competitions, Sydney
dailies have been enthusiastic about the
increased number of entries and the in-
creased public attendance. It might be
borne in mind that the Ern Malley episode
aroused increased public interest —of a
sort—in poetry. The direct results of
the Sydney dailies’ efforts at making a
“stunt” of art, and of the sporadic
acquiescence of the trustees in the cam-
paign, is that the quality of the entries
in the competitions has fallen off and
that vast numbers of the public wander
up to the Gallery on Sundays and look
at Art —and laugh.
The G iff from the Sky.
“ John Clare’s gift fell upon him direct
from the sky,” says Norman Gale in his
introduction to the Rugby edition of the
gentle, pastoral poetry of this minor con-
temporary of Wordsworth and Byron.
The same could be said of Shaw Neilson,
who sang literally “as the birds sing,”
his poems coming into his mind first as
a tune which he hummed as he walked
or worked in the country.
James Devaney, who knew Shaw Neil-
son well, has set down what he knows in
Shaw Neilson (Angus and Roberts-on);
and, within his limits, has made a good
job of the biography. It is a picture of
the “rustic” poet, immediately calling
up recollections of Clare, Burns and
W. H. Davies. Working as a laborer,
Neilson had “about two hundred different
jobs” over a period of thirty years.'
Some of the jobs, as when he was
working on an aerial tram high above a
reservoir, were dangerous—“A mistake
would have meant that one of us, truck
and all, would have been hurled on to
the rocks below”; some were both
dangerous and brutal:
My first job [in the quarry] was in a pig-
shoot, letting the spawls down the shoot
towards the crusher. I got’ my shins very
badly barked, and had bruises on them
for twelve months afterwards.... I was
taken off that job and put on filling the
trucks on the floor of the quarry. Jim and
I were mates there for about three weeks.
Jim had done a lot of quarry work and
spawling. He said the job was altogether
too dangerous, and that I was in danger
of getting killed at any time.
It was the middle of summer and my
glasses were always foggy with sweat. Often
1 could not see what I was doing. Several
times a day a big boulder shaped like a
grindstone would roll like lightning past
me. Jim continually predicted that I would
be smashed The main trouble was that
all our spawlers, with one exception, were
amateurs. They had no idea of making
anything safe for the men working below.
After about three weeks I had a particu-
larly narrow shave with a big boulder one
day. I asked for my time and left' the next
morning.
The rustic poet is lucky in one way,
the luckiest of all the writing tribe, in
that his work comes to him easily. Shaw
Neilson hummed his songs along country
roads or lay in bed in the early morning
with “pieces” tumbling into his brain.
The gift “comes from the sky,” a natural
purity and simplicity of style, and practi-
cally all the poet has to do is to take
down the words as they arrive. The
work might come slowly at times, as
Devaney shows in a fascinating descrip-
tion of Neilson dictating a poem to him,
but it did not have to be fought for with
the agony of major creative effort. If a
“piece” wouldn’t flow smoothly for him
Neilson put it away for weeks or months
till it “came right” of its own accord.
But the rustic poet pays the price of
art all the same. Neilson sweated in his
quarries and all but lost his eyesight;
W. H. Davies drove himself out of adven-
ture and into poetry by losing his leg in a
train accident. By comparison with Clare,
the Australian poet escaped lightly. And
he escaped, it seems, because, although
he was encouraged by A. G. Stephens
and J. F. Archibald, made good friends
in the literary world and was provided
with a job in the office of the Country
Roads Board, Melbourne, he was never
too much lionised and pampered by well-
meaning admirers.
But for the differences of time and
place and the amiable cooing noises
Norman Gale uses for his literary style,
this paragraph on the opening of Clare’s
career could have been written by
Devaney of Shaw Neilson:
It is easy to detect signs of a spirit tri-
umphantly unfitted for residence in a clay
hovel at Helpstone. As luck would have if,
a kind of rough-and-ready poetry was not
altogether out of the boy’s reach, for his
father’s head was stuffed with innumerable
odds-and-ends of rhyme, some of which he
was in the habit of reciting to his son.
Entertainment of the same sort was obtain-
able from old Granny Bains, a weather-
worn cowherd, to whom the future poet
was attracted by her store of ditties ; whose
especial cronies were the wind and rain.
Clare’s life of labor began with his
service as “factotum at the Blue Bell” at
Helpstone ; then, at 16, he fell vainly in
love with his Patty ; he became a stone-
cutter and then a cobbler, then a gar-
dener ; took to drink ; came weeping back
to the “clay hovel” and, working on the
farm, composed his verses and became
noted for his “timidity, shyness, strange
manners, fits of abstraction.” He fell in
love with two women more or less simul-
taneously and, because it became highly
advisable, married the one he had quar-
relled with—“No sooner was the first
quarrel between the sweethearts swept
away by the broom of reconciliation,”
says Norman Gale delightfully, “than the
flame of passion, burning to a conquering
height, made a bonfire out of the broken
materials of virtue.” What followed in
Clare’s life, is a mixture of the pathetic
and the appalling.
London society made a lion of him,
and he is seen shrinking in the corners of
fashionable drawing-rooms, absurd in his
smock-coat and hobnailed boots. He
writes such ardent and gushing letters to
a patroness that, embarrassed, she is
forced to ask him to return a portrait she
had given him. He stays with the Rev.
H. T. Cary and makes love to the
reverend gentleman’s young and hand-
some wife under the impression that she
is his daughter. He drinks ; he goes mad
and imagines he is married to the Patty
he had loved long ago when he was six-
teen.
What he wrote about his career might
be applied also to Shaw Neilson:
Ah, little did I think in time that’s past,
By summer burnt or numb’d by winter’s blast,
Delving the ditch a livelihood to earn,
Or lumping corn out in a dusty barn;
With aching bones returning home at night
And sitting down with weary hand to write;
Ah, little did I think, as then unknown,
Those artless rhymes I even blush’d to own
Would one day be applauded and approv’d,
By learning notic’d and by genius lov’d.
But Shaw Neilson escaped Clare's
tragedy. Perhaps his mind was better
balanced; perhaps he was a far less
emotional man —with the usual timidity
of the Australian biographer, Devaney is
elusive about Neilson’s affairs of the
heart, but he manages to convey the im-
pression that there simply weren’t any;
and certainly Neilson didn’t have to with-
stand the glare of publicity that dazed
and bewildered Clare and destroyed his
peace of mind.
Norman Gale is only half right when
he says that Clare showed “a spirit trium-
phantly unfitted for residence in a clay
hovel” ; for it is also true that his spirit
was totally unfitted for exhibition in a
London mansion. Which shouldn’t be
interpreted as an argument for ignoring
the rustic poet; but which suggests that
the moderate and careful assistance Shaw
Neilson had was just about right. An
easy job in the country would probably
have been the best thing for him.
It’s a tribute to Devaney’s ability as
a biographer that Neilson can thus be
dischssed in comparison with Clare, for
it shows that his hero' does emerge as a
living figure. Devaney has set out —in-
defensibly—to write a book that “gives
no thought to style,” is not an attempt
to “place” the poet and is to amount to
no more than “a simple intimate book
that lovers of Shaw Neilson would like
to have.” For the sake of belles lettres
in this country, a writer of Devaney’s
ability should surely attempt a full biog-
raphy. But his achievement outruns his
intentions.
Inevitably he helps to “place” Neilson
in the front rank of Australian lyrists
and somewhere between Clare and Davies
in English literature as a whole;
he adopts Boswell’s method of presen-
tation and does exceptionally well with
it; and the portrait of his hero, if not
quite complete, is thoroughly honest—
notably in his astonishing picture of the
poet on his visit to Devaney’s home in
old age ; where, when a visitor’s loud
voice troubled him, Shaw Neilson left the
room and returned with his ears stuffed
with cotton-wool.
A further merit is that through
incidental portraits of such notabilities
as A. G. Stephens and Christopher Bren-
nan —the spectacle of Neilson thunder-
struck at Brennan’s conversation is un-
forgettable—the book gives a fairly com-
prehensive survey of the period.
Unknown Islands,
Ernest Beaglehole’s Islands of Danger
(Progressive Publishing Society, Welling-
ton, N.Z.) is about the atoll islet of
Pukapuka, 390 miles north-east of Samoa
and 715 miles north-west of Rarotonga,
Six hundred Polynesians live there, and
Beaglehole and his wife shared the life
of the island with them for eight months
while they were engaged in ethnological
research.
The average Australian or New
Zealander probably doesn’t know that
such a place exists ; and since all of us
should obviously know as much as pos-
sible about all the islands of the Pacific,
Beaglehole’s book is worth reading for
that reason alone.
What it has to offer includes a disser-
tation on the pleasures of ‘ eating raw
fish ; a glimpse of small boys who, forced
to wear trousers to school, take them off
again the minute they are outside the
grounds ; the astonishment of the natives
when Beaglehole and his wife named
their cat —“To name a cat! No Puka-
pukan had ever done it before, any more
than he thought of naming his pig or his
chickens. You named human beings or
canoes or stars or fishhooks, but what
was the sense in naming animals?”;
marathon cricket matches at which the
players stopped the game to sing insulting
chants when anybody was bowled out; a
native who was proud of his village be-
cause it was visited by a hurricane, and
sang a song in its honor; translations of
chants ; some notes on legends and cus-
toms ; and—by far the best section in the
book, making a really vivid picture of
the life of. the people —a chapter in which
a birth, a marriage and a death all take
place more or less at the same time.
The merits of the book arise from the
fact that the author has an unmistake-
ably sincere love for the people he writes
about. Witness the description of a child
with a “lolly”—sugar is hard to come
by on Pukapuka:
A piece of candy is a treasure to be
cherished and enjoyed at leisure. If by
some sleight of hand you can hide it about
your naked body and escape to solitude
past the watchful eyes of companions only
• too eager to share your pleasure, you first'
turn the candy over and over in your hands
admiring its color and texture in sunlight
and shadow. Your hands are by now
well and truly sticky, so you lick them over
for the sweetness on them. Then you ten-
tatively place the candy on your tongue,
but not for long, because it must be made
to last
It is only perhaps by the middle of the
afternoon that a mishap causes you to
swallow by mistake the minute portion
which is all that remains of the morning
glory. And that is a regrettable nuisance
because you had probably planned to
finish the candy lying peacefully on your
sleeping-mat at bedtime, hugging tight to
yourself the secret pleasure of your en-
joyment which your brothers and sisters
half suspect yet do not share.
A deliberate writing-down to some
imaginary shallow - minded audience
somewhat mars the book. As if he
thought the general public would be more
interested in the details of his house-
keeping than in the magnificent history
and legends of the Polynesians, Beagle-
hole has rigidly excluded his ethnological
discoveries. The fact that he took some
good books to the island and didn’t read
them might have been worth recording
in a sentence, but there is no point in de-
voting a whole chapter to it, especially
as the audience which is likely to turn
to Islands of Danger would be far more
interested if he had read the books and
had something worthwhile to say about
them. Beaglehole seems to have taken
the lightest sort of “personal” travel
books for his model instead of such a
work as Dr. S. M. Lambert’s A Doctet
in Paradise, which, while packed witn
popular material, wasn’t at all hesitan
about being serious and scientific at the
same time. ,
However, the virtues of Islands of
Danger outweigh the faults. It’s a goo.
honest and amusing account of how tn
author lived in an unknown part of tn
world among a gay and charming peogl.


ANTHONY HORDERNS'
'The Senior Store"
WHILE I LIVE I'Ll GROW
A corns no larger than a child’s thumb contain the germ of giant oaks .
• *
ature presents here a miracle too deep for finite minds to fathom.
6 esson a Pph e d to mans daily life is not, however, beyond his comprehension.
jj j e accepts the fact that mighty enterprises may evolve from modest undertakings.
e ’ TOWn r ° m d
o commercial organisation in Australia, we feel, can be more proud of its record
1 n 0 f progress and expansion.
'V ou, our valued customers, by your loyal support through good times and bad, con -
/ tinuously encourage us to live up to our grand old slogan:
"While I Live HI Grow.”
in
€
in
ID
ID
N
$
appy is the individual who sees in his own community some object of advantage to his
fellow-men which he himself has helped to create.
ut of the knowledge that he has applied his talents beneficially he draws mental and
# spiritual refreshment.
etail distribution agencies may well be numbered amongst such useful activities.
eveloping their efficiency to the highest possible degree is surely a worthwhile ambition
for any man or body of men.
very one associated with Anthony Horderns’ therefore takes a personal pride in the
consistent endeavour to improve and extend the range of goods and services,
ealising that the life-principle of any organisation depends for its vitality on the
vitality of its members.
o one, we are told, can add an inch to his stature merely by "taking thought.”
o it is only by ceaseless effort and the exercise of our manifold functions that we go
from strength to strength with the passing years.
■L/lli
■Wi
ONV
25de6
So N
SiSSM
Sg3
ESf«
I«oiJy
Mil
M R!
i
as
1.1
ia
ntl
Ts ■■»»»■»
m
XCiRISJ:
«*
K!
m
'Of
■ft-trarar
huh
TO


& /? 99
; STORAGE EQUIPMENT
is commissioned at Air Bases
• -
■
.' 111
• jsM
: m
i;-3
1
... c
*%
u .
Sf“-
<•'■*■* *
■
;
■
mmm
mm
y’<
mm
.■ -. ■ v
u
■
ia
m
00*.
m
■
: ■
m
m
. .::■
ns
i
,
m
::
' 'V .
Bawl
|pf*S3C|
H
: ,- v; '
*
«
■
■ ■-■;
ii
• >■
■ ■
m
mm
H H
4&.
8s im
B
4
m
m
-
.
pn
m
Wherever Australian War planes are
based, "Steelbilt” equipment is on active
service. "Steelbilt” lockers equip Air-
men’s quarters; repair hangars are fitted out
with "Steelbilt” Bins and Shelving; Opera-
tional flight records are protected by
"Steelbilt” Filing Cabinets. "Steelbilt” is
serving every arm of Australia’s fighting
services. Naturally, that means no more
"Steelbilt” for civilian use until after the
war. But while we are working top speed
on Defence needs, we are also getting valu-
able manufacturing experience ... de-
veloping new design features that will
mean big improvements on all "Steelbilt”
equipment when Victory is won.
"WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS for doors Weighing
100 lbs. to 1,500 lbs. are now available through your hardware dealer.
bangor DOOR hangers having been called up for the duration, will
not now be available.
STOMGIIQfZfPMMT
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3390
Wednesday, January 31, 1945
OLD ACT WITH NEW SONG—“YES, WE HAVE NO SOCIALISATION.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P- H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
, 7 ’Box 252IBB; ’Phone 8797 L
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47, Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
PREFERENCE.
“Whatever Government is in power,”
Mr. Curtin stated two years ago, “I pray
that it will see that the men and women
who have fought are given a that
their services merit.” Questioned in the
House about the same time, Mr. Curtin
also said that “as a particular principle,
the Government believes that preference
to returned soldiers should be integral to
the general administration.” Feeling,
apparently, that this needed translating,
he explained that it meant that “there
should be preference to returned soldiers.”
With the P.M. still out of action.
Cabinet met at Canberra to discuss a
draft Preference and Re-establishment
Bill, and in no time there was disagree-
ment. The sides were those holding that
there must be some form of preference
and those seeking preference for every-
body, and hence preference actually for
nobody. The ominous part of it from
the point of view of the men doing the
country’s fighting is that the side wanting
to lump them in with everybody engaged
in any sort of war work, from writing
loan blurbs to making guns, has very
strong union backing.
Servicemen will scarcely be reassured
by a statement the P.M. made last week,
in tone and matter very different from
his eager championship of the “nationali-
sation” or “socialisation” of airlines—
“preference to returned soldiers seems to
be compatible with A.L.P. policy”—■
especially as it brought angry snorts
from union officials in Melbourne.
Those gentlemen said that “prefer-
ence to returned soldiers has never
been a policy of the party”; in fact,
“the party” was “uncompromisingly hos-
tile” to it. That was evident enough in
an A.C.T.U. resolution or rigmarole put
through last March, beginning with a
muddled reference to “the all-embracing
nature of the present war” and the “con-
tribution of the whole community to
bring about an all-in war effort, with its
consequent hardship, inconvenience and
suffering by all sections of the com-
munity,” and concluding that, therefore,
“preference to ex-service personnel is not
in the interest of the nation” and
“should be abandoned.”
This A.C.T.U. “policy,” according to
the council’s president, a Mr, Glarey,
still stands. It has been followed by the
Victorian central executive of the A.L.P.
in a resolution informing Cabinet of its
disapproval' of any preference proposals
in the bill being hatched. The president
of the S.A. Trades and Labor Council, a
Mr. Garland, has weighed in with the
declaration that “the Labor movement in
South Australia does not believe that
preference for servicemen is necessary”;
that it is a mere “relic of the old order.”
Meanwhile, Cabinet, having failed to agree,
put off its discussions for a fortnight.
The extraordinary thing about the
whole business is the callousness to the
Digger’s lot displayed all round. The
callousness was epitomised a year ago by
an “A” Senator from N. S. Wales, Mr,
Amour. “Who is to say,” Mr. Amour
asked, “that the man who fires the gun
is better than the man who made it?”
He was answered by Queensland R.S.L,
president R. D. Huish in words that
should be carved on the Cabinet door:
The man who makes the gun may be the
equal, physically and* mentally, of the man
who fires the gun. The resemblance ends
there. The man who makes the gun works
his regular shifts, has his home to go to
and enjoys life as much as ever he did,
except for a few restrictions which may
prove a little irksome. He suffers none of
the discomforts of the man who fires the
gun. He is not on duty 24 hours of every
day, like the front-line soldier, and he does
not risk his life daily, like the man who
fires the gun, who cannot go on strike
when everything does not go right with
him. There must be some degree of prefer-
ence for the man who risks his life at 6s. a
day for the privilege of firing the gun.
There is a big difference between the indi-
viduals ; consequently, there must be a
difference in the treatment between the
individuals when the war is over.
It should be first in the minds of those
deciding on preference that, whatever
may be said for any others engaged in
war work, the man returning to civil life
from the forces is a special case. With
very few exceptions, all those in uniform
are removed from their ordinary civilian
breadwinning life. The longer they are
in uniform further they must slip
back. That certainly cannot be said of
the great majority of those engage i in
home-front war work. The bulk of these,
if not actually doing the kind of work
they did before the war, are at
least in civil-life occupations. The Digger
meanwhile is following an “occupation”
which is not only completely different
from any civil calling but call positively
unfit a man for civil-life work. Hence
Diggers can return to find that they have
slipped back practically beyond recovery,
while those who have been able to remain
on the civilian job have been steadily im-
proving both their skill and their position.
That applies to all those who were in
some sort of work before the war. In
even worse shape will be the tens of
thousands of youngsters who went into
uniform on turning 18. Those of this big
group who get back will have to face up
to civilian life knowing no other occu-
pation than that of soldier. By the way
the Pacific War is going, they will come
back at something over 20, when it is
too late for them to start in trades, and
try to battle ahead with that unfair handi-
cap. Apart from the question of risk
of life and disablement —which alone
puts all these in a special class,
beyond any comparison whatever with
home-fronters —they must have special
treatment in the name of simple equity
and justice, and also to ensure their con-
tinuing to be, what they now clearly are,
the country’s best citizens.
Actually, whatever home-front cheer-
chasers like Mr. Ward or the A.C.T.U.
or any others may advocate, the Gov-
ernment is committed to preference for
returned men both through the P.M.’s
words and by precedent. Preference hav-
ing been established as a principle during
the last war—with the consent of all those
who were Federal Labor and non-Labor
politicians in 1915, as Mr. Hughes has
most emphatically pointed out —and
continued till now, all who enlisted
for the present war did so on the
implicit understanding that that prin-
ciple would be applied to them also
when they had done with the fighting,
For Cabinet to decide on other than the
most definite preference for returned men
would be to break that contract. Also,
it would divide the country, to say noth-
ing of wrecking the Government.
One or two of the crop of small ex-
service associations —not of returned
men, it needs no saying—have come out
in opposition to preference, a secretary
of one of them being reported as saying
that “preference for returned soldiers
would create a privileged class detrimen-
tal to the whole community.” The answer
is that the returned men who have fought
the country’s wars will deserve to be
treated as a “privileged class,” and also
that the continuance of such a class
through the whole period between the
wars was the very opposite of “detri-
mental to the community.” In any case
such views are not shared by two service-
men in five thousand, returned or other-
wise.
The general Digger viewpoint is ex-
pressed in the R.S.L. resolution urging
the Government to give “preference
in employment to ex-servicemen and
women, with first and complete prefer-
ence to returned servicemen and -women
and to those who enlisted or were
appointed for service abroad and who
served in a combat area.” To adopt
that would be no act of great generosity
on the Government’s part but the very
least it could do. As the principle of
preference has been adopted, there should
be no trouble about recognising who
most deserve to have it applied to them.
Germany at Bay.
In quarters where war reports are col-
lected, dressed up and commented on
Red and Pink writing boys abound to an
extent unrealised by the average news-
paper reader. The Russian offensive gave
the young gentlemen a chance to spread
themselves, and they seized it with both
hands. As the Red armies advanced they
were figured as “going through the Ger-
man positions like a knife through
butter,” “shearing off swathes of territory
with an enormous scythe,” “running
across the Polish plain like the fingers
of a grass fire,” “throwing the claws of
giant pincers” round the doomed enemy,
falling on him “like an avalanche” —
indeed, half a dozen avalanches —and
stamping him flat with “a steamroller” of
prodigious dimensions. Lest it be thought
that the 1914 steamroller had been dug
up and reconditioned, it was explained
that the 1945 steamroller was exclusively
a Soviet model, with an entirely new
quality, speed.
The offensive, being Russian, was, of
course —and as before —the Greatest in
History. It was moving at a pace never
before approached by any army, and a
factor in inflicting on the enemy the Most
Colossal Defeat of All Time was a tank,
the Stalin tank, far superior in fire-power
to anything produced by the Nazi dogs
and by the British and the Americans.
Both assertions are disputable—for in-
stance. the “Times” of September 9 re-
corded that the British who took Antwerp
and Brussels had “advanced 206 miles
within six days in the face of continuous
opposition,” one division covering 60
miles in 24 hours. But it is the practice
of some Red boys not only never to let
the Nazi dogs get the better of it but to
sneer at British or Americans when in-
vidious compari|ons can be indulged in
with safety. One young coxcomb
rounded off his story by denouncing as
antiquated and contemptibly (jautious
the battle tactics of the men responsible
for the landing in Normandy, that
supreme masterpiece of planning and
daring, and for the driving of the enemy
from the Atlantic to the Rhine.
No attempt was made to explain why
the Russians had paused so long on the
Vistula line and on the fringes of East
Prussia, and had moved at length when
force of circumstances rendered it im-
possible for, the Anglo-Americans to
strike simultaneously, though this waS
almost immediately demanded in Mos-
cow. Red and Pink writing boys are not
interested in such things. Other people
can't help being interested, especially as
during the long delay the Poles in War-
saw, bravest of their brave race, were
overborne after a rising which lasted 63
days, and in the course of which many
British, Polish, Dominion and American
airmen lost their lives carrying supplies to
them —all this with the Russians looking
on from the other side of the river, which
they ultimately crossed unopposed.
Events have given an added signifi-
cance to Mr. Churchill’s House of Com-
mons speech of December 15. That was
the speech in which he agreed, for his
Government and country, to the sur-
render to Russia of the Polish territories
east of the Curzon Line, among them
Lwow and other historic Polish places
which never belonged to the Russians,
Poland to be compensated with “the
whole of East Prussia west and south of
Konigsberg,” with Danzig, but obviously
without Konigsberg, that region being
assigned to the U.S.S.R.
The Russians, Mr. Churchill said, were
standing “motionless” on the Vistula
front, and “I know nothing of their in-
tentions” —a very strange admission. He
added, however, that “if and when they
advance, as they surely will, the authority
of the Lublin committee and the area
it administers will grow, as will its con-
tacts with Russia”—as has happened in
full measure. There would be no with-
drawal of recognition from the Polish
Government in London, but he was dis-
appointed that it had not reached an un-
derstanding with Moscow, and afraid
that if the Russian armies traversed
“large areas of Poland during the early
part of 1945,” as they “probably” would,
“fierce quarrels and fighting” would
“break out between large sections of the
Polish population and the Russians.”
Disappointed also that there had been
no “meeting of the three Great Powers
before Christmas,” which meeting he had
“confidently expected.”
This declaration of British policy, so
fortunate for the Russians, so agonising
to the Poles, must have been known in
Germany that night. On the very next
morning Von Rundstedt launched his
counter-offensive in the Ardennes, It is
now clear that his great object was to
anticipate and delay the development of
General Eisenhower’s winter offensive,
very costly in men and equipment, into
a general attack coinciding with that of
Russia. No doubt the German had
other objects, political as well as mili-
tary. They were foiled by the prompt
measures taken, Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery showing himself, as always, equal
to the emergency ; but in staving off what
the Germans have always dreaded, simul-
taneous strokes from west and east, he
succeeded only too well.
The Russians did not move till January
13. In the intervening 28 days the Ger-
mans must have shifted great masses of
men and equipment and vast bodies of
civilians from the threatened regions
which they held so long and abandoned
•with so little fighting. In the meantime,
also, the British in Greece had to put
down a communist insurrection, not
only cruel, bloody and criminally destruc-
tive, but astonishing in that communists
in other parts of the world never dare
to move without instructions from Mos-
cow, and would go on all fours or try to
turn themselves inside out if Moscow
gave the order. And in the United States
there were great demonstrations of sym-
pathy with Poland. Mr. Stettinius hast-
ened to announce that the State Depart-
ment still recognised the Polish Govern-
ment in London. And in a two-point
statement it was set forth that “the United
States Government stands unequivocally
for a strong, free and independent Polish
State, with the untrammelled right of the
Polish people to order their internal exist-
ence as they deem fit, and that a settle-
ment of boundary questions should be
reached with the consent of the United
Nations directly concerned, which, of
course, include Poland.” This was con-
strued to mean that the United States
would “object strenuously to a puppet
regime in Poland or anything savoring
of it.”
On both sides of the Atlantic there was
outspoken criticism of Russian military
and political policy, so inactive on the
one hand, so energetic on the other.
Reviewing British opinion for the New
York “Times” Raymond Daniel wrote
(December 30) that “what the British tax-
payer would like to know is whether
the Russians have hesitated along the
Vistula for strategic military reasons, be-
cause they are aiming at victory in 1945
and want to play it safe, or for political
considerations, involving acceptance by
the Western Allies of the principle that
eastern Europe is a pasture in which the
Russians can arrange matters to suit them-
selves.” For himself he allowed that the
Russians had “done pretty well” in Bul-
garia, Rumania and Hungary, where
they had set up a provisional Gov-
ernment (since recognised by Lon-
don and Washington), “modelled after
the others established in Balkan coun-
tries under Soviet control,” and com-
posed of “an amalgam of Rightist figure-
heads and Leftist hatchet-men.” But it
was “not very long since Moscow was
clamoring for a Second Front in Europe.”
Now it is the other way around. The
people here are just as eager as the Russians
used to be to see a Second Front opened
in the east.
To the fierce indignation of “Pravda
the American “Army and Navy Journal”
(November 25) had abruptly expressed
the hope that the Russians would soon
attack on the Vistula, declaring that Ameri-
can objections to Russian inaction on the
direct route to Germany were widespread.
Why this attack has not occurred simul-
taneously with our advance has aroused a
great deal of comment. Events establish
that Tehran strategy has not been observed.
Chiding the “Army and Navy Jour-
nal,” a “Christian Scientist Monitor”
man, “recently returned from Russia,”
protested (December 5) that “it was only
after repeated and costly attempts had
failed to gain their objectives on the
Wfarsaw front that the Russians shifted
to the Balkans and Baltic flanks.” He
argued that “from a military standpoint
this decision was sound,’i admitting, how-
ever, that “political purposes were also
served.” Other newspapermen assailed
the Russian proceedings without pulling
their punches, and the Washington staff
of the Scripps-Howard papers, posing
the question “Where did the Germans
get crack divisions, supplies, air-power,
for their offensive in the west?” drew an
answer from “Congressional sources”:
They are convinced we had an under-
standing with Russia that she would open
a powerful drive against Germany when we
did early last summer. It didn’t happen.
But for at least 90 days, they say, the
Russians have been prepared to launch an
assault against Germany—and still it hasn’t
started. If the Germans know this, as they
probably do, why did they dare transfer
their best fighting men, the supplies they
need and air cover for them from the east
to the west'?
There is still hope at Washington that
Russia will attack, will realize that the
United States can’t fight alone (!) in both
Europe and Asia and continue to supply the
Allies also.
The hope has been fulfilled. In the
space of a fortnight the Russians have
travelled faster and farther than any Con-
gressman or anyone else in the democratic
world could have bargained for; and
they look like going farther still. But if
they can hang on where they are until
full and incessant pressure is applied on
the Western Front the end of the Euro-
pean war which, as Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery said months ago, has lasted too
long, will be accelerated.
The German measures on both fronts
may have been dictated by a desperate
shortage of fuel. The military leaders
may be manoeuvring so as to take control
with the design of surrendering to the
Russians. It would be dangerous to count
on either chance or on any other possi-
bility that might lead to relaxation of
effort or dissipation of strength. Far
better to remember that the enemy has
been giving up territory since El Alamein,
and has from time to time struck shrewd
and disconcerting blows, gain of territory
having been complicated for the Allies by
transport, supply and political difficulties.
Military defeat of the Germans was
certain from the moment the land-
ing in Normandy was made good.
But in the Ardennes, and round
Strasbourg and even Budapest, they
have shown themselves still formidable,
and if Allied strategy should remain un-
co-ordinated the spirit aroused by in-
vasion may bring them new successes in
the East. It seems certain that they will
continue the fight as long as they can,
buoyed up by the only hope left to them
—that the Allies will fall out, enabling
them, if not to snatch a negotiated peace,
to force a stalemate that will admit ot
their regaining a formidable position on
a continent that, as things are trending,
looks like being divided into spheres ot
influence, one with a mighty but uncer-
tain master. They will have to be
thoroughly beaten politically as well as
on the field of battle, and that can come
about only if Russia proves itself as great
in the glow of victory as it was in the
shadow of defeat. B


PLAIN ENGLISH
The Governor-General.
The King himself, when Duke of York,
opened the Parliament*House at Canberra
when the seat of government was trans-
ferred there from Melbourne. Now,
nearly 18 years afterwards, the Duke of
Gloucester has arrived, with his gracious
Scottish wife and their two children, and
has been sworn in as eleventh Governor-
General, taking up the duties which were
assigned to the Duke of Kent, dead in
the service of the Empire.
Like his royal brother, the Duke of
Gloucester knows and likes Australia, and
Australians like him. With goodwill on
both sides, and with the blessing of
health vouchsafed to himself and his
family, his sojourn in Australia can
scarcely fail to be happy and fruitful.
He comes at a time when the struggle
against the enemies of the British Com-
monwealth and its allies is going well on
all fronts. It will probably be his proud
duty to issue the longed-for proclama-
tions that the wars are at an end.
When the ship carrying the Duke and
Duchess and their children was in Aus-
tralian waters Mr. Curtin delivered one
of his high-flown utterances:
I do hope, and I shall do my best for it,
that the unity of war between the Mother
Country and the Dominions and between
the United Nations will be carried into the
peace, not only as fa?ade, but as the real
element of the relations between countries.
The great men, of the United Nations have
been able not only to consort, but to con-
cert in working out a common formula.
That is the, great thing that has come out
of this war.
But “the great thing” is not complete
in Australia. It cannot be complete with-
out political unity during the wars and
for the period of the peace settlements
and the restoration of the servicemen
and -women to civil life.
Political unity, achieved in Britain
nearly five years ago, was offered to Mr.
Curtin’s party in 1941 and rejected. Yet
it was necessary then, is necessary now,
and will be thrice necessary when Aus-
tralia sends delegates to the peace-con-
ference table. The Governor-General
brings first-hand knowledge of what it
has meant to Britain, not only in the wag-
ing of war but in the preparation of the
great measures—educational, housing,
industrial, health and those relating to
the care of maimed servicemen, widows,
orphans, aged and sick workers —with
which Britain is already armed to take
the peace. If, through his influence, Aus-
tralia becomes a united nation, as Britain
is, his period of office as his Majesty’s
representative, “exercising,” subject to
the Constitution, “such powers and func-
tions of the King as his Majesty may be
pleased to assign to him,” will be re-
membered when this generation has
passed away.
S'Walter Goes to Greece.
Mr. Churchill’s Greek policy, flayed
by communists in Britain, the U.S.A.
and Australia, and even by “moderates”
and papers like the “Times” and the
“News-Chronicle,” as well as the Sydney
“Daily Telegraph,” has been vindicated
at every point.
In an evil moment for “Sir” Walter
Citrine he accepted a Churchill invitation
to head a British trade-union delegation
to Greece. “Sir” Walter was there when
the Red Cross had to make time to
succour 4000 hostages, turned loose by
the communists, shoeless, in rags and
starving, in the depth of winter. He was
there also when the poor bodies of 287
victims of communist murderers, men,
women and children, were taken from a
common grave. In his agitation “Sir”
Walter sought out Tommies, hoping
despairingly for some confirmation of the
view that the communists were noble vic-
tims of capitalist oppressors rightly
struggling to be free. He was told on
every hand that they were “thugs” and
“terrorists,” who had shot down stretcher-
bearers in violation of the white flag ;
“the dirtiest and most treacherous
fighters” the Tommies had met.
. The soldiers declared that British public
opinion had been flagrantly misled, and that
not one man among them objected to the
policy the Churchill Government had pur-
sued. They had prevented a massacre, and
there would be a massacre if they were with-
drawn.
There is no mention of the communist
Thornton, appointed to “represent” Aus-
tralia at the world trade-union congress,
being in the Citrine party, though he
could have been. What Comrade Thorn-
ton doesn’t see his heart doesn’t grieve
over, albeit his invention and tongue are
always in working order. Choice of this
fellow as a “representative” of Austra-
lian unionists was referred to with appro-
priate comments at the A.W.U. Federal
convention in Adelaide. The A.C.T.U.
was blamed for the insult, and the leaders
of the old union repeated their refusal
to join that body, making it clear that
they wouldn’t be seen with Thornton or
any of his gang in a 40-acre paddock.
Our Canadian Friends.
Troubles are accumulating in Canada,
for a long time free from them, except
in the unhappy Hongkong business, and
to the other United Nations, Australia
among them, generous to a fault.
In 14 months nearly 20,000 Canadian
soldiers were killed in Italy and France.
This necessitated recourse to conscrip-
tion for overseas service, most of the dead
soldiers being infantrymen ; it came out,
surprisingly, that infantry represented only
20 per cent, of the Canadian ground
forces in Europe, But 7800 of the con-
scripts booked for the Atlantic passage
went a.w.1., and last week only 1500 had
returned voluntarily or been rounded up.
Then General McNaughton, campaign-
ing for a by-election as Minister of De-
fence, charged with the duty of filling the
vacancies in the ranks, had to absent him-
self till, as he explained, troopships bound
for Europe had arrived safe. “The
Atlantic,” he said, “is alive with U-boats,
and we are having ships sunk every day.”
Australians, grateful for Canada’s
royal gifts to this country, and ad-
miring spectators of its rise to greatness,
trust that brighter days are in store for
their brothers in the good cause.
Crank or Seer?
‘Bumpkin” has no doubts:
The cure for soil erosion may come from an
unexpected quarter; and why not? Officialdom
was wrong about Sister Kenny and it might
be wrong about Stanley H. Ebery, of Black
Rock, Victoria. Anyway, it refused to publish
his prediction of drought in the Malice, which
has come true.
Dozens of Victorian farmers used to laugh
at Ebery’s seasonal forecasts. How can a man
predict a whole season’s weather? Now many
of them have given up laughing at him.
When farmers were saying that after 18
months the drought must break Ebery issued this
forecast last August:
No decisive general break in the weather
is apparent, and another dry spring seems
inevitable in those areas [districts north
and west from the Victorian highlands and
the southern half of N.S.W., west from the
slopes]. The spring will be milder than last
spring, but cold snaps will continue in
August and September, with further snow-
falls on the Alps and cold, frosty periods
inland.
As his notebooks attest, Ebery was suffi-
ciently interested in weather to be taking cloud
notes when he was 12. That happened in the
1902 drought year. Observing cloud forma-
tion, type, direction of movement and distribu-
tion was an obsession with him. His instru-
mental equipment consisted of a pickle-bottle
barometer, a leech barometer, a cheap combina-
tion thermometer and storm-glass, a strip of
salted greenhide, the beard of a wild oat and,
for estimating humidity, a seed of cranebill
grass.
Eight years later Ebery read a paper by E. T.
Quayle, of the Melbourne Meteorological Office,
which put him on the track of observing cirrus
formations in the upper air, comparing them
with the weather disturbances of the subse-
quent season and worrying himself about the
relation, if any, between them. For the next
20 years Ebery and Quayle exchanged cirrus
data monthly, his being taken in the North-
Central district and Quayle’s in Melbourne. For
the origin of his theory he takes no credit what-
ever. That goes to Quayle; but now Ebery’s
methods of dealing with the data are different.
Long before officialdom took any cognisance
of them, Ebery was giving his forecasts to
sympathetic farmers who acted on them. They
turned out to be right in 19 cases out of 22,
and in serious disagreement in only one case.
If Ebery’s theory is valid, its value in the
matter of soil conservation as well as other
aspects of fanning is obvious. Day-to-day
forecasts, because local vagaries upset the rate
and course of pressure systems, are of little use
to the farmer. They don’t tell him when he is
overstocking for an uncertain future. Long-
distance forecasts don’t have their general
character affected by these daily aberrations, and,
if trustworthy, would be of inestimable value
to countrymen. A farmer has told me that he
has been regulating his operations on Ebery’s
predictions for seven years with good result's.
Ebery, now retired from farming, operates
his own meteorological station at Black Rock.
The Forests Department and other institutions
have begun to take his forecasts for comparison.
His predictions for the Riverina and adjacent
regions for 1942, 1943 and 1944, made three
months in advance, coincided almost uncannily
with the official records. His supporters are
asking the Government to make him a grant
of £250 for the ensuing year so that he can
continue his researches. It may turn out to
be one of the best investments the Victorian
Government has ever made.
COMING BACK.
(“Come you back, you British soldier; come you back to Mandalay!”)


ECZEMA
2 ENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best Salve purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN’S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
Doans Ointment
PRACTICAL BOOKS FOR THE HANDYMAN
Giant Home Workshop Manual. Prepared by
the Editorial Staff of “Popular Science” Maga-
zine. Over 1500 working drawings, diagrams
and illustrations, with clearly-written instruc-
tions for making furniture, novelties, house-
hold accessories, home and garden improve-
ments, toys, shop aids and many other useful
articles—3oo in all. 496 pages. 18/6 (post 1/-).
Ami el’s Masons and Builders’ Guides.
Modern construction for bricklayers, stone-
masons, cement workers, plasterers and tile
setters. Four volumes. 1100 pages, 2067 illus-
trations. 42/- (post 1/2).
The Model Aeroplane Manual. A practical
handbook on the building and flying of model
aeroplanes. By Lawrence H. Sparey and
Charles A. Rippon. 236 pages, 199 figures.
12/- (post Bd.).
Diesel Handbook. A practical book of in-
struction. By Julius Rosbloom. 719 pages,
illustrated. 27/6 (post 1/-).
Chambers’s Technical Dictionary. An en-
tirely new and authoritative work of reference.
975 pages. 31/3 (post 10d.).
The Standard Mechanics’ Encyclopedia. A
practical outline of Mechanical Trades. Edited
by William L. Schaaf, Ph.D. 954 pages, with
over 700 diagrams. 30/- (post 9d.).
Audel’s Carpenters and Builders’ Guide.
Four volumes. 1600 pages, with 3700 illustra-
tions. 42/- (post 1/-).
Formulas for Profit. A collection of valu-
able, timely, practical commercial formulas
and recipes for making thousands of products
in many fields of industry. Compiled by H.
Bennett and a board of 63 Expert Editors. 632
pages. 12/6 (post 9d.).
Radio for the 3lillions. Prepared by the
Editorial Staff of “Popular Science” Monthly.
A remarkably complete book for everyone in-
terested in Radio. 192 pages, more than 100
wiring diagrams and 450 illustrations. 12/6
(post 6d.). j
Practical Mathematics for All. A simplified
but complete course of Arithmetic, Algebra,
etc. With examples and exercises. By Her-
bert McKay. 416 pages. 10/- (post 6d.).
Amateur Craftsman’s Cyclopedia of Things
to Make. 338 pages (9in. x containing
over 1400 illustrations. A complete manual
for the home and workshop enthusiast. 20/-
(post 1/-).
Motor Repair Manual. A practical handbook
on the repair, overhaul and adjustment of a
car, etc. For the owner-driver and amateur
mechanic. By the staff of “The Motor.” 151
pages, diagrams. 5/2 (post 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as —
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months :
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
General MacArthur turned 65 on
January 26, and President Roosevelt was
63 on January 30. Never were two birth-
days separated by six days celebrated in
more striking circumstances: the General
back in Luzon, a strategist of proved
genius and a deliverer; the President
sworn in for a fourth term and about to
leave on a mission charged with the hopes
of the world. They are two grand Ameri-
cans, and Australians will remember them
to the end of time.
S.M. “Herald” is having more Curtin
trouble. On Tuesday of last week it
made the P.M.’s return to his duties the
subject of two or three columns of guff,
with portrait. On Friday it tartly re-
called, giving chapter and verse, his
“specific” pre-election “assurance that his
Government would not socialise any in-
dustry during the war,” and taxed him
with “flagrant violation” of this “engage-
ment.” Flagrant violation it is ; yet on
March 21, 1942, Curtin became, as it
were. Granny’s pin-up boy, with an
inscription written in Mr. Warwick Fair-
fax’s own fair hand:
For us there are no more Parties.
Mr. Curtin is Australia’s Leader.
There are no rights worth a damn till we
have beaten the Japanese.
The worst of this Warwick-the-King-
maker business is that kings are so
capricious.
“I cannot think of any legislative
enactment of the Government which has
not benefited the people as a whole.” Mc-
Kell had the face to say that at Ryde,
pleading for the “Labor” candidate.
What about the Sydney Turf Club Act?
How much has that unspeakable war-
time measure benefited “the people as a
whole”? And what about the Indus-
trial Arbitration Amendment Bill? As
introduced it struck at the independence
of the judiciary, one object being to
scrape Cantor, J., off the Industrial Com-
mission in servile obedience to a union-
boss mandate. This failed because the
other Chamber wouldn’t stand it, but in
the result the Industrial Commission
lost whatever authority it had over “mili-
tant” unionists like the mob in the Gov-
ernment abattoirs at Homebush ; and the
McKell crowd never had any. One
effect was seen last week, when ratings
had to begin removing 450 tons of bone-
less beef for the Navy because the part
of the mob employed in the cold-storage
outfit at Homebush wouldn’t work. The
naval men were still at it when the Duke
of Gloucester was in Sydney.
Coal production in N. S. Wales, wheic
there is a “Labor” Government with an
expensive Mines Department headed by
the Deputy Premier, with demand increas-
ing all the time:
Tons.
1942 12,205,935
1943 11.473,499
1944 11,042,939
There is a State Government mine at
Lithgow, but its figures are unavailable.
There is also a Commonwealth-controlled
mine at Coalcliff, in which £lOO,OOO or
so of tax-money has been sunk in less
than a year, about £40,000 being dead
loss. * Daily output having declined under
“control” from 764 tons to 622 tons, and
the men having returned from their fort-
night’s holiday with a new lot of griev-
ances, the mine was closed down, but it
is understood to be “working” again.
Meanwhile the “Labor” Government
which runs the expensive Mines Depart-
ment is asking for a 58th seat in the
Assembly (90 members) on the strength
of its “record.”
The Premier in Sydney wrote to the
Premier in Melbourne complaining that
Victorian dingoes were border-hopping.
Stifling the thought that this might be a
subtle reference to himself and McEwen
as delegates to the C.P, conference in
Sydney, Dunstan replied that “Victoria
is spending a considerable amount of
money each year on vermin destruction,
but it is difficult to get dingoes to recog-
nise where one State begins and the other
ends.” These pleasantries between poli-
ticians ought to be fostered ; they are
getting rarer and rarer.
Ryde people are being asked by
McKell Labor supporters to vote against
Hearnshaw, the Liberal, on the ground
that he doesn’t live in the electorate.
This is rich, considering the many Labor
members who are not residents of the
electorates they represent. For example,
State Minister Evatt, M.L.A. for Hurst-
ville, and Federal Minister Evatt, M.H.R.
for Barton, of which Hurstville is part.
Both have a Hurstville telephone number,
but they live far, far away.
A.B.C. is in the wars. It was accused
by Calwell of giving a wrong version of
the statement which led to Blarney giving
him the lie, and by “S. M. Herald” of
“HAS ANYBODY HERE SEEN SCULLY?”
denying it credit for the settlement of the
milk strike. Then several members of
the staff said they were resigning to go to
commercial stations, and the g.m. got him-
self into an argument by protesting that
he couldn’t pay salaries offered by those
stations because he was “fettered” by
the wage-pegging regulations and the rival
concerns were not. While all this was
going on A.B.C. let a commentator criti-
cise the Russians for refusing help to the
Poles who held out for 63 days in War-
saw, and in the process exacting cruel
sacrifices from R.A.F. and American lads
flying from Italy, and let a Sunday war
“session” go by without booming Hay-
len, the accidental member for Parkes.
Clear signs of internal agitation.
Forde was the only Minister whose
election majority wasn’t greatly increased
17 months ago. In point of fact, it was
substantially reduced, and he has lost
ground in Capricornia since. So he
couldn’t have relished getting a memorial
drawn up by two Rockhampton business-
women, Mrs. Marwedel and Miss Lans-
berg, and signed by 306 other Rockhamp-
ton people. It was a pithy and most dis-
concerting protest against the Govern-
ment’s designs on the airlines and the
banks, reminding Forde of his leader s
pledge, the result of the refereadum and
“the long list of costly failures of busi-
ness undertakings entered into by Gov-
ernments,” and closing with Churchill’s
words; “We must beware of trying to
build a society in which nobody counts
for anything except a politician or an
official.” Rocks from “Rocky” and flung
fairly by fair hands!
Back in Victoria to fix up schooling
for two young members of the family,
Mrs. R. G. Casey said her husband felt
“very homesick at times,” and intended
returning to Australia, but not till he had
finished what he had set his heart on in
Bengal. He has entered upon the second
year of a five years’ term, so that should
give Dedman time enough to qualify for
one of the many ambassadorial or con-
sular positions that are piling up or are
in contemplation. Sir John Anderson
was Governor of Bengal for five years
to 1937. Next year he was Chamber-
lain’s Lord Privy Seal, and he is now
Churchill’s Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and possible successor.
A Newcastle “Morning Herald” extract,
sent to this office with a marginal query,
“Is the War Over?,” conveys the news
that the local Rugby League “has in the
last few days lost four outstanding
players” to a Sydney club, and that “efforts
are being made to induce at least six
other prominent players in the district
to sign contracts with Sydney clubs.” Of
three bought on the hoof a young gentle-
man who played in Sydney last season
said “Newtown has had its eyes on these
three players for some time, and made
each an attractive offer,” adding that
“Newtown is searching the country for
talent.” Nothing about whether Newtown
and other Sydney clubs, also “searching
the country for talent,” secure the sanc-
tion of the service authorities or of Man-
power for these transactions in leather-
chasers who should be useful military
material, or whether these trifling for-
malities are dispensed with.
Neither in Ryde nor anywhere else has
McKell explained why his “Govern-
ment” has not tackled the bottled-beer
racket or any other malodorous feature
of the Trade, in which there is notoriously
a tough element. In Sydney last week a
man awaiting trial on a charge of killing
his paramor in a pub of which he was
licensee confessed that, as a stranger
from Victoria, he had got the license as
a dummy for another licensee, in the
process giving false evidence. Transfer
of the license to a third party granted
without penalty to the party of the second
part.
Fallon and Dougherty, of the A.W.U.,
are hitting out valiantly in Queensland
at the communists. According to Dough-
erty, A.W.U. men had to fight corns, with
fists and pick-handles before they could
build the Townsville aerodrome, and had
the corns, prevailed “The Coral Sea battle
would probably have been lost and Aus-
tralia with it.” Victorian Labor members,
particularly Cremean and Mullens, are
equally active against communism, and
the progress of the foreign conspiracy
has been arrested by vigorous Austra-
lianism in South Australia and the West,
where the editor of the Westralian
“Worker,” with A.W.U. and A.L.P. sup-
port, has frustrated Red efforts to oust
him. But from the 71 Federal Labor mem-
bers (19 of them Ministers) and the 80
N.S.W. Labor members (15 of them Min-
isters), the corns, never get an unkind
word. Surely all their feet can’t be cold?
A Labor Prime Minister makes a dis-
puted matter clear:
The principle of preference to returned
soldiers, absolute and unconditional, was
established and put into force after 18
months of war. It was deliberately provided
for in a regulation having the force of law
which superseded a regulation providing for
preference to unionists. It was never ques-
tioned, being supported wholeheartedly by
every member of the party.
Curtin? Not he ; the sixth year of war
finds Curtin though favorable in a kite-
flying communication, apparently in the
mood to let hostile A.L.P. and trade-
union bosses decide, that being his
conception of leadership. The quoted
words were spoken by Hughes in the
House in 1943, referring to the events of
1915-16.
While the French communists were
shouting for the blood of collabora-
tionists, their leader, Thorez, received a
free pardon. From the moment hostilities
broke out Thorez began sabotaging the
war effort. He sealed his infamy by bolt-
ing to Moscow and was exiled as*a de-
serter from the army. The impenitent
ruffian is back in France exercising his
baleful influence and ready to become
the power behind the Government, or the
Government itself, if De Gaulle shows
weakness.
Curtin has been asked by the union to
give Ward, as Minister, “greater control
of transport.” But surely the Stadium
pugs who entertain “the ever-popular
Eddie” and tired bookmakers and punters
are getting all the rail priorities they
want.
A Mr. Moore, member of a concern
which has offered the Moorefield race-
course to the Sydney Turf Club for
£157,000, asserts that when the S.T.C.
bought Canterbury Park for £130,000 it
“had to find £20,000 in cash.” No hint
as to who provided the cash; but
apparently it was the Sydney “Labor”
Government. The Sydney “Labor” Gov-
ernment set up the Sydney Turf Club or
glorified gambling joint in pursuance of
the party’s mission to promote “the culti-
vation of an enlightened and self-reliant
community.”
Canberra announces that a “trade mis-
sion” will visit Maoriland soon to discuss
post-war trade questions. It will consist
of Commonwealth officers. Now, what
the deuce will they be trading in after
the war?
Most Victorians were under the
impression that the recurrent useless
and expensive liquor polls had been
abolished. Not so: eight years having
elapsed since the last attempt to introduce
prohibition was overwhelmingly defeated,
Victoria is facing another this year. The
last referendum is estimated to have cost
the various interested parties upwards of
£150,000. It was all wasted.


/ NO - NOT
WATER! )
5/44
The craziest of all ideas is to deny your
battery a drink. Stupid, isn’t it?
Consult your Exide dealer. Get him to give
your battery a once-over every second week
and add distilled water when necessary.
Water does not weaken the acid. This is the
way to get months of extra service from your
battery. s
BATTERIES
-
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
The extended term of Sir Harry
Batterbee, first United Kingdom High
Commissioner in M.L., and an ideal
representative, urbane and efficient,
has covered the whole o£ the war
years. He arrived in MX., in March,
1939. He is being succeeded by Sir
Patrick Duff, K.CB., K.C.V.0., who
in the last wkr was twice mentioned in
dispatches. Sir Patrick was private score-
tary to Stanley Baldwin and Ramsay Mac-
Donald, and subsequently was secretary
to the Ministry of Works and Public
Buildings. His latest diplomatic job was
Deputy High Commissioner of'Canada.
. „ . ,
Lawnston : Chief Justice Morris, of
Tasmania, is probably the only person
of his judicial tonnage whose finger-
prints are in police records. It came
about when his car was stolen and detec-
iP r ,>nts of owner and thief, asked
permission to fingerprint his Honors.
Known throughout the service as R.
G. Casey’s double, Wing-Commander
Jack Tunbridge, here pictured by
Mcßeath, is Deputy-Director of Man-
bea^9V arters ‘ A P roc ! uct
• arat 1C P 5 ,^ e § ot 1S ,
ir ,j xt as , a S on § ina l member of the fine
old No. 1 Squadron, Australian Flying
Corps* and next year gained an M.C.
WING-COMMANDER TUNBRIDGE.
while serving in Palestine. Invalided
home, he instructed the lads at Point
Cook till 1920, then went off to give the
world a further look over for a year or
two, returning to direct the family busi-
ness founded in Ballarat in 1854. In his
present post he’s been responsible for
the enlistment of air crews, and their
flying achievements prove that he’s used
pretty good judgment.
Vernon Smith, g.m. of Shell in Australia
and prominent Melbourne figure for ten
years, has decided to stay in England,
where his firm has given him an import-
ant appointment connected with its over-
seas operations. Educated in Paris and
at St. John’s, Cambridge, from which he
emerged with an M.A. to enlist in
th_ Duke of Wellington’s Regiment in
the last war, he transferred to the Indian
Army and saw service in Mespot before
joining the oil concern. He managed its
affairs at Singapore and thereabouts ; then
came to Australia.
“Hakim”: When an Australian mer-
chant ship was torpedoed in the Indian
Ocean last year Third Engineer “Bill”
Churchill v/as in charge of a lifeboat,
which he sailed 2800 miles to safety—a
feat the more wonderful in view of the
facts that he knew nothing of navigation
and little of small-boat sailing. Of his
original complement of 47 only 11 sur-
vived the 28-days’ ordeal. Bill is reticent
about the whole thing, insisting that the
credit rightly belongs to the bosun, who
helped him with everything, but who pre-
fers to hide his light. Bill’s main grouse
now is that he was welcomed to his home
port, Sydney, with an income-tax demand
for £l5- —on his earnings while in the life-
boat!
The judges—Robert Money, of the
“Listener-in,” Melbourne ; Keith Macart-
ney, of Melbourne University ; and Frank
Clewlow—couldn’t separate the verse
play “The Neighbors,” by Lieut. Alex-
ander Turner (109 Aust. Con. Depot),
and the play “Safe Horizon,” by Jon
Cleary (Military History Section, Mel-
bourne), in the latest A.B.C. drama com-
petition. The winners whack up first
and second prize between them, third
going to Edgar Athelstane Bee (North
Bondi, Sydney) for his play “Where Do
We Go From Here?”
Frank W. Fraser, who has succeeded
Captain F. Palmer as Canadian Trade
Commissioner in Melbourne, comes from
a similar post in Kingston, Jamaica.
Born at Grand Manan, New Brunswick,
in 1890, he finished an academic educa-
tion in time to serve with the Royal
Montreal Regiment in the last war.
Wounded and invalided home, he was
sent on a British recruiting mission to the
U.S.A., and then went into the newsprint
business in New York. Later he managed
a paper-box factory in his own Dominion.
Since then he has represented Canada’s
trade interests in Ireland and other places.
His two children graduated from their
father’s university into the Canadian ser-
vices in this war.
“M.G.S.” on a Methuselah:
At one year short of 80, H. G. Wells has
published a new book. Fellow Methuselah
Shaw once described him as the storekeeper of
civilisation, a sort of intellectual Anthony Hor-
dern’s. There is some truth in the description.
Wells in his time has sold almost every phase of
modern thought over his mental counter, and
he got his encyclopaedic knowledge much in the
same way as Kipling got his knowledge of
Empire. When Wells visited Melbourne the
editor of an intellectual monthly asked him for
an interview and got a courteous invitation.
The interviewer journeyed hopefully to his hotel
expecting to learn something about the great
man. When a talk of 30 minutes had finished
and he had departed he suddenly, realised that
Wells had been told all the essential facts about
the Kisch case, in which he was particularly
interested, the Commonwealth Bank Bill, Aus-
tralian trade-unionism, economics, population
and finance and the place of the Kelly gang
in the national psyche. He had learnt nothing
about Wells, and the only thing he had learnt
from Wells was something about English drink-
ing habits. Asked what he would have to drink,
he said beer. “Beer so early in the morning!”
Wells said. “Is that an Australian custom?”
H.G. ordered beer'for his guest, while he drank
whisky.
Rev. James lan Williamson has been
named as Moderator of the S.A. Presby-
terians for 1945-46. The election is in
March. Rev. Williamson was born at
Burnley (Vic.), was schooled at Stawell
and Geelong, then at Ballarat School of
Mines and Bendigo Tech. At first a car-
penter, he got his B.A. at Melbourne
Uni., was ordained and went to S.A. in
1939. He was a notable footballer, wear-
ing the Carlton jersey in Melbourne
League.
Edgar Rowland Dawes, member of
A.B.C. at 42, has also the gargantuan label
Chief Technical Officer of the Board of
Area Management of the Ministry of
Munitions. At 24, a fitter and turner,
he became secretary of the S.A. branch
of the Australasian Society of Engineers ;
at 28 he was M.H.A. for Sturt and led
S.A. Labor in the House when the party
was split over the Premiers’ Plan and
the shadow of John Thomas Lang lay
black across Labor doings. Dawes had his
second go at Canberra for the Adelaide
seat in 1940, but just failed to get there.
He’s been president of Adelaide Trades
and Labor Council and the S.A. branch of
the A.L.P. and on the A.L.P. executive.
He is also on the Royal Adelaide Hos-
pital committee.
M. B. Harry, Chief Inspector of Postal
Services in the P.M.G.’s department in
Melbourne, has called it a day after half
a century of service, which he began
carrying telegrams around in Adelaide.
As Commonwealth delegate he has at-
tended a host of conferences abroad, in-
cluding congresses in London, Cairo and
Buenos Aires.
The soldier here pictured by Scorfield
is Lieut.-Col. C. H. Grace, D. 5.0., for the
past two years an A.I.F. battalion C.O.
A Sydneysider, he was educated at The
King’s School, then at Sydney Uni., where
he edited most of the Uni. publications,
gathered his 8.A., L.L.B. and had his
first taste of soldiering with the S.U.R.
Enlisting in the A.I.F. in 1940, he went
LIEUT.COL. C. H. GRACE.
overseas as a captain attached to H.Q.,
Seventh Division, but eventually joined
the Ninth. Seconded from his unit to do
a job in Syria, he was back in time for
the big show at El Alamein. His bat-
talion was again in the thick of things at
Lae and Finschhafen.
Henry Lamond —.Queenslander and
Bulletin contributor for many years
past —has had a novel, Dingo, the Story
of an Outlaw, published in America and
featured in N.Y. “Sun’s” “Book of the
Day” column. The novel tells the story
of a dingo in the Queensland hills. The
first Coast to Coast collection of Aus-
tralian short stories included a Lamond
dingo story.
This par. is being written by one out-
side Man-power’s range, so there’s no
rank flattery in stating that they think
extra-highly of the new chief, D. P.
Witheriff, in that department. Sketched
here by a present-war Digger, Bill Prior,
Witheriff is a last-war Digger with a son
now in the Navy and a daughter also in
the services. Taking over from C. J.
Bellemore in the top job on March 1, he’s
been Assistant Deputy Director of Man-
D. P. WITHERIFF.
power since 1942. He had already once
succeeded Bellemore —as manager of the
State Labor Exchange 12 years back.
Bellemore then became Under-Secretary
to the Department of Labor, and now
returns to that job.
Adelaide banks are playing general-
post with their officials. The S.A. man-
ager of the National, Ralph Dobson, goes
back after four years in the south to
Queensland to control the bank’s busi-
ness there. (He was manager of the Pitt-
street, Sydney, branch before going north
first.) C. A. Robin, of the Sydney office,
now moves to Adelaide to succeed him.
Also the Bank of Australasia in S.A.
brings A. E. Guyett south from Rock-
hampton (Q.). S. A. Bell, from Inver-
cargill, is an importation from M.L. by
the Commercial in Adelaide, and G. F.
Loney, from Auckland, by the Union.
It is characteristic of Mrs. Daisy Bates,
the friend of the aborigine since she first
came to Australia from England in 1899,
that it has required a police escort to
pluck her out of her voluntary isolation
on the most desolate part of the East-
West line at Wynbring Siding to receive
urgent medical attention. The devoted
old lady has a mind as alert as when she
first ruffled a W.A. Government with a
dispatch to the “Times” criticising the
treatment of aborigines in that State. The
same Government later commissioned her
to compile a history of the Westralian
tribes, which, however, was never pub-
lished. In 1919 she settled at Ooldea on
the Transcontinental, and in 1933 was in-
vited to Canberra to discuss native mat-
ters with the Department of the Interior,
though she is the antithesis of the depart-
mental official. She has been living in
two tents surrounded by a brushwood
fence under primitive conditions, but near
a camp of the people she has spent her
life in endeavoring to protect.
Dr. Strathmore Cook, appointed Direc-
tor of Otago School of Mines (M.L.), hav-
ing decided to remain in the U.S.A., the
new appointee is Dr. Gordon John Wil-
liams, Director of the Geological Survey
of the Gold Coast, Africa. Like Cook,
a Maorilander, Dr. Williams took his
M.Sc. at Otago Uni. and his Ph.D. at
London Uni. He was a major in com-
mand of the Second West African Field
Company through the Abyssinian cam-
paign.
“H.W.”: One of the two K.Cs. lately
appointed in Victoria, Dr. Elias G.
Coppel, is the third Jewish lawyer to take
silk in a few months. Doyen of their
company, though, of course, he no longer
practises, is Isaacs Isaacs, now in his 90th
year, who became a Q.C. in 1899. James
B, Tait, the other new K.C., has an
accountancy qualification as well.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, at 73, George Ernest Flannery,
K.C. A Sydney High, St. Ignatius, Riverview
and Sydney Uni. product, he was Prime
Minister’s secretary in Barton’s day, and was
an authority on Constitutional Law.
In Melbourne, Lieut.-Col. John Kendall, who
was mentioned five times in dispatches in the
last war. His brother, H. Kendall, is director
of Melbourne Zoo.
In Melbourne, Mrs. Katherine Louise Logan
—Dora Mostyn to two generations of Austra-
lian and M.L. theatregoers. She played the
heroine in Bilanderson’s melodramas, with Dan
Barry companies and with George Rignold.
One of her star roles was in “The Squatter’s
Daughter.” “The Sentimental Bloke” was her
last appearance.
At 68, in Queenstown (Vic.) Russell Mervyn
Murray, g.m. of the Mount Lyell Mining and
Railway Co. until last year. After a brilliant
career at Melbourne University, he joined
Mount Lyell as a junior engineer. He gained
the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metal-
lurgy Medal in 1943 for outstanding services
to mining.
In Sydney, at 66, Dr. Frederick Watson,
former editor of the Federal Government s
“Historical Records of Australia.” His father
was James Watson, M.L.C., onetime Colonial
Treasurer.
In Sydney, at 62, Walter Rudolph Bayliss,
who’d been watching over N.S.W. State Gov-
ernment advertising since appointed Publicity
Officer in 1922. He was an Old Digger.
In Melbourne, at 90, Arthur Forster French,
for nearly 40 years on the staff of the Diocesan
Registry, St. Paul’s Cathedral. His father was
Major John French, Indian Army, and one of
his nephews is Major-General Basil M. Morris,
D. 5.0., serving in New Guinea. He was a
brother of John Russell French, who was g.m.
of the Bank of N.S.W., knighted for his ser-
vices in the last war.
In Dunedin (M.L.), Thadee Slavinsky, who
was in Australia with the De Basil Russian
ballet, and stayed to train Australians in ballet.
He married Marie Doran, who sings on tne
Tivoli circuit.
At Palmerston North (M.L.), Jolm George
Cobbe, for 15 years a member of M - L -s House
of Reps, holding Cabinet rank in Joseph Ward s
Ministry and later during the depression when
a National Government was formed. Born in
King’s County (Ireland), he retained a brogue
that was pleasant to listen to over the air.


PLAN NOW FOR
[ specify Lysoghts
RED ORB for
I rigidity; BLUE
ORB for curving.
8 ond iO Corrugo-
tions; cut costs by
using the wide
sheet wherever
possible.
or
In on gouges
ond lengths
6ft. to 12ft.
\
j* IREPROOF—economical—
easily handled by any handy-
unan essential for water
conservation—and possessing
jgreot tensile strength—Lysaghts Galvan-
ised Iron is the-, only reoHy satisfactory
building sheet for farm reconstructural
rwork. Specify it in yoxir rebuilding pro-
gramme ! Supplies of guaranteed pre-war
quality available with Victory.
THERE JS NOTHING
AS STRONG AS
t)
a
P&"SS.
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA I PTY.
-SYONEy • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE . ADELAIDE .
LTD.
PERTH
THAT
A
Th E
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS-James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitche I
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PfllLP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 «.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Lend-lease Aftermath
One of the early descriptions of lend-
lease was that it was a form of economic
intercourse between the United States
and the United Nations that removed the
“$ sign” from international bookkeeping,
In removing the dollar sign from war-
time trade, however, certain legal and
moral obligations have been built up, the
interpretation of which is considerably
more difficult than the understanding of
an account balanced in dollars and cents
or £ s. d.
The mere removal of monetary signs
from Allied war-time assistance was not
the fundamental virtue of lend-lease and
mutual aid. The big thing was that it
made available the essential materials of
war to those of the United Nations who
were in the best position to use them
against one or other of our enemies. That,
instead of the dollar sign, non-monetary
post-war obligations have been set down
in a rather vague way seems to be an
incidental rather than an essential to the
main purpose of lend-lease. But, while
the retention of the dollar sign in United
States assistance to the United Kingdom
and other countries would inevitably have
resulted in large post-war indebtedness
detrimental to speedy world economic
recovery, the conditions tagged on to the
supply of U.S. lend-lease materials aim
at not only avoiding a hangover of war-
debts but at promoting “mutually advan-
tageous economic relations between the
two countries and the betterment of
world-wide economic relations.”
It remains to be seen how it all
works out; even the highest economic
authorities seem to be doubtful about
many of the means suggested to obtain
the desired harmonious ends. And that
is not to cast cold water on the idea of
post-war international co-operation on
economic matters ; if nothing is attempted
in that direction certainly nothing will be
achieved. But it may be that generalities
set down as the conditions on which the
war would be co-operatively waged could
stand reduction to more practical terms,
The U.S. Lend-lease Act first became
effective on March 11, 1941. The Atlantic
Charter was approved on August 12,
1941, by Mr. Churchill and President
Roosevelt.' A Mutual Aid Agreement
was signed by the United States and
the United Kingdom on February 23,
1942, and this was applied to Aus-
tralia on Sept. 3, 1942, when a Reci-
procal Aid Agreement was concluded in
Washington by an exchange of notes be-
tween Australian Minister Owen Dixon
and the United States Secretary of State,
Mr. Cordell Hull.
Before lend-lease came into operation
Britain obtained its supplies from America
on a cash-and-carry basis. Gold, dollars
and foreign securities were mobilised in
most parts of the Empire in order to pay
for these purchases. Britain, in the throes
of a struggle against U-boats and the
Luftwaffe, as well as preparing to resist
an anticipated invasion and, ultimately,
return to the Continent herself, not only
was in extreme need of all the material
assistance she could get from the United
States, but she became less able to keep
Australia supplied with essentials. The
Commonwealth at this time was building
up its munitions industry, and it was
necessary to import large quantities of
machine tools, raw materials and corn-
ponents which were not procurable
locally. Thus, prior to the passage of the
Lend-lease Act, Australia was buying on an
unprecedented scale in the United States,
The virtual exhaustion of Empire re-
serves of dollars and dollar securities was
the compelling force behind lend-lease,
apart from the obvious sympathies of
U.S. as a whole in Britain’s lone fight
against Germany. Fundamentally, the Act
empowered the U.S. Government to assist
foreign Governments, whose defence the
President deemed vital to the defence of
the United States, by supplying them
with goods and services which they re-
quired for war purposes. Terms and con-
ditions on which lend-lease aid was to be
given weie to be those which the Presi-
dent deemed satisfactory, and “the bene-
fit to the United States may be payment
or repayment in kind or property or any
other direct or indirect benefit.” Lend-
lease still continues in operation. Reverse
lend-lease from Britain and British coun-
tries to the United States has now reached
large proportions.
The preamble to the Mutual Aid Agree-
ment, signed after Japan came in and
made the United States and Britain allies,
declares that the Governments of the
U.S. and Great Britain “are engaged
in a co-operative undertaking, together
with every other nation or people of like
mind, to the end of laying the bases of
a just and enduring world peace securing
order under law to themselves and all
nations.” It also declares that it is “ex-
pedient” that the “final determination of
the terms and conditions upon which the
Government of the United Kingdom re-
ceives such aid and of the benefits to be
received by the United States in return
therefor should be deferred” until the
extent of mutual aid is known and the
progress of events make clear what is
best for the two Governments and for
the maintenance of world peace.
Articles V, VI and VII of the Mutual
Aid Agreement deal principally with the
final washing-up of the “co-operative
undertaking” for war purposes, but lead
to suggestions for post-war economic co-
operation, not only between the U.S. and
British Government, but with the Gov-
ments of other countries “of like
mind,” Here are the three articles in
full:
Article V. The Government of the United
Kingdom will return to the United States at the
end of the present emergency, as determined by
the President, such defence articles transferred
under this agreement as shall not have been
destroyed, lost or consumed and as shall be
determined by the President - to be useful in the
defence of the United States or of the Western
Hemisphere or to be otherwise of use to the
United States.
Article VI. In the final determination of the
benefits to be provided to the United States
by the Government of the United Kingdom full
cognisance shall be taken of all property, ser-
vices, information, facilities, or other benefits
or considerations provided by the Government
of the United Kingdom subsequent to 11th
March, 1941 [Lend-lease Act], and accepted or
acknowledged by the President on behalf of the
United States.
Article VII. In the final determination of the
benefits to be provided to the United States by
the Government of the United Kingdom in re-
turn for aid furnished under the Act of Con-
gress of the 11th March, 1941, the terms and
conditions thereof shall be such as not to burden
commerce between the two countries, but to
promote mutually advantageous economic re-
lations between them and the betterment of
world-wide economic relations. To that end
they shall include provision for agreed action
by the United States and the United Kingdom,
open to participation by all other countries of
like mind, directed to the expansion, by appro-
priate international and domestic measures, of
production, employment and the exchange and
consumption of goods, which are the material
foundations of the liberty and welfare of all
peoples; to the elimination of all forms of
discriminatory treatment in international com-
merce, and to the reduction of tariffs and other
trade barriers; and, in general, to the attain-
ment of all the economic objectives set forth
in the joint declaration made on the 12th
August, 1941 [Atlantic Charter], by the Presi-
dent of the United States and the Prime Minister
of the United Kingdom.
At an early convenient date conversations
shall be begun between the two Governments
with a view to determining, in the light of
governing economic conditions, the best means
of attaining the above-stated objectives by their
own agreed action and of seeking the agreed
action of other like-minded Governments.
The first result of the principles laid
down under Article VII has been the
plan to establish an international bank
and currency-stabilisation fund, which
was approved by representatives of 44
nations at Bretton Woods, U.S.A., in
July, 1944. Lord Keynes, of the Bank
of England, was a prime mover in the
formulation of such a plan, though, as
ultimately approved, the shape was more
American than British. It must be ad-
mitted that so far the scheme remains
to be actually put into operation, and
that the approval of representatives has
not in all cases been ratified by their
Governments, Provided the leading
members of the United Nations stand
firm, lesser countries may find them-
selves obliged to co-operate in the
scheme, which aims at exchange stabili-
sation, a regulated flow of international
investment, and a healthy intercourse in
trade.
Upon the success of the international
bank and fund will depend a good deal
the possibility of success of any of the
hopes held in the matter of tariff reduc-
tions —that is, the reference to “the elimi-
nation of all forms of discriminatory
treatment in international commerce,
and to the reduction of tariffs and other
trade barriers.”
Australia is formally included in the
arrangements made by the United States
in accordance with the Lend-lease Act;
this arises through a declaration in
knight Owen Dixon’s note to Mr. Cor-
dell Hull (forming part of the Recipro-
cal Aid Agreement) that Australia
accepts the principles contained in the
Mutual Aid Agreement between the
United States and Britain.
A great difficulty in the way of achiev-
ing a well-balanced post-war worjd trade
is that the weaker industrial nations will,
where devastated by war, be needing an
even greater quantity of imports than
before the war, but will be in no position
to enlarge their external income by ex-
ports in competition with the United
States, which will be stronger industri-
ally than ever.
In order to achieve rehabilitation
it may be necessary for a number
of countries to receive U.S. economic
aid for a period after the war,
after the style of lend-lease. Mr. Eric
Johnston, president of the U.S. Cham-
ber of Commerce, has expressed the be-
lief that countries which can be built up
to a higher industrial standard will be-
come progressively bigger consumers of
American exports in spite of their appa-
rently growing industrial “independence.”
Broad views of this kind will be neces-
sary after the war if the United States
is to play its full part in the economic
rehabilitation of the world, Lend-lease
itself was the result of a broad view.
The pressure of taxation is having an
influence on the growth of savings-bank
deposits. In addition, the expenditure on
munitions is not now so great, and the
shifting of U.S. troops to other areas has
had some effect on business incomes. The
National City Bank of New York in
August last year quoted an estimate to
the effect that U.S. troops were spend-
ing in this country annually a sum equal
to the value of a year’s wool production.
This may have beep, an exaggeration, but
it is true that Australia has recently lost
a tidy amount of income by the departure
of U.S. troops. During 1944 the increase
in Australian savings-bank deposits was
£102.4 million, compared with £105.3
million in the preceding year. The total
at December 31 was £516.7 million, com-
pared with £244 million at the outbreak
of war. The growth during the month of
December, 1944, was £6.2 million, which
was well below the average for the year.
Christmas spending usually affects this
month’s savings each year. A steep
rate of taxation has been operat-
ing now for over 12 months, the
pay-as-you-go method, having made last
year a particularly hard one. How-
ever, there is still much avoidance of
taxation by black-marketeers and the like,
and the note issue, though at present on
the decline because of a small demand
for currency by Allied troops, is still huge.
* * * *
Australia’s coal production has de-
clined annually since 1942 ; N. S. Wales
has been mostly responsible:
1942. 1943. 1944.
(In Thousands of Tons.)
N.S.W 12,206 11,473 11,043
Queensland .. .. 1,722 1,732 1,689
Victoria .. .. 311 286 257
Westralia .. .. 587 529 568
Tasmania .. .. 125 143 146
South Australia .. 34
Commonwealth .. 14.951 14,163 13,737


FOR 25 years we have supplied all types and sizes ot torgmgs and castings to
all Australian industries. They are available in all grades of stainless,
heat-resistins, and alloy steels, for every type of application. Have you
considered how much high-grade steels can give you in longer service and
lower maintenance costs?
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED—Head Office and Works: WARATAH. N.S.W.
B ranch Warehouses; Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth
Credit Expansion
The world should have learned this
about credit expansion by now: It is all
very well to expand credit in times of
business stagnation (as during the last
depression), but the countries which show
the best results for that expansion are
those which have planned the basis of the
credit outlay well. Money well spent,
and in sympathy with public demand, is
likely to be productive of further employ-
ment, while money spent aimlessly is
likely to retard employment later on
through the interest burden on the credit
raised being felt by industry through
taxation.
It was not necessary, as in Germany,
to spend a great deal of the depres-
sion-time credit expansion on war
weapons and munition plants; on the
other hand, Australia spent much “un-
employed-relief” money in vain, whereas
it would have been ever useful if spent
on water conservation. In the United
States there was a lavish expenditure of
money under the New Deal plans, and
much of it went in restriction of produc-
tion and other uneconomic “organisa-
tion.” True, the Tennessee Valley
Authority achieved remarkable things
eventually, but when Americans com-
pared New Deal “improvements” with
New Deal additions to the debt the debt
seemed to have a big lead, and the in-
creased interest bill exceeded the increase
in revenue that arose out of the
expenditure.
Credit expansion that envisages the
spending of money on needed public
projects that can be carried through
with the labor, power and materials
available can nearly always be justi-
fied, especially if the people show the
need for the new projects in their will-
ingness to pay for the services they render.
Self-supporting public works pay their
own interest bill, and desirable but non-
productive works usually render a
public service in proportion to their cost.
Earle Page’s Clarence River hydroelectric
scheme should be kept in view as a job
worth spending money on at the appro-
priate time. It is public expenditure on
a political rather than an economic basis
that imposes burdens that are resented
and ultimately contributes to unemploy-
ment. And where there is plenty of credit
available in the hands of the public it is
wiser to use that than to “expand” credit.
In the last Commonwealth Budget the
Government made a provision for war-
time plant wear and tear not remediable
under present conditions. The Treasurer
stated that owners of income-earning
assets would be permitted to make in-
terest-free deposits with the Treasury
equal to estimated plant maintenance up
to June 30, 1945. The deposit will be
allowed as a tax deduction. As it is with-
drawn it will be treated as taxable in-
come, but actual expenditure on repairs
and maintenance will be granted as a de-
duction. From the Government’s view-
point it will get the money during war-
time as an interest-free loan, and during
this period of loan-raising difficulty loses
no funds by the arrangement. From the
taxpayer’s point of view the scheme has
its advantages, but, as it is limited to re-
pairs and maintenance, it is not an answer
to the post-war plant-replacement prob-
lem.
* * * *
Speaking in St. Louis in September,
Dr. Roy Blough, director of the division
of tax research of the U.S. Treasury De-
partment, said, according to a New York
“Times” report, that the problem of post-
war taxation will be far more difficult to
solve than the war-time tax difficulty. Pre-
dicting that after the war the tax ques-
tion will be “the most difficult in Ameri-
can history,” he declared that the tax
load promises to be so high that “any
system will inevitably have restrictive
effects on consumption and investment.”
The most Americans could hope for, he
added, was that taxes will be designed
to produce the minimum interference
with the factors and forces leading to full
employment. Australia will have a
similar problem to face. We shall have
to face it more realistically than we are
facing present economic problems. There
comes a time when the political scatter-
ing of the national credit in ill-conceived
projects and “security schemes” has to be
paid for by one and all, in addition to
the payment for war costs that have
been chalked up behind the door at the
Commonwealth Bank. Abusing “vested
interests” will not pay these debts or
overcome these problems. When the
time to pay comes it will be found, in-
evitably, that industry will have to be
given the maximum of relief in order to
encourage employment. That means that
the wage-earner will have to foot his
full share of the bill. Which suggests, in
its turn, that the wage-earner at the
present time should take more than a
passing interest in the expenditure of
public money and the ever-growing size
of the national debt.
* * * *
In cases where the Prices Commissioner
asks a company to transfer part of its
profits to a Government department, in-
stead of ordering a cut in prices, the ques-
tion arises as to whether directors of a
company can legally do so without the
sanction of shareholders. Certainly the
disposal of profits secretly would seem
to be illegal under the ordinary form of
company constitution. Where the matter
of transferring profits to, say, the Depart-
ment of Supply and Shipping crops up it
is usually in a case where profits of the
company under review are rising and not
necessarily its prices. It is debatable as
to whether the Government is on sound
ground in its attempt to control profits
regardless of whether prices have or
haven’t been raised since war started.
When price control was introduced its
aim was to prevent price inflation, not
rising profits. The latter should have
been looked after by a genuine excess-
profits tax system. It is significant of
the Government’s financial behavior in
general that its practice of asking that
excess profits be paid into some depart-
ment or the Treasury is not anti-infla-
tionary, although the prime object of
price control is to prevent inflation. All
of this goes to show how a financial
principle may rapidly degenerate into a
policy of political expediency in the
wrong hands.
* * * *
The shape of things to come? Extract
from the “Hardware Trade Journal,”
London Nov, 7, 1919 (practically a year
after the Armistice had been signed):
This journal is not concerned with politics
or we might have a good deal more to say
about last week’s finance debate. Mr. Lloyd
George, “now doubling his fists in emphasis,
now jabbing a finger as at some critic, now rais-
ing his outstretched hands aloft and dropping
his voice to the low, beseeching tones of a
preacher,” concerns us, as a politician, not at
all. We have read his speech with considerable
solicitude, however, in order to discover any
signs that the shears for which he called for
last August [1919] are to be applied to lopping
off departmental extravagance, and we are
frankly disappointed. In a clever speech we
are reminded that there was war on which
threatened the liberties of all, and are assured
that every penny of the war debt has been well
spent—a proposition that is sufficiently con-
troversial to burke the main issue.
We are still left in doubt', however, as to the
particular form of mesmerism by which the
Government is to continue to go on week by
week spending double its income. We know
that these tactics cannot be pursued in ordi-
nary business, and we do not think that they
can be pursued even with the aid of co-
ordination at the Treasury. Mr. Lloyd George’s
speech has already met the common fate of
speeches. The vast load of debt remains, to-
gether with the machinery for creating more
debt. Departmental muddle and extravagance
continue to flourish. Only the other day there
was a wild call for thousands of bedsteads from
one department, which appears to have dis-
covered quite accidentally that another depart-
ment had bedsteads by the thousand in stock!
Australia this time is more likely to have
an overdose of that sort of thing than
Great Britain.
* * * *
Cotton yarn spun in Australia for use
in weaving increased from 1,695,0001 b. in
1938-39 to 19,510,0001 b. in 1942-43. The
Commonwealth is now providing a large
part of its needs in coarser cotton
fabrics, such as drills, canvas, denims,
etc. More recently Australian Consoli-
dated Textile Industries, a subsidiary of
Calico Printers, Ltd., Britain, began
spinning yarn and weaving drill and
calico in South Australia. The co. also
has plans for spinning, weaving and
printing finer types of cotton fabrics
not at present made here. It was recently
announced that development of the rayon
industry was to go ahead at Rutherford
(N.S.W.), in the hands of Burlington
(Australia) Pty., Ltd. As to our woollen
textiles, production has risen from
27.114.000 square yards in. 1938-39 to
39.746.000 square yards in 1943-44.
* * * *
British overseas assets valued at £1065
million have been sold and liabilities in-
curred abroad have mounted to over
£2300 million sterling since war began.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Ek Bum”: The name of H.jM.S.
Howe and other things about her
and her complement have some asso-
ciations with Australia, mostly now
lying forgotten in the cellars of his-
tory. Lord Howe, of the Glorious First
of June, whose descendant is transport
officer to the modern ship o’ the line
named after him, was First Lord of the
Admiralty when Australia was settled in
1788. He it was who (somewhat unwill-
ingly) appointed Captain Phillip to com-
mand the First Fleet, and it was to him
that Phillip addressed the first of his dis-
patches descriptive of Port Jackson,
mentioning his selection as an anchorage
of a cove that had “the best spring water,
and in which ships can anchor close to
the shore which I honored with the
name of Sydney.” As a battleship, Howe
naturally has her complement of Royal
Marines, who also have an original asso-
ciation with the foundation of Australia.
It was a Royal Marine who first stepped
ashore in Sydney Cove. Royal Marines
formed the first garrison. Their com-
mander was Major Ross, who was also
the first Lieutenant-Governor. The com-
mandant of Marines on H.M.S. Howe
is also Major Ross.
* * * *
“Tuart”: There is no nicer fellow in
the world than an Australian of the best
type, and such was Malcolm McEachern.
I met him long ago on one of his early
concert tours. It wasn’t financially suc-
cessful, for Australia is kind to its singers
only when Influential People take them
up, and Influential People were not in-
terested in Malcolm. I suspected then
that he was hard up, but he did not lose
heart or even grumble. In London, where
he found as much fame and fortune as
he looked for and troops of friends —one
of them, B. C. Hilliam, who was “Flot-
sam” to McEachern’s “Jetsam,” has writ-
ten with deep feeling of their 20 years’
association, “never interrupted by a differ-
ence’’ —he remained an Australian, affec-
tionate and loyal. Going into the opera-
tion chamber from which, as he knew,
his life could be saved only at the cost
of his noble voice, his last thought was
for the old people in Australia. Albury
bred him, and Albury’s pride in him will
endure.
* * * *
“M e 1 b n”: One of Melbourne’s
strangest houses, Idylwylde, Balwyn, is
to come under the hammer. It was
built by O. Gilpin, proprietor of a
store chain, and 120 workmen labored
for six years to complete the 25-room
mansion. Scottish-woven carpets, speci-
ally designed furniture and an array of
glasshouses as large as the average Malay
kampong make it one of the most ornate
of Melbourne’s dwellings. Its owner died
before he could move in, and, except for
a few months when an army officers’
training corps was in occupation, it has
never been lived in.-
* * *
“Hamfat”: Mixing with a group of
actors who might have been businessmen
or lawyers, I was reminded that actors,
Ijke the theatre and the audiences, have
changed. In the old days one could
always tell a mummer. They looked like
tramps, for salaries were poor (“My boy,
you hear a lot about these big sal-a-ries
of four and five pounds a week; but do
they get them?”). Julius Knight’s £4O
a week (on a starring tour) was con-
sidered phenomenal, and when it went
round that Andrew Mack was being paid
£6O a week it was thought the Firm had
gone crazy. Wardrobe was a bugbear
and a fetich to the ill-paid actors. Except
in costumes plays, they had to find their
own stage dress, and it was a tradition
that no mummer must wear the same suit
of clothes for different characters. This
“Well, the hardest part's over, Arthur. All We've got to do now is find
the forked tree near where the old pot buried his money."
meant a strain in a long season of often-
changed bills. Part of the freakish dress-
ing off-stage was due to a desire to pre-
serve better clothes for stage use.
He He He
“Ear Punisher”: Some enthusiasts have
suggested that Melbourne’s Bourke-street
should be planted from end to end with
the red-flowering gum. Why not? Town-
planning tree-lovers object that the Aus-
tralian tree is untidy, and that it is so
individual that you can never be quite
sure how it will grow. They like the
plane-tree and similar arboreal lamp-
posts, which are so symmetrical that they
could easily be made of metal and turned
out in moulds ; but when they plant streets
with these trees they don’t like the mono-
tonous effect they produce. If Bourke-
street were planted with flowering gum-
trees and they grew like the one at Oak-
leigh, t 5 which citizens make annual pil-
grimage when it breaks out in all its
astonishing profusion, it would be one
of the world’s famous thoroughfares.
Chairs and tables could be set beneath
the trees, where the citizen could sit and
sip his Hunter River claret and his Mel-
bourne bitter in the long summer even-
ings with his friends or his wife and
children, and watch the buses go by and
discuss the latest Archibald Prize winner
or tomorrow’s double —but, perhaps I am
going a bit too far.
* * * *
f “Zake”: It might be said in all inno-
cence, though I doubt it. During his
latest opus the lop-eared swooner-
crooner Sinatra, who looks badly in need
of a good square feed, comes hurrying
in, after some harassing delays, to a
theatrical producer’s hotel suite some
time after lunch. Says the producer s
stooge to Sinatra: “You haven’t had any-
thing to eat yet?—no, I can see you
haven’t!” He would have a keen eye
for a change in the human frame who
could discern whether a man had missed
his lunch. Perhaps the script-writers
daughter had joined the bobby-socks
brigade. Apropos, the first production of
this Sinatra film in Sydney led to a
theatre-entrance riot, the silly members
of a “Frank Sinatra Club,” who had been
egged on by silly papers, being attacked
by silly larrikins—three kinds of Sydney
infantilism crowded into one scene.
* ♦ * *
“F.S.”: In his diatribe against the
people who write lyrically about
“modern” art, “Arter” (B. 17/1 /’45) tends
to father on the masters the sins of their
disciples. The meaningless jargon written
by arty-crafty critics about pictures by
the founders of the movement doesn’t
necessarily prove that the pictures are
meaningless. The “S.M.H.” critic may
have written that Matisse was an “in-
stinctive painter” who observed no rules
and worked outside the realm of reason,
but what Matisse himself said is surely
more important. When a young woman
went to him and soulfully informed him
that she wanted to paint something en-
tirely new he told her to start by draw-
ing a plaster cast. As for the label
“modern” which the present generation
of disciples insists on so vehemently,
Picasso said “There is no modern art;
there is only good painting and bad
painting.” With few exceptions, the post-
impressionists could do a good job of
work, and, in fact, many of them made
a living by copying the Old Masters in
the Louvre. I have known “modernists”
who couldn’t copy their own pictures, and
if they had to copy a Murillo or a Rem-
brandt they wouldn’t know where to start.
He H* H* H*
“Caballer”: “Keg” (B. 17/1/’45) is
right. The Huntley and Palmer No. 4
biscuit or “Anzac Wafer” was the main
food on Gallipoli right up to the end.
Bread came about five times a week, and
16 to a loaf means one thin slice per man.
We thought we were quite well fed, and
any inclination to grumble was frowned
upon by old hands who had ridden with
French to relieve Kimberley 15 years
before. They declared that Lone Pine
and Courtney’s Post were, by compari-
son, holiday resorts. “Tea served three
times a day, stew, jam and a slice of fresh
bread four or five times a week, no
marching and only a few demoralised
Turks to oppose us. What do you
expect?” Not until we got to Flanders
did we realise how tough the Peninsula
had been.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: For six months or more a
German garrison has been holding out in
La Rochelle, isolated from all possibility
of help by land, and with only a slim
chance of being supplied, and that
meagrely, by air, A French force has the
job of taking the place, but its task is
difficult, and an eminent authority, writ-
ing in the past tense, has explained why
this is so:
Well as La Rochelle was invested, certain
as success might appear, owing to the pre-
cautions taken, above all to prevent the
entrance of any vessel into the besieged
city, the blockade might last for a long
time. The question of carrying the city
by assault, though often debated, had
always been rejected This extreme
measure always fell to the ground before
the'one argument of the besieging generals
—La Rochelle is impregnable except by
famine.
Read on and you will find that "“La
Rochelle surrendered after a siege of a
year; the capitulation was signed on
October 28, 1628.” For the historian was
Alexandre Dumas, that old siege of La
Rochelle being one of the events de-
scribed by his glowing pen, and embel-
lished by his imagination, in The Three
Musketeers. Other places that were to
figure unforgettably in the First World
War crop up in the grand old book. After
Milady poisoned Madame Bonacieux in
the convent of Bethune she was tracked
by Athos to Festubert, then by Planchet,
D’Artagnan’s lackey, to Fromelles (of
grim memory to the Fifth A.I.F. Divi-
sion), and so to Armentieres, afterwards
noted for a certain Mademoiselle. The
avengers, gathered together, “silently rode
through Festubert, skirted the wood of
Richebourg” (like Festubert, remembered
by every 1914-18 Tommy) and reached
the Lys, “rolling its waters like‘a river
of molten lead.” On the left bank of
that stream, “under a black mass of trees
outlined against a stormy sky,” the lady
was done in with a broadsword by the
executioner of Lille, who then “took off
his red cloak, spread it on the ground,
laid the body in it, threw in the head,
tied it by the four corners, lifted it on
his shoulder and let the body drop into
the depths of the waters, which closed
over it.” Alexandre was a champion at
that sort of description. There is nobody
like him among the moderns, though
Hemingway and his tribe of imitators
try hard.
* * * *
“A.J.K.”: R.A.N.R. shipboard slang
has a flavor of its own. The lucky naval
chaps don’t get M. and V. or bully. In-
stead, the babbler prepares hot “scran”
(first course) and “duff” to follow. If the
tars are still hungry, they wheedle more
grub from the “tankey” (the food store-
keeper). If they miss “divisions”
(parades) they’re liable to get “off caps”
(put in), and maybe they’ll finish up in
the “rattler” (jug, boob, lock-up) or
“chokey.” The “dhobying” (Cingalese
for washing) firm does the laundry work
for Eastern Fleet ships. For a bit of
shore leave the naval boys have an
“upper-deck” wash (face and hands), take
care they are not “schooner-rigged” (half-
dressed), don. their “watch coat” (great-
coat) in case it’s chilly and sally off with
their “oppo” (mate). In the evening there’s
always a chance of meeting a “crafty
bint,” but care must be taken to hold on
to the “liberty card” (leave pass) even if
one’s money disappears.
* * * *
“Rookie”: Purists who deplore the
Americanisms which are creeping into
our speech should read H. L. Mencken’s
The American Language. The oft-
repeated claim that the Yankees speak
the language of Shakspeare cannot, of
course, be sustained, but a few words, for
instance, “flapjack,” “jeans,” “molasses,”
“andiron,” “greenhorn,” “trash,” “fall”
(for autumn) and “homely’ (uncomely)
have, in fact, been preserved in the U.S.A.
Other words which have survived in the
Elizabethan sense are the verbs to guess,
to hustle and to loan. “Pesky,” “snicker,”
“argify,” “slick up” and “scrimp” are
pure Elizabethan,' Something very similar
occurred to the French language when
it was transferred to Canada: French-
Canadians now speak a species of seven-
teenth-century French (etoile is estelle,
for example), and have used old words
for new objects: thus a train is a chara-
banc,
* * * *
“Bar Din”; A P.D. car pulled into the
pavement near Proud’s corner, Sydney,
and a police officer commenced to mega-
phone safety and courtesy instructions to
the crowd. A short, dark-complexioned
lad in uniform was about to cross the
road with a fairly docile herd of pedes-
trians when a ’teen-aged girl pointed at
him dramatically and screamed “That’s
Sabu!” The elevating precepts of the
police department were at once forgotten,
and in a twinkling Sabu (a bashful lad)
was engulfed in a pack of frantic
females, Sabu escaped without serious
injury, but no doubt he has had occasion
to ponder the words of the man of
Bombay:
When husband meets with hunter, each confirms
the other’s tale,
That the female of the species is more deadly
than the male.
BEHIND THE SCENES.
“Messrs. Forde, Makin, Ward, Beasley, Calwell, Laz-
zarini, Dr. Evatt and Senators Ceilings and Cameron
are all non-smokers. Mr. Chifley and Senator Keane
are habitual pipe smokers. Messrs. Curtin, Forde,
Makin, Beasley, Ward and Senator Ceilings are total
abstainers from alcohol. Messrs. Forde, Beasley and
Ward never swear, either.”
—Canberra correspondent of Melbourne “Arpus.”
Fierce is the light, some poet has asserted,
That beats on thrones and those thereon
whoTe set;
An axiom that can’t be controverted,
As kings and queens have found to their
regret.
And here’s as fierce a shaft of limelight squirted
Incontinently at a Cabiqgt,
Coldly illuminating, if yod please,
Their various social idiosyncrasies.
Some six there are, you learn, who shun the
dragon
Abhorrent to the temperance preacher’s soul,
The danger lurking in the festive flagon,
The subtle menace in the flowing bowl,
And travel patiently “upon the waggon”
Towards their party’s pre-determined goal.
Stout fellows these, who never need a nip
To be a stimulus to statesmanship.
Nine of our rulers never ’neath the boko
Are wont to let the fragrant fag be seen,
Or crave, for giving their opponents toko,
A periodic whiff of nicotine,
Somewhat ascetic blokes who want no smoke-oh
Their dialectic tilts and scraps between.
Two only turn from manufacturing laws
To set the pipe-smoke streaming from their
jaws.
The common people, those in lowlier quarters,
Are ever pleased to see the great unbend
For those who never hope to be resorters
Behind the scenes where orators contend,
Glimpses like these (from “Argus”-eyed re-
porters)
Fulfil an equally attractive end,
Showing how many Ministers are wont
To drink or smoke —and just how many don’t.
And lastly there are models of discretion,
Masters of courtesy, who never deign
To use an unforgiveable expression
Or take a sacred name or two in vain;
Who’re never guilty of abrupt digression
Into the coarse and vulgar and profane.
Fewer, it seems, than those who are averse
To tots and cigs. are those who never curse.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Bo”: When in pre-war days we used
to hear from returning travellers of Lon-
doners paying ninepence or a shilling
for a peach there were incredulous gasps.
Yet a man rang the Prices Commission
office in Sydney and complained that he'd
had to pay ninepence each for peaches
and would produce the evidence. An
inspector accompanied him to the King's
Cross shop where the peaches were
bought, and, obviously expecting a
denial, asked the shopkeeper whether
he had served the gent, with three
peaches, cost 2s. 3d. The shopkeeper not
only admitted it, but claimed that he had
undercharged. Did the gent, have the
peaches with him? He did? Then
put them on the scales. Weight, exactly
two pounds. Set price for peaches,
Is. 2d. per pound. It did look a clear
catch, but —it can happen here, can’t it?
* * * *
“Spasebo”: Here’s my nomination of
the prize war story. Russian scouts
were unable to approach German
headquarters across a frozen river
without being detected, so the Red
artillery bombarded a dam and let
out the water. This left the river a
vasty empty space roofed by ice. Scouts
waded across its bed unperceived, hold-
ing one another’s hands, emerged through
a hole in the roof and rushed the German
trenches. An experiment with ice in the
Russo-Japanese war wasn’t so successful.
The Russians wanted to get to Manchuria
in a hurry, so in the winter rails were laid
on the ice-eovered surface of Lake Baikal
and troop trains traversed them. The
idea was abandoned when a long line of
crowded cars plunged through the ice
and disappeared in the frozen waters.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: As to that “curious fear of
death by drowning inherited from Eng-
land” (B. 30/12/’44), I have just come
on a remarkable instance in an H. C.
Bailey yarn. Two double-dyed villains
have abducted an heiress. Dr. Fortune
and a helper pursue them to the shore,
where there is a brief scrimmage round
their boat, and the villains escape in it
without their victim. Soon there is a
commotion out at sea, as the boat sinks
under them ; Fortune had got in a couple
of shrewd strokes with a chopper. But
his friend is horrified, and only when
shown that the girl had been stowed in a
sack with stones, for convenience in dis-
posing of her, can be reconciled to the
idea of drowning the toughs. Similarly,
the British sailor has always been eager
to rescue from the sea enemies who were
sunk while shooting at him.
« # * J*e
“Kashmiri” (New Delhi) on music-
makers of India:
Reference (B. 14/6/’44) to Dr. Bainton hearing
“Wearin’ of the Green” played on a pipe by an
Indian on top of a mountain in India chimes in
with my experience on a recent visit to Calcutta.
There street urchins have fashioned bamboo
pipes and they walk up and down Chowring-
hee, the main street, in the blackout blowing
such tunes as “Deep in the Heart of Texas.”
Yes, there are plenty of Allied servicemen in
India, and they are liberal with rupee notes.
“Texas” has proved itself to be far more
remunerative than “Daisy Bell,” which is occa-
sionally done. While my luggage was being
checked at Domel, near the North-west Fron-
tier, I heard a dark-skinned musician with
wizened face and long beard playing on a
beautifully-toned instrument, shaped like a man-
dolin yet played with a bow. The old chap
gave us such Scottish airs as “A Hundred
Pipers” and “Loch Lomond,” and wound up
with Lauder’s “I Love a Lassie.” This is un-
usual in a country whose music seems pinned
to a few notes in a minor key, so I asked the
old fellow about it. He told me that as a youth
he was bearer in a Scottish regiment on the
North-west Frontier, and he picked up the airs
from Highlanders.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: “Strict Veg.’s” theory
(B. 17/1/’45) that most advances in
science and knowledge have been made
by “quacks” is a favorite argument of
charlatans and their dupes, and is gener-
ally followed by an inaccurate reference
to Pasteur. Certainly Pasteur was not
a fully-qualified physician, but he was
“in the game,” being a trained scientist
who lectured medicoes at the university.
* * * *
“Pawang”: A report that twin sisters
obtained the same aggregate and indi-
vidual marks in a nurses’ examination
has produced a crop of stories of similar
purport. A leading psychiatrist told the
best one. Twin brothers in England, one
of whom is now a judge, sat for an
examination in separate rooms. One boy
couldn’t make a start for ten minutes,
and then it was found that the other boy
hadp’t got his papers. When the one
started, off went the other, and in the
upshot it turned out that each had used
the same words and made the same
bloomers. The psychiatrist’s tentative ex-
planation is that as the brain cells and
structure of twins are identical, they have
the same capacity for learning, and hence
the same “Bergner Rhythm,” a name
given to the electrical waves hypotheti-
cally set up in the brain by thinking.
The “Bergner Rhythm” could conceiv-
ably have the effect of wireless waves,
and each boy’s brain would act as a trans-
mitter and receiver.
"No; you fool! —the talc is sufficient!”
“Arris” remembers Melbourne’s
Bohemia:
Its focal point 40 years ago was Camoosa’s
wine shop in Lonsdale-street. Every Thursday
night writers met there for dinner. In summer the
meal was served in the backyard, where there
was always washing on the line; when the
meal was over and the table cleared we ordered
bottles of wine and fancied we were in the
Quartier Latin. There came The Bulletin*’s
Edmund Fisher, author of “The Billiard
Marker’s Yarn” (in which occurs the immortal
line “And orl that Charlie buttered was the
exclamation ‘’Ell!’”); Bamford, M.P., who
boasted that his Queensland electorate was
bigger than all Victoria; Ted Dyson, writer of
Factory ’Ands, who made a steady thousand a
year as a freelance; Williamson (whose poem
“The Magpie” opens finely with “The dream-
ing Tiber wanders by the haunted Appian
Way”); and little Doctor Maloney, always
enthusiastic about something. Also there was a
swarthy Spaniard who brought a lovely lady
and a guitar, both capable of sweet music.
And there were others. The place lost some of
its charm when we found out that the washing
was just stage properties and was never taken
in. Bitterly disillusioned, we emigrated in a
body to Fasoli’s, in King-street.
* * * *
“Caesar’s Ghost”: The stentors (I have
heard both of them) mentioned by “B. A.
Ker” and “Cauboy” could not compare
with “The Little Man With the Big
Voice,” for years a Sydney identity. He
was spruiker for various picture shows.
•When he was working for one on Brick-
“ Where's the soap ?”
as far away as Railway-square on the one
hand and the Town Hall on the other,
despite the roar of traffic in that vicinity.
The Law that curbed the vocal activities
of spruikers broke his heart.
* * * *
“Pip” on soldiers awaiting paternity:
Traditionally an object of mirth mixed with
pity, the expectant father in the Army is a
nuisance. He starts floor-pacing and chain-
smoking weeks before the estimated day. No
woman's magazine sent up from home is safe
while he is around, and mounds of literature
get stacked under his bed open at the care-and-
feeding-o£-baby page or hints to young mothers.
Astounding discoveries about babies are made
and the rest of the tent regaled with facts and
figures that make the hair stand on end. Never
is ear-bashing so constant. As the big day
draws near the father becomes completely use-
less, driving officers and n.c.os. to desperation.
Helpful comments, like laying him five to one
it’s twins or tens triplets, and the stories
of disaster everyone has heard about don’t help
to improve his condition. The event never
seems to take place at the expected time. Five
days after anticipated an urgent telegram brings
the good news. Poppa collapses in a relieved
heap vowing he could never go through the
ordeal again. Here’s one telegram: “Jones,
Junior, has arrived. Six pounds of the most
marvellous potential A.W.A.S. in the country.
She’s super. Everybody well.”
“Lord Luvus”: I came across some
plain speaking on the liquor trade in the
English “Hansard”:
The beer shops licensed to have beer
drunk on the premises are a pest to the
community. They are haunts of thieves and
prostitutes. That beer should be sold like
anything to be taken away by the pur-
chaser to be consumed at home is most
reasonable, and the more people are enabled
so to supply the laboring classes the better,
but the words “licensed to be drunk” on
the premises are by the common people
interpreted as applicable to the customers
as well as to the liquor, and well do they
avail themselves of the license. Beer shops
should be abolished, permitting shopkeepers
to sell beer like oil and vinegar and treacle,
to be carried home and drunk with wives
and children.
Who said it? Gladstone, when he was
Home Secretary in Lord Palmerston’s
Cabinet in 1860 and was introducing a
social-reform bill.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: According to London
“Daily Telegraph’s” New Delhi corre-
spondent, a Hindu ascetic, Swami Ram
Lakhan Das, was buried for 16 hours in
a grave deep, covered with corru-
gated iron and a thick layer of cement,
which was guarded by the Swami’s dis-
ciples and other observers. He came out
apparently lifeless, recovering his senses
field Hill, George-street, I have heard himafter his head had been rubbed with ice
and his body massaged in accordance
with his own pre-interment instructions.
India is a land of marvels of that descrip-
tion. A few years ago a profound sen-
sation was produced, and the British raj
considerably embarrassed, when a dead
rajah turned up and claimed a province
which had been given to an alleged
usurper. The claimant’s story was that
he had feigned death by producing
in himself a state of suspended ani-
mation. When the funeral party
wasn’t looking he woke up and hurried
off in a contrary direction. The body
which had been thrown on the funeral
pyre was that of a deceased coolie (no
details as to how substitution was
effected). For 20- years, claimant de-
clared, he had wandered over Hindustan
as a professional yogi, until he got a
yearning for worldly power and fortune.
The case caused a great stir, which was
submerged in the threat of Japanese
invasion.
* * * *
“S.V.”: A Victorian Bung with a sense
of humor has a printed notice in his bar :
“If you need glasses consult an optician
—Don’t Take Ours.”
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: An Adelaide man considers
himself particularly unlucky. The police,
in going through the (illegal) notes of a
bookmaker, found a memo of a 2s. bet
made with him at long odds, and pro-
ceeded on the logical but unusual theory
that the backer is as guilty as the layer.
The defendant said he was not a
betting man, but did like a harmless
sweep. Having drawn the same outsider
in two different sweeps on the Melbourne
Cup, he thought this was the straight tip
to risk a bit more. Fine, £4.
* * * *
“Hayseed” mourns the Ma State’s road-
side inns: —•
Most of those popular pubs, Meccas of the
thirsty ones who travelled the Western High-
way in the ’thirties and ’forties of last century,
are no more. The Emu Ferry has gone; where
the Pilgrim was is a chook ranch; there's
neither Weatherboard nor Cottage of Content,
Eagle and Child nor Woodman’s Inn. Seem-
ingly sole survivor of the good old days is the
pub at the intersection of Bathurst, Rydal and
Lithgow roads, known as the Donnybrook.
In the old days it was kept by Alexander Bin-
ning, a canny wee Scot who had devised a sign-
board with a picture of a fish, a tree and a
river, and the words “The fish that never
swam, the free that .never grew, the river that
never ran.” The flourish with which Alexander
welcomed Governor Fitzroy and party to his
inn in 1846 showed a fine business sense. The
Gov.’s aide, Colonel Munday, recorded that
Binning welcomed the visitors with a triumphal
arch of flowers and greenery, and fizzing fire-
works. Munday, who, judging from the gusto
with which he wrote of them, was a connoisseur
in pubs, wrote later: “Binning’s is the best
inn on the road, with active and obliging people,
good plain cookery and clean beds.” Binning
awaits the last trump in Bowenfels kirkyard.
* * * *
“Pookie”: A minor change in army
organisation experimented with by the
British Army in the early part of the war
was the creation of warrant-officers 3rd
class, who acted as platoon sergeant-
majors and platoon commanders, thus
obviating the use of commissioned ranks
in that capacity. After the fall of France
subalterns resumed their normal duties,
P.S.Ms. took over sergeants’ work, but
retained their former rank and pay, and
no more promotions were made to this
rank.
• * * *
“F.H.”: The closing of Melbourne
Observatory and its transfer to Can-
berra puts a period to 90 years’
work and research in Victoria, conducted
by four eminent men —Ellery, Neumayer,
Baracchi and Baldwin. During the early
years at Pt. Gellibrand, Flagstaff Hill
and finally at the present site, built in
1861 in the Domain, the Victorian Gov-
ernment was interested and provided
funds. The Commonwealth Government
took over in 1908. Today, owing to lack
of modern equipment and qualified per-
sonnel, the Observatory’s function is con-
fined to the keeping of the time service ;
general astronomical observation is in
abeyance.
* * * *
“X.S.”; Melbourne’s first prefabri-
cated house? It was constructed in
London by a builder who took it to Aus-
tralia in a sailing ship in 1851 and
erected it in Canvas Town amongst the
tents of the diggers. He sold it for £lOO,
and 40 years later his son found it still
standing, covered with ivy, in North
Melbourne.
* * * *
“Jabberwock”: It was a quaint, effec-
tive touch in the film “Pimpernel Smith”
to make Goering (thinly disguised under
another name) interested in English
humor, and cross-examining Professor
Smith as to the significance of that im-
mortal poem that commences “ ’Twas
brillig, and the slithy toves.” But this
chance shot may have got somewhere
near the target, for the bulky boss of the
Luftwaffe was recently reported as say-
ing “The three greatest Powers in the
world are arrayed against us. Such a
concentration is almost a compliment to
Germany.” Hermann must have been
reading Barrie’s play “Peter Pan.” Cap-
tain Hook, confessing fear of the croco-
dile that carried off his right arm, says
to Smeq (the pirate with the sewing-
machine) “The brute liked my arm so
much that he has followed me ever since,
from sea to sea and from land to land.
In a way, it is a sort of compliment.”
“OUTSTANDING IMPRESSIONS.”
“Outstanding impressions,” how do you get
them? ,
We hear of them often, but who ever met them.
This idiom afflicts me with searchings and doubt,
The thing that sinks in, how can it stand out.
It brings me the same sort of hopeless perplexity
As if you should chatter of concave convexity,
And is just such a sign of linguistic depravity
As gibbering or babbling of convex concavity.
In short, let’s regard as the basest of worms
These chaps who commit contradictions in terms.
MX.
ARNOLD WALL.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Bo”: The swamp which had been dry
and silent before the heavy rains was
now a veritable din of croaking basso-
profundo frogs. As Scragger, the abo.
teamster, approached the swamp by the
road which skirted it the frog chorus
reached a full-throated roar of “Whoa-
arr,” “Whoa-art.” Scragger’s team lum-
bered to a stop. The abo. had spent ten
minutes in high-pitched cajolings and
threats when Burton rode by. He caught
the concerted order to stop from the
swamp, then before moving on he humor-
ously offered advice to Scragger to stuff
up the beasts’ ears. “By cripes—good lurk
that one,” said the abo. An hour later
Burton came by that way. Scragger was
standing a couple of feet in front of the
leaders, holding a board which he had
ripped off the jinker and on which he
had painted in Stockholm tar the words
“Giddap! ” When Burton raised his eye-
brows the abo. spoke. “Stuffen up longa
ears stupid lurk,” he complained. “They
can’t hear me, all-same frogs. But nuttin’
wrong with eyesight, though”—here he
winked—' “this'll fetch ’em.”
* * * *
“Mark Six”; “The O.D.’s” remarks
(B. 17/1/’45) remind me of the rewards
hung up for dingo-stiffeners. Northern
Territory offered a measly seven and
sixpence per head. Queensland pays
a pound, and that is frequently added to
by local councils in sheep districts. South
Aus. also pays a pound. Westralia tops
the poll with two pounds per nob. It
was in 1927, when the skin-and-hair trade
was at its lowest ebb, that the philan-
thropic Gropers shot the price up from
a quid. There was a wholesale exodus
of ddgmen from the Territory into Hall’s
Creek and Wyndham, and the number
of dogs caught along the tracks
between the border and those two towns
was incredible. At least three-fourths
of the dingoes in W.A. must have been
lined up waiting to die in the cause. I
was in Hall’s Creek in ’29, and was talk-
ing to the sergeant of police one day
when up walked a well-known Territory
drover carrying a sugar-bag, the odor
from which clearly proclaimed its con-
tents. “A few scalps for you to count,
sergeant,” he said genially, adding virtu-
ously “I caught them this side of Birrun-
dudu.” “Yes, I know, I know,” replied
the harassed sergeant; “a blanky dog
wouldn’t think of dying in the Territory! ”
“Jay Jassie”: Dan, who complains
about getting only half-price for dingo
pups (B. 3/1 / ’45), apparently hasn’t studied
the tactics of youthful blackbird-reward
hunters in the Speck berry-fruit areas.
The Government offers a higher price for
birds than for eggs, and after locating
nests young merchant adventurers guard
them carefully until young birds are
nicely feathered. Then there are mass
executions, followed by calls on the
police with the evidence and for the six-
pence a head. The fact that £1590 has
been paid in rewards for 57,541 birds
and 18,147 eggs speaks for itself. The
trouble is imported, as usual—it started
when a few pairs of the pests escaped
from the old Hobart Zoo.
* * * *
J.O’C.”; Koroit (Vic.) has produced
a snake that ranks high in size, mystery and
deadliness. Thirteen feet six inches long,
with a girth of 11 inches, it is of a species
unknown in the district. It is, or was,
black with red diamonds along its back,
the red having centres of black diamonds.
A fox terrier attacked it unhesitatingly,
and was doing pretty well when whistled
off. As the faithful foxy was obey-
ing the snake struck, and the dog, bitten
on the ball of the foot, died in three
minutes. The hunters shot the reptile’s
head off, and, anticipating the sceptics,
are having the skin stuffed for exhibition.
The best guess as to its origin suggests
that it escaped, when young, from the
bag of one of the charmers who used
to roam the district “doing the shows.”
* * * *
“Pookie”: There had been a duststorm
all day. Everyone protested that it was too
hot to eat, but when Mum made a tasty
salad and opened some salmon they all
did it justice. Feeling better about things,
Dad and the boys went and had a smoke
on the front verandah, leaving the
women to wash up. After a while Joe
muttered “Might be a bit of a breeze
from the creek,” and walked out to the
back of the house. Four seconds later
he returned, eyes bulging with horror.
He had found the corpse of Ginger, the
“Look at the big lout sleepin' on the job again.”
family mouser, stretched out alongside
the salmon tin. The women came
out. Everyone experienced abdominal
pangs. The doctor, a conscientious man,
beat all speed records out from town and
subjected them all to the torture of the
stomach pump. Next rooming Dad still
felt ill, but stronger, so he decided to
drive into town and see the doctor again.
He was just closing the gate when he saw
a rapidly approaching cloud of dust
which he rightly surmised to be Bruce,
his nearest neighbor, likewise on the way
to town. Bruce pulled up, leaned out and
yelled “How’s the cat?” “The cat?” said
Dad, in some surprise. “Why, he’s dead.
Lucky we’re all alive.” “Thought he might
be,” said Bruce. , “He looked pretty
dopey. I must have, hit him with the
mudguard as I swung round the corner,
and knocked him clean over the culvert,
but he got up and walked up to the
house. Funny how they’ll do that some-
times, isn’t it?” Dad decided to go into
town anyway.
* * ♦ m
“Mat’s Mate”: Me and Mat were mak-
ing for Ouyen from Murrayville (Vic.)
just after .the harvest one year, taking it
easy because we had a few quid between
us and weren’t in any particular hurry.
One morning it started to blow from
the west and before long we’re struggling
through dust so thick a dog couldn’t bark
in it. “We can’t be far from Linga,”
Mat shrieks at me. “Let’s clap on the
pace and get in there for shelter.” We
battled on and I’m keeping a look-out
for Linga, but there isn’t a sign of it.
Then Mat barged into something and
we found a bloke with a buggy, who’d
turned his horse’s back to the wind and
was sheltering behind it. “How far’s
Linga?” yells Mat at him. “You’re past
it,” he yells back. Just then an empty
500-gallon tank and a few sheets of iron
go flying past, just missing us. “Never
mind, boy,” Mat yells at me, “Linga’s
goin’ past us now.” He spits a couple
of acres of somebody’s fallow and added,
“Though I don’t like our chance of ever
catchin’ it.”
* * * *
“Amber Gris”: Whatever it was that
got under the hide of the chestnut it lifted
him over the rail and sent him high-tail-
ing to join the brumbies in the Tinaroo
Ranges; so I saddled the grey and rode
over to Tinaroo Creek. It was midday
when I hung the reins on a twig outside
Jim Bailey’s. Jim, the sole tin-scratcher
on the creek, seemed pretty surly when
I asked him for news of the mob. Know-
ing the solitary habits of old fossickers,
I put it down to his rheumatism. He
squinted at the quart-pot in my hand and
spat in the dust. After I had passed him
the makings I took a cut lunch out of the
rolled sugar-bag on the nag’s wither. At
this he cheered up noticeably. Then he
squatted, a wordless invitation for me to
do likewise and gossip. We did. And
then, after a while, “I’ll boil the billy,”
said the old ’un ; so we went inside the
dim shack. I munched the sandwiches
while Old Jim cut a slice of damper and
a slab of corned junk. Washing the stray
crumbs through his whiskers with great
sucks of boiling tea, he pointed a gnarled
finger at the remaining hunk of damper.
On its crust were two deep parallel
grooves, baked in. “That old fool Harry
Swan come up the crick yesterday,” he
mumbled sourly, “wantin’ to know how
much tin I can send in —the old thief. Ate
half me damper, too, blast him! ” At this
I grinned, awake to his grouch. Like
many old bushwhackers, he had himself
exactly rationed. Harry Swan’s visit had
thrown his baking schedule out a whole
day. The damper had two, instead of three
notches! Only the cut lunch saved me
from the stigma of “another —— guest”
and Old Jim the need to bake on Friday
instead of Saturday.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Domestic animals gone
bush can be every bit as troublesome as
our uncivilised fauna, their early train-
ing in no way weakening their natural
caution and instinct. Dogs, cats, horses,
goats, etc., have all proved their ability
on occasion, though I think the greatest
nuisances I’ve cbme across was a bunch
of pigs that, brought to the station in its
earlier days, escaped into the bush and
went wild. For some years they roamed
and bred contentedly in the back coun-
try, feeding on roots and other edible
discoveries, till a particularly bad season
sent them in to prey on the drought-
stricken jumbucks. Worse than dingoes,
they took their nightly toll, and it wasn’t
long before harassed owners were every-
where hunting pigs. They got quite a
few, the last to survive being two huge
and cunning brutes that persistently
evaded capture, the bonus of £2 a head
being as nothing to the honor and glory
that incited eager hunters to yet more in-
genious methods and devices. Eventu-
ally the reward fell into the hands of an
old fencer who, returning to work one
morning, discovered tracks through the
short unfinished span of his fence.
Quickly he closed the gap and com-
menced the hunt that ended the careers
of two of the district’s worst pests.
* * * *
“0.-t.”: The fires that swept the Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) this summer must
have decimated bird and animal life in
the valleys and on the cliff faces, some of
which look as though they’d been gone
over with a blowlamp. Except for the
glen at the foot of Katoomba Falls and
another at Linda Falls, on the Leura end,
there isn’t a patch of that four or five
miles of scarp, fissure, fern-glade and
shelf that wasn’t blasted. The only living
things in all the blackened waste are
somewhat bewildered currawongs, a lost
red lory or two, the inevitable crow and
the inquisitive human. But in the glens
have gathered the feathered survivors of
the holocaust, thrown together in a des-
perate sanctuary from the surrounding
black barrenness, and so eager for food
and water that they give the tourist no
more than a watchful look—even lyre-
birds and the usually wary coachwhip
have become promiscuous. And up in
the big trees around Echo Point are
flocks of gang-gangs. Bird-watchers
would find their hobby made easy on the
Blue Mountains now.
* * * *
“Bill C.”: Can’t agree that “Nature is
a pretty poor craftsman” (B. 20 /12/’44).
Here’s an example of her remedial
methods. In the late ’Bo’s Krakatoa, a
volcanic island in the East Indies, flew
into fierce eruption, caused a tidal wave
that swept over neighboring islands and
drowned 30,000 people. Everything on
Krakatoa was incinerated and buried
200 ft. under lava and ash. Nothing
could ever grow again on that blackened
shell, said the geologists. But about 20
years ago green stuff started growing
again, and the last I heard was that the
island was fast becoming jungle-clad, and
that it even had a python or two and
plenty of bird life. The snakes probably
came from neighboring
islands on driftwood.
sic *
“VX”: I was- staying
at a little pub near Dor-
rigo (N.S.W.) when a
hard - bitten teamster
pulled in with his team
one morning. After
several hours of steady
guzzling Bullocky be-
came pretty cranky, so
Bung, an ex-trooper,
threw him out. Back
came the oxen - per-
suader with a demand
for more and a threat
to pull the adjectival
pub down if he didn’t
get it. Bung tossed him
out again. The bar had
settled down to quiet
drinking and yarning
when there came a
terrific crash outside.
Everyone rushed out.
The bullocky was just
unhitching his team
from one of the four
stone pillars that had
held up the pub veran-
dah and was about to
hook on to the next.
Bung brought him in
and gave him enough
to make him happy.
.
“Windbag” : Two draught im ‘
ported from Victoria were landed on
Burnie (Tas.) wharf, then taken overland
a bout 83 miles, fording three rivers,
through many miles of rough bush coun-
try? t 0 a logging camp. They were
worked two days, and the following
morning they were missing. Three days
j * rd w y as received , hat belli torses
~ . .
were found early in th g _<=
on . tbe 1 f victoria
ent ty waiting or
* * * , , ~ ~
Solitude : The old bloke had got ho
of some marvellous new bean seed, and
one slack evening decided to try his hand
at gardening. For some time his enthu-
voice disturbed my reading ; then,
grabbing a brace of tools, he disappeared
roU nd the back of the hut. There fol-
iowed an hour of peace; then he arrived
back his ants tornj face scratched, and
forb idding look in his eyes. 1
wrestled wit f my better self for a few
h 4 ; t 0 di with the
mmu ’ , ’ , f ? -i^ntnrpfl
end tbe f°
recklessly. There was no answer. Groi -
beans is a pretty dangerous proposi-
lion,” I remarked experimentally to old
Blue, less you know the knack of get-
fin 8 ’ em int ° ground. bloke
came round with a snort Think
h°V } m * c g ß re ;^;
“Trouble is I didnt allow for em bei
this sort Got the trench dug, he ven
on » <an tbe man H,y e /’ n ’ , a T, . a
shovelled soil on top. That s right, am
it? Then I put the seeds in, covered em
with earth, poured some water on top,
an’—see that?” He shook his head and
pointed sadly to his torn pants.; “well,
that’s ’cos I didn’t jump) back quick
enough.”
HOSPITALITY.
In the dear, dead days of ’forty, when the beer
was mellow and strong,
We had thirsty souls at our parties from Hay
to Gobarralong;
The merry hours fled carousing, we drank with-
out favor or fear
And revelled in joy and laughter till the Snow-
ball Creek ran beer.
Then rationing came to the region, -and gloom
grew daily more strong,
With downfall of joy and friendship, decay of
music and song:
It was bitter and sad at sunset to sit by the
river bank.
For the wistful willows were haunted by
the ghosts of bottles we drank.
But a stranger came to our district, a kindly
wizard who knew
How hops and malt and good fortune could
fashion a heavenly brew.
Oh, the rabbit may run as it pleases and the
sheep, at their pleasure roam,
For we have business with barrels, and bottles
and yeast and foam.
And we’ve had our reward, praise Bacchus! —■
Oh, may the fat years augment
The bulk and the fame and the fortune of
him who brought such content!
Serenely the days are dancing, there’s joy in the
heart's of men
And the hardwood rafters re-echo to mellow
laughter again.
( Postcript .)
I open this missive to mention that Life is a
mocker again.
There also arrived in the district inquisitive
Customs men,
Their pockets with summonses bulging, their
hearts as unyielding .as stone—
A curse on the shifty stranger who taught us
to brew our own!
N.S.W.
PATTERSON'S CURSE.


“Tapioca”: We were resting aching
backs during the first day of spud-dig-
ging when our co-belligerent help opined
that the women in Italy were more use
on the farm than they are here. Women
in Italy pick up “pertahtohs,” he said.
“In Italia plenty women: in Australia,
one farm, one woman.” He explained
how his father had a farm and (before
the war) all his brothers and sisters lived
at home. As each brother brought home
a wife the domestic circle grew and grew.
“Gripes,” said Joe, “don’t all the women
fight among ’emselves?” Tonio held up a
cigarette. “My farder one big stick”—
expressive gesture—“no fight.” Joe
allowed that the Eyties had more sense
than he’d given them credit for.
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie, head-
ing from Marnoo to St. Arnaud (Vic.),
camped in a woolshed one night and
woke up to find himself immured by a
deluge. All that day it poured. To-
wards evening a man came down from
the homestead, asked Charlie how he was
doing and invited him up for a game of
cribbage. They played six-handed, four
men and two women, until midnight and
Charlie went back through the rain to
bunk. Next day it rained on, and the
boss and his three hands joined Charlie
in the shed, where they yarned awhile,
then got restless, began to grumble and
look for fight, as active men will when
compelled to be inactive. Then “Curyo”
got out his sweat-wheel and set it up.
“I ain’t on the make with you blokes,”
he said. “Each of us’ll run the wheel
an hour, all bets limited to tray-bits.”
By night the women and the Chinese
cook had joined the game in the shed
and the tray-bits changed . hands over
and over. They were still at it when
“Curyo” retired. Next morning it
cleared up and Charlie prepared to
move. “Xou were a bloomin’ godsend,”
said the boss, seeing him off. “If y’
hadn’t bin here I’d ha’ had 17 fights on
me hands.” Charlie picked up the reins.
“Aw, well,” he said, “you get a bunch
together, give ’em a gamble an’ limit
their bets an’ they’ll be all right.” With
which contribution to philosophy he
clucked to his horse and departed.
* * * *
“Blime”: Mac stopped to watch as Jim
raced Simpson’s bull towards the boun-
dary fence, plying his stockwhip enthusi-
astically on the more vulnerable parts.
“Troublin’ you, too, is he?” he remarked
as Jim pulled up. “Lord knows what the
brute’s cost me already, and it ain’t no
use tellin’ the old chap t’ keep ’im ’ome.”
“No ; an’ a fine chance a bloke’s got of
unloadin’ his heifers fat in the winter
with that thing around,” snorted Jim.
“Why the devil don’t Simpson sell him
like he’s always sayin’? He don’t need
a bull.” “Tell y’ what” —Mac had a
brainwave—“suppose we buy ’im f’r dog-
meat an’ whack the loss?” Jim agreed,
and for a few weeks there was peace.
Then another stray made its appearance
in the heifer paddock. Mad clean
through, Jim visited first Mac and then
Simpson, and after a few days’ fuming
over the price, eventually paid out a
further £lO and collected another broken-
down nuisance. A fortnight later, riding
towards town with Smithers, Jim sud-
denly stopped to stare unbelievingly
towards his prospective fats. “W-who
owns that b-blasted scrub bull?” he man-
aged after several incoherent attempts.
“Simpson,” Smithers told him. “Bought
him from me a few days back. He’s a
fair cow to wander and wants shootin’,
but the old bloke didn’t mind. Said he
had a first-class market down here with
a coupla mugs that’ll buy anything.”
* * * *
“Chuck”: Twenty years of married
life had taught Kelly not to leave change
in his pockets. Many ingenious hiding
places round the house and sheds had
been tried, but sooner or later Kelly
always lost out, so eventually he trans-
ferred his safe deposit to the paddocks.
“Coin’ inta town, are y’?” he’d ask me
as I rode by. “Well, hold on ; I’ll get
y’ t’ bring us out some t’bacca.” Run-
ning an eye over the landscape he’d
select a tree, step off a pace or two,
glance round cautiously, and start to
scratch, presently unearthing the neces-
sary few bob. Proceeds from small skin
sales, bets and odd bits of change all
went into the secret deposit for personal
needs, and it seemed that he had beaten
the pocket-delving of his long-haired
mate. Then he met with an accident.
For five weeks he lay on his back lis-
tening to Mrs, Kelly’s grumbling and
watching his tobacco dwindle. First day
on his feet again he made for the pad-
docks. “Hear your nag put his hoof
through a rabbit burrow,” I greeted,
coming on him profanely sifting a large
heap of earth. Kelly looked up. “G.-
“You said to follow the railway line.”
good job, too,” he spluttered. “Hope
the cow goes through every flamin’ burra
in the country. J’ jus’ look at that, will
y’?” The bunnies had tunnelled clean
through his head savings bank.
# * * *
“Blue Gum”: The wombat is one of
few animals that can afford to turn its
back on its enepiies. The fact that its
hind portion may be showing in a shallow
burrow or in a space between stones
where it has been forced to take refuge
from a dog does not worry it unduly, for
the reason that not only does it possess
&kin of considerable toughness, but also
it has an extra thickness on the rump,
just at the spot where a dog or other foe
would scratch or try to bite when this is
the only part of the body revealed. With
its head and foreparts tucked in the hole
and its legs folded beneath it, the wom-
bat has a high degree of security.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; There is a lot of the
boy scout in Happy’s make-up, and
beauty in distress never fails to bring it
out. Thus, when the sounds of canine
warfare mingled with feminine hysteria
came echoing around the corner he
promptly vacated the shade of the pub
verandah and dashed to the rescue.
Screeching “Stop him, he’ll kill him!” a
young woman was frantically trying to
push an attache case between an extra large
and ferocious mongrel Alsatian and an
unusually small foxy. The only other
spectator, a big, tough-looking citizen,
making no attempt to assist, was offering
the callous counsel “Let ’em go, miss—'e
won’t ’urt ’im.” Happy took in the situation
at a glance. “Do you own that dog?”
he demanded, “Yair,” admitted Muscles,
“but let ’em ’ave it out,” “And have
the lady’s dog butchered,” stormed Happy;
and, ducking under the big chap’s restrain-
ing arni, he plunged into the “melly.”
The first kick, rather loosely aimed, was
punished by a flashing snap that ripped
the trouser leg from cuff to knee. Profit-
ing by experience, the mediator grabbed
the big bushy tail handle-fashion, placed
a hearty boot and was about to whip up
another, when something solid thudded
under his left ear, and' dog fights
temporarily ceased to exist. “Bad-tem-
pered witch, wasn’t she —’ittin’ yer with
’er case like that?” sympathised the big
fellow as he dusted Happy off. “But why
did she do it?” asked the crestfallen
knight-errant. “Well, yer did kick ’er
dawg, y’ know.” reproved the other.
“Her dog?” Happy was bewildered.
“Yair,” explained the tough gent.; “she
thought ’er mong was killin’ my foxy,
but another minute and Spot would’ve
chewed ’is ears off! ”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Among the more mas-
sive items of obsolete equipment which
have been pressed back into service in
our valley you may count old Sam. A
mighty toiler in his day, he is the chief
reason why our local lads were less im-
pressed by the feats of bulldozers and
tanks than were blokes from districts be-
yond the range of his reputation. Ordi-
nary citizens were content to bring home
a load of firewood in 6ft. or Bft. lengths.
Sam’s team struggled in with a big lum-
bering waggon piled high with great.
whole, charred trees which —God knows
how! —Sam had put there by himself.
When roused, as when a horse jibbed or
a cow wouldn’t bail up, he would utter
a horrible roar and thrash the erring
animal, by hand. In his milder moods
he invented things, from elaborate boats
from which to shoot duck —they mostly
sank, Sam and all —to homely comforts
like a billy of hot coals dangling from
the dashboard of the sulky, and a bag of
chips on the floor to stoke it with, for
keeping hands warm while driving on
frosty mornings. Like most of the
simpler things of life, this device was a
marked success, and Sam’s chariot could
be noted miles away smoking like the
midday mixed but noticeably slower.
He’s hardly been seen in recent years, but
lately, by dint of much earnest talk and
fifteen bob a day, they coaxed him out
all right, as he
crawled steadily forward the thin line of
feathery leaves left clean of weed by his
huge hands was just as consistently
scraped out by his great boots.
#
“Moyhu”; In the days when every
farmstead outside a township was more
or less isolated fright at the approach of
a strange vehicle wasn’t confined to farm
animals (B. 10/1/’45). Scott, one-time
engineer for the Oxley Shire (Vic.) and
one of the earliest users of a motor-cycle
in north-eastern Victoria, called at a farm-
house situated well back in the hills from
the Rose River. The cocky and family
stayed long enough to watch the running,
hunched-up form of the engineer hurl
himself on to the exploding vehicle, and
then made for the scrub, preceded by the
farm livestock. Scott left a note explain-
ing what he had come for, and said he’d
be back that day week. A couple of days
later he received a note from the cocky
to the effect that if he didn t come by
natural means he needn t come at all.
Scott went, but he left his bike at the
nearest pub and completed the journey
in a ramshackle buggy. The cocky put
away his gun and gave Scott as genuine
a welcome as ever he d received.
* * * *
“Driaz L.”: “Jarrah” Ned stared ift
sulky fascination at Sid Jewkes, 90ft. up
the big blackbutt. Chips stopped trick-
“Haven't I Warned you never to Wear spurs on a camel?”
ling down for a moment as the axeman
shoved in the 30th board and dropped
the knotted-together clothes-lines, fastened
round his waist, for another stave. The
chips came again as notch No. 31 went
in. Ned shifted his gaze to the two ten-
ners stuck in old Ike Boll’s hatband, then
to the dray, still half-full of shingles, and
to the little knot of men eyeing him in
derision, “Plenty wood there, Neddy, to
take him to the fork,” grinned Ike; “she
ain’t no more’n 200 feet up. Do it, come
dinner, then she’s yore’s t’ beat.” A thin
shout came from aloft: “Pass up y’r
woolly, Ned ; wind’s a bit chilly up here.”
Ned’s knees felt the strain. “There’s me
tenner an’ all them bets,” he groaned to
himself; “an’ now up goes me flamin’
bran’-noo cardigan. Strike ’im up a gum-
tree’s right, the cow!” He turned away.
“Gotta get me sharpin’-stone w’ich I fer-
got,” he yelled as he disappeared down
the track. No ; he didn’t come back, but
the tree is still there, with 65 boards spiral-
ling round it. Ned’s woolly was there,
too, 195 ft. up where Sid tied it, till six
months ago, for anybody to see. Then
the Gippsland gales got it.
* * * *
“Mark Six”; “Anthropo” (B. 17/1/’45)
errs when he states that abos. have a
name equivalent to our surname. What
“A” refers to as a family name is in
reality the designation of the tribal divi-
sion. The division of the tribes is a sys-
tem that was designed to prevent inbreed-
ing. Each tribe is divided up, and
although the tribes have their own names
tor the divisions, they all correspond. For
instance, the Myilly tribe that ranges in
the sandstone country of Arnhem Land
(N.T.) is divided into Nalgajooks, Nal-
wahmoots, No-ahmoots, Naljahwooks
and so on. Their neighbors, the Jowans,
have their counterpart with Noala,
Numedja, Nimara, Numbijina, etc. With-
in the tribe a Nalgajook can marry only
a No-ahmoot, but should a Myilly inter-
marry with the Jowans, as frequently
happens, then a Nalgajook would have
to take a Nimara for wife, for a Nimara
in the Jo wan tribe is the equivalent of a
No-ahmoot in the Myilly’s.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”; An ass whom I would
like to see condemned to take his own
advice, as the most fitting punishment,
is the one who insists airily that the
juice of the cunjevoi lily will cure the
agony caused by the Queensland stinging
tree. Then there is the fellow who de-
clares that you can strike fresh water at
shallow depth by sinking where the pan-
danus grows—how I’d love to turn him
loose with a shovel in some parts of
Queensland or the Territory during the
dry season! For the pest who reckons
that a bullet won’t penetrate a hanging
blanket the test would be simple—all he
has to do is stand on the other side of
the blanket. Charming an angry snake
with music and scaring sharks by splash-
ing are, it seems, quite simple ; but the
advocates of these stunts, by some strange
shyness, never seem anxious to test them
out.
* * * *
“Blue Gum”: A baby kangaroo will
see all before it when peeping out from
the shelter of its mother’s pouch, and its
first taste of green food is generally ac-
quired when it reaches out from the
pouch while mother is bent over nibbling
at the grass. But a different arrangement
exists in the strange Tasmanian “tiger”
(marsupial wolf), now rarely seen. The
baby tiger looks in the opposite direction,
for the pouch in this large dog-like animal
opens backwards—the reverse of the kan-
garoo’s. Racing through scrub in pursuit
of its prey, the mother brushes into sticks
and low stout bushes, which would not
only catch in and tear a forward-opening
pouch, but cause injury to its occupant.
The rearward opening is designed to
remove this danger and ensure efficient
stream-lining of the hunter’s body. Meat
scraps left from mother’s “kill” form the
baby’s first solid food, but more often it
receives this in a cave where it is left
while the parent goes hunting.
AN AIRMAN COMES HOME.
The runner turns to quit the crowding race;
The hunter halts to watch the eager chase
Pass on .. . the voice that called and called ahead
Is calling now to other men instead.
I shall not even go the way I came.
As if it mattered! Can I even name
The scenes and people, paltry and sublime,
I met upon the fortune-wheel of time?
Perhaps I should rejoice for coming rest —
The ending of a jack-o’-lantern quest.
For was I ever more than galley-slave
Rewarded, damned, by what horizons gave?
One thing is certain; I have seen enough,
Too much, perhaps, of gaily woven stuff
Adventure’s made of .. . Why should I complain
And ask to live a dozen lives again?
The years, arraigning episode and place,
Judge some as of the gods and some as base,
And why should I bemoan a setting star?
I look henceforth to where the brighter are.
R.A.A.F.
J. A. HENDERSON.


w
%
o *
OttCtlO*
p«®
flß®®
f^ 1
*** u
»s
V
i^s
DUNLOP
AUSTRALIA'S BIGGEST
TYRE MANUFACTURERS
All tyres that Dunlop make today
are being used for war or essen*
tial civilian purposes. It is of the
utmost importance that everyone
using tyres should drive slowly,
treat tyres with care and in every
way conserve rubber .
Listen to the Dunlop Road Show—with
Jack Davey every Wednesday evening
at 9.30 on Stations throughout Australia.
D 13
Throughout the British Empire most people ride on Dunlop Tyres
Have a Coca-Cola
Wacko, Digger!
1
SHIW
Vff "<9
I
* ?A«
...or how to make a hit
in Australia
When friendliness takes over,
you find the spirit of co-
operation, of “ Let’s work
together for the common
good.” That’s the way it
works between Australians
and Americans. Have a
“Coke,” says the Yank, and
the Aussie knows he has a
comrade. From Adelaide to
Altoona (U.S.A.) Coca - Cola
stands, for the pause that re-
freshes has become the
gesture of the friendly.
A
•gem
-the global
high-sign
It’s natural for popular names to
acquire friendly abbreviations . ..
That’s why you heard Coca-Cola
called “ Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.A,
(Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Swiss Neutrality.
(From an article by the editor of London
“Nineteenth Century.”)
It has been suggested that the next war
ought to be completely a world-war in
the sense that there should be no neutrals
at all. Neutrality has come to be re-
garded as something rather disreputable,
although it would surely be better for
mankind if the principle of neutrality,
instead of being repudiated, should be
reinforced, so that in the next war there
should be as many, and not a few, neutrals
as possible.
But the trend of opinion oh such matters
is all the other way. On the plea that
peace is indivisible, war is to become uni-
versal —the next war, instead of being the
concern of the few who are directly con-
cerned, is to be made the direct concern
of all. As far as we are aware, Russia
alone is critical, even hostile, to this don-
ception. Whatever the prognostic reasons
may have been for her critical attitude
during the conference at Dumbarton
Oaks, it seems to us that, in principle,
she is right and that her own conception
should, in principle, be England’s also.
Apart from the issue of peace and war
there are reasons why it is necessary that
there should always be neutrals, reasons
that arise out of the very substance of
our civilised heritage. Future generations
will, perhaps, be y grateful that in the
Second World War, when Europe was
being destroyed, there was a country
called Switzerland which remained
neutral, not because she was inadequately
conscious of wider and deeper issues, but
because she was supremely conscious of
them, and was, when disaster came upon
the world, ready for the armed de-
fence of a neutrality that meant not only
the preservation of her own peace but
of the common heritage.
Those who live in countries at war to-
day will the better realise —perhaps with
anguish—how that heritage has been
stricken by outer violence and increased
decay if they will consider the present
state of Switzerland, glancing at Swiss
books and periodicals, following an occa-
sional discussion about art, letters, science.
philosophy, politics, God, men and
Nature, as conducted in Switzerland
Ihey will then see that in Switzerland
a light which elsewhere burns with flick-
erlpg ° r murky flame, or has been extin-
guished altogether, burns clear, bright
steady. If it be said a hundred years
f rom now, perhaps, that despite the many
y ea rs of destructive and murderous
violence and inner disintegration, there
wa s, after all, something imperishable in
the European heritage, it shall be said,
even if but by way of corollary, that
Europe was saved not only by the re-
lease of those who overthrew the armed
might of Germany, but also by the Swiss
because they kept a light burning amid
wha L even with the approach of victory,
indeed, even after victory had been won,
threatened to become universal darkness.
Americans and British.
(From a Manchester “Guardian” letter by
British lecturer in America Albert Peel.)
To compare the attitude of the Ameri-
can people to Britain at different times
during the last six years is revealing,
if also amusing and exasperating. In
1938 the repeated query was “Why don’t
you guys stop Hitler?” In 1940, when
one was under constant suspicion, care-
fully fostered by the German propaganda
machine, of being an emissary sent over
by the British Government “to get
America into the war,” aloof approval
was the prevailing sentiment —“Fine, but
it’s none of our business.” Two years
later the embarrassment was even greater,
for to be British was to be credited with
a heroism to which one could lay no
claim.
The year 1944 is by no means easy to
classify or label; admiration for British
achievements there is still, but it is
coupled with deep and widespread sus-
picion of British policy and with the
ancient fear of involvement in European
quarrels ; the view that the two nations
are indissolubly linked in a crusade for
the freedom of mankind is a rosy picture
existing only in the imagination of ideal-
ists dazzled by their too sanguine hopes.
Study of the American press across the
continent, interviews with politicians in
Washington and elsewhere, talks with
scores of people in trains and clubs,
student and faculty groups, all drive home
the conviction that hard and constant
effort is called for if co-operation is to
be maintained and effective.
Consider for a moment some of the
points where misunderstanding between
the two countries may easily arise once
the war has been won —the settlement
of lend-lease, the control and use of air
routes, the struggle for trade between
a huge nation organised for mass produc-
tion and a smaller nation to whom export
trade is essential for life. Is not the need
for vigilance obvious?
Think of the problems of the peace
settlement, of the irritation certain to be
caused by rival claims to the lion’s share
of victory. I happened to be in Chicago
when the first English papers arrived with
the accounts of the invasion of Nor-
mandy ; until then I had gathered from
the American press and radio that Ameri-
can troops had done everything—in one
column the “Yanks” were mentioned 15
times, the British not fmce; in the Eng-
lish paper the British and Canadian troops
had the major role, with the Americans
assisting—all very natural, but how this
kind of thing can embitter relationships
if it becomes chronic through the years!
It is a truism to say that friendship
between the British and American peoples
is essential to the future peace of the
world, and that the tremendously com-
plex problems of the world in the post-
war era can be solved only by the com-
bined intellectual resources of the two
nations. But do the peoples of the two
countries even begin to be aware of the
prior problem that of establishing
friendship on a secure basis?
The two outstanding facts impressing
themselves constantly on a traveller shutt-
ling across the Atlantic are the colossal
ignorance of the peoples of each other,
and their mutual dislike. How few Eng-
lishmen know anything about the
geography of the United States, about
the heterogeneity of its population, about
the varying political sentiment in differ-
ent sections, about the Negro, Irish,
Jewish and other blocks, about American
education, religion, literature, drama,
music and sport?
In Britain the notion still persists that
the Americans are blood of our blood,
with a common history and language,
and instinctively and inevitably our
friends. A long educative process is
necessary to scotch this idea.
It is only too likely that, wearied
with long years of strenuous war, the
British people immediately peace is
assured will settle down for a prolonged
rest, and fail to bring to the settlement
and the subsequent world-wide problems
pressing for solution the combined and
concentrated effort the situation demands.
If they do, and if they assume that all
will go well between the United States
and ourselves without care and effort,
the outlook for mankind is dark indeed.
Looking forward five years, it is not
difficult to imagine a Republican Admini-
stration in Washington and a Labor Gov-
ernment in power in Britain, with most of
those who have been actively associated
in war no longer on the stage. Is it not
wise, therefore, to recognise the need
for education, steady and insistent, and
for a deliberate policy of mutual inter-
pretation?
Germans in the U.S.A.
(.From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” article by the
German historian Emil Ludwig, an exile in the
U.S.A. )
More than 600 German or German-
descended professors are now in the
United States teaching that the Nazis,
not the Germans, are responsible for the
war, or that wicked English and French
bear the guilt for the conflict.
Brave soldiers are dying by the thou-
sands for the sake of freedom. They are
regaining freedom also for refugees,
many of whom, guests or newly natural-
ised American citizens, have the temer-
ity to draw an argument for the German


811 Y WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
4
<4
«SS3
san
E S
«8S
!W
,;’"1
m
m
i
»
BUY WAR SAWINGS CERTIFICATES!
r ' ("■' r - - - - r>, r. t -.,Tf ’ - :,/.
:,/. ' •, :V ;. :: :.r.v
. —, :
;.V . s' : SHA
- y'mmmF
ill
:■ S£:
■i?
« ■ ■. .' :
»
WWI
Design and high-speed quantity production of the Avro Lancaster heavy bomber
rate as an outstanding engineering feat. A Civil version with especially designed
fuselage—the Avro York—is also equipped with Rolls-Royce engines and is on
Transport Command service
PACKING THE BIG PUNCH
British heavy bombers achieve the most concentrated
attacks in the history of War. Each unit of the Empire’s
night armadas carries in its bomb bays a destructive
load of unprecedented size and power. No other air-
craft in service in the world can carry the huge bombs,
weighing no less than six tons, which are included in
their armament. A load which formerly needed the
operation of three bombers is now transported by one.
Bomber Command is thus able to organize the heaviest
raids without congestion at the airfields, and to achieve
the maximum concentration over the target.
The fruits of the British aircraft industry’s effort in
planning quantity production of these air giants were
seen when, for month after month, British bombers
unloaded twenty times as many tons of bombs on
Germany as the enemy, despite years of preparation
for war, could drop on Great Britain.
The British aircraft industry will devote itself with equal
determination to the problems of peace-time aviation.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS, LONDON, ENGLAND
[LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
nation from their own fight against
Hitler.
Many of these “intellectuals” were
sent over by the Weimar republic. They
were selected only as Nationalist Ger-
mans, sometimes while still students.
Benevolent sponsors received, taught and
often even fed them as exchange guests.
Some of them turned their backs on
the Nazis because they detested brutal
Nazi methods. Others relinquished the
Nazi fold because they were instructed to
camouflage their activities in order better
to promote old Pan-Germanistic aims of
conquest.
When the war broke out they, natur-
ally, had to change course. So they be-
gan to elaborate on the alleged contrast
between Nazis and Germans.
With hundreds of examples we have
shown for years that the German people
brought the Nazis to power by free elec-
tions in 1932, and subsequently, for 10
years, never declared against them. Not
a single province, or a church, univer-
sity or party rebelled —only a few indi-
viduals. But German propaganda tells
Americans that Hitler is not Germany
and that there are two Germanys.
More than 20,000 Germkn-American
societies proclaimed their sympathies
with Nazism immediately in 1933.
Ambitious refugees hope to recover
their lost positions and influence in a
democratic Germany. They expect to
return to Berlin in triumph as prodigal
sons, as Victor Hugo returned to Paris,
Mazzini to Rome and Lenin to Petro-
grad. These refugees have formed com-
mittees and surrounded themselves with
gullible Americans. They signed mani-
festos describing the Nazis as a “gang
of robbers who jumped on the Germans
in broad daylight and gagged them*into
12 years of silence.” Once these robbers
are eliminated, they say, the “other—
the liberal—Germany” will emerge, as
she did in 1918, but this Germany would
be vigilant and join the family of nations
as a civilised member. Should the vic-
tors, however, deny self-government to
a “purified” Germany, then “chaos
would break out and lead to new wars.”
They conceal the fact that chaos has long
arrived and that it can be broken only
by the iron fist of the Allies.
Moves in Yugoslavia.
(Described In N.Y.
rp-. , . r , . ,
s plans for Yugoslavia are merely
part of a more ambitious scheme. He
pr poses to turn kingdom into a
emocratic federation composed of six
a , u ° n ° mous Provinces, each with its
e ected representatives in a general assem-
ly. In turn, Yugoslavia would form part
o a larger Balkan federation of south
avs, which would include Bulgaria.
Most of the Balkans is now virtually
a closed book to the rest of the Allies,
The movements of newspaper correspon-
dents there are very circumscribed. A
United Press correspondent, Eleanor
Packard, was expelled from Yugoslavia.
So far as she could learn, she said on
her arrival in Rome, the authorities at
Belgrade had objected to one of her dis-
patches reporting that while many pic-
tures of Stalin and Tito adorned the shop
windows, portraits of Roosevelt and
Churchill were conspicuous by their
absence.
Reports m Washington are that what
particularly irked Tito’s partisans was a
purported cable by Packard saying that
walking in the streets, I have been con-
stantly approached by unhappy people
who wanted to voice their grievances to
an American. Likewise a United Press
dispatch recoi ding that a great number
of persons m Belgrade are concerned
. S
* ’ y A ‘
~, r . f
"POf, ‘“ s ° f thousands of
alone
TfT f 11
of Or Ge o neral
“Nineteenth Century.’’)
King Peter’s anti-Axis commander in the
A X/Tinlcfcr Wor-
held and Minister of War are more or
less automatically included in this cate-
gory.
* * ♦ *
( From an article by the editor of London
Yugoslavia went to war in March,
wlion Proo* p r ; to ' , ’ ~ ’
hen Great Britain stood alone, at a time
when the prospect of final victory was
remotest, and when many experienced
observers throughout the world were con-
cr- i , u .
meed that the doom of England and of
her Empire could not be much longer
postponed. Yugoslavia went to war be-
cause the Serbs, our most steadfast Allies
in the last war and, with the Poles, our
most steadfast Allies in this, believed in
England, and preferred to risk everything
rather than accept German rule. The
Groats deserted from the Yugoslav army
and Croatia joined the German-Italian
coalition.
But it is the Serbs who are to be
amongst the losers in this war. Yugo-
slavia is to be reorganised so that Serbia
will be broken up and a Croatian-Com-
munist ascendancy will be established
under Tito, or his successor. The present
Yugoslav Government is but a fiction —
a puppet with no following in its own
country and no authority. It is treated
with contempt even by Tito. But it
serves the purpose of exercising pseudo-
legitimate control over Yugoslav national
funds —over revenue from shipping and
the funds of the Yugoslav National Bank,
which were subscribed, for the most part,
by the Serb peasantry.
The national hero of the Serbs in this
war, the hero-patriot Mihailovich, and
the only Allied commander who has for
years maintained a regular force in the
field op the European mainland, is made
the object of a defamatory campaign,
the purpose of which is to destroy his
reputation and his authority. The pros-
pect is that this campaign will succeed,
and it would not be surprising if Mihailo-
vich were to be hunted down and arraigned
on spurious evidence and with no possi-
bility of a defence as a war-criminal,
while the Croatian terrorist whose Bar-
tizans have perpetrated unspeakable
barbarities, is made despot of Yugoslavia,
and the Puppet Government—or its suc-
cessor—returns to its own country to
carry out his orders.
Is the new League to perpetrate such
and other iniquities? If so, it will not
avert the Third World War but bring on
the Third World War.
Can Germany be Controlled?
(From a “Reader's Digest” review.")
Into the world-wide discussion of what
to do with Germany when the Allies “have
marched into Berlin—the world’s most
momentous and most difficult single inter-
national problem—has come a book of
the highest significance. It is entitled The
Control of Germany and Japan. Its
authors are Harold G. Moulton and
Louis Marlio. Dr. Moulton is president
of the Brookings Institution, famous
organisation for economic and political
research. Mr. Marlio is a French econo-
mist, engineer and industrialist who has
managed business enterprises throughout
Europe. •
The two men together speak with a
great combined authority. Their answers
to the German problem are backed by
painstaking scholarship and also by
something much better than scholarship:
a keen power of discriminating between
what we might perhaps like to do to Ger-
many and what, on the other hand, we
might find it wise and feasible to do to
Germany. This book may have a strong
influence on Germany’s fate.
Dr. Moulton and Mr. Marlio utterly
reject the partition of Germany into two
or more States. Their argument is:
After World War I we divided the
Austro-Hungarian Empire into small
States. It soon appeared that these small
States could not prosper as separate eco-
nomic units. The division of Germany
into separate units would have similar
results. A divided Germany would be in
continuous depression. Experience since
World War I has proved that when Ger-
many falls into depression the countries
surrounding Germany fall into depres-
sion, too. A partitioned Germany would
mean an impoverished Germany ; and an
impoverished Germany would mean an
impoverished Europe; and an im-
poverished Europe would lead right back
to turmoil and conflict. *
Therefore, if we consult our own self-
interest we shall leave Germany terri-
torially and substantially intact.
Dr. Moulton and Mr. Marlio also
reject the idea of permanently destroying
all German heavy industry and turning
Germany into a nation of farmers. It is
true, they say, that without heavy in-
dustry—such as iron and steel and
chemicals —Germany could not wage war.
But, they go on:
If Germany were reduced to an agricultural
status it could support probably less than half
its present population. What would happen to
the remainder? Such an extensive throttling
of the economic life of the German area could
not fail to react disastrously on economic con-
ditions in countries with which Germany nor-
mally maintains extensive import and export
relations. The reduction of any highly indus-
trialised country to an agricultural status would
disorganise and contract international trade
at a time when an expanding world economy
is of paramount importance for all nations.
It would work directly at cross-purposes with
the economic self-interest of the controlling
countries.
In other words, it would be foolish to
hurt the Germans in a way which would
equally hurt ourselves.
It has been proposed that minerals
necessary for war be “rationed” to Ger-
many in quantities sufficient for peace
but not sufficient for war. The list of


BUSINESS TAKES A HOLIDAY
at the
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON NEW ZEALAND
Where perfect cuisine ... luxurious appointments ... unobtrusive
service... and a warm friendly atmosphere bring ease and relax-
ation from the tension of wartime travel.
RADIO, CABLE AND TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS s “SANGEORGE”
SG.I
<%JI YOUR NEAREST WAYGOOD-OTIS
OFFICE FOR DETAILS OF A PRACTICAL
(post -Hw (p\ An
Here is a forward-looking, forward-
working proposal designed to advance
your post-war plans for new lifts and
escalators.
First, place your order NOW.
Secondly, have all specification details
settled NOW and plans approved.
The moment restrictions are lifted your
order will be executed according to
the sequence of a Priority Certificate
issued to you.
All we ask is that you place your
order with good faith and intention.
Costs will be based on to-day s rates
with any variations either way to your
account. No payment is requested
until we commence operations on
your order and cancellation will be
accepted at any time till then should
conditions dictate.
The time for future planning is at
hand—call your nearest Waygood-
Otis office for complete details of this
Post-War Priority Plan—designed to
avoid the confusion, delays and dis-
appointments of leaving planning till
it is too late.
V!
&
%
The lifts or escalators you order now will embody latest advance-
ments and practices in the field of vertical transportation. Our
engineers will advise you in drawing up the specifications to
ensure you obtaining the best type of lift to suit your business
and anticipated traffic conditions.
dfs
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE • PERTH
. HOBART . NEWCASTLE
VERTICAL TRANSPORT ATI O N
such minerals in which Germany is de-
ficient is long: antimony, bauxite,
chromium, copper, iron ore, lead, manga-
nese, mercury, mica, molybdenum, nickel,
petroleum, platinum, sulphur, tin, tung-
sten, vanadium, zinc. Limiting G er ‘
many’s imports of these to peace-time re-
quirements would seem to solve our prob-
lem. But, according to Dr. Moulton and
Mr. Marlio, there are four difficulties;
1. It is virtually impossible to make an
accurate calculation of any country’s peace-
time mineral requirements. The need for each
mineral is variable in response to constantly
changing economic and technological circum-
stances. We could underestimate Germany s
requirements. In that case we should be im-
pairing the economic health of Germany—and
of Europe. Or we could overestimate Germany s
requirements. In that case we should be giving
Germany a chance to accumulate stock piles
of minerals for war purposes.
2. The art of finding substitutes is advancing
rapidly every day. If the Germans lack
bauxite for producing aluminium cheaply, they
can turn to producing aluminium more expen-
sively from clay or labradorite or leucite or
alunite. Or they can abandon aluminium
altogether for certain purposes and use wood
or plastics. A shortage of minerals in Germany
might push the Germans into becoming the
world’s leaders in the development of synthetics
of all sorts. .
3. The German frontier is practically made
to order for smuggling. It is pierced by roads
and railroads at hundreds of points. To guard
all those points day and night would require
a whole army of detectives and inspectors.
4. Strategic minerals come from all over the
world. It would be impossible to induce all
of the countries concerned to act in unison
against Germany year after year and decade
after decade. A producer of any mineral, fac-
ing bankruptcy, would be under an irresistible
temptation to sell to Germany. If would not be
enough to control exports from the producing
country to Germany; we should also have to
control private plants in other countries, to
prevent their re-selling to Germany. The
scrap-metal market all over the world would
also have to be controlled.
And if producers are to lose part or
all of their German markets, how are
they going to find markets elsewhere?
What countries would come forward to
absorb the Bolivian tin, the Chilean
copper, the Dutch rubber, the Swedish
iron ore, the Turkish chromite, the Yugo-
slavian lead, the Brazilian mica, the
Canadian nickel withheld from Germany?
“The conclusion seems inescapable,”
say the authors, “that plans designed to
prevent German rearmament by regulat-
ing the imports of strategic materials can-
not be relied upon.”
Dr. Moulton and Mr. Marlio think
that a few individucd German industries
can be wholly suppressed, with strong
benefit to the world and without causing
any disastrous degree of depression in
Germany—and Europe. For example:
They would forbid Germany to manu-
facture aluminium ingots. They would
also forbid Germany to manufacture
synthetic petroleum. These industries em-
ploy relatively few men, but their pro-
ducts are highly useful for war. The
suppression of them in Germany would
diminish Germany’s war-making capa-
city. Moreover, suppression is practicable,
because both aluminium smelters and
synthetic oil plants have to be enormous ;
they cannot be hidden or split into small
units or disguised as a plant to make
something else.
Dr. Moulton and Mr. Marlio would
wholly suppress all German aviation, not
only military but also civilian. They
say:
It would be necessary to forbid Germany
.either to manufacture aircraft or to operate
air transport companies. The prohibition of
German air transport companies is emphasised
because an essential phase of the control is to
prevent the training of German pilots. With-
out pilots trained in civilian life quick pre-
paration for war would not be easy. Germany
could be supplied with all necessary com-
mercial aviation facilities by an international
European company similar to the Compagnie
Internationale des Wagons-Lits which oper-
ates sleeping-car services throughout Europe.
The essential requirement for security is that
neither the ’planes nor the pilots should be
German.
Dr. Moulton and Mr. Marlio also pro-
pose to eliminate a large part of the Ger-
man electric power industry. They would
forbid Germany to restore electric power
stations destroyed by the war or to con-
struct any new power stations. They
would supply Germany with electric
power through an international company
which would purchase electric power in
France, Belgium, Norway, Italy and
Austria and sell it to German distribut-
ing corporations.
Controlling the power industry has
these advantages:
1. It would prevent Germany from abro-
gating the clauses of disarmament forbidding
the manufacture of aluminium and synthetic
oil. . ,
2. It would control the peacetime production
of electrometallurgical and electrochemical pro-
ducts, such as hydrogen and nitrogen, which are
used largely for war purposes.
3. It would automatically reveal the location
of any and all large plants in Germany.
4. Being invisible, this control would not be
a daily irritation to the German people.
5. In case of a threatened aggression it would
be possible to shut off foreign electrical power
and thus restrict the entire war production
programme.
It will be seen that the economic mea-
sures proposed against Germany by these
two eminent economists are few and —
in comparison with Germany’s total eco-
nomic strength—trivial. In fact, the
biggest lesson taught by this book is
that it is a fallacy to think that German
preparations for war can be satisfactorily
checked by merely economic means.
Moreover, according to Dr. Moulton and
Mr. Marlio, if we attempt to use eco-
nomic pressures against Germany on any
large and comprehensive scale we shall
be undermining our own free-enterprise
economic system. Their words on this
point are profoundly worth remember-
ing:— , r ,
A general system of economic control [pt
Germany] would work strongly against private
enterprise. The administration of such control
measures would inevitably require the develop-
ment of supernational administrative agencies.
In some fields a new type of international
cartelisation might well be involved which,
being dominated by Governments, would leave
little place for private enterprise.
In any case, if a nation’s international com-
mitments with respect to the control programme
were to be carried out, Government permits
would be required for the export of strategic
materials and for the extension of international
credits.
Within each nation also private enterprise
would have to be restricted. Each Government,
in the light of its quota of permissable exports,
would have to allocate the totals among the
various domestic producers.
Thus the complications of an international
economic control system would inevitably exert
a powerful influence in the direction of Govern-
ment domination of business, both in the inter-
national and domestic fields.
Thus perishes, so far as Dr. Moulton
and Mr. Marlio are concerned, the dream
of preventing war by purely peaceful
economic measures. They outrightly
asS ert * —
Economic control measures are two-edged.
They are not' only of dubious reliability but
they are also disturbing to world economic
stability. And, in any case, they cannot be
enforced unless backed by adequate military
power. We are forced to the conclusion that
only military force can be relied upon to give
protection against nations bent upon aggression.
So the economists abdicate to the
soldiers ; but, as citizens, these economists
make some suggestions to the soldiers.
It has to be said for these suggestions
that they are specific —and, in the end,
very audacious.
Dr. Moulton and Mr. Marlio would
first disarm Germany with utter
thoroughness. They would destroy all
German naval vessels ; all German naval
and military aircraft; all German land
weapons, from tanks and cannon down
to rifles and pistols. They would also
destroy all German munition plants.
They would also disband all German
armed forces and all German adminis-
trative bodies for the organising of
QrrnpH mfPPQ
They would then refrain altogether
from any permanent military occupation
of Germany:
Such a military control system would require
large numbers of troops and be very costly.
It would, moreover, be a source of perpetual
friction, involving continuous social and poli-
tical unrest.
They thus are brought to their ultimate
recommendation. There shall be a Re-
armament Detection and Prevention
Board of not more than five persons.
With a relatively small staff this board
could readily detect any German move
toward rearmament, such as the produc-
ing of munitions, the importing of exces-
sive supplies of strategic minerals, the re-
building of prohibited aluminium ingot
plants or synthetic petroleum plants or
aircraft factories, the training of aircraft
pilots at home or abroad, or the re-estab-
lishing of military training under the
guise of training for sports events.
Having detected any such move, the
board shall warn the German Govern-
ment to desist from it.
If the German Government fails to
desist the board shall compel it to desist
by at once using against it “the requisite
military force.” This “requisite military
force” shall at all times be under the
command and at the disposal of the
board. The board shall not have to re-
quest it from the Governments which
have appointed the board. This requisite
military force” shall be the board s own
army:— , c . .
The board shall be given the power of inde-
pendent action. Only by having this problem
delegated by Governments to an executing
board, with military forces at its direct dis-
posal, can we escape the political inhibitions,
conflicts and delays incident to obta ™”f- a h g be
ment from parliamentary bodies. It might oe
fatal to wait upon the slow-moving dehber -
tions of many Governments.
That is to say: The board shall be a sort
of international Government, with its
own International Police Force, existing
for one purpose, and one only the pre-
vention of the rearmament of Germany.
Passing History.
(How Mr. Roosevelt broke the news that me
Atlantic Charter had never been signed, as te-
ported by N.Y. Times . )
Asked at a press conference whether Mr.
Churchill had ever signed the Atlantic Charte ,
Mr. Roosevelt replied that nobody ever
Asked where it was now, he said thue wa
anv copy of the Atlantic Charter, as far as he
knew P With this he launched on the detaded
story‘of the writing of the declaration of pnn
ciples °that was radioed to the Bntoh and
American Governments from t


91.
7
AG
COOKERS
On Service /or
Australia
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
has enlisted in five vital services. AGA Cookers have
been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air Force for
service in unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and to the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of
your AGA Cooker should be delayed, please bear in mind
the urgent needs of the fighting forces and essential
services, which naturally receive war-time priority.
Wherever AGA Cookers are installed, whether for military
or civilian use, the proven AGA advantages are enjoyed
... almost unbelievable economy in fuel, continuous service
day or night, conservation
of food values and ease of
operation. Call for demon-
stration or write for AGA
Catalogue R 1
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Csf. 1852 (Inc. In N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; A. S. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd..
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
dssdf
IT v-*>: 'i
<V,l v -
*
w
The pattern of combat may be hidden
beneath a pall of smoke. It is equally
difficult to see clearly now the pattern of
peace-time development.
But in radio you can at least be sure of
Stromberg - Carlson'-s post - war leadership
. . . established through peace-time appli-
cations of the lessons learned in evolving
communications equipment to meet the
needs of battle timed to a second.
STROMBERG - CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in
Australasia.
SO Years of Communication Engineering
SUPPORT WAR LOANS REGULARLY,
Augusta and Prince of Wales on Aug. 14, 1941,
after the Roosevelt-Churchill meeting at sea, tor
publication to the world.
The nearest thing one could get to the
Atlantic Charter, Mr. Roosevelt said, would be
the papers which were given to radio operators
aboard the British and American warships with
instructions to put their contents on the air.
However, Mr. Roosevelt continued, there was
no formal document. The joint agreement
on principles, he said, was scribbled on
pieces of paper, with many corrections, some
in Mr. Churchill’s writing, some in his own,
some in the handwriting of Sir Alexander Cado-
gan, British Permanent Under-Secretary of
State for Foreign Affairs, and some written
by Sumner Welles, then Under-Secretary of
State. And that, he said, was the Atlantic
Charter.
There were signatures, the President said, but
none to any formal document. Anyhow, he
said, when asked whether the spirit of the
declaration was still there, all who had partici-
pated in its composition agreed on it. If was
signed in substance, he suggested, explaining
that it was a memorandum to the press and
radio.
“Have you wished since that time that you
had a formal document?” a correspondent
asked. Mr. Roosevelt said that he had not,
except for the benefit of sightseers in Washing-
ton who would want to see it.
The signatures of the President and Mr.
Churchill that accompanied the announcement
of what later came to be known as the Atlantic
Charter, White House attaches asserted, were
fixed to the whole announcement of the meeting
at sea and the agreement on a joint declaration,
not to that part of the news release that
quoted the declaration itself. This, they said,
was how the impression had arisen that Mr.
Roosevelt and Mr. Churchill had signed the
Atlantic Charter as a formal document.
Three Aspects of France.
(From a report by the London "Times”
diplomatic correspondent.)
-p. ,i i. i
Three thoughts never leave a trave
in France during these days. They take
shape and grow hourly as he looks
around and listens.
p,. . .. „
First, the widespread disruption of
ports, railways and transport of all kinds
is keeping many towns and districts in
hitter bimnor and is. hnldinp" tin most of
miter nunger, ana is noiamg up most ot
the plans for opening factories and mines
again. Lack of locomotives, lack of coal,
lack of petrol have left many depart-
ments of France cut off from each other,
Wnndlv verv manv nprmle—nerhans
secondly, very many people pernaj
most people — are intent upon getting
meals and jobs, and have not yet resumed
politics ; they are waiting, staunchly
•„ fhet p
democratic, sure in their mind that a
renovated Republic will be established,
but letting most of the preliminary skir-
mishing in the Paris press go on without
their taking sides. The communists are
tightly organised, as always; the socialists
are strong and beginning to be active ;
but a Minister in the Government appar-
ently pointed to the truth when he sug-
gested that the strongest party at the
moment was a general state of mind —an
acceptance of the Government because
of the war-time records of most of its
members, especially General de Gaulle,
and because of its declared programme
of administering and repairing the coun-
try until proper elections can be held.
Thirdly, the devilish excesses of the
S.S. and the whole Gestapo torture sys-
tem, so much worse than anything of
which the human mind was thought to
be capable, have shocked and horrified
the French people into a mood much
more serious and deeper than the popular
mood of 1918. There emerges what at
first seems to be a paradox: the appalling
nature of the German crimes has pro-
duced less vociferous hatred than before,
because it has revealed the extent and
gravity of a problem which must be faced
as a doctor faces a case of warped mind.
Articles in many newspapers declare that
the treatment must be stern, unemotional,
yet curative. It is a new voice in France.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
When one examines the opinion of the
U.S. public toward unions it becomes clear at
that many of the policies and practices which
union leaders accept as a matter of course
have never been accepted at all by people
outside unions. The widest gap between union
leaders and the public is over the closed shop.
To . all but a few labo *’ ]e f de „ rs ., d^ n ld u a f °he
qumng a man to belong to a union betore ne
b | hired for a job is basic to the whole
un i on movement. Yet, outside labor unions,
only about one American in every ten favors
the idea of the closed shop. William A. Lyd-
fhg American Institute Q f
%. hlir nninimi
S *
As the screams of the pacifists and “Cut-
military-expenses” crowd rise to a crescendo
a£ter this war > let s keep firml L m ° ur P m - ds
SUC J T j tems as our dangerous dearth of air-
power for some eight months after Pearl
Harbor; the 13 days the Marines fought with-
out air cover on Guadalcanal; and the tragedies
that overtook Poland and France in the early
montbs G f t j ie war f or wan t of adequate, up-
to-date and efficiently manned air forces.—
"Collier’s.”
“Britain’s war-time economic controls will
be gradually lifted because the British people
know that controls in general are a wasteful
and extravagant form of business administTa-
tion ■ that they provide opportunity for ineffi-
ciency; and that they do not possess that
flexibility and initiative and enterprise which
will be essential to a people whose survival
depends upon their ability to regain old markets
and establish new ones.” — E. Mackenzie Hay,
chairman of the British Federation of Com-
modify Exchanges.
'* * * *
“Spend one day on one of those Pacific
Islands and you’d double whatever you’re doing
to bring those kids home faster.”—Boh Hope,
* * * *
President Roosevelt was so impressed with
MacArthur’s plan for landing on Leyte and re-
taking the Philippines that he supported him
to the hilt before the joint Chiefs of Staff,
They wanted to land on the China coast in-
stead, but the Commander-in-Chief threw his
weight to MacArthur. — Drew Pearson; N.Y.
"Daily Mirror”
* * * *
Alarmed about falling United Kingdom birth-
rates, the British Government has appointed a
Royal Commission to dig up the answers, if
possible. Despite the war-time birth boom, the
Brit'ish birth-rate has gone down from 3.51
children per married couple in 1901 to 1.79 now.
Up to now, the Royal Commission’s findings
don’t go to substantiate any Spengleresque ideas
about a decline of the West, or the rather fre-
quent contention that cheap contraceptives and
easily obtained birth-control advice incite too
many people to duck parenthood. Instead, most
of the married couples questioned in confidence
blame their few children, or their lack of
children, on such hard-pan factors as fear
of unemployment, shortage of decent hous-
ing (badly accentuated by the big blitz
of 1940-41 and the roblitz of 1944), the
high cost of living, and the fear that this is
not the last war, no matter what the poli-
ticians say. So the best guess seems to be that
most British husbands and wives are deter-
mined t'o have very few children per couple
until and unless they can be reasonably sure
that children of large families will have a fair
break in the world. Neither the exhortations
of the clergy nor the pleas of the Government
seem able to shake that determination. —
"Collier’s.”
* * * *
U.S. ordnance experts have been studying
reports on the V2—giant secret rocket bomb
launched against England. Had Hitler started
a few months earlier England might have been
wiped out. The rockets can be developed for
long distances, even across oceans. The U.S.
is rushing construction of various types, to
demolish Tokyo. The medium rocket and
robot bomb can be launched at sea from a
ship or ’plane, so the worry over Siberian
bases or importance of island bases close to
Tokyo fades. — N.Y. "Daily Mirror.”
* * * *
Although the people of the United States are
indeed interested in an organisation for collec-
tive security, they most certainly will never
consent to participate in any balance-of-power
scheme which may work out to divide Europe
into opposing camps. If Mr. Roosevelt has not
already made this clear to the heads or the
British and Russian Governments he has done
them a most cruel injustice; N.Y."Sun.’
* * * *
Some time ago four British secret agents
parac huted to Germany near the Baltic coast
and posed as foreign workers. Found “poli-
ticnlly reliable” by the Nazi authorities, they
we re assigned to different working camps, then
finally to one V-plant. Before the Gestapo
got wise they managed to return to England.
This one example of many shows that Bntisn
intelligence knows everything there is to know
about the V-danger.— London correspondent
N.Y. World-Telegram.
*' ■ , , • . or „
The fact that already armed communists are
trying to incite civil war in China, Greece,
France, Italy, Belgium and Poland to gam
control of their Governments cannot be passed
off as a mere incident. It is the logical sequence
of a foreign policy based upon concessions
aimed at placating the growing might ot a
wayward ally.”—Charles Rosmarck, Polish-
American congress presi en .
* * *
Americans dislike communism. Ihey remem-
her that Stalin signed a non-aggression pact
with Hitler in 1939, which left Hitler free to
attack in the west. Also, they remember that
Russia invaded Finland. Throughout tne
Russo-Finnish War of 1939-40 American sym-
pathies were overwhelmingly with Fmiana. Ana
when Russia joined with Germany in carving up
Poland at the end of 1939 it was difficult tor
the average American to look upon Russia as
anything but the outright ally ot Nazi oer-
many. When the “Fortune Survey, directed by
Elmo Roper, polled the country in January,
1940, on the question: “Which nation do you
regard as the worst influence in Europe/
Germany was first with 55 per cent and Russia
next with 34 per cent. No other country got
more than two per cent. — William A. Lydgate;
editor for the American Institute of Public
Opinion.
* * * *
Nobody in the world can beat Mr. Koose-
V elt in the high art of fashioning basic general
principles, but there are few wlm are as re-
luctant as he to get down to specifications and
details. As politely as the thing could be done,
the British Prime Minister has made it plain
that on matters of the utmost importance he
himself doesn’t know what the President ot
the United States has in mind. — N.Y. Sun.
* * * * .
Germany has experimented for years to im-
prove her U-boats. The experiments took place
j n the Baltic. The Germans failed in their
mos t important objective of increasing under-
water speed. However, Germany still pos-
sesses around 400 U-boats ready for battle,
she possesses excellent bases near Bergen, Nor-
way, far superior to other bases in France.
Furthermore, the morale of most of the crews
still is exceedingly high and the Germans treat
and feed them supremely ”
London correspondent N.Y. World-Telegram.


AN IDEAL HOME
•tnot
An ideal home, BUT —in an unsewered area. Let HYGEIA DISSOL-
VENA TOR give you all the advantages of modern hygienic sanitation.
T*? e VENATOR is a completely self-contained sanitary system.
Abolishes unwholesome smells, destroys germs, banishes flies, protects health No
water supply required, no embarrassing emptying. Sewage material is chemically
transformed into a sterile solution that drains away into the ground. Easy to instal
attractlve ’ Thousands installed in homes, offices and hospitals throughout
WRITE FOR ILLUSTRATED PAMPHLET.
FULLY GUARANTEED, the cost is only £l9/2/6 (includes
sales tax and surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 Bridge St., Sydney. ’Phone, 81052.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pam-
phlet on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
Name
Address
Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty., Ltd.,
30 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY.
’Phone 81052.
INTERSTATE AGENCIES-
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SOARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO. PTY., LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Firms, etc.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
• General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
, Tan OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY HAY MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Farm Management.
“Bugaldu”: A small place judiciously
stocked and carefully run will give a
better return than a much larger one run
in a haphazard manner. If you can
breed on your own property be it sheep
or cattle, it pays to do so rather than buy
stock. Many a promising settler has
gone broke through having paid too
much for wethers and steers, only to find
the bottom fall out of the market. Yet
a farm can carry sheep and cattle and
grow wheat.
If a place is capable of carrying 4000
sheep and is breeding country, you can't
breed from that number of ewes. If they
are merinos you have to make provision
for increase, the wether portion of which
will have to be carried until they’re two-
tooths, as there is not much inquiry for
merino lambs, though they are eagerly
sought as two-tooths. The ewe portion
you will keep as potential breeders.
Against that you have to get rid
of your C.F.A. ewes every year, and,
as a rule, they don’t bring much money.
Probably you could not breed from more
tha>n 1500 ewes on a 4000-sheep capacity.
In crossbreds for fat lambs you would
not have to carry the young sheep for
so long, and could probably breed from
a much larger number of ewes; the in-
crease usually can be disposed of at ages
from four months upwards, and you
would be very unlucky if they went over
the 12 months. This looks easy, but
thfere’s a catch in the old ewes. You have
to dispose of them and replace with
young ones ; letting the old ones go on
till they die doesn’t pay for many reasons.
Not that you get much for them, and the
most profitable way is to get a bit of
condition on them first. A good idea is
to buy a few hundred young ewes every
year, rather than buying big lots at long
intervals.
Fewer cattle than conditions suggest
will pay a big dividend as a sideline.
Give preference to cows. You will be
surprised how cows can increase. Small
paddocks are the order of the day, and
it is not so much pasture improvement as
pasture management, though the former
is a wonddrful help. This is where your
block of wheat stubble comes in. Spelling
the paddocks is the secret of healthy
sheep ; you can not only do this but prob-
ably get a couple of months of good
grazing. Bung everything possible into
the stubble.
Marketing Wool.
“Corrie” In that plan for, the post-war
marketing of wool, “Outback” (B.
13/12/’44) devotes 41 lines to providing
what will be done with profits, but only
five lines to-the selling plan: “The price
to be charged by the board shall be de-
cided after taking into account the capa-
city of the manufacturer and consumer
to pay and competition from other
materials.” But how will the board pro-
ceed with the cataloguing, assessing and
selling of the hundreds of lots to be sub-
mitted, each one of a different value?
What knowledge has any man or group
of men as to values current ih all the
textile markets of the world that would
enable him or them to establish bases of
values on any given day?
Fixing values is the kernel of the nut,
and the Winton woolgrowers have not
offered any method of cracking the nut,
but have passed the buck to the board.
I have sometimes doubted whether open
auctioning of wool is the best method
of selling, but cannot offer any better
scheme. At the moment, provided we
can depend upon the free and unregi-
mented competition of buyers represent-
ing world manufacturing interests, it
sterns the best means available.
No selling broker knows the value of
any given parcel of wool until an auction
has been held and a basis of world values
disclosed for valuing the various lots in
subsequent catalogues. It is impossible
for a value to be ascertained in the same
way as for f.a.q. wheat, and there is
really no necessity for any complete
knowledge, unless we are determined to
fix a minimum price for the hundreds of
types into which our clip falls. Even
then values will be what we want as dis-
tinct from what the world is prepared to
pay. Once we start fixing minimum
prices for wool irrespective of world
values we are sure to strike trouble.
Potatoes for Pigs.
“Myrrhee”: Young pigs on their usual
diet of cereal meal and either separated
milk or meat-meal until they are about
601 b. live weight should continue to get
the same quantities of those foods and,
if there are waste or condemned potatoes
available, fed cooked potatoes in increas-
ing quantities to satisfy their appetites as
they grow to baconer weights. For brood
sows about half the cereal allowance
could be replaced by potatoes. Boil the
potatoes in very little water and see that
the pigs have water to drink separately
from their food.
Four tons of potatoes boiled or steamed
are equal to a ton of cereal meal, but if
fed raw the proportions are six to one.
These replacement values only apply
when potatoes are fed in balanced
rations. On these values if wheat can be
delivered crushed for 4s. a bushel,
potatoes are worth about £1 10s. per ton
at the piggery.
A Concrete Mixer.
' “Jock”: A 44-gallon drum has a piece
of 3 x 2 nailed across the centre of its
open end. The centre of the 3 x 2 is
"This ought to be good. It starts with ‘Stop me if you've heard this one.'"
bored to take an inch pipe, which also
passes through the centre of the bottom
of the drum (this joint is made water-
tight). The pipe projects about a foot
on each end of the drum. On the bottom
end the pipe is threaded and a handle
screwed on, leaving Pin. of pipe free be-
tween the drum and handle to serve as
an axle.
This bottom axle rests in the bottom
of a slot (2ft. 6in. from ground) cut in
the top of a post. Another post is slotted
to take the axle at the free N end, the bot-
tom of this slot being 3ft. 6in. high.
When the concrete is mixed the top end
of the axle is lifted from its slot and
lowered alongside the post, allowing the
concrete to run into the barrow. It does
not make mixing a pleasure, but you can
at least walk upright going home at night,
which I never can do after a day on the
shovel. Before handling cement rub some
oil or fat into your hands. It saves the
skin of the palms.
The Fodder Shortage.
“Hux”: Dairy cockies will feel the
pinch next winter, yet the situation isn’t
hopeless. With all fodder reserves gone,
there ought to be a maximum acreage of
summer crops planted in areas benefiting
by summer rains. Grain sorghum and
maize planted now will help next winter.
Sorghum is drought-resistant, and will
grow on poorer soils and over a wider
area than maize. Root crops can be used
to avert shortages in southern areas.
Given an early autumn break, they
should be ready for winter harvesting.
Oats, Berseem clover and Italian rye
are good for early autumn sowing in
northern areas. Oat seed supplies are
short. Berseem clover makes a good sub-
stitute, is superior feed to green oats,
makes A 1 silage and leaves the ground
in good heart following a crop. Ideal
sowing time is after heavy rains in
February. Seed, off the market for two
years, is again available.
Paspalum should be saved for hay and
silage. Maoriland makes large quantities
of quality silage from paspalum each
year. As a means of further conserving
fodder the M.L. practice of strip grazing
should be tried. The cows are given a
fresh strip of grazing lahd a few yards
deep each day, and an electric fence is
used to control the feeding. The animals
clean each strip thoroughly ; over-graz-
ing of the best pasture and under-graz-
ing of less palatable areas is forestalled.
Rye is Worth Growing.
“Hortus”; We found it so on rubbishy
ground where nothing else would grow
except broad beans. Rye will thrive on
soils too poor for wheat and oats;
what’s more, it will soon make a poor soil
better, especially if mixed with field-
peas. There are a lot of other points in
its favor.
It grows quickly and matures early. It
will grow in a cool climate, and likes ex-
posed situations. A fairly deep-rooter,
it is drought-resistant—what is needed
in some of our areas —a crop that will
stand drought and winter well. It is
surprising how well it does on even
badly-prepared land.
Sow in autumn, one to two bushels of
seed per acre; use the larger quantity if
sown for green feed or green manure.
We used to divide the poor land into two,
one for early winter feed and one for
late winter and early spring. Rye makes
good green fodder.
A good mixture for green feed is com-
posed of one bushel of rye and half a
bushel of field peas. If procurable, use


CAROB BEAN SEED, 1/- per doz., 5/ - per 100.
Apply K. BROWN, “Raino,” Tingha, N.S.W.
PRACTICAL PLAITING.
Published for the first time in Australia, a book
on plaiting, illustrated throughout with diagrams
and with detailed instructions for all Turks Knots,
flat, round and uncut plaiting. Also included in the
book are methods of greenhide work, horsehair handi-
crafts, and all aspects of bush craftsmanship, pre-
pared by a practical bushman for bushmen.
This book has been purchased by the Red Cross
as an occupational therapy guide.
Cost £/.
Register all mail to 124 Strangways Terrace, North
Adelaide, South Australia.
STOPtcur Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® Location.
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPUIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 27), 9 Martin Place. Sydney.
DEM
(HAIMS
Circular Charts Jor all types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. O LD.
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co„Pty_Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
ds sd
r
o
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
'ilt
ote
an
H FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
Been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Lit
■<£
Phone BV/ 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ds fs
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits.’ Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of' the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Isf and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Orders are now being booked for the
Rams to be classed before the end of
February.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gns. per head.
V
H. E. KATER Sr SON - - - Egeiobra, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
Essential in
• • • Indispensable in war
\ %
X
8
vC
- --3
k
'
m
%
V-.
:
rc
u
»
?v
' W *K J
y" y
■
m,
NS.
£?
\
GERRARD
MODEL
Ti
MACHINE
Food is just as vital to our lads as
ammunition, and the safe delivery of food
supplies at forward areas is most essential.
For safer transit faster packaging
Gerrard Wire Tying Machines are playing
an important part in Australia's
wartime Food Programme.
And in post war days, with our skill
trained and sharpened under pressure,
we will continue to produce equipment
designed to make the name GERRA_RD
more than ever a symbol of superiority.
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
FOR QUALITY!
RA
thirty years of experience in the
manufacture of Fur Hats in Australia is one
of the reasons why AKUBRAS are so popular
with men who care . . smartness of style and
long-wearing qualities, so essential at the
present time, also assist in maintaining the
demand for these value-tor-coupon Stats. ,
AI
_.LO o*K"* YOJ) R BEST IN AN A.KUBRA
super., lew!, to lewt. per acre. Don’t
waste your time with rye on soil where
wheat and oats grow well. On the poorer
sandy soils round the Hawkesbury dis-
trict farmers will find rye a very profit-
able crop for green manure. Try it on
the poorer parts of the orchard.
Drift Control.
“Rufus Rawhide”: In B. 31/5/’44
mention is made of the suitability of
rye. This is universal throughout the
wine-producing area in the Cape district
of South Africa. Every four rows of
vines are sown with rye, which grows
high enough to strop drift-sand from in-
juring the grapes. On the Cape flats, a
large vegetable area, rows are planted
about 15 feet apart, the crops being sown
between.
During the dry months here, lasting
usually from end of September to first
rains in April, south-easters are prevalent,
often blowing for weeks day and night,
and any vegetation suffers unless break-
winds are provided. And if you people
in Australia think your erosion problem
is the worst in the world, you should
have a look at South Africa.
Soil Bacteria. ...
“AST” : “P.R.A.N.” (B. 20/7/’44) is
apparently an advocate of humus feed-
ing. He is very right in stating that his
mixture of chemicals (especially sulphate
of ammonia) will hasten the decay of
composted material. They attack par-
ticularly the cellulose of vegetable matter.
He is very wrong, though, in stating that
the chemicals help in the culture of soil
bacteria. All recognised humus authori-
ties are agreed that this is not so, but that,
on the contrary, chemicals, and in par-
ticular sulphate of ammonia and poison
sprays, are dire enemies of soil bacteria,
soil fungi and earthworms, whether the
chemicals are used in the compost heap
or direct on the soil.
I would suggest that he read any, or
all, of the following: An Agricultural
Testament and A Medical Testament,
both by Sir Albert Howard, The Living
Soil, by E. B. Balfour, Mycorrhiza, by
Dr. M. C. Rayner, Biodynamic Farming
and Gardening, by Dr. E. Pfeiffer, The
Rape of the Earth, by Jacks and Whyte,
and Compost, by F. H. Billington. These
works mark a revolution in plant and
animal feeding. Good compost must be
rich in soil flora.
Sooty Mould on Citrus.
“Gip”: Two simple but effective
sprays: (1) Mix of washing soda
in four gallons of water and spray on
leaves and branches. Be sure to use new
washing soda; old stuff is likely to cause
great damage to the tree. (2) Mix flour
and water into a thin paste, to which is
added a tablespoon of kerosene. Apply
to the affected trees; when dry the pasts
will come off, the mould peeling off
with it.
It is advisable to combat this disease
in its early stages. It will retard the
growth of the tree, causing the flowers to
fall; and the fruit, if any, is always very
small and hard. The mould prevents the
leaves from obtaining air and light, and
combined with the mould insects suck-
ing the sap, considerable damage can be
caused. If taken in its early stages, how-
ever, the tree quickly recovers.
A good spray that will keep the tree
free of the disease is half a pint of white
oil mixed in two gallons of water. Add
ioz. of nicotine sulphate. Apply every
two or three weeks to keep the tree
healthy. The above quantities are suffi-
cient for one average-sized citrus tree
only.
Hints for the Farm.
“Billjim”; For a good harness dress-
ing dissolve 2oz. soft soap in a jar con-
taining 1-pint warm water. Add 2oz.
finely-chopped mutton suet, 6oz. shredded
beeswax, 6oz. powdered sugar candy and
loz. lamp black for black leather. Place
the jar in a pot of hot water. Let the
contents melt slowly. Stir frequently.
Don’t boil. When ingredients have dis-
solved and mixed, remove from fire, leave
till nearly cold and then stir in i-pint of
turpentine gradually. Store in covered
jars. Apply with a rag and shine with a
polishing brush.
“Portergaff”: Make sure no nails are
in the path of the handsaw. When rip-
ping and crosscutting cut on the waste
side of the line rather than through it.
No saw can do good work indefinitely
without resharpening. When not in use
keep oiled and hung up. If a saw has
been slightly rusted rub it down with
emery paper, then with an oiled rag.
“Bennie”: Sodium fluoride is an insec-
ticide of minor importance which oper-
ates mainly as a stomach poison, though
it is generally believed to possess certain
slight value as a contact insecticide. It
can be effectively used as a substitute
for arsenicals in baits for grasshoppers
and cutworms, but its principal use is
for the destruction of cockroaches. It
is poisonous to human beings.
“Billjim”: To heat tar place a piece
of iron in the bottom of a larger utensil,
stand the tar bucket on it and boil water
in the outer vessel to bring the tar to
the right temperature. Apply evenly;
two or three thin coats are better than
on thick one. Mixed with lime in the
proportion of one part of lime to 10 parts
of tar it sets quicker. Dry sand dashed
on before it’s set helps preserve the sur-
face from the weather. Water collected
from newly-tarred roofs will poison
poultry.
“L.C.”: Washing with ordinary .water
affects the keeping quality of eggs. Cool
thoroughly and cleanse in three parts of
vinegar and one part of water. This
doesn’t disturb the gelatine coating of the
shell, and ensures its retaining its original
appearance after drying.
“Hux”: Muddy water in dams can be
clarified with lime. For a dam contain-
ing approximately 50,000ga1. distribute
2cwt. of freshly-slaked lime over the sur-
face. Attach a long rope to a pole and
draw it back and forth to mix the lime
with the water, which should be clear
and settled within a week.


i
M y
'***
* ♦ *w ♦
* * < * »v ♦
* S r*. S
m. ' »
*
r !£* ** *
.\V>Vv
♦ ■* .
♦ ♦ ,
mm
Si*
■
2
Kk >
■
pin
w
ijM
15 s
■
i
* V
arOM AT
*♦* ♦ « ♦
♦+*»*♦
•♦.f ♦ ♦ + x
as ♦ ♦ » * •
V ♦
V%%V,
vV,v.
» ♦
.
AV/TA
♦ * ,
f . -■■■■ "ftw
' *
* 4
■ :
is*
• *
*
w
Agents; M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD., SYDNEY.
Production is restricted so
don’t blame your retailer
if you have difficulty in
obtaining Gillette blades.
Posted for General Service. —To save man-
power, Gillette “Standard” Blades now replace
Gillette, and the 7 o’clock. But you will find these
“Standard” Blades are still the best shave you
can buy so when you get them, make them last.
Gillette in battledress
Gillette “Standard” Blades cost 3d. each and fit all
Gillette Razors, old or new type.
SMOKE-OH!
“Many books have been written on the in-
spiration given by children.” — “S. M. Herald.”
By studying the mind of a child, the
author is able to produce a child of the
mind.
*b * v *
there was some disagreement among the
doctors concerning the cause of the old man’s
death.” — Medical journal.
Another disputed finish!
•I* d*
“Lady’s Wrist, engraved back. Lost.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Owner terribly cut up.
“Lost smokers’ cabin, Neutral Bay boat, from
city.”— “S. M. Herald”
It was found long ago by lady
passengers,
“I*
“Mason denied that he was betting; he was
working for a man named Stone who owed him
some money.”— “Sun.”
He wanted to chip him about it.
*1* ‘b •£•
“Astronomer’s son weds famous film star.”
— “Sun.”
The star's that light the firmament
Enrapture dad; the son,
A grosser mortal, seems content
With just an earthly one.
B. B.
Unspeakable Interlude.
“A man and his wife at Romford (Essex)
have not spoken to each other for 15 years.”
They are probably suffering some of
the inconvenience that attended a slight
disagreement I once had with my 'wife
over a five-guinea hat. It ended in a
mutual agreement not to speak to each
other.
For a while we got along with gestures,
producing an expressive sign-language
which even ran to explaining in detail an
elaborate alibi for my arriving home at
3 a.m. one New Year’s Eve. The destruc-
tion of vases and ornaments during some
of our more heated debates was impres-
sive.
We soon took to writing down essential
messages, and when paper supplies ran
out we used the wall-paper, the table-
tops and even the kitchen sink. As some
of my wife’s abusive remarks reflected a
surprisingly adequate vocubulary, visitors
used to read yesterday’s conversations
with a good deal of interest, not to say
relish. She got an unfair advantage by
enlisting the services of our lodger, a
master printer, who kept a small rotary
press in his bedroom. I was rapidly over-
whelmed by a spate of remarks printed
vociferously in 72-point bold caps, and
the task of scribbling denials and counter-
charges gave me writer’s cramp.
When the lodger left we took to ad-
dressing our remarks to a third party,
and lacking a human agency, used the
radio cabinet. This had a peculiar effect
on it, causing it frequently to interrupt
the current programme in order to play
back some of my wife’s monologues of
the previous week.
Now we are, technically, speaking
again. But with several months’ accumu-
lation dammed up in her word-factory,
I haven’t had the chance yet.
Plum.
“To Let, Furn. self-contained detached Brick
Man’s Dwelling, with bathroom.”
—Suburban paper.
Present owner hard up apparently.
Understood.
“Eight to Stand at Ryde By-election.”
—“S. M. Herald.”
Give them a “hand”
•And bear my wit —
Eight are to stand
That one may sit!
P.M.
•J*
“A gunman at Alameda, California, recently
held up a grocer, then poured a bottle of ink
over his victim!” — “World's News.”
To blot out all marks of his crime?
.T. ,J, .J.
Naval Secret.
“Why do we see small groups of sailors being
marched along city streets.” — Correspondent.
The sailors march along the road. They
march the road along. (You have to
twist lines up like that to rhyme; your
flamin’ song.) Why do the sailors march
like this, in groups of six or eight? You’ll
see the sailors marching thus quite early,
also late.
Says Flo, who has the bright ideas
which bring a lot of snubs: “They have
to march them all the time to get ’em
past the pubs.”
Yair.
Among the Hon. Nipponese
Inventors.
“A combination shovel and umbrella for use
in air raids has been invented by a Jap school-
teacher.”
According to Tokyo Radio, the inven-
tor, Bonza Tamashanta, was requested
by the Imperial High Command Assist-
ance Society personally to test his inven-
tion in co-operation with the Air Force.
Hon. Bonza with his shovel dug a fox-
hole and took up his position therein.
Asa Mitsubishi roared down to umbrella
height and dropped a 10001 b. bomb the
inventor reversed his shovel and pressed
a spring. The reinforced tin umbrella
half opened and stuck—it was a Japanese
umbrella.
Ten seconds later Hon. Bonza and
his foxhole were theoretically safe some-
where in the 30 ft. deep crater. A
platinum-mounted tooth found embedded
in a tree 200 yards away testified to the
success of late Hon. Bonza’s powers of
invention.
A combination pen-wiper and portable
concrete pillbox, invented by a Nagoyan
cherry-blossom-smeller’s laborer, is de-
scribed by General Koiso as “Japan’s
bold answer to the bazooka.”
The sides have been dispensed with to
allow the occupants an adequate supply
of fresh air. In the absence of support-
ing walls, the roof, made of anew
flexible concrete, which when used to
wipe pens with automatically sharpens
the nib, is incorporated with the floor,
making it stronger. Should four men
of equal height and possessing neck
muscles of similar strength happen simul-
taneously to be using the pillbox, they
can use the roof as additional shelter by
balancing it on their heads. This ingeni-
ously leaves their hands free to use their
bayonets should they be attacked with
flame-throwers or bulldozers.
The invention by Watawappa Tamato,
a young journeyman smoke-sorter in a
Tokyo flummery foundry, of a combined
sock-stretcher, egg-whisk and anti-tank
obstacle will, it is claimed by Domci,
revolutionise jungle warfare.
Tamato received the inspiration that
urged him along the path of invention
when he lay awake thinking. He thought if
the brave Imperial troops fighting in far-
off jungles were to find some ostrich eggs
they would be deprived of the pleasures
of an occasional eggflip if they had no
whisk. An enemy tank crew, faced with
an implement on which was a half-
stretched sock, with perhaps the yolk
from an ostrich egg dripping from one
end of it, would unquestionably be seized
by such utter demoralisation that they
must immediately abandon their vehicle
and rush screaming into the jungle, to
fall easy prey to Jap troops.
One of the most brilliant inventions
of modern times is the way Colonel
Wakamule, of the Horse Marine Corps,
described over Tokyo Radio a combined
horsehair-teaser, concrete-mixer, ukulele,
water cart and siege gun, the invention of
an Osaka starling-breeder. The, principle
is simplicity itself. The focal point of
the machinery lies in the horsehair-teasing
apparatus, which when straight horse-
hair is fed into it automatically tautens
the strings of the ukulele to concert pitch.
When this is played upon skilfully the
concrete mixer starts to revolve. When
the revolutions reach a certain number
the water-cart wheels start turning, and
these in turn elevate the gun. By a clever
device water from the water-cart is used
to sprinkle over the barrel to stop it
from melting either in the hot sun or
after two rounds are fired.
For the present, Colonel Wakamule
explains, the device will be restricted in use
to areas where an abundance of straight
horsehair is readily available, as without
this none of the other works will operate.
Also, first-class ukulele players must be
included in the gun team, whose efforts
may also be vitiated if adequate supplies
of sand, cement and gravel in proper
proportions are not available. Neverthe-
less, it is expected to prove a real war-
winner.
80.
The Academic Touch.
“Students at Louisiana State University
threaten to strike unless a ban is lifted on
kissing on the campus.”—' “Daily Telegraph.”
I have no Latin, and less Greek,
No lexicon have I to aid me
When words of other tongues evade
me ;
And in my ignorance I seek
To know exactly how it hampers
A fellow’s style of osculation
To be denied by regulation
A kiss or two upon the campus.
Now, when he’s got himself all set
To kiss an undergraduette.
The ardent scholar, 1 suppose,
Will have to temper his embrace,
And kiss her in the usual place — •
About an inch below her nose.
P. M. LUSK.
Miscalculation.
When he drew the first prize in a lott’ry
he swore
He’d devote it to scaring the wolf from
the door;
But instead of fulfilling that function he
found
That it brought all the wolves in the
neighborhood round.
Brian Bureau.
Adjustment.
“Sometimes an operation is followed by
a surprising change in the patient’s character.”
—Medical journal.
Sweet, if your gentle character should
change
After they’ve taken your appendix out,
Would that which follows after, new and
strange,
Put all those rosy dreams of ours to
rout ?
If it were threatened that we thus might
range
Through fields apart, I would, without
a doubt,
Get rid of my appendix, too, so we
Could still exist in loving harmony.
T. W. NATHAN.
The Snag!
/ like the way he laughs ... “Har-har I”
I like the way he speaks.
I like the way he drives the car,
Although it always creaks.
I Hike the way he does his hair.
I like the way he darnces.
I like the way he’ll often swear,
And bet and take wild charnces.
But there’s one point about this cove
That I just don’t like, see ?
And what 1 don’t like is—by jove !
The way he don’t like me.
EVE THE ORPINGTION.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
~ln a cla M of. its
LEA & PERRINS
invite you to listen to a
session of fun and fancy at
12.30 p.m. every Sunday from
2GB.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER— 2Ith April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelfnanism has
made in my Army life as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER— 17th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pehn an principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIK EORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
50,000 of the half-million Pelmanists.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
I
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.”
Name
Address
CRAVEN A
m
'mt.
S7QS
(tie dweufs
smc^fjudt!
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
m
m
ifvK
1
f S’
M AD E
S PE CIA ELY
PREVENT
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy a Vest Pocket Kodak camera, good
condition, in Sydney.—3sll. S,
To buy Berlitz’s Russian, books I and II. —
3572.
Young man requires board and residence in
Sydney metropolitan area, private family pre-
ferred.—3s73.
Information Sought.
Where could I obtain a copy of a will pro-
bated in England? Cost?
Apply to Registrar, Probate Division, High
Court of Justice, London. Cost depends on
length of will.
r * * *
Information on sale of the last ships of the
Commonwealth Government Line? Total loss
incurred by the Commonwealth on the line ?
The residue of the fleet was sold to the White
Star Line in 1928 for £1,900,000. The chairman
of White Star later complained that £1,476,412
had been lost on the deal, to which the Com-
monwealth Auditor-General replied that the
White Star had purchased for £1,900,000 a fleet
that had originally cost £7,500,000. Altogether,
the Commonwealth lost £6,650,000 on its ship-
ping venture.
* * *
How to cure snakeskins ?
Soak in cold water for a few hours until
quite soft, then scrape the back to remove any
flesh or fat. Rub alum into skip and soak for
eight hours in a liquor composed of 2oz.
powdered alum, loz. salt, I gallon water.
Afterwards wash thoroughly, mix fresh liquor
and soak for another eight hours. Scales
should then be pressed down; a household
wringer or mangle will do. Roll from the bate
of scales to the tips. Stretch out to dry in a
cool place, fastening with a tack every 3in.
on each side.
H= * * *
Aboriginal word for seven?
Numerals used by the abos. were limited.
In most tribes anything over four was boolarong
(plenty). Mulkirri (many) would serve for
“seven.”
Correct method of using linseed oil on walnut
veneered furniture?
Dust surface, then apply clean rag dipped in
raw linseed oil and rolled into a pad. Rub well
in, covering every part of surface, then rub
with second rag and finally polish well. Two
applications may be necessary.
* * * *
How to renovate a leather coat?
Remove all stains from surface. Then apply
saddle soap over entire surface and rub in
until leather is polished and smooth. Finish with
boot-polish of same color as coat.
* * * *
Recipe for pickling capers?
Cover with a brine made by boiling lib. fine
salt in 4 gals, water. Stand overnight. Bring
just to boiling-point, strain and fill sterilised
bottles or jars with the capers. Tie in a piece
of muslin a clove of garlic, a few peppercorns
and some blades of mace. Place in the required
quantity of vinegar; boil for five minutes, then
strain and allow to cool slightly. Pour into
bottle with the capers, filling to overflowing.
When cold, pour out a little of the vinegar to
make room for cork. When corked, dip top
into melted sealing wax. Keep at least three
weeks before using.
Brief Answers.
E.M.: Australian Secretarial Practice and
Manual of Company Law, by Yorston and
Fortesque, and Sidey’s Company Formation and
Management contain required information....
J.M.: Write to Naval Recruiting Office, Alice-
st'reet, Brisbane A.M.8.; Dog is suffering
from canine hysteria, due to colic, probably
arising from unsuitable diet. There is no foun-‘
dation for stories of transmission of strych-
nine poisoning through one or more generations.
E.S.L.: Old-age pensions were introduced
by the Commonwealth in 1908; N.S.W. brought
in invalid pensions in 1907 and the Common-
wealth in 1912. Dibbs introduced N.S.W. Arbi-
tration legislation... .J.C.O’L.: Angus and
Robertson, Sydney, can supply First Aid to
Dogs and Cats (7s. 3d.) and Fhe Right Way
with Dogs and Cats (25.)... .C.F.W.: Cannot
trace in American catalogues A.G.; Country
is under British military occupation but is not
part of the British Empire. Its post-war fate is
undecided J.D.: Verse appeared B. 24/8/’B9.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
T.8.L.; Views on afforestation profound but
unmelodious J.T.E.: You rely too much on
dots... .W.G.: If it were all based on the idea
in the two new lines you might make something
of it... .E.H.H.: Something really beautiful
in the information that a goat has to get a
military permit to enter the N.T.; but only a
goat would care to chew over that ballad for
long 8.W.: Slight A.C.A.: Call again.
C.L.: Announcer needs boiling down
J.H.S.: Sounds as if you preant it, anyhow
F.MacD.: Not far 0ff....N.W.: Write about
the things you see and the life you Jcnow
DJ.R.: You’ll find it hard to say anything
new about wild ducks, wild geese, wild swans
and other such symbolic poultry 0.H.:
Gripes! N.E.: A “thingumabob” it is
J.W.: You overstrain poetic license when you
say “a-seat” for “seated” T.H.N.: Just a
trifle... .H.E.R.: We’ve published a much
stronger version of the same theme S.H.H.:
Go fishing again... .A.C.: Might be able to
put up with a sweetly singing milkmaid; but
yodelling farmers, scampering antelopes, roam-
ing wild bears and affectionate “cowgirls”
would be too much... .H.W.8.: A mild and
watery brew J.M.: Try telling your experi-
ences in prose P.J.C.; And a very pleasant
occupation it must be:
In this hard modern time
Far away from the grime
Of the city I look
At some gum in a nook.
. ...8.C.: Jingles pale and unreal... .C.A.R.:
Usual remarks on the weather C.A.P.; Not
funny H.E.: Just a sprig of poesy about a
sprig of wattle.


which
hand.
In one there is a dice; in the
other a key. The dice represents the gamble
of spend-as-you-go. It symbolises the
Micawberish belief that “something is sure
to turn up”.
The key is the key to financial security, to
stability, to peace of mind. The key is a
Commonwealth Savings Bank Account, built
up from week to week out of wages or salary.
It is the key to War Savings Certificates . . •
to War Bonds ... to contented prosperity.
Which will you have . . . the key or the dice ?
Decide for the key! Open a Commonwealth
Savinas Bank Account next nav-dav!
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
WITH THE
CB.IO-26
will
You
have?
iiiiii
mrnmrn
m
m
iifmi
iilPil
¥SSW
s>¥
time for s Capstan
lii
ii
■
9K
i720-1X.44
If YOU’RE SHORT OF
CAPSTANS
it’s because they’ve gone to the Fighting Forces
GANT AND HIS HORSES
BY BRIAN JAMES.
JACK and Tom got old Gant to run
over the new field with the heavy
harrow—an ominous-looking wooden
triangle with shocking iron spikes
in it.
Morris Gant was reckoned the most
successful man in the district, and was
hated, if possible, more than anyone else,
You can’t grow better passionfruit and
citrus and get a lot more for them and
draw big money for early potatoes and
late tomatoes without incurring much
envy and hate. People remembered, too,
how mean Gant was, and how he
wouldn’t take advice—unless it suited him
—and how he had been as poor as a
church mouse when he came to the dis-
trict; “not a penny to bless himself with”
when he took on that piece of scrub.
The women pitied his wife and daugh-
ters—“fine girls if they only had a chance,
but he works them like horses”—and
recalled the scandal, long since passed
into local history, that old Gant had got
the local blacksmith to make special hoes
for the girls, with six tines on the fork,
so that they would cover more ground,
“Six tines! ” That’s what he was like. If
other girls had to work in the orchards
at all they used only five tines.
Also, old Gant didn’t really belong,
He was an Englishman, not a “pommy,”
mind you. It seemed he hadn’t even
reached to that dignity. He was just an
Englishman who had farmed in England,
And had ideas—and you couldn’t shift
them. “Not a bit like us,” they all said,
Grab every penny he could; let his girls
dig in the orchard or chip round the pas-
sion vines -while he went out working,
Not for nothing, neither. He knew how
to charge ; always a bit extra, because
he had bigger and better horses than
one else. Give him that; he had good
horses, and he treated them well. A
darned sight better than he treated his
girls or would treat his old woman —
only she wouldn’t stand for it. Boys!
The whole three of them cleared out —
couldn’t stand it. The youngest went
when he was sixteen.
ANT appeared at eight, punctually
k_J on eight. He was very precise in
such matters ; start at eight sharp and
stop at five to the tick. And charge
twenty-five bob for it; ten shillings for
the horses and fifteen for himself. He
didn’t boast, but he let it be understood
that he and the horses were worth it. And
if you didn’t believe it you could have
Bill Bray with his scraggy team and his
light harrows; hardly heavy enough for
orchard work, much less lumpy new
ground.
The harrow weighed the best part of
a ton, it seemed, and Jack gave a hand
to get it off the dray while Tom and old
Gant eased it down on to the ground,
Old Gant reckoned if you let it down
suddenly it might break, and there wasn’t
another harrow like it in the district,
Then the horses dragged the harrow—
on its back, of course—from the head-
land to the furrows, where Tom and old
Gant heaved it over,
Old Gant was really quite a pleasant
old chap to talk to, though his appear-
ance wasn’t particularly prepossessing.
His big round face was blotchy in spite
of the tanning from the weather, and he
sprouted large quantities of hair from his
ears and nostrils. He had bushy eye-
brows and a moustache that looked like
a hayrake. He was powerfully built, but
he had a stomach and a craw. These
were easily accounted for — secret drink-
ing. Everyone knew, to the thimbleful
almost, how many gallons of plonk old
Gant got through each week. Kept it in
his shed in big wicker jars, he did, and
never a taste of it to anyone else.
The harrow, heavy as it was, bumped
and heaved over the rough ground. It
was a bit too dry to fine properly, so
a big bloodwood post was tied on top of
the harrow to keep it down. The horses
grunted and sweated at the pull. A
hidden root caught a tooth and bent it
right back, but old Gant took the mishap
philosophically—“sort of thing that can
happen any time.” He didn’t even swear;
in fact, he and Sam Henderson were the
only two men in.the district who didn’t
swear. Both of them were Englishmen,
though Sam had the additional excuse of
being a lay preacher and a J.P. There
was Enoch Rath, too, of course; he didn’t
swear; but then, no one counted him
a 'oT a Gant hadn’t much begun the job
when Wiseman from next door came
down among his lemons to work.
The lemons adjoined the new land and
the harrowing. It mightn’t have been
strictly necessary to work over them just
now* but then, again, it might have been.
Anyway, Wiseman started to snip the-
dead wood out of the trees. At the same
time he could keep an eye on the harrow-
ing. Wiseman was always filled with
neighborly interest. Also, he felt it neces-
sary to see that Jack and Tom weren’t
taken down by anyone.
MORNING tea was at ten. Wiseman
happened over—casually. He and
Gant greeted each other in proper terms.
No, Wiseman wouldn’t have a bite ;
had some tea an hour ago.
After a long pause: “Ever think of a
rotary?” he asked Jack quite innocently.
Jack hadn’t.
Old Gant had a rofary hoe, an early,
clumsy affair, horse-drawn and designed
for chewing up rough ground.
“You’d break a rotary on ground like
that,” said Gant thoughtfully. “Never
get through the roots and rocks.”
“I thought you used it on the patch
where you’ve got the beans now.” Wise-
man winked at Jack as an intimation that
he was scoring heavily. But old Gant
took a noisy swill of tea through his hay-
rake moustache and said no more.
“Got any die-back in the lemons?”
Wiseman wanted to know, as if the infor-
mation was vitally important.
Old Gant hadn’t. Reckoned if you
green-manured and worked a place prop-
erly you didn’t get die-back.
But Wiseman did these things by his
lemons, and he had die-back. There
must be other reasons. And he drained,
too, so it couldn’t be that either. Had
no end of work cutting out dead stuff.
He flicked his pruning shears back and
forth. He carried the shears attached to
his belt by a steel loop, and they hung
down on the side of his leg. He prided
himself on the arrangement, as it left
his hands free, and he always had the
shears with him. He now complained
that cutting dead wood made the blade
dull, and he had to carry a small black-
stone and “a drop or two of oil” with
him.
Gant was mildly interested. “But you
don’t cut dead wood, do you?” he asked.
Wiseman stole another sly wink —to
Tom this time —and declared with mild
emphasis “Always!”
“Then the dead part keeps going back
further still,” said Gant,
“Not if you cut in the right place. The
green wood grows over the end and
there’s no weeping.” Wiseman gave this
in the kindly fashion of a benevolent old
gentleman with a small boy who was in
grievous error.
Gant couldn’t quite see it, however,
and Wiseman, with sundry looks, preened
himself on a second victory. Later, with
trimmings, he would relate how he had
a row with “that Gant.” And showed
him “where he got off.” In the present
process it certainly didn’t look like a
row at all, but, then, Wiseman had his
own peculiar methods of waging war.
Gant prepared to go back to the horses.
“By the way,” Wiseman asked in good
neighborly tones, “how is Colin getting
on?” Colin was Gant’s second boy.
Gant answered vaguely: “Haven’t
heard from him for some time,” and went
straight to the harrow.
It was a mean victory that, because
Wiseman knew how Colin was getting on.
So did everyone else almost, and it was
impossible that old Gant wouldn’t know,
too.
Then Wiseman told Jack and Tom that
“that there Colin is in trouble again.
Made a proper mess of it this time.”
There followed an account of Colin’s
crime, related with all the detail of an
observant eye-witness, combined with the
artistry of a born story-teller. Some of
the details were really revolting, but
Wiseman didn’t seem to mind at all, and
lingered over them. He ended with: “Of


1
The sign that is inseparable
from the most outstandingly
high-grade products pro-
duced by the Petroleum
Industry^
MOTOR AND
AVIATION SPIRIT.
KEROSENE.
LUBRICATING OILS
AND GREASES
CALTEX LIMITED
ADVISORS ON ALL IMPORTANT PROBLEMS
OF PETROLEUM USAGE AND LUBRICATION
IN ALL ITS PHASES
I*
yx
v\
*
u . V v V,
„0
. 0* 1 .. x \ % -
(V v
r
/ \
■•• / / f ■;
x / 1 ■■:
/
r\ i
ardon this intrusion.
The intrusion of Steel Tubes into the bathrooms
of the future is more than pardonable—it will be a
commendable, desirable intrusion bringing brightness,
convenience and an air of smart modernity. In fact,
right through the post-war homes ther,e will bp Steel
Tubes of all types, fulfilling an astonishing variety of
purposes. At present, of course, gas Jb-ntosioif
cylinders and munitions of all sorts
are receiving prior consideration, at
British Tube Mills ( Aust .) Pty.
Ltd., Kilburn, South Australia.
BuAJEfe,
B2J
course, the jury will find him guilty.
Couldn’t do anything else. And it’s a
hanging matter. But, of course, they
won’t hang him. Not with this crowd in
power.”
Wiseman spoke bitterly of “this
crowd.” Their sparing of Colin was not
the least of their ways of ruining the
country. “Of course,” he summed up in
a humanly-speaking tone, “of course, it’s
hard on the family. But you can’t be
sorry for Gant —not the way he treats
those girls. And I’ll say this, if he had
been a bit decent to the boys this wouldn’t
have happened either. It’s the girls I’m
sorry for. He thinks more of those horses
than he thinks of his girls. He’s a mean
cow.”
THE big harrow jiggled and jolted over
the ploughland. Wisepian went back
to his lemons. Jack and Tom started
to carry off the biggest of the roots and
stones to the headland.
The horses were plodding heavily and
stolidly along the opposite edge of the
clearing, when wild and sudden commo-
tion broke forth, so quick that one could
only realise it in the retrospect. The
horses slewed out of the ploughed ground
into the straggling stringybarks, and from
a dull walk leapt into a reckless and mad
gallop, and that in spite of the heavy
harrow.
It was too quick for the eye to take in,
with the brain trying to catch up in a
confused way for a reason for it all.
Jack, at the moment, happened to be
watching the team, and his impression
was that of something quite inanimate
bursting in the fraction of a second into
mad life and activity. He stood gaping,
and later had the clearer picture of old
Gant rushing towards the heads of his
horses. He never got there.
Tom was turned the other way at the
time, struggling with ariarge floater, and
he missed the first act of the swift drama.
By the time he gathered that something
was happening the horses were disappear-
ing into the scrub, with old Gant career-
ing after them.
There was a confusion of sounds —
snapping of underbrush, jangle of chains
and the inarticulate cries of old Gant.
Wiseman, at the edge of his lemons, was
just standing and gaping. Then there
was a Crash in the timber, and the voice
of Gant exhorting and whoaing. It
sounded like a sob.
Wiseman was the first to move. “Must
be a snake!” he yelled. He dropped his
shears (later he took hours to find them,
and blamed Gant for losing them) and
ran towards the scrub. Jack and Tom
did the same. At the edge of the clear-
ing the cause of the team’s mad bolting
was revealed —the white-box under a
stringy, and many bees flying round in
wide and buzzing circles. It was a swarm
that Tom had boxed a month or two be-
fore as the beginnings of an apiary he was
going to establish one day.
They veered to the left to avoid the
bees and ran through the timber. As
Wiseman said later, “bees in that frame
of mind would do anything. The old
fool should have known better than to go
near a hive with sweaty horses.” Soon
they came to the harrow, smashed
and caught between a bloodwood and a
big stump. Broken swinglebars and bits
of chain were scattered round, 'and a
backhand from one of the horses.
The ground sloped down fairly steeply,
and broken bushes and small saplings
showed the way. There were no further
sounds to guide them. Where the slope
ended was a wall of sandstone —dropping
in a small cliff to the lower level eight
or ten feet down. It was a pretty spot,
with soft bracken, maidenhair and scat-
tered bottlebrushes growing on the damp,
sandy soil. Beneath the wall, in a huddled
heap lay the big bay horses —very still.
Old Gant was standing near them —very
still, too.
Wiseman, Jack and Tom stood and
looked down. It was plain enough what
had happened—the horses had gone over
the cliff and broken their necks. Jack
asked Gant if he were hurt.
Gant didn’t answer the question. He
only said, very softly, “They’re gone!”
Then he just sobbed.
There is something inexpressibly
pathetic in the sight of a man in tears.
But there is something comic, too, in a
fat man blubbering. Poor old Gant was
a fit subject for anyone’s pity; but his
heaving shoulders and quivering, quaking
sides were absurdly incongruous. And
all the while the fine bay draughts looked
like a waste of Nature’s gifts. Their
heads were twisted and half obscured
beneath their shoulders. A hind leg of
one of the horses was broken, obviously,
unmistakably broken. As if fascinated,
Gant gazed at this broken leg as if it
were the sole proof of life departed. And
every time he looked the heaving sobs
started more violently,
The three above looked down. There
was nothing they could do, nothing they
could say. Wiseman hadn’t even the
heart to wink —not now. Jack thought
of offering to get the remains of the har-
ness, but he didn’t know how to offer.
At last he beckoned the others to depart.
There was nothing else to do, it seemed.
The three walked up the slope,-each
touched in his own way by the tragedy.
Wiseman at last rolled a cigarette very
deliberately, and then found it wouldn’t
draw. He unrolled it and put the tobdcco
back in the tin, and let the crumpled,
punctured paper float off in the breeze.
Then he said “Well, I will say *this much
for Gant, he has a fine pair of horses.”
Tom and Jack, rather badly shaken,
said nothing. They walked back to the
broken harrow, as if that would help in
some way or other.
“Still,” went on Wiseman, “he thinks
more of them horses than he does of his
girls.”
He used the present tense.
And a week later Wiseman was relat-
ing, the story with trimmings.
“His own fault, really sweaty horses
near a beehive looking for trouble,
really blubbered just like a kid. Too
right, he did! ... Them poor girls with
six-pronged hoes.... bloody mean cow,
that’s what I say ”
CARGOES.
I.
There came two ships to our bay, and the space
of years
between them. The first drew up the harbor;
bright
were her funnels as the water leapt before
her bow and the sunshine caught the spray
and ran it down her fingers. The shores were
lined
with fishing craft, squatting like seagulls
by the mudbank, and as the wash came in to
tell
of the ship’s arrival, the riggings curtsied
in unison and the tittle boats gossiped in their
moorings
of other ships they’d known and deemed more
fair.
The footlights of the open theatre flared
in the late evening, and the winches raised their
batons
for man’s great symphony, the song of labor.
Wool, wheat and frozen meat were stowed
away in several holds; wool from plains
as wide as the sea, eager ambassador
of a young country, and the meat came down
by slings into the freezing-room. The wharf-
lumpers
shouldered the half beasts and trudged off
in their toebags, momentarily decked
with the crimson and white mantle of the
carcase,
like kings from a new land, paying homage
to an old. By morning light the ship was free
of the bay and on the open sea for England.
Time flooded down the bay, as silently
as moonrise, leaving but ghostly* trace
of journeying. Here, a wall caved in; there,
a fishing boat had rotted on the slip
and lilliputian crabs flashed crimson claws
in her cobra holes. A sandbank ran its lance
against the fortress of the harbor entrance
and still peers over low water-mark sullenly
into the depthless channel. Among the wharfies,
greater were Time’s gains. “Drysalt’-’ now
patched
ships, not from the wharf, but from his verandah
bed;
Michael no longer labored with the Bull gang,
but brewed the “smoko,” mended leaking wheat-
sacks
and said that shipping wasn’t like it used
to be; and on his face the tide of time
left birds’ feet and innumerable furrows
as the lesser tide left on the harbor sands.
11.
There was no sound as the second ship hove to,
an emanation of the evening grey; and leaden
was the slow ripple pared off by her bows.
No lights festooned her bridge and the funnel
seemed
cast of the smoke it mingled with the storm
clouds.
By night her freight was loaded from the trucks
drawn up on the wharfside, a new gift from the
land,
a gift of men weighed down with battle dress.
They moved an unbroken line from wharf to
hold
like rich blood pulsating down an artery.
Their backs were bowed with war-freight as
they climbed
the swinging gangway, and the sickly light
of one dim lamp gave each the company
of his shadow on the ship’s side, that he might
not walk alone the land of light or shade
according to his destination.
The next day
the ship moved out to sea, just after nightfall,
and her golden fingers went out across the water
to touch a lovelier, deadlier beauty lurking
at moonrise past visionary horizons,
and the sea’s voice intoned a litany and her
hands
counted the rosary of shells on new-washed
sands.
Time will flood down our bay till all her tides
are spent, and no moon lives to move the seas.
Caught in her mighty current there will come
a million masts for wool and meat and grain;
yet of their number no ship will restore
the noblest merchandise to leave our shore.
A.I.F,
VAL VALLIS.


That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 66
years’ 'specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves,' £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman,
C.6.E.; Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C.S. Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
nr
SECDETADIAL
SCHOOL
A competent private secretary to a businessman must have more than the high skill in stenography an
typing that she acquires at the- Macquarie Secretarial School. She must' have the tact, judgmen a
initiative and understanding of the problems of the day, in which Macquarie students are also trains •
The Principal may be interviewed by appointment.
149 CASTLEREAGH STREET, SYDNEY
MA5644
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New South Wales
To Re-
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 489,739 5 p.c. = 439,000 739 6,266,335
1935.. 442,660 5 „ „ 439,000 3,660 6,269,995
1936.. 470,454 5j „ „ 460,950 9,504 6,279,499
1937.. 543,242 6 „ „ 526,800 16,442 6,295,941
1938.. 547,835 6 „ ~ 526,800 21,035 6,316,976
1939.. 550,876 6 „ „ 526,800 24,076 6,341,052
1940.. 544,770 6 „ „ 526,800 17,970 6,359,022
1941.. 547,123 6 „ „ 526,800 20,323 6,379,345
1942.. 548,004 6 „ ~526,800 21,204 6,400,549
1943.. 543,004 6 „ „ 526,800 16,204 6,416,753
1944.. 551,049 6 „ „ 526,800 24,249 6,441,002
The Government proposes to set up a
party-political dictatorship in banking;
and legislation for the purpose is being
prepared in the inner temples of Cabi-
net and Caucus. Details of the plan
have not been officially broadcast.
According to press reports the two main
objects are: (a) political control of the
central bank, and, therefore, of central-
bank credit and the currency ; and ( b )
indirect but effective control of the trad-
ing banks, and with them of the direction
and volume of private spending. Con-
trol of the Commonwealth Bank is to
pass from the present more-or-less
autonomous board to a governor, who
will be responsible to the Treasurer.
Also the bank, as a central bank,
is to be specially empowered to
advance money to the Government for
public works, and for housing and other
purposes.
The credit and currency functions of
central banks in most other democratic
countries are entrusted to boards of direc-
tors composed of men of outstanding
commercial integrity, ability and experi-
ence. What then are the impelling cir-
cumstances that have caused the Govern-
ment at this juncture to substitute totali-
tarian for democratic control of tried and
proved efficiency? They arise out of
political promises to lead the people into
an economic Eden, where “full” employ-
ment and a “high and increasing”
standard of living are to be the fruits of
a new psychology of spending, which is
to take the place of the age-old virtue of
thrift.
Experience has shown that sooner or
later the inevitable consequences of such
a change in the economic wind are infla-
tion and rising internal price levels, with
consequent wage and contractual adjust-
ments and threat to the exchange value
of the currency, flagrant injustice to
holders of fixed interest-bearing securities,
life-assurance policyholders and long-
term creditors. In the end it all leads to
seizure by the Government of the whole
economic life of the nation. By decree
after decree the unwieldy machinery of
State is slowly hoisted into position, and
a vast and expensive bureaucracy is set
up to man the new machinery of eco-
nomic control. For the most part, this
is what has already happened under war
conditions, and the Government hopes to
perpetuate it as inconspicuously as pos-
sible. But a national crisis justifying such
means needs to be sharply distinguished
from the exigencies of party politics and
controversy. The danger of direct Gov-
ernment control of banking lies in the
temptation to treat political difficulties as
justifying a course of action only permis-
sible in an emergency of an entirely dif-
ferent order. Given a monopoly of the
whole banking structure, it would be an
easy matter, as opportunity offered, to
socialise one part after another of the
field of trade and industry by regulating
the flow of capital and credit, the life
blood of free enterprise.
If deflation is a “terrible end,” then
inflation js an “endless terror.” Stability
lies between the two extremes, in a policy
designed to maintain “full” employment
and avoid severe price inflation. This
means, as the British White Paper on
employment policy suggests, well-timed
public works, designed to take up the lag
(when it occurs) in private investment, an
appropriate taxation and borrowing
policy, and adequate social welfare bene-
fits and contributory unemployment in-
surance. It is not necessary that the State
should plan the lives and livelihood of
the people in order to ensure economic
security. At the August referendum last
year the electorate made it quite clear
that most people desired to please them-
selves in matters of business enterprise,
and in the way and manner in which they
employed their labor and spent their time
and money. What needs to be recognised
is that while profit-minded enterprise can-
not be allowed to become anti-social,
social-minded Government activity can-
not be pursued regardless of economic
cost.
The soundness of the trading banks and
the services they render are not in ques-
tion —both are acknowledged “excellent.”
Thanks to loyal co-operation of the
banks, present financial controls have
achieved their purpose, namely dis-
couragement of borrowing and spending
for all except war purposes. Yet it is
proposed to perpetuate existing banking
controls in their present or modified form,
thus making the trading banks little more
than agencies of the proposed politi-
cally-controlled central bank. As the
chairman of the ’Wales pertinently re-
marked, the varied requirements of bank-
ing call for judgment rather than statu-
tory rules ; and restrictions on the banks
in their dealings with their customers
mean restrictions on the customers, and
thereby on industry and employment as
a whole.
Banking figures, which used to mirror
the cross-currents of trade and industry,
now reflect mainly the impact of Govern-
ment war-finance policy. The ’Wales
shares in the common experience:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital £8,780,000 £8,780,000 £8,780,000
Notes .. 81,159 81,099 81,069
D e p o s i ts,
bills, etc. 111,769,712 165,208,043 186,247,967
Liquids .. 30,193,019 73,309,949 83,877,904
Deposit* .. 452,211 32,298,770 48,925,794
Advances . . 93,077,235 71,408,877 65,276,042
Premises . . 3,300,000 3,600,000 3,600,000
Other assets 2,000
* Statutory deposits Australia and N.Z.
Last term a contraction of £6,132,835 in
advances was accompanied by an ex-
pansion of £21,039, 924 in deposits and a
growth of £27,194,979 in low-interest-
bearing liquids, including special war-
time deposits with the Commonwealth
Bank (£47,979,000, up £16,474,000). Since
war began the increase in trading-bank
deposits has been thus diverted back to
the Government through the central bank
for use in further production for war pur-
poses. The co. is obviously well-equipped
to meet the financial requirements of de-
mobilisation and reconversion, provided
it is pot hamstrung by cumbersome
official controls.
Net earnings (up £8045) were 6.2 p.c. on
capital, or a mere 3.6 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds (capital and reserves com-
bined), and shareholders are entitled to
a reasonable return on their funds. Earn-
ing power of the banks ought to be given
more headroom by raising the present
low “ceiling” for their profits, upper
limit of which is average net earnings for
the last three pre-war years. This ignores
changes in the risk and costs factors alto-
gether.
Cox Bros. (Aust.), Ltd.
( Dividends
A Pref. B Pref.
July, Profit. 7 p.c. 7 p.c. Ord. Deficit.
1984.. 23,951 11,723 8,611 Nil 36,601
14 p.c.
1935.. 29,546 11,723 17,222 Nil 36,000
7 p.c.
1936.. 60,835 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 12,245 7,744
Reserves.*
1937.. 63,563 11,723 8,611 15 „ „ 12,245 23,240
Reserves capitalised, £8164 .. .. 15,076
1938.. 65,597 11,723 8,611 15 p.c. = 16,276 44,063
1939.. 60,567 11,723 8,611 15 „ „ 27,782 56,5X4
Loss sale Perth business, £ll5O .. 55,364
1940.. 61,084 11,723 8,611 12$ p.c.= 30,813 65,301
1941.. 59,913 11,723 8,611 10 „ „ 28,286 76,594
1942.. 53,206 11,724 8,610 10 „ „ 28,287 81,177
1943.. 44,887 11,724 8,610 '7s „ „ 21,216 84,514
1944.. 45,365 11,724 8,610 7$ „ „ 21,216 88,329
* Goodwill not treated as an asset herein.-
This clothing, drapery, furnishing-
drapery and furniture business has de-
veloped mainly along t.p. and mail-order
lines. Starting at Fitzroy (Vic.), it spread
to Adelaide and Launceston. In 1925
it was split into three separate cos. ; and
three years later a holding co. was formed
to weld it together again, get in more
capital and extend operations to West-
ralia. Slump, which caught the co. with
about 70 p.c. of its assets in debtors’
balances, interrupted a run of 20 p.c.
divs. in 1931, when a loss of £12,025
showed up, and for the next four years
the ords. went hungry. Meanwhile, in
1932, the four separate cos. were amal-
gamated into the present one, the outside
debt was worked down, profits responded
as conditions improved, more capita! was
gathered, and a steady 15 p.c. div. v/as
paid for the four years to the close of
accounts in 1939.
Though war bumped up costs, include
ing taxation, it lengthened pay-rolls and
lifted wage rates, turnover continued
to advance for the first three years, and
conditions became more propitious so
far as the debts question was concerned.
Then coupon rationing and the price ceil-
ing threw a blanket over turnover; t.p.
and mail-order business was restricted
and shipping difficulties made inter-State
transfer of goods, especially to Westralia,
increasingly difficult. For these and other
reasons a half-dozen of the co.’s stores
—four in Westralia and one each in Tas.
and Vic. —were closed during the 1943
term, reducing the number still operating
to 39. Also, the div., which had come
down from 15 p.c, in 1939 to 12-y p.c.
and then 10 p.c. in 1941, dropped to
1\ p.c. in 1943.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts gross earnings shrank by
£24,000, and, says the chairman, the
expense rate was the lowest on record.
After allowing £34,352 (down £9148) for
taxation and £5573 (down £364) for de-
preciation, the net result was £478 better
at £45,365. That was enough to pay the
pref. div. and show 8.8 p.c. on the
£282,868 of ord. capital, as against 8.6,
11.6, 13.9, 16.6, 21.7-and 41.8 p.c. back
to 1938. The div. was kept at 7£p.c.
The effects of restricted trading are
further reflected in the following com-
parison of balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £492,589 £573,358 £573,358 £573,358
Overdraft .. 117,704 106,906
Mortgages, etc. 116,952 106,400 28,000 28,000
Other creditors 14,265 29,249 26,609 23,465
Tax reserve .. 21,000 31,000 45,000 43,000
Premises, etc. 204,116 198,193 195,483 197,968
Plant, etc. .. 54,233 48,622 42,312 38,318
Stocks .. 103,494 198,724 180,570 171,498
Debtors . . 480,276 495,538 260,844 182,543
Cash, etc. . . 2,174 7,568 99,047 186,601
Greatest change has been in debtors’
balances, down £78,301 last term, making
the reduction no less than £312,995 over
the last three years. Together with the
decline in stocks (£9072 last term), this
enabled the overdraft and mortgage to be
worked down and cash, etc., to be
strengthened. The more or less liquid
surplus (£446,177) was £5325 stronger
than at the previous balance. A freehold
has been bought at Whyalla (S. Aus.),
where a store is to be erected after the
war.
What traders need most to enable them
to develop their post-war programme is
more definite pronouncement by the
Government of its policy, especially in
relation to rationing, priorities, exchange,
import, price and other controls.
Lamson Paragon, Ltd.
To Re-
Oct., Profit. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
1934.. 9,311 7 p.c. cs 7,000 2,311 46,574
1935.. 10,256 8 „ „ 8,000 2,256 48,830
1936.. 11,525 9 „ „ 9,000 2,525 51,355
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 57,605
1937.. 13,091 10 p.c. = 10,000 3,091 60,696
Loss sale factory, £4OOO .. .. 56,696
1938.. 15,162 10 p.c. = 12,500 2,662 59,358
Premiums on shares, £6250 .. 65,608
1939.. 15,795 10 p.c. = 12,500 3,295 68,903
1940.. 19,198 10 „ „ 15,000 4,198 73,101
1941.. 19,749 10 „ „ 15,000 4,749 77,850
1942.. 17,988 10 „ „ 15,000 ,2,988 80,838
1943.. 21,086 10 „ ~ 15,000 6,086 86,924
1944.. 22,645 10 „ „ 15,000 7,645 94,569
Earnings of this 45-year-old, which
specialises in all kinds of office requisites
and stationery, continue their upward trend
despite paper supply and man-power diffi-
culties. The co. has associations with Para-
gon overseas, and factories in all Aus-
tralian States except the Speck, whete a
sales branch at Hobart looks after local
requirements. The Adelaide factory was
established in 1942, and after early teeth-
ing troubles is now starting to pull its
weight. The other factories are finding
it difficult to cope with the volume of
business offering, and extensions are being
made to. the Melbourne building and ad-
ditional plant installed.
Earnings can be taken as a barometer
of general business activity. Only once
(in 1930) have shareholders gone without.
Since then the business has steadily
gained ground, and the div. has remained
unchanged at 10 p.c. since 1937. Last
term turnover was a record. Gross profit
was £4657 better at £108,309. After set-
ting aside £22,108 (up £1181) for taxation,


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Meeting.
THE AUSTRALIAN GAS LIGHT
COMPANY.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF
PROPRIETORS.
NOTICE is hereby given that the ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING of the Proprietors of
the Company will be held at the Conference
Room, 7th Floor, Grand United Order of Odd-
fellows Building, 149 Castlereagh Street, Sydney,
on Thursday, 22nd February, 1945, at 12 noon.
BUSINESS:
1. To receive the Report of the Directors for the
past year and authorise the payment of a divi-
dend for the half year ended 31st December,
1944. ,
2. To elect two Directors in the place of Ottomar
George Vickery, Esq., and Clifford Gordon
Crane, Esq., who retire and who have given
the requisite notice that they are candidates for
re-election for which they are eligible.
3. To appoint two Auditors in the place of Messrs.
Robert William Nelson, F.C.A. (Aust.), and
Harrie Hamilton Stitt, F.C.A. (Aust.), who
retire and who have given the requisite notice
that they are candidates for re-appointment,
for which the are eligible.
4. To transact such other business as may be
properly brought forward.
Candidates for the Directorship are required
to give notice of their candidature, in writing,
to the undersigned not later than Wednesday,
7th February, 1945.
The Transfer Book of the Company will be
closed from the Bth to the 22nd February, 1945,
both dates inclusive.
By Order of the Board,
W. A. TAYLOR, Secretary,
Company’s Head Office,
Haymarket, Sydney, 18th Jan., 1945.
Made by
I-ORD SHERI NOTON LTD
G
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
LO BITE Travel Cases
m
mm
m
&
mmmm
A difficult world
ahead Eor him
rpOR a quarterly outlay, so small that you will not notice it,
*■ you can ensure that your son will have the money to go
to the University when he is ready. Or you can arrange that
he will receive a given sum —say, £2OO, £5OO, or whatnot —
when he is 21, or 25, or of any age you nominate.
You can arrange that these benefits will come to him even if you die
meanwhile; even if you die a week after you arrange them.
You could do no finer thing for your boy than ensure to him th*
best possible education. No finer thing.
A few shillings a week will do it: a few shillings that you will never
miss. Let us give you particulars to-day. Ask that we send a man to talk
it over with you; or, if you prefer, ask that we send you full particular*
by post . Write or ’phone to-day.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation .
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
BANKING FACTS
Professor Copland’s
TRIBUTE TO
BANKS
the depression years of the
’thirties, a comprehensive review of the
crisis was made by Professor Copland, M.A.,
D.Sc., Dean of the Faculty of Commerce,
, University of Melbourne (and now Common-
wealth Prices Commissioner). Here are some
of his published conclusions :
“The Banks have met their responsibilities
in the crisis with a considerable measure
of success. They have retained the full
confidence of depositors and of all financial
institutions, and have sustained a high
volume of advances to carry producers
through two difficult years.
’Equally important has been the help ren-
dered by the Banks to the Governments.
This has maintained national solvency,
kept up spending power, and staved off
some of the worst evils of deflation. The
chief criticism to be made of the Banks is
that they have given too much, and not too
little, credit to Governments."
These were the considered opinions of Professor
Copland in 1931. What has happened since to
make them less sound today? They scarcely
justify reliance on the Government Control of
Banking in the next post-war period.
T
Inserted for public information by the
Institute of Public Affairs ( N.S.W. ), Bligh Street, Sydney
providing £11,584 (down £42) for depre-
ciation and transferring £4llB to staff
fund, the net result was £1559 higher at
£22,645 —that includes an unchanged
8 p.c. div. (£1680) from the Westralian
pup. The £22,645 was 15.1 p.c. on capi-
tal, against 14 p.c., 12 p.c. and 13.1 p.c.
in the three preceding years.
Finances are comfortable:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities* 1 .., a , ( 32,445 24,670 23,540
Tax reserve ( zu >' s ' ( 19,500 27,500 27,500
Premises .. 65,047 63,478 65,219 57,519
Plant, etc. . . 61,516 62,629 66,442 65,037
Stock .. 61,864 94,088 80,515 97,362
Book debts .. 48,460 49,123 43,465 51,847
Cash & sundries 1,188 14,465 36,453 29,844
Shares . . 21,165 21,000 21,000 21,000
* Including unspecified provision for insurance.
To meet the increase in stocks (up
£16,847) and add £8382 to debtors’
balances, cash, etc., was drawn upon for
£6609. The more or less liquid surplus
£149,013) improved by £ll9O over the
twelvemonth. The board has in mind
plans for post-war expansion, but no hint
is given as to whether shareholders are
likely to be called upon to contribute.
Three gold-mining cos., Norseman,
Norseman Associated and Norseman De-
velopments, operating at Norseman
(W.A.), have the same Adelaide office,
chairman and secretary. The first-named
announced that, owing to rising costs,
shortage of man-power and other disabili-
ties, last year’s operations were unsuccess-
ful, and the board is “very seriously”
considering stoppage of gold production.
Mining of pyrites, undertaken at instiga-
tion of the Commonwealth Government,
doesn’t seem to be doing as well as ex-
pected either. Mill throughput was
48,070 short tons for 26,3570 z. bullion.
Fine gold content was 78390 z., and silver
13,8430 z.; so there was nearly twice as
much silver as gold in the ore. Gross
returns from all sources totalled £154,633,
of which £83,437 was in respect of gold,
£67,577 pyrites and £3619 sundry receipts.
Including £11,706 for depreciation, exes,
made off with £197,731, leaving the
balance £33,098 on the wrong side. Ore
reserves, proved and partly proved, are
put at 152,000 short tons, averaging
4.2dwt.; probable 58,000 short tons
averaging 3.2dwt. And there is 104,300
long tons pyrites, averaging 29.9 p.c. of
sulphur, measured up. Goldmining work-
ing costs averaged 375. 6d. a ton, and
£6682 was spent on development. Ex-
penditure on pyrites production amounted
to £88,272, or £20,695 in excess of revenue
from that sideline. At the end of October
last there was £55,813 coming to out-
siders, including the bank (£37,869). Cur-
rent assets totalled £30,854, of
£18,968 was stores and the balance
broken ore, debtors, cash, etc. Norseman
Associated, which received no income
during the year, showed a loss of £l2.
Co. has £949 in interest suspense account,
and owes Norseman £4870. Norse-
man Developments shows a loss of
£30,927, after writing off £29,441 for
development. During the year co. re-
ceived a demand from Norseman for
payment of its debt of £18,575. It sold
its leases and buildings for £25,000. At
the end of October last it had £6OOO in
Government securities and £369 in the
bank to meet £3 coming to outsiders.
* * * *
Wiluna Gold Corp. (paid capital
£1,559,000), the London holding co.
which owns all issued capital (£1,773,000)
in Wiluna Gold Mine (W.A.) and 11
p.c. of paid capital (£500,000) in Gold-
fields Australian Development, and little
else, balanced £8159 on the wrong side
of the ledger for the year to March 31,
1944. Loss for the previous term was
£7512. No divs. were received. Accu-
mulated losses of £23,881 have been
written off against balance of share pre-
mium account, reducing it to £135,999.
For the same period accounts of Wiluna
Gold Mines show a loss of £930, com-
pared with a profit of £98,315 for the
previous term. Loss from goldmining
was £23,170 against a profit of £79,058
in the year before. Ore reserves are put
at 328,000, assaying 3dwt. a ton. The
operating co.’s assets, valued in Austra-
lian currency at nearly a million, include
about half a million in Commonwealth
war bonds.
Belated accounts for 1943 of London-
controlled Boulder Perseverance, operat-
ing at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), show that re-
ceipts from mining fell from £253,600
for the previous term to £179,900, owing
mainly to manpower difficulties. There
was a drop of 24,900 tons in ore ex-
tracted and treated (82,100 tons), and
the cost per ton shot up from 365. 4d.
to 41s. 2d. Results were also affected
by a slight drop in the average grade
of mill feed (6.012dwt. as against
6.478dwt.), which is above mine average.
After setting aside £35,896 for taxation
and allowing £4052 for depreciation,
the net result was £18,861, approx. 8.4
p.c. on capital. That includes £22,900
(unchanged) from Kalgoorlie Enterprise.
The div. was cut from 25 p.c. to 15 p.c.
At the end of 1943, broken, proved and
probable ore was estimated at 414,700
tons (down 75,000 tons), averaging
5.44dwt. (down 0.26dwt.).
* * * *
At 466,264 fine oz., Westralia’s gold
yield for 1944 was 80,3 lloz. below
the 1943 level —estimate in B. 3/1 / ’45
was 80,000 oz. Kalgoorlie Golden Milers
contributed about one half, the balance
coming principally from Wiluna, Gwalia,
Norseman, Mt. Magnet, Coolgardie
(where Tindals has just closed down),
Menzies, Marble Bar and Westonia
districts. Some good yields were
obtained from prospectors and small
syndicate claims. Two of these were the
Mountain View at Cue, and the Boomer-
ang at Burtville —522 tons from the
former yielded 26680 z., and 34 tons from
the latter 4630 z. Dividends topped half
a million, Lake View and Star heading
the list with a distribution of £210,000,
equal to Is. 6d. a share. State’s total
output to date is 49,749,2960 z. valued at
£271,28C134.
* * * *
From London:
Although gold is well above the world price
in India it is being smuggled from there to
Palestine and Lebanon, where the price is higher
still. The traffic, though small, is well organ-
ised and continuous... .Malayan Chamber of
Mines domiciled here is devoting much time
and attention to restoration of the tin industry
in Malaya after the war. The Colonial Office
has promised to assist in making good the
damage done by the Japs. Construction of new
dredges is expected to take from two and a half
to three years. Meanwhile the Tin Research
Committee is busy devising new uses for the
metal, aimed at increasing consumption from
a pre-war 150,000 tons to 250,000 tons per
annum Lake View Investment Trust recently
paid an interim div. of 2\ p.c. stg. on its
£600,000 ord. capital. This is the same rate
as a year ago, when it was followed by a final
of 6j p.c. Co. was formed in 1920 to take over
the business of Lake View and Oroya, and
has done well since. Its investments include
a number of Australian stocks.


THE
mm
' .. .
f .
mm
y
-
V
|
ft
I
I . I
m
:
v : rl
What does it hold for your family?
YOU CANNOT FORETELL THE * FUTURE WITH ANY
DEGREE OF ACCURACY.
You do not know what the years may
bring. Certainly you are able to give
your family protection now; but what
of five years, ten years, even twenty
years hence .. . ? What if you should
die while your family is still dependent
on you? How will they fare then?
Will they suffer dire financial distress?
. . ,Or will their sorrow be tempered
by freedom from immediate monetary
worries?
It is important when you look at it like
that, isn’t it?
Now is the time to make provision for
the future. Not necessarily protection
against the possibility of death only,
but provision for all manner of pur-
poses; the home you intend to build;
education for your family; financial
independence in your old age.
You can provide for these things with
Life Assurance. Whole of Life Assur-
ance, payable at death, and Endow-
ment Assurance, payable at a deter-
mined date or on previous death.
Examine your situation carefully and
decide now how much Assurance of
both forms you should have.
* * H= *
City Mutual will welcome the oppor-
tunity of assisting you in your Assur-
ance problems. Our officers will
explain the advantages of both types;
will tell you what premiums are pay-
able, and show you what you gain with
City Mutual Policies. Remember, when
you assure with City Mutual you assure
with an old established, wholly mutual
Society.
LIFE ASSURANCE—TO-DAY’S PROTECTION—TO-MORROW’S SECURITY
THE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LTD.
l-SSS-n-S
lisSS!
u ii HD tm on no H ll
1 1 nn cm OD HD n H
n nj man trail n
n
CITY MUTUAL
facts
• A purely Mutual, entirely
Australian Society.
• Incorporated in New South
Wales in 1878.
• Liberal Policy conditions.
• All investible moneys chan-
nelled to aid War Finance.
BRANCH OFFICES:
VICTORIA: City Mutual Build-
ing, 459 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
TASMANIA: City Mutual Build-
ing, 26 Elizabeth Street, Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: City Mutual
Building, 307 Queen Street, Bris-
bane.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: City
Mutual Building, 11 3 King Wil-
liam Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: City
Mutual Building, 62 St. George’s
Terrace, Perth.
HEAD 'OFFICE: CR. HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY. TELEPHONE: 8W2021


CD
am
THE SERICE MAN
Nearing Manila Bay.
General MacArthur has announced
that the Luzon advance is being made
with two corps —I and XIV —which con-
sist of five divisions, plus one regimental
«group, about 80,000 men. Nearly all the
officers and men are from New Guinea
and the Solomons, where they have been
relieved by the A.I.F.
The I Corps, which has been trying to
break through to Baguio, in the Rosario
area, has seen the heaviest fighting and
suffered the greatest casualties. The XIV
Corps—the 37th Division, from Bougain-
ville, and the 40th from New Britain —
is implementing the drive on Manila.
In the first 14 days of the campaign
ashore —to noon on January 23 —losses
were 657 killed, 187 missing and 2301
wounded and injured against Jap casual-
ties estimated at 14,000; nearly all dead.
Resistance on the Rosario side of the
valley hardened, but after fierce clashes
the town was captured. U.S. spear-
heads reached Bamban, only 49 miles
from Manila, near the great instal-
lations of Clark Field and Fort
Stotsenburg, without much fighting. The
enemy burnt Bamban, leaving behind
equipment damaged by fire and about 40
wrecked machines on the runways of the
local aerodrome.
Within a day U.S. spearheads had taken
Clark Field, where no fixed defences were
established, and also Fort Stotsenburg.
The furthest point of penetration was re-
ported to be Angeles, 44 miles north of
Manila. The advance of “recce” patrols
into this area was accompanied by heavy
machine bombing of the Cavite naval
base, on the southern shore of Manila
Bay—the Americans were within 20 miles
or so of the northern shore. Also
bombed were Bataan and Corregidor, the
rocky tadpole-shaped island which acts
like a stopper in the narrow mouth of
the bay.
Access to the coast parallel to the valley
drive to the south would have been of
the utmost importance at this stage, but
Japanese strength in the ranges along the
peninsula coast on the west must have
been beyond assumption, since no attempt
was made to tackle the coast except in
the rear of the advance —patrols had
occupied Dasol Bay, a few miles south
of Lingayen Gulf, on January 25.
Penetration to Angeles ended the period
of bloodless advance against Manila.
Angeles is on the main road and rail
from the north to the capital, a little to
the south-east of Fort Stotsenburg and
to the south of Clark Field, which
stretches all the way from Bamban to
Angeles.
Here a nest of resistance backed by
artillery was encountered, but was soon
wiped out. Angeles was occupied, and
spearhead patrols pushed on towards the
main road system which slices right
across the island from Baler Bay, on the
middle east, to Olanglapo, at the base of
the Bataan Peninsula, with a main fork
to Malolo and Manila. It is in the region
of this road that it was expected that the
main defence lines would be.
Bombing of Japan and the Ryuku
Islands base of Okinawa, with excursions
to the Takao Docks, at Hongkong, and
the opening of an offensive against the
China coast from land bases in the
Philippines were reported. Amoy was
the first objective of a land-based raid
from the Philippines.
Tokyo was raided by about 60 B29s
in daylight on January 27. Air defence
was stronger than usual as the visitors
decanted a heavy load of incendiaries
over the business quarter. Five B29s
were reported missing and several others
damaged. The estimate of Japanese
machines shot down or damaged was 75.
R.A.N.'s Losses at Lingayen.
“Ek Dum”; It transpires that the
heroic part played by R.A.N, units in
the Lingayen landings was not bloodless.
Australia, not long repaired after her
encounter with a dive-bombing off Leyte,
was under concentrated air attack for five
days. She was swept by fire several times,
was hit five times, had all ventilation cut
off in the engine-room, which was filled
with smoke ; and the ensign was burned.
Nevertheless, the flagship carried on,
firing a record weight of shells.
She wore the pennant of Commodore
Farncomb, Captain J. M. Armstrong in
command. Casualties were two officers
and 25 ratings killed or died of wounds,
one officer and 16 ratings missing and
one officer and 68 ratings wounded.
Arunta, Australia’s first Tribal de-
stroyer, built at Cockatoo Dock, was
several times attacked and holed by near
misses. However, she shared with the other
ships in the grand display of gunnery
which warded off the ferocious air attacks
and sent many enemy aircraft to the
bottom. Arunta’s losses were two ratings
died of wounds and five slightly wounded.
All Australians join the Prime Minister
in his expressions of sympathy with the
relatives of those who died in a very gal-
lant action.
A.I.F. on Bougainville.
“Ek Dum”: The main operations of
the A.I.F. in the south-west Pacific area
have lain in the work of patrols from
the Empress Augusta Bay area, Bougain-
ville. They have assumed control of a
long stretch of coastline on the island,
and have driven the enemy off Pearl Ridge
over the watershed so as to gain obser-
vation posts overlooking Numa Numa,
on the north-east coast.
The enemy was found well armed and
full of fight, but he is no match in bush-
craft for the men of the New Guinea
Native Infantry Volunteer Battalion or
in fight for veteran A.I.F. and commando
men. Their swift advances have been
marked by a series of small pitched battles,
in which artillery and aircraft take part,
separated by unpleasant walks through
jungles dotted with pillboxes and swamps
deep to the armpits. Sometimes enemy
strongposts are directly on the other side
of these helpings of natural soup. And
when there are not swamps to be
negotiated there are razor-backed hill
defences, too, reminiscent of those in New
Guinea.
The R.N.Z.A.F. Corsairs and U.S. gun-
boats were an ever-present comfort in the
coastal advances, while Boomerangs and
Wirraways looked after reconnaissance.
One of the most brilliant and arduous
actions was that in the swampy areas at
the lower end of Empress Augusta Bay.
Queenslanders cleared Mawaraka and
nearly a mile of the Makatowa road,
leading to the distributing point of the
interior track system. It was tough
going, waist-deep in water, with the enemy
fiercely counter-attacking. Right up to
January 28 the enemy was throwing in
counter-attacks in an attempt to regain
the road.
Ground was being gained in a steady
advance toward the Buka Straits, across
which is the homeland of some of the
N.G. Infantry. At the week-end the ad-
vance patrols were edging into better
country.
Before Mandalay.
“Ek Dum”: Admiral Mountbatten has
received the Prime Minister’s congratu-
lations on the conclusion of the first task
allotted to him in South-east Asia —the
opening of the road to China.
The highway from Ledo, in North
Assam, which has been linked to the
main Burma road via Myitkyina, was
built at the cost of much blood and suf-
fering. According to a N.Y. “Times”
correspondent, the cost in money
was about £300,000 sterling per mile.
It is doubtful whether it will be
of great use to the Allied armies
in China, even if the enemy does not
succeed in cutting it in the Kung Ming
area. It can deliver no more than 20,000
tons a month in Chungking, and that
only at a tremendous expense of motor
vehicles and fuel. At the same time, it
will have a great value in the Burma cam-
paign itself, in which road communica-
tions with Assam will be an important
factor. *
After the fall of Monywa (January 23)
South-east Asian H.Q. reported the cap-
ture of Yongbingan, putting units of the
Fourteenth Army within 15 miles of
Mandalay on the west. This did not
mean that it would be easy to approach
the city from that direction. Mandalay
is on the east bank of the river, which
the Yongbingan detachments must cross
to assail it, and behind that east bank
is a hill line, in some places as much as
40 miles from Mandalay across other
approaches.
A British-Indian force succeeded in
establishing a bridgehead, two miles wide
and about the same deep, 50 miles to
the north of Mandalay. This manoeuvre
produced the heavy fighting here antici-
pated last week. The enemy, backed by
artillery in the wooded hills, counter-
attacked at midnight, covered by air
squadrons which seemed to include some
new-type fast aircraft. He temporarily
impeded the widening of the bridgehead,
and at the same time delayed the linkage
of the bridgehead force with the grand
36th Division, which had fought down the
main line from the Myitkyina area—it
was seven months on the way—and which
was only 15 miles removed from the
other troops.
There are three main columns converg-
ing on Mandalay. One, from the Chind-
wind and the Manipur Road, is on the
Monywa Highway; a second is work-
ing down the fertile canal-crossed plain
of Shwebo, north-west of the city, be-
tween the Mu and Irrawaddy rivers. The
third was strengthening its position in
the northern bridgehead. It can be taken
for granted, in view of the fierce resist-
ance of the enemy and his use of power-
ful artillery support, that the heavy fight-
ing in the Central Burma campaign is
about beginning.
Roundf Akyab
The British-Indians have been com-
pelled to make several landings to bring
the Akyab area under control.
It turned out that there were thousands
of Japanese in the Kaladan River dis-
trict, north-east of Akyab, and in the
coastal swamps slightly to the south-east.
The landings at Akyab and Myebon
were followed on January 21 by a fresh
invasion of Ramree Island, 60 miles south
of Akyab. Next day British-Indian troops
were ashore between the new foothold
and Akyab, having forced their w T ay in-
land for two miles to Taungmaw, cut-
ting the main road from the Japanese
areas further north-east and blockingl
the enemy’s main line of retreat.
The Japanese fight bitterly wherever
found. It is floundering, leech-ridden
combat in malarial swamps and low
coastal jungle like that on part of the
New Guinea coast.
The enemy must either make his way
down a coast road to one of the roads
which he himself has built 120 miles or
so south of Akyab, across the tail of the
ranges to the Irrawaddy, or he must
“do an Owen Stanley” across the Arakan
Yoma’s precarious tracks at his present
latitude. The Yoma runs to 6000 ft. high,
and at one end or the other bombers of
the legion are bound to be waiting to
attend the retreat.
At the week-end there was still another
landing on Cheduba Island, south of
Ramree Island.
Air Activity
Air forces, particularly heavy U.S.
bombers and fighters, have been active
in support of ground troops. At Ramree
and Cheduba the landing detachments
had strong assistance. The Irrawaddy
communications feeding Mandalay were
attacked, and squadrons of 829 s based
in India blasted military objectives in
Indo China,
Tokyo also reported powerful strikes
against Singapore and Sumatra,
The Allied Air Forces, in range and
carrying power superior to anything the
enemy so far has produced, are able to
dictate a wide dispersal of his air-defence
units. Bases at Saipan, Leyte, the
Lingayen Gulf, the Moluccas and Dar-
win give them tremendous versatility,
even when the power of carrier forces is
left out of question. Admiral Cunning-
ham, now British naval representative in
Washington, said that recent strikes by
Admiral Halsey’s carriers in the Pacific
were “colossal.”
Chungking reported. (Jan. 25) that
Admiral Halsey had been involved in a
considerable naval fight off the China
coast, out of which the Japanese ships
were retiring in haste. Admiral Halsey’s
report up to January 29 was still under
the blanket of a security radio blackout.
But his strikes 12 days ago destroyed
60,000 tons of shipping and 149 aircraft
and damaged 65,000 tons and 162 aircraft,
China ports within range of Allied
attacks are being hastily cleared of enemy
ships. The Japanese for the past two or
three weeks have been establishing de-
fence perimeters to protect the gateways
to inland China in case of Allied landings.
They are engaged also in mopping-up
operations from within 40 miles or so of
Canton to the Yangtsze, along the north-
south Chinese railway, which must be-
come their main southerly communica-
tion line if the sea is denied them.
The War in the West.
‘“Ek Dum”: Conditions on the West-
ern Front look unreal when contrasted
with those on the Eastern Front, as de-
scribed by the daily press; this even
when the story of Von Rundstedt’s salient
and of the Saar-Colmar area is filtered
through the optimism of commentators.
At sea the enemy has revived the Ü-
boat campaign, and this has a bearing on
the “replacements” question. General
McNaughton, the new Canadian Minister
of Defence, former C.-in-C. Canadian
troops in the European area, said at a
meeting:
We are having ships sunk every day. The
Atlantic is alive with U-boats.
And the Secretary of War at Washing-
ton reported that a U.S. troopship was
sunk by enemy action in European waters
while conveying 2200 troops, of whom
248 were killed and 517 are missing.
It is noteworthy that the enemy still
holds European coastal areas of obvious
use in a submarine campaign—coastal
Netherlands, Lorient, St. Nazaire and
other parts of the La Rochelle area, as
well as, the ports of Norway and Den-
mark.
9
Von Rimstedt’s Salient
Young scribes in Belgium have insisted
—with one eye on the Red Army’s offen-
sive—that the Germans in retreat from
Von Runstedt’s salient have been travel-
ling so fast that the Americans have been
hard put to it to keep up with them. But
a map proves that a quarter of a mile
an hour has been fast going in the salient
battle.
On January 23 it was reported that
artillery and air attacks were inflicting
great damage on the retreating Germans.
All roads leading east towards the Ger-
man frontier were “jammed with vehicles
travelling bumper-to-bumper, and often
in complete confusion.” Allied air forces
were “taking grim advantage, and pilots
reported scenes reminiscent of the de-
struction in the Falaise Gap.”
It is the final curtain of the German
counter-offensive, and we are inflicting
terrific casualties. So numerous were the
targets that the U.S. Tactical Air Force
sent an invitation to the British Second
Tactical Air Force to join the party.
It was also recorded that the U.S.
Third Army, taking swift advantage of
the enemy’s general loosening of his
perimeter defences, was biting deeply
into the southern side of the German
salient within a few miles of Vianden.
On the British Sector
The British in the north had mean-
while extended their assault front to
more than 12 miles east of Sittard, and
captured more than 50 square miles of
this area, together with 1000 prisoners.
But they were meeting with added re-
sistance. To advance at all over the ice-
bound earth and through the high-piled


One Executor
with the Knowledge
of many
When you take the serious step
of appointing someone to act as
manager, executor or trustee of
your estate you are entitled to
be fully satisfied as to capacity
to do what is required.
The future of others who mean much
to you depends upon your choice.
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia meets all requirements. For
sixty years it has rendered service
precisely similar to what you require.
It has built up a fund of knowledge
and experience which, through trained
executives, is readily available to you.
Its directors are men of substance and
standing, themselves well accustomed
to the discharge of very responsible
duties. Their accumulated experience
is also at your disposal.
Estates worth in the aggregate many
millions of pounds have been handled
by the Union Trustee, over two
generations. That is the basis of the
confidence which has led so many
prudent people with responsibilities to
choose the Union Trustee.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., C.8.E.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager i, Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager ; John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD :
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e, (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E, Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager :J.G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, M.c„ f.c.a, (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager ; H. W. Herbert, b.ec., F.F.1.A., aj.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager),
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
A ustralian-made
2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
From War
to Peace
mm®.
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... are
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
BEHSOH WHEELS
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
0
snow they were compelled to use flame-
thrower tanks as a spearhead, which
means slow going.
Despite the Third Army’s" “bite,” the
enemy succeeded in fighting his way into
Nennig, 13 miles south-east of Luxem-
bourg. He claimed also to have broken
sections of the Maginot Line defences
held by the U.S. Seventh Army, in the
country north of Hagenau Forest, be-
sides having pushed to the railway junc-
tion of Hagenau itself.
The stupid bias of the war reporting in
favor of the Eastern Front was shown
when it was represented in paper after
paper that the bombing of Rhine cross-
ings near Mannheim, which were serving
the Hagenau-Strasbourg area, was de-
signed to prevent the Germans from
withdrawing troops from this part of
the front on which they were on the
offensive in order to strengthen the Rus-
sian front. The enemy here had pushed
the U.S. advance guards back from the
positions in which correspondents
had described them early in December
as being “only seven miles from Karls-
ruhe.” The new trans-Moder German
penetrations took a lot of wiping out.
The French were able to advance, but
very slowly and on a limited front,
against the southern fringes of the Col-
mar pocket south of Strasbourg. There
the enemy continued to hold, west of the
Rhine, an enclave about 40 miles long
and stretching for most of its length into
the edges of the High Vosges foothills.
The British Second Army, on ice-
covered ground, moved yard by yard till
it reached the banks of the Roer, ten
miles inside Germany, opening a way
for the Ninth U.S. Army to push
the last German salient on its slice
of the river across the stream. In
the process 97 pillboxes were cleared in
a fierce raiding attack. They were
described as being part of the Siegfried
Line defences; but it again needs em-
phasising that the main defences are east
of the river.
There was no information about the
German salient in the Netherlands on the
sea side of the Maas, between the Roer
and Venlo, which still appears to be in
existence in spite of all efforts to wipe
it out. A crossing of the Maas here would
threaten the German flank.
That the enemy had succeeded in the
main in getting his forces away from the
Ardennes bulge was shown, first, by the
small number of prisoners taken: the
vital road junction of St. Vith, key to
the Ardennes plateau, yielded only seven.
Second, the extent of minefields wherever
thd Allies advanced proved that the enemy
had had time to make preparations for
his withdrawal.
Withdrawal in Italy?
In Italy, it was reported at the week-
end, there were signs that the Germans
might be preparing to withdraw to a new
line—explosions were heard on the Eighth
Army front which might have been due
to demolition work.
A withdrawal would be in keeping
with the practice of the German General
Staff during the past year.
“V” weapons continue to fall in South-
ern England and to cause casualties and
damage.
"On to Berlin!"
“Ek Dum”: It was here written last
week that the German external defence
line on the east had as its bases Konigs-
berg, Danzig, Thorn, Posen, Breslau,
Neisse and the Upper Silesian industrial
and mineral area near the Ostrova Pass
into Austria, but that the Germans might
fall back to their internal line of the Oder
River. The main bases of the Oder Line
are on or behind main crossing points
on the river, which is a canalised stream
linked up with the Elbe, the Danube, the
Rhine and the North Sea, as well as the
Baltic Sea, into which it flows.
The features of the defence system be-
came evident in the progress of six Rus-
sian armies last week. The drives were
pictured by Moscow correspondents as
being made by at least 4,000,000 men,
including one-third of the force in reserve.
One critic estimated the total at 500
divisions of about 10,000 men each. These
were supposed to be pitted against Ger-
man armies totalling—according to the
taste of the arithmetician —from 138 to
160 divisions, mostly under strength. It
was not clear whether the Hungarian
front was included in the estimates of
strength, but it seemed so.
Twenty Miles Per Day
Part of the Russian forces travelled 250
miles in 15 days, and at times made 30
miles and even 40 miles per day in snow
and blizzard. And, as in the summer race
from Orsha and Minsk, it was repre-
sented that throughout there was bloody
fighting, during which the German
casualties were carefully counted over
lateral lines 400 miles long, amount-
ing in the total to 289,000 killed
and 96,000 prisoners. This means at
least another 600,000 wounded on the
experience of the western front. So that
a fortnight had added another million or
more to the German list of losses.
There is no question that, as was the
case last summer, the Russians have
surged forward at a great rate, but this
speed is inconsistent with heavy fighting
or with the movement of millions of men.
It is possible to conceive of 100,000 men
with armor, backed by motorised infantry.
being moved within a fortnight across
200 miles of torn-up roads' and rivers on
which the bridges have been destroyed,
but not in fighting on the grand scale.
It is certainly not possible to envision
such a movement by a million men in like
circumstances, even without fighting on
any scale. The mere provision of food
and water for such a force would present
tremendous difficulties. Petrol could not
be brought forward in sufficient quan-
tities, even for motor transport, without
stopping at stages to establish dumps. No
heavy tank on earth can be counted on
to travel 250 miles under winter conditions
and remain fighting fit without attention.
And ammunition in heavy fighting comes
out at somewhere about 1000 tons per
day per infantry division.
The “300 divisions” hurtling across the
Polish countryside would need something
like 500,000 five-ton trucks at a minimum,
apart from those serving air forces, over
the lengths of communication line in use.
And the driving and handling of loads on
500,000 five-ton trucks, to say nothing of
their protection in newly - acquired
countryside, would call for the constant
usage of about 2,000,000 men, the number
of which would increase as the lines of
communication become longer.
And there has to be taken into account
the labor employed to bring up war
materials from the Urals and from the
Moscow and other Russian, industrial
areas.
The furthest-flung part of the Russian
internal supply-line is already 2500 miles
long. If there are 300 divisions in the
front lines and another 200 or so in re-
serve, the U.S.S.R, must be fully mobi-
lised with a vengeance.
The Stalin Tank
However, the Russians, whatever their
numbers, have swept forward fast along
certain defined routes, each aiming at
one of the main exterior bases of Ger-
many and some of them at inner bases
along or behind the Oder. - There are
said to be minefields innumerable, acres
of pillboxes, tank obstacles galore and
fiercely fighting Germans in their path,
but they roll over the lot.
One reason advanced for this devas-
tating success is that the enemy has been
stunned by the appearance of the Josef
Stalin tank, a novelty which weighs any-
thing from 70 to 100 tons, according to
the size of the narrator’s imagination.
One young man immured in Moscow's
Hotel Metropole, from which Allied cor-
respondents view the distant battles, de-
clared that the enemy became “paralysed
with fear” at the novel sight of these
weapons and fled. Exactly the same
claims as to the Stalin tank , were made
at the end of October, when it arrived in
East Prussia. Then German Tiger bri-
gades, within a few days, recaptured
ground which had cost tens of thousands
of Russian lives in the winning.
Despite the alleged defensive bank-
ruptcy of the enemy, an important fact
emerged late during the last week’s fight-
ing. Whenever the Russians reached a
key post of outer German defence they
either stopped or went round.
The Red Army was credited with
having stormed Cracow, Kielce and other
places. It by-passed Thorn and was
said to have by-passed Posen. Wh en lt
approached the Konigsberg perimeter it
was another story. On the fringes of
Konigsberg defences towns were reported
captured more than once, with no inti-
mation of recapture by the Germans in
the interval.
There is a singular absence of reports
of Russian bomber forces doing anythin
particular, though the Anglo-American
Mediterranean Air Force *was out i n
strength flying through dreadful blizzard
weather to bomb German communica-
tions leading to the eastern front.
On the Oder
The Oder has been reached appar-
ently from Glogau to Kosel, south-east
of Breslau. Oppeln, a crossing place on
the east bank of the river, 50 miles from
Breslau, fell almost without resistance.
Marshal Koniev was represented by one
report as “massing his guns for the final
obliteration of Breslau.” Another version
said that Breslau was almost surrounded,
If Breslau is nearly surrounded the
Russians must have forced their way at
least 25 miles over the Oder, and have
broken the main Oder defence line,
Breslau lies on both sides of the river.
It is a city bigger than Adelaide and the
crossing of the river here in force would
entail heavy fighting if there were resist-
ance worth the name. The main part of
the city from a military viewpoint is on
the west bank.
Further north, towards the Oder bend,
Marshal Zhukov had, in time for the
Sydney Sunday papers to perform,
“crashed the German border” and was
“heading for Berlin 90 miles away.”
Marshal Rokossovsky was pictured as
having “reached Danzig,” after captur-
ing Marienburg and Elbing in fierce
fighting. This does not mean the city of
Danzig, but the border of Danzig terri-
tory, which runs along the eastern arm
of the Vistula delta, near the base of the
long lagoon known as the Frisches Haaf,
about 30 miles from Danzig proper.
Marshal Rokossovsky’s movement was
said to have cut off from 200,000 to
300,000 Germans in East Prussia. The
400,000-odd declared on Nov. 6 to be
further up the coast in Latvia are still un-
accounted for, though a corridor to the
Baltic has been driven between them and
East Prussia, and Memel and the area
round it were reported in Russian hands
on January 29.
In the South
The most peculiar position, however,
exists in the south. The enemy has sur-
rendered most of the Silesian coal and
metal area inside ‘and outside Germany
—Katowice and Gleiwitz. He holds the
country north of the Carpathians for 30
miles east of the longitude of Cracow.
While the Russians advanced north-
west of Cracow attempts to advance south
from it through the mountains to make
a link with the forces in Czechoslovakia
and Hungary had not thus far succeeded.
The Germans declared on January
28 that the Russians here were using 35


Public Notice.
I, JOHN BELA BERGSMAN, of Hungarian nation-
ality, born at Budapest, Hungary, and resident over
five years in Australia, now residing at 355 Maroubra
Road, Maroubra, N.S.W., intend to apply for natural-
isation under the Nationality Act 1920-1930.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOLTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO MABEL BEATRICE COOKE late of New Zealand.
—TAKE NOTICE that CHARLES CHESTER SI ORY
COOKE has filed a Petition for Divorce No 3686
of 1944 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards 1
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the Ninth day of April 194 d and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from C. P.
WHITE & CO. Solicitors 160 Castlereagh Street
Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO OLIVER VICTOR TUCKWELL formerly of Syd-
ney in the State of New South Wales.—TAKE
NOTICE that GLADYS MAY TUCKWELL has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 1679 of 1944 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse tor
three years and upwards and is asking for the
Court’s discretion under Section 192 a. If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
by the 28th day of February 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from A. R. De
COEK Solicitor 107 Liverpool Street Sydney.— (l.s.)
C. K. BODY Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ROBERT HENRY JEFFRIES also known as
ROBERT HENRY REYNOLDS are of Main Road
Corporation Fairfield Road Yerongpilly Brisbane.—
TAKE NOTICE that ELLEN JEFFRIES has filed a
Petition for Divorce No. 1011 of 1944 on the ground
of desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards. If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the 31st March 1945
and obtain a copy of the petition without charge
from MESSRS JOHNSON & O’NEILL Solicitors for
the Petitioner Hunter Street Newcastle or their
Agents MESSRS. SHAW, McDONALD & CO. Solicitors
11c Castlereagh Street' Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
uchtimc utN mm
BEDFORDS
ll
r«C r
U4S''
BEDFORD/*
»T 79?
/chevrollt
Sold and Serviced by General Motors
Dealers in all Metropolitan and
Country Centres.
WHEREVER TOUGHNESS AND RELIABILITY
ARE VITAL ■ THERE YOU WILL FIND
GENERAL MOTORS - HOIDEN’S
TRUCKS
AND UTILITIES
Si
O
Make
it
a
Promise
Vx
ffi
fe see it through
This war has to be fought on the home
front as well as on the fighting front—
with money as well as with bombs. Our
fighting men are doing their share in true
Australian manner. Can you say the same
about the part you are playing? For
instance, are you putting every possible
penny you can spare into Victory Bonds?
When you invest in Victory Bonds you
not only help our fighting men but also
build up a nest egg to be spent in the
future.
All you are asked to do is lend your
money and you will be paid good interest
into the bargain: 2 \°/o for 5 year Bonds
and for 16 year Bonds. No better
returns are available with equal security.
What’s more, should you need your
money in an emergency, vour Bonds may
be easily converted into ready cash.
For Australia’s sake, for your own sake,
decide now to invest all you can in Victory
Bonds. Make if a promise to buy more
Bonds than you have ever bought before.
The Third Victory Loan opens on March 13. Start saving now for YOUR Bonds. If you have
cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards. Full loan interest is paid on advance
subscriptions from the day you lodge your money with any bank, savings bank, or stockbroker.
Then start saving more to buy more Victory Bonds by instalments when the Loan is open.
Victory Bonds are issued in denominations of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO.
infantry divisions and five tank brigades.
The operations round Budapest and
the Danube Bend and the approaches to
the Vienna Gap, where the two armies of
Marshals Tolbukhin and Malinovsky are
operating —with the reputed aid of Mar-
shal Tito’s Yugoslavs and several divi-
sions of Bulgarians further south —have
reached a mysterious stage.
On December 29 a Sydney paper
summed up the condition of affairs in
Hungary under the line “Danube Runs
Red as Budapest Dies.”
A month later the enemy still
held the heart of Budapest. Other
sources reported bitter fighting; and
Moscow officially admitted withdrawal
from the important junction of Szekes-
fehervar, 32 miles south-west of Buda
and a vital point in the line between Lake
Balaton and the Danube. All the Rus-
sian line to the north as far as the
Danube Bend withdrew somewhat after
this setback, though north of the river
again Marshal Malinovsky drove a little
further westward in the Miskolez area.
At the week-end between Lake Balaton
and the' Danube the Russians were at-
tempting to restore their lines by heavy
counter-attacks.
Enemy Versions
The Fiihrer’s Headquarters on January
28 admitted that Russian pressure was in-
creasing at the extreme ends of the lines of
advance, but asserted that it was losing
its force in the centre, because of (1) the
fanning out of Russian spearheads and
(2) operations behind the Red Army
spearheads of considerable strategically
placed “movable pockets” of Germans,
who held large tracts of country.
Except where main objectives were
relatively close to the starting point of the
Russian advance, the Red Army tanks had
(it was stated) been used to establish bases
from which infantry later could be de-
ployed. On a 150-kilometre line along
the Oder, below Glogau, 12 Russian
attempts had been made to establish
bridgeheads. Only one or two had had
any material success, and these had been
reduced by counter-attacks; in fact,
towns taken by the Russians had been
regained. The Oder, it was mentioned,
was still partly frozen. The defenders of
Breslau, the “pivot of central defence,”
in Berlin’s account, had, it was claimed,
staved off all attempts on its perimeter,
and its streets were filled with unbroken
streams of tanks, guns and infantry
marching to the front.
Posen, Thorn and Schneidemiihl were
alleged to be holding their own. Though
Posen had been bypassed north and
south, the Russians had been stopped 40
miles onward toward the German border.
There was heavy fighting in the south
of Bromberg, and the Russians had failed
to cross the Lower Vistula near Marien-
werder. Elbing was said still to be in
German hands.
There was one noteworthy admission—
Russian attacks with heavy bodies of
infantry, tanks and guns had forced the
German defenders to cross the Pregel
River into the environs of Konigsberg.
In the far south, though the Russians
had not succeeded in fighting a way across
the upper waters of the Vistula to the
Carpathians, there was fierce fighting for
Hindenburg and other great metal towns
of Upper Silesia, about the holding of
which the announcer was distinctly not
hopeful. i
The Luftwaffe alone, it was asserted,
had destroyed 670 tanks and 4200
vehicles, and Soviet losses of men were
said to be “large.”
The Moscow summary of Russian suc-
cesses for the first fortnight of the drive
claimed the capture of 70,000 square
miles of country, including an area of
about 2500 square miles in Germany, with
23,000 towns and villages, 390,000 killed
and prisoners and huge quantities of
armor and guns.
The results are comparable to those
in France after Caen.
“Saving” the Wehrmacht
The Prussian border operations are
not yet at their climax. The one stable
fact is that the Russians have made an-
other long advance, this time into Ger-
many itself, and, on the face of it, that
is fine.
And scarcely any part of Poland re-
mains in German, occupation. This
places the Lublin Committee in control,
subject to Moscow. Washington and
London have not recognised the Lublin
Committee. Neither has Paris so far, nor
even the Czechoslovakian Government in
London, which has had to take gloomy
notice of a movement to attach part of
its territories to Soviet Russia.
There is another facet of the situation
which has to be watched. The German
generals who are prisoners in Russia, in-
cluding Von Paulus, the commander
beaten at Stalingrad, have been co-operat-
ing heartily with Moscow Radio in the
appeals to Germany to surrender. As
pointed out some time ago, their repre-
sentation has been that “the Russians do
not wish to destroy the Wehrmacht; they
intend to lead it back to the German
border and preserve it for the German
people.” The official journal of the
Soviet Embassy in Washington published
the statement, and Moscow is a party
to this propaganda, providing the means
for it. It has been going on during the
preparations for the present offensive*
There is a suggestion that selected
members of the German officer caste will
be set up as a “Government” in East
Prussia, and perhaps Silesia. It would
be impossible for the British and the
Americans to recognise any such “Gov-
ernment.” Nevfertheless, Lieut.-General
Hoffmeister, formerly G.O.C. of the 41st
German Panzer Corps, broadcast (Jan.
28) an appeal from “the National Com-
mittee of Free Germany” in Moscow
urging the German people to rise against
the Nazis and end the war.


GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
VG 20
SPORTING NOTIONS
Features of the racing at Randwick on Satur-
day, winding up the Anniversary meeting, in-
cluded a series of unusual mishaps, another fine
performance by the consistent Excitement-Lady
March four-year-old chestnut entire Russia in
the Anniversary Handicap, and the return to
form in the Australia Day Handicap of Abbe-
ville. For the two days attendances totalled
89,200 —45,700 last Saturday. Tote turnover
totalled £292,910—£156,181 ss. of it on the
second day.
The mishaps began with Goshawk falling
when being pulled up by D. Munro after pass-
ing the post fourth to Lance, Eagle Wings and
Milford Sound in the Kurnell Trial. Goshawk,
apparently stunned, lay flat on his side for a
minute or two without moving, and no doubt
the buyer who the day before paid £7OO for
this oft-tried five-year-old gelding by The Buz-
zard was as stunned as the horse. Munro also
came down heavily, with a foot caught in the
stirrup, but got free before Goshawk stood up,
seemingly none the worse. Doon (Eagle Wings)
was before the stewards to explain interference
to Manday Son (fifth), and the inquiry was still
on when this page was printed.
In the Port Phillip Handicap, first division,
Munro, recovered, rode Rylstone vigorously to
victory in a close finish, beating D.S.O. (from
the Payten stable, which is having a run of bad
luck) and Fine Art. This time Doon had a fall
from Wilton Park near the half-mile. Ryl-
stone, whose race performances for some time
had been only moderate, was backed to favorit-
ism at 5 to 2 —always liable to happen to a
Munro mount. The win ended Munro’s succes-
sion of 26 losing rides.
After running last in the second division of
the Port Phillip Handicap the Peter Pan gelding
Valoroi collapsed in an epileptic fit in the mount-
ing enclosure and attempts to revive him —in-
cluding an injection and putting ice on his head
—having failed, he had to be destroyed. Brazi-
don (J. Thompson), who had won a barrier trial
during the week (beating, among others, Flight),
lasted just long enough in front to beat the
fast-improving Scene by half a head, with Mar-
theus third.
Also among the mishaps should be included
the barrier going up for the Havilah Handicap
(two-year-olds) with the promising Dark Lover
colt Daramul squeezed out and standing side-
on—a rare occurrence with starter Gaxieu. The
Manitoba filly Saskatchewan (owned in India
by Sir Sultan Chinoy) led all the way to win
easily from Edinburgh and Standsure. There
was an odd touch of poetic justice in J.
Duncan riding the winner. He was actually on
the first two winners (20 and 25 to 1 respectively),
having just got Darnley up to beat Milanion in
the last stride in the Bondi Handicap. The
day before Duncan had been relieved of his
mount on Allan Veil in the Anniversary Handi-
cap over a dispute about not following riding
instructions in a training gallop. Allan Veil
ran the proverbial nowhere in the Anniversary.
Looking a credit to his trainer-owner E. Hush,
and again most capably handled by J. Thomp-
son, Russia (favorite at 5 to 2), won the Anni-
versary with a long finishing run. Russia (7.12)
had not previously won at further than lOf.
100 yds. (Newcastle Cup), and, apart from
Veiled Threat (9.7, and out of form) and per-
haps Neta Linette (though she’s a Im. 3f.
specialist), this was no field of winning stayers.
In fact, but for Skip Bomber (third), who
seems capable of finishing well without winning
over any distance, and Night Parade, who had
been placed at Im. 5f., the rest were middle-
distance performers at the most. The form may
also be discounted somewhat by the fact that
Loyal March (three-quarter-length second) had
previously won only an Encourage Handicap.
Still, consistency is the mark of a good horse,
and Russia is nothing if not consistent.
The seven furlongs of the Australia Day
Handicap was evidently more to the liking of
Abbeville (Perry) than the furlong shorter sprints
he has been .contesting. Starting at 14 to 1,
he took the lead inside the last furlong to beat
Cold Shower (7 to 2) and Warlock (100 to 1)
in a grand finish. After being knocked back to
last, and still there nearing the turn, Cold
Shower (Cook) came with a run that made him
look decidedly unlucky. Warlock led most of
the way, and stuck it out well at the end. In
from a spell, Kingsdale (fourth) ran a very
sound race.
* * * *
Kintore, one of Melbourne’s most brilliant
horses and an early fancy for the rich autumn
sprint races, provided the sensation of the
Ascot Thousand at Mentone last Saturday.
Backed down to favoritism at '5 to 2, he was
“He must be a big swine , Joe , by the way he's tuggin !”
unruly at the barrier, kicked Nagation (who
was permitted to be scratched), was sent to
the outside and finished last, after holding a
lead of over two lengths halfway through the
race. The stewards subsequently informed Kin-
fore’s connections that a repetition of such
barrier behavior would result in his being barred
from racing in the metropolitan area.
Dukedom, well backed at 10 to 1, beat Dis-
tinction and La Patrice in a “blanket” finish
for the Ascot Thousand. He was having only
his second race since being transferred to trainer
A. A. Williams, and, all going well, he will be
a runner for the Oakleigh Plate, Futurity Stakes
and Newmarket. Tea Cake and the St. Leger
candidate Bootle were among the runners, but
both were above themselves in condition and
were never dangerous.
Evidence, sold five days earlier for 1125
guineas, won at his first start for his new owner,
P. Panaotie, a retired businessman, when he
defeated Cavallo and Arduli in the Devonshire
Handicap. Dashing to the front about half a
mile from home, Evidence was not afterwards
headed. He is the first horse raced by Panaotie,
and with three wins from his last four starts is
justifying earlier promise. Evidence is still
trained by R. Sinclair, who prepared him for
his previous owner, A. G. Silk.
Peter Con, owned in Westralia by P. A. Con-
nolly, who in his heyday was associated with
many notable successful plunges on horses raced
by him, won his first race in Melbourne when
he beat the 50-to-l chance Gallant Gentleman
and the favorite Duntroon in the Chartwell
Handicap. He started at 20 to 1 after 33 to 1
had been bet. Peter Con is a five-year-old entire
by Peter Pan from Light Spear, and his autumn
engagements include the Australian Cup.
* * * *
A black colt by Foxbridge-Ann Acre brought
3000 guineas at the Trentham (M.L.) yearling
sales, a record for the Dominion, where the
previous best figure was 2400 guineas. The colt
is a brother to the Dominion’s champion two-
year-old A 1 Shat. Another Foxbridge colt,
from Grey Eagle, brought 1600 guineas. Mel-
bourne trainer Stan Reid bought two other
Foxbridge colts, respectively from Royal Mistake
and La Poupee, for 1050 guineas and 1650
guineas. In the two days 193 lots brought
90,702 guineas—up 22,000 guineas on last year.
A commissioner was reported to be present to
buy for the Duke of Gloucester, but prices were
too hot for him.
* * * *
There was a big increase all round in entries
for the main events at the AJ.C.’s coming
autumn meeting. The 100 entered for the Don-
caster include Tranquil Star and the other
Melbourne gallopers Dark Felt, St. Fairy and
Pharisee, with Dark Felt also entered for the
Sydney Cup (83 entries). Apropos, Old Eng-
land and Lord Campbell are Melbourne entries
for the Champagne Stakes, and another is
Metro Star in the St. Leger. Both Tea Rose
and Ribbon are in the St. Leger, with Shannon,
who did no good after being kicked at the
barrier at Rosehill, a noted absentee.
* * * *
With racing banned in the U.S.A. “until the
war situation improves,” no doubt there will
be a migration south. Courses at Havana and
Mexico City operate three days a week, the
latter track on Thursdays, Saturdays and Sun-
days. The Havana season started on Christmas
Eve and runs on indefinitely, apparently while
there are any pesos left, and the Mexico City
season is billed to continue till May 27. Agua
Caliente, made familiar by Phar Lap, is just
over the Californian border in Mexico, but is
at present in the possession of the Government,
after some Court proceedings as to its rightful
ownership.
* * * *
In 17 States of the U.S.A. the huge total
of $1,126,308,645 was bet on the tote in 1944,
just on 56 million dollars of it staying there
as taxes. New York’s betting topped the list
with $410,230,402 put through in 181 racing
days. Thus the taxes being foregone add up
to a tidy amount of revenue, giving point to
the comment of Col. Matt Winn (known as
“father of the Kentucky Derby”) that “Things
must be pretty serious for the Government to
take such action.”
* ♦ * *
As in Australia, the past year has been an
extra good one in America for what they call
over there “the bobby-sox sex.” For the first
time a filly has been rated America’s “best
horse of the year.” She is the three-year-old
Bull Lea-Lady Lark filly, Twilight Tear, already
winner of over $200,000, and with every pros-
pect till the the ban of ousting Top Flight from
the position of all-time top money-spinner of her
sex. Top Flight’s winnings totalled $275,000.
In a sporting writer’s vote on it, Twilight Tear
was rated the year’s best by 121 out of 154.
The next best —the unbeaten two-year-old Pavot
—got only 20 votes. Others, listed in order,
were By Jiminy, Pensive, Devil Diver, Seven
Hearts and Okana. Pavot, however, was hailed
as the year’s best two-year-old colt. Up to last
October Twilight Tear had started in 21 races,
winning 17 and never worse than third in the
others. She then struck an extremely wet track
and was beaten out of a place by mudlark
moderates.
* * * *
A little while ago a falling-off in big bets at
Randwick was reported, but some of those
backers who were said to have eased up must
have got their second wind. At least some
of the wagers made at' Randwick recently would
lend to that idea. The odds against anything
up to £lOOO do not worry some of our present-
day layers, and it would be interesting to
know the total amount held by about a dozen
bookmakers on a good betting race. The busi-
ness done by old-time big bookmakers as a
whole is not in it by comparison with the
present day.
* * * *
E. Britt is not the only Australian jockey
who continues to do well in India. Raffaele,
Brace, Carr and Marrs are having their share
of wins. The last-named was on the winner of
the recent Viceroy’s Cup. At the close of the
war any prominent Australian rider will be able
to make a profitable contract for India.
* * * *
Although we hear growls as to the condition
of the Randwick tracks, it must be conceded
that, considering lack of rain, they have stood
up wonderfully well to the use that has been
made of them for racing and training this
season. There are nearly 400 horses regularly
trained at Randwick, and in addition there have
been innumerable special gallops on the grass
tracks during the past six months.
* * * *
Paris’s most fashionable track, Longchamps,
has been taken over for military use, but that
city is not going short of racing. It is held
thrice weekly at Le Tremblay and Auteuil tracks.
Lord Derby won the first race of the French
season at Deauville with a two-year-old named
Bluetop.
* * * *
In the decision of a protest a dirt track
can help stewards much more than a turf track.
At Belmont Park (New York) recently a pro-
test for interference was upheld when, on ex-
amination, the marks revealed that one set of
hoofs showed that' the first horse had crossed
over in a manner that pinned two other run-
ners to the outer rail.


No-one has ever seen steam!
. . \v
Our business is making plant to pro-
duce an invisible product steam.
The water gauge of a boiler will
illustrate: In the lower portion of the
tube there is water; in the upper part,
which is clear and appears empty,
there is always steam. Of Though no
one has ever seen steam, it is tangible
.—it has temperature ... it is dry, but
easily wetted ... it is fluid and com-
pressible, and, in weight, many tons
of steam are produced each hour in
every major power station. However,
there is no desire on our part to be
pedantic about it, and we suggest
you continue to call as “steam” those
fleecy clouds that billow from the
kettle.
Steam production starts at the draft-
ing board—but. whether or not the
BABCOCK
&
WILCOX
LIMITED
TF4M [HEWERS
)KCQPPnR»TFB |* EHEi.RHO
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
production of the steam will be
economical, rests on design experi-
ence, backed by research, made prac-
tical by sound engineering and a
thorough knowledge of the behaviour
of local fuels.
Look at the Babcock steam installa-
tions in the power houses of Aus-
tralia ... of Britain ... of Europe
... of the Americas ... of Africa and
let us remind you that the
economical production of this in-
visible, yet tangible product, steam,
is itself dependent upon something
invisible, yet tangible, called re-
sources.”
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will e(nbody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our British
organisation . . . maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of workman-
ship with moderate first cost.
r.Mr> h iy riuni. tt nu sum ><:g «#• >i lucres, iioili k pl hvi
Distance
_L
■f'j'
rmz.
has
♦
vanished!
London calls Vfadivoslock with ike ease of a kousewife pkoning ker grocer:
fighter plane chats with. bomber: Washington confers with Whitehall: and
Admiralty with ships at sea . . . thanks to the magic of valves.
The perfection of the radio valve . . . the annihilation of distances ... is largely
a PHILIPS achievement . . . the outcome of research and organisation which,
in peace and war, are dedicated to civilisation and the preservation of all that
civilisation means.
PHILIPS
PHILIPS
Lamps Discharge Lighting Lighting Equipment . Radio
Receivers . Radio Transmitters . Radio Parts . Valves
and Thermionic Devices . Sound Reproduction Installations
Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment
Electrical Measuring Instruments . Metal Pressings and Stampings
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
Sydney Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
HHdHi
*
l|u%^
A'*' ■■ £'
The MARS”
Plain MILLER
A Sturdy Machine of Great Accuracy,
Maximum Output and High Quality
Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.: Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence
Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 2S Market Street, Melbourne; New
Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christchurch. Stockists: Goodall &
301 Kent Street, Sydney.
Street, Sydney;
Zealand; A. M.
Co. Pty. Ltd.,
Thousands have written ....
THESE TABLETS can help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
REGisT£*e° TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS. ARTERIES, ETC.
&PjkS
Thousand s of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veins, varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto quick relief —the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circvlation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
As a result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple; skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully in a free booklet
offered see below.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No signs of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
“ 'Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis."
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting "Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
sdf
Adelaide has had news of the arrival
in India of Vic Richardson, the old Test-
match batsman and captain, as a welfare
officer of the R.A.A.F.
% * sji Sfc
“Oswego’s” memory; —•
A ’keeper who had every element of greatness
save opportunity was “Banana Tom” Oswin, of
Gympie (Q.), in the days when Blackham was
Australia’s Number One. When Charlie Turner
arrived at Gympie and joined the One
Mile club he said “You can’t stand there to
my bowling,” Banana having placed a toe
each side of the stumps as usual; “Blackham
always stands five or six yards back for me.”
“I’m not Blackham,” grunted OsWin, “and I’ll
give you a pound a ball for all I miss.” Turner
made no money on that deal. Four days before
an intertown match Tom had the fingers of
his right hand shattered while tending a winding
plant in the mines. He treated the fingers
with cotton-waste and kerosene, and a tinsmith
made tin fingerstalls to fit inside the gloves.
Tom took the field and played out the match.
Blood ran from the top of the glove, but
“Sundries” was bottom scorer. “Why not go
to Melbourne or Sydney,” he was urged;
“They’d give you a tenner a week as grounds-
man.” “What would Ido with, all that money?”
asked Tom. He preferred country where a man
could do a bit of prospecting.
♦ * ♦ *
Young Mr. Adrian Quist, who com-
mands the blind adoration of ball-boys,
has written a (Sydney “Sun”) article “for
the specific purpose of conveying to
juniors knowledge collated over a long
period of international and Davis Cup
play.”
Methods advocated are used by Bromwich
and Quist in all big matches; they will not
fail. We have proved that, so do not be
misguided by the well-meaning old-time
expert.
Whom is young Mr. Quist girding at?
There are several former Davis Cup
players in Australia ; and at least one
of them is reckoned to have forgotten
more about the game than Master Adrian
will ever learn.
* * * *
In Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Syd-
ney, as the result of an accident with a
service rifle—it cost him a finger and a
great deal of blood —is John Woods
Whittle, veteran of two wars, the South
African and the last, and famous in the
old 12th Battalion, A.1.F.; he came out
with the V.C. and the D.C.M. A fighter
from the ground up. Whittle was amateur
heavyweight champion of his native Tas-
mania before he left for Gallipoli and
France. Friend and fellow-V.C. Bede
Kenny has himself an old connection with
amateur sport. Kenny captained the foot-
ball and cricket teams at Christian
Brothers’ College, Waverley (Sydney),
and, though his playing days were cut
short, he has never lost his love for Rugby
Union.
* * ❖ *
It is 36 years since Jack Johnson and
Tommy Burns fought in the Sydney
Stadium. Now there are another Jack
Johnson and Tommy Burns boxing in
these parts, each claiming to be champion
at his weight, and both being free, white,
enfranchised and at no loss for engage-
ments or priorities. Circumstances per-
mitting, the new Jack Johnson is to have
a Melbourne date with Alabama Kid,
that mercurial pusson having been white-
washed or something.
* * * *
Elliott v. Ward at Leichhardt evoked
the sounds and sights familiar in that
quarter when the customers are con-
vinced that it was a bad fight and that the
decision was, if anything, worse. Elliott
was much the superior boxer, but he was
reprimanded for rough work, notably in
the fifth round. Then a left landed low,
and down he went. Though he was wear-
ing a regulation protector, he squirmed
on the canvas for at least two minutes
and claimed to be suffering too much to
come up for the seventh. The ref. agreed,
and declared him the winner on a foul.
There is supposed to be a no-foul rule,
but that couldn’t have mattered.
A dreary Sydney Stadium exhibition
to which Bill Fadden and Steve Norrish
were parties was ended in the seventh
by a right on the Norrish chin. It didn’t
look much of a punch. Previously
Fadden’s boxing, though nothing out of
the way, had made Norrish miss with
practically every punch he attempted.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Last Monday Australia welcomed its
new Governor-General and his wife —the
tall, broad-shouldered Duke of Gloucester
and his small Duchess with the bright
eyes, the soft complexion that is the
heritage of Scotland’s daughters. They
arrived in a passenger liner the previ-
ous evening. Next morning the first
callers were the Acting Governor-General
and, later. Lord Wakehurst.
Under grey skies, as the hour for land-
ing drew near, the royal barge drew along-
side the tall ship. What a flotilla of small
craft, smart, shabby and home-made craft,
would have convoyed their Royal High-
nesses had their coming been in a year
of peace! However, the barge made
dashing progress over the waters, under
the Harbor Bridge. About ten-thirty it
slid gently into the Man-o’-War Steps.
Here were red carpet, flags, Ministers of
State, civic notables, radio broadcasters,
a cloud of pressmen and -women and the
populace in massed effect. There was
the rustling of papers as addresses of wel-
come were read. It was not the opulent
rustle of illuminated parchment, but the
sound of austerity war-time typescript.
Thousands lined the barriers, for it was
a public holiday; in fact, it was cele-
bration of the day when Governor Phillip
first landed in Sydney Cove, and there
were no such mundane things as jobs
to keep people from coming out and
cheering. There was a brave show-
ing of flags all along the route
of the procession. After the Duke and
Duchess left the landing-stage they drove
through the city. Before and after the
Royal car roared motor-cycle police. In
the procession also were two cars filled
with serious-looking passengers. They
were members of the press. The morn-
ing buzzed with excitement. Sydneyites
were glad to welcome the brother of their
King, his wife and children.
In Martin-place there was a touching
and simple ceremony. Close to the Ceno-
taph the cars stopped. The Duke and
Duchess alighted and he placed a wreath
and she a spray of flowers on the city’s
memorial to Australia’s immortal dead.
Then on their way the cars sped. Across
the bridge, along Kirribilli-avenue, into
the gates of Admiralty House, the Duke
and Duchess of Gloucester’s Sydney
home. More posing for photographers
here, and pictures of smiling parents and
happy children were taken on the
verandahs overlooking the harbor. By
late afternoon the excitement within its
gates had died down, the Duke and
Duchess were motoring to Canberra, and
the old house presented its usual drowsy
facade to ferry travellers.
By nine o’clock in the morning the
barriers around the Domain opposite
the Man-o’-war Steps were thick with
eager watchers. On the grassy slopes
more hundreds waited, and as a thin
drizzle drifted across the bay morning
papers became capes, covered hats or
were a layer of dryness between those
who sat and the wet grass. A hot sun
strove vainly to break through the grey,
but presently the rain ceased. Accord-
ing as it was fair or wet the red carpet
was unrolled and rolled up again. Finally
it was spread, straightened carefully and
swept speckless. Erect police took up
positions on the landing stage, groups of
Ministers of State arrived —nearly all
with cuffs on their trousers. Boys of
H.M.A.S. were slim to distraction
in shining white. The Royal barge,
with its flowing ensign, made colorful
passage. Mayor Neville Harding in
ermine and crimson-lined gown was there,
so was Town Clerk Hendy, looking like
his portrait entered for the Archibald
Prize.
Naval officers clanked down, sword at
side. It was a scene of mild excitement.
Then very punctually the Duke’s barge
arrived at the Steps, and Australia’s new
Governor-General, his Duchess and small
son, stepped ashore. The Duke over-
topped everybody. The Duchess, small
and dainty, wore a jacaranda-blue frock,
of simple design. Her shady hat was a
deeper tone of blue. Her clear and glow-
ing skin was devoid, or almost so, of
make-up. She has a sweet smile, a direct
gaze, and the look of a Barrie
heroine. The small prince is healthy and
jolly-looking, and later on waved from
the car to the crowds. There were
a speech of welcome by Mayor Harding,
and a speech in reply by the Duke. The
whole ceremony was over in about 20
minutes.
Pretty Patricia Parsons, her bridal satins
an ivory sheen, married Dr. John Cahill
in St. Mary’s, Ridge-street, North Syd-
ney, last Thursday evening. The two met
at the marriage of her sister (who was
Pam Parsons) and his brother, Flight-
Lieutenant Paul Cahill. The Paul Cahills
were matron of honor and groomsman at
Thursday's wedding. Bridesmaid Mar-
garet Cahill and Wing-Commander Tony
Seldon completed the wedding group.
A regular tornado of parties had
swirled about the new Mrs. Cahill for
weeks previous to the marriage. One of
the most successful of these was that
hostessed by Mrs. Cliff Gearin at the
Australia, when Margaret Fagan and
Julee Helen McGrath (brides of the near
future) made up the trio of guests of
honor. Reception after the wedding was
at the Mosman home of the bride’s
parents —the Charles Parsons couple.
The 26th of January is always a great
day with N. S. Wales pioneers. The
descendants of those who arrived in the
First Fleet and the ships that followed
shortly after foregather at their clubs—
the men’s and the women’s —and the
toast of the day is Governor Phillip. Last
Friday afternoon there was revelry in the
Women Pioneers’ clubrooms, and the
ritual of the great date duly observed.
Around the walls the miniatures of brave-
hearted women of our early days smiled
serenely. They seemed pleased to be out
H.R.H. DUCHESS OF GLOUCESTER.
of the storage to which the threatened
blitz of beginning war years had ban-
ished them.
The air was heady with the scent of
flowers. Keen member Carlotta Doyle
had brought in great armsful from her
garden. Male Pioneers and members
of the Historical Society drifted in,
honored the toasts and made speeches.
Acting president Mrs. Lingham (presi-
dent Mrs. Wentworth Grayson was too
ill to be present) received the guests,
about 150 of them. Her white hat and
grey and white sheer frock were as re-
freshing as a southerly. Nor would talk
of the day be complete without mention
of the club’s Admirable Crichton, Sam.
Sam is the head waiter and has linked
his lot with the Pioneers for over a
decade.
The city’s street corners were as blue
as patches in a bluebell wood last Friday
between one and two. The march of the
V.As. was over, and clusters of uni-
formed girls were waiting to board trams,
or pausing to discuss plans. They were
all pleased with the result of the march
—over 3000 girls had marched in it,
stepping out as well as the lasses of the
more militant services. Lady Wake-
hurst took the salute at the Town Hall,
and later the Mayoress gave a morning-
tea party. The guests were all members
of the official party that had dressed the
Town Hall steps during the salute. Pre-
mier McKell was among them. Assis-
tant Controller of V.A.Ds. Dorothy
Wilby deserved a sleep-in on Saturday
morning. She had met dozens of trains
on the Friday, some of them puffing into
Central before 5 a.m.
The three-week or even fortnight
annual holiday of the future need not be
spent within the confines of one continent.
With a three-day air journey alone sepa-
rating the traveller and the Taj Mahal,
post-war job-bound Australia can plan
eight or 16 days’ tours of the great land
at our northern door. Mrs. R. G. Casey,
wife of the Governor of Bengal, arrived
in Sydney last week after a breath-taking
journey that featured breakfast in Cal-
cutta on the Saturday and breakfast in
Perth the following day. With her were
16-year-old daughter Jane and 13-year-
old son Donn. Purpose of the trip is to
put the children to school in Victoria.
It is over a year since the Caseys went to
India, and Mrs. Casey reports that her
husband is enjoying the hard work or
being Governor of Bengal. She will be
ten days in Melbourne. In the party is
Pat Jarrett, Mrs. Casey’s private secretary
and one-time journalist of Melbourne.
From being a mere collection of initials
U.N.R.R.A. is establishing itself in
people’s minds as an active builder in
devastated countries. A Red Cross
medical unit working under this asso-
ciation has been chosen to go to
Greece. Of the six Sydney members
three are women. Their work of famine
relief will be hard and nerve-trying, but
that it will be carried out efficiently and
courageously there is no doubt. This is
the first of three Red Cross units, each
made up of ten people, to be sent to
Greece. One of the girls, Desprina
Macris, is of Greek-Irish parentage. She
is a V.A., and has taught in kindergarten.
She speaks Greek fluently, and has
worked as a clerk in the Greek Consulate
for two and a half years.
Tuberculosis is an evil that should not
exist in this land of sunshine. Experts
say it could be practically rooted out if
knowledge of the steps to take do stop
the spread ot tne
infection was more
widespread. The
Anti-t.b. Associa-
tion is out to build
a modern diag-
nosis clinic at a
cost of £50,000.
To aid its appeal
for funds, the
association has in-
voked the magic
name of Britain’s
Prime Minister,
and has named
next month
Churchill month.
During its span
members and
friends will work
very hard for
funds, and the
public is asked to
respond.
One of Mayoress
Harding’s fi rs t
official jobs was to
help launch the
appeal. - In the
Legacy Club
rooms she spoke
of its urgency to
representatives of
women’s organi-
sations and metro-
politan mayoresses. A badge stamped
with the head of Mr. Churchill will be
sold at all stations and on all wharves
during February, and on the 23rd a fair
will make Macquarie-place the most
attractive corner of the city.
From Melbourne
Actor Edwin Styles',' in happy mood,
opened the Loan Exhibition in George’s
Gallery. His remarks created a great
deal of laughter, for it seemed that he
knew very little of modern art and was
not afraid to say so, “When one sees a
picture which is composed of one human
eye resting upon the keyboard of a piano,
with a background of railway signals, it
really is hard to understand its meaning,”
said Mr. Styles, and most of his audience
agreed with him. However, the examples
of modern art present in this Loan Exhi-
bition were pleasant to look upon, and
not out of place in the company of works
by Augustus John, Corot and Sir Thomas
Lawrence. The pictures have been lent
by well-known citizens, and they are
greatly admired by the many visitors who
daily visit the exhibition. Red Cross
p.o.w. funds will benefit by voluntary
subscriptions from the sightseers and
from the sale of catalogues.
Among those present at the opening
was Mrs. Olive Thring, becomingly
frocked in black and white pin spots, re-
lieved by tiny frills of white lace and
large black hat. Well known for her
charitable work, this lady talked of plans
being prepared for the future of the St.
John and St. Martin Boys’ Home. The
committee has decided to work the home
on the cottage system so popular now in
England. A certain number of boys will
be settled in a cottage with a “father” and
“mother” to supply home atmosphere.
Robert Haines, Director of George’s
Gallery, was in his element pointing out
his favorite pictures to Molly Pyke, who
for this occasion donned an off-white
frock with cyclamen accessories. Inez
Lillies, in a white-patterned dusty-pink
linen suit, was accompanied by house
guest Marjorie Fisher, of Sydney. Smart
in a white and blue pin spot blouse allied
to a blue white-spotted skirt and white
crochet skull cap, Marjorie, who hails
from Hong Kong where her father has
remained as a p.0.w., is thrilled that soon
she will be meeting her young brother,
who is serving with the Royal Navy. The
Gepp lady was accompanied by daughter
Mardi Getting, recently arrived from
England. Mardi was in the A.T.A.S.,
and while in this service delivered more
than 600 ’planes from factories to Air
Force stations in England and Scotland.
Christ Church, South Yarra, was filled
with flowers for the wedding of Patrica,
eldest daughter of Mrs. and the late Alex.
Deans, of Perth. Ceremony was per-
formed by padre J. McKie. Bridegroom
was Captain Hervey H. Yancey, of the
U.S.A. Forces, whose home is in Florida.
Pat chose a gown of white sharkskin cut
on slim-fitting lines, the only trimming
the beaded pockets on the skirt. A small
white sharkskin beaded beanie was worn
on top of her well-groomed hair, and she
carried a bouquet of gardenias and stepha-
notis. Mrs. Deans, mother of the bride,
wore a black gown and small black toque
swathed in veiling. George Sayer, who
gave the bride away, later received the
guests at his home in Grange-road,
Toorak. Among the guests were Dr. and
Mrs. A. Aitken and Mrs. Rita Harkness,
in a gown of pervanche-blue and small
flower hat. With her was daughter
Bunty, whose frock was of a lighter blue.
Mrs. Charles Davis set off a simple black
frock with a small primrose-yellow straw
hat.
Men of the services on leave find Lome
a very pleasant place in which to relax.
The Hotel Pacific, for the recent holidays,
was full of young officers and quite a
few of this city’s lovely young women.
Flight-Lieut. and Mrs. Roy Gallwey and
Flying-Officer Lee Harwood, the latter
just back from the M.E., were among
Air Force personnel staying in the hotel.
Lieuts, David Macgregor and Lindsay
Brand represented the Navy. Marion
Mitchell, Anne Skehan and Mary Mc-
Carthy were among those who displayed
smart beach attire, and Jean Darragh, who
joined them later, also sported a number
of snappy outfits.
The president of the Australian Theatre
Movement, Locksley Shaw, has written
a play, “The Rebel Song,” and assisted
in its production. The theme is the
miners’ rebellion, led by Peter Lalor.
Musical setting, including songs, was
largely the work of Australians. Mar-
garet Saker, the producer, worked
valiantly for the success of the pro-
duction. Night after night found her
laboring with members of the cast (most
of whom had never before appeared in
public), teaching them their lines and
songs and drilling them in deportment.
Paul Hill, not new to the stage, took
the role of Peter Lalor. Margaret Keily
as Georgina Manson, sweetheart of Peter,
had a chance to exercise a tuneful con-
tralto voice. The dressing of the show
was colorful and faithful to the period.
Celebrated her 95th birthday in Caul-
field, Melbourne, Meta Pelham, doyen
of Australian actresses and probably the
oldest British mummer alive today. A
few years ago she was the oldest practis-
ing actress, being still to be seen on the
legitimate stage, and last year she wrote
a piece of verse, committed it to memory
and recited it in a radio broadcast. She
was born in Ireland and was six when
she came to Melbourne.
One of the leading figures in the
C.W.A., Mrs. Dorothy C. B. Dolling, was
an 0.8. E. recipient in the New Years
honors list. Widow of cricket selector
Dr. C. E. Dolling, Mrs. Dolling has been
State secretary of the South Australian
C.W.A. since 1935, and has figured
prominently in organising the war-time
activities of her association, which in-
clude the making of 16,000 camouflage
nets for the army and 3000 sheepskin
vests, as well as other fleece-wool com:
forts for the forces.
Mrs. Dolling holds the degree of M.Sc-
gained at Otago University (ML.), bne
is a member of the State advisory coun-
cil of the Australian Women’s Lana
Army, and an executive member of boto
the Flying Doctor Service (S.A. section
and the Women’s Air Training Corps.
As a member of the executive of the
Allied Forces Welfare Co-ordinating
Committee, Mrs. Dolling has been
directly concerned with the organisation
of troop welfare and hospitality. She is
the only woman member of the 5.. _
Documentary Films Committee and
S.A. Broadcasting Advisory Comrmne-
From 1937 until recently Mrs. Doling
was in charge of the women’s pages o
Adelaide “Advertiser,” and at presen-
conducts the “Chronicle’s” pages I-
country women.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4ad. per line; all others’ 2£d. per line.
Politics for the People
Once his vote has been cast the average
citizen has no further personal influence
over any candidate. He seldom sees his
member, rarely discusses political matters
with him and never interviews him unless
there is a personal axe to be ground or
string to be pulled. The citizen is not
directly involved or represented in the
country’s government.
Certainly he joins impromptu political
discussion groups on trams and trains and
speaks his mind freely, but every such
group breaks up with a spoken or im-
plied “What can you do about it?” The
chain of responsibility that should link
the Parliamentary representative to those
he represents does not, in fact, exist, and
the individual has no opportunity of in-
fluencing the course of political action.
What is needed is some not-too-formal
group in each district or suburb in which
a man may speak freely, as among ac-
quaintances, but with the assurance that,
if enough other fellows think as he does,
something really will be done.
The mechanism for this already exists
in progress associations and similar
bodies open to everyone and spread
throughout the Commonwealth. It is not
a great step to extend their- scope from
parochial matters into politics on a non-
party basis —delegates from shires, muni-
cipalities' or suburbs to form a council
for each division or Sub-division through
which candidates could be nominated and
resolutions forwarded to the divisional
member. The logical development of this
scheme would be the formation of State
and inter-State councils to pass on to
State and Federal members respectively
resolutions which would reflect the wishes
of the people and form a guide to the
politician.
With everyone given an interest and
the opportunity to “do something about
it”—with this and the power of recall
—Australian politics might yet be dragged
out of the ditch— Nomdy (Tas.).
Adult Education
“Blue” (B. 10 /1 / ’45), who doubts the
value of organised adult education com-
pared with “self-education as privately
practised by a few thoughtful citizens,”
takes a very narrow • view of the
matter. My experience is that very valu-
able help can be given. Years ago I was
tactfully introduced by W.E.A. Tutorial
(Q.) to subjects which gave me a desire
for self-education ; and I was not “tied
down to a curriculum.” The interests
formed then from organised educational
help have since led to further self-chosen
free studies. These in turn gave me new
ideas concerning civic responsibility to
modify self-interest.
The Army Educational Services are
contributing a great deal towards mould-
ing future citizens who will be able to
think for themselves in the chaotic
future. Discussion groups within the ser-
vices do not destroy individuality. On
the contrary, they tend to open mental
windows for men apd boys whose early
environment did not help them to think
clearly nor to express themselves. As 1
see it, it is desirable to encourage, by all
means, a better standard of adult educa-
tion (self-education, plus expert prompt-
ing), because this will ensure not only
education for its own sake but a greatly
extended and active interest in community
affairs. When we have conquered the
“blast you, Jack, I’m all right” attitude
we shall be better Australians. — Amber
Gris (R.A.A.F.).
Federalise Education
It is time education was brought under
Commonwealth control. We have six
State Education Departments, each
State with its own system, and no two
systems alike. These differing systems,
cause anomalies. A child coming from
ope State to another finds that it is
backward in some subjects, ahead in
others.
A resident of the Tweed River district
(N.S.W.) whose son had just qualified
for entrance to high school was greatly
perturbed on coming to Queensland to
find that the boy’s attainments did not
entitle him to enter a secondary school.
A Grade VII boy whose parents moved
to Victoria from Queensland was amazed
to find that the work he was asked to
do was much below his attainments. The
boy was given entrance to a Victorian
high school.
1 do not suggest that the Queensland
system is superior to that of other States.
It is the practice in Queensland to cover
junior and senior work in four years ;
in some of the other States the course
covers five years.
Much formal grammar has been
eliminated in Queensland. In other States
stress is still laid upon full parsing, in-
cluding participles, gerunds and infinitives.
This lack of uniformity is to be de-
plored. If the Federal authorities think
that education is better under State control
still a common system could be evolved
if the departmental heads of the various
States got together in conference. —
Araluen (Q.).
Poisonous Propaganda
Two recent news items illustrate the
subtle methods used by German propa-
gandists to split not only the Allies but
the countries which the Allies have re-
occupied at such heavy cost. The first is
an A.A.P. message from Greece which
quotes a Tommy, fighting against the
E.L.A.S. forces, as saying “I’ll never
get the hang of these people. One day it
is flowers, the next bombs.” The second
is a statement by President Roosevelt to
Congress on January 6, in which he
declared that “international co-operation
“Gel your rigging on —there's a task force coming up on the starb’d beamy."
and progress are not helped by any nation
assuming that it has a monopoly of wis-
dom and virtue.”
The Greek situation has been deliber-
ately fostered by enemy agents. Age-old
differences in politics and religion have
been seized upon to encourage anti-
British feeling. Churchill, fully aware of
this, did not hesitate to employ the use
of armed forces to Restore order. Greeks
who realised what was happening wel-
comed these forces. There is nothing
inexplicable about this attitude. It is
commonsense.
President Roosevelt is painfully aware
of this intensified propaganda warfare.
He has made several references to U.S.
and British newspaper captions which
show plainly how successful is Goebbels’s
subtle game of undermining unity.
Consider this broadcast (for Allied con-
sumption) from Berlin Radio: “It can
be assumed that serious reproaches which
the British made to the American First
Army because of its breakdown induced
Eisenhower to pick on Montgomery to
command in order to burden the British
with some responsibility.” Our Allied
commanders in the field were quick to
offset this by statements which were
masterpieces of diplomacy.
For too long have we in Australia
played into the hands of enemy agents.
That very freedom of thought and speech
which we prize so much is used as a
weapon against us. Invariably we let an
emotional outburst override our reason.
Result: industrial unrest, political mud-
slinging and' disunity. The Bth Division
would tell us bluntly what we are doing.
We are prolonging the agony.— Rooster
(A.1.F.).
Publishers’ Handicaps
Encouraged by the oft-quoted state-
ment that almost any sort of book will
be published in present circumstances, I
submitted a manuscript to a publisher. I
have received this reply:
Under separate cover your manuscript
has been returned to you. The reason for
its rejection by this firm has nothing to do
with its merits or demerits, but we find if
impossible to add to our programme of
publishing for 1945, not because of dearth
of paper or lack of printing facilities, but
because the Government has failed to keep
its promise to release a sufficient number of
binders to enable Australian books to be
published in quantities large enough to meet
the demand.
It is not much use establishing a Com-
monwealth Literary Fund and making
speeches about encouraging Australian
writers if publishers are prevented from
takipg advantage of the present demand.
—Fodgie (S.A.).
The Duststorms
It may be inferred from all the articles
I have so far read that the present dust-
storms are the direct result of our occu-
pation of Australia, and that they origi-
nate in the closely-settled districts which
extend only 100 to 200 miles back from
the coast.
After closely studying the subject in
Western Queensland during the last 30
years I contend that the bulk of the dust
originates in Central Australia. Travel-
ling past the Cooper on the way to Birds-
ville one meets the dust in dense clouds
along the ground, and anything up to
200 ft. high, rolling eastwards. It is so
thick that it is almost suffocating, the air
is full of grit, and one cannot see the
radiator of the car. As it reaches the
Warrego it is much lighter, the heavier
particles having dropped on the way, and
by the time it reaches the coast it is only
a fine haze.
These conditions existed long before
this country was settled. Records show
that Sydney experienced severe dust-
storms in the 1820’s, before any practical
settlement took place. I do not wish to
insinuate that there is no erosion or dust
from the settled areas, but I do say that
it is a mere bagatelle compared to what
takes place in the interior of Australia.
The flooded flats of Cooper’s Creek
and the Diamantina are some of the finest
natural fattening country in Australia,
but it takes a flooding of six weeks or
more to sufficiently soak them to grow
feed which will last through the winter.
These floods are caused by heavy rains
on the watershed (ordinary local rain has
practically no effect) and spread out 30
to 40 miles wide in places. Sometimes
they cover the ground for three months.
They occur about once in three years,
and an extra-large one occurred last Feb-
ruary, with the result that thousands of
prime cattle were sent to market during
this spring from these flooded flats.
Yet, in spite of this flooding, which
would be quite impossible to be caused
by artificial means, there have been more
duststorms than usual this summer. Why?
Because the area of flooded country is
relatively small compared to the red
sandy desert country west of these, rivers.
Having seen the country from which
Dr. Bradfield proposed to draw his water
supply and also the Cooper and Diaman-
tina country both in drought and flood
time, I say it would be impossible to con-
vey sufficient water to irrigate more than
extremely small areas. One of the greatest
difficulties is that the coastal rivers are
at their lowest during the spring and early
summer, just when the water is required
most.
What most people do not seem to
realise is the vastness of our interior and
the enormous evaporation which takes
place. One has only to see the large
quantity of water required to produce a
few vegetables in the station gardens out-
back to grasp why J. R. Kemp proposes
to tackle the coastal problems. —L, C.
(Q.).
Fire in the Malice
At the outset of Mallee settlement a
clause in Crown leases made it compul-
sory for the farmer to retain at least
3 p.c. of virgin timber on his holding.
But, as “Country Bed” notes (B.
10/1 /’45), not many did. True, most
farmers retained roadside scrub and a
few strips around their homesteads. But,
in the race to get rich quick when
wheat was 4s. 6d. a bushel, even the
scrub in the home paddock was sacri-
ficed. Today, in most instances, only the
thin screen of roadside scrub remains,
and is lamentably insufficient to protect
virtually open paddocks from soil-
destroying winds. Let us have national
planning by our national Parliament to
circumvent this evil.— Plain Australian
(Vic.). _
A Dutchman on Immigration
Norman McLeod (B. 10/l/’45) is
right. There are dozens of Dutchmen
who, if they could settle down on 50 acres
of land with a house on top of it, would
feel themselves kings. But we Dutch are,
with reason, suspicious of such offers.
I was reared in a district comparable for
fertility of soil with certain parts of Cali-
fornia. From this part of Holland, alto-
gether about 2500 sq. miles, we not only
got enough vegetables, fruit and flowers
for our own eight million people, but
were able to export to England, France,
Belgium, Norway, Germany and Switzer-
land. We sent flower bulbs to nearly
every part of the world. Everyone who
owned 50 acres of that kind of soil could
feel himself a king.
Many of the people in this fertile area
have never been outside Holland, and
take it for granted that the soil of every
part of the world is the same. So when
after the last war certain countries sought
immigrants many Dutchmen went to try
their luck in the new lands. But soon
letters speaking of bitter disappointment
arrived in Holland.
On departure to their new country
every emigrant received signed papers
telling him that on arrival everyone
would get a piece of land with a house
on favorable terms. But on arrival not
one knew anything about this pledge.
Nothing had been arranged for these
people. Everyone must find his own way.
Some did ; others did not.
I have been in this country for some
time now, and I have seen many possi-
bilities. If the Australian Government
wants Dutch immigrants, show me the
land available for them and give me the
terms. If favorable 1 am willing to make
propaganda to induce my countrymen to
come to Australia.— Dutchman (N.S.W.).
Coupons for Beer
An objection to coupons for beer (B.
3/1/’45) is the possibility of non-drinkers
trading their ration. But there anp very
few who don’t want tea, tobacco, choco-
lates, soft drinks, ice-cream. Why not have
luxury coupons covering such items, the
issue being so adjusted that persons could
have a reasonable issue of two or three
items only by foregoing . most of the
others?
The English points system allows
people to eke out their food ration with
an occasional tin of salmon or fruit, a
packet of breakfast food or other war-
time dainty.
If, in addition, beer prices were ad-
justed so that there was no more profit
in selling over the bar than by the bottle,
drinkers could quaff their beer in leisurely
comfort instead of like hogs at a trough.
—R. A. J. (S.A.).
In Praise of Price Control
Much has been said against the restric-
tions and irksomeness of price control
in time of war, but price control will save
this country from the financial chaos
which has been the lot of many other
countries.
With prices controlled the value of
money is controlled. Thousands of pen-
sions are paid weekly throughout Aus-
tralia to the aged and crippled, and if
prices and the consequent cost of living
were to rise appreciably these people
and those drawing superannuation, re-
patriation benefits or income from small
investments would suffer most.
The serviceman away from home has
had deferred pay accumulating over a
number of years, in addition to the
savings he may have put aside when he
has had limited opportunities for spend-
ing. It would be tragic for these people
to find that the £lOO of 1941 was now
worth only £6O or £7O.
Forced savings as the result of price
control and restrictions will mean a new
start for thousands of people after the
war. The policy of price control should
be endorsed and commended by every
citizen who is determined to see justice
and fair play while we are climbing the
long and arduous path to victory.
Mario (Vic.).


OTHER FAMOUS PRODUCTS INCLUDE
CREME de MENTHE . . CHERRY BRANDY
ADVOCAAT ORANGE & WHITE
CURACAO CREME de CACAO
GILBEDENE . . . . ORANGE & LEMON GIN
APRICOT BRANDY . . RUM . . GIN SLING
BRONX AND MARTINI COCKTAIL . . SPEY
ROYAL SCOTCH AND GAUNTLET WHISKY
W. & A. OILBEY LIMITED
ROSSLYN ST., WEST MELBOURNE REGENT STREET, SYDNEY
Telegrams&Cables:"Gilbeys”Melbourne Telegrams & Cables: "Gilbeys” Sydney
