

w
The Bulletin
s 'The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3386
Wednesday, January 3, 1945
Price 6dL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
OYSTERMOUTH CASTLE, SOUTH WALES.
IN more modern times again associated with the sporting and
' soldierly Beaufort family, Oystermouth’s ancient pile has a
history that goes back to early Norman times, when soon after
1100 the first Earl of Beaufort built the castle solidly on an
eminence overlooking the sea. The most ancient part of the remains
js the keep, with the chapel in its upper storey. It is in the chapel
and the great hall, most of which is still in a fair state of preserva-
tion, that are to be seen some fine tracery windows. Also still in
comparatively good repair is the castle’s imposing gateway and its
companion towers. It was during the Civil War that Oystermouth
was reduced by the Parliamentary Forces. Near the castle is
Oystermouth Church, which has a fine tower, and where, in the
south aisle, are some pieces of Roman pavement, found in the
neighborhood in 1860, lending strength to archaeologists’ supposition
that in the early times there was a Roman station at Oystermouth.
Nowadays Oystermouth is a holiday resort and site of a small
oyster-culture industry.


Writing
riUHVf otHOPTF
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
liooklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin: ’
My Name
My Address
a.B. 241 ... ....AGE
The Red Page
T. S. ELIOT'S "QUARTETS."
T. S. Eliot’s Four Quartets (Faber)
contains the poems “Burnt Norton,”
“East Coker,” “The Dry Salvages” and
“Little Gidding,” which Eliot has pub-
lished separately over the last few years
and which, linked in thought and similar
in construction, amount to an essay on
Time.
This essay is intelligible enough in its
general drift, frequently distinguished in
style and occasionally enriched by a
tolerable piece of natural description:
When the short day is brightest, with frost and
fire.
The brief sun flames the ice, on pond and
ditches;
and;
I do not know much about gods; but I think
that the river
Is a strong brown god—sullen, untamed and
intractable,
Patient to some degree, at first recognised as a
frontier;
Useful, untrustworthy, as a conveyor of com-
merce ;
Then only a problem confronting the builder
of bridges.
The problem once solved, the brown god is
almost forgotten
By the dwellers in cities —ever, however, im-
placable,
Keeping his seasons and rages, destroyer, re-
minder
Of what men choose to forget.
But as a whole it is vague, tortuous,
abstract and flat.
Because it is always hard to see the
poetry of our own time with the same
ruthless clarity as we see the poetry of.
the past, and because Eliot is rightly re-
garded with respect, his faults mas-
querade as virtues or at least are con-
sidered “interesting.” But there are flat-
nesses here which the critics of the future
will compare with the worst lapses of
Wordsworth ; the peroration of “The Dry
Salvages” for instance:
Here the impossible union
Of spheres of existence is actual,
Here the past and future
Are conquered, and reconciled,
Where action were otherwise movement
Of that which is only moved
And has in it no source of movement —
Driven by daemonic, chthonic
Powers. And right action is freedom
From past and future also.
A passage of this sort of deliberate
and unashamed prosiness is inserted into
each of the poems, presumably for “light
relief,” a meditative interlude in the
music of the whole, a contrast with the
moments of intensity or lyricism. The
scheme would work better if the lyrical
sections were strong enough to need such
relief; if the reader, having flown with
an eagle into the sun, were brought pant-
ing and dazzled for a necessary rest-cure
on a perch in the poultry-run ; but the
“lyrics” will hardly reduce anyone to
such an extremity.
The most impressive “Where is there an
end of it, the soundless , wailing,” meant
to be a masterpiece of ingenuity, would
be far more effective if Eliot had been
able to carry it through without his
obviously strained rhymes (“oceanless,”
“erosionless”); and the most striking
“The dove descending breaks the air,”
with the derivative “The intolerable shirt
of flame” as its best line, has a sort of
hymnbook doggerel effect in its “terror-
error” rhyme and an obvious surrender
in the bringing in of “suspire” to rhyme
with “fire.”
Searching for lyrical merits, apart from
the one or two passages of good natural
description, one is left with a few bits
about the still point of the turning
world and “shafts of sunlight”—phrases
Eliot has used many times before. Effec-
tive when first used, these images weaken
on repetition.
Another old trick Eliot repeats—and a
trick that was never a great adornment
of his poetry—is a paradoxical juggling
with words, intended to illuminate a pro-
fundity but requiring some patience to
distinguish from mumbo-jumbo:—
In order to arrive at what you are not
You must go through the way in which you are
not
And what you do not know is the only thing
you know
And what you own is what you do not own
And vfhere you are is where you are not.
No doubt it means something or other:
the line about “what you do not know”
might mean that the realisation of the
depth of man’s ignorance is the only
knowledge worth having: but it becomes
mildly maddening trying to ascertain
where one is or isn’t and what one has or
has not got out of Eliot’s poem, and the
only thing about which one can be quite
sure is that where Eliot is he isn’t; he is
neither here nor there.
Which certainly wasn’t the case in
Murder in the Cathedral: there, in the
richest language he has yet employed,
with choruses of his deepest and most
exciting music, Eliot had a straight-
forward play about Becket. He con-
tributed a new, if not altogether desir-
able, form to English drama; everybody
(could understand him and everybody
could enjoy him. From it arose the
whole modern movement in verse drama.
A “Meanjin Papers” reviewer said
recently that Four Quartets is the “most
considerable” thing Eliot has yet done:
which is surely wrong. It is in every way
weaker than Murder in the Cathedral
and most of all in its retreat from the
direct and popular appeal of the play to
an audience of poets, clergymen and
pedants. Collected, the four poems are
less interesting than when they were pub-
lished separately: to misquote the poet,
men cannot bear too much unreality.
Concerned with those moments of
vision in which, locked in the prison of
time, we perceive through the bars of
the window the light of eternity. Four
Quartets might be read as a commentary
on the poetry of such a man as W. H.
Davies —which is a series of those
flashes of vision. It explains and ex-
pounds what Davies presents. In short,
it is not so much a poem as an essay
about poetry. It has its place, no doubt;
but since vision really doesn’t need any
explanation, it seems more profitable—
as it would certainly be more pleasurable
—simply to read W. H. Davies.
Third Footman to His Grace.
Once upon a time, long before he be-
came butler to the Principal of Brasenose
College, Oxford, Mr. Albert Thomas took
a job—or, rather, “accepted a post”—as
third footman to a well-known sporting
duke. The duke, he records, was a kind
man, “very considerate to his servants,”
and he was so easy-going as to wander
about the grounds of his castle dressed
in flannel trousers and an old velveteen
coat. Mr. Thomas proceeds:
I remember once, the grounds being
open on certain days to visitors, him meet-
ing some people who ask him questions
about the estate, and with his usual courtesy
he showed-them round. No doubt they
were struck with his manner and general
knowledge, for on wishing him good-bye
they shook him by the hand and left 2s. 6d.
in his palm (the proper way to tip!).
I was on close duty at the time, that is,
in the hall to open and shut the door, etc.
He came to me smiling, gave me the half-
crown, told me what had happened and
said “No doubt they thought* I was one
of the gamekeepers, but, really, John [all
third footman were called John] I did
not like to hurt their feelings for they
meant well.”
What a real English gentleman. Fancy
offering a profiteer these days a tip. But
it only bears out my contention that
Class always tells. Of course, when any-
thing was on, They were They, but they
really do unbend and become very human
when they are by themselves.
The anecdote is told in Thomas’s Wait
and See (Michael Joseph, Ltd.; Angus
and Robertson), and is typical of the style
and material of this autobiography of a
butler. It is a pleasant and interesting
book, and the author “killed some Ger-
mans” at the last war; but anything else
the present commentator might like to
say about it would be unspeakably un-
gentlemanly. -
Van Loon Among the Great.
“After that we settled down to the
serious business of talking, and the con-
versation was magnificent,” says Hendrik
van Loon, reporting in Van Loon’s Lives
(Australasian Publishing Co.) on a dinner
he gave to Shakspeare, Moliere and Cer-
vantes.
And, naturally, the conversation would
be magnificent. Van Loon gives not a
single word of it; wherein he recalls
those villainous writers of fiction who
announce that a character is “witty” but
never give him a witty remark to make.
He is content to sum up on this allegedly
“magnificent” conversation:
These three writers discussed different
kinds of plots. They quarrelled how long
a play or a book should be (Erasmus was
in the thick of the fray when that point
was reached and was enjoying himself
right heartily). They compared the honesty
of their respective publishers, the generosity
of their erstwhile patrons, and the fickle-
ness of the public. They paid their re-
spects to audiences in the theatre, and what
they had to say on these subjects sounded
exactly as if a group of modern composers
and playwrights had been drinking tea in
one of the Russian trakteers along West
Fifty-seventh Street, indulging in the same
pastime. In the end they even went into
details about type and paper and bind-
ings. In short, they thoroughly enjoyed
themselves.
Van Loon’s Lives is an attempt to bring
the great men of history to life. The
author pretends to invite them to dinner
at a house in Holland where, with a char-
acter called Frits and under the patron-
age of Erasmus, he engages them in con-
versation and so shows what they really
were like.
On the whole, he succeeds in showing
what they were not like. This is achieved
by three methods; first, by reporting their
conversation so dully—as in the Shak-
speare episode—that they appear to be
monumental bores ; second, as in a sketch
of “The Archbishop of Bithynia and the
Archbishop of Cyrenaica,” by presenting
mere incredible .dummies; and, third, as
in the portrait of Emily Dickinson, by
gently sentimentalising them until their
characters are the reverse of the truth.
The failure of the dinners might per-
haps not matter very much if the short,
direct biographies with which Van Loon
introduces them were well done. But
these are invariably tame, misleading in
their sentimentality, revealing not a trace
of originality of approach and containing
generally less information than the biog-
raphies in a good encyclopaedia.
It remains to be added that the decora-
tions are vapid, the style simple to the
point of childishness and the tone avun-
cular. It is intended as “a Handbook
of Intellectual Liberalism.”
"The Farm by the Lake."
The Farm by the Lake (Collins), by
Arnold Bender, translated from the Ger-
man by E. W. Dickes, is a novel by a
refugee. It tells the story of a German
Jew, driven out by Hitler, who finds a
temporary haven in Sweden.
First seen as a homeless wanderer,
having trouble with his bicycle on a
stormy day in Sweden, the refugee is
picked up by a farmer, befriended and
invited to help with the haymaking. He
works at the farm through the winter,
falls in love with the farmer’s daughter
and becomes involved in a feud with a
young neighbor, who is also in love with
the girl. The rival develops into a Swed-
ish Nazi, anti-Semitism grows amongst a
section of the community and the refugee
is forced to leave:
There are two ways of destroying the
stranger who is thrown on his own re-
sources —the arbitrary, deliberate, vicious
blow from an individual enemy; and the
involuntary, impersonal, blind blow from
an institution. Both have shown their
power in my case. There is nowhere now
that I can turn. I have nothing at my back
and no support beneath my feet. Now that
I am thrown down I am cast into infinity.
He leaves without telling the girl of
his intention;
And I know, too I cannot accept from
Ebba the sacrifie of exile with me. She has
no idea of what it means to live as a fugi-
tive, to be dependent on hopes and fears,
on storms and passports and committees
and countryside Samaritans. How can she
conceive of an existence reckoned in terms
of permit's for domicile? How could she
or I, or our love, live through it? If she
came to grief I should be the culprit, and
should have earned nothing but universal
hatred.
The refugee has not only lost his refuge
and his love ; he has lost heart:
There may still be a free country in the
world, a country that would admit you and
allow you to remain and work. But
where? I no longer have the patience to
try to find it. I have spent too much
energy in these last years, with no result
but unending defeat.
Thomas Mann and Alfred Neumann,
who are brought in to speak for this book
on the jacket, over-praise it. Lion Feucht-
wanger, also brought in, says with more
exactness that it is “a story of distUusion-
rnents and spiritual exhaustion.” If it
is to be regarded as a social document
the book needs no comment.
But as a novel it is too mechanical
to carry real conviction, and the end,
which Neumann describes as “tragedy,”
comes rather into that category of “un-
relieved hopelessness” which Matthew
Arnold refused to regard as art. It is
tame, undramatic, a mere dwindling.
Renunciation and despair, facts of exist-
ence though they may be, make poor
themes for the novel. The refugee and
his rival out on the lake in a storm—the
descriptions of farming and fishing are
excellent —are far more dramatic than is
the wanderer stealing apathetically out
of the book at the end.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Current fashions never received a more
sudden shock than when in 1728 Gay
produced his “Beggar’s Opera.” The
craze for Italian opera had pretty well
ousted the native songbirds, even such
great ones as Purcell, but Gay’s satirical
story of the cut-throat Mac Heath and his
doxie, placed in Newgate and set to old,
intrinsically lovely, Scottish and Eng-
lish melodies, brought down the house
for 62 nights, and was still being revived
in 1920, when it ran for 3£ years at the
Lyric Theatre. The piece was revived
again at the New Theatre, Melbourne,
with the music arranged by the veteran
Louis Lavater, and was remarkably suc-
cessful. Another veteran, Gustav Slap-
offski, was musical director, and still
another, Tom Minogue, was in charge
of the production and also gave the
debonair highwayman a fine voice, even
if some of the debonairness had to be left
to the imagination. The pickpockets,
fences, blackmailers and other assorted
members of the eighteenth-century under-
world were well represented, but the
women of the town looked as if they
had been unduly suppressed by a ladies’
college education.
The apparition of large quantities of
lovelies emerging in costumes suitable to
the prevailing weather from the hold of
a pirate ship in mid-Atlantic or on the
Spanish Main or somewhere has been
holding the attention of the crowds at
the Tivoli in Melbourne. To remove
any misconception a subordinate pirate
explains that the ladies are symbols for
diamonds, sapphires, rubies, amethysts
and opals. “The Sky’s the Limit” is the
title of the opus, and it includes Jenny
Howard, Slim Walker and the Flying
D’Amours, who collect dust on their dress
suits in a whirlwind of acrobatic achieve-
ment. The show is short of a first-rate
comedian, for whom ventriloquist Clif-
ford Guest is a partial compensation.
At the talkies:
Universal has used “Phantom of the Opera”
(Sydney State) only secondarily as a spine-
chiller, primary object being the introduction
of a new soprano, Susanna Foster. Her sing-
ing of Chopin’s No, 9 Nocturne stamps her as
a first-class singer. In addition she has looks
and can act. Technicolor assists the lavish
operatic settings and costumes; Claude Rains,
until his acid-spoiled frontispiece disappears
behind his mask, gives a good follow-up to his
classic performance in “Casablanca.” Nelson
Eddy sings resonantly in solos and duets. The
crashing of the great candelabra into the
audience is done with terrifying reality.
Belita, a 20-year-old pupil of Anton Dolin,
brings the grace of Russian ballet to the ice
rink in “Lady, Let’s Dance” (Lyceum), the
best ice film yet made. In addition to whirl-
wind pirouettes (she is the world’s champion
figure skater) and some delightful waltzing, she
leads a ballet at high speed through intricate
steps. The lass turns from the ice to ballroom
dancing with facility. Frick and Frack, the
Continental comedy team, do freakish things on
a quarter-inch steel edge, while Stanley Catlett
gets laughs from the safer vantage of two flat
feet.
When a girl whose mother was a Flanagan
and whose father an O’Grady gets into holts
with a, Dan McGee skin, and hair should fly,
and they do in “Sweet Rosie O’Grady” (Regent).
Set in the ’eighties, it is gay and tuneful,
with Robert Young and Betty Grable conduct-
ing the Hibernian feud and Adolphe Menjou
as the patcher-up-in-chief.
Bewchus Maria Montez plays two parts in
“Cobra Woman” (Sydney Empire)—as a de-
mure young maiden snatched from Jon Hall s
arms by the Cobra people and as her twin
sister, a crool high priestess who has 200 ot
her subjects thrown into a volcano whenever
she feels like if. Aided by Sabu, Lon Chaney
and a chimpanzee Jon Hall manages to rescue
his loved one, and the high priestess meets the
fate Hollywood has decreed for all tyrants.
“Mac Hoots”: It being the season of
goodwill, I am delighted to find myself
in complete agreement with the Sydney
“Morning Herald” on a matter of art.
Says “Granny”: “The attention bestowed
on William Dobell’s portrait of the Gov-
ernor, Lord Wakehurst, is merely curious
and unconnected with its artistic merit.
Such an atmosphere is undoubtedly bad
for an artist, and it would be as well it
the public forget Dobell for awhile, to
let him paint in that free world of ob-
scurity and solitude necessary for the
conception of art.” Whether or not it
is true that Dobell has failed in por-
traying his Ex. as something quite closely
resembling a human being—l have
always believed that a return to tradi-
tion is Dobell’s only hope—it is pro-
foundly true that the incessant publicity
that has been given him must have been
very dangerous. Moreover, by convey-
ing the notion that he is the only painter
in Australia—“the first to knock with any
degree of authority on the doors of over-
seas fame”—the campaign has fantasti-
cally distorted values in the public mind.
I am so overcome with joy at the correct-
ness of the “Herald’s” sentiments on this
occasion that it pains me a little to recal
that the boosting of Dobell was started
and continued, with trumpet and with
drum, in criticism and editorial, in inter-
view and photograph, by none other than
our old friend “Granny.”


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE”
SECTION
Prices:
6-o*. bot., 2/-
l-o*. bot., lid
£-o*. bot., 6d
#
m
sub*
lA'
/*»
\>.»
V/'
L V
U''!
(■
■fl. ! •
Bathuirsts
>**>
...•■•■■ -:"
Ni
■m
r //
1 *•<"<".. •n/L'T'**
—ssisift
.... ..wK,*isir>
X
ry
*‘iWK c
riTB-. rM «
r.
%
mv
M
m
j
SP9S”
llr :
zx
a*"*"**
J?-
fßafKursn;
usi
if,
xW:
(MeUeemAttw^ o'*) 0 '*)
ReMW"ifß<lei
F.«f AU Rcy"'emc*h
Apply Neat
Hon-P«i*owos
stainless
"TCTBBEOft* Product*
C M^n .
3»
■«»
• ••■.:
C N
w
st's
Genuine
TE TREE OIL
Why not enclose a bottle of Te-
Tree-Oil in your next parcel to
your soldier. The uses of Te-Tree-
Oil are innumerable, ' It is anti-
septic and can be used freely for
washing the body and for wash-
ing clothes. It has been proved to
give wonderful healing to tropical
sores, ulcers, etc.
Te-Tree-Oil has been thoroughly
tested pathologically, surgically
and clinically, and in practical
use in hospitals over a number of
years it has been found to give
marked satisfaction.
/*
V//,
lU'
0
", ' \ ’ \ \ >.
Wwo A >;
i i
■\\
f/Z
3M
V*
-MQ
m
A
!?*=»»
ASn
VM/.
genuine
\\&
T®'Tree-On w
-
r.
\;\\
,? WS,ptic Sho «npooJ
a •2'CfcS‘-‘
v)p*QAUv rerni . . .
r>
Dandruff
► BRT| ows
t£r:z
S'
A
. 77
» gßaor " w *«s.
Sl K&
• Chemistry Department—Ground Floor, Pitt St.
Postage in N.S.W., 1/-; Interstate, 1/6
No matter what colour your hair
happens to be, this scientific
shampoo contains all the ele-
ments for scalp health. Restores
the brilliant lustre and promotes
growth to the hair. Large bottles
cost only 2/6
Do you suffer from dandruff? If
you do, get a bottle of Te-Tree-Oil
Shampoo and see how quickly
this marvellous shampoo will re-
move the dandruff. It also pre-
vents falling hair and promotes
healthy hair growth.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDEHNS'
LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, C.P.0., SYDNEY


With the Filipions in Samar
By JOHN BRENNAN.
THE Filipino guerrilla fighter is, for
the most part, untrained, inexpert
and little disciplined. He is used
only to fighting from an ambush, his
procedure being to fire a few, shots and
then scatter in the jungle. He knows
nothing of sustained attack, *and some-
thing less than nothing of how to with-
stand an enemy counter-attack. He is
poorly organised and ill-led. Very many
of his officers are lacking in the mili-
tary qualities.
Yet he has harassed the Japanese from
the time, of the surrender. He has
obliged them to strengthen their garri-
sons, to remain close within the towns
and cities their forces occupy and to
move about the country only in large
groups. Since the American invasion of
Leyte the guerrillas have been able virtu-
ally to dominate large areas of many of
the islands.
While the situation on Leyte was still
obscure, the guerrilla forces on the island
of Samar were given arms and ammuni-
tion and assigned the task of clearing the
Japanese garrisons from the island’s
eastern coast. That necessitated an attack
on the Japanese position at Taft. There
the enemy had a strong garrison, a radio
and aircraft-warning station and supplies
in plenty, and had long been strengthen-
ing his trenches and dugouts in a natural
defence position.
Samar is third in size among the islands
of the Philippines—only Luzon and Min-
danao are larger. It is rough mountain-
ous country, covered for the greater part
with thick jungle and but poorly de-
veloped. Within a month from the time
they first received their arms the guer-
rilla force had cleansed the east coast,
driven the enemy from Taft, captured his
supplies and pushed clear across the
island to Ijnk with the American forces
advancing up the west coast. Already
the civilians were returning from their
“buckwheasion” villages and mountain
hideouts to the farms and coastal towns
and barrios they had “buckwheated” at
first warning of the American invasion.
These terms should be explained.
“Buckwheat” is what you do when the
Japs are near. It depends on how near
they really are as to how you do it. If
the report of their coming is brought
soon enough you pack up what personal
belongings you want to take with you,
close doors and windows, see that the
fire is out and “buckwheat” yourself and
your family—always in the direction of
the mountains. If the Japs are close
behind the messenger you may “buck-
wheat” through the window.
The word has been brought into every-
day usage in the Philippines by the pres-
ence of the Japs and the inability of the
Filipinos to pronounce the word evacuate
—“buckwheat” is what they do manage.
For more than two years the people of
the east coast of Samar have been almost
constantly on the “buckwheat” as the
Japs have passed back and forth. They’re
still prepared to take to the hills at the
slightest alarm. “Buckwheasion” is the
house or small village built in the hills
by a “buckwheated” people. It is used
largely in apologising for the sleeping
place or food which the people can offer:
“This is only a ‘buckwheasion.’ ”
HPHE sficcess of this first guerrilla
* “campaign” was entirely the work
of one man —an American who
had refused to surrender when the
Japanese first came to the Philip-
pines, and who must still remain un-
identified. He led and pushed and
browbeat the guerrilla force, persuaded
its unruly factions into some semblance
of unity, planned its fighting, feeding and
supply, then showed it how to fight. He
had to help him an American lieutenant
who came with the arms, three Filipino
officers on whom he knew by experience
he could rely and a small number of
former Philippine scouts. The scouts are
excellent soldiers, experienced, well-
trained over a period of many years,
trustworthy and staunch. They were
placed in command of squads, and the
organisation began.
In small groups the guerrillas came
down from the mountains to receive their
arms. Many of them had only home-
made guns, without rifling to the bore.
They were ragged and hungry. Gather-
ing what palay, or unhusked rice, they
could from the farms about, they
pounded it with long poles in a basin
hollowed from a log of wood to remove
the husk. As more men arrived there
was the necessity for more rice, and more
pounding ; the thump, thump, thump was
continuous, night and day, whenever the
“army” halted.
There were some fatigue uniforms with
the arms, outsizes for American soldiers ;
the small-built Filipinos wrapped the
trousers twice about their waists and rolled
up the sleeves. There were no shoes. A
deprivation this, for ahead lay more
than 150 kilometres of rough trails,
broken with jagged coral rocks and
the pointed, jutting roots of the mangrove
swamps, and of a hard, rock-bottom road
from which the top surface had been
washed by the rains. It was the season
of the monsoons, and all through the
month of the “campaign” it rained every
day. The east coast of Samar, facing the
open Pacific, gets thirty per cent, of all
the typhoons which hit the Philippines.
The men began cleaning their arms,
practising at targets set up out on the
reef. There were some small mortars, and
squads were trained in the use of them
—the regular army instruction course
condensed to half a day.
The day after the first group received
its arms word came that a Japanese garri-
son, 48 strong, was moving north up
the road towards Taft. The messenger
came only an hour ahead of them. Forty
men, with the American lieutenant and a
Signal Corps photographer who had come
with the arms, were dispatched to meet
them. They hoped to take up a position
on a hill overlooking the long embank-
ment, with a wooden bridge at its centre,
where the road crossed a river, but the
Japs were already at the bridge when
they arrived. The guerrillas opened fire,
and managed to keep the greater number
of the’Japs penned up along the sides of
the embankment and under the bridge ;
but it. became obvious that if they were
to be routed out and killed before dark-
ness it would be necessary to advance
out along the embankment. So two
squads began to edge their way forward,
crawling along the top while the rest of
the force kept up a barrage of fire across
the bridge.
The fight lasted three hours. InT that
time 38 of the Japanese were killed. On
our side the only man lost was the
photographer, who was hit mortally in
the throat. The guerrillas withdrew with
the darkness ; they had had three of their
men wounded, but they had learnt that
their arms were better than those of the
enemy, and that they could be successful
in a direct attack. Eight more of the
Japanese caught at the bridge at Maypan-
dang died along the road. Only two of
the 48 made it through to Taft.
THE training in arms went on. A few
more men arrived each day. There
were almost 200 by the end of the week,
and it was decided to move north towards
Taft. It was hoped that contact could be
made with another 150 before the attack
on the town commenced.
There was a hunt throughout the
district for cargodores, civilians to carry
ammunition and supplies. Over a hun-
dred of them were needed, for mortar
ammunition is heavy, and even guerrillas
must eat. Cargodores were found, among
them old men and boys of 10. Every-
thing had to be packed on men’s backs,
and every carrier made another mouth to
feed. All the available rice was gathered
together and taken along. There were
two live pigs, their legs tied together and
hung upside down on poles ; half a dozen
chickens, their feet tied, hanging from
men’s backs.
It was a ragged, motley, unmanageable
crew. Not 300 men, it strung out in
groups over more than 20 kilometres
along the trail. Each section moved at
its own speed. None ever got started on
time. And, no matter how often the men
had carried the same load, whenever the
column got going there was interminable
discussion as to how tfte job should be
done.
The trails were bad. At times they
wound for more than a kilometre, waist-
deep in water at high tide, through the
mangrove swamps. After a brief en-
counter with some ten Japanese a
wounded man had to be carried through
the swamps on a litter; where a small
river ran through the swamps the water
was up around the necks of the bearers
as they bore the litter above their heads.
To cross some of the rivers there was
need for borotas, canoes hollowed out of
logs and fitted with bamboo outriggers.
Search had sometimes to be made for
miles along the river before they could
be found, and then they would only move
three or four men and the loads they
were carrying at a time.
Stops were made at deserted barrios
from which the inhabitants had “buck-
wheated.” Then the pounding of the
rice began again and went on through
the night by the light of torches made
from tree resin. Parties of cargodores
and soldiers were moving in and out
along the trail all through the night.
From the large town of Sula everybody
was gone. The doors of most of the
houses stood open, the furniture still
inside, pictures on the walls. Grass
grew in the deserted streets. The Japanese
garrison had moved north to Taft from
the school buildings it had occupied and
surrounded with high earthworks, as if
for a last-ditch defence.
Occasionally civilians were found who
came down from the mountains to work
in ricefields about the towns during the
daytime. Three doctors were ‘found in
their “buckwheasions” and added to the
cavalcade. They treated mostly cut and
vine-torn feet and tropical ulcers.
It needed five days till all the force
could be moved the thirty kilometres to
positions from which an attack could be
made on Taft, The expected reinforce-
ments from the north had not yet arrived.
The Japanese had had their east-coast
headquarters at Taft since their first
coming to Samar in 1942. The town is
built on the south bank of the wide Tubig
River. There the Japanese occupied the
school buildings and the municipal build-
ing, which they had surrounded with
earthworks and trenches. A vehicle ferry
connected across the Tubig with their
most important and highly defensible
positions on a series of tnree linked hills
paralleling the river. They had trenches,
100, on a hill some 700 yards south of
the town, but investigation showed that
the trenches were not occupied.
The guerrilla force moved in and set
up on the hill. Three of the ex-scouts
doffed their uniforms and went into the
town to bring out the puppet mayor
and anyone else whose information might
be of value.
They found 36 Japs in the town, well
set up, and they quietly persuaded the
mayor that he had better come along.
The priest came also, and an American
mestizo, or half-caste, whom the Japs had
had working as capitas of their labor
gang.
The mayor was only too anxious to
co-operate. He helped the mestizo draw
a sketch plan of the trenches and pill-
boxes on the hill. He revealed the situa-
tion of the food, gasoline and ammuni-
tion dumps, officers’ quarters, barracks,
kitchen, garage. There were 157 Japs
in Taft and on the hill, apart from two
who had escaped from the fight at May-
pandang and- 16 who had come strag-
gling in from the west. These 18 were
mostly sick and in little shape for fight-
ing. They were regarded with no favor
by the Taft garrison, which had placed
them in semi-confinement in a separate
building and allowed them only a little
food.
The mayor was put under guard, but
the priest and the mestizo were allowed
to return to the town and told to “buck-
wheat” what civilians remained in the
early morning.
SHORTLY after dawn next morn-
ing the mortars opened up on
the town, and on what buildings
could be discerned aihong the trees
on the hillside. The plan was to
take the town first and keep what
Japs were on the hillside from crossing
the river to the town. In the early
morning there were direct mortar hits on
the radio shack on top of the hill, on
some of the houses on its slope and on
the school buildings in the town. The
reinforcements had not yet shown up,
but some 80 men with rifles moved up
to attack the town.
The Japs held their fire well, "Hie
guerrillas fired off their guns at anything
and everything. It was still difficult to
persuade them to advance to effective
range. One squad did get to within 30
yards of the school buildings but was
driven back. The others couldn’t or
wouldn’t go beyond the line of trees
that fringed around the town.
The battle went on all day. Three of
the guerrillas were killed, eight wounded.
Only three Japanese were known to have
been killed. It seemed that the enemy
was having the better of the fighting,
and in the dusk of the late afternoon
the guerrillas withdrew to their hills ; the
Japanese hold on Taft was apparently
little shaken.
As the guerrillas moved back Japanese
snipers moved with them.. Positions were
assigned to try to hold the hill, but it
was difficult to make the guerrilla fighters
aware that they must remain alert and
that it was suicidal to light fires to cook
their rice.
The night was wild with gunfire, com-
ing mostly from guerrilla riflemen firing
at the jungle shadows. The Jap snipers,
a possible dozen of them, moved about
through the jungle, scaring the untrained
guerrilla troops with their howling like
dogs and their bird calls to each other.
It was necessary to station guards on the
trails to bully the guerrillas into remain-
ing on the hill and not “buckwheatmg”
in a body.
wun me morning the Japs, except for
a few snipers, were back in the town.
The mortars began again, and the attack
was commenced anew, the guerrillas
being bullied into moving forward. In
the middle afternoon the Japs turned
and fled. They’d apparently been hurt
much more than was thought, and they
were keen to leave. Four or five of them
were killed as they made across the river
in borotas.
Into the town the guerrillas swarmed,
boastful and shoutingly rejoiceful. They
began to sort among the stacks of Jap-
anese equipment, supplementing their
uniforms with articles of Japanese
clothing. They fell with delight on a
huge pile of rice in sacks. The chief
problem was to stop them strutting care-
lessly in the streets in full view of the
enemy positions on the hills across the
river.
One shot from the hill was sufficient
to clear the streets for a quarter of an
hour; then the guerrillas were back
again, as careless as before. But they
were noticeably learning discipline, and
gaining in confidence in themselves and
in their weapons, and there was a stiffen-
ing in their determination to fight.
IN two days the Japanese were cleared
* from the town, but it was nine more
days before the guerrillas occupied the
hills. At the end of that time they had
become something like a fighting force.
Two hundred men came down from the
north. More than that number were
sent back to their homes, their arms dis-
tributed among those who would fight.
The two hundred who remained were
mostly fighting men.
A small group stayed in the town,
hidden along the river bank, sniping at
the Japs as the mortars flushed them
from their trenches. The remainder
crossed the river to the west and pre-
pared to assault the hills. This they
never actually did, but they kept up a
pin-pricking that the Japanese could not
withstand. One day they came upon a
small party of Japanese trying to set up
their radio on the far slope of the
westernmost hill away from the mortar
fire, and routed them, driving them back
to their positions. Patrols killed a few
Japs each day, confining the enemy to
the hillsides.
At night the Japanese infiltration
tactics still played havoc with the un-
trained men. Two or three Japanese with
a few grenades and their dog-like howls
could rout a platoon. One night the
Japs captured one of the mortars and a
small quantity of ammunition. It never'
availed them much, but it threatened a
danger, and there was again the neces-
sity for rounding up the guerrilla force
and browbeating it into maintaining the
attack.
The pressure on the Japs was increas-
ing and the toll upon them heavier. After
nine days fifty or sixty of them tried to
escape from their positions along the
road leading west. They burnt some of
their radio equipment before they left;
then they hurried off through the night,
sick, weary and confused, many of them
wounded. A small guerrilla outpost
fired at them as they left the hill, killing
two; the others dropped their equip-
ment, personal belongings and their rifles
and ran.
Next day the hills along the river were
found deserted. It had been a beautiful
position and the Japanese were well
equipped for a long stay. There was
food for six months, a plentiful supply
of arms and ammunition. The garrison
had looted the best of the furniture
from the towns up and down thev
coast to make their quarters comfort-
able. They had dug-outs, telephones,
radios, gramophones, a power plant and
neat, well-cared-for quarters, but they
were gone from Taft for ever. It was
presumed that one of the fires left burn-
ing the night the 50-odd men who were
all that remained of the 175 originals
left the hill had cremated the command-
ing officer. There was a large pit in
which many of the Jap dead were buried.
The guerrillas began the pursuit of the
party travelling slowly westward. They
hit it twieg again, killing twelve more,
before it scattered into the mountains to
the north. By then the Commonwealth
mayor, “buckwheated” all through the
Japanese occupation, was back in Taft.
His councillors were in session; the
civilians were working in their rice pad-
dies.
Taft was named after the twenty-
seventh United States President who,
when Governor of the Philippines, coined
the slogan “The Philippines for the Fili-
pinos.” It was one of the first large
towns in the Philippines liberated by
organised guerrilla assault.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3386
Wednesday, January 3, 1945
ENOCH ARDEN CURTIN RETURNS.
He, shaking his grey head pathetically,
Repeated muttering “cast away and lost":
Again in deeper inward whispers "lost."
That which he better might have shunned he saw;
Francis, the slighted suitor of old times,
Stout, rosy, with his babe across his knees.
And Enoch would have knelt, but that his knees
Were feeble, so that falling prone he dug
His fingers into the wet earth, and prayed.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man” /
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street >
London, E.C.4.
THE "MOPPING-UP" JOB.
Though as likely to be wrong in fore-
casts as any other crystal-gazer, the
“United States News” publishes factual
articles with more than an air of author-
ity. One of these last month gave what
purported to be an account of recent
rearrangements for fighting the Pacific
part of the war. A “reshuffle of tasks”
had been made among “the Allies” which
“will usher in the climactic phase that is
to bring about the final defeat of Japan.”
In this re-arrangement Uncle Sam is
to be primarily responsible for defeating
the Jap fleet, for winning bases in China
and on islands near Japan, for the bomb-
ing and eventual invasion of the Jap
mainland. J. Bull, according to this
account,- is to do his share further south
■—about Malaya, Sumatra, Java, Borneo
and, of course, Burma. J.B.’s fighting
ships, as has been stated elsewhere, will
operate under Admiral Nimitz’s general
command, and the American publication
expects there will be enough of them to
help carry “all-out sea war” against the
Japs in their home waters and look after
the south-western sea area as well.
Others, particularly France and the
Netherlands, are to play an active part
beside British troops in the allotted land
area. J.B.’s naval forces will be expected
to drive the Jap fleet out of the Indian
Ocean and the South-west Pacific ; his
air forces, to be brought out in great
strength as soon as Germany is beaten,
are to drive the Japs out of the air in the
whole region ; and Tommies will be.fight-
ing to re-take Singapore and thereabouts.
All of this, incidentally—with the vast
transporting obviously involved —would
seem to add up to a very long war.
To Australia and New Zealand jointly
is given what is called —and has been
called here as well —the “mopping-up job”
in mainland New Guinea, New Britain,
New Ireland, the Admiralties and the
Solomons. The regular use of the “mop-
ping-up” term, the general treatment of
the task as a decidedly minor one and
the clumsy statements Mr. Forde makes
whenever he refers to military matters
are creating an impression in America
anything but favorable to the prestige
rightly belonging to Australia and New
Zealand through their ‘ fighting part to
date. Australian information services in
America have been forced to try counter-
ing that impression, with little real effect.
The “mopping-up” term appears to be
doing the most damage. It is, anyway, a
most misleading expression for the job it
refers to. Minister-at-Washington Frederic
Eggleston has declared that there are
nothing fewer than 200,000 Jap troops
in the allotted “mopping-up” area. Ac-
cording to the “United States News,”
these include 50,000 still in New Guinea,
35,000 in New Britain and 20,000 on
Bougainville, with the rest in sizable
groups on other islands. They are not
exactly “withering on the branch,” either.
According to Mr. Eggleston, those in the
Rabaul area of New Britain have several
thousand acres of rice under cultivation,
and those around Wewak are simi-
larly living off the land, while, ac-
cording to the “United States News,”
those at Rabaul “have built underground
fortifications which they assert can never
be destroyed, no matter how many tons
of bombs are dropped on them.”
Add to such considerations as these
the time the Japs have had to prepare
holding defences and the climatic and
other conditions favoring defence, and
the “mopping-up” looks a very difficult
fighting part which alone could go on
for years. It has the further disadvantage
for those engaging in it of being about
as unspectacular a role as could be
allotted in this present war.
Speaking in November, Mr. Eggleston
declared that, while it obviously was “not
possible at this stage to reveal what other
tasks General MacArthur has entrusted
to the Australian forces,’* it could be
taken as “certain that Australian partici-
pation will not be confined to the by-
passed islands.” The same inference
could be drawn from a statement made
about that time by Mr. Forde, it is to
be supposed on necessarily withheld in-
formation. However, the article on the
re-arrangement of the “moppmg-up” and
other roles was published over a month
later, and was not directly
The publication added that “the job of
mopping-up the islands will take far
longer than the few months that were
consumed by the Japanese in their con-
quest of them” ; that “it may be years
before the last Japanese are hunted down
in the jungles”:
In the campaign on Guadalcanal and in
the swamps and fastnesses near Buna and
Gona in New Guinea the Americans
learned how slow and painful such a mop-
ping-up job can be.
Unfortunately for Australian and New
Zealand prestige, that is not very widely
appreciated. Because of this even here
in Australia there has been going on for
some time a visible general deterioration
in home-front morale. It would be
reasonable enough for anybody viewing
this Australian home-front scene over
these past few months to conclude that
the majority of Australians accepted that
this country was as good as finished with
the war. Hence, such comments as this
in the Chicago “Tribune” should not be
altogether surprising:
Australia cannot have so soon forgotten
that Americans in the Solomons and New
Guinea saved their homeland from Japanese
conquest, and now that the Americans on
Leyte are fighting desperately we would
expect Dominion troops to come rushing to
the side of General MacArthur.
A month or so after that comment was
made it still remains a mystery why not
so much as a token force of Australian
and New Zealand ground troops was in-
cluded for General MacArthur’s return
to the Philippines. It still is not known
what part the Australian Government
may have played in that omission. The
assumption in America is that it was an
Australian Government decision.
It has been pointed out —fairly enough,
in view of the nature of the criticism
being answered—that to equal Australia’s
figures in this war America would have
to have a casualty list of 1,600,000; but
it is doubtful if such statistics are ever
really effective. Certainly these and
others given out by Australian informa-
tion sources in America seem to con-
vince few.
That a large part of the future Austra-
lian effort will be “mopping-up” is evi-
dent from Mr. Forde’s latest announce-
ment that Australians will be engaged “in
exterminating Japanese forces by-passed
in the islands to the north of Australia.”
However, Mr. Forde included also “a
vital part in operations yet to be fought
in the Philippines” and a part also “in
other operations which would un-
doubtedly develop during the year.”
Exactly what all that means remains
to be seen. Two facts still stand; (1)
that the badly-named “mopping-up” job
will alone be of greater importance and
difficulty than the term suggests, so the
term should be dropped ; (2) that if the
“other operations” mentioned by Mr.
Forde should involve Australians and
New Zealanders being placed under
British command, men of their unsur-
passed shock-troop fighting quality will
certainly be in more than “mopping-up.”
There is a great deal to be wiped off the
slate at Singapore.
A Great Australian.
“Today, Saturday, March 12, 1898, after
an all-night sitting, and under conditions
of great nervous exhaustion and irrit-
ability, we have practically completed the
draft Bill for the Constitution of the
Australian Commonwealth,” These are
the opening words of a manuscript which
Alfred Deakin left among his papers, and
which after many years has been given
to the world by his family (The Federal
Story; Robertson and Mullens), with a
foreword by W. A. Watt and an intro-
duction by Herbert Brookes, one of
Deakin’s sons-in-law. It should be read
by every public man, by every young
man who aspires to public life, indeed
by everyone who loves Australia. If, in
the presence of disappointments and
weaknesses and evil trends, there has been
any -faltering of faith in Australia this
book will renew it.
In Alfred Deakin greatness was allied
with modesty—in men of affairs a some-
what rare combination. As Mr. Watt
has written, he was “the St. Paul of Hie
Federal movement,” but in this book he
refers to his immense work in the cause
to which he devoted his life only when
reference is necessary, and then alw/ys
in the third person. His exceptional
talents flowered early. He was a leader-
writer at 21, a member at 22, a Minister
at 27 and, almost from the first, an
orator of a quality unsurpassed by any
of his Australian contemporaries. At
30 he had not only prepared an epoch-
making report on irrigation in Victoria,
the result of exhaustive personal studies
in California, but had become its legis-
lative father, as well as legislative father
of the first Australian Factory Act. And
before the year was out, as a delegate to
the first (1887) Colonial Conference, he
was matching arguments with Lord Salis-
bury, “then at the zenith of his powers:
a tall, bulky man with large round head
somewhat bowed upon his breast, a calm,
clear eye and an expression of serene
self-command which enhanced the grave
dignity of his manner and style of
speech.”
■ The Salisbury Government was pro-
posing to hand over the New Hebrides
to the French.
He [Deakin] pointed out that the Aus-
tralian Governments were asked to sur-
render the New Hebrides as of little com-
mercial value, and in the next breath were
told that the French set the greatest store
by them for commercial development.
Their interests in Australasia were spoken of
as large, while ours, which were incom-
parably larger, were brushed aside as of
no account. All that was offered us in
exchange for our sacrifice of an existing
treaty was another treaty just as likely to
be discounted in the future. It was admitted
that the Republic had not kept faith with
us, but urged that its chaotic political con-
dition explained the lapse. We were re-
minded that French were a proud,
high-spirited and powerful nation, perfectly
prepared to defend their rights by war if
necessary. Had then the colonists come
thousands of miles to learn that Great
Britain was no longer proud nor high-
spirited and was not prepared to defend
the rights of her people or to resist unjust
demands?
The Prime Minister did not resent this
plain speaking. He “appeared rather
pleased than otherwise” at Deakin's
“strong condemnation of Lord Derby’s
surrender of part of New Guinea to Ger-
many,” though the young man from Mel-
bourne had said “We should never forget
that it was while relying on a similar
assurance from the Colonial Office cur
trust had been betrayed.”
A few nights afterwards Lord Salis- ’
bury forced his way through a packed
throng in Lord Knutsford’s drawing-room
to whisper to Mr. Deakin that instructions
had been dispatched to the British Ambas-
sador at Paris not to yield on any terms any
of the British interest in the group, and
afterwards went out of his way to speak
of him privately and publicly in the warmest
manner as belonging to a type of man to
whom the destinies of Australia might
safely be entrusted.
Out of that conference came the estab-
lishing of a British naval squadron in
Australasian waters and “a report,” by
Major-General Edwards, “on the military
organisation of the colonies, which indi-
cated with clearness the dangers insepar-
able from divided forces.” Of those dan-
gers Deakin was always conscious, and
so were other • Australians concerned m
the movement for union, to which
foreign ambitions in the Pacific gave an
impetus, though intercolonial jealousies
and conflicts of personalities, above all
in New South Wales, made progress slow.
The defence of Australian interests in the
Pacific was such a passion with Deakin
that, in “1888 or 1889,” as Chief Secre-
tary in the Gillies Cabinet, he became a
party to, and was no doubt the inspira-
tion of, “a stroke on the line of the New
Guinea annexation attempted by Sir
Thomas Mcllwraith.” There had been
“rumors of French preparations for the
seizure of the New Hebrides which on
inquiry seemed to be well founded.”
It was decided to forestall them by dis-
patching a detachment of the permanent
military forces in a swift steamer with
orders to hoist the British flag and keep it
flying. The boat was to be chartered
privately and the men taken off when sup-
posed to be away at Westernport in prac-
tice. It was not intended to allow the flag
to be hauled down except upon express in-
structions from the Home Government. With
the assistance of the other colonies, none
of which was acquainted with the project,
it was believed that these instructions might
be prevented if revealed, and that the
islands, in which it was proposed at once to
undertake settlement and investment, would
not again be allowed to pass from under
British control. On the eve of the execu-
tion of this enterprise it became clear that
the French cherished no intentions of
taking action, and consequently the plot was
at first postponed and then abandoned.
It would almost seem that the young
Deakin had a premonition of the strife
in which his country would be engaged
in the coming century and of the chal-
lenge to its existence which would have
to be met in the Pacific. It was never
his view that it could dispense with pre-
paredness or that moderation in war is
anything but imbecility. In his second
term as Prime Minister he introduced the
principle of compulsory military train-
ing in the Defence Bill passed in 1907,
and he embodied it in another measure,
passed in his third term (1909), with pro-
visions which were accepted and acted
upon by the Fisher Government, having
in the meantime labored to make it a
non-party matter. And his last words to
the people, written when “God in his
wisdom has decreed that my tongue must
be silent,” because of the aphasia that
struck him down when he should have
been at the height of his powers, were
an appeal to them to support the sol-
diers in the trenches by voting for con-
scription.
“His physical affliction,” Herbert
Brookes records, was “directly caused by
overtaxing a marvellous brain and still
more marvellous memory.” He had
written not only The Federal Story but
“other scripts on national, political,
literary, philosophic and religious sub-
jects, upon which he had worked from
time to time during an over-busy life,”
and had planned to devote his remaining
years to revising them for publication:
No one ever knew or will know how
poignant was his sorrow when he was ren-
dered incapable of completing the harvest
of a lifetime of study and meditation.
During the period covered by The
Federal Story (1880-1900) Deakin.met all
the noted political characters in the Six
Colonies and in Britain itself, from the
old Queen to John Burns. A hundred
and fifty are mentioned in the (incom-
index, and he wrote interestingly
of ail, memorably of most. His studies
of the men with whom he was thrown
into intimate relations, George Grey,
Parkes, Barton, Reid, Lyne, Dibbs, Ber-
nard Wise, McMillan, Service, Turner,
Isaacs, Quick, Higgins, Griffith, Dickson,
Kingston, Baker, Downer, Symon, Play-
ford (he delighted in the South Austra-
lians and the quaint feuds that divided
some of them), Braddon, Fysh, Forrest
and Hackett, are little masterpieces of
literary portraiture: dashing, vivid and
touched with humor. He i£ severe on
some of his subjects, especially Reid and
Lyne, and perhaps he would have soft-
ened the severest judgments had he been
spared to see the volume through the
press; but the general effect is so fine
that the reader would regret the omission
of a word. Where anecdote can point a
case or increase the understanding of a
character anecdote is introduced with the
skill of the born writer. And some of
the thumbnail sketches are rather won-
derful :
Giblin, Premier of Tasmania (and father
of the professor): A remarkably impressive
man, too big for his colony.
Mcllwraith: A man of business, stout,
florid, choleric, curt and Cromwellian.
Macrossan: A small, rather shrivelled,
Irishman with a large forehead and a
twinkling eye. A self-educated digger who
had injured his sight poring over his
beloved volumes by the camp fire, and a
clear but staccato speaker, evidently in
feeble health, in poor circumstances and
without anything of distinction in his
appearance or style of address, his was one
of the clearest and strongest heads in the
Convention (1891). His speech, packed
with matter for thought, though one
of the last delivered stood out in most
respects above them all, its chosen words
being delivered with a sincerity of passion
that conquered its hearers as it evidently
conquered him. His untimely death during
the sittings was a great loss, not only to
his colony but to the Australian cause.
Service: A curious combination of Mc-
Ilwrailh and Griffith; a shrewd and success-
ful Scotch merchant of imperialist tenden-
cies and daring disposition.
Berry: A genuine and greatly gifted
tribune of the people, much nearer to them
and more of them in his weaknesses, and
in his strength more reckless, improvident
and buoyant, than Service. After his great
victory in 1877 he possessed for a time
practically despotic authority, “on the one
condition,” as he shrewdly said, “that I
did not exercise it.”
Holder: A Wesleyan local preacher and
country newspaper editor, as thin as a
paling, dark, swarthy, narrow-faced and
narrow-shouldered; like Mr. Symon, he had
one eye useless and a chest which seemed
destined for consumption. A powerful voice,
clear, of rather monotonous and preachy
utterance, curt sentences and great facility
of speech. But all these were united with
a singularly lucid mind and faculty fpr
logical exposition, great mastery of detail
and cautious judgment, which influenced his
hearers more and more as they came to
realise his thoroughness and fairness in
debate.
Carruthers: A little man with a great
voice, overshadowed by his chief [Reid],
with whom he was not always in harmony,
and who did not hesitate to publicly put
him back in his place.
Brunker; A fine figurehead with mutton-
chop whiskers.
And there are unforgettable glimpses
of Lord Randolph Churchill (“he sat,
chewing his moustache, a moody and
silent figure, immediately behind the col-
leagues from whom he had separated”),
the Duke of Devonshire (“the average
Guardsman, with the tastes, courage,
manners and ideas of his class, pitch-
forked into politics in order to preserve
him from less creditable pursuits”), Lord
Rosebery (“his nervous instability was
painful, his poses perpetual and his vanity
colossal”), Parnell (“ill-dressed, almost
shabby and even in some degree un-
kempt, with pale, absolutely impassive
face, keen and hard in outline, a cold,
clear, unimpassioned voice and quiet
deadliness of speech and demeanor”),
John Redmond, Dillon, Davitt, Healy,
Dilke, the Balfours, Joseph Chamberlain
and a score of others.
Australia has had no first-class political
novel. There is material for half a dozen
in this record of a stirring time by a man
who played a noble part in it, and who
was a great Australian in every sense
of the term,


PLAIN ENGLISH
A Reminder for '45.
The third anniversary of the fall of
Singapore approaches with very little
known of the fate of many Australian
prisoners of war in Japanese hands or of
the living conditions of many more.
More should be known in 1945, for a
service of radio-telegraph messages from
prisoners of war and civilian internees,
confined at the outset to one 10-word
telegram a year, has been arranged
through the Red Cross.
At a Red Cross conference in Sydney
on November 28 it was stated that the
Allies had a new plan which seemed
likely to succeed in getting supplies
through to prisoners in Japan, that there
;were 200,000 Red Cross parcels in Win-
nipeg awaiting the opening of a channel
through Vladivostok and that money
sent through Geneva to Japan to buy
comforts for prisoners had been used
for that purpose.
Now, according to Domei, a Japanese
steamer is to leave Kobe on January 4
to pick up American comforts for p.o.w.
And Dr. Morel, of the International Red
Cross, made an announcement with some
significance:
The general attitude of the Japanese
Government and army is that a prisoner-of-
war is a non-existent person. Until recently
neither the Japanese Government nor its
Red Cross allowed funds for expenditure
on their nationals who were prisoners.
For the first time in history I lately re-
ceived £6O from Japan to spend on com-
forts for Japanese prisoners in Australia.
It is a development apt to lighten the
burden of worry imposed on the relatives
of Australian p.o.w. There is something
more in the December issue of the Red
Cross “Prisoner of War” bulletin, which
remarks on some Japanese prison camps
thus:—
Keijo camp (Korea): Healthy position,
treatment good, food good, fair clothing,
good medical attention; prisoners have Sun-
days and Japanese holidays off. There is a
library, and Red Cross parcels have got
through. “At date of visit, almost all
prisoners with relatives in England had re-
ceived mail, but not prisoners from India,
Australia or South Africa.”
Jinsen (Korea): Much the same, even as
to mail receipts.
Hoten (Manchukuo), Shamshuipo and
Bowen Road (Hong Kong): Mainly good.
• Taiwan (Formosa): Apparently good,
Red Cross parcels have arrived.
Australia, for its own part, was able to
celebrate its sixth war-time Christmas
and its fourth Japanese-war Christmas
practically unscarred and no longer under
threat of invasion. The dogged retreat
of the Eighth Division down Malaya con-
tributed much to that immunity by hold-
ing up the Japanese rush. This country,
facing 1945 with its hands free to fight
and work, ought to be dedicating itself
to the duty of putting forth every ounce
of effort until all its lads are released.
Casualties and Criticisms.
In October the U.S. Secretary of War
reckoned his army’s casualties to Sep-
tember 21 at 351,293. On December 14
they had reached 547,823, he said last
week, and the “severe” losses in the Von
Runstedt offensive, as well as those in
Italy, the Philippines and Burma, were
to be added. So the increase for three
months may have got close to 300,000
killed, wounded and missing. Small
wonder that Americans are increasingly
critical of countries which are playing,
politics or allowing politics to be played,
including larrikin forms of union politics.
At least one of the Congressmen who
visited Australia recently returned dis-
satisfied with some of the things he saw,
the worst, of course, being the strikes
and loafing on the N.S.W. coalfields.
“He quoted the miners’ demand for
Christmas holidays to show that Aus-
tralians are not working as hard as they
should.”
He said they did not work on Saturdays
and closed at 4.30 p.m. each other day.
They should have a six-day week and work
round the clock, if necessary.
“He” is a Republican from California,
Mr, Ward Johnson. The 4.30 knock-off
hour obtains only in concerns where work
is no object, such as Government
slaughteryards and coalmines. Still, it is
difficult to argue against the proposition
that a nation with a foreign enemy on its
territory has no business taking a five-
day week. The Americans work six days
at home and abroad, even in Australia.
They have a 54-hour week on their coal-
fields.
Circumstances Alter Cases.
During the Presidential election cam-
paign the cry was raised against Mr.
Roosevelt that he had. sanctioned exports
of scrap-iron and steel to Japan. And. in
no small , quantities: “over 10,000,000
tons between 1933 and shortly before
Pearl Harbor; over 8,000,000 tons in the
five years 1936-40 inclusive.” Department
of Commerce figures were quoted:
Year. Tons.
1936 1,184,536
1937 2,140,889
1938 1,547,617
1939 ’ 2,279,315
1940 1,079,141
8,231,498
It was added that the president of
National Steel had protested, and that
“this scrap has been shot back into the
bodies of American boys.”
Mr. Roosevelt did not even bother to
answer these particular assailants. He
long ago justified exports of oil and scrap
on the ground that he did not want to
give the Japanese a casus belli in an in-
creasingly delicate situation when his
country was unready ; and he never re-
turned to the subject. Nor was the scrap-
iron issue referred to during the election
campaign by any trade-union or commu-
nist leader ; in point of fact, the Presi-
dent got an 80 per cent, trade-union vote
and a 100 per cent communist vote. And
no one called him “Scrapiron Franklin.”
How different the experience of Mr.
Menzies! The Menzies Government per-
mitted exports of scrap to Japan for the
same reason as Mr. Roosevelt, strength-
ened twentyfold by the fact that Aus-
tralia in those years couldn’t have beaten
Liberia. And Australian sales of scrap
to Japan were a bagatelle compared with
the American. Subjoined are official figures
for the five years prior to the beginning
of the German war, after which they
disappeared from the official publication
(they were probably too insignificant to
be reported, anyway):
Year. Tons.
1935 49,210
1936 47,424
1937 66,795
1938 46,268
1939 71,756
281,453
In none of those years was any pig-
iron exported to Japan. Yet Mr. Menzies
became “Pigiron Bob” to the whole body
of communists, “fellow-travellers” and
Labor Left-Wingers. The epithet was
hurled at him for years at every meeting
he addressed. It was scrawled on walls,
posts and processional banners, trotted
out on a thousand communist platforms
and in a thousand communist articles.
And the wharf-laborers at Port Kembla
(N.S.W.), under communist influence, re-
fused to load small parcels of scrap into
holds. For this they were hailed as peers
of “the heroes of Eureka,” even by men
who might have been expected to have
their legs under better control, among
them a bishop of the Church of England
and a former Governor-General. They
were alleged to be “helping our Chinese
comrades in the struggle against Fascism,”
and to be speeding the day when the
Workers’ Fatherland would knock “the
Japanese butchers” endways.
We don’t hear much from the Red
quarter about “the Japanese butchers”
nowadays, and we hear nothing at all
about “helping our Chinese comrades.”
There are Chinese still fighting the Japs,
and in great need of assistance, but they
are Chiang Kai-shek’s men, and they and
their leader are out of favor. “Our
Chinese comrades” are “up in the north-
west, remote from the battle-front.”
Perhaps they are waiting for an oppor-
tunity such as the communists in Bel-
gium and Greece tried to avail them-
selves of with ill success, though in the
latter case with considerable shedding of
Greek blood, senseless destruction, an
increase of famine and pestilence and an
attempt to blow up British headquarters
in Athens while Mr. Churchill and Mr.
Eden were supposed to be there.
HORRIBLE THOUGHT.
“Dere’s only vun place he’s nefter been to.”


Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency,to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
■ world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes. Remember
the name DOAN’S,
FOR TECHNICAL MEN.
The Motor Boat and Yachting Manual. A
practical handbook devoted to Yachts, Motor
Boats, also Commercial and Naval Motor Craft.
272 pages, illustrated. 12/6 (post 4d.).
Audel’s Carpenters and Builders’ Guide.
Ponr volumes, 1600 pages, with 3700 illus-
trations. 12/- ((Post 1/-.).
General Plastics. By R. Cherry. What plastics
are, how to_ work them, what tools are needed,
how to finish them and how to make dozens
of useful objects out of them. 128 pages, more
than 150 photographs, diagrams, etc. 11/8
(post 4d.).
The Standard Mechanics’ Encyclopedia. A
practical outline of Mechanical Trades. Edited
by William L. Schaaf, Ph.D. 954 pages, with
over 700 diagrams. 30/- (post 9d.)
Fortunes in Formulas. For Home, Farm
and Workshop. 10.000 Recipes and Trade Pro-
cesses. 861 pages. 12/6 (post 1/-).
The Handyman’s Complete Self-instructor.
Engineering, Radio, Woodwork, Electricity,
Building, Decorating, Boot Repairing, Metal-
work, etc. 576 pages, 600 illustrations. 10/-
(post 6d.).
Elements of Radio. By A. Marcus and W.
Marcus. A_ streamlined Home-study Course in
Basic Radio, 699 pages, illustrated. 34/-
(post 1/-.).
Audel’s Handybook of Practical Electricity.
With Wiring Diagrams. By Frank Duncan
Graham. Ready reference for professional
electricians, students and all electrical workers.
1040 pages, with 2600 illustrations and dia-
grams. 28/- (post 1/-).
Formulas for Profit. A collection of Valu-
able. Timely, Practical Commercial Formulas
and Recipes for Making Thousands of Products
in Many Fields of Industry. Compiled by H.
Bennett and a board of 63 Expert Editors.
632 pages. 12/6 (post 9d.).
Radio for the Millions. Prepared by the
editorial staff of “Popular Science" Monthly.
A remarkably complete book for everyone in-
terested in radio. 192 pages, more than 100
wiring diagrams and 450 illustrations. 12/G
(post 6d.).
Practical Mathematics for All, A simplified
but complete course of Arithmetic, Algebra,
etc. With examples and exercises. By Her-
bert McKay. 416 pages. 10/6 (post 6d.).
Encyclopedia of Knots and Fancy Rope
Work. By Raoul Oraumont and John Hensel.
663 pages. 332 full-page plates, 3524 example"!.
35/- (post 1/4).
The Design and Construction of Flying
Model Aircraft. By D. A. Russell, M.I. Mech.B
256 pages. 17/6 (post 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, Ltd., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months!
LOAN Weekly Fortnightly Monthly
Sue. Disct. Instal. Instal. Instal.
with a correspond!]
instal ments.
to repay may be
to circumstances
ig reduction in the
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office. Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Lang’s “Century” has worked it out
that in its own State 19 trade-unions are
under communist control, 11 are under
anti-communist control and 33 are “in
the balance,” communists being strong
in some of them and very strong in
others. In 1944 corns, ousted “moderates”
from the executives of half a dozen organ-
isations previously free from the imported
pollution. The capture of the A.C.T.U.
is on the foreign crowd’s 1945 pro-
gramme, and they may bring it off.
Without the wharf-laborers’ vote
Curtin would never have got in for Fre-
mantle or become Prime Minister —the,
wharf-laborers gave him his margin and
more in 1940. Yet they hold his influ-
ence so cheap that they went on strike
rather than work under the roster system
which his Government had endorsed.
After many days of idleness servicemen
and seamen had to be requisitioned for
the duties which Curtin’s constituents re-
fused. This when calls on shipping,
already immense for war purposes, have
been increased by the necessity to shift
vast quantities of Westralian wheat to
eastern States. Beasley, surveying the
general situation, predicts a 1945 ship-
ping shortage “more critical than in any
other period of the war.” He doesn’t
mention the wharf-laborers’ contribution
to the shortage.
Federated unionism has been a curse to
Fremantle and Westralia. The port
lumpers had no grievance in 1917, when
they were dragged into the great strikes
of that year by orders from Sydney. Pos-
sibly they would have had no strike this
year had they been allowed to make their
own arrangements with stevedores and
port authorities, instead of having ar-
rangements made for them on the other
side of the Continent with the blessing
of communists. Where unionism is under
communist control trouble invariably
breaks out, communists being turbulent
in themselves and the cause of turbulence
in others —not only men who follow
them, but men who hate them.
Christmas hadn’t broken in Melbourne
before police were viewing with per-
turbation the apparition at a bayside
picnic of 700 gallons of beer. Some of
the consequences of this visitation were
fights, a broken nose (a policeman’s) and
frequent trips to the park by persons in
no way connected with the picnic, and
their return in a well-oiled condition.
Bayside councils say they are in the dark
when granting use of parks to picnic par-
ties, as they don’t know whether beer is
to be present or npt. The public is even
more in the dark as to how any organi-
sation can get a Niagara of beer when it
can’t get a bottle.
Adelaide “Advertiser,” reporting the
arrival of General Nome as State Gov-
ernor, remarked that the vice-regal party
had been “a month and three days on
the way.” The month was not spent
travelling by rail after landing in Aus-
tralia.
The Cut-and-runs’ decision to “take
over” the airways concerns, made while
they were fully acquainted with the
ghastly results of “taking over” coal-
mines, reawakened an old ambition in
Mr. Hartigan’s breast. Mr. Hartigan is
N.S.W. Railways Commissioner, and Mr.
Hartigan let it out that he had always
wanted to be “intra-State” sovereign of
air as well as land transport. To Mr.
Hartigan’s intense surprise, he was
knocked back by his own “Govern-
mept.” The reason was not published,
but Mr. O’Sullivan, the Minister, is be-
lieved to be prey to a gloomy suspicion
that Mr. Hartigan’s trains would always
beat Mr. Hartigan’s ’planes by the length
of a siding.
Communists who heard Roosevelt
speak in New York after his pilgrimage
through the streets in pouring rain had to
do some hard swallowing after one
sentence. The President led up to it
ingratiatingly, recalling “an early action
of which I am proud—recognition of
Soviet Russia in 4933, which certain poli-
ticians, Republicans, condemned.” Then
came the words which almost stuck in
the com. throat: “I wonder how Russia
would have survived had these people
had their way.”
As the year lay dying Sydney’s Milk
Board announced drastic cuts in supplies
—BO p.c. to milk bars, 30 p.c. to cafes
and 5( p.c. to households. They were
“temporarily suspended because of the
large number of people on holidays,”
but were to be re-imposed this week.
Meantime the Labor “Government” is
concentrating on its plans for buying
Sydney racecourses.
These American “columnists” don’t
mince words when they are thoroughly
angry. Drew Pearson, who was first in
THE URGENT WORD.
“My department would like your opinion, Mr. Stump, on our streamlined post-war
rehabilitation planning."
with the Patton soldier-slapping incident,
has turned on the U.S. War Department,
blaming it “for much of the favorable
news which led the American public mis-
takenly to believe that the German Army
was decimated.”
It reported that 800,000 Germans had
been killed or captured in France. Four
hundred thousand of these were from Rus-
sian and Ukrainian labor battalions.
This writer has been rather a favorite
with the Russia-is-always-right gentry.
Now they will be at him in a body.
Deciding that the war situation doesn’t
admit of man-power, fuel and fodder
being wasted in useless pursuits, and
doubtless having its suspicions that racing
is a screen for a great deal of shirking,
Washington is closing racecourses and
dog tracks from January 3 (today).
Mayor La Guardia reckons that in New
York alone 120 tons of newsprint a week
is used by publishers of “form guides”
and “tipping sheets” and 60,000 telephones
by s.p. men. Nobody has dared to estimate
what paper and ’phones would be saved
by the same means in Melbourne and
Sydney, or how rqany sturdy fellows
would have to go to work or to the war.
To “Labor” politicians, the Bookie shares
with Bung, the Brewer and the Bruiser
the distinction of being the salt of the
earth.
It being the off season for kingmaking,
Mr. Warwick Fairfax, of “S. M. Herald,”
started an argument about religion and
morals. Severely prodded by churchmen,
he came back with an open confession
which was read with mixed emotions,
unholy joy predominating:
It would seem to me a terrible thing if
I were to emerge at the sound of the Last
Trump just as I am, complete with short
sight, chronic dyspepsia and a tendency to
hay fever, and with those other failings—
physical, mental and temperamental—which
I so much deplore.
The Oldest Member of the Union Club
knew there was something wrong with
Granny, but never thought it was as bad
as that.
Sydney “D.T.” welcoming the P.M.
back to Canberra:
If Mr. Curtin is to bring his Govern-
ment before the people with a better record
than if has succeeded in accumulating since
the elections he will have to take the crack-
pots of the Cabinet in hand. This will
require the vigor of a superman and the
god-like patience of a Joe Palooka.
And the simple faith of a “D.T,” leader-
writer.
The Westralian branch of the A.L.P.
was the latest to consider a communist
affiliation motion. It threw the noxious
thing out by 114 votes to 35. Corns, are
now morosely convinced that the A.L.P.
majority is “fascist.”
According to a nursing sister, 600
nurses qualify in Victoria every year; so
in the past three years 1800 have been
expensively trained, but where are they?
They haven’t gone into the fighting ser-
vices, they are not at the hospitals which
are damormg for them and hey are not
!r t ha?nursta g P r^lC e tn .humoral
consideration that it is a romantic pro-
fession for potential Ladies with the
Lamp. There are far more attrac-
tive billets elsewhere. Victorian nurses
can’t grant themselves an increase in
salaries, as Victorian politicians have
done, so the closing of hospital beds for
lack of feminine attendants is likely to
continue.
Badly needed in Australia is a uniform
law dealing with offences against children
and designed specially for their better
protection. In Sydney recently a ruffian
who laid lascivious hands on a little gin
in her own house was released on a bond.
In a Melbourne case, that of a child who
died after fiendish maltreatment, the ver-
dict was “guilty with a strong recommen-
dation to mercy,” and the jury coulc
have made it “not guilty on the ground
of insanity” if satisfied that the monster
in the dock had “acted on an irresistible
impulse associated with a diseased or dis-
ordered brain.” In England when in-
sanity is pleaded as a defence and estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the jury the
verdict can only be “guilty but insane.’
That is a safeguard against jail deliveries
of wild animals in human form by soft-
headed Ministers, yielding to soft-headec
deputations. The Australian formula is
not.
Admiral Fraser on British aid to
Russia:
All through the long night of the Arctic
winter a convoy of at least 35 large ships
a month was pushed through to Russia
against persistent air and submarine opposi-
tion. Every month those convoys took
thousands of aircraft, thousands of tanks
and thousands of tons of supplies. For
hours on end the temperature was 40 de-
grees below freezing point. The men
worked in the dark in unspeakable weather.
No man who went out could be at all
confident that he would come back. When
a ’destroyer or a corvette was sunk the
men perished five minutes after immersion
in the sea. Yet the convoys got through.
They are still going through. It is doubtful
if Russia fully realises yet the extent of the
aid and what it has cost.
Exceedingly doubtful; and if the admiral
could spare the time to look up the files
of “Australian” communist publications
for expressions of gratitude he would find
the search barren.
Ulysses Hughes has been asked to join
the Liberal party, but doesn’t know
whether he will. He should, even if the
name and present composition start wry
thoughts. For, as the original Ulysses
put it,
All experience is an arch wherethrough
Gleams that untravelled world whose margin
fades
For ever and for ever as we move.
And though, like another Ulysses, a
Much-experienced man,
Whose eyes have known this world of ours,
Her tribes of men, and trees, and flowers,
From Corrientes to Japan,
he is no exhausted volcano yet. Thrice
expelled, and with two long intervals of
Independence, he has been Labor,
National Labor, Nationalist, Australian-
party and U.A.P. Make it six, Billy;
make it six!
A Federal announcement that when
the Rural Reconstruction Commission
has finished all *its reports the Govern-
ment will consider them with a view to
giving increased aid to farmers after the
war was noted by Premier Dunstan, who
remarked that increased aid to farmers
could be given immediately by the re-
moval of some of the harassing restric-
tions imposed by the agricultural experts
of the Molonglo. If farmers were assured
of cost of production plus a reasonable
profit, there would be no need for a Rural
Reconstruction Commission, whose re-
ports already weigh the equivalent of a
hundredweight of butter.
Westralia’s Agricultural Bank, a Gov-
ernment concern, “incurred further
losses” of £115,600 last year through re-
valuation of farms suffering from, among
other things, “depreciated soil fertility.”
Since 1935 the institution has had to write
off £7,438,882. On June 30 it held 2021
“reverted properties” and 1429 abandoned
wheat farms. Some of its customers have
been paid by Scully, the Prince of Optim-
ists, for not growing wheat,'and others
have been punished at the point of prices
for growing more than a Scully-prescribed
limit. Results have been so odd as to
suggest that nature had it in for Scully.


YOU CAN SERVE IN H.M.A.S. “ ”
Even though you are not there in person you can help our Navy by taking extra care of
your Exide Batteries. Take no chances with your house-lighting equipment and car or
radio battery. Consult your local Exide dealer immediately you suspect the need for re-
placement, repair or recharging. Extra care will give you months of extra service.
HOUSE-LIGHTING BATTERIES
w
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE
REST HAVE STOPPED.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tucked away in the New Year honors
was a “mention” for the already highly-
decorated Westralian airman Group-
Captain Hughie Edwards, V.C., D. 5.0.,
D.F.C. A few days earlier it had been
announced that Edwards, who won his
V.C. for his leadership in an exception-
ally daring and dangerous daylight attack
on Bremen in July, 1941, was “moving
to the Pacific war zone, where he may
lead strong British air formations against
the Japanese.” A Westralian, born at
Fremantle in the month the other world
war started, Edwards got into the artil-
lery between the wars, but soon changed
to the R.A.A.F., and when the present
war started was already in England with
the R.A.F. Lately he has led the Aus-
tralian Lancaster squadron which holds
the record for the greatest tonnage of
bombs dropped inside a month. Its men
in the last two years have won 171 deco-
rations.
The one new Australian knight is
Thomas Sydney Nettlefold, who has
been in Melbourne’s top civic post
since 1942. A,Tasmanian, born at Baden
in November, 1879, he’s been in the. Mel-
KNIGHTED.
bourne City Council since 1930, and has
had 15 years as president of the Aus-
tralian Industries Protection League.
The R.A.A-F.’s head doctor topped the
Federal list in the honors: Air Vice-
Marshal T. E. V. Hurley, with a C.B.
(military) added to his C.M.G., V.D.
Born in 1888 in Melbourne, Hurley
looked after Diggers in field ambulance,
casualty clearing stations and hospitals
in 1914-18, and in the present war has
been Director-General, planning R.A.A.F.
medical services since 1940. Two other
R.A.A.F. men, Group-Captains H. A.
Austin (Victoria) and H. B. Seekafnp
(Sydney), become British Empire Officers
(military), the same honor going to
Chaplain W. H. Henderson (senior chap-
lain of the R.A.N.), and to Lieut.-
Colonels J. E. Marsh and C, L. South-
well (both Sydney).
The 181 Australian airmen in the
British list include Air Vice-Marshal
E. C. Hudleston (a Westralian with the
R.A.F. supporting the Canadians) and
Air Vice-Marshal F. H. McNamara,
V.C., C.B.E. (a Victorian, and the only
Australian airman to win a V.C. in 1914-
18). They join the C.Bs. McNamara
won his V.C. when, in the face of heavy
fire, he landed in enemy territory and
rescued a brother airman.
Clive Latham Baillieu, K.8.E., C.M.G.,
0.8. E., is back in Australia. Since 1940
he has been Commonwealth representa-
tive on Imperial Communications Ad-
visory Council, London, and director of
half a dozen associations whose opera-
tions are world-wide. Born in Melbourne
in 1889, he was educated at Melbourne
Grammar and Trinity College, Melbourne
University, qualified in law at Magdalen,
Oxford, and was called to the Bar in
London in 1914, In 1914-18 he was with
the A.I.F. and the R.A.F., was mentioned
in dispatches and emerged as a major. His
first big job was as Britain’s representa-
tive at the Imperial Cable and Wireless
Conference in Australia.
“P.L.P.”: An Australian link with
Churchill was broken just before Christ-
mas when Matthew Hayes passed on at
the Prince of Wales Military Hospital,
Randwick (N.S.W.). Matt was a veteran
of World War I and the Boer War before
it. In the Boer War he was for a time
correspondent Churchill’s batman.
. Of the four sons of Brisbane’s Lord
Mayor Chandler, all with long service in
the A.I.F. or R.A.A.F., Keith, the
youngest, was lost in air operations early
in the war, and now Roger, the third son,
has been posted missing over Europe.
Before joining the R.A.A.F. Roger was
with the 7th and 9th Divvies in the
Middle East.
J. A. Henderson, Australian Metro-
politan Life’s g.m., has decided to call it
a day after 44 years, for 40 of which
he’s been in the chief executive post. He
retains his seat on the board as a direc-
tor. E, W. Robinson, latterly manager
for Victoria, takes over the g.m. job, with
W. J. Cooksey assistant g.m, as well as
actuary.
The registrarship of Adelaide Uni.
seems to be a healthy job. C. R. Hodge,
who retired in 1923, is still going strong
in his leisure. F, W. Eardley, retiring at
70, joined the staff in 1900 as accountant.
A. W. Bampton, accountant for the past
20 years, now becomes Registrar. He is
also a lecturer in accountancy ; and he
had three years (severely wounded) with
the 50th Infantry before 1919.
Edward Norton Grimwade, appointed
chairman of the Felton Bequest trustees
—he has been a member since 1910, in
succession to his father —was an inti-
mate friend of the chemist who left a
fortune to the National Gallery in Mel-
bourne. That benefactor and Grim-
wade’s father founded the Felton, Grim-
wade concern,
“Friday Island”; Sydney’s Fort-street
head, A.. J. Kilgour, who has passed on
at 83, will be remembered by Old For-
tians for his scholarly culture, but mostly
for his good manners. With his arrival
about 1906 disappeared the order “to
report at the main room steps after
school for a good half-dozen,” Kilgour
immediately established inter-class debat-
ing societies (a school novelty in those
days) and fostered manuscript journals
—these competitive magazines gave many
a student the desire later to pester editors
with ink spilled on paper. The habit in
debate of calling classmates “Gentle-
men” spread through all hours of the
day. The Head’s hobby was Latin.
An A.I.F. major. Dr, M. R. Jacobs,
succeeds C. E. Lane-Poole as principal
of the Australian Forestry School at
Canberra. A South Australian with over-
seas degrees, Jacobs collected his M.Sc.
and the Lowry scholarship at Adelaide
Uni., and a Diploma of Forestry at
Oxford. In 1927 he was appointed
Chief Forester at Canberra, and two
years later was awarded the Common-
wealth Travelling Scholarship for For-
estry Research. After studying at Thar-
randt (Germany)—the largest forestry
school in the world —he collected a D.E.
at Dresden Uni. and D. Phil, at Yale,
U.S.A.
Vice-Admiral C. S. Daniel, Chief of
the Administration Staff of the British
Pacific Fleet, was asked by a reporter if
he had had “any personal experiences.”
Answer; “There are no personal experi-
ences in the Navy.” Born in 1894 at
Mullingar (Ireland), Daniel was educated
at his uncle’s college at South Cliff School,
Filey, Yorkshire ; then went straight into
the naval colleges of Osborne and Dart-
mouth. Joining the R.N. as a midship-
man on H.M.S. Orion in 1912, he served
right through the last war in the same
boat, finishing up as a lieutenant. He was
in the Jutland battle. Specialising in sig-
nals and wireless, he was made com-
mander of experimental wireless in charge
of signal schools, passed through the
Royal Naval Staff College and the R.A.F.
Staff College, and emerged as commander
of the aircraft-carrier Glorious under
Captain Sir Guy Royle. Promoted cap-
VICE-ADMIRAL DANIEL.
tain in June, 1934, Daniel passed through
the Imperial Defence College and was
appointed Assistant Director of Planning
on the Joint Planning Staff in 1936. After
that he commanded the Sixth Destroyer
Flotilla, became Director of Plans to the
Admiralty, commanded the Renown, then
was promoted to rear-admiral and ap-
pointed to Combined Headquarters
Operations in London. He next became
flag-officer under Mountbatten, and, back
to England for a few weeks, received his
present appointment.
Home in Adelaide with D.F.C. and
bar and the Pathfinder badge on his
tunic, Flt.-Lieut. Martin John (“Marty”)
Ryan has had his share of bird’s eye
views of Germany, He piloted Lan-
caster bombers in 45 operational flights
over Hitler’s domain. Now 29, Ryan
was flying before the war with the
Broken Hill Aero Club, when he was a
clerk with B.H. Zinc. He’d prefer now,
when he leaves the fighting side of it, to
FLIGHT-LIEUT. RYAN.
get a job as a commercial pilot. He’s
already had about three years in England
with the R.A.A.F.
The new head of Otago (M.L.) School
of Mines is one of its Old Boys, now a
naturalised American, Dr. Strathmore
Ridley Barnott Cooke. Born in Wan-
ganui 37 years ago, he’s latterly been
research prof, at the Montana School of
Mines, U.S.A., where he has also tutored
naval students in nautical astronomy and
navigation. His practical experience has
included steelworks in Australia and
similar concerns in Canada and British
Columbia. He’s also been consulting re-
search metallurgist to the U.S. Bureau
of Mines at Reno, and Alabama
stations.
Rev. J. Scott Macdonald, who has
passed on in Brisbane, ranged his literary
conversation from the Greek classics to
Dr. Johnson and on to W.A.’s Professor
Murdoch. Macdonald, like Murdoch,
came from Scotland and, like Murdoch,
never forgot it, but he loved Queensland
as Murdoch loves the West. For years
Macdonald wrote the leader in the Satur-
day issue of the old Brisbane “Courier”
and later for the “Courier-Mail.”
Wing - Commander Alan Wharton,
D.F.C., who had that rank in the
R.A.A.F. at 25, is one of the five sons
of W. F. Wharton, of the public school
at Mt. Victoria (N.S.W.), all in the
fighting forces. On the Commonwealth
Bank staff in Lismore when he enlisted,
Wing-Commander Wharton has been in
many operational flights over Germany.
In his “rest period” he operated a trans-
port service across Africa to Egypt, later
taking part in the Alamein push, when he
gained his D.F.C. He’s now in charge
of a Lancaster squadron in England.
Two of his four brothers are Eighth Divi-
sion prisoners of war.
Farmers from Britain—
Leader of the National Farmers’ Union dele-
gation to tour Australia, James Turner, is
vice-president of the National Farmers’ Union
and, at 36, the youngest it has ever had. He
grows sugar beet, potatoes, cereals and dairy
products on 360 acres at South Anston, Shef-
field, and captains a county Rugby team. Giles
Tuker grows apples on 200 Essex acres. His
father was a West Indian cocoVplanter. S. O.
Ratcliff has 14 farms, specialises in seeds, goes
in for intensive mixed farming and research.
One of his six sons is a wing-commander in
the R.A.F. with several decorations. Ireland’s
member, George Irvine, breeds horses on 100
acres, is deputy president of the Ulster Farmers’
Union and belongs to a family which has
farmed the same soil for 400 years. Scotland’s
delegate is William Young, senior vice-president
of the Scottish Farmers’ Union and Governor
of the West of Scotland Agricultural College.
He breeds Border Leicester sheep and stud Ayr-
shire dairy cattle. Geoffrey S. Browne, the
economist of the party, is, a graduate of the
London School of Economics, and is responsible
for the farm accounts scheme of the Farmers’
Union. He was born in Hong Kong.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, at 77, Patrick Joseph Bennett,
Victorian journalist for close on half a cen-
tury, Bulletin contributor and close friend of
many of his State’s Premiers. He started on
the old “Evening Standard,” and when it was
incorporated in Melbourne “Herald” he stayed
on as political roundsman. A foundation
member and general president of the AJ.A.
At 78, John Baker, eldest son of the first
President of the Senate and his successor as head
of the family law-business. On returning from
Cambridge John Baker was several times tennis
champion of S.A. Later he had a long term as
alderman in Adelaide City Council, and thus
became a foundation member of the Tramways
Trust. A keen man of business, he, two years
ago succeeded to Barr Smith and Fred Downer
as chairman of directors of Elder, Smith and
Co.
In Melbourne, at 67, A. G. H. Ferguson,
managing director of Mephan Ferguson, one of
Victoria’s oldest engineering firms, established
in 1876 by his father.
In Sydney, at 73, Henry Ebenezer Budden,
the architect who designed, among many other
of the city’s buildings, the Water and- Sewerage
Board offices, Wynyard Station and the Road
Transport building.
In Melbourne, the Presbyterian Rev. J. T.
Lawton, who tried introducing psychological
methods into education. He established a
school at Deepdene, after studying the trends
started by men like A. S. Neill in England.
Later he became interested in Douglas eco-
nomics, and he also tried his hand at the
psychological treatment of neurotics. He had
been a leading athlete during his theological
course at Ormond College.
At Auckland (M.L.), J. J. Sullivan, the most
eloquent barrister in the Dominion. He was
conducting a case in the Auckland Supreme
Court when, after a cross-examination, he sat
down and collapsed at the barristers’ table. _ A
native of Cork (Ireland), he studied in that city,
then came to M.L., where he continued his
studies at Victoria College (Wellington), receiv-
ing there the gold medal for oratory. He was
a civil servant for years before starting practice
in Auckland.
In Adelaide, at 73, Dr. James Atkinson
Bonnin, for 44 years at Hindmarsh, foundation
member of the Royal Australasian College of
Surgeons, Everard Scholar, second graduate of
Adelaide Uni. to become F.R.C.S.
At 87, in Melbourne, J. C. F. Ulbrick, one-
time prominent Victorian headmaster. He was
at Geelong College, Carlton College, and finally
at Hamilton College. Retired from teaching,
he organised elections for the Nationalists
in Queensland. He became the oldest surviving
member of the University Club and the only
surviving life member after the passing of
John Monash and Leo Cussen.


Society
“B. A. Ker”: For nearly 20 years,
man and boy, I’ve admired the mascu-
line, full-throated roar of a porter on
Granville (N.S.W.) station. His “Clyde-
Auburn - Lidcombe - Flemington - Home-
bush-Strathfield- Burwood- then-Redfern-
and-Sydney” was a marvel of endurance,
clarity and volume, and when the Harbor
Bridge brought another string of stations
into his repertoire his announcements
attained the dignity of recitatives in
oratorio or grand opera. Only once was
his talent slighted---after a really inspired
..recital a dear old soul poked her head
out to ask “Does this train stop at Lid-
combe?” Though visibly shaken, the
Voice neither snapped nor swore ; instead
it took one mighty breath and gave an
encore. Now, with the black ingratitude
of bureaucracy, an artist has been spurned
and a worthy tradition shattered. The
one station on the line that has been
fitted with an amplifier is—Granville.
*'* * *
“Ex-C.G.”: The English puzzle even
the English. Consider a statement
prompted by a letter in the “Times” up-
holding the right of women to smoke but
protesting against their doing it in the
street: —
It somehow detracts from a certain fas-
tidiousness of bearing in which women
always surpass men. As a hard-working
young woman remarked recently, “1 find it
necessary to smoke a great deal, but I
would no more think of doing so in the
street than I* would think of eating a bun
while walking along Piccadilly.”
What’s wrong with eating a bun in Picca-
dilly? There is a Melbourne legend
about a man who, years ago, produced
a folding camp-stool, sandwiches and
a bottle of beer and sat down to eat his
lunch in Bourke-street, attracting a crowd
so great that police had to break up the
traffic jam. Piccadilly should be able to
stand a bun.
* * * *
“Cism”: “Ek Dum” in his “The Fight
for Huon” (B. 20/12/’44) mentions the
2/13th and the 2/ 17th battalions for
Middle East campaigning but not
Queensland’s 2/15th. I can fill the
hiatus. The 2/15th carried out a little
war of its own against Jerry near Tel el
Eisa some several weeks before the El
Alamein battle, in the form of a battalion
attack—it was called the “Bulimba”
show, after the password sent around to
units holding the line. Prisoners were
taken and casualties inflicted. They were
suffered also. But the importance of the
information and experience gained regard-
ing communications and type of artillery
barrage most suited to desert conditions
was incalculable. And when 2200 hours of
that memorable night in October, 1942,
arrived the 2/15th crossed the start line
alongside the 2/17th.
* * * *
“E.E.”: Those coconuts lobbed home
by the A.I.F. (B. 20/12/’44) recall the
army biscuits that the first A.I.F. sent
from Gallipoli and France. The prac-
tice was to write an address on one side
of the biscuit, affix a stamp and post the
article, with or without a message on the
other side. One of these souvenirs
has been in use in my home as a
teapot-stand for nearly 20 years; it has
survived successions of hot and heavy
teapots, reinforced, admittedly, by coats
of silver-frost. Recently the old stand
received a fresh coat of paint and var-
nish, the renovation being due to shab-
biness, not to any sign of disintegration.
The biscuit was posted from Gallipoli.
Curious to reflect that the soldiers ate the
granite-like substance. Or did they?
jp * * *
“Peter Piper”; The war has brought
forth a crop of luminous pigments, many
of which were successfully used on
Britain’s signposts and kerbstones dur-
ing the blackout. The pigments are of
two types —fluorescent and phosphores-
cent —the former reacting strongly to
darkness, the latter to daylight exposure.
One of the many post-war uses suggested
for the pigments is to paint the interior
of motor-cars, including the gauges, thus
lessening the strain on an already over-
worked battery of providing instrument-
board lighting.
* * ♦ *
“Pip” on the military uses of refrigera-
tion ;
Once considered a luxury by the soldier, the
refrigerator is now regarded as a necessity “up
north.” All units have at least one, and by
their use a far wider variety of food can be
kept than was possible in the early days. Even
bullybeef is edible straight out of the “frig.”
Foodstuffs arriving from ships’ chillers can
be kept for days, and there is frequent’ re-
spite from the round of hard tack. Meat,
vegetables, tomatoes and fmit appear on the
“And how do you like Australia, Tommy?”
“Champion!”
tables, and even steak and eggs. Custards and
jellies are a normal part of the menu, and
the cook often turns on ice-cream for his best
friends. The issued tins of fruit juice come out
cold and frosty and there is ice to go in the
water. The section designed for
cubes is a continuous ground for experiment.
Whisky and gin give fine flavorings to the
blocks, and many varieties of jungle juice can
be frozen hard and retailed at prices “within the
reach of all pockets.” Although the spirit con-
tent is small, the taste is there. The introduc-
tion of refrigerators has wiped out most of
the vitamin deficiency diseases, and the army,
as well as the individual soldier, has benefited
greatly thereby.
* * * *
“Bo”: Lately there visited a Sydney
p.o. a little old man who came in holding
his morning daily open at the classified
ads. section. To the p.m., for whom he
specially asked, he confided, solemnly
and in a whisper, that he’d like to get f
Hitler’s full address. He had something
which he knew would interest the German
leader; something which might, were it
brought to his notice, cause him to cease
a war which had become unprofitable. In
fact, Hitler could gain without further
bloodshed all that he had so often de-
manded for the German people. And
then the visitor pointed triumphantly to
a line he had heavily underscored in
pencil. It read:
“To let - . Single-fronted shop. Living-room.”
* # * ♦
Arthur Mailey remembers:
“Pat Ater’s” references to wicketkeepers’
hands (B. 13/12/’44) brings to mind George
Duckworth, the world’s most vocal ’keeper.
Not only did “Ducky” wear inner gloves and
bind each knuckle joint with adhesive tape
(Oldfield also did this), but he slipped a slab
of juicy steak inside each inner glove. This
softened the impact from the English battery
(Larwood, Allen and Voce) and automatically
soothed bruises. During a Christmas match in
Melbourne (about 1932) “Ducky” found fresh
meat hard to obtain and was compelled to use
the original steak over four sweltering days.
On the last day swarms of blowflies buzzed
around “Ducky” and the batsmen, and the
phenomenon was so obvious from the press
stand that even the cricketer-journalists com-
mented on it. Press post-mortems attributed
Australia’s batting collapse to a crumbling
wicket, but “Ducky” still thinks that Mr.
Blowfly was England’s best bowler —and I’m
inclined to agree.
« * * *
“Blue P.”: Browsing through a pile
of old magazines I came across “Health
and Efficiency” for July, 1937, an Eng-
lish journal devoted to the cult of nudism.
There are pages of photographs of
ladies with nothing on and of gents,
also unclad and a lot of editorial
matter on the virtues of running about
unclothed ; how it browns the skin and
builds the figure and so forth. I was
particularly intrigued by nudist-club
advertisements and their inducements to
new members —“special facilities for
initiation of single ladies,” England
seems to have had a lot of naked people
running about in its hills and dales in
1937, and, according to the photographs
in the magazine, all were healthy, hand-
some and well-shaped. But it struck me
that the photographed figures were far
too white-skinned ever to have done
much sunbathing, and there wasn’t a
single picture of a middle-aged person
sans clobber. Which seems to suggest
that clothes are kindly to the middle-
aged and elderly, few of whom wish to
display their paunches, knobby knees
and thickened veins to the public gaze.
I suppose nudism is a dead-letter in Eng-
land just now, but it’ll come again—pub-
lication of magazines and ownership of
clubs must have been profitable.
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: I often wonder what
has become of a bust of Henry Lawson
which Nelson Illingworth made shortly
before the poet’s death? The Gallery
refused to have it at the time —it was a
bit too true, showing the lines of hag-
gard disillusionment so often on Lawson’s
face towards the end —and the work was
still going begging when Illingworth him-
self died. The Longstaff portrait in the
Gallery, notable for the quality of the
eyes, is an excellent impression of the
younger Lawson, and the Domain statue
is good, but the Illingworth bust and
Low’s unforgettable caricature remain the
most striking portrayals of the artist as
known to his contemporaries.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: One of the strangest
literary productions it has been my lot
to encounter is the Christmas issue of
“Penjoeloeh,” the tri-weekly journal
printed in Melbourne by a staff of
Javanese expatriates for the benefit of
their Malayan comrades temporarily
marooned in Australia. Printed in color,
it has a cover decorated with a Christ-
mas tree hung with candles and a snow
scene; the only items of the tradi-
tional English Yule-tide set-up that are
missing are holly and Christmas pud-
ding. The illustrations include a repro-
duction of an Italian old master’s rever-
ent depiction of the Nativity and another
entitled “Toehan Jezoes dan doeabelas
rasoelnja melakoekan perdjamoean Asa
jang koedoes,” which may be briefly
translated “The Last Supper.” The N.E.I.
population which isn’t pagan is nine-
tenths Mohammedan. ILe Founder of
Christianity makes an appearance in
the Koran as a minor prophet, but His
followers were kafirs — i.e., infidels. Pos-
sibly the editorial staff got carried away
by the spirit of the festive season, but
one wonders what their Malayan readers
make of the production.
* * * *
“8.C.”; Besides being all the things
“Wodgil” says (B. 29/12/’44), Ivan the
Terrible was probably the world’s grim-
mest humorist. Pursuing his career of
conquest, he levied taxes on; the various
towns of Muscovy. The leading citizens
of Novgorod, finding such imposts ex-
cessively heavy, ventured a request for
some relief, sending a batch of envoys to
Ivan in Moscow. That any man should
dare, however respectfully, to question
his imperial will was unthinkable to Ivan.
So, in his half-insane way, having no in-
tention of yielding, and at the same time
appreciating well the habits ot his sub-
jects, he gave the condition that if within
11 days the envoys should return with a
hatful of live fleas their plea would be
granted ; but if they failed then the whole
of the people of Novgorod would be put
to death. With terror in their hearts,
the envoys hurried home and set the
whole of Novgorod to catching fleas.
Tens of thousands of these were speedily
forthcoming, but the difficulty was to
keep them in any hat —it was an abso-
lute impossibility to fill it. And that’s
the reason why for five weeks, as
“Wodgil” mentions, Ivan killed off
batches of the population of Great Nov-
gorod.
* * * *
“After”: In the U.S.A., when the
Weird Artists begin to put on airs, it is
only necessary to murmur “Pavel Jer-
danovitch.” Here’s why:
Pavel, heralded by a little judicious press
ballyhoo about his having lived for years
among the cannibals of the South Sea Islands,
first burst into fame when he contributed three
pictures to the Independent Exhibit' at the
Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York, in March,
1925, “Exaltation” portrayed the ecstacies of
a dusky damsel defying a tribal taboo on
bananas; “Adoration” showed a savage wor-
shipping a piebald boa-constrictor; “Illumina-
tion” was a seething mass of'eyes. Brightest
primary colors were used, daubed on with Gau-
guinesque abandon. The critics lapped these
works up. There is an elaborate article on them
in the Paris art journal Revue du Vrai et du
Beau, September 10, 1925. Jerdanovitch was
also an exhibitor at a No-Jury show at Mar-
shall Field’s, Chicago, January-February, 1926.
His picture “Aspiration” showed a gaudily-
clad negress washing clothes, and so intently
watching a red, green and yellow bird that she
did not see a dark hand snitching her purse off
a stool. This was elaborately explained by the
artist, and the deep significance of the “cosmic
rooster” which distracts the attention of
humanity from mundane things was appreciated
by all the critics. The “Art World” for Janu-
ary 26 chose Jerdanovitch’s “Aspiration” as
the picture best worthy of reproduction out of
the 480 in the show. Paris caught on again,
and in the pages of Les Artistes D’Aujourd’hui
and La Revue Moderne for June, 1927, are to
be found reproductions of the American-ex-
hibited works. “Aspiration” is reproduced in
color as the frontispiece of that utterly solemn
work, L’ Art Contemporain, edited by M.
Gabriel Moussac. But there is no Pavel Jer-
danovitch ; he lived with no cannibals. The
pictures were done as a joke by Paul Jordan
Smith, a minor novelist, who sat down before
an easel with absolutely no training or experi-
ence in painting to caricature the rubbish that
receives adulation as “modern art.” Another
demonstration that it is impossible even to bur-
lesque such slush without creating more “new
art.”
1945.
Step in, young chap, and solve the riddle
guessers
Have lately puzzled over more and more.
Of your innumerable predecessors
None ever entered quite like this before.
None ever came among the glasses clinking
About the board, when welcome guests, arrive,
So warmly heralded by wishful thinking
And glowing hopes as you, young Forty-five.
No fault of yours that Forty-four must call it
.A day, and take his place upon the shelf.
No use to wonder what is in your wallet
When obviously you’re unaware yourself.
Even astrologers, forever slinging
The mumbo-jumbo round on which they
thrive,
Will never put us wise to what you’re bringing
Until the stuff’s delivered, Forty-five.
Will you remembered be to date the era
When right and justice came into their own,
When those who plunged the world in war’s
chimera
Into the pit' digged by themselves were thrown?
Will you be cherished by succeeding ages,
A landmark ever to be kept alive,
And to be hence enshrined in history’s pages?
' Well, stranger things have happened, Forty-
five.
So mote it be! But, anyhow, we greet you
And take the usual way to wish you well
And place on record that we’re pleased to
meet you
(That is, if any beer’s available).
Here’s hoping that the longer ydu’ve to scan us
The more benevolently you’ll contrive
To prove yourself a true mirabilis annus.
Step in, and Fortune with you, Forty-five!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
IF.
“Dismissing a charge of ‘no lawful visible’ against
a man who claimed to be a successful gambler, a'
Sydney magistrate said that he knew of no law to
prevent a man getting his living as a racecourse
punter.”
If you can earn the dough you need for dinners
• And clothes and other necessary things
By systematically picking winners
At what is sometimes termed the Sport of
Kings,
You take no chance of being caught in flagrant
Delinquency and classed with common crooks,
No risk of being potted as a vagrant
For merely finding ways to beat the books.
No law exists to penalise a man
For punting profitably—if he can.
If you’ve the subtle gift of intuition
That helps so oft to scoop a two-up pool
(And nous to carry home your acquisition
Before intrusive Johns stampede the school);
If reading poker dials is your vocation,
And separating players from their oof
Because they put too high a valuation
On “threes” or merely “aces on the roof,”
Nothing in these accomplishments conveys
You earn your sustenance in lawless ways.
In short, if you can woo that goddess cunning,
The Lady Luck, and get from her no more
Than serves to stop your creditors from dunning
And keep the wolf his distance from the
door; .
If to the racecourse with your glasses swinging
Across your back you regularly go,
And count upon as regularly wringing
A steady income from old Ikcy Mo,
Hints of the Vag. Act needn’t scare you stiff. ..
Still, it’s a fairly formidable If.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


“State your business, gentlemen—my secretaries have my complete
confidence!”
“X.S.”: A week or so ago Sergeant J.
Murphy, of the wireless patrol in Mel-
bourne, known to his friends and heredi-
tary enemies as “The Man with the Pipe,”
chalked up his 2000th arrest in the realm
of two-up. As fines for the offence range
round £2, Sergeant Murphy has been a
valuable adjunct to the revenues of the
State, as well as to law and order, but
the thing that puzzles me is why his
pbtential victims make such desperate
efforts to escape when the police net is
thrown around them. If the devil him-
self was after them they could not act
with greater recklessness. A man jumped
from a second-storey window into a ditch
full of filthy water, only to be hauled out
by a policeman. Possibly it is a point of
honor rather than the loss of 30s. which
determines this odd behavior.
H: H: H= H=
“J. 8.”: During the guerrilla campaign
to drive the Japs from the town of Taft,
on the east coast of Samar (Philippines),
the enemy’s night infiltration tactics
caused a great deal of trouble to the un-
trained guerrilla troops. On a number of
occasions snipers came in around the
command post. One night they opened
fire not a hundred yards from the hut
in which it was set up. It was necessary
for the commanding officer and his one
American assistant to “buckwheat” back
down the trail. They went back some
300 yards to where another small house
was set up with trees surrounding it, a
good defensive position. They decided
on staying there, and told the civilians
who occupied it that the Japs were
coming and they should leave. Man,
woman and children, the occupants began
to gather a few belongings by the light of
a coconut-oil lamp- A moment later a
Jap howled like a dog on the trail about
70 yards back. The officer shouted “Put
that light out! Put that light out!” The
householder obeyed quickly. He set the
light, still burning, out on the small
verandah. When the attack commenced
one of the guerrillas was perched in a
tree observing the results of the mortar
fire. Suddenly he shouted with excitement
“Our soldiers are advancing. Our soldiers
are advancing. That way. That way.”
He gesticulated for emphasis, proud of
the achievements of his countrymen.
They were “advancing” right enough,
but “that way” was away from the
enemy.
H= H= H= *
“Bumpk”One of the minor blessings
of paper shortage is that Big City
dailies have had to curtail reports of
school break-up speeches, but enough, of
them remain to indicate that the great
headmasters of today are saying exactly
the same things as did those of 40 years
ago. In my schooldays every headmaster
felt it obligatory to deliver an annual
diatribe against the examination system,
thus stirring in every young bo§om, ex-
cept those of the successful, hopes that
exams would be abolished. They haven't
been. A bitter controversy has arisen be-
tween parents and examiners about papers
set in the English expression section. One
was “Write an Essay on People You Dis-
like.” The genius who asked the question
no doubt expected the persons selected
would be Hitler and Hirohito, but one
talented young woman wrote an essay in
good style on the impropriety of dislik-
ing anybody, and put her points very
neatly. I hope she got on as well as I
did when I was asked to state what I
knew of the flora and fauna of Aus-
tralia. My knowledge didn’t go further
than the kookaburra, the kangaroo, the
emu and the gum-tree, so I imagined a
voyage down the Murray (which I had
never seen) and peopled its banks with
my scant collection of birds and animals
and flora, making the same lot reappear
morning, noon and evening, after the
style of the characters in a stage comedy.
The examiner must have been an unusual
chap, because I won a medal for it.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”: Making a plea for less
apathy amongst civilians with regard to
fighting men, an indignant Melbourne
newspaper correspondent remarked that
a newsreel showing four A.I.F. men re-
ceiving their commissions was clapped by
four persons, a glimpse of a V.C. by six.
“A motion-picture actor depicted re-
ceiving ‘Oscar’ would have received
thunderous applause,” he added. If
the writer has heard an Australian
movie audience deliver itself of thun-
derous applause about anything whatso-
ever he is luckier than I’ve been. The
only applause approaching thunder I have
heard in a cinema was during the Mel-
bourne Centenary, when a newsreel de-
picting the Lud Mayor of the time open-
ing the celebrations with the platitudes
obligatory on these occasions kept stop-
ping, leaving the First Citizen with his
mouth wide open.
* * * *
“Uramao”: A Maoriland magistrate
has made legal history by a decision
which implies that what is legal in the
case of an elephant or a cow becomes ille-
gal where a cat is concerned. An Auck-
land woman sued a bus co. for damages
for injuries sustained while travelling in
one of its conveyances. The driver,
to avoid a cat, ran off the road and
collided with a post. In giving judgment
for plaintiff, the magistrate said if the
animal that crossed his path was a large
one, threatening damage to the bus and
passengers, the driver might be justified
in choosing the lesser of the two evils —
collision with a post—but he must not
do so to avoid a cat.
* H- * *
“Nakh”: In the long list of this year’s
graduands at the University of Melbourne
was a name which must have arrested
many people’s attention. It was “Sydney
Melbourne Brisbane.” At a«y rate, the
parents weren’t afflicted with inter-State
jealousies.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A tea-cup storm in
Glenelg (S.A.) has blown itself out at
last. The police-sergeant, a returned
soldier, was charged with savagely
assaulting two men under arrest. Break-
ing police batons on one of them was
one detail. He explained that he found
the men prowling about, half drunk, in the
yard between the Town Hall and police-
station. When he arrested one, being him-
self in pyjamas, the other somehow found
a bundle of old batons, and a free-for-
all followed. The case caused much talk,
but when it at last got to the Supreme
Court, Judge Richards said they were
wasting time, as no reasonable jury would
convict. Verdict accordingly, after which
the principals shook hands,
* * * *
“C.Q>”: An unusual will case has
been occupying the Melbourne Practice
Court. A man died intestate, and his
estate went to his next-of-kin as pre-
scribed by law. What gave the case a
new twist was that his widow, due as
such to a half-share in the £31,445 estate,
was also his cousin, and the question
before Justice Macfarlan was whether the
widow could enjoy an additional share
with the other next-of-kin cousins. Coun-
sel were unable to trot out any precedent
on the subject; so ’Sonah established
one —in favor of the widow-cousin,
« * * *
“Fumi” on links with the past:
When I was about seven years old a near-cen-
tenarian of our family said to me: “I knew a
man whose father fought with Cromwell.”
Sounds a bit far-fetched, but my great-grand-
father died in 1882, close to the hundred mark,
when I was a year old; therefore, I “knew”
him; if his connection with his great-grand-
father had been similar and that person in turn
had been born late in the lives of his parents
then it seems just possible that only three lives
may be between an individual now living and
Cromwell. A recent Seppelt front page ad. of
Wingfield Manor brought the old yarn to life,
for it was there, six miles from my birthplace,
that the father of my forbear’s acquaintance
“fought with Cromwell.”
* * * *
“Feng-Shui”: Describing in the House
of Lords how an Austrian woman
official at the German Embassy in Lon-
don in 1938 was threatened with death
or captivity by the Gestapo unless
she broke off her engagement with an
Englishman, Viscount St. Davids said it
was one of the most amazing cases that
ever happened in a civilised country in
peace-time. The Chinese Embassy went
further when Sun Yat-sen was sheltering
in London. Word was given privately
to some of his friends that the
potential thorn in the side of the
Manchu dynasty had been kidnapped in
broad daylight and was a prisoner at the
Embassy, and if he were not quickly
rescued would soon be on his way to
China. There was a public outcry, and
the Manchu officials, after vehemently
denying that they had ever seen him,
coughed up their victim. Had he been
successfully transported the latter-day his-
tory of China might have been very
different.
* h= * *
“Maleesh” on a Russian military hero:
Like many other Czarist commanders, Count
Alexander Vasilievich Suvorov, now rated by
“Deck sports are on, Dig. I'm puttin' you down fer the lot."
the Russians as their greatest general, was not
of Slav descent; his ancestors were Swedes and
Suvorov himself was born in Finland, in 1792.
He served in the Seven Years War and in the
Russo-Turkish conflict turned the tide at Kin-
burn by a bayonet charge on the loaded flank
plan, a method which was old when Philip ot
Macedon used it and still effective when put
into execution (although half-heartedly) on a
strategic scale by the Germans in 1914. In 1799
Suvorov defeated the French in a series of
battles and he was created commander in chief
of the Russian armies. The Order of Suvorov
is now the supreme Soviet military decoration,
and so far it has been awarded to only two
foreigners —Generals Marshall and Eisenhower.
* H= . * He
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne citizen
who had been bedridden for ten years and
had been told by his medical advisers that
he would never walk again was visited
by a friend with sporting proclivities, who
sympathetically suggested that it would
lighten the invalid’s long days for him if
he got the habit of listening to the racing
reports. “They’re more exciting than a
drama,” said the sport. The invalid took
this advice, caught the gambling fever
and began making bets by ’phone with a
s.p. man. One afternoon he was lying in
his bed as usual, and his wife went to the
kitchen to get him a cup of tea. When she
came back she found him at the wireless
set, which was situated on a window-sill
on the opposite side of the room. “How
did you get there?” she said, astounded.
“I don’t know,” he said, collapsing into a
chair and waving feebly at the wireless.
“Somebody turned this blasted thing off
and I wanted to listen to the result of
the 3.15.”
* * * *
“Bar Din” on fighting with fire:
Projected fire, a spectacular feature of the
present war, was first used by the Byzantine
Greeks, who closely guarded their secret.
Lt.-Col. H. W. L. Hime has suggested that
“Greek fire” was an admixture of quicklime,
sulphur, naphtha and other components which
was simultaneously projected and ignited. The
next appearance of the weapon was in World
War I when the Germans exploited it in their
Flgmmenwerfer. The Allies followed suit but not
on the same scale. At the outbreak of this war
the Germans had a number of flame-throwers
and British military authorities thought it well
to follow suit. For this purpose the Petroleum
Warfare Department was founded by Geoffrey
Lloyd, in 1940, with Major-General Sir Donald
Banks as Director-General. As in aircraft con-
struction, Britain’s lack of previous experience
proved a blessing in disguise, ,I'or British
research went forward unhampered by prece-
dent. Three types of flame-throwers were
evolved, light, medium and heavy. The “Life-
buoy,” which is carried on a man’s back, has
a range of 50yds.; the “Wasp,” fitted to a
standard carrier and the “Crocodile,” mounted
on a Churchill tank, have a range of 150yds.
Flame-throwers have proved particularly effective
when used against entrenched parties in heavily-
wooded country.
* * * *
“Rooster”: “Wodgil’s” distrust of
panaceas (B. 6/12/’44) is well-founded,
but it should be said in justice to the dis-
coverers that it was never claimed that
the sulfa drugs were “cure-alls.” For all
that, they represent a big step forward.
Every U.S. soldier is provided with a tin
of sulfanilamide powder, with which he
dusts his wounds as a first preventive
measure against infection. Result: 95 per
cent, heal cleanly. As for penicillin, it
has proved to be a potent agent against
some of the most destructive microbes
known to pathologists—tetanus, anthrax,
osteomyelitis, septicemia, gas-gangrene and
the devastating pneumococci, streptococci
and staphylococci. There are heart
diseases, however, which resist penicillin.
Endocarditis (infection of the heart lining)
is one of them. Isolated cases occur
(and Wendell Willkie may have been
one such), where complications develop
and two or more resistant diseases inter-
vene. These are as yet beyond the power
of medical science to cure.
# * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide is thinking hard
at last about getting a water supply from
the Murray, The pipe would be much
shorter than that successfully laid re-
cently from Morgan to Port Augusta
and Why alia. It would mean heavy
pumping for about 15 miles, from
Mannum on the river to Mount Pleasant
in the hills; but after that the water
could run down pretty well anywhere
desired. The initial lift ma£ be 1500 ft.,
which is a trifle more than that of the
Whyalla pipe.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: We were camped in
Scott’s hut in the Gippsland hills above
Warragul, cleaning up the job before
adjourning to the fleshpots. Three days
before Christmas fires came through the
ranges and before we could do much
we were surrounded. By Christmas Eve
our chances of getting out were pretty
slim, until Bill remembered the pub at
Pakenham, and a back track north of
the main road. We left in the morning
and battled through heat and smoke,
dodging rushes of fire, dropping into gul-
lies and climbing crests till just before
sundown, when we burst out of the
blackened scrub to the pub. After down-
ing a couple we became aware that the
place was practically deserted. “Where’s
everybody?” Bill demanded. “Oh,” said
the publican’s missus, “they’re all out in
the hills. There are two men cut off in
Scott’s hut, out from Warragul,' and
there must be 50 men trying to get
through to them.” In a deep and thought-
ful silence. Bill asked her to fill ’em up
again.
* « * *
“Pookie”: Joe the wool-presser was
airing his views on the abos. at smoke-
oh when a local specimen wandered up
to the shed, grinned amiably and
scrounged a smoke. “See what I mean?”
said Joe. “Dampier was the first to
notice it. Most miserable people in the
world, he reckoned. All they can do is
cadge; won’t work; no brain power.”
Here his views were opposed by the
bloke with the learners’ pen, who was
vainly striving to unkink his back by
dint of much hard pushing against the
tank. “You’re prejudiced,” said Joe.
“What good does their cadging do them?
It’s no sign of intelligence. Look at this
fellow—shallow skull, big feet. It’s the
same in the animal kingdom—fowls, for
instance. All their growth is near the
ground.” Binghi, who had listened un-
moved to this indictment of his race,
now made a mild petition for some
clothes. “I’ve got an old pair of sand-
shoes you can have,” Joe said. “No
good to me, boss,” came the quick reply.
“Too big.”
“Hanko”: A pair of Indian mynahs
scavenged in the gutter. Another brace
came to investigate. Soon began a bick-
ering that developed into a heated dis-
pute. Then one of the birds crouched ;
fluffed his feathers ; gulped a few mouth-
fuls of air and gasped throatily: “Quork-
quork.” That seemed to be the ulti-
mate insult; the blue was on and it was
Rafferty’s rules from the gong. The aim
of each belligerent seemed to be to get a
claw-hold on an opponent and drag him
(or her) in the dust. Ended finally by a
stupid ice wagon, that Himalayan scrim-
mage left the street as flat as a chipattee.
* * * #
“Mat’s Mate”: The mob was talking
about domestic animals and their pen-
chant for coming home over long dis-
tances. According to the mob, miles,
mountains, rivers and cities meant nothing
to true, home-loving animals, and one cove
even produced a rooster that allegedly
travelled 130 miles to get to its home
roost. “Y’re makin’ it a bit hot now,”
someone remarked. “No he ain’t,” said
Mat. “I believe it, an’ every time I think
of Andy I believe it all the more.”
“Who’s Andy?” “Andy,” said Mat, “was
a green treefrog owned by big Tom
Fleming, down on the Murray. Tom had
that frog two years; then one day he
went down to Mildura, about 140 miles,
an’ took Andy with him, thinkin’ the frog
would do well among the vines an’
amuse the kids at the place where he
was goin’. Well, after about three
months, big Tom got a urgent call to go
back, an’ when he came to leave couldn’t
find Andy. Thinkin’ the frog would be
all right there, he hopped on the mail
coach and went. Ten days after he got
back he hears a ‘karra-karra-karra’ in the
back porch, goes out and there’s the
blessed frog.” There was a silence, then
the usual nark asked “But how could
Fleming know it was the same frog. It
could ha’ bin any one of a million
frogs?” Big Mat rose and moved to the
door. “By his flamin’ earmarks, of
course,” he said, and vanished.
* * * *
“Western Exile”: Mention of hore-
hound running wild in eastern Australia
reminds me that the plant is nowhere to
be found in the west, though it was intro-
duced in the early days. It recalls, too,
the horehound beer Mum used to make
50 years ago. Hop and ginger beer are
mere “pussyfoot” drinks compared with
“ Hooray , I've Won the sweep — they're Mitsubishis !”
horehound. I remember Pat Sullivan’s
recipe well. There were hops in it, and
bruised barley, plenty of green hore-
hound leaves, sugar, treacle, all boiled
for half an hour. When it cooled Pat
added a cup of brewer’s yeast. Bottled
after 48 hours and let stand a week —
but let no one try the recipe or perhaps
the Excise will be having a word.
* * * *
“S.G.”: Soil erosion? When I lived
at Mt. Morgan (Q.) my place was sepa-
rated from my neighbor’s—above me on
the hill —by an iron fence. He had good,
rich soil, I had poor, rubbly stuff. I
saw what happened in heavy rain, so I
built a concrete fence across my place
and waited. Came a fairly dry spell,
then a big rainstorm and most of his soil
was washed on to my place and held by
the concrete fence. Soon I had a flourish-
ing show of veges. and flowers. He
talked about suing me for recovery of
his soil, but I didn’t worry. There was
no law that could make the rain wash
the soil uphill.
* * $ *
“Edjudina”: Mention of the W.A.
Goldfields Cycle Express (B. 29 /11 / ’44)
recalls that its riders saved lives in yet
other ways than by carrying medicines to
far-out camps. Themselves ever faced
with the possibility of doing a perish
should their machine break down, every
rider made a practice of carrying a
handy-sized bottle of water in addition
to the indispensable bag. These bottles
he planted at intervals along the track,
so that in time there were chains of
them all over the country. They were
handy, too, when, as not seldom hap-
pened, he dropped on some perishing
“swamper,” who perhaps took every
drop that was in the bag. Such hos-
pitality would have been impossible
without the secret store of water along
the track. But the Express man didn’t
always find his bottles where he had
planted them ; for although a swamper
might die alongside one, the old-timer
doing a perish was well aware of their
existence, and from one likely clump of
bushes to another, often along miles of
cycle pad, he would hunt. Sometimes
he was lucky and got the precious drink.
If he wasn’t, then the Express rider might
report his whereabouts to the police at
the main camp.
* * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”; Needing help on
his farm, old Corncob applied for his
nephew’s release from the army, and his
discharge must have been a relief to the
military, for a more awkward youth
would be hard to find. We met old
Corncob trying to scuffle the maize that
the nephew had planted. Eyeing the
tortuous rows that looked as if the lad
had used a grazing cow as a guide mark,
Corncob remarked “It’s that silly dance
they do at the hall now —that damned
‘hokey-pokey.’ He was whistling the
tune all the time he was planting this
corn.”
* * * *
“Wang”; “At the Woolawoola Show,”
remarked Dan, “me mate Sam gets
kidded along to the forchune-teller’s tent,
an’ he comes out grinnin’ like a politishun
who’s voted himself another coupla hun-
dred a year. He don’t say nothin’, but
goin’ home he starts gettin’ excited when
we goes to ford the river that’s got about
six inches o’ water. ‘This is the first bit
come true,’ he ses —‘the forchune-teller
tole me I’d cross water.’ We pull into
a shanty fer drinks a bit further on, an’
there Sam, who’s half tight, picks a row
with Tarpot, the abo. rouseabout there,
an’ finishes up by pUnchin’ Tarpot’s
nose. Sam’s near crazy with excitement.
‘The second bit’s true,’ he ses —‘she said
I’d meet a dark man in me travels an’
foil him.’ We set orf agen an’ a coupla
miles further on bump aginst a girl fixin’
a tyre on a car. I ask her if we can
help ; but she smiles an’ ses no, an’ we
ride on. A little further on Sam pulls
up. ‘l’m goin’ back t’ that sheilah,’ he
ses. I get the rest of the story from the
yahoo himself next day. T offer t’ help
her,’ he ses, ‘but she told me to mind
me own bizness. I take no notice an’
start helpin’ her, an’ she lands me a
wallop on the konk. Well, the ole for-
chune-teller sed not t’ be discouraged if
I’m knocked back at first; women are
like that, she ses. So I makes a playful
grab at her, an’ she ups with a spanner
an’ crowns me, an’ hops inter the car an’
drives orf. I wus half-inclined t’ foller
her, ’cause the ole judy ses I’d come
out on top at the end. Somehow,’ he
goes on, doubtful, T ain’t so sure now.’
He pulls off his hat and gently mas-
sages a lump on his napper as big as a
duck’s egg. ‘Not a bit of it,’ I ses, cheer-
ful ; ‘ev’rythin’ happened as she sed —
you finished be cornin’ out on top at the
end, all right!’”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Brownie’s latest argument was
with a six-feet red-bellied black snake,
which had a girth of nine inches. Joe
was curled in a tussock, and Brownie
kept circling and jumping back quickly
each time the snake’s head poked out.
Finally he drove Joe, flattened to a hos-
tile ribbon, into the open, and they
sparred around the acre for 20 minutes.
Thinking it checkmate, I went over with
a waddy, but Brownie anticipated me by
rushing in for a grip to the middle and
flinging the snake a few feet to one side.
Joe squibbed the issue then and was
concerned only in an effort to get to
cover, but the dog followed up with a
couple more throws and then bit his
head off. It was Brownie’s fiftieth snake,
and he’s clumsy to others I’ve seen ; but
he’s a woolly sort of hound and appar-
ently well insured against a bite except
for the exposed tip of his pose, an un-
likely target.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: With the schooner well
down in southern latitudes Joe the deck-
hand remembered the albatross breasts
that he had promised to a Fremantle
barmaid. Tackle was simple, merely a
hollow triangle of sheet iron with 6in.
sides. Baited with some scraps of flying-
fish, this was let out astern. The catch
came quick, for the albatross is always
hungry. With its big hooked beak
jammed in a corner of the metal the
bird, helplessly thrashing the waves, was
brought in. Grabbed behind the head, it
was eased of the snare and then turned
loose on the deck while the tackle went
out again. Before long four more came
in to keep it company. The strange thing
was that the five wandered the planks
helplessly, quite unable to make the
effort that would lift them into the air
and freedom. “They just can’t do it and
they realise it,” the skipper explained.
“With their tremendous wing span, if
they were to attempt to spread and beat
for a take-off they’d simply smash the
end joint of their wings on the planks.
When the albatross has its wings spread
and makes a full stroke the end joints
on the down beat come lower than the
body. That’s why they need a cliff to
take off from ; why they’ll fly a thou-
sand miles home for a sleep and a rest.
Although some people say the bird can
take off from a high wave in a rough
sea, I’ve never seen it done.”
* * * *
“Carmi”: Re “Propalong’s” poetry-
quoting youth (B. 13/12/’44). I recently
heard a lad making his way to the cow-
bail, clanging his buckets and proclaim-
ing, with bitter emphasis on the “them”:
' At the going down of the sun and in the
morning
We will remember them.
It may have been sacrilege, but I laughed.
* H= * *
“Aratta”: The Grasstree Gully
Dramatic Society had Hetty Greybox cast
as the heroine and the Strawstacks’ new
hand as the hero. Dave Strawstack, who
had been “tracking” with Hetty for five
years, modestly admitted that he “wasn’t
no actor,” and was content to be looker-
on and critic. One night during a re-
hearsal a friend said to Dave “Y’
wanter watch that there new hand of
yours with Hetty, Dave.” “Him,” said
Dave in surprise, “what for?” “Well, it
ain’t none of my bizness, I s’pose,”
replied his friend ; “but if Hetty wus my
girl I wouldn’t fancy the way he makes
love to her in that play. It looks too
much like the real thing to me. An’
Hetty seems to like it, too.” Dave
laughed in derision. “Whatcher givin’
us?” he said. “D’yer think Hetty’s a
fool after goin’ with me all these years?
Call what he’s sayin’ to her makin’ love.
Gripes! y’ must be barmy. He don’t
know the first thing about lovemakin’.
Why, he ain’t ever sed a word t’ Hetty
yet about things she unnerstands an’ is
interested in like what I do when I’m
with her, things like the weather an’ the
crops ah’ the milkin’.”
* * % *
“X.E.D.”: When the big flood came
down old Abe, a little dried-up cove
who’d lived in a humpy of rusted iron
on the river bend for 20 years, was for-
gotten in the struggle to move families
and stock to safety. It wasn’t till over a
fortnight, with the river still rising, that
someone remembered and sent out a boat.
The rowers came on Abe perched on a
big pile of bushes on the humpy roof a
few inches above the swirling water, with
his chooks huddled together around
him. One of the would-be rescuers an-
nounced that they’d come to take him
off. “Aw, I reckon I c’n hang out f’r a
week or so if y’d take me chooks,” said
Abe. “Be a pity t’ clear orf when I
got a job on me hands. Y’ see”—he
stood up and pointed to the five-score
eggs he’d been squatting on —“’s on’y
a few days now an’ this clutch’ll be out.
Gripes, a bloke mightn’t git a chance
like this agen f’r years!”
* =H *
“Prop”: We had pulled up at John-
son’s Well on our way to the McDon-
nells. Poppa came over to get what
unearned information he could out of me
and Scotty. With him was his daughter,
looking fairly cool in a bit of a print
frock and a big head kerchief that looked
like a fight between three sunsets and a
rainbow. While giving Poppa as much
news of the track as was good for him
I noticed Scotty staring at the girl’s head.
She'noticed it, too, gave a bit of a grin
and said, “I’m glad you admire my
hankie. It’s a beauty, isn’t it?” Scotty
went a bit red. “Er, yes, miss,” he
blurted out. “It looks all right. I „was
jus’ thinkin’ about it. You see, I know
a nigger who’d swap ya a coupla horses
f that thing.”
FOR SUNDOWN.
They told me drought had taken the black horse,
That never now would I see that white-blazed
head,
That rangy body .. . They thought I would
forget.
Forget the shoulder-sliding stride, the muscles
Rippling beneath black satin, the delicate
Tracery of veins on a lean proud head, tine ears
Nervously twitched in a dusky cloud of mane;
Forget the dusty muster, the thin cry
Of lambs that tottered fearlessly between
The black legs, being nosed aside •and snuffed
With gentle curiosity, their weak cries
As weakly answered by the panting ewe
Across the black’s high wither? I will re-
member
The long head drooped on the long neck, swing-
ing low
To the weary stride, the crusted grey sweat
matting
The dusty coat. And always I shall see
The black horse, loose, in the hollow; in a
pool
Of brittle golden speargrass at the sunset —
Black upon gold, like arms in heraldry.
No, they are fools who think he will be for-
gotten.
He will live again when brown men talk by the
The black flash in the mulga swinging to head
The streaming mob; the six miles walked in an
hour; , , ~ ,
The pink snip in his white muzzle, the black
hair ...
Shading blue to the jagged blaze; his joy in
speed i
The great’heart of him—with Panic and Grey
Olange
He lives again when the brown bush men re-
-7 member.
N.s.w.
A. Anderson.


“Bo”: Let the Council rejoice, if
it is capable of rejoicing, for a
member of it has saved my life.
I happened to be reading “Eureka’s”
advice (B. 27/12/’44) on the way to foil
infuriated bulls as I was strolling across
our western paddock. Bemused, perhaps,
by the bold originality of his plan, I had
given no heed to bellowings and pawings
coming from the top corner behind a
clump of ti-tree. Suddenly I realised that it
was Barney, our neighbor’s big roan bull.
A second later Barney’s head went down
immediately preparatory to his launching
10001 b. of animated beef at an object I
shortly concluded was myself. My
first intuition was to make for a
fence on the flanks; but cool reasori
stepped in. Why flee in undigni-
fied haste when, simply and scien-
tifically, the bovine sortie could be cir-
cumvented? Leisurely, while Barney was
still some 50 yards off and gathering
speed with every yard, I looked down.
There, fortunately, were pebbles. Gather-
ing a small handful (being a small
man I couldn’t gather a large handful,
not having a large hand), I took up a
position and calmly waited. By this time
Barney had gained a momentum which, if
not checked, would have taken him
straight through a brick wall. While yet
remained five feet of space between his
lowered horns and my midriff (further
away I could not be so sure of my marks-
manship), I gently tossed the pebbles in
his face. Perhaps it was the superb non-
chalance with which I delivered the
thrust; howbeit, Barney, contrary to the
usual bullish custom when in mid-charge,
looked up, sheer astonishment writ large
on his features. Automatically he applied
his four-leg brakes and skidded to a stop
an inch from my nose. Patting him with
complete insouciance between the horns
I said “Good bull, now be off!” and he
turned and slunk away, puzzled, frus-
trated, deeply dejected. “Eureka,” stand
up and take a bow!
* * * *
“Hanko”: Unloading a truck of wheat
(old stuff) I was amazed at the number
of bronze-green scarab beetles which
clung to the bags. I know nothing of
the habits of those ornamental bugs, but
surmise they’re attracted by weevils.
Another beetle found among bagged grain
seems identical with the playful cracker-
jack of our kidhood, but all I tested for
the snap-and-spring act failed to respond
“Did any of you gentlemen pinch my spoon?”
when I pressed their shoulders to the mat.
But it is the myriads of small grey-brown
face-plastering moths that help to make
bag-scragging irritating yakker.
* * * *
“Squeaking Tree”: Any horse-breaker
who had to nip or hold a horse by the
ear to mount (B. 6/12/’44) would be
rated a mug. There is only oncj way to
mount a vicious horse with safety: its
head must be held in to the rider by the
near-side rein to prevent “cow kicking,”
biting or striking, the off rein being slack,
foot thrust well into the iron and under
the girth for leverage, side of the knee
on the shoulder to feel any movement,
thumb hooked under and four fingers
over the pommel. This gives a safety
grip that has proved its worth all
through our cattle country ; a good fistful
of mane makes it safer still. I once
saw George Lawton mount a bad one
in this manner. While his mount was
doing its best to get rid of him Lawton
just stood in the stirrup and applied the
other boot to the horse’s ribs as a dis-
courager.
* * * *
“Jay Jassie”: Although only a mere
sapling when the pear-trees at “Bruce-
dale” estate, near Bathurst (B. 6 /12 / ’44),
were in full production, the giant pear-
tree in the historic Bush Inn garden at
New Norfolk, Tasmania, has a special
place in the Speck’s history. It was
planted by the wife of Governor Sir John
Franklin in 1837. When “Maritana” was
broadcast from the hotel verandah over
the national network in 1932 the occa-
sion was marked by the planting of
another pear-tree close to the old one.
The young tree is doing well, and will
have to go on doing well if it is ever able
to exceed the crop of 136 bushels of good
fruit harvested from the old tree in 1930.
* * * *
“N. Dever”: A pet lamb at Bellata
(NIS.W.) has been caught in the act of
cleaning up some chickens with evident
relish. Perhaps tiring of a vegetarian diet
it took note of the fox’s technique. It
is not a black sheep.
* * * *
“El Ward”: Tell “Bar Din” (B.
20/12/’44) that the Markham Arabian
w’as not a brown but a golden bay. He
was imported from Arabia and sold to
James lin 1616 for £154. Place’s White
Turk (otherwise Darcey’s) was not a barb
but an Arabian from Aleppo. The
present barb is a mixture of at least four
known breeds ; there is not, and never
has been, a “pure” barb. All the
early English foundation sires and
mares were of pure Arabian descent.
“Thoroughbred” is a direct translation
from the Arabic “Kehilan.” It is little
short of a phenomenon that every thor-
oughbred in the world should have des-
cended from but three sires in the male
line. With regard to blood horses, Arabia
is the central sun —now fast burning itself
out —from the heart of which rays have
spread in all directions, sending pure
blood to the ends of the world.
* * * *
“Wianamatta”: The several volcanic
dykes intruding through the sedimentary
series of rocks and shales on which Syd-
ney is built a couple of them are in
evidencemear Bondi —are almost unthink-
ably ancient elements of the coastal
scenery about Port Jackson. The most
astonishing feature about them to the
geologist is the tremendous depth from
which the once molten matter that formed
them must have been forced. Everything
points to the fact that die fissures they
fill in the overlying strata were torn so
deep in the earth’s crust by some vast
convulsion as to reach down to a reset-
voir of molten rock, which immediately
welled to the surface through them. They
had to push up through the older Palaeo-
zoic rocks for about 5000 ft. before they
reached the carboniferous series; an
additional 2000 ft. took them into the
upper marine; a further 4500 ft. lifted
them through the upper marine and the
upper coal measures. After that they
pierced 2000 ft. of Narrabeen shale to
arrive at the Hawkesbury sandstone,
Another 1000 ft. cut through to the
Wianamatta shales, which make the
“Tell the fellow We're not that sort. May.”
comparatively modern foundations of
Sydney, and 300 ft. more brought them to
the surface. Adding these figures up
shows that they have come from a deptn
below Bondi beach of somewhere about
20,000 ft. “Blockbusters” are pussy com-
pared to the natal convulsions of these
volcanic dykes.
* « * •
“Colonial Cove”: The reason why
early Australian roofs were mostly high-
pitched (B. 22/11/ ’44) was that thatch,
usually of rushes, was the popular roof-
ing material of the period. And thatch
doesn’t answer well unless provided
with a steep watershed. Note the high
pitch of the thatched roofs still extant
in the Old Country. After thatch came
shingles, which again gave a better
guarantee of rain-tightness when steeply
pitched, though many shingle-roofed
skillions of the gold-rush period were
comparatively flat and did pretty well
(I was born in one). Displacing shingles
came that wonderful roofer corrugated
iron, which gave Australia, and the
world, its really rain-proof roof, whether
steeply pitched or flat. In my boyhood
I saw hundreds of old shingled roofs
Being covered with . corrugated iron,
generally with the shingles left beneath
for added coolness. But new houses
soon came to be designed with a flatter
pitch, it being realised that many feet
of expensive iron could be saved, with
no lessening of its rain-proof values.
♦ .♦ * *
“Propalong”: For 20 years old Corrie-
dale’s front windows had looked out
on an acre of fowl-scratched earth lit-
tered with an assortment of tins, a lame
tricycle, a deflated doll or two and a
scattering of gnawed bones. But now
the last of the kids had left school, water
had been laid on to the house and Ma
Corriedale’s dreams had come true. She
beamed through her glasses at the hibis-
cus, the young geraniums and the fish-
pond, her joy and pride. Already its three
goggle-eyed denizens could see about the
rim of their world a lumpy
gnome or two, a vitreous frog
and a petrified caricature of a
flamingo. The other morning
old Corriedale had to go into
the town. He returned for
lunch and, having a peep at her
beloved garden before washing
up, Ma was delighted to see a
new and handsome bird figure,
slim and grey, among the group
about her pond. She went to
thank Dad, but, finding that he
had gone down the paddock,
she hurried through the dishes
and then took her knitting out
on to the verandah, prepared
slowly to savor the pride of
ownership. But the new bird
figure was .gone. Puzzled, Ma
waddled across the garden to
the pond. Peering in, she could
see no goggle eyes, no filmy fins
or tails. She splashed the water
with her fat hand, but caught
no glint of golden scales. And
then, jeering harshly, the blue
crane flapped off from the gum-
tree near the gate, satisfied with
his quick lunch.
* * *
“B. A. Ker”: With a score or
more in the bar, the stranger was
unlucky enough to put his .topographical
question to George in Sandy s hearing.
“Tom Scott’s place?” repeated
settling down to enjoy himself ; “yair ; y’
know the blacksmith’s?” The stranger
didn’t, nor the School of Arts, nor the ceme-
tery. Finally the bridge over the creek was
established as the datum point, and, dip-
ping a corny finger into his beer, George
carefully mapped it on the bar. From
it a wavering line grew steadily to “Bur-
nett’s dam ’ere, down past the big black-
butt in the middle of the road there, and
across this paddick with the rusty gate.
Then you turn to the right” Sandy
interrupted: “Turn left, yer mean.”
“Turn right,” George on unheed-
ingly. “Left!” Sandy’s voice rose ; “You
never did know yer left from yer right! ”
George stopped, closed his eyes, held
both hands before him as though guess-
ing the weight of a small object held in
each, then solemnly returned to his chart.
“Turn left,” he admitted with cutting
dignity and, making the required altera-
tions, resumed: “Then go around by this
big dead ti-tree and dodge the washaway
’ere. That brings you out by a clump of
ironbarks” “Stringybarks,” corrected
Sandy. “Ironbarks,” repeated George.
“Stringies,” Sandy insisted. “Iron-
barks, where the magpies might go yer
on account of they nest there every year.”
“Them maggies are pee-wees,” the inter-
jector declared, “and they nest in them
stringies.” “What!” roared the exasper-
ated instructor; “mean to tell me I’ve
been passing them trees for forty years
without knowin’ a nironbark from a
stringy or a maggie from a peewee?” “Y’
ain’t been ’ere forty years,” Sandy con-
tradicted with studied emphasis. “Not
been ’ere!” George was fast becoming
inarticulate. “We came ’ere the week
before the bridge was washed away by
the big flood in 1903.” “Wrong agin ;
it was 1907,” Sandy went on inexorably.
The matter was racing to the “come out-
side” stage when the stranger tactfully
suggested beer. ' George, mellowed and
mollified, returned to his chart —just in
time to see it wiped off by an over-zealous
barman.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: That devil ray of
“Creel’s” (B. 29/11/’44) seems to fit the
description of the diamond fish of W.A.
pearlshell waters. Although '‘harmless
as an oyster” this ray is the one denizen
of the deep really feared by suit divers.
In its elephantine way it loves to play,
such play consisting of twining its
“horns” around the diver’s air hose and
then sliding down. This may be varied
by a swim-slide upwards, the horns all
the time embracing the hose. What such
tricks feel like to the man 20 fathoms
down, perhaps all the time barely hold-
ing himself against a rushing tide, may
be imagined. Often the diver is lifted off
his feet and dropped again ; and nothing
can be done about it. If suddenly
alarmed the ray is very apt to dash off
straight ahead, quite forgetting to un-
lock its horns from the hose. Few hoses
are capable of standing such treatment;
invariably the one embraced tears apart
somewhere, with fatal results to the diver.
And even should a hose be strong
enough to stand the strain the diver
would be lifted high off the bottom,
bounced and flung about so that quite
possibly air pressure will jam his head
up into the helmet. More than one
diver along the W.A. coast has been
buried with his helmet still on.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Dan, laying poison in the
foothills behind his property, had stiff-
ened a couple of dingoes and several
pups. “Bit of a take-down the way the
council pays out a coupla quid f’r grown
dawgs an’ on’y half a nicker f’r pups,
though,” he complained. “Oughter be
the other way round. Now, take a pup
—he’s got all his killin’ ahead of him,
ain’t he? But an old dawg’s done most
of his damage an’ might be on the verge
of peggin’ out when he’s caught.” *‘Well,
I s’pose they could work things on that
basis, Dan,” I said. “That’d mean
they’d pay you less on account of your
getting on a bit in years and not
likely to stiffen many more dogs. Then
they could pay the young blokes more
on their prospects of scoring a bigger
tally of scalps, eh?” Dan growled some-
thing about some smarties bein’ as bad
as the swindling swine in the council
before he mooched off.
VIGIL.
I told him of the misted hills,
The river in between,
That waited our return; I spoke
Of places we had seen.
I murmured faulty lines of verse
We both had learned at school;
I asked him if he called to mind
The truants’ swimming pool.
I lived again those early days
When first we played with ships....
Remembered things, remembered
things—
But no sound passed my lips.
So, silently, we watched the moon
Across an alien sky:
The one who asked why he should live,
The one why he should die.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
- Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: i BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
ẅ
The “MARS"
Plain MILLER
A Sturdy Machine of Great Accuracy,
Maximum Output and High Quality
Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
Manufactured by
w
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.; Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Sydney;
Victoria; Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 2S Market Street, Melbourne; New Zealand: A. M.
Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street, Christchurch. Stockists: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
301 Kent Street, Sydney.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
Sterilised
To Remedy
Phosphorus
in Pastures
BONE
Deficiency
and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
. All particulars from : —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
ẁ
to RABBITS
.A
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CVanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Challenge to Wool.
" DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
Touching “Wool and the
Nation” (B. 8/11/ ’44), here is what the
Bradford (Eng.) “Wool Record” of
17/8/’44 has to say;—
There are still people who give us the com-
fortable assurance that however the distribution
is managed or mismanaged the world will
patiently wait to receive its allotted quota in
somebody’s good time and submissively pay
whatever may be asked in the way of price.
Today there are in the field competitive
fibres which are rapidly learning all that wool
has to teach and endeavoring to improve upon
it. To appreciate this fact at its true value is
not defeatism, but stark realism, and a danger
sensed is already partially met. Wood has given
place to coal for fuel, coal in its turn is being
challenged by hydro-electric plants. In the
textile world a fibre having every characteristic
to recommend it —namely, silk —has failed to
.attain a. general use because of costly and cum-
''bersome methods of production.
There is, after all, a very limited section of
the textile industry exclusively interested in the
future prosperity of wool. If, in the evolving
economic world, the production of wool should
prove likewise too costly and cumbersome, fully
effective substitutes will rapidly oust it from its
present position, and in due course a generation
will arise which has never worn wool and yet
survives and prospers.
The challenge to wool today is clear and un-
mistakable and certain it is that it cannot for-
ever maintain its position by Government pat-
ronage or subsidy. Should competing fibres
prove cheaper, more readily available and more
attractive, then wool will take its honored
place in history with dressed skins, leather
jerkins and silk fabrics.
It cannot be too strongly emphasised that
in the final analysis by far the greater part of
the present wool textile industry has only a
conditional attachment to wool, so it would
appear that the future of this fibre does not
depend on the grower receiving a guaranteed
minimum price which is deemed commensurate
with certain established costs of production,
for in the progress of scientific evolution it
might become a matter of indifference to the
textile trade in general what the price of wool
could command. What is of vital import is,
firstly, that those whose interest is the produc-
tion of wool must contrive that it is available
at such a price as to maintain its attractiveness
in comparison with its rising competitors, and,
secondly, that scope is given to the initiative of
distributors and primary manipulators of wool
to press its claims and develop its potentiali-
ties.
The truth is that “Government patron-
age or subsidy” never .saved anything
from an efficient rival.
Soil-drift Control.
“Duddo Wells”: The fourth soil con-
trol competition run by Victorian State
Rivers and Water Supply Commission
was won *by V. Watson, of Nyah West.
He was forced to take an interest in soil
drift in 1928-29, when a fallow worked
very fine blew away. It was his best pad-
dock and it will never be the same again.
Watson’s win gets him the Mallee Cham-
pionship and Hanslow Cup.
He has 2400 acres and uses it for
wheat-growing, sheep- and horse-breed-
ing. His home is surrounded by Murray
pine, and, although it is one of the best-
protected homes in the Mallee, he is
planting more trees. To save the pad-
docks being cut up in summer by stock
travelling to water he has five dams.
filled from S.R. and W.S.C. channels.
In fair seasons he follows the fallow,
wheat, oats and grass rotation. A mould-
board is his favorite, but he uses a disc
plough in thick stubble and does only
sufficient cultivation to keep weeds down,
using spring tooth He tries to keep as
fodder conserved as possible and
his recipe for drift control is: Give
careful thought to the kind of soil of
which the farm is compo sed, how and
when to work it, and turn in as much
straw and grass as possible. When work-
j ng the ground don’t travel too fast,
\y a tch gra zi n g by sheep very closely.
„ ° ■
Overstocking will start drift in certain
times of the year. Understocking over a
period of years is more profitable.”
T - Park . er ’ ° f Karw e =n near Mildura
ran second. He has 1944 acres of light,
hilly country. Before any work is done
on b j s J and p a rker studies the soil-erosion
; fr i M n ctnhhlp k ever burnt Ho
an S l | C ' INO stdDDle , 18 D.unar-
works as much as he can back into the
land and sows Wimmera rye with the
wbea t to make a stock-paddock later. All
. • o a v 7Pr i w ni
118 COCky-ChaU IS saved. He Will put
lambs off at a low price rather than
top them off and flog out the land. He
intends to sow all land likely to drift,
™, and ev f n encourages paddymdons and
roly-poly as useful allies.
The President’s Sermon..
Campaigning lor the fourth term which
the electors gave him, Mr. Roosevelt
stopped at a place called Clarksburg, West
Virginia, on a Sunday. Instead of deliver-
• nolitiVnl cnpprh Hp nrpar-bprl a
erln S a political speech he preached a
sermon. And a very good sermon, too,
and in parts very applicable to Australia,
as j be following extracts show; — ,
T . , ~ ° T . . . . .
I d ? at see the trees I ought to see. lhat is
something we in this country have fallen down
°. n - W® can J replace coal if will be a long
time before all the coal is gone—but trees con-
stitute something that we can replace.
When I used to be in grade school in Ger-
many and j used bicycle we came to a town,
and outside of it there was a great forest,
For 200 years the people in that town didn’t
have to pay taxes. They were supported by their
own forest.
It was a forest of an annual yield basis. They
cut down perhaps 70 p.c. of what they could
get out of each year’s mature crop, and every
of taxes
In this country there are more and more
municipalities that are reforesting their water-
sheds, putting trees on top of their hills, pre-
yenting erosion of soil xhey are not on a
self-sustaining basis yet because this work
has only been started within the last 10
or 15 years. It doesn’t amount to very much,
t his cost of Panting trees, and yet the hillsides
of West Virginia of our grandparents’ day were
mucb more wonderful than they are now. It’s
largely a deforested State. And I believe that
fr° m the point of view of the beauties of nature,
from the point of view of all that trees can be,
and f rom tbe po int of view of your own grand-
children’s pocketbooks, the small number of
cents, the small number of dollars that go into
reforestation a're going to come back a thousand-
fol T d T - ■ , T .. . , , „ .
Up where 1 live, in the country on the Hudson
River, my family had, when I was a boy,
five or six hundred acres. It wasn’t valuable
land, and my father would go in every year and
cut the family needs in the way of timber.
When I went to the State Senate as a young
man somebody appointed me to the Conserva-
tion Commission. Some parts of up-State New
York were being eroded, a lot of topsoil was
runmng away, we were getting more floods than
we had ever had in the old days.
Just as an experiment I started planting a few
acres each year on run-down land. I tried to
pasture some skinny cows on it, and at the same
time I went into the old woods and cleaned out
no-account trees, trees that were undergrown
or would not amount to anything, crooked
trees, rotten trees.
Well, the answer was this-when the last war
came on the old woods had some perfectly
splendid trees because I had cleaned out the
poor stuff. And during that war I made 4000
dollars, just by cutting out the mature trees. I
kept on every year, and in the winter-time, when
the men weren’t doing much, they cleaned the
woods out, and the trees grew.
And in this war, back home I cut last year
over 4000 dollars’ worth net of oak trees, to
make into submarine chasers and landing craft
and other implements of war. And I am doing
it again this year.
And I hope that this use of wood is increasing
— for'alt kinds of modern institutions, plastics
and so forth. I hope that when I am able to cut
some more trees 20 or 25 years from now — it
may be one of the boys—we will be able to use
them at a profit, not for building submarine
chasers or landing craft, but for some more
Eight years ago, out in the West, there were
great floods and a dry belt. We knew that
trees bring water and prevent floods. And
so we started a thing called the shelter belt to
keep the high winds away, to hold the moisture
in the soil. That shelter belt has been a great
success. And the farmers are getting more
crops and better crops out there on the prairies
in the lee of those rows of trees
viiwTf
live long enough to see West Virginia with more
trees. I hope to live to see the day when this
children
I had a happy time this morning in looking
out at this wonderful scenery but 1 cou dn t
take my eyes off those bare hilltops. I couldn t
take my thoughts off the fact that this genera-
tion, and especially the previous generation,
have been thinking of themselves and not of
the future. _
Some day I hope to come back, and I hope to
see a great forestry programme for the whole
of the State; nearly all of it needs it. I hope
to be able to say “I stopped once upon a time
in Clarksburg, on a Sunday morning, and just
avoided ’ politics and talked to the people m
Clarksburg, and they must have heard me all
over the State, because they started planting
trees.”
Cotton Crops.
, „ T ~ ,• . * , ft ,
“Mackay”: In distn<ctssoufli of Mac-
kay(Q.) crops planted afte *
m October produce better cotfen than
those planted later. By skipping p
planting harrowing to conserve moisture
when rams are light growers get germi-
nation of weeds at the same time as the
cotton, which increases labor and may
lead to abandonment. ...
If the stand of seedlings is thick enough
and the field fairly free of trash cross-
harrowing with a spike tooth removes
excess bunches of seedlings without affect-
ing the stand. If the stand can take three
or four harrowings only sturdy, well-
rooted plants will remain after the last
one. Final thinning out with the hoe
can be done over a lengthy period with-
out affecting the crop’s development. If
the stand and field won’t take cross-
harrowing begin to thin out with the hoe
when the plants are sin. high and com-
plete before they reach Sin.
Spacing should be not less than 12in.
between small plants or more than 24in.
between large ones. Where rows are 4ft.
to 44-ft. apart single-plant spacings vary
according to district and soil.
n - . • __
uiesei nngmes.
“£ 2” • For ordinary purposes they’re
h rfl f h ff nerfnrmance and
hard to ° eat , ror periormance ana
economy. Working parts arc tew, simple
and cheaply replaced ; cylinders of most
types are btted wdb ]j ners for replace-
YY , Tbp • „ f or
me .™ wtien worn -. me mam rnmg
satisfactory running is to keep the
machine in good repair and adjustment,
Go OV£r the eng j ne regularly, check
, . . . j „„ t L. af
th® main bearing for slack and see th t
adjustment is correct for the right degree
of compression. The fuel feed system
should be functioning properly ; too much
~ ~.' 7 , - c
too little fuel getting to the yaporis-
ing chamber causes jerky running and
I OS s of power. The quickest way to wear
. en „; np is to ne elect the oiling
out an y en B ine 18 10 neglect me oiling
system.
Residue from diesel fuel should not be
allowed to clog the exhaust pipe ; the in-
, v „i vp should ho turned a few times
valve Should De turned a rew limes
before starting to ensure proper seating.
Watch out for fuel flooding when start-
ing up The en gj ne should take off at
. -n
r . s P l . n ’if flooded, turn off the fu
spin a few times to force out the surplus,
then it should start normally. Keep an
eye out f or overheating, and if it occurs
hod out the cause and remedy it at once,
“ "
Hints for the Farm,
“Bennie”: Herbs can be cultivated
QllP ~™f n ii v in „ u., rrp ] pT app a ] aV pr of
successfully in a barrel. I lace a layer
pebbles or broken chmaware at the bot-
tom of the barrel and cover with a few
inches of wood ashes. Then fill with
rich soil. Place the roots of the various
types of herbs in holes which have been
bored in the sides of the barrel. With
frequent watering, they will shoot out
through the holes and grow rapidly.
“Barolin” : Root crops, except carrots,
af£ y l ow j n vitamins A B and D, so
u J P ,
that when they form a large part of the
pigs’ diet care shou!4 be taken to have
good pastures available, or to feed an
allowance of yellow maize.
. ,
Myrr : Control tomato moth by
spraying or dusting with arsenate of lead,
commenc i n g when the first blossoms
» TJ 50 _ arsenate
begin to set. use a9U p.c, arsenate or
lead dust, or 2oz. of arsenate of lead
powder in 4gal. of water, as a spray.
Apply at intervals of seven to ten days
for a period of about eight weeks.
“Ninetynine”: The passing of worms
by horses should not always be taken as
p * oof that worm infestat f on is respon .
sible for a falling away in condition. An
£xamination of the t££th should be made?
as uneven wear and sharp edges prevent
the food being ground and properiy
e and for the diges tive process of the
stomach and intestines . Rasp ing of the
t££th oft£n leads to great improvement
without any further treatment. Good
dose f or worms is foz. of phenothiazine
j n a bran masb- For three days before
and a ft er treatment feed bran mashes to
prevent constipation, which this drug
sometimes produces,
“Myrrhee”; Don’t overcrowd poultry
when crating for market. If closely
p ac ked the birds will sweat and become
d i r ty and bedraggled. Use turkey crates
only for turkeys and geese to allow the
b j rds room to stand in comfort. Cover
the floor with 4in. to 6in. of straw, and
do n’t put more than eight gobblers in
one crate; if extra good seven is enough.
Ten pairs of light-breed fowls or eight
pairs of heavy breeds can be placed in
the standard fowl crate.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Russia’s Plans for Germany.
(Condensed from a “Saturday Evening Post”
article by Edgar Snow.)
While Americans and British were con-
centrating on inconclusive meetings at
places like Dumbarton Oaks much of the
real foundation of post-war Europe was
being laid in Moscow, In a few swift
weeks the terms were worked out which
recognised the Polish Liberation Com-
mittee as the de facto Government of
Poland, introduced an administrative
authority for the assumption of power
in Czechoslovakia, converted Rumania
and Bulgaria from the enemy and pulled
Finland out of the war.
The fate of Germany itself probably
will also be determined across the same
Soviet conference tables, where the ideas
which Churchill and Roosevelt weighed
at Quebec no doubt have been closely
scrutinised. What the final Soviet position
will be certainly cannot now be fully re-
ported from here [Moscow] nor is it
always possible to deny many of the
rumors being published abroad.
Of all the reports emanating from
London concerning decisions supposedly
reached by the European Advisory
Council very little has been published in
Russia. In fact, but one important Soviet
dispatch of the kind has seen print in
Moscow. Just because of that, it is
worth calling attention to that dispatch,
which was carried in all papers at the
end of September.
“Tass” London correspondent reported
that the European Advisory Council in
London had drawn up a document de-
manding Germany's surrender which
covers the following points: (1) recog-
nition of the complete defeat of Ger-
many’s armed forces by the German
Government and German, High Com-
mand ; (2) arrangements for disarming
Germany’s army, air force and fleet, and
the surrender of military property to the
Allies ; (3) the demilitarisation of Ger-
many ; (4) the right to present addi-
tional demands of a political, military
and economic character.
A notable omission is the question of
war criminals, who, the Moscow confer-
ence declared, must be surrendered “at
the time of the granting of any armistice
to Germany, to be taken back to the
scene of their crimes and punished by
the countries concerned.” Evidently
this matter is to be handled separately
by the War Crimes Commission now
compiling its lists of criminals in London,
as well as by the Commission for the In-
vestigation of War Crimes here in Russia.
Another point which evidently won’t be
touched upon in the immediate terms of
surrender is the “possibility of splitting
up Germany into a number of small in-
dependent States” —which is not within
the competence of the Advisory Council.
Territorial adjustments and population
shifts considered desirable here have been
made fairly evident. Soviet leaders
obviously concur in the view expressed
by Mr. Churchill, who declared that the
Atlantic Charter —promising not to bring
about territorial changes —does not hold
good for Germany itself. Here it has
been emphasised that partial dismember-
ment of pre-war Germany is an absolute
prerequisite of the future stability and
peace of Europe.
In “War and the Working Class” the
historian Boris Stein charged that fore-
most among the mistakes of “grave con-
sequence” at Versailles was that the treaty
“decreased the territory of Germany to
a highly insignificant degree and left
almost intact the hegemony of Prussia,
this most aggressive of all German
States.”
Another Soviet commentator, the aged
and respected academician, Eugene Tarle,
has energetically attacked sections of
Anglo-American opinion which many
Russians consider far too sentimental
about the preservation of German terri-
torial integrity. He said in a conversa-
tion with me: “If Prussia remains intact
nothing will secure the future peace of
Europe.”
In Poland I was told quite categori-
cally by Edward Boleslaw Osubka-
Morawski, chairman of the Polish Libera-
tion Committee, that East Prussia would
be annexed by his country after the war.
“Our frontier on the west will follow the
Neisse River over to the Oder,” he said,
“and thence northward to the Baltic. It
will jog a little to the west to include the
port of Stettin.”
That would mean not only acquisition
by Poland of all East Prussia and Silesia,
but partial dismemberment of Pomer-
ania and Brandenburg.
Whether Messrs. Churchill and Roose-
velt agree that the expansion of Poland
at the expense of Germany is, in fact,
“the only way” to preyent another war,
I do not know. But Churchill has indi-
cated that Poland must yield ground in
the east, and it is supposed that some-
thing will be offered in compensation.
The war’s end will see the Red Army
as far west as Berlin, as well as in Bel-
grade, Budapest, Vienna and Prague.
Commenting from London, a Soviet
correspondent has informed the people of
Russia that the Allied plan provides for
the division of Germany into three occu-
pation zones. Russia’s zone includes not
only East Prussia and other parts of
Eastern Germany but also a third of the
city of Berlin itself. In effect, full author-
ity in each occupation zone will be in
the hands of the supreme commander of
the occupation forces. Each commander
will be plenarily responsible for enforce-
ment of Allied demands, except that in
Berlin there will be co-ordination through
a Three-Power council.
How long the occupation may last, and
whether all troops will be withdrawn
simultaneously are questions of the
future. But “Germany will pay repara-
tions,” one of the many Russian scholars
now working on the causes and cures of
German imperialism said to me, “only as
long as our troops are there to collect.”
And Russia’s bill cannot be paid over-
night.
The separation of East Prussia and
Silesia from Germany may begin right
away, under Red Army occupation. The
Polish Liberation Committee has issued a
decree which authorises the confiscation
of large estates in lands taken back from
the Reich, and their redistribution among
Polish peasants. Under the Polish-Soviet
agreement providing for an exchange of
populations several million Poles are
expected to leave the Western Ukraine
and Western Belorussia. Many of them
will be settled in areas the Polish authori-
ties expect to acquire from Germany. The
German population there will be trans-
ported elsewhere, according to Polish
plans.
No comparable development seems
likely to occur in the south-western zone
of Germany under American occupation,
nor in the north-western area under
British forces. At least. General Eisen-
hower’s proclamation in no way indi-
cated support for any peasant groups de-
manding division of estates. Thus, in the
beginning, there will probably be a some-
what different economic basis established
for political administration in the three
zones of occupation.
What economic demands will Russia
finally impose on the new German Gov-
ernment? No official answer is available.
It is known that various groups in the
Soviet Academy of Science are compiling
masses of facts on all phases of the his-
tory and damage of this war, but their
reports will not be published for some
time. In talking with some of these scien-
tists, I find that they feel, as indeed nearly
all Russians feel, that nothing less than
the complete restoration of their devas-
tated lands would really compensate foj
the cataclysm the Nazi hordes have visited
on Russia. *
Property damage brought about by the
Germans cannot be fully assessed for a
long time yet. One estimate suggested a
total of about 300,000,000,000 United
States dollars, but this may have to be
revised upward. Working with practically
all her industry intact, Germany’s
national income in 1942 was around
$40,000,000,000. Even if that maximum
production were devoted solely to repara-
tions, it would take nearly a decade for
Hitler’s heirs to satisfy the victors’ legi-
timate demands. But no such income
will be attained again by a wrecked and
dismembered Germany, and the pay-off
will have to be spread over many years
and made in sundry ways. Partial com-
pensation may be secured in the form of
German capital goods and machinery.
Russia may require a large share in sur-
viving German aircraft, naval vessels and
merchant marine, and the rolling stock
of German railways.
Certain other economic impositions
naturally would mean the eclipse, at least
temporarily, of Germany as a major
industrial power of Europe. Even from
a security standpoint, not to mention
reparations, many Soviet people consider
such a denouement desirable, and they
are certainly not far behind the mooted
recommendations of the Morgenthau
plan for the control and curtailment of
German industrial power.
Aside from material damage, Russia
has a big bill to present in terms of
human life. Who can place a cash evalu-
ation on the ruination of millions of
Russian families? This Soviet Govern-
ment will certainly demand some com-
pensation in the form of German labor
power at least. Outstanding Nazi crimi-
nals brought back for trial are likely to
be executed. But great numbers of Ger-
many’s petty war-makers, who cling to
the battle till the end, may receive as
punishment an assignment to work-camps
somewhere east of the border. Russia
means to require, I believe, that many of
the very same Germans who destroyed
the products of man’s labor in this coun-
try come back and replace, brick upon
brick, what they have torn down. One
estimate puts at 10,000,000 men, working
for ten years, the amount of labor
needed to repair the damage. So far
there has been no official indication that
such large numbers of prisoner-laborers
can, in fact, be put to practicable use.
Whatever limits Russia does place on
her demands will doubtless be influenced
by the practical possibilities of* the debtors
to pay without losing the basis of mini-
mum livelihood.
France’s Indo-China.
(From an American “Foreign Affairs” article
by Gaston Rueff.)
It is generally said that Indo-China
yielded readily to the Japanese in 1940-
41, or even that the French handed over
the colony to enable the Japanese to use
it as a base of operations for their subse-
quent moves south. The facts are very
far from corroborating such a supposi-
tion.
As a result of the increased tension in
south-east Asia, a parley was held in
Singapore in July, 1939, between British
and French officials, accompanied by
military and naval staffs. A joint plan
for the defence of Singapore, Hong Kong
and French Indo-China was worked out.
Unfortunately, it was never put into
practice. When the war broke out in
Europe Indo-China still was inade-
quately armed, as were Singapore, Hong
Kong, Manila and the Netherlands East
Indies.
The French at once mobilised all their
nationals and a number of natives. By
the spring of 1940 18,000 French
troops and 75,000 natives were under
arms. Their artillery was composed
solely of 75 mm. batteries, with, at the
I tost, 70 to 80 rounds per gun. There
ill were no medium or heavy guns in
ido-Chipa. ’ There were one modern
ink and five armored cars, three of them
utmoded ; nine modern fighters (Morane
06); reconnaisance float-’planes ;
ne light cruiser (four 6-inch guns), two
r three river gunboats, and one sub-
larine. There was not a single bomber.
When France collapsed in June, 1940,
ie Governor-General Georges Catroux,
supporter of General de Gaulle, secretly
ent his personal secretary and officier
ordonnance to Singapore to plead for
elp. But in Singapore the military out-
30k was far from bright. Catroux saw
bat there was no chance of help from
iutside and realised that it was impos-
ible to fight the Japanese with his own
orces. On July 20 he handed over his
luties to the appointee of the Vichy
jovernment, Admiral Decoux.
Admiral Decoux hoped to limit the
cope of Japanese encroachments by
urrendering on questions of minor im-
>ortance but refusing to give in on any
najor issue. Through Vichy and directly
hrough the French Ambassador in
Washington, Count de Saint-Quentin,
ie appealed to the American Govern-
nent for assistance, but no positive help
vas given to French Indo-China. A
French mission, headed by Colonel H.
facomy, had meanwhile been sent to the
United States to purchase ’planes, guns
md ammunition; it arrived in San Fran-
fisco on July 28, but ran into difficulties
md was not allowed to buy a single
plane or a single gun.
The struggle against the Japanese
seemed more and more hopeless. Never-
theless, Decoux persisted in his appeals
to America. In late August he is re-
ported to have sent three telegrams to
Washington requesting assistance. Ap-
parently Washington was more receptive
at this time, for it is said that on Septem-
ber 4 Secretary of State Cordell Hull
declared that if reports were true that the
Japanese Government had served a
virtual ultimatum on Indo-China the
action would have an unfortunate effect
on American public opinion. Despite
this encouraging statement, the Jacomy
mission got nowhere.
Meanwhile, on August 30, 1940, the
Vichy Government, probably under Ger-
man pressure, had signed an agreement
in Tokyo. Up to now its clauses have
remained secret. Allegedly, the agree-
ment was a pact of mutual assistance,
allowing Japan to send troops to Indo-
China to defend the integrity of the
country against foreign aggression. Vichy
is supposed to have allowed the
stationing of 8000 Japanese troops in
Tongking and to have granted the Jap-
anese the exclusive use of three of the
Tongking airports. One of them was
the Gia-Lam airport, the main air base
in Hanoi.
Decoux was supposed to sign an
agreement implementing the Tokyo ar-
rangement, but he was doing his best to
postpone this action.
Decoux finally gave in on September
22. Events now moved fasti Though
Decoux had accepted the ultimatum,
the Japanese Canton Army crossed the
Tongking border that same night. Fight-
ing immediately broke out between
French and Japanese troops, and for
three days 2000 Frenchmen on the
Chinese-Tongking border, at Lang-son,
Dong-Dang, and Than-Moi, fought the
30,000 men of the Canton Army. But
the struggle was too uneven to last long.
On September 26 the Japanese landed
trained shock troops in Haiphong and
battle ’planes at Hanoi. The fighting
ended and Decoux yielded to all the Jap-
anese demands.
At present the native people are re-
portedly in incipient revolt against the
Japanese rule. Furthermore, despite the
fact that Decoux and various high Gov-
ernment officials are Japanese puppets,
the petty French officials can be counted
upon to help overthrow the Japanese rule
when the time of invasion comes.
Chinese Red Army.
(As set forth by J. B. Powell in N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”)
The Chinese Communist party (now
an army) was organised by Soviet Rus-
sian agents at Canton in 1926 and incor-
porated into the Kuomintang party and
the Chinese National Army. In 1927,
in the midst of the Chinese Nationalist
Revolution, General Chiang Kai-shek
charged the Reds with attempting to seize
control of the Chinese revolution and
diverting it into channels favorable to
the, Russian Communist party and the
U.S.S.R. He drove them oyt of the
I Kuomintang and broke off relations with
the Soviet Union.
The Communists then collected in the
mountains of southern Kiangsi, where
they built up an army of about 90,000
men. After Chiang had consolidated his
position at Nanking he attacked the Reds
and drove them out of their mountain
fastnesses. The Reds then marched over-
land to the north-west in small groups,
finally settling in northern Shensi, where
they established their capital at the town
of Yenan. Only about 25,000 survived
the long trek, but they quickly replenished
their strength to 100,000 armed men,
which is the number they claimed to have
in 1937, when they were partners with
Chang Hseuh-liang in the kidnapping of
Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek.
Now, according to authoritative re-
ports, the Chinese communists have a
well-equipped army of half a million men,
which they have managed to keep intact
by avoiding any frontal battles with the
Japanese. Their fighting has been limited
to guerrilla activities, and has been
concerned chiefly in protecting their own
position, which has been expanded to
include parts of Shensi, Kansu and
Ningshsia provinces. This territory is
strategically important, as it adjoins
Soviet-controlled Outer Mongolia and
Sinkiang. In a sense, the Red area con-
stitutes a buffer between the Russian and
Japanese spheres.
Efforts are now being made by certain
elements in America to force the Chung-
king Government to “compromise” with
the Reds. In view of Chungking’s
weakened position resulting from the
Japanese invasion, such a compromise
probably would amount to placing the
communists in control of the Govern-
ment and, ultimately, a possible division
of China into Russian and Japanese
spheres,
Fascist (?) Swiss.
(From a N.Y. “Times” letter by the German
author Emil Ludwig, an exile in America .)
Russia feels that Switzerland always
was anti-communist and pro-fascist. In
my opinion, this is half right and half
wrong. . _
The Swiss are anti-communist. On
the other hand, the Swiss practice very
old institutions in an almost communistic
sense. For instance, nearly every village
in Switzerland has its common pasture
where the cows belonging to all the old
families graze the whole year round.
In the early years of the Soviet regime
a Soviet Ambassador was assassinated
by a Russian refugee in Switzerland, and
the murderer was acquitted by a Swiss
Court. This caused a political separation
between Russia and Switzerland. In 1936


&
st 7
U
WION
HANOI K WHO *
IV/HEN a man is poor in his old age it is usually
V because he has lacked a plan for being other-
wise: because he has failed to put some part of his
earnings into Life Assurance which would have
guaranteed him comfort and security.
Money in the pocket often teases a man to
spend it. The money a man puts into Life Assurance
is money set to work. It builds up a Security Fund
for himself while he lives, and for his family after
his death. It does more: it builds up the Capital of
the Nation, and that helps to raise the Standard of
Living. To put savings into Life Assurance is good
citizenship.
Ask one of the Life Offices to tell you how you
can use Life Assurance to ease your anxieties.
To put Savings Into
Life Assurance is
Good Citizenship
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA
*
This Single Burner Stove gives an
intense Blue Flame for 6 hours
on one pint of ordinary lighting
kerosene.
Although supplies are limited, you can
still obtain a genuine “Thermit” Stove
through four local storekeeper. Ask
him about other “Thermit” Appliances.
mutes
BLUE
FLAME
COOKING APPLIANCES
>IHG
■ : .v.
p llMPn
President Motta said to me: “If I could
I would restore friendly relations with
the Soviets tomorrow.
Stalin’s statement that the Swiss are
pro-fascist is totally wrong. Prior to the
war for a period of 18 years Switzer-
land opposed the Mussolini regime vigor-
ously. Living directly at the frontier
between Switzerland and Italy in Canton
Ticino, a section of Switzerland where
everybody speaks Italian and the most
cordial cultural and personal relations
exist between Italians and Swiss, I was
in a position to check the deep antipathy
which Swiss citizens displayed against
fascism.
After the Nazis came to power in Ger-
many the same feelings arose against the
Germans in the German-speaking part of
Switzerland. From 1930 to 1940 there
were in Switzerland a few Nazi agitators,
but they were laughed off. One of the
Nazi Gauleiters was murdered in Switzer-
land.
During the present war the Swiss
nation has ( remained passionately anti-
Axis. They* made incredible sacrifices in
order to maintain their neutrality.
Although almost entirely dependent upon
Germany for coal and food, and depen-
dent upon Italy, where American supplies
for Switzerland landed, the most intense
German attempts to “convert” Switzer-
land were without result.
Almost in danger of being left half
starved by Germany, Swiss public
opinion forced the Swiss Government to
accept more German refugees.
Switzerland owes her unique salvation
entirely to her anti-fascist conviction.
Because Swiss people have been for 600
years free, they hate fascism. Because
they love liberty they also are anti-
communistic.
Canadian Political Trends.
(As reported by N.Y. “World-Telegram’s”
Ottawa correspondent.)
When Canadian voters go to the polls
in Federal elections which must be held
before late spring, the key issue is whether
the country will go Socialist.
Premier Mackenzie King’s # Liberal
Government has been in power since the
Conservatives were turned out in 1935,
and the Conservatives, with a liberalised
platform and new leadership, are making
a determined bid for power again, but,
for the first time, the Co-operative Com-
monwealth Federation offers a serious
challenge to both old-line parties.
In 1935 the C.C.F. was a negligible
factor. In 1940, when King was returned
to power, the C.C.F. won just eight seats.
In subsequent by-elections, however, four
more seats have gone to the frankly
socialistic C.C.F.
The senior parties appreciate the
threat, and, with ammunition provided by
heavy industry and finance, which fear ex-
propriation under socialism, the big guns
have opened a full barrage on the chal-
lenger, and with due reason.
A year ago provincial elections were
held in Canada’s most developed prov-
ince—Ontario. The Liberals were driven
from office, and the Conservatives moved
in. It was not simply a party switch, how-
ever. The Conservatives won 37 seats,
but in second place came the C.C.F. with
34, Liberals trailing with 15.
In June the farmers in Saskatchewan,
heart of the national grain belt, went to
the polls after hearing of the danger of
confiscation and expropriation hanging
over them if the C.C.F. were elected. And
the farmers ended an almost uninter-
rupted Liberal sway, dating from 1906,
to give the C.C.F. 47 of the legislature’s
52 seats.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The scientific flooding of the Netherlands by
6000 German demolition troops has not been
done in defence but in revenge. For 2000 years
the Dutch have fought the sea, ever pushing
their ramparts farther into the ocean. Now 40
p.c. of their productive land is below high-tide
level. This area contains 70 p.c. of Holland’s
9,000,000 population. Info this patchwork zone
of “polders,” or reclaimed land, the Nazis
have let the paralysing wafers, as they long
threatened to do. The flood, already spread
oyer 46 p.c. of the agricultural area, is steadily
widening. Lands flooded with salt water cannot
be restored to normal production within seven
years. These will be the “seven lean years” of
Biblical famine if the Dutch are not given
German soil on which to grow their crops. No
conquered nation has a claim on Germany
more deeply rooted in justice.— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The big question, of course, is what Russia
will eventually do in the Pacific war. We sup-
pose that question was decided at the Tehran
conference; and indications to date are that
it was decided that Russia would sit this one
~a n 4 that Stalin did the deciding.— N.Y.
Daily News.”
* * * *
Italian prisoners now in U.S. soon will be
sent back home as free men. U.S. is tending
now to take the line that Italy has earned better
treatment than she has been receiving.—“ United
States News.”
* * * *
China has presented U.S. with a big bill for
construction of airports. The Chinese, in billing
tor work done, charged at the official rate of 20
Chinese dollars for one American dollar when
actually the going rate was 300 Chinese dollars
for one American dollar.—“ United States
News.”
* * * *
1 ‘Regardless of what happens in Europe, the
hardest battles of the war against Japan remain
to be joined. In these otfensives our forces
If anyone believes that the Foies
will eternally accept enslavement
to Russia any more than to Ger-
many he has misread a thousand
years of history. Or if he imagines
that China will settle down to a
constructive national existence with-
out further revolution and civil war
he does not grasp the irreconcilable
differences between the Kuomin-
tang and the Chinese communists,
and he does not understand why
Sun Fo, the eternal opportunist,
has suddenly become the arch-ad-
vocate of Chinese democracy. Or
if he believes that Germany can
remain long partitioned he fails to
understand the national impulse
that drives Germans to war. Or, to
cite one further example, if he
assumes that Finland will eternally
be a Grand Duchy of Soviet Russia
he misreads the frightful sacrifices
the Finns have made for their
national life. —George E. Sokolsky;
N.Y. “Sun.”
will be up against a still dangerous Japanese
navy and a Japanese army as yet only lightly
hit. The roads, in any and all directions we
take, will be uphill. The going will be tough.”
— Lt.-Gen. Vandegrift, Commander of the U.S.
Marine Corps.
* * * *
It is true that Stalin has allowed a Moscow
committee of captured German officers to
broadcast appeals to their countrymen for sur-
render, and it is true that thousands of prisoners
under the leadership of this committee have re-
nounced their allegiance to Hitler, but Moscow
correspondents say that any promises Stalin
has given them in regard to a soft peace you
could put into the right eye of a Stechmiicke
(mosquito to us). — Quentin Reynolds; “Col-
lier’s.” '
* * * m
Charlie Chaplin, Greta Garbo —of thousands
of performers these two alone have failed to
entertain U.S. or Allied troops since this war
started. As a result, if either ever makes an-
other moving picture he or she invites box-office
disaster. People will forgive many things, but
people won’t forgive any performer who held
back the one important contribution he could
make to the war effort, Vice-President Wal-
lace, who often played tennis with Chaplin and
his crowd on the Coast, should have persuaded
the little man that, he could have done a terrific
morale job in this war—but Chaplin missed
the boat. — Columnist Ed Sullivan; N.Y. “Daily
NewsN
* * *
An American commentator has said very
wisely that the French would come almost' to
hate the British and the Americans if the latter
take the attitude that France is eternally in their
debt' because Anglo-American forces “rescued”
her. Very few ever come to love their creditors,
and human nature is such that very many never
manage to forgive those who have done them
a valuable service. It is all wrong to talk of
French indebtedness to Britain or the United
States —at least it is all wrong for Englishmen
or Americans so to talk. Britain and America
have gone to war twice in a single generation
on behalf of the defence of France because
the defence of that country is indispensable to
their own. — Norman Angell; “Free World.”
* * * *
Upon Russia, even more than upon Britain
or America, depend all existing plans for post-
war security. Yet one straw after another in-
dicates that she is still undecided either on the
extent or the direction her co-operation will take.
Her exclusiveness with regard to eastern Europe,
the Balkans, international civil aviation, her
treatment of Switzerland, have all given rise
to anxiety. As well, Russia has not only de-
manded oil concessions from the Iranian Gov-
ernment but has backed the demand with a
bitterness that is not so easy to understand.
Nor does Moscow’s bitterness stop at Iran. It
boils over into the United States. The Soviet
press—which lifts its voice only after it gets
the go-sign from the Kremlin —wants to know,
in effect, what U.S. soldiers are doing in Iran.
“Izvestia” charges that American troops are
there without agreement with Iran. This asser-
tion has aroused resentment and wonderment
in Washington. British and Russian forces
have been in Iran since 1941, and American
forces —all technicians —are there as allies.
Russia knows this more than any other nation,
for our technicians are there uniquely to help
her. Hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth
of lend-lease have entered Russia via Iran,
thanks to American taxpayers and American
engineers who built ports, railroads and high-
ways to transport it. But for this freely-given
help the Red Army’s victories might not have
been possible. Marshal Stalin knows why
American soldiers are in Iran.— Washington
correspondent N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
The problem of the revolutionary spirit is
closely related to the economic problem within
France. Like the inflation of the currency,
it is partly the result of the lack of production.
For if the factories and mines and transport'
were working normally there would be jobs to
which the armed youths would go unless they
went into the army, as many of the F.F.I. are
doing. The Ministry of Industrial Production
estimates that there are about 1,000,000 unem-
ployed in France. It would be nearly 4,000,000
if the prisoners now in Germany came back,
and that is a big figure for France. What
France needs is seaports, cranes, docks, trucks,
wood for mines, cotton, wool,, bridges and loco-
motives. When the French get these things the
problem of order and of finding work for the
idle revolutionary veterans will be a good deal
less difficult. Paris correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
Sfc ❖
On two notable occasions in China external
pressure such as we are now exerting led to
disaster. In the first world war President
Woodrow Wilson and the American Minister
sent the Chinese numerous notes demanding
that they bury their domestic differences and
unite against the Germans. We even with-
held Government assistance to the recognised
Government on the ground that China was dis-
united. As a result Japan gained the upper
hand and China was thrown into a disastrous
civil war which lasted for a decade. The
Chinese, of course, were the chief sufferers,
but the Americans and the British also suffered
from this attempt to tell the Chinese what to
do. The next victim of pressure politics in
China was Soviet Russia. Dr. Sun Yat-sen
invited the Russians to help in the Nationalist
revolution, and all went well until the Soviet
advisers tried to take over and direct the revo-
lution into channels that would be advantageous
to the Russian communists. The result was a
rebellion in the ranks of the Kuomintang, and
the Soviet advisers and communist emissaries
were kicked out of the country following a
bloody purge.— J. B. Powell; N.Y. “Times”
letter.
* * * *
French communists oppose the municipal
elections the Government has called for in Feb-
ruary and urge the Resistance Council to put up
a single ticket to maintain unity. This would come
close to a one-party election and a one-party
country with —if the communists should have
their way—an armed militia created by and
responding to that one party. All those ac-
quainted with the recent history of Europe
will see at once what system of Government
this resembles. — Paris correspondent N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Allied troops in the Greek port of Patras
found that a loaf of bread cost 18,000,000
drachmas; an egg 6,000,000 drachmas, a pound
of sugar 40,000,000 drachmas; that an Ameri-
can dollar was worth 300,000,000 drachmas. Be-
fore the war a dollar was worth 125 drachmas.
— N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“The prospects for post-war production are
almost fantastic. The thing that appears to be
lacking is a practical means or agency for
mobilising and making available the risk capi-
tal which is essential to a dynamic economy.”—
Henry J. Kaiser.


Personal and Missing Friends.
EDWARD STOTT—OR HIS LEGAL PERSONAL
REPRESENTATIVE.
ANYONE knowing the whereabouts of the above-
named EDWARD STOTT who was born at North-
down Tasmania on the 20th day of September 1869
and whose parents were ISAAC and CATHERIISE
STOTT PLEASE COMMUNICATE with the PUBLIC
TRUSTEE FOR VICTORIA administrator of the
Estate of ERNEST EDWARD STOTT late of 11 Ethel
Grove East Preston in the State of Victoria of no
occupation who died intestate on the 4th day ox
May 1939 If the said Edward Stott survived the
deceased he would have been entitled to a share of
the Estate of the deceased.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that unless the
Public Trustee for Victoria receives a claim in
respect of a share of the estate of the deceased from
dr on behalf of the said Edward Stott or from or on
behalf of some person claiming through him or as one
of Ids issue before the expiration of four months
from the thirteenth day of January 1945 the Public
Trustee will distribute the said Estate as if the
said Edward Stott had predeceased the said deceased
without issue.
J. E. DON,
Public Trustee,
412 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
3IAXSEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for every man’s
everyday wear.
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
m.
§s^
■m
WELL WORTH WAITING FOR!
A great day is coming soon, we hope, for sports-
men and marksmen—the day when 1.C.1. .22
short, long, and long rifle cartridges are again
available to the sporting public. . . . Meanwhile
primary producers can get supplies of these
famous .22 cartridges for pest extermination,
subject to police permits.
w
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
of Australia and New Zealand Limited
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
October 31. 1944.-I find myself becom-
ing mote methodical about things and
can deal with problems more clearly and
quickly. In fact, Pelmamsm has ful-
filled exactly what I wanted. It has
widened my horizons socially and cuI-
turaIIy.—LIEUTENANT.
March 3, 1944.-I am afraid force of
circumstances had caiised my hi cso
interest to die down. Now I fpchthat 1
have regained my grip and haye defi-
nitely laid the basis of a successful
Course. —MAJOR.
November 10, 1944.—My memory is good.
I have an interest in life, and I am no
longer a mind-wanderer. I have gained
a great deal of general knowledge, and
I find I can accomplish more work and
take more interest in people and things.
—NURSE.
September 6, 1944.—1 feel I must thank
the Institute for the co-operation and
the almost unbelievable benefits 1 ha\e
received through the Course, but most
of all for the happiness that I haye
derived since I started.—CORPORAL.
September 17, 1944.—My interest and
powers of concentration have increased
to a surprising extent. I look forward
to each day with pleasurable anticipa-
tion and undertake each new matter as
it arises with added confidence in my
ability to see it through to a satis-
factory conclusion. SOLICITOR, EX-
SOLDIER.
September 17, 1944.—1 must tell you how
much you are helping me and how-
very encouraging your advice is. About
three months ago I dreaded the thought
of meeting people or mixing with them.
I just could not do it. I thought my-
self inferior to them. Well, now I am
just the opposite. I love meeting
people; I have found how very interest-
ing they are.—GUNNER.
September 18, 1944.— Frankly, I feared
my future w’hen I returned to civil life.
Now I feel I am advancing towards the
goal of the fuller man. Fear of the
future has been replaced by willingness
to embrace it with open arms and a
desire to serve my fellow-men in my
own caIIing.—PRIVATE.
September 30, 1944.— Without a doubt, I
have made progress. My original aims
.—clearer perception, concentration and
more astute mental employment—have
become clearly defined. In covering the
ground I have found other information
of which I had not previously thought.
—CAPTAIN.
March 11, 1944. —My work in the Pelman
Course was of immense value, and to
ray surprise I mastered the tricky sub-
ject “Engines,” to the extent of 95 p.c.
I have never been “mechanically”
inclined, and the mechanics of the
simple egg-beater w-ere formerly about
my limit. —FLIGHT-SERGEANT.
October 30, 1944. —One of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50-word
message of words, place names and
reference numbers. By using the Pel-
man methods I was pleased to find I
had the whole list -correctly reproduced.
Similar instances often occur.—COR-
PORAL.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
1945
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the
Pelman Course which makes it of peculiar usefulness to members o
the Services.
Interest makes duty purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the'
subject matter of training and . educational courses, adds to tne
pleasure and profit of free time and keeps the mind in trim tor re-
entry to civil life. Interest discovers the real meaning, the energy an
movement of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of
other qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual
pupil. These qualities are:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Alongside we publish extracts from a few hundreds of letters received
during 1944 from members of the Services referring to the qualities
developed by Pelmanism.
The same full service is given to civilians with similar results.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of person-
ality in “The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
• Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “Tire Pelman Institute,
JNOTE ‘ ‘ Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
.approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 8 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT MINI). 1
Name
Address
171
ŵ
iH
1
wm
/in minimi “A"
CRAVE N A
Youll appreciate their
0
Obtainable lb W*& ST*
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
SORE THROATS
.5789
■
Our Service Department.
Wants.
To buy Land and Valuations Court Reports,
vote. 1-10.—3563.
To buy How Old Is That Car, by Hayes-
Williams. —3564.
To buy Gatlin’s The Anglo-Saxon Tradition.
—3565.
Information Sought.
What property and money may a widow
possess and still be eligible for a widow’s pen-
A widow’s pension is not paid if value of
real and personal property (apart from home
furniture and personal effects) exceeds (1) in
the case of a widow maintaining one or more
children under 16 years of age, £1000; (2) in the
case of a widow over 50 years of age not main-
taining a child under 16 years of age, £4OO.
* * * *
What effect should a post-war slump have on
real estate values, especially farming property?
It is advisable to buy such a property at
present ?
A slump would affect all values as they then
exist, but obviously it is impossible to say how
any post-war value would compare with present
values. As land values are at present fixed at
1939 figures, it seems reasonable to expect'
values to rise. The value of farming property
depends on so many factors that purchase of
farm land is always something of a gamble.
* * * *
Origin and meaning of the term “submerged
tenth”?
William Booth, General of the Salvation
Array, used the words in the book he sponsored
Darkest England (1890)—it was written by
W. T. Stead—to indicate the lowest social
class, sunk in poverty and misery. He estimated
that this class constituted a tenth of Britain s
population.
* * * *
When was Halley’s Comet last visible in Aus-
tralia ?
It last appeared in 1910 and was at its
brightest in May of that year.
* * * *
Dates of (1) foundation of Kyogle township,
(2) building of Casino-Kyogle railway and (3)
opening of Kyogle-South Brisbane railway?
(1) About 1902. (2) 1909. (3) September 27,
1930.
v * * *
Rules for treatment of a turf wicket during a
cricket match ?
. The M.C.C. Law of Cricket No. 9 provides
that; “The ground shall not be rolled, watered,
covered (except during rain), mown or beaten
during a match, except before the commence-
ment of each innings and each day’s play, when,
unless the in side objects, the ground shall be
swept and rolled for not more than Seven
minutes.” Responsibility for rolling of the
pitch before play rests with the umpires.
Brief Answers.
W.M. Nearer 50 E.A.G.: Possible, but
doubtful....C.S.S.: Small market in Australia,
but an advertisement might bring results
J.N.D.: No official publications on subject;
Australian General Electric Co. has produced
brochures on British medals T.S.: An acre
could be ploughed in a day with a horse and a
mouldboard plough. A tractor and large plough
could plough 18 acres a day A.S.McC.:
Mr. Melvin, 30 Campbell-street, Sydney, could
mount a horse’s hoof. Provided bone is still
in, condition should be suitable A.T.: Apply
to State Lottery Office, 8 York-street, Sydney.
E.H.: Information insufficient to enable
a correct answer to be given. Apply direct to
the Taxation Department in the State in which
you lodged return, quoting departmental file
number, if known.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted ; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.C.; You’re not the first who galloped for
the doctor; though you are the first who lew
over the logs like a “wren ....LM.: Story
incredible and style appalling... .E.P..inie.
M.V.F. : Amusing; try elsewhere. .. •
M.S.R.: It’s a very slim p0p1ar..,.W.C.: do
you seriously maintain that what you said wa
“What wondrous sight! Such architecture
sweet!”?...-L. de G.; Gallant attempt; that
all RS.: “Song of the Dust” is obscure.
"Sinks: Sinks....M.O.: “I met a friend
the other day and stopped to chatter, as rs my
way.” Don’t want “chatter M.r.L..
Interesting description, but gets nowhere....
D.E.: “Hark! Hark! What is that I h ear -
That is a deep groan... .MjL.B.: Hackee
stuff R.M.; Metaphors hopelessly
.R.J.W.; It would be kinder not to attempt
to rhyme “weary” with “theory.


mJm
That Perplexing
Problem!
HOW WILL MY ESTATE
BE ADMINISTERED?
By appointing The Trustees Executors
and Agency Co. Ltd., you obtain the
benefit of an impartial Executor with 66
years’ specialised experience in the
administration of Estates and the assur-
ance that the interests of your legatees
will be safeguarded until all trusts are
completed. No individual Executor can
offer such permanence, security or
efficiency.
Write or Call for Free Booklet .
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir 'Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman,
C.8.E.; Sit Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C.S. Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
1.44
J
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolwortb’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
STRONGER... LIGHTER ... L ONCER LASTING
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
CAS E S
The WILD CAT
COLMN
The T. and G.
Ordinary Life Department.
Added to Assurance
Sept., Income. Expenses. Claims. Funds. Funds,
’36 2,252,513 341,548 760,221 1,150,744 12,054,363
’39 2,870,889 390,033 972,094 1,508,762 *,6,233,128
Written off premises, £10,60f. . . . 16,222,528
’4O 3,056,735 408,060 1,102,177 1,546,498 17,769,026
Written off premises, £12,530. . . . 17,756,496
To contingency fund, £52,500.. .. 17,703,996
’4l 3,251,974 466,280 1,170,241 1,615,447 19,319,443
Written off premises, £18,871.. .. 19,300,572
To contingency fund, £50,000.. .. 19,250,572
’42 3,436,998 477,616 1,210,526 1,748,856 20,999,428
Written off premises, £13,796., .. 20,985,632
To contingency fund, £70,000.. .. 20,915,632
’43 3,607,847 449,645 1,286,651 1,931,551 22,847,183
Written off premises, £18,167.. .. 22,829,016
To contingency fund, £50,000 . . . . 22,779,016
’44 3,955,413 476,771 1,336,058 2,142,584 24,921,600
Written off premises, £19,080.. .. 24,902,520
To contingency fund, £50,000 .. .. 24,852,520
Industrial Life Department.
’3O 2,627,311 755,398 857.907 1,014.006 12,477,517
’39 3,110,960 859,460 1,428,731 828,709 15,200,239
Written off premises, £10,600.. .. 15,189,639
’4O 3,255,367 914,594 1,679,556 061,217 15,850,856
Written off premises, £11,220.. .. 15,839,636
To contingency fund, £47,000.. .. 15,792,636
’4l 3,379,107 981,163 1,740,427 657,517 16,450,153
Written off premises, £17,056- . • ■ 16,433,097
To contingency fund, £10,000.. .. 16,423,097
’42 3,516,115 997,072 1,825,052 093,991 17,117,088
Written off premises, £11,974.. .. 17,105,114
To contingency fund, £25,000. . . . 17,080,114
’43 3,613,549 926,421 1,836,692 850,436 17,930,550
Written off premises, £14,534.. .. 17,916,016
To contingency fund, £40,000.. .. 17,876,016
’44 3,724,518 929,672 1,901,429 893,417 18,769,433
Written of premises, £1&264.. .. 18,754,169
To contingency fund, £40,000 .. .. 18,714,169
The stabilising influence of life assur-
ance upon the social and economic struc-
ture is a triumph for the voluntary sys-
tem of collective security which member-
ship of a sound life office, conducted on
the mutual or co-operative principle,
affords. Not only do members and their
dependants, as well as the State, benefit,
but the system has withstood the tests of
time, including the strain of financial
depressions and the crises of two world
wars. Also the offices cater for individual
competence, and a wide variety of per-
sonal wants and needs outside the range
of the basic provisions of social security
legislation. For these and other reasons,
including suitable provision against the
possibility of untimely death, a life policy
should remain the sheet-anchor of every
man’s finances. Hence a strong demand
for life assurance protection can be ex-
pected to continue into the future, and
such protection warrants the minimum
of Government interference.
War has produced a crop of actuarial,
investment and other problems which
have cut into surpluses available for dis-
tribution among policyholders, and, there-
fore, reduced bonuses, in all life offices.
Some of the problems are passing in their
incidence, but the upward surge of taxa-
tion and the Government’s cheap-money
policy are likely to be more lasting.
To help offset the effects of dwindling
returns from investments, and to preserve
the long-range, bonus-paying capacity of
the business, the T. and G. reduced the
basis of actuarial valuation of policy liabili-
ties from 3 p.c. to a stringent all-round
2| p.c. (except on a small amount of pure
endowments) in 1941. Last term policy-
holders began to reap the first benefits
of the management’s prudence, as the fol-
lowing comparison of surpluses in the
ordinary and industrial sections of the
business shows;
Net surplus:— 1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Ordinary .. £586,776 £521,315 £450,982 £526,880
Industrial .. 352,951 272,993 240,017 256,494
Total .. £939,727 £794,308 £690,999 £783,324
The improvement (£92,325 in total sur-
plus) is due mainly to reduction in the
special provision for war-mortality—here
the “strain” has been less than expected
—which is treated as an actuarial liability
when calculating the surplus. The amount
to be distributed as reversionary bonuses
is £430,595 (up £146,529) in the ordinary
and £216,396 (up £16,285) in the indus-
trial section. The rate of bonus remains
unchanged on industrial policies, but has
been slightly increased on some of the
ordinary contracts.
Another feature of the year’s activities
was the growth in the volume of new
business put on the books —£13,485,325
(up £2,831,096), of which £8,622,174 (up
£2,373,785) was ordinary and £4,863,151
(up £457,311) industrial. Group assur-
ance, now a prominent feature of staff
superannuation schemes of commercial
organisations, accounted for a large slice
of the acceptances.
Including accident business, the co.
gathered £6,047,837 (up £324,093) in
premium income. Interest and rents
turned in £1,780,852 (up £79,717)- That
made total income £403,810 stronger at
£7,828,690. After paying all legitimate
claims and exes., allowing £34,691 for
depreciation of buildings and again send-
ing £lOO,OOO to the general contingency
reserve (now £1,133,020), the assurance
funds were strengthened by £2,936,287,
making them £43,825,839.
After deducting taxation (£196,394,
down £16,204), the net effective rate of
interest earned on mean funds, including
the contingency reserve, was £3 14s. sd.
p.c. as against £3 14s. lOd. p.c. for the
preceding term. So there is still a sub-
stantial margin between the rate of in-
terest received and that which the man-
agement assumes the funds will earn.
However, the gap might narrow a little
before it begins to widen. A heavy de-
mand for financial assistance in connec-
tion with the co.’s home-purchase scheme
is expected post-war.
A tight hold has been kept upon con-
trollable exes. Leaving taxes out of the
reckoning, exes, made off with 12.8 p.c,
and 28.8 p.c.' of the year’s premium in-
come in the ordinary and industrial de-
partments respectively. Corresponding
figures for the previous term were 12.5
p.c. and 29.4 p.c. Considering the volume
of new business, the increase in the ordi-
nary rate is commendably small.
Assets are sound:
Public 1943. P.c. 1944. p.c,
securities . . £26,903,194 63.5 £30,926,739 68.1
Loans .. 11,616,624 27.4 10,766,244 23.7
Freeholds . . 3,049,139 7.2 3,019,536 6.0
Cash, book debts,
ete 785,787 1.9 717,828 1.6
Practically every pound that has become
available over the last five years has been
channelled into war loans in Australia
and Maoriland. Last term the co.’s sub-
scriptions amounted to £4,425,000, mak-
ing total subscriptions since war began
over £15,000,000.
Victoria Palace, Ltd. (Melb.)
t - . . To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ JS £ £
1935.. 19,717 10 p.c. = 18,607 1110 88,166
Bonus scrip issued, £48,400 .. 39,766
Special depreciation, £20,400 ~ 19,366
1936.. 22,305 8 p.c. = 19,360 )
Staff fund, £lOOO ) 21,311
1937.. 25,578 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) „, QQ inQ
Staff fund, £lOOO ) 2798 24,109
1938.. 22,665 9 p.c. - 21,780 I
To staff fund, £5OO j 8,8 24,484
!939. 27,554 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 9g 758
To staff fund, £l5OO ) 4274 28,708
1940.. 26,206 9 p.c. = 21,780 )
To staff fund, £lOOO | 3426 32,184
1941.. 25,685 9p.e. = 21,780 ) 9 , n ,
To staff fund, £l5OO j 240 34,089
1942.. 23,990 9 p.c. = 21,780 ) 91ft 7QO
To staff fund, £2OOO ) 210 34,799
1943. 24,800 9 p.c. = 21,780 )
To staff fund, £lOOO J 2020 36,819
1944.. 24,683 9 n.c.= 21 780 )
To staff fund, P £ 500 ’ } 2403 39 > 222
Though black coffee is the most
potent brew dispensed, the Victoria has
always been a popular rendezvous with a
section of rural visitors, for whom the
management specially caters. It is a
“dry,” moderately-priced-tariff hotel, ad-
joining Melbourne’s Town Hall, with
accommodation for some 900 guests, and
consists partly of leasehold and partly of
freehold. The lease runs out in 1993 ; it
carries a nine-storey building, erected in
1927, and provision has been made to re-
cover the outlay by means of a sinking
fund. The freehold section was rebuilt
in 1934.
Shareholders have nothing to complain
about, and their prospects are as en-
couraging as such things can be in un-
certain times. Since the end of World
War I they have put up £135,100 of fresh
capital, which brought with it £74,800 of
share premiums. Still, the new issues
were in the nature of bonuses to those on
the register, because of the premium the
scrip commanded on the market. And
over the same period £80,900 of bonus
scrip was scattered as well. Divs.
averaged 17.3 p.c. for the decade to the
close of accounts in 1931, since when
the average has been 9 p.c., despite slump
and another war.
War bumped up outgoings, especially
for foodstuffs, taxation and wages. Ser-
vice and man-power call-ups complicated
staffing problems, and the anti-social
strike technique of N. S. Wales coal-
miners produced creeping paralysis on
the Victorian as well as N.S.W. railways,
thus increasing the severity of rail travel
restrictions. Still, as war expenditure,
financed largely on central bank credit,
increased so did the volume of employ-
ment and spending, which was further
stimulated by influx of our own and
allied service personnel into the city on
both duty and leave. For a while this
influx taxed accommodation beyond
capacity. The peak was reached in Mel-
bourne a couple of years ago, when the
Victoria had to turn away hundreds of
would-be patrons. Since then the Gov-
ernment has taken steps to check the ugly
spiral of inflation, and the rate at which
costs were advancing has slowed down,
thus enabling traders to get a little bene-
fit from the reorganisation and adjust-
ments they were constantly making to
cope with a rapidly changing situation.
After allowing £26,654 (up £863) for
taxation, £11,252 (up £131) for deprecia-
tion and spending £2504 (up £377) on
maintenance, the board figured last term’s
net earnings £ll7 short of the previous
year’s at £24,683. That was 10 p.c. on
capital as against 10, 9.9, 10.6, 10.8, 11.3,
9.3 and 10.5 p.c. back to 1937. After
paying the div. and sending £5OO to the
staff fund, £2403 remained, making the
lay-by £39,222.
Reduction of the outside debt, incurred
mostly on account of rebuilding in 1934,
continues to the benefit of cash and in-
vestments and the interest bill:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Capital . . £242,000 £242,000 £242,000 £242,000
Liabilities* .. 83,591 62,538 53,241 33,211
Freeholds . . 240,654 231,443 226,586 220,542
Leaseholds .. 97,805 95,962 94,742 94,094
Plant & furniture 17,655 13,939 11,911 10,304
Stores.. .. 1,041 1,602 2,911 379
Debtors .. 289 254 2,065 2,465
Investments and
cash .. 12,810 13,646 13,833 23,070
* Including taxation.
When the books closed the amount com-
ing to outsiders exceeded more or less
liquids by £7297, an improvement of
£27,135 over the twelvemonth.
Marcus Clark and Co., Ltd. (Sydney)
, Dividends ■,
Ist 2nd ,
Prefs. Prefs. Written Ee-
Aug., Profit. 6 p.c. 74 p.c. Ord. Off. serves.
£ £ £ £ £ £
1935.. 52,465 9,000 Nil Nil 8,094 103,269
1936.. 50,727 16,940 Nil Nil 7,047 130,009
Nominal
Eeserves.f
Goodwill reserve, £72,378 .. .. 202,387
From internal reserves, £5732 . . 208,119
1937.. 57,868 15,000 8,622 Nil 7,477 234,888
Loss on shareholdings ( £243,348),
less £219,790 capital written
off = £23,558 .. 211,330
Reserves capitalised, £185,148 . . 26,182
64 p.c. 3 p.c.
1938. . 68,009 18,000 19,338 12,148 7,771 36,934
1939.. 50,693 18,000 19,360 Nil 7,530 42,737
1940.-56,061 18,000 19,360 Nil 8,274 53,164
3941.. 64,535 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,485 59,706
1942.. 62,603 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,473 64,328
1943. . 59,388 18,000 19,360 12,148 8,384 65,824
4 p.c.
1944.. 63,682 18,000 19,360 16,198 8,094 67,854
(Subject to goodwill, £72,378.
Trading exceeded expectations, turn-
over improved slightly, war-damage in-
surance was abandoned, and exes were
pulled back a little. However, the im-
provement of £4294 in last term’s profit
figure appears to have come mostly from
purchase of 67,260 £1 ords. at par in


• ■ I
m
'{ J# 's
mu
Established 1808 In Keign ol George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.VV,
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia h New Zealand.
K££P YOl/R H/UR
ON/
'/A
ŵ
ẁ
INVENTORS —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith Hassei and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sidney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs oi classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
$ * *
DAVIES & COLLI SON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt,
OYER 100 YEARS OF INSURANCE SERVICE—
-1835 UNION INSURANCE SOCIETY ms
OF CANTON, LIMITED.
A British Office. Incorporated in Hong Kong.
Head and Registered Office: Sydney, Australia.
ASSETS EXCEED £6,600,000 STERLING.
Nearly £1,000,000 invested in Australia and New Zealand.
FIRE MARINE ACCIDENT.
NEW SOUTH WALES BRANCH:
6-8 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 87131 (Three Lines). C. R. CORNWELL, Manager.
THAT-
CHE
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchell
Manager—C. H. Chester
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44.
SUBSIDYin reverse
WHAT YOU ARE TOLD
Government payments to Airlines, £3,167,000.
WHAT YOU ARE HOT TOLD
Government revenue from Airlines, £3,294,000,
Although official figures make the figure £3,167,000,
the Acting Prime Minister, Mr. Forde, declared in
the House that “Since 1932-33 no less than £3,367,000
had been paid as Airline subsidies.”
If Mr. Forde is aware of the fact that all these pay-
ments have been fully returned with a nett profit of
£127,230 to taxpayers, this is a deliberate attempt to
mislead the people. His statement that subsidies “are
rising every year” reveals Government ignorance of
the industry it considers itself best fitted to run.
The truth is: In the last five years the Government
has received £1,109,230 more in air-mail charges than
it has paid out to Airline operators. Already over-
burdened taxpayers will rebel against costly red tape
administration taking over this vigorous, efficient and
economically sound industry AT THEIR EXPENSE.
FIGHT FOR YOUR FREEDOM . . . write to
your State and Federal Members. Remind them that
you rejected socialisation of the Airways at the 1937
and 1944 Referendums. Tell them that if they support
the bill they won’t get your votes at the next or any
elections. Write now!
RELEASED BY
THE AIRLINE OPERATORS' SECRETARIAT
Miller Anderson (Adelaide). A 6 p.c.
div. was received on these shares- they
were part of the 105,000 ords. in th £
Adelaide co. held by Marcus Clark
(Vic.), which went into liquidation in
October, 1942. The Sydney co. used to
own the ords. in the Victorian co., but
wrote them out of the books on recon-
struction in 1937. Miller Andersens
paid capital is now £185,000 in 80,000
prefs. and 105,000 ords. The prefs. are
6 p.c. cumulative and advance with the
ords, beyond that point to 8 p.c. With
arrears of pref. divs. now out of the
way, the Adelaide co.’s prospects of
maintaining an all-round 6 p.c. are
encouraging.
The parent’s own store is in Railway
Square, Sydney, there are branches at
Newcastle, Wollongong and Dubbo, and
the "co. owns the 100,000 £1 ords. in Bon
Marche, a drapery concern down the
street in Broadway which is still clearing
up arrears of pref. divs. The parent s
old premises at the corner of Pitt and
George streets are still let as an army
hostel, and its property at the corner of
Mountain and Small streets, badly
damaged by fire early in 1943, has been
rebuilt and is fully let.
Coupon rationing and the price ceiling
continue to damp turnover in drapery,
footwear, clothing, household linen and
furnishing drapery; all lines prominent
on the co.’s shelves. Also, t.-p. sales,
which used to account for a large slice
of turnover, remain restricted by regula-
tion, and so does inter-State movement
of certain goods. Though the imnort
embargo has been lifted on some lines
from overseas, most of them are unob-
tainable, which means that nobody is
any better off. What traders need most
to enable them to shape their own post-
war programme is more definite pro-
nouncement by the Government of its
post-war policy, especially in relation to
rationing, price and wage controls.
After providing something for taxa-
tion and allowing £8094 for deprecia-
tion, shown as written off in the table,
net earnings were £4584 better at
£55,588. That was sufficient to pay first
and second pref. divs. (together £37,360)
and show 4.5 p.c. on the £404,938 of ord.
capital, compared with 3.3, 4.1, 4.5, 2.5
and 1.4 p.c. back to 1939. The board,
“influenced not only by the profit earned
last year but by the prospects for some-
what improved conditions in purchases
of stocks,” lifted the div. a point, making
it 4 p.c. Since the close of accounts
sales have shown a small but steady im-
provement, and the chairman sees no
reason why this should not continue.
Still, with exes, more likely to increase
than decrease, it is doubtful to what ex-
tent net earnings are likely to benefit.
The financial position improved:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£ £ £ ' £
Paid capital 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786 1,002,786
Mortgages.. 507,769 450,524 281,481 286,584
Other debts 109,800 156,350 140,094 159,735
Freeholds, etc. 675,886 689,500 687,547 699,071
Plant, etc. 67,071 54,506 48,395 40,486
Stoats .. 181,360 265,865 227,240 259,096
Book debts 559,774 475,775 325,116 253,948
Shares, etc. 118,913 112,892 106,074 172,907
Cash, etc.. . 6,388 33,580 53,663 53,951
The year’s growth of £31,856 in stocks
and of £19,641 in the amount coming to
sundry creditors are interrelated. The
addition of £11,524 to freeholds, etc., and
£66,833 to shareholdings, etc., reflect re-
building of the Mountain-street premises
and purchase of Miller Anderson scrip
already referred to. The contraction of
£71,768 in book debts, now less than half
the 1939 figure, is due to continued
shrinkage in long-term credit sales. The
more or less liquid surplus (£331,118) was
£37,533 stronger than at the previous
balance.
Shadow of Westralian gold production
still grows less. Yield for 1944 is likely
to be about 80,000 oz. below the 1943
level, which was over 300,0000 z. short
of the 1942 and less than half the 1943
figure. Before the war there were about
14,000 men engaged in the industry;
owing to the drain on man-power, the
number has dwindled to under 4000, and
would be lesD but for the Chamber of
Mines protest against further man-
power restrictions. Mines large and small
have been forced to close down for want
of labor and essential supplies. Others,
including the eight Golden Milers at Kal-
goorlie, Phoenix (old Bayley’s Reward) at
Coolgardie, Edna May at Westoma, Sons
of Gwalia at Leonora, Norseman and
Central Norseman at Norseman, Hill 50
at Magnet, First Hit at Menzies, Comet
at Marble Bar and one or two smaller
producers elsewhere, have managed to
carry on, working below capacity, with
consequent decrease in returns, profits
and development. Still, in some cases
ore reserves show little alteration. Dis-
coveries are rarely published nowadays,
but several are known to have been made
last year, especially in the Kalgoorlie
mines. Some mineowners have had plant
commandeered by Federal authorities
under terms which they don’t like, and
they might have to wait a long time for
satisfactory replacements. No new mines
have been discovered since Yellowdine
and Comet were found a few years ago,
and additions to the list of new producers
are needed to take the place of some
nearing the end. One of these, Moon-
light Wiluna, is on its deathbed, and its
neighbor, Wiluna, where- continued rise
in working costs and persistent fall in
grade of ore treated forced expenditure
above receipts, is tipped to pass out be-
fore long. At present it is only able to
make ends meet by a Federal subsidy to
produce arsenic, which is associated with
gold in the ore. At Collie, Westralia’s
one and only producing coalfield, output
is expanding. # # ’
Apart from gold- and copper-mining,
operations in the West are very limited.
A little tin and tantalite is being got at
Grenbushes and at Pilbara. Some mica,
of which the north-west appears to hafe
most, is being produced. Production of
antimony as a by-product at Wiluna has
almost ceased, and copper output is now
at or near vanishing point. Silver in
small quantities and associated with gold
is being obtained in some mines. Blue
asbestos in the Hamersley Ranges, a
couple of hundred miles or so inland
from the north-west port of Roebourne,
is absorbing as much labor as it can get.
Colonial Sugar is using output from its
areas in the manufacture of certain
wanted commodities; and the De Ber-
nales Group is spending money freely and
working with a will, hoping that the
State Government will assist in obtaining
better road transport to the coast.
* * * *
“O.B.”: I motored through some once
very-much-alive but now ahnost-dead,
shrunk and dismal Westralian eastern
gold-mining settlements the other day.
One was Menzies. In “those-were-the-
days” thousands of men were domiciled
there, several puhs and stores did a roar-
ing business, church collection plates were
full and two daily papers, one run by
Harry Gregory and the other by Hugh
Mahon—both became Federal politicians
—showed a profit. Now there are only
one pub and general store, a few wood-
and-galvanised-iron buildings, in which
clergymen occasionally preach, some
mostly-dilapidated private houses and few
people. The two papers gave up the ghost
long ago.


ŵ
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
00^
k
h
<ik
r*
'{fM
*'XJ
Here is a gypsum finishing plaster which is
really tough.. a hardwall plaster which, used neat, gives a smooth, glossy, pure
white, sanitary finish, capable of standing up to all the hard wear in the world.
Being free from alkali and lime, this Plaster will not stain wallpapers or saponify
paint. Immediately the wall dries out, therefore, an ideal base for any decoration
is provided. C.S.R. Concord Hardwall Plaster is specially ground and processed, not
only to ensure ease of mixing and working, but to
facilitate its gauging with lime putty when less
hard surfaces are wanted. It is, of course, essential
that this work be done by expert plasterers.
Packed in Juie Bags.
C. S. R.
CONCORD
PLASTER
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING COMPANY LTD. Building Materials Division
SYDNEY . . . MELBOURNE . . . BRISBANE . . . ADELAIDE . . . PERTH
a scrap of paper
.... but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
. AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD. , A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street. Melbourne.
JU. V. I’ISIUUMS, (General Manager.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
“National Credit” and Inflation
A Hobart reader has written in ask-
ing* “(1) What is meant exactly by
‘national credit,’ and in what manner is
it used now? (2) What is meant by in-
flation, and what are the results when it
occurs?”
As to what is meant by “national
credit,” much depends upon the person
speaking. Some people have no very
“exact” meaning at all. The late Senator
Darcey, of Tasmania, possessed ideas of
his own on the subject, though he had
followers in the shape of Senator Cameron
and other members of the Labor party.
Senator Darcey appeared to think that a
value could be placed upon the national
assets of the Commonwealth and paper
money issued up to that value for all sorts
of Government expenditure, thus relieving
the people from obligations to pay taxes
or to contribute to war loans.
He and his followers overlooked the
fact that new credit—unless the future
is to be mortgaged—should be based on
new production, and that in the absence
of new production Government works
and similar programmes cannot be carried
out without taxing the people through
their standards of living, even though
money taxation may for the time being
be deferred. The truth that someone has
to pay for everything or work for every-
thing went unrecognised.
We have seen during this war that
where bank credit has been used to fill the
gap between taxation and War-loan con-
tributions by the people and actual war
expenditure (war expenditure being a cost
to the people) the use of bank credit has
not relieved the people to a similar ex-
tent from shortages of food, clothing,
transport facilities, luxuries, etc. That
is because the new credit or paper money
involved in the issue of bank credit has
not been accompanied by a correspond-
ing growth in civilian goods. The credit
was used for munitions, etc., which are
used mostly for destruction, and are
grounds really for higher taxation rather
than for the creation of new “credit.”
Debt raised on production that can be
sold profitably can be redeemed. Debt
raised on reproductive assets can pay its
own interest Charges. But debt raised
on unreproductive assets becomes a bur-
den on the taxpayer, and debt raised on
war waste is both burdensome and in-
flationary.
“Credit creation” is debt creation. The
national credit is really the borrowing
capacity pf a country at a given rate of
interest, credit in its primary form being
“time to pay”—this applies to nations
the same as it applies to those buying
from the grocer “on tick.” Borrowing,
to be on a sound basis, has to be from a
willing lender, as confidence is the basis
of credit, and where “borrowing” is car-
ried out by legal force or by financial
subterfuge it ceases to have its normal
relationship with public confidence.
At the present time, by reason of
National Security Regulations, many
financial results have been achieved
through the desire to win the war having
replaced ordinary financial confidence for
the time being. When the war ends it is
most unlikely that the same public tolera-
tion of war-time financial methods will
continue. The only thing which tends to
make the present unnatural financial
methods “natural” is that there is a war
on. War has to be pursued ruthlessly,
and financially undesirable things have
to be done. But undesirable things
should not be carried to excess, and
we must remember that eventually we
shall suffer for war-time financial and
political expedients.
The Hobart inquirer has no doubt
heard people speaking as though the
national credit was a form of paying for
things without cost to the Government.
The only form of costless credit is taxa-
tion, whereas the humbugs who talk
about costless credit hold it out as some-
thing by which taxation can be avoided.
Even where a bank may lend the Govern-
ment “credit” by giving it an overdraft,
simply writing something in a ledger,
and where the cost in interest may be
only 1 p.c. or thereabouts, someone event-
ually has to pay for this apparent avoid-
ance of liability to “bondholders.”
During the present war the Common-
wealth Government has borrowed from
the Commonwealth Bank and trading
banks £340 million on Treasury bills.
This borrowing has taken no money out
of the pockets of the people in payment
for this War; on the other hand, it has
put extra money into those pockets,
because most of it went out in wages, etc.
But the £340 million has been spent by
the Government mostly on war wastage,
not on things which the Government
could sell back to civilians. The result
of this type of borrowing is that in a
period in which £340 million-worth of
production was taken away from civil-
ians, reducing their opportunity to buy
things to that extent, they have been
paid £340 million for labor, service,
materials, etc., by the Government, and
none of the money has been taken back
in taxation or direct borrowing—taxation
and direct borrowing having paid for an
additional amount of war expenditure
running into well over a thousand millions.
With goods short and money exces-
sively plentiful the result has been price
inflation, notwithstanding efforts to con-
trol prices. More inflation appears to
be inevitable when war-time controls are
relaxed. Thus it works out that people
who did not pay directly for war to the
extent of the £340 million raised by bank
credit pay for it fully in the rise in
prices and the corresponding drop in
the buying-power of their money. Bank
credit plainly is not costless.
Wasteful expenditure that is not paid
for out of taxation eventually breeds in-
flation. There comes a time when the
wastage of war leaves an excess of money
in relation to the things on which the
money can be spent. .Supply and de-
mand eventually adjust the relationship
between money and goods, and where
there is an abundance of money and a
shortage of goods money depreciates or
inflates, and prices rise. It should be the
Government’s responsibility during war-
time to maintain a fair relationship
between money and goods. It has failed
to do so in Australia, though the posi-
tion is improving slightly.
Inflation is financial revolution. During
inflation money loses its value and prices
rise. Rising costs usually outstrip prices
and disorganise industry. Unemploy-
ment follows.
It may be necessary to explain the
difference between production for civilian
purposes and that for war. Assuming
that a government went into business
successfully for the supply of civilian
goods it would get all its outlay back by
its sales to the public. But where it is
involved in the purchase or manufacture
of war goods it gets no return at all —
except when it sells surplus stock, etc.,
after the war —war expenditure being,
financially, almost all dead loss.
The loss has to be recouped somehow.
The correct way to recoup it is by taxa-
tion. But this is politically difficult to do.
Where the aid of public borrowing does
not bridge the gap we see bank credit
used, and then we see inflation. Even
public borrowing for war-time expendi-
ture has inflationary tendencies—it is
midway between taxation on the one
hand and bank credit on the other. The
inflationary effect of war loans is seen
most obviously when the bonds are used
as security for the raising of bank loans.
At present the raising of such bank loans
is almost entirely prohibited. But the
prohibition is not likely to continue for
ever.
The productive capacity of a nation
has a great deal to do with the gauging
of its credit. Where it borrows it has
to pay interest on those borrowings, and
to pay interest it has to raise taxes. The
greater the actual production and em-
ployment of the country the easier it is
to raise taxation without crippling or
discouraging industry. It may be that
Australia, geographically, is practically
the same size as the United States, but
we should never imagine, as many money
cranks seem to want us to believe, that the
national credit is equally large. We need
greater population, greater production
and greater markets in order to expand
the national credit. If we raise upon
ourselves now a huge debt that has more
relationship to our geographical size than
to our productive capacity we are simply
mortgaging the future development of the
nation. And centuries of experience have
shown that a progressively mortgaged
heritage soon becomes a lost heritage.
Water-power in Canada
By contrast with conditions in Aus-
tralia, the consumption of electrical
energy in Canada has been allowed on
an absolutely unrestricted basis since
October 1. The only exception to this
rule has been, in the provftice of British
Columbia, where drought and a difficult
oil situation have made necessary the con-
tinuance of some restrictions. In other
parts of Canada even neon signs and
shop windows may now be
except where the military authorities
decide otherwise.
On the authority of the Canadian
Department of Commerce, Canada’s
water - power constitutes probably the
most important of the Dominion’s varied
natural resources, not only so far as the
war effort is concerned but as one of the
greatest assurances of a capacity to face
post-war industrial and trade problems.
“This particular type of energy works
24 hours a day, and never asks for an
increase in wages. It is only limited by
the capabilities of engineers, backed by
financiers, to harness the unremitting
flow of the Dominion’s innumerable
streams and rivers. The harnessed pro-
duct is computed in horse-power, but
should it be computed in .man-power
there is scarcely any limit to which it
could compete with, and be substituted
for, the cheapest labor costs anywhere
in the world.”
One of the immediate effects of the
removal of restrictions on the use of
electric power in Canada is that the paper-
mills of Ontario and Quebec are able to
return to full-scale production as soon
as timber and man-power are available.
Canada, with about half of one per
cent, of the world’s population, can now
lay claim to being the third-greatest
trading country and fourth-greatest pro-
ducer of war weapons among the United
Nations. Water-power has been the
mainspring of this industrial achieve-
ment. The aluminium industry provides
perhaps the most arresting illustration.
The Dominion now supplies 40 p.c. of
the United Nations’ requirements of this
commodity, production being six times
greater than in 1939, and greater than
total world production in 1939. The use
of hydro-electric power in producing
copper, steel, zinc, nickel, lead and
chemicals, and in the conversion of these
and many other materials into articles
for defence and civilian requirements, is
also impressive.
Post-war Taxation
, Commonwealth income-tax collec-
tions have risen from £11.9 million in
1938-39 to the rate of £167 million dur-
ing the current financial year. Present
levies include up to 18s, 6d. in the £ on
personal incomes and a minimum of 6s.
in the £ on companies, with the average
company rate much higher. There is
no rebate to shareholders of taxa-
tion paid by public companies; when
the shareholder receives his dividend
he pays tax in full thereon irre-
spective of what the company has
been charged. In the case of private
companies there is a tax of 6s. in
the £ on all assessable profits, and after
a dividend has been paid the remainder
in hand is taxed at the average rate of
all the shareholders. After payment of
undistributed-profits tax this remainder
may, in certain circumstances, be dis-
tributed tax-free among shareholders.
But shareholders as a whole are no
better off than if they received all the
profits for the year and paid tax them-
selves. Private companies withholding
profits from shareholders in order to ex-
pand their business now or after the war
are generally penalised by comparison
with public companies, which pay tax
at a flat rate of 2s. in the £ on undistri-
buted profits (in addition to the 6s. tax
and war-time profits tax).
Enough has been said to indicate the
burden which industry is carrying at the
present time and to draw attention to
the fourteenfold growth in income tax
generally since the war started. As things
are at present it would be possible, if
interest on the war debt were our only
increased Commonwealth Government
commitment since 1939, to pay the higher
interest bill and reduce taxation levies
by more than £lOO million a year
when hostilities cease. But a National
Welfare Fund has been started by the
Government in a spirit of political opti-
mism accompanied by financial reckless-
ness, and it is costing £3O million a year.
There are many other political commit-
ments that are costing the country mil-
lions without rendering commensu-
rate service. All these charges on the
national purse, which have a political
basis, will have to be reviewed before
the end of the war in order to give in-
dustry and enterprise a chance to pro-
vide full employment when the cessation
of hostilities comes. It may be that we
can provide ourselves with more social
security than we had in 1939. But un-
less we make our plans the right way,
cutting out vote-catching stuff, we may
only reduce our chances of achieving
anything desirable.


NOTICES.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Persons, etc.,. Insuring with Any
Insurance Company Not Registered in
New South Wales.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL persons, firms, companies and associations
being owners, trustees or agents for any goods
or property within the Sydney Fire District,
and eveSy other Fire District in the State ot
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, has been applied, in respect
of which premiums are paid to an insurance
company not registered in the State, are hereby
notified that they are required to send to the
Board of Fire Commissioners of New South
Wales, returns showing the amount of such
premiums paid by them in respect of the said
property to such insurance companies during
the year 1944.
The time appointed for the receipt of the
returns is on or before the 31st January, 1945;
subject to a penalty not exceeding £1 per day
for every day of default.
Note. —Returns are required only of the pro-
portion of the premiums properly chargeable
in respect of the Fire Risk during the time such
property was in any Fire District under the
said Act. ...
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary and Executive Officer,
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Returns of Insurance Premiums Required
from Insurance Companies.
Pursuant to the Fire Brigades Act, 1909-1927.
ALL insurance cpmpanies, as defined by the
above Act, are hereby notified that they are
required to send to the Board of Fire Commis-
sioners of New South Wales, returns showing
the total amount of the premiums received by
or due to such companies in respect of risks
against fire during the year ending 31st De-
cember, 1944, within the Sydney Fire District
and every other Fire District in the State of
New South Wales to which the Fire Brigades
Act, 1909-1927, applies; less any part of such
premiums actually paid by way of reinsurance
to any other insurance companies contributing
under the said Act.
The time appointed for receipt of the returns
is on or before the 31st January, 1945; sub-
ject to a penalty not exceeding Five pounds for
every day of default.
Forms upon which to make the required re-
turns may be obtained from the undersigned.
By Order of the Board of Fire Commissioners
of New South Wales.
H. M. WEBB,
Secretary and Executive Officer.
213 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Educational.
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BY
CORRESPONDENCE.
Open to all, other than school pupils and those
of school age, who cannot personally attend
.lasses at Sydney or Country Technical Colleges.
The DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
offers through the SYDNEY TECHNICAL
COLLEGE the following courses by correspon-
lence:
Art: Dressmakers’ Art, Figure Drawing, Free-
hand Drawing, Lettering, Rendering, Short
Display Card Writing, Still Life Drawing,
Ticket Writing. .
Building : Building Construction, Building
Trades Calculations, Carpentry and Joinery.
Commercial: Bookkeeping, Business Principles,
Accountancy, Auditing, Commercial Law,
Cost Accountancy, Company Secretarial Prac-
tice, Commercial Correspondence, Shorthand,
Typewriting. . . . ,
Electrical : Electrical Trades (Electricians
Licence).
Engineering: Diesel Engine Operation, Engin-
eering Trades Calculations, Engineering Trades
Drawing, Fitting and Machining, Motor Main-
tenance (for owners and drivers of motor
vehicles), Steam Engine Driving, Suction
(Producer) Gas,
Home Handicrafts: Dressmaking, Millinery.
Local Government: Local Government (Town
and Shire) Clerks’ Certificate.
Preparatory : English and Mathematics
(approximately from First Year to Leaving
Certificate Standard), French, History and
Mechanics (approximately from Intermediate
Certificate to Leaving Certificate standard).
Printing : Composing, Printers’ English and
Arithmetic, Linotype Operation.
Public Examinations; Intermediate Certificate
(see Secondary), Leaving Certificate and
Matriculation (see Preparatory), Nurses
Entrance, Police Entrance, Telephonists and
Telegraph Messengers’ Entrance.
Public Health: Food Inspection, Health In-
spection, Meat Inspection. _
Rural : Agriculture, Care of Animals, Farm
Mechanics (including Farm Arithrnetic, Farm
Machinery and Farm Science), Pig Raising,
Poultry Farming, Sheep and Woolclassmg,
Station Bookkeeping.
Sanitation ; House Drainage, Sanitary Engineer-
ing, Sewer Plumbing, Water Plumbing.
Secondary : Art, Business Principles and Book-
keeping, English, French, General Mathe-
matics, Geography, History, Latin, Mathe-
matics I (Arithmetic and Algebra), Mathe-
matics II (Geometry and Trigonometry).
(All from First Year to Intermediate Certm-
cafe standard.)
IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND A TECHNICAL
COURSE STUDY BY CORRESPONDENCE.
FEES.
25 1- per year or lu/- per term per single sub-
ject Course rates where applicable. Half fees
to students under 21 years and receiving less
than 30/- weekly.
P. D. RIDDELL,
Superintendent of Technical Education.
MAIL COUPON FOR SYLLABUS.
TO The Officer in Charge, Correspondence
Teaching Division, Sydney Technical College,
Ultimo.
Please send me, without obligation, full details
of the correspondence
course.
Name
.Address • •
hJJ
YP\
3
e
start from here ...
His perambulator gives the child his first sweet
savour of ownership. And you may be sure that
its gleaming Steel Tube frame proves eminently satis-
factory to his simple, direct sense of fitness. There
is nothing mercenary in our hope that perambulator
frames will be one of our biggest and most urgent
post-war jobs. It will take no time at all to swing
over to such production when there is no further need
for the military cab seats and other
munitions in vast quantity which at
present have priority at British Tube
Mills (Just.) Pty. Ltd., Kilburn ,
South Australia.
R & Me.
815
McCORMICK-DEERINCjgt
FOOBHHP
mmmmmm
■ -•.--- ■
■;-•■.• v.
Farmall'ti
LEADERS FOR
MORE THAN
30 YEARS
RlinQr than thirty years’
IV|U Kt experience of
sss®>
.vl odel W-4
Hlf: : ; : : : ;c33cco< : xc
m
Model WD'6
building and using farm
tractors backs the efficiency,
economy, and adaptability of
the latest McCormick-Oeering
tractors now available for
vital food production ... Full
range includes “ Standard ”
and “ Row-crop,” kerosene
and diesel-fuel models on
steel wheels, or on rubber
tyres for approved purposes
... A “permit to purchase”
* must be obtained . . . For
prices, full details, and help
with your application, write
to our branch house in the
capital city of your State, or
. . . See Your Nearest
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER
AGENT '
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY
OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRIS. - SYD. - MELB. - ADEL. - PERTH
T—9—l 51J
McCORMICK - PEERING
Vested Interests
The vested interests of Labor politics
appear to be holding up Australian plans
for post-war industrial expansion. No
country in the British Empire is more
backward than the Commonwealth m
respect of preparations for a return to
peace-time trade activity and employment
of man-power. The Government has all
Australian finance and industry tied up
by National Security Regulations at
present, depriving private enterprise or
its ordinary powers and discretion. A
greater economic responsibility than usual
thus rests with the Government,
The impression gathered after a
close study of what has been going
on in Canberra these past three years is
that fear of the trade-unions and a crawl-
ing to the short-sighted self-interest and
prejudices of certain voting masses has
prevented the Government from making
reasonable preparations to give private
industry its head, with a friendly smack
on the rump to start it off, when problems
of competitive trade, economical produc-
tion and re-employment come with the
end of the war.
The Government seems to be fright-
ened to give industry any definite
encouragement or to publicise any
practicable plans for the revitalisation or
private enterprise when the war-time con-
trols expire within Australia and lend-
lease and mutual-aid arrangements come
to an end outside. Instead, we see piece-
meal attempts at socialisation of industry
following the defeat of the referendum,
and the foundations laid of what promises
to be Australia’s most uneconomic
secondary industry —the aluminium un-
dertaking in Tasmania. Defence con-
siderations may have carried some weight
in planning this enterprise, but, in view
of Labor’s defence background, it appears
that politics carried more. (Tasmania
voted heavily against the {referendum.)
The Government is toying with the idea
of nationalisation of the banks and airways
and playing round with many other pro-
jects which have a political “angle. This
Government, which has to consider the
vested interests of the Labor party night
and day, is so preoccupied with politics
that, in spite of the economic responsi-
bilities placed upon it by the National
Security Act, it is neglecting ordinary
prudent preparations for the peace-time
development of Australia. Most Austra-
lians want to see their country one ot
growing ■ populatibn and prosperity in the
years that follow the war. To achieve
their wishes they will need to have a
Government prepared to attend sym-
pathetically, intelligently and fearlessly to
the basic economic problems of the land.
And the problems are not those of doc-
trines, systems, “prosperity loadings” and
a 40-hour week which A.L.P. circles
would have us believe. Politics in them-
selves are not a reproductive Australian
industry.
On January 12 shareholders in Guinea
Airways will be asked to agree to a
merger with Australian National Air-
ways Pty , Ltd. Guinea Airways, Ltd.,
has been offered 275,000 fully-paid 6 p.c.
cumulative preference shares in A.N.A.
in return for its principal assets, includ-
ing its war-damage claims of £93,595
against the Commonwealth Govern-
ment. The Guinea Airways concern
has a paid capital of £160,000, half in
7 p.c. prefs., the rest in ords. Recent
divs. have been at the rate of 7 p.c. p.a.
The co. was floated in Adelaide by
Guinea Gold in 1928, and it made a
good thing out of its contract with
Bulolo Gold Dredging and other ser-
vices until two or three years before the
war, when keen competition affected
goldfields earnings severely. In 1936
it absorbed Holden’s Air Transport Ser-
vices, and next year it issued £BO,OOO of
7 p.c. cum. par. prefs. to help develop
airlines within the Commonwealth. Then
came the war, and later the New Guinea
war-damage t claims. Earnings during
the last two completed years were
derived wholly within Australia. Aus-
tralian National Airways is a Melbourne
proprietary concern in which the Orient
Line, Union Steamship, Huddart Parker,
Adelaide Steam and Hoiyman Bros, were
the main foundation shareholders. In
1942 A.N.A. acquired the assets of Air-
lines of Australia, in which it already
held most of the capital. If the proposed
merger with Guinea Airways goes
through paid capital of Australian
National Airways will be £673,708 in
398,708 ords. and 275,000 prefs. Each
ord. carries 3| votes, each pref. one vote.
Income to Guinea Airways should be
greater on its pref. shareholding than
the net profits from trading, after pay-
ment of taxation, have been over the
past couple of years.
* * * *
During 1944 there was no officially
admitted rise in the cost of living in Aus-
tralia. Basic-wage and pension rates
remained stable, except for minor adjust-
ments as between States so far as wages
were concerned, and the war-time rise
in living costs remained, according to the
statistician’s index, at between 24 p.c. and
25 p.c. Few, however, will contend that,
from a housewife’s point of view, living
costs have risen only 25 p.c. There have
been some very high rises in the price
of food, especially vegetables, that appear
to be ignored by the index. The index
also takes in a number of food items
which are now unobtainable, and for
which more expensive substitutes have
to be bought. A system of Government
subsidies operated during the year in
order to establish a prices ceiling. It did
not cover a number of perishable foods.
* * * *
Treasurer Chifley has been forced to
make a few commonsense observations
about the effects of Government control
in the coal industry as seen in the case
of two collieries. Bad behavior of coal-
miners prompted the observations. What
is necessary to elicit*from the Treasurer a
few commonsense remarks about the effect
of Treasury control of the Stock Ex-
changes? Apparently investorspand stock-
brokers have been behaving too well to
reveal to Mr. Chifley the error of his ways.


THE SERVICE MAN
Philippines Successes.
“Ek Dum”; From General Mac-
Arthur’s H.Q. it was announced on
December 26 that the campaign in Leyte
and Samar was virtually over. Only
minor mopping-up remained to be done.
The welcome news was given in one
of the general’s colorful communiques,
it being stated that “General Yamashita
has sustained perhaps the greatest defeat
in Japanese military annals.” A judg-
ment which is apt to make some of the
British who fought the Manipur cam-
paign rather pensive.
In Leyte for most of the time two,
sometimes three, American divisions were
involved in the main fighting ; there were
seven on the island and on Samar. A
communique gave the enemy losses at
113,221 —“counted dead,” 54,338 ; “be-
lieved dead,” 18,500 ; soldiers destroyed
in 10 convoys, 30,000; naval ratings in
warships and convoys, 9890; prisoners,
493.
On December 30 it was announced
that the Japanese 35th Army had been
completely destroyed, and that the
enemy’s losses had risen to 116,770, all
killed except for the few prisoners.
The American losses were 11,217, in-
cluding 2623 dead. Thus 40 Japanese
were killed for every American.
After the landing in October General
MacArthur estimated the enemy force in
the Philippines at 250,000. As there
must be sickness casualties, he seems to
have wiped out something approaching
half the total at least.
The completeness of this destruction has
seldom been paralleled in the history of war-
fare.
Having been placed in a position
where he had to say something, General
Yamashita said Japan had plenty of
islands, implying that one more or less
doesn’t matter. He said also:
1 came to the Philippines with a single
purpose, to fight the war to a successful
conclusion. If we can smash 150,000 or
200,000 American troops here it ought' to
make even America wince.
This enemy leader should have an
opportunity of testing his ambition
before long. Obviously the main island
of Luzon is high on the list of advances,
land there the decisive battle for the
Philippines may be fought. It may be
inferred from Mr. Forde’s December 31
speech that Australian ground troops
may be in it.
Early in the week it was reported that
the Japanese had made an abortive at-
tempt to land on Mindoro, but none got
ashore, though the force was supported by
warships. It was apparently a diversion-
ary attack pure and simple.
Australians, apart from the R.A.A.F.’s
construction units, are playing a consider-
able part in Philippines operations. The
R.A.N. squadron made a glorious record
in the sea battle of October last. Aus-
tralian-built frigates have been involved
heavily in convoy work among the Philip-
pines passages, and one of them helped
to survey the beach approaches of Leyte
three days before the landings.
Air Operations
R.A.A.F, Beaufighters and Kittyhawks
are largely responsible for the damage
which is being done to the enemy instal-
lations on Halmahera, which was by-
passed by the landing on Morotai.
The week’s air operations comprised a
steady and concentrated series of raids
against objectives round Manila and
North Borneo. The aerodrome at Sanda-
kan was strafed by Liberators, and Batik
Papan oil installations were regular tar-
gets. Round Manila the main targets
were naval facilities, and Clark and othei
airfields guarding Manila Bay and the
Lingayen approaches. On December 24,
25 and 26 144 enemy machines were re-
ported destroyed at Clark field alone.
Further south, Davao and Zamboanga
on Mindanao were attacked, and there
were significant references to heavy bomb-
ing of the Moluccas, indicating that Japa-
nese strength there is far from wiped out.
The Christmas Day communique men-
tioned that Japanese airfields and instal-
lations close to our base at Morotai had
been attacked by heavy and medium
bombers, Lightnings and Kittyhawks.
For the rest, various parts of the Pacific
resounded to “big explosions” on Iwo
Island in the Volcano group, the burst-
ing of more heavy canisters from recon-
naissance raiders in Japan proper and the
racket attendant on the destruction of
49 Japanese aircraft and two ships in
China by General Wedemeyer’s U.S. Air
Force, reported on December 25 as hav-
ing taken place between the previous
Thursday and Saturday.
Good Progress in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Advances in Burma during
the past week justified a jubilant Christ-
mas and New Year celebration by British-
Indian troops and their American and
Chinese allies to the north-east. The
British-East African-Indian forces which
crossed the Chindwin from the Manipur
road had covered 287 miles in six weeks.
In Arakan the Japanese defence of the
Mayu Peninsula collapsed suddenly in the
Donbaik area, where south of the river
and towards its mouth British-Indian and
African troops advanced, rapidly and
little hindered, over ground for every
inch of which they had been compelled
to fight in earlier campaigns. By the
week-end they were within long shelling
distance of the substantial Japanese base
of Akyab, across the Mayu River mouth.
In central and central-western Burma
columns continued to converge down the
valley towards Yeu railhead, on the west,
and Schwebo, the latter force working
from its new base at Wuntho. On De-
cember 31 the force from Kalewa was
almost within heavy artillery range of
Yeu, but was meeting substantial resist-
ance in the last stages of the advance.
The 36th Division driving down the
Irrawaddy railway from Wuntho was
being delayed by broken bridges, as well
as by Japanese rearguard attacks. Some-
what to the east, 85 miles from Manda-
lay, below Kanbalu, which was in Allied
hands, there was also fierce fighting.
And Chinese units were reported to be
66 miles down the North Burma eastern
link road, and only 36 miles from the
Burma Road proper.
The entry of the forces into the dry
belt of the centre is imminent. It will
probably call for some pause for re-
organisation before the main advance on
Mandalay,
Von Rundstedt Stopped.
“Ek Dum”: During a fortnight of
bitter winter weather in north-western
Europe the Allies wrestled with Von
Rundstedt’s great drive towards the
Meuse.
Relatively little that is authentic is
known of the details. Allied H.Q.
had little to say of success or failure.
German H.Q. said much more, and
no doubt readers of papers like the
New York “Times” got it all. But
press and radio in these parts
seem to believe that the Australian public
cannot bear to hear the enemy’s side of
the story ; not even when, as towards the
end of last week, the enemy admitted
retirements, one into the precincts of the
West Wall defences “in order to save
unnecessary loss of life.”
All the printed guesswork and deduc-
tion could not disguise the fact that the
enemy, when supposed to be down to
his last schoolboys and grandfathers at
the bottom of the man-power bucket, had
been able to mount a tremendous offen-
sive, using several heavy divisions of
panzers, to drive his spearheads as far
as 50 miles from the original Allied line
inside Germany; to fling his masses
across all the northern highways between
the Belgian Meuse and Germany, except
the last. The last road he reached and
clutched at, but from it he was ultimately
driven when his fingers were almost on
the Meuse bridges.
Though the German movement was
overall about 70 miles long, from the
head waters of the Roer to Echternach,
near Trier, the actual full force of the
blow was in the north, and remains in
the north. It was not the solid movement
across the whole breadth of the country-
side which was pictured. Its core was
along the watershed which runs almost
directly east and west from Coblenz and
the roads on either side of it.
The southern half of the attack, in
Luxembourg, was evidently to have
limited objectives. These were to occupy
an arc of terraced land, along the edges
of which a barricade would be estab-
lished across the main roads from the
south, to make it difficult for General
Patton to come to the rescue of the U.S.
First Army while the German drive to
the north was rolling forward. Once the
Germans had pushed through the central
southern flank of the American positions
and broken down their main resistance
the function of the southern enemy flank
divisions was then apparently to protect
the northern spearhead, and to keep
as many of General Patton’s forces
as possible engaged while staging a judi-
cious retreat and conserving man-power.
To the north of the main drive
south of the road from Malmedy
to Liege, the position was different-
There a defensive skin had to be
pushed eastward through or past Stave-
lot, as the main drive proceeded. Both
the southern and northern flank defences
had to take tremendous pressure, since an
Allied breakthrough anywhere would
threaten to cut off the German corridor
towards the Meuse while its content was
still in movement.
The effect of the German movement
was that of a great smooth monster forc-
ing his way down a passage. The Allies’
job was to break down the walls of the
passage, seize him by either flank and
arrest him before trying to knock him on
the head.
To get a grip on him, it was necessary
to chop a notch on each side of his mov-
ing mass, gradually turning it into . a
broad mortice into which the Allied divi-
sions would lock, and eventually deepen-
ing the notches, if possible, until the
stream of German armor, guns and in-
fantry was cut in halves and its spear-
heads isolated.
Attack on the Road System
It could be said that, roughly, the outer
boundaries of the drive were the parts of
the Coblenz-Malmedy-Liege road on the
north and the Coblenz-Bitburg-Diekirch-
Neufchateau road on the south. The
corridor between these two highways near
the western Luxembourg border was a
little more than 30 miles wide.
A number of roads absolutely vital to
Allied cohesion in the regions which they
serve ribbon south-westward:
(1) From Aachen via Eupen, Malmedy,
St. Vith and Diekirch, to the Saar.
(2) From Liege, via Monhay, Bastogne,
Arlon, Longwy, to Metz.
(3) From Liege, via Marche and Roche-
fort, to Sedan, Reims and Paris.
(4) From Liege, making a short cut
across the Namur bend of the Meuse, via
Emptinne, Ciney, Dinant, Givet, Rocroi,
Laon, Soissons and Paris.
Across all these roads the German
attack made way till within four miles of
the Meuse at Celles on the little Lesse
River, which runs into the Meuse just
below Dinant.
As the days went by commentators re-
joiced that the enemy had been slowed
down so that his spearheads could only
travel ten miles in four days—there had
been times when the progress of the First
U.S. Army for ten miles in a month had
been hailed as a considerable success. It
also was found to be a matter of rejoic-
ing that the spearhead had been narrowed
down. But that was actually due to the
conformation of the country. What the
enemy was chiefly aiming for at first was
the passage called the Rochefort Gap,
which is between the heights north-east
of Dinant and the higher land on the
Ardennes side, round St. Hubert. The
Gap is narrow. The eastern approach
to it marks the end of the difficult broken
country of the Ardennes.
Here is reached the funnel-mouth
through which a successful invader can
pour across the Meuse, at Dinant and
Givet, on to one of the several highways
which leave the river within a space of
about 20 miles, all on the western side—-
from Dinant to Charleroi, Brussels and
Antwerp; from Givet, a few miles south,
to Philippeville, Beaumont, Mons and
Brussels, Valenciennes, Ypres and the
Channel coast; from Fumay to Rocroi,
Le Cateau, Cambrai or St. Quentin and
Peronne,
It is here through this gap at Celles
and on the heights further north af Ciney
that the German drive was described as
“blunted.” Whether it was blunted or
whether it merely recoiled from the
Meuse defences is a matter which the
future only can decide. But the painful
fact is that the Germans had penetrated
the Gap; had come within easy gun
range of the Meuse and of the Allied
defences on the other side.
It was highly improbable that they
would have attempted the passage of the
Meuse, in any case, without a substantial
pause to bring up supplies and ammuni-
tion and doing some refitting, even if a
crossing was a first objective. They have
since recoiled to the heights east of the
Rochefort passage, giving up the towns
in it, including Rochefort and Marche
after bitter fighting. The impression left
by their movements is that their opera-
tions on the lower ground to the west
were designed as cover while they con-
solidated on the heights as a stage on
the roads to Givet and Sedan
The Epic of St. Vith
The first few days of the offensive had
gone well for the enemy. Surprise was
on his side, since he was operating for
the most part in broken' hill country,
thick well-organised forests and fogs
which kept aircraft grounded. The fog
made it almost impossible for Allied air-
craft successfully to supply surrounded
pockets of troops.
There were, however, some dislocations
in the Germans’ maximum plans. The
two crossroads sectors on the north and
south of their drives were in the St. Vith-
Vielsalm area, slightly south-east of Mal-
medy and the Ambleve Valley, and
Bastogne, 25 miles further south-west
from St. Vith, just inside the Belgian
border from Luxembourg.
In the St. Vith area the Germans
poured in like an avalanche at 7 a.m. on
December 16 against two U.S. divisions,
and it is evidence of the tremendous
strength of the push that in three days
the divisions were virtually wiped out
after a gallant stand. But the delay had
been long enough to give the Allies time
to position themselves for action in the
north. The sacrifice had not been in
vain.
At Bastogne there were several Ameri-
can battalions, mainly of the 101st Air-
borne Division —it is striking proof of
the annihilation of space that the com-
mander of this formation was in Wash-
ington when the battle started, and with
his men 4000 miles away when they were
rescued.
The Germans passed Bastogne to the
south, as well as to the north, cutting the
Liege road early enough to assault
Bastogne in force from that direction
before help could be sent. General
Patton’s forces were able to strike up
from the south and, using by-roads
through the forests, relieve the gallant
remnant which had twice staved off
powerful attacks by a couple of enemy
regiments strongly supported by armor.
The Tide Turns
A week after the enemy’s advance
began he had achieved his minimum
objectives by reaching the edges of the
rough, broken country on the Ardennes
and debouching into the Ourthe valley.
This stage was the crisis of the first
phase of the great battle. The weather
was bitterly cold. The roads were ice-
bound, considerable areas were covered
in snow.
But the fog lifted and gave the Allies
thd clearer days they had been waiting
for. The air soon swarmed with aircraft.
On December 23, while Sydney people
battled for seats in Sportsground and
housie-bound trams and fought for beer
in bars, ope of the biggest battles of the
Western Front was going on, and the
flower of the young manhood of the
armies of Belgium were being trampled
under the snow in their own blood.
The battle of the sky was no less
titanic than that on the ground. On
December 23 Allied H.Q. estimated that
178 enemy aircraft had been shot down;
next day 134, with large numbers of
probables. But the Luftwaffe was out in
its greatest strength during the more
recent phases of the western war. Though
it could not prevent the rocket ’planes
from tearing up German ground columns
and heavy bombers from playing havoc
with German communication lines and
assembly bases and dumps far back
across the Rhine, the Luftwaffe made the
air fighting more equal than it had been.
On Christmas Day the Allies placed
the German loss through air attack at
55 tanks and 78 aircraft, for an Allied
loss of 13 heavy, seven medium bombers
and 43 fighters missing. And in spite of
the air support, the last of the St. Vith
area south of the Ambleve had to be
given up, allowing the enemy to weld his
north and south drives into a solid salient
nearly 40 miles long east to west, on the
average, and up to 35 miles wide. More-
over, the head of his drive had been
pushed forward further, and he had
gobbled up Rochefort, Rosiere and other
towns in comparatively fine weather. His
armored patrols on Christmas Eve had
already reached the Meuse heights near
Cedes and Ciney.
The forces here, however, were only
roving advance guards, marauding bands
of tanks hiding in the woods and wait-
ing for Allied convoys on the highways.
It was not difficult to retake Celles, which
fell once more into American hands on
the evening of December 24.
Shortly after the Germans had estab-
lished their screen frontal lines in the
Ourthe valley and the approaches of the
Rochefort Gap bad weather came again.
A heavy sleet storm blinded land troops
and grounded the air forces, though the
position was not so bad as before. The
Americans now knew where their foes
were lodged and had had time to posi-
tion their own artillery and bring up
supplies for a continuous barrage. The
German advance had been slowed up by
the destruction of motor vehicles—33ss
claimed as wrecked and 1619 as dam-
aged in 12 days from December 16, along
with 415 tanks wrecked, 315 damaged
and 735 aircraft destroyed and 235 dam-
aged, Allied aircraft losses were 298
fighters and 157 bombers.
Attrition continued on the same scale
in the next days, that in the air being
estimated usually at about three German
to one Allied machine.
Counter Blows Begin
The second phase began with the relief
of Bastogne. The German drive had
stopped. Von Rundstedt had begun to
draw the south-eastern base of his salient
in Luxembourg into better defensive


Personal and Missing Friends.
RICHARDS, George William, who left Bendigo about
1908 (brother, late Edward Albert Richards, Bull-
finch, W.A.), or any person knowing present address,
please communicate with THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR AND AGENCY COMPANY,
LIMITED, 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, West
Australia.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Dtvorce.
TO YVONNE ADAMS (address unknown). —TAKE
NOTICE that JOYCE VINING has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 3813 of 1944 on the ground of your
adultery with her husband CECIL NOEL VINING
If you wish to defend the suit you may make
application for that purpose to this Court in person
or by your solicitor and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from T. L. BLATCHFORD
Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
CD
am
country as it took up the weight of
General Patton’s drive. It had probably
never been intended to make a full-scale
advance in this region, since the country
as it comes down off the Luxembourg
terraces is not the best for attackers.
Concentration on the Belgian Gaps, and
towards the northern Ardennes, if it
could be achieved, was likely to be far
more profitable. At the same time the
probing fingers along the Meuse heights
were either withdrawn or fell victims to
the superior Allied strength now avail-
able there. The frontal face of the drive
east of Rochefort Von Rundstedt sought
to consolidate.
The Allies, having the German mass
relatively static and all its forward im-
petus taken off, took the natural course
of trying to chop it in halves through its
waistline along the Bastogne-Hotton road
and the Upper Ourthe valley, and down
the Bastogne-Liege main road further
east. They made ground on both sides.
On the south a considerable arc of the
Luxembourg front moved northwards
under General Patton’s pressure, but the
enemy still maintained a deep southing
tongue to the west of this penetration.
This was about 12 miles long, reaching
to Martelange, half-way to Arlon. It fol-
lowed the edges of the heights south of
Bastogne. The south front had been
shaping itself to that of the Esch Valley
heights, running east from Bastogne, and
the West Wall defences to the east.
The Allied southern wedge in the
Bastogne region is cored along main
road systems mainly the highway
from Liege to Metz. The northern-
wedge drive met with some success in
the days succeeding Christmas Day,
when Monhay and Grandmenil, slightly
south-west, on the Metz-Bastogne-Liege
road were recaptured. The two wedge
tips had then been driven into the Ger-
man waist to within 17 miles of each
other, and the southern wedge was being
widened, though it was gradually ceasing
to be a wedge as the German left flank
in the south drew back.
The front of the German drive in the
Ourthe Valley was forced eastward at
points. The position was better. The
Germans had begun to advertise the
Allied power, claiming that 24 divisions
had been thrown into the battle, among
them crack British troops from the north,
including the proud 51st Division—Scot-
ties who were linked in corps with
the Ninth A.I.F. at Alamein, and who still
have the score of St. Val6ry-en-Caux in
1940 to pay off fully.
As the New Year approached, the tre-
mendous armored and artillery fight, with
bloody infantry infiltrations and follow-up
attacks, was going on both inside and
along the edges of the bulge. The adven-
turousness had gone out of the enemy’s
methods, and his panzers had ceased to
roam beyond their main mass. But his
strokes were not finished.
The retreat he was making from the
south before General Patton’s recently
arrived forces was altogether inconsistent
with the greater strength of his resistance
further north, where Allied strength was
greater and far better established. The
indications were that he was engaged in
changing direction.
Battle Not Won Yet
He had sufficient forces west of the
Bastogne-Monhay wedges of the Allies
to keep a very large body of Allied troops
and aircraft occupied. His huge armored
spearhead here was lodged on heights
projecting into the forked valley between
the Rochefort Gap and the Ourthe. Pro-
vided the wedges were not too deeply
driven, the escape gap to the east was
wide enough for practical purposes if the
enemy wished to use it. The Allies could
not leave the German Rochefort forces
not fully controlled. And if Von Rund-
stedt has sufficient strength he could
undertake a very formidable blow north-
westward.
The battle is not over yet. If the
enemy has adequate reserves of man-
power and material it is only just be-
ginning. The Allied forces are in the
position of armed men grappling par-
tially in the dark with a wounded wild
beast, not yet certain of his strength or
the extent of his wounds.
There is no room yet awhile for jubila-
tion at the turn of the tide. The enemy
has struck a blow which must affect the
attitude of Europe generally. His
organisation was good, his equipment ex-
cellent, the fighting spirit of his troops
at a maniacal level of fury. He has re-
taken nearly 2000 square miles of difficult
country —only temporarily, it is hoped.
In doing this he has disorganised all Allied
plans immediately ahead and all Allied
south-western flank communications,
shutting off some of the best Meuse
approaches to the Belgian border and
Luxembourg fronts for the time being.
He claims to have taken more than 30,000
prisoners and smashed 900 Allied tanks
to December 28.
Even if that is not true, he certainly
has battered the U.S. First Army to such
an extent that it will need reconstitution
and refitment before attempting further
advances against German main defences.
And he has succeeded in compelling a
reorganisation of sea and land transport
in consonance with the new estimate of
German power of resistance.
The Saar bridgeheads, won by General
Patton’s men at the cost of considerable
loss of life and huge expenditure of
war material, have had to be abandoned
except for a single foothold on the east
bank.
The powerful British fist in the far
north has been turned from an offensive
into a temporarily defensive group,
whose front was last week probed by
German patrols across the Meuse in Hol-
land, and whose strength was redistributed
to help hold the American flank.
The stroke with which the enemy
caused these setbacks to the Allies does
not look like the last lashings-out of a
dying tiger.
Contemporaneously, he was able to
hold the Russian onslaught in Latvia, to
maintain his front in East Prussia and
Poland, to stop the Russian drive in Slo-
vakia, to force the Fifth Army back in
Italy, and to counter-attack the U.S.
Seventh Army viciously in the Rhine
Valley round Colmar, where all attempts
to dislodge German forces west of the
Rhine have so far failed.
It is a chain of events which should
lead a lot of people who are devoting
their time to seeing what they can grab
in comfort after the war, when the New
Order and the Millenium arrive, to begin
to take the war and the enemy seriously.
He is obviously not the squealing foot-
runner he is painted by Moscow corre-
spondents and the like. He cannot be
beaten by abuse and propaganda, as many
editors seem to believe. He will be
smashed in the end, but not cheaply.
Counterstroke in Italy.
The Allied communique on December
27 announced that the Germans had
attacked the Fifth Army in some force
in the Serchio valley, about 15 miles
from the west coast of Italy, and up to
30 miles from Spezia, east of Mallicano
towards the central sectors of the front.
Thp blow was a heavy one, preceded
by intense artillery bombardment, and
the Fifth Army’s frontal units were com-
pelled to retire temporarily to prepared
positions.
They, however, made a quick recovery
and reoccupied the town of Barja, about
25 miles inland, but great German ac-
tivity was still obvious on the front.
The Eighth Army reached the Senio
River on a 19-mile front north of
Faenza, except upon a short stretch to
which the enemy still clung. The Maori-
landers were four miles n.-w. of Faenza
before the week-end preparing to assault
positions which bar the Allied way to
Imola, the next big town on the main
road to Bologna. Theirs apparently the
task to bear the main brunt of the next
frontal drive north-westward.
Bombs on Britain.
While Australians were ringing the
old year out a sobering report came
from England—sobering, at least, to
people capable of thinking and feeling.
The Minister of Home Security an-
nounced civilian casualties in Britain for
11 months of 1944 as 8098 killed and
21,137 seriously injured—figures con-
siderably greater than Australia’s military
casualties for the year.
To these dreadful losses of innocents
must be added 19,779 killed and 25,665
seriously injured in 1940 ; 20,484 killed
and 21,788 injured in 1941 ; and 5484
killed and 6362 injured in the two suc-
ceeding years.
The issue of the figures synchronised
with the extension of horror bombing
with “V-weapons” to the north-west of
England—Berlin said Manchester suffered
and the British communique mentioned
“a border town.” There was the usual
sickening tale of destroyed cottages, mur-
dered women and children and misery ;
also of fortitude and self-sacrifice.
Manchester is 300 miles from the
nearest point of German-held soil. It
seems likely, therefore, that the attacks
were made with flying-bombs launched
from aircraft at sea.
Towards the week-end the bitterness
of the hardest winter which England has
known for generations was accentuated
by further attacks on the South of Eng-
land, where, in the 24 hours ended at
dawn on December 31, houses were
wrecked and more people killed.
Mr. Churchill in Greece.
“Ek Dum”: The ingredients of Mr.
Churchill’s visit to Athens included an
attempt at dynamiting British head-
quarters, snipers’ bullets, one of which
may have been aimed at the Prime
Minister, and incessant bloodshed, in
which friends and benefactors suffered.
No elevating lesson in the gratitude of
Left Wings. .
It was Mr. Churchill who risked the
British Empire forces in Greece, and with
them his career, to hold back the Ger-
mans in 1941. And the leaders of the sec-
tion which is promoting the “world revo-
lution” in Greece were not even willing
to guarantee him immunity from assassi-
nations while he arranged a truce!
Though conferences were held and a
regency was agreed upon, fighting con-
tinued round Athens.' Mr. Churchill him-
self from Monument Hill watched
British tanks and infantry and armored
cars fight their way through narrow
greets against forces which would not
cease firing to negotiate. A bullet whistled
past him and killed a girl down the street.
The Prime Minister said that the
British Government was absolutely de-
termined to see the whole built-up area
of the city cleared, and for that purpose
would use whatever force was necessary.
When Greek politicians talked and
talked and struggled against internal un-
rest and tried to form some kind of an
army, other people gathered from the north
and the hills and entered the capital. There
would have been a massacre if we had
not intervened with our troops. We are
now anxious to create here, or see brought
into existence, a Government which can
secure peace and bring the killing to an
end, and let these poor people who have
had nine or ten years of disturbances and
troubles lead their happy lives again.
After Mr. Churchill had left Athens
General Scobie intensified his operations.
On December 29 the E.L.A.S. forces
suffered severe losses in street battles, and
800 of them were captured. Germans
and Bulgarians were among the prisoners.
While the fighting was coming to its
climax it was announced that the com-
munist leaders had sent a message thank-
ing Mr. Churchill “on behalf of
the greater part of the Greek people,”
for calling the conference of December
27, and claiming that their acceptance of
the basic points of General Scobie’s ulti-
matum left “nothing to justify a continu-
ance of the fighting.” As, however, their
acceptance was accompanied by terms
which would have placed them in control
of the police and internal government of
Greece and put every Greek not of their
color in jeopardy, others had different
views, and the fight continued. General
Scobie announced that British prisoners
were being maltreated.
It was hoped at the week-end that the
appointment of Archbishop Damaskinos
as regent and the smashing of main resist-
ance by the British forces in Athens would
bring the end of the carnage nearer.
In Budapest.
“Ek Dum”: Three weeks after the
Moscow correspondents invested Buda-
pest and pronounced its fall imminent,
the real investment appears to have taken
place from both east and west.
On the east, on one side of the Danube,
are the broad acres of Pest, spreading out
into industrial suburbs ; on the west is
hilly Buda. On both sides the Russians
penetrated easily into the suburbs, with
no more fighting than delaying actions.
On December 28 the German News
Agency reported that German forces had
been withdrawn from the centre of the
city. It seemed that the only forces re-
maining were demolition and denial de-
tachments, and perhaps a rearguard main
body, which would hold out as long as
possible to delay the establishment of
cross-river communications. On Decem-
ber 31 the whole German force in Buda
on the west was ranged along a narrow
strip of river bank covering the many
bridges linking Pest to Buda. The Ger-
mans on December 29 had refused a
Russian appeal for surrender, and were
reported to have shot in cold blood two
Russian officers entrusted with it.
Strategically the city had ceased to be
worth much in the general scheme of the
front after the Russians had by-passed it
to the west. From then onwards it be-
came merely a road and rail block, with
perhaps some remnant foundations on
which the factory system could be recon-
structed.
The Changing Front
The Russian front continued to main-
tain its curious, smouldering nature.
Watching it is like watching an almost
burnt-out bushfire at night. Some old
log in it flares and sends up a momentary
glare, which lights the sky but flickers out
immediately. Then a few miles away the
same thing happens. The wind carries a
few burning twigs to a dry bit of scrub
out of the main fire area. There is some
excitement as it is put out. But dawn
reveals a blackened, ashy waste, with no
fresh impingement of the flames. This is
not to say that in time the fire may not
blaze again on a large scale in a new
place.
Thus on the eastern front on December
19 the Red Armies were supposed to be
driving on into the snow- and timber-
clad hills of Slovakia (“As the Russian
drive to liberate Slovakia gathers momen-
tum the Germans in this sector are under
attack from four directions.’’—“S.M.H.”).
By December 22 the Slovakian front was
scarcely mentioned, and London an-
‘nounced that the Germans reported the
opening of a big offensive on a 22-mile
fiont against the Germans “trapped’ on
the Libau coast in Latvia, where they
should be beyond all human aid. Moscow
had said on November 6 that there were 30
enemy divisions there, and that they were
to be annihilated immediately. But there
was no evidence at the time that any in-
roads were made into the lines of this
huge force, which was supposed to have
reached its positions in confusion after
a headlong flight.
On November 8 Berlin declared that
the great Russian winter offensive was
“immediately imminent,” an anticipation
fully in keeping with a Russian declara-
tion two days previously that a “decisive
blow” was shaping itself.
The Slovakian blow of December 22
was said by Berlin' to have been made by
27 divisions, after a 90 minutes’ artillery
bombardment. But it interested the cor-
respondents only for a few hours and
then was forgotten in favor of the new
drives on the Austrian border past Lake
Balaton, where Berlin declared that there
were 10 Red Army divisions in action,
and on Budapest.
Indeed, if the Russians can crash
through the Vienna Gap at this stage
the German defence there must be
made of brown paper. Having regard
to the length of ,communication lines
and the winter, the task of sup-
plying even three or four divisions
on the Lake Balaton lines is tre-
mendous. But Moscow correspondents
were nevertheless convinced that, at the
week-end the Russians were moving
with irresistible force against a tremb-
ling enemy awaiting destruction on “the
river Hron, last natural barrier before the
Austrian border,” and that two main
drives, by Marshal Tobhulkin towards
Gyor (Raab) on the main Buda-Vienna
road, and by Marshal Malinovsky to-
wards the Bratislava Gap, were develop-
ing apace.
Observers more pessimistic than the
hermits of Moscow’s Hotel Metropole
reflect that all Russian drives have stopped
at Germany’s first main defaces. In
Central Poland and East Prussia they
have been held up for five months of
mostly favorable fighting weather.
Politics in Poland
Just before the New Year the Lublin
“National Liberation” Committee,
formed in Moscow, declared itself the
“provisional Government” of Poland. A
facer for the British and Americans, who
have for years recognised the Polish Gov-
ernment in London ; but by way of com-
pensation they have been offered an alli-
ance by the Lublin mob —coming in after
all the Slav countries —as well, of course,
as unlimited opportunities of rehabilitat-
ing the new communist State at their own
expense.


SOME PREFER
TUBES
y
I ■
r
OTHERS
PREFER
JARS
all prefer
(?<;
raws®
LEANER
RECORD YEARLING
THOROUGHBRED SALE
IN NEW ZEALAND
Of Great Interest to Australian
Racing Men and Breeders.
AT
TRENTHAM, WELLINGTON,
NEW ZEALAND,
JANUARY 19lh, 25th and 26th,
1945.
(Corresponding with the £5OOO Wellington
Cup meeting at Trentham.)
* January Is the best time of the year •
for Australians to enjoy the equable
climate of New Zealand. There is a
wonderful Flying Boat service back-
wards and forwards today. All Aus-
tralian visitors are given a great wel-
come in New Zealand.
Since the start of the war racing men and
breeders in Australia have made few purchases
at the Annual National Thoroughbred Sales in
New Zealand. Shipping is again becoming
available, and as this year a record catalogue
of yearlings is to be submitted, representing
54 sires, application should be made at once
for the special Australian catalogue that gives
full particulars of the 274 yearlings to be sold.
The New Zealand Sales hold the record for
producing the highest percentage of winners
of any sale in the world. New Zealand pas-
tures and climate are unsurpassed for pro-
ducing vigour, constitution, stamina and steel-
like bone. Australians will all remember, prior
to the war, four great three-year-olds racing
in Australia—High Caste, Beau Vlte, Beaulivre
and Gold Salute—all were bred in New Zealand
in the one year. They established many
record performances and won 96 races (includ-
ing both classic and w.f.a.) and the great
total of £87,720 in stakes. In the past 14
years yearlings bought at the New Zealand
Sales have won classic three-year-old races in
Australia and New Zealand—Guineas, Derby,
Oaks and St. Leger Stakes —totalling 58, a
wonderful tribute to the quality of the year-
lings catalogued annually for sale. And de-
spite the few horses brought to Australia in
recent years from New Zealand, the seven-
year-old Nightbeam won the 1944 £6OOO A.J.C.
Metropolitan Handicap (cost as a yearling 325
guineas), Highway King won the Grand
National Steeplechase (bought at Trentham
as a foal), the champion mare Flight, the crack
two-year-old Courtship, and the w.f.a. per-
former Amana are all out of New Zealand-
bred mares, as is the Melbourne Cup and
Derby winner Skipton, the noted sire and
Derby winner Talking, the Australian Cup
winner Saul, and the 1944 Melbourne Cup
winner Sirius, is a grandson of a New Zealand
mare, etc. Other Melbourne Cup winners
from New Zealand include Phar Lap, Night-
march, Catalogue, Wotan (record time), etc.
Veilmond, bought as a yearling at Trentham
for 575 guineas, won both the A.J.C. and
Y.R.C. St. Legers and is the sire of a dual
Sydney Cup winner; Mosaic, dual winner of
the Sydney Cup, A.J.C. St. Leger, etc., was
bought as a yearling for 310 guineas; Gold
Bod, winner of the A.J.C. and Y.R.C. Sires’
Produce Stakes, A.J.C. St. Leger, Doncaster
and Epsom Handicaps, etc., and £18,920, was
bought for 350 guineas; Boyal Chief (£18,697£
in stakes), Theo (A.J.C. and Y.R.C. Derby),
etc., and a host of other great winners in Aus-
tralia were bought as yearlings at the New
Zealand National Sales. At the recent N.Z.
Cup meeting no less than five of the first-day
winners Kevin (N.Z. Cup), Pensacola (N.Z.
Derby and later Canterbury Cup), A 1 Sirat
(Welcome Stakes), Hormuz (Apprentices Plate)
and Essay (Spring Nursery) were all bought
at the National Sales as yearlings, and at the
Wellington meeting a fortnight earlier seven
of the winners were similarly bought. These
included the Wellington Guineas winner
Bridge Acre, the Wellesley Stakes winner
Gigli, and the Trial Stakes winner Martial
Note. The best colt in the Auckland Province,
is Balmore, bought last year for Mr. F. W,,
Hughes, of Sydney, and which recently woff
the Avondale Stakes by four lengths (pulling .
up). Indian buyers have also been successful
with Black Simon, Hormuz, Broielov, Banco,
etc. This 1945 catalogue gives particulars of 1
the record offering of — .p
169 COLTS. 105 FILLIES.
100 BROOD MARES, STALLIONS AND
UNTRIED STOCK.
The Yearlings are sired by such noted*-
stallions as Coronach*, Foxbridge*, Ring
master*, Battle Song*, Balloch*, Bulandshar*,
Defoe*, Kincardine*, Lang Bian*, Nizami*.,)
Man’s Pal*, Night Raid*, Nightmarch, Nightly,.
Phaleron Bay*, Revelation*, Robin Good-”
fellow*, Royal Chief, Siegfried*, Solicitor-'
General*; Theio*, Spiral, Tiderace*, Gynerium**
Dink*, Arvakur, Beaulivre, Beau Repaire,
Breiefort*, Cambria Park, Sporting Bloody
Yalvette, Chatsworth*, Sir Beau, Contact, St.>j
Boswells*, Charles Fox, Paper Slipper, Rhodes
Scholar, Christopher Robin, Defaulter, Orelio,
Croupier, Ninth Duke*, Gay Boy, Foxlight*, ;
Inflation, Legatee, Jay, Night Pilot, Miltiades,
Lo Zingaro*, Leighon* and Medieval Knight.
The Brood Mare Catalogue includes the;
whole of the Studs of the late T. H. Lowry,
Okawa, late H. H. Pharazyn, Hastings, and:'.
J. D. McDougall, . Wairarapa, and both thigi
catalogue as well as the Yearling Catalogue,*
are available on application to Messrs. Wra."
Inglis and Son, Ltd., 28 O’Connell Street;
Sydney, Mackinnon and Cox Pty., Ltd., 482
Bourke Street, Melbourne, and Wright,
Stephenson and Co. (Aust.) Pty., Ltd., Sun 1
Insurance Office, ?4 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Buying Commissions will be executed for
absentee Racing Men and Breeders by the
Auctioneers. All purchases will be accom-.
panied by a prior Veterinary Certificate of
Soundness, but the buyer accepts all risk from - ’
the fall of the hammer. Arrangements may bey>
made to have yearlings broken in and further
developed in New Zealand before Shipment-
Cable address: Wright, Stephenson, Welling-;:
ton.
Joint Auctioneers.
WRIGHT, STEPHENSON & CO., LTD., t
Wellington, N.Z.
PYNE, GOULD, GUINNESS, LTD., '
Christchurch, N.Z.
SPORTING NOTIONS
(Conducted by "PILOT")
An attendance of 31,500 last Saturday
was below Randwick’s recent average. So
was the tote turnover of £129,3b6 10s.
Only one favorite won, and as the prices
of four winners ranged from 10 to 50
to 1 results as a whole were more pleasing
to books than backers.
Generally regarded as little more than
a match between Hall Stand and Fel-
beam, the result of the Carrington Stakes
was a shock for most backers. Felbeam
went very close to doing her part, as she
commenced smartly, and though a slight
check early in the piece told against her,
she looked a winner when she headed
Trimmer inside the last half-furlong.
Hall Stand, on the other hand, did not
show the same dash as at Rosehill. He
was never far back, however, but though
fourth into the straight never looked a
winner.
Old Trimmer displayed all his earlier
speed, and when, after going to the front
at the start, he still led at the leger it
seemed as if he might see it out. Lack
of recent racing told against him. His
third may send him up in the weights,
but he is such a good weight-carrier that
a little extra is unlikely to prevent him
winning in the near future.
Despite his close third in the Villiers
the belief that the distance was short for
him was mainly responsible for the liberal
price of 12 to 1 going about Victory Lad
(Doon) at the close of business. Benefit-
ting from the small field, he was always
in a handy position. He was third into
the straight, and then in the last 50 yards
gradually wore down Felbeam. In Vic-
tory Lad Mrs. C. Ives probably has a
horse that will stay, as well as sprint.
Though he finished fifth War Effort
lacked the dash necessary for a very
smart sprint field. A highweight handi-
cap may not be long in adding to his
winning account. Nothing favorable can
be said for anything apart from those
mentioned.
After many failures since he beat May-
fowl and Flight in the Rawson Stakes last
March, Falcon Knight (Darke) returned
to the winning list in the Denman Handi-
cap. As usual, he was one of the tail-
enders for a long way, but was a sure
winner shortly after commencing the last
furlong. Allan Veil’s second showed him
to be improving, while though Enthuse’s
prospects Ipoked bright at the leger the
task was beyond her.
Barnsley’s (F. Hickey) Welter Handi-
cap win was impressive. Commencing
fairly, he was second to Tennessee round
the bend, and led a furlong from home.
Monaro in second place ran well. He
jumped away smartly and then, after
losing his position, ran on again in the
straight. Tennessee, who made the early
running, stopped to nothing in the
straight,,and Van Eyck’s effort did not
put him in the light of an early winner.
He opened at a short price, and then
drifted, which was a correct summing-up
of his chance. There was money for
Boomanulla, but he was never a possi-
bility.
Monmouth (Thompson) ran on
strongly over the final furlong of the
Juvenile Handicap to stall off Exile, who
did well to get so close, after being some
distance from the leaders at the top of
the straight. Monmouth is by Le Grand
Due, and warrants the belief that he will
make a good three-year-old. King’s
Mark again displayed pace. Excuses
were made for some of the beaten divi-
sion, but even with better luck in run-
ning they could not have downed Mon-
mouth. It must be added that the
favorite. Lucky Stream, blundered badly
at the turn.
The result of the first division of the
Novice Handicap further proved that it
is often difficult for trainers to correctly
assess the prospects of their own horses.
Constable and Scotch Gift are trained
by E. Dewsbury, and on track doings
the former had much the better chance,
and was backed accordingly. However,
Scotch Gift (N. Watterson), putting in
a good finishing run, won comfortably
from Brazidon, who had what appeared
a winning lead up to the last furlong,
while Constable, with a clear run
throughout, could only get fifth. It is
not often bookmakers’ odds beat those
of the tote in the case of a winning out-
sider, but while 50 to 1 was Scotch Gift’s
closing price in the “Ring,” the machine
return was only 12 to 1. The fact of
being bracketed with the well-fancied
Mentone was responsible. Scotch Gift
is a good-looking filly by The Buzzard
from Blue Skirt by Seremond, and was
a 600gns. yearling.
The second division of the Maiden
was won by Ascertain (Doon) from
Severus, who, a furlong from home, held
a lead that appeared to give him a mort-
gage on the race. Third place was filled
by Depredation, a good-looking mare
by Hall Mark from Cry Havoc, and one
worth following. Well backed Oriental
tired after leading into the straight, and
of the unplaced runners Waratah,
Idyllia and Goldmine gave most promise.
Owner R. Wootton does not score out
of his turn, but Wansey (Darke) gave
him a win in the Novice Handicap, She
carried 9st., and finished too strongly
for Milanion and Peter’s Pence, but
Darke was adjudged guilty of cutting
across those two a furlong from the win-
ning post and was suspended for two
months. Mel Swan was fourth ; but of
those behind the place-getters nothing
came home better than Marlume. Chat-
lock was the early leader, but the last
furlong pulled him up.
* * * ♦
A failure over the Epsom mile, Craigie
confirmed his previous preference for
longer distances by winning Tattersall’s
Club Cup at Randwick on Monday by a
length and a half from Kiaree and Easter
Time, after the last-named had tried to
lead all the way. Scratching of Royal
Peer took a good deal of interest out of
the event, which, with Enthuse also a
late scratching, was contested by only
seven starters.
The Talking filly Ribbon, winner over
seven furlongs at Rosehill a few weeks
earlier, finished extra gamely over the
mile in the New Year’s Gift, thus making
her record two starts, two wins.
* * * *
Still eligible for maiden company,
Evidence led all the way to win the prin-
cipal event, the Summer Handicap, at
Mentone last Saturday. Liberal Knight
—equal favorite with Oatcake —went
after the leader when they headed for the
judge, but had had enough with a furlong
to go, and was beaten for second money
by Private Chat. Evidence —a Lawmaker
four-year-old—-had raced unsuccessfully
for three seasons, about his best previous
form a dead-heat for second behind Pick-
way at Flemington a few weeks back.
Evidence, bought by his present owner,
A. G. Silk, several months ago for 350
guineas, started at 12 to 1. The win made
a 40th birthday present for Evidence’s
rider, A. R. Cooper.
for the Beaumaris Handicap
for two-year-olds on the strength of her
good second to Solitas on the same
course, Sun Cub landed the money by
only a neck, but, coming from behind,
she won in a style suggesting further wins.
By Solar Bear-Schwart, she cost 350gns.
as a yearling. The Woodleigh Handicap
for three-year-olds also went to
the favorite, Bisley, the Enfield gelding
beating Evade and Scottish Law by four
lengths, after easing to double his origi-
nal quote in the betting.
Another Enfield gelding—also another
favorite, and yet another of the maiden
performers that scored on the day—
Cepheus cost 700gns. as a yearling. He
struck a weak field in the Rosebud Trial,
was backed down to 6 to 4 and won
with ease.
* * * *
Foxbridge, who headed the list of
winning sires in Maoriland for 1941-42-
43-44, had a remarkable innings in im-
portant races at the recent Auckland Cup
meeting. Twenty-two of his yearlings
are catalogued for the sales commencing
at Trentham (Wellington) on January
19, and a record for a sire at any Maori-
land sale is a possibility. It is scarcely
necessary to give Foxbridge’s pedigree,
but he is by Foxlaw (son of Son-in-law)
from Bridgemount, by Bridge of Earn
from Mountain Mist, a daughter of the
Carbine horse Spearmint.
* » * *
Temporarily, racing has received a
knockout blow in America. It seems as
if there can be only one response to the
Government’s request to clubs to close
their tracks from January 3. Eighty
tracks will be affected. Last year 17
States received £A 17,491,007 in taxation,
and the indications were that the return
would have been much greater this year,
as some racecourses which had gone out
of action shortly after the commence-
ment of the war were resuming opera-
tions. Greyhound racing has also to
cease. It is mentioned that on each of
17 days in 1944 a totalisator turnover of
$3,000,000 at horse-racing tracks was ex-
ceeded. Americans are heavy bettors,
and considering that attendances at New
York tracks rarely equal those of Rand-
wick that was a big turnover for that
State, but would not leave either Rand-
wick or Flemingtpn far behind. It is no
exaggeration to say that money placed
with bookmakers at Randwick is five
times as much as the sum put through
the totalisator, and on that reckoning the
betting turnover on one or two days this
season has exceeded the million mark,
and on others gone very close to it.
* * * *
At one time few Queensland visiting
trainers or jockeys were held in high
esteem in Sydney. The position has
changed, and the other day when a
potential buyer of yearlings was query-
ing where he could make sure of a really
good trainer or jockey a friend chipped
in with: “Go north, old man; go north,
that’s where they breed them now.” And
Queensland trainers and jockeys have
done well enough during the past year
or two to suggest it was not bad advice.
* * * *
Excuses are always forthcoming for
beaten runners, but according to backers
who lost on Felbeam or Marlume they
were the really unlucky horses of the day
at Randwick on Saturday.
* * * ♦
It is good to know that E. Bartle does
not intend dropping out as a jockey. He
is still among our best, and though a
veteran according to Australian reckon-
ing is younger than many English jockeys
of prominence. One reason why English
jockeys last so long is that so many races
are run over straight courses, and that
disposes of a deal of the cause for
nervousness. The possibility of interfer-
ence is not nearly so great as on most
Australian courses.
# * * *
Corban died recently at the Alma Vale
Stud in Queensland. He was the sire of
many smart horses, these including
Arachne, winner of an Oakleigh Plate.
* * * *
There is a deal of humor in the atti-
tude of racegoers towards jockeys. A
winning jockey is a hero, and yells of
“Good boy, Tommy or Billy,” as the
case may be, are heard everywhere. How-
ever, if the same rider is beaten in a
following race on a fancied horse he is
always likely to be assailed with queries
of “Were you asleep?” “What’s your
whip for?” etc. Faults are rarely found
with a winning jockey, while a losing
one is rarely credited with doing all that
was possible with his mount.
* * * *
The establishment of the Sydney Turf
Club was generally approved by owners
and trainers, but the new body is not yet
able to give them cause for rejoicing.
Just the reverse, as while the construc-
tion of its own course is a long way
off, the non-licensing of some existing
courses will leave trainers without tracks
on which to prepare their horses, as well
as leaving them a long way from those
which will be available. Randwick can-
not help, as it already provides for as
many horses as it can safely carry. It
remains to be seen what the Government
can do in overcoming the difficulties.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
Melbourne has lapsed into an after-
Christmas coma. Those who organise
for war-time causes have gone to ground
for a well-earned rest. But the house-
wife is abroad in the land, re-stocking
her larder and searching for bargains,
and movie fans are queuing up in hun-
dreds.
Before Lord Mayor Nettlefold was
made a knight and Lady Mayoress
Campbell a C.B.E. they had a busy week.
At a luncheon party given by the Lady
Mayoress to the wives of Ministers and
City Councillors guests were grouped in
what Lady Cross described as a “fairy
setting.” At a semi-circular table
decorated with bowls of pale-pink water-
lilies and pink hydrangea blooms, they
faced a garden of hydrangea in shades of
pink and blue set amidst tall poplar-trees,
while in the centre was a sunken garden
with a spraying fountain. The water spray
fell over moss-grown stones into a pool,
where goldfish darted among water-lilies.
Premier Dunstan’s wife, on behalf of
the guests, thanked the Lady Mayoress
for her hospitality.
The following day Lud Mayor Nettle-
fold and the Lady Mayoress gave a small
intimate party at which they ex-
pressed their grateful thanks for the help
and co-operation they had received from
all sections of the community, and spoke
in glowing terms of the press.
Christmas salutations filled the air when
theatregoers gathered in the foyer of the
Comedy before the premiere of “The
Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse.” Modern set-
tings of this play made a foil for Madge
Aubrey, who, as the woman in the case,
wore two very beautiful gowns and a
Lily Langtry hair-do. First she appeared
in a long white crepe frock, featuring
short, shirred sleeves, centred with a band
of brilliants, which matched those form-
ing a wide scroll at the waistline. Later
Madge wore a ground-length black frock
with a transparent net yoke, high to the
neckline and sewn with sprays of jet and
with jet decorating the long-fitting bodice.
Gwenda Wilson, the other woman in the
cast, has no opportunity to display
gorgeous gowns, for, as the attendant
nurse to Dr. Clitterhouse, she wears a
spotless white uniform throughout the
play.
Sheila Helpman, over from Sydney
on a visit to her mother, re-
ceived an ovation from her friends
in the foyer. She was smart, in black
and silver foxes. Alannah Coleman
looked like a fairy from a Christmas tree
with a flat Russian coronet of gay flowers
perched on top of her shining golden
locks. Marjorie Spry wore one of the
new hats. Of fine black silk straw, it was
crowned with blue flowers, and, for
further interest, added ear muffs of the
straw. The stately Mrs. Fred Dennett
was another who chose black ; and Alice
Wyatt, who seldom misses a first night,
was with a happy party. Rhoaa fayior,
now attached to the U.S.A. Information
Library, was in deep chocolate-brown,
with an attractive blue cocktail hat as
contrast. She was accompanied by Sergt.
Ken Schapel, A.I.F. At the conclusion
of the play, which was received with en-
thusiasm by the audience, Edwin Styles
made a happy little speech, saying how
glad he was to be back in Melbourne
now that midsummer had come. As the
wind was bleak and wintry, his speech
aroused mirth.
Margaret Saker and Pat Hoogveld en-
tertained at a late-afternoon-party recently
to extend felicitations to Wing-Com-
mander John Phillips and Nan Cooper on
their approaching marriage ; to welcome
home on leave Flight-Lieut. John Nelson,
R.A.A.F., and Sergt. Les Saker, A.1.F.,
and to welcome Major Bill Taylor, of the
U.S. Army. The last-named has been just
long enough in this city to make a niche
for himself, and he says he is overwhelmed
at the extent of Australian hospitality.
For this occasion the blonde and beau-
teous Cooper lass donned a pale-pink
crepe blouse and a short black dinner
skirt. A pink rose in her hair completed
the picture.
Ruth Hop wood, off duty from the
Pathology Department at the Royal
Melbourne Hospital, exchanged her uni-
form for a deep wine-red crepe frock
embroidered in sequins. Kathleen Pap-
padakas wore a lime-green outfit with
*a tiny matching hat. Setting off her
blonde looks with a tiny red beret, Edna
Taylor wore a smart black frock by way
of contrast. Dulcie Fraser was another
smart figure in black hat and a silver
fox bolero. A mass of gay flowers made
into a tiny hat perched on top of the
shining locks of Ethel King. Hazel Raff’s
black frock was set off by a Kilinsky
fur scarf. Later many of the guests
went on to the Comedy Theatre.
Distinguished guests were present at
a luncheon party given recently to do
honor to Jean Hambling, former hostess
at the Netherlands Indies Club. Jean
is a pretty little Melbourne girl, who
has made the club a pleasant and homely
place for the men and women so far
from their home, and for the men of the
Dutch services on leave in Melbourne.
Commander Komma, of the Netherlands
Royal Navy, was host, and bidden to the
party were Dr. van Hoogstraten, Vice-
Consul for the Netherlands ; Peter Wessels
and his wife; P. A. Kerstens, Lieut.
Frouws and Miss Lucy Donaldson. The
large luncheon table was decorated with
red carnations, white blossom and blue
larkspurs—traditional colors of the
Netherlands. The guest of honor wore
a smart grey suit with white accessories.
After her hard work of the last two
years she intends having a rest. Jean
has made many friends during her work
at the Netherlands Club, and it was
with regret that the committee respon-
sible for the running of affairs said good-
bye to this Australian girl who has
handled matters so capably.
An engagement of interest in Sydney
is that of Margaret Helen, elder daughter
of Mr. and Mrs. S. Gill, Mont Albert,
to Flying-Officer David Keith, second
son of Mr. and Mrs. D. F. Nicholas, of
Epping (N.S.W.).
Ken and Valcfa Luke forsook the cows
and chickens to attend the opening night
of “Dr. Clitterhouse,” and they also went
theatrewards a few days later when
friend Mary Ward, whose lovely smile is
tucked into this paragraph, made her
debut in the Tivoli presentation of “Peter
Pan.” Mary, who plays Mrs. Dai ling,
mother of Wendy, is one of the city’s
most attractive lasses and a very clever
actress. She hasn’t been seen behind the
foot]i hts for a very i ong time, having
forsaken the stage for radio . F or many
moons she got up w ith the birds as morn-
ing announcer with A.8.C., but now she
free-lancing among commercial
. .. b
. f
Pearson W. Tewkesbury, licensee of the
Oriental Hotel, has returned from his trip
to England, which he made (by official
permission) so that he could present to
Winston Churchill the Churchill Scroll
and Flag. In Ae iast war P. WJewkes-
bury originated the idea of the Kitchener
Fiag, whereby £2O,(KX) was n«d f ar te
Red Cross. People known to the p
signed the flag and it was P r , ,
K. of K. just before his untimely d t .
The Churchill Flag raised £28,000 for the
Red Cross and the Scroll was signe y
almost two millions of Australians, I
connection with the effort, Mr. Tew es-
bury offered a prize of £5OO or a trip to
England to the winner of a competition.
Winner was a lady of eighty, who took
the money, so P. W. Tewkesbury himself
undertook the presentation. The ship he
travelled in called at an American port
and while there the signature of
President Roosevelt was obtained—Mrs.
Rooseve j t s i gned when in Melbourne.
J; °
_ r - Tewkesbury respects robombs.
One bay as he was entering his hotel he
earth shook beneath his feet, it was
caused by the explosion of a flying-bomb
two miles away. .
The devastation of London, in the vici-
nity of St. Paul’s, horrified a man who
had known London in her peace-time
beauty. This appalling damage was done
by German airmen unsuccessfully trying
to destroy St. Paul’s. Grass and trees are
pushing their way through the earth upon
which once stood the lovely shops of
Bond-street, Mr. Tewkesbury felt that
America and Australia, apart from the
loss of sons fighting for their country,
know very little of war, and have hardly
felt its impact.
From Sydney
To lift up the heart and voice in carols
is truly the glad and proper way to greet
Christmas. And the singing of carols
seems to be gaining in favor, judging
from the many children’s and grown-ups’
parties which featured the hymns and
songs written by men of many lands to
jubilate this feast. Groups of singers and
players visited the different waterfront
suburbs, and across the warm stillness of
the night the old airs had a gracious
sound. Maybe in the sentiments they
express men will find the seed of a peace
that will enfold the world in the year
1945.
At the Minerva, twice daily, hundreds
of children thrill to the adventures of
Peter Pan. They love Peter, though young
dog-lovers in the audience are intensely
interested and sympathetic over the plight
of Mr. Darling when, as a self-inflicted
penance for not heeding the faithful
watch-dog’s warning, he takes to sleeping
in the kennel himself. In short, this Christ-
mas play loses nothing with the passing
of the years. And as for the precocious
nipper who doesn’t believe in Santa Claus
or fairies, he must have a change of heart
once inside the Minerva, judging by the
loud shout of “Yes,” when the audience
is asked “Do you believe in fairies?”
Making this year’s Peter very natural and
real, Jane Holland (pictured here) plays
the part of the boy who would not grow
up. Jane at the age of five, seeing a per-
formance of “Rose Marie,” determined to
become an actress. She has made a study
of the technical side of stagecraft and has
worked hard at her profession since she
was 14. Now she is one of Australia s
most successful stage and radio actresses.
Three graceful young things chosen to
dance a trio in the fairy ballet of Peter
Pan, now showing at the Minerva, are
Elaine Fifield, Judith Ker-Stout> and
Kathleen Gorrham. The first two have
plucked diplomas for elementary, inter-
mediate and advanced examinations of
the Royal Academy of Dancing, London.
Kathleen Gorrham has already gained
her solo seal of the R.A.D. Elaine is the
daughter of the L. F. Fifields, of Strath-
field. Judith’s father is Professor Stout.
There are no coupons for horseshoes,
so the horses out at Randwick had a
grand time at the summer meeting. Box-
ing Day, fluctuating between hot and
cold, nevertheless was a day of white
frocks, shoes and hats. White and off-
white linen suits gave an air at once
workmanlike and cool to the woman
punter. With regret, however, it has to
be recorded that an immaculate front
was often the forerunner to a dust-
smeared skirt. The dust is still with us,
and settles on the seats of the mighty
even as on those of the lowlier sisterhood.
The vice-fegal enclosure, devoid of visi-
tors from Government Ffouse, was
wrapped protectingly in dust covers. Per-
haps, if the gritty disturbances continue,
that glamor-destroying but protective
wrap' of the ’nineties, the dust coat
(though it may cause a strike among the
sweater girls), may once again come into
use, if not into favor.
White sandals were a highlight of race
dressing, and there were very' few stock-
ingless legs. White handbags, too, made
frequent showing. Mollie Oxenham was
one of the white-suited. Her hat was
banded in blue and white, and the gaunt-
lets of her gloves were striped in white
and blue. With her was Joan McPhee, in
blue. Tall, dark and slim Mrs. Frank
Rogers (Midge Nelson) was one of the
white-clad. She was down from Towns-
ville and was with her father. Mrs.
Forrest Hughes a navy and white
suit, finished off with a blue hat. Sadie
Budge flashed red buttons on her white
frock.
As usual, Mrs. Roy Buckland’s hat
caught the gaze. It was gay and tiny, of
white chip straw. Pale lilac and white-
spotted silks made her cool frock. Mrs.
H. C. Whittey’s rustic straw hat had a
cone-shaped crown and swung patriotic
tassels, red, white and blue. Mrs. Robert
Brasch’s lime suit was topped by a silk
mesh snood, knotted in pearls. Mrs. John
Gearin and Aileen Carroll were attractive
in white and navy respectively. Mrs.
Robert Noss’s hat was crownless, but had
a wide red brim. A daffodil-yellow suit
was worn by Mrs. Vincent Kelly. There
was a real Romany lass look about Rada
Penfold Hyland’s rust-reds and greens.
Among the radiant was Margaret Long-
worth, in Wedgwood blues and whites.
Other good-lookers were Pat Bowerman,
Betty Cox and Mrs. St. Etienne Parsons.
The sky was blue, the sun was bright,
and there was a fresh breeze ruffling
the trees and the grasses in Hyde Park
last Friday when Admiral Sir Bruce
Fraser, Commander-in-Chief of the
British Pacific Fleet, turned the first sod
on the site of the British Centre. This
is to be a building of two storeys pro-
viding accommodation for 500 service-
men. It will have recreation ropms, hot
and cold showers, a snack bar. There
will even be a clothes-pressing depart-
ment. The Centre will be a close
neighbor to the Anzac Buffet and here
meals will be served without charge to
servicemen-guests of the Centre in the
new dining-rooms to be built for that
purpose. It is expected that the building
will be ready to open in about three
months’ time. The Admiral, his white
uniform and decorations gleaming in the
noonday sun, turned the .first sod in
sturdy fashion, watched by admiring
thousands. His speech was jovial and
sincere, and there were cheers long and
loud when he spoke of “the British
family of nations.” Sydney’s Mayor
Bartley, chairman of the British Centre
Fund, and Premier McKell were among
speakers loudly applauded.
Even more enthralling after coupons
for furnishings are things of the past
will be Margaret Lord’s book on interior
decoration. The covers are grey and
white striped, and Alistair Morrison is
responsible for them and for the line
drawings. Margaret has covered her sub-
ject very thoroughly, and tells how to
treat walls and ceilings, how to color and
cover the floors, the type of curtains to
hang on windows so that they will be
in keeping with the style or period of
furniture in the room. There is a very
informative chapter on fabrics, and there
are several pictures in color of the sort
of rooms every young wife or business-
woman would be proud of. Artist Elaine
Haxton, who shares a flat in Macleay-
street with Margaret, did the color pages.
The author is at present visiting her
parents at Warmambool.
The Theatre for Children is putting on
a double bill for its season at the
Assembly Hall in Margaret-street. Rose-
marie Benjamin has caught the truly
juvenile outlook in her production of the
plays: “Fat King Melon” and her own
adaptation of Hans Anderson’s “The
Emperor’s New Clothes.” Toni Steiner
designed the costumes and sets.
In April, when the cool of the year
begins, this State’s Red Cross will hold
conference. Owing to travel difficulties
and war conditions there has been no
such conference for three years, but the
chairman of the Divisional Council, A. L.
Blythe, said at last week’s meeting that the
time had come for a gathering of branch
members similar to those held in pre-war
days. He believes that it would stimu-
late the members in the present and
post-war work of Red Cross. Mrs. W.
Minell, divisional commandant of
women personnel, pointed out in her
report that it was now difficult to get
voluntary resident aids for convalescent
homes. Mrs. Minell believes the cause
to be family economics—taxation and
so on.
At least one Sydney man has recol-
lections of meeting the creator of the
celebrated Gibson girl, who recently, at
70, laid down his mortal brush and pencil.
When Walter Swinson, of Turramurra,
was a young man he knew most of
London’s art and literary sets. Among
his friends were the Phil Mays.* One
night he was bidden to one of Phil’s
famed studio parties. The guest of the
night was to be Charles Dana Gibson. But
the guest was slow in making an appear-
ance. Presently Phil May got busy and
soon had all present standing in a great
semi-circle. Then, with an air, the doors
to the. studio were thrown wide, and,
dressed in plus fours and the complete
cyclist’s outfit of the day, Gibson solemnly
cycled into the room and around the
semi-circle of applauding and laughing
onlookers.


EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co.,Pty_Ltd„ King Street. Sydney.
STOpYounßupture
Worries/
Mark® locaHon
of YQUW RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free, En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL, APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Syuney.
HAIMS
Circular Charts Jor all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
sU
QUEEN STREET
Brisbane, am
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
u
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Bog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors-. THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairmanj F. W. Dvesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
’Phone (three lines) : 117361. Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
njv
Ly-
&
M
M
i
wi
CLm,)a. gjj^
C<yuJicL u&(xq£ tsCV
c^uSdS?
■^rr^L’to’-dcu^l
Save "FREDDO" for
the children-they need
him most!
9
::
FREDDO'
4^/s/5
CHOCOLATE
. FROGS.
fyj/iat 3stcfojirL/iaA olowe.
In 1939, the British Army had 45,000 vehicles. By
July, 1943, the number had increased to 750,000.
Later figures cannot yet be divulged by the War
Office, but with the added impetus towards Victory
since achieved, one realises the vastness of England’s
production, even under “blitz” conditions.
(BRITISH MINISTRY OF INFORMATION)
ivi/ido-
The same application to the needs of war
marks the record war-time production of
Imperial Typewriters, all of which now go to
the Fighting Services. It will not be long, how-
ever, before you can assure complete efficiency
in your office, by the use of new-styled, beauti-
fully designed, quiet Imperial Typewriters.
ẁ
Imperial
Typewriters
Standard and Portable
Models
DOBELL I'TY. LTD.
29 REIBY PLACE, SYDNEY
Tel.: BW 1227
12869
SMOKE-OH!
-I-
Wxtness stated he had been released from
interment in August, 1942,” —‘‘Daily Mirror.”
However, he didn’t claim that his in-
terment was a grave error.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, motherly woman, three afternoons
weekly, to mind toddler (boy) over 45.”
— “S.M.H.”
In his second childhood?
+ 4*
There were no marriages between members
of the R.A.A.F. and Russian girls at Murmansk,
Russia, chiefly because the Russian girls wore
revolvers on their waists ."—“S.M.H.”
She was my love, my Red, Red Rose,
I courted her from morn till sundown.
It really 'grieves me to disclose
I never ventured to propose —
She wouldn’t lay that loaded gun down.
Traymon.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Two car thieves who admitted changing
registration numbers with plasticine were each
sentenced to 15 months’ hard labor.” — “Sun.”
They waxed —and waned.
+ *h 4 +
“Fireman, with refrigeration experience,
wanted by city firm.”— “S.M.H.”
Whenever he sees the boss coming
he’ll go hot and cold ail over.
4* 4* < 4* 4*
Borderline Case.
“Quarantine regulations were waived to per-
mit a parrot to be moved from the kitchen to
the living-room of a house on the U.S.-Qana-
dian border. The kitchen is in Canada, the rest
of the house in the U.S.”
—“Sunday Telegraphy
Living, as you might say, in two
countries at once is no joke, as we dis-
covered when my wife and I inhabited
a little love-nest on the border of Vul-
garia and Ptomania.
It was bad enough to be forced to pro-
duce our passports for inspection by both
sets of officials camped in the hall each
time we wanted to go from the lounge
to the kitchen. Worse still was the effect
on the family exchequer of having to
pay duty on my wife’s jewellery and my
cigarettes and hip-pocket flask when-
ever we passed through the hall. As the
Vulgarian and Ptomanian customs regu-
lations were, to say the least of it, com-
prehensive, we eventually had to buy a
duplicate set of everything, including
dog, cat and canary, on account of the
quarantine regulations.
We both found a good deal to com-
plain of at night, in the shape of folk-
songs and catcalls from the guards, also
an occasional stray shot from a nervous
sentry, but all this paled into insignifi-
cance when war broke out between our
duplex fatherlands. Since the front line
ran through the house, we suffered a
good deal of inconvenience from sol-
diers coming in without knocking or
wiping their boots, firing several rounds
down the hall and withdrawing with no
more than a muttered apology. During
one offensive possession of the kitchen
was disputed for three days, causing
much delay in the meals, also pieces of
shrapnel in the porridge.
Things came to a head when I re-
turned from work one day to find a
Ptomanian tank repair outfit established
in the lounge, a Vulgarian ammunition
dump in the kitchen and five foreign cor-
respondents playing poker in the front
bedroom.
We mined the whole place, and retired
to previously prepared positions in the
shape of a quiet little cottage next to a
boiler factory.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
In Reverse.
“A discharged hand, for a joke, sent some
of Baldick’s cream to the butter factory, which,
owing to a quarrel, he had refused to supply.
Baldick not only got a cheque but a letter
which led to the quarrel being forgotten. He
is now chairman of the factory.”— “Sun.”
To cause us annoyance dark malice may
scheme,
But the wheel's oft improved when he
puts in his spoke;
The nasty chap laughed at the joke of
the cream,
But Baldick, it seems, had the cream
of the joke.
H. M.
4* ■i 1 4* ■s*
Mrs. Brown plays the pipe organ, the
violin and the piano. She told her husband
that his presence in the home was inimical to
her composing.”— “Sunday Telegraph.”
She couldn’t stand a bar of him.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Funny how a shallow female can get
a man out of his depth.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Married couples are the cells out of which
civilised societies are built.” — Woman’s mag.
But more and more are being released
from their cells by the courts.
•J*
“What is there in common between love and
war?” — “New Idea.”
The woman makes advances, wins an
engagement and then the man uncondi-
tionally surrenders.
•Jr 4* 4* 4;
Definitely Not Cricket.
“Sir Stanley Jackson, who was batting with
Grace in 1896 when fast-bowler E. Jones was
supposed to have sent a ball through ‘W.G.’s’
beard, throws new light on the incident in
this year’s ‘Wisden.’” — “S.M.H.”
It has been truly said that the on-
looker sees more of the game than the
players, which is why I prefer the version
of my Uncle Willie, who followed the
Aussie team on its English tour that year,
to that of Stanley, who was away up at
the other end of the pitch at the time.
It was the rumble coming from the
man on whose shoulder he was sleeping
as he sang out “Oh, well cut, sir!” that
woke Uncle Willie up as Jackson hit
a single after 45 minutes’ batting. That
shot brought “W.G.” to face Jones, the
Terror.
Apparently the G.O.M. had forgotten
to currycomb his beaver that morning,
and a blustering wind added to its unruli-
ness, Jones came up to deliver an extra-
fast one; he thumped it down a yard
from his own toe, and it flew high.
“W.G.” stepped back, but as he did so
a gust of wind whisked his whiskers aloft.
J, J. Kelly, the ’keeper, tossed the ball
back, but just as “W.G.” was taking up
his stand again the ’keeper sniffed.
It was then he noticed smoke coming
from Grace’s whiskers. He yelled for the
drink*waiter, who brought out a glass of
beer, into which Kelly forced “W.G.’s”
whiskers, thereby saving what might have
become a general conflagration.
“W.G.,” his whiskers dripping suds,
then walked down the pitch as the Aussie
captain, Harry Trott, came over from
mid-on.
“What’s gairm, choom?” demanded
“W.G.” “It isn’t cricket, by gum, try-
ing to fire a batsman’s whiskers!”
‘ Then Harry Trott spoke up. “No need
to get your hair off, doc. It was just an
accident. You know how Jonesy likes
to belt ’em down.”
“Me get me hair off!” said “W.G.”
“I like that. It’s yon bawler o’ your ll
that’s tryin’ to get mine off, shootin’ in
a fizzer that cooms oop an’ nigh sets a
feller on fire wi’ the friction.”
Jones then came along, rolling up his
sleeves. “Now don’t do your block,
Jonah,” said Harry. “Let me handle
this.” Then he turned to “W.G.” and
said, “That ball didn’t go anywhere near
your face mat, Doc. Probably you ashed
your cigarette when you left the pavilion,
then tucked the bumper in your beard
and it wasn’t properly stubbed out.”
“Doost think a man’s daft, laad?” said
“W.G.” “Anyway, I don’t smoke cigar-
ettes. I use a claydab.”
“Well, that might have got stuck in
your fungus somewhere,” said Harry.
“Here, what’s this?” —and he reached
out and pulled a pipe from “W.G.’s”
face fur. The doc. looks at it pop-eyed.
Just then Jackson came down the
pitch from his end and joined his captain.
“Are you all right, ‘W.G.’?” he asked.
“00, aye—champion,” said doc. some-
what dazed at the turn events had taken.
Then the umpire strolled up. “No
more bellyachin’, laads,” he said. “Tairk
strike. Doc., and best bootton thy shirt
oop to thy neck and poke whiskers inside
it —and you, Jonah, troondle ’em oop,
an’ no more beard-bashin’, neither. We’ll
regard incident as claused!”
And, of course, it’s been kept open
ever since.
80.
Tragedy.
A cheery hen produced an egg,
Without the slightest aid.
“Oh, joy!” exclaimed that happy egg,
“To think that I’ve been laia /"
I ate the egg for breakfast then.
A sad thing, you’ll agree.
And, sadder still, I ate the hen
For tea.
T. W.NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placeu urst is paid
4id. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Who Wants Revolution?
I stumbled into an argument in an
hotel lounge with an old gentleman who
seemed certain —even anxious—that there
should be a revolution in Australia, if not
immediately after the war, then within
a few years after its close. He was a
political admirer of Stalin, and was con-
vinced that I was too young to be capable
of exercising an intelligent vote at the
Commonwealth Referendum.
He was enjoying the declining years
of his life in comfort and security, yet
he talked of revolution and social upset.
He had, apparently, no practical ex-
perience of war, yet he thought in terms
of violence. I had spent over four years
seeing something of war’s carnage and
suffering, submitting to a lot of neces-
sary standardisation and regimentation,
yet, paradoxically, I found myself de-
fending the principle of social evolution.
And I found myself thinking that who-
ever may start the wars of the future
young men will have to fight them. And
so it seems that love of peace and quiet
living is nurtured in the turmoil and
discomfort of foxholes, while discord and
disharmony and the seeds of revolution
are planted and grow in the quietness and
ease of cities.
I have heard the fear expressed that
the demobilised men of the services will
be potential troublemakers in the peace
to come, especially if life is not a bed of
roses. I don’t share that fear. Men with
a background of war and its ravages are
not likely to seek social strife on return
to civilian life. It is more likely that they
will be imbued with the desire to have
done with force as a weapon of progress
and attempt other methods of adjusting
themselves to and settling down in
the world of the future. —C.W. B.
(R.A.A.F.).
In Praise of the Red Cross
As a recent medical evacuee from
British New. Guinea, I had some first-
hand experience of the work of the Aus-
tralian Red Cross.
The A.R.C. knows all about the lonely
feeling of a sick or wounded soldier in a
strange land, and it is in the hospitals that
the organisation, sympathetic and under-
standing, gets in its best work.
Unable to do much for himself the
soldier is glad of the friendly services of
the R.C. representative, who will do any-
thing from writing a letter home to pro-
viding cigarettes and other comforts and
fixing up the many private problems that
the sick man is unable to attend to.
Books, magazines and games are sup-
plied, together with writing material and
the usual cheery word. The same pre-
vails on the long trip home. Each boat
or train carries a R.C. representative, who
in turn becomes friend, counsellor, news-
boy, smoke-supplier and general helper,
all of which costs the home-coming boys
nothing. The R.C. man didn’t pass me
once on the train without handing out
something, and I felt indeed grateful.
To those people who work and give
for the Red Cross every soldier admits a
deep debt. — Lieutenant (A.1.F.)
Sea Cadets
“Ex-Purser” (B. 6/12/’44) writes sen-
sibly about the seaman apprentice prob-
lem, but he omits to state that anyone
having the necessary sea service can sit
for a ticket. In normal times three years
and nine months’ continuous sea service
is required before one sits for a second
mate’s certificate (overseas).
I can corroborate the statement that
many English shipowners have used
apprentices to man the deck department
of their ships, as I served my time with
such a co. The rate of pay was £4, not
£3, a month for the first year, with £1 a
month increase each year for four years.
The only instruction I received was in
seamanship; navigation had to be
learned from textbooks in my own time.
In those days we worked four, hours on
and four off, so I had to study for many
hours when I should have been sleeping.
What I’m getting at is that inden-
tured apprenticeship at sea is unneces-
sary. The sea as a profession is open to
all men who will work for promotion.—
Sgt. A. (A.1.F.).
Fighters
Despite numerous conferences on the
part of Stadium managers and Vie
Patrick’s personal manager, satisfactory
fights cannot be fqund for Australia’s
boxing hero. Something’s wrong some-
where.
My two lads, who couldn’t fight their
way out of a paper bag according to
Stadium standards, had no difficulty in
locating a fight when war broke out,
and they’re still fighting—in uniform.
Perhaps Mr. Forde might take a hand
in the matter and direct the McQuillans,
Millers and Patricks to the areas where
real fighting is going on. Maybe the
box-office receipts are not particularly
attractive in those spots, but a few
months with real fighters might give
these publicity-minded people a better
sense of values.
I’ve got no special animus against
newspapers, but when they give half a
column to a racing dog’s birthday party
or a Patrick belly-ache and in the same
issue devote a quarter of the space to a
casualty list covering 18 R.A.A.F. dead
I begin to feel a hostile prejudice de-
veloping.—NXooo (N.S.W.).
Stop the Dust
“F.A.” (B. 13/12/’44) seems to think
that such schemes as those of Bradfield
and Idriess are designed for stock ane
domestic water supplies only. Most
inland parts get ample water for such
purposes by boring. Bradfield and
Idriess planned for irrigation. In many
places in the Cooper, Diamantina and
Thompson valleys large areas could be
irrigated by filling the shallow natural
courses, the water-holes and gilgais. The
“This rocket type, you understand, is still on the secret list."
soil is so rich it responds to a good soak-
ing for years afterwards.
For lack of water and subsequent
growth the interior is being blown out
into the Pacific. Yet “FA.” infers it is
illogical to do anything to stop this
tragedy until the eastern fringe is fully
developed. If recent dust-storms haven’t
been sufficient to awake “F.A.” to the
devastation that is going on then he is a
mighty sound sleeper. —K. Me. (N.S.W.),
Man’s Part in It
A notable omission from the other-
wise commendable increase in discus-
sion about soil erosion is the failure to
lay stress upon the psychological aspect
of the question. That involves recogni-
tion of the incorrigible lawlessness of the
average Australian in the matter of wil-
ful or careless destruction of the bush.
Reafforestation is not much good while
just around the corner some fool or
knave is waiting to start a bonfire.
This fact was impressed on me most
dismally when, as a visitor from South
Africa, I settled temporarily in lovely
bush country in W.A. in spring-time. The
change from the bare aridity of the veldt
was so delightful that I would not have
exchanged for heaven itself my long daily
walks in all directions through the
fragrant and floral bush.
But as the lovely spring passed into
hot dry summer so began the bushfires,
due to mischief, carelessness or sheer
ignorance, until heaven became hell and
sylvan loveliness all round was changed
to a filthy blackness. This was bad
enough, but what seemed to me even
worse was the apparent indifference of
all but my strange self to a foul crime.
The dreadful transformation was taken
for granted and no one cared. —J. W. R.
(Tas.).
The Bradfield Plan
J. R. Kemp was head of Queensland’s
Main Roads Commission. When the war
broke out he was given control of the
C.C.C. programme, and carried out
undertakings costing over £20,000,000 in
Queensland. He relinquished this job tq
devote himself to post-war schemes pro-
vided for by the Land and Water Re-
sources Development Act. Irrigation wi
loom large in these proposals.
Applying his own and the conclusions
of two of his skilled hydrologists and
engineers to the scheme for impounding
coastal waters and diverting them to the
west, originated by Dr. Bradfield, he has
decided that the usefulness of the project
has been over-estimated. Mr. Kemp does
not admit the possibility of finding sites
and levels for reservoirs as suggested by
Dr. Bradfield ; but even if they were there
he shows that a dam of 400 ft. would re-
quire to continue within 50ft. of fun
capacity to give a flow from the Burdekin
to the west. Evaporation is so high that
for about 12 p.c. of the total time little
water could be diverted from the reservoir.
And even if it could be the flow through
the proposed tunnel would average only
1820 ft. a second, with a much lower
minimum flow for considerable periods,
as against a continuous flow of oOOOtt.
estimated by Dr. Bradfield. The esti-
mated cost of £3O millions is considered
much too low. For these reasons the
Bureau of Investigation is examining the
coastal waters with a view to local appli-
cation.
Anyone familiar with the proposal to
flood Lake Eyre as outlined by Prof.
J. W. Gregory would be sceptical
about the Bradfield scheme, mainly on
account of the enormous evaporation.
Round Lake Eyre it is given at lOOin.
a year, and to flood only 2000 square
miles would require a channel capable of
carrying 7000 million gallons of water a
day. Even in the closely-settled districts
of the southern States the amount of
water actually delivered on the cultivated
or pasture land as compared with the
amount released is relatively small, due
to evaporation and absorption by the soil
on the way. Queensland is going to make
a big step forward in irrigation, but it
will be in comparatively small undertak-
ings.—A. E. (Q.).
State and Nation
That insistence on the State as distinct
from the nation noticed by “Kurbof (B.
22 /11 / ’44) has increased since the Fed-
eral Government assumed its wider war-
time powers and especially since Labor
has been in office.
The average South Australian looks at
the record of Canberra’s bungling as re-
corded in his daily paper. He reads of
the unbroken chain of strikes of trade-
union dictatorship; Federal Ministers
seem to him more concerned with poli-
tical propaganda than with vital national
interests; he sees war-time powers
diverted to serve political party ends. The
political larrikinism of people like Ward
and Calwell revolts him.
In his own State he has a pretty sound
Government under a hard-working leader.
Ministers generally are busy with their
Ministerial duties. The barrages at
Goolwa are finished, water flows from
the Murray 200-odd miles to the new
steel town of Whyalla, the shortage of
coal from N.S.W. is being made up by
the re-opening of the Leigh’s Creek
brown-coal show. Housing has been
pushed ahead, past interference from
Canberra when necessary, and education
is receiving more and more attention.
Can you blame the Croweater for his
“provincialism”? Can you wonder that,
although far from the glamor of richer
eastern neighbors, in a State with only a
shallow coastal fringe of agricultural land,
he is inclined to thank God, somewhat
pharisaically, that he is not as others are?
Present writer used to barrack for “One
Parliament for Australia” —now he’s not
so sure. — Plain Angas (S.A.).
Equal Pay
There has been much talk in recent
years of “equal pay for equal work.”
Though equalitarians have won their
point in a few cases, there are certain
outstanding examples in which no ground
has been gained.
In the army women are not given equal
pay for equal work. A woman officer
may work harder and achieve more than
many men, yet her pay is smaller and
she has fewer privileges. Only male
officers are given a personal servant. If
we are to plan for a new world order let
us begin on a basis of fairness. — Army
Girl (R.A.A.).
State Monopolies
The best criticism I have seen of the
Canberra decision to socialise Australian
airlines is in Prof. Hayek’s book The
Road to Serfdom, though Hayek had
never heard of that decision. He says:
Even if railways, road and air transport....
were all inevitably monopolies, the consumer is
unquestionably in a much stronger position so
long as they remain separate monopolies than
when they are co-ordinated by a central con-
trol. Private monopoly is scarcely ever com-
plete and even more rarely of long duration.
But a State monopoly is always a State-protected
monopoly, protected against both potential com-
petition and effective criticism. Where the
power which ought to check and control
monopoly becomes interested in sheltering and
defending its appointees... .and where criticism
of the actions of monopoly means criticism of
the Government, there is little hope of monopoly
becoming the servant of the community. The
machinery of monopoly becomes identical with
the machinery of the State, and the State itself
becomes more and more identified with the
interests of those who run things than with
the interests of the people in general.
—M. L. Mitchell (Tas.).
The Primary Schools’ Aim
“Obelist” and Nellie Stewart, M.A.
(B. 6/12/’44) misapprehend the function
and purpose of education.
The function of the school is to pro-
vide the fundamentals that will enable
the pupils to continue the process of edu-
cation, which is a life process. The aim
is not to turn out book-keepers, plumbers
or farmers.
The time given to the teaching of the
fundamentals in any Australian curricu-
lum is not excessive. The public little
realises what patience and understand-
ing are necessary to teach a child
apparently obvious things—the things
that lay the foundation of education.
Let’s give up the idea that a primary
school should teach trades and realise
that if it turns out pupils who can be
taught the crafts (or even the arts) out-
side its walls it has done a good job.
And if, parents and teachers co-operat-
ing, the primary school is able to incul-
cate high ideals and a high standard of
moral conduct, then it has done an ex-
cellent job.—M. W. S. (Q.).
Ration Booze
Every other commodity in short supply
is rationed. Why not issue beer, wine
and spirit coupons, an annual allowance
being decided upon as fair to each adult?
And don’t reduce or restrict the sources
of supply—issue more licenses to grocers.
Customers should be registered with one
supplier only and should receive ration
on prescribed dates. — Sgt. A. (N.S.W.).
Nationalising Medicine
Some people think that all that is
needed to bring in the health millennium
is for the Canberra Government to
nationalise medicine. They ought to see
the “Madame Curie” film. Although the
producers haven’t stressed the long and
bitter fight the Curies had with official-
dom as much as they might, there is
enough of it in the picture to cure any-
body of a desire to turn doctors into civil
servants.
When the Curies asked for a labora-
tory to carry on their search for an un-
known element they were given an old
disused leaky shed in a backyard, on the
ground that they could not prove that
there was anything in their notion. How
could they prove it? They didn’t know
what was at the end of their quest any
more than Captain Cook knew what was
at the end of his voyage to Australia. All
they had was a passionate belief and an
extraordinary ability to be focused on it.
They made 5707 experiments, only to find
they had been on the wrong track.
What evidence is there for believing
that in a nationalised medical service
there would be a place for a Madame
Curie? She would be regarded as a
nuisance.— Pawang (Vic.).
A Tip to Taxpayers
I was formerly in the Taxation Depart-
ment, and found that the most com-
mon omission of claims for allow-
able deductions relates to depreciation of
assets. Many a small businessman uses
fairly expensive plant in earning his tax-
able income, and in making up his return
he fails to claim the depreciation allowance.
The department has prepared an
elaborate scale to meet cases of
this nature, and details are available to
anyone interested. In these days an
allowance of, say, 10 p.c. a year on a
working plant worth, say, £4OO means a
substantial reduction in assessment. —
Pronto (Vic.).


:: :
m
1
>: ..
m
m
m
as
iti
m
ii
I
i
S
iS ■:
m
\
lii
.• •■
i. :*•;
■■Mi
.
hi i
i
hM
y ■
m- ■
■
;Mi f i i V
■
Md
Hi
m
■ ■
ii
■
mm
mm
mm
■■ V ■
I
SB
I
n
m
m
' i
1
■
iffi
w
« v
■ . r
H
m
*
■
ii
V. .
S :
;
< ;
;>¥:¥:
w
■
e
V#
£
ii
m
STEEL -nurreney of
Conquest and Progress
STEEL is the currency which buys victory on every
front. Germany’s prepared power for war—based
on steel—proved irresistible until it was matched by
the Allied munition strength.
In the urgent effort to build up the Allies’ ability
to answer back, the onus was pfaced on the steel
industry.
The Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd., as Aus-
tralia’s major steel producer did its bit towards meet-
ing the call. Quantity, quality and variety had to be
stepped up; but when the strain went on the B.H.P.
Newcastle Steel Works was found equal to the task.
Largely as a result of the B.H.P. steel made available
our industries were enabled to manufacture practically
every major defensive and offensive weapon.
With the attainment of victory B.H.P. steel will
revert to its happier role as the currency of progress.
Our soundly based steel industry provides an economic
foundation for Australia’s post-war rehabilitation, for
low-priced steel is the prime factor in every worth-
while plan for employment, housing, and better living.
Operator at Newcastle Steel Works apply-
ing oxy-acetylene torch flame to B.H.P.
steel blooms in preparation for rolling•
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY CO. LTD
(Ci—T lIBMMMgMMW))
STEEL WORKS, NEWCASTLE, N.S.W.
SHIPYARD, WHYALLA, S.A.
