

ŵ
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE-BUY VICTORY BONDS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66 - No. 3492
Wednesday, April 25, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
RHUDDLAN CASTLE, WHERE A ONCE FLOURISHING SEAPORT NOW PEACEFUL SLUMBERS.
RHUDDLAN CASTLE, the “Castle of the Red Bank,” lies
on the eastern side of the Clwyd, near St. Asaph, and is said
to have been built by Llewelyn ap Sitsyll, King of. Wales, about
1020. Some years later Duke Harold, afterwards King of England,
was sent by Edward the Confessor against Gryffyd ap Llewelyn,
the son of the royal founder; and the castle was taken and burnt.
William the Conqueror caused it to be restored, and it became
the residence of Robert, the nephew of Hugh Lupus. It was again
partly destroyed in a foray, but rebuilt by Henry 11. Edward I
frequently stayed at Rhuddlan, and in 1283 held a Parliament in
the castle. In the Civil Wars the royalist garrison of Rhuddlan,
after a short siege, surrendered to General Mytton, and in 1646
Parliament ordered it to be “slighted,” that is dismantled. Rhuddlan
is probably the only castle which was ever rescued by a mob of
fiddlers and mountebanks. When, during the reign of Richard I,
the Earl of Chester was surprised by a Welsh force, he sent to
Roger Lacy, his constable in Chester, bidding him come to his aid
with such forces as he could muster. It was Midsummer Day and
Fair Day in Chester. Roger Lacy summoned all the idlers he could
gather to march with him, and they followed him to Rhuddlan —
like Falstaff’s ragged battalion. The Welsh fled on seeing the
approach of a large body of men, without stopping to see what
manner of soldiers they might be. Richard II (1399) stayed here
just before his deposition. The good and bad in his Government
had alike made the king hated; and a final act of tyranny against
his cousin Henry, from whom he took the Lancastrian estates, set
all the powerful nobles against him. The rising was arranged
when Richard was in Ireland. He landed in Wales only to find
his kingdom lost.


L cZ v,i Writing
sioru ” ot home-
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without oil^at^ t v °J L J r u
liooklet, explaining how to> WrU«„ > OT "
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
My Same
My Address
S.B. 245 .
AQB..
The Red Page
COMEDIES OF MANNERS.
If you compare the opening of Mar-
garet Trist’s first novel Now That We’re
Laughing (Angus and Robertson) with
the opening of Jane Austen’s Sense and
Sensibility you find an even greater differ-
ence than you might expect. You know
that Jane Austen is of the nineteenth cen-
tury and English: but she turns out to be
astoundingly so:
The family of Dashwood had long been
settled in Sussex. Their estate was large,
and their residence was at Norland Park,
in the centre of their property, where, for
many generations, they had lived in so re-
spectable a manner as to engage the general
good opinion of their surrounding acquaint-
ance.
And Margaret Trist —scoring a point for
dashing straight into the action of her
story—turns out to be just as astonish-
ingly modem and Australian:
Mrs. Carlingford was catching a train.
She was forty—not a modern, elegant forty,
but a plump, inactive one, with an artistic
streak that insisted that her curves and
bulges flourish unrestricted. Catch her
wearing corsets!
As the two stories develop the contrast
between them becomes even more strik-
ing. A typical piece of Jane Austen con-
versation, for instance:
“Of his sense and his goodness,” continued
Elinor, “no one can, I think, be in doubt,
who has seen him often enough to engage
him in unreserved conversation. The ex-
cellence of his understanding and his prin-
ciples can be concealed only by that shy-
ness which too often keeps him silent
I have seen a great deal of him, have
studied his sentiment's, and heard his
opinion on subjects of literature and taste;
and, upon the whole, I venture to pro-
nounce that his mind is well-informed, his
enjoyment of books exceedingly great,
his imagination lively, his observations just
and correct, and his taste delicate and
pure.”
Marianne and Elinor are discussing here
the young man whom, after the proper
number of difficulties to make a novel,
Elinor is going to marry. There is a
comparable scene in Now That We’re
Laughing when Sheila’s mother and young
sister and a maid-servant discuss the
young man to whom, again after the
proper number of difficulties, Sheila is
going to surrender:
Little swipe, thought Lily. She’s not flesh
and blood, that girl. She’s got a hell of a
shock coming to her one of these days.
Serve her right. Aloud she said, “I
wouldn’t worry none about fancy cake for
Jimmy Blair. A good swig of whisky
would be better if all you hear is true.”
“Oh, no, Lily,” protested Mrs. Blair.
“Well, he might have a little drink now and
again. After all, he’s twenty; but I’m sure
it doesn’t mean a thing to him. He’s
grown such an attractive boy and you
should see the way he’s broadened in the
last few months. And he has the loveliest
dimple, hasn’t he, Sheila?”
Sheila frowned. “I suppose so,” she said
reluctantly....
Dinny giggled. “She thinks so,” she
mocked. “Why, he held her hand walking
along the road.”
“He did not,” snapped Sheila.
“He did so,” retorted Dinny.
“He did not, I tell you.”
“0.K., 0.K.,” muttered Dinny. “Well,
what did he da?”
“He had his hand on my elbow, that’s
all.”
Pete and Spoffy dashed from the table.
Their raised voices sounded from the hall-
way. “Hey, Jake. Jimmy Blair hung on to
Sheiks, elbow coming home.”
“Ho, ho, ho!” roared Jake. “Cut’s a
bit of wedding cake!”
Inside at the table Dinny said trium-
phantly, “I knew he had hold of you some-
where.”
These are more or less favorable com-
ments upon Elinor’s Edward and Sheila’s
Jimmy. Unfavorable comments contrast
just as strongly. “Oh, mamma, how spirit-
less, how tame was Edward’s manner in
reading to us last night,” complains Mari-
anne. “To hear those beautiful lines,
which have frequently almost driven me
wild, pronounced with such impenetrable
calmness, such dreadful indifference!
Nay, mamma, if he is not to be animated
by Cowper! ”. . .
“That twit! ” says a young lady named
Daphne in Margaret Trist’s novel when
she learns that her sister Joyce is com-
peting with Sheila for the favor of Jimmy
Blair. “That twit!
Edward’s trouble, in a word, is that he
is shy.
Edward started. “Reserved! Am I
reserved, Marianne?”
“Yes, very.”
“I do not understand you,” replied he,
coloring. His gravity and thoughtfulness
returned on him in their fullest extent —
and he sat for some time silent and dull.
Jimmy’s trouble is exactly the opposite.
“All for a female! And she’ll probably
be touch-me-not if X do find her.” Stop-
ping, he pulled the bottle of whisky from
his pocket and took another drink.
“Struth, if I liked drinking only. I guess
you get more trouble than fun from
women. I always seem to be diving round
in the dark after some blooming girl.”
Even in their descriptions of the land-
scape the two novels differ remarkably.
Jane Austen;
The situation of the house was good.
High hills rose immediately behind, and
at no great distance on each side; some
of which were open downs, the others culti-
vated and woody. The village of Barton
was chiefly on one of these hills and formed
a pleasant view from the cottage windows.
The prospect in front was more extensive;
it commanded the whole of the valley, and
reached info the country beyond. The
hills which surrounded the cottage termin-
ated the valley in that direction; under
another name, and in another course, it
branched out again between two of the
steepest of them.
And Margaret Trist:
The little park, known, almost as
familiar as their own hands, lay around
them. They had come to it from early
childhood, seen it at dawn, dew wet under
a white sky, smelling of damp earth and
the drifting smoke of the early trains.
Gold and shining under the rising sun,
drenched with sunlight or speared by rain
through the days, or again sombre under
a lowering sky, hushed as the shadows of
the hills fell over it, the sunlight with-
drawing stealthily, leaving only long
fingers of light lying on the grass, tipping
the roof of the bandstand, shining on a
bottle-top or lost marble lying secreted in
the clover.
Well, there they are, two novels appar-
ently so different in every way that it is
fantastic to compare them. Yet here is
a scene from Sense and Sensibility that
could be fitted into Now That We’re
Laughing with hardly a break in the
pattern:
Mr. Palmer entered the room with a
look of self-consequence, slightly bowed
to the ladies, without speaking a word,
and, after briefly surveying them and their
apartments, took up a newspaper from the
table, and continued to read it as long as
he stayed.
Mrs. Palmer, on the contrary, who was
strongly endowed by nature with a turn
for being uniformly civil and happy, was
hardly seated before her admiration of
the parlor and everything in it burst forth.
“Well! What a delightful room this
is! I never saw anything so charming!
Only think, mamma, how it is improved
since I was here last! I always thought it
such a sweet place, ma’am! (turning to Mrs.
Dashwood) but you have made it so charm-
ing! Only look, sister, how delightful
everything is! How I should like such
a house for myself! Should not you, Mr.
Palmer?”
Mr. Palmer made her. no answer, and
did not even raise his eyes from the news-
paper.
“Mr. Palmer does not hear me,” _ said
she, laughing; “he never does sometimes.
It is so ridiculous!”
This was quite a new idea to Mrs. Dash-
wood ; she had never been used to find wit
in the inattention of anyone, and could
not help looking with surprise at them
both.
Mrs. Jennings in the meantime talked on
as loud as she could, and continued her
accounts of their surprise, the evening be-
fore, on seeing their friends, without ceas-
ing fill everything was told. Mrs. Palmer
laughed heartily at the recollection of their
astonishment, and everybody agreed, two or
three times over, that it had been quite
an agreeable surprise.
“You may believe how glad we all were
to see them,” added Mrs. Jennings, lean-
ing forward towards Elinor and speaking
in a low voice as if she meant to be heard
by no one else, though they were seated
on different sides of the room; “but, how-
ever, I can’t help wishing they had not
travelled quite so fast, nor made such a long
journey of, it, for they came all round
London upon some account of business,
for you know (nodding significantly and
pointing to her daughter) it was wrong in
her situation. I wanted her to stay at
home and rest this morning, but she would
come with us; she longed so much to see
you all.”
Mrs. Palmer laughed and said it would
not do her any harm.
“£he expects to be confined in February,”
continued Mrs. Jennings.
Lady Middleton could no longer endure
such a conversation and therefore exerted
herself to ask Mr. Palmer if there was any
news in the paper.
“No, none at all,” he replied, and read
on.
And here is a scene from Now That
We’re Laughing, which could fit very
neatly into the pattern of Sense and Sensi-
bility—Mrs. Carlingford watching one of
her offspring in a race at the school
sports:
“Well, Lily,” called Mrs. Carlingford,
smiling because she was pleased with her
own thoughts, “how are you enjoying your-
self?”
“I wish that fellow would get out of the
way,” said Lily. “Can’t see a darned thing.
There, that’s better. If only he gets off
quickly. Oh, lumme, look at him. Isn’t
he a trick?”
“What is it?” asked Mrs. Carlingford.
Lily regarded her offendedly. “It’s Jake’s
race.”
“Goodness, so it is! Wouldn’t it have
been dreadful if I’d missed it. When does
it start?”
“They’re off,” cried Lily. “Go to it,
Jake!”
Mrs. Carlingford dutifully watched the
flying figures. It was a longer race this
time. Jake flashed to the front and held
his position assuredly. It was funny to
know that that big, brown-skinned boy
belonged to her She thought back to
his babyhood, and farther back still
Trying to look after the children and be
fair to Tom. She had felt, somehow, solely
responsible for the children, guilty almost
as if she had played bad jokes on her hus-
band instead of giving him three sons.
Besides, hadn’t the joke been against her?
Oddly, later on, when Betty and Rose
came along, things had been different.
She’d rather enjoyed it, and Tom had
been pleased. Perhaps it was having more
money, and Sheila and Dinny to help.
Then they’d been able to employ Lily.
“There,” said Lily. “Hooray! Good on
you, Jake.”
“Has he won?” asked Mrs. Carlingford.
“What! Weren’t you watching?”
“Of course. But the glare’s bad.”
Lily looked at her suspiciously. “Yes.
He won. Won easily. I’d be real proud
of him if he was my kid.
“Oh, I am,” replied Mrs. Carlingford
guiltily.
Superficially different, these novels are
in reality very similar: alike in their vir-
tues, alike in their faults.
The great fault of the Jane Austen
novel is, of course, the unreality of her
heroes and heroines. Making all due
allowances for changes in morals and
manners, one finds it difficult to believe
that, having broken her ankle and been
picked up and carried to her home by the
gallant Willoughby, Marianne would
really have been so overcome by blushes
as not to be able to look at him. It is
difficult to believe that Edward and
Elinor really talked so stiltedly to each
other. It is certain that one flash of com-
monsense would have settled all the diffi-
culties that prolong the novel. But it is
certain that Elinor and Marianne are not
nearly as interesting as Mrs. Jennings
and Mr. Palmer; certain that Edward
is a ninny who should have been hit on
the head with a tomahawk; and it is
certain, consequently, that the romances
which make the framework of the novel
are tedious.
And it is just as certain that Margaret
Trist has suffered from hero and heroine
trouble. Sheila is stiff, awkward, color-
less ; Jimmy Blair, menacingly close to
Hemingway’s celebrated bonehead, is in-
articulate and crude. Edward’s idea of
making love is to recite (badly) the poems
of Cowper, blush and fall “silent and
dull” ; Jimmy Blair’s technique consists
of drinking whisky, slinging a few
execrable cliches at his beloved and mak-
ing grabs in the dark.
There is a measure of truth, no doubt,
in the portraits of both Edward and
Jimmy ; but, essentially, both are fashion-
able dummies. There is some interest in
the romances of both novels: a compul-
sion dim and maddening. But it is cer-
tainly much more interesting to read about
Mrs. Carlingford than about Jimmy and
Sheila.
The fault of both novels is that they
reflect not only the life of their periods —
as they set out to do—but the literary
conventions of their periods: in Jane
Austen’s case a fashion of artificiality,
in Margaret Trist’s a “toughness” just as
false. What Jane Austen’s heroes and
heroines need is a dash of Margaret
Trist’s honest realism; what Margaret
Trist’s need is a dash of Jane Austen’s
dignity and sensibility. If the central
romances are really to hold the attention,
one would have to feel that Edward could
make a grab at Elinor; and that Jimmy
and Sheila do feel the lyrical delight of
love.
Both novelists, it may be, are trying
to do just this. The elegant infant sister
in Sense and Sensibility turns out to be
just the little snooper that Margaret Trist
would portray. Jane Austen’s Mrs. Jen-
nings, passionately devoted to babies
and gossip, is not at all far removed from
Margaret Trist’s most earthy Mrs. Hen-
derson. Jane Austen has tried to bring
the real world into the literary conven-
tion of her day ; and Margaret Trist has
tried to show that, amidst all the difficul-
ties of a generation footloose in a brutal
pattern of war, Jimmy and Sheila do
find their way through to love.
Neither of the novelists quite succeeds
in thus detaching heroes and heroines from
their respective literary conventions, but
the fault is by no means vital. One does
not read Jane Austdn to find out whether
Elinor collared Edward in the end, or for
a study of young love of the period, but
for her observation of the adult world of
her day; for the delightfully ironical
portraits of Mrs. Jennings, Mr. and Mrs.
Palmer, the avaricious Mr. and Mrs. John
Dashwood and the hypocrital Misses
Steele. And one reads Now That We re
Laughing not for Sheila and Jimmy, or
the problems of youth today, but for the
madly funny remarks that pop out of
Mrs. Carlingford’s mouth when she has
not intended to speak at all; for the
wretched schoolteacher forced by Mfs.
Henderson to eat peanuts at the com-
mittee meeting; for the grandfather who
collects snakes and beetles; for the in-
fants who are named MacArthur and
Curtin; for the magnificent comedy of
Mr. Blair, Jimmy’s father, who, vaguely
seeking to be as dashing a fellow as his
son, finds himself insanely making love
to Mrs. Toomey.
As Sense and Sensibility is a comedy
of manners portraying —faithfully on the
whole, and with the most charming sort
of affectionate feminine malice —the kind
of people England knew in the days of
Jane Austen, so Now That We’re Laugh-
ing. set in a little town in the Blue Moun-
tains of New South Wales, is an Austra-
lian comedy of manners, portraying the
people we all see and know today. On
the whole, they are very much the same
as Jane Austen’s.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The principles deciding the N. S.
Wales Travelling Art Scholarship award
these days are obscure. It would
seem that performance has generally
counted for more than promise, even
when the performance has been pedes-
trian. This year’s award is a case
in point. The judges’ choice fell on
F. A. Jessup, author of a brightly painted
landscape painted on one of those
“modern” formulae that put Nature in
her place with geometrical simplifications
and a token representation of her nuances
with primary hues. It is true that most
of the other work, if it were done by
painters, however young, with any train-
ing whatever amounted to an indictment
of the tuition. J, C. Coleman has
learned how to apply paint and has
some sense of the beautiful, as shown
in a waterside sketch of merit in a roman-
tic way. Isla Munden’s big canvas show-
ing a glimpse of a Sydney harborside
suburb is sound enough, if a bit stilted.
Vaile Liibus is a painter of the woolly
school, but apparently not woolly enough
to please this year’s judges. Celia
Lynch’s “Wintering” is as hard as a brick.
A resolute practitioner who has painted
a mort of pictures, although he can snatch
only a few leisure moments from a war-
time job, Richard McCann has been
showing European and Victorian land-
scapes at the Athenaeum, Melbourne.
“Flood Waters” and “Wild Weather” are
the pleasantest of his recent work. French
landscapes, souvenirs of a sojourn in the
Europe of 20 years back, have a lovely,
peaceful look which is possibly enhanced
by contrast with the present tales of war-
fare from those parts.
At the talkies:
“The Princess and the Pirate” (Sydney
Regent): uproarious burlesque in technicolor.
Bob Hope, Victor McLaglan and Walter
Brennan make an excellent' team.
“Two Thousand Women” (Sydney Civic):
British women’s internment camp in Occupied
France, in which three parachuting R.A.F. men
seek refuge. Plenty of excitement, capably and
naturally done.
“The Merry Monahans” (Sydney Empire):
a backstager with the old theme of the ham
father and the brilliant offspring who are too
tender-hearted to let their parent know that
his presence is crabbing an otherwise good act.
Jack Oakie gives a convincing portrait of a
ham. Some spirited ballet work, which doesn’t
compensate for the dull routine of the rest.
Musical marathon:
The longest marathon in Melbourne’s musi-
cal history occurred in 1939 when Sargent,
Brownlee, Schnabel, Lord Lurgan, Marjorie
Lawrence, Marcel Dupre and other overseas
executants and conductors accidentally com-
bined to keep the echoes of the Town Hall and
other places moving for 30 consecutive even-
ings, excluding Sundays, while a public drunk
with harmony and counterpoint rolled up in
ever-increasing numbers and exhausted critics
tottered from one hall to another, wondering
where their next adjective was to come from.
Now Cema has deliberately staged another, not
of such long duration —in fact, a mere six-day
frenzy-—but into which has been packed no
fewer than 25 concerts, nothing but the most
exalted music and without overseas assistance.
Nobody imagined there was such a mass ot
local talent, and the new organisation is sus-
pected of producing some of its P c “° rm^ s
out of its hat or somewhere— notably Dr. H.
Schildberger and the versatile and cultured Dr.
Ehrenfeldt, both refugees, who conducted
suburban choirs in magnificent ensembles; J.
Farnsworth-Hall, whose interpretations ot
modern English symphonic music were out-
standing ; and John Bishop. Not to
Howard Hollis, a young parson who made me
Town Hall organ dance with a grace that i
an instrument of its size was almost indecent,
Joseph Post; the Beck Chamber Players, a
couple of dozen quintets, quartets, trios ana
octets, and ’cellists, violinists, pianists, flautists
and liedersingers by the dozen. Jhe tempe
of sound raged at the Town Hall in four daily
doses, and the houses were surprising,
cognosceilti came to hear the music an
curious to sample Melbourne s first
the promenade concert which wasnt
cessful. Amongst the highlights werc Dr.
Floyd’s organ recital, the singing ot
William Herbert, Margaret Sutherland s
ducting of her own admirable compositions and
a dashing performance of ® o^°§i n ir h „ tnn
sienne Dances under Farnsworth-Hal
Why this sensitive conductor should nake
first public appearance in Melbourne on
eve of his departure to another gate is
mvsterv It may be that one good thing Cema
S done with its outburst is temporary »
break a local monopoly in concerts.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
121 Years of Service
r V
2 j i»
-'X
v'-'T
V V'k/Lf'npF
\s
'i \
t\
m
ft
% -
r-
\\
/T
o
-■ > A
:£
■
< l*'
tt.U
Iv.
C<S fsVi J
! f i>
r\ 1
m
NV. - " r
,k i r ,ii m -T 7
X/X W ■.
./Jk .
' /)
a/
is
Ar- •
v on-n«vf
J
«' V^4\W,|’
b \' Y \vysj
m
"i V//I
fee
• Meu’i Wear —Ground Floor, George Street.
ALL WOOL LUMBER
JACKET. Well tailored
from Navy Blue Overcoat-
ing. Two way collar, two
large pockets with flaps,
adjustable waistband.
Sizes SM, M, OS, XOS.
Price 28/6
12 coupons.
MEN'S BOX CALF SHOES. Made on a
good fitting last. In full and half sizes.
Genuine welted soles of solid leather.
Price 32/3 pair
12 coupons.
ẁ
"NEVASHRINK" UNDERWEAR.
Underwear that will keep you
warmly clad in the winter
months. Made from pure
Australian Wool in a natural
shade. These garments will
give the maximum of wear and
comfort.
"NEVASHRINK" UNDERWEAR, light
weight all wool*
Undershirts, short sleeves:
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
10/1 10/10 11/7 12/5 13/5 14/4
5 coupons.
Underpants, ankle length;
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
10/10 11/7 12/5 13/5 14/4 15/4
6 coupons.
"NEVASHRINK" UNDERWEAR, medium
winter weight.
Undershirts, short sleeves;
34in. 36 in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
12/5 13/- 14/4 15/4 16/3 17/3
i 5 coupons.
Underpants, ankle length;
34in. 36in. 38in. 40in. 42in. 44in.
13/5 14/11 15/11 16/10 17/10 18/10
5 coupons.
FLEECY LINED UNDERWEAR. Cream
shade in heavy winter weight. Sizes
34-inch to 44-inch chest or waist.
Undershirts, short sleeves, round neck.
Price 5/11
5 coupons.
Underpants to ankle 7/6
6 coupons.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
POST TO BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


TO SERVE FOR YEARS
... many, many years!
•
* ;
4
V I
m
v' s: '
n i
■
m
*•"■ ..■ >,.„■:' ■ ■ . i
.
■n
m
4
BE
■ V
>■:
mm
m
In
m
OH
a
.
m
:y •
. . :
:
H
MSii
,
■1
■
HHI
HBi
: :
-11 l ; f%"
mamzrt* H
A i \Wm
-. * i
■ m
i
;
the highways of tomorrow, corrugated
iron will carry the load for many, many years.
Years that will be free from problems of maintenance and replace-
ment. Armco Multi-Plate Pipe is proving in thousands of installa-
tions that it is ideal for the construction of bridges that require high
load-bearing capacity at low cost. The combination of modern
steel construction with native stone, as shown in this photograph,
makes beautiful durable bridges.
Municipal councillors and engineers are invited to
write for full particulars to their nearest Armco Office.
ARMCO
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA)
PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY -
W
- MELBOURNE - - - BRISBANE - - - ADELAIDE
AI-5


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3402.
Wednesday, April 25, 1945
WAITING BY THE GOLDEN GATE.
“The World Security Organisation Conference opens at San Francisco on April 25.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
INIEW Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ippp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
TEHRAN TO 'FRISCO.
At Tehran in December, 1943, Mr.
Churchill, Mr, Stalin and Mr. Roose-
velt, together for the first time, sub-
scribed to a declaration which was hailed
as embodying the points of the Mos-
cow agreement, arrived at in the pre-
vious month by the three Foreign Min-
isters, also together for the first time, and
the principles of the Atlantic Charter.
Reporting to Congress on the Moscow
discussions, Mr. Cordell Hull said that
“questions relating to boundaries must
by their very nature be left in abeyance
till the termination of hostilities,” and
this was taken to be one of the points on
which the three Foreign Ministers had
agreed. At Tehran also Iran was assured
by the three triumvirs of the “mainten-
ance of its independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity.”
Within a few weeks “Ppavda” had
accused the British of secret negotiations
with Ribbentrop for a separate peace.
Later on in that year the Government
of Iran was forced to give up governing
because it had refused a “unilateral”
demand for oil concessions presented by
the Soviet Minister at Tehran and sup-
ported by mob demonstrations of the
kind with which American, British and
British Dominion towns and cities are
drearily familiar, and one of the leaders
of which was “a 37-year-old deputy” who
had been “associated with the Communist
party at Grenoble, France.”
At Yalta three months ago there was
another meeting of Messrs. Churchill,
Stalin and Roosevelt, and a lot more was
said about the Atlantic Charter. From
Tehran had gone forth the statement that
“We look from this conference with con-
fidence to the day when all the peoples
of the world may lead free lives, un-
touched by tyranny and according to
their varying desires and own con-
sciences.” This was amplified at Yalta:
“By this declaration we reaffirm our
faith in the principles of the Atlantic
Charter,” the essential principle being
“the right of all peoples to choose the
form of government under which they
will live and the restoration of sovereign
rights of self-government to peoples which
have been forcibly deprived of them.”
The parties to the declaration had
scarcely returned to their homes when
“Pravda” was at it again, this time
attacking the Radescu Government in
Rumania. The Radescu Government,
third of the litter since the capi-
tulation in September, had been per-
mitted to assume office by Moscow,
a fact cited by the world commu-
nist press as a proof of Moscow’s .de-
votion to the principles of the Atlantic
Charter; it was accused of “clinging to
power and collaborating with the Fascist
elements of the Antonescu regime,” with
the result that “the shadow of catas-
trophe looms over Rumania.” Straight-
way there were riots, in which the King’s
palace and the offices of the Prime Min-
ister and the Minister of the Interior
were attacked. Radescu’s version was
that “Stateless and Godless people led
by Anna Pauker and a Hungarian,
Lukas,” were “trying to establish a reign
of terror under the mask of democracy.”
Another “Government,” with a Mr.
Petru Groza, “head of the new Demo-
cratic National Front,” shot up and
Radescu bolted to the British Embassy
asking for sanctuary. Sanctuary was
granted, and it was stated that the
Governments in London and Wash-
ington had decided to take a hand
in the business; but of their inter-
position, if any, nothing has been
heard. At Yalta their leaders and part-
ner “jointly declared mutual agreement
in assisting the peoples of Europe liber-
ated from the domination of Nazi Ger-
many and the peoples of the former Axis
satellite States to solve by democratic
means their pressing political and eco-
nomic problems.”
Questioned in the Commons about the
Rumanian situation, Mr. Eden admitted
that “a very strict censorship is being
enforced by the Soviet authorities.” The
French writer “Pertinax” commented
that “democratic processes are more
openly flouted in Rumania than elsewhere,
but Russia occupies an equally dominant
position in Bulgaria; the Britons and
Americans on the Allied Control Com-
mission in both countries are virtually
dummies.” From Bulgaria it has come
out that a so-called People’s Court has had
at least two large batches of alleged Fas-
cists, one a prince of the blood, executed
amidst savage mob rejoicings. The position
in Yugoslavia is veiled in mystery, but
there are American reports of thousands
of anti-communist Serbs having been
gathered up and exiled to Russia, and
Marshal Tito, visiting that country, and
perhaps leaving the job of driving out
the Germans to beautiful girl guerrillas,
claimed Trieste and Istria, the surrender
of which no Italian Government, com-
munist or not, could survive for a week.
Of what is happening in Poland the only
accounts are those jssued by the Polish
Government in London, which asserts
that the country is being rapidly Soviet-
ised, that mass deportations to Russia are
going on and that “the intensive exter-
mination of officers and soldiers of the
Home Army, who fought for five years
against the Germans, continues.”
Meanwhile the “Times” referred with
pained surprise to “bitter Moscow press
and radio attacks on the Turkish Gov-
ernment” and on “Turkish politicians and
publicists accused of Fascist leanings”—
preliminaries, it transpired, to a Moscow
denunciation of the Russo-Turkish neu-
trality agreement and to the presentation
of “demands” which, as reported in ex-
clusive Left-Wing circles, amount to “re-
moval of the Dardanelles from exclusive
Turkish control, a more democratic Turk-
ish Constitution and the cession to Russia
of two frontier provinces.” The Turks
are doubtless reflecting that no bitter
attacks on the Japanese Government and
on Japanese politicians and publicists ac-
cused of Fascist leanings nor any presen-
iation of “demands” accompanied Mos-
cow’s denunciation of the neutrality
agreement with Japan. Their attitude,
according to the “Times” correspondent
at Ankara, is that “Turkey will insist
that the Anglo-Turkish alliance must
remain unimpaired and Turkish sove-
reignty fully respected.”
Washington was concerned at equally
bitter Russian attacks on Chiang Kai-
shek, called “a dictator” (and that was
before the 12 months’ notice given by
Moscow to Tokyo), and on Senator Van-
denberg. He was described as a “hypo-
crite, an avowed imperialist, who in his
unbridled covetousness seems to envis-
age the whole world with knee bent at
the entrance to the shrine of the dollar.”
All this because of Senator Vanden-
berg’s proposal (B. 7/3/’45) that Ameri-
can participation in a military alliance
“to demilitarise Germany and keep it dis-
armed indefinitely” should be condi-
on “unilateral action in liberated
territories” being “submitted to the
Peace League when established.”
Seeing that Moscow knew that Senator
Vandenberg had been invited by Mr.
Roosevelt to represent the Republican
party at the San Francisco conference,
and considering Russia’s dependence on
the U.S.A. for support during the war
and after, the attack on the Republican
leader seems particularly clumsy, more
especially as U.S. papers report a Senate
majority for the Vandenberg plan. On
treaties, whether issuing from Yalta,
Berlin, San Francisco or anywhere else,
the Senate will have the final say.
The terms in which Marshal Stalin,
along with Mr. Roosevelt and Mr.
Churchill, referred at Yalta to the San
Francisco conference have derived an
added interest from recent events:
We are resolved upon the earliest possible
establishment, with our allies, of a general
international organisation to maintain
peace and security. We believe this essen-
tial, both to prevent aggression and to re-
move the political, economic and social
causes of war, through the close and con-
tinuing collaboration of all peace-loving
peoples. The foundations were laid at
Dumbarton Oaks. However, agreement
was not reached there on the important
question of voting procedure. The present
conference has been able to resolve that
difficulty. ,
An interruption is here 'necessary to
mention how the “difficulty” was “re-
solved,” if “resolved” it was. It leaked
out at Washington that Marshal Stalin
had asked for 16 votes, one for each of the
Soviet Republics (the number is disputed
by “unreconstructed” Estonians, Lithu-
anians and Latvians), and was induced by
Mr. Roosevelt to declare himself satisfied
with three votes, the U.S.A. to have
three votes itself. This disclosure led to
such a storm of protests from Senators,
in whose branch of the legislature the
States have had thfe same number of
votes, two, from the beginning, and from
champions of the Little Peoples that
Mr. Stettinius hurriedly announced that
his country would have no more than
one vote. To continue from the Yalta
declaration;
We have agreed that a conference of
the United Nations should be called at
San Francisco on April 25 to prepare the
charter of such an organisation along the
lines proposed in the informal conversations
at Dumbarton Oaks. The Government of
China and the Provisional Government
of France will be immediately consulted
and invited to sponsor invitations to the
conference jointly with the Governments
of the United States, Great Britain and
the Soviet Union.
Poland, the first country to be attacked
by Germany, was left out of the invita-
tions. A special Yalta chapter on Poland
intimated that the unhappy country was
to be dismembered by giving Russia far
more Polish territory than it ever had
under the Czars, the Poles to be com-
pensated with the Greek gift of “substan-
tial accessions of [German] territory in
the north and west.” For rulers they
were to have “a new Provisional Govern-
ment of National Unity,” formed out of
“the Provisional Government now func-
tioning in Poland” —the communist con-
cern —and “other democratic leaders from
within Poland and from abroad,” M.
Molotov, Mr. Harriman and Sir Archi-
bald Clark Kerr being charged with the
duty of making the necessary arrange-
ments “as a commission.”
Little has been heard of the consulta-
tions of this commission, but Moscow’s
opinion of them may be judged on its
cool proposal—made twice, it transpires,
to Washington—that the communist con-
cern should be authorised to represent
Poland at San Francisco. Britain and the
United States refused to “sponsor” this
invitation. In anticipation of their re-
fusal or for some other reason not iden-
tifiable with “the Yalta spirit,” Moscow
announced that it was sending to San
Francisco not its Foreign Minister, as
Britain, the United States and almost
every other country are doing, but its
Minister at Washington, a gentleman
scarcely known outside the Soviet
hierarchy even by name. Immediately
Mr. Truman became President this
arrangement was altered; nevertheless,
Russia signed a treaty of alliance with
the “Government” which Britain and
America do not recognise.
During the last eight months, with the
Western democracies doing all the work
on the sea, nearly all of it in the air and
a great deal of it on the ground, the Red
Army, with its magnificent Anglo-Ameri-
can equipment, has had great, though not
continuous, military successes which have
brought its Government great and con-
tinuous political gains. There was a long
and strange pause on the Vistula while
the Poles in Warsaw were undergoing
their second martyrdom. There was an-
other pause, not so long, on the Oder,
during which Breslau, Stettin, the eastern
Frankfort and Berlin itself were pro-
claimed prizes ready for the seizing but
were not seized. Meanwhile Finland,
Rumania, Bulgaria and Hungary, as well
as Yugoslavia, came under the control
of “Governments” approved of by the
Soviet; Finland greatly reduced, and
Rumania without Bessarabia and North
Bukovina, which used to be an Austrian
crownland. Even Dr. Benes, preparing
to return to Czechoslovakia, found that
he was expected to give up Ruthenia,
one of the original four provinces of his
republic, Ruthenia having somehow be-
come “Carpatho-Ukraine” and bred a
“People’s Movement” which “demands”
its annexation to the Russian Ukraine.
At the same time strenuous, and in the
end successful, efforts, oddly contrasting
with the Oder stalemate, were made to
capture Kdnigsberg, which, with neigh-
boring German districts not yet clearly
defined except in the Kremlin, is to be
Russian,
Indeed, the war now in its closing
stage, however long Hitler and his gang
may contrive to prolong the agony of
what remains of their Germany, will leave
Russia far and away the greatest Power
in Europe, with beyond its extended
western boundaries nothing but puppet
States where there used to be nothing
but anti-communist States, and with a
sphere of influence stretching far to the
west, whether Austria and the remnants
of Germany are in it or not. In other
words, Russia-in-Europe, under a regime
which renounced imperialism and was
held up as an example and a reproach
to “imperialist” Britain, will control
directly and indirectly far more of the
continent than any of the imperialist
czars controlled, or perhaps dreamed
of controlling; and what Russia-in-
Asia will amount to when the Japanese
war is over can only be conjectured.
These considerations are sure to be the
theme of serious discussions at San Fran-
cisco. On behalf of his Government M.
Molotov will have an opportunity of de-
claring in positive terms that Russian
foreign policy will be guided by the
Atlantic Charter and the Tehran and
Yalta declarations, and will have no truck
with communist movements in lands
which are not Russian. Nothing less will
satisfy the English-speaking world.
Anzac Anniversary.
In a critical study of the Gallipoli cam-
paign published in 1934, differing from
most things of the kind in being also a
warm-hearted tribute to the men who
fought there, an Englishman, John North,
wrote of the Anzacs: “Let it be said that,
had not these Anzacs been ordered away
from the Peninsula, all the forces of dark-
ness would never have availed to push
them back into the sea.” The Anzacs
“were an unconquerable strain.”
Of the historic setting of their fighting,
as he had then recently seen it, Mr. North
wrote that “The storms of twenty winters.
together with the all-concealing scrub,
have erased from Anzac every contem-
porary memorial of its mighty past.”
Except for two huge boilers of a con-
densing plant, embedded deep in the sand
and protected by a solid screen of con-
crete, “no other vestige remains of a dead
and yet deathless episode in the story of
an empire that sent out to her countries
of the Southern Cross a call for help ;
nor called in vain.”
Along at the tip of the peninsula, where
the British were: “Today, in spring,
Helles is green again ; the scarred soil
is healed; the labyrinthine trenches have
mouldered away; grapes bloom in the
Vineyard; and from its northernmost
slopes the sheen of the sea on either hand
holds and dazzles the eye. Sea, earth and
sky conspire in ‘the sort of sunny silence
that must have lain on the earth before
wars began.’ ”
At another familiar part: “Today an
omnipresent aspect of evil still over-
shadows the lonely plain of Suvla. Even
in the bright sun it is dark with sinister
suggestion. Scattered bones still whiten
upon its ‘desolate and abominable hills’;
and the waves that ceaselessly break but
neither advance nor recede on its un-
trodden beaches seem to set up a pause
in time and everlastingly to unfold the
story of its past.”
And of one other point: “Today Lone
Pine —known to the Turks as Kanli Sirt
(‘Bloody Ridge’)—is again a placid
plateau, with a cool white chamber, in-
scribed with the names of the Australian
dead, beneath a white column the top
of which is just visible from the Narrows.
The column replaces the stunted pine-
tree ; and the position is no longer recog-
nisable for what it used to be.”
Elsewhere the later viewer found Henry
Nevinson’s moving works finally applic-
able; “The trenches which they dug and
held to the death have crumbled into
furrows, covered with grass and flowers,
or with crops more fertile for so deep a
ploughing. The graves are obliterated,
and the scattered bones that cost so much
in the breeding have returned to earth.”
Of the place as a whole, Mr. North con-
cluded; “Even those who return to the
Peninsula to keep an appointment with
the dead intrude upon its loneliness, its
emptiness, its shattering silence. How-
ever, perhaps it is not upon Gallipoli
that they intrude. Gallipoli is no longer
a narrow neck of land set in the blue or
the grey of the sea. If it is anything, it
is a country of the mind.”
So, too, it remains today on the thirtieth
anniversary of the landings there; and
so, to Australia and New Zealand cer-
tainly, it will remain, “a country of the
mind,” to an indefinite future, whatever
of disturbance, of fire and death and
heroism it may yet be destined to witness.
In these thirty years since the protest
has often been made that others besides
Anzacs fought on Gallipoli; that the two
proud countries which bred the Anzacs
have no fair right to claim all that their
Anzac Day symbolises as peculiarly
their own. A natural protest—as those
from these parts who themselves shared
with others of the British world in the
now legendary adventure would be first
to admit—it would be a merited censure
but for a circumstance that can be pointed
to quite modestly and humbly.
Gallipoli has, in fact, a special mean-
ing for these countries that it has for no
others. When Mr. North called his fine
book Gallipoli, the Fading Vision, he
made a significant comment. An Anzac
might, perhaps, have used the same title,
but he would have done so wholly in a
personal, nostalgic sense. It would mean
only that the actuality of Gallipoli had
become to him personally, as it has by
now become to all who were there, a
fading memory. Mr. North could use the
term in a national sense. To his own
country Gallipoli actually is a fading
vision. Already it has slipped into where
it belongs—a mere minor incident in long
centuries of rich tradition. Begun with
blundering and ended in failure, carried
through to its hopeless finish with a nig-
gardly minimum allotment of men and
materials, redeemed only by the auda-
cious courage of that comparative hand-
ful of men, the whole campaign could be
forgotten without a shred being whittled
from Britain’s heroic glory.
That is the vast difference. Take it
away from Australia and New Zealand
—not the military event but the legend
risen from it —and what of the true heroic
tradition is left? For these countries, as
it is for no others, it is the foundation on
which the whole splendid structure of the
heroic tradition rests. In the present war
—in Greece and Crete, at El Alamein and
onwards, in New Guinea and in the sense-
lessly blanketed and hidden fighting now
going on-*-the tradition has been enhanced
and enlarged. But it still rests on legend-
ary Anzac, to these countries, therefore, not
a fading but a living and growing vision.
What actually is involved in todays
commemorations in Australia and New
Zealand—what has been witnessed as
clearly as an actual spectacle m these
short thirty years since Anzac—is the
whole growth of an entire national tradi-
tion. It is unique. Men taking part in


the commemorating have seen the pheno-
menon of its growth right from its begin-
ning till now. The dwindling few were of
its consecration, giving to this “such a
sum of bravery that there must for ever
reside in the name of Anzac a magic and
a splendor to uplift all hearts.”
The frame of mind of passing Govern-
ments can be a shrinking unawareness of
any sense of the heroic. The fighting part
of the fighting men can be correspond-
ingly played down, allowed to be for-
gotten for a year on end. The concept
of Australia as a non-combatant growing
food for the fighting men can be
projected and accepted by the coolie-
minded. All but the fighting men can be
pampered and praised. This is all merely
political and can make no difference in the
long run. Tire heroic tradition sprung
from the Anzac legend is now bedded in
the race. It is the race itself. It is
national and enduring.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Blitherer Abroad.
Some more sayings of Mr. Forde, that
robust would-be socialiser of airlines,
banks and B.H.P, who has a copper-
bottomed belief in private enterprise,
should be preserved for the admiration
of posterity.
To W.R.E.N.S. going out to the South-
west Pacific: “The participation of the
British Fleet in the Pacific war has placed
Britain on the map.”
After his visit to the Rhine and neigh-
boring parts: “Among other things I saw
the Siegfried Line, where I hung my coat.”
To the British people, longing fbr relief
from their five years’ ordeal, and just told
by their Minister of Works that in 80
days of the V 2 bombs alone nearly 1000
men, women and children had been killed,
24,000 houses destroyed and 760,000
damaged, and that since June 15 V-bomb-
ing had caused 8439 deaths and 25,101 hos-
pital cases: .“Don’t let us think that the
moment Germany lays down arms we can
divert our whole efforts to the task of re-
construction. That type of thinking is dan-
gerous. I say to the people of Britain,
with all the emphasis at my command, that
there must be no slackening until the mili-
tory colossus of the East is struck to dust.”
This injunction to the British from the
Deputy Prime Minister of a country
whidh, alone among the Dominions, has
no troops in Europe coincided with a
shocking lag in subscriptions to its cur-
rent war loan. It coincided also with a
plague of communist-caused strikes and
other wicked proceedings which have
held up many ships even while Mr.
Forde’s deputy has been telling the
soldiers in the Aitape region that “the
Government’s inability to obtain adequate
shipping” is “the only reason why essen-
tial heavy equipment has not reached
them,” and while the fog enveloping the
internecine war clears away from one
particular strike-bound vessel—“chartered
to carry food to Australian troops in
forward areas,” she has missed two
voyages. These excesses of larrikinism
disguised as unionism have also held up
the shearing, threatening a frightful addi-
tion to the drought mortality among
sheep, already reckoned at 20,000,000,
and held up the vital production of coal
—the coal situation, a cause for anxiety
throughout the Japanese war, is now
villainous, the arrogance of communists
being at its height. At all this “slacken-
ing,” Mr, Forde’s “Government,” with
unlimited powers to put communist
wreckers behind bars and compel strikers
and loafers to work foj the nation, looks
on, as inert as a toad and without even a
toad’s complement of guts.
This is the last year of Mr. Bruce as
High Commissioner, and “many Labor
politicians” think Mr. Forde should suc-
ceed him, with the title of Minister. They
would.
"Sling 'em Muck!"
Concluding a speech which, on the floor
and in the galleries, had a greater audi-
ence than any other private member's
utterance has had in this Parliament, the
member for Barker (S.A.) protested
against “the everlasting publication in the
newspapers of trials by court-martial.” He
pointed out that with so many men in
camps, fighting fit but “with no military
occupation in front of them,” there was
“a tendency among soldiers who in nor-
mal circumstances would not break loose
to have a fling, with the result that penal-
ties pile up.” And, though he did not
say so, their peccadilloes are reported in
papers which nowadays give scarcely any
space to the proceedings of criminal
courts. What he did say was pertinent.
Trials by court-martial are trials for mili-
tary offences only, and in most cases have
no bearing on a man’s civil record. At
one period the Minister for the Army, Mr.
* °Kr P rorn ‘ se( i me in writing that the
publication of court-martial proceedings
would cease, but that is one of the pro-
mises which have not been honored.
The loose and grossly unfair practice
Jf n< ?*- c 9?fi ne d to the Army. Last week
b. M. Herald” came out with the state-
ment, printed under fat headlines, that
a distinguished Australian airman had
been “placed under open arrest, pending
a court-martial,” on “allegations of trad-
ing.” The name, rank and decorations
of this gallant officer were given, also the
make of machine he flies, his unit, the
force to which it belongs and its island
station. By way of piling on the agony,
a nickname which is known to be offen-
sive to him and his family was worked
into a headline and repeated in the body
of the paragraph. And there was, of
course, a lot more in the “Daily Tele-
graph,” nickname included.
Everyone with any knowledge of this in-
trepid Australian, and of his unblemished
record in civil life before he made an
international reputation as a flying man,
thrice wounded in action, is confident
that he will vindicate himself. But the
probabilities are that this will never be
known by many of those who have been
made acquainted with the accusation.
Judging by the way in which court-
martial reports have been dished up in
newspapers, it is by no means certain that
even the evidence for the defence will be
published.
Only in Australia, and only under Min-
isters like Mr. Forde and Mr. Drakeford,
could these cases occur —cases in which
fighting men to whom only military
offences are imputed are, by outrageous
abuses of authority, exposed to the
pitiless glare of publicity which many
common criminals are spared.
Criminals Must Laugh.
Mr. Badly, the N.S.W. “Colonial” Secre-
tary, inthrojuicin’ a bill (February 13,
1945):
Last year the Commissioner of Police
reported t'o the Government a case where
a lad sixteen years of age had murdered a
man, and attempted to murder another, by
shooting them with a rifle. When the police
arrested him they found him in possession
of a truck in which, in addition to a rifle,
he had also a Thompson machine-gun.
In the Police Offences Act there is no
provision in regard to machine-guns,
which can be brought into the -city without
any licence and without the permission of
the police. The Police Department sub-
mits that the law should be amended in
order to provide for machine-guns. The
Premier asked the Prime Minister whether
this matter could be covered under National
Security Regulations during the period of
the war, but the Prime Minister considered
it should be dealt with by the State.
The only purpose of this bill is to pro-
tect the police, who fear that the commun-
ity will be in danger if machine-guns are
allowed into the State and get into the
hands of criminals and other undesirable
characters. At the present time quite a lot
of shooting is taking place in New South
Wales, and the Government considers it its
duty to give effect to the application of the
Commissioner of Police in this connection.
There followed a short debate in the
course of which Opposition-Leader
Weaver said “We are getting a reputation
that is almost world-wide as a result of
the frequent use of guns and the blud-
geoning and thieving taking place in this
State.” Lieut.-Colonel Bruxner argued
that “the penalty should be made severe
enough to act as a deterrent,” and gave
an example from his experience as No. 2
in the Stevens Government: —•
Hold-ups at the point of the gun became
very prevalent. Finally a man was shot
. merely because he defended his own till.
The killer was hanged. After that, I was
informed by police officers, there were' no
further hold-ups at the point of the gun
for at least two years.
Said Mr, Badly: “The bill can be
amended in committee”; and into com-
mittee he took it. The rest is preserved
in “Hansard”:
Clause 2: The Police Offences Act 1901-
1943 is amended ( b ) by inserting next after
section 41C the following new section: —
41CA (1) No person shall use, dis-
charge, carry or have in his possession
any machine-gun or sub-machine-gun.
(2) Any person who is guilty of a
contravention of this section shall be
liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty
pounds.
Amendments (by Mr. Badly) agreed to.
That in proposed new section 41CA (2)
after the word “to” there be inserted the
words “imprisonment for a period not ex-
ceeding six months or”
that the word “fifty” be struck out and
there be inserted in lieu thereof the words
“one hundred.”
So in the measure asked for by the
Commissioner of Police to have and dis-
charge a machine-gun was to be made a
fining matter, the maximum fine, if im-
posed, being half the penalty actually im-
posed for building a house in desperate
need without W. 0.1. permission. Even
now there is no obligation on a magis-
trate dealing with a case of possession and
discharge to inflict anything more than a
fine, and the amount is left to his dis-
cretion.
It was stated last week that Cabinet,
moved by thd finding of A 1 Capone
weapons in all sorts of places, and by the
capture of the Cockatoo Dock pay,
£11,928, by a hold-up gang, one of whom
flashed a tommy-gun, was to “consider
calling a special session of Parliament to
increase drastically the penalty for illegal
possession of firearms.” If any con-
sidering was done nothing came of it.
Mr. McKell preferred “going along
quietly” to parts abroad, leaving the
“law” to be laughed at by the criminal
classes, new and old and swollen in
numbers and daring, knowing too well
that when “Labor” is in killing of killers
is forbidden and that other forms of
yoomanitarianism prevail.
AS THE FATHER, SO THE SON.


FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
FOII j
I NUS/3*
FOR OVER 50
S
P
o
A GOOD POLISH
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(e) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts.or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates install
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months -
LOAN Weekly Fortnightly Monthly
site. Disci. Instal. Instal.
£lO 3 II 7 9
£2O 7 9 IS 5
£3O II 7 |3 I
£4O IS 5 I|o 10
£5O 19 3 IJO
£lOO 118 6 3 17 0
Instal.
16 8
1 13
2 10
3 6
4 3
8 6
may
A longer period to repay - -
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept.. 4 th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Curtin was not in his place on Thurs-
day when the Opposition tried to have
the army-equipment matter debated ; he
was to have resumed the debate on a
motion for the printing of a Ministerial
statement. The Opposition knew the
cause of his absence and regretted it;
he is very far from well. Fadden moved
the suspension of Standing Orders to
admit of an immediate debate, and was
beaten on a party vote. Chifley promised
an equipment discussion “first thing
Tuesday.”
Meanwhile Senator Fraser returned
from the northern islands with a secret
report. According to people who pro-
fess to be in the secret. Nature is blamed
for “a critical position” which arose at
Aitape, and “for minor deficiencies.”
If this is really the drift of the secret re-
port, it is reminiscent of the report fur-
nished by the lady who had the unwanted
infant.
An '“Age” correspondent sees Fraser,
Forde’s deputy, on Bougainville;
While eating bully beef with a group of
soldiers he explained that he wanted them
to air their grievances so that he could
place them before the Prime Minister,...
After an unannounced visit to the private
mess hall Senator Fraser invited the troops
to try on his grey felt hat. The troops
rushed the offer.
There is no mention of any Digger say-
ing “Mister, here’s your hat” ; but the
bully beef must have recalled other
memories. Just before the Common-
wealth election there was a great issue
of more appetising provender. As soon
as the votes were in it ceased, and “bully”
went on the menu again.
Unless Spender weakens, the last has
not been heard of Mountjoy’s attack on
a dead A.I.F. captain’s father and a lady
from behind the cowardly hedge of privi-
lege. Mountjoy himself has to answer
Archie Cameron’s suggestion that he “has
the hammer-and-sickle device imprinted
in the only place where he is game to
wear it.”
“If we look back to the inauguration
of the Commonwealth Bank in 1911 we
find that the press and leaders of the
Opposition of that day were completely
opposed to the establishment of that great
institution.” Dedman said it. The Bank
Bill became law in December, 1911, and
Dedman didn’t arrive in Australia till
August, 1922; so what does he know
about it?
After the last war it was reckoned that
Australian railway gauges could be unified
as to trunk lines for £21,000,000. Harold
Clapp has submitted a scheme which is
estimated to cost £208,000,000, with locos,
and rolling stock. Leaving complete
standardisation in Queensland and Wes-
tralia for future consideration, he recom-
mends an expenditure of £76,000,000 on
arterial lines —Fremantle-Kalgoorlie, Port
Pirie-Broken Hill, Bourke-Dajarra and
through the Barkly Tableland to Darwin
—an addition to the 1921 plan—and con-
version to 4ft. B|in. of the sft. 3in.
lines in Victoria and South Australia and
some of their narrow-gauge lines. The
report bears evidence of Clapp’s excep-
tional ability, but the cost is “a pull,” as
Traddles said.
Mr. Slater, M-L.A.,, Australia’s first
Minister to the Workers’. Paradise, was
back in four months. His successor, Mr.
Maloney, M.L.C., has returned in 16
months to “report to Mr. Curtin.” Mr.
Maloney was Poland’s Protecting Power
until informed by some commissar or
other —no doubt politely, though the
terms have never been disclosed—that this
part of his occupation was gone. Mr.
Crawford, the university professor who
accompanied Mr. Slater, also returned in
a few months, separately ; Mr. Maloney’s
University professor, Mr. Ashby, is hold-
ing the fort till Mr. Maloney shows up
in Moscow again. Before setting out, Mr.
Ashby quoted with intense admiration a
remark of Lenin, made during a Soviet
famine, that famine-time is the time to
prepare for future famines. Capitalist
countries where the English tongue is
spoken, even where a Wallace or a Scully
arises, never have famines,
Harrison or somebody should ask for
further information about the case of
the young Sydney bookmaker who, while
an Old Digger—father of a dead Young
Digger—was fined £2O for making a
small addition to his cottage, was
authorised to build an expensive house
in the Blue Mountains. The young book-
maker is known to have a Bellevue Hill
flat, with telephone, and is reputed to
own a house at Palm Beach. While he
was building his mountain retreat a
Maorilander in the same useless calling
appealed to the Chief Justice against
sentence of 12 months imposed on him
“for bookmaking.” The C.J. made it
nine months.
After the spring campaign of 1915 the
“Daily Mail” asserted that for want of
“Those Britishers have a queer sense of humor. When I told them they’d have,
to pull up their socks they only laughed.”
h.e. shells “British soldiers” had “died
in heaps on Aubers Ridge.” There ensued
the great shell-shortage controversy which
led to Lloyd George being named Min-
ister of Munitions. Though a not-guilty
plea came from the Government, there
was no plea of non-responsibility, nor did
any commander come into the picture,
voluntarily or by request, on behalf of
the Government. In Australia in 1945,
with shortage of equipment alleged, we
have had the spectacle of a general assum-
ing the responsibility, with the Govern-
ment’s concurrence, while denying the
charge.
“S. M. Herald” has published a three-
column article on “Mr. Curtin’s Broken
Pledges,” written by the man who has
done nearly all the booming of the P.M.
since his paper, turning on Menzies, ran
up the line “Mr. Curtin is Our Leader.”
Presumably Menzies has become Our
Leader again, Bob’s meetings and his
party organisation are going so big in
his home State that Laborites are gloomily
resigned to Victoria going Liberal next
year. Among the N.S.W. Liberals there
has been a recurrence of what are aptly
described as “growing pains.” The party
will get over them, as all young things
do ; meanwhile they are being exploited
with too-suspicious eagerness by writing
boys whose political affiliations and ambi-
tions are imperfectly concealed.
It is unfortunate, though significant,
that people with grievances against bureau-
cratic control and against union bossism
should express their resentment by taking
it out of the community. Recent examples
in the first category have been a strike
of fruit retailers in Sydney and a strike
of master-bakers in Brisbane, and, in
the second, a strike at Mort’s Dock, Syd-
ney. The Mort’s Dock affair was a revolt
against the communist bosses of the Fed-
erated Ironworkers, “Thornton’s mob,”
who, professing that they were all for
“rank-and-file control,” took control of
the Balmain branch and won’t even let
the rank and file have a shop delegate.
Moving deeper into Germany, British
and Americans have come upon first-
hand and hideous evidence of the horrors
of Nazi concentration camps. A frightful
example was encountered a few miles
from Goethe’s Weismar, and General
Eisenhower took the wise course of invit-
ing parties of Commoners and Congress-
men to inspect it while horrors were still
visible. Their reports may be expected to
be precise and detailed; those of corre-
spondents have been obscure on the point
of nationalities, though many of the vic-
tims seem to have been Germans. Mean-
time, the armies of embattled democracies
are obviously liberating large numbers of
prisoners of war, though here again there
is a pressing need for precise statements,
which may allay fears aroused by hysteri-
cal writing. Though the Hitler gang is
capable of any devilry and Nazi Ger-
many, as Major-General Fuller has
written - is „ a p atho i ogical caS e,” there is
00 „,„T. .
, s yet f e , rt f - nS r
have chilled the blood of relatives. Cur-
tm himself should issue a weekly review
of the p.-0.-w. position, after consulta-
tion with the Red Cross,
The war will bring Australia at least
one export trade, and Tasmania will get
it. Trie d with canned mutton birds—
“squab-in-aspic” is the toothsome trade
name—U.S. servicemen in Australia and
t h e i s i an ds bevond asked for more and
lu ISianas oe y° n< *. asKea more, Etna
they are now getting nearly the whole
out Put from 1116 "“■* “ B “ r °“
T 6 ™ * ** • ™gWy 200,000 birds
fTiA W^L ? roi ?J
Marcil 23 to April 30. lasmama itself
consumes all the mutton birds salted
down. The U.S.A. is now hearing more
about the merits of “squab-in-aspic,” and,
according to the Hobart “Mercury,” that
country has also become interested in
mutton-bird feathers for quilts and pil-
lows, and mutton-bird fat for “food sub-
stances.”
Henry Wallace’s luck has changed with
a vengeance. A year ago he looked a
certainty not only for another nomina-
tion as Vice-President but for first place
in the Democratic party on Roosevelt’s
retirement. An unexpected cabal against
him deprived him of the second term as
Vice-President which would have enabled
him to step into the dead President’s
shoes. And, according to precedent, his
successful competitor for what proved to
be the all-important nomination until
the eleventh hour Truman never thought
of displacing Wallace —will, if 1948 finds
him souna in mind and body, be the
party’s choice for a second term. Wal-
lace will be 60 then ; and, again going on
precedent, his age will be a disqualifi-
cation in 1952. He had a mortal struggle
to become Secretary of Commerce with
greatly diminished spending power.
Mrs. Jessie Street, speaking as vice-
president of the N.S.W. Aid Russia Com-
mittee, in January, 1942:
Russia has Siberian airports from which
her ’planes could easily bomb Japan’s
cities.\ She has warships and submarines
at Vladivostock which could menace Jap-
anese seaways. Why doesn’t she use them?
The main obstacle is the Russo-Japanese
non-aggression pact.
Now that the “pact” has been denounced,
Mrs. Jessie Street may perhaps explain
at San Francisco why Russia refrains from
doing to the Japs what “she” did to the
Poles, Latvians, Estonians, Rumanians
and Bulgarians, with all of whom Russia
had non-aggression pacts. San Fran-
cisco is a long way away, and the lady
mightn’t be reported.
“Mrs 0.-t.” propounds a query;
An English friend, hearing me complaining
about the daily battle for meat, milk, veges.
and other things, gently asked me to consider
the British housewife and her lot. Then she
explained the British system, whereby for
coupons and points housewives are supplied
with rationed goods. “Are supplied” is the
point. From a set of politicians at Can-
berra I received a book of coupons, so-called;
they’re actually lottery tickets, for I have to
take a chance on being able to exchange them
for food or wearing apparel. What I want to
know is, can a set of politicians who issue
coupons and fail to honor them by seeing that
that are redeemable be proceeded against for
breach of contract or faith or something?
If the six Education Ministers have
their way the Government which has
a huge and ever-mounting war deficit
will have to find somehow, tak-
ing the first year alone, £4,000,000 for
the N.S.W. “Labor” Government and
nearly £1,500,000 for the Queensland
“Labor” Government as gifts to their
Education Departments. Another objec-
tion is that it would mean expenditure
without responsibility. A third is that
these Administrations have already been
treated with such foolish generosity that
they have many millions socked away
for post-war prodigality. It is a wonder
they could have the hide to ask for the
money.
It js sadly evident that Norway, first
of the western countries to be invaded
by Nazi Germans, will be the last to be
liberated. On April 10 the Norwegians
entered upon the sixth year of their Cal-
vary. They have been wonderful little
allies, useful as well as game. The
arrival of a Russian army in Finmark
has had inconsiderable results, and the
Norwegian Government recently an-
nounced that the Huns still had formid-
able ground forces in its country, to-
gether with 300-odd U-boats —still “a
serious menace,” the U.S. Naval Secre-
tary has said, being “more efficient and
more difficult to catch.” But the forti-
tude of the Norwegians is undiminished,
and after the war the English-speaking
race should remember the grand little
people as the Athenians remembered the
Plataeans who joined them on the march
to Marathon.


Keep the home lights burning . . . .
Take every possible care of the Exide Batteries of your house-lighting equipment. Refer
regularly to your wall chart. Should the need for expert opinion arise, report the
matter to your Exide distributor or write to us immediately. By taking care of your
Exide house-lighting, car and radio batteries, you not only get months of longer service
from them, but you help Fight-
ing Services, who need all the
batteries that Exide are able
to supply.
♦
* U9S
• ■ ■
LIGHTING
3 *
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN
THE REST HAVE STOPPED
PERSONAL ITEMS
The post of Conciliation Commis-
sioner in Domestic Affairs —he tries to
reconcile quarrelling married couples in
S.A. —vacant by the death of Brigadier-
General Price Weir, who led the 10th at
Gallipoli, now goes to Howard Vaughan,
the Adelaide lawyer who was Attorney-
General from 1915 to 1917, in his brother
Crawford Vaughan’s Ministry. That
Ministry included also their brother-in-
law Clarence Goode, all three being
named by the Labor Caucus in the six
Ministers it chose.
Geoffrey G. Sinclair, appointed secre-
tary to Premier Dunstan’s new Country
Fire Authority, is an old hand at the
business. He was for many years secre-
tary of the Country Fire Brigades Board,
which, in spite of shortage of equipment
and having half a dozen different authori-
ties under the old system to steer a way
through, did a magnificent job in the past
frightful conflagrations. Sinclair joined
the old A.I.F. at 18, was in Gallipoli,
France and Belgium, and lost a leg at
Passchendaele. He is a son of the late
G. A. Sinclair, one-time principal of
Longerenong Agricultural College.
London reports that High Commissioner
S. M. Bruce may relinquish his post when
his present term expires in October. He
has held the job since October, 1933, and
has been representative of the Common-
wealth Government in the United King-
dom War Cabinet. It’s said to be on
the cards that he will secure a very high
post on the new world security organisa-
tion.
Prisoners of war released through the
fighting in Germany include Lieut. Colin
Munro, of the Cameronians; a son-in-
law of N.S.W. Legislative Council presi-
dent John Peden. Lieut. Munro was cap-
tured a few days after being wounded at
Dunkirk. Major George Hooper, who
went into the A.I.F. from Tooths (Syd-
ney) and was captured on Crete, has also
been released.
In St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne, is
to be heard some of the finest church
music in Australia, and Dr. Alfred Ernest
Floyd is responsible. Floyd is a little,
eager, energetic Englishman of 68 years,
who gives his recreation as walking when
it ought to be talking. He is a witty,
persuasive talker, with an encyclopaedic
knowledge of his subject. On one occa-
sion he was given an urgent call to go
to a military camp to explain a musical
programme, the man delegated to do the
job having failed to turn up. Handed the
list of works for the first time, Floyd
launched into a long address which held
his audience spellbound. Born at Bir-
mingham and educated at Cambridge and
Oxford, he had achieved musical distinc-
tion in England as composer, conductor,
adjudicator, organist and critic before
he succeeded the late Ernest Wood in
his present position. He was a caustic
critic for the “Argus.”
S.A. Justices’ Association has assured
new State Governor Norrie that it was
the first of its kind to be formed in the
British Empire. To welcome him it got
together over 200 J.Ps., 35 of them
women.
Captain A. T. Eliot (QX 14, A.1.F.)
has rejoined Queensland’s “Country Life.”
As a member of the 2/9th Battalion, he
was in Britain during the great blitz, went
into his first action at Giarabub, an oasis
across the Libyan border, spent April to
September, 1941, in Tobruk, then pro-
ceeded to Palestine and Syria. Captain
Eliot took part in the Milne Bay, Buna
and Sanananda campaigns, and was
finally with Air Liaison Group working
with the Americans in New Guinea.
Malaria brought about his discharge.
Seeking election to the House of Com-
mons, Air Vice-Marshal Donald Clifford
Tyndall Bennett, C. 8., C.8.E., D. 5.0.,
the youngest R.A.F. officer to hold his
rank, was born in 1910 at Toowoomba
(Q.) and trained at Point Cook (Vic.).
He has crowded an amazing lot of flying
into his young life. He competed in the
Melbourne Centenary air race ; made the
first non-stop flight from Britain to South
Africa ; organised the Atlantic ferry ser-
vice, leading its first formation to Britain ;
flew the first British payload Atlantic
crossing and holds the world’s seaplane
long-distance record. Bennett won his
D.S.O. at Trondheim, where, after a night
attack, he was shot down and, pursued
by German soldiers, escaped over moun-
tains to Sweden and thence to Britain.
Turned author, he has written two books
on air navigation and one called Freedom
From War, setting out a plan for the
establishment of the rule of law over the
world. He married a member of the
most international nation in Europe—
Elsa Gubler, of Zurich, Switzerland.
A proposal to establish a great inter-
national travel centre on the Western
Markets site in Melbourne has been made
by Captain Ivan Holyman, managing
director of Australian National Airways,
to Lud Mayor Nettlefold, and the idea
couldn't have been poured into a more
sympathetic ear. When the Lud Mayor
had his vision of the dream city of the
future he visualised Melbourne business-
men living in Hobart, having break-
fast there and sitting down at their office
desks in Melbourne at 9.30. So the Holy-
man proposition cheered him no end, and
he even went one better by suggesting
that the £1,350,000 building should have
a flat top so that helicopters could alight
right in the centre of the city. Bom in
Launceston (Tas.), a son of the master
mariner who founded the Bass Strait
shipping service that bears his name, Cap-
tain Holyman won the M.C. in the last
war, returned to be Launceston manager
of his father’s firm, and in 1936 became
a director of the airways service. He’s 49.
Some of the Old Diggers were tough
all right. Back in 1922 Bulletin con-
tributors had a dingdong go over which
of the then lately returned A.I.F. men
had had the most operations. The list
was topped by Cecil Stephen Hincks, a
10th Batt. original, who’d then had had 63
major operations, later increased to 85.
Despite all that, Hincks, who lost a leg
in the Tenth’s first engagement in France,
after considerable service on Gallipoli, is
going strong as member for Yorke
ORIGINAL 10th BATTALION.
Peninsula (S.A.) since 1941, and was re-
cently elected chairman of the L.C.L.
Parliamentary party. Before 1914 a lead-
ing athlete, he owns a 1644-acre wheat-
and barley-farm, and is a member of the
lately-formed Parliamentary Land Settle-
ment Committee.
J. T. Pridham, retired from the N.S.W.
Department of Agriculture, is a legend
among plant-breeders ; almost as famous
as his mentor, William Farrer. The true
scientist, patient, retiring, living only for
his work, Pridham was dux of his year at
Hawkesbury College, worked with Farrer
until the latter’s death in 1906, and sub-
sequently developed such notable wheats
as Canberra, Hard Federation, Waratah,
Baringa, Dundee and Gular, and such
oats as Sunrise, Buddah, Mulga, Gidgee,
Belar, Guyra, Lambton, Lachlan and
Weston, all bred for various purposes in
various soils and under various climates.
Belar, probably the best all-round oat
ever bred, comes from a Sunrise-Algerian
series of crosses. Largely due to Prid-
ham’s work, the N.S.W. oat acreage in-
creased from below 250,000 to 1,000,000
acres since 1917.
Here sketched by Ted Scorfield (who
was himself at the Helles end on Gal-
lipoli), original Anzac Air Commodore
Bob Christie, D.S.O. and bar and a
couple of mentions in dispatches, is call-
ing it a day after 35 years in army and
air force. Lately his health hasn’t been
all it might be. A Queenslander, born
at Maryborough in 1883, he’d already
put in some years helping to knock pros-
pective Diggers into shape when the last
war started, and he was off as a quarter-
COMMISSIONED AT ANZAC.
master sergeant with the old Fifth Light
Horse. Commissioned on Gallipoli, he
transferred after the evacuation to the
51st Battalion, was with it in France in
all its engagements, became its com-
mander with the rank of lieut.-colonel,
won his D.S.O. for distinguished service
at Polygon Wood and the bar to it at
Villiers Bret. He also was awarded the
Belgian Croix de Guerre. In August,
1919, he returned with the remnants of
the battalion and others of the Fourth
Div., and —this being the way they had
of doing things—rejoined the army in
Australia with the rank of w.o, A year
or so later he was called on to train 23
officers and 150 other ranks of the then
newly-formed R.A.A.F. service, and in
another couple of years transferred to
that service with the rank of flying officer,
moving up to his present ranking early
last year.
Reported missing on a northern opera-
tional flight, Squadron-Leader Graham
Pockley, D.F.C. and Bar, so decorated
for almost uncannily successful anti-sub-
marine work over the Bay of Biscay, One
of thousands of lads who went to the war
from Mosman (Sydney). Pockley belonged
to a noted Australian family. He is a
nephew of Ethel Turner, the writer.
One of the very best of war corre-
spondents from any country, American
Ernie Pyle has gone the way of so many
more of them in the present fight. The
news of his death —he was killed by a
Jap machine-gun on a small island near
Okinawa —was given out by his country’s
new President in a statement of con-
dolence. Pyle, who made his name in
the Mediterranean zone and after that
in France, was the second regular
columnist from his paper, the N.Y.
“World-Telegram,” to be killed in the
Pacific. The other was Raymond
Clapper. While so many other corre-
spondents adopted the role of military
and diplomatic oracles, Pyle concentrated
on the ordinary human side of war —the
men, particularly the rankers, doing the
actual fighting. He started off one of his
dispatches from France; “Here I’ve been
gallivantin’ round with lieutenant-
generals again. If this keeps up I’m
going to lose my amateur standing.” His
account of the death in Italy of the Aus-
tralian Roderick Macdonald began:
“The good news from Italy has been
tinged with bad for some of us who still
have strong roots and half our hearts in
that cruel battleground. The name of
Roderick Macdonald means nothing to
you in America, but it meant much to
many of us who marched with the wars
in Tunisia, Sicily and Italy ” That
warmly human touch was the keynote
in all Pyle’s war reporting.
“E.L.”; Squadron-Leaders David J.
Shannon, of S.A., and Mickey Martin, of
Sydney, who have won bars for both their
D.S.O. and D.F.C., can claim to be the
most-decorated members of the R.A.A.F.
in this war. Westralia’s Group-Captain
H. I. Edwards, V.C., D. 5.0., D.F.C.,
trained with the RA.A.F., but is now a
member of the R.A.F. Air-Commander
A. H. Cobby won his D. 5.0., D.F.C. and
two bars during 1914-18, and the C.B.E.
and George Medal in this war.
Warner and Long John:
A long “Saturday Evening Post” article on
Pacific war correspondents begins: “In a
ruined house somewhere on an awful island
there is a red-haired man with no shirt, but a
neat trick. When a fly lands on his freckled
shoulders he never stops pounding the beat-
up little typewriter he holds on his knees while
he sits on the edge of a - discouraged army cot.
Instead, the man merely ripples the suffburned
skin of his back, after the manner of a bored
horse. The fly, shocked in the innermost parts
of his fly mind, retires to think things over.”
The correspondent thus presented, Denis
Warner, of Melbourne “Herald,” may have
learnt the trick in even more fly-ridden country.
Before becoming a correspondent he was a
Digger with the Ninth Div. in the African
fighting. On Saipan, the “S. E. Post” writer
adds, another correspondent rushed up to
where Warner was typing on an ’ ammunition
box and gasped, “The Japs just attacked down
by the pier! Our ammunition’s on fire.”
“How far away are they?” asked Warner.
“About 200 yards! ”
“Right,” quoth the pride of Tasmania and
Melbourne, “I’m just about through. Only
have another ’arf a page to type.”
Warner, the writer continues, “completed the
page, sealed an envelope and strolled along 15
minutes later, never hurrying even across the
section of beach under Jap fire. I was the other
correspondent witnessing this particular sample
of the Warner type of insanity, which I still
consider definitely unhealthy.”
The same writer includes The Bulletin’s
John Brennan in his list, among other things
picturing him as travelling light, with “half a
shelter tent, a couple of bars of soap, and little
else.” Also “After his inexplicable custom,
Long John made numerous in-front-of-the-lines
forays through the jungles and mountains, un-
armed, chewing gum, and generally uncon-
cerned.”
“Nuffin”: Queensland’s Chief Justice
Macrossan departed from recognised pro-
cedure when in a current case he allowed
the jury to go home one night instead of
being locked up. His unconventional act
was the result of a complaint by the fore-
man of the jury that the food served to
them “was absolutely diabolical —not
fit. to be served to a cat or dog.” ’Sonah
was dubious whether better provision for
meals could be arranged, so he released
the men for the night, after counselling
them “to allow nobody to approach or
speak to them about the case,”
Brigadier Cyril Ettrick Weir, D. 5.0.,
who at 39 was one of the youngest briga-
diers in M.L.’s Second Expeditionary
Force, has been promoted to major-
general, in command of a British unit.
An Otago man, he was educated at Dun-
edin Boys’ High School, and in 1922 was
one of three cadets sent to England for
military training at the Royal Academy
at Woolwich. He went through the cam-
paigns of Greece, Crete, Libya and
Tunisia.
. Into the silence:
In Brisbane, John R. P. Irving, prominent in
Queensland University and musical circles. Edu-
cated at Brisbane Grammar and Queensland
Uni., where he graduated in science and applied
science, he went to Adelaide for the C.S.I.R.
as an industrial chemist in 1942, returning to
Brisbane on account of ill-health early this year.
He was formerly organist of several Brisbane
churches and of St. Cuthbert’s, Adelaide.
In London, Harold Chappie, son of the old-
time headmaster of Prince Alfred College (S.A.).
After Cambridge, Harold Chappie became
notable as a Harley-street surgeon, married a
daughter of Arbuthnot Lane, and was senior
gynaecologist at Guy’s Hospital.
Also in London, Dr. F. F. Muecke, of a
prominent Adelaide family, and husband of
Ada Crossley till her death about 15 years ago.
He was in the army, then in the R.A.F., through
the last war, and lattterly was one of London’s
leading ear and throat specialists.
In Brisbane, one day off his 79th birthday,
Dr. R. A. Robinson. Born at Knockbay, Scot-
land, an L.R.C.P. and S. of Edinburgh and
L.F.P.S. of Glasgow, he practised in both
N.S.W. and Queensland.


Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—24th April, '42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER—22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, '42: “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK —7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’42; “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the ppplication
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42;
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE—IBth May, ’42; “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part.... I have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, ’42: “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER—Ist May, ’42; "I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory,, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pelman
Institute are in London.
The Institute has been established in
Melbourne under the same direction for
over 34 years, and has enrolled more than
60,000 of the half-million Peimanists,
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
On “being wanted”
The first source of moral strength is a certainty of being wanted,
of being acceptable to at least one group of people. A second source
is the conviction that, if we wish, we can make ourselves of use to
other groups and acceptable to them. The enlargement of the number
of groups and the intensification of our influence in any one of them
are determined by the degree of development of certain qualities, viz;
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Judgment
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Initiative
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Pelmanism trains these qualities, not with the object of making
the individual like anyone else, but so that he, as an individual, will
be as strong as it is possible for him to be. The Pelman Training sets
out seriously to do this so that the man will be himself at his best, able
to make a good performance of anything he undertakes.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of
personality in “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, sent post
free. Inquiries are confidential. We have no outside
representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note Those who dp not wish to cut The _ Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute!
, Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute, Melt
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, S Gloucester House.
896 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
send me » P°»t-tree, * copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MjuND*
Name ...
Addrest
167
tCZEMA
Q ENSITIVE PEOPLE feel eczema acutely.
The continued irritation, the unsightly erup-
tions and the uncertainty where the trouble
will next spread make them feel almost
ashamed.
Eczema is not due to dirt, but to the fact that
certain skins react badly to various forms of irrita-
tion (internal or external), and poor general health
increases the liability.
Since there is a great tendency for eczema to spread
and to become chronic, early local treatment is
imperative, and the best salve for this purpose is
DOAN’S Ointment. It penetrates to the true skin
where the inflammation lies, is antiseptic and healing
and quickly allays the irritation. DOAN S Ointment
is also good for other itching skin complaints and
for the relief of piles. Buy a tin to-day, but be sure
you get DOAN’S.
in
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Economics of the Standard Gauge
The plan, presented by Harold Clapp,
to standardise Australian railway gauges
by a process of steps could be made to
have the effect of a balance-wheel in
the Australian economy for a number of
years. It is a class of work in which a
great deal of unskilled and semi-skilled
labor can be absorbed, and, provided it
is an undertaking that can be carried
through at a speed proportionate to the
surplus man-power available from time
to time, it may help to solve problems in
relation to fluctuating post-war employ-
ment.
i Clapp, in his plan, has laid down five
steps by which the standardisation can
be achieved in all mainland States ex-
cept Queensland and Westralia, but with
arterial lines of standard gauge in those
two States as well. The cost up to that
point is estimated at £76 million. Cer-
tain stages of the work, such as conver-
sion of one State’s lines from sft. Sin.
to 4ft. Byin. (N. S. Wales and Common-
wealth gauge), would perhaps have to be
completed with the utmost expedition
once begun. But the task of standardis-
ing the railways of the Commonwealth as
a whole could probably be arranged to
suit the prevailing condition of the
national economy, consideration being
given all through the piece to other essen-
tial demands on man-power and money.
There may be no real surplus of man-
power for some time after the end of the
war.
In visualising the implications of the
change of gauge the necessity for dove-
tailing the plan in with the rest of the
nation’s essential work becomes plain.
It is not the Government’s duty in peace-
time to plan all enterprise in detail —in
fact, Australians have shown very clearly
that they don’t want that sort of thing
—but it is obvious that the Government
should try to arrange its own legitimate
public works so that they will provide a
maximum of economic and industrial
stability while they are being built as
well as the greatest possible national ser-
vice when they are completed.
In the immediate post-war period there
may be many industrial tasks obviously
more pressing than standardisation of
railway gauges. Housing, for instance.
But any difficulty in keeping men fully
employed will be a signal for a start to
be made on necessary public works.
The double function that public spend-
ing should serve will have to be more
generally acknowledged if we in this
country are to make the best out of our
efforts and our potentialities. When busi-
ness conditions are slack it is common
for Governments to attempt to spend
money on hastily-planned undertakings
merely for the sake of giving employ-
ment through spending. Where such
spending does not provide the nation
with its money’s worth in public works
the effect is little better than if we had
paid a straightout dole to the unem-
ployed. Payment of a dole to able-
bodied men is an admission of adminis-
trative helplessness.
It is estimated that a complete change-
over to a 4ft. B£in. gauge throughout the
Commonwealth will cost, “very roughly,”
upwards of £2OO million. If it can be
done for less, so much the better. But
with this “backlog” of potential employ-
ment and manufacturing activity to be
availed of from time to time there should
rarely be need for a Government to spend
money wastefully on- “employment-
giving” schemes or to be saddled with
excessive unemployment. With the con-
struction of an arterial railway round the
back country of N. S. Wales through
Queensland to Darwin there would be a
tendency to decentralise industrial ac-
tivity also, and keep the national eco-
nomy in a better state of balance from
a population point of view.
In addition to arranging for badly-
needed standard-gauge rail services, there
should be a co-operative movement on
the part of State Governments to plan
for essentia! Government works, such as
water-conservation, soil-preservation and
electricity supply, and to see that those
plans can be put into effect, step by step,
whenever there is any slackness among
ordinary industries. Many State enter-
prises will have to be put in hand in any
case, however great the demands made
by private enterprise on man-power may
be, because of their necessity. But every
effort should be made to prevent competi-
tion between Governments and private
enterprise for money and man-power dur-
ing busy periods, while it should be the
responsibility of the Public Works De-
partments of every State, in conjunction
with the Commonwealth authorities, to
have ready-planned projects of real
national value available for starting dur-
ing stagnant industrial periods.
Clapp, in his report, emphasises that
“standardisation of railways without
modernisation” cannot be justified. He
makes many recommendations in regard
to efficiency, speed and safety. He also
makes the undeniable point that standard-
isation will have to come some day, and
that the longer it is delayed the higher
the cost of conversion will be. There is
a breadth and acuteness of vision in this
sort of planning that might be taken
notice of by all public-works authorities.
No doubt it is impossible even for rail-
ways-chief Clapp to plan ahead in a huge
scheme like the one contemplated
without making allowance for numerous
unforeseen circumstances and changes.
But the general principles he has out-
lined provide a sound basis for future
detail. Not only must the primary object
of reconstruction be achieved. The over-
hauled asset must give effective modern
service.
All those people who have fancy ideas
about balancing Government Budgets on
a man-power basis, borrowing and spend-
ing according to unemployment, should
consider the case of the standard gauge.
If carried out in sympathy with condi-
tions in the rest of the national economy
it, like similar Government projects, can
assist appreciably in maintaining indus-
trial stability and political equanimity,
as well as rendering the fundamental ser-
vice of providing the nation with a
modern standard track from one end of
the continent to the other. But, by con-
trast, a Government bankrupt of good
industrial planning could easily incur a
money wastage or debt increase of £2OO
million in a few years without having any-
thing worth while to show for it. It is
quite within the bounds of possibility
that, during this war, Australia has wasted
enough man-power, money and materials
to effect standardisation of the greater
part of our railway system. That wastage,
whatever its exact extent, has added to our
taxation and increased our debt burden.
Government spending that achieves no
useful result always has this unhappy con-
comitant or aftermath.
Reverse lend-lease aid by Australia to
the United States totalled £238 million
to February 28, Mr. Curtin has an-
nounced. Rate of total aid is falling,
but food supplies remain at “a high
level.” The P.M. added: “It must be
realised that drought conditions will have
an effect on Australia’s ability to pro-
vide food items,” He did not mention
that other handicap—Scully.
* * * *
To the end of March the cost of war
to New Zealand had been more than
£5OO million, Walter Nash, the Acting
Prime Minister, has announced. The
Commonwealth’s bill to the same date
was £1999 million. Australia has roughly
four times Maoriland’s population.
• * * *
During 1944, according to Common-
wealth Bank statistics, nine trading
banks in Australia earned profits of
£1,975,000, equal to 3.6 p.c. on share-
holders’ funds. In the year ended June
30, 1944, the Commonwealth Bank itself
made profits of £4,264,827, including
£2,743,115 from the note-issue section.
The huge earnings of this one Govern-
ment bank overshadow all the profits of
all the trading banks in the Common-
wealth. Under the banking legislation
recently presented to Parliament by the
Treasurer the Commonwealth Bank is
to have extended powers and initiative,
while the opportunities of the trading
banks are to be restricted permanently.
* * * *
President Roosevelt, in his Budget
message to Congress shortly before his
death, estimated that defence would cost
the United States $69,400 million in the
year to June 30, 1946. He said, however,
that the uncertainties of the position were
such that the figure might be less than
$60,000 million or more than $BO,OOO
million. For the year which will close
on June 30, 1945, the estimated cost of
defence is $BB,OOO million, other expen-
diture being put at $10,912 million —
total $98,912 million. Borrowing dur-
ing the current year is estimated at
$53,183 million, taxation, etc., $45,730
million. “Non-war” expenditure is ex-
pected to run to $13,130 million in 1945-
46, compared with $7456 million in 1938-
39. The growth is largely accounted for
by an expansion of $3559 million in the
cost of interest (now nearly $4500 mil-
lion) on the national debt. The public
debt of the United States at June 30,
1939, stood at $40,440 million ; by June
30, 1946, it is expected to be nearly
$292,000 million, the equivalent of
£90,000 million Australian at $3.29 to the
£. Eten with a population of 135 mil-
lion, that is still a tremendous debt
burden. The actual multiplication of the
United States public debt between 1938-
39 and 1943-44 was to the extent of five
times. If 1945-46 estimates are correct
they will represent at least a sevenfold
increase in the debt.
* * * *
According to Commonwealth Bank
statistics, retail prices fell 1.6 p.c. in Aus-
tralia during the year ended June 30 last,
and on December 31, 1944, stood only
22.8 p.c. higher than at June 30, 1939.
The Government, however, is not game
to use these cost-of-living figures as the
basis of its old-age pension rates. On
July 1 the weekly pension rises to 325. 6d.
a week, representing an increase of 62?
p.c. since the war started. Politics have
influenced pensions more than statistics.
The trouble with the statistics, too, is
that so many items entering into their
compilation are unobtainable or are “sub-
sidised,” and a number of indexes are to
that extent fictitious. A recent reduction
in the basic wage contrasts violently with
the lift in pensions.


A SENSATIONAL REVELATION.
DEATH MARCH FROM BATAAN.
The narrative of Experiences in Japanese Prison Camps and of eventual escape. By Lt.-Col.
Wm. E. Dyess. Fully illustrated with photographs and maps. ss. (post. 3d.).
The complete story—never published in full —of the American and Filipino soldiers taken
prisoner on Bataan, their “death march” to inland prison camps, their hideous, tortu
existence in those prison camps.
Lt.-Col. Dyess’ sworn statement to General MacArthur covering Japanese atrocities on
Bataan provided the basis for the American War Department’s disclosures of Japanese at •
It includes a gripping account of Col. Dyess’ escape ... an all but incredible narrative,
single detail of which has yet been revealed.
A REMARKABLE BOOK.
TEN YEARS IN JAPAN. A contemporary Record drawn from the Diaries and Private
Official Papers of Joseph G. Grew,,. United States Ambassador to Japan, 1932-1942. 2/s.
(post. 6d.).
Quentin Reynolds says:—A great and notable document. It answers definitely the one
important question: Why did Japan attack us?
Monitor says:—The record is rich in entertaining anecdotes.
JAPAN’S MYSTERY BROKEN DOWN.
JAPAN’S MILITARY MASTERS. The Army in Japanese Life. The realistic facts about
Japan’s capacity to fight the “Holy War.” Bs. 6d. (post. 4d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
<9»
0 9 0
K iy takers
(]}f
K lk takers
Vo one else can do your
share —Buy Bonds Today »»
the Third Victory Loan.
GERRARD
MODEL
“Tl”
MACHINE
Whether it is a tank, to hold a
beach head or food to feed
the troops both must be
delivered safely in the face of
war time hazards. For this
reason all food cased for forward
areas is Gerrard Wire Tied.
Second only to this responsibility we
recognise our obligation to peace
time customers—that's why Gerrard
service remains surprisingly complete
even under present-day conditions.
Gerrard is proud to achieve this dual
purpose.
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
.18-24 IRELAND STREET. WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
w
Post-war Living Conditions
The end of the war in Europe should
herald some changes in the way of civil
life in many parts of the world, What
laboratory experiments and plans made
during the war in Britain and the United
States await commercial development for
civilian use we don’t know precisely. We
have heard a good deal about plastics
and synthetics, one of the best of
the latter being nylon, which has been
in the public eye, but hardly within reach,
during most of the war period. We have
clear evidence of tremendous develop-
ment in aeronautics. But before the civi-
lian in any country is likely to be able
to avail himself freely of the benefits of
new processes and inventions there will
have to be a widespread cleaning-up of
war’s destruction in Europe and Asia.
For twelve months at least food will be
a major problem in Europe. Britain no
doubt will hasten to establish an export
trade in manufactures long before domes-
tic living standards have shown much
recovery. Australia may get some of
these exports in exchange for food and
raw materials, and we in this country
may have a more rapid recovery than
devastated regions that are not great pro-
ducers of basic materials. One matter
of interest is the question as to what
has happened to rubber plantations in
Malaya and the Netherlands Indies. A
return to normal motor transport in many
countries will depend upon the avail-
ability of raw rubber supplies. Both
Britain and the U.S.A. aim to produce
war-time or pre-war model motor-cars in
the early months of peace, and to develop
new models later.
Until Japan is defeated there will
remain a heavy strain on Allied ship-
ping as well as other resources, but
the subjugation of Germany must
mean substantial relief in numerous
directions. For many countries relief
will mean, for a long period, relief from
near-starvation and makeshift housing
that is the result of bombing and other
destruction of civil property by war.
Catering for luxury and leisure may be
years off.
In the United States and Canada a more
speedy return to actual “prosperity” is
certain. Australia, having a special in-
terest in the Japanese war, may have pro-
portionately heavy commitments for a
longish time. Over-regulation of civilian
activities by the Government and a frus-
tration of commercial enterprise may be
other factors retarding economic relaxa-
tion. In spite of synthetics, wool should
be a widely desired commodity during the
early post-war years at least.
Shipping facilities extended to the
Commonwealth by overseas countries in
the hurly-burly of European peace will
largely depend upon what Australia is
able to offer Europe in the way of neces-
sities. If we can offer the food and other
materials needed by war-racked Europe
it is unlikely that the ships to carry them
will be sent out here empty.
Britain is paying 1475. 9d. sterling
(184 s. Bid. Australian) a hundredweight
for the Commonwealth’s surplus choice-
grade butter and 86s. stg. (107 s. 6d,
Aust.) for choicest cheese. These prices,
which are on a f.o.b. basis, operate as
from July 1, 1944, until June 30, 1946.
(Under the old contract Britain paid
1425. IDd. Aust. for butter.) Values for
the third year of the contract will be de-
termined before May 1, 1946, and for the
fourth (final) year, before May 1, 1947.
Britain accepts responsibility for ship-
ment and/or storage. In order to return
to the Australian producer Is. 7.3 d. a
pound for butter it is estimated officially
that the butter factory should get
1965. 7d. net per cwt. So as to effect
that return factories will be paid 187 s. 3d.
per cwt for butter throughout the year
and Ills. 9|d, for cheese, plus 2.66 d. a
pound on all butterfat used in the making
•of dairy products during the “non-flush”
months of the year (March to September).
* * * *
In spite of withdrawals of men from
the fighting forces, employment in Aus-
tralia (other than in the rural industries
and in domestic service) fell from
1,913,600 at the end of 1943 to 1,906,200
at the end of 1944. The number on the
Government payroll fell from 543,200 to
520,300 in the same time ; that includes
Allied Works Council staff paid off.
Though nothing like the necessary
“purge” in Commonwealth Government
staffs has yet taken place, the Admini-
stration’s ticklish political position is dis-
cernible in -the foregoing man-power
statistics. The Government is losing direct
control of more and more wage-earners,
in spite of aircraft-production and simi-
lar programmes that threaten to be ob-
solete by the time most of the produc-
tion is available. Hence the increase in
old-age pension and child-endowment
rates and the nationalisation of banks as
a diversionary measure. Labor’s unbal-
anced and badly-founded politico-
economic structure threatens to fall in
on it any moment now. The Government
has written its own fate in a clumsy,
reckless hand.
* * * *
According to Deputy - Opposition-
Leader Eric Harrison, surplus man-power
in Australia is leaving war factories and
becoming tied up in “all manner of
off - the - record employment.” Checks
appeared to be ineffective on men nomi-
nally engaged in one form of employ-
ment but in fact actively associated with
black-marketing, s.p. bookmaking, prize-
fight promoting and other activities that,
instead of contributing to the war effort,
“obstinately retard it.” Harrison men-
tioned a man, under 40, who, ■ ac-
cording to the Man-power authorities,
was employed in an engineering estab-
lishment. “I doubt,” said Mr. Harrison,
“if anyone in this firm ever sees him on
the job. He has other fish to fry, and
the management is quite happy to be
rid of him.” There were many em-
ployers, particularly those dependent on
Government contracts, who would wel-
come a voluntary “stand down” by sur-
plus employees, who might drift off to an
unrecorded occupation. Condoned ab-
senteeism, Harrison declared, was one of
the greatest sources of man-power leak-
age with which the Government was con-
fronted when it sought to continue indus-
trial control beyond the point of war-time
necessity.
* * * *
Queensland’s first shot in the plan for
post-war inland development has been
aimed at the thick coal deposit of Blair
Athol, 200 miles from the coast in the
Rockhampton hinterland. The chairman
of the Committee of Investigation will be
the Acting-Premier, Mr. Hanlon, and the
body will be public service entirely. In-
land development is decentralisation, and
the idea is excellent. There is good black
downs country around Blair Athol, fit for
closer settlement, and a mass of coal. It
is one of the thickest black-coal seams
in the world, and Theiss Bros., now work-
ing at Muswellbrook (N.S.W.), have
lately been at Blair Athol scooping out
a cavernous opencut to increase sup-
plies. At present there is only one single-
track light railway for 230-odd miles to
the coast, and the cost and time taken
in delivering coal there is a drawback. A
pound a ton freight is a costly item on
coal, the calorific value of which runs
about 11,000 B.T.Us., and is surpassed
in that by other coalfields with lower
freight costs. Until the war broke out
Queensland railways were the only im-
portant market, so other markets have to
be found. For the generation of elec-
tricity a water supply must be located,
and that at present looks a snag,
though perhaps not insuperable. For the
production of synthetics, chemicals, plas-
tics, etc., there is plenty of coal —of that
there’s no doubt —and this aspect looks
the best bet.
* * * *
Bank shares in Australia have not
shown any significant movement since the
Federal Government brought down its
bills to make permanent the war-time
controls over the trading banks and to
abolish the Commonwealth Bank board.
The reason for this stability is that the
market price for trading-bank shares has
been pegged by the Treasury at far below
the break-up value of the banks’ assets.
Bank of N. S. Wales £2O shares have £34
13s. sd. of visible net assets behind them;
Mr. Chifley will allow no more than £2B
10s. to be paid for the shares. As a
result, no one wants to sell. Except in
the case of the Commercial of Australia
and the National, where more latitude is
allowed to dealers in the scrip, dealings
in bank shares are extremely rare on Aus-
tralian Exchanges.
* * * *
Prime Minister Curtin, replying to
Spooner’s claim that tax rates should be
reduced and profits control (not neces-
sarily price control) relaxed in the inter-
est of greater business incentive and pro-
duction, said that Spooner appeared to be
prepared to burn down a house to roast
a pig. Mr. Curtin should be shy of the
simile. His patty during war-time has
been busily burning down Australia’s
economic house in order to roast a pig
for a greedy, communist-ridden section
of the trade-union movement.
* * * *
A 10-year average of the N.S. Wales
wheat harvest has been 52 million bushels.
The estimate for the 1944-45 season is
under 18 million bushels. The position
is deplorable in this State. Wheat is now
coming in from Westralia to relieve the
shortage. A small shipment of weevilly
wheat from South Australia was not rep-
resentative of the quality of the general
run of imports, which are mostly f.a.q.
But who, three years ago, would have
dreamt that N. S. Wales would be in
need of wheat from other States! Com-
monwealth “regulation” has assisted in
the debacle.


Society
"AND IT'S pRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Clooter”: Occasionally there sneak
through the cables small items of news
from inside Russia that set me thinking
furiously about “the workers’ paradise.”
For instance, the one about Moscow hav-
ing its millionaires, though they are “still
proletarians because they are ranked as
proletarians, even though making money
on a Hollywood scale.” Among them are
writers, film producers, tenors, bari-
tones, aircraft builders, inventors and
“industrial chiefs.” These proletarians
usually have a town flat, a town villa, a
country house, cars and menservants, and
they feed, drink and entertain well. Their
women have furs and jewels. Dammit,
what was the revolution about?
* * * #
“Wodgil”: It has been noted by
Americans, musing on the death of the
first President elected for more than a
second term, that from 1840 on every
President chosen at 20-year intervals has
died in office: W. H. Harrison (elected
1840), Lincoln (1860), Garfield (1880),
McKinley (1900), Harding (1920) and
F. D. Roosevelt (1940). It was in 1940
that Roosevelt became the first third-term
President, and within twelve months he
had become a war President, like Wilson
(whose tragic breakdown came a year
after his war was over), McKinley
(Spanish-American War, 1898-99) and
Lincoln (Civil War, 1861-1865). Mc-
Kinley and Garfield were Civil War
veterans, and Taylor, though not
actually a war President, was elected on
his Mexican War record (1848) a few
months after peace had been signed with
Mexico. He died on July 4, 1850, 16
months after taking office.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: One of the war’s few
humorous episodes occurred in Bruns-
wick when Tommies expecting to grab
Von Rundstedt had to be satisfied with
the aged person of Mackensen, a marshal
long retired from business, and were
asked by him to stop, Russian
laborers stealing his chickens. Mackensen,
born in Saxony on December 6, 1849,
was the oldest marshal in the last war,
in which Russians, Serbs and Rumanians
found him a terror. I suppose he is
descended from a McKenzie who found
his way to Europe after 1715 or 1745 and
took service in the Prussian Army, as did
the brothers Keith, the elder of whom
was earl-marshal of Scotland; the
younger, a Prussian field-marshal, was
killed in the Battle of Hochkirch. The
Keiths enjoyed the special regard of
Frederick the Great, a rare distinction,
for Frederick hated . almost every con-
temporary, beginning with Voltaire. For
hundreds of years Scots could be found
in the uniform of every European king
and prince who had an army. Scott
painted a perfect study of the type in that
wonderful little novel A Legend of
Montrose, and Mackensen complaining
about his chickens inevitably summons up
a memory of Dugald Dalgetty.
“Bo”: When American troops walked
into the home of Dr. von Schintzler, one
of the chief directors of I. G. Farber, he
greeted them “while wearing Scottish
tweeds and English brogues.” This is
undoubtedly an example of that penetra-
tive appraisal of the Anglo-Saxon mind
that has ever proved such a strength to
the Teuton. Obviously the herr doktor
was expecting to be captured by men of
the London-Scottish Regiment, and this
sartorial gesture was his way of trying
to worm himself into their good graces.
One can imagine the Schintzler scowl as,
gazing through the mullioned windows of
his mansion, he saw coming across the
parklands not Tommies but Yanks. He
would have had time only to drop behind
one of the stolen masterpieces from the
Louvre the bagpipes on which he had
proposed playing “Cock o’ the North”
as a welcome. And even more annoying
must have been his thought that he had
lost a chance to impress the Yanks by
holding out his hand while dressed in hill-
billy clothes, with his face blackened in
the old cornerman’s style, and shouting
"I'd like half Bill's luck — he's just won the lot'ry!"
“Hi-ya, buddies, step right in while the
butler rustles up a noggin of hooch!” —
after which he could have started croon-
ing “My Baby’s a Bottle-blonde, and, oh,
Boy, Has She Got a Neck! ”
* * * *
“Geebung”: Longueville (B. 4/4/’45)
was originally a grant of 320 acres to
Rupert Kirk, the first soap manufacturer
in Australia. Later it passed to John
Bales of the Hunter River, who sold it to
a North Shore land speculator, R. J.
Harnett. Harnett subdivided and sold
water frontage lots at 10s. to £4
a foot. He ran a fleet of free steamers
and served refreshments to passengers to
encourage settlement of the area. Valu-
ation of such blocks nowadays exceeds
£5O a foot.
* * * *
“Melbn”: The drought has hit the
tourist traffic in Melbourne. People who
looked forward to reviving happy
memories by a trip down the Murray each
year have been told that that river is so
low that the picturesque old paddleboats
don’t expect to get water beneath their
keels till May or later. They used to
start plying in March.
* * * *
“Benbow”: Mention of the steam tug
Hero (B. 14/3/’45) sets me wondering
again why this class of ship is so often
given the sort of name that would sit
better on a man-o’-war. The Sydney
waterside has known Champion, Un-
daunted, Heroic, Heroine, Sterling,
Gamecock, Stormcock, Plucky and Irre-
sistible. In a slightly different tradition
are Bustler, Rollicker and Bouncer, but
there is no slackening of strenuous self-
assertion even there. Is it a form of
advertising with tug-owners?
* * * *
“A Major” on a new branch of
research:
Has Australia any traditional ballads or
“folk-songs”—the sort of thing which never
gets into print, but is remembered from
generation unto generation? Thea Rowe,
singer of British traditional songs, believes that
there is, untouched, an Australian storehouse
of such material, and that such leading cases
as “The Wild Colonial Boy” and “The Sick
Stockrider” are merely outcrops of a rich
lode. It may be so. Until Cecil Sharp and
Herbert Macllwaine commenced recording
British Morris dances and the like nobody
realised how much vital, vigorous music lived
solely in the memory of village fiddlers.
Percy Grainger, in, borrowing such airs as
“Country Gardens,” “Shepherd’s Hey” and
“Molly on the Shore,” and “dishing them up”
fit for palaces, followed in the footsteps of
his idol, Grieg, and in those of Brahms,
Sibelius, Tschaikowsky, Sarasate and a dozen
others who explored the music of peasants and
gipsies. Musically, it must be confessed, there
does not seem to be much worth dredging
for in Australia, but some of the old ballads
that have lived on here and there may be worth
transcribing. Anyone who can help with this
work should communicate with Miss Thea
Rowe, 14 Knox-street, Double Bay, Sydney.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Autumn brings with it an
argument for those Melburnians who
oppose the substitution of redgums for
the deciduous trees of the present avenues.
Often as I walked St. Kilda-road on a
winter’s day I have rendered thanks for
the leaf-shedders that let through any sun-
shine that happened to be about. For any
city prone to atmospheric dinginess in the
winter the trees that offer no curtain
against the sun are the most desirable
arboreal ornaments,
* * * *
“Si Anu”: I should be surprised if
Parisians, even in these *days of food
shortage, don’t live better than the citi-
zens of less-ravaged countries do. The
Paris chef is the most adaptable of cooks,
and can make almost anything palatable.
When a camel died in a circus a well-
known chef announced that he would
serve it on a certain day, and epicures
had such confidence in him that the place
was besieged by customers and had to
close its doors. But even in normal times
Australians who don’t know the ropes
can go hungry in the French capital.
“What did you think of the French food
when you were in Paris?” asked a Mel-
bourne man who had lived there of a re-
turned tourist. “Very nice,” he said,
“but it’s all samples. You get a lot of
fiddley little things that leave you as
hungry as when you started.” Question-
ing elicited that the tourist had been in
such a hurry to see the sights that he had
never been in a cafe long enough to get
beyond the hors-d’oeuvres.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Young and Jackson’s “Chloe”
may or may not be the “Chloe” which
adorned James Ashton’s studio in Adel-
aide (B. 11/4/’45), but I am in full
agreement with “S.T.S,” that the fame of
the Melbourne specimen has nothing to
do with any pronounced artistic or
voluptuous quality in it. What makes
religious fanatics slash it and throw beer-
pots dt it is that it hangs in a pub bar.
If it had hung all these years at the
National Gallery, where there are dozens
of nudes, nobody would have got excited
about it. What determines most people’s
feelings when they look at a nude paint-
ing is a fashion. It is customary to hang
nudes in galleries and unusual to hang
them in pubs, so “Chloe” becomes the
most famous picture in Australia, and Y.
and J. get an all-the-year-round advertise-
ment out of the lady.
* * * *
“2B”: Perhaps some day the Privy
Council will have to settle a claim by
some Australian, Canadian or South
African art gallery for a share in the
many artistic treasures hoarded by Eng-
lish galleries which have been “presented
to the nation.” Turner, for instance, left
“to the English nation” 362 oil paint-
ings, 135 water colors, 1757 studies in
color and thousands of drawings and
sketches. Even a gallery as wealthy as
Melbourne’s can buy only such minor
works of the great British masters as may
happen to come on the market from
time to time. Some of their greatest
paintings lie buried in the vaults of Eng-
lish galleries, as there is not wall space
for a tenth of them. It is time that
justice was done to those parts of the
English nation solidly implanted in the
dominions.
* * * *
“Pawang”; My experience coincides
with that of the M.L. Commissioner of
Police (B. 11/4/’45). Prohibitionists
can’t get it into their heads that drink is
a form of solace, and if an individual can
solace himself in that way he is much less
likely to engage in murder, robbery,
forgery, false pretences, p,erjury or other
misdemeanors than one who has no such
refuge. Painting pictures, writing poems
and making music are other forms of
solace. It might be argued that the joy
the prohibitionist experiences in connect-
ing alcoholic indulgence with all evils is
his form of solace.
* * * * *
“C.R.”: Melbourne University cele-
brated the 90th anniversary of its open-
ing the other day. Classes in/1855 were
held in the old Exhibition building, and
there were only eight students in the first
year. This year there are 3500, half of
them part-timers attending lectures after
working hours. The maximum enrolment
was 4500, late in 1941 (just prior to Pearl
Harbor).
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: The approach of winter
makes me reflect on my experience of
the last one, particularly severe in Mel-
bourne. There was a long series of frosts
and bitter winds, followed by clammy,
cloudy days, instead of the still sunny
days that usually come with frosty
weather. Previous winters I had always
tried to make myself warm by put-
ting on more clothes. That winter
I tried the experiment of taking
them off. Putting more clothes on
didn’t make me warm, but cutting
them down by nearly half did. Try-
ing the same with my bedclothes,
I found that instead of having cold
feet all night I was positively boil-
ing. I came to the conclusion that
too heavy clothing interferes with
the circulation. If we take physical
exercise we perspire and there is
no evaporation, so we go round in
a cold pack. Every draught and
breeze gives us the shivers. Then
we think we haven’t enough clothes
on and huddle ourselves into an-
other wrapper.
* * * *
“Pawang”: Despite “Canoozer”
(B. 4/5/’45), I can’t see the con-
nection between the learning of
Latin at school and using the Eng-
lish language properly. In the days
when everybody learnt Latin some
writers wrote in the stilted style
ridiculed by “Canoozer” and some
wrote vigorous English, and now
that scarcely anybody learns Latin
it is still the case that some people
write English well and others write
it badly. That the classical scholar,
as a rule, chooses simple words
and the semi-educated person (from
“Canoozer’s” viewpoint, the man who
hasn’t had a classical education) loves
sesquipedalian polysyllables is scarcely
a tenable hypothesis. Henry Lawson was
not a classical scholar, but he wrote better
than most university graduates because
he found his material in his own experi-
ence, not in textbooks.
* * * *
“Eureka”: Though most of the old hitch-
ing-posts have disappeared in Sydney and
suburbs, there are still a few that the
demolishers have missed. I know one
at Homebush, another near Circular
Quay and one outside a Woollahra hotel.
You’ll still find a few in country towns,
but many people don’t know what they
are. In a radio quiz session a woman,
asked what a hitching-post was, replied
“ A post for men to scratch their backs
against.”
* * * *
“Craiser” on a determined decorator:
Melbourne “Herald” recently unearthed a
woman whose obsession for domestic decoration
makes ordinary efforts seem footling. Five
years ago she started embellishing her villa on
Point Nepean-road and she is still working at it
from seven in the morning till 11-30 p.m-
She has hung the interior of her dwelling with
over 100 -paintings—some are suspended from
the door frames —has painted flowers on the
portions of the walls' not covered by pictures,
has inscribed designs on door-knobs, cups ana
saucers, the ice-chest, light switches and the
glass of windows, has tiled the bath with multi-
colored tiles, framed settees with snowshoes,
and armchairs with antlers, made animal-skin
rugs, filled the garden with concrete rabbits,
storks, mushrooms and models of butchers
shops and cathedrals, set 900 oyster shells i
stonework, and furnished the guestroom as a
bridal chamber with a design of Cupid creep-
ing round the mirror. The resolute woman has
used over 100 bags of concrete and intends to
go on until there isn’t an inch of-wall or ceiling
that a fly could alight on without cbcun g
some decoration. She is contemplating
ting her saucepan set and other utensils n
ALL ENGLISH.
“Professor Canby, of Yale University, lecturing at
Melbourne, said he had been struck by the beauty
of Australian verse, but had said to himself ‘This is
all English.’ There seemed to be too many big cities
here, with the result that the country was insuftb
ciently reflected in Australian literature.”
Wake-up, you editors, and let your ban be
Placed on the worn-out, too-long-trodden
trail
That’s reprobated by Professor Canby,
The erudite authority from Yale.
Warn your contributors they waste their time at
Verse in the English mode. The dinkum oil
Is minstrelsy suggestive of the climate
And smacking of the soil.
You backblocks bards who feel the impulse
pulling
To smite the lyre and pen the tuneful line,
From Murrumbidgee’s banks to Bulla Bulling,
From Wantabadgery to Doodlakine,
Here is your chance! Were ever names so handy
To deck and decorate a deathless song
As Goondiwindi is, or Dirranbandy,
Or Croajingalong?
Pipe up, and none will harbor the opinion
Your lays were framed by Severn, Thames
or Trent.
They’ll bear the imprint of a proud dominion,
The trade-mark of an island-continent.
The magic in the words, with no embargo
On polysyllables, will help mayhap
To place, well seasoned with some local argot,
Australia on the map.
The chaps who deal in odes and lays and ditties
Should “get the feel of things,” our guest
maintains,
Not in the turmoil of the crowded cities
But preferably in the great gray plains.
There they may frame new rhythms more ex-
pressive
Of life in this exhilarating clime,
New metres, top—and doubtless more progres-
sive
Experiments in rhyme.
“All English” the professor finds our poesy,
Lack of distinctiveness he holds a fault,
And one from which his country, I suppose, he
Regards as being saved by Whitman (Walt.).
Yet the old measures, echoing down the ages,
To stay and stir and stick can never fail.
Whatever be the yardstick and the gauges
Applied to them at Yale.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“X.P.B.L”: On patrol outside Tobruk
before the first attack we had to get as near
as possible to the big A-Tk ditch that en-
closed the Italian defences. The nights
were cloudless, with a full moon, and
the only way to approach was in a flat,
slow crawl, as the Italians blazed away
nervously at the smallest excuse. We
seemed to cop it worse than usual that
night. Near the ditch we were under an
almost constant stream of whistling, sizz-
ling, brightly-colored tracers, and we
spent all our time looking for dead
ground. When we got safely back to our
positions Jonesy, first time out and noted
for his o.s. mouth, chattered “Gripes,
those Dagos are getting dashed nervy!”
Then our lieut. woke up. Jonesy’s brand-
new teeth, issued before we left Palestine,
mouth open with the exertion of con-
stant crawling, must have shown up in
the bright moonlight like a heliograph
signal. Jonesy’s falsies stayed behind
after that.
* ♦ * *
“Pitt St.”: A Service Department par
in B. 11/4/’45 about free rail travel for
children in N.S.W. prompts the query
why children who happen to live on Syd-
ney tram or bus routes should have to
pay fares each day to and from school,
whereas those lucky enough to live on a
railway travel free?
“Now, what I'm going to say may hurt a little !”
“Pip” on the ways of Army barbers:
Hair styles for soldiers have never been
standardised. So long as the mop is trimmed
and does not obscure the collar or the ears
most C.Os. are satisfied. For a while the
shaven skull was in vogue. The operation came
at the end of pre-embarkation leavs, and after
five years many a soldier is still apt to curse
because the sailing was cancelled and during a
few days’ extra furlough he hadn’t the moral
courage to show his head in public. Lia-
bility to severe sunburn was another power-
ful deterrent and the habit has died out.
Rookies of the “arty” type who entered camp
with long flowing tresses showed unexpected
ferocity on being ordered to have a haircut. It
was considered good fun in the old days to hold
q{ them do * n and shave off half the head>
Some of them wielded scissors and clippers in
civvie days, but most are self-taught—as their
products proclaim. Almost always they give
the “saucepan cut, all the hair whipped ott in
a straight line an inch above .the ears, above
that sprouting out like a palm-tree. The barber
usually has more business than he can cope
with, and the soldier has a common growl about
having either to find someone to clip his mane
or buy a violin. Some blokes have a go at
their own with a pair of nail scissors when
the barber is too busy to find time for them.
The result is inelegant.
**„ * *
“Harold Hardupp ’: I don t think many
Maorilanders bother about tarpaulin-
mustering the money to make up ten bob
or a quid for a tote ticket (B. 4/4/ 45).
i n m y years in the Dominion, attending
race mee tingS all over the country, I
“i„ V e C terl” on the tote
never once invested on the tote.
Though banned by law there were always
plenty of fielders mingling in the crowd
and lining to take its money, down to
, , . . j.-j arinr i u, K ; npw
two bobs, and they did good business.
They worked on tote odds usually, but
were willing to give a set price if asked.
Most of the practitioners were well
, , T t t,_ m
known, and I never heard oi any oi them
welshing.
* * * *
“Strict Veg.”: The latest onslaught on
comforts of the nation is a campaign
against smoking m Melbourne cafes.
It is described as a “disgusting habit,”
and one opponent of it has declared that
cmnlt-t. in the nvernpp
there IS so much sr noke n t S
joint in Melbourne that he hnds It im-
possible to eat the tobacco-tainted food.
y ery t hi n special pleading. Smoking
meat is an operation requiring a great
deal of heat and an entire absence of
ventilation. It would take all the smokers
in Melbourne ten years to smoke a raw
herring in a cafe,
* * * *
“Bohemian”: The M.L. Government
has set up a select Parliamentary corn-
mittee to travel round and report on the
need for reform in local government,
From the North Cape to the Bluff the
Dominion is dotted with town boards,
road boards, rabbit boards, drainage
boards, borough councils, county coun-
cils, forestry boards and so on. There s
a characteristic legend about that pre-
valence. When Governor Rarifurly was
saying farewell to M.L. he travelled to
every centre (or otherwise) of population
in touch with a railway. At every place
he was presented with an address till the
vice-regal portmanteaux were bulging with
these documents. The train pulled up
at the flag station at Flax Flat, and on
the platform was the inevitable crowd,
From the Governor’s reserved carriage
the A.D.C. saw a man carefully reading
a sheet of paper. The aide went over to
the man and politely said “Before you
read the address, might I ask you to read
it as quickly as possible, as the guard in-
forms me the train is an hour late.” Said
the man “This is not an address. I am
putting in the guard’s van a sack of
turnips, a sack of spuds, a sack of onions,
a sack of cabbages and a sack of cauli-
flowers, This paper is the waybill.”
* * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A Sydney newspaper’s
literary critic has remarked that Mrs.
Hemans is remembered as a poetess only
for her religious verses. Evidently he
forgot “Casabianca.” Felicia Dorothea
Hemans {nee Browne—Australia’s “Rolf
Boldrewood” claimed-a relationship) was
quite a remarkable woman. Her first
collection of verses, some of them written
when she was eight, was published when
she was 15; in the same year she fell
violently in love with the Captain Hemans
she married a few years later, against
family opposition. The second book came
when she was 19; and when she died at
42 she had created a pretty substantial
literary monument. Captain Hemans, in-
cidentally, left her, to live a gay life in
Italy. As her biographer put it in the
stately style of the period, “They never
“And does Ducky Wuckem's pet lamb get her
Treasury bonds and share scrip NOW?
came together again, and the gifted
authoress sought, in the education of her
five children and the pursuit of literature,
a refuge from her seared affections and
blighted hopes,”
¥ * * *
“F.S.”: The latest addition to Mel-
bourne’s collection of Cook relics is the
navigator’s waistcoat, a white one with
14 gold buttons, its shape familiar to any
student of Norman Lindsay’s period
drawings. It was bought by Louis Bussau
when he was agent-generalling in London,
and there was some doubt in the minds
of the National Gallery trustees as to its
authenticity or value at the time of the
offer. There was some doubt as to the
authenticity of Cook’s cottage when Rus-
sell Grimwade offered it to the city, there
being no evidence that the navigator ever
lived there, since he was 28 when his
parents moved in, though he may have
stayed with the old folk between voyages.
Nevertheless, it is indelibly imprinted in
the public mind that the cottage is Cook’s
cottage, and it is a charming example of
English peasant architecture.
* * * *
“Kay”: Maoriland outclasses Aus-
tralia in number and quality of stamp
issues. In 1898 and 1935 sets of pictorial
stamps were printed, with 12 designs in
the former and 14 in the latter, illustrat-
ing scenic beauty and wild life. In 1906
and 1925 exhibitions held at Christchurch
and Dunedin respectively prompted other
designs, historical and scenic. A Chamber
of Commerce conference in Wellington in
1936 brought forth five new stamps bear-
ing scenes of industry. In 1920 and 1936
war souvenir issues were made. The 1920
designs, six in number, were symbolical;
the 1936 stamps commemorate the 21st
anniversary of the Gallipoli landing. The
Dominion centenary in 1940 was epito-
mised in 13 pretty stamps typifying
Maoriland’s progress during the century,
historically and industrially. In 1935 the
reign of George V and in 1937 the coro-
nation of George VI were commemorated.
* * * *
“X.S.”: This happened in Melbourne.
Advocates were wrangling over “priori-
ties” in examining witnesses at an inquest,
the bone of contention being the import-
ance of evidence being taken down in
shorthand for subsequent use “in another
place.” “You insurance chaps can have
your arguments elsewhere,” the coroner
snapped. “All I’m concerned with is the
cause of death.” Ascertainment of the
cause of death proceeded without further
interruption.
* * * *
“Jay Jassie”: The Rev. Bobby Knop-
wood, the Speck’s first chaplain, who
died 106 years ago, was a most atrocious
speller. Like many Englishmen who left
their homes for Australia in the early
days, the “fox-hunting parson,” as Knop-
wood came to be known, kept a diary.
In it he discoursed of “pot Sos,” “emews”
and “chickings.” Another strange miss-
spelling is “Robert” for Hobart, but as
the family calls it “Hubbart” some lati-
tude there is forgivable. Many volumes
of Knopwood’s personal records are pre-
served, but it is a sore point with Tas-
manians that the first volume was sold
to the Mitchell Library. A volume cover-
ing the period 1805-8 is in the possession«
of a relative who lives near Hobart.
• ♦ • *
“Harap”; It is seldom that the dis-
coverer develops his brain-child to the
stage where it becomes useful to man-
kind. Lodge and Fleming created the
radio valve, but it needed a Marconi to
give us wireless telegraphy; Fleming noted
that penicillin mould
was antiseptic, but
Florey’s genius gave
it to the medical pro-
fession, Recognising
that there are two
distinct types of
scientists, great com-
panics such as
Dupont, General
Electric and others
spend more than 10
p.c. of their profits
on research. Each
maintains two ex-
perimental depart-
ments. In one the
scientist is allowed
to work along any
line he wishes; in
the other team-work
is used to investigate
specific problems
connected with the
company’s interests.
It was from the first
department that a
Dupont worker pro-
duced a substance
which, handed to
the second depart-
ment, became Nylon.
The profit from this
one product will
Mwlmore than repay the
Dupont people for the huge sums spent
in research which may appear to possess
purely scientific or academic value.
* * * *
“F.S.”: The business of publishing
biographies for a consideration used to
be carried to great lengths in pre-war
Paris, where there were literally hundreds
of art journals, mostly with diminutive
circulations. An Australian painter exhi-
bited a picture in the Salon and a few
days later received a note from the editor
of one of these journals offering to print
his life story and a criticism of his work,
written by himself but in the third per-
son. The only condition that 100 copies
of the issue must be bought. The Aus-
tralian dropped the missive into his
studio stove, but every artist, wasn’t like
him. A good many reputations have been
made that way.
* * * *
“Ceg” revisits Cobham Hall:
■ Two thousand or more officers of the old
A.I.F. passed through the convalescent hospi-
tal at Cobham Hall, Kent. Let’s revisit the
charming old place. We book at Victoria
station for Sole Street and having arrived there
decide to walk to the Hall —it’s not far.
First of all a refreshej: at the Railway Hotel —
Mrs. Black kept it. On our way, along a hedge-
lined road, to Cobham village is an old church
which has possibly the finest and most com-
plete series of monumental brasses in England.
One or two of the Australians were married
here. Further along is the old Leather Bottle
Inn, mentioned in Pickwick Papers, to which
Mr. Tupman retired in disgust with life. The
Pickwick Club of London drives down in
coach and four for an annual dinner at this
inn.
Further up the village street we come to
the Darnley Arms, called after the family that
has owned Cobham Hall for so many years.
Almost opposite is the village post office and
general store, which was run by Miss Axt'ed,
who handled many hundreds of telegrams for
the officers going and coming on leave. Let’s
toddle a bit further and call on George
Fowles at the Ship Inn. This was a great
rendezvous for the Australians. George had
been in the Marines for very many years. In
the four-ale bar the villagers gathered at night
to linger over their pots; the saloon was for
“the horficers,” as George called them.
At the end of the village street the entrance
gates to the Hall open into a magnificent
avenue of elms leading right up to the lawns in
front of the Hall. This is the ancestral home
of the Earls of Darnley and the particular one
who had it when the Aussies were there was
the cricketer Ivo Bligh, who married Florence
Morphy, of Beechworth, Victoria. It consists
of two Tudor wings with a central block de-
signed by Inigo Jones. Lady Darnley made one
of these wings available to the A.1.F., and
“the family” used the other half. Lord Darn-
ley had a cricket pitch prepared every summer
—tent, pavilion and all, and many a good game
of cricket was played there on the long summer
evenings.
Two large wards were arranged: one in the
dining-hall, lined with portraits of Darnley
ancestors, and the other in the large picture
gallery upstairs, which had a smaller room
opening off it and known as “Lizzie’s room,”
because of a legend that Queen Elizabeth once
slept in it. It bad a ceiling by Landseer. The
music-room (described by the Prince Regent as
the finest room in England) had a portrait of
the Stuart Princes over the huge white marble
mantelpiece, and was frequently used for enter-
tainments—Christmas dinners and concerts.
Famous artists came down from London, and
I remember seeing Grock, the French clown
and the greatest of his flock, there. In the
grounds was a small Swiss chalet, presented
to Charles Dickens by Fletcher, the great actor,
in which Great Expectations and Edwin Drood
were written—it was moved from Gadshill to
Cobham Hall when Dickens died.
ASSIGNED TO BADLY.
“It is proposed to give the N.S.W. ‘Colonial’
Secretary power to prohibit any publication he may
consider obscene.”
A pleasant sideline for you, Mr. Badly,
A job at which, perhaps, you won’t rebel
Once you have bidden, cheerfully or sadly,
Good-bye to your departing chief, McKell,
And taken up the r6le he played so gladly
Of doing very little very well
And making “going quietly along”
What one may .call the burden of his song.
Critics have pictured your horizon bounded
By collieries and those who delve therein,
Or long, lean dogs incontinently hounded
In profitless pursuit of hares of tin.
But even these should be a bit confounded,
Though they may risk a surreptitious grin,
To learn you’re not debarred by things like these
From literary tastes and tendencies.
Why should you be? When erudite professors,
Brought up in labs, and lecture-rooms to toil,
Are cheerfully accepted as assessors
P n problems appertaining to the soil,
Why shouldn’t chaps like you and your suc-
cessors
Be picked to furnish us the dinkum oil
About what printed works we ought to read
And what should be forbid? Why not, indeed?
Leaving awhile the Parliamentary forum
I see you, out to ban or quarantine
All magazines that snlack of indecorum
Or touch however faintly on the obscene.
Think of what powers you’ll wield, as censor
morum.
In seeing that our reading-rooms are clean
From any influences you may note
As liable to get a curate’s goat.
Yours, Badly, is the task to stem invasion
Of any writers speaking with a voice
You hold a little bit too Rabelaisian;
And none shall question or assail your choice
Whether it’s Huxleys that you find occasion
To put a stopper on, or birds like Joyce.
At least ’twill take your mind off placid jogs
On legislative tracks —and mines and dogs.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”; A small, scrubby man, he came
sailing over the roadway fence, propelled
by a large, muscular, irate fellow, to land
in a patch of bracken, and his scrubby-
looking black-and-tan dog scrambled
quickly under the fence to join him. He
was still sitting there as I came by, and
he jerked his thumty over his shoulder
in the general direction of the property
from which he had been ejected and said,
without heat, “He’s a liar, that bloke,”
I requested the why and wherefore, and
he explained. “X gets into this joker’s
back paddock,” he said. “A bloke’s got
to eat, o’ course, so I knock over a sheep
and cut some of it up. There’s plenty
o’ timber round, so I lights a fire, then
cuts a length o’ fencin’ wire to grill the
chops on. I’d already hoisted some fat
and flour I seen in the kitchen when
no one was round, and I’m toppin’ off
a good feed with flapjacks I’d cooked on
the blade of a shovel I seen layin’ about
when that big cow comes along, gives me
a hidin’ an’ shots me off the joint.
Reckons everything I’d used was pinched,
—the flamin’ liar!” “Well, weren’t
they?” I asked. The scrubby man bent
on me an injured look. “No —the swine
was exaggeratin’,” he said. “They was me
own matches I lit the fire with!”
•t»
“Moyhu”: The wombat’s hide makes
it secure against assault by the bees
whose ground-located hive it happens to
rob —and the wombat is a lover of
honey. But the bees occasionally score.
In the Ovens Valley (Vic.) a notorious
hive-destroyer abruptly ceased operations
after an attempt to loot a hive of small,
black Italian bees. One bee put its sting
in the ball of the wombat’s right eye,
permanently disabling the organ. For
a time the wombat hung around the river
flats, but in a week or two was observed
disconsolately spiralling into the tim-
bered hill country back of Porepunkah.
* * * *
“Julia Creek”: Methods adopted to
stick on a “bad” horse vary, I have
observed, according to the district; but
the use of the monkey strap or “jug
handle” goes closest to universality of
use. The “top rail” is another, and a
good one, too ; but hard to get clear of a
horse should he fall. Tied stirrup-irons
are effective, though dangerous. I once
struck a Gulf horseman who removed
the surcingle from its usual place and
ran it over both saddle panels and stirrup-
leathers, leaving the irons and a few
inches of the leathers swinging free. He
could ride any outlaw with this grip.
Saturating the trousers with water is
favored in some districts, while a strap
pulled tight around a horse’s neck is popu-
lar in others, the v idea being that when he
puts his head down to root he strangles.
From what I saw, this is not very effec-
tive, as the horse will probably root even
with his head in the air. My own par-
ticular fad I find both simple and effec-
tive. On mounting, tuck the free hand
firmly down on the pommel of the
saddle, so that if the body sways for-
ward it leans on the forearm. Let the
fingers of the hand extend into the gullet
of the saddle. Should the horse bound
ahead this grip will stop the rider from
leaving by the back door; should the
horse rear over or fall the rider has an
ideal grip to lever himself out of the
saddle. I picked up the wrinkle from a
rider in the Peninsula, whom I never saw
thrown ; if his mount fell he just walked
off it.
* * * *
“F. Jay”; Billycans, a necessity to all
bricklayers, were hard to get, and every
one Brickie brought was “taken.” Then
one morning he took a shiny new billy
out of his kitbag and punched a hole in
the bottom. “What’s the idea?” inquired
the Chips. “No blankard’ll pinch it
now,” said Brickie. “But” began
“Well have the rent first thing in the morning , Mrs. Halloran.”
Chips. “You wait,” promised Brickie. At
smoke-oh he fished a cork out of his
pocket, pushed it into the hole and held
out the billy for his tea.
* * * *
“X.B.D'J”: We breasted the bar at
Bungle’s Crossing and were about to
order drinks when a long sandy-haired
cove sauntered in. “Play ‘crow’ t’ see
who shouts,” he invited. The others in
the room assented eagerly. Sam and I
exchanged glances—which of us looked
a sitter? “It’s a newie on me,” Sam lied ;
“but I’ll have a go.” “Aw, there’s nothin’
to it,” Sandy said. “Someone writes the
names of birds on bits o’ paper an’ passes
them round. Who gets ‘crow’ has t’ shout
f’r the mob.” We drew from the hat and,
of course, all the papers were marked
“crow.” “Starling,” Sam said. “Duck,”
I followed. “Y’ needn’t go any further,”
Sandy said. “I got him again. Haven’t
missed fr weeks. But, by cripes, I’ll get
some free beer outa this joint when me
flamin’ luck changes.”
« * * ♦
“Baiwal”: The cheese for rabbit traps
(B. 11 /4/’45) reminds me. A unit up north
was short of fresh meat, so a few country
lads got their C.O.’s permission to go
rabbit-trapping in a big way. The scheme
went very well, but one officer, a city man,
was puzzled. “I understand you can
use grass or apples is the traps,” he said
to one of the trappers. “We’ve no spare
apples, and how do you prevent the grass
from blowing away?”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Wild animals have their
troubles. An epidemic of skin disease is
sweeping through the foxes in this East
Gippsland district. Last season two cases
were found, one hunter foolishly skinning
his catch. The result was an infestation
of sores over his hands that necessitated
weeks of treatment. With the summer
months the trouble has spread rapidly
through the fox family and now trappers,
squealers and riflemen everywhere are re-
porting diseased catches. My problem is
that of many others. After years of
encouraging the dogs to kill everything
in the fox line it is now a tough job to
keep them off the mangy tribe. Met my
neighbor the other day just after his pack
had put up a strange-looking animal in
a patch of fern. When captured it proved
to be a fox, the only hair remaining on
the diseased hide being a tuft on top of
the head and a strip on the tail.
* * * *
“B. 4”: An exodus of those big brown
locusts can be quite a useful institution.
Once travelled for three days north of
Hughenden (Q.) under an appreciable
shade cast by millions of the black-
mottled yellow wings, as the hordes
hummed their way eastwards, eventually
to disappear into the Pacific. Eggs laid
in sandy country produced myriads of
soft-bodied ’hoppers which formed lines
a foot deep and the width of the tree-
shadow in which they lay for a siesta.
As the rope of them moved with the
midday shade, gorged snakes and goannas
lying under the writhing mass were
glimpsed. At sundown the trees in the
path of the invasion almost groaned under
the accumulated weight of ’hoppers and
the attendant crows, ibis, magpies and
other fowl which had been attracted to
the feast. The passage of the ’hoppers
was a devastation ; neither blade of grass
nor leaf of tree survived their passing,
and the very air was foul from their visi-
tation. A mixture of caustic soda and
arsenical soap sprayed on the wingless
’hoppers from a barrel-and-spray pump
in a cart proved effective, as only one
fleck of foam was sufficient to provide a
casualty. Ripping the surface of their
nesting ground with a harrow broke
many of their sealed burrows and allowed
ants to deal with the eggs,
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: No one in pearling circles
assumes that submerging a lugger com-
pletely rids it of cockroaches, for as the
rising tide creeps up so also does the
flood of insect life; and there are always
the masts as a final refuge. The tech-
nique concerning this is to station a
nigger boy on each, armed with a lump
of sacking or a broom, with which he in-
dustriously, more or less, knocks off the
pests into the water. So a few are likely
to be missed. But it woulck be a wise
’roach that remained below deck knowing
that at some time in the future, six weeks
according to “C’s Egg” (B, 21/4/’45),
the boat will float high and dry again,
thus enabling it to resume life. One
curiosity of ’croach elimination is the
swarms of fish that the process attracts.
Hardy blokes with tough stomachs take
advantage of this —half a plug of frac-
ture judiciously dropped generally shell-
shocks sufficient to feed a small town.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: I’ve watched pelicans
beat wedgetails up into the blue, and
flights of .white ibis pass abp/e both of
them; but for flying at its best these
albatrosses take beating. First day out
we had a stiff head wind, and the brown-
and-white beauties just put their heads
into it and hung there, gaining slightly
on the ship, to wheel away when they
drew abeam and come on to our wake
again a quarter of a mile astern. The
big Wandering albatross dominated the
show, with the smaller Black-browed
cousin in greater numbers but less regal
bearing, yet they both flew the same
tactics, the same speed, with the same
regularity. When scraps were dropped
those near-by would do tight turns and
alight, those following would glide
straight in, followed by those which had
been ahead and had had to wheel wide
so as to borne in up wind. There would
be no vulgar squabbling as with com-
moners like gulls, but a dignified in-
spection of what was there, a spell on the
water till they were nearly out of sight,
then one by one they’d rise and over-
take us. If the scraps were seen at once
to be useless the big chaps wouldn’t even
bother to fold their wings, but would
hold them high and just spread them into
wind to take off again as they were
tossed to the top of a wave ; but when
they were folded it was done meticu-
lously, like a beetle does it. Next day
the wind was abeam, but it was just as
easy to our followers. They still faced
it, but now wove across the wind’s path,
side-slipping after the vessel, and spend-
ing just as much time as before over the
place they wanted to watch. Then, to
complete the demonstration, we got a tail
wind; and now the albatrosses hung into
it poised like kestrels, to bank away,
overtake us and turn into wind and
repeat the manoeuvre, always covering
our complete wake. When scraps were
sighted the landing procedure was always
the same, and we rarely saw a wing
flapped—if that did happen it was usually
when the bird was travelling down wind ;
why? Right across the Bight they stayed
with us, till birds with individual pecu-
liarities—a broken pinion, or partly mot-
tled plumage—could be identified. Day
after day, and however late you took a
stroll down astern, they were there. But
I like to think they were Australians by
choice, for when we arose after rounding
the Leeuwin they were gone.
* * * *
“Moonta”; That yarn about how the
scones fell flat at the “dance-social” (B.
21/3/ ’45) reminds me of a similar func-
tion at Boulder (W.A.). “Take your pick,
gentlemen, take your pick,” urged a lady
who .came round with a big trayful of
buns and scones. Old Dan'l, seated
next to me, selected what a lady named
as a rock-bun. For a couple of minutes
he gnawed away ineffectually; then he
stopped and spoke: “By gummy, boay,
she says ‘take yer pick,’ but pick not
much good for this un —what a man
needs is a hammer and gad.”
* * * *
“C.E.”: J, B. Jenson had a hook
where his left hand should have been ; he
also had a very large estate. Far
and wide he was known as Mr. Jenson ;
working for him was “Skinflint” Bailey.
“Skinflint” had saved carefully for some
years, and when Mr. Jenson, in financial
difficulties, offered one of his paddocks
“Skinflint” bought it and ran the area as
a side-line. Later as Jenson was forced
to dispose of more and more land it was
acquired by “Skinflint,” until the time
came when he had a full time job on his
hands and was employing labor himself.
As Mr. Jenson was reduced he became
known as J. 8., then Jenson, finally
“Jake”; while his former employee’s
social prestige rose accordingly. Then the
last of “Jake’s” place was raked in by his
one-time hand, and he drifted round the
district picking up odd light jobs. The
name of “Skinflint” was painstakingly
forgotten by all except, possibly, his old
boss, who used the handle one day in the
pub. Instantly there was a protest from
Bung. “See here, ‘Hookie,’ ”he expostu-
lated, “it’s up to a cove like you t’ speak
more respectful of Mr. Bailey.”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: It’s Mat’s turn:
“Funniest incident I ever see with a snake
was down in the Gippsland ranges in the
apple country between Belgrave and
Pakenham. There’s four of us packin’
and sharing a hut: me, Bill Thomp-
son, Andy Clarke and long Clarrie
Moyne. Well, near as I can work
it out it happens like this. Andy, on his
own one Sunday, kills a black snake
the wood-heap an’ gets the idea of
puttin’ it in Thompson’s bunk. Andy
goes over t’ Threagold’s for a yarn,
Thomp. comes home an’ decides t’ air
his blankets. He gets a shock, o’ course,
but soon jerries t’ the joke an’ decides it
must ha’ bin me, so puts the snake in my
bunk. Me an’ Clarrie was down
swimmin’ in the crick, an’ I left him sun-
bakin’ an’ come up t’ the hut for some
tobacco. Thompson’s watchin’ me, an’
presently asks what’s under me blankets,
reckonin’ he saw somethin’ move. I tell
him t’ get a stick, an’ when he’s ready I
yank the nap back. Course, I see the
Blake’s dead an’ I think an’ remember
Clarrie stayed back when we went for
the swim, so me an’ Thompson put it in
Clarrie’s bunk. Andy stays over at
Threagold’s for tea, an’ me an’ Bill get
tired o’ waitin’ for Clarrie t’ find the ser-
pent an’ we make up t’ Belgrave pub for
a drink. Just as we got back t’ the hut
we hears a yell an’ a shot, an’ rush in t
find Andy Clarke with a smokin’ gun in
his hands starin’ at his mashed-up
blankets an’ the bits o’ snake mangled up
in ’em. Clarrie ain’t in sight, but it sud-
denly dawns on Andy about that snake,
an’ you ought t’ heard him swear. Yairs,
it took him a week to sort the bits o’ snake
out o’ the nap an’ patch up me holes*
THE SEED.
The autumn’s on the fallow, the heat of summer
gone,
And though our hearts be heavy still must we
carry on.
The years of death are passing, and from its
bloodshot eyes
The war-torn world may read a sign of peace
across the skies.
So couple up the draw-bar and give the choke a
pull,
And nurse the engine into life —the seeding box
is full.
What though the dawn be chilly, there’s a
world of men in need
And we must get to work again and sow the
waiting seed.
From Zuider to the Yang-tse the hungry mil-
lions pray,
And children cry aloud for bread from Omsk
to Biscay Bay.
It’s not for us to fix the blame, it’s ours to
mend the ill,
And ours to grow the crops again on vale and
flat and hill.
So check up on the timing-gear and test the
motor’s heat.
And listen to the pistons and the rhythm of
their beat.
What though we, too, have suffered, there is a
cry to heed,
And we must get to work again and sow the
waiting seed.
The fires are red in Germany and swollen is
the Rhine,
And little peoples lift their eyes as Freedom’s
banners shine.
And they who sowed the dragon’s teeth see now
the harvest come,
And bitter is the reaping when the victors count
the sum.
But warm the engine gently and see the grips
are tight,
For now the drills must feed the earth from
early morn till night.
What though we hail our triumph, we’ve half a
world to feed
And we must get to work again and sow the
waiting seed.
The great men plan the future world and talk
as they were gods,
But all the future lies out there among the
broken sods;
And they who work the fecund earth have great-
ness in their toil,
And nations die who once forget that life
springs from the soil. > • ;
So couple up the draw-bar and keep the mixture
sweet,
A thousand million mouths await the growing
of the wheat.
What though the soldiers’ work be done, the
plough we still must speed,
Arid we must get to work again and sow the
waiting seed.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


“Windbag”: Flash Fred, our dis-
trict’s motor-bike champion, was always
riding without his hands on the handle-
bars, and we were always telling him that
one of these days he would break his so-
and-so neck, and serve him right, too. He
only grinned. Now we have been silenced,
and this is why. As he was riding along the
main road late one afternoon two hares
suddenly broke cover and raced along
the road in front of him. Sizing up the
situation in a flash, our champ opened
up and gave chase. Doing between 50
and 60 m.p.h., he ranged up to and be-
tween the two hares, then coolly reached
a hand to each side, grabbed the hares
and then successfully eased down, still
holding his captives. P.S. —Anyone dis-
believing this will be shown the skins,
♦ * * *
“Zake”: I tell of Claude, the beer-
swilling goat of Bungrool. It was Claude’s
habit to wait outside the bar. When a
man entered Claude would walk confi-
dently in. If the newcomer showed no
inclination to pay for a pint to be lowered
into the shallow dish kept on the bar
floor, he would at first receive a
gentle nudge from a very hard head.
Were he to ignore this hint that
cheap refreshment was desired (and this
was always backed up by Bung’s explana-
tion of Claude’s habits) the nudge would
be harder. If the drinker’s sense of hos-
pitality was badly blunted, Claude would
back off and let fly, usually scoring a
bull’s-eye while the pot was being swung
aloft. This, however, was rarely needed,
and it is regretfully recorded that on
most late, afternoons Claude would be
in a state to be deplored by any Band of
Hoper. One afternoon Len, Claude’s
half-caste owner, found his goat most in-
tractable after a.bender. Claude wouldn’t
leave the bar. Nettled, Len had a beer,
and he received a nudge. He ignored the
hint while he downed a second, and at
the resultant charge he side-stepped and
Claude thudded against the counter.
Then, while the sozzled billy wavered
on about a dozen legs Len got down like
a runner poised on the mark and
launched an attack, catching the goat
amidships with his. head. As Claude
toppled over Len got up. “There!” he
said, “you’re not the on’y one ’oo can
use ’is melon! Now come on ’ome or
you’ll get another!”
J * * * *
“Ite ’Appy”: Brown Brother Boong,
in a green lap-lap and an army belt, with
a flower in his hair, looked into our
tent. “Gotta light?” he asked. We
bffered him a cigarette. He took it, but
shook his head. “Gotta light?” This
time someone struck a match and lit his
cappo. for him. Still wrong! Boong
shook his head fiercely. “Gotta light?”
he repeated in the exasperated tones com-
mon to all races when they can’t make
their meaning penetrate thick skulls. We
were stumped. In desperation he pro-
duced from his lap-lap a cigarette-lighter
and pointed. “Light! Light!” We tum-
bled at last. We can’t get flints either.
* * * *
“Arcadian”: The Magnetic Island-
mainland telephone cable, the opening of
which the islanders have been celebrating
(B. 4/4/’45), is not the first. When the
Northern Quarantine station was-at West
Point, three miles nor’-west of Picnic
Bay, it was connected by cable with
Cape Palleranda, the present quarantine
site. The end of the long disused cable
can still be traced across the reef there.
Further, telephone communication with
the mainland was established in 1940,
when land lines from the populated
bays, converging at Arcadia, in Geof-
frey Bay, were connected with Towns-
ville Exchange by radio telephone. The
“mast” of this installation, incidentally,
was responsible for much controversy.
Erected on a large sloping rock face, it
had two of its pillars concreted into his-
toric native wells, to the annoyance of
the tribes. Finally, Picnic Bay, smaller
in points of population, quantity and
value of exported produce and tourist
traffic, is not, and never was, the “capi-
tal” of Magnetic Island. Its only claim
to interest was its possession of the only
pub there, now a hostel for servicewomen.
* * * *
“Moyhu”: The avian link with the
platypus is not nearly as strong as is
generally supposed, although in isolated
instances definite throwbacks to bird
habits do occur. Some years ago a small
colony of duckbills in the Healesville
“ Don't y reckon it's best to pick on somethin more our own size, Joe?”
(Vic.) district forsook breeding-grounds
along the Badger Creek for the rocky
spurs of Mt. Donna Buang. In this
barren area they nested in logs and in
tree hollows often as high up as 30ft. In
these nests the platypus frequently lays
two eggs, whereas in jts natural habitat—
the soft mud banks of hill streams —it
rarely lays more than one. The progress
of the youngsters to the ground, however,
is far frorh birdlike; they edge gingerly
down the trunk, taking full advantage
of every crevice and branch. Invariably
the trees chosen for nesting have a pro-
nounced slope and fatalities are rare.
* * * *
“Flight”: Lately I’ve seen a number
of straw-necked ibis wandering about
Brisbane’s suburbs. Though they looked
full-fed and comparatively content, they
wore their hats over their ears, their
coat collars turned up, and they slunk as
if ashamed of themselves. They deserved
their own condemnation. Instead of being
spick and span, jaunty and alert, as wan-
derers of the wide spaces should be,
those fowls resembled gutter-bred gar-
rotters ; they moved with the stealth and
low cunning of a tout, and almost I’m
prepared to believe they had political
views. When a bird who has work to
do outback descends to depths reserved
only for humans it’s time to wave him
good-bye,
n * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Visiting Badu Island
(Torres Strait), we landed on the beach
where some 75 years before the notorious
“Wini” met his death in an encounter
“Get us long distance, Len—l 11 see how the missus is gettin' on."
with a police expedition from Somerset
(Cape York) that had set out to arrest
a Frenchman, to have been an
escaped from New Caledonia,
who had settled on Badu to become king.
“This man appears to exercise strong in-
fluence amongst the natives,” states a re-
port on the Frenchman in the early
records of Somerset, “He and his savages
are held in the greatest dread by the
other natives. All strangers going to his
island are killed and their heads cut off.”
A couple of old islanders, who claimed
that their parents were among “Wini’s”
followers, gave us,gory stories of some
of the head-hunting expeditions organised
by the Frenchman. “Wini’s” garb on such
occasions (also his attire during his battle
with the Somerset police) consisted of a
headdress of bird-of-paradise feathers, a
loin-cloth of shark’s skin and several
necklaces of shark’s teeth. Now a closed
native reserve under the strict supervision
of the Queensland Aborigines De-
partment, Badu is a model settlement
with a population of some 500 law-
abiding islanders, engaged chiefly in fish-
ing, In pre-war days boat-building was
a thriving industry on the island. Many
of the fine native-built schooners were
impressed by the authorities at the out-
break of war, and have played a big
part in patrol work up north. Several
Baduites have also rendered great service
as pilots on naval vessels in the dangerous
reef-studded waters between Cape York
and New Guinea, every channel and every
reef of which are known to them.
* * * *
“Dronestung”: Bees collect material
from various sources for manufacture
of propilis, the cement-like substance
used for sealing cracks and barricading
the entrance of a hive. In grasstree
country the resin of this plant is freely
used in propilis to join the frames of
apiary hives and fasten them down.
The stuff sets like rock in cold weather,
and in hot weather softens to a glue
that sticks fast to everything it contacts,
making an apiary practically unworkable.
I have seen wild bees’ nests with the
natural entrances sealed over, and tunnels
through the propilis for entry.
* * * *
“Gumsucker”: Let me into the argu-
ment as to how long it is since the
straight, erect and tall saplings bunched
along rivers and hillsides became known
as “suckers” (B. 14/3/’45). A sucker,
be it the off-shoot of jarrah or stringy-
bark, or any other eucalypt, is the
secondary growth that springs either from
a live stump or from below the death line
of a rung tree. These in no sense can be
called straight, since each has a defi-
nite curve where it sprouts out from the
mother wood. Nor is it an object to
excite the admiration, for rarely does it
give promise of attaining to the mature
growth attained by its progenitor. In
woodland circles such unwanted growths
are so little respected that the job of
eliminating them with the axe is known
as “sucker-bashing.” For, being merely
scarfed on to the older wood, they seldom
require more than a single blow to render
them prostrate.
* * * *
“W. 0.2”: Most interesting bush-
denizen encountered by our patrol in
Cape York Peninsula was the curious
striped phalanger, unknown elsewhere in
Australia. Late one night the whole
camp was awakened by a series
of loud, rattling cries, the like
of which none of us had ever
heard before. Shortly after-
wards, when we had settled
down again on our groundsheets,
one of the lads gave a yell as
the originator of the cries
scrambled over his face and
down his body. In torchlight we
caught a glimpse of a furry,
black-and-white striped animal
as it scuttled for the nearest tree,
leaving behind an extraordinary
odor so strong that it could still
be smelt 20 minutes later. Day-
break revealed the intruder
curled up in a fork of the tree
20ft. from the ground. One of the boys,
proud of his training with the Com-
mandos, scaled the tree with the idea
of capturing the pretty little animal.
None of us knew at the time that the
striped phalanger is credited with having
the most powerful biting apparatus of
any Australian animal of its size. The
vicious little beast merely snapped once
at its would-be captor, and he was lucky
to regain the ground with only a piece
as big as a florin missing from his right
forearm. Living almost exclusively on
honey from wild bees’ nests, the pha-
langer, for this reason, is greatly prized
by Cape York abos., who kill it by climb-
ing the tree in which it is sleeping and
spearing it at close quarters.
« • * *
“B. 4”: Always found partial drown-
ing to be the most effective way of
separating fighting-mad dogs. In a
Townsville (Q.) pub two pedigreed foxies
were locked in a death-grip that ‘ their
owner couldn’t break. Picking up
the snarling outfit by a respective
hind leg, I carried the issue to the yard
trough and held it under. Inside half a
minute each had let go and a few more
duckings tamed them. When I was fishing
off a steep Burdekin bank, my two boar-
hounds got into holts and were soon
busy killing each other. I rammed the
pair per boot into the drink. They had
a long swim to find a way to the bank.
When they returned I heaved them over
again, and later gave them an encore.
They were pals afterwards.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: The lanky, lugubrious-
faced stranger asked Murph the publican to
“gimme somethin’ with a kick in it,” then
turned to watch the poker game. Murph,
grinning, half-filled a long glass with
rum, added an inch of whisky, a dash of
cloves and a splash of cherry brandy and
topped it off from the gin bottle. The
stranger downed the drink at a gulp and
stood there, his Adam’s apple working
convulsively and tears streaming down
his cheeks. “Another,” he gasped
hoarsely. “Same -again?” asked Murph
dubiously. The lanky fellow nodded.
When the drink was poured he came to
life suddenly and shoved his bony fist
menacingly under Murph’s nose. “Now,”
he threatened, “you pour that one down
your throat. I wanter see if you’re as
good a man as I am.” After swallowing
4he concoction Murph called it a day.
« * * *
“Lub”: Knowing Jud rose at 4 a.m.
to start the day’s work I was surprised
that the hand he employed stayed on
while there were so many easier jobs
offering. Then one morning I called
there about 7.30 and found Jud retreat-
ing from the hut with an empty cup and
saucer. “Your bloke crook, Jud?” I
asked. “Ssh,” Jud said, a finger to
his lips, and led me off a safe distance.
“Don’t offend him,” he said. “If I
take his breakfast in after a while I’ll
get him out to work by ten. I’ll admit
it’s pamperin’ him a bit, but, cripes, a
man’d be lorst without an offsider,
wouldn’t he?”
* * * *
“Pee Jay Bee”: In the park at Parra-
matta (N.S.W.) iron rails enclose the oak-
tree into which, 98 years ago, a carriage
drawn bv bolting horses crashed, killing
Lady Maty Fitzroy, wife of the Gover-
nor, and her escort, Lt. Masters. The
tree is now approximately 18in. in
diameter. Now, I have always under-
stood that an oak increases 6in. in
diameter every ten years, so at that rate
the tree should have gained sft.' Is it the
same tree, or do oaks, like humans, shrink
with great age?.
THE DECEIVER.
I climbed the hill of the Chinaman’s grave
To search in its rocks for gold—
The fossicker said the place was right
And he looked both wise and old.
He said, “The journey will take all day
But the treasure you’ll find is rare,
And the gold it has snared is brightest of all
In the veil of the evening air.”
He told me of opals that had gleaned
Their reds from a parrot’s wing
And their changing blues and their flashing
greens
Right from the heart of spring.
But I searched the hill of the Chinaman’s grave
To find not a trace of his lies;
All day I had ejimbed and, trudging down,
The evening was .soft in my eyes.
Only the dogwood blazed by my side; 1
Far-off, was it sea or sky?
Below, by the creek, a tourist’s dust
Like the lost sea-spray swept by.
And as I came down, with the sunset’s feet
Gold-stepping past every tree
Along the rim of the chameleon lake,
I grieved that he lied to me.
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


Keep uour refrigeration
equipment in good order
\\\ ( r
, / /
'J
//
m-* as
I
6 '
I
for
SERVICE
RING
JA
1161
R. WERNER & CO. ltd:
FINEST REFRIGERATION SERVICE
IN AUSTRALIA
Factory & Head Office:
BURNLEY ST., RICHMOND
INTERSTATE AGENTS:—
N.S.W.: STUART, WALKER & CO., PTY LTD., Clarence St., Sydney. M 6445-6-7.
Newcastle Branch: 265 King St., 81484-5.
S.A.: W. J. WHITE, SO Grate St., Adelaide.
W.A.: ATKINS (W.A.), LTD., 894 Hay St., Perth.
Q’flD.: G. A. ROCHE, PTY., LTD., Or. Ipswich Rd. and Reis St. Woolloongabba.
TAS.: NOYES BROS. (MELB.), LTD., 36 Argyle St., Hobart. 59 George St., Launceston,
.-W
a • ..-^;«W*X
W£>'
zr*
&*%»**
m&
s***
■
The Royal Navy pioneered the technique of torpedo air attach •
Fairey Swordfish torpedo-bombers—most successful of Britain 9 a
operational biplanes—made history the night they crippled the
Italian battle fleet at Taranto . They have been a major weapon in
defeating the U-boat menace to Allied shipping . The Swordfish
is powered by a Bristol Pegasus engine •
COMMAND OF THE SEAS
Many are the complicated
problems which British
aeronautical engineers have
solved in design and pro-
duction of sea-going air-
craft.
The intricacies of folding
wings, the peculiar struc-
tural stresses and strains in-
volved in deck flying, and
the development of special
radio equipment—these and
many other difficulties have
been mastered.
Numerous honours have al-
ready gone to British naval
aircraft in this war. The
first enemy aeroplane to be
shot down at sea; the first
successful torpedo air attack
against a capital ship; the
first ship to be sunk by dive-
bombers; such achievements
star their history.
Aircraft of the Royal Navy
are built to withstand ex-
tremes of climate. In the
first weeks of the war the
squadrons of one carrier
alone swept more than seven
million square miles of sea.
In ice, fog, sandstorms and
burning suns these aircraft
have satisfied the most exact-
ing demands of active
service.
World air transport like-
wise calls for fitness for
diverse duties and immunity
to climatic extremes.
British industry which has
made thousands of formid-
able sea-going warplanes
can be trusted to produce
the merchant airliners and
airfreighters of Tomorrow.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BT THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS • LONDON
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Pacific War Prizes.
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram" article by
William Philip Sinuns.)
Now that the defeat of Nippon has
become a mathematical certainty within
the nearly predictable future, the fate of
the colonies which she has overrun is
assuming an increasingly explosive char-
acter.
The United States, Britain, Holland,
Russia and China all have very special
interests in the areas which the Japanese
must give up. And some, probably
most of them, are going to come out of
the Pacific war far from pleased. Only
Russia which is not now involved in
the Far East —oddly enough, is likely to
emerge satisfied.
The British and the French suspect
that the United States intends to urge
the independence of all colonial posses-
sions, either immediately or by stages,
depending on the subject people’s stage
of advancement. There has been talk of
an international trusteeship for such col-
onies, and neither the French nor the
British like it.
Prime Minister Churchill stated Brit-
ain’s position a year ago. He said em-
phatically, that he had not become His
Majesty’s first Minister in order to pre-
side over the liquidation of the British
Empire. And Gen. Charles de Gaulle is
just as jealously watching over the pos-
sessions of France.
There is no doubt that the United
States would like to see all colonial areas
given a Philippines status. When we
occupied the Philippines 47 years ago
we promised them independence as soon
as they learned the art of self-govern-
ment. In 1935—a single generation later
—Congress set them free. At their own
request a 10-year transition period was
given them so that the economic re-
adjustments could be gradual. This will
end on July 4, next year.
At present only Holland is planning a
somewhat similar tutelage for her col-
onies, The principal ones, the Dutch
Indies, are now occupied by the Japs.
Indo-China, France’s chief possession
in Asia, can’t be compared with the
Dutch East Indies for wealth or popula-
tion. Nevertheless Albert Sarraut, French
Minister for Colonies before the war,
called it the most important, the most
developed and the most prosperous of
French colonies. So France plans to
hold on.
Britain has Hong Kong, Malaya, Singa-
pore, Burma, the British East Indies and
India with nearly a quarter of the popu-
lation of the globe.
But the big headache is almost certain
to develop after Russia moves in, as she
is expected to do whenever she thinks
the time is ripe. She is likely to take
over control of Manchuria, Port Arthur,
Inner Mongolia, Korea, the southern
half of Sakhalin, and to show at least an
increased interest in Sinkiang, adjoining
Russian Turkestan. These will complete
her chain of buffer States from the
Atlantic to the Pacific and strengthen her
position with regard to India.
China, of course, wants back Man-
churia and Inner Mongolia as well as
Formosa, Hong Kong and other former
possessions. Like Poland, however, she
may not get what she wants.
The United States will want some, if
not all, of the Jap-mandated islands of the
Pacific— not for their colonial value (as
such they are worthless) but as naval
and air bases.
Churchill on Greece.
[Here given, an extract from one of the
greatest of all Mr. Churchill’s speeches, that
which he made in the Commons explaining the
British policy and action in Greece and wiping
the floor with the corns, and others who, from
the usual motives, on the one hand, and, on
the other, from hasty ignorance had been
attacking Britain on the issue. Australian
flapper dailies of course joined in the silly
chorus, and, also of course, corns plastered
Sydney walls with pro-E.L.A.S. stickers]
Once again [in Greece] we are guided
by our simple policy—victory against the
Germans, establishment of and aid to the
most coherent and substantial Govern-
ment machine that can be found, delivery
of such food as we and our Allies can
spare and our combined shipping afford,
the maintenance of tolerable conditions
of law and order, and the holding of a
plebiscite or general election, fairly and
squarely, at the earliest practicable
moment. We toil through a mighty maze,
but I can assure the House it is not with-
out plan.
The story of events in Greece has been
so fully told in the newspapers that I
shall not attempt a chronological or de-
scriptive account of the events there. There
is no case in my experience, certainly
not in my war experience, where a British
Government has been so maligned—
(hear, hear) —and its motives so traduced
in our own country—(Hear, hear) —by
important organs of the press and among
our own people. That this should be done
amid the perils of this war, now at its
climax, has filled me with surprise and
sorrow. It bodes ill for the future, in
which the life and strength of Britain,
compared to other Powers, will be tested
to the full, not only in the war but in
the aftermath.
How can we wonder, still less how can
we complain, of the attitude of hostile or
indifferent newspapers in the United States
when we have here in this country wit-
nessed such a melancholy exhibition as
that provided by some of our most time-
honored and responsible journals—(loud
and prolonged cheers) —and others to
which such an epithet would hardly
apply? (Laughter.) Only the solid and
purposeful strength of the National Coali-
tion Government could have enabled us
to pursue, unflinching and unyielding, the
course of policy and principle on which
we were and are resolved. But our task
has been and is being rendered vastly
more difficult by a spirit of gay, reckless
and unbridled partisanship which has
been let loose on the Greek question and
has fallen On those who have to bear the
burden of government in times like these.
I have never been connected with any
large enterprise of policy about which I
was more sure in mind and conscience
of the rectitude of our motives and the
clarity of our principles, and of the vigor,
precision and success of our action than
what we have done in Greece. (Hear,
hear.)
We went to Greece for the second time
in this war. We went with the full ap-
proval of both our great Allies and on
the invitation of the Greek Government,
in which all parties, including the com-
munists, were represented, and as a result
of a military conference, in which gen-
erals of E.L.A.S. and E.D.E.S. were
present. We came with good gifts in our
hands —civility and assistance to the all-
party Greek Government which had to
face the confusion left by the flight of
the Germans. We brought food, clothing
and supplies.
We came with a small force of troops
and took up our positions from no mili-
tary point of view. We scattered our
troops at a number of places —on the
coast and at a number of points inland
—where we hoped to be able to bring in
a large number of supplies to a very
hungry people. We were received with
flowers, cheers and other expressions of
rapture, and the British —the wicked
British so denounced by American corre-
spondents whose names have no doubt
been noted by the House and so hounded
by some of our own —busied themselves
in the distribution of supplies throughout
the country to which we had access. We
had made Greece safe for U.N.R.R.A.
before the outbreak took place.
Meanwhile, over a period of six weeks
or so the Greek Government, representa-
tive of all parties, was distracted by inter-
nal divisions and street demonstrations,
and all the time the communist-directed
forces were drawing down from the north
and infiltrating into the city of Athens,
in which they had also a strong local
organisation. We had furnished these
men over several years with arms in con-
siderable quantities in the hope that they
would fight against the Germans. They
accepted the arms and kept them and
other arms which they had captured or
bought from the Germans in their retreat
or otherwise obtained, with a plan to
seize the power of the Greek State in
Athens once the Germans cleared out and
went away.
I must speak a little about these Greek
communists, among whom Macedonian


The Safety and Security
of Your Estate
Are Paramount
What a man wishes to do with
his possessions after death, and
the selection of his executor, are
two vitally important matters.
The faculties of men were never more
strained than at the present, and there
are now fewer competent men willing
to undertake the control of the affairs
of other persons.
In everyday life people usually hesitate
before entrusting their private business
matters to others, until fully satisfied
as to their competency and integrity.
Naturally even more consideration
should be given to the matter when it
is for the sacred and onerous trust of
administering an estate.
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia Ltd. is a company of sixty
years’ standing, with its executives all
specially trained, and with facilities to
undertake the administration of all
classes of estates. Why not obtain the
greatest benefit with the least incon-
venience by appointing the company as
your executor ?
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., C.8.E.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor: Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larritt.
Manager; J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, K.8.E.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L, K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector ; Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byme Hart, M.C., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.K.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
Have a Coca-Cola
Saludos, Amiga
y
sa
m
■MA
W.
Ll 3
u.
.. •or how to get acquainted in Mexico
-or Melbourne
All over the globe
Coca-Cola stands for
. , . the pause that
refreshes has be-
come the symbol of
welcome between
friendly-minded
folks from Mexico
to Melbourne.
It's natural for popular names
to acquire friendly abbreviations.
That’s why you hear Coca-Cola
called “Coke”.
w
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, U.S.A,
( Liability Limit ed)
SYDNEY
and Bulgarian elements are also found,
possibly with territorial ideas or their
own. They are a formidable people. 1 hey
have a theme and policy which they
pursue by merciless methods, while all
sorts of other people in this region aie
only concerned in trying to keep body
and soul together.
I have been told I made a mistake in
under-rating the power of the communist-
directed E.L.A.S. I must admit I judged
them on their performance against the
Germans. (Laughter.) Ido not wish
to do them any military injury. It was
not against the Germans that they were
trying to fight to any great extent. They
were simply taking our arms and lying
low, waiting the moment until they could
seize power in the capital and make a
Greek Communist State by force or
decree, with totalitarian liquidation of all
opponents. (Cheers.)
I was misled by the little use they were
against the Germans, especially once the
general victory of the Allies became prob-
able, in spite of the arms we gave to
them, and I certainly underrated them as
a fighting force. If I am accused of this
mistake I can only say with M. Clemen-
ceau on a celebrated occasion “Perhaps I
have made a number of other mistakes
of which you have not heard.” (Laughter.)
While the British were busy distribut-
ing food and endeavoring to keep things
steady the E.A.M. and communist Min-
isters, who were eventually increased to
seven in the Papandreou Cabinet, were
playing a different game. Throughout
this struggle for power they were playing
the game of the E.L.A.S. bands and their
communist directors. While sitting in
Mr. Papandreou’s Cabinet, they were
working in the closest combination with
the forces endeavoring to destroy him
and his other colleagues in the every-day
life of Greece. The E.A.M. and commu-
nist Ministers threw sand in the wheels
of the Cabinet at every stage. They did
their best to hamper the landing and dis-
tribution of food by promoting strikes on
some occasions.
The E.L.A.S. armed bands for, at any
rate, the last two years played very little
part against the Germans. No doubt
some hon. members will have an oppor-
tunity of extolling their glorious deeds.
I am not prepared to pay them anything
like the tributes that are paid to the
French or Belgian Maquis or to the men
in Italy who were in the mountains and
fought a desperate battle.
Every single appointment was wrangled
over, and when the fierce mountaineers
had got well into the city and joined up
with the confederates inside then all these
seven Ministers of the Government re-
signed like clockwork except one, who
was a little late, but by running very hard
under the threat of death managed to
keep his appointment. (Laughter.)
So far the Allies seemed very content
with what had happened in Greece. Our
minds rested on its liberation from the
Germans. We expected a certain amount
of local ebullition while matters re-
adjusted themselves and food could come
in. After all, there were other things
going on at the same time. We rested on
the pleasure which our early reception in
Athens and other Greek cities and islands
had given to all of us, especially to those
who cared deeply about Greece and her
future.
Now we come to a new phase about
which it was not possible to consult our
Allies, but in which steps had to be taken
immediately. On the night of December
4-5 a series of telegrams arrived which
showed that the advancing E.L.A.S.
forces in Athens were within about a
thousand yards of the centre of Greek
Government in the Hotel Grande
Bretagne and also the same distance or
even less of the British Embassy, in which
our womenfolk of the cipher department
and others had been gathered, and it
seemed that the over-running of these
places, or, at any rate, of the seat of
Government by this ferocious and well-
armed and well-directed mob, or army,
if you like, of brigands—that this was
bound to take place.
Almost all the police stations in Athens
and the Piraeus had been occupied or
stormed by E.L.A.S. forces, some with
the slaughter of every single inmate.
Firing was widespread throughout the
city. It was growing, it was approaching.
General Scobie signalled that a general
strike had been declared in Athens and
that all power and utility services had
ceased work. Unless order was restored
the situation of the Government would
be critical. All British troops, including
the paratroops, were being held there.
We were about to take away a large part
of our troops when this happened—so
little had we any designs. The para-
chute division was needed in Italy and
was about to leave. At two o’clock in
the morning orders were sent to General
Scobie to take over command of Athens
pad restore and maintain order by what-
ever measures were necessary. (Cheers.)
For three or four days or more it was
a struggle to prevent a hideous massacre
in the centre of Athens in which all forms
of government would be swept away and
naked, triumphant Trotskyism would be
installed. I think Trotskyism is a better
definition for Greek communists and cer-
tain other sects than the normal word.
It has the advantage of being equally
hated in Russia. (Loud laughter.) How-
ever, by the skin of our teeth and thanks
to the resolution of a handful of British
soldiers on the spot —(cheers) —the assail-
ants were hurled back and Athens and,
as I firmly believe, Greek freedom were
saved.
Reversion to Slavery.
(From an article by a Hearst Newspaper cor-
respondent visiting Europe.)
Nothing is giving graver concern as to
the future of Europe and the world than
newspaper dispatches that at Yalta there
was agreement in principle with Stalin
that Soviet Russia shall have the right
to deport from Germany millions of
men, ex-soldiers and civilians, and take
them to the interior of Russia and Siberia
for unforseeable lengths of time.
That America and England, the great
champions of freedom and the inalien-
able rights of man, should be complacent,
defend and even advocate a measure that
would mean, in the 20th century, that the
world is slipping back more than a hun-
dred years and reverting to conditions
of slavery is simply not understood.
Any form of impressed labor, forcibly
compelling men and women to leave
their own country and go where they do
not want to, receiving little or no pay,
working under military guards and living
in concentration camps, is slavery.
That the Congress of the United States
and the American people will sanction
the principle or practice of slavery in
Europe, whatever be its form or class, is
simply not believed.
Reports from Moscow, passed by the
Soviet censor, that Stalin demands not
less than 10,000,000 forced levies of labor
from defeated nations, taken together
with dispatches from Washington, New
York and London, indicating that neither
President Roosevelt nor Prime Minister
Churchill opposed it at Yalta, are causing
more than mere wonderment. It is
pointed out that Soviet Russia is not a
signatory to the Geneva Convention and
that during the entire war she has not
once permitted representatives of the
International Red Cross to visit war
prisoners’ camps in Russia. The pro-
posed “enslavement” and deportations
from Germany, it is declared, would re-
establish the ancient rights of the con-
queror and the principle that a defeated
nation’s men, women and children can
in practice be made slaves.
Some London papers are now begin-
ning to print reports of wholesale de-
portations from Rumania, Poland and
Bulgaria. Since the Soviet Government
allows no Americans, British or other
foreign correspondents to go very far
from Moscow, it has been impossible to
check such reports by impartial and in-
dependent sources. Neither the Presi-
dent nor Mr. Churchill apparently
could obtain from Stalin such conces-
sions.
Roosevelt, Churchill and Stalin
[This article giving first-hand personal por-
traits of Churchill, Roosevelt and Stalin by
the noted historian Emil Ludwig, who has also
written biographies of two of them, is con-
densed from Washington “Post.”]
Of the three faces, Churchill’s is the
one that has passed through the greatest
evolution. Looking at Stalin s and
Roosevelt’s juvenile pictures, you can
easily foresee their faces at 60. It’s much
more difficult to recognise the Churchill
of today in his photos at 20,
The development of Churchill’s mind
has been far more interesting than that
of his partners, and life has inscribed
deeper signs of wear and tear in his fea-
tures. He was a very handsome man in
his youth, but hardly a trace of this can
be seen today. Roosevelt was elegant
and goodlooking in his youth. Stalin
has always had the same stubborn face
he has today.
I believe that Churchill’s power over
men is due to his speeches. Not in the
way Hitler won his followers. Hitler is
an agitator, whose speeches are void and
meaningless when read. Churchill is an
artist whose oratory is as brilliant as his
writings. He sometimes rewrites his
speeches four and even six times.
As a soldier and poet, Churchill
possesses some of the qualities of an
actor. He plays a masterly role because
he is constantly aware of the historical
mission he is carrying out and because
he compares his position to that of other
great Englishmen of the past whose fives
and works he has studied. When he


PUN NOW
*
out
Post-
Farm
war
a
Repairs
W$* f
4G# tS
l*S
imfm
PLAN NOW t«Tcarry out post-war
rebuilding and repairs in steeM
strong Lysaght's Galvanized Iron, Unequal-
led for oB form constructional work because
of its great tensile strength, low cost, and
exceptionally long He, it is particularly
valuable where water conservation and fire
Ktion are important factors.'
ries when Victory has been
won will be adequate for
afl requirements and in
standard lengths from 6ft. to
I2fb. and m both 8 and 10
three inch comrgationwidths.’
r
QUICKER
CHEAPER
THERE IS NOTHING
AS STRONG AS
gny
JOHN LYSAGHT f AUST.) PTY.’ LTD.
fy ON6 r r. MELBOURN E V.j BRISBAN E’Wf A 0 E LAID S> f£R T H'
Lao-3937^
our
future
dear
see
yOU
So
longer
no
home
dream
just
Jl
N
Plan now for the home
you’ll build as soon as restrictions
permit. There’ll be new labour-savers
. . . new designs in furnishings . , .
FELT and TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
Manufacturers of Plain $• Marbled Feltex
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH WAR LOANS
wrote the life of Marlborough he wrote
his own would-be autobiography.
Churchill has a great knowledge that
enables him to write in a classical
style, to use striking historical com-
parisons, and that gives him a constant
awareness of the historical part he is
called upon to fulfill.
In splite of his childlike features, he has
some resemblance to Bismarck’s massive
structure. And, like Bismarck, he was
always interested in money. He specu-
lated on the ’Exchange and lost, but gave
up such things as soon as he became a
Minister.
Can we wonder that this last Eliza-
bethan, whose imagination is afire with
the grandeur and power of royal courts
of the past, has remained a Tory and
imperialist? It is the price he demands
for his merits in leading this war. He
loves only England, and is fighting for
the British Empire.
I hear he is ailing physically, and is
kept going only by his indomitable will
to victory and his determination to com-
plete his mission as war leader.
Once I watched Roosevelt receive visi-
tors. With his agreement, I pretended to be
a painter making drawings of him. I was
astonished at the intuitive finesse with
which he knew how to treat everyone
who entered—and each time with differ-
ent means. His art of being always
cordial and natural without losing his
dignity was that of a master. It enabled
him to reconcile in half an hour a man
who entered as his opponent.
He had to be seated the whole time,
apd the persons coming to see him, in
the first and last minutes, were standing.
Thus he had to raise his head, and every-
body was impressed by his open looks,
full of frankness. He was moody some-
times, but very rarely did he show it.
# To know both Roosevelt and Churchill
one only has to compare their voices.
■ —Roosevelt’s always conciliatory, sug-
gestive, smiling, almost delicate. Churchill
speaks in a hammered style and tone,
preferably grumbling or threatening,
Roosevelt loved politics. When I asked
him once what made Wilson fail, he said:
“You know how much I admire Wilson
and how I shared his ideas. But such a
thing as the league needed a politician
like me.”
In regard to glory, the two men re-
semble each other both very much
occupied with their positions in history.
I say this to their honor, because
Plutarch’s men also lived their glory.
The third member of the Big Three —
Stalin —I have seen only once, 13 years
ago. But on that occasion we had a
many-sided talk, three hours long.
Of course, it is hard for a foreigner to
get close to him because a translator
decreases the intimacy. Besides, there is
the gloomy nature of this man, who, even
amidst his friends, talks much less than
either of the other two leaders. That is
not typically Russian, because Russians
are as talkative as Americans.
I even believe that Stalin has no real
friends, whereas Churchill is supposed to
open his heart to certain persons, and
Roosevelt could npt live without many
friends. Roosevelt stuck to his old
friends, and had many collaborators
through 12 years. If he had to disappoint
one 1 am sure he did not sleep well.
Stalin has around him few old comrades,
and when he thinks it necessary to get
rid of some of them I believe he sleeps
very well.
Of the three leaders Stalin is the only
one who in his youth never knew if he
would have breakfast next day. Such an
experience makes a man become either
greedy for or contemptuous of money.
Churchill loves to lead an aesthetic life
in a romantic sense. Roosevelt, being
rich by birth, did not care for money.
But Stalin actually hates money.
Despite his power, he refuses to live in
more than three or four rooms in the
Kremlin, and has his son sleep on a
divan. He does not collect anything, but
loves opera and has a good sense for
music, dancing and pictures
These men, all three, have one central
passion—power. But Stalin has two other
passions.
The first one is construction. To edu-
cate his people on a grandiose plan, to
build up his rich country—this has been
his passion for 20 years, just as he has
educated himself from the first.
His education is one-sided, but exten-
sive, Whereas Roosevelt knew especially
history and geography Stalin studied
political philosophy, and knows a sur-
prising amount about that subject. In a
way that is typical of the new Russia, he
swears by science and despises money.
But it would be wrong to picture Stalin
as a theorist or fanatic who has nothing
in mind but to make the world com-
munistic. He is much more Russian than
communist, the same as Churchill is an
Englishman who does not want his im-
perialistic ideals thwarted. Stalin quickly
finished his own revolution, as Napoleon
did. When I asked him if he felt like
the successor of Peter the Great he
laughed and increased his criticism of
the Czar. In between, however, he
seemed to like the idea, because he had
made a great movie about Peter the
Great. And now he shows, as a victor,
that he prefers a pan-Russian ideal to a
pan-communistic one.
The other passion that motivates
Stalin’s life —and this is a passion almost
completely foreign to both of the others
—is revenge. The difficulties which Stalin
met in rising from a revolutionist to a
dictator filled him with feelings of re-
venge, not so much against the previous
rulers as against his competitors. I am
sure Stalin has never hated the Czar as
much as he hated Trotsky,
Ip my presence he thrice called himself
Lenin’s pupil, and, as he plainly estimated
himself as the greatest one, his attitude
showed every evidence that he hated the
others. He has never forgotten the
terrible hour in which, in the presence of
18 persons, Lenin’s will was read—to his
disfavor.
Of course, he can find a reason for
the passion with which he persecuted his
great opponent, Trotsky, and a dozen
other Soviet leaders. He can pretend that
he possessed a greater conception of
Russia than the others. The deeper
reasons, however, are based on his fanati-
cal will to power.
There are two characteristics I would
study in Stalin —his innate distrust and
loneliness. When we conversed for three
hours he was dawdling with a pencil,
making designs or figures on paper sheets
which he renewed every five minutes. He
does this, not because of nervousness, but
only to avoid looking at you. He does
not look at you, but at his paper. When
I spoke about Trotsky—probably I was
the only visitor who ever did —he made
a quick scribble.
Stalin is a writer, too, but his book on
Leninism is dry, as if it were the product
of a German professor of philosophy.
His thinking is influenced by Hegel;
thesis, anti-thesis, synthesis.
He writes more systematically than did
Roosevelt, who was the typical contrast to
a philosopher, but not at all as splendidly
as Churchill, who is one of the great
writers of our day.
For Churchill, who was always on
guard against Russia, the day of his first
arrival in Moscow,, amidst the ovations
of the Russian people, must have been
one of great satisfaction. But Stalin
had the satisfaction of seeing all others
come to his country, as he refused to
leave it on the grounds of war duties. He
thinks; “Here are those lords calling on
me—-the shoemaker’s son!”
, His nature, revealed in his heavy walk,
his sombre voice, his stone-carved fea-
tures and systematic speech, tends to keep
him in an isolation he perhaps prefers to
the whole of Russia.
Disillusioned Bulgars.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” Istanbul
correspondent .)
The people of Bulgaria are disappoin-
ted and feel that they are being cheated
by the Allies. The average Bulgar be-
lieves the promises made over the Allied
radio from London, Moscow and New
York that when his country was libera-
ted from the Germans he, too, would be
liberated and eventually enjoy President
Roosevelt’s Four Freedoms.
He hoped that as soon as the dicta-
torial Fascist regime in Bulgaria was
overthrown the Allies would assist his
country to establish a true liberal and
democratic Government. But instead, he
feels, Bulgaria today, four months after
liberation from the Nazi yoke, is subjec-
ted to a Bulgarian dictatorial regime as
unbearable and distasteful to the vast
majority of Bulgars as was the former
Nazi-inspired Fascist Government.
The present Government is composed
of representatives of the four major par-
ties, but only the communists exercise
real power, although they represent
hardly more than 2 p.c. of the people of
Bulgaria.
A virtual reign of terror prevails in
Bulgaria, in which ordinary civil rights
are almost non-existent. Such elemen-
tary democratic principles as free speech
and free press criticism are taboo. The
writer, having returned from a six-week
stay in Bulgaria, is convinced that the
vast majority of the people in that
country are bitterly disillusioned over the
present situation. They are ardently hop-
ing for early Allied action to establish
a democratic regime.
War Criminals Precedent.
(Former U.S. Assistant Attorney-General
Charles Warren, in N.Y. "Times.")
Many Professors of International Law
and other academic thinkers insist that
war criminals should he given Court


BBY WAR SAVINGS CE RI IFIC AT E S
m
■
v
m
m
a
Ml
I
y
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
V/
<?'/n
age*
•Do*
*
-&SL
o
9
men who made
Churchill Tanks
Building tanks has given the British Motor
Industry an abundance of technical data for
the advance of heavy transport design after
the war. These ideas, incorporated in to-
morrow’s trucks, will lead inevitably to the
construction of road vehicles that will have
battle stamina built into every inch of their
w
sturdy assemblies. When
they make their appearance,
operators should lose no time
in seeing the vehicles Britain
will produce to meet the
specialised needs of overseas
markets.
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
OF GREAT BRITAIN
AUTOMOBILES ’ TRUCKS • BUSES
expressly designed and built for overseas
trials under the ordinary rules and pro-
cedures of criminal law in the countries
where the crimes were committed.
Such persons apparently recognise no
difference between an ordinary murder
case in which John Jones kills James
Smith and a case of an official who orders
the execution of 200 hostages or the
massacre and destruction of an entire
village, or the torture, starvation, mutila-
tion, gassing and killing of most in a
concentration camp. Such crimes must
be regarded as essentially different in
nature and degree of criminality from a
single violation of a local criminal law.
They should be treated on a different
basis and theory. Their perpetrators
should not be entitled to the trial privi-
leges and proofs and presumptions of
innocence which under English and
American law surround in Court a person
accused of an ordinary crime.
It has been suggested that they be
given judicial trials in an International
Court, jointly set up by the victors or by
the United Nations, in order to give some
color of dealing with criminals under an
alleged international law. But under
present international law no action of an
individual except piracy constitutes an
international crime, and as no interna-
tional criminal Court exists at preseiit,
the subterfuge of such a Court set up in
the future with a future definition of
crime and fixing of punishment for acts
previously committed could not be re-
garded as a judicial trial conforming to
hitherto accepted doctrines of criminal
law; and there is no legal precedent for
it under international law or otherwise.
Such a Court might pretend to follow
the forms of an impartial judicial trial,
but it would be a fiction to assert that
it would be in conformity with any exist-
ing legal principle, and certainly no de-
feated German would so consider it.
It would seem better and more candid
to admit frankly that the right of punish-
ment of the master war-criminals is not
a matter regulated by international or
domestic criminal laws, but is purely a
matter of expediency and of a political
right of victors to punish, growing out of
the fact of victory and the nature of the
crimes, and to be provided for in the
document ending the hostilities or the
war.
They should be proclaimed specifically
by name as notorious outlaws and men
of infamy, whose crimes could be ade-
quately punished only through joint
actions of nations and not of Courts.
There is precedent for such disposition
in the treatment of Napoleon by the
Allies, and there is another somewhat
analogous precedent in the action of the
United States and other foreign nations
in imposing punishment for atrocious
criminal acts, without judicial trial —the
procedure under the Protocol of the
Powers which restored peaceful rela-
tions with'China after the so-called Boxer
Rebellion in 1900. This rebellion, parti-
cipated in by high Government officials
and encouraged by the Dowager Em-
press, had involved the murder of 231
missionaries and other foreign residents,
including 53 children, and the pillage
and destruction of their properties, dur-
ing June and July, 1900. The foreign
legations in Peking had been attacked
and besieged, and the German Minister
and the Japanese Secretary of Legations
had been killed.
Contingents of troops were therefore
sent to Peking by the foreign Powers, in
which action the United States, Great
Britain, Germany, Japan, Russia, Italy,
Spain, the Netherlands, Austria-Hungary
and Belgium joined. China declared war,
but the other nations took no formal
action of that nature. On August 14,
1900, the foreign legations in Peking were
relieved, and after the situation came
under control China made a move for
re-establishment of friendly relations on
renewal of peace.
Thereupon a council of the Foreign
Ministers, in which the United States
took part in October, 1900, unanimously
agreed that as a condition of such te-
newal of relations full punishment must
be imposed on those Chinese guilty of
the atrocious crimes committed against
foreigners.
The punishment by death of the offi-
cials whose crimes, in the words of Presi-
dent McKinley, “have shocked the civil-
ised world,” was demanded as a matter
of high policy, and not as a matter sub-
ject to any provisions of international
law. That the death penalty was to be
carried out by the Emperor rather than
by the foreign Powers themselves was a
matter of deliberate choice on the part
of the Powers, but did not conflict with
their determination that such form of
punishments was requisite.
The death sentences and the exile pen-
alties were, in fact, carried out; and
neither the United States, Great Britain,
Germany, Japan nor the other Powers
were at all disturbed by the absence of a
judicial trial for the guilty criminals.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
A communist contribution of $5OOO to the
Willkie Memorial Building Fund having been
rejected, Communist Political Assn, president
Earl Bowder wrote Herbert Bayard Swope,
treasurer of the fund, that “you have taken Mr.
Willkie’s ‘One World’ and changed it to ‘One
World, Inc.’ ” Mr. Swope replied: “If there
is any individual member of the communist
group who wishes to make a contribution I
shall vote for it. But I shall continue to vote
against accepting it from the Communist party,
on the principle that you cannot associate with
that body without taking on its odors.” — N.Y.
“World-Telegram.”
* * * *
The best saloons are packed with editors
who are wondering why they wrote so enthusi-
astically of an agreement [Yalta] about which
they knew nothing except what they read in the
papers. From what has so far been revealed
as agreed to, if looks as if the conferees de-
cided to give Stalin the free hand his armies
have won for him, and hope for the best. This
may or may not have been implicit in the situa-
tion, but there is no use buttering it up as a
great victory for the diplomacy of Mr. Roose-
velt or a vindication of the Atlantic Charter. —
“Saturday Evening Post” editorial comment.
* * * *
It would be foolish to deny that there has
been a flare-up of isolationist sentiment in the
United States. Americans have discovered to
their consternation and disgust that the post-
war settlement that is emerging from the deals,
Understandings, alliances, ententes and agree-
ments which have been made and are in process
of being made by our allies is very different
from what they hoped it would be. What
those individuals do not like they will not
approve. What they cannot approve they will
not accept.— Barnet Hover; Washington “Post.”
* * * *
The U.S. Army Air Forces alone have used
the services of 2,360,000 men, nearly one-third
of the entire Army. At least 100,000 of these
men have been casualties in training or in com-
bat. The U.S. Air Forces have used up or lost
45.000 ’planes, including 17,830 combat losses.
For the Army and Navy together, the U.S. in-
vested $38,000,000,000 in aircraft, or 23 p.c. of
the cost of all munitions. — “United States
News”
* * * *
The fact that the reparations commission-is
to be quartered in Moscow means that the
milking of Germany will be done by the Rus-
sians, with theoretical advice and counsel by the
Anglo-American partners. Most people ap-
prove the short-term result —namely, the severe
punishment of the Germans. What they will
think of the long-term possibilities —namely,
the absorption of Germany into the communist
orbit under American guarantee —remains to be
seen. — “Saturday Evening Post” editorial com-
ment.
* * * *
Trips over the Atlantic carrying passengers,
mail and vital cargo were made at the rate ot
more than one an hour last year by the North
Atlantic Division of the Air Transport Com-
mand, Army Air Forces. During the year
10.000 trans-ocean trips were made over a
route once believed unflyable because of weather
hazards, and losses were negligible. These
figures do not include the flights of the Ferry-
ing Division, which takes thousands of combat
and tactical ’planes across the ocean to the
theatres of war. Over the twelve months
period the North Atlantic Division handled
126.000. of traffic. This consisted of
about 220,000 passengers weighing 50,0001 b. with
their baggage; 53,000,0001 b. of cargo, and
23.000. of mail.—N.Y. “Daily News.
* * * *
Russia could, if she wanted, capitalise on dis-
organisation in Europe. She is in a position
to stir revolution, to promote communism, to
encourage the liquidation of _ property groups,
to take her stand on the side of instability.
For whatever reason, Russia is not taking that
line in Western Europe. It is true that Russia
is encouraging a break-up of estates in Poland
and probably in the Balkans. She may have a
hand in communist moves in Rumania. Yet
there is no sign that in Italy or France or
Belgium the Russians are promoting or en-
couraging revolution. They could, but are not.
Local communist groups, instead, tend to take
the side of what might be called capitalism.
It is true, too, that Russia is not now
aid to the Chinese commumsts. All of .that
is encouraging. It suggests that the Russians,
battered by war, may long for some stability
of her own. It suggests that Russia prefers, it
possible, to find a basis for getting along with
U S -Britain.. — “United States News.
% * * *
Reports of the damage done to Tokyo,
Osaka, Yawata and other Japanese industrial
cities by the B-29s and by the carrier attacks
may incline some persons to the same sort ot
wishful thinking as was done during the early
days of the air war against Germany. In as-
saying the results of the bombings we must
remember that we are not so far along in the
Pacific, after three years, as we were in Europe
last spring, when the all-out air effort pleading
up to D-day was begun. — N.Y. Times.
* * * *
The United States and its Allies in the Far
Eastern war will have to defeat upward of
5 000,000 Japanese troops on a battleground ot
Japan’s choosing, U.S. Secretary of the Navy
James Forrestal warned on his return from the
invasion of Iwo Jima and inspection of Pacific
wi bases. Emphasising the difficulties ahead
and the need for huge production. of war
materials, Mr. Forrestal said that, including
puppet and service troops, the Japanese Army
can muster 5,000,000 men, and probably can
increase that. Seventy divisions now are actual’
combat troops, he stated. In her finalcon-
vulsions,” the Navy Secretary predicted, Japan
will throw all this power against us, and we
must be prepared to meet it. To date, he
pointed out, we never have employed more
than 12 divisions in any campaign against the
Tananese Mr. Forrestal acknowledged that the
number of Japanese defenders of Iwo was even
larger than anticipated. There were 5000 to
6000 more troops than had been expected, an
these were , the tough Japanese equivalent of
the Marines, the same category of troops that
staged bitter, last-ditch resistance on Tarawa
in portions of Luzon and elsewhere. He stated
the Japanese defence of Iwo, was most
thorough and skilful to date. the Secretary
stated that the total weight of shells poured
ashore by the Navy in the three days prior to
Evasion and the first week after D-day approxi-
mated between 10,000 and 12,000 tons. N.Y.
“Times.”


IMMEDIATE
DELIVERY
FOR ESSENTIAL
COMMERCIAL
USERS
NEW International trucks, imported by the
Government to ensure efficient road transport,
are available in capacities up to 4i tons . . .
Equipped with Two-speed rear axles; Standard, im-
ported All-steel Cabs; imported Platform, Dropsides
and Triple-purpose Stakesides bodies, also other
approved essential body types . , . . A “permit to
purchase” must be obtained. Application forms for
official permits, full details of prices, specifications
and all arrangements for purchase and immediate
delivery may be obtained as usual from our branch
house in the capital city of your State, and also
from any Authorized Metropolitan Distributor or
Country Local Agent for International trucks.
Ask for assistance with your application
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (iKIC. IN VIC.)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
INTERNATIONAL
TRUCKS
Buy and hold War
Savings Certificates
and Stamps,
MT-21F-ia
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without, admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum or
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
- . All particulars from :—
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35535, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne. 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
0*
c
Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO GRAZCOS."
Lighter Wool Clips.
Oraz. : The 1944 Australian clip is
over 400,000 bales lighter than the 1943
clip and agents expect a similar drop
for the current year. The forecast seems
optimistic.
The 1944 clip had the benefit of carry-
over grass from the lush spring of 1943.
The 1944 spring was in many parts the
worst in living memory and a large por-
tion of this year’s clip will be grown
under full drought conditions. Then
the 1944 lambing, even on the compara-
tively safe central tablelands of N. S.
Wales, was one of the lightest on record,
and losses of lambs through lack of
nutritious fodder have been heavy. In
the Far West and Riverina districts of
N. S. Wales and western Victoria, where
the drought has been most severe, large
numbers of sheep have perished. The
statistician is now collecting particulars
of the toll.
Soil Surveys.
“T.T2’; The Rural Reconstruction
Commission has served a worth-while
purpose in drawing attention in its initial
report to the importance of soil surveys.
The man on the land has learnt from so
many channels the value of science in his
pursuit that the commission’s suggestions
have not met with the derision they
would have received 20 years ago.
In the post-war era returned service-
men settled on the land will be tempted
to break with, tradition in the crops they
sow in widely-differing localities and
conditions. Even without the benefit of
my years of experience a little know-
ledge of soils would save them one of
my mistakes. Having grown field peas
successfully in several paddocks I
attempted to improve a rather poor,
sorrel-infested paddock with the same
crop.
An elementary knowledge of soil
chemistry would have warned me that
sorrel thrives in an acid, sour soil, one
of the few conditions under which peas
will not succeed. Still, none of my neigh-
bors knew any better than I did, and the
crop was a miserable failure. The addi-
tion of a few bags of lime would have
corrected the acidity and ensured a pay-
able crop.
The excellent maps produced by the
C.S.I.R. as a result of its surveys leave
landholders in the areas concerned in
no doubt as to what will and will not
grow there. Even more important than
the topographical surveys at present being
undertaken is a Commonwealth-wide
survey of the, soil itself, in preparation
for whatever settlement takes place after
the war and to ensure maximum produc-
tion on areas already settled.
Humus and Compost.
“Pat Ater”: Soil authorities appear to
be divided into two distinct schools —the
chemical (relying on fertilisers) and or-
ganic (who adhere to compost and humus
“ I'm not a bit hungry—just give me a drumstick and two or three slices
off the breast."
solely as the basis of fertility). The
chemists don’t decry compost, but rely
on the use of sulphate of ammonia,
and super, to help bacteria during the
process of breaking down vegetable re-
fuse. They say, in effect, that vast quan-
tities of compost, not readily available to
farmers —and if they were, not commer-
cially valuable —would be required to
build up organically poor soils. Small
quantities apparently have small effect on
soil moisture and fertility. Yet if you
add old cool ddiry manure at market-
garden strength to worked-out soils it is
surprising how moisture is retained while
unmanured patches dry right out.
The organics, who advocate compost
as the only natural and true method of
maintaining soil fertility, will have nothing
to do with chemical fertilisers. In Sir
Albert Howard’s famous “Indore Pro-
cess,” not only devised for “backward
Indian agriculture,” but now used exten-
sively for maize, sisal, sugarcane and
sorghum crops in Kenya, Rhodesia and
South Africa, urine and earth are the de-
composing agents. By their use not only
soft leafy matter but cane trash and other
fibres are broken down in three months.
The chemist maintains that organic
matter cannot be entirely destroyed, but
that the addition of minerals in the form
of artificial fertilisers makes available
much that is inert in, for example, some
basaltic soils.
As the small residue in some of our
wheat soils is unlikely to be of much
value organically, the treatment of those
soils with super, year after year must re-
sult eventually in something like sterility
of nitrogen and other bases.
The argument for feeding plants with
a living medium to impart virility and
actual resistance to disease is made out
by Sir Albert Howard in An Agricultural
Testament and E. B. Balfour in The
Living Soil. Howard claims over years
of experiment in India, Asia, Africa and
England to have established his case,
through 100 p.c. healthy humans and
animals, both fed from produce grown
the “Indore way.” The abhorred
chemical fertilisers are never used (ex-
cept lime) by recognised humus authori-
ties whose agricultural results are open
to inspection. They contend, without ex-
ception, that continued use of fertiliser
foods without humus results in the death
of the soil and that these “artificials” are
the enemies of useful bacteria and fungi.
Even sewage, municipal refuse and any
other vegetable and animal refuse should
be brought into use for revivifying the
soil “by Nature’s own methods.”
On the other hand, the chemists (by
laboratory tests) seek to prove that once
qrganic matter is depleted the continued
use of balanced fertilisers, plus “trace”
elements, can continue to produce crops
equal in vitamin and vitalising content
to those grown “the humus way.”
Saltbush for the Mallee.
“Kurra-Jong”: Where other shrubs
and grasses fail saltbush goes on thriv-
ing, since its rooting system strikes deep.
Seeding habit is free and growth rapid.
Its comeback after heavy stocking is
quick, stock eat all varieties greedily,
and if there is other herbage will do well.
Given a little cultivation. Old Man
saltbush {A triplex nummulared) reaches a
height of 10 feet, which protects it from
overgrazing and droughts alike. In fair
seasons 501 b. of greenstuff is yielded per
plant. Edible parts of this species aver-
age 90 p.c. Creeping saltbush {A triplex
semibaccatd) has won fame in Califor-
nia, where it grows in the worst alkali
spots. Two crops are the rule in some
seasons. These average up to 20 tons
per acre —equivalent to five tons dry
matter and 75 p.c. water.
Sheep trim the berry-bearing saltbush
(Rhagodia ) as cleanly as clipping with
hand shears. Both leaves and seeds are
succulent and palatable. Rhagodia has-
tata, which grows from 2ft. to 3ft. high
in its natural state, doubles its height
under cultivation. Plants grown from
cuttings stand up to adverse soil and
weather conditions and attain a good
size within a year. Ideal positions for
it are along fences and in partly-cleared
scrub lands. Rhagodia parabolica is
suitable for hedges of 10ft. to 15ft. Both
it and Old Man saltbush make a good
fire-break when planted in mass forma-
tion about a chain wide ; the top growth
can be used for fodder. Cottonbush
(Kochia aphylld) maintains and increases
growth in hot winds and prolonged
droughts. Horses and bullocks work well
and fatten on it chaffed with mulga and
belar.
Hardiest of all is bluebush (Chenopo-
dium auricomum). After rain, old with-
ered sticks of plants that have gone down
in the drought put forth fresh shoots
quickly. This variety grows up to sft.
and its nutritive properties are high.
Leaves and stems have frequently been
used as substitute for spinach. Lamb’s
quarters (C. atripicinum ) doesn’t often
exceed sft,, but it branches freely from
a thick base and forms a dense mass of
wholesome herbage on which stock fat-
ten quickly.
Saltbush makes best growth when
raised from seeds on the farm. Don’t
plough the whole area; Pulverise the
earth in patches 18in. square and 12in.
deep at intervals of Bft. to 12ft. apart
according to species. Make the surface
of each patch slightly concave in the
centre, broadcast in six or seven seeds
and cover with an inch of light sand.
Seeds sown in this way in early spring
develop into plants 4ft. to sft. high by
the following winter.
A Windbreak.
“7346”: Young orchards, especially
citrus, suffer severely from wind damage
if the site be at all exposed. An excel-
lent control is the planting of narrow
strips of sorghum between the young
trees. Plough a strip about four feet
wide down the centre of each orchard
row in August and leave in the rough.
The sorghums are subject to frost dam-
age in the young stage and should not
be sown till October. Mix the seed with
super., lib. to 61b.; broadcast about 2ft.
wide down the centre of each ploughed
strip ; use 21b. of the mixture to every
15 trees (or five chains), and harrow in.
Where furrow irrigation is practised


PRACTICAL PLAITING.
Published for the first time in Australia, a book
on plaiting, . illustrated throughout with diagrams
and with detailed instructions for all Turks Knots,
flat, round and uncut plaiting. Also included in the
book are methods of greenhide work, horsehair handi-
crafts, and all aspects of bush craftsmanship, pre-
pared by a practical bushman for bushmen.
This book has been purchased by the Red Cross
as an occupational therapy guide.
Cost £/.
Register all mail to 125 Strangways Terrace, North
Adelaide, South Australia.
i|K
mm
m
m
m
m
$L
As fast as men can march
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
•*
-'■■ ■. ■ •••,. ••■■• •
V.
m
f-
m
-«*•
r >•
■ .
ŵ
SPECIFY "LY SAG HI'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
draw a furrow each side of and close to
the sown strip ; irrigate immediately.
Saccaline or Early Ambercane answer
the purpose well and, established, they are
good drought-resistcrs. Where rainfall
is adequate or irrigation can be given the
plants should grow at least seven feet
high and provide an adequate break
against the strongest winds. The writer
found this method effective on an ex-
posed hillside open to the hot winds of
the western plains. The young citrus
trees suffered no wind damage at all and
are today in the good health only dis-
played by citrus which has never ex-
perienced a setback in youth.
The varieties of sorghum mentioned
belong to the saccharine group, and their
stalks have the advantage of being palat-
able to stock. The non-saccharine sor-
ghums—including the grain sorts —such
as Kaffir Com, are, as their name signi-
fies, grown mainly for seed and their
stems are pithy and indigestible.
Sorghums should never be fed to stock
whilst the plants are young as poisoning
may result; the mature plants are harm-
less and the seed provides a welcome
addition to the poultry ration.
Hints for the Farm.
“Fodgie”: Don’t take “Sheepo’s” ad-
vice (B. 4/4/’45) and “try the mixture
on a few lambs first.” Get advice from
your State Agricultural Department, and
follow the formula it gives you. In
“coasty” country, which means country
with a copper deficiency, usually lime-
stone, copper carbonate (bluestone) is a
good drench, at the rate of 3oz, pow-
dered to a gallon of water. Mix the
powder with a pint of boiling water, and
when it dissolves add the other seven
points. The dose for lambs under 18
months is loz. ; over that, 2oz. Use a
pistolet with the adjustable gauge and
you can’t go wrong. Drench once a
week throughout autumn and early
winter. The bluestone mixture added to
common swamp salt makes a good lick
and helps to keep sheep healthy.
“Hortus”: Meadow grass must not be
chaffed before being ensiled. A lot of
valuable liquid is lost. Too many cut-
ends “bleed.” This would be prevented
if grass is ensiled as it is mown, with only
one tip for each complete plant stalk to
“bleed” from.
“Myrrhee”: Harrowing will distribute
the dung more uniformly over the night
paddock, but this doesn’t alter the fact
that fertility is being accumulated in one
particular paddock at the expense of
others. Fertility could be better distri-
buted by rotating the night paddock oyer
a wider area, cultivating the heavily-
manured paddocks and feeding the hay
to cows in more distant paddocks.
“Bennie”: However promising the soil
is for tobacco-growing it will be no good
unless it has good drainage. Excessively
wet soil renders the plant liable to disease
and is detrimental to the quality of the
leaf produced. When selecting land in a
dry season the presence of certain
grasses and timbers will usually indicate
the existence of water seepage. Choose
an area that is obviously well-drained.
“Bench”: To prevent insects marring
freshly-painted surfaces, I mix ioz. of
oil of citronella to the gallon of paint.
The oil does not affect the paint in any
way and it keeps all insects away until
the paint is past the tacky stage.
“Nedher”: To get rid of meat ants, if
there is any sand on the property cart a
few loads and dump it on the nests. It
fills the holes and smothers the crawlers.
A small colony of ants may be wiped out
by ramming the holes shut. If there is no
sand and the nest is large root it up just
before dusk, pile any rubbish or old
straw available on it and fire it. Two fires
will end the ants.
“Hortus”: If you want duck eggs don't
go in for Muscovies, which are table
favorites. A hundred eggs per year will
be the most you will get, and they eat
their heads off. Go in for Khaki Camp-
bells or Indian Runners. What’s more, a
3ft. fence will keep the latter within
bounds. For Muscovies you need a 6ft.
or ever higher one.
“Nuffin”: Urachloa grass is doing a
first-rate job in controlling wild mint on
the Darling Downs, and stock-owners are
finding that it makes hay which is relished
by cattle and horses. J. T. Scrymgeour,
of Netherby, Warwick (Q.), reports hav-
ing taken 14 tons of Urachloa and lucerne
off a 10-acre paddock. He now has 400
bales as a handy drought reserve.
“Outback”; Recent tests in the U.S.A.
have shown that dichlorophenoryacetic
acid is more effective than any other spray
in destroying bind-weed, which has made
serious strides on the Darling Downs (Q.).
Repeated spraying with arsenical solu-
tions will eventually keep the plant in
check, but on large areas this is not
economical. Pigs are fond of the weedy
underground roots, and if the land is
freshly turned over they will devour them
and so help to keep the plant in hand ;
but scientific control is needed, and the
C.S.LR, has listed the pest for investi-
gation as soon as circumstances permit.


A ustralian-made
2-pounder AntirTank Gun
From War
to Peace
H
ills
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... are
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is thade
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
BENSON WHEELS
p:
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
2907
ARE ROLLING AWAY
C"7HE strong, fresh breath of freedom dispels the
clouds of tyranny .... the heel of the invader
trembles on its grip .... the pleasant things
of life, gladly surrendered for the need, come
nearer .... and a day is coming when we shall
again make
BLOCK CHOCOLATE
Also Makers of
SNACK EXTRA CREAM . OLD GOLD
DOLLY VARDEN . HIKING . FRUIT SALAD
AFTER DINNER ASSORTED NUT and
Other Favourite QUARTER-POUND BLOCKS
Dinner
but for the present, we regret, it is impossible
for us to continue the manufacture of this very
popular peace-time favourite..
2>
SMOKE-OH!
“What can I get that will make the spot go
quickly?”— Woman’s paper.
A good thirst, sister.
+ + 4*
“Skunk stole, good quality black and white
silk frock and coat.” —Suburban paper.
But the police are already on the scent.
•J* ❖
“Don’t be one of those people who put one
layer of make-up on top of another.”
— “Woman’s Weekly.”
But this advice won’t wash with many
girls.
4* v 4*
“Wanted, women over 45 for our confec-
tionery.”—“S. M. Herald.”
A sweet disposition will be a recom-
mendation.
ẁ
“Kitchen help, over 45, part time, mornings,
no Sun ."—“S.M.H."
That’s no inducement. They probably
take the “D.T.,” anyway.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Suit and overcoat, in new condition, also
other clothes to fit bag man.”
—Suburban papef.
That’s downright stupid. Doesn’t he
know bagmen aren’t all the same size?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Blue woollen silklined girl’s coat.” '
—For sale ad., suburban paper.
Get that schoolgirl complexion all over.
“... .And now the boys are in the centre of the ring, sluggin it out.
toe to toe!”
Love makes the world go round, but it
gives some people a pretty rough spin.
“Lace georgette wedding, 32 bust.”
— “S. M. Herald” For Sale.
Evidently the guests mixed their drinks.
4* 4* *•*
“Dog, block pug, lost, Friday morning.”
—‘‘S. M. Herald .”
The owner would seem to have done
his block this time,
4* 4* 4*
Boneheadecfness in Excelsis.
“A German soldier captured by the Canadians re-
fused for three, days to do anything but carry out
the hard-labor penalty to which he had been sen-
tenced by his captain just before he was taken
prisoner.”
When the ownership of a one-track
mind, a screwy idea of honor and a
peculiar susceptibility to regimentation
combine with a deeply ingrained force
of habit strange things happen.
I recall the case of “Gasher” Gus, who
plied a razor blade as a light-hearted
diversion from his serious life work of
bouncing heavy blunt instrument off
domes.
One night Gus, fresh from a gizzard-
slitting triumph, was raising a right arm
towards a convenient coconut when a
blunter, heavier instrument caressed his
own sloping brow. When he came to he
realised that the march of time must have
dimmed his lamps, for he was in familiar
surroundings, having been injudicious
enough to select as his victim a Famous
Detective.
Gus wasn’t in the least surprised at
getting 18 months’ “hard.” He cer-
tainly didn’t expect any more, it being
ẃ
Secret Weapons.
“Unfermented yeast is believed to have caused
a soldier’s cake to explode at an Army base
post office.”
I dreamed we lined the barricades
And furiously hurled grenades
Of rich and high-explosive cake —
The sort that Vickers used to make;
We charged our guns with several tons
Of superannuated buns,
And when the enemy, replete,
Turned tail we speeded their defeat
By dropping them profuse supplies
Of army-pattern home-made pies. ...
You've guessed it; I'm the fellow who
Thought up the slogan: “Food Fights,
Too.''
P. M. LUSK.
Vindication.
Now that’s enough ! It’s true that I
On Happy Vision lost my savings,
But, though your furs I cannot buy,
That fails to justify your ravings.
Ungrateful girl! You should be glad
And love me more for what I’ve done.
Just think of what you might have had :
That horse was twenty-five to one!
NAT.
Unheard Of.
“My husband won’t allow discussion. He
says his say, gives a grunt and says ‘I have
spoken.’ ”—Woman at Police Court.
Behold {no, friends, I haven't erred)
A most extraordinary bird
Whose speeches are administered
In such a way as to deny
Or bridle feminine reply.
Thus, he {or so his’wife averred)
Not only counts on being heard
But claims — and gets —the final word!
PERCY.


HAIM'S
Circular Charts Je» all type* ot
Recording Instruments tor any class
ol Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuxacv guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
OUEEN STREET PTV. CTO. BRISBANE. O’lo.
I I
I
Os
//
\\N
i
//
///
z v i
■ v
mmm/m
?W///s////s''
\\
■■■'■■A
mm
j
\\:<ss
y*
«
r
Churchill
proved that
It takes an old dog
for a hard road
In other words, experience counts, and you get it in full
measure in Top Dog Men’s Wear! That is why it wears so
much longer, keeps its shape and smartness, and gives such
satisfactory service. In cut, fabric and finish Top Dog gives
fuller value for every shilling of its cost. So bring the day
nearer when civilian supplies will be unrestricted by investing
in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS .
m
s*
m
&
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
Far greater
smoking enjogmeni
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Penguin New Writing Nos. 1-21. —
3618.
To buy “Tom Collins’s” Such Is Life. —3619.
To buy Multiplex or Varifyper.—362o.
To buy Introduction to Botany, by Priestley
and Scott, and Botany: Principles and . Prob-
lems, by Linnot.—3621.
Information Sought.
Qualifications for membership of Caterpillar
Clubs and some information about these clubs ?
Three major parachute manufacturing firms
in Australia have founded clubs. One com-
pany, Irvine’s, allows membership to any person,
irrespective of country, provided he has made a
compulsory jump in any make of parachute.
The GQ Club (formed by the makers of GQ
parachutes) is open to persons who bale out
in a GQ ’chute. The other club, formed by
Light Aircraft Co., of Sydney, is the Roo Club.
Roo claims a membership of 111.
♦ * * *
What was the freight tonnage handled and
the revenue received between 1941 and 1945 by
(1) the N.S.W. railways, (2) the Queensland
railways ?
(1) From 1942 to 1944 inclusive, tonnage,
55,664,314; revenue, £48,070,782. (2) For
same period, tonnage, 18,313,744; revenue,
£32,337,582.
* * * *
(1) Is a Queensland marine engineer’s certifi-
cate valid for service in the Philippines? (2)
Where should application be made for a posi-
tion on an Australian ship operating in northern
waters ?
(1) If the certificate was issued by the
Queensland Marine Department before the Com-
monwealth authorities took over the examination
of engineers in 1923 it would be valid, other-
wise it is limited to Queensland waters. (2)
State branch of the Institute of Marine En-
gineers.
» * * ♦
At what hour will spring, 1945, begin in
Sydney?
Astronomically, spring commences at 8 p.m.
on September 23. (Sun is on the Equator.)
Meteorologically (for convenience of statistics),
spring starts either at 1 a.m. on September 1
or midnight on August. 31.
* * * ♦
Method of changing the color of paint from
white to ivory?
For every gallon of white paint mix loz.
yellow ochre in oil and loz. lemon chrome in
oil. Mix stains together in separate container
with a little turps and strain through fine cloth,
then add to white paint and stir well.
* * * *
To preserve an Irish fishing line?
First soak the line in raw linseed oil for one
week. Then hang up to dry, taking care to
prevent it from being exposed to the sun.
Treat with best quality marine varnish or solpah
oil, wipe off surplus varnish and leave until a
thin skin has dried on the line.
» * * •
A method of repainting golf balls ?
The surface of the ball should be thoroughly
cleansed from dirt and grease and the old paint
removed by immersing the ball in a diluted
caustic soda solution, taking care that the out-
side cover is not burnt. The simplest method
of painting the ball outside of spraying
apparatus is to pour a little golf-ball lacquer
into the palm of the hand and roll the ball be-
tween the palms of the hands. Two coats
should be sufficient. The ball can be dried by
inserting a pin into the ball, attaching thread
and suspending the ball.
* * * *
Recipe for glue that will bind sawdust tor
gether, and the method of applying it?
(a) Soak lib. of strong glue (any glue if color
is immaterial, fish glue otherwise) for 12 hours
in 12 fluid oz. of cold water; (b) soak lib. of
gelatin for two hours in 12 fluid oz. of cold
water; (c) dissolve 2oz. bichromate of potas-
siurp in eight fluid oz. of boiling water. Dis-
solve ( a ) after soaking, in a gluepot and add
(b). After (a) and (b) are mixed and dissolved
add (c) and stir in. Stir in the sawdust. After
the glue is thoroughly dry the mixture should
be exposed to strong sunlight for one hour. Ihe
glue should then be thoroughly waterproof.
* * * *
A process for waterproofing canvas?
Prepare a bath by mixing (a) aluminium sul-
phate 45 parts by weight and water 500 parts
by weight, with (6) lead acetate 70 parts and
water 500 parts together. A precipitate forms
and is allowed to settle. The clear hquid
is then poured off and used for treating the
canvas, which is passed through it and rolled
up without squeezing. The operation is re-
peated about four times, and the canvas is then
hung up to drain and dry, preferably out of
direct sunlight.
Brief Answers.
RS : The Backdoor Club is a nickname
applied to soldiers who escaped from prison
camps via the back door (Greece and Turkey).
j.p. : Complete in nine vols., the value of
your History of England is £1 C.E.G.:
There is a small magazine on sale in Sydney
called “The Rock” D.C.: (1) The Lmdsay
water-color book would bring 635. (2) The
coin would have to be seen to be valued; apply
to Tyrrell, 281 George-street, Sydney M.R.:
The Maryborough-Rockhampton railway was
opened in 1903 J.R.: Angus and Robertson
have some of the books you require... .C.H.:
The land would have to be surveyed by an
authorised surveyor, and a plan lodged in the
Titles Office; information is insufficient to form
an estimate of the cost M.C.; Apply to
Army authorities A.H.C.: R.A.N. dental
mechanics on entering the service receive
9s. 6d. per day, with increases on advance-
ment P.A.: Send specimens of the diseased
plant to the Plant Pathologist, Department of
Agriculture, Hobart, Tasmania.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
F.A.P.: “The Rabbit” should be inflicted
only on the very young D.C.: Chopped-up
prose... .A.J.D.: Musical; but you should
drop the “doths” and “haths,” especially as
you use them wrongly... .L.T.L.: “Efforts at
verse” just about describes them... .J.O’K.:
You haven’t worked hard enough A.A.:
Come again F.McN.: “Lot” doesn’t rhyme
with “drop” E.M.F.: “Camouflage” is a
sort of smoke-screen hiding nothing E.M.H.:
That sort of light verse needs, a defter touch.
. ...H.R.: Not a hope I.McD.: The
“knave” would never have bounded in so oddly
if you hadn’t been stuck for a rhyme..
T.G.W.: Too much naiad to too little Kool-
pinyah... .M.M.: “Astray in a Dogs’-Meat-
Shop” is a horror H.E.R.: Last line con-
veys the impression that the whole world in-
tends to go to sleep the minute the war is over.
R.C.H.: Try writing paragraphs about
your life at the mine P.S.R.: Windy....
K.A.J.: Hackneyed moral concealed in preten-
tious jargon... .P. 8.: End feeble... .D.V. ‘
Promising; don’t shove in a lot of meaning-
less words just to fill up a line; and try to
write about the things you’ve observed with
your own eyes V.M.J.; Usual sunset piece.
E.M.B.: No perch here for the rooster.


SI
Wa
m
(Trusader
i
s, iv
w
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
Mothers !
protect against
Dangerous
INFECTION
with
Double “D"
oi44yt*PLJ&Hyt
Danger lurks in neglected cuts and sores
—the danger of serious infection. Be
prepared attend to minor injuries
promptly with antiseptic Double “D”
Ointment —it protects against infection.
Double “D” Ointment contains an abund-
ance of healing agents, including Double
“D” Eucalyptus and Lanoline. Keep a
jar handy in the Medicine Chest for emer-
gencies. Price 1/6.
HEAL INJURIES
QUICKLY
m
m
m
m
ft
ŵ
Double “D”
0
SOOTHING HEALING ANTISEPTIC
Naval Co-operation and Fighting
“Ek Dum” puts the position squarely:
There is an unhealthy lack of balance
in newspaper pictures of the shares of
the fighting Allies in the Pacific.
Most Australians would be astonished
to learn that in a month’s fighting in
Malaya the casualties in Australia’s two
brigades amounted to over half of the
number killed and wounded in General
MacArthur’s U.S. forces in the defence
of the Philippines in 1941-42 and in suc-
ceeding years. The American troops en-
gaged in the Philippines between Decem-
ber 7, 1941, and October, 1944, lost 1101
killed and 1690 wounded, the remaining
30,000-odd being missing and prisoners.
In a few hours at El Alamein the Ninth
Division A.I.F. had as many men killed
and wounded as General MacArthur’s
forces suffered in four months of the first
Philippines campaign.
It has become the fashion to play down
the part of the British and Dominion
Navies and to play up the American part,
though the excellent American part needs
no playing up. American reporters have
been heard solemnly asking admirals of
the Royal Navy whether it will be pos-
sible for the latest British carriers to keep
up with American carriers at sea and to
co-operate with them.
And Commodore Farncomb, com-
mander of the Australian Naval Squad-
ron, has found it necessary to refer to
the much-publicised remark of some silly
writer that “our (U.S.) naval men think
they can do the job better alone without
being slowed down by what’s left of the
British Fleet.” The commodore remarked
that there was perfect co-operation be-
tween the two fleets and that the Austra-
lian squadron always had kept up with
the American Fleet. A modest statement,
since Australian ships have been in the
van of nearly every battle in the Pacific,
surveying routes and paving the way for
other Allied units.
The insidious suggestion that the British
Fleet is a remnant force likely to prove
a nuisance to the Americans might have
been invented in the Wilhelmstrasse. The
British Fleet in the East is more than
capable of taking care of Japan’s, as the
whole R.N. is a more powerful navy in
every respect than that of 1939.
Operations at Sakishima and at Palem-
bang and Sabang have proved this, if it
were not already proved by the unobtru-
sive operations which cleared the Indian
Ocean and kept the vital routes to India
and Australia open. Few people realise
how much is owed to the squadrons of
Admiral Syfret, which .implemented the
Madagascar landing, and to Sir John
Cunningham and Rear-Admiral William
Tennant, who, after being sent as captain
of the Repulse, went on promotion
straight to the task of keeping the seas off
Australia’s western shores in British hands.
Royal Naval Tradition
Almost everything in all the world
navies is a copy or development of some-
thing started by the R.N. The form and
classification of ships, tiie powering of
them, the nature of guns and projectiles,
the general specification of the metals
used in both guns and projectiles, radio
direction far ahead of that of either
our allies or enemies—uniforms and cus-
toms, all have a common origin: the
Royal Navy.
It was the Royal Navy and no other
which beat the U-boat campaign, and it
was the Royal Navy, with its sister the
Merchant Navy, which made it possible
for Russia to survive, which made D-Day
possible and which has played as great
a share as the armies, or a greater, in the
reduction of Germany by denying exter-
nal resources to the Axis. Also, it was
the Royal Navy which transported Mont-
gomery’s divisions over the Rhine on
March 23-24.
It was the Royal Navy which developed
the highly intricate technique of the con-
voy and the blockade, about which every
other navy had everything to learn, and
which devised suitable ships and weapons.
It was the Royal Navy which held the
Mediterranean and the foothold o£ Malta,
and which bottled up the German, French
and Italian Fleets at one and the same
time.
Furthermore, while the Americans are
justly proud of their great naval con-
struction feats, a remirider is needed that
it takes much more to make a navy than
ships. As in every other form of war,
it is the crack, highly-trained combat
teams that count. And sailors are not
born, neither can they be created out of
thin air in a few weeks or months. The
British have a superb and unsurpassed
pool of men and boys to whom the sea
is a natural element and hundreds of
thousands of whom- have served long
terms in the R.N. No other nation can
match this.
The R.A.N.’s Part
At sea, it can safely be said, no ships
in the Pacific have seen more regular ser-
vice, have been so universally battered,
have been so determinedly returned to
the fighting line, have been in so many
vanguard actions as those of the small
R.A.N. The R.A.N.’s part has been hidden
under a cloak, as has that of the
R.N.Z.N., whose Tui sank the largest Jap
submarine seen in the Pacific and whose
Achilles, Ajax and Leander have glori-
ous wounds to show from their part
in the Graf Spee and Solomon Islands
engagements. The R.N., R.A.N., R.C.N.
and R.N.Z.N. saved thousands of Ameri-
can lives and hundreds of thousands of
tons of U.S. cargo before America entered
the war and afterwards.
The first R.A.N. ship in action after
Japan declared war was the little de-
stroyer Vampire, which was in the screen
of Prince of Wales and Repulse when
they were sunk. On January 22, 1942,
Vampire sank a destroyer olf Malaya.
Australian corvettes were the last ships
out of Singapore. On February 16 War-
rego. Swan and a pair of sloops, with
U.S. ships, helped a convoy through the
Timor Sea in the face of heavy bombing.
On February 27 Perth was one of two
cruisers which fought her way out of
the Java Sea battle. On March 1 she
went down, her flag flying, in a battle
against vastly superior odds after pushing
some of her attackers on to the beach and
down to the bottom.
On March 4 the little sloop Yarra
fought it out with four heavy cruisers
and four destroyers until she was crushed
by weight of her opponents. On April
9, after doing valuable work. Vampire
was sunk in the Bay of Bengal.
On May 7 and 8 Australia and Hobart
were in the Coral Sea battle, though they
received no credit for it at the time. On
August 7 Australia, Canberra and Hobart
helped to land the first U.S, Marines in
the Solomons. Two days later Canberra
was sunk off Savo, with three U.S.
cruisers, while protecting U.S. landings.
A desperately gallant attempt by the
Australian-built corvette Armidale to
succor the Timor commandoes led to her
being bombed and sunk on December 1.
But her sister-corvettes did grand work
in carrying troops and on escort duty dur-
ing the Buna campaign.
Early in April, 1943, Pirie, a corvette,
was bombed in Oro Bay. There was
little battle practice for the rest of the
year, but much hard, desperate submarine
hunting and convoy work.
On December 15 Shropshire, presented
by the Board of Admiralty to replace
Canberra, with the Australian-built
Arunta and Warramunga and the infan-
try-landing ship Westralia supported the
U.S. landing at Arawe. On December
26 the same combination bombarded Cape
Gloucester to pave the way for the U.S.
rush ashore; again on January 2, 1944,
the R.A.N. destroyers gave support to
U.S. troops making the beaches at Saidor.
For the Admiralties landing on Feb-
ruary 29 the survey ship Benalla charted
the tricky coast, and cruisers and de-
stroyers bombarded Manus to prepare
for the attack. H.M.A.S., Shepparton, a
survey ship, helped the Americans at their
Talasea landing. On April 16 the de-
stroyer Napier took part in the first at-
tack 6n the substantial Sumatran base of
Sabang.
On April 2 the “Old Firm”—cruisers,
destroyers, infantry-landing ships West-
ralia, Manoora and Kanimbla—were very
active in the Hollandia and Aitape land-
ings. Destroyers, frigates, corvettes and
smaller craft backed the A.I.F. when it
entered Madang, and the cruiser squad-
ron, or parts of it, were involved in the
invasion of Wakde and Biak.
In the R.N. carrier raid on Sourabaya,
Nepal, Napier, Quickmatch and Quibe-
ron, all R.A.N., were involved.
Australian and R.N. destroyers were
in the brisk little fight with Jap de-
stroyers off the Biak coast on June 6-7,
and the cruisers covered the Noemfor
landing.
It was R.A.N., R.N. and Dutch de-
stroyers which rollicked into Sabang
harbor on July 27 and shelled the
enemy installations at close range.
On July 30 Shropshire and Arunta were
in support at the Sansapor landing; also
at the Morotai landing.
It was the Australian survey ship Gas-
coyne which made the daring survey and
marked out a safe channel for the inva-
sion ships right up to the enemy-held
coast to prepare the way for the assault
on Leyte. The Australian squadron
assisted at the landing, and during the
battle off shore Australia was struck by
a falling aircraft on October 20 ; Captain
Dechaineux and 30 of the crew were
killed, and Commodore Collins was
severely wounded. Sixty other officers
and men were wounded. Shropshire and
Arunta were in the thrilling battle of
Surigao Strait two days later. Shropshire
scored several hits on a Jap battleship,
and Arunta was in the van of the tor-
pedo attack.
By January 1 Australian ships were
ready to lead the van in the battle of
Lingayen Gulf. There again they formed
the forward scouting party and important
elements in the screen. They came
through, torn and battered, after a thril-
ling part in the fighting, with more lads
killed and wounded but their crews glow-
ing from the praise of Admiral Fraser
and the American command.
It was an Australian from H.M.A.S.
Napier who hoisted the British flag in
Akyab.
This says nothing of the tens of
thousand miles of weary convoys—in
October, 1944, alone, the little ships
escorted to their destinations 15 convoys
totalling 356,663 tons —and of recent ex-
peditions under the noses of the Jap fleet
to the China coast.
R.N. Carriers at Work
The part of the R.N. is even less
familiar than this shining record of the
R.A.N. It is not realised that British
co-operation in the Asian war is no new
thing. When the story of the struggle
to defeat German-Jap attempts to estab-
lish control of the Indian Ocean comes to
be written the tale will make a glorious
chapter in Royal Navy history.
Illustrious, whose Swordfishes swooped
down on Taranto on November 12, 1940,
and torpedoed four Italian battleships,
two cruisers and two fleet auxiliaries in
the first major action in the war by an
aircraft carrier; Victorious and the great
Indefatigable and Indomitable have been
fighting in Asian waters for a year, along
with Sir James Somerville’s (now Sir
Arthur Power’s) East Indian Station Fleet,
which includes the Royal Indian Navy.
It was Illustrious which nosed into the
environs of the N.E.I. in what Admiral
Sir James Somerville described as “the
first action of its kind” and played
hob with airfields in northern Sumatra.
The Japanese naval base at Sabang has
many hollow teeth, the hollows made by
British A.Cs. operating under battle-
squadron escort. All four were involved,


Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® loeaHon
of YQUR RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel j
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
iery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUS SEE APPLIANCE CO.,
(Dept. 37), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Burns Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Xosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
Manager—E. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LI Ml TED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: -B 7901. Box 543 e - p -°- Sydney.
ŵ
GEO. RAITT 8C CO. PTY. LTD.
467 Collins Street, Melbourne
HOLDSWORTH Si CO. LTD.
51 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
BURRIDGE &. WARREN LTD.
69 King Street, Perth
. DOBELL & CO. PTY. LTD.
47 Creek Street, Brisbane
J. C. McPHEB PTY. LTD.
99 Collins Street, Hobart
JOHNSON & HEY
37 Hunter Street, Newcastle
2983
with support from King George V, Black
Prince and some others, on January 29
last in Rear-Admiral Vian’s plastering or
Paiembang, where it was estimated that
75 p.c. of the enemy’s oil refining capa-
city was destroyed.
A “Victorious” Visit
H.M.S. Victorious —the broadest ship
till then to pass through the Panama
Canal —had a royal welcome from her
American colleagues when she came to
spend six months with them in the Pacific,
and her record produced no evidence
that she was outclassed by U.S. ships—
the U.S.N. was then very short of
carriers. Captain L. D. Macintosh, her
captain, was placed in command of a
group which mostly comprised U.S.
ships. The life was arduous. Once the
squadron was at sea for 28 days on end
and steamed 12,000 miles. Once Vic-
torious crossed the Line three times in a
single day.
Victorious worked with U.S. aircraft,
learning their technique. The Americans
on a sister carrier worked with British
T. Once when Victorious found the
potato bag empty her opposite number
sent over 8001 b. dehydrated in an
Avenger renamed “Spud Express.”
When Victorious left the fleet the U.S.
admiral commanding came on board and
made a little speech:
In. spite of the fact that the time the two
carriers have spent in company has been rela-
tively brief, the co-operation and collabora-
tion between the two commands has been so
wholehearted and intense that we sincerely
believe we have built the foundation
of understanding and teamwork which all
our Allied ships engaged in this war may
well emulate. The friendships alone which
have been established between our respec-
tive personnel in all ranks will remain a
cherished memory long after the last tor-
pedo has been launched and the last bomb
has been dropped in this war; it is on such
friendships that the future security and
peace of the world will depend. May
Divine Providence lead and guard your
ship! God bless and spare all of you so
that we may continue to fight shoulder to
shoulder in this sacred cause of establishing
permanent peace on earth, and once this
glorious task has been accomplished to
march together in the Victory Parade under
the Union Jack and the Stars and Stripes.
Pilots in the U.S.A.
Many Royal Naval pilots have trained
in the United States and many Americans
in Britain, As with the armies of Europe,
where some formations have mixed
British and American units, every effort
will be made to blend the two navies into
one operating force, and it will be the
easier because Admirals Fraser and
Nimitz —to whom the world owes as much
as to any naval officer on earth save the
immortal Cunningham—are close and old
friends/
The training of R.N. airmen in the
U. was specially planned with an eye
to the day when both carrier fleets would
work, together. A custom, established
three years ago, has been for selected
British pilots to enter Gross He (Detroit)
as acting leading airmen. They were put
through intensive courses in all the
phases of elementary flying and mainten-
ance by U.S. instructors, did their first
solo after 12 hours in the air and polished
off with 90 hours in the N2S trainers.
The students are carried on the books
of H.M.S, Saker, the Royal Naval estab-
lishment in New York. There is a senior
British liaison officer on the spot, and the
Admiralty foots the bills for pay, boots
and haircuts; the U.S.N. provides the
rest on its customary scale —it costs round
27,000 dollars to turn out a U.S.N. naval
air pilot.
After four months the trainees go to
Pensacola, in Florida, and proceed to gain
experience in monoplanes and in instru-
ment flying and ra,dio. Then they receive
their warrants as midshipmen (A)
R.N.V.R. or, if over 20 years old, are
commissioned as sub-lieutenants.
Next they do two months’ advanced
flying at Cofry Field, after which they
receive their wings at Pensacola at an
international ceremony at which the
U.S.N. makes the graceful gesture of
allowing the R.N.V.R. men to lead the
graduation parade, followed by R.A.F.
men, with U.S, trainees behind.
A pre-operational flying course at
Jacksonville finishes their experience
under U.S. command. Thence they go to
Lewistown, in Maine, where there is a
British Naval Depot on U.S. soil under
an R.N. officer, who teaches them British
tactics and methods. The fliers are
formed into squadrons which go direct
to R.N. carriers, but they are quite com-
petent also to operate as integral person-
nel of the U.S. Navy,
The important tasks alloted Sir Bernard
Rawlings’s fleet in the Sakishimas is
sufficient evidence that neither the Board
of Admiralty nor Admiral Nimitz had
any qualms about using British ships
against land-based Japanese defepce from
the beginning. Their confidence has been
fully justified.
THE SHACK-SEERER
BY LES ROBINSON.
FROM an estate agent:
Dear Sir, —
You will be pleased to hear that
I have at last persuaded the owner
to sell the block of land in Tip-View
St., Dulazelle, upon which the shack
known as Linga Longa, occupied by
you, is situated. I have been re-
quested to tell you not to linga any
longa there.” »
So I now had to concentrate on the
problem of finding another abode, I
asked a fisherman if he knew of one.
“Well,” he said, after ruminating, “I
don’t know whether a boatshed would
suit you, but if you think it might there’s
one that’s empty lower down the river.
“An old cove lived in it for a while,”
he added, “but suddenly disappeared and
hasn’t been seen or heard of since.”
By following his directions I found
the boatshed and the owner, too. As
there didn’t seem to be any holes in the
roof I paid a week’s rent in advance and
moved in. On the first night I was visited
by a large number of rats, all, I per-
ceived, under the impression that I was
edible.
Among the shed’s other inhabitants
were, I perceived next morning, ants, peri-
winkles and crabs. The crabs, I ascer-
tained, were of a species which never
entered the water but lived like rabbits
in burrows. My theory regarding them
was that their ancestors had been de-
posited by a tidal wave on a mountain
peak and had gradually lost all inclina-
tion to saturate themselves in sea water.
I had never before seen so many ants
living so close to the water’s edge, but
discovered at low tide what they were
doing there. As soon as the water re-
ceded, leaving rocks exposed, they rushed
out upon them in thousands to pounce
on shellfish that had lost their lids or,
because injured, ill or weakened by old
age, were unable to close.
The periwinkles were conical and sharp-
pointed, and, for that reason, their pere-
grinations were decidedly inconvenient,
especially when, forgetting about them, I
removed my boots and socks.
What, I wondered, were they doing
inside the shed, gftice, like oysters, they
delight in being submerged by the rising
tide? I was destined very soon to dis-
cover that they had not, as I so foolishly
imagined, lost their way or come inside
because they thought rain was imminent.
The moon was now nearing the full and
the tides becoming larger daily. One
night a gale blew up from the south and
the river became rough. Waves began
slapping the door which I had closed
before retiring, but, being tired, I went to
sleep nevertheless.
I was awakened some hours later by
the rocking of my bunk, and found that
waves were dashing to and fro under-
neath it, intent upon soaking everything.
Hurriedly I lit the lantern which, fortu-
nately, was suspended from the roof, and
crouched for the rest of the night on the
highest of the shelves. I decided next
day that habitations liable at regular in-
tervals to become playgrounds for wave-
lets were suitable only for periwinkles.
Nor did I regard it, all things considered,
as strange in the least that the former
tenant had suddenly disappeared.
MOST of the estate agents were pessi-
mistic regarding my chances of find-
ing a habitation of the kind I wanted.
Also, I could see that some of them didn’t
like being disturbed while they were read-
ing the sporting papers.
At long last, after I had worn out a
pair of boots, my oft-repeated query “Do
you know of a shack to let anywhere?”
was answered in the affirmative.
“Is it leaky?” I inquired.
“X don’t think so,” the agent who, un-
like the others, seemed an optimist, said.
“What then are its defects?” I asked.
“Well,” he replied thoughtfully,
“whether you consider it a defect or not
depends on your point of view, but I
must tell you about the tree.”
“I’m fond of trees. They’re an advan-
tage nearly always,” I said.
“That’s what the owner thinks, too,
the agent replied. “In fact, he’s a tree-
worshipper.
“And now, about this particular speci-
men,” he went on. “It’s growing inside
the shack, you know.”
“In a pot?” I asked.
“Oh, no,” he said. “It’s an old one,
full-grown.”
“But how” I began, puzzled.
“Well, you see,” he explained, “it
started as a shoot under the shack, and
there happened to be a knot-hole in the
middle of the floor. The shoot came up
through it, and, as the shack was empty
and remained so for years, was able, un-
hindered, to keep on growing. But it isn t
likely ever to push the roof off or the
walls down,” he added, “because the roots
are now on solid rock, and for that reason
have become atrophied.”
“I suppose if I decided to take the
shack and found that the tree was in my
way I could cut it down?” I said.
“No,” he replied. “The owner, who is
eccentric, by the way, won’t have it cut
down or allow it to be mutilated either.
He will let the shack only on condition
that the tenant shares it with the tree,
which, mind you, would come in handy
to hang things on. In fact, you’d hardly
need a hat-rack or a wardrobe.”
“All right,” I said with resignation. “I
may as well look at the place anyway.”
Thereupon, after giving me directions
for finding it, he handed me the key.
I had no sooner unlocked the door and
given it a push than it fell off its hinges.
When I tried to open a ventilator it
slipped out of its frame and smote me
on the head. I felt thankful there wasn’t
a chandelier,
I managed to squeeze past the tree in
order to try the bed. Its creakings were
ominous and it sagged too much for my
liking. I felt that at any moment it might
go through the floor.
There seemed to be nothing whatever
the matter with the tree, though, which
was of a species that is found only where
the ground is damp. I have never seen
one that looked more healthy. In fact,
if a forester had told me that it was des-
tined to become as large as or larger than
any in the district I’d have believed him.
It was not only likely to push the roof
off and the walls down, but, in my
opinion, had determined to succeed in
that endeavor as soon as possible.
“I wouldn’t like to live there,” re-
marked a youngster who from the road
had watched me enter and was still sit-
ting on the fence when I came out.
“Why wouldn’t you?” I asked.
“Because it’s haunted,” he replied,
then added with solemnity “An old man
hanged himself in it.”
Well, the tree had come in handy to
him then, or at least I supposed it had.
“I’m afraid there wouldn’t be room in
the shack for both of us, meaning the
tree and me,” I said to the agent when
I returned the key.
“No,” he replied thoughtfully. “It
would, of course, suit a man who was
slim much better.”


ŵ
What Would You
Do?
If you were suddenly empowered by a
deceased friend’s will to manage his estate,
what would you do?
On the other hand, what would your friend
do if you placed him in a similar position?
These and other perplexing problems arc
avoided by the appointment of The Trustees
Executors and Agency Company Ltd. as
Executor or Co-Executor. The Company
has had over 66 years’ experience of estate
administration and offers undoubted security
for the performance of its duties
Full information will be afforded if you will
kindly call or write.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE,
and at 1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sit Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
- Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Managers K. M. Hughes.
■» /t ' r ■ ;
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
A
NSW
REDUCED
PRICE
7/4
in
£j^
GOLDEN
Platignnm
FOUNTAIN PENS
MADE IN ENGLAND
fl FINE HOTEL
A Hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading Hotel*, Hut different to
every otHer in many things. THe
Wentworth, for instance. Has ever
Heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
Ui,
T“ 7
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Australian Provincial Assurance
To Re- Nominal
Sent Income. Claims. Expenses.* serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 359,152 209,992 97,627 . 51,533 2,675,530
Unexplained addition reserves, £430.. 2,675,960
1935.. 379,960 208,535 91,769 79,656 2,755,616
1936 396,245 240,144 99,304 56,797 2,812,413
1937;, 386,732 294,378 104,072 t 2,800,695
Surplus sale leasehold, £1631 .. .. 2,802,326
1938.. 389,295 327,166 103,176 2,761,279
Tax refund, £8439 .. • • • • 2,769,718
1989.. 389,796 350,183 106,466 2,702,865
1940.. 887,682 377,818 105,130 2,607,599
1941.. 375,083 340,345 108,125 2,534,212
1942.. 375,330 337,876 98,911 2,472,755
1943.. 388,213 277,228 99,164 11,821 2,484,576
1944.. 406,068 242,227 99,221 64,620 2,549,196
•Expenses include dividends to shareholders: 1934,
£8926 ; 1935, £9000; 1936-40. £4SQO ; 1941,
£9000; 1942, £4500; 1948-44, £9OOO t Including
’loss on King-street property, £4994.
Considering the difficulties inherited by
the present management and those which
war and war-time controls have imposed
upon life offices, the A.P.A. has put up
a very creditable performance. Not only
did the board have to hack a shocking
amount of deadwood out of the accounts,
but it had also to wrestle with the more
difficult problem of a block of short-
dated endowments, against which ade-
quate policy reserves of tangible revenue-
producing assets had not been accumu-
lated, as well as with a number of not
very well-selected mortgages which be-
came most troublesome under the mora-
torium of the 1930’5. Though it inevit-
ably took time, all these problems were
successfully ironed out and the business
placed on a sound financial footing, pay-
ing regular and satisfactory bonuses to
policyholders and moderate dividends to
shareholders —policyholders’ interests were
placed in the foreground, which is as it
should be.
Scarcely had all this been done when
war arrived, and with it a fresh crop of
difficulties, common to all life offices.
The reduction of field staffs and absorp-
tion of younger lives into the services
affected the volume and nature of new
business. Life assurance does not sell
itself, but has to be advertised, largely
by the personal approach. And war mor-
tality has bitten into the surplus that
would be otherwise available for distri-
bution. The strain from this source arises
from the difference between the sum
assured and the reserve accumulated in
respect thereof, which is comparatively
small at the earlier ages. The hardest
blow came from the combination of cheap
money and high taxation. This substan-
tially reduced the net return from invest-
ments, which used to be the chief source
of surplus earnings. This surplus is de-
rived from the difference between the
rate of interest an office assumed its funds
would earn and the rate actually earned.
To help keep the margin, or surplus, as
wide as possible, life offices reduced their
bases of valuation, or rate they assume
their funds will turn in. The A.P.A.
steadily strengthened its valuation basis
from a lenient 4 p.c. Sprague in 1927
to the present stringent 2i p.c. net
premium basis, thus giving policyholders
a lot more protection and bringing the
business more into line with its big
competitors.
After deduction of income tax, etc., the
co’s net return from investments last
term was 3.98 p.c. on the mean assur-
ance fund as against 3.89 p.c. for the
previous term and 4.4 p.c. in 1940.
Surplus cash is now channelled mainly
into Government securities (up £58,035
last term), which turn in approximately
2\ p.c. net:
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
£>£,&&
Public sec. 1,273,452 1,082,573 1,103,585 1,161,620
Mortgages.. 517,449 463,515 446,198 440,622
Loans on
policies, etc. 119,389 89,062 72,844 66,891
Book debts,
cash, etc... 97,365 104,631 105,344 138,998
Equipment 16,088 7,929 5,927 4,681
Properties. . 814,462 818,785 809,618 800,840
Shares .. 385,321 416,750 428,592 428,527
Tangibles 3,223,526 2,983,245 2,972,108 3,042,179
Creditors ~ 151,218 142,061 115,464 119,284
Net tangibles 3,072,308 2,841,184 2,856,644 2,922,895
Assur. fund* 2,629,684 2,341,080 2,379,588 2,445,628
Paid capital 360,000 360,000 360,000 360,000
‘lncludes reserves for unexpired .risks: £15,000,
1939 ; £21,000, 1942; £17,190, 1943 ; £lB,OOO,
1944.
The year’s growth in net tangibles was
£66,251, or £9789 more than the net
growth in the assurance fund, etc. Share-
holders can see all their capital intact and
£117,267 besides. After the war the board
proposes to give more attention to house-
purchase and mortgage business, which
ought to be more remunerative as well as
helpful in the writing of new business.
There was a slight contraction (£13,823)
in the amount of new business put on the
books last term:
Ordinary Department.
Sum 1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
assured £1,049,692 £1,057,656 £947,186 £933,313
First
premiums 31,412 31,483 30,080 33,817
Renewals 203,405 204,768 224,446 288,821
Interest,
etc. .. 119,369 104,987 102,428 100,640
Claims .. 333,333 324,572 264,028 226,699
Exes. . . 88,612 85,997 77,683 72,377
Most pleasing feature there is the further
contraction of £37,329 in claims, which
suggests that the short-term endowment
trouble, or the worst of it, has passed.
Combined figures of the ordinary and
accident departments show a surplus of
income over outgo of £73,620, compared
with £20,821 for the previous term. The
£73,620, together with £1420 from the
previous year’s carry forward, was used,
£39,976 to cover growth in liabilities
under policies, £26,064 to pay bonuses to
policyholders at the same rate as for the
previous term and £9OOO to pay a 2\ p.c.
div. to shareholders.
City Electric Light Co. (Brisbane)
, Dividends
Jan., Profit. Ord. Pref. Total. Reserves.!
1939. . 162,995 7*p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,942 1,098,003
Ipswich Electric Supply Co. absorbed.
Added purchase a/c, £24,225 ..1,073,778
Net addition* reserves, £229,957 ..1,303,735
Divs., etc., Ipswich Elec., £7446.. 1,296,289
1940.. 94,860 5.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 90,867 1,300,282
Added purchase a/c, £9709 .. .. 1,290,573
Net additions reserves, £109,678 ..1,400,251
1941. . 114,580 6.8 p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 112,389 1,402,442
Added purchase a/c. £10,217 .. 1,892,225
Expenses debenture issue, £10,868 .. 1,381,357
Net additions reserves, £97,799 .. 1,479,156
1942.. 103,204 5* p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 103,204 1,479,156
Expenses debenture issue, £4911 .. 1,474,245
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£74,459 1,399,786
Net additions reserves, £109,521 .. 1,509,307
1943.. 104,423 5J p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,423 1,509,307
Written off debenture exes., £3944 .. 1,513,251
Net additions reserves, £110,346 .. 1,623,597
1944.. 153,866 5* p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,496 1,672,957
Written off debenture exes., £3941 .. 1,676,898
Net additions reserves, £97,916 ..1,774,814
1945.. 167,016 5i p.c. 6& 7 p.c. 104,496 1,837,334
t After deducting intangibles (now £114,768).
Expansion is the keynote of this big
electrical undertaking, and is likely to be
for the next few years. The co. is the
executive factor in the Government
scheme for extension of electric current
throughout south-eastern Queensland,
which has been held up by shortage of
equipment and man-power, owing to war
demands. The co. also holds a long-term
franchise covering the Tweed River dis-
trict, over the border in N. S. Wales, A
commission appointed by the Govern-
ment co-ordinates extension of the supply
of electricity in the area concerned, and
fixes prices to be charged by the co. for
current. The co. attends to the difficult
technical and other problems upon which
efficiency of the undertaking depends.
The ord. div. is anchored at 2 p.c.
above the rate carried by Commonwealth
loans offered for voluntary subscription
during the previous year. Prices for
current are fixed on this basis, after
allowing for all exes., including de-
preciation, a moiety for reserves and
the cost of debenture and preference
capital. Although satisfactory under
existing conditions, it remains to be
seen how this formula will operate
when controls are relaxed after the
war. If interest rates are kept down,
as seems likely, and at the same time
prices rise substantially, then this formula
for calculating the wages of capital will
operate counter-clockwise to the formula
for calculating the wages of labor. One
of the dangers about Government control
is that it carries authority without finan-
cial responsibility, and is, therefore, liable
to overlook the fact that the profit earned
by capital, like the wages earned by labor,
is both a test of efficiency and a condi-
tion of survival. Failure to reward effi-
ciency under changing economic condi-
tions can only react to the detriment of
the public in the long run.
With things as they are, the commis-
sion and the co. are running smoothly in
double harness, which is as it should be.
A year or so ago the commission agreed
to an alteration in its contract with the
co., whereby, in the event of the Gov-
ernment taking the business over, an addi-
tion will be made to the purchase price
of amounts by which the co.’s earnings
fall short, owing to war conditions, of
what it is entitled to earn under its origi-
nal contract. As already pointed out, the
danger appears to be greater after than
during the war, not because of the co.’s
failure to earn its statutory entitlement
but because of the real as against nomi-
nal value of that entitlement in the hands
of shareholders.
Last term £130,653 (up £11,142); equal
to 2,7 p.c. of cost of fixed assets at the
end of Jan. last, was allowed for depre-
ciation. The net addition to the depre-
ciation reserve was £97,916, the difference
(£32,736) representing assets disposed of
and written off. The £167,016 (up £13,160)
of profit that remained was £62,520 more
than the standard div. called for, and
reserves benefited accordingly.
Extension of the undertaking last term
is reflected in the addition of £377,290
net to the book value of plant, etc.:
1939. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. , . £1,398,226 £1,945,879 £1,945,879
Allotment money..
Debentures .. 912,000 912,000
Sundry creditors.. 179,925 314,325 360,060
Property, plant, , _
mains, etc. .. 2,180,699 4,896,003 4,773,293
Stock .. .. 120,912 322,905 308,744
Book debts, etc... 190,6 39 143,393 123,527
Cash, public securi-
ties, etc. .. 23 5,87 4 31,108 63,759
Surplus earnings, including allowance for
depreciation, etc., together with £161,803
of allotment money on 486,407 new £1
ords., was sufficient to meet the outlay.
The new shares, offered to those on the
register just before the close of accounts,
one for four, were quickly snapped ; the
rights sold at 6s. 4d. When all the money
is in paid capital will be £2,432,349 in
20,000 6 p.c. non-cum. prefs., 125,000
7 p.c. cum. prefs. and 2,287,249 ords.
Selfridges (Australasia), Ltd.
Towards Re-
Jan., Loss. Dividends. Reserves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1939.. 20,981 Nil 2,190
Deficit.
Share reserve deducted asset, £41,000 38,816
Profit.
194 V . 19,728 o, non l | 18,728 20,082
To tax reserve, £l,OOO .. 1 ’
1941.. 37,809 5 p.c. = 14,249 1 n n 22
To tax reserve £12,500 .. J 11,060 9,U^
Reserves,
Tax reserve written back £15,020 .. 5,998
1942.. 50,766 6 p.c. = 17,100 1 q 79 c 7 q7n
Tax paid, £1,694 .. ..I 81 ’ 9 ' 2 37,970
1943.. 59,668 6 p.c. = 17,100 \ „ oq7
Tax paid, £38,621.. .. ) 3,9U ' 41 ’ 91 '
1944.. 47,624 6 p.c. = 17,100 / „ 7 ori
Tax paid, £45,080.. .. j *‘ ,6OX
1945. . 52,028 7 p.c. = 19,950 1
Tax paid, £15,778 .. .. 2,162
To tax reserve, £41,500 .. J
This co.. Which is in the variety chain-
store business, entered the field against
keen and efficient competition in April,
1933, when it opened its first shop oppo-
site Coles in Pitt-street, Sydney. And it
has had a hard struggle to get on its feet.
Progress was more apparent than real
for the first few years. However, there
were changes in the control in mid-1938,
and, following an overhaul of the organi-
sation, trading technique and efficiency
improved, and so did net earnings.
For a while war assisted the rehabili-
tation, but it soon gave rise to conditions
that operated in reverse gear. Clothes
rationing and the impossibility of stock-
ing the shelves with the normal variety
of merchandise, owing to production
plants being switched to service require-


THIS war haa proved the vital
necessity for trained and qualified
accountants, both for business and
government departments. That neces-
eity will be even greater because of
the great problems of administration
and finance in all aspects of post-war
reconstruction.
NOW is the time to prepare, study
and to qualify in Accountancy-Secre-
taryship, and thus put yourself in the
way of securing a key position and
with it professional status and an
assured living. The success of your
training under H. & R. is certain,
because for 45 years H, & R. students
have consistently secured more honours
places in the Accountancy examinations
than secured by all other coaches
tombined.
I Vhy not consult H. & R.
about Your future career, and
the opportunities of the post-
war period ?
Call, write or phone for full
particulars.
Specialist Coaches in Business
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
osd Owned by Hemlegwov & tobertion Pty.UdJ
Professional Tutors
24 Bank House, Bank Place, Melbourne
24 Chalf’t Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
Please send me FREE copy of your
96 PP- ‘Guide to Careers in Business.’
Name- Age
Address
Career Interested In 24/642
Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL any person knowing the whereabouts of
ANNIE EDNA PEEL formerly of Reedy Creek Vic-
toria but now thought to be in Sydney please ask
her to communicate with McNAB & McNAB Solici-
tors Kilmore Victoria? .
TENGQUIST —Will anyone knowing the whereabouts
of CHARLES JOHN TENGQUIST a seaman or hav-
ing information regarding his death said to have
occurred while sailing between Europe and Australia
please communicate with the PUBLIC TRUSTEE
19 O’Connell Street Sydney?
TO NORMAN CHARLES ERNEST SAYWELL for-
merly of Timor Street Warrnambool Victoria and
Craigend Street Kings Cross Sydney New South Wales
Grocer but now of parts unknown TAKE NOTICE
that your wife ALICE MARY SAYWELL has insti-
tuted proceedings against you for Divorce on the
grounds of three years desertion UNLESS you enter
an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of the
Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the Six-
teenth day of May 1945 and also file an answer on
or before the Twenty-sixth day of May 1945 the case
may proceed your absence notwithstanding.—-W. H.
JONES & KENNEDY 214 Nicholson Street Footscray
Solicitors for the Petitioner.
MANSE ASB
the perfect comfort male
support for everymau’i
everyday wear.
All meris-wear shops j
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
ẁ
BONUSES UP TO 507.
75th ANNUAL MEETING OF NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE
A marked expansion in the volume of new business for 1944, an increase in net
income and the raising of bonus payments to policyholders were some of the
features alluded to by the Chairman of the National Mutual Life Association of
A/asia, Ltd. (Sir Harold Luxton), at the Annual General Meeting of policyholders.
The Chairman said: “I am glad to say that
the highly satisfactory results of the Associa-
tion continued to show further improvement
during the past year.
NEW BUSINESS.
“At £10,740,546 in sums assured, our new
business is £1,743,663 in excess of the amount
completed during 1943.
“The demands of the services in Australia
and overseas have depleted our field staffs in
varying degree, but it can be said that every
branch has contributed to the full extent of its
capacity to this satisfactory result'.
“An increasing number of private and public
companies and authorities have selected the
Association to underwrite superannuation fund
benefits for their employees and a substantial
proportion of our new business arises from this
source.
“The arranging of such superannuation bene-
fits through a leading mutual life office has
important advantages. Not the least, in the
case of our Association, is that over the long
period of years during which we have engaged
in providing benefits for such funds our staff
has acquired an expert knowledge of the various
staff welfare, legal and actuarial factors in-
volved. We shall be pleased to place the ser-
vices of our technical officers at the disposal
of employers who may be interested in the
arrangement of staff superannuation of provi-
dent funds.”
The Association transacts Ordinary Life
Assurance business only.
TOTAL NET INCOME.
“The total net income rose by £332,160 to
£6,884,448. Of this income £4,822,073 came
from premiums and annuity considerations and
the balance of £2,062,375 from interest, rents
and fees.
INTEREST RATE.
“The rate of interest earned on the assur-
ance fund was £4/7/7 per cent., and after de-
duction of rates and taxes chargeable against
Interest the net rate was £3/16/11 per cent.,
as against £3/18/5 per cent, in 1943.
“In accordance with our declared policy
of supporting the war effort to the maximum
extent, the Association subscribed during the
past year to war loans in Australia, New Zea-
land, Great Britain and South Africa £3,723,500,
or £1,055,469 more than the increase in the
assurance fund.
PAYMENTS TO POLICYHOLDERS.
“Claims by death rose only slightly by
£14,395 to £1,605,852, although the amount at
risk under policies current was £7,712,642
greater than the previous year. A further
marked reduction in the number and amount
of policies surrendered is a striking feature
of the accounts and one which we are all glad
to see.
“In all, the Association paid to policyholders
or their representatives during the year
£3,633,894, i.e., at the rate of £70,000 per week.
BONUSES INCREASED.
“The directors have decided to apply a por-
tion of the surplus earned during the year to
provide intermediate bonus additions to policies
entitled to participation. Under the main
whole-of-life and endowment assurance tables,
which constitute over 90 per cent, of the total
business of the Association, these bonus addi-
tions are at rates approximately 50 per cent,
in excess of the corresponding annual rates of
bonus declared over the three-year period ended
September 30, 1943. Under Endowments pay-
able only on survival to the end of a term of
years, the intermediate bonuses have been main-
tained at the annual rate as last declared.”
Seventy-five years ago Colonel J. M. Temple-
ton, then aged 29, decided to establish a Mutual
Association on original lines. He paid the
first premium of £6/0/10 on his own life.
In founding a Mutual Office, Colonel Temple-
ton decided that every man should get the
full value of what he paid. This led him to
introduce the non-forfeiture principle of apply-
ing the surrender value of a policy to pay
premiums in arrear. This inaugurated a new
era of life assurance, and the National Mutual
was the first Life Office in the world to adopt
the non-forfeiture plan, which is now universal.
“From its very beginning the Association
never looked back. Through depressions, epi-
demics, financial crises and world wars it con-
tinued its steady progress, and extended its
benefits to our kith and kin in New Zealand,
Great Britain, South Africa and other parts
of the British Empire—until now, after 75
years of existence, it has become a great instru-
ment of social security comprising over 250,000
members—one friendly family looked after by
happy and efficient staffs, who take a personal
pride in promoting its welfare.
STAFFS.
“Of our staffs in Australia and overseas,
indoor and in the field, I cannot speak too
highly. To them all, including those on ser-
vice, we express our grateful thanks.”
ẃ
ments, slowed down the rate of turn-
over. At the same time costs, especially
taxation, rose sharply, and man-power
demands created a crop of problems
connected with staffing and efficiency.
Owing to the method of treating taxa-
tion in the accounts, too much notice
need not be taken of the figures in the
profit column of the table from 1940 to
date. In 1940 and 1941 £lOOO and
£12,500 respectively were set aside out of
earnings for the taxgatherer. Then,
owing to changes in the rate and the
retrospective nature of taxation, the board-
decided to make no specific provision for
the purpose, but to charge each assess-
ment as received against the p. and 1.
balance. At the same time (in 1942)
£15,020 was transferred from tax reserve
to the p. and 1. account. Actual payments
to the close of last accounts, covering
assessments to 1943, totalled £101,173. In
addition provision has now been made
to meet the 1944 and 1945 assessments,
£13,000 and £28,500 respectively, making
aggregate taxation paid and provided
in respect of the last half-dozen years
£142,673. Over the same period profits
totalled £267,624 before charging taxa-
tion. Aggregate net result was therefore
£124,951, or an average of £20,825, equal
to 7.3 p..c. on capital. Divs. averaged
5 p.c., and a deficit of £38,810 has been
replaced by reserves of £2162. Intan-
gibles (£17,447) are not treated as an
asset herein.
After allowing for taxation (£28,500),
£23,529, or 8.2 p.c. on capital, was netted
last term, and the div. was lifted from
6 p.c. to 7 p.c. The Westralian offshoot
sent along £2535 (5 p.c., same as for the
three preceding years), and the one in
Maoriland £964 (a maiden H P- c -). The
parent’s holding in the Westralian co. is
62,600 £1 shares (15,000 fully-paid and
the balance paid to 15s, each), and in
the Maoriland subsidiary 73,850 £1
shares (26,000 fully-paid and the balance
paid to 16s. each).
The outlook for the parent’s share-
holders is now more encouraging than
at any time since the co. was formed.
Still, no harm will be done if the div.
is kept steady and the prop for capital
strengthened. After the war competition
promises to get more of an edge on it
than ever.
Balance-sheet figures compare as
follow:
1939. 1943. 1944. 1945
Paid capital. £284,397 £285,000 £285,000 £285,000
Sundry creditors 76,355* 101,963 93,466 113,412*
Freeholds .. 18,801 19,561 19,561 19,561
Leaseholds . . 53,118 36,223 31,325 26,850
Plant, etc. .. 83,736 85,178 74,986 65,041
Stock . . 87,593 216,264 206,674 214,170
Debtors, etc. 7,949 11,536 13,103 17,118
Cash . . 2,424 2,947 2,985 3,513
Shares subsids. 109,320 74,270 74,270 74,270
* Including taxation, etc.
The amount coming to sundry creditors
(up £19,946 last term) now includes pro-
vision for taxation. This explains the
year’s contraction of £7907 in the more
or less liquid surplus (£121,389). Stocks
increased by £7496.
Lake George Mines
This co.—it is the working offshoot of
Lake George Mining Corp., London—
is beginning to get into its stride. It was
floated during the early 1937 metal boom,
when lead was around £34 a ton, zinc
£33 and electrolytic copper £7l, to exploit
the old Captain’s Flat (N.S.W.) lead-zinc-
copper deposits. Previously worked for
gold and copper, the primary sulphides
at Captain’s Flat consist of an intimate
mixture of iron pyrites, galena and zinc-
blende, with a small admixture of copper
pyrites. Shortly before the war, and
before the co. could get properly under
way, the metal markets collapsed. With
war came rail, shipping, man-power, equip-
ment and other difficulties, including a
steep rise in costs. And on the mining
side a weak footwall added to the diffi-
culties by diluting the millfeed, while ore
from different parts of the mine called
for variations in treatment, thus compli-
cating metallurgical problems, among
other things.
For the year to July 2 last the co. netted
£47,552 (£3OBO previous term), reducing
the p. and 1. debit to £115,207. That was
after writing off £74,927 on account of
development and allowing £37,286 for
depreciation. The curtain remains drawn
over production, milling and assay figures.
Production is reported practically the
same as for the previous term, with a
slight drop in head values, and also in
recoveries from concentrates. A further
increase in working costs was more than
offset by a sharp fall in shipping and sell-
ing charges. The lead concentrates are
sold in U.S.A. and the zinc concentrates
in Britain. The pyrite is railed to Kembla
and treated for its sulphur content.
The main shaft was deepened a further
117 ft., reaching 1125 ft. An encouraging
development was disclosure between the
750 ft. and 910 ft. (bottom) levels of 266 ft.
of new ore shoot, assaying 7.4 p.c. lead
and 13.8 p.c, zinc, with an average width
of 10ft. Between these two levels ore
reserves are put at 550,000 tons, with
more in prospect when man-power be-
comes available for development. But
whether average grade of ore for the
mine will be good enough to support costs
at post-war levels remains to be seen.
After the war costs are expected to
benefit when full-scale throughput (1000
tons a day) is reached, and from im-
proved metallurgical results. Still, the
general level of costs is likely to be much
higher than pre-war. Obviously, much
will depend upon the course of the metal
markets
During the year the co. repaid loans
from Camp Bird (£43,750) and New Con-
solidated Gold Fields (£31,250), and re-
duced the bank overdraft from £73,943
to £2504. When the books closed there
was £33.790 coming to sundry creditors,
and £757,193 to the parent (holding) co.
in London. Mine and plant figured at
£347,153, stores £73,147, concentrates on
hand £194,587 (down £29,354), cash, etc.,
£20,824.
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging, with
headquarters in Sydney and properties
and plant in Thailand, earned £lO5l in
interest during the 12 months of 1944.
Exes, totalled £1523, making the loss
£472, and reducing the p. and 1. credit to
£48,822. At the end of 1944 assets in
enemy hands stood in the books at
£278,503. Cash and investments in Aus-
tralia totalled £59,720. And now precious
dredge parts, which cost £1297, are held
in Sydney. The amount coming to out-
siders was £ll Sydney and £2016 Malaya.
The co. is thus ready to kick off again as
soon as the Jap is kicked but. When
operations ceased, following enemy occu-
pation, two Diesel-powered bucket
dredges were operating in the Takuapa
area, and an American spud-type unit was
digging the hard clayey wash at Ban Pru.
In the two areas combined there was
approx. 17,000,000 c.y„ ranging from
4oz. to 12oz. to., still to be dug. In addi-
tion there was the then recently acquired
Northern area (35,000,000 c.y., averaging
8.40 z. t. 0.) and the South-eastern Exten-
sion area (4,300,000 c.y., averaging 7oz.
t. 0.) which had not been equipped. The
extent of the problems ahead, as a result
of damaged dredges, etc., will not be
known until the enemy is driven from the
peninsula. For some time after the war
chief rehabilitation difficulty will be to
get equipment, including dredge parts.
* * * *
In a statement on Queensland oil
shales Chief Geologist L. C. Ball affixes
the term “spectacular in their bulk” to
the low-grade oil shales of The Narrows
—that passage between Curtis Island and
the mainland near Gladstone, If they
are spectacular they are also hopeless
(as a commercial proposition) on the
geologist’s own showing. Out of 1052
million tons of five-gallon shale 620 mil-
lions are of 15-gallon vintage, a figure
impossible in Australia with a deposit in
which the mean average overburden is
62ft. Scottish retorting can just pay on
18- to 20-gallon stuff, but then the Scot
is a thrifty and efficient and hard-work-
ing person. It will take 30-40-gallon
shale in the Narrows to show a dividend.
And you’ve got to have dividends to get
capital, and shale carbonisation plants
simply eat up capital. No! “the easy ac-
cessibility by land and sea, the large
quantities of shale that approach indus-
trial requirements, the design and adop-
tion of special methods of winning and
treatment,” are windy generalisations
that make the public think it has
got wonderful oil-shale resources. The
Narrows are doomed by their lack
of quality under present-day conditions
in Queensland. There’ll be no British
or American capital for them. Mt. Isa
has helped to fix that. With a deposit
that would pay dividends in any other
continent, Isa has failed to give to foreign
or British shareholders one penny return
on their capital.


STORAGE EQUIPMENT
<v
is commissioned at Air Bases
m
, ■
.
:
;
'
■jifi.:.:
A
Wz
y
iifiiii
■ ■ .. . ■ ;
z.
K ’
■i.”-
~ : :
;
■
m
;. mm
* .■ i
S:.
a
n
v.V:: A -,.< A
& -AAf-AA
is
m
mm
a
m
•i
H
■
,A ; :-:
I
i**
■:
**ra&|
' j
■
MM
. ■ ■-■.■; ,
:
a-;:,' : . ;
m
■
a
A'.jS
l
:
V
Hni
M
■
a :
%
ill I
Sir-
Wherever Australian War planes are
based, "Steelbilt” equipment is on active
service. "Steelbilt” lockers equip Air-
men’s quarters; repair hangars are fitted out
with "Steelbilt” Bins and Shelving; Opera-
tional flight records are protected by
"Steelbilt” Filing Cabinets. "Steelbilt” is
serving every arm of Australia’s fighting
services. Naturally, that means no more
'Steelbilt” for civilian use until after the
war. But while we are working top speed
on Defence needs, we are also getting valu-
able manufacturing experience . . . de-
veloping new design features that will
mean big improvements on all "Steelbilt”
equipment when Victory is won.
"WATERLOO” DOOR TRACK AND HANGERS fof doors weighing
100 lbs. to 1,500 lbs. are now available through your hardware dealer.
BANGOR DOOR hangers having been called up for the duration, will
not now be available.
STOJMGII/pCJPMMr
Manufactured by WORMALD BROS. PTY. LTD. (Incorporated in N.S.W.)
ALL STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Russians in Berlin.
“Ek Dum”: Events on the German
front have been moving at a great pace
and in a bewildering way.
Up to April 14 the focus of the Allied
effort seemed to be the Elbe front round
Magdeburg, To the north of that city
U.S. forces had gained a bridgehead,
which was lost and apparently not re-
gained. South of Magdeburg, near the
confluence of the Saale, another bridge-
head was gained across the main highway
from the Ruhr to Berlin. This was
widened and extended on its flanks.
Two days after it was established Berlin
Radio reported that American patrols had
reached the suburbs of Potsdam, which is
only 16 miles from the heart of Berlin.
Berlin repeated this statement three or
four times. A few hours afterwards
nearly all German radio stations dis-
appeared off the air.
Nothing more was heard of the
alleged advance to Potsdam, and the
Americans ceased to go forward except
in a small way in the Elbe bridgehead.
But a day afterwards the Red Army
was reported to be driving on Berlin, as
usual in the most tremendous fighting the
world has ever seen. All Allied news-
papers lost interest in the efforts of their
own armies to follow the Russians into
Berlin.
The details of the fighting given scarcely
supported the contention that it was
heavy. It was reported, for instance, that
an awed German war reporter had
bleated: “The Russian barrage is be-
yond all imagination.... .they fired 10,000
tons of shells in the first three days
of their offensive between Frankfort-on-
Oder and north-west of Kiistrin” —i.e.,
on a 25-mile front. That reporter had
never seen the Western Allies at work.
The First Canadian Army artillery sup-
port fired more than 15,000 tons in each
single day on the first three days of the
drive on Cleve in February.
And, then, of course there was the tale
of the giant Russian tank with a 7.2 in.
gun which can fire a 1781 b. shell eight
miles. A weird weapon—tanks are made
for close-range fighting; for fighting at
eight miles they have no advantages over
a mobile gun and many disadvantages.
Any 240 mm, U.S. mobile gun could travel
faster, hit harder and further and smash
pillboxes with greater ease than the
Russian weapon, which is supposed to be
designed for smashing pillboxes—“like
walnuts”— apparently from eight miles
away.
However, the Russians advanced upon
Berlin as fast as possible.
Hitler’s Order
Hitler, in a special order of the day
available on April 16, announced a mas-
sive Russian offensive and declared that
“Bolshevism must and will be bled white
before reaching the capital of the Reich.”
It was added:
We have foreseen this blow, and every-
thing has been done since January to build
up a strong front. A tremendous artillery
array will meet the enemy. Gaps in our
infantry have been replenished by count-
less new formations. Our front has been
strengthened by shock units, reserves and
Volksturm units.
Up to this stage all operations re-
ported concerned the country immedi-
ately on the west bank of the Oder, 40
miles from Berlin. Moscow correspon-
dents were unanimous that the offensive
had not begun on the morning of April
16, but / the German Newsagency
asserted:
The Russians launched a general offen-
sive this morning after a violent artillery
and air bombardment.
Later it was said that one thrust had
penetrated the German lines in the
Kiistrin area, but that others had broken
down. It was declared also that major
attacks on the Neisse, near Forst, had
failed, but that 35 miles n.-w. of Kiistrin
the Russians had established a bridgehead
at Schwedt, for which violent fighting
was then raging.
Next day the Germans reported ad-
vances which were considerable, in-
cluding one from Fiirstenwalde, only 26
miles from the heart of the city, on the
Frankfort road. And admissions that
the Russians had crossed the Neisse at
Gorlitz, in the far south, on the Dresden
route, suggested a surge forward of about
20 miles in two days. On the Kiistrin
road the Red Army was reported at See-
low, 30 miles from the inner heart of
the capital.
Bewildering
From then onwards details were be-
wildering. Moscow described the blitz
by air against Berlin, in which Stormo-
viks were supposed to be hurtling in
hundreds over the city “tearing up the
Unter den Linden” —which had been re-
duced to rows of hollow shells by the
R.A.F. months ago, as photographs
proved. The hitting of many buildings
and landmarks which have long ago
ceased to exist was reported. Whatever
was happening, the R.A.F. was still
bombing the miles of ruin which now
constitute the remains of the capital. And
Allied reconnaissance aircraft began to
mention long columns of troops moving
southwards with tremendous convoys of
Allied prisoners.
The strangest feature, however, was the
report that thousands of people in Berlin
were being conscripted to erect barbed-
wire and barricades. There obviously
were no miles of minefields, as there were
along the Rhine in the north and round
Hamburg and Bremen. And there was
obviously no effective resistance on the
fringes, nor even, on the main routes, a
stand-up fight capable of delaying the
Russians,
If the facts were as stated the inner
ring of Berlin was being heavily
bombarded three days after the advance
started. Five days after it started the
Russians were supposedly in the inner
suburbs.
“Izvestia” stated on April 21 that tanks
had reached the suburb of Pankow, which
is on the main road and rail from Stettin,
and whose position might be compared
to Ashfield in Sydney or Clayfield in
Brisbane in point of distance, though not
in nature. Pankow is only a mile or so
from the teeming workmen’s suburb of
Wedding, and contains routes which give
the shortest cut to the inner northern
harbors of Berlin, to the electrical
suburbs of Siemenstadt and the great in-
dustrial area between the Jungfernheide
on the north and the Griinewald, which
lies along the west of the city for its
whole depth between the waters of the
Havel and Charlottenburg.
The Russians, also, were announced to
be in neighboring Weissensee.
These two drives, apart from their
uses for curving round the industrialised
outer suburbs, were leading by the
Prenzlauer Alice and the Schbnhause Alice
straight into the heart of Berlin by the
shortest route to the Alexander Platz and
the eastern end of the Linden.
Next came a report that other forces
of Russians were on the Frankfurter
Alice, which comes in on the south
of the eastern suburb of Lichtenberg,
through the Frankfort Gate, and makes
straight for police headquarters, and on
the Landsberger Chaussee, which comes
in somewhat more to the north past the
Berlin Hospital and the Friedenchsham
Park area, through the Landsberger Gate
and down to the Alexander Platz.
To Berlin’s Heart
All these drives on April 22 were
directly converging on the island of the
Spree, which holds the old Royal Palace,
the Cathedral, whose shining dome can
be seen for miles, the ruined Lustgarten
and the National Gallery. From there
it is but a stone’s throw into the Linden
and half a mile to the Russian Embassy,
on its south side. This the R.A.F. long
since tore to pieces.
At the same time the other parts of
Berlin were being subjected to bombard-
ment, including the Tempelhof aero-
drome, which is only three miles from
the heart of the city, south of the Linden,
and the Potsdammer Platz and station,
which lie near the southern end of the
Wilhelmstrasse, between the Tempelhof
and the Linden. It seems a waste of good
shells, in view of the longstanding ruin
of that area which, being near the main
Government offices, has been battered to
bits again and again.
Americans in Potsdam?
In contrast to this easy advance the
Americans directly to the west seemed to
be static, though on either side of the
direct route they made progress.
At the week-end Mr. Drew Pearson, the
Washington commentator, came out with
a story that the Americans had actually
reached Potsdam last week, but had been
withdrawn on protests from Stalin, since
it had been part of the agreement of
Yalta that the Russians should occupy
Berlin. This statement was at once
officially denied by Shaef H.Q.
At the same time, there is something
artificial about the situation on the Elbe
opposite Berlin.
Anglo-American Achievements
British tank spearheads have been able
to race ahead to the suburbs of Hamburg,
to bypass the city and go on towards
Liibeck.
The 15th Scottish at Uelzen bored on
to the Hamburg suburbs. The U.S. forces
above Magdeburg scoured up along the
river, extending their west-bank bridge-
head. Magdeburg was overrun —it had
been pulverised by bombing.
The bitter resistance in the Harz
mountains, defendable by a comparatively
small force, was cracked in short order
by the U.S. First Army, and 50,000
prisoners were dragged out.
When the assault on the Ruhr had
begun General Eisenhower said that
it was the most vital part of Germany,
without which Germany could not con-
tinue to fight—infinitely more important
than Berlin. Inexorably the Americans
overran it and the adjacent Rothhaar
area, with all its complicated water-supply
systems. The occupation was completed
last week after a total of 317,000
prisoners had been accumulated. The
feat received a grudging paragraph or
two from newspapers which over the
years “trapped” scores of German divi-
sions on the Russian front. Up to the
week-end the western Allies had taken
2,200,000 prisoners since D-Day.
South of the central Elbe bridgehead
the Americans rolled over the Mulde and
the main road from Berlin to Munifch, and
smashed a bitter resistance in Leipzig.
Meanwhile, they pulverised Dessau, at the
Mulde-Elbe junction area, an operation
less important than some elsewhere, but
more publicised because it was supposed
to be the point nearest to the Russians
where “a link up” with them might be
expected. Here the Americans stopped,
though the A.P. correspondent reported
that they had the power to go on, while
the Russians outflanked Berlin, moving
towards them along the Frankfort-Mag-
deburg autobahn, south of Potsdam.
South of the Leipzig area, where the
Russians were driving towards Dresden
at a great rate and were in its suburbs on
April 22, there seemed to be little Ameri-
can movement, though Chemnitz
apparently had been by-passed. It was
later reported that the two forces were
near a junction at Freiburg. Berlin in-
sisted on April 22 that this had taken
place.
Nuremberg Falls
But south-west of this again the U.S.
drive from Bayreuth had been carried
by General Patton across the Czech
border. Nuremberg had been taken
after a fanatical resistance. And the
French First Army, operating in con-
junction with the U.S. Seventh Army,
had captured Stuttgart, a great war in-
dustrial district, and swept down east
of the Black Forest. The French isolated
a thousand square miles of that area,
struck the Danube in the old Hohenzol-
lern territories at Sigmaringen, passing
through highly mountainous country with-
out meeting much resistance, spread out
along the river and went to the Swiss
border above Zurich.
In the dizzy excitement over the Rus-
sian operations and the horrors of intern-
ment camps it did not seem to impress
itself on the mind of any commentator
that this drive had outflanked Munich,
brought the western Allies on to a main
road within 120 miles of that capital and
less to the great southern aircraft area
round Augsburg, and put them within
short fighter range of the Brenner Pass,
which was not much more than 120 miles
from their advanced spearheads on
April 22.
But the astounding fact was that at
the two points where the Russians were
making their drives the western Allied
fronts were virtually static, which implied
that at the points where the Germans
were unable to stave off attacks on the
east they were also able to put up tougher
resistance on the west. And this does not
appear to be logic.
The most remarkable fact of all is the
resistance of the enemy in the North Sea
ports and the strength of the fortifications
found there. The Canadians at the. week-
end had liberated all but two of the 11
provinces of the Netherlands, but the
remaining two comprised, in the main, the
Fortress of Holland, with its great cities.
And here advances were being resisted
by every means, including the cruel and
barbarous business of opening the Zuyder
Zee dykes. The drives to Emden, Olden-
berg, Hamburg, Bremerhaven were all
meeting with strong defence. But Ger-
many, with its foul Buchenwald and Bel-
sen concentration camps, had become like
a dying and partly dismembered beast,
lashifig out blindly and hopelessly in its
final paroxysms, but sometimes with an
almost superhuman strength.
Dunkirk has been cleared of civilians
in preparation for the final defence, and
much mopping up has been done in the
last few days in the Bordeaux area,
Russian Encroachments
.There are portents that there will be
little joy for much of Europe in the com-
ing peace, whether delayed weeks or
months by outlying resistance.
On the eve of the San Francisco con-
ference the Russians have made treaties
with Tito, who ostensibly is only the head
of a provisional Government in Yugo-
slavia, and also with the communist Poles.
The basis of both these is “defence
against German imperialism” which
lies bleeding in the dust.
For all practical purposes Russia has
annexed Poland and annexed Yugoslavia
—the fact is apt to be forgotten that Tito
is a leading communist, and as such can
recognise no fatherland save Russia. The
U.S.S.R. has taken all the officials of
the Comintern —Kolarow, Losovsky and
the rest —into the Foreign Office, while
the Polish coup d’etat was also arranged
by Red Army officers along with a lady
married to a Russian Foreign Office offi-
cial. And as the eastern parts of Europe
are occupied darkness has closed over
them.
There are no independent newspaper
correspondents to tell what is happening
in the Baltic States, Belgrade, Rumania,
Bulgaria or in most of Finland. The only
precise information that has come out
of Finland is that there has been a general
election, at which the communists did
not poll nearly as well as they obviously
expected, and there has been a change
of Government. But there are reports
that the Russians have conscripted 100,000
workers to fortify Hango against a German
menace which has been shattered, and
that Finns are hurrying in droves across
the Swedish border, their hordes of re-
fugees taxing the resources of such bodies
as the Salvation Army to care for them.
One great nation, however, will not
worry this month about the more than
immediate future. Free of German bombs
for three clear weeks, the people of Lon-
don had reason to believe that after six
long years their travail was over. Never
in history have a people suffered a longer
siege or shown greater fortitude.
Bologna Falls.
“Ek Dum”: In any other circumstances
the results of the drive on the Italian
front would have been acclaimed as a
victory of the first water. But it came at
a time when all eyes looked northward
into Germany. . . .
To the aggregation of British, Maon-
landers, South Africans, Americans,
Poles, Brazilians, Italians and others
Field-Marshal Alexander said they were
entering perhaps on the last great battle
of the war. In Italy there are still, or
were, 24 Germans divisions in being, in-
cluding some crack ones.
The honor of the opening lay with the
Maoris, as on other great occasions. The
action in which they forced a spearhead
across the Santerno for 500 yards on
April 11 was swift and savage. They did
not wait for bridges but hauled their anti-
tank guns through the stream.
On April 13 Massa Lombarda, a key
communication centre, was in N.Z. hands,
and the Maoris were two miles past it on
the way to the Sillaro. It was reported
that the N.Z. advance at that stage had
“broken the entire front,” and made it
necessary for the Germans to retreat
some distance to find a holding line. Next


No one else can do
YOUR SHARE
THE Nation needs all the support we can give
her in these still very difficult days.
Tasks, obligations, duties, sacrifices mount up.
The urgent need of the moment is to fill the Victory
Loan: to put every penny we have into it so that
the Government may meet its colossal expenditure
without having to resort to more bank credit.
No one else can do your share.
It may be that you are already paying heavy
taxes. So is everyone according to his income. More,
however, is demanded of all of us. The Nation’s
financial health is at stake.
Support Australia!,
Buy more
VICTORY BONDS
A MESSAGE FROM THE
LIFE ASSURANCE OFFICES
IN AUSTRALIA I-
-skR.. t.'-'tv&a**- ' " ■ ff'.-' i ' ■ ■■■ ■»
“THE MAKING
SENTIMENTAL
BLOKE”
THE LIFE STORY OF
C. J. DENNIS
ẅ
w
E mest
NOW ON SALE AT
ALL NEWSAGENTS
day the Maoris jumped their third river
in four days—the Sillaro—against stiffen-
ing resistance backed by Tiger tanks and
a stiff barrage. However, the Kiwis went
forward in great heart as part of a front
which was now beginning to blaze and
involved both the Eighth Army—push-
ing up the Argenta Gap between the
Reno River and Lake Comacchio and up
the main road to Bologna, which runs
straight as an arrow to Modena and even-
tually to Milan—and the Fifth Army, on
the south-west.
The Eighth Army, after the capture of
the last intermediate great town, Imola,
at the previous week-end, pushed on at
a great rate. Its Poles entered Bologna
at dawn on April 21 and received a great
welcome. ,
Then Fifth Army troops, sweeping
down from the Apennines, swirled into
the heart of the city, while forces to the
west went straight to the Modena high-
way and were already threatening that
city on April 22,
There had been little resistance after
Bologna was taken. The enemy’s only
anxiety seemed to be to reach the Po as
quickly as possible.
British, units racing up the northern
road across the Reno to Ferrara, on the
Venetian highway, were on April 22 only
two miles from that city and from the
Po itself, and it seemed that it would not
be long before the main line covering
industrial Italy was under assault by an
overwhelming force backed by complete
air superiority. Up to the week-end large
numbers of prisoners had been taken —
the Maorilanders alone had bagged 1400
in their first two days’ drive.
The War Against Japan.
“Ek Dum”: News from most parts of
the Pacific and the South-east Asian area
was on a level with that from Europe.
In the Philippines, with the wiping out
of the last resistance on Cebu, the whole
of the Visayan Archipelago was under
control, no organised forces of Japanese
remaining in the Commonwealth save
those holding the mountain positions
behind the Baguio Gate, in Northern
Luzon, and areas of Mindanao.
Another U.S. landing between Pala-
wan and North Borneo brought the
Allies near to the Bornean prison camps,
in which it was known some time ago
that many members of the Eighth Divi-
sion A.I.F. were languishing, including
A. M. Blain, member for the Northern
Territory. R.A.A.F. squadrons have
been helping in the bombing of Tarakan
and other Bornean oil centres.
In the Australian areas in New Guinea
there were further local advances with
stronger air support, including bombings
of the Maprik area of the Aitape sector,
by Beauforts. Other R.A.A.F. ’planes
gave support to ground troops and strafed
installations on Bougainville, New Britain
and New Ireland, dropping 175 tons of
bombs.
From Burma, too, the news was good.
The 14th Army, when last heard of on
April 22, was making a great pace down
the Mandalay-Rangoon road, and had
covered 75 miles from Meiktila, absorbed
Yamethin and reached Pyinmana. This
brought its spearheads within 200 miles
of Rangoon, whose sea routes through
Malacca Strait had been used as a
perching place for a large Royal Naval
squadron, which was whiling away the
hours plastering Sumatran coastal bases
and depots.
At points in the south-west drive there
was considerable resistance, and on one
day 1000 enemy dead were counted, but
the fighting was sporadic.
India Radio reported on April 22 that
the Shan and Karen tribes had risen
against the Japanese, which will be very
bad news for Tokyo.
On Okinawa
The one grim note came from Okinawa.
There the U.S. forces very evidently
had found it necessary to pause on April
10-11 to bring ashore supplies and artil-
lery, though cleaning up continued on
adjacent small islands.
When on April 19 the fighting broke
out afresh it was carried on across the
narrow neck which guards the main city
of Naha and Shuri, the old capital, with
a fury which could not be exceeded on
any front. Three highly-armed assault
divisions are packed on a four-mile front
abreast, backed by hundred of guns up
to eight-inch howitzers and hundreds of
tanks. The opening gambits are preli-
minary to fierce hand-to-hand fighting
of the most terrible kind, involving the
assault of hundreds of well-equipped
underground shelters, and yet it will be
only an advance sample of the war to
come.
The light-hearted manner in which
Pacific fighting of the order of that on
Iwo lima —one of the most terrible battles
in modem history —is taken in Australia
appals observers who have been at the
front. It is time that it was recognised
that the conquest of Japan will probably
will be as hard as that of Germany.
Against Japanese losses reckoned at
100 ships and upwards of 2500 aircraft,
U.S. ship losses off Okinawa, March 18
to April 18, were five destroyers, two
minelayers, a destroyer transport, a gun-
boat, four landing craft and two ammu-
nition ships. American casualties in per-
sonnel April 1 to April 18, same place,
totalled 6895, 1477 being killed. The
Navy suffered more than the Army and
the Marines, its losses being 989 killed,
2220 wounded and 491 missing.
Australia's Share.
“Ek Dum”: The Australian people, sub-
mitting to crushing taxation and a regula-
tion of their lives not exceeded in
countries where bombs fell for years,
have consoled themselves with the assur-
ances of their political leaders that their
war effort is unsurpassed.
The wo rill has been told again and
again that this country has more men in
the fighting forces in proportion to its
population than the United States ; and
the impression given is that Australia is
laboring Atlas-like under a gigantic in-
dustrial effort carried to such a "point that
whatever industrial troubles it has are
by-products of patriotic exhaustion.
Britain, the United States, Canada
proudly blazon their production figures.
Australia’s remain a secret, like the names
of her operational commanders and fight-
ing units.
This secrecy is unique among the Allies.
The light in which some phases of it
would appeal to the High Command in
Europe, where it is infinitely more im-
portant to be secret than in New Guinea,
was shown by General Eisenhower’s
direction to officers under his command:
Correspondents should be encouraged
rather than discouraged to mention the
identity of units actually in the line when
these obviously have been previously identi-
fied by the enemy. After a unit has been
in the line for 48 hours there is little need
for pretending, that the enemy is ignorant
of its presence. The freest possible flow
of news is not only in keeping with our
tradition; it is the best way to keep the
public informed and working in support
of our war effort.
Wolfram and Tanks
The only Australian war-effort figures
given to Australians are usually in terms
of cost, which is a poor guide.
For instance, the expenditure of
£369,000 announced as the cost of the
Government’s effort to produce much-
needed wolfram for war purposes at
Hatches Creek in the N.T. sounds im-
posing. The details are disgraceful.
After the mines had been taken from the
miners imported Chinese refugee labor
was installed by the Government, Acres
of cement were put down, hundreds of
tons of machinery dumped in the wilder-
ness. Shafts were reduced to a state in
which they were unworkable. In the
result £29,000 worth of wolfram was pro-
duced ; and the expenditure is not yet at
an end. For the Government was com-
pelled to appoint a committee to investi-
gate the whole affair and is now paying
or preparing to pay compensation to the
miners.
The figure of £7,000,000 spent on tanks
for the army sounds imposing, save for
the fact that on the two or three occa-
sions when Australian troops have badly
needed tanks, British Matildas have had
to be used because the Australian tank
venture has been a failure.
Britain’s Effort
Britain has a population of 46,000,000-
odd, 24,000,000 being females. Her
people have lived through their war in
a damp climate whose rigors have
been accentuated by a series of the bit-
terest winters known in history. She
has fought the war under continuous
enemy attack, her supply routes for most
of the war period being a battlefield. She
has fought on a bare-bone food and cloth-
ing ration.
She has been attacked by communists
everywhere and all along; by Aus-
tralian newspapers for not defending
Malaya and Burma, for not winning the
war in Africa at the end of a supply line
several thousand miles long, for not sav-
ing the Chinese, for not opening a front
in Europe in 1942 and 1943 to serve
Russia, which had a population nearly
five times as great, and which was
supposed in the best critical circles
—those to whom “blimps” (i.e., any
British general) and “the old school tie”
(worn by Churchill, Montgomery and
Alexander) were abhorrent —to be in-
finitely superior in power, moral strength
and efficiency and preparedness. Pre-
paredness is conceded, but it availed little


Applications are invited for the position of
STATE SECRETARY
for the South Australian Branch of the Aus-
tralian Legion of Ex-Servicemen and Women
Inc. Duties include general supervision of the
Office Staff, Club-rooms, etc. Applicants to ba,
members of the Legion (or eligible), and xfiust
state age, experience and qualifications and
submit copies of testimonials. The salary is a
minimum of £416 p.a. Applications close on
Saturday, 12th May, 1945, and are to be en-
dorsed “Application” and addressed to the
State President, Australian Legion of Ex-
Servicemen and Women Inc., Box 879, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, S.A.
ŵ
ẁ
a major role. At present, of course,
machine-gun components and other
war-winning Steel Tubes receive first
consideration at British Tube Mills
( Aust .) Pty. Ltd., Kilburn, S.A.
/
PRfOSIOtf
LI WAVS.
R at Me.
855
ẃ
ẅ
&&.e.
ELECTRIFICATION
SCHEMES include
all industries: Air-
craft; Chemicals;
Collieries; Food;
Mining; Smelting;
Locomotiv e and
Wagon Works;
Motor Car Works;
Ships and Shipyards;
Textile and other
Mills; Oi I Fields;
Refineries, etc. etc.
(Sole Australian Representatives of the G.E.G. of England).
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
If any illustration in **THE BULLETIN takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
in the 1939-40 war against Finland and
in the 1941 campaign.
From September, 1944, to February 28,
1945, battle casualties of the British were
122,526, including 40,206 killed and
61,354 wounded. Australian casualties in
the same time were about 2500. Cana-
dian casualties in the past nine months
have been nearly as great as those of
Australia for the whole war. Canada’s
total of killed on February 28 was 31,439
against Australia’s 19,430. The Cana-
dian divisions are losing heavily every
day in Europe, where every Allied nation
is represented in the land forces except
Australia and some South American
republics.
The United Kingdom from September,
1939, to June, 1944, built 722 major
naval vessels, 1386 mosquito craft and
3636 other naval vessels. The average
tonnage of the major vessels was round
2000, but thet ranged up to battle-
ships and aircraft-carriers in the 30,000-
35,000-ton class. Britons, of course,
framed the plans and designs for all these
ships. The magnitude of that task can
be estimated by the fact that the plans
and blueprints used in the construction
of a major battleship weigh 100 tons.
And this was besides merchant-ship
construction, apart from a few myriads of
tiny craft below 100 tons burthen —
4.717.000 tons to the end of 1945.
Australia, like Britain, has a navy.
Comparatively small in numbers of ships
and personnel, it has a grand fighting
record.
But Australia has not built during
the war a single ship heavier than
two 1870-ton destroyers, for both
of which the plans were provided
by the Admiralty. Of the ships added
to the R.A.N. since 1939 above the
status of a sloop, all but these two de-
stroyers, five frigates and two sloops were
built outside the Commonwealth.
Aircraft Production
Great political capital has been made
out of Australian aircraft production.
It is highly creditable to the technicians
and organisers, and the only pity is that
construction was begun so late.
But the United Kingdom from September
3, 1939, to June, 1944, built 10,108 heavy
bombers, 17,702 medium bombers and
38,025 fighters. It added 6208 naval
machines and over 30,000 trainers and
transports, reconnaissance aircraft, etc.,
apart from hundreds of gliders. The
total new aircraft produced were 102,609;
their total structure weight was 200,000
tons; placed wing-tip to wing-tip, they
would form a line from Brisbane to Mel-
bourne. And the U.K. built 208,701
aero engines delivering 225,890,000 h.p.
For the bombers the British factories
turned out 973,000 tons of bombs.
Australia has produced a few hundred
Beaufort bombers —a type which is on
the edge of obsolescence ; a few M6s-
quitoes and a large number of small
trainers, plus the Boomerang, which is
the only machine which can accurately be
said to have been produced here, since it
was the only one designed in Australia.
The Mosquito is only a part-Australian
production, since its engines are imported
with some other gear. The same will
apply to the “super-Lancaster,” which
will be in production at the end of the
year. Beaufighters are being built in
medium quantities.
Some other items of- United Kingdom
production,: 35,000 artillery equipments,
3,729,921 machine-guns and sub-machine-
guns, 919,111 wheeled vehicles for mili-
tary services, 25,116 tanks, 2,000,000 rifles,
150.000. rounds of gun ammunition,
7.500.000. rounds of small-arms
ammunition under 20mm., 370,000,000
rounds of 20mm., 17,000,000 anti-tank
mines, 80,000,000 grenades, 1,100,000 tons
of propellants and explosives, 450,000
Bailey bridge panels, 10,000 acres of
steel-mesh aircraft landing track, 350,000
wireless stations, 500,000 telephones.
Stupendous Food Figures
Moreover, this amazing little country
produced 1,000,000 tons more of steel
ingots than the U.S.S.R. in 1943 —Russia's
figure was given to Mr, Eric Johnston,
president of the U.S. Chamber of Com-
merce, by Marshal Stalin in person;
and it increased its home production of
food as follows in terms of “crops har-
vested” between 1939 and 1945; Wheat,
from 1,645,000 tons to 3,449,000 tons;
barley. 892,000 tons to 1,641,000 tons;
oats, 2,003,000 tons to 3,059.000 tons;
potatoes, 5,216,000 tons to 9,822,000 tons,
sugarbeet, 3,529,000 tons to 3,760,000
tons; vegetables, 2,428,000 tons to
3.197.000 tons.
Britain actually increased its livestock
population, and its land under the plough
went up from 8,800,000 acres to
14.600.000 acres.
It may be noted that in Australia, a
land in which potato soil lies under grass
in great quantities and in which the popu-
lation has been potato-starved, the De-
partment of Information boasted in its
“Facts and Figures of Australia at War”
last December that “Australia’s 1943-44
potato crop (599,000 tons) was 92,000
tons greater than the previous record crop
of 507,000 tons in 1906-07.”
Think of it! Our record crop last year
was about one-fifteenth that of the war-
torn United Kingdom, crowded out with
aerodromes and shaking to the tramp of
millions of marching men. And British
wheat production was round 140,000,000
bushels. Because of the crop-restriction
“policy,” the drought and lack of provri
sion to take care of crops in drought, the
Commonwealth’s 1944-45 output is esti-
mated at 50,000,000 bushels. The whole
carry-over from previous seasons will
need to be used to provide for current
Pacific needs, and there are to be great
imports from the U.S.A., if the U.S.A.
will supply.
Canada’s Hundreds of Ships
When a 10,000-ton cargo ship is
launched in Australia it is an occasion
for a loud burst of boasting by some
Minister. In Canada, by the end of
1943, 219 large freighters had been
launched and another 150 were under
construction —all but 56 were in the
10,000-ton class. Twelve cargo ships* a
month were launched. Canada has pro-
duced 6000 tanks, including large num-
bers of the heavy Rams and M47s, and
over 22,000 guns to the end of 1943.
All this is apart from large-scale in-
dustrial chemical and metal production,
aircraft and armament production for
other Allies. During the war Canada
has become one of the world’s five great
industrial Powers.
Itris unquestionable that old-established
Australian industries owned by experi-
enced and much maligned managements,
such as B.H.P. and Australian Iron and
Steel, pxe, doing a wonderful job. And
perhaps all war industry is on a basis of
which we can be proud. The facts should
be told to the world in plain figures as
they are in other Allied countries.
Apart from ourselves, the British, who
have considerably more men in the front
line in the Pacific and s.-e. Asia than this
country, plus a capital fleet more power-
ful than Japan’s fleet of 1939, and the
Americans, whose Pacific fleet is the
greatest in all history, have a right to the
assurance that Australia is pulling her
weight.
And if, thanks to the awful boiling of
platitudinous windbags who now conduct
our affairs, we are not doing our share,
every decent Australian will want to know
why.
“Ek Dum”: In the drive against Cleve
in February Field-Marshal Montgomery
used 1400 guns, a third of which
were medium, heavy or very heavy,
massed on the starting line. He had a
little matter of 1100 tons of chemicals
piled up to make a 10-mile smoke-screen.
He had doled out 800,000 special de-
tailed maps, weighing 30 tons, to his offi-
cers and troops. It had taken 35,000
vehicles, which used 7000 tons of fuel,
to bring up supplies to start the battle.
In order to give them freedom of move-
ment, Monty had had his engineers build
100 miles of new road through the
sloughs of the border country and recon-
dition 400 miles more, using 63,000 tons
of gravel, 1880 tons of bridge material
and 36,000 heaVy logs. There were 10,000
road signs ready to be put up and 1000
troops allotted for traffic control in the
battle. About 350 types of, ammunition
were in dumps. If the cases had been
piled side by side five feet high they
would have stretched for 30 miles. The
First Canadian Army began to let this
loose towards Cleve just as Marshal von
Rundstedt was about to repeat his De-
cember performance in a more vulnerable
quarter—he had got ready to drive across
the Maas with a powerful armored force,
under Colonel General Karl Student, to
try to retake Antwerp, 25-odd miles away.
In the first three days the German front
at Cleve was plastered with 50,000 tons
of ammunition, apart from the deliveries
by air-power.


STRONGER.
LIGHTER ... LON CE R LASTING
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
w
ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
w
ŵ
PROPRIETORS OF THE
FOLLOWING TRADE MARKS
"C.O.R PLUS" MOTOR SPIRIT
"C.O.R" POWER KEROSENE
"CORALITE" KEROSENE
"C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM"
"C.O.R" DIESEL OILS; AND
"C.O.R" FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
ẁ
SPORTING NOTIONS
Winner of the Tasmanian Doncaster mile
with 9.7 and other races in the Apple Isle, in-
cluding a 5j furlongs sprint with 10.3 at his
last start at Mowbray, Night Fighter put up a
sterling performance at his first start on the
mainland, going down only a head to Gala
Chief in the mile Benefit Highweight at the
Moonee Valley charity meeting last Saturday.
The Tasmanian carried 9.6 and drew the ex-
treme outside barrier position, which counts
heavily on this course. The winner had 11b.
less and was well drawn. Quezon, solidly
backed favorite, was more than two lengths
away in third place. Night Fighter is a five-
year-old brown gelding by The Night Patrol
from Petra.
Third to the good colt Royal Gem at the
Valley on April 7, also second to Don Pedro
on this course and placed in all his last four
starts, including a win at Mentqne, the Great
Legend-Lady Chibah chestnut colt Camgham
appeared to be up against such a weak field in
the Institute Handicap for two-year-olds that
it seemed a wonder he was not at odds-on,
instead of 9 to 4 against. Though not well
away and carried wide at the turn, he did the
job in excellent style, beating Granition three-
quarters of a length and Nawab. Granition,
a Felcrag-Golden Memories bay filly,
was going well enough at the end of the five
furlongs to suggest a win at a bit more distance.
The second division also went to the favorite,
the Gay Lothario-Baba chestnut colt Gay Lad,
who beat Chelsea and Rosarian very easily.
Another sort of consistency attached to West
Haran’s defeat of Caragona and Pantoon in the
two-miles Charity Steeple. An aged gelding by
Bonnement and raced by the A. E. Syme estate
executors. West Haran is trained by G. Max-
ham, who thus scored the hat trick of turning
out winners of all three of this year’s Mel-
bourne Steeplechases. Maxham trains them out
Dandenong way. Sent out favorite, Para-
phrase went through the first fence and lost his
rider.
Nicely ridden by Breasley, the five-year-old
Parenthesis mare Philander defeated Ola Rose
a neck and Buzharine in the main event, the
Hospital Handicap over a mile and five.
Though Philander had only one race to her
credit in her career, she was made a 5-to-2
favorite. Breasley rode her very patiently on
the rails till nearing the three furlongs, then
drew her out and went for the lead. She
was quickly joined by Ola Rose, and they raced
head and head to the post, though at the
finish Philander was holding the challenger
comfortably enough.
A winner on this track a fortnight earlier,
the Midstream-Sunshine bay colt Carey again
got a winning break rounding the turn, de-
feating Oxford Street a length, with Orthodox
a close third. In the other event of the day,
the six furlongs Patients’ Handicap, Valhne,
though running very wide at the turn, was yet
too good for Burma and his own stablemate
Antos (favorite).
* * * *
Washed out by rain, the first day’s racing
of the S.T.C.’s two-days meeting at Canterbury
Park had to be abandoned. Selections (be-
fore acceptances) for the second day; —Maiden:
Right Royal, 1; Dinkum Aussie, 2; Lion, 3.
Two-year-old: Jamefie, 1; Fragile, 2; Tama-
roa, 3. Flying; Silverelda, 1; Nobleman, 2;
War Effort, 3. S.T.C. Handicap: War Eagle, 1;
Goose Boy, 2; Thanks America, 3. Encourage :
Idyllia, 1; Silver Clare, 2; Gold Edifice, 3.
Welter: Rylstone, 1; Sir Francis, 2; Western
Monarch, 3.
♦ # * •
One of the striking things about the Syd-
ney sales was the good prices brought by the
Golden Sovereigns. None of them got near
the 4500 guineas paid last year for the
very distinctive filly Anne-Tien-Et (brown, with
a broad blaze), but five of them brought
a thousand or well over it, and there wasn’t
a low-priced one in the offering. They cer-
tainly have the stamp of class on them, but
so far most of them have had nothing _ much
more than good early speed. Anne-Tien-Et,
whose distance hasn’t been found yet, and
Britannic, who showed on Sydney Cup day that
he can get a mile, appear about the best
stickers among them, and both of those had
good dams —respectively Feminist (she won the
A.J.C. Anniversary Handicap in 1941 at 3 to
1 on) and the imported marc Modiste 11. Per-
haps, like some of The Buzzards, they’ll im-
prove with age. In contrast to the high prices,
a filly by that runaway stayer Young Crusader,
holder of the Australian mile-and-three-quarters
record, brought 55 guineas.
As well as those mentioned in B. 11/4/’45,,
sires whose progeny brought upwards of a thou-
sand were Royal Step, Veilmond, High Caste,
Melfort, Le Grand Due, Merry Matthew,
Felcrag, Emborough, Hall Mark, Brueghel,
Double Remove, Marconigram, Nuffield, Beau
Vite and Seven Fifty. Dams in the thousand-
or-better class included that ancient lady Society,
dam of Talking and Cold Shower, and herself
foaled in 1921!
♦ * * *
U.S. owners, breeders, etc., are squeezing
what comfort they can from such thoughts as
that the ban on racing will actually help to im-
prove the breed. There—as perhaps more so in
Australia —many horses have the best knocked
out of them by heavy racing from the moment
they’re eligible to run. Here over the past
quarter of a century fillies have been most
striking examples. The U.S. ban will mean that
many youngsters probably won’t race till well
on in their two-year-old season. The English
custom always has been not to run good
young thoroughbreds before June or even later,
when over there they’re going well on for three.
American racing men shouldn’t need the moral
of the English practice of racing ’em late — i-e.,
that it’s one of the strong contributing causes
of the continued paramount excellence of Eng-
lish stock. The big majority of America’s own
best did no winter or early spring racing as
two-year-olds. There are exceptions to every-
thing, of course. The great Seabiscuit started
racing in the month he turned two and ran 35
times before he was a three-year-old. How-
ever, Man o’ War, Whirlaway, Count Fleet,
Top Flight, Omaha and an almost endless list
of other American topnotchers were past two
and a half when -they had their first run.
* * * *
This year’s Melbourne Cup, to be run on
Saturday, November 10, will be worth £7500,
with second receiving £l5OO and third £750.
If balloting is necessary the order of elimina-
tion will be: (1) Four-year-olds and over,
according to age, who have not received £250
clear of own stake in any one race; (2) aged
horses, according to age, who have not re-
ceived £900; (3) horses, according to age, who
hagye not received £500; (4) horses, according
to age, who have not received £900; (5) sec-
tional ballot. The Derby will be run on the
Saturday preceding and the Oaks on Cup Day.
Entries for all three races close on June 5.
The Grand Nationals will be run on July 7
and 14.
* * * *
Acceptances for the Adelaide Cup, two
miles, on May 12 have lost Dark Felt, top
weight with lOst.; this leaves St. Warden
top at 9st. 51b., and he is the only one over
9st. The Goodwood Handicap, six furlongs
and £2OOO, on May 5, showed a close go be-
tween St. Fairy, Teacake and Dark Felt,
grouped from 9.9 to 9.7, but all have gone
out, leaving Industry top weight with 9st. 21b.
* * * ♦
James Clarke, who passed on in Sydney last
week at 88, was in at the founding of City
Tattersall’s Club, its chairman for 38 years, and
a member for half a century. The club’s cele-
brating its jubilee later this year.
* * * *
H. E. Tancred, who raced High Caste, be-
comes vice-chairman of the Sydney Turf Club.
Former Lud Mayor Bartley and N. Manion
and N. Thompson go on to the directorate.
* * * *
“Nuffin”: B. Oxenham, a former Rugby
Union footballer, member of the XV
which reached England the day before
war broke out, is back in Australia, a
surgeon-lieutenant. A contemporary, E. S.
(“Dooney”) Hayes, captain of an Austra-
lian team to Maoriland and skipper of
Queensland XVs for many seasons, has
been posted a casualty whilst serving with
the R.A.A.F. overseas.
* * * *
Although the Rugby Union has made
a great contribution to the services—its
list of killed, wounded and missing is
mournfully long —it draws so many
youngsters from the schools that it has
been able to renew its fourth-grade com-
petition, which was discontinued when
war broke out. Randwick, University,
East and St. George are each represented
by two teams; Parramatta, West,
RA.A.F. and Briars Sporting Club by
one team apiece.
In the first-grade competition Randwick
met East, last season’s premiers, and,
showing better condition and pace in
backs and forwards, administered a 22-6
trouncing, scoring four tries to one.
Surgeon-Commander S. R. Wallis, R.N.,
refereed the match with conspicuous
ability, and his quips had the players in
good humor throughout. Runners-up
last season, University was never seri-
ously troubled to down North 15-3.
Manly and St. George provided the most
exciting game of the day ; 11-11. A last-
minute effort by winger Cochrane nearly
won the match for Manly, but when he
was about to touch down he lost the ball.
Parramatta’s forwards were too much for
Gordon; 25-5. West and Drummoyne
battled it out evenly amongst the for-
wards, but when the bell clanged Drum-
moyne had scraped home 16-14.
« He * *
To the thunder of municipal voices in
Melbourne’s northern suburbs threaten-
ing to “see the Premier” and to close
grounds unless football is put “on a sane
basis throughout Victoria,” the V.F.L.
opened its season on Saturday. Most of
the customers chose the Richmond-Foots-
cray match as the best of the day. It was
—for the ’Scray lads, who wore their shoot-
ing boots and were never headed, scoring
16.9 to the Tigers’ 14.11. Out at Essendon
few people bothered to see Hawthorn
slaughtered, 22.18-12.7 ; at Collingwood
there was a ding-dong go between ’Wood
and North Melbourne to half-time, then
’Wood sailed on to a 13.13-10.10 win.
Fitzroy wasn’t troubled to beat Geelong,
15.16-10.8; Melbourne was as little
bothered by Carlton, 15.18-13.9; and


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ARNOLD SELBY FIELD late of Bal-
main.—TAKE NOTICE that ALBERTA MAT?CELLE
MARY FIELD has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
32 of 1945 on the ground of your desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st day of May 1945 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from HAROLD
MUNRO Petitioner’s Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) O. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARIE EILEEN LARSEN late of Devonshire
Street Sydney.—TAKE NOTICE that GORDON
WILLIAM PATRICK LARSEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 1443 of 1945 on the ground of your
adultery with men unknown to the petitioner If' you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 20th day of June 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge frdm HAROLD MUNRO
Petitioner’s Solicitor 81 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—-
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
AY ALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES. ALFRED BULL formerly of No. 141
Marion Street Leichhardt. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife STELLA ESTHER BULL has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 816 of 1945 on the ground of
your desertion for three years and upwards You
may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney on or before the
20th day of June 1945 and obtain a copy of the
petition without charge from MESSRS. ALLAN
UTHER & MANSFIELD Solicitors 350 George Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO STANLEY JOHN URQUHART late of Royal
Australian Navy.—TAKE NOTICE that THELMA
URQUHART has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
4534 of 1944 asking for a divorce from STANLEY
JOHN URQUHART on the ground of his desertion
If you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
at the Divorce Office, Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the 31st day of May 1945 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from P. F.
IRVINE Solicitor No. 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.—
(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALBERT MATTHEW MARSH.—TAKE NOTICE
that HAZEL LAUREL MARSH has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 127 of 1945 on the grounds of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney New South WaWs on or before
31st May 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from SLY & RUSSELL Solicitors of
14 Martin Place Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO CHARLES HERBERT BYNON late of Narran-
dera N.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that EMILY MATILDA
BYNON has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3925 of
1944 on the ground of desertion without just cause
or excuse for three years and upwards If you wish
to defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by 31st
May 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition from
M. B. BYLES & CO. of 4 Castlereagh Street Sydney.
—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
ẅ
:
K YOUR BEST IN AN UMBRA
w
ŵ
FLUORESCENT
Consider these advantages. Condor Fluores-
cent Lighting eliminates glare and shadow. It
gives “cool” light—a particular asset in sum-
mer months. It gives 3 to 4 times greater light
output from a given consumption of electricity
than does filament lighting. Or alternatively
it reduces by 3 or 4 times the current consump-
tion for a given light output. It is easily
installed, in that existent wiring can usually be
used* It is economical in maintenance, in that
Lamps may be replaced by anyone, not neces-
sarily by an electrician. It is flexible, in that
lines of lighting may be installed to follow the
layout of any plant.
Consider these advantages, and think how they
can affect the efficiency of your plant!
Currently, installations, with rare exceptions,
may only be made in protected industries.
For full particulars contact your Condor repre-
sentative. He will be pleased to give you full
information and advice.
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY:
George Brown k Co. Pty., Ltd. Reg. Rose k Co. Pty., Ltd.
T. F. Stewart k Co. Pty., Ltd. Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd.
National Theatre Supply Co. (A’sia) Pty., Ltd.
MELBOURNE:
Sun Electric Co. Pty., Ltd. A. J. Veall Pty., Ltd.
Howard Electrical & Radio Pty., Ltd.
BRISBANE; ADELAIDE:
Trackson Bros. Pty., Ltd. R. C. Woollard.
CONDOR LAMPS (AUSTRALASIA) PTY. LTD., 35 CLARENCE ST.. SYDNEY.
“Sowth” walloped “Saints” by 17.16 to
10.17. Then everybody went home to
tea, and if anybody worried about the
thunder in the north it wasn’t the League,
which had a roll-up of 70,000-odd at the
six matches. ■
♦ * * *
Rowed on the Barwon last week, the
Victorian Head of the River resulted in
the finely-trained Melbourne Gra.mmar
comfortably defeating Geelong College
(last year’s winning eight), with Wesley
in third place. It was a good race early,
but Grammar was always going like the
winning crew, and had a ; length and a
half to spare at the end. In the River-
view (Sydney) Gold Cup challenge eights
on Saturday Shore dead-heated with the
non-school crew Haberfield, with St.
Joseph’s third.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. cricket news at present
must be mainly negative. Bradman re-
tired; Badcock and Ward, who helped us
greatly, gone home ; Walker and Ridings
lost in the war ; Waite, Hamence, the
other Ridings and Whitington all on ser-
vice ; Graham Williams p.0.w.; Cotton
practically 'retired. Barring the ever-
green Grimmett, who is still a terror to
young batsmen, our South Aus. leading
names seem unfamiliar to any outsider.
* * * *
“Wodgil”; In 1891 Australia saw an
American-born heavyweight champion in
the flesh: John L. Sullivan. In 1917
came Sullivan’s conqueror, Jim Corbett,
then a light of other days; 20 years had
elapsed since Fitzsimmons whipped him
at Carson City. During the present month
we have had Gene Tunney in Sydney
and Jack Dempsey in Brisbane, Though
well-preserved men’ and, incidentally,
capital company, they are now too old
for any sort of active combat; but each
has a service rank which is by no means
ornamental, and has been under fire:
Tunney in the Solomons and Dempsey
in the Ryukyus. Had they flourished in
the great days of the Australian ring and
come here looking for fight, as Choynski
did, they could have been suitablly
accommodated by Jackson, Slavin,
Goddard and perhaps Fitzsimmons
(though Fitzsimmons might not then have
been induced to tackle heavyweights ; old-
timers say he was very conscious of the
superiority of Jackson), with perhaps Mick
Dooley and Owen Sullivan for opening
engagements. Those days are gone and
are unlikely to return. There has been
no successor to Foley as a master-tutor
of boxers, and the fighting atmosphere in
which Foley’s men grew up —they were
practically all experienced field fighters
before he began to put his polish on them
—is no more. The few heavyweights
Australia has had since Bill Squires and
Bill Lang gave up the business have been
of poor quality, and the two Bills were
far below the best American standards
of their day,
* * * *
Micky Hill, Queensland’s latest boxing
find, who recently skittled Sydney bantam-
weight Ray Skelton, is the scrapper who
in March had a k.o. victory in round two
of a ten-rounder, and the same night
deputised for the national bantamweight
champ,, Noel Butwell, and spreadeagled
Les Feighan (N.S.W.) in the first round.
Hill has risen to main-event class in nine
fights, all wins.
* * * *
Tommy Colteaux is used to meet-
ing at Leichhardt pugs lighter than
himself. On Thursday he took on
a heavier thumper, Jack Brander, and
spent a most unpleasant night. It
looked as if the second round would see
the end, Colteaux being floored three
times, but he struggled up each time and
went on “taking it” till the end of the
twelfth. Brander won from the first bell
to the last.
When Owen Moase was given a verdict
over George Cook in the good old
summer-time experienced judges thought
it wrong. Cook vindicated them by
knocking out Moase in the fourth round
of a Sydney Stadium contest. Cook was
the attacker throughout, and a short left
swing to the chin was the deciding punch.
Another twelve-rounder to which Garney
Allen and Ken Hatcher were parties was
also over in four. Cautioned for refus-
ing to break clean, Allen went on hitting
after being ordered to come out of a
clinch, and was disqualified.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Today Australia commemorates the
most sacred day of her nationhood. An-
other Anzac Day is here, reminding heart
and brain of the great sacrifice Australian
soldiers have made, and are still making,
for their land. The dawn service in
Martin-place, the whole ritual of remem-
brance, makes this the solemn day of
Australia’s year.
A labor of love went on all through
the watches of Tuesday night, when a
group of canteen workers at St. Andrew’s
hut busied themselves preparing a hot
breakfast for ex-servicemen attending the
dawn service. In its old address, the base-
ment of the Town Hall, to the joy of
its president, Dr. Mary Booth, and the
Anzac Fellowship of Women, the soldiers’
Anzac Day party is in full swipg. For
the last three years this has been a mov-
able feast, sometimes at the Y.M., some-
times in St. Andrew’s Chapter House.
The old soldiers have a real affection for
this party, the meeting of old cobbers and
the singing of the never-grow-old “Made-
moiselle from Armentieres” and “If you
were the only girl in the world.”
Sir Ernest MacMillan can conduct as
well with the left hand as with the right.
He revealed this at the party in his honor
last Thursday evening. He was com-
miserating with a guest who was recover-
ing from a broken arm. He told how,
just at the beginning of a big orchestral
season in Canada, he was caught in a
motor accident. For all the concerts his
right arm was in a great plaster cast,
and he had to wave the magic wand with
his left. He looks that type —four-square
and indomitable. One woman murmured,
gazing at him over the rim of her sherry
glass: “He doesn’t look like a musician.”
But he does. He bas the high and broad
forehead, the quick, steady glance of the
artist who does things rather than dreams
of the doing.
He was talking to Baronet Hugh Poyn-
ter (a cousin of Kipling’s) when some-
body asked him could he remember Kip-
ling’s lines about Canada. Both he and
Sir Hugh wrinkled the brow in deep effort
which resulted only in the line: —■
“Robin down the logging road whistles ‘Come
to me! ’ ”
But the visiting musician told that there
were innumerable folk-songs in Canada.
The tunes are mostly very old French,
but the words of the songs are all about
the hills and the lakes, the forests and the
rivers of the snowy Dominion. Sir Ernest
believes that a great deal of the color that
pervades the Canadian scene is due to
that country’s still having a peasantry.
In addition to his own compositions he
has made many arrangements of Cana-
dian folk-songs.
To Toronto, Edinburgh and Paris the
knight owes his musical education. He
was in Bayreuth in 1914, and he
was interned in Ruhleben prison camp.
He has conducted most of the great
orchestras in the U.S.A.
The welcome party was given by the
president—the Alexander Gordon lady —
and the women’s branch of the Sydney
Symphony Orchestral Committee. It was
on the top floor of Vere Mathews’s cafe.
The sherry and the savories went with a
swing, and as for the platter of curry,
there was some magic about its disappear-
ing trick. A.B.C.’s new chairman, R. J.
Boyer, welcomed the musician, whose
speech in reply was neat and graceful
without being fulsome. Justice Roper
and his wife, the Walter Swinsons and
Mrs. Hamilton Kirkland, whose saucy
little sailor hat wore a fine mesh veil,
were there. Other hats of note topped
Dame Constance D’Arcy, Mrs. Rupert
Scammell, Margaret Gillespie and Mrs.
Hope Gibson.
Canadian conductor Ernest MacMillan
was greeted by a packed Town Hall —
not an empty seat —and the Sydney
Symphony Orchestra proved in sympathy
with its leader. The result was an even-
ing of rich and emotionally satisfying
music. The man from Canada has no
temperamental mannerisms, so the listener
can really sit back and enjoy the pro-
gramme.
Pianist Eileen Ralph starred in the
Beethoven Concerto (No. 4 in G Major).
Eileen does not stand in awe of her in-
strument, nor does she under-estimate it.
She knows just where she is with it, and
proves that with power, delicacy and
decision.
Two bright girls of Red Cross, Dorothy
Wilby and Coralie Poolman, have re-
signed after two and a half years as joint
assistant-controllers of V.A.Ds. in N.S.W.
In their two years of office the member-
ship of V.A.Ds. has increased from
3000 to 7000, and the age for enrol-
ment was reduced from 18 to 16 —thus
preventing any waste of time between
leaving school and linking up with the
movement. Dorothy during her first
year’s work travelled 22,000 miles through
the State on an A.A.M.W.S. recruiting
campaign. Before giving themselves over
to Red Cross Dorothy did a lot of broad-
casting in Melbourne, and Coralie put in
some time on newspaper work.
An outsize in parties is being arranged
for May 2. Two thousand V.As. are
descending on the Assembly Hall to bid
regretful farewell to the popular pair.
Agnes Doyle, just returned to her home
town after successes in America’s theatri-
cal world, including long runs on Broad-
way, nibbled a salad lunch with the
Women Writers last week. Agnes moored
her featherweight proportions to earth
by a tailored suit and a tiny black hat
studded with gold nail heads. This was
worn right back on the red waves of her
hair. She talked, by request, of the great
in the theatre —actors, writers and pro-
ducers. It was as heady a brew as supper
at the Stork Club following a brilliant
first night. Of course, the name of Judith
Anderson crept into the speech—Judith
the Australian is considered by Nathan
the greatest actress in America. In her
Sydney days Agnes used to live at Wah-
roonga, among the climbing roses. She
has climbed a bit herself in her profes-
sion since those days.
At the lunch, too, was Dorothy Dunck-
ley, actress of screen, radio and stage.
Dorothy is slimmer than ever. She got
that way by giving up bread and potatoes
for a few weeks. Her nice, rich voice was
in good working order when she made
her little speech, which dealt with the tri-
bulations of a publicity woman. She is
doing publicity for the Minerva at the
moment. She had imagined it would be
as easy as tossing up a pancake, but says
she is working like a navvy. President
Countess de Vilme-Hautmont, who is
having leave of absence to seek the sunny
north for the winter, did the honors.
Pnina Salzman, although only 22, has
given concerts over half the globe. The
good-looking young pianist is now add-
ing Australia to the list of countries she
has charmed with her music. Pnina,
of Russian descent, was born at Tel Aviv,
and. at a very early age—eight years old,
to be exact —caught the interest of French
pianist Alfred Cortot. He persuaded her
parents to send her to Paris, and in that
great city she had won many distinctions
before she was 15. Recitals in France,
Poland, Egypt and Lebanon followed.
Then came the amazing number of 50
concerts with the Palestine Orchestra,
considered by Toscanini as one of the
three finest in the world, A tour
of South Africa and a reception by
Field-Marshal Smuts are things that live
in the player’s memory. Pnina, as attrac-
tive as her - picture herewith, will give
her first concert in Sydney for the Red
Cross on May 9 at the Town Hall. Further
concerts in association with Alex. Cher-
niavsky will be given under the direction
of J. and N. Tait.
Without the accompaniment of satin
and tulle, ballerina Dorothy Stevenson was
married in the Christ Church Cathedral,
Grafton, last week. She married literally
with her father’s blessing, for it was the
Bishop of Grafton, her father, who heard
the vows that bind her and Major Ald-
ridge C. Rumsey for better, for worse
and so on. The ’groom is of the Royal
Army Medical Corps, and he has a sheaf
of degrees of Cantab, and London origin.
His parents are the C. F. Rumseys, of
Cambridge, England.* After the war the
two will live in Sussex, where the major
has his practice. The bride wore red.
Congratulations are crackling along by
’phone and telegram to the Harold Botts,
of Killara, on the birth of a third daugh-
ter. Denise Jean, as the new arrival is
to be christened, made her first appear-
ance at St. Kilda private hospital,
Hornsby.
From Melbourne
A sudden return to summer has sent
women into flimsy frocks and put smart
winter suits back into the wardrobe.
Schoolgirls attending the Head of the
River contest turned the banks of the
Yarra into a glowing mass of color, for
school uniforms were discarded and smart
little frocks and suits were the order of
the day. Janneke Jansen donned a snappy
little pink linen suit and white beanie.
Her companion, Helen Simpson, sported
a green linen suit and red beanie. They
were both Scotch College supporters, and
were sadly disappointed when their crew
did not come home the winner. Angela
Sturt and Judith Staughton were in
tailored mode. Another fashion which
seems to have made a hit with the lasses
in this age group is the sou’-wester—of
course, a more modish version than that
worn by sa’ilormen—usually of velvet and
sitting well back on the head. There is
often no crown in it and the soft fall of
the velvet on to the shoulders makes an
attractive frame for a youthful face.
Mrs. Helen E. Wessells, pictured here,
is director of, the U.S. Information
Library in Melbourne. Before the war
she was on the staff of the New York
Public Library, and after Pearl Harbor
she was appointed director of the Vic-
tory Book Campaign. With an attrac-
tive window display, which is ever
changing, well lighted sunny rooms and
comfortable chairs and tables, the U.S.
Library invites Melbourne citizens in
search of knowledge to tarry a while in
such pleasant surroundings. When the
library celebrated its first birthday a
distinguished company gathered to drink
a dish of tea with Mrs. Wessells, attrac-
tive in a smartly-cut black suit, and her
co-director, the recently-arrived Mrs.
Rupert, nattily tailored in green. Justice
Lowe and Clarence Spiker, Consul-
General for the U.S.A., held friendly
conversation, Mr. and Mrs. Herbert
Brookes recalled memories of their
pleasant stay in Washington. The Masson
lady was a guest, also Red Cross Roll
Call stalwart Bruce Bellamy. Mrs. James
Lindsay, wife of the Assistant Consul,
displayed the flair for dress of the Ameri-
can woman. The U.S. Army was repre-
sented by General Hester and General
E. Burt. Major Drummond, also of the
U.S. Army, indulged a newly-acquired
taste for a cup of tea, instead of coffee.
During tea Mrs. Wessells disclosed that
to date 31,000 seekers after knowledge
had made use of the library. They had
also asked an amazing number of ques-
tions. They wanted to know how re-
turned soldiers are dealt with, how soil
erosion is checked and how America
copes with housing. Australian brides
leaving for the U.S.A. had brought their
problems to be solved and were concerned
with prices in America, the various sea-
sons and the clothes needed for the
climate. Interior decorators and clothes
designers have found the library a rich
mine.
Rationing in America is also a point of
interest to Melburnians. When America
was forced to curtail her meat exports to
Britain the library was filled with earnest
inquirers about the U.S.A. coupon set-up.
They discovered that Americans who
wanted to buy a tin of pineapple
were forced to surrender 60 blue points,
and as they received only 50 blue points
every month this luxury was out "of the
question. A pound of butter took 24
points. Meats, which before the restric-
tion on exports were free from rationing,
were now rationed and took up to si;:
or seven points a pound. A questioner
wanted the address of a woman who
treated eyes, mentioned in a book by
Aldous Huxley. Another wanted to know
the color of the hood worn by a D.Sc.
of the University of Wisconsin. Another,
intending to give a bride going to America
a reading lamp, wanted to know the vol-
tage used in her friend’s prospective, home
town.
The first U.S; Information Library was
opened in London and it was so success-
ful that the U.S. government decided
to open libraries in Sydney, Melbourne
and Wellington (M.L.). After that came
Johannesburg, Capetown and Bombay
and very soon the system will be ex-
tended to Lisbon, the Philippines and
Paris. A recent exhibition of children’s
books here created a great deal of atten-
tion. Mrs. Helen Wessells has given 141
lectures since she arived in this city.
She speaks quickly but in a well-modu-
lated voice, dresses with charm and has
made hosts of friends.
The newly formed Society for the En-
couragement of Music and the Arts has
given Melbourne a feast of good things.
It has modelled its work on a similar
body now operating in Britain. Called
C.E.M.A., it has provided concert and
ballet troops to entertain war-weary men
in battle areas. The London C.E.M.A.
is subsidised by the Government, and the
Australian C.E.M.A. hopes for similar
assistance. It aims at encouraging artists
in all branches of the fine arts and at
educating the people to appreciate the
best.
Under the auspices of C.E.M.A. the
New Theatre group presented “Sons of
the Morning,” by Catherine Duncan,
which tells the story of Australian
prisoners of war escaping in Crete. The
main characters are Major Anson and
Sergeant Blake, who take refuge in the
home of a Cretan farmer. He has a
lovely daughter, Christina, with whom, in
the short space of an hour, Blake falls in
love. Robin Mackay is a wistful Chris-
tina, eternally sighing for the gods of
Olympus and also regretful of the fact
“that since the Church came there has
been no dancing.” Bill Ryall, who plays
the part of Blake, has been more happily
cast in Tin Alley productions.
Mrs. Michael Hall, hon. sec. :of
C.E.M.A., was a distinguished figure in
black with a black fez decorated with a
sage-green ostrich feather high on her
head. Michael Hall accompanied his
wife, and during the evening managed to
attract the attention of a cuddlesome black
kitten. With the Halls was Mrs. Eve
McLeod, wearing one of her gay little
floral creations with her black frock. Eric
Reiman, in Melbourne with the Tivoli
show, was an interested member of the
audience. Mr. and Mrs. Colin Mackay
came along to see daughter Robin in her
part. Mrs. Mackay’s three-quarter length
squirrel coat covered a black frock. Mrs.
Robin Cramer-Roberts and Mr. and
Mrs. Campbell Hughston were other
members of the large audience. Com-
mander Quispel, of the N.E.I. Govern-
ment Information Service, accompanied
Miss Catherine Duncan. The song sung
by Christina in “Sons of the Morning,”
and for which Robin learned to play the
zither, was written by Gwen Acock, who
was in the audience. The play was pro-
duced by Hilda Esson.
The Tin Alley Players can always be
relied upon for a good performance, and
a crowded house was the answer to the
organisers’ prayers when they presented
Molnar’s “The Play’s the Thing.” The
theme is as old as time itself —cuckoldry.
The cast included the blonde Gwen Reid
as the erring wife. Finding time to study
other actresses in their parts were Nance
Summers and the beauteous Mary Ward.
Maurice Belz and his spouse were Uni-
ersity reps., and Vice-Chancellor J. D. G.
Medley was there with his wife. Chan-
cellor Lowe was with his family, and
Ruby May, who has worked so well for
the Tin Alley Players, both as actress and
producer, was well pleased with the act-
ing ability displayed. Dr. Esme Anderson
and Dr. Kate McKay were in the audi-
ence. Noel Gourlay (Noel Boyd on
the stage) also watched the play. Mrs.
Essington Lewis and daughter Betty ran
the sweet stall, and worked busily to
increase the funds of the Y.W.C.A.
Pam. Forster is very happy these days.
Not only because very soon she will
marry, but because her sister and her
two small sons, Michael and Peter, have
arrived home after internment at Santa
Tomas (Philippines) since January, 1942.
Pam and her parents have been under a
dark shadow for some years, but now
life has taken on a brighter aspect. Pam
will have her sister, Mrs. J. Hunter, as
matron-of-honor for her wedding at Mel-
bourne Grammar School Chapel in June.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Australian Casualness
One is always hearing complaints about
the “ca&ualness” of the average Austra-
lian. It is disconcerting to notice that
some people regard this as a virtue.
It all boils down to being in earnest
or not. If we don’t mean things we
should not say them. Many Australians
place little importance upon appoint-
ments ; any arrangement made is subject
to something better turning up.
There is a tendency to accept, even to
demand, favors or hospitality without
any intention of reciprocating. Lack of
sympathy with other people’s distress and
an overbearing greed for personal gain
are included in our “casualness.” I dare
say other nations are no better, but I
think we should strive to inoculate more
character into our children so that they
will grow up with more consideration for
others.—M. T. V. R. (N.S.W.).
Servicemen and the Universities
Deaths through war and the interrup-
tion of the training of students will in-
volve a serious shortage of professional
men in the first post-war years. Every
medico and dentist in Australia will be
doing double work until peace-time train-
ing and rehabilitation have restored a
reasonable quota of these practitioners to
the community.
Every available seat in universit
classes during the war should be fillet,
by men training and learning as fast
possible. Only the best should be allowec
to start, so that time may be saved anc
the number of degrees increased. Th
university vacation has been cut to
minimum and courses shortened with thi
object in view. It appears that th
authorities are, in fact, trying thei
utmost to pass as many men as possibl
through the reserved faculties. No mere
is shown to failures and examinations ar
very stiff.
Why then, are women allowed to train
in such faculties as medicine and den
tistry? A woman doctor or dentist can
not hope to cope with the amount o
work a man could do, nor will she do the
work a man does. Her field is restrictec
and her patients specialised. What i
more, she will probably get married anc
go out of practice.
Many returned servicemen with high
leaving passes are anxious to prepare
for a professional career. They have
served their time and paid their price
only to find that girls are filling prospec-
tive seats in their faculties. — Jaunay
(R.A.A.F.).
Women After the War
Will women in war jobs and the ser-
vices be content with post-war domesti-
city? At a school I attended 60 army
girls discussed the question.
On the “Yes” side were about 85 p.c.
of the school, but many interesting points
were made. Among these was the sug-
gestion that equal rates of pay for men
and women would force women out of
industry. Employers would prefer men,
who can work harder and do not require
the same amenities as women. But em-
ployers would give preference to women
if female labor were cheaper. The meet-
ing (strange as it may seem) was against
equal rates of pay.
Everyone was agreed that women would
not be content to return to the pre-war
drudgery standard of ordinary home-life.
This was the chief argument of the “No”
voters, who claimed that few women
would be prepared to marry and bring
up families in present-day conditions. The
lot of the average housewife would have
to be improved. Government would
have to bring labor-saving devices within-
the reach of the average housewife. There
must also be some Government-sponsored
scheme to provide domestic help for
the young mother, or nursemaids to take
her children off her hands for a few
hours daily.
The army girls say they require, and
consider it the duty of Government to
provide, comfortable, attractive and
healthy homes. Given these, home-
making and child-bearing will be the out-
come of women’s return to the post-war
life.—N.F.K. (A.1.F.).
Fodderless Sheep-
I see that wheat has gt last been made
available as stock fodder in N. S. Wales,
but that once more dairy-farmers,
poultry-farmers and pig-raisers have been
given priority in rationing the limited
supplies.
Maybe Mr. Scully and his colleagues
are unaware that the prolonged drought
which has laid the entire Riverina and
other large sections of the State bare has
left the sheep and wool industry in
danger of being crippled for many years
to come. Reserve stocks of fodder have
been exhausted and further supplies are
unprocurable, so that, with no prospect
of natural feed growing before the
approach of winter, the mortality rate
amongst sheep is going to reach alarm-
ing heights. That is, unless the sheep
industry is placed on an equal footing
with other pastoral pursuits.
Prompt action is called for if a major
disaster is to be prevented fxom over-
whelming our sheep industry.— El Oban
(N.S.W.).
Overstocking Doesn’t Pay
I can’t see how heavy overstocking, in
the words of Edward W. Cowen (B.
21/3/ ’45), “tightens up the ground” and
leads to splendid grass cover at a later
date. I have had 40 years on the C.Q.
coast, and never have I seen heavy over-
stocking lead to anything save poor,
weed-ridden pastures and hungry cattle
and horses. On both light- and heavy-
soiled grazing country constant trampling
by many head of stock chews up and
loosens the ground under dry conditions.
If “8. ; W.C.” knows anything about
plants he will be aware that when one
variety of vegetation becomes non-exis-
tent another seeks to take its place. That
is Nature’s plan to preserve the soil.
Should vegetation perish and not be
quickly replaced by other vegetation
erosion is certain.
In Central Queensland, as everywhere,
the disappearance of the natural grasses
“Might as Well be doing nothin' here as doing it ashore."
is soon followed by the rise of other vege-
tation —generally noxious weeds. Im-
proper burning methods, grasshopper
plagues, rabbits, abnormally dry seasons,
all assist overstocking to annihilate
natural grasses.
I have seen too much fine country in
Queensland rendered unproductive of
decent grass and herbage by overstocking
to have any time for it. —W. C. (Q.).
Tenancy Laws
The Federal Landlords and Tenants
Act, passed in the interests of “national
security,” has proved particularly un-
popular with the masses.
It is a stock phrase now when dis-
cussing recalcitrant lodgers: “You can’t
get them out.” Events have reached a
sorry pass when wastrels are protected.
I know of an instance where a house-
owner is living in one room because he
cannot get libertine tenants out of his
house.
The nation awaits an opportunity to
vote out an Administration that has
capitulated to union bosses, regulations
and bureaucracy.—A. D. (S.A.).
Housing Finance
One of the biggest difficulties in post-
war housing, from the viewpoint of the
wage-earner, will be finding the original
deposit. Why not try the Swedish
method?
In Sweden the local council will supply
materials and land to a would-be house-
builder, provided it is satisfied as to his
integrity and ability to repay. If he so
desires, the future owner can build the
house himself, assisted by council elec-
tricians, etc., and his work will be ac-
cepted as the equivalent of a deposit of
10 p.c. of the cost. Actual construction,
on account of the highly-developed
methods of prefabrication, is not beyond
the ability of the average man.
This method would, of course, be
limited to houses built of wood, fibrolite,
etc., in which prefabrication is possible.
Brick houses would have to be treated
differently. Still, the field of application
for such a scheme is large, particularly
in country areas, including country towns.
—E. J. (N.S.W.).
A Population Crisis
How does Mr. Forde expect to “triple
Australia’s population in 20 years?” The
population problem confronting us is
probably the most difficult to be faced
by any nation.
A drastic revision in our immigration
policy and our own attitude to newcomers
is urgently needed. I would refer Mr.
Forde and others of his platitudinous ilk
to a booklet by A. E. Mander on the
latter-day trend of Australia’s population,
in which he argues that Australia’s popu-
lation will come to a standstill at
7,750,000 in 1960 and then decline. He
points out that the natural increase in
1939, when our population was 7,000,000,
was 53,000; in 1914, with a population
of 5,000,0()0, it was 86,000. During
the period 1933-39 adults in the age
group over 45 increased by 250,000;
those in the group 15-45 increased by
180,000; the number of children under
15 decreased by over 100,000.
“Fill our own Australian cradles,” the
age-old catchcry of buck-passing poli-
ticians, won’t serve today, for even if
we double our present birthrate it would
take 22 years to make our population
10,000,000.
In the immigration field, too, our capa-
bilities are limited. Assuming that we
managed to attract 125,000 desirable im-
migrants to this country yearly (five times
the average influx during 1921-25, the
“big” immigration years), it would still
take a generation to bring our population
to 10,000,000. Added to this, our housing
problem is little short of desperate. As
Mr. Hughes has pointed out, Australia
needs 225,000 houses before any immi-
grants can be taken in. Permits for build-
ing last year totalled only 4465.
The position calls for leadership, far-
sightedness and ability to act speedily,
qualities which the present Government
has, so far, shown no sign of possessing.
—Nairda (Vic.).
Captain Cook Dock
Your debunking of the Governmental
“Personalities of the Graving Dock, Syd-
ney” (B. 28/3/’45), will be appreciated
by all who are acquainted with Labor’s
pre-war defence policy of “nothing be-
yond the three mile limit,” and “Australia
will be no longer a salvage squad for
Britain.”
A Genesis to your Revelations is that
the Captain Cook Graving Dock had its
beginning in a conversation with the First
Sea Lord (Admiral Lord Chatfield) in
1938. As an advocate for a capital ship
in the R.A.N., I asked the admiral, at an
interview specially arranged for Dr. Page,
R. G. Menzies and myself, if he was
satisfied with Australia’s then “cruiser”
policy. “No,” he replied. “You should
have a capital ship, which would make
you safer in any trouble with Japan.” He
explained how the cost could be spread,
to satisfy those who complained of ex-
pense. “But your first consideration
should be a dock capable of taking a
capital ship,” he concluded.
I promised to use what influence I
could to have the dqck constructed. On
my return to Australia I reported Lord
Chatfield’s proposal and recommended
that the appropriate Minister should be
empowered to proceed.
What happened in 1940 is no doubt as
you state. I don’t know; I was in the
R.A.A.F. — Thomas W. White, M.H.R.
The Exchange Rate
The exchange rate Australia on Lon-
don moved from \ p.c. in 1929 to 8|
p.c. in 1930, to 30 p.c. in 1931, to 25 p.c.
in 1932. These rates were quoted by the
trading banks to compensate for the fall
in the value of our exports. Their action
alone enabled primary producers to carry
on during and after the depression.
In 1932 the Commonwealth Govern-
ment, in its wisdom, placed control of the
exchange rate in the hands of the Com-
monwealth Bank, and the rate was
pegged. This prevented the trading banks
from using the exchange rate for its only
legitimate purpose, as compensation for
violent fluctuations in the value of com-
modities. Had control been left in tl
hands of those who understand, the ra
would long ago have been reduced, ste
by step, with the upward trend in ove
seas prices for our exports.
The present position is that exporte
of wool, meat and grain are enjoying
measure of prosperity which is due en
tirely to the exchange rate, and is, ther
fore, fictitious and inflationary. If th
rate were reduced to a reasonable figur
that fictitious prosperity would disappea
and we would find it easier to pay fo
essential imports and meet interest o
overseas debt.
Trade-unions are doing their best
absorb, by way of increase in wages, th
apparent prosperity. If they are allowec
to succeed the exchange rate can neve
be reduced. Adjustment of the exchang
rate, long overdue, would deny to appl
cants for increases in wages their onl
possible justification for their claim.
Anti-Inflation (Q.).
Butcher’s Meat
On every hand I heard people grumb
ling when it was suggested that ther
should be a meat cut —vainly, our “Gov
eminent” being what it is.
The average Australian eats far mor
meat than is good for him, and ha
already benefited in health through being
forced to eat a bit less red meat. People
who eat meat two or three times a day
invariably get fat, and, judging by the
people one meets in the street, more than
20 pc. over 40 are too fat.
Four ounces of meat or cheese or
couple of eggs is sufficient protein fooc
for a day for the average Australian
except those who do very heavy physica
labor. In England, where the people
need meat more than we do, they get
much less. They are our kith and kin.
We come of the same stock. What a
“Government” and what people to grudge
them a small share from our abundance !
—Savant (N.S.W.).
Tasmania For Ever!
The criticism of “Stanus” (B. 4/4/’45)
on the lack of courtesy, shown by Aus-
tralians, particularly the travelling public,
is unjust to Tasmania. If “Stanus” in-
cluded this State in his peregrinations he
must have been very unobservant. Men
in the Speck still stick to the quaint cus-
tom of standing aside and allowing
women to board a tram or other public
conveyance first. Even at peak travelling
hours the crowd doesn’t fight for seats,
as is evidently the case in mainland cities.
Another old-fashioned habit that has
clung to us through the years is for a
man to give up his seat to an incapaci-
tated person or a member of the other
sex, be she maid or matron.
As regards beer, I can assure “Stanus”
that it is still quite possible of an evening
to have a leisurely drink and talk with a
few friends in almost any pub in the State.
Wild scrambles round the bar are almost
unknown. There are mild rushes now
and then, of course, such as in pubs near
picture shows at interval times, but that’s
all. A lot of the pubs here close most
of the day to keep out loafers and lounge
lizards, and to give workers a chance of
getting a few pots in the evening.—R. H.
Parkes (Tas.).
Taxation on “Super Ann”
If “Subscriber” (B. 11/4/’45) is a con-
tributor he should be aware that an
exemption up to £lOO a year is made in
respect of taxation. Few contributors
pay in excess of that amount. Further,
the Commonwealth Superannuation Act
specifically exempts the income of the
fund from taxation (Section 5,3).
Contributions paid into the fund are
eventually distributed in the form of pen-
sions, plus an amount from consolidated
revenue. The income derived from in-
vestment forms part of the fund, and an
investigation of the position of the fund
is made at the expiration of each five-
year period by an actuary appointed by
the board. If it is ascertained that addi-
tional benefits can be provided the actu-
ary is required to report accordingly. At
various times this has been done.
Should a contributor decide to resign
before the date of his retirement the full
amount of his contributions may be re-
funded, admittedly without interest; but,
as an offset, he has been covered by an
insurance for the period of his contri-
butions.
If there is a better way of making pro-
vision for retirement the powers that be
have not yet been told about it.—Jaibee
(A.C.T.).


RAIN NOW FOR
-WAR JOB
What are YOU doing to protect yourself against unemployment after
the war? As Australia swings back to peace-time conditions thousands
released from the Services will have to be placed in work. The Govern-
ment of the day can be depended upon to assist, but whether you will
be able to keep yourself and your family in the way they are accustomed
depends on you . . . the amount you can earn will depgnd on your value
to the community. NOW—when work is plentiful and pay is good—
is the time to equip yourself with an extra trade. You can find no better
profession in which to qualify than in Diesel operating, for all over the
world more and more Diesel engines will be placed in use. Before the
war, a great swing to Diesel engines had begun. After the war this
swing will gain added momentum, opening up thousands of well-paid
positions. Diesel Operators not only earn big money, they enjoy pleasant
conditions and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the
man who has specialised knowledge.
!
i.
an
U
JOj
•%
Jo
a
1 • i ■,
•‘ '•: ' •
-v...
MEN OF ALL SERVICES ARE
TRAINING IN SPARE-TIME—ARE YOU?
In the fighting services—land, sea and air, and in war industries-*-
ambitious men with an eye to the future are devoting part of their
free hours for another big offensive. They’re equipping theriiselves
with training to do their part in winning the peace as efficiently, as
today they are winning the war. , ~
THE DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE WILL TRAIN YOU
IN THE OPERATIONS OF THE DIESEL ENGINE IN
SPARE TIME, WHEREVER YOU ARE.
-
■You don.’X.iiefid an,y PX£.Yj|p.us knowledge of engineering, and you
don’t need any high educational standard. The Diesel Engineering
the wjhph
sl (tr-actc
subject in your own home, covering
s, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel
(frtrhMg Mrfd dthfer po#dr pk hts). The course has been prepared
with the co-operation of leading Diesel authorities, and the Diploma
Aim.
by return.
w .fe||on is recognised by employers all over
cbuppn below and full details will be sent you
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
The Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineering easy, no matter
low far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
i pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course, practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate and service Diesel engines
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE-NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED.
NO TEXT BOOKS REQUIRED.
'-*t/Vo
FOR FREE BOOKLET.
To
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
25SA George Street, Sydney.
■
m
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don’t ACT! If
you don’t want to mutilate your “Bulletin
just drop us a note!
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
Many students of the Diesel Engineering College have obtained
positions as Diesel operators immediately after completing the
Course. Others in essential industries have the satisfaction of know-
ing that their qualification as Diesel operators will stand them in
good stead when the time comes to transfer to other work. Non-
residents of Sydney can obtain practical experience on a working
Diesel engine when they visit this city, NOW is the time for YOU
to start. Call at the Diesel Engineering College office any day, or
any Wednesday or Friday nights, for full particulars.
Government Diesel Engine Driver's Certificate
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the (government
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate .. . over 90% of our students pass
in the quarterly examinations.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME AGE
ADDRESS
B. 25/4/’45.
w
255 a GEORGE STREET. SYDNEY.
