

APE VINEGAR
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 65—No. 3419
Wednesday, August 22, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
QUEEN’S COTTAGE.
QUEEN’S COTTAGE, Kew Gardens, first belonged to Caroline,
wife of George 11, and was then called the “Dairie House.”
Queen Caroline was engaged in making some improvements at
Richmond, and took a long lease of this house, which had not
expired in 1781, in which year the freehold was bought from the
proprietors in trust for Queen Sophia Charlotte. The Queen had
previously used it as a nursery for her children, and in the early
years of his reign George 111 often lived there, away from distrac-
tions, so as to give his whole attention to public duties. All impor-
tant dispatches were transmitted to the Queen’s House for his
inspection, and he read them through carefully himself, criticising
and not unfrequently correcting them. Although the rooms of the
Queen’s Lodge, as it was then called, were small and not very con-
venient, it afforded a favorite place of retirement to the younger
members of the family. Miss Burney often mentions Queen’s Lodge
in her diary, and she describes a scene which occurred in the
August of 1786. “We came as usual on every alternate Tuesday to
Kew. The Queen’s Lodge is at the end of a long meadow, sur-
rounded with houses, which is called Kew Green. The green was
quite filled with the inhabitants, dressed in their Sunday clothes,
and when their Majesties arrived a band struck up ‘God Save the
King’ and the people cheered. The Queen, in speaking of the
demonstration afterwards, said T shall always love little Kew for
this! ’ ” When she took up her residence in Kew Palace the cot-
tage was used as an ornamental dairy. The Queen used to go and
see the butter churned, and there is a legend that when she grew
old the snuff would drop into the churn ; but the maids-of-honor
were expected to eat the butter afterwards.


m
This Book FREE to YOU I
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
S.B. 146 AGE
The Red Page
THE FROZEN FIREMAN.
An incident from Edith Olivier’s Four
Victorian Ladies of Wiltshire (Faber),
told during an account of the destruc-
tion by fire of Mrs. Percy Wyndham’s
mansion, Clouds, twenty miles out from
Salisbury;
When they [the firemen] arrived it was
almost a hopeless case, for the fire had got
full possession and the flames appeared
' almost to reach the sky. It was still freez-
ing so hard that the captain of the Wilton
brigade—a gigantic man of great strength—
was almost' frozen to death as he stood
on the roof directing the hose. To anyone
watching from the ground his figure was
clearly silhouetted against the fire in the
background. And after a time it appeared
to lose its mobility and erect carriage.
What had happened to Captain Carse? A
approached him and took his arm.
It was completely stiff. And then it tran-
spired that his clothes, which were satu-
rated with water, had turned to ice even
in the midst of the fire and Carse was
frozen on to the side of the ladder up
which he had climbed.
Mrs. Wyndham, who is depicted watch-
ing this conflagration in a tweed coat
and nightgown, “entranced by its beauty
and terror,” was a celebrated hostess who
entertained, among others, the Burne
Joneses, the Leightons, Watts, William
Morris, Sargent, Wilfred Blunt, Balfour
and Curzon. “Clouds,” Miss Olivier
recalls, “was a favorite meeting place of
that famous group of friends dubbed ‘The
Souls’ by their contemporaries.” Watts
and Orpen painted the hostess’s portrait
and Sargent’s painting of her three
daughters became celebrated under its
nickname of “the Three Graces.”
Another hostess whose pen-portrait is
drawn by Miss Olivier is Mrs. Alfred
Morrison, who was almost as colorful
in herself as Mrs. Wyndham’s fire. Kip-
ling, a neighbor, used to call her the
Queen of Sheba. She spent much of her
childhood in Newstead Abbey, Byron’s
old haunt, and lived her married life on
the site of Fonthill, where, as Miss Olivier
says, architecture had always been ad-
venturous and catastrophic.
Mrs. Morrison introduced at Fonthill
“the French custom of breakfast in bed” ;
she kept a hundred horses, innumerable
dogs of all species, regretted that her hus-
band boggled at an elephant, and drove
in Hyde Park with a bulbul. She loved:
giving elaborate parties and elaborate
presents, she was addicted to practical
jokes, she entertained George Eliot, Jenny
Lind, Alma Tadema and Browning; and
for the last twenty-five years of her life
she dressed like a French lady of the
time of Louis XV. At dinner she must
have been not unlike an atomic bomb:
" She still talked with the same large ges-
tures and free movements, ignoring siiqh
trifles as wine glasses and tumblers if they
stood in her way.» She would send half a
dozen glasses crashing to the ground with a
magnificent sweep of her hand, and appear
absolutely unconscious of whaf she had
done; while Elliott, the perfect butler, re-
moved the wreckage, collecting the glasses
in fragments from the floor as naturally as
he would have carried them whole from
the table.
A third Victorian lady, Miss Barbara
Townsend, who appears to have spent
most of her 97 years harmlessly painting
in water-color such aspects of life and
nature as she observed within the, limits
of Salisbury Close, seems somewhat pale
company for Mrs. Wyndham and Mrs.
Morrison, though the chapter does help
to re-create the atmosphere of the period,
and the paintings—a pity one of them
was not reproduced in a book otherwise
satisfactorily illustrated —may be all that
Miss Olivier says they are.
Miss Olivier seems to have put this
book together to prove that the modern
“problem of leisure” has, like most of
our difficulties, already been met and
dealt with by humanity. These were
leisured ladies, and this is how they spent
their time.
Also, perhaps, Miss Olivier has a desire
to show that the Victorian ladies were
not quite as “Victorian” as we thought
them, a truth she would have demon-
strated more entertainingly if she had let
herself go as the Sitwells do. Miss
Olivier’s ladies are not quite as frozen
as Captain Carse, but she does tend to
write with an excessive respectfulness.
Within its limits, however, the book is
very pleasant reading.
The fourth Victorian lady is the Miss
Annie Moberly who, with another Eng-
lishwoman, walked in the gardens of Ver-
sailles at the beginning of this century
and found herself “transported” into the
year 1789 —the well-documented experi-
ence which J. W. Dunne has used as
evidence for his theories of time.
Miss Moberley (though soberly) saw a
number of other spooks during her life-
time.
Through Leftist Eyes.
Bernard Smith, author of Place, Taste
and Tradition—A Study of Australian Art
Since 1788 (Ure Smith Pty., Ltd., Sydney),
brings to his task better qualifications than
have been enjoyed by some of his prede-
cessors in the field. The most ambitious
previous effort, William Moore’s Story of
Australian Art (1934), suffers through an
uncritical impartiality that precludes per-
spective. Bernard Smith has the advant-
age of a definite standpoint and is never
afraid to make critical comparisons.
Finely printed and copiously illustrated,
his essay gives an intelligent and intelli-
gible account of Australian art develop-
ment up to the insurgence of the “Modern
Movement.”
True, there is but faint praise for some
of the most considerable figures of their
time, such as Lambert and Streeton, and
a good deal of disparagement of contem-
poraries, such as Norman Lindsay, who
have resisted the influence of the Mes-
siahs which Modernismus throws up
every year or two with unfailing regu-
larity. True, there is unctuous emphasis
on the “influence” the Post-Impressionists
had upon painters such as E. Phillips Fox
(the “Australian Renoir” Mr. Smith dubs
him) and the much later Elioth Gruner.
Nevertheless, the book, up to page 170,
may pass muster as an austerely critical
survey of Australian painting up to the
time some dauber in Australia saw a
newspaper reproduction or a color-print
of something by Cezanne or Gauguin.
There are, of course, certain omissions
which, in retrospect, seem significant.
There is plenty of quotation from Clive
Bell and Roger Fry; none from D. S.
McColl or Reginald Blomfield —they
aren’t Cezannomaniacs. And Lionel
Lindsay, mentioned with respect for his
long-forgotten biography of Conrad Mar-
tens, is not even recognised as the author
of a slashing attack on Mr. Smith’s hydra-
headed idol.
When Mr. Smith finally reaches the
goal to which he has been driving all
along—the year 1913 or so, when
Cezanne and Gauguin imitations began
to puzzle the boobs in Australia —criti-
cism (save of the malignants who per-
versely reject the new Gospel) flies out
of the window. The New Evangel has
appeared.
The fullest flower of Mr. Smith’s en-
thusiasm burgeons (as might be expected)
when he contemplates the art of Dobell.
Expected, because William, a clever
painter with wonderful luck in the matter
of publicity, is Australian Modernism’s
shiniest show-piece—an honor for which
Dobell, to do him justice, doesn’t seem
to be particularly grateful. Mr. Smith
classes him as a “realist” (which would
be strenuously denied by some of
Dobell’s sitters) and compares him with
Lambert to the latter’s disadvantage:
William Dobell’s influence looks like be-
coming more important and more lasting.
Although a superb technician, an interest
in the technical process of painting has not
become a fetish, as was undoubtedly the
case with much of the work of Lambert.
Lambert was at his best as a portraitist, but
his large figure-compositions usually pos-
sess the self-conscious rigidity and over-
meticulous postures of studio arrangement.
Dobell has none of these faults and his
technical resources are even greater than
Lambert’s.
That’s putting Dobell on a very high
pedestal, but a still more beautiful nose-
gay is laid upon his altar by Mr. Smith
in the form of an interpretation of the
much-discussed Archibald Prize-winning
portrait of Joshua Smith;
Against the background of a classic
column, the glare of neon lights and garages,
and the mysterious depths of urban water-
ways, the emaciated yet defiant head
rears itself out of the gloom and turbulence
of the city night. It is not the face or the
body of Joshua Smith, but a symbol of the
twentieth-century artist living on the last
days of a dying culture.
All the tragic beauty and indescribable
ugliness of the artist’s existence in a society
which has forsaken the values of art, where
it can only exist as a narcotic or a protest,
have been revealed in this image of the
artist of contemporary western society; the
starved body of Modigliani, refusing to
compromise with the false values of a com-
mercialised and decadent world, the insolent
genius of Wilde, poking his thumb at the
righteous, the Satanism of Baudelaire, the
dreams of Poe So this characterisation
of the artist of our own time, living on in
a form of society decaying amid wars and
tyrannies, takes on the attributes of an
historical judgment and a prophecy. It sits
bolt upright with bloody head and Christ-
like damns the civilisation which produced
if. But it is the hands, suffused with an
aureole of gold that demand attention, for
they are the hands of the artist, and can
still fashion, from the passive materials of
nature, things of majestic power and infinite
loveliness.
Mr. Smith is engaged in a serious
attempt to identify the Modernist
Movement, in its various phases, incar-
nations and permutations, with political
idealism, and indeed later he does his
not very courteous best to link the pre-
Modefnist schools with Fascism and
Nazism.
In the twentieth century aestheticism has
separated art both from craft and the
people, and has always opposed participa-
tion by the artist in the struggle against
fascism. It has segregated and disrupted
and made the artist a poor clown of cir-
cumstance. Today there is a Nazi flag
flying from the top of the ivory tower.
And again:
Perhaps the first reactions from aestheti-
cism and abstract art are to be found in
Russia, when there were widespread pro-
tests against the obscurantist theories of
the Futurists and Constructionists, who mas-
queraded as the only “revolutionary” artists.
This was followed by a growth of real-
ism within the contemporary art of Mexico,
Weimar Germany and America, and later
in other countries. It is this develop-
ment of realism which is affecting contem-
porary art in this country, and it's origins
are to be found not in new technical ex-
periments or in new ways of seeing, but in
the recognition of a social crisis maturing
in our time.
That piece about the Futurists and
Constructivists is necessary because, un-
fortunately for the full development of
the general argument that the Modernists
represent the political goodies (Leftist)
and aesthetes the political baddies (Right-
ists), such a lot of weird dadaists and
Futurists in Italy were high in favor with
Musso.
Apart from the difficulty of tracing
any consistent or enduring link between
any school of painting and any political
creed, it is asking a trusting public rather
much in the way of credulity when it is
sought to prove that a tremendous up-
surgence of social unrest was propagated
because a comfortable old bourgeois
rentier, after muddling about with paints
for half a century, was suddenly “dis-
covered” by dealers who made millions
of francs out of the discovery, or that
Gauguin sought the society of Tahitian
maidens in order to advertise the Com-
munist Manifesto.
Mr. Smith himself is constrained to
admit that the Dalis and Picassos of this
life are the pampered pets of the “idle
rich,” and he has a fling at “revolutionary
art —subsidised by Paul Rosenberg, the
Rockefellers and Fords.”
The truth is, political considerations are
completely irrelevant to the assessment
of a work of art. “Rule Britannia” does
not automatically become good poetry
because it is patriotic ; neither does any-
body’s painting become either good or
bad because the artist is or is not a
Communist. All that can be said for cer-
tain on this question is that a doctrine
which would make art the slave of poli-
tics is likely to lead artists into very
bad painting ; just as it has led Smith
into manifest absurdities of criticism.
A. W.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Whitehall Academy students played the
“Hippolytus” of Euripides for two after-
noons at Sydney Minerva. Hippolytus
was a young man who slighted the god-
dess of love and paid for it. He was, in
fact, a prig; and, dramatically speaking,
he deserved to die. At the Minerva this
was not always clear, and Gilbert Mur-
ray’s English translation is probably the
reason. There is altogether too much
Professor Murray and too little Euri-
pides, particularly in the character of Hip-
poiytiis. In its way, however, the play was
a triumph of production. Lighting, stage
effects, music and diction were all excel-
lent, although the chorus rustled and whis-
pered a little too sharply at times. A
case could be made for dispensing with
it. The play’s the thing, but modem pro-
ductions of the Greek plays, always tend
to put all the emphasis on the chorus.
Nevertheless, they were a pleasing en-
semble, if only pictorially. William A.
Redmond played Hippolytus, and if
Michael Irving, a splendidly virile black-
bearded Theseus, overshadowed him at
times that is only so much more Profes-
sor Murray has to answer for.
“Pookie” attends “The Desert Song”:
Gracie Fields made a speech, the Riff Song
was sung with gusto and the harem beauties
were fair to behold at the opening night of
“The Desert Song” at Sydney Royal. True,
two chorus girls burst their stockings, but you
can’t have everything, and the show is very old.
So old that it should, perhaps, be approached
with veneration.
The plot, of course, is far from plausible.
A French general’s son, for vague altruistic
reasons, becomes leader of a band of Riffs and
dashes around the desert in a red mask and
red raiment, singing, and kidnapping maidens
and setting authority at naught. And at the
same time he leads a double life, performing
quick-change acts in the home of his unsuspect-
ing father, and picking wildflowers.
Max Oldaker was a handsome, and dashing
Red Shadow. But although he was spirited
enough he was a shade too polished and pre-
cise—something a little more rugged might have
been expected. Altogether he was more con-
vincing among the wildflowers than among the
wild tribesmen. And his voice was inadequate
for the role.
Joy Beattie, a newcomer from N.Z., was very
pleasing to the eye and playqd Margot with con-
siderable vitality and charm. Her voice was
good, a mezzo-soprano, but her singing was not
always effortless, and she is not, as has some-
times been claimed, another Gladys.
Alan Eddy made a magnificent Caid; tall,
swarthy and bejewelled, with a black crinkly
beard and indolently imperious gestures. The
languid eye he turned on his harem when the
curtain went up in Act II was a little essay on
histrionics in itself. His singing is one of the
bright spots of the show, and in the scene with
the Red Shadow the latter is overshadowed in
every respect.
Gwen Browne, as Azuri, the dancer, snarled
and dropped her aitches to such purpose that
hers was one of the outstanding pieces of
acting of the night. She not only played the
part of a thoroughly dangerous and vindictive
piece of femininity—she succeeded in looking
like a Wog, thus sharing the honors with Alan
Eddy. The other natives were
villainous but could have been anything from
pirates to black-marketeers but for the inci-
dentals of costumes.
“The Knight of the Burning
Pestle” was still funny enough to
keep an audience bubbling when pre-
sented by Queen’s College at Mel-
bourne University’s Union Theatre.
Professional producers claimed the credit
some years ago for the device of bring-
ing the audience into a play, but Beau-
mont did it 300 years ago ; and did it
very amusingly by seating an unintellec-
tual grocer and his wife on the stage to
make running commentaries —the grocer’s
raw apprentice being one of the principal
characters. Gerry Rundle and Ruby May
were excellent as the purveyors of
metaphors derived from their grocering
trade. One of the best features of the
play was the singing of the madrigals of
Byrd and Dowland. Another of Keith
Macartney’s admirable productions.
At the talkies:
“Practically Yours” (Sydney Prince Edward):
Sophisticated comedy satirising the U.S. passion
for “heroes.” Fred Mac Murray and Claudette
Colbert handle the material with practised skill,
and there is an outstanding bit of fooling by a
temperamental photographer anxious to capture
a publicity kiss in his lens.
“Strange Affair” (Sydney Civic): Whodunit,
with a spot of Thin-Mannish domestic comedy.
Allyn Josselyn and Evelyn Keyes are the pair
who teach the cops their job.
A special exhibition, “The War at Sea,”
by Norman Wilkinson, 0.8. E., P.R.1.,
at the National Gallery in Melbourne, in-
vites comparisons with a memorial show
of the works of the late Fred McCubbin,
one-time director, Walter Withers and
David Davies in another section. Mc-
Cubbin, a man much loved in his day and
an inspiring teacher, liked ducks and the
tangled confusion of the bush, though he
sometimes fell to painting huge senti-
mental gallery pictures; Withers liked
open landscapes, and Davies was misty
and poetic. There is a certain sensitive-
ness about the Way these earlier Victorian
painters painted everyday subjects which
is missing in the English painter. His
bombers, warships and naval details look
as if photographs had inspired them and
their observation is quite coarse. Take
away the contemporary importance of
their subject-matter and they would pass
unnoticed in the average exhibition.
A show by the Sydney Group at David
Jones’s Gallery, Sydney, is full of vague
echoes of Picasso, Vlaminck, Modigliani,
Braque, Renoir and Dali. Pleasant oases
are Eric Wilson’s Parisian glimpses, par-
ticularly “By the Seine” and “Pont Neuf- ’
Paul Haefliger in “Men Talking” has
almost allowed his pictorial sense to pre-
vail over the necessity for being utterly
utter, and in “Portrait of an Artist” he
lets himself go and gives a completely
rational impression of a sweet young
aesthete. Some essays in sculpture by
G. F. Lewers should be seen to be be-
lieved.
“F.S.”: The paean of praise that
broke out over the exhibition of British
water-colors and drawings at the Sedon
Galleries, Melbourne, was somewhat
baffling. If it hadn’t been stated that
they were contemporary pictures most of
them could easily have been mistaken
for antiques, so sedulously have their
authors spent their lives perpetuating the
conventions of past schools. There are
plenty of Australian artists who can do
these conventions just as well, and a few
who can do a better job of actual paint-
ing. But the critics all fell down and
worshipped, just as they do at the feet of
English writers. The other day I read a
collection of English short stories by
famous authors and there was nothing in
it that .struck me so freshly as Frank
Dalby Davison’s “The Road to Yester-
day” in The Bulletin’s last Christmas
issue.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
r «utE
Tladal (Oho^>h
iviTT#* r-ph to rune
R.CLICV6S
NA9AL COWCCjtIOW
HAY PCVCR
COLO JN tH £ HERO
ANO C OTflftfiH
J- H. T*«wr n/>.3.
tna*f*At roirrcox. iwsni*r
ANTHONY HOKOCRHS' 11
- t " I
,
8 O**"*
. ... .
~lk
"
j»S**T ■ »» *»*'
».»*' . . „**
~.. . -
II ' ■ ::;
...
JO <*'
***.
: *>
i 1 •-*
~f£&£
*****
£m
r
W.
l/j
\>::
Wifi
%
! N
' •
%
%>
*#
r £
'XtN,
%
re
%
o/i
f
t;'
"PALACE" NASAL DROPS
with Ephedrine relieve nasal
congestion, hay fever, cold in
the head and catarrh. Prepared
to our formula. Price . , 1/11
"OWBRIDGE'S" LUNG TONIC,
for colds, coughs, bronchitis.
Prepared by W, T. Owbridge
Ltd., of Gredt Britain, 1/9, 4/6
iff i
9 Pi UACE"
eucalyptus
disinfectant
Specially prepared hr w se
R ooma, hospitals,
dnd General HouseM**
u 36 One Part of Fluk* to #P&
of Water.
CLEAN AND RCPP'ES* 4 * N 6
** v% *
AKTHOftY HORDERN £ SONS
ORicrpielj) hill, yror» s *'
•W>
Chemistry—Ground Floor
POSTAGE EXTRA.
flKf
M
* Wmm!
-
%
H I f
C ' c 'e.
00*t
at
-’at,
‘*eo,
?4fc
%
4
' Nf tct£.*r
/< V;
?•**
xV>
- y
<****„
r’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
"PALACE" EUCALYPTUS
DISINFECTANT for the
sick room and general
household use. It's clean
and refreshing 1/-
"MYELADOL." A preparation that
contains ''Super D Cod Liver Oil,
extract Red Beef marrow, Iron and
Ammonium Citrates with Malt Ex-
tract. Highly recommended for creat-
ing energy, 2/9# 5/6, 7/11# 14/11
"HALIBORANGE." Manu-
factured by Allen and
Hanbury, London. It is a
palatable tissue building
food donic. It builds up
and- fortifies the whole
human structure 5/6
"PALASOL," an outstanding
germicide and antiseptic, spe-
cially prepared by our chemists.
Combats infection, allays skin
irritations, is invaluable for
wounds, scratches, etc., and
prevents blood poisoning.
Prices 1/3 and 2/-
CLEONOL." The perfect
cleanser for all household pur-
poses, washing and cleaning
all kinds of fabrics, underwear,
suits, gloves, carpets, etc., 1/-
ft Hi
dP
INC
gi«ficT ct«e
in
****** *m u**mm «** «** 1
J?V i* twt «*»
** M*««, (WWI WSSt |H»#
j#
•> wiu. *9l ipp** !
•* rt^
I^P*
***** f -'t,"l iMiinirii :;.. - ak^fe*^*** 3 *
****»>%*, ja
£•«•»»#»;■* SNs.
BOX 2712 C. G.P.0., SYDNEY


The Digger and the Pumpkins
By RODERICK FINLAYSON.
THERE on a rise is a graveyard. It
comes as a bit of a surprise to Jake
this crisp sunny morning after he’s
wandered so far along the lonely
wheeltrack beneath the big bluegum trees
looking for a new way to the swimming
hole in the creek.
It looks like a pretty old graveyard, for
most of the headstones are leaning this
way and that, and are covered with lichen
and moss, and all are half-hidden in
tangles of morning-glory and blackberry,
tall docks and giant daisies.
Jake hates the big city cemetery. It
makes him feel terrible. But this looks
a rather nice place. The headstones are
old-fashioned and friendly and not at
all hideous and horrible like the blind,
white angels in those awful monumental
masons’ yards. Perhaps Jake wouldn’t
come this way on a dark night, or even on
a moonlight night, but on a sunny morn-
ing like this everything is very different.
When Jake climbs the old post-and-
rail fence he finds little paths among the
tangle, though even the mounds under
which the people are buried are nicely
covered with daisies and dandelions and
tiny blue or pink flowers. Jake wanders
here and there looking at the headstones.
Here’s Sarah Carby, born in Sussex in
the year 1821, who died at Tidal Creek
in 1887 ; and there’s Joseph James Finelly
from Cork, only twenty when he died.
What could have happened to him? And
Captain John Alfred Frimble, who sailed
out of New England in a whaler. They’ve
anchored him to this land with his ship’s
anchor, its fluke embedded in a slab of
concrete. The iron of the anchor is pitted
deep with rust now. .Ah, you can scarcely
make out any words on this stone! “Cor-
poral... .musket shot 1863.” And
here’s Heremaia, a convert to Christianity
from the New Hebrides. Fie stayed, too.
Funny to think of all these people from
so many far scattered places coming to
lie together under these mounds here by
Tidal Creek.
By wandering quietly among the graves
Jake comes to the farther side of the
slope. And to his second surprise. Here
propped against a headstone is a man
dozing in the morning sunshine. He’s an
oldish man with a brown wrinkled face.
A broken-crowned straw hat doesn’t hide
great tufts of iron-grey hair. His large
horny, bare feet stick straight out in front
of him. One big toe wags lazily.
Suddenly he opens light-brown eyes and
looks up at Jake from under shaggy
brows. He’s like a friendly shaggy dog.
“Hullo, boy; what’s your name?” he
asks.
“I’m Jake,” says the boy, too surprised
to add more.
“And I’m Dan. What you doing?”
“I was looking for the creek,” Jake
tells him,
“Silly thing to do, ain’t it?” says Dan.
“Better to look for tucker at dinner-time,
or is it breakfast-time?” Blessed if I
know. Come on, boy, I’ll do my best for
you,” he says, rising slowly and groaning
loudly with every movement, but with
such a cheerful expression that it seems
he can’t be suffering so very much.
“Oh, I’ve had my breakfast, thank
you,” says Jake hastily.
Without pausing to listen, Dan says
“Here’s where I lives.”
THEY reach the shelter of a clump of
pines on the far side of the slope, and
here is a sort of hut or, rather, a con-
traption half-sodheap, half-woodpile.
It’s overgrown with honeysuckle vines,
the scent of the flowers almost sickly-
sweet in the hot sun.
“Gravedigger’s hut,” says Dan.
“Are you the gravedigger?” Jake asks.
“Me? Me!” says Dan in such a tone
that Jake asks no more questions. “Well,
I am what you might call a digger,” Dan
adds queerly.
He gabbles on. “Part of roof blew off
about two year ago—Christmas Eve.
Rest fell in last year—on King’s birthday.
I pile branches on top, pack ’em together
with sods. It does, eh? Does old Dan.”
He ducks low and disappears into the
dark hut. Streams of angry-looking bees
come and go from under the “roof.” Jake
keeps well away. In a minute or two
Dan comes out with two large scones
spread thick with wild honey, dark-brown
and strong-smelling.
“Bees good friends of mine,” he says.
“You get to know them and they know
you. By crickey, they do! ”
Dan hands Jake the scones and sits on
a mound to fill his pipe. “Come on, sit
down,” he says. “It’s only old Joe push-
ing up the daisies.” But Jake sits on a tuft
of grass instead,
“Does my cooking outside,” says Dan,
pointing to a few fire-blackened stones
and a couple of iron bars. “Used to be
a chimbley—blew away three year ago
mid-winter day. Fire inside might set
roof ablaze.”
“It must be pretty cold on winter
nights,” Jake says, eyeing the holes and
cracks wide open to wind and weather.
“Cold? Cold? Ah!” says Dan. “I
looks after that. Sleeps between two
great big old woolly sheep, I does. They
keep a man warm. Better’n any wife.”
Jake looks where the old man points
with his pipe and sees several sheep graz-
ing at the lower end of the graveyard,
where there are 'newer graves. Their
heavy fleeces certainly look warm; but
how does he manage them in the hut
all night? Jake wonders. He thinks that
old Dan lives a surprising sort of life, but
he politely tries to appear unsurprised
by anything he sees or hears.
While the boy munches scones and
honey the old man goes on: “Ay, this
is a grand place, everything so nice and
friendly. Friends and enemies all feed
and comfort me. Aha! I have some
good friends and I have some good
enemies. They all comes here sooner or
later under these mounds here. Then I
has the laugh of the lot of them. I just
idles around and watches ’em feed and
comfort me.”
“Oh,” says Jake, “aren’t you afraid of
ghosts?”
“Ghosts? Ghosts? Look at them
sheep there, grazing. Some folk say old
Dan pinches ’em. But it ain’t that. Spring-
time I sees the poor wee motherless lambs,
so I take a few to care for ’em; feed
’em with a tittie-bottle like wee babies
and lets ’em graze round about. When
they’re properly fatted up I gives one
or two to poor people I knows of. They
share the meat with me. The pet ones
graze ibout and keep me warm winter
nights.”
“Do people mind you keeping them in
the graveyard?” Jake asks.
“Mind? Mind? Ah! That’s the joke,
boy. Some folk kicks up a shindy, but
I have the laugh of them. Those what
kicks up most shindies gets planted here
quickest. Like my old enemy, old John
Cox. Worried himself to death,, silly old
fool.”
Dan shakes his head wonderingly, “I
wish you could see the pumpkins I
growed last season. They growed like
balloons, bigger’n that,” says Dan, mak-
ing a huge circumference with his arms,
“Lovely eating, too; ah, sweet! Growed
’em all from seed I planted on old Cox.”
I AKE looks toward the newer graves
“'-'wondering which might be old John
Cox’s. Perhaps that one covered with
blackberry. Dan puffs contentedly at his
pipe.
“Did you eat them all?” Jake asks in
a husky whisper.
“I takes the best of ’em to the church,”
says Dan, “Harvest thanksgiving time.
‘Put these right in front of the altar,
Mr. Coakes,’ I says to the parson, cut-
ting the sack open with my axe. ‘You
won’t see a prettier sight.’
“ ‘Ah,’ says the parson. ‘Ah, ye-e-s.
How nice,’ he says, watching me slitting
the„ bag. He’s standing there with an
arum-lily in one hand .and a vase in the
other, like he’s blessing them or going
to christen them or something.
“I takes the vase and the lily and
planks ’em on a table. ‘Here’s the best
decoration,’ I says, plumping a great
whopping pumpkin into his white, skinny
hands. Made him sag a bit it did. ‘Oh,
my!’ he says, and I sees him sort of
squizzing round for a dark corner. ‘Did
you grow them all yourself,’ he says—as
if he didn’t know.
“ ‘You put them right there in front
of the altar,’ I says, shaking out the sack
I bring ’em in. ‘Well, there’s Mrs.
Jenkins’s preserves,’ he says, looking at
them. ‘To hell with Mrs. Jenkins’s pre-
serves, if these pumpkins don’t go in
front,’ I says. ‘They’re an old sinner’s
repentance,’ I tell him.
“ ‘Oh, if they’re a sinner’s repentance,
well, that makes a difference, doesn’t it?’
he says, mighty glad to drop the pump-
kin where I shows him, and I piles the
rest of ’em round it. Not a bad old
stick, the parson—if you treat him firm.
“Boy, you should’ve seen the grand
sight them pumpkins made at Sunday
morning church with the sun shining
through the stained-glass altar windows
and throwing pretty colors over their
nice glossy skins, and the choir singing
praises like larks, and the parson pray-
ing over them and looking with a queer
look whenever the pumpkins caught his
eye.
“But old Cox’s sisters made a bit of
a shindy. As I filled my pipe in the
porch afterwards I heard ’em cackling
outside, ‘Sacrilege,’ they says, ‘bias-
phemy.’ That’s what they says, ‘fining
them in a sack,’ says one. ‘Like a body,’
says the other. ‘ln front of the altar,’
they says. I walks past them slow, and
I stops to light my pipe, I tosses aside
the dead match, casual like. ‘Morning,’
I says without looking at them. And
then I picks up my axe from where I
leave it at the side of the porch, and
I goes home.
“But I’ve got my eyes on them. They’re
nothing much to look at, but they’ll do
well enough here. I’m thinking of some-
thing real nice to plant about that time.”
“I think you have a real nice grave-
yard, anyway,” Jake says.
FOR a while the two, the old man and
the young boy are quiet. Suddenly
Dan knocks out his pipe on a tomb-
stone and starts off again.
“Now never you forget what old Dan
says. World’s full of enemies—some
friends, too. But they all come this way
at last, and they all got to lie down to-
gether. Fight like Kilkenny cats if they
like, spit and rave and fight, they all lie
down together at the end. And the likes
of me, we does a bit of a grin and enjoys
to see the grass and the flowers grow
on ’em.”
Dan becomes almost excited. “Look
what’s wrote on all them old tombstones.
Men and women come from all kinds of
lands, all mixed together here. Seems to
me they’d do better to learn to mix to-
gether while they lives. Must be fear of
dying that makes folk so sour.” Old
Dan waves his arm in a sweeping ges-
ture that leaves Jake wondering whether
it’s meant to embrace the graveyard or
the whole world.
“This here’s what you might call a
heritage,” says Dan. “Maori, British,
Yankee, Chink, Dutchies, Dagoes, ail
the rest of ’em ; somehow I reckon we
kind of feed on their souls as well as
their bodies. Now you' 11 think I’m
cracked.” "
“Oh, no,” Jake says uncertainly.
With loud groans Dan heaves himself
to his feet, and Jake gets up too. “Just
a tick,” says Dan, and he disappears
into his hut, coming out almost imme-
diately with a coil of rope over his
shoulder and a billy in one hand. With
the other he picks up the axe from the
chopping-block. “Now we’re ready to
go,” he says.
“Where to?” Jake asks.
“Up to the village,” says Dan. “Not
for long. I loves this place ; I loves the
birds and the beasts and the trees and
the quiet. I can’t stay away for long.
It would kill me to stay away for long.”
Then he winks and rattles the tin billy.
“Get a quart of beer at the pub,” he
says. “And might come across someone
needing help with my rope. Might find
some lost sheep. Might need to use my
axe, never can tell. Chop down the
bad, hack it out,”
He shoulders the axe like a gun. Put-
ting on a mock military air he shouts,
“Now then, ’shun! Right turn! By
the right—quick—march!” Off he sets,
stamping his big bare feet. Jake has to
trot to keep up.
“Were you a soldier once?” he asks
Dan.
“In all the wars,” says Dan. “Led the
last charge at Waterloo, But you should
have seen us at Balaclava. I could tell
you a story about that, or was it the
Somme? Anyway, I could tell you a
story or two about it,” says Dan with a
broad wink.
At the crossroads Jake says he has to
go home that way. Dan trudges on
toward the settlement. “S’long, boy,” he
says. “Remember Dan next spring if
you wants a pet lamb.”
WHEN Jake gets home his Uncle Ted
is finishing dinner. He wants to
know where Jake has been all this time,
and Jake tells him. “I like old Dan,”
the boy says.
“Poor old Dan,” says Uncle Ted push-
ing his cup aside. “It’s that crack on
the head he got in the Boer War or some
war. There’s always wars,” Uncle Ted
adds vaguely.
“Is that why he talks about Water-
loo —and dead people?” says Jake. “I’m
going to see him again soon.”
“Eh? What’s that?” says Uncle Ted,
bending to tie his boots, “Oh, old Dan.
He won’t be there much longer. Folk
say he’s a reg’lar nuisance lifting lambs
and scaring people with that axe of his.
In fact, it’s practically all arranged and
they’re only waiting for the legal papers.”
“What for?” says Jake.
Uncle Ted straightens up and looks
mildly at Jake while he feels for his pipe.
“Oh, they’ll shut him U ' in the mad-
house any day now. Dangerous cus-
tomer,” he says, lighting up. “Reckon
myself it comes of making an enemy of
John Cox just because he wouldn’t take
a swig of beer out of Dan’s old billy or
something.” Uncle Ted flicks out the
match.
EAST COAST REVISITED .
I. Tannhauser.
I have come back to the East Coast country
that I left a shrug of youth ago—how old
are four brief years! Some tributary of Time
washed by these quiet shores while the broad
wide river thundered midstream down my days
to cast me on a Venusberg where lay
Tauwarra’s sleeping throat and the pendant
jewel
Of Samarai, warm'on the breasts of the sea.
When in that land I feasted on strange fruit,
ripe with the bitter tang of Youth and Death,
and flushed with, fevers Bacchus never knew.
I have come back, all battle penance done,
but know not if the rifle that I bear
will burst with flowers or once more seek the
kill.
11. Fairytale.
Once there lived a princess of the sea,
who, fearing the wind-wraith, sought the witch
of the reef;
too late the light spoke warning over the waters
and she went down in her winding sheet of sail
to sway in the coral boughs, over quiet sands.
There, meshed in the seaweed, in the bright
company
of winking fins, she waited her resurgence.
And when the storm had gone to sea she leapt
from the weed’s embrace and drifted to the
shore.
Now on the harbor beach she lies in state,
day-dreaming in the sun of the open sea,
and children captain her timbers, hearing there
the first, faint siren notes of the wonder of ships
that will haunt them and rack them with beauty
all their days.
111. The Reaper.
His scythe a scoop, he shuffles through'the mud
at the mark of neap tide on an autumn even-
ing;
each heavy step sullies the water’s edge
as he reaps the shining pastures of the sea.
He drains his net; of watery shackles freed,
the frantic prisoners riot against its mesh,
leap and descend; then, with bleeding hands
he gathers up his catch into the creel.
As a boy I watched him with his prawning
nets—
his step was surer then, his sight a hawk’s.
The weight of his haul now bends him and his
eyes
are red with peering over burning waters,
but his wild love of the sea is still so young
Neptune himself might well be envious.
IV. The Worshippers.
I came to the hill where the Spanish face had
peered
over the white bones of the suppliants.
“Mother of God, what sail, what shining
furrow?”
“Nothing but sea-birds in my eyes, no sound
but their crying in my heart and the wash at my
stony breast
swelling and receding, tolling of your death.”
“Sweet Mother, save us; it is accursed to die
on the unholy ground of a Godless land.”
The cliff-face has been hewn away, and now
new gods are set where the sailors built their
shrine —
oil storage tanks, the twentieth-century gods.
Do they who kneel at these domed temples find
their prayers more favored than the mariners
who carved, and muttered Aves into death?
V. Reunion.
We have come to an unnamed place on the
coastline
that never birds befriend; the rocks have gorged
on the sea-washed offal and the pickings are left
in their festering teeth. A braid of berried weed
dries on the dunnage from an unknown ship;
once, wound in the tresses of some Lorelei,
it enchanted all the princes of the sea.
A grotesque spider, the pandanus gloats
with star-cold eyes on our desire-webbed flesh
that strives to salvage love from the wreck of
Time
as your soft thighs turn like the silver length
of a young salmon, smoother than starlight
captive
in my fingers.. . What cry, what naming of
our dead love?
Only the ghost of a childhood, sobbing, lost.
VI. The Old Fisherman.
He wants no more than a deck-chair in the sun;
once he was strong and wrenched his anchors
free
from the sinuous tendrils of the deep sea-forests;
once he reefed sail, once steered a swifter course
than any winging seagull. Now in the sun
he shares the secrets of the cast-off clouds,
divines on the wrinkled forehead of the sands
omens of new sea-angers and lean hauls.
The evening fans him portents of great storms
and when the southerly gale has raged three
days,
it dies, obedient to his prediction.
He hears the garrulous young tide pacing
the stern of the wreck, and in his heart he
knows
that men, like ships, grow derelict with Time.
VII. Haven.
Is there no hiding place, no waveless shore
(hands fast on eyes) to beach the war-tossed
brain?
Here once the “Windsong” made her anchorage:
she went down flaming, out from Salamaua.
Young Johnny Dawson moored his skiff nearby:
he traded her for the earth near Scarlet
Beach ...
I clench two hands filled with the sunlit sand —
gold breasts has my great lover, who replies,
whispering wind-soft:
“The fires that swept the decks
of the ‘Windsong’ and the little flare of life
were rockets rising from a foundering creed;
and, falling on the brushwood of the world’s
, choked forests,
will sear, that Man, like fallen wattle seed
in the wake of summer fires, may flower anew.’!
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3419
Wednesday, August 22, 1945
CLOSING SCENE IN THE ORIENTATION OF MARS.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
‘‘Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P« H. Prior Darid Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street , Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.O 0, Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WAR AND PEACE.
Newspapermen, so many of whom were
sure that the Japanese would never tackle
the English-speaking peoples, having only
a “pushover” air force, “topheavy” war-
ships and an antiquated army, routed in
every encounter by the Russians and the
Chinese Communists (“acknowledged
masters of mobile warfare over a shifting
front”), now find it strange and sinister
that they refuse to admit defeat. Sinister
it may be, and the term may also be
applicable to their delay in signing the
surrender forced on them and in carrying
out its terms; but, considering their age-
old claims to invincibility and the practice
of European nations, it is not exactly
strange.
Admission of the enemy’s superiority has
never been a French characteristic after
a lost war. On the contrary, it is an old
Gallic custom to raise the cry of betrayal
{nous sommes trahis ) as soon as things go
wrong, and to exact vengeance not only
from crowned leaders like the two Napo-
leons but from luckless marshals of
France—Ney after 1815, Bazaine after
1870 and, in 1945, Petain. The Germans,
too, after the war of 1914-18, as well as
making a clean sweep of their emperor,
kings, princes, grand-dukes and dukes,
alleged that their defeat had been brought
about, not by the iron pressure of the
naval blockade and the prowess of Foch’s
armies, but by cowardice and treachery
on the home front. The forbearance of
the conquerors, who contented themselves
with so small and so brief an occupation
that the great mass of the beaten nation
never saw an Allied soldier, enabled
Hitler to exploit this monstrous lie with
evil effects. With things otherwise ordered
the like could not be done now, but no
doubt it is already been whispered that
the Wehrmacht gave in when capable of
continuing the war indefinitely solely to
save the Reich from destruction by an
irresistible weapon.
In a melancholy union of thoughts, the
actual Axis partnership having been
smashed by events. Admiral Suzuki said
in his last broadcast as Prime Minister
that Japan’s war had been lost “because
of the enemy’s use of a bomb of a new
type.” It had been lost long before. The
doom of Japan as well as Germany was
pronounced when the armies of Eisen-
hower and Montgomery landed on the
coast of Normandy and made their land-
ing good. It then became only a question
of how long the Germans could stand up
to the blows showered on them from
every quarter, and once their towel came
in—as it did eleven months after D-day—
duration became the only doubtful factor
in the war against Japan.
While the Italians as well as the Ger-
mans were still fighting the Japanese had
been placed on the defensive. They
proved tough fighters always and every-
where, but, with the course of the war in
Europe admitting of greater strength
being spared for the war in (he Pacific,
they were outbuilt, out-thought and out-
fought. During the last few months their
ground forces were defeated wherever
they were encountered, and they were
brought within, measurable distance of
being without a navy or an air force.
The price of these victories was high, and
had they elected to prolong their useless
struggle it would have been higher still.
It was paid in sacrifice and suffering by
men who did not hold their manhood
cheap: Americans, Australians, British,
New Zealanders, Canadians, Dutch,
Chinese, Indians, Filipinos, East and West
Africans and Papuans.
To these men and their surviving com-
rades and leaders, from junior officers to
commanders and Chiefs of Staffs, right
up to Mr. Churchill and the late Presi-
dent Roosevelt, we Australians owe more
than we can ever repay. We can show
our gratitude by caring for the maimed
and the sick and those bereft of husbands,
fathers and sons; by making this a land
worthy of the men who shielded it with
their bodies; by extending the old Aus-
tralian spirit of generosity, traditional in
the Bush, to the distressed and needy
peoples overseas and by throwing our full
weight into the winning of the peace.
Recourse to the atomic bomb was
decided upon when landings in Malaya,
the Netherlands East Indies and Japan
had been arranged. The decision was
tnade by Mr. Churchill and Mr. Truman
at Potsdam, and two bombs finished off
the war suddenly and terribly. By con-
sent of Britain and the United States the
weapon to which there is no answer —
as yet—is now, and will remain, an Ameri-
can possession, placing the United States,
in Mr. Churchill’s words, “on the summit
of the world.” It is no mere rhetorical
expression. Atomic bomb or no atomic
bomb, the United States would have come
out of the war the strongest of all'nations.
It is now so powerful that it could hold
the rest of the world to ransom, payable
in anything it chose to demand.
Indeed, it has been reserved for Mr.
Truman, who 20 years ago was that
saddest of contemporary characters a
returned soldier who had put his all into
a small business (a haberdashery) and
lost it, to carry a greater burden of re-
sponsibility and to exercise a greater influ-
ence over the lives of peoples everywhere,
particularly in Europe and Asia, than
were ever before reposed in a single man.
That he will try to be equal to the respon-
sibility and to exercise the influence for
righteousness, as he sees it, no man can
doubt. In a strain worthy of Lincoln, he
said in his first address to Congress as
President that he wanted only to be “a
good and faithful servant of my God and
my people,” and he assuredly would not
now cavil at the addition of the words
“and of all mankind.”
At Potsdam, however, the President
agreed to territorial arrangements
aggrandising Russia and its puppet State
Poland which could not possibly amount
to a settlement in eastern and central
Europe or furnish the basis on which
there could be a settlement in eastern
Asia. Mr. Churchill has revealed that
’ he himself was an unwilling party to these
arrangements. Referring particularly to
“the provisional western frontier agreed
upon for Poland, comprising one-fourth
of the arable land in Germany,” he said
in the new Commons that “it is not a
good augury for the future of Europe.”
Extending his survey to the Balkans, he,
added the grave words “It is not impos-
sible that tragedy on a big scale will un-
fold.” And he warned the House that
it should “not delude itself into believ-
ing that the first conference of the victors
was free from disappointment and
anxiety.”
It would appear from these grave
and urgent words that Mr, Truman
shared Mr. Churchill’s doubts and mis-
givings. It is devoutly to be hoped that
he will not consider himself and his coun-
try bound by partitions which, in the
nature of the discussions—Congress and
Parliament being unrepresented—must
surely have been provisional and tem-
porary, Devoutly to be hoped also that
the United States and Britain will go
back to the Atlantic Charter, which em-
bodies principles, enduring principles,
whereas territorial aggrandisement is only
an intrigue. The atomic bomb has made
nonsense of the pretence that grabbing
of non-Slav lands by Russia and its pup-
pet States is necessary for “security.”
After the War.
In the forefront of the good resolutions
to be taken at Canberra one to divorce
defence from politics should have pride
of place. It is probably an impossible
sacrifice to ask of Labor politicians, who
have revelled in the limelight which they
have found it possible to acquire by link-
ing their names with the deeds of the
fighting forces. But it should be urged
upon them ceaselessly since in no coun-
try outside South America have defence
issues been political playthings to a
greater extent than in the Common-
wealth.
For all the years which intervened
between World War I and World War II
defence was an article of barter used to
buy the women’s vote and that of the
union element which controls the party
now in power—a party which has shown
itself ready to come to the whistle of
big Communist unions at any hour of the
day or night.
It is, of course, much more comfort-
able in peace-time to reduce defence
measures to a minimum, since it means
considerable reduction of taxation ; but
it is decidedly uncomfortable when war
arrives. And the war which is not pre-
pared for is the most wasteful, expensive
and uncomfortable kind of war. In Aus-
tralia it would certainly have been even
more uncomfortable than it was by
reason of past neglect had it not been
that Britain and the United States had
been far more prudent and self-sacrific-
ing in their preparations than this coun-
try.
Neither in the United Kingdom nor in
the United States was there any growl
even in peace-time when conscription
was introduced, and peace-time expendi-
tures for the upkeep of powerful navies
and for laying the groundwork of power-
ful air forces, ordnance formations and
the exploration of scientific fields con-
ducive to safety and victory were taken
as a matter of course.
In Australia, however, expert advice
was brushed aside. Every move con-
nected with defence for 20 years was dic-
tated by consideration for the safety of
some politician’s skin and not the
country’s.
Thus, when Mr. Hughes discovered
after World War I that compulsory train-
ing was unpopular it was almost de-
stroyed as a policy, the conviction of the
Little Digger apparently being that the
A.I.F. —of whose members over 20 per
cent, had been over the age of 31 at en-
listment, and which returned only 140,762
medically fit men to civil life —was im-
mortal and would be prepared to take
up arms and hurl into the sea any in-
vader who came along within the next
generation.
The Jellicoe naval defence scheme,
which —after the Washington Confer-
ence had whittled it down—involved the
building of four 10,000-ton cruisers, an
aircraft-carrier, six submarines, 12 de-
stroyers, subsidiary ships, an efficient
dockyard and other facilities, was never
fully implemented. Australian politicians
preferred to loaf on the Admiralty, which
continued to spend a pound at least for
every five shillings spent by the Com-
monwealth.
The Air Force, though at times the sub-
ject of vague exhortations and promises,
was allowed to become a mere shadow
of what was needed. Australia had
scarcely a squadron of aircraft which
could have fought the celestial legions of
San Salvador.
And the history of land defence is
written in the reports of Harry Chauvel
as Inspector-General and in the pages of
“Hansard.”
By 1924, according to Chauvel:
With the reduced peace establishment of
31,000 and the reduced period of training
(10 days per annum for two years) it is
quite out of the question to train an army
for the defence of Australia.
A plea for a mere £1,500,000 for urgent
mobilisation equipment, “mainly artillery
and technical,” fell on deaf ears, even
though the Government of the day was
assured that it “was inconceivable that
any force could take the field without it.”
The C.M.F. as a whole had been cut down
to the 31,000 figure from 118,000 and,
what was worse, 100 experienced officers,
including senior men, and 367 n.c.os. were
sent packing, tearing the heart out of the
training system. This and other moves,
which reduced defence to reliance upon
boys “between the ages of 18 and 19,
undergoing 10 days’ desultory training,”
appeared to the Inspector-General to be
“determined more upon expediency than
upon principle,”
But even when the C.M.F. had come
to a state of “exhaustion, apathy and
stagnation” in 1929 the matter had not
gone far enough for the present self-
styled “saviours of the country.” The
Scullin Labor Government, arrived in
office, entered on a disgraceful campaign
of retrenchment which virtually wiped
out Duntroon and the lervis Bay Naval
College and converted the R.A.A.F. and
the C.M.F. into mummified token
museum pieces.
The only defence policy which Labor
sanctioned subsequent to that period was
Voiced in its 1937 election policy, to
which it clung like a drowning man to a
cask, because it was the only policy it
could adopt which did not involve com-
pulsory training. It was based on the
party’s expert conviction that navies and
armies were obsolete and that Australia
could be defended by 300 aeroplanes,
which Mr. Curtin opined could be bought
for less than the cost of a battleship.
Bombers at that time were in the Hamp-
den class.
In the circumstances it was the mercy
of heaven that Japan decided to attack
in 1941'instead of in 1939.
The work of the hated Menzies Gov-
ernment, particularly that of Ministers
Street, Fairbairn and Casey, in the
years of breathing space has enabled the
Chifleys, Beasleys and Wards to claim
credit for a military organisation which
they were opposed to creating, for a naval
dock of which they opposed the building,
for campaigns to protect New Guinea
which they were opposed to defending,
for the regimentation of manpower
which they characterised as the basest
kind of totalitarian tyranny, for a
fine war factory system which was in
working order (though hampered by
Communist strikes) before they took
office, and for bringing to Australia
General MacArthur, of whose impending
arrival they did not know until he was
on his way.
They also have to be thankful that
they stepped into possession of a northern
road system —beyond the Brisbane Line
to which they allege their predecessors
proposed a cowardly retirement —which
was capable of handling trucks running
3,000,000 miles a month and implement-
ing what was described soon after the
American command reached Australia
as the biggest road transport project in
the world.
All that was their own in the war
effort was the inflated and squandering
A.W.C. and C.C.C. under command of a
defeated politician—a sample of its work
was the Hatches’ Creek wolfram field, on
which it spent £369,000 to produce
£27,000 worth of metal —and the un-
realised project of Mr. Forde, who him-
self had never fired even a pea-shooter
in anger, to train troops for battle in
three weeks according to formulas pro-
duced for him by the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph.”
It can be taken for granted that if this
crowd remains in office it will be back
to its old attitude in next to no time,
offering freedom from responsibility and
effort to the lazy and the fearful in return
for votes, and willing to be convinced
without argument that immunity from
attack can be attained by the mere ex-
pedient of sending Dr. Evatt to tqlk long
and loudly at overseas conferences.
Fortunately, the hundreds of thou-
sands of people who have had their lives
dislocated for five years should have
learnt their lesson. While they are in a
receptive mood it must be rammed home
to them that they have had a very narrow
escape in this war and that an expendi-
ture on some form of defence more sub-
stantial than Dr. Evatt’s tongue and voice
will be cheap insurance.
Henceforward it should be a policy
within the British Commonwealth, whose
members claim equality of rights, that
there should also be equality of sacrifice
in defence expenditure. Australians
should be prepared to join in a co-ordi-
nated British Commonwealth scheme de-
signed for common security and pay
their fair share of the cost.
PLAIN ENGLISH
The "Hang Hirohifo!" Cry.
In A.B.C.’s weekly summary of events in
Britain, Canada and Maoriland it was
stated that the first spoken thought of
the Government at Ottawa when the
Japs caved in was for the speedy release
of the Canadians taken in Hong Kong.
People in this country would like to
believe that their Government was
equally mindful of the far greater number
of Australians taken in Malaya, Java
and New Guinea; and perhaps it was.
But evidence was wanting.
From Canberra came sullen objections
to the surrender terms and shrill de-
mands for the treatment of Hirohito as
a war criminal, but scarcely anything
about the prisoners-of-war. This had
also been the case when, in a very dif-
ferent mood, Mr. Chifley announced that
the six A.I.F. divisions in the field were
to be reduced to three and that “a token”
force would, “if possible,” be sent to
Singapore, scene of the greatest tragedy
that ever befell Australia and Australians.
The surrender terms were manifestly
shaped in Washington ; and, considering
America’s predominant part%in the war,
this was only right. In shaping them the
President and his advisers must have been
influenced by the difficulties already en-
countered in the military government of
Germany, which is government with little
knowledge and less responsibility, and
by a desire to avoid worse difficulties,
with murderous fanaticism added, by em-
ploying a native Government in Japan,
with Hirohito at the head. And in de-
ciding to leave Hirohito in his place they
knew that he, and he alone, could bring
surcease of strife to the fighting men and
deliverance to the prisoners-of-war.-
The commands of no other Japanese
would have been obeyed. 'And if, instead
of issuing the necessary orders as em-
peror with accepted pretensions to divin-
ity, Hirohito had been seized and held
for trial and punishment there would
have been more and deadlier Tarawa,
Iwo and Okinawa slaughter on all the
fronts, in the Solomons, New Guinea,
Borneo, Timor, Sumatra, Java, Burma,
Malaya, Thailand, Indo-China, China,
Korea, Manchuria and Japan itself, with
a desperately small chance of survival
for any prisoner-of-war.
When the Americans reached Manila
they had to be quick in planning and
action to prevent a frightful massacre in
a p.-0.-w. camp. With their emperor in
the position of Goring and Hess, Japa-
nese soldiers, so many of whom have
destroyed themsolves rather than sur-
render, would have been capable of
murdering every captive they held, irre-
spective of nationality, age and sex.
Of course, all Communists and other
Leftists were for grabbing and hanging
Hirohito regardless of the consequences to
the fighting men and the prisoners-of-
war, They had totally different views
between April 13, 1941, and August 8,
1945, and the Chifley Government should
dispense with their advice and approval.
Its paramount duty is to the Australian
nation, and in the discharge of that duty
it must co-operate frankly with the United
States and Britain, above all in having
the fighting brought to an end and the
prisoners freed without useless carping,
even if someone’s dignity or something,


[J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann, David Adams and
Malcolm Ellis, of 252 George-street, Sydney,
sign for any matter with a bearing on the Fre-
mantle by-election.]
has been hurt. Dr. Evatt has a list of
war criminals, based on a report prepared
by Queensland Chief Justice Webb. Con-
sidering the devilish cruelties practised
by Japanese on the bodies of Australians
in their power, it may have to be length-
ened. But it will be time enough to
avenge the dead when the living have
been removed from the danger of sharing
their fate and of being sacrificed in
further fighting, useless and preventable.
Sydney's Ugly Night.
“Macann”; What happened in Sydney
on the night of August 12 was only what
might have been expected to happen in
a city exposed to so much hate propa-
ganda and larrikinism in unionism and
politics, and in which manners, patriot-
ism and reverence seem to form no part
of the teaching in schools, to say nothing
of the instruction given in sheets
apparently written by office boys for
office boys and girls.
Usually an empty place on Sundays,
Sydney was that day almost as crowded
as on a week day. At nightfall at King’s
Cross groups began surging through the
streets. Two things were at once notice-
able about them: they were predomi-
nantly young —from 15 to 19 or so —and
they seemed aimless. Group attached to
group until they grew to street-long leap-
ing and yelling processions.
Without check of any kind they surged
around the corner of the crooked cross
and halfway down William-street. Habit
acting on them, they kept to the left.
Halfway down - apparently without
leaders, without aim or purpose—they
turned and went up the climb again, still
keeping to the left. Gangs of them
boarded the trams, pulling down the con-
duct-poles and threatening to bash drivers
and conductors —on this line mostly age-
ing men, girls and wives who have taken
the places of the great number of regular
conductors away on service. Already,
thus early in the night, it looked and
sounded ugly.
In Martin-place the only crowd
at the time was one of a couple of hun-
dred clustered on the post-office steps and
pavement about midway between the
Cenotaph and George-street. A party of
three or four on the top steps had them
in control, conducting them in singing
hymns.
The rest of the wide expanse on up the
hill was vacant. The Cenotaph, with its
two men and its two poplars from
Flanders, stood isolated in the half-light.
The mob surged in. They were not the
King’s Cross mob only. They came ir
from all the half-dozen streets, filling the
width and stretch of Martin-place from
George-street to the top.
They did things that should never be
forgotten. They desecrated the Ceno-
taph. They tore out one of the sentinel
trees. They made bonfires „of Old
Digger flower-stalls along the post-office
pavement.
A foul business, from any point of
view ; and the State Government, its head
away on a jaunting tour, its though ts
running to race meetings (horse and dog)
and professional football as fitting ce e-
brations”—this with 18,000 Australians, at
least two-fifths of them from N. S. Wales,
still in dark captivity—cannot be held
guiltless. It does not excuse this Govern-
ment that it had delegated its responsi-
bility for the maintenance of order and
decency and the safeguarding of sacred
things to the Commissioner of Police.
If he was thought incapable of-.doing his
job—of doing what was subsequently
done with good effect —a Government
worthy of the name could have taken
over from him. It set a precedent when
this officer fell out with the executive of
the Police Association.
There will have to be real govern-
ment to look after the future of the
element that “celebrated” on Sydney’s
black Sunday night. They had had noth-
ing to do with getting the war over. All
they knew about it was that it was a
time when they earned anything up to
six and seven pounds a week and could
tell the boss to go to hell in the certainty
of getting a better job up the street, irre-
spective of their worth. What they were
celebrating, had they known it, was the
end of a very soft time for them. They
should not accept the silent New Diggers
who looked on at their doings as merely
amused and tolerant. Those onlookers
were disgusted and waiting. It will be
a job to blend them all peacefully together
again: a job that must be done for Aus-
tralia’s sake.
Murray Water.
To get 900,000,000 gallons of water a
year to the S.A. districts north of Adel-
aide and 1,200,000,000 gallons to Whyalla
meant falling back on Australia’s old
friend the Murray. Wanting to de-
velop Whyalla into an iron and steel
and shipbuilding centre, B.H.P. joined
with the Commonwealth and S. A. Gov-
ernments in an agreement whereby
S.A. undertakes to deliver 150,000,000
gallons a year at Port Augusta and
3,000,000 gallons a day at Whyalla,
maximum quantities, the consideration
being respectively £37,500 a year from the
Commonwealth and £40,000 from 8.H.P.,
minimum payments. The water goes
through 223 miles of pipeline, of 30in.
diameter at Morgan and 21in. at Whyalla.
The first steel pipes were on the job in
February, 1941. Murray water reached
Whyalla in March, 1944.
It sounds simple, put like that. But
before Whyalla could wash its face in
Murray water many things had to be
done.
The route was west from Morgan to
Robertstown, north-west through Spalding
to Pirie, thence north to Port Augusta
and south-east and south to. Whyalla.
Pumps and equipment had to be supplied
and installed for four pumping stations
and 27 storage tanks. Power had to be
brought from Adelaide by transmission
line, through Gawler, Kapunda and
Robertstown to Morgan, about 120 miles.
Forty thousand tons of steel and 75,000
cubic yards of concrete had to be made
and delivered. The eight pumps are run
by 400 h.p. motors (the largest so far made
in Australia), and there is provision for
installing two 800 h.p. sets when the
demand arises, Fot emergency each
station has 525 h.p. diesel engines and
generators.
The concrete-lined steel pipes are laid
above ground on concrete chairs 15ft.
apart. This prevents damage from soil
contact and makes detection and repair
of leaks easy. Mobile cranes handled and
mobile welding plants joined the pipes.
Concrete bridges and piers carry them
over creeks and gullies. By the use of
an Australian invention, Galvanite, paint-
ing and maintenance costs of the pipeline
over 20 years are estimated at £49,000,
compared with an estimate of £178,182
for ordinary care. B.H.P. supplied the
steel at list price, less 3 p.c., waiving its
right to more under a Commonwealth
order authorising increase of all steel
prices. S.A. Department of Works did
the job without one industrial dispute.
It was reckoned originally that it would
cost £3,122,000. A revised estimate is
£2,750,000.
That’s the bare bones of the scheme.
The detail would fill a sizable book. The
important thing is that the project is Aus-
tralian from start to finish, and it shows
that Australians, given the chance, have
the foresight and capacity to develop their
country on modern lines. It shows also
how a Government which believes in
doing rather than talking, and which isn't
bossed by union bosses, can get things
done.
"T. 1."
“Colbun”: No group of Australian pri-
vate citizens has suffered more, both in-
dividually and collectively, from the
effects of the war than have the residents
of Thursday Island.
The opening of hostilities with Ger-
many crippled the island’s main indus-
tries of pearling and beche-de-mer fish-
ing, by creating shortages of men and
materials, and further decreasing markets
already injured by the Japanese assault
on China two years and more previously.
With the entry of Japan against the
Allies “T.L” became a garrison town.
Early in 1942 all non-combatants were
hastily evacuated under conditions of
short notice and limited transport which
made it impossible to take with them
much more than a change of clothing, it
th *Most of the dispossessed went to Bris-
bane. There they formed a Thursday
Island Society for mutual aid, took ser-
vice or civil jobs when they could stood
by each other loyally and looked after
their sick and aged members. News tit-
tered through, telling of dwellings and
business premises looted, of buildings re-
moved or destroyed, luggers wrecked oi
sunk. Requests to State and Common-
wealth Governments for assistance in
cases of real hardship evoked no response
—who cares about a little island 1440
miles from Brisbane and 2023 from Can-
berra? “It will be settled up in good
time,” said politicians and bureaucrats,
cheerfully.
The shouting and the tumult over, most
of the Thursday Islanders are getting
ready to return whenever opportunity
offers. But State and Federal Govern-
ments alike continue to turn a deaf ear
to fequests for aid towards re-establish-
ing them and their town.
Heartrending appeals are being made
to Australia by U.N.R.R.A. for more
help in the re-establishment of war-shat-
tered Europe, and they must be heark-
ened to. The national purse is to be
opened widely for post-war repair
and reorganisation in Papua and New
Guinea. That, tpo, is only right;
but the hard lot of the Thursday
Islanders deserves equal attention.
Geographically and financially, the
Government at Brisbane, which boasts
that it fias 20 millions for post-war ex-
penditure, is in the best position to do
the thing expeditiously and generously,
sending its claim, if any, to the Govern-
ment at Canberra when the job has been
done.
1918 TO 1945.
“You’ll be sorry!”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
HOUSEHOLQt/RS AND HOUSEOWNERS*
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office :
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to Schlesinger Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED.
ť
ŧ
Illustrated literature from-
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street,
Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street,
Melbourne. STOCKISTS; Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'jolders* Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
POLITICAL POINTS
The moment the official news of peace
came through all Australians downed
tools and went joyful for two days. Then,
weary and worn with celebrating, nearly
all Australians returned to work, glad
that the thing was done with, sad for the
lost and bereaved, conscience-stricken
when they remembered their countrymen
still in prison camps. Nearly all? Yes ;
the national Parliament was “resting.”
There were three by-elections on
Saturday, in Fremantle (W.A.), Black-
town (N.S.W.) and Prahran (Vic,), and
Labor won all three, gaining Prahan, a
Labor electorate till the late Ellis came
along. In Fremantle and Blacktown the
Opposition recovered ground lost at the
general election, but to no significant
extent. In the eyes of many electors,
despite its many sins of commission and
omission, Labor can do nothing wrong,
an indulgent feeling extended to the
Nationalists and Agrarians in the days of
Bruce-Page and to the U.A.P. in Lyons’s
time, and necessarily impermanent.
Meanwhile fears of another depression
and promises that Labor will avert the
calamity by “rocking it into the banks and
the capitalists” are obviously having a
great effect. It never occurs to trusting
people that in aiming at “the banks and
the capitalists” Labor may hit them.
Three Communist candidates were in
the by-election fields. Having lost the
advantage conferred on the “party” by
Great Russian Victories, they lost their
deposits. The “party” had previously
decided at its Sydney congress to run
a team of 15 at the Commonwealth gen-
eral election.
Previous voting in Fremantle:
1934.—Curtin, 24,951; Mrs. Cardell-
Oliver (now M.L.A. for Subiaco), 23,923;
majority, 1028. Decided on preferences.
1937.—Curtin, 29,548; Isaachsen, 21,857;
Wright, 2081; majority, 5610.
1940.—Curtin, 28,710; Lee, 28,106;
majority, 604. Decided on preferences.
1943 —Curtin, 45,352; Lee, 13,046;
Bracks, 9396; majority, 22,910.
The by-election was held exactly twelve-
months after the powers referendum.
Fremantle figures at that were 37,225 for
and 31,366 against. Beazley’s will be
better.
More war controls were “revoked”
well in time for the polling on Saturday,
but not “manpower control over the great
majority of Australian citizens,” this
“revocation” applying only to “ex-service
personnel, persons under 18 and those
qualified and eager to work in industries
of the minority group specified.” Actually,
the first peace-time casualty was the pub-
licity censorship. Papers which fell foul
of it—always, of course, on high moral
grounds—vote it the world’s worst. The
Bulletin had occasional brushes with it,
but, on the whole, found it better than in
the last war. And even when The
Bulletin thought the censors were going
too far it had the feeling that it was deal-
ing with men—mostly working journa-
lists, with a sprinkling of able veterans
from other walks of life —who were
doing a thankless job conscientiously and
courteously,
Britain and America must have been
very careful in choosing the scientists
they employed on the atomic-bomb job.
They kept Haldane, the Communist pro-
fessor, out of it, although the Communist
press, which publishes roods of his stuff,
asserts that for all-round science Hal-
dane is equalled only by the Soviet cham-
pion, whoever he may be —any name end-
ing with “vitch” or “ovsky” will satisfy the
mugs. Haldane was so rattled when the un-
expected happened that he told Truman
that “the new power” would have to be
“nationalised” and controlled by the
United Nations ; Marxists, that “with the
complete revolution in war and produc-
tion the principles of politics also will
change” ; coalminers, that their occupa-
tion will be gone in 20 years; railway-
men, that they may linger on for 30
years. Any more of that and the man
will be in danger of being denounced as
a Fascist.
From an International News Service
review of the state of Russianised Europe,
published in the Sydney “Daily Mirror”:
All in all, “the shame of Munich” ap-
pears to have been far more justifiable
than much of what is now being done in
the name of the Atlantic Charter.
Moreover, Chamberlain never deceived
himself or others —as did Leftist dupes
and liars everywhere—as to the state of
France (“burning to fight”) and Czecho-
“REVOCATION OF CONTROLS .”
“Here’s your clues and trappings, Santa Claus! Now, ye auld capeetalist, go awa
wi’ the rest of the capeetalists and perfo-r-rm meeracles!”
Slovakia (“powerful, well armed, united ’),
which Russia has begun to dismember
without even having the excuse that Ger-
many had in 1938.
The Lang group is to nominate T, V.
Ryan, president of its organisation,
against Beasley in West Sydney. Which
means that the Big Fellow will be out
for Reid again. It may be objected that
at 69 he will be a thought elderly, but
to Joseph Silver Collings, turned 80 and
still in the Ministry, he must seem to
have all the irresponsibility of unbridled
youth. And there is Lord Addison, who
has been named Dominion Secretary at 76.
Message to the Melbourne “Herald”
from its London office—
Sir Ronald Cross, who was British High
Commissioner in Australia, says he lost his
seat in the Commons because hecklers kept
shouting “What about Australia’s Labor
Government?” As a diplomat, Sir Ronald
Cross could not answer that one.
Keeping “diplomatic,” when he had seen
so much of “Australia’s Labor Govern-
ment,” must have been an immense
strain.
Petain was found guilty of treason and
sentenced to death (commuted to “im-
prisonment for life”), with deprivation of
his rank as marshal and his seat in the
Academy. Apart from the Syrian busi-
ness, for which Australians can never
forgive him, he came out of the “trial,”
which was marked by rank partisanship
among jurymen, rather better than some
of his enemies, the worst of whom, the
Communists Thorez and Marthy, should
haVe been in the dock with him. Before
and during the “trial” these ruffians and
their mobs howled, and are still howling,
for the old man’s blood.
For what was adjudged contempt of
the Commonwealth Arbitration Court in
reporting and commenting on a statement
attributed to Minister Holloway, the pro-
prietors and acting editor of “S. M.
Herald” were heavily fined. They appealed
successfully to the High Court, which
decided, unanimously, that the Arbitra-
tion Court had power to attach and
commit but not to fine, “It is unfortu-
nate,” Starke, J., commented, “that the
Arbitration Court was not aware of or
did not recollect what the Privy Council
said in 1909, that the Courts are ‘gener-
ally satisfied to leave to public opinion
attacks that scandalise them.’ ”
One queer result of the Labor land-
slide in Britain is that there are no
Jewish Conservatives or Liberals in the
House, never before without one since
Baron Lionel de Rothschild took his seat
there in 1858. But there are 26 Jews on the
Ministerial side: 24 Laborites (five,
Shinwell, G. R. Strauss, George Isaacs,
Silkin and Lord Nathan are Ministers), an
Independent and a Communist—Mr.
Piratin, from Mile End. Among the Labor-
ites is the chairman of the British
Zionist Federation/ who is expected to
prod the Government into tearing up the
White Paper which restricts Jewish immi-
gration into Palestine. It has already been
prodded by the American Zionists, who
demand “a Jewish Commonwealth” in
that country, and doubtless stand ready to
cheer on John Bull in the war with the
Arabs which “a Jewish Commonwealth”
would entail,
“Time” and its Sydney imitators com-
bine a queer pedantry with a habit of
referring to public characters by nick-
names and emphasising physical pecu-
liarities and defects. In the case of com-
manders, even if they work in nicknames
they always give full titles so far as their
information goes; and sometimes it
doesn’t go far. Petain invariably figures
in these publications as Marshal Henri
Philippe Petain. In the Encyclopedia
Britannica, a much higher authority, he
figures as Henri Philippe Benoni Omer
Joseph Petain.
Communist objections to Hirohito
being an emperor-god to the Japs are
particularly unfair, and not only because
Hirohito was Stalin’s partner in the 1941
Treaty of Neutrality and Friendship (the
“We Asiatics” one), and a litter of
fisheries agreements. Isn’t Stalin an em-
peror-god to Communists in everything
but name?
By a happy coincidence the opening of
the British Parliament coincided with the
surrender of Japan. Not happy, except to
Socialists and Communists, was the sosh
part of the programme outlined in the
King’s speech, “public-ownership” of the
Bank of England and “nationalisation” of
the coalmining industry, to which Laski,
the new dictator, made copious additions:
We will, if necessary, bring economic
pressure to bear on Spain.
It is our intention to give the new Italy,
if democratic, full assistance in the eco-
nomic field and matters of foreign policy.
We must prevent the birth in the Far
East of economic and strategic imperialism.
We must protect the people of China
again the semi-Fascist forces of the Chinese
Right Wing.
I hope British relations with the United
States will continue under the sign of'friend-
ship. This will largely depend on the atti-
tude of American finance towards the
socialist experiment in Britain.
It is also part of “our” mission to tackle
“reactionary” forces in “the big capi-
talist country, America,” Badly hurt,
financially and economically, Britain is
in no condition to go in for collectivist
leaps in the dark and a Leftist foreign
policy; and the Laski line of talk to the
Americans is the delirium of folly.
It had to come, of course, but the man
who rang a Government department last
Friday scarcely expected it to be so soon.
“About that permit I put in for in June,”
he said, “isn’t it about due?” “Oh, it
will be some little time yet,” was the reply.
“But surely” “Now, listen, brother,
don’t you know there’s a peace on?”
snapped the voice of authority.
Amongst the reasons advanced by our
toiling legislators at Canberra for their
three-week smoke-oh on full pay, which
may be extended, was the Awful Climate.
The sudden change in temperature to
which they were exposed when emerging
from the centrally-heated Halls of States-
manship was, it is asserted, breaking
down their health. The obvious remedy
would be to turn off the central heating
in order to enable them to get used to
cold. A reason advanced for the selection
of Canberra as the Capital site was its
glorious bracing climate, free from the
enervating heat which dulled the intel-
lects of statesmen forced to labor in
coastal-belt capitals.
Queensland’s State Service Union has
withdrawn from the Brisbane Trades and
Labor Council as a protest against the
rule that makes all A.C.T.U. congress
decisions binding on affiliated unions and
also against the way the T. and L.C.
carries 09. It means that about 5000
Government employees leave the Trades
Hall, in effect joining the A.W.U. and the
Shop Assistants, earlier sickened by Com-
munist bullying and disruptiveness. More
Queensland unions are expected to follow
the lead.
“Communism’s organisation through-
out the world is now purely and simply
an instrument of Russian national policy.”
Thus Lang’s “Century,” and though it
may be questioned whether anything
about communist imperialism is or can
be pure and simple, the rest is unchal-
lengeable. In another statement which got
to the heart of the matter the ably-edited
“Century” said that “Churchill failed be-
cause his Government reduced rations on
the eve of going to the polls” and because
“the bureaucrats still implemented their
obnoxious regulations.”


m
GOLD MEDAL
INVITE YOU TO LISTEN TO THE
A. J. ALAN STORIES
2GB 9 p.m. Thursdays ; also 2WL. 2CA. 2HR and Macquarie
Network in all States.
2GZ-KA, 2NZ 9.30 p.m. Fridays.
2LM, 9.30 p.m. Wednesdays.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Professor Marcus Oliphant, one of
those largely responsible for the develop-
ment of tne atomic bomb, is the fourth
graduate of Adelaide University to
achieve scientific fame at a comparatively
early agp in recent years. Professor Hugh
Cairns, a Rhodes scholar, is now Nuffield
Professor of Surgery at Oxford and noted
for his development of the wooden
lung. Professor Brian Maegraith, at 31,
was elected Dean of the Faculty of Medi-
cine at Oxford. Professor Howard
Florey achieved world status as one of
the joint discoverers of penicillin. None
of the four is yet 50.
R. Muir, who goes as a delegate to the
London conference of Empire Chambers
of Commerce, is general secretary of
Queensland Cane Growers’ Council. He
is to return through the United States,
investigating sugar industry developments
that might help to ensure employment for
Queensland sugar-workers in the slack
season.
A. R, Gordon, managing director of
Bryant and May, president of the Vic-
torian Chamber of Commerce and vice-
president of the Associated Chambers of
Commerce of Australia, was born in
A. R. GORDON.
Cheshire (Eng.), and came to Australia
as a child in 1900. After practising as an
accountant for many years, he became a
director of the match firm, and in 1936
gave up his practice for the whole-time
job of managing director. He was a
trooper in the Light Horse in Egypt,
Palestine and Syria in the last war. Popu-
lar with his staff, his friends say that they
never strike, unlike his matches.
There is nothing like a bit of local
knowledge. When Governor R. G. Casey,
once of Geelong (Vic.), and now of Ben-
gal, wanted a man to organise the fishing
industry pf his famine-stricken province,
where sea-food is more important than
meat, he thought of William Richard
Burgess. The Burgess family has fished
Bass Strait for four generations, and what
it doesn’t know about the piscatorial art
can’t be found in books. So W. R. Burgess
goes to India as Assistant Director of
Fisheries for the Bengal Government. He
was an original member of the Army
Water Transport of the A.I.F. and
formed the First Marine Food Supply
Platoon which solved many problems of
army feeding in the Solomons and New
Guinea,
George F. Hawkey, retiring curator of
Sydney’s Botanic Gardens, was bom
among plants, son of a gardener at the
old-world estate of the Macarthur
Onslows at Camden. The Gardens first
Australian-bom curator. Hawkey now
proposes gardening for pleasure, with
leisure on the lower Blue Mountains.
An Australian, Alan Hall, who led the
advance party of U.N.R.R.A. into Yugo-
slavia, has had that country’s Order ot
Merit conferred on him. Moved since
to a special U.N.R.R.A. job in Western
Europe, he’s a son of former N.S.W.
politician and Agent-General D. R. Ha 1.
Hazardous adventuring;
The makings of a grand hook of adventure
lies behind the recent award of an 0.8. U. to
Dr D F. Thomson, of Melbourne, and
“mentions” for his principal white orders,
Sgt. Gordon Ritchie, of Sydney, and Sgt. Vin
cent Egan, of Invereil (N.S.W.). Thomsorij
who’s a member of Melbourne Herald
editorial staff, was commissioned by the com-
monwealth Government before the war to look
into native uprisings and killings “ Arnhem
Land. He lived with the tribes there, and
eventually settled them down. Subsequently
he carried out special intelligence work m the
Solomons, was one of thefirstmtelhgenceo-
cers of the R.A.A.F., and in 1941 was seconded
to the Army and commissioned to purchase a
vessel, select a crew and undertake voyages to
“indoctrinate” natives and set up observation
posts and suchlike in Arnhem and .
That over, he put to the Army and R-A.AT.
a plan which eventually led to his takinga
patrol, with Ritchie and Egan members, away
in through swamp and other Rightful county
behind the Jap lines in Dutch New Guinea,
one of the most hazardous adventures of the
war up North. Those in the know declare that
if ever recognition for service rendered w
hard-earned it was in the meagre allotment to
this party, to say nothing of native members o
it not mentioned at all, except by Thomson and
co., who swear by one or two of them.
The outbreak of infantile paralysis in
Melbourne, which caused medical
authorities to put a ban on operations
on children for tonsilitis and other throat
affections —proved to be a potent source
of i.-p. infection—has focused attention
on the fact that of the three most famous
men conducting research into the disease
one is in Melbourne. He is Professor
F. M. Burnet, F.R.S., Ph.D. (London),
director of the Walter and Eliza. Hall
Institute. Born at Traralgon (Vic.) m
1899 and educated at Geelong College
and Melbourne University, Professor
Burnet took over his present position in
1934, after working in the institute as an
obscure research student. A Common-
wealth grant assists him.
Colonel Edward Ford, who became
Army Director of Hygiene and Pathology,
hails from the “Redheap” country in
Victoria, is in his early forties and is a
bachelor. Melbourne Uni. and Sydney’s
School of Troppo Medicine know him as
lecturer, and for some time he’s been
senior malariologist with the Diggers. He
has chased mossies in the Middle East,
India and New Guinea, and before the
flare-up he did medical survey work in
Papua and N.G. which helped a lot when
the fight started. At an earlier stage he
threatened to make a name with his pen,
and his verses were good. He lately col-
lected an 0.8. E.
Tasmania’s Chief Justice knight John
Morris recently successfully opposed an
application by a Hobart builder for per-
mission to erect a 16in. saw bench oppo-
site the C.J’s home. The council con-
cerned held that the noise would be a
serious distraction and Some
years back there was a tinsmith s shop
opposite the High Court building in Mel-
bourne. It was there many, many years
before the Court, but apparently the owner
had not acquired any rights by virtue of
his long occupancy, for one day Starke,
J., sent a Court official to instruct the
tinker to cease making a din while the
Court was sitting. He ceased.
Dr. Stuart Hetzel, of Adelaide, is to
have another sojourn abroad, this time to
teach medicine at Chungking. Graduat-
ing at Adelaide Uni. in 1920, he had
some years in London on post-graduate
work. In the nineteen-thirties he was m
the U.S.A. as a Rockefeller Research
Fellow under Prof. Minot. Latterly he
has been honorary physician in Adelaide
at the main hospital, and examiner at the
Uni.
C. A. Grimley becomes Deputy Com-
missioner of Queensland s State Govern-
ment Insurance Office in succession to
J A O’Connor. The new Commissioner
started with G. 1.0. in 1917, after some
years with private companies.
M. Armand Gazel, who’ll be on the
job before the end of the year as France’s
Minister to Maoriland, had a good deal
of his education in England, including
Oxford, and was with the French artil-
lery throughout the 1914-18 war. His
subsequent diplomatic addresses include
Budapest, Madrid, Brussels and Berne.
Falling out with the Vichy Frenc.i, he
had an anxious time before he got clear
to live in Geneva till France was liberated.
New president of the N.S.W. Farmers
and Settlers’ Association is Hugh S.
Robertson, a sort of conservative-radical
with the courage of his convictions. A
catholic taste in reading and a wide know-
ledge of human affairs make him a for-
midable opponent in debate and an in-
teresting speaker. His cultured Scottish
accent and polished phrases still sound
HUGH ROBERTSON.
somewhat exotic in the farmers’ debating
hall. Son of celebrated Glasgow musi-
cian Sir Hugh Robertson, “H.S.” came
here as a young man 23 years ago, learned
farming the hard way and made enough
to take up land on his own in the Junee
(N.S.W.) district. He interrupted his
farming to go to the Middle East with
the A.I.F. Well known as a writer on
rural topics—his “Epistles of Peter Snod-
grass” have been appearing weekly for
over 10 years—and author of Now Blame
the Farmer, a book on land settlement
being published by Angus and Robert-
son, he was the originator of the quota
wheat plan since adopted by Commerce
Minister Scully.
Here pictured by “Wog,” Prof. F.
Whitehouse is these days a major in the
army, which he started in as a sapper in
1941. While a sarge he gathered the
Walter Burkitt Prize, awarded every three
years for the most outstanding scientific
work done in Australia and M.L. during
the period. Subsequently he supervised
the surveying and construction of the
Bulldog-Wau road over the Owen Stan-
leys, and he’s done numerous highly im-
MAJOR. F. WHITEHOUSE.
portant jobs since then. He has a keen
sense of humor, which may, perhaps, be
indicated by the fact that he has crossed
Tasmania on foot a number of times. He
likes that sort of thing, and once climbed
all the Glass House Mountains (Q.) in
one day. But he’s decidedly absent-
minded, given to worrying H.Q. by nosing
around in unhealthy territory armed with
nothing but a tommy-axe.
Mrs. Hilda Lewis, a noted and witty
speaker, chairman of S.A.’s committee
,of Internal Relations of the Federation
of Uni. women, was elected to fill
the place of Prof. Goldby (returned to
England) on the Adelaide Uni. Coun-
cil. Her election coincided with the
return of one of her sons from four
years as p.-0.-w. in Germany. Another
son will not return.
Another Australian to have a finger in
the pie of rehabilitating the Mad Con-
tinent is Captain R. H. Hodges, who goes
to Europe as a supply administrator in
a Displaced Persons Assembly Centre.
He joined the A.I.F. in 1941 and served
in the M.E. and New Guinea. A Mel-
bourne Grammar athlete and a well-
known runner, he was stockroom manager
for Woolworth’s, Melbourne, before the
war.
The new chairman of Army Reorganis-
ation in India, Lieut.-General Henry B.
D. Willcox, K.C.1.E., C. 8., D. 5.0., M.C.,
hailed originally from Christchurch
(M.L.). Educated at Cranmer (better
known as Wilson’s School), he left M.L.
in 1911 to join the Sherwood Foresters,
and was one of the few officers of the
regiment who came out of the Mons re-
treat unscathed. For some time he has
been general officer in command of
Central India.
Into the silence:
In Adelaide, at 69, Vernon Petherick, Gov-
ernment Whip since 1941. As M.H.A. for the
district of Victoria in S.A. for 16 years he was
actively interested in the development of the
south-east. He also chaired the Afforestation
Commission, and was a member of the Metro-
politan Milk Supply, and Port Adelaide Wharves
Commissions. In his young days Petherick
was the Yarra-Yarra Rowing Club’s coxwain
and steered the 1890-92 Victorian intercolonial
eights.
At Geelong, Miss A. Clanchy, a pioneer of
Victorian secondary education. With two sisters,
she opened Central College, and in the ’nineties
held her first matriculation examinations. Some
of those who passed and some who failed sub-
sequently became eminent Australians.
Prof. Davidson (60) had been head of Ento-
mology at the Waite Institute of S.A. for 17
years, and Prof, in Adelaide Uni. for the last
10. A Liverpool (Eng.) product, he was in the
field all through the Kaiser war, controlling
sanitation and disease-bearing insects. Then he
studied his subject in England, Germany,
Italy and France before coming to Australia.
In 1938 he went round the world with a Car-
negie grant to study biology and entomology.
At 86, leading Brisbane business executive
James Bearup, a director of the Queensland and
N.S.W. McMurtrie companies, Brisbane Per-
manent Building and Banking and Royal Insur-
ance.
At 84, Neville Montagu, one of the oldest
practising solicitors in Sydney. In former days,
when he was legal confidant to J. C. William-
son, he liked to call himself “legal adviser to
the theatrical profession”; other theatrical
managers turned naturally to “The Firm’s”
man, and the mummers themselves thought him
the font of legal wisdom. He was an invariable
part of any stage gathering in those days.
In Brisbane, at 82, Frank Glynn Connolly,
for many years a distinguished medical figure in
Queensland. Born at Gayndah (Q.), he quali-
fied in England at 24. A former president
of the Queensland B.M.A. and Medical
Board, he served for over 25 years as an
honorary medical officer of Brisbane General
Hospital, and remained in active practice until
a few weeks before his death. A fine horseman
in his earlier days, he was a member of the
Q.T.C. committee for more than 40 years.
At West Leederville (W.A.), close on 91, Fred
W. Burrows. Earlier a teacher in N.S.W., he
changed to the West in 1896, became accountant
for J. H. Monger and Co., Coolgardie, and re-
mained there till motor transport replaced the
camel teams, and the firm went out of business.
Moving then to the coast, he was accountant
for a big agricultural manufacturing firm, took
an interest in politics and up to the time of, the
conscription issue was president of Labor’s
metropolitan branch, though he did not try for
Parliament. Also he was for many years a
member of the W.A. University Senate.
At 100, at Bingera (N.S.W.), John Travers,
who came from Ireland in 1860. He fought in
the Sudan and Boer wars.
In Melbourne, Frederick George Connibere,
of Connibere, Grieve and Connibere, long estab-
lished Flinders-lane merchants. A noted phil-
anthropist, he gave the Y.W.C.A. its present
H.Q., made large additions to the Children s
Hospital at Frankston, and built nurses’ homes
for Royal Melbourne and St. Andrew’s. His
imported stud cattle provided animals for agri-
cultural colleges all over Australia.
In Adelaide, at 67, Maurice Collins, a pastor-
alist who held all sorts of public positions
in the Burra district, and had a term as
M.H.R. from S.A. About 30 years ago he made
what was claimed as a record by getting 6000
guineas from South Africa for the stud ram
Prince Charlie. . , ~
In Adelaide, at 77, A, J. Harvey. A leading
manufacturer, he was born at' Avoca (Vic.),
and played football for South Melbourne, but
spent all his business life in S.A.
In Brisbane, W. S. Austin, one of the
founders of Brisbane’s Friendly Societies’ Hos-
pital, the only institution of the kind in Aus-
tralia. He was for many years an alderman of
the South Brisbane City Council.


Society
“Kimber Ley”; Jackson lives in Vau-
cluse, roughly five miles from the city,
possibly six from Central station. He was
due out on the Melbourne train at 8.40
on the second night of the peace revelries.
Knowing something of Sydney’s Govern-
ment transport system, Jackson left home
at 7.30 sharp, caught a King-street tram
at 7.40, got off at Pitt-street at 8.10.
After trying to capture a taxi, he boarded
a tram at 8.27, left it at 8.36, dragged
his heavy bag through a sudden
shower of rain, panted up the wide
flight of steps, across the main plat-
form and fell, gasping and speechless,
into his berth as the train began to move.
His berth mate eyed him and then said
“Great news about the peace, isn’t it?”
“Blast the peace!” gasped Jackson and
fell helpless on his bunk.
* * * ■ *
“Hist”; Stamp collectors of the future
will not lack reminders of VE-Day in
their albums. The Swiss postal authorities
must have intelligently anticipated the
event, for they were able to issue a
“PAX” set of 14 values on VE-Day (May
9) itself. Britain was too busy to pre-
pare any special stamps, but has been
using a Victory postmark on its mail —
two pealing bells suspended from a V,
with the wavy lines of the obliteration
broken up into the dots and dashes of
the Morse V. The Duchy of Luxemburg
has expressed gratitude to its liberators
by the issue of commemorative stamps
honoring Britain, the U.S.A., Russia
and France respectively. The British
stamp shows Britannia between two
shields, one bearing the arms of the
Duchy, the other the rampant British
(really Scottish) lion. The others depict
respectively the American eagle, the
caravel emblem of France and an
, allegorical conception of Russia slaying
a snake. Each stamp bears the dates
May 5, 1940 (occupation), and Septem-
ber 10, 1944 (liberation).
* * *
“Vysa”: The railway authorities in Vic-
toria and S.A. have turned the public
address system to use at busy stations.
If you wish to get a message to a person
on a train you send it to the station ahead.
When the train pulls in the loud-speaker
begins announcing “Mr. So-and-So,
travelling to Port Pirie, please see the
stationmaster at once. It’s important.”
The message is repeated until the pas-
senger appears. If he doesn’t it’s repeated
again at the next station ahead. The
loud-speaker also times the final minutes
before departure, advises about changing
trains, passes messages on for travelling
servicemen and so on. I’m against the
loud-speaker in its general use, mainly for
advertising, but used this way it is a bene-
fit to the travelling public and capable of
saving time, money, lives and broken
hearts,
* * * *
“Nakh”: Touching the Health and
Medical Research Council’s assertion (6.
1/8/’45) that, although Australians get
“energy” foods in abundance, they don’t
get nearly enough of the “protective”
foods which provide minerals and vita-
mins essential to health, that isn’t all
due to, faulty organisation. A family in
my district, all with white faces and the
children showing signs of malnutrition, eat
everything out of tins —cabbages, carrots,
swedes, peas and even parsnips. Their
next door neighbor is a market-gardener.
* * * *
“Dogwatch”; Housie-housie has been
played in the Navy for years. Under
the name of Tombola it has been
the only approved gamble in the
Silent Service, which has lent its color
to the “calls,” No. 1, “Kelly’s Eye” ;
No. 9, “The Doctor’s Own”; No.
10, “Marine’s Breakfast”; No. 11,
“Legs,” and No. 13, “The Devil’s
Own,” figure in the caller’s chant. “All
the sixes, clickety-click,” and 90, “Top
of the Wozzer,” are in a somewhat more
elusive domain. The chances are lean,
the stakes are high, but there are few who
can resist the call to take up the pencil
and mingle with the expectant throng as
the “M.C:” gives one last shake to the
bag of numbers and rallies the players
to action with his opening call “Eyes
down and looking for the first number! ”
♦ * * ♦
“B. A. Ker”: Unless fashions have
changed Churchill will not be sport-
ing “an ancient mortar-pitted felt”
as he does a spot of bricklaying (B.
1/ 8 / ’45). The English bricky has never
affected a felt hat. A cap has always been
his choice. An old photograph of my
Dad and mates on a job some 40 years
“ Don't be alarmed, sailor — he's our most harmless sleepwalker!"
ago shows every man wearing a cap, and,
as Kipling remarks, very little changes
in the building trade. Painters in the Old
Dart sport a neck-to-shin apron instead
of overalls, and brickies,, carpenters and
plumbers work in collars and ties.
« * * *
“Ceg”: “Publova” writing about
Wiseman of the Ferry (B. 8/8/’45) men-
tions the haughty Wisemans, of Cobham
Hall, Kent. I lived for some time at
Cobham Hall. It was, and I understand
still is, the home of the Earl of Darnley,
whose family name is Bligh. Ivo Bligh
captained one of the early Test teams to
Australia and married a lady from Beech-
worth, Victoria. The Earldom of Darn-
ley is an Irish title, created 1725. Wise-
man may have been the family name of
some earlier Lords of Cobham, owners
of the Hall before the Darnleys acquired
it, but the Australian Wiseman was not
likely to know that, if it were so. When
he was being handed a lifer at the Old
Bailey the Darnleys were in possession
of Cobham Hall, and Wiseman, who had
been a lighterman on the Thames, prob-
ably lived somewhere near Gravesend,
which is quite close to Cobham.
* * * *
“Avon”: An exploit that should rank
with Poe’s “Descent into the Maelstrom”
has amazed Maoriland. For months past
Ruapehu has been in a state of eruption.
An island (technically a tholoid) has
arisen in the crater lake. The crater
periodically emits showers of rock and
clouds of steam. One Sunday afternoon
two young men, one of them attached to
the Geological Survey Office, climbed
the volcano —that’s, alpine work, involv-
ing the cutting of steps in the ice—and
descended into the steaming crater. They
somehow crossed what is left of the lake,
now hot mud, and even attempted to
scale the 15ft. face of the tholoid, but
this was trembling to such an extent and
was so hot that the explorers withdrew,
pausing to take the temperature of the
mud lake —137 deg. F. They climbed back
up the wall of the crater and, finding a
crevasse that looked like affording shelter,
camped for the night. At 8 p.m. there
came a violent eruption and their tent
was bombarded with hot rocks, which
incapacitated one member of the party,
lamed the other and burnt their gear.
The lamed lad helped his companion to
a spot further from the source of erup-
tion and then went in search of help,
which reached the badly-injured chap the
following afternoon. He was covered
with warm ash, but suffered no further
injury. Both young men were soon
completely recovered.
* * * *
“P.McM,”; The jeep will survive the
wars. An American manufacturer has
a peace-time version in an advanced
stage of development and claims that
it combines all the functions of light
truck, tractor, mobile power unit and
passenger car. The peace jeep, it is pre-
dicted, will be in demand for farming,
industry, forestry, fire-fighting and sport-
ing purposes. Applications for franchises
to manufacture have been reaching the
U.S. War Department from all parts of
the world.
* * * *
“Arter”: Supporters of the “modern-
ist” trends in Art are professing concern
about the constitution of the Federal Art
Advisory Committee, regarded as a fount
from which rich portrait commissions
flow. Now that Harold Herbert is dead
the committee consists of G. V. F. Mann
and Will Ashton, both of whom are ob-
jected to by “modernists” as being too
conservative and not “representative of
Australian art as a whole.” That’s a very
understandable and reasonably-expressed
objection, but nobody has yet explained
how it is proposed to give representation
to the multifarious “schools” of the rebels
against convention. Even if the com-
mittee were enlarged to ten and included
a Meldrumite, a primitivist, a cubist, a
pointellist, a post-impressionist, an ab-
stractionist, a vorticist and a surrealist
there would still be a clamor from other
coteries to be given commissions to paint
prosperous politicians perishing of star-
vation dla Modigliani; in a state of ad-
vanced decomposition, d la Matisse ; like
a tangled fishing line d la Epstein (oh,
yes, he draws as well as sculpts), or trans-
mogrified into Ethiops after the formula
of one of Australia’s own official war
artists. If the whole boiling was repre-
sented it probably wouldn’t be able to
agree on a recommendation, and if it
did the resultant “portrait” would make
the unhappy subject feel inclined to com-
mit suicide.
* * * B
“T.P.” with some theatre memories:
The Health Commission squelching Melbourne
Town Hall authorities for overcrowding (B.
1/8/’45) brings back to me the happy-go-lucky
methods of the ’eighties. There was ample room
to pass between the seats, but five minutes
before the curtain rose each patron grabbed his
or her seat, or rather chair, and marched for-
ward—calling it “the kangaroo hop.” That
gave a chance for the showman to placard
“Standing room only, a shillin’.” Then the crowd
surged in at the back. Theatres were likewise.
The Opera House (now the Tivoli) was the
worst. Sixpenny gods climbed a steep staircase
and packed in—there were no backs to the
forms. The chucker-out then promoted himself
to the job of chucker-in; and we became a
solid mass inhaling mephitic vapors from stalls,
dress circle and family ditto. Even apple-, pear-
and lemonade-boys couldn’t squeeze in. We
sometimes had three pantomimes going at a
time, but the transformation scenes had to
occur at varying times, the Metropolitan Gas
Co. being wanting. The Royal, under George
Coppin, Bland Holt and the like, had a big
circle of gaslights on the ceiling. The pilot
light blazed eternally —a fact we proudly
pointed out to country visitors. Luckily, we
never had a fire while a show was on. What
would have happened to the jammed masses is
better not thought about. The Bijou went up
in smoke well after the crowd had dispersed.
“Materia”; The “atomic bomb,” which
epitomises a discovery of a means of
accomplishing the annihilation of matter,
has arrived in a world ill-prepared to
make good use of such prodigious
powers. Every responsible observer who
has noted the trend of physical research
since Rutherford commenced bombing
helium atoms at Cambridge has had fore-
bodings. All sorts of industrial advan-
tages are promised in the way of cheap
power, but Sir Arthur Eddington, who
devotes a chapter to the subject of sub-
atomic energy in New Pathways in
Science (1935), concludes on a note of
grim irony;
It cannot be denied that for a society
which has to create scarcity to save its
members from starvation, to which abund-
ance spells disaster and to which unlimited
energy means unlimited power for war and
destruction, there is an ominous cloud in
the distance, though at present it be no
bigger than a man’s hand.
The cloud is now of appalling dimen-
sions.
“D.A.”; There was a touch of humor
as well as gravity in Churchill’s explana-
tion of Britain’s part in the development
of the atomic bomb (B. 15/7/’45):
I, having in mind the effect of ordinary
high explosives which we had recently ex-
perienced, referred the matter in August,
1941, to the Chief-of-Staffs Committee in
the following minute: “Although personally
1 am quite content with existing explosives,
I feel that we must not stand in the path of
improvement.”
The minute was written after the blitz
on London had been going for nearly 12
months, Churchill was in the thick of
it, h.-e. and all.
* * * *
“Old-timer” sees Henry Lawson’s
shirt:
it hangs in a glass case on the walls of the
Bread and Cheese Club, behind the Elizabeth-
street Post Office in Melbourne. I’d heard
about it and about John Kinmont Moir, Knight
Grand Cheese of the club, and, having an hour
to spare between trains, I tied my dog to the
swag, left them with the publican and set out
to inspect both. The man I found behind a
desk in Bourke-street. 1 asked “Are you Mister
Moir?” Keen eyes with, as it were, a grin in
’em looked me over and the voice cried “There’s
no misters here; who are you, anyway?” I
told him. “Cripes,” he said, “where’s your
beard? I thought it would be down round
your knees somewhere.” 1 managed to stammer
something about only having an hour, where-
upon he laid firm hands upon me, hurled me
down the stairs, threw me into a ’bus, grimly
held me upright, threw me out again, rushed
me into a building and held me while he had
words with a man there, shoved me through
another door, fastened me to an iron railing
in the street, yelled “Don’t move,” and vanished
A small crowd, assuming that it was a new
Houdini act, gathered, but soon faded away
again. I waited, staring in the direction in
which he had vanished. “Was I long?” a
gentle voice asked, and there he was beside
me, having acquired somewhere a companion.
These twain then towed me along a lane, up
more stairs and into the place of Lawson’s
shirt. Lawson’s shirt, Bedford’s hat, Archi-
bald’s birth certificate, “Banjo’s” spurs—l can't
say they’re all there, but they ought to be.
Along four walls from floor to ceiling hangs
possibly the greatest museum of Australian art
and literary curios in the country and in it and
among it and around it flits Jack Moir.
Something should be done about this man.
He is the motive power, the split atom, the
heart of the southern literary and artistic
world. No Australian dare write a line, draw a
picture, compose a tune or carve a head and
hope to escape. By his efforts and with the
backing of the Bread and Cheese Club an
astonishing number of native-born creators have
attained publication. Jack Moir has a passion
for Australian culture which almost consumes
him —a passion which, devoted to war or medi-
cine or politics, would have made him a
Monash or a Hunter or a Hughes. Melbourne
should cherish him. If ever Adelaide discovers
him he’ll be captured, smuggled through the
mallee above Serviceton, placed in a special
palace on North Terrace and there kept a
jewel of great price, grimly defended against
the jealous Westralians. Sydney—or what
passes for literary circles in Sydney —would in-
spect him carefully for Communist leanings or
a union ticket and, finding neither, would dump
him in the lottery office and head for the next
meeting of the most-prominent pink back-
patting society of the moment. But then, Moir
would die of boredom in Sydney—there isnt
enough culture in the place to keep him going.
SO MOTE IT BE.
“With the cesssation of hostilities, war‘industries
will switch over to the production of goods for
civilian use.” —Army Minister Forde.
An apt reminder, Mr. Forde,
About the way the Hebrews went
To manufacture from the sword
An agricultural implement,
A job far easier to do
When lethal weapons were so few.
An admirable enterprise,
One to be tackled with a will,
Switching our busy factories
From fabricating things to kill
To those where “wounds are never found
Save such as ploughshares give the ground.”
How good to think a boundless store
Of willing hands awaits release
From all the crafts and arts of war
To all the arts and crafts of peace,
To set re-running full and free
The hampered wheels of industry.
How many a gadget erst designed
Death and destruction to produce
In years to come we’ll doubtless find
Geared to an economic use,
No more a menace but an aid
Alike to comfort and to trade.
So good from evil may emerge,
And sorely tried mankind progress
Further and faster in his urge
For the pursuit of happiness
With new equipment dating from
The birth of the atomic bomb.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
TIME-HONORED EXCUSES.
If, at the crisis of a cricket match,
You give a life to some determined hitter
By butter-fingering the sort of catch
That known colloquially as “a sitter,”
There’s always one excuse, one specious plea
You may advance to mitigate the slurs
And stigmas cast on your proficiency
By jeering, ill-conditioned barrackers:
“Why,” you may ask as one in sheer surprise,
“Couldn’t they see the sun was in my eyes”'.
If you should seek your usual place of biz
Some sunny morn, feeling a trifle cheaper
For an unsightly bruise upon your phiz
And an unquestiohably blackened peeper,
And if hilarious voices should insist
On asking where you met that hefty clout
And who the deuce was your antagonist
And what the blazes was the scrap about,
You’ll tell them coldly they’ve misunderstood
Your injuries—you got them chopping wood.
And if to Parliament you should be sent
And there become betrayed into expressions
Causing your colleagues the embarrassment
Ever attending glaring indiscretions;
If you should be arraigned for cutting loose
With sentiments from which they disagree,
You’ve still one gocpd time-honored old excuse,
The cornered politician’s final plea.
Your words, you may declare, have been dis-
torted,
Your utterances clearly mis-reported.
N.s.w.
MIDFORD.


“Sixanate”: Just 48 hours it took for
the new war-winning weapon to get into
police-court jargon. A tenancy case was
being argued, the landlady wanting to get
rid of women tenants who held noisy
parties garnished with grog. “They
make more disturbance than an atomic
bomb,” said the lady. Incidentally, a
14- or 20-year sentence, which would
naturally stir the recipient, has long been
known as a “dam-buster.”
* * * *
“Vee-Cee”; May I add a little to
that paragraph about General George
Carpenter (B. 25/7/’45)? My father was
founder and proprietor of the old
Gloucester “Gazette,” on which youhg
“And that damned dentist guaranteed his tats would NEVER slip!"
George worked ; and he oftentimes told
me of the lad’s rapid progress. Actually
the Gloucester “Gazette” had two appren-
tices about the same time, and my father
used to say whimsically “Both did better
than their master: George became a
high-ranker in the Salvation Army, and
the other boy, Alf Burton, a Flemington
bookmaker.” I mention the bookmaker-
apprentice in justice to the newspaper
industry lest readers interpret the general
as a sign that religion runs con-
sistently in the blood of printers and
journalists. It doesn’t. George’s mother,
a kindly midwife of the day at Raymond
Terrace, helped to bring a member of my
family into the world.
* Hs * *
“Cauboy”: The Sydney example of
real beer being served on the stage at an
amateur production (B. 8/ 8 / ’45) wasn’t
the first instance. Many years ago, on a
hot summer evening, Beresford Fowler
put on a play called “Revolution,” written,
surely in a temporary mood of levity, by
Furnley Maurice, at the old Queen’s
Hall in Melbourne. It concerned an up-
rising of the proletariat at Sunshine. In
one scene the conspirators were caught
by the police in the act of arming them-
selves from the contents of a wardrobe.
When the wardrobe was forced open it
vas found to contain bottles marked
'‘Carlton.” The joke was fully appre-
ciated by the audience until it discovered
that the label was no misnomer. After
police and rebels had filled and drained
their pots five times a rising tide of indig-
nation almost wrecked the theatre.
* * * *
“Jerboa” remembers a Navy-Army
entente : -
I see that the “Leader of the Crocks”
(H.M.A.S. Stuart) is the subject of a book.
Good luck to her staunch old bones! I boarded
her once, with other P. 8.1., en route from one
hot spot to a hotter one, Jap-held Goodenough
Island. Sugar had been absent from our diet
at the forward post. The tars threw their can-
teen wide open. What a rush! Like schoolkids
at a picnic we were —barley sugar, jelly beans,
boiled lollies! The sailors gave their daily
whack of limejuice to the Diggers as well: no
small sacrifice in that heat. Night came and a
storm with it. Blue lightning made great flicker-
ing cracks in the sky for seconds at a time.
Thunder rumbled like independent artillery fire.
In a dead calm the raid stood on end and
belted. No room below, and the iron deck
too warm to lie upon! The hood of a tor-
pedo tube was my bunk, the ridge of rivets
down the centre denting my backbone each time
the old sea-battler rolled. In the rain-grey
morning jungle razorbacks showed dimly; we
were to climb over some to get at Nip. Luggers
put us ashore (the A.I.F. didn’t run to land-
ing barges in those days). Last words 1 re-
member from Stuart were: “Good luck, Digs.
Give the Nips gyp!” The Digs, did just that.
* * * *
“Galenus”: Further evidence regarding
the efficiency of penicillin in the control
of venereal disease is furnished by the
approaching closure of the Fantome
Island (N.Q.) V.D. hospital for aborigines.
For many years past the weekly average
of inmates under treatment was between
45 and 50, rising sometimes to 90 or
more. Now it is under four, and the
rapidity of cure renders isolation treat-
ment unnecessary. Similar evidence
regarding results amongst white persons
is provided by the State V.D. Clinic in
Brisbane, where the number receiving
treatment has dropped Jrom a maximum
of over 200 a few years ago to fewer than
20. To these immediate results can be
added the averting of disabling and dan-
gerous complications and after-effects
which were formerly to be expected in a
considerable proportion of cases, together
wbb substantial reduction of infection-
rjsk j n the community generally.
* * * *
“Sakit Prut”: “Lao-dah (B. 1/8/ 45)
.is talking through his solar topee when
he says that laboratory experiments on
the alleged production of neurasthenia
and fatigue by tropical climates are
waste of time, and that the psychological
factor is the only really important one.
The very puipose of those investigations
is to ascertain whether “tropical fatigue”
is a real condition or a figment ot an
amateur psychologist’s imagination, bred
by too many stengahs out of too little
to do. Thus far, results have been nega-
tive. Some of the finest people, physi-
cally and mentally, whom I have ever met
have been amongst white families born
and brought up in India. Admitted that
much of India lies outside the tropic line,
they were still subject to all the alleged
psychopathic influences quoted by “L.-d.”
So far as our own variety of tropics is
concerned, the question of their entire
suitability for permanent occupation by
a healthy, indigenous white race was
v settled in the affirmative 25 years ago by
an extensive collective scientific investi-
gation through some six years, of which
the findings were confirmed by the Aus-
tralasian Medical Congress of 1925. As
for being “astonished at the lethargy of
the old hands,” I’ve just been reading
about a Cairns (N.Q.) citizen; aged 103,
who is hoping to wed his 70-year fiancee
before Christmas, and intends to stay in
Cairns until he dies.
* * * *
“Mel bn”; Corrigan, M.L.A., has ex-
pressed the hope that the State ban on
beef from the Board of Works farm at
Werribee will not be reapplied when
National Security /egs. are lifted, as the
beef is the finest m the market and has
been the salvation of Melbourne’s meat
situation. If I know anything about
human nature the ban will go on again.
The controversy about the board’s beef
raged for ten years, and the prejudice
against it was so strong that nothing was
done about it until after three years of
war. There were the same complaints
about the effluent from the board’s sewer-
age system which was discharged into the
bay. It was said to be polluting the sea,
poisoning the fish and causing epidemics
amongst children. The city health officer
offered to go to the farm with a deputa-
tion of councillors and drink a glassful
of the stuff. A glass was handed to him
and he tossed it down with no ill effects,
though he said afterwards that, despite
laboratory evidence and his own convic-
tion, he had the greatest difficulty in
not handing the case over to his unscien-
tific opponents by vomiting his heart out.
* * *
“X.P.8.1.” with a reminiscence from
Crete:
Tell “Jasby” (B. 1/ 8 / '45) that there was an
occasion when we used “arty” on Crete. By
Pygros, a little village in the olive groves be-
yond Suda Bay, our battalion held a position
overlooked by the Huns from a grassy hill
which we christened Castle Knoll —a 1 ruined
house crowned the summit. The range, over
2000yds., was beyond anything we had, and
knowing this the Huns would contemptuously
stroll out each morning and peg white cloth
strips on the knoll. Planes, following these
signals, swarmed oVer us, bombing and machine-
gunning, the Jerries on the knoll getting a
grandstand view and enjoying it. One morning,
after the daily doing-over, came the heartening
news that we would attack Castle Knoll that
afternoon, the objective to be blasted by three
minutes of artillery fire from two guns before
we went in. Until then we had believed
that we were without artillery, but two
fieldpieces (possibly captured Itie weapons)
had been found. The attack was cancelled at
the last minute, but it was decided to let the
“arty” have their fun. At sunset the full fury
of two guns standing wheel to wheel fell on
Castle Knoll. In the middle of the uproar a
tiny figure shot out from among the stones
of the old ruin, evidently a Hun O-pip. Amid
erupting shells he pelted down the coverless
slope, dodging, swerving, slithering and tripping
and collapsing on his face a couple of times
in his anxiety to get to a less prominent" place.
We howled gleefully and our morale bounded
upwards. These unexpected guns put the wind
up Jerry, and his morning promenades ended.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; Cabled that a corre-
spondent of the “Times” views with mis-
giving a forecast that by 1960 there will
be 12 million cars tooting round the
sunken lanes of England, though prob-
ably by then the sunken lanes will be re-
placed by autobahns on the Hitler model.
He remarks that it would be neither right
nor sane to encourage everyone in his
small country to possess a car merely
to keep up with the Joneses, and it is time
a brake was put on the chromium-plated,
streamlined, push-button, fluid-drive con-
ception of progress. So it is; the only
difficulty is how to do it. Every age has
had its peculiar obsession. In the so-
called Dark Ages they were obsessed with
building, and Europe was covered with
lovely cathedrals. The Middle Ages’
obsession for raising beautiful buildings
culminated .in the Machine Age, and now
nobody can build even a home that
doesn’t look like a fowlhouse. The
Machine Age looks as if it were going to
culminate in the Atomic Bomb Age.
* * *
“Hackshaw”: The atomic bomb has
confirmed me in my devotion to Art as
against Science. It was the Allied Gov-
ernments’ readiness to spend £600,000,000
on research which made the blessing poss-
ible ; without that humanity might have
had to wait for at least 100 years. But
if all the Governments of all the world
spent ten times £600,000,000 that wouldn’t
produce one picture better than Velasquez
painted or one sonnet superior to
Shakspeare’s.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Perhaps, “Todd” (B.
1/8/’45), young Edward VI really did
sit down to the sumptuous banquet at
Cowdray House in 1547. In 1429 the
eight-year-old Henry VI had to sit out
a long coronation banquet in Westminster
Hall. Part of the menu: “Boars’ heads
in castles of gold and armed ; a red leche
with lions carven therein ; custard royal
with leopards of gold sitting therein and
holding a fleur de lys; pig endored (gilt),
crane roasted, great breme, Jelly pastie
written and noted with ‘Te Deum Lauda-
mus’ and boiled mutton.” The last item,
humblest of all, was probably the most
wholesome thing at the feast. Although
poor Henry’s stomach weathered this diet
the times were too much for his head.
* * * *
“Pawang”: According to Australian
m.os. in the Solomons, native women use
a method of birth control which is 100
“I say , Pilkington, old chap—Would you mind NOT lighting up while
I'm still dining ?”
p.c. effective. When they don’t want to
add to the population they eat some herb.
The men are not privy to the women’s
secret. This contradicts the contention
that birth control is solely a device of
civilised people. I have never lived in a
native community where some form of
birth control wasn’t practised. In one
South Sea island it was the custom when
population tended to exceed subsistence
—as Malthus perceived, the real reason
for birth control —to take surplus
babies out to sea and dump them.
Wars, pestilence, famine and other
' cataclysms have no permanent effect
on population. After disasters the graph,
rises and the optimum population figure
is again reached in a few generations. A
revolutionary change in the economic
system like the machine age is immedi-
ately responded to by the world’s
mothers. There is more subsistence, so
there are more babies. Reckless procrea-
tion seems to occur only in depressed
countries like India, where hope is dead.
If the standard of living is raised to a
recognisably decent level, even in the
most primitive societies, it will be main-
tained by the voluntary restriction of
births despite ecclesiastical disfavor.
* * * *
“Pip” on the Army’s unofficial pro-
vision for students of form;
One of the most important blokes in any
camp is the bookmaker. By both civil and
military laws his activities are illegal, but so
long as he observes the moderation so highly
valued on Shangri-la and pays his debts on
the knocker he hasn’t much to fear. Having
a flutter is by no means confined to the rankers.
A few minutes before each race there can
usually be seen a procession of batmen towards
the store-room where the bookie is officially
cleaning rifles or something of that sort. Type-
written lists convey information about all events
in the capital cities, and odds are offered, or
the bettor may elect to stand by official s.p
Compilation of the lists requires hours of work
in front of the wireless. Sporting papers come
up from the south at airmail rates, and latest
information is always on tap. Some of the
wagers laid are sizeable, but the standard bet
is two bob or a-dollar each way, all up some-
thing else. Saturday is a maintenance day, and
it is a very callow rookie who cannot find
something to clean up outside the Rec. hut a
couple of minutes before each race starts.
Excited punters ride their horses all the way,
the air full op> encouragement or profanity.
Only the bookie shows no emotion. To him
the race is provided by Providence to put a
couple of quid in his pocket. The winner
announced, he wanders back to his rifles or his
potato-peeling, calm and confident.
* * * *
“Bernard Hackshaw”: American edu-
cationists claim to have discovered that
there is an art of reading, and that by
teaching pupils new habits of mind and
eye the rate at which a page of print can
be absorbed can be speeded up to an
amazing degree. Records of “reading
clinics” show that in three mopths one
class increased its speed from 150 to 325
words a minute and another averaged
230 words at the start and 500 at the
finish, without fatigue or diminution of
interest. It is probably a matter of edu-
cating for visual memory. Some people
have good visual memories ; some have
none whatever. A university graduate
I knew could read a scientific text-
book or a philosophical work in an
evening, and not only read it but recapi-
tulate it. He told me that he took in
several lines at a time and grasped their
import by some natural photographic
process which he could recapture any
time he wanted.
* * * *
“B. C. Ack”: The' worst man at pidgin
is the unimaginative soldier with a poor
vocabulary in his own language. Only
imagination is -needed after learning the
meanings of a few words such as lik-lik
(little), pull-pull (grass skirt), lap-lap
(sarong), sac-sac (sago), pus-pus (woven
arm band), su-su (milk or breasts), bokus
(box), long way lik-lik (little way), long
way (fair distance), and long way too
much (a long way). Such picturesque de-
scriptions as “pushem ’e go pullem ’e
come alia some brother belong akis” —for
saw —are little used. The phrase “no got”
often confuses. Asked “you got New
Guinea shillin’”? the boy may reply
“me no got.” “You no got”? “Yes.”
“You got shillin’ ”? “Me no got, master.”
At this stage the soldier gives up. “Yes,”
of course, means “yes me no got.”


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Dutch and me got off
the bus in Whyalla (S.A.), parked our
swags in the Bay View, irrigated and
went forth to survey the prospects. Pres-
ently we were sitting opposite the Post
Office trying to take in the bustle and
liveliness which marked the place from
any other bush town of our acquaint-
ance. Then the old bloke joined us. We
found out how he was doing and re-
marked on the scene. He shook a dubious
head. “Oh, it looks all right, I grant y’,”
he said. “But there’s goin’ t’ be a big
smash here —ooh, there’ll be a fair
dinkum smash, all right. I seen it corhin’
f’r a long time now —ever since I bin
here. There’s somethin’ real shrewd goin’
on an’ there’s a big smash cornin’. I
can see it, I tell y’.” We looked upon
the unsuspecting citizens and Dutch said
carefully “You’re carryin’ your age well,
Dad. You’d be 60, I reckon.” The old
bloke looked pleased. “Sixty-three, I am.”
“Gripes, y’ don’t look it. How long you
bin here?” He thought hard. “Aw, must
be gettin’ on for 25 years now.” Where-
upon, wishing him luck, we arose and
left him to await the smash.
» * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: With the dew still on
our cheques from a harvest job, we
boarded the Adelaide train at Snowtown
and found ourselves in company with a
peanut who quickly discovered that we
meant to have a holiday in the Crow-
eaters’ capital. Had we ever been there
before? We had, but we assured him
we hadn’t and listened open-mouthed as
he described the attractions, the atmo-
, sphere and the ambitions of Adelaide.
On went the train and on went the skit-
ing nuisance, and nothing we could say
or do could dam the flow of eloquence.
According to him Adelaide was the acme
of cities, the vision of all vacationists,
the cheque-busters’ dream. What had
us wet was that Adelaide being a small
place we were almost certain to run into
him in the next day or two. At last the
train drew into North Terrace and, as
the long platform was sliding by, I caught
Mat’s eye and, on a heaven-sent inspira-
tion, asked “What place is this, Mat?”
The big fellow peered out and, without
turning his head, replied “Dunno, but
it’s definitely a suburb of some sort.”
The skite was still floundering when we
left the carriage.
* * * *
“Norther”: Come on, you drawers
of the long-bow. North Queensland
“Register” declares that “Boxer” Burns,
of Magoura, in the Normanton district,
shot a crocodile 23ft. from snout to tail-
tip!
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”; From my
observations of sniping rabbits squatting
in crops, I’ve always noticed that if you
hit bunny in the brain or spine he falls
gently, head forward, dead; shoot him
through the lungs and he goes for 30
yards, after which he gets slower and
slower before pulling up, alive; but one
in the stomach won’t stop him at all.
A bullet through the heart, however, and
cottontail —as is the case with most
animals —becomes momentarily possessed
of intensified vigor, gives an incredible
three-feet leap and appears to die at the
lop of the leap. But the queerest—and
perhaps cruellest —effect is to hit the
grasseater in the hindquarters. Then he
vigorously gets all his feet going some-
how, and—extraordinary to relate—the
only way he can move is slowly back-
wards !
* * * *
C.V.S.”; Canberra residents, I have
read, -are to have an open season for
possum-shooting, the site of Australia’s
biggest hot-air factory being “probably
the only capital city where possums may
be seen climbing telegraph poles in the
early morning.” Fitzroy Gardens, right
m the city of Melbourne, is well popu-
lated with silver-greys, so tame that they
may be hand-fed on the grass. In
Hoddle-street, Richmond, a thickly-popu-
lated area of Melbourne, I have seen
possums walking the fence tops at night,
whilst they are also numerous in many
Brisbane suburbs, notably Graceville.
Ringtails are also not uncommon in
Hobart, and Mosman (Sydney) has plenty.
* * * *
“Creel”: That gourmandising effort of
the 901 b. lubra consuming a 101 b. stingray
(B. 1/ 8 / ’45) didn’t equal the perform-
ance of an abo., his lubra and nine-year-
old daughter we encountered on the shores
of Newcastle Bay (N.G.). We came upon
them early in the afternoon as the old
man was carrying back to camp a 7ft.
conger eel caught in a long basket trap
set among rocks. That eel must have
weighed at least 401 b., yet by sunset the
trio had consumed the lot. And next
morning Mary and her daughter wore
necklaces of sections of the eel’s back-
bone threaded on string.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Where a boundary fence
joins open bush some miles from the
homestead a set gun is about the easiest
way to beat the wombat. He mostly does
“There goes Hec again. Can't even fraternise without putting on a blitz .”
his prowling in the hours one isn’t
around, digs enqfmous burrows, any one
of which he may be in, and because of
his strength has no trouble in pulling out
of rabbit traps. Even in a dingo trap,
fastened to a length of wood instead of
pegged, he will travel a long way if the
country is clear enough to let his drag
through. Preferably an old shotgun is
selected. Lashed to the fence directly
above the place the wombat enters, a
long wooden rod is fixed alongside the
barrel, the lower end propped in the net-
ting at the top of the hole. In the oppo-
site end a small hole is bored, string
threaded, passed down a couple of inches
and hooked over the trigger. The animal
brushing the top netting on entering
forces the rod up and so pulls the trigger.
Provided one’s dogs don’t stray, it is a
better method for pests than the pit and
trapdoor capture, which, for obvious
reasons, must be set up outside the pad-
dock, and consequently reaps a fair per-
centage of harmless game.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: I once had the enamel
lining of a cast-iron amalgam bucket
explode and erupt in much the same way
as “Esk D.” (B. 18/7/’45) speaks of
schist doing. The explanation: through
minute cracks moisture had filtered in
behind the enamel; the bucket then being
placed over a fire, the moisture turned
to steam so rapidly that the entrance
cracks were inadequate to permit it to
escape quickly enough. Hence the explo-
sion. Many kinds of rock absorb water
yet do not explode when exposed to fire,
bluestone and greenstone, thorite, being
notable examples. The reason is that
these are crystalline rocks of an even
grain throughout, which permits the
evaporated moisture to pass out just as
quickly as it transforms to steam. Schist,
on the other hand, is a laminated rock
built up in a series of layers or plates,
which on their flat surfaces are practi-
cally impermeable. Thus when schist
absorbs water it does so at the ends of
the layers only. When fire is applied
the generated steam, unable to reach the
ends quickly enough, tears the layers
apart in an explosion.
% jj* >Jc
“Nimbleton”: Apropos the old joke of
the offered advice to drop a lump of
quartz into the pot when cooking a galah,
I once saw a bloke doing it in cold blood.
Four hours later he explored the pot with
a fork and said “The quartz is gqne, so
the bird must be cooked.” And it was ;
moreover, the rather elderly swan he
had cooked carved and ate like a 12-
weeks’ duckling. What he took for quartz
had been a compound of sodium —“wash-
ing soda.” Nor was the flavor of the
bird in the slightest impaired. A piece
of soda the size of a pea dropped into a
bucketful of weak tea will also make it
black enough to please the most tannin-
hardened palate.
* * * ♦
“Wippegong”; At home we were used
to seeing magpies’ nests of wire and hay-
band, sometimes built in windmills or
amongst telegraph wires. Here in the
Indo-Burmese theatre it is the com-
mon noisy myna whose domestic determi-
nation attracts attention. Apart from
grabbing all the convenient conventional
spots—ceilings, eaves, hollow limbs, deep
forks and palm tops —he seems to have
cashed in well on other people’s misfor-
tunes of war. Found one pair carrying
tucker to a family whose ravenous racket
came from somewhere inside an upturned
blasted lorry, while another couple
bobbed in and out of a hole punched
by a shell fragment in a hollow iron tele-
graph post. You’re likely to find them
in any corner of any object, vegetable,
mineral or artificial; but perhaps the most
sportive spot was in a Sin. pipe which,
weighted at one end, was hinged on a
post and raised or lowered by the guards
at the entrance to an airfield. The nest
was away down in the dark end, and the
position of the pipe made no difference
at all to the family routine; sometimes
the parents would alight in and run
straight along the level pipe, feed the
chicks, then scramble like possums up
the smooth metal to regain daylight at
SOdeg. At other times the bar would be
up when they arrived and they’d shoot
straight down the slippery-dip and per-
haps be rewarded with a flat take-off.
They are not attractive fowl, yet their
tenacity commands respect; but while I
am interested in their ingenuity, I am
careful to keep all my bags locked.
*****
“Bo”: The argument was at its height:
kangaroo jumps. Nugget, the post-
splitter, seemed to be doing best with a
red boomer which, pursued down a
sloping paddock, made leaps which he
measured at 28ft." Then the lugubrious-
faced stranger along the bar wiped the
froth off his yellow-stained handle-bar
mo. “I s’pose youse blokes know Dan
Riordan, other side o’ Ralston’s?” he
asked. They did. “Well,” he went on,
“I worked for Dan. One day his dogs put
up a smallish blue doe wot’d been drove
be drought to Dan’s dam. In the end they
bailed it up against the back verandah.
One o’ the mongs kept dartin’ in for a
bite and the doe made a leap at it.
We measured that leap after —it went just
seventy-six feet; an’ from a standin’
start, mind y’! ” The loud pro-
tests against what the mob described as
barefaced lying were silenced by the
stranger pulling out a fistful of cash to
back up his statement, which he said Dan
would confirm. Some bets were made.
Then the stranger said “Y* can ring Dan
up if you like; I know he’ll back me up.
Why, I remember it plain as day—the
blue doe fullin’ short in her leap and
goin’ clean down the sixty-foot well that
Dan’d just bin cleanin’ out! ”
* * * ♦
“Sou’-west”: Speaking of those cray-
fish crates in which the crustaceans are
internally cleansed by starvation (B.
18/7/’45). Should the owner, thinking
his captives might be getting a bit too thin
(it often happens), be tempted to serve
them a meal of, say, a few sheep heads,
the result will be that the crays will re-
fuse any longer to submit to starvation;
their appetites aroused, they will start
on a career of cannibalism, which if left
undisturbed will end with only the one
cray—the biggest —left in the crate. On
the other hand if no food be given to
them the whole crateful will contentedly
starve and, if not removed, will all ulti-
mately perish.
* * * *
“Moosoo”: While I appreciate “P.
Angus’s” panegyric on the cat (B.
18/7/’45) there is this difference between
it and the dog: If confined in a room
the dog will die of starvation alongside
his dead master; the cat will have no
compunction about making a meal off
the corpse.
“B. 4”: “Biridja’s” boongs (B. 27/6/’45)
and camp mongs must have been particu-
larly dopey to permit a marauding myall
to enter the camp Also, how
did the intruder locate his intended victim
among the various wurlies, especially if
their occupants were rolled up in grass
in mosquito country? Not even a venge-
ful abo. would venture beyond the con-
fines of his camp at night, being too
scared of Sungee (debbil-debbil). Point-
ing the bone worked on the abo.’s fear
complex, the announcement producing a
mental stupor and physical collapse in
the recipient. To ensure his demise, a
warrior from the bone-pointer’s tribe,
shod with emu-feather sandals, entered
the doomed man’s towrai. As the moping
buck mooned around he was stalked and
suddenly throttled by a powerful arm
while the bone sliver was driven into his
heart. Finger pressure ensured inward
bleeding, and as neither tracks nor blood
was visible the tribe recognised the magic
death, and, placing the body on a plat-
form of branches in a low tree, gathered
their belongings and hurriedly shifted
camp.
* * * *
“Zimple Zimon”: Anyway, while the
subject is still fresh, can any of these
theologians inform a poor benighted why
the Hebrews, since the water turtle was
anathema to them, hyphenated what
should have been a detested name on to
that of what evidently must have been
the symbolic Hebraic love-bird?
* * * *
“Physalia”: Strong n.-e. winds have
decoratSd the beaches with blue masses
of Portuguese men-o’-war. Entangled
with their blue streamers are hundreds
of beautiful, frail, violet-tinted shells,
each tenanted by a soft snail-like creature.
Indeed, they are violet snails, strangely
delicate beings to have adapted them-
selves so effectively to ocean life. Ashore
they are helpless. They cannot move
about like their cousins of the land ; their
shells are too weak to resist the pound-
ing of the surf or the beak of even a
small bird. At sea they live in comfort
and safety, getting their food by catch-
ing tiny jellyfish with their prehensile
noses, on occasion concealing themselves
from enemies in a cloud of violet ink.
The shell is kept afloat by bubbles of air
enclosed in a curious frothy gelatinous
structure formed from its tenant’s secre-
tions, which serves also as an egg-nest
and nursery for the female —as a home,
too, for a tiny species of blue crab which
gets free board as well from the leavings
of its involuntary host. Yet these seem-
ingly frail and helpless creatures survive
in countless numbers the attacks of fish
and birds and the fiercest of ocean gales.
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: A mat-making craze
is spreading with alarming rapidity
amongst the women in our district. When
the strife gets a faraway look in her eye
and starts outlining a pattern on a piece
of hessian it’s time to watch out. The
job is simple enough—just threading
narrow strips of colored, materials
through the hessian with a hook and
snipping them off later; the catch is in
getting suitable materials in these days
of coupons and short supplies. From a
woman in the grip of the mat-madness
nothing is safe. Your best socks and ties
will disappear; vests will lose their
linings, colored shirts their tails. A con-
firmed mat-addict has 'been known to cut
up her own new stockings to get the cor-
rect color-effect in a butterfly-pattern.
RETURN OF THE FIVE-YEAR MEN.
These were the men who, when earth’s lamps
were flickering.
One after one, into the murky night
Undaunted went, without complaint or bicker-
ing,
Upper lip straight, and head erect, to fight.
These were the men who, in fair manhood’s
beauty,
Youth’s blithesome blood all tingling in their
veins,
Left easy joy to tread the path of duty,
From sunny peace to grasp life’s boisterous
reins.
These were the men who, as the forest ranger
When the bush burns disdains to show his
back,
Bold with their fellows faced the fiery danger,
Teeth gritted, sinews taut to the attack.
These were the men who, with no hope of
guerdon,
Save that their country calls the age-old cry
Unmurmuring stoop, and man-like lift the
burden,
And fill the breach as their brave comrades,
die.
These were the men, our Motherland’s fine
flowering,
The golden wattle on Australia’s tree,
The fragrance of whose deeds abroad is shower-
ing
With tears of glory earth and sky and sea.
N.S.W.
ALEX. C. WELSH.


“E. 2”: Was yarning with Dan when
a dingo howled in a scrubby gully behind
his place. “That’s one you didn’t get,”
I said. “I’m not worryin’,” Dan replied.
“There’s bin a pack bangin’ round.
’Course it don’t matter now —the sheep'll
die anyway. An’ the dawgs’ll save ’em
the trouble of starvin’ t’ death.” “But
you’d collect a few quid from the council
for the skins if you stiffened the dingoes,”
I said. “Yair,” said Dan. “But they’ll
keep. Murphy—the hungry cow! —still
has a few sheep left. I c’n hang out till
the dawgs clean him out. Y’ see, he’s
got two big stacks of hay an’ won’t sell
any; when he comes round t’ offerin’ t’
sell me a few tons I’ll trap the dawgs.”
“But what’s the use of hay to either of
you if the dogs finish off the sheep?” I
asked. “That’s jist what I’m gettin’ at,”
said Dan. “I’ll be able t’ tell the flamin’
old skinflint what t’ do with his hay!”
* * * *
“Nagheer”: “Betcha’s” (B. 8/ 8 / ’45)
birds that can’t tell their own offspring
must be degenerate fowl, probably de-
moralised by the Awful Southern Cli-
mate. In our comfortably-warmed north
the standard of avian maternal intelli-
gence is such that any mother seabird
can recognise not only her offspring but
her own egg. The standard observation
On the subject was made by a party of
naturalists during a visit to Booby Island.
A sitting Crested Tern was captured and
marked by tying a strip of a handkerchief
to a leg. It was then taken to the other
side of the island, far out of sight of the
nest, and released. Watchers at the nest
saw it return on a dead-true course and
resume its place. The experiment has
been repeated many times since, with
both eggs and nestlings amongst a variety
of sea-bird species, including kinds which
lay their eggs on the ground, amidst
dozens of others scattered a few feet
apart.
♦ * * *
“Pean Hammer”: When I first started
as a blacksmith’s boy I wondered why
the boss had such a quantity of square
281 b. weights on hand. Relics of an elder
day, he condescended to explain. Drivers
of gigs or buckboards often took one
with them.. When making a stay any-
where they simply attached the weight,
with a suitable length of rope or strap,
to the ring of the horse’s bit, the weight,
of course, resting on the ground. So
long as he was placid the horse had ample
range to move its head, or even graze
around, but the equine wasn’t foaled that
could bolt with a 281 b. block dragging
at its mouth,
* * * *
“Fancar”: Touching “Nakhoda’s”
reference (B. 18 /7 / ’45) to the carnivorous
Nepenthes. These plants, like their fellow-
sinners, the Drosera, the butterworts and
bladderworts and the side-saddle flowers
of North America and Guiana, grow in
marshy soil and by their carnivorous diet
supply themselves with the nitrogen the
soil lacks. When several experiments were
made with the English Drosera it was
found that when the plants were denied
their animal food a very weak spindly
growth resulted, and if nitrogen was sup-
plied through the root system it was
generally poorly assimilated. One strik-
ing thing about these vegetable carni-
vorae is that though each plant is a minia-
ture manufacturing chemist, turning out
formic, malic and half a dozen other
acids according to kind, they contribute
nothing to human welfare or comfort.
True, the Italian sundew was used in the
manufacture of the liqueur Rossoli, but
now, in all probability, a chemist’s labora-
tory supplies the distinctive acid of this
insect-eating plant.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; I’m convinced that a
powerful dye is waiting as a reward for
the experimenter who will attempt to ex-
tract it from our Australian hardwoods.
A leafy branch cut from any of the gum
species and dropped into a small water-
hole will stain the water blue, then purple
and finally black; all within a week or
so. For proof of the dye’s durability
look at a sawyer’s hands —even after he
has scrubbed them nearly raw, prepara-
tory to visiting his best girl. No experi-
enced builder would allow 'unpainted
hardwood to drip rain down brick walls
pr fibro-cement sheets. The inexperienced
or neglectful find themselves, after a
storm, faced with the task of removing
a red-brown stain (strangely, the stain
is seldom blue or black in such cir-
cumstances) that not even the most
potent of all stain-removers, spirits of
salts, can shift. Not long ago we cursed
the yolk in wool as we boiled it out and
poured it into evaporation tanks to waste
—while the Japs were making a fortune
out of the by-product, lanoline. I’ve a
feeling that something similar might
happen over the dyes in Australian hard-
wood.
* * * *
“Nibs”: The minister calling at the
little bush school for the first time began
to question the pupils on the Creation.
“Tough luck for Joe Saunders to have his wife's people parked on him!"
A few bright sparks had already heard
of Adam and Eve, so the man of the
cloth beamingly asked “And who was the
first to eat the apple in the Garden of
Eden?” An excited class confidently
bawled out its unanimous answer “Please,
sir, the flying-fox!”
* * * *
“Zake”: The emu is fairly good as a
layer—up to 14 eggs mostly—but when
it comes to the large family the duck
tribe is out on its own. And of these
the most consistent is the wood duck with
16 to 18 eggs, and the lady usually hatches
the lot. I once saw two broods, each of
17, following Mum on the same patch
of water. I know that there will be
claimants who will trot out the lowan, or
mallee fowl, as the champion layer. I
have heard it said that up to 20 eggs have
been found in one mound. But more
likely a couple of hens have used it as a
duplex flat.
* * * *
“Bo”: “Sour” Saunderson, mending a
fence down by the road, looked up as
footsteps halted near by. A middle-aged
man with a cheerful face put down an
ancient, battered suitcase and said
“G’day. I’m lookin’ for a job. Got
one?” “Sour” ceased hammering. His
cold eye raked the other from head to toe
and back again a few times. He followed
this detailed survey with a half-minute’s
suspicious contemplation ; then his slit of
a mouth opened and he rasped “Well, I
have got one. But I want a cove who
gits into it and no mucking about. I
been stung before.” “Y’ no need to
worry about me,” said the cheerful man.
Grabbing up his suitcase, hfe came in the
gate and said “Where do I doss?” “Sour”
looked at him. “Who said anything
about dossin’?” he asked. “I said I had
a job for y’. I have. The missus wants
a fowl killed an’ plucked and I don’t
want to knock orf in the middle o’ doin’
this fence. Y’ll git a deener for it, an’
the missus’ll give y’ a cup o’ tea an’ a
scone. An’ that’s pretty good pay for a
half-hour’s work or so.” The seeker after
toil was halfway out the gate when
“Sour” sang out “Don’t y’ want the
flamin’ job?” The other put down hiS
suitcase, removed his cady, pulled down
a forelock and said humbly “Indeed I do,
maister, if it please you. But, y’ see, kind
sir, I forgot to renew me ticket in the
Fowl Pluckers’ Union, and a rep. might
lob in while I was on the job. Have I
your permission to go, maister?” And,
again pulling his forelock, he grabbed his
case and departed, whistling.
* * * *
“Munja”: “Kadaitcha” men are not
thugs directed by abo. councils of elders
(B. 18/7/’45). They belong to the realm
of myth and legend ; shadows created in
the primitive minds of the Kaitish and
Antara tribes of Central Australia. Their
age-old legend is that the “kadaitcha”
men don their feathered footwear, creep
in the dark toward the selected victim
and spear him from behind. No masks
are worn ; no lubra is likely to drop dead
as a result of witnessing a myth walking.
The witch-doctor, discreetly in the rear of
the death party, now comes forward to
close the wound by magical means. The
doomed man comes back to life, mingles
with his tribe the following morning,
sickens rapidly and dies. The whole tribe
will then swear that the unlucky vic-
tim was attacked by the mysterious
“kadaitcha.” “Authentic” feathered shoes
are shown to credulous white men as
proof that the occult “kadaitcha” really
exist. Made of emu feathers, gummed
together with blood and interwoven with
human hair, these sacred shoes are as
phoney as Brummagem jewellery.
“B. A. Ker”: To add to “Anthropo’s”
description of “kadaitcha” shoes (B.
18/7 /’45), The pair in my possession are
built up on an inner sole fashioned out of
fibrous grass and matted into an inch-
thick base. To the under side of this the
feathers are stitched (not stuck with
blood). At first glance the string used
for stitching could be mistaken for stout
black macrame cord. Actually, it is made
from human hair. There are no laces,
but a loop which passes over the instep
is also made of hair, twisted and wound to
a thickness of almost a quarter of an
inch. The uppers are of the same
material woven to an opaque cloth and
reinforced with string at essential places.
Hundreds of feet of string must be used
in the fashioning of a pair of kadaitcha
shoes; reckon an average of 50 hairs to
make up the thickness of the string —
and marvel at the craftsman’s patience.
Strangely, my pair, though identical in
workmanship, are odd in size. Possibly
the dusky owner had a deformed foot.
The lad who could give their history is
now in Borneo.
* * * *
“B. 4”: Dunno if any of the Council
has ever tried the haunting flavor of
Abyssinian steak. Once when camped
in a Carnarvon Range (C.Q.) gorge I was
handed a few slices of quivering rump
steak by a couple of passing ’roo-shooters
who intimated that they intended to
polish their fangs on a jumbuck before
sundown. Saying plenty of nothing, I
accepted their offer, and, turning away,
threw the raw beef on some coals. They
watched in silence and then rode on.
Met later, they were pleased when I said
I had enjoyed that meal. With tongues
loosened after several bush rums, they
averred that the steaks had been cut from
a live bullock which they threw and tied,
then treated, the gash with Stockholm tar.
They reckoned the loss of a few pounds
of rump steak didn’t hurt the bullock, as
the hollow soon healed and filled up
when a good season came. I harnessed
my mokes and pulled out to where the
air was not fouled by their presence.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Have never had much
respect for pigs myself, but, visiting a
neighboring farm, was interested in the
antics of an old sow. She was not, I was
informed, expecting offspring, so her
efforts were prompted solely by a desire
for personal comfort. Rather a large
run it was, with a short, sparse patch of
bracken at one end. There was a pierc-
ingly cold wind blowing. Finishing her
feed, the old sow retired to the fern patch,
where she lay for'a few minutes before
shifting to the shelter of a rocky wall
some ten to fifteen yards distant. There
she remained for a short space ; then, get-
ting up, she once more waddled halfway
to the fern patch and stopped, appearing
to cogitate. A satisfied grunt seemingly
denoted a decision, and off she went into
the bracken. On her next ludicrous
appearance she carried a large mouthful
of green ferns. These she placed on the
lee side of the rock wall, pounded them
for a few minutes and returned. When 1
rode past an hour later the old sow was
stretched comfortably on a large pile of
coupon-free bedding in the paddock’s
most sheltered spot.
* * * *
“Blime”: The darnedest nag I’ve ever
ridden was a big rangy brown I bor-
rowed from old Sam when my mare
went lame. Sam was willing enough.
“Gripes, I never use ’im,” he declared.
“Keep him long’s y’ like. Only I warn
y’, he’s awkward.” “Pitch a bit?” 1
asked. “No, it ain’t that,” Sam assured
me. “And he don’t bite or kick. It’s
just that he’s —er” “Lazy?” “No.”
“Hard in the mouth?” “No. Just —well,
y’ might say awkward .” A little later, in
a long swinging canter, I edged the brown
to the left. There was no response. I
clutched the rein, then began to tug. His
head came ropnd easily enough, but that
was all. We continued travelling north
with the nag’s head held determinedly
in the region of my left. boot. I put in
the spikes, growing more relentless as a
pile of stacked posts loomed right ahead.
It was no use, and I let go barely in time
to allow the moke to jump. He landed
dead centre, and after sorting ourselves
out I took the precaution of heading him
in the right direction before remount-
ing. Before the day was out I’d visited
quite a few spots I wasn’t interested in,
and missed out on several I’d wanted to
see. I even mastered the knack of stop-
ping that hack, but the operation took
time. Returning, we topped a rough
slope and suddenly encountered a mob
of jumbucks in the narrow track. A few
yards through the other side I waited for
the drover. “Hey,” he roared, sending
his mongs out in all directions, “what’s
the idea chargin’ through the bunch like
that? Ain’t y’ nag bin mouthed prop’ly?”
“It’s not that,” I explained. “As the man
who lent him to me said, he’s just
awkward
“Say, Aussie, what'll y have—a plug of jelly or a coca-cola?"
THE ALBATROSS.
In Bass Strait where the cold waves leap and
toss
And plunging hulls are ploughing through the
deep
On a bare rock the lordly albatross
Sits by a nest where the frail storm-petrels
sleep.
King of the sea-birds, underneath his eye
The lesser fowl —terns, cormorants and gulls
Like bundles of feathers blown across the sky
Follow the wind-whipped sails and dipping
hulls.
Alone he sits above the grey, blurred land,
Or wings with tireless flight the icy deep
Where whalers ply. Sometimes old sailors stand
Against the dripping rails like huddled sheep,
Seeing with staring eyes what men dread most
A bird that might be some dead seaman’s ghost.
R.A.A.F.
K. COLLOPY.


m.... ’•Modernise
** Your
.A':
r»
m
Farm
>sr
V\>'
- c_
THERE IS NOTHING
AS STRONG AS
After five years of '(doing without' the time 'is
rapidly approaching when you will be able to go
'full steam ahead' on your plans for modernising
your farm with the newest type of silos, dairies,
barns and ultility sheds. With Victory, full sup-,
plies of Lysaghts Galvanised Iron will again be
available for alt farm building purposes —in
6 ft. to 12 ft. lengths and both 2 ft. I j in. and
2 ft. ?■£ in. widths —so complete your plans
NOW!
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LTD.,
'SYDNEY MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE - PERTH
frfTs A -4193
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: i BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
t
ţ
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-II MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia^
THE MAN ON THE LAND
"DON’T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Classing Ewes.
“Jumbuck”: There’s no good reason
for the smallest grazier to have nonde-
script, unpayable breeders in his flock.
Apart from not being worth the grass
they eat, these types can only bear lambs
as inferior as themselves, no matter how
good the sires used. Any ewe below
average, standard should be culled out.
It’s far more payable to begin with
smaller numbers of good ewes than to
be stocked up to carrying capacity with
mixed lots, amongst which are poor types.
Best time to cull out the nondescripts
is at shearing, when ewes are at full wool
and every defect is easily noticeable as
they come on to the board. A dash of
raddle on the face marks the rejects, and
before the mob from the day’s shearing is
turned out culls can be drafted off.
One objection some have to culling is
the difficulty of getting rid of rejects.
Even in the worst of times there are
always buyers for sheep—at a price—
and if the culls can’t be sold I’d suggest
allowing the first loss to be the best and
killing the rejects for their skins. Nonde-
script ewes should never be tolerated in
any flock.
D.D.T. and Fly.
“J.A.K.”; In “D.D.T.—lts Uses and
Abuses” (B. 11/7/’45) “J.R.D.” stated
that D.D.T, would not prevent a fly
alighting on a sheep and laying its eggs
there and that when the eggs hatched out
D.D.T. would have no effect whatever on
the larvae. “J.R.D.” therefore concludes
that for all practical purposes D.D.T.
would have no primary effect on blowfly
strike at all.
British scientists have been conducting
experiments with D.D.T. as'a sheep blow-
fly dip, and in a recent issue of “Nature”
1. B. Cragg states: “The powerful toxic
action of D.D.T. on many species of flies
has made possible a new method of attack
against the sheep blowfly Lucilia sericata
(Mg.) and related species. The follow-
ing experiments indicate that control may
be achieved by the direct action of a
D.D.T. dip on the blowfly while the in-
sect is searching the fleece for a site suit-
able for egg-laying.”
Laboratory and field tests with an emul-
sion containing approximately 0.5 p.c.
D.D.T. are described, showing that the
toxic effect takes place rapidly enough to
prevent gravid females of L. sericata from
ovipositing on sheep. Cragg states
further: “In the course of the 1945 blow-
fly season the dip is to be given extensive
field trials, and attempts are to be made
to increase its effectiveness by combining
an attractant with it, thus making the
dipped sheep act as blowfly traps.”
“ 'Ere's visitors. Think I orter shave?"
Buffalo Fly.
“Gryllus”: Unless something drastic is
done the N.S.W. cattle industry will have
to face the buffalo-fly problem by next
year, A serious problem it is, too, as
anyone will realise after seeing the great
open sores and speedy loss of condition
which develop rapidly from bites. The
buffalo fly (Lyperosia exigua ) is a close
relative of the stable fly, and, like it,
carries a formidable rigid proboscis
which it is always eager to insert painfully
into man or animal. Introduced
originally into the NT., probably with
the buffaloes brought to the Port Essing-
ton settlement in 1825, it remained
limited to the Territory and the
Kimberley (north W.A.) areas for many
years. It reached the N.Q. Gulf country
in the 1920’5, was reported just north of
Cairns in 1942, and is now south of
Gladstone as well as many miles inland
in the Tambo and Springsure districts,
further south still. Although Winter has
checked its progress, it will spread rapidly
again when summer comes. Why it
should have acquired this recent taste for
southward travel nobody knows, but its
rate of spread in recent years is unpre-
cedented.
Fly traps are the only effective means
of combating the pest at present, though
much is hoped for from D.D.T. when it
becomes available in sufficient quantity.
It will be necessary, however, to await
the results of research work now in hand
by the C.S.I.R. concerning D.D.T’s
safety for general use and the most effec-
tive methods of preparing and using it.
As summer comes on it will pay all cattle-
owners from the Manning northward to
watch out for signs of buffalo fly and to
report any finds or suspicions without
delay. It may save them and their
neighbors heavy loss. ,
Lucerne.
“Green Ink”: A lucerne variety recom-
mended by the Victorian Department of
Agriculture is Bathurst 6, selected from
Tamworth strain, but Montana has given
good results in regard to winter hardness
and resists , frosts. Lucerne won’t resist
drought conditions unless it has soil into
which its roots can go deeply. It’s a
waste of time and money planting in
shallow soils having a hard clayey pan
close to the surface.
To test seeds for vitality, take a small
square of blotting-paper, moisten and
fold in halves. Spread 100 seeds in the
fold, place on a plate and lay another
plate on top. Keep the paper moist, and
every 24 hours remove the germinated
seed and count. Sixty per cent, should
be out in three days, but carry on for
five or six days. The average seed should
give a vitality test of 80 to 85 p.c.
Although the department recommends
a sowing rate of 151 b. of seed an acre,
this is for choice parts, the idea being
to crowd the plants and get fine-stemmed
hay. In drier parts a seeding of 61b. to
81b. an acre is sufficient.
Inland Water.
“B-gar”: In opposition to my sugges-
tion (B. 13/6/’45) that the Diamantina,
Georgina and Cooper rivers might be
dammed with beneficial results, “C.S.D.”
(B. 4/7/’45) advances the theory that
“Nature has already dammed these and
other inland rivers below the surface,
thereby creating huge, natural sub-sur-
face reservoirs of clean, cool, clear water
immune from evaporation losses.” I
don’t know about there being an untold
quantity of “clean, cool, clear water”
below the surface in the area I wrote of,
but I do know that the water in many
of the wells, artesian and sub-artesian
bores is absolutely unsuitable for irriga-
tion purposes. In some it is as
salty as the sea. Even if the water was
suitable it would require a very elaborate
system to permit of irrigating a few thou-
sand square miles.
I don’t know wMt quantity of water
soaks away underground, but, having
lived in far south-western Queensland
for several years, I do know that untold
millions of gallons flow to waste every
flood, and I believe that Nature intended
man to utilise those flood waters by stor-
ing the water above the surface. What
has been achieved with the Nile in
Egypt can to a lesser degree be done with
the flood waters of the three big western
rivers. At our present rate of progress
in the water conservation business we’ll
all be forgotten before anything practi-
cable is even begun. We need a few
Deakins and Chaffeys in this country.
Hints for the Farm.
“Recco”; When boarding the drafting
race see that no light comes through and
that the boards run parallel with the
ground instead of being upright. The
race must be dead in the centre of the
forcing pen, and the sides of the pen must
approach at the same angle so as to leave
no corners. Corners are the bugbear ol
drafting yards. The best type of yard is
that where the sheep continually move
from the point of intake on the circle
with each pen gradually narrowing; in
this way the sheep can always see those
ahead. Sheep can be put through in half
the time.
“Herbert”: Don’t try to straighten a
bent saw on the anvil with a hammer.
If you do, every blow will stretch the
saw and ruin it for good work. Use a
block of wood, cut off straight and plane
smooth, and hammer the kinks out of the
saw on the planed end of the block, using
a mallet of wood. After using a saw
scour it clean with a piece of emery cloth,
wipe it dry and oil it with a good clean
oil. It will cut faster and with less effort
after this treatment.
“Lismore Bill” : If you are thinking of
planting some citrus trees save yourself
trouble and money by taking care that no
parasitical insects or noxious weeds are
introduced with the trees. When the
young trees left the nursery they no doubt
looked clean, but they might be affected.
Normally they are not treated for scale
pests before dispatch, so it is up to you
to take action. Prepare a mixture of
white spraying oil and water in the pro-
portion of one to forty. Plunge each tree
into this, holding it by the roots. The
tops should be submerged to a little more
than “ground level.” A moment’s immer-
sion is sufficient. All the packing material
should be burnt.
“L.P.”: The best way to treat wattle,
seeds for sowing is to place them in a tin
of water and allow them to simmer for
about an hour on a quiet fire until the
seed softens sufficiently to be cut or
broken up without undue pressure by
the thumb-nail. Strain off the water and
mix ashes with the seeds. Then tie them
in a rag or bag and allow them to hang
for two days before sowing.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Geneva—or Where?
(From an article by William Philip Simms, one
of the team that covered the San Francisco
conference for N.Y. “World-Telegram.”)
Apparently afraid of ghosts of their
own creation, some of the great Powers
want to stay away from Geneva, seat of
the old league. Like ladies with a past,
they seem reluctant to return to the scene
of so many errors of other days.
There are still those in the United
States Senate to whom the very name
of Geneva is anathema.
Russia is adamant against the Swiss
site for two reasons: First, she and
Switzerland had a falling-out years ago
over the killing of a communist there.
Since then Moscow has taken the position
that Switzerland is anti-Soviet. Secondly,
after her war against Finland Russia was
expelled from the old league and that,
quite naturally, still rankles.
France is against Geneva because
Switzerland is what the French call a per-
manent neutral. True, the Roosevelt idea
was that the new league should be open
to all peace-loving States. And it would
now be a strange irony if —as one diplo-
mat expressed it—a nation should be re-
garded as not peace-loving*because it did
not go to war. But France holds that
hereafter the right of passage to league
troops must be accorded by all members,
hence there can be no such thing as neu-
trality. Instead of Geneva, France pro-
poses a site near Lake Geneva but on
French territory.
The Soviet Union favors Vienna or
some other capital within her sphere of
influence. But practically every one of
the United Nations is more or less a can-
didate. Mexico City, Rio de Janeiro,
Lima, The Hague and other famous
beauty-spots in both hemispheres have
been mentioned, as, of course, have
Washington, Florida, Philadelphia and
the Black Hills of South Dakota.
For obvious reasons, however, Geneva
would seem to be the most suitable. Pri-
vately this was widely admitted at San
Francisco. The most damning things
against it are the spooks which haunt its
marble halls.
But Geneva would seem to be out of
the running. With their extraordinary
veto powers, any one of the Big Five can
remove the old league site from the list.
Wiping War Debts.
(Condensed from “United States News.”)
The U.S. is preparing to write off the
bulk of the $14,657,000,000 debt owed
by nations in default of their obligations
of World War I, U.S. made loans during
and right after that war amounting to
$10,350,000,000. That was the principal
amount. Borrowing nations repaid a
total of $2,751,000,000. Of this amount
$1,993,000,000 represents interest pay-
ments and $758,000,000 is payment on
principal.
Debt outstanding now amounts to
$14,657,000,000, interest charges having
continued to pile up. On the books of
the U.S. Treasury those charges will go
on piling up indefinitely unless Congress
at some time formally wipes clean the
debt slate.
The Treasury’s books show that Great
Britain owes $6,339,000,000 in principal
and accumulated interest. France owes
$4,568,000,000; Italy, $2,049,000,000.
Those are the largest debtors, Russia
owes $443,152,000; Belgium, $499,421,000;
Czechoslovakia, $172,778,000; Poland,
$302,915,000; Rumania, $74,018,000;
Yugoslavia, $63,242,000. Small amounts
are owed by Latvia, Estonia, Lithuania,
Finland, Greece, Huffgary, Armenia and
Austria.
Of all the debtors, Finland, owing
$8,574,000, is the only one meeting its
obligation, with another payment made
on June 15.
In World War II there have been no
formal war debts. Lend-lease, this time,
has taken the place of formal loans, Lend-
lease aid to date amounts to more than
$40,000,000,000, and is likely to approach
$50,000,000,000 before the war ends. That
is about five times more than World War
I loans.
There is no requirement that Lend-
lease aid be paid for. Instead, in theory
at least, the United States retains title in
the Lend-lease materials supplied to other
nations and, after the war, can demand
that those materials be returned. If they
are not returned some kind of settlement
can be made. The settlement probably
will call for writing off the books all
materials shot up or used up, with a token
payment for other materials having a
continuing, permanent value.
All of this means that the United States
is preparing to wipe the slate clean of war
debt, so far as any chance of collection
goes, in order to permit Allied nations
to start out in peace without the handi-
cap of a serious problem involved in
finding dollars to pay for goods that were
shot up.
“Fido”
(The British solution of the problem of dispers-
ing fog to enable ’planes to land, as described
by the London correspondent of N.Y. “Times.”)
“Fido” means “Fog Investigation Dis-
persal Operations,” affectionately known
to R.A.F. men as “fog, intensive dispersal
of.”
“Fido’s” greatest single claim to fame
is that it permitted R.A.F. Pathfinders
to fly from England in spite of the heavy
fog that blanketed their airfields during
Christmas week, to mark targets for the
strategic bombing of German supply
lines, which, according to a statement by
Field Marshal Karl von Rundstedt, was
the chief cause of the failure of his
Ardennes offensive.
Fifteen British operations airfields in
England and one on the Continent were
equipped with “Fido.” On them 2500
Allied aircraft, with 10,000 airmen, landed
in dense fog. Many crippled after air
attacks owe their lives to “Fido.”
As now used, “Fido” installations con
sist of a rectangle of three pipes around
the landing strip—two on the ground and
one above them. The pipes cover an
area 2000 yards long by 150 yards wide.
Petroleum is pumped into the upper pipe
and flows into the lower ones, which have
tiny holes at short intervals. a man
runs along these lower pipes with a torch,
a wall of flame bursts from the tiny jets
with a roar like a forest fire and about
as much smoke. The heat quickly causes
the petroleum in the upper pipe to
vaporise, after which the smoke subsides.
As the air above the field is heated the
fog is evaporated. Within ten minutes a
space 1000 yards long by 150 feet wide
and 100 feet high can be clear. In calm
conditions involving ground fog, clear-
ances of more than 500 feet high have
been obtained in six minutes.
The petroleum burns at a rate of 20
gallons a yard of burner an hour, and
must raise the air temperature seven
degrees Fahrenheit to get clear visibility.
About 30,000,000 gallons of fuel were
used up to VE-day.
The idea is to be tried for civil avia-
tion on the new airdrome now being built
at Heath Row, Middlesex, which is ex-
pected to replace Croydon as London’s
principal airport. There pipes will cover
an area 3700 yards long by 200 wide.
The great cost, however, is expected to
limit wider application.
As in the case of “Pluto” [the pipelines
that carried petrol across under the Chan-
nel], the initiative for the fog dispersal
operation came from Prime Minister
Churchill, who asked Geoffrey Lloyd,
Minister of Petroleum Warfare, to under-
take investigations on September 26, 194..,
at a time when the bombing offensive was
getting under way and fog over the
British airfields was rivalling flak over
Germany as a cause of casualties.
Russia Today.
(From a N-Y. “Times Magazine ” article by
C. L. Sulzberger.)
The Soviet people have suffered to a
degree which strains their traditional
capabilities •to withstand hardship and
sorrow. Vast areas have been ravaged,
villages burned down and cities torn
apart. Tremendous factories and power
projects have been reduced to nothing.
Mines have been flooded, shipyards de-
molished. In terms of misery and suffer-
ing of malady and disaster the loss is
incalculable. It has been estimated—and
who knows with what accuracy?—that
altogether the Soviet Union lost con-
siderably .more than 20,000,000 people to
the German war god —soldiers killed,
civilians slaughtered and victims of
famine and disease.
More than 25 per cent, of the fixed
capital of the Soviet Union has been
destroyed and the available labor pool
reduced by millions. Women are play-
ing an ever more important role now
that so much of the nation’s manhood is
gone. National income has decreased
approximately one-fourth since the last
pre-war year; in agriculture the fall has
been 35 per cent. In the rural areas the
land has suffered. There are still many
peasants ploughing with horses and even
cows. The Soviet agricultural system was
harnessed to tractor output. Destruction
and shifted productions brought the fall
in income. . . ,
Preliminary estimates of the actual
capital loss in the once-occupied areas
alone are evaluated at more than fifty
billion dollars. Around the battered
wreckage of Stalingrad alone, for miles
and miles, are shell holes, wreckage and
black skeletons of homes, and on the
road from Minsk eastward there are
great expanses without a single really
habitable house. Food, still tightly
rationed although more is available than
during the semi-starvation days of 1942,
is far from plentiful.
Two of the greatest mass needs in
Russia today are housing and consumer
goods. Housing is required as in no
other great land. The shortage of con-
sumer goods is bad —pots, pans, china,
shoes, clothing. Never in the history of
the Soviet system have stocks been avail-
able in a volume even remotely com-
parable to that of Western markets.
Today, although such comparisons are
far from fair because of the prevalent
phoney foreign exchange rate and de-
ductions permitted to various Soviet citi-
zens, a pair of non-rationed woman’s
shoes in a Moscow department store costs
more than $BOO.
Black markets and officially tolerated
open markets were introduced by war into
Russia’s State-socialist economy as in the
capitalist systems of her allies. Million-
aires sprang up on the collective farms,
when food was worth more than its weight
in roubles. These warps on the normal
structure are being straightened out. The
Government’s open shops are amplifying
their lists of goods and slowly reducing
their prices to drive black markets out
of existence.
The skin, so to speak, of Moscow has
not suffered much. But there are mem-
ories within its people which will live
until the grave. And around and beyond
in the enormous flat stretches of the Euro-
pean bounds of their country are scars
of a vivid, horrid sort which have not
healed.
On the outskirts of the capital is a large
rest home in a little forest where physi-
cal and nervous wrecks lie patiently eating
and playing chess and peacefully walking
about trying to recover the strength and
balance peace demands. In the Caucasus
today are dozens of sanatoria jammed
with recuperating wounded soldiers. In
Odessa are still gathering liberated women
workers, their slave numbers tattooed
upon their skinny arms. In Leningrad
the hospital wards are filled with children
not yet recovered from the malnutrition
and nervous disorders which resulted
from the siege. In Kirsk, in a bed, lies
one wan little girl—only survivor of that
city’s Jewish colony when the Germans
finally were beaten back. And some-
where, in anonymous mass graves, in
small cemeteries, or lying beneath tire
fields where the wheat is now creeping
toward the sun, lie the millions and mil-
lions of dead.
This terrible suffering. and unprece-
dented destruction must necessarily leave
its marks not only upon the people and
lands of the U.S.S.R. but upon future
decisions and policies as well as psycholo-
gical attitudes. In the immediate future
it is clear that the emphasis in foreign
policy must be laid upon security—at any
cost. The Russians who saw, despite their
faith in the Red Army, how quickly their
land could be overrun will do anything
to prevent a repetition.
This means that allies of the surest sort
must be secured in the border areas
which so far includes only eastern Europe.
There, one by one, the key Governments
are being signed up in defence pacts. It
means that an emphasis of the strongest
sort must be laid upon the weakening of
Germany permanently as a military
power. It will mean new relations with
the lands along Soviet borders in Central
Asia and the Far East.
These are immediate concrete and
actual policies designed to insure protec-
tion to the people of the U.S.S.R. against
any future marauders. To the Soviet
mind they do not contradict the over-all
efforts to build a World Security League.
It is, as one Russian explained to the
writer, like locking your door and not
placing all your trust in the fact that
you pay taxes supporting a constabulary.
Internally, certain major Soviet poli-
cies are clear, some are quite uncleai •
One thing is sure ; that is the mainten-
ance of a powerful army and probably
the construction of a powerful navy. This
ties up with the cardinal factor of foreign
policy —security.
This must use up a sizable portion of
the annual income, and it is a matter or
speculation whether the remainder will
be primarily devoted to the restoration
of fixed capital losses or to rewarding the
people by giving them consumer goods
for a happier and higher standard of
living. My guess is the former, because
the Kremlin, taking the long-range view.
realises it will have something permanent
when its heavy industries are restored.
But surely the Government will seek
to lighten the burden of a people which
has suffered so much. It is perfectly likely
that a serious effort will be made to
obtain large credits from Britain ana
America with which to buy consumer
goods. Thus the Allies would improve
the condition of the Russian people while
the bulk of the budget could be used to
maintain a Soviet security force and re-
establish heavy industry.
Soviet Russia would certainly benefit
by the importation of many articles still
technically difficult to produce—locomo-
tives, telephones, machine tools, cloth
goods, the processes and materials lot
prefabricated construction. A great popu-
lar cry for some of the good things or
life could be satisfied by the grant of
huge credits for foreign purchases by
Britain and America. However, the
mutual suspicions now accruing between
the Allied Nations may postpone or fore-
stall this satisfaction.
In the heart of Europe are many
elements working for a new war. Be-
cause of this and because of the tactless
Soviet rush to line up in unilateral fashion
a continental security belt, many people
are worried. They are saying Why
should we give Russia the wherewithal to
better her living standards when, just as
the war ends, she passes the largest mili-
tary budget in her history?” They ask
“Why isn’t some of this capital diverted
to more suitable requirements?” They
wonder about the proclamations of Mos-
cow’s new Yugoslav, Czechoslovak an
Polish allies announcing bigger and better
armies.
Passing History.
(The story of what London went through even
with the comparatively light bombs that pre-
ceded the atom bombs, as told by London
“Times.”)
On a Saturday afternoon in September, 1940.
after one year of war, the German Air Force
arrived over London in earnest. The R.A.L.
fighter squadrons had for a month been heroi-
cally waging the Battle of Britain, which was
designed by their adversaries as the air prepara-
tion for invasion, and had moved towards the
capital after attacks on ports, aerodromes, and
aircraft factories. The docks and working-
class homes of East London suffered heavily in
that opening assault by waves of aircraft —their
one big daylight attack on JLondon in all the
War —and its renewal after nightfall that Satur-
day. It was a stem initiation for London in
general and its defence services in particular,
and they bore themselves well.
Such was the real beginning of the ordeal of
London. It was to continue, though with long
intermissions and in varied shapes, till almost
the end of the war against Germany. There
were times when the bombs were being distri-
buted between other cities or towns and Lon-
don ; there were times when the capital was
being left alone though other centres of popu-
lation were not. Nevertheless, it may fairly be
said that London passed through trials such as
no other part of the country had to face. Once
the first assaults by the Luftwaffe had failed
of their purpose, as preliminaries to invasion,
London, biggest city in the world, was the
inevitable main target of an enemy with the
enthusiastic faith of the Germans in terror as a
weapon.
The autumn and winter of 1940 and the en-
suing spring were destined to be the worst
period for London. The toll of casualties ana
devastation was taken almost invariably after
dark. There were long spells—the longest from
September 7 to November 2, or 57 days—-in
which the bombers came night after night, with-
out a break. The alert would wail as dusk was
falling, then anti-aircraft guns would open up,
and a few minutes later would come the dull
crash of the first bombs.
There are some dates which stand out from
the general picture. Sunday, December 29, was
the night of the first calculated endeavor to burn
down London with incendiaries. Wide areas
were set ablaze, and the material destruction
was great, with severe damage to the Guildhall,
eight Wren churches, and many historic halls of
livery companies. A big attack in March, 1941,
caused exceptionally heavy casualties. On April
16 and 19, a Wednesday and a Saturday, there
fell still heavier blows, each of which left 1000
dead, with damage to St. Paul’s and a great
many other public buildings. The last night
assault of comparative severity came on May 10
It went on through five hours of moonlight and
made a new record in carnage—1436 killed,
1792 injured. The House of Commons cham-
ber was demolished, and there were hits on
Westminster Hall and Westminster Abbey.
London that winter bore much discomfort and
suffering, which her people might have found
hardly endurable but for their own great spirit.
They were worthy of the example set try their
leaders. The King and Queen were unwearied
in visits of consolation and encouragement to
the people in the most sorely stricken districts.
Mr, Churchill’s resolute presence was another
source of strength. The men and women in the
public services—wardens, police, fire brigade,
railwaymen and transport workers running
buses and Tube trains, ambulance workers,
roof-spotters, fire-watchers, and the rest were
rarely or never wanting in their response to any
and every emergency.
Those with no specific defence duties sensibly
took refuge during night alerts, either in their
domestic Andersons and Morrisons, or in_ the
least vulnerable part Of their dwelling, or m a
shelter shared with others. Life in the larger
shelters, including the Tube stations, had a
quality of its own. As dusk approached there
were bedding-laden queues awaiting admission


w
wm.
ost
Or
-to^ s
otV'
n\S>'
uV*
tA
to
to
0 0fcv
HILLMAN MINX
The Greatest Achievement in Light Car design
Since its inception the Hillman Minx has held a
world-wide reputation as the light car with Big
Car comfort and exceptional performance / coupled
with strict motoring economy.
The Minx, dressed in camouflage, has been serving
on all fronts, but as soon as its present official
duties cease it will be available again to uphold the
reputation of "The greatest achievement in Light
Car design."
A PRODUCT OF THE
iPilffiifflW
Manufacturers of:
HILLMAN . . . HUMBER . . . SUNBEAM-TALBOT
Cars
COMMER .... KARRIER
Commercial Vehicles
N.S.W, DISTRIBUTORS; John McGrath Ltd., Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney (temporary address).
Resident Representative:
C. H. HORDERN, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
ISIS’S,
' - s?f/T.- '..: -£r£ig*
T^W
F
t*&e.
\ :
• ->«S
h-S»;
V .-•.-
wm
SSS
b™>
THANKS TO PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES HAVE DONE THIS...
pioneered nearly 25,000 miles of air routes, covering
every main city and provincial town and many out-back
centres. Provided Australia with the world's best trans-
port aircraft and by efficient management, made avail-
able to the Australian public the lowest passenger, air
mail and freight rates In the world, notwithstanding the
high cost of petrol In this Country, which is more than
twice that paid by American Airline Companies.
AUSTRALIAN AIRLINES HAVE PLANNED THIS...
An early extension of 22,000 additional route miles, in-
cluding thousands of miles of new freight routes serving
all isolated out-back areas. This will be equal to 32
million annual aircraft miles, plus 6 million freight miles.
Still lower fares and freight rates are planned when the
new-type skyliners now on order reach Australia
ONLY PRIVATE ENTERPRISE CAN GIVE AUSTRALIA THIS AERIAL DEVELOPMENT
Inserted by
The AIRLINE; OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT, 50 Market Street, Melbourne
to the Tubes. Inside an instinct for informal
organisation, based on give-and-take, manifested
itself. The rows of sleepers on the station plat-
forms became an accustomed yet ever-strange
sight to late travellers.
The morning after those terrifying nights
showed the citizens of London at their best.
When it was humanly possible they went to
work as usual—sometimes to find that their job
had itself vanished in the ruins of a factory or
shop. Housewives still shopped, squaring up to
incidental troubles of rationing, short supplies,
and lack of home help; girl typists, looking as
neat as always, stepped over hoses and circum-
vented piles of rubble on their way to a city
office after nightmare hours which may or may
not have afforded some sleep. The work of
making good material damage was taken in
hand—railway repair staffs especially did won-
ders in restoring communications quickly—the
homeless were fed and cared for, and the life of
the community carried on.
The capital was bombed again from time to
time after the spring of 1941, but it was to
enjoy almost three years of comparative
immunity—those years in which the wider con-
flict became gradually but wholly transformed
in our favor—before the next significant air
assaults on London. With February, 1944,
came the opening of a fresh series of piloted
raids. There was no interval between what
were virtually the last of those orthodox bomb-
ings and the first flying bombs, which arrived
in June. The V-l was sensational on account
of; its novelty, alarming and destructive enough
in itself, and more disturbing because of its
vast implications for the future.
Methods of defence were speedily modified
to cope with the new menace. The guns (and
the barrage balloons) were shifted to form pro-
tective belts across the beaten track of the
missiles, and fighter aircraft detailed to shoot
them down operated likewise some distance
from central London, which thus was without
the distraction —-perhaps also the stimulus —of
defences in audible, action. Alerts for a time
were frequent by day and by night, but usually
they were breif, so that fewer people than
hitherto made use of the shelters.
With the overrunning of the launching sites
m France and Belgium the streams of flying
bombs were cut off at the main; and the victory
over them was celebrated —-prematurely—by a
Government spokesman. Not many hours later
they reappeared, now discharged from aircraft
over the North Sea. London, still the main-
target, having greatly rejoiced, was correspond-
ingly disconcerted when the attacks were re-
sumed. But they were never again so formid-
able as at the outset.
Not only did the numbers launched now
decline, but the anti-aircraft guns and their
crews attained such astonishing precision that
before the end they were commonly shooting
down from the East Coast nine out of 10,
sometimes more. So nearly complete were
their unadvertised victories that the Londoner
was often for days at a time scarcely conscious
of being in the technical sense under fire.
From last September onwards rockets supple-
mented the flying bombs. If the rockets laid
new burdens on the defences, their arrival
before the sound of th P ,v fror.cn
simplify the life of the ordimrv lil;™
London, once again the target Since there was
no Practicable means of giving him notice that
f rocket was on it's way he could not take
er j short of staying there permanently,
Londoner was therefore in the odd situa-
l, ”"i whereas m theory his life might be
S' 7u- at any mstant > in practice he could
ao nothing m particular about it.
. j>°cket and flying bomb continued to fall
pdjscrimmately till both were stopped in March
, by , the Canadians’ advance into northern Hol-
, . ’ whence the V-l, as well as the V-2, had
Jatter ly come. Wholly unselective in aim and
P ur P°se, beyond being directed at the capital
! n . th< ? widest and vaguest sense, they [and the
. e f bombs] raise problems painfully interesting;
London and Londoners, even more so than
to most other communities.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged sources.)
The Italian people were certainly led by their
fascist leaders into war with the United States,
the course pursued by Fascists could not have
been more contemptible. But it is equally cer-
tain that a majority of the Italian people
opposed Italy s entrance into the world war
I hey opposed war with the United States. Nor
should we forget the overthrow of Mussolini,
the armistice, and the help rendered by many
Italians during our final assault on Germany,
uur lU.S.J policy toward Germany is based
upon our conviction that the German people
constitute a source of danger to the peace of
the world and to our own safety. The Italian
people are not obsessed with the urge for world
domination. They are not militaristic. They
have shown that they possess neither the
qualities nor the resources which make them
a source of potential danger. Is it to our
national advantage to acquiesce in a spoliation
ot Italy by Yugoslavia or by France which
would violate every principle of self-determina-
tion and plunge Italy into a period of violent
ultra-nationalism? Or is it more to our adVan-
tage to insist that the final peace settlements,
while holding Italy to complete accountability,
shall be just and destined to facilitate Italy’s
regeneration? —Former U.S. Under-Secretary of
State Sumner Welles.
* * * *
A “phantom regiment” speeded frontline tacti-
cal information back to command headquarters
in Europe by a remarkable secret combination
wireless transmitter and coding machine and
materially aided in the Allies’ victory. The
regiment, whose 1000 officers and men were
deployed in “patrols” with the various Ameri-
can and British armies, was a British idea, and
was staffed by the British, except for 80 Ameri-
can wireless operators and cryptographers. The
unit’s effectiveness depended, first, on the cer-
tainty of communication and, second, on the facile
code system. The latter was made possible by
the development by a Shropshire mathematician,
Capt. Peter Asbury, of a coding machine. The
machine scrambled messages as they were sent
and a receiver at the other end unscrambled
them. Secrecy was ensured because the code
symbols were used only once. For several
hours after the invasion of Normandy the
“phantom” radio was the principal source of
reports to control headquarters across the
Channel. The “phantom regiment’s” men, who
wear a small black patch with a white “P” on
their right sleeves, accompanied the assault
forces even in glider and parachute landings,
using transmitters ranging from tiny handcrack
affairs up to three kilowatt sets. Casualties in
the European campaign amounted to about 50
per cent, of the force’s total strength. —Paris
correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The U.S. Government has listed some of the
many things the American people wish to pur-
chase as soon as possible. The items range
from radios, washing machines and mechanical
refrigerators—more than 5,000,000 each of these
are demanded —to typewriters, kettles, orange
squeezers and fishing reels. By all accounts we
are saving up for a post-war spending spree
that will make the prodigals of the past look
like tightwads.— N.Y. “Times.’''
* * * ♦
Great Britain in past years has granted peer-
ages and cash awards to its outstanding war
leaders. The total cash grants to the Duke of
Wellington came to more than £1,000,000, not
including an annuity. Field-Marshal Sir Douglas
Haig received an estate, an earldom and ap-
proximately £150,000 in cash. A new wrinkle
was devised in Moscow, where there is an accute
housing shortage. Spacious eleven-story apart-
ment houses are being built in choice sections
of the city for the generals who beat the Ger-
man Army on the eastern front. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
Unlike France, where some 400,000 Poles
have found employment, mainly in the mining
industry, Britain has little room for displaced
Poles in an economy which must first absorb
soldiers, sailors and airmen who are being released
from the British armed forces. Nevertheless,
British Government officials state that the promise
not to force any Pole to return against his will
is still good. They had not, however, faced the
possibility of having on their hands for any
considerable length of time the hundreds of
thousands liberated from Germany who are now
in camps on the Continent. Most of these
people have either from personal experience
or from the experiences of their forebears been
made chary "bf submitting to Russian or Com-
munist domination, which, in their minds, is the
same thing. This is particularly true about the
Polish armed forces. A Polish soldier who re-
cently returned from the Continent estimated
that 15 per cent, of Polish soldiers there will
elect to return. Allowing for his personal
bias, this figure might safely be raised to 25
per cent, of the approximately 50,000 men in
north-western Europe. But this docs not include
the Polish Second Corps which fought so well
in Italy and is composed mainly of men released
from Russian prisons or from Siberian wood-
cutting camps under the 1941 pact be-
tween Marshal Stalin and the late General
Sikorski. Among these men there is fear, sus-
picion and dislike of Russia that months will
not erase. The British recognise this and for
the present are preparing to maintain the Polish
armed forces as a kind of “Foreign Legion”
under British command. But this arrangement
cannot continue indefinitely, and with Britain
recognising the Warsaw Administration Warsaw
can be expected to press for its termination.
Manpower is too badly needed for th? welfare
of Poland to have young men of the armed
forces remain away much longer. That neces-
sarily may incline the new Polish Government
toward the kind of rule under which the exiles
will return with peace of mind.— London Cor-
respondent of the N.Y. “Times.”
% * 9?
“Horse and Waggon Replaces Blilzkreig
Machine” headlined a photograph showing
German horse-drawn waggons of the Twenty-
first German Army. These horse-drawn vehicles,
however, are typical of those used by the thou-
sands by the German Army throughout the
war. They are not a means of transportation
which the Germans were driven to use in the
last stages of the war because of lack of fuel
to operate motor vehicles. The initial German
attack on France was made by 125 German
divisions, of which only nine were Panzer
(tank) and approximately ten motorised divi-
sions. The balance were ordinary divisions of
infantry marching on foot, carrying their rifles
and packs and supported by artillery, which was
horse-drawn except the anti-aircraft and a few
low-range guns, with horse-drawn supply trains.
The approximately 75 additional German in-
fantry divisions in reserve at the beginning
of the attack were of this same type.— U.S.
Brigadier-General Henry J. Reilly; N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Fear of punishment that awaited them in their
native Russia, to which they all were being
returned, drove 151 renegade Russians who
fought for Germany to try to knife and club
their way to liberty in a violent 30-minute riot
at the prisoner pf war compound at Fort Dix,
(U.S.A.). Three hanged themselves, nine prisoners
were wounded and three Americans injured
before the fight was quelled by tear gas, car-
bine and sub-machinegun fire. The compound
commander called on the men to assemble for
the trip home. They refused to budge. Then
Col. Treisch called for their three highest rank-
ing officers to come out and talk things over.
Again the American officer’s words met with
surly silence, and a little later smoke was seen
coming from one of the barracks buildings in
the compound. Col. Treisch ordered the guards
to throw tear-gas grenades. Then the dam
broke. The prisoners dashed from their build-
ings armed with messkit knives and clubs of
iron and wood fashioned from furniture. An
investigation of the barracks revealed how
thoroughly the prisoners had prepared for their
battle for liberty. Chair legs and bed fixtures
had been twisted off. There was plenty of evi-
dence of where messkit knives had been whetted.
Hanging from the rafters were the bodies of the
three suicides and the ropes and belts ready for
15 more, a preview of the fate that awaits the
men in Russia for having fought against their
native land. The same night the surviving
prisoners were started on their way toward
Russia, under the Yalta agreement for exchange
of prisoners.— N.Y. “News.”


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid of
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased.
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent or scanty
passages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contai it
only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
Don’t delay ! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used
successfully, the world over by millions of people,
'they give quick relief and will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. GE-T DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS at your chemist or store.
...But don't
you have
to be RICH
to invest?
mti
m
Mm?
mk
THE FOURTH VICTORY LOAN opens on September 25. Start saving now for
YOUR Bonds. If you have cash saved, subscribe now in amounts of £lO and upwards.
Full loan interest is paid on advance subscriptions from the day you lodge your money
vith any bank, savings bank, or stockbroker. Then start saving more to buy more Victory
Bonds by instalments when the Loan is open. Victory Bonds are issued in denominations
of £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO. Fill in the name of your district when making your
ipplication and help your local quota.
4PV3.113
Some folks have the idea that invest-
ments are a rich man’s hobby. They
know about Savings Stamps and
Certificates —the "little” man’s easy
way to save. But when it comes to
War Loans they think they "can’t
afford” to buy the Bonds and share
in the valuable returns which these
investments bring.
But that’s not so.
Anyone with a few pounds can be in
on a War Loan. And who hasn’t
some cash to spare these days? If
you have a lot, so much the better.
In any case your Bonds carry inter-
est and are readily saleable should
you ever need the cash.
It’s worth thinking out now what
you can put into the next Victory
Loan —to provide for the future and
to back the final drive to Japan.
You don’t have to wait for the Loan
to open—you can make an advance
subscription now. Your money will
immediately start earning interest at
the rate of 2i per cent, or 3| per
cent, per annum.
Think it over. Keep your spending
to essentials. Plan to invest the most
you can. And don’t be afraid to be
one of the many whose small invest-
ments will make up the millions
Australia needs.
Any way you look at the war, the
job’s not done till Victory’s won and
every man back home.
m
''
m
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
Obtainable In 10*s & 20’s
5786
ť
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be relumed unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
The Muse aroused: —■
S.A.McD.:
The atomic bomb
Disturbs my aplomb.
. ...S.F. Not even peace can justify “The Fall
of the Rising Sun” K. 8.: Sailor a stock
character, not an individual P.O’N.; A bold
experiment in calligraphy F.W.: Rhapsodies
on scenery cramp the characters and kill the
interest... .P.C.L.: Try a little dialogue....
M. ; All that subtlety seems wasted on a cat.
G. : “Aunt Matilda” is going home....
N. : Come again... .G.R.A.: “Every detail
of this story is absolutely true.” So is the
multiplication table... .W.D. Excessive moral-
ising spoils a likely yarn... .K.H.: A writer
may do odd things with sentences in a book
about Welsh miners or Irish peasants, but
hardly in “A Bondi Beach Romance”....
H. : When did you hear a cow-cocky refer
to his milkers as “dreamy-eyed kine?”
A.McG.: Try a daily C.H.: Refuse to be-
lieve that the citizens of Aberdeen wear kilts
to kirk... .E.T.: You’ve almost dislocated
the long arm of coincidence 8.Y.: Flashes
of good writing insufficient to carry such a
hoary tale... .R. 8.: Sugary T.A.Z.:
“Drought at Coonamble” not very different
from drought in other places B'ellerive: Wel-
come back —
RECOLLECTIONS OF MRS. GEORGE RIGNOLD,
FORMER POPULAR ACTRESS.
An actress who shone
Before the footlights
In big dramas of the
Old theatre nights.
Many changes accrue
On land and sea.
We cannot evade
The what is to be.
Years have rolled on
Like the billows blue.
Since Mrs. Rignold bid
Our living world adieu.
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy any numbers of “The Lone Hand,”—
3643.
To buy Ley Farming, by R. G. Stapledon.—
3644.
Information Sought.
H'ould a serviceman, on discharge, be given
financial assistance to buy a farm ?
The Commonwealth Re-Establishment and
Employment Act provides for loans of up to
£lOOO “where the loan is for the purpose of
enabling the eligible person to engage in, or
resume, an agricultural occupation.” Till regu-
lations are promulgated, the conditions in-
fluencing the granting of such loans cannot be
given. It would be advisable, however, to dis-
cuss the matter with the Repatriation Commis-
sion when a discharge has been obtained.
* * * *
A treatment for (1) the eyes of animals
affected by blight and (2) horses suffering from
the effects of ingestion of marshmallow ?
(1) A treatment which allays the inflammation
and lessens the resultant damage to the eye is to
use a 4 p.c. solution of zinc sulphate as eye
drops. (2) The horses should .be given a com-
plete rest and, to offset a relapse, a change of
diet.
Brief Answers.
L.H. (1) At the beginning of the war the Rus-
sian rouble was not quoted on currency ex-
change list's; any external transactions were
carried out in foreign currency, gold or goods,"
and payments were usually guaranteed by Ger-
man banking houses. (2) No reliable evidence
available. (3) By all accounts, Marshal
Blucher was “purged”... .R.W.: The collector
value of an 1866 “Sydney Mint Australia”
sovereign, in mint condition, is £3 105.... .A.L--
National Security Regulations cease to be valid
six months after the war ends. (2)
tarians are taxed on their salaries X.Y.Z.:
Send name and address M.W.: William
White’s Report on the Russians is not expected
to be available in Australia before January,
1946... .N.V.: Information unavailable....
R.F.K.: The badge is not now issued....
A.E.S.: No books on the subject in stock just
now... .E.P.: A description of the Tesla coil is
given in Foundations of Modern Physics, by
Thomas B. Brown; the principle of the Tesla
transformer is outlined in Introduction ,to
Physics, by Harley Howe J.McC.: The most
satisfactory method is to use coal tar, but it
would be advisable to get in touch with B. J.
Ball, Ltd., 418 Kenf-street, Sydney M.M.D.:
In poker the best hand obtainable is a royal
routine (an ace high straight flush) followed in
turn by a routine, four of a kind, full-hand,
flush, straight, three of a kind, two pairs and
one pair.


“Benefit has been
remarkable 1
TES
JSSs»s
. « yl/tcr
a / ew
c on^ n
T * eb /*efitobtni agai n:
j was
efh««s
red som
discovf
been ret*, ,
vhH e
M
th
zvor
j am
]<loto
feeli n^
/ e^ ark ab/ e
c °’»ZT /y
n ” e * c ed
better
tha n f° r M
yea rS 11
past-
<*n
°tb
e r
c °Ur Se
SreaTbT th
fit to
Myself »
The revitalising effect of a course of ‘Phyllosan’ tablets must be
experienced to be appreciated. Many thousands owe renewed
health and vigour to these wonderful little tablets. If you
take ‘Phyllosan’ tablets regularly, we believe the results will
astonish you.
Start taking
.helps to keep you fit after forty
* Phyllosan * tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade vtarTc ‘Phyllosan’ is the property of Natural Chemicals Ltd., London
CHOOSE YOUR EXECUTOR ON HIS
EXPERIENCE AND PROBITY
\J7HEN appointing an Executor under your will consider this: Perpetual Trustee
Company Limited has perpetual existence. Its service is always available.
You are assured of continuity of sound judgment, probity and responsibility.
Your Estate will be managed by a group of highly trained officers working under
the constant supervision of a widely experienced Board of Directors.
An interview with a senior dfficer of the Company would help you, or, if you prefer,
write for a booklet, “Your Executor and Trustee.”
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS:
T. H. KELLY (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E R. Knox;
tt NornilB.ll Podg * Allen 0. Lewis j Hon. J. P. Abbott, A1.11.1v.
H V. DOUGLASS,’ Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGB, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and
others, Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Commercial Bank of Australia
Dividends. Written
June, Profit. Ordinaries.* Off. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 228,458 5.8 p.c.=r116,667 20,000 2,340,809
1936.. 234,481 5.8 „„ 116,667 25,000 2,348,929
1937.. 247,435 6.6 „„ 133,333 25,000 2,353,337
1988.. 262,384 7.1 „„ 141,667 30,000 2,359,360
1939.. 262,910 7.1 „„ 141,667 30,000 2,365,909
1940.. 264,157 7.1 „„ 141,667 35,000 2,368,705
1941.. 258,110 7.1 „„ 141,667 35,000 2,365,454
1942.. 241,813 6.6 „„ 133,333 25,000 2,364,240
1943.. 241,553 6.6 „ ~133,333 25,000 2,862,766
1944.. 247,025 6.6 „ ~133,333 25,000 2,366,704
1945.. 252,423 7.1 „„ 141,667 25,000 2,367,826
* Prefs. have had 4 p.c. ( £84,694) each year.
The world has lost its old balance and
may not quickly find a new one. End
of the war will bring a new series of
wants, and a new set of factors will
govern provision of them. War demanded
direction of resources to production of
goods and performance of services neces-
sary for successful conduct of the struggle.
Hence the economic as well as military
conscription of the last half-dozen years.
Outstanding features have been central-
isation of power and regimentation of
productive and other activities through a
mass of restrictions and controls. Among
other things, it all resulted in much de-
tailed interference with the day-to-day
operations of trade and industry, and
brought confusion and waste where none
existed previously, increased costs and
generally put a break on efficiency and
all that goes with it. If a decreased
standard of living is to be avoided, theft
increased production at lower-than-present
level of costs has become an urgent neces-
sity.
During the war public ownership of
cash, bank deposits and war-savings cer-
tificates has about doubled, while output,
of goods, etc., for civilian use has fallen
to less than two-thirds its pre-war volume.
So, before some of the more fundamental
controls can be completely and safely
removed it will be necessary to step up
production for civilian requirements. This
calls for removal of a host of controls
that now have little more than nuisance
value, for release of manpower from the
services on a commercial priority basis,
for re-allocation of essential materials and
for the elimination of redundant Govern-
ment departments, boards, committees,
etc.
Declared Government policy is to “con-
tinue fundamental controls of the econo-
mic system” for six months after peace
is declared, and thereafter in co-opera-
tion with the States until rehabilitation is
complete. Obviously this relates not only
to the transition period but also to the
Government’s long-term policy of “full”
employment. During the transition
demand in many trades promises to run
ahead of supply for a while, both for
suitable labor and materials. But as
shortages are overtaken demand will be-
come increasingly capricious, volatile and
unpredictable, and controls will maintain
rigidity of elements entering into costs.
It is the “new” economics of “full”
employment which threatens to alter the
stresses and strains that hold together our
industrial organisation. Work, invest-
ment, price-fixing, interest-rates, taxation,
subsidies and a lot of other things are
to be so arranged that trade and industry
will always have vacancies for workers
and materials for them to work on. And,
it is assumed, there will always be enough
customers able and willing to buy the
products and pay for services. In short,
the nation’s entire business is to be kept
humming like a hive of bees in summer-
time —no winter is anticipated.
The master-key to this delightfuily-
planned work-and-security State is expen-
diture. People will—this is the assertion
—always work ; and it will be possible
to provide work for them so long as
money is provided to be worked for. By
control of central bank credit, and of
private investment through the trading
banks, the Government hopes to be able
to create inducements and discourage-
‘that will accelerate or retard ex-
penditure as required. What effect a
permanent seller’s market for labor, to-
gether with partial relief from the incen-
tive of financial completion, and a nar-
rowing of the spread between the net
return on funds put out at risk and funds
held in relatively liquid form, will have
upon investment, costs, productivity and
industrial discipline remains to be seen.
Perhaps the planners have given too much
attention to abstract reasoning and tqo
little to experience.
To ensure that the public’s money will
in future be spent mainly as the Govern-
ment requires, the class and purpose of
trading bank advances have been made
subject to control and direction of the
Commonwealth Bank —the newly-embel-
lished agency for policing Government
economic policy on the money side. Also
the trading banks?* special war-time de-
posits with the Commonwealth Bank —
broadly, the increase in their deposits
since war began—are to remain frozen,
together with such further amount as the
Commonwealth Bank may direct.
Further, the interest paid on deposits and
charged for advances, as well as the buy-
ing and selling of Government and other
securities, by the trading banks is to be
controlled. Only the Government can
say what the future holds for the private
banks. If it finally decides it has no use
for them it can make their business un-
profitable.
The following comparison of C.B.A.’s
balance-sheet figures reflect welcome
changes in economic trends:
1941. 1944. 1945.
Notes.. .. £6,184 £6,175 £6,174
Bills, etc. . . 1,606,203 ]
Free deposits.. 17*861,800 ) 62,949,332 68,398,200
Fixed deposits 17,857,925 J
Liquid assets.. 15,502,597 47,026,105 50,584,115
Advances .. 27,141,333 21,230,423 23,141,186
Premises .. 1,313,001 1,292,106 1,281,595
The slowing down of the inflationary
process in Australia, following reduction
of the amount of central bank credit used
to finance war expenditure, shows up in
a growth of only £5,448,868 in deposits
last term as against a growth of
£9,478,960 for the previous year. Part
of the difference can be attributed to the
decline in the wool clip. For the first
time since 1941 advances have swung
upwards, the growth being £1,910,763.
Largest item among the co.’s assets is the
£28,148,000 special war-time deposit with
the Commonwealth Bank. The co. is
excellently equipped to assist in recon-
struction when opportunity offers.
The year’s improvement in gross earn-
ings (£1,421,536) was £90,593. Including
taxes (£258,973, up £30,489), exes.
(£1,169,113) took £85,195 of the increase.
That left the net result £5398 stronger at
8.3 p.c. on the £2,000,000 of ord. capital.
On shareholder’s funds (total capital and
reserves combined) the net result was only
3.8 p.c; The div., which was lifted from
6.6 p.c. to 7.Tp.c., the final being at the
rate of 1\ p.c. p.a., is worth only half the
declared rate on most of the capital,
which was issued at 100 p.c. premium,
Queensland Primary Producers’ Co-op.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1036.. 17,819 54 p.c. = 15,300 2,519 51,601
Staff fund, £5OO .. 51,101
1937.. 30,106 64 p.c. = 18,170 11,936 63,037
Staff fund, £lOOO.. 62,037
1938.. 21,320 6 p.c. = 17,587 3,733 65,770
1939. . 24,859 6 ~ „ 19,360 ) . 7n 0 ,. Q
Staff fund. £lOOO .. 4 > 499 <0,209
ffl 8 %25§0 P - C T. 19>6 ! 2 h0.«0 80.699
“staff fund? 1 £2500 7. IM ®? j S ’ B9s 86 ’ 594
, 24 > 601 P- c -“ 18 ' 665 I 3,436 90,030
btaft fund, £2500 .. .. S
Steffi fund, 40 £2500 P - C '7 18 ’ 7 ! 0 } 9 ’ 970 100 ’ GOO
19 |taff fund, 97 £2500 p-c, ~ 18,887 | 8,610 108,610
1945.. 21,011 ' 5 p.c. = 18,821 1 108,610
Staff fund, £2190 .. .. )
Most of those on the share register are
also clients. That means they have fared
better than the dividend column in the
table alone suggests, because the co.
makes substantial rebates on scheduled
handling and selling charges—4o p.c,
wool, 30 p.c. fat stock and 20 p.c. store
stock over each of the last four years.
The amount so distributed isn’t mentioned
in the published accounts, but it probably
exceed the 5 p.c. div. charge.
Drought was the disturbing factor last
term. It was most severe in the central
and south-western areas of the State. One
result was a lighter clip, carrying more
“doggy,” tender and thin-fibred fleeces
than usual. Shortage of manpower,
fodder scarcity, delays in obtaining roll-
ing stock, cost of hand-feeding and the
shearers’ strike made matters worse. Total
wool received by all brokers in Brisbane
last season was 511,736 bales, or 98,893
fewer bales than for the season on whose
heels it trod.
The co.’s own experience has been as
follows:
Year Wool, Sheep and
June, Bales. Cattlef. Lambsf. Turnover.
1934.. 82,'556 40,567 91,170 £2,841,731
1938.. 109,626 34,344 109,492 3,170,570
1940.. 152,270 28,249 84,392 3,269,662
1941.. 155,382 32,647 81,746 4,124,873
1942.. 172,016 42,193 107,467 4,378,420
1943.. 166,065 33,043 180,501 5,074,105
1944.. 161,882 152,406* 977,047* 5,314,034
1945.. 130,611 110,808* 777,144* 4,792,126
« f Brisbane sales only to 1943. * Total sales.
The lighter sales of wool (down 31,271
bales), cattle (down 41,598 head) and
sheep (down 199,903 head) are reflected
in a sharp contraction of £528,908 in
their edmmon demoninator, turnover.
The only bright spot in the picture was
satisfactory prices for both wool and live-
stock, thanks to the British wool and
meat contracts and demand on account
of Allied forces in the s.-w. Pacific. The
wool contract runs out the season after
end of war with Japan, and the meat
agreement at end of September, 1948.
After allowing for taxation, deprecia-
tion, etc., and the commission rebates
referred to, the contraction in net earn-
ings was £8986. The £21,011 of profit
claimed was 5.5 p.c. on the £378,079 of
capital, compared with 7.9, 8.2, 6.4, 7 and
8.5 p.c. back to 1940. The div. was kept
at 5 p.c., and the £2190 that remained
was passed to the staff fund, leaving the
lay-by at £108,610.
The co* has borrowed to lend:
1940. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £380,621 £377,949 £379,825 £378,079
Liabilities* . • 481,008. 581,552 505,911 576,200
Freeholds and
leaseholds.. 199,401 252,634 274,509 271,753
Plant, etc. .. 40,378 46,085 88,585 18,966
Stocks .. 16,351
Advances .. 683,775 706,835 524,821 577,364
Cash, prepay-
ments, etc. 602 75,397 203,115 228,607
* Includes provision for taxation, etc.
Including an unspecified provision for
taxation, there was 235. Bd. of outside
money at risk in the business for every
pound belonging to shareholders when
the books closed. The year’s growth of
£52,543 in advances largely reflects
delayed deliveries owing to the shearers’
strike. Cash, eto. (up £25,492), includes
£181,945 held on trust account. At end
of June more or less liquids exceeded
liabilities by £193,585.
Recent rains have relieved the outlook
over most of the State. Still, shortage of
breeding ewes will delay the building up
of flocks. An Empire Wool Conference
in London recently discussed problems
of marketing the large war-time accumu-
lation of wool with least disturbance to
future clips, but its conclusions and re-
commendations have not yet been broad-
cast. To help combat possible inroads
by synthetic fibres into the usages of
wool, centralised research and publicity
are to be undertaken by the Australian
Wool Board. For this and other pur-
poses growers are to contribute 2s. per
bale and the Government approx, a like
amount. Also, a wool consultative coun-
cil has been set up to advise the Govern-
ment on matters connected with the in-
dustry, whose toughest post-war problem
promises to be costs, pf which taxation
will account for a large slice.
Union Trustee Go.
Ordi- Investment
nary Fluctuation
Feb., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves
A £ £ £
1935.. 12,055 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 _
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J 06 > 04!5
1936.. 12,840 6 p.c. = 8,250 1 fIQ _
Staff Super. Fund. £lOOO {
1937.. 12,955 7 p.c. = 9,625 1 7 , t-cc _
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO j ‘ x ’ 000
1938.. 13,478 7£ p.c. =10,313 1 7 „ 0 28 73
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO J ’
1939.. 13,550 8 p.c. =ll,OOO * 2go 270 g
Staff Super. Fund, £lOOO i ’
1940.. 13,712 8 p.c. =ll,OOO 1 77 49 , 2923
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO f
1941.. 10,530 8 p.c. =ll,OOO 7 76 522 3183
Staff Super. Fund, £5OO f
1942.. 8,072 7 p.c. = 9,625 74,969 3048
Investment fluctuation reserve
taken in„ £2523 .. .. 77,492
1943.. 7,367 6 p.c. = 8,250 76,609
1944.. 9,832 6 „ „ 8,250 78,191
1945.. 15,441 7J „ ~ 10,312 83,320
Not since the borrow-and-bust boom
during the last half of the 1920’s has a
better result been shown. The sharp in-
crease in last term’s profit was due to
receipt of a large amount of commission
on corpus, owing to “exceptionally heavy
realisation of estate assets.” War-time
financial and other controls have retarded
realisation of estates and affected corpus
and other commission earnings. With
their moderate corpus and commission
charges anchored by legislation, as they
always have been, trustee cos. have been
unable to pass on increases in costs. At
the same time interest rates have been
forced down and rents kept low, which
has meant only moderate returns for the
cos. from investment of their own funds,
represented mostly by rent-producing
freeholds and Government securities.
With strong connections in pastoral
circles, the 60-year-old Melbourne-con-
trolled Union has branches at Sydney.
Brisbane, Townsville and Toowoomba
and agencies at London and Glasgow. It
doesn’t disclose the volume of trusts on


Announcing
A Practical Course in
AIRCRAFT
NAVIGATION
One of the qualifications for appointment
as pilot in. civil air lines is knowledge
of aircraft navigation. To provide the
necessary training the College of Civil
Aviation, which was established in 1939
for tuition in aeronautical subjects, is
commencing classes to train for examina-
tions for Aircraft Navigator’s Licences.
The training is in the hands of experi-
enced ex-R.A.A.F. personnel. Home
study lessons will be issued to any part
of the Commonwealth. Regular lectures
will be held in Metropolitan centres.
For Syllabus and Full Particulars
Apply to
COLLEGE OF
CIVIL AVIATION LIMITED,
255 a George Street, Sydney.
Phone 8W5482.
m
•a®
RUPTURE
. NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
■ ® The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barreve is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve
ments. Stupendous success-
of new method of control
The NEO-BARRERE act-
like the hand when placess
flat upon the orifice. Yoe
will at once withou'
effort and in all move
ments hold the intes
ft ■''WwwWT tine in its cavlt'
r HCTS Write to-day fr.
X LIKE THE HHlin FREE LITERATUIU
BAKRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22D), 243 EIJ/AHRTH «ST. S V DNFV
t
iJHote tL
n FINE HOTEL
A Kotel. certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotel*, but different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the nois© and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WEHEWORTH
Ut
<S.
T n 7
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House. Cr. York and Barrack Streets. Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents, advt.
$ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collin*
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Adyt.
Position Vacant.
A Large Australian Company with Houses in all
States requires the services of a SALES & ADVER-
TISING SUPERINTENDENT. Applicants for this
position must have had experience in organising
large sales campaigns utilising all advertising
channels, and must be able to prove that success has
been achieved in this sphere. Applications, which
will be treated confidentially, should state age and
full details of previous experience and present em-
ployment, and be accompanied by copies of testi-
monials and a recent photograph. Commencing
salary, £l5OO per annum. Apply in writing to
No. 851 NATIONAL SERVICE OFFICE, 473
B.OURKE STREET, MELBOURNE.
This position is one of exceptional possibilities,
and the attention of your friends in the Services
with the necessary qualifications should be drawn
to this advertisement.
STRONGER... UGH TER ...LONGER LASTING
s
9
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
CASE S
ţ
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
I throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
illu' (ttommmial lanktng (Eompang
of Himiti'k
(with which is amalgamated The Bank of Victoria Limited)
Incorporated in New South Wales.-
Board of Directors:
EDWARD R. KNOX. Chairman. ORWELL PHILLIPS, Deputy Chairman.
GEOPPREY P. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS, DOUGLAS R. LYSAGHT,
Dr. EDWARD W. FAIRFAX.
General Manager: C. DARVALL.
BALANCE SHEET ON 30th JUNE, 1945
(including the figures of the London Branch by cable)
To be presented to the Shareholders at the Ordinary General
Meeting to be held at the Head Banking House, 343 George
St., Sydney, on Friday, 17th August, 1945, at noon precisely.
LIABILITIES.
Capital—
Authorised £12,000,000
in 480,000 shares of £25 each.
Issued —379,121 shares of £25 each £9,478,025 0 0
Less: Reserve Capital of £l2/10/- per share 4,739,012 10 0
Paid up 4,739,012 10 0
Reserve Fund (wholly used in the business of
the Bank) 4,300,000 0 0
£9,039,012 10 0
Pinal Dividend proposed 177,712 19 5
Balance of Profit and Loss Account 126,584 3 7
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Deposits, Bills Payable and other Liabilities, including provisions
for contingencies
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit, Guarantees, etc.) ..
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers .. £4,476,337 11 0
Cheques and Bills of other Banks 1,51)5,548 17 4
Balances with and due from other Banks .... 259,664 15 11
Money at Short Call in London 593,750 0 0
Treasury Bills —Australian Government 7,070,000 0 0
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills)
at or below market value (including £4,000
lodged with Public Authorities)
Australian Government Securities 18,432,829 11 9
Special War-time Deposit Account with Com-
monwealth Bank of Australia 29,316,000 0 0
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit .. 3,729,640 16 1
Loans, Advances and Bills discounted—after deducting provision
for debts considered bad or doubtful
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites—at cost, less amounts written off
All other Assets ".
Contingent Assets (as per contra)
ORWELL PHILLIPS | E. R- KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
ROBERT VICARS, ( uireclors - C. DARVALL, General Manager.
AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKING
COMPANY OF SYDNEY LIMITED.
We have examined the above Balance Sheet and compared it with the books at the
Head Office and with the returns from the Branches. We have verified the Bills and
counted the Cash at the Head Office. We have obtained all the information and
explanations we have required, and in our opinion the Balance Sheet is properly
drawn up so as to exhibit a true and correct view of the state of the Company’s
affairs according to the best of our information and the explanations given to us,
and as shown by the books of the Company.
In our opinion the Register of Members and other records which the Company is
required to keep by law or by its Articles have been properly kept.
Sydney, IGth July, 1945.
C. H. DOYLE
HARINGTON B. COWPEK
| Auditors.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT.
£177,712 19 4
25,000 0 0
304,297 3 0
£507,010 2 4
By Amount brought forward from 30th June, 1944 £122,233 11 2
>, Profit for the year ended 30th June, 1945, after payment of
all expenses of management (including Directors'’ Fees,
£3,750) and provision for taxes and for rebate on current
bills and accrued interest on fixed deposits, and for bad
and doubtful debts and other contingencies 384,776 11 2
To Interim Dividend for the half-year ended 31st December, 1944,
at the rate of 75 per cent, per annum, paid on 26th
January, 1945
~ Reduction of Bank Premises Account
Balance proposed to be dealt with as follows:
To Dividend for the half-year ended 30th June,
1945, at the rate of 7| per cent, per annum £177,712 19 5
~ Amount carried forward 126,584 3 7
£507,010 2 4
ORWELL PHILLIPS
ROBERT VICARS
Directors,
B. R. KNOX, Chairman of Directors.
C. DARVALL, General Manager,
hand, but the total figure must be large.
Consider this comparison with Aus-
tralia’s greatest and also its oldest trustee
offices; —•
Gross
Trusts. Income.
Perpetual (Sydney) .. £64,698,395
T.E. and A. (Melbourne) 35,774,036
Uniort (Melbourne . . ? 131,300
Furthermore, a comparison of the Union’s
own p. and 1. figures suggest a very
heartening and regular expansion in the
volume of business entrusted to the co. s
care, especially over the last half-dozen
years;
Commissions, Exes.p.c.
Interest, etc. Exes.* Earning*.
1925 .. .. £80,658 £59,905 74.1
1930 . . . . 104,567 83,534 79.8
1935 . . . . 91,538 77,483 84.6
1936 . . . . 97,411 82,571 84.7
1938 . . . . 99,595 84,117 84.5
1939 . . . . 103,275 87,725 85.9
1940 .. .. 107,743 92,031 85.4
1941 . . 110,191 94,661 85.9
1942 . . . . 112,087 98,015 87.4
1943 . . . . 116,554 103,553 88.8
1944 . . . . 116,615 103,027 88.3
1945 . . . . 131,355 105,408 80.2
* Excluding reserved for taxes.
The exceptionally heavy realisations
already referred to were responsible for
most of the leap of £14,740 in last term’s
gross earnings. Including provision for
taxation (£10,506, up £6750), exes, took
£9131 of the increase. That left the net
result £5609 stronger at 11.2 p.c. on the
£137,500 of capital as against 7.1, 5.3,
5.8, 7.6, 10 and 9.8 p.c. back to 1939.
Interest and rents turned in £8302 (down
£1159), which suggests that there is very
little profit in the trustee section of the
business these, days. On shareholders’
funds (capital and reserves combined) the
year’s net earnings were 5.7 p.c. A
H p.c. bonus was added to the 6 p.c. div.,
making 7 % p.c. for the year.
Since the purpose for which some of
the controls that are hampering trustee
business has ceased to exist, early relaxa-
tion of these restrictions is called for.
One is the ceiling on share prices, which
has operated as an official devaluation of
private assets and imposition of capital
loss to beneficiaries in cases of forced
realisations. Similar remarks also apply
to restrictions governing the sale and price
of real estate.
The Union’s capital is in 100,000 shares
of 50s. each paid to 275. 6d.; all but
2s. 6d. of the remaining 225. 6d. is a re-
serve liability callable only in the event
of liquidation. When the books closed
freeholds, etc., figured at £140,217, Gov-
ernment securities £60,770, book debts,
etc,, £lOl3, cash £45,739.
After progressive decline since the
outbreak of war, Victorian goldmining
is showing signs of resuscitation. At
26,805 fine ounces for the first half of
1945, production was 22670 z. better than
for the corresponding period of 1944.
Recent entry of Central Deborah to the
div. list has strengthened interest at Ben-
digo. Man-power, of course, is still the
big difficulty, and only 12 quartz, two
dredging and one sluicing co. are operat-
ing. These account for 440 of the indus-
try’s existing labor force, cyaniders, fos-
sickers and prospectors bringing total
employed up to 835. In 1939 the number
was 6170. The experience of the indus-
try during two wars and an intervening
depression is shown in the following
statistics:
1914. 1918. 1930. 1939. 1944.
Men engaged .. 10,390 3550 860 6170 840
Gold yield, ’ooooz. 399 159 24 157 54
Dividends, £’ooo 271 63 4 368 230
Divs. reached their inter-war peak at
£566,700 in 1940, when the Australian
price of gold (£4 4s. lid. in 1929) reached
£lO 13s. 6d. With minor fluctuations, the
price has stuck around that figure since.
* * * *
Golden Horseshoe’s accounts for 1944
show a working profit of £19,812 (down
£660) from re-treatment of 384,810 tons
(down 64,260 tons) Gt. Boulder tailings
on a 50-50 profit basis. Divs. and in-
terest received totalled £1545, and £6500
previously overpaid excess-profits tax was
recovered. After chipping off provision
for income tax, plant depreciation and
paying management exes., Horseshoe’s net
surplus was £7346. A dividend of 3d.
per 3s. share —less U.K. income tax of
9s. lid. in the £ —called for £6932. In-
vestments (market valuation £72,715), cash
(£89,720), debtors balances (£2124) and
stores (£7135) total £171,694. Including
the div,, liabilities total £20,736, leaving
a liquid surplus of £150,958, or 2s. 9d.
per share. Plant figures at £4757. Cyanid-
ing of Gt. Boulder No. 2 dump is com-
plete or thereabouts. Retreatment of
Lake View and Star’s No. 3 dump, esti-
mated to contain half a million tons, is
the co.’s next job. It,is expected to take
about a year to complete. Negotiations
for treatment of other dumps are in pro-
gress. Part of the £165,000 of paid capi-
tal is to be returned at an early date.
R. R. Binns, chairman of both Wiluna
and Gt. Boulder, has joined Horseshoe’s
board in place of Lt.-Col. N. A. Stebbing,
retired.
* * * *
It was pressure of the U-boat cam-
paign and the shipping problem that has-
tened production of crude oil in Britain,
First serious attempt to develop indigen-
ous oil there was in 1918, but it proved
of little commercial consequence. By the
time war arrived a field had been located
at a depth of 2200 ft., and was yielding
about 238 tons a month. The hunt was
intensified and during the war 380 wells,
of which 250 are now producing, were
drilled on 45 different structural areas.
So far 735,000,000 barrels of oil have
been produced, and a total of 735,000 ft.
of drilling has been carried out. Im-
proved drilling technique greatly in-
creased the speed at which wells were
sunk, and conserved materials. Average
time for drilling 10 producing wells
(mean depth 2200 ft.) was 62 hours for an
Bfin. hole, or about 32ft. per hour. It
took only 50 minutes to change bits and
resume drilling at 2000 ft., and about 73-
hours to lay down 4%in. drill pipe and
run and cement the B|in. casing. Use of
an * 87ft. mast, combined with unitised
draw-works, reduced moving time to 12
hours, compared with two weeks in the
case of heavy exploration outfits.
one instance a move was made and 960 ft.
of drilling completed on the new site all
within 24 hours. They are remarkable
performances.


BUSINESS TAKES A HOLIDAY
at the
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON
NEW ZEALAND
Where perfect cuisine ... luxurious appointments ... unobtrusive
service... and a warm friendly atmosphere bring ease and relax-
ation from the tension of wartime travel.
V R A
RADIO, CABLE AND TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS t
“SANGEORGE”
SG.I
f/mow
|(iS«
A
■w
j—=S3>
V-
<cr— zyun,.. ji.
Complete protection against any contingency while
motoring is the key note of Edward Lumley & Sons’
new cover to car-owners. Get particulars early. You
will be surprised that so much can be provided for, at
such a modest premium.
COMPULSORY THIRD PARTY INSURANCE. When the
time comes to renew, send registered papers, together
with cheque for registration and insurance, to Edward
Lumley Scions, who will attend to all details.
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
formerly BENNIE S. COHEN & SON PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St,, and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
Business, Rollery, Etc.
War-time Controls
With the end of hostilities against
Japan there will now be a spirit of in-
quiry as to when Government hostilities
n „ a ; nct „ ■ -I, G ■ u •
Tt V enterpnse will finish m
ustralia. Under the National Security
Act a great deal of unnecessary as well
as necessary Government interference
t i occu . r^ ed the finance and mdus-
trial world, and perhaps m no instance
nAt.virrKio u " necessa f y P art been more
Qt if c 6 f an m th E..f as f °, banks and
Mock Exchanges. The banks are, by
. so ° n to be enforced, to be
trolled m the peace as they have been
m war, with the board of the Common-
wealth Bank replaced by a governor with
exceptional powers. The limitations on
the transfer of shares and upon share
prices quoted on the Stock Exchanges are
at present no more permanent than the
■ Natl P/ iax Security Act, which expires six
months after peace has been declared,
t may be that the Stock Exchange will
o t t e l°^ r ? le f m ° r f ra P ldl Y- U any
li'f!,‘° S° n S u \ c £ nl L ol o£
• , . p ri ces upon the Stock Exchanges
boundaries it would seem
of ihf m ° th p secdoa
er W K J f h
inter State bnvina and Sw US ensurmg
inter-state buying and selling.
Share and Land Prices
Control of share prices is not bound
up with the general control of commo-
dity prices; the Treasurer has had direct
supervision of share quotations, while
g“S P ?T ave C r e . Wl ? m^ e
J r™ ' *‘°“^L P °^ SSOr Co P and ; ,TB C
C°™°nwealth Government intends
co : o PeraUon of the States, in
continuing price control for a period
after the National Security Act expires.
but there has been no talk of continuing
control of the Stock Exchanges longer
than six months after the end of the war.
Extended control of new capital issues
has been mentioned.
Control over the sale of real estate is
another purely war-time measure, and the
powers here have again been vested in
the Treasurer. It has been obvious for a
long time that the prices allowed to be
paid for desirable land and house prop-
erty—usually a Government-approved
valuation or 10 p.c. above official valua-
tion as at February, 1942—-have been
very much under what home-seekers and
investors generally have been prepared
to pay. This position has arisen partly
from the housing shortage and partly
from a desire on the part of investors to
get depreciating money into a fixed, per-
manent asset, sometimes regardless of the
fact that rates and taxes on unimproved
la ° d become extremely burdensome after
a fe\v years. ,
Some States may attempt to control
the price and conditions of sale of land
after P the Commonwealth powers expire,
jq ew Zealand has already introduced
i and . sale contro l by special Act, with the
establishment of committees and a court
to enab i e the conditions of the law, which
partly aims at re-establishing soldiers, to
be carried out. Land values will certainly
re p resen t a problem when the war ends.
j t being undesirable to set up ex-service-
men j n f arm and similar properties at a
cost j n excess G f the economic value of
t he land. At the same time the country
needs to get ba ck to a free market for
a jj types of commodities and assets as
Sool £ as the unusual conditions of supply
and de mand that have been created by
war shows signs of disappearing. Con-
trol of land sales by the Treasury during
this war has been generally unsatisfactory
and sometimes disturbing.
Control of motor-car prices comes
within the scope of the Prices Commis-
sjonerj Professor Copland. Whether this
con trol will be abandoned even if super-
vision over the prices of “essential corn-
modifies” is continued is a question in-
triguing many minds. Quotations for
both British and American post-war cars
suggest that the vehicles now on the road
will have a high value for many months
g> The prices fixed by the Prices
Branch during the war have been far
Ratio Sing 0 f commodities in short
supply has been carried out by virtue of
National Security Regulations. It is
doubtM wheth J shortages of many
ds wiU be overcome within six months,
&
Uniform Income Tax
The Commonwealth Government will
not lose its authority to levy uniform
income tax within a set period after
the end of the war. Its income-tax
right was fought by some of the States
in the first instance, but the High Court
decided in favor of the Commonwealth,
Uniform taxation does not come within
the scope of the National Security Act;
it is embodied in several special Acts. It
remains to be seen whether State Gov-
ernments will approve of the Federal
Treasury collecting the tax and redis-
tributing it after the war, and whether
attempts will be made to “contract out”
even at the expense of a loss of subsidy,
Victoria in particular may object,
But it will be a backward step if uni-
form taxation cannot be made perma-
nent, even though the Federal authority
obviously needs to advance in financial
administrative ability. Prior to the war
overlapping State-tax laws were vexatious
and often most unjust. Though the Com-
monwealth has not been renowned dur-
ing war-time for the justice of its tax
methods, basically the principle of uni-
form income tax is far superior to the
pre-war system of un-co-ordinated grab-
bing.
Man-power controls all expire with the
National Security Act, and already direc-
tion of manpower is in the process of
being revised. Freedom to hire and fire
is being restored in a few industries.
Some other industries are being removed
from the “protected” list. But the haste
with which nominal changes were made
in manpower control suggested a tie-up
with the Fremantle by-election more than
anything else.
If demobilisation of troops goes on
at a fast pace there is likely to be a
shortage of jobs early in the peace ; until
private enterprise is able to rearrange its
productive facilities and plan ahead with
confidence the obvious lag in production
of goods for civilian consumption may
not make its full effect felt upon the labor
market. Ultimately, of course, there
should be a very full demand for labor,
but the change-over from war to peace
may not be smooth either from an in-
dustrial or psychological point of view.
Employers have been bound to re-em-
ploy staff that was called up for service
provided members of the staff desired re-
engagement ; this obligation was for six
months. Ex-servicemen not wanting to
go back to their old jobs are not obliged
to do so. It is reported that the reinstate-
ment regulations have been revoked.
Housing Controls
The powers of the directorate of War
Organisation of Industry will not con-
tinue for more than six months after the
signing of the peace. W. 0.1. has con-
trolled types of manufacture, permission
to establish or expand businesses, per-
mission to build or renovate homes, and
authority to use certain raw materials.
It may be that some of the powers now
exercised by W. 0.1. will be continued by
other authorities —housing, for instance,
may be controlled by State authorities
until the shortage is overcome, or the
States may pass some rights temporarily
to the Commonwealth.
W. 0.1. is immediately revoking its con-
trol over “new manufacture” permits.
The Transport Department is relaxing
“drive-yourself” and some home-delivery
controls. Wine-marketing regulations are
being revoked. W. 0.1. removal of con-
trols over the building of houses up to
£l2OO in value is more a gesture than a
helpful Contribution to the housing
problem.
Exchange control under the National
Security Act will now be replaced by con-
trol by the Commonwealth Bank under
the new banking law. There has been
talk of continuing control over capital
issues by arrangement with the States.
Apparently the Customs Department,
which runs the Division of Import Pro-
curement, will retain restrictive powers
over imports, even if special additional
legislation is necessary.
It will be remembered that the Com-
monwealth Government endeavored to
perpetuate its war-time powers under the
referendum held in August last year. The
people rejected the Government’s appeal,
and rightly so. It was loaded with poli-
tical subterfuge and bureaucratic ambi-
tion. If the appeal had been a straight-
forward one for a limited authority over
price control and over housing the vote
might have been “yes” instead of “no.”
In its appeal, as well as in previous be-
havior, the Administration showed that
it was not to be trusted with great powers.
Up to the end of July the cost of the
Axis war to Australia was £2142 million,
£1396 million of this huge total t?eing
financed out of borrowing and £746 mil-
lion being met from taxation. Total out-
lay on war during the month of July was
£31 million, compared with an average
of £47 million during the peak year
(1942-43) of war expenditure. The war
has more than doubled the national debt
(£2630 million on June 30) and multiplied
Commonwealth income-tax collections
fifteenfold.
* * * *
The Australian nation, now that the
end of the war has come, has a problem
of restoring stability in its political
economy and the productive incentive (as
well as the capacity to produce) in in-
dustry. The basis not only of our present
prosperity but also of social security will
be increased, better-distributed produc-
tion ; distribution must be better both as
to its spread among the people and as to
the people’s ages. The productive must
help the non-productive. But every fit
man in his time should play in both
roles. He should pay for his security. It
can’t be “given” to him,
* • ♦ •
In both Australia and New Zealand
more attention has been given by the
Government of the d£ly to “social
security” than to rehabilitation of industry
and the production of a greater supply of
goods and services for distribution among
the people. Before social security or any
other economic benefit can be given there
must be the means of producing it in-
dustrially and setting it aside economi-
cally. It is comparatively easy to
play round with schemes for “redistribut-
ing” wealth and incomes ; it is a different
problem altogether getting a maximum
number of citizens productively employed
in jobs that help to raise the national in-
come and Standard of living. This fact
is perhaps best illustrated by the state-
ment of Mr. Chifley in Fremantle, in
which he boasted that the present Gov-
ernment in four years 'had done more in
the way of social security than any other
Government had done in the preceding
ten years. Assuming that this claim is
even superficially true, Mr. Chifley in
making it ignored entirely the fact that
during that four years the standard of
living in Australia was never lower (partly
because of war conditions) and that the
post-war outlook, apart from difficulties
created solely by the war, is discouraging
in many respects. Social-security “plan-
ning” of itself has imposed the prospect
of heavy post-war taxation upon the
people, while the Government has grossly
neglected the needs of industry. Plant
has been worked to scrap, rigid controls
have been placed upon types of manufac-
ture, taxation has not allowed adequate
depreciation and replacement provision,
there has been excessive (usually double)
taxation on the earnings of industry, in-
dustrial anarchy at times seems to be con-
doned by the Government, while obstruc-
tions of a great variety of kinds, some
legislative, some financial, have been set
in the path of trade and industry
generally. There has been no keen appre-
ciation of the problems of industry at
any time during Labor’s “social security
and nationalisation” bender. The entire
programme has been. political and para-
sitical, not productive. Wages and
“benefits” have been rising while produc-
tion per individual has been falling.


If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BAKKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Log Soap.
ť
BARKO
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/*'
SKIN LOTION 2/fc
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummovne. N.S
CAPTURE f
UNTOLD PLEASURE
Enjoy that
foot - tingling
rhy th m—
those popular
m e 1 o d les.
The latest
Jazz and
Screen Hits.
Play the
STEEL GUITAR
or
★ Banjo Mandolin
★ Piano Accordion
★ Spanish Guitar
★ Banjo Ukelele
★ Button Accordion
★ Clarionet
★ Mouth Organ
★ Saxophone
★ Piano ★ Violin
★ Old Time Dancing
★ Ball Boom Dancing
with a
Signed Money Back Guarantee
through a
SAMPSON POSTAL COURSE
No need to be clever—no scales or exercises—
beginners same success as players.
Pay for your lessons weekly It you’re
disappointed it costs you nothing.
A wonderful range of imported instruments
to choose from.
Small deposits and weekly payments to any
part of Australia. ALL FREIGHT IS PAID.
Write for your FREE CATALOGUE and details
of lessons. Mention the Instrument you favour.
Sampson’s Dept. K, 481 Kent Street,
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney.
100 used Guitars and
Banjo-Mandolins.
Get up to £lO cash for your old instrument*
Any condition —anywhere. We also give up
to £4O for Piano Accordions and Saxophones.
Write for free valuation.
LEARN AT
HOME
for
2'6
WEEKLY
WANTED!
ŧ
DUPLICATOR
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cf
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
Built entirely in Australia by
TACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BETTY ELIZABETH McLAUGHLAN (formerly
FISHER) late of Merrylands in the State of
New South Wales.—TAKE NOTICE that DAVID
TRAVERS McLAUGHLAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 2301 of 1945 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse during three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 17th day of September
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition free of charge
from MESSIEURS LORTON DUKE & CO. Solicitors
77 Castlereagh Street Sydney. —(1.5.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JAMES HOPE.—TAKE NOTICE that ELVIRA
LUCY HOPE has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
2902 of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance at
the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney
on or before the first day of October 1945 and obtain
a copy of the petition without charge from F. C.
SINCLAIR Solicitor 2b Castlereagh Street Sydney
Solicitor for the Petitioner. —(L.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
BOOKS TECHNICAL . . .
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineerin
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathenfatics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports *
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
■
CD
uu •
• V
ii
i inch of Cane-ite will insulate your home better than
16 inches of concrete or an 8 inch thick brick wall.
CANE-ITE
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
mmr/M
Cool and pleasant In Summer, warm
and cosy in Winter insulate your
home for comfort and health.
Cane-ite acts on the same principle as
a vacuum bottle: isolates inside from,
outside temperatures. Easy to erect,
takes paint, kalsomine, dye or sten-
cilled patterns.
Manufactured by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
{Building Materials Division)
Other C.S.R. Products Slagwooi Asbestos, Plaster Products
The Maoriland Budget
New Zealand’s Budget for the financial
year that began on April 1 was brought
down on August 9, six days before war
ended in the Pacific. War cost for the
year was estimated at £105.4 million,
compared with a peak of £152 million in
1943-44. These figures include lend-lease
and mutual aid both received and given.
A comparison of actual 1944-45 figures
with current estimates is as follows:
Expenditure.
Actual. Estimate,
1944-45. 1945-46.
£mil. £mil.
Navy 6.6 6.0
Army .. .. •• 51.0 38.0
Air Force .. .. ..33.3 31.4
Ancillary .. .. .. 4.9 4.0
Rehabilitation . . . . 1.2 2.0
Reverse lend-lease .. .. 26.7 24.0
Debt repaid U.K. .. .. 6.3
130.0 105.4
Receipts.
War taxes .. .. .. 48.7 49.6
Consolidated revenue 6.2
Lend-lease, etc 24.6 20.5
Sale surplus assets.. .. 5.1 6.8
Loan, U.K 8.5 3.5
N.Z. loans .. .. .. 45.9 25.0
139.0 105.4
The 1944-45 year finished with a surplus
of'£9 million. It will be seen from the
figures that last year, even without tak-
ing into account the higher “booked-up”
cost of American lend-lease goods, the
Dominion provided a greater amount of
mutual aid than it received. A similar
situation is anticipated this year.
Finance Minister Nash has provided
a progressive account of war receipts and
expenditure from the commencement of
hostilities up to March 31 last. Austra-
lian taxpayers would welcome similar
details. Maorilanders were supplied with
the following information:
Receipts.
£mil.
War loans raised 258.2
Less repayments 27.7
230.5
War taxation ..173.6
Consolidated revenue 26.6
Reciprocal aid .. 83.8
Sale surplus assets .. .. • ■ 3.5
Miscellaneous .. 6.9
524.9
Expenditure.
War and other stores .. .. .. 165.1
Pay and allowances .. .. ..141.0
Accommodation, food and clothing.. 31.6
Land, buildings and ships .. .. 31.2
Repairs, maintenance and rent .. 6.5
Medical .. .. .. • • • • 2.6
Educational • • 0.2
Transport .. ... •• . • • l°-5
Miscellaneous non-effective services.. 3.0
Miscellaneous effective services .. 14.8
Total expenditure by Army, Navy
and Air 414.5
Ancillary 32.5
Reverse lend-lease - • • • • • 58.1
Rehabilitation 1-9
Total expenditure 507.0
Balances on hand .. .. ■ • 17.9
524.9
In those figures, it will be noted, lend-
lease and Canadian mutual aid are in-
cluded as war expenditure. It has not
been the practice in Australia to bring
assistance from Allies in as war expendi-
ture, though the cost of reverse lend-lease
has been taken in. Excluding lend-lease
from the N.Z. figures, but including re
ciprocal aid, the cost of defence during
the period was £423 million, of which
£230 million was met out of borrowing
and £193 million by taxation and other
revenues and receipts, lend-
lease figures on both sides, net borrow-
ing represented 43 p.c. of total war
expenditure. ...
Though the termination of hostilities
was imminent when Mr. Nash presented
his Budget, there is no reduction in the
general incidence of taxation. But 20
p.c. of expenditure on new plant and
buildings will be permitted to be written
off over five years and allowed as a taxa-
tion deduction.
With an election not far distant, the
old-age pension will be increased from
325. 6d. to 40s. a week from October
1. Invalids’ and other pensions will be
increased in proportion.- To provide a
minimum family income of £5 a week
during periods of sickness, unemploy-
ment or invalidity it is proposed to pay
benefits of £2 each for the father and
mother, with 10s, for each child. Social
security on the increased scale is expected
to cost the country £22.5 million during
the current year. Last term the cost was
£l9 million, including an outlay on
“medical benefits” of £5.2 million. The
population of Maoriland is about
1,700,000.
War gratuities are to be £3 15s, for
each month of overseas service and £1 a
month for fully-mobilised Dominion ser-
vice. These payments are to be spread
over a period except in special cases.
. Only a brief mention was made by
Mr. Nash concerning the taking-over of
the Bank of New Zealand and the air-
ways system. Apparently he is still await-
ing the “right time and place.”
Mr. Nash said an agreement had re-
cently been reached between Great
Britain and the United States for the pur-
pose of eliminating double taxation of in-
come passing between the two countries.
A similar agreement was contemplated
between Britain and New Zealand
whereby English companies setting up
in MX. would be taxable in Britain on
total profits, subject to a credit of tax
paid in the Dominion on MX. profits,
A corresponding principle would apply in
converse cases.
The housing problem in Australia is
not confined to the building of houses,
grave though that ptrt of the difficulty
is; there is also the matter of transport.
In most cities, and particularly around
Sydney, there are ideal building areas
not supplied with handy transport regu-
larly enough to warrant city workers
building homes there. One step in the
direction of overcoming this disability is
barred— i.e., placing a small atomic bomb
somewhere in the vicinity of those
officials who “control” road transport
under State authority. Long before the
war —again particularly in N. S. Wales
—transport commissars were set up by
State Governments and private bus lines
were either confiscated or made to sub-
mit to Government regulation. Generally
the most that was left to private enter-
prise were “feeder-bus” routes, and it
seems that the issue of licences to those
who propose to open new bus services is
strictly regulated by officialdom. Usually
officialdom doesn’t care a hoot about
any national problem outside its own
particular function (transport authorities
perhaps have more vision in this respect
than taxation commissioners). But the
housing shortage is so serious that State
transport departments must be made to
think in terms other than those of merely
running buses along existing routes. Good
building land along established transport
routes has become very dear, partly by
reason of municipal rating, partly be-
cause of the state of demand and supply.


GX
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Japan's Towel Comes In.
“Ek Dum”; Peace—or what the more
hopeful optimists among those in touch
with world events claim to be peace —
has come to the world with stunning
suddenness.
At the beginning of the month the Pots-
dam ultimatum had barely been received
and scorned in Tokyo. Russia was not
in the war. Commands in the Pacific
were in process of reorganisation. There
had not been even -a whisper of the
atomic bomb.
A fortnight later to the day all was
over. The atomic bomb had become a
shattering fact. Russians in “millions”
had been swarming over Manchuria, ap-
parently travelling 50 miles a day in some
spots while involved in desperate fighting
and setting the last of many “traps.” The
second ultimatum had gone to Tokyo and
—after a suspense which seemed long,
though it involved only days—all the pre-
liminaries were over. Terms had been
exchanged. The Emperor had ordered
capitulation. General Douglas Mac-
Arthur had been appointed to accept the
surrender, with representatives of other
allies, Australia among them, and to im-
plement the occupation of Japan.
Thus a topsy-turvy war, the most wide-
spread and paradoxical in all history,
finished, at least in its main phases.
The week which ended on August 12
saw the combatants poised on the brink
of peace. While the Japanese essayed to
solve the knotty problem of how to
surrender without losing their spiritual
and political basic systems, Allied troops
poured into Okinawa and Domei ner-
vously reported that renewed activity off
the Japanese coasts indicated the possi-
bility of invasion of the Japanese home-
land in the near future.
There Admiral Nimitz and Admiral
Sir Bruce Fraser were cruising in person
with a grim array.
On the afternoon of August 13 Tokyo
Radio broadcast that the Allied terms
had only that afternoon been received
from the Swiss Legation, though the
Swiss declared that they had been made
known to the Japanese ambassador at
Berne on the night of August 11.
The Emperor’s Broadcast
August 14 passed without news, but on
the morning of August 15 all was over.
For the first time in 2600 years of his-
tory a Japanese emperor spoke to all his
people, making the acquaintance of a
microphone. His, was a broadcast which
will probably survive another 2600 years,
since it marked the beginning of a new
age in the history of war and peace. It
appeared that his Majesty, “having
pondered deeply over world trends and
the actual conditions,” had “decided to
effect a settlement of the present situa-
tion by resorting to an extraordinary
measure”:
We have ordered our Government to
communicate to the Governments of the
United States, Great Britain, China and the
Soviet Union that the Emperor accepts the
provisions of the Potsdam declaration.
The emperor continued that he had de-
clared war on Britain and America out
of “a sincere desire to ensure Japanese
self-preservation and the establishment of
East Asia” ; and that it was “far from
his thought either to infringe other
nations’ sovereignty or to embark upon
territorial aggrandisement.”
However, it had been borne in on his
imperial mind that “the war situation”
had “developed not necessarily to Japan’s
advantage,” while general “world trends
have all turned against her interest”;
moreover, “the enemy has begun to em-
ploy a new and most cruel bomb, the
power of which to do damage is indeed
incalculable, taking toll of many innocent
lives.”
Having pronounced the atomic bomb
the decisive factor —a new note in
Japanese propaganda the imperial
rescript asserted:
Should we continue to fight it would
result not only in the ultimate collapse and
obliteration of the Japanese nation, but
also would lead to the total extinction of
human civilisation.
So surrender was decided upon, but it
was held to be neither despairing nor
abject. And the Japanese nation was ad-
jured to “continue as one family from
generation to generation, ever firm in its
faith in the imperishableness of the
Divine Land, mindful of its heavy burden
and responsibilities and the long road be-
fore it”:
Unite your total strength to be devoted
to the construction for the future. Cultivate
the ways of rectitude. Further the nobility
of your spirit. Work with resolution so
that you may enhance the innate glory of
the Imperial State and keep pace with the
progress of the world.
To the tone and wording of the re-
script there were immediate objections
in many quarters.
The World’s Rejoicing
Much of the Allied world at once
stopped work to rejoice.
People in Sydney devoted themselves
for a period to tearing up tons of official
correspondence and telephone books
and throwing the fragments into the
streets for somebody else to clean up.
Even the cry of Dr. Evatt for the treat-
ment of Hirohito as a war criminal was
lost in their wild jubilation. Others,
with a proper sense of the fitness of
things, attended religious services, and
there was a great march of servicemen
and servicewomen through the streets. By
some unfortunate misunderstanding,
American servicemen were left out of it,
though they would have been assured of
a grand reception.
Communiques
General MacArthur in Manila issued
his last communique—the first had come
out in Melbourne on April 21, 1942:
The Japanese capitulation having been
announced, no further formal communi-
ques will be issued from these headquarters.
The Japanese War Minister also issued
his last communique—at second-hand.
Through Tokyo Radio he announced that
General Korechika Anami had com-
mitted hara kiri because of “his failure
to accomplish his duties as his Majesty’s
Minister.” Other leading Japanese fol-
lowed the laudable example.
The final naval-air actions of the war
had been fought on August 15. Before
the order to cease fire reached the
Allied Naval H.Q. the Allied Third
Fleet had launched carrier attacks against
Japanese airfields and other military
targets in the Tokyo area. Twenty-six
enemy aircraft were shot down, including
16 aircraft which came near the Fleet,
contrary to orders after the cease-fire
had sounded, destroyed. Two suicide
machines crashed on Ihya, 30 miles north
of Okinawa, 12 hours after the surrender.
But the enemy in Burma continued to
ignore events and also resisted, while pro-
testing against a landing by U.S. troops,
in the Kuriles. U.S. recce aircraft which
flew over Tokyo on August 19 suffered
casualties.
Japan’s New Ministry
While rejoicing continued in Allied
countries the Japanese Government was
changed, assuming a more markedly
royal and less belligerent complexion. It
was announced that Prince Naruhiko-
Kuni, uncle of the Empress and married
to Princess Toshiko, youngest daughter
of the former Emperor Meiji, had be-
come Premier, with a Cabinet which in-
cluded Prince Konoye, who made some
pacific utterances before the war, and
representatives of big business.
There were delays that looked nasty.
Perhaps they were not unnatural in view
of the scattered nature of the war and the
state of the Japanese capital after persis-
tent air attack.
However, on the evening of Sunday
August 19, Lieut-General Kawabe Taka-
shiro, wearing much gold lace and a very
large sword, led a delegation of 16 Japa-
nese, including representatives of the ser-
vices and Morio Yakawa, Foreign Secre-
tary, out of an American transport air-
craft on Nichols Field, Manila. All save
one delegate were in ceremonial dress.
They were led into cars by Australians,
and were taken to Manila to begin talks
with representatives of the Allies. Among
Australia’s representatives are General
Blarney, Commodore J. A. Collins, Cap-
tain R. R. Dowling, R.A.N., Major-Gen-
eral Berryman and Air Vice-Marshal
Bostock, R.A.A.F.
General Wainwright Found
Meanwhile, in actual fighting areas,
preparations for the closing down of
fronts and the handing over of p.-0.-ws.,
troops and resources were in train. In
the Philippines fighting ended.
In Manchuria, where several thousand
Japanese already had handed themselves
over to Russians, exploring U.S. aircraft
had succeeded in finding General Wain-
wright, the defender of Bataan, who had
refused to escape when given the oppor-
tunity, preferring to remain with his
troops in the hope of being able to nego-
tiate some advantages for them.
Nothing was heard of General Percival,
the commander in Singapore, who had
stood out against surrender even when
the whole of his generals had voted for
it on February 13, 1942, and who only
gave way when civilian pressure was
brought to bear, and when it was obvi-
ous that to hold out would cause the de-
struction of Singapore by bombing and
great loss of civilian life. General Perci-
val and Lieut.-General Heath, his 3rd
Corps commander, stayed with their for-
mations.
On the Fighting Frants
In China the position was nebulous,
with Communist “route armies” rushing to
get arms into their hands in the north and
showing an eagerness to attack the Japa-
nese which had never before char-
acterised their operations. They appar-
ently had been engaged in fighting only
the Chungking Government when the
atomic bombs fell. However, pressure
from some quarter suddenly filled them
with readiness to confer with Chungking
on the day on which the Japanese envoys
reached Manila.
In Burma, it was reported on August
19, the enemy had shown no sign of will-
ingness to surrender. The same defiant
attitude exhibited by the “Provisional
Government of Shonan” at Singapore
seemed to prevail there, despite the fact
that the collapse of Thailand’s will to
war, as announced by King Ananda, cut
off all Malayan and Burmese enemy for-
mations by land.
The three military commands in this
region are those of the C.-in-C., Count
Terauchi, a former commander of
the Imperial Guard, who now controls
the southern armies from H.Q. at Saigon;
General Seishiro Itagaki, who commands
the Seventh Army from Singapore, and
Lieut.-General Kimura, who commands
in Burma from Moulmein.
In Burma British aircraft which passed
over Japanese positions were fired on,
and although Singapore Radio had ceased
to bellow the determination of its provi-
sional Government “to fight on to the
death” it had conceded up to August 20
only that “the war situation is not neces-
sarily to Japanese advantage.”
The Singapore attitude has a lively
interest for Australia, apart from the posi-
tion of Australian prisoners in enemy
hands there and in Borneo and other
places in the East Indies. The garrisons
of the Eighteenth Army in New Guinea
Mandate are under the command of the
Southern Asiatic region, though Lieut.-
General Adachi, who is with his troops
inland from Wewak, is there the local
commander of the Eighteenth “Army.”
Up to August 20 not much headway
had been made in securing the surrender
of the Wewak forces, which are supposed
to number 8000. The rear-admiral in
command on Muschu and Kairuru islands
had refused to give in until direct orders
had been received from General Adachi
or from some higher source. The most
that had been achieved up to August 20
was to establish communication with the
Japanese H.Q.
Bougainville’s Rich Haul
In Bougainville the position was more
satisfactory. General Kanda before the
week-end sent an emissary across the
Mivo to discuss arrangements, with the
result that H.M.A.S. Lithgow, a corvette
of the R.A.N., was sent to Moila Point
to pick up Lieut.-General Kanda and
Vice-Admiral Samejima and bring them
to Torokina to sign surrender terms with
Lieut.-General Savige.
The envoy said that there were 21,000
Japanese in Bougainville and the adja-
cent islands, so scattered that it would
take a month to round them up, but that
cease fire had been ordered at 5 a.m. on
August 16.
There was no news of Rabaul and New
Ireland, where there are supposed to be
50.000 enemy troops —perhaps 60,000
up to August 20.
The Prisoners-of-war
For all practical purposes the war was
over save for the cleaning-up process and
the rescue of the tens of thousands of
prisoners who, with civilians, originally
included about 20,000 Australian.
Though perhaps 1500 were supposed
to be in Borneo a few months ago
building and maintaining an aero-
drome at Sandakan —Sergeant A. M.
Blain, M.P. for the Northern Territory,
was there some time ago and reported
well, serving as orderly sergeant, by
a p.-0.-w. who escaped—very few have
been found. The bulk are in the Singa-
pore and Indo-China areas among the
85.000 who will come within the juris-
diction of the South-east Asia Command,
which is making preparations to succor
them and take them out of 15 or more
prison camps.
In view of the scattered nature of the
camps and the inaccessibility of some of
them, the rescue will be a fairly long job,
but it goes without saying that identifi-
cation and relief work will have first
priority, though it may be some time be-
fore released men come home.
Problems and Nightmares
Though World War II is virtually ended
the problems which lie ahead are not cal-
culated to fill even the most sanguine
mind with joyful anticipation. Briefly, all
the civilised world now has to do to
ensure that tranquillity and prosperity will
rule permanently is;
(a) To maintain in Europe the subjection of
70,000,000 Teutonic people who have seen their
country first battered to bits by bopibing and
then dismembered; to feed those people or
to enable them to feed themselves and to main-
tain the balance of interests between the Allies
in occupation without friction.
(b) To save Italy, starving, broken and torn
to pieces by internal political factions propa-
gated by bloodthirsty gangs of Communists
and their equally bloodthirsty opponents, from
sinking into the dark ages.
(c) To enable France to regain her feet.
(d) To develop relations between the French
and the Germans which will obviate all desire
for future wars.
( e ) To settle the fate of the Balkans countries
without a fatal clash of Allied interests and
without Communist-bred civil wars —in Yugo-
slavia, where the Serbs and non-Communist
members of the Tito Ministry are already
restive; in Bulgaria, where the British and
American Governments have found it neces-
sary to protest against the method by which
“a free election” is to be held under Russian
tutelage—Moscow’s idea of a “free election”
is very different from that of Britain and
America; and in Rumania, where Communists
are also in the ascendant. Tn all three countries,
according to a “Times” correspondent, there is
a movement to the Right.
(/) To deal with Russia’s imperialist aspira-
tions in Turkey and to settle the Arab, Jewish,
Syrian, and Lebanese questions.
(g) To pacify Greece and Egypt—in Greece it
has so far been impossible to agree on a date
for an election.
(h) To determine whether the Baltic is or is
not a Russian sea with its nations virtually
vassal to Moscow.
(0 To settle what the status of Russia shall
be in the occupation of the Far East,
whether Manchuria is to “revert” to Moscow,
and to prevent a Communist-organised civil war
in China, where there seems to have been a
strange conjunction between Communist action
and the Russian entry into the war.
O') To decide how 78,000,000 Japanese in
the Japanese homeland shall ’be fed, since they
cannot possibly feed themselves, arid to police
them under an international arrangement and
prevent them from developing military strength
for a generation to come—in addition to polic-
ing the hundred million or so ex-Axis Europeans
in Europe, the world Communist movement and
a few other menaces.
(k) To dispose of Indo-China and Thailand
(which now professes penitence); to settle the
Indian question and to rehabilitate tens of mil-
lions of people and millions of pounds’ worth
of assets in Malaya, Burma, the East Indies.
(/) To successfully repatriate about 9,000,000
Allied personnel in such a way as to prevent
industrial chaos, and to perform all the neces-
sary shifts of labor contemporaneously.
(to) To settle amicably all the paramount
questions associated with rights to materials in
undeveloped countries, also air-route and air-
base rights, which have become of paramount
importance with the development of the atomic
bomb and cargo-carrying aircraft.
(n) To assure that the atomic bomb will not
fall into bad hands and that there always will
be a defence against it if it does —fortunately
its possibilities so far seem to be limited in
scope to one very rare and unstable isotope of
one very rare metal and to that alone, but
progress moves swiftly in these days.
The Russians and the Communist Poles
are reported already at work to try to
find an antidote, which means that they
also may find a method of making the
bomb, or that they may, through some
mistake, blow Europe up in a series of
running explosions.
Most of the above problems must be
settled before calm reigns and a serene
future is assured, apart from the fact
that savage human nature still has to be
tamed and pride and envy blotted out if
the peace is to be permanent.
There are people who believe that all
these things can be accomplished easily.
Most of the optimists work for daily
papers.


In the Prince Alexanders
BY J. B. B.
WHEN Wewak, last Jap stronghold
on the coast of the Mandated
Territory of New Guinea, fell
the public seems to have
assumed that the hardest part of that
campaign was over. Actually, it was just
about to begin, as the task of chasing the
Nip out of his coastal lairs was a picnic
compared to the job of prising him from
the ridges of the Prince Alexander
Mountains. Correspondents’ reports,
while ludicrously overwriting some phases
of this very minor war, give an inade-
quate picture of the actual nature of the
fighting.
“. .-j. .Three thousand rounds fell on this
hilltop .”
I am at present on top of the highest
ridge of the range. Behind lie a series of
ridges and knolls, up the slopes of which
our infantry has had to fight its way
against well-prepared positions. The hill
is artillery-shattered, and presents a vivid
contrast to the untouched peaks and
ridges ahead, heavily timbered with thick
undergrowth and with vines and creepers
matting the taller trees into a tangled
mass. A few days ago this hill looked
just like them. Then the shells came.
Shelling blasts the tops off the trees,
sending them hurtling down, dragging
with them their network of vines. As the
fire continues there is less top hamper to
cause high tree bursts, so more and more
shells get through to the ground, blast-
ing the fallen debris into an even more
thickly entangled mass which successive
explosions tend to push downhill. More
and more rounds strike the trees near
the base. They topple to the ground,
carrying before them smaller fry that
stand in their path. Among softwoods
a direct hit from a 25-pounder can snap
off a 2ft. tree trunk like a stick of celery,
so it is not hard to imagine the effect of
a concentration of 2000 to 3000 shells on
a hilltop 200 yards long and 100 yards
wide. Add to this the effect of an air
strike which often comes between the
preliminary pasting and the final artillery
concentration, and it is no wonder that by
the time a feature is taken it has been
converted into a bald knoll from which
a few gaunt tree trunks festooned with
broken limbs and trailing vines that have
somehow survived the storm look dole-
fully across the gully to the next ridge, its
timber yet untouched, but destined within
a day or so to be reduced to the same
desolate state.
The real wonder is that human beings
can survive such an ordeal. But'always
some Nips remain with strength and
spirit to resist the final thrust by the in-
fantry. The explanation for this seeming
miracle is the excellent system of foxholes
and bunkers with which the Jap honey-
combs his positions. An uncovered
weapon-pit stands no chance of survival,
and although these are used aplenty for
sentry posts they are obviously not occu-
pied during a bombardment.
Covered are a different matter.
A narrow entrance leads to a wider
chamber roofed with layers of logs.
These can withstand anything except a
direct hit, and even then a delayed-action
fuse is often needed to get results. In
some cases, too, the entrances are sited
among the broad roots of trees so that
the dugout has the added protection of
the tree. On these a direct hit is virtually
impossible, as they are situated on the
safe side of the tree. The occupants may
be shaken and dazed by the shelling;
sometimes an unwounded but stunned
Nip wakes up to find himself a prisoner.
But always there are some left to put up
a last desperate defence. Shelling alone
cannot capture a position.
“ Our troops occupied the hill
against stiff opposition ”
In the early stages of an infantry ad-
vance little opposition is met. The garri-
son is on or near the top and probably
cannot see the attackers for the mass of
wreckage that acts as a screen for both
sides alike. The advance continues,
cautiously probing through, under or
over the debris, until rifle shots, a burst
from a light automatic or the heavier
woodpecker halts them. A section de-
ploys to left or right in an endeavor to
outflank Jhe trouble spot.
If this move is not successful or the
post proves to be a strong one a slight
withdrawal is made and mortar or
artillery support is called for. A brief
pasting is followed up by a quick attack,
which seldom fails. A few Nips are
killed. More are found dead in their
pits, around them strewn a Juki, with a
half-expended belt of ammunition, a
couple of light machine-guns, rifles, car-
bines and a grenade or two saved for a
last-minute suicide which events have
made unnecessary.
Making sure no living Nip lurks near,
the attackers slog on. Their clothes are
soaked with sweat and breathing comes
hard as they struggle Tor a foothold on
the steep, slippery incline. The climb
alone is a battle, even \yithout reckoning
enemy resistance. Once, or maybe twice,
they strike another trouble patch which
is dealt with as before. Nearly exhausted
now, the exhilaration of seeing their goal
near spurs them on. The top is reached
and the mopping-up of the last few de-
fenders completed. Defensive positions
are taken up and the men look around
them for the first time.
The hill they have taken runs down
into a gully beyond which rises another
hill similar to the one on which they
stand, except that its timber is yet un-
touched by war. Binoculars reveal fox-
holes and bunkers on the forward slopes.
Tomorrow patrols will explore the
approaches, and within a day or so the
morning’s events will be repeated there
in much the same detail.
But tomorrow is a long way off. The
immediate job is to consolidate on the
newly-won position. Today’s objective
is tomorrow’s company area and in a few
days time it may be Battalion H.Q., with
our forward troops a couple of ridges
beyond the knoll now just being observed
for the first time. Tally is made of the
enemy dead, but the first count is always
very inadequate. Those accounted for
by the infantry are easily checked, as
are those caught above ground by artil-
lery fire, but not till tomorrow or the
next day will the victims buried in dug-
outs and bunkers by effective shelling be
located. Their detection will not depend
on the visual faculty, but it will be none
the less certain. Medical science knows
nothing deader than a dead Jap.
“ The enimy is having difficulty
with supplies.”
As ridge after ridge is wrested from
the ranges his supply difficulties become
more apparent.
A dead man has only a few rounds of
ammunition on him. His boots are the
worse for wear. His pack is light and con-
tains little in the way of food, though
salt in large quantities is usually present
and sometimes a brown powdery emer-
gency ration. These are becoming
scarcer ; apparently more and more emer-
gencies are occurring. Often his dixies
will contain a half-eaten meal almost
invariably sac sac, now usually the only
item on his menu. He is in much poorer
condition than his mates who were killed
a couple of weeks ago, thinner and not
so well clad. What gear remains to him
is of good quality and bears witness to
how well equipped he was when he in-
vaded New Guinea. His eating utensils
are of aluminium, much lighter than our
own. His clothes are of good material;
though hotter and probably less comfort-
able than the Australian shirt and slacks,
of equal effectiveness in minimising ex-
posure of the body to jungle pests. His
boots are not much inferior to ours; his
pack is very similar. He seems to have
been originally well equipped with medi-
cal supplies and in many cases still has
a small supply of quinine and atebrin
and small brown pills. These sensation-
ally inclined Diggers immediately identify
as opium, but they are more likely the
Nipponese equivalent of our Number
S^nes.
SoWtimes his sleeping pit contains a
mosquito-net; more often not. His bed
is usually a layer of palm-leaves or small
branches laid on the floor of his dug-
out.
In these conditions it is not surpris-
ing that privations and lack of proper
food are taking a heavy toll of him.
There is very little in the way of native
fruits to be found in the ranges, and
the garden areas are now far behind him.
The sago-palm is his only hope. Sago
pudding has never been a very popular
dish, but it must seem a masterpiece of
culinary perfection in comparison with
its poor relation, crudely prepared sac
sac. The Australian soldier has little
but detestation and contempt for the Jap,
but he can’t help feeling a tinge of pity
for his opponent when he finds a glutin-
ous mess of sac sac in the bottom of an
abandoned dixie.
A captured officer who had not eaten
for many days was emaciated beyond
belief by dysentery and malnutrition.
Hearing one of his captors remark that
it was incredible that a man in such con-
dition could still be alive, he murmured
in good English “I’ve got a stout heart.”
His is not the only stout heart among
the enemy.
“... .The ridges command the southern
slopes and the country beyond.”
From where I stand on top of the
range the country is very reminiscent of
the Dandenongs or the less precipitous
parts of the Blue Mountains. To the
west the treetops, dense and uniform,
seem to rise from the gully 600 feet
below in a gradual slope that fades away
into a high range on the horizon.
That is the picture they present at
midday. Towards dusk, when the slant-
ing rays of the sun show up variations
of light and shade, ridge after ridge can
be traced and when the evening mists
rise out of the gullies the true formation
of the country becomes evident.
Under favorable conditions as many as
fifteen distinct lines of white fog swell-
ing up like so many smoke screens betray
as many ridges, reaching like giant stairs
to the horizon. To the south the view
is more comparable to the vista of the
Bathurst Plains, seen from the western
slopes of the Main Range. In the fore-
ground high, timbered ridges, cut here and
there by native bird-traps, quickly give
way to smaller crests, beyond which
stretches a broad plain, a Streetonish
hazy blue splashed here and there with
straw-colored pools that look like lakes;
the binoculars reveal them as huge
patches of kunai grass.
Beyond this plain rises a low range
of hills, on whose hitherside, hidden by
a slight rise far out in the kunai, flows
the Sepik, one of the two mighty rivers
of New Guinea. Further afield still on
the outermost limits of our world, and
visible only on fine clear days, towers a
majestic range of mountains, western end
of the Owen Stanleys, that cleave the
island from end to end and distribute its
waters between the Fly River system of
the south and the Sepik, Markham and
lesser streams of the north.
Eastward there is little of interest —
ridges and peaks similar to those around
us. Behind us lie Wewak and a glorious
panorama of coast and sea, stretched out
like a map below; Wewak Point, a bold
and high escarpment; low, straggling
Cape Worn, of sombre memory; Dall-
man Harbor, curving around to Cape Pus,
beset by swamps. And so to Karawop
and Borken, once flourishing mission
plantations, now merely garrisoned posts
along the coastal track.
Off Cape Worn is tiny Raboin Island,
answer to a week-ender’s prayer. Further
afield is low-lying Muschu, with a vivid
green patch of kunai grass above its
southern shore, looking for all the world
like a well-kept golf links. Beyond
Muschu rises Kairiru Island, seen at its
best in the late afternoon shining out a
rich purple, its towering central peak lost
in the clouds.
Both islands are Jap-held, but no one
gives much thought to them. Beauforts
and Liberators drop occasional visiting
cards, and M.Ls. passing through the
Straits usually loose off a few rounds to
remind the Japs of their uneasy tenure.
Less frequently the Nips are goaded into
firing a few impotent shots in return, but
for the most part a live-and-let-live policy
is followed. Our barges pass through the
narrow straits unmolested, and no con-
sideration of strategy can justify a present
landing on the islands.
“ At night constant watch is kept
against enemy attempts to penetrate for-
ward positions.”
An unwelcome voice rouses you. You
creep out from under your net, grope in
the. dark for your rifle and mooch out to
your post, “Nothing much doing.
G’night,” says the dark figure that owns
the unwelcome voice. He disappears and
you take his place in the weapon-pit.
There is a log in it, and you squat
down and blink forward into the dark-
ness. It shouldn’t be dark. The moon
is up, but the low black clouds have
blotted it out.
Ahead you can see nothing. You know
there is a gully twenty yards in front of
you and a high ridge on the other side
of it, but for the moment a blank wall
of darkness hides them completely. There
are a few trees around you, survivors of
an artillery barrage, and in the gloom
they take on fantastic shapes. From one
on your right a six-foot spider sways in
its web. Beyond it a grisly corpse swings
in chorus from a gibbet, and behind you
the dangling ropes from a giant peal of
bells await the hands of a team of bell-
ringers.
Your eyes have by now become accus-
tomed to the gloom. Not that you can
see any further, but you feel you know
the immediate blackness around you suffi-
ciently well to notice any change in it.
Your ears are identifying the sounds of
the night. The drum-like croaks of the
frogs in the green-watered bomb-crater
impinge rudely on the incessant chirrup-
ing of the crickets and the night-long
twitter of insomniac birds.
This is the background upon which
other sounds are laid. That crash in the
dark behind you is a falling limb. You
will hear plenty of these before your two-
hour watch is over. You think of the
big tree further up the hill, its trunk half-
shattered by a bomb. You wonder which
way it will fall if a high wind proves too
strong for it. The break is on your side
of the tree, but the prevailing wind also
comes from your direction. Anyway, you
decide it is not likely to fall tonight.
. That scurrying in the grass is a rat or
bandicoot, prime scarers of sentries; so,
too, is the black little shape that patters
over the fly of the tent near you. That
melancholy cry in the gully is a bird you
have heard before but cannot identify.
It is never heard in the daytime. The
stealthy footsteps you hear approaches
through the undergrowth are just a trick
of the imagination. Forget them. You
gaze at the slice of darkness in front that
is your particular care apd imagine it
slanting out like a huge wedge of cake
to the horizon.
Somewhere in the slab is the enemy.
Not that he is likely to come up the steep
track that leads to your position. Your
forward company is on the next ridge
and a much more attractive bait for night-
walking Japs. But you remember the
two Nips who were sighted down the
gully today, plucking up courage to give
themselves up. Suppose they were to
appear out of the gloom now with hands
held high. What would you do?
Before you have arrived at a decision
your ponderings are abruptly interrupted
by a rattle of small-arms fire a hundred
yards down the ridge on your right. You
listen intently, but all is silent again.
That’s an easy one to answer. A ner-
vous sentry has loosed off an Owen maga-
gine at a shadow. Tomorrow he will find
a bullet-riddled stump a few yards from
his post.
After an hour on guard all stumps
spring to life and cavort about in a
manner quite foreign to their usual habits.
The shots have made a difference to the
half-sleeping world around you. A
momentary hush is followed by a greatly
augmented chorus from the hidden
orchestra. A new deep double-bass has
broken in on the drums, the fiddlers are
shrilling in an agitato movement, and the
flute obpligato has become a riot of im-
provisation. Five minutes, ten minutes
pass, and it gradually subsides into its
proper role of background music. But
not for long. There is a flash of light
from somewhere behind you, followed
by an angry bark of guns, which echoes
along the gullies. Almost in the same
moment you hear the whirr of shells over-
head —a whirr that slowly fades out as
they speed on their way towards an un-
suspecting Nip. Or is he unsuspecting?
Night after night this harassing fire falls
at irregular intervals on the enemy’s posi-
tions. Its primary purpose is not to kill
him, though if it does so much the better.
It is meant to worry him, to keep him
awake, to wear down his will to continue
the fight. You picture him lying awake
waiting for the next lot of gunfire. It
may not come for an hour ; it may follow
immediately. It does.
Again the sharp cracks reverberating
along the gullies. Again the shells whirr-
ing overhead into the distance. This time
other voices are joined in the din as a
battery to your left and another further
back leap into action.
Harassing fire harasses the gunners as
well as the enemy. In imagination you
read into the angry bark of the guns the
curses of the gun crews kept from their
sleep by these nightly tasks. You listen in-
tently, and, muffled by the ridges between
you and the target, back comes the sound
of the shells bursting in the distance.
You sense the direction and from your
daytime knowledge of the ground you
judge the rounds to be intended for a
small village to the south-west, known to
be the H.Q. of General Harakiri. You
grin as you picture the deputy Son of
Heaven turning uneasily on his couch.
All is silent again, or relatively so com-
pared to the thunder of a few moments
ago. The noises of the night have surged
up to a new crescendo and it is some time
before the orchestra, awakened to new
life by the firing, falls back to its normal
tenor again.
The clouds rouhd the moon have
thinned a little and visibility has im-
proved. The spider stands out more
clearly and swings rapidly to and fro
in the rising wind ; the swinging corpse
does a danse macabre and the bellropes
lash about aimlessly, impatient for
familiar hands. You hear the dull report
of a grenade on your right, followed
by a burst from an Owen gun. You
stiffen and listen intently.
Silence again. You dismiss the ex-
planation that first occurred to you—
that a Nip had exchanged a grenade for
a dozen bullets—and decide on a more
likely one. A falling branch has touched
off a booby trap, and your friend the
stumpplugger has fired at the sound.
Tomorrow he will have a fearsome story
of the Nip he nearly got.
Despite the wind or because of it, thick
mists are rising again from the gully.
Presently the fog stands out, a white wall,
twenty yards in front of you, poised on
the edge of your hill. .
You reflect that anyone emerging from
it would stand out as clear as day. You
think again of those two surrender-
minded Japs and wonder how long they
have been down the gully. They re a.w.1.,
you ruminate. Fancy Japs being a.w.l.
It almost makes them human.
A sharp rat-tat-tat stutters away on
your left. A confused medley of firing
breaks out in which you can distinguish
Bren, Owen, riflefire and grenades. No
nervous firing at stumps time. A
C Continued on page 27.}


atic
W.S. 172.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
in
in
inuiji
r If * 41
Modern high-cbss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden' together with a first*
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE“ Sydney.
Telephones; 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Holding of a special VP-day race meeting
having received official blessing, Sydney Turf
Club set the wheels whirling, and, with good
staff work, had ’em racing at Canterbury last
Thursday and again on Saturday, Very large
attendance on both days had the almost for-
gotten pleasure of seeing altogether seven favo-
rites or equal favorites win. Seven of the total
of 13 races were confined to three-year-olds.
W. Cook, after finishing third in the last
race on Satnrrtav had thp £nod score for three
davs at CaSerhurvof four seconds
fhree thk* and twke unplaS At Ihl otL
Pchcc riEndicsp on the ngeu Foxbridge gelding
hnMle B ri^l'e^Vn^few^ra m ° nths ’
but he udes in few races these days.
‘‘. ’ ‘ *
Round this time of the year owners’ fancies
hghtly turn to thoughts of spring and leading
in the Derby winner. However, none of the
large and assorted bunch of three-year-olds x
that turned out, some of them for the first
time, impressed as likely to lend much reality
to the fancy. About the pick of them con-
tested the nine-furlongs Air Force Handicap,
and, carrying top-weight, the Hannero-Our
Legion colt Chaytor outclassed them, beating
Don Giovanni and the Emborough colt Sou-
venir. The quality of this win was to some
extent confirmed when Don Giovanni on the
second day very easily beat Strauss and Toulon
in a three-horse race, but Chaytor may have
trouble getting the Derby distance in good com-
pany. His sire, Harinero, was an Irish Derby
and Leger winner, but Haripur, Panchio and
others of Harinero’s progeny have not been of
the staying sort. Actually, on present indi-
cations Courtship and Jamelie, if the latter
has been taught barrier manners, are about the
only ones in Sydney who could seriously be
thought likely to trouble Magnificent, and,
with the strong inter-State competition that an
early lifting of transport restrictions might
bring, the Derby chances of some that have
been mentioned seem forlorn.
. . - • • •
Still, while not up to Derby standard, some
of the lately racing three-year-olds do show
promise of less ambitious wins. The Dark
Lover colt Don Giovanni, a consistently honest
galloper, is on the small side, but wiry, and
may win good middle-distance races. At his
first run after a spell, Mt. Howitt, a chestnut
gelding by Broiefort from Reremoa, made very
light work of beating his field, and the Fresco
colt Bobnic, who was a thoroughly beaten third
in that race, subsequently won a similar event.
Also having his first run for a few months in
Mt. Howitt’s race, The Gaekwar, a fine-looking
colt by The Buzzard, finished well back, but
was beaten by his own surplus weight rather
than the 9st. the handicapper gave him. Of
the fillies, Volley (Brueghel-Feneha), Irisp (Talk-
mg Neon) and Standsure (Mi. Standfas
Taiaroa) each won a race and should win mor ,
whde the Golden Sovereign filly Invest ran
place behind each ot these three winners and
was twice less than a neck from the front.
* " ’ ‘ ‘ ’
One pointer for the big spring races was
seen at Canterbury—Gay King’s sterling effort’
to defeat the strong field which turned out
for the six-furlongs Frederick Clissold Handi-
cap, which event provided the most spectacular
finish of the two days. The Royal Step mare
Twice Royal set the pace, and, chasing her all
the way, Gay King, after running her down,
had to hold off a mighty challenge from the
Beau Pere horse Grand Prodige, with Fer-
managh also in it, and unlucky to miss third
money, which went to Twice Royal. By
Coronation Day from Lothion, Gay King is
fairly well down on the latest Epsom favoritism
lists, but, all going well in the meantime, may
take a lot of beating in the big mile.
Another ’ six-furlongs Flying was won, and
won brilliantly, by the Brazen gening Brazier.
With a powerful finish he ran down Recka Oka
and Bruce Wood, who had appeared to have
the race between them. However, Brazier,
now a six-year-old, has yet to win at further
than six furlongs.
* * * ♦
~ .. . _ . „„ , „ , ■
At Mentone on July 21 the South Australian
two S
, . gS tw °-year-old event, and SO he proved,
ut Anste y was heavily backed to beat him.
jKft
There'was p?a^ci“rfreSiCTMoStt
Valiev lasf Satnrd.av a era in in
the betting, and again fourth, this time a long
way b e hu n d the John James-Madam Dumanoir
gelding Edward John, who won in Chatter Lad’s
hollow fashion from Mardi Gras and Dema-
rates. Anstey, who appeared to run a shade
greenly and might well improve a lot, is a Fox-
bridge colt for whom John Wren paid a high
price in New Zealand. It may be some form
of poetic justice that when he returned to Aus-
tralia the buyer passed uncomplimentary re-
marks about current N.Z. form that were much
resented in the Dominion.
, *
best Moonee Valley performance was
Simmering s win in the mile Tullamanne Handi-
cap. By Hellespont, Simmering starts on her
fi fth year with every promise of carrying on
from Tranquil Star as the best mare now racing
] n Australia. Simmering won by only halt a
head from St. Fairy, but staged a very strong
and game finish to do so. Another good run
JR this event was Counsel s third Having his
first race since his Caulfield Cup win last
year, Counsel looked in need of a run or two,
but nevertheless came home in fine style. Both
his and Simmermg’s performances suggested
prospects in this year s Cups,
......
Simmering’s fine win gave Hellespont stock
an excellent double, Vino (a bay colt from Ver-
delo) having opened the programme by de-
fearing Geronimo and The Sirdar so convinc-
ingly as to indicate that the best is yet to be
seen of him. Though well back, Dervish should
do better, possibly at a mile or further,
•
Reperio, who won the main sprint event,
the six-furlongs Macedon Handicap, from New
Yorker and Drum Net, starts his fourth year as
a very useful sprinter. The favorite, Kintore,
broke down when apparently going freely in
f ro nt, and, dropping back, seemed to interfere
w ith Drum Net, who was giving all the field a
jot Q f weight. New Yorker, judged on this run,
should be another of the successful spring dis-
tance performers.
......
Favorite for the mile Ailsa Handicap for
three-year-olds, Big Shot added another to the
imported sire Titan’s many winners with
a ver y eaS y victory over Leryhen and Gay Hua.
The Flyperion blood looks like playing a great
p artj through Titan and his stock, in Australian
breeding. Piccadilly stock has been somewhat
disappointing, but his six-year-old Pickway made
some amends by defeating Kindervale and
Camouflage in the 10-furlongs Ngarveno Handi-
cap> j n t he six-furlongs Maiden for three-year-
finies Dame Dorrie and Rosewood (respec-
tively by Tudor King and Gay Lothario) dead-
heated, with Bon Bibi third,
* * * *
The Randwick Red Cross meeting was un-
fortunately too far ahead to be brought tor-
ward to VP-day, but is down for next Saturday.
Added money is to total £5200, the big event
the mile-and-a-half Prince Richard Birthday
Cup, donated by the Duke and Duchess ot
Gloucester.
The Hua horse Turn Again won the New-
castle Cup as he had won three handicaps in
recent weeks in Sydney, going to the t
early and staying there for the rest of the 11
furlongs. Man o’ War was half a length away,
with a length and a half to Moorland. Books
considered the event so open that the favorite,
Deep Sky, was 6 to 1, with sevens on otter
about the first and second horses.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Three-year-old Handicap: Souvenir, 1;
Chaytor, 2; Don Giovanni, 3. Hobartville
Stakes: Magnificent, 1; Civic Pride, 2 ; Jamehe,
3. Warwick Stakes: Flight, 1; Russia, 2;
Craigie, 3. Campbelltown Handicap: Gay
King, 1; Vermeil, 2; Soho, 3. Prince Richard
Birthday Cup: Shining Night, 1; Wellesley, 2;
Invictus, 3. Glenlee Handicap; Fermanagh, 1;
Active Service, 2; Gigli, 3.
* * * *
S.A. Jockey Club has re-elected Keith Angas,
Keith Lawson and Barr Smith to its committee.
The annual report shows the obstacles that
have to be surmounted before its year’s profit
of £3OOO could be reached: provision for in-
come tax £7OOO, amusement tax £lO,OOO, State
tote tax £18,700. Sydney Turf Club’s first year
panned out: Prizemoney and sweepstakes,
£46,000; taxes, £86,190; profit, £20,483; put
into war loan, £lO,OOO.
♦ * * *
The Australians in England;
The Services XI had some leather-hunting
last week. North of England (which enlisted
a hot XI, including Wyatt, Paynter, Wash-
brook, Pope, Pollard, Duckworth and others)
hit up 438 (Crisfofani three wickets, Miller three
and Roper two). The 34-year-old N. Oldfield,
who hit up 171 in 210 minutes, is one of the
“nearly” rep. players in English cricket. He
began with Lancashire in 1936 and rattled up
101 v. Hampshire, and 110 v. Leicestershire,
then 101 v. N.Z., finishing with 1020 runs for
the season. In 1937 he scored 1667, av. 45.05,
and 1550, av. 37.80, in 1938. The Services
crashed for 202 (Hassett 103, Whitington 20,
Carmody 18) and 147 (Whitington 51, Car-
mody 42). Leg-break and googlie bowler E.
Hollies, of Warwickshire, njade the wreckage,
with 11 for 92, and Pope got 6 for 116. Hollies,
who is 33, was in the M.C.C. XI v. West Indies
in 1936, and got 7 for 50 in the third Test.
In County cricket he took 127 wickets in 1936,
104 in 1937, 95 in 1938 and 110 in 1939. They
were shaping up for the final “Victory Test”
when this page went to the printer.
* * jp *
S.A. Cricket Association has appointed
Don Bradman to the Board of Control
in place of Harry Hodgetts. The other
delegates from S.A. are Middleton, of
Executor and Trustee, who was a promi-
nent batsman about 1912, and Jennings,
who went to England with the 1912 XI
from Queensland, where he was sta-
tioned at the time. Arthur Evans, an all-
rounder for S.A. about 40 years back,
becomes vice-president, also trustee, of
the Cricket Association.
* * * *
“Plum” Warner, who generally keeps
a finger on the English cricket pulse, has
thrown out the tip that the earliest an
English cricket team could visit Australia
would be in the summer of 1947-48,
“After six years of war,” he said, “both
countries have a lot of preparing and
building-up to do. We have to find the
young players who have been in the
Army all this time, and among whom is
material for post-war Test teams.” The
Australian Board of Control is to deal
with international play at its meeting next
month.
* * * ♦
The first inter-State Rugby Uqion
match played for six years at Brisbane
resulted in a meritorious victory for the
Bananalanders, 19-14. The N. S, Welsh-
men found the heat trying, but a terrific
pace was maintained throughout the
game. With veteran skipper Bonis in
the van, the Queensland forwards kept
play as tight as possible and their backs
showed better teamwork. Queensland
scored four tries to two, a fine field
goal by N.S.W. custodian Schomberg put-
ting his side within striking distance.
Randwick lost its place at the top of
the Union table on Saturday, being
downed 17-11 by Uni. Though weak-
ened by the loss of men playing in Bris-
bane, the ’Wicks won nearly every scrum,
but their scratch back line made innumer-
able errors, which played into University’s
hands. Scoring seven tries to none, Parra-
matta defeated Drummoyne 25-3
(penalty goal). Though itself weakened by
contributions to the State side, East regis-
tered a comfortable win over St. George.
17-3, Saints’ skipper Cerutti establishing
a new record by playing his 234th first-
grade game. Other matches: North 16
West 14; Gordon 14, Manly 14. Parra
matta takes the lead, one point ahead ol
Randwick, with East next and then Uni-
versity.
• * * *
Toowoomba Grammar, which turned
out the Queensland G.P.S. football
premiers for 1945, has been one of Aus-
tralia’s outstanding R.U. nurseries for
many decades. Back in 1930-31 the
school footer captain was E. S. (Dooney)
Hayes, later to captain Queensland and
Australia ; one of the many fine fellows
killed while serving with the R.A.A.F.
over Germany.
* * * *
Saturday was a big day for the V.F.L.,
nearly 100,000 turning out to watch the
six games, close on 40,000 of them at the
Richmond-Carlton clash. They picked
aright, being treated to a display of the
Australian game at its best —long kicks,
high marks, brilliant dashes, speed and
fair use of weight. The lead varied with
each quarter, only points between ’em:
in the last quarter Carlton outstayed
the Tigers to win by 13.15 to 12.9. Fitz-
roy, showing better judgment and extra
good forward work, downed the leaders,
South Melbourne, in a fine last quarter
that rattled South and gave ’Roy an
11.16-10.13 win. Footscray, at home to
Hawthorn, and with four losses in a row
to make up for, got to the front early
and managed to stay there by 15.15-
13.11 ; but ’Scray will have to improve to
become a premiership probability. North
Melbourne, 11.17, had no trouble against
Melbourne, 8.10 ; Essendon won a some-
what grim struggle against Geelong by
16.13-14.7 ; and Collingwood took an oc-
casional rest from compiling 17.19 to
allow St. Kilda to gather 5.12.
Though beaten on Saturday, South still
leads, with Collingwood, Footscray and
North Melbourne next, Carlton, Fitzroy
and Richmond nearest of the others. Col-
lingwood v. Fitzroy is the game next
Saturday, and Footscray will need every-
thing between the Maribyrnong and the
Braybrook pub to survive against its old
rivals, Essendon.
Though his side has made a poor show-
ing this season, Fanning, the Melbourne
follower, is leading the V.F.L. goal-
kickers with 60, 13 ahead of Nash (South)
and 15 ahead of Fothergill (’Wood).
Nash and Fothergill are half-forwards,
and Nash is probably the best the season
has turned out.
* * * *
Conway v. Colteaux at Leichhardt had
all the elements of a brawl on the bar-
room floor. Punished in each of the
seven rounds, Colteaux was spared by
the referee, Elliott, who, after inspecting
a badly swollen left eye, decided that it
was unsafe for the young man to con-
tinue. He was not a grateful. He
rushed over to Conway’s corner and
started punching again. One of Conway’s
seconds swung at him and several other
brawls began. “Order” restored, the
“sports” went home, satisfied or dis-
satisfied according to temperament.
Though A 1 Watkins outboxed the Royal
Marine Jimmy Brunt in a 12-rounder at
the Sydney Stadium, the Englishman’s
aggressiveness and heavy punching told
with the referee, who gave him the ver-
dict. The visitor’s work was often rough,
and he was several times cautioned —for
not breaking clean, for butting, palming
and using a “rabbit-killer.” Meanwhile
Watkins connected with many crisp
blows. But the Sydney welter tired in
the last two rounds, and Brunt’s strong
finish may have removed whatever doubU
remained in the referee’s mind.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
On a sunny and blue morning last
week Sydney heafd the whirr of wings
—they were the wings of the bird of
dawning hope—the wings of peace. For
a heartbeat or two time stood still. Then
springes laughter ran through flower and
tree like sunlight through the blowing
hair of a young girl.
The city went gay. Even those whose
hearts wept for some dead brother, father
or son, rejoiced in the general good. The
news came through just after nine
o’clock. The toilers of the city already
at desk or typewriter blithely farewelled
them, and those who were on their way
to work didn’t even say “hello” to their
offices. Along the streets everybody
poured; men, women, girls and boys.
They made for Martin-place. They called
greetings, they waved flags. They sang
snatches of “Britons Never Shall Be
Slaves,” and “Swinging Along the Road
to Victory.” There was a lilt in the step
of even the middle-aged. Cafes, restau-
rants and hotels closed their doors. Soon,
unless for those, like Nebuchadnezzar,
who can eat grass, there wasn’t a bite on
the horizon.
But nobody then seemed to feel the
need of food or drink. There was a
sort of madness in the air. Army lorries,
utility trucks, cars of every shape and
vintage drove loaded with singing flag-
waving, streamer-trailing humans. Young
girls and boys set the pace. They would
suddenly form a ring-a-rosy about a ser-
viceman or two, or maybe even a police-
man, trip it blithely and then dash in
pursuit of other game. Clasping arms,
they danced on the pavements. Some-
times four or five boys and one girl in
the honey-pot, sometimes five or more
girls and one boy. The girls, almost all
hatless and barelegged, wore great fly-
away red, white and blue bows in their
hair, or silver tinsel bows or bandeaus of
the flags of all the United Nations. The
members of a pretty bunch were pic-
turesque in great pink butterfly (and this
is not to mean Madame Butterfly) bows
and pink sashes —all paper. The street
photographers did brisk trade, and at
one corner a woman artist sketched a
dancing group of girls.
Nor did the girls have it all their own
way in adornment. Along the street,
ankle-high in the torn scraps of paper
that is war-time’s makeshift for confetti,
young boys and men in a great hurry
about being happy passed like wind.
They were flying flags in their lapels, or
wore wide bandeaus printed with flags.
They wore bits of drapery that floated
cape-wise on the air. A slim youth had
a twist of something in brilliant red across
one shoulder. He might have been a
toreador. Another bore across his chest
a bit of bunting that carried the slogan
“Buy Victory Bonds.” A chap in uni-
form introduced himself to the world by
wearing the name “Freddo” printed in
white across the back of his tunic.
Over all the loud-speakers blared forth
dance tune and song. They played “The
Lambeth Walk,” and some quite staid-
looking men and women tossed the head
at Time and broke into step. In short,
the city was happy. And even in the
height of the tumult about ten o’clock
thousands thronged the churches, and
little groups gathered at the Cenotaph,
and flowers began to pile high about the
revered memorial, now planted with many
small white remembrance crosses where
the tom-up poplar grew.
After the first wild transport many
sought the cool tranquillity of the
Domain and the Gardens. Along Mac-
quarie-street they paced, girls and boys,
their arms about each other’s waists.
Young mothers and ex-servicemen fathers
walked arm in arm, sometimes a small
son toddling, holding his father’s fingers.
A barelegged girl walking with a soldier
wore an anklet of New Guinea shells,
another had a narrow plait of red, white
and blue paper about hers. On a green
patch in front of the Mitchell Library
a group of girls, hand in hand, danced
around a young man. Suddenly he
swooped and tried to kiss one. Then,
laughing, still hand in hand, the dryads
ran away, sunlight glinting on bright
heads, into the greeny shade of the
Domain. Along the garden ways where
trees of peach-blossom burned pinkly in
the breeze little family groups munched
sandwiches. On the grass beside them
lay the children’s flags: the Union Jack,
the Stars and Stripes and emblems of
other friendly nations.
Nightfall brought a quickening of the
tempo, and with some a heightening of
the temper. No wonder at this, for many
had been without food since their break-
fast. The Archibald Fountain in Hyde
Park had an irresistible lure for a man
who dragged in one or two others to
join him. However, he was firmly dealt
with by onlookers. Groups from broad-
casting stations kept the fun going at dif-
ferent points. In between turns they led
thousands in community singing. All
over Hyde Park echoed the strains of
“Put Your Arms Around Me, Honey,”
“For Me and My Gal,” “Danny Boy”
and such favorites. The crowds in
Martin-place were so dense that pressure
broke two plate-glass windows. People
collapsed, and a man and the girl beside
him were hurt by a bursting hunger.
Everywhere were milling humans.
Searchlights swept the skies. On the pol-
ished glass of the Harbor great ships at
anchor blazed with light, and the busy
little ferries went gaily about their occa-
sions. An illuminated dragon led by
small Chinese boys wriggled through the
city ways from Oampbell-street, His
passing is symbolic of good luck. In
short, Sydney very happy, almost entirely
sober, and (the police say) very orderly,
knew there was a Peace on!
The best spot to view the Victory
March, which was the dazzling star of
the second holiday (Thursday), was from
Queen’s - square or its neighboring
corners. Just across the way is Hyde
Park, opposite, the impressive pile of St.
Mary’s Cathedral, and at the back, rising
above King-street, the bronze spire of St.
James’s. Seventy thousand servicemen
and servicewomen were in the march,
and to see them stepping out with swing-
ing step was stirring. It brought a mental
picture of hard danger passed, of bitter
scenes in Malaya, of triumphant sacri-
fices of Tobruk and El Alamein, of the
1914-18 campaign.
Clear, sweet and loud pealed the bells
of St. Mary’s where Archbishop Gilroy
had said the Thanksgiving Mass. There
were honey and heather in the skirl of the
pipe bands. Alert marching airs came
from the drums and the brasses. Flying
low against the grey sky, ’planes buzzed
and roared. Like wild geese they flew in
single file. With great cunning they
formed between sky and earth a VJ.
Lieut.-General Gordon Bennett led the
march in which flashed the uniforms of
all the United Nations. Here were
V.Cs., disabled soldiers, the R.N., the
R.A.N. Marine bands, an upstanding lot
of Maorilanders (and what flag waving
and cheers greeted these, our neighbors!),
a handful of men of the 1914-18 sub-
marines. The crowds stretching from the
Mitchell Library, along Martin-place,
George, Market and Elizabeth Streets,
and so to the Domain, were hundreds
of thousands strong. Finally . into the
Domain went marchers and watchers.
Here* the green grass was completely
hidden by humans. As far as the gaze
could reach were vast crowds. The tops
of the waiting motor-cars and here and
there a tree gave better view-points to the
daring. Here, led by its ministers of
religion, Sydney lifted heart and voice
to heaven in a thanksgiving service of
hymn and prayer. Archbishop Mowll
gave the address.
Elaine Johnston, of Burwood, pictured
here, is one of the voluntary workers from
the British Centre who are helping with
the Orchid Exhibition to be held at Beard
Watson’s on September 12, 13 and 14 in
aid of the British Centre. The exhibition
will be opened by Lady Jordan.
A recent wedding at All Saints’, Parra-
matta, was that of Nea Margaret, third
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. A. E. Young,
of Rydalmere, to Sergeant Edwin William
Simmonds (R.A.A.F.), only son of Mr.
and Mrs. A. W. Simmonds, of Concord
West. Bride’s father is president of the
N. S. Wales Hockey Association. Three
of his daughters, Nea, Joan and Edna,
play “A” grade hockey with the Noel
Hockey Club at Rushcutter Bay.
From Melbourne
The scene outside The Bulletin office
on VP-Day was one which will live long
in the memory of those who watched it.
As soon as the news came through
workers from offices and factories
poured into Collins-street and began cele-
brating. Soldiers, sailors and airmen
were captured by groups of girls,
surrounded, cheered and kissed. Soon
the strains of “For They Are Jolly Good
Fellows” were caught up by the crowd
and the din was terrific. To add to the
confusion students from the University, in
gowns which streamed in the strong wind,
crocodiled through the crowd. A soldier
with bagpipes skirling was greeted with
joy as he marched down Collins-street,
and he was followed by many people. The
lighted windows of shops (for after years
of war the lights are on again) added to
the gaiety of the night scenes. Sober-
minded citizens went to church and gave
thanks to God for deliverance from a
terrible enemy.
Alannah Coleman, pictured here by
Athol Shmith, is managing the Con-
temporary. Art Show opened by Joris
Ivens at the Myer Gallery. Alannah is
well known as an artist as well as being
a very good-looking lass with a flair for
dressing.
For one solemn hour 2000 citizens of
Melbourne stood in the grounds of the
Shrine of Remembrance and, led by the
Governor of the State, Sir Winston
Dugan, gave thanks for the ending of
war in the Pacific. The wings of many
aircraft shone silver in the sunlight. A
choir of 3000 led by Prof. Bernard Heinz
sent a mighty volume of sound soaring
heavenwards. Mayor Nettlefold spoke
of the greatness of the leadership of
Churchill.
While peace celebrations were in full
swing all over the city and suburbs a
group of women spent an afternoon rais-
ing money for A.C.F. Mr. and Mrs.
Gray Staley placed their home at
Brighton at the disposal of the committee,
and Mrs. Staley made many of the cakes
served at afternoon tea. The party was
given to advance Pam Forster’s “Miss
Australia” candidature. Pam, with her
friend Gabrielle Livingstone, secretary of
the appeal, went into the kitchen and did
a grand job among the dishes. She also
presented each member of the committee
for the party with a spray of spring
flowers. Behind the scenes many well-
known women worked, among them Mes-
dames Aarons, Ayling and Freeman.
Hazel Honeyman, whose black frock had
gold studs decorating the shoulders and
whose smart black hat sported a gold
buckle, was busy with the chocolate
wheel. Mrs. Cyril Knight, who helped
her in this venture, gave a black frock
uplift with a red hat. Mrs. George
Haines was one of the prime movers in
the afternoon’s work, and the youngsters
also did a good job. The afternoon re-
sulted in over £lOO being raised.
The Pageant of Nations arranged by
the International Club of Victoria struck
a responsive chord in the hearts of a large
audience at the Town Hall. Led by
classical figures of Peace, Hope and
Unity, the various nations, represented
by groups of young men and women
wearing gay national costumes, entered
the hall. Each group was preceded by a
tiny child, for the motif of the pageant
was “A little child shall lead them.” Each
child, with outstretched arms, offered her
nation to the statuesque figures of Peace,
Hope and Unity. All nations were repre-
sented either by a flag or by groups.
Amidst all the color and the bizarre
gowns, music and dancing, it seemed it
was the pipers and the lasses of Scotland
who captured the heart and stirred the
imagination of the audience. As these
kilted lassies danced their reels they dis-
played a grace and lightness not eclipsed
by exponents of the ballet. The tiny
kilted figure who led them was about
three years old. She, too, danced a High-
land fling.
A feature of the evening was folk
songs, given by various groups, among
them ‘ chansons of France. Mile.
Lilianne Gay, dressed in the Tricolor,
sang these. In her group were girls
dressed to represent the French colonies.
The Netherlands group was another
which found favor in the eyes of the
audience, and the members of the Malta
group received an ovation as they
marched behind their flag, which has
been altered to include the George Cross.
Seated among the audience, which in-
cluded Mayor Nettlefold and Lady
Mayoress Campbell, was the Commis-
sioner of Malta, Captain Curmi. Presi-
dent of the International Club, Mrs.
Herbert Brookes, wore a sable cap over
her black gown, and also in the audience
were consuls of the nations represented
in the pageant. Consul for the Nether-
lands, Colonel Wright, was with Mrs.
Wright, her pretty grey hair harmonising
with the soft blue dinner-gown seen be-
neath her black evening wrap. Margaret
Campbell was another who chose a soft
shade of blue, and over it added a fur
cape in which she pinned gardenias. Mrs.
M. R. McMillan and Milton R. Mitchell
were responsible for the pageant.
Peace-time celebrations coincided with
the birthday celebration of Alice Wyatt,
whose many friends gave her a surprise
dinner party at the Australia. This was
well deserved, for Alice has been giving
parties for other people most of her life.
Her most notable effort was the party she
gave the first batch of W.R.N.S. who
came to Melbourne. Over 30 places were
set and when the loyal toast had been
drunk the toast of “Alice” was given by
Ken Luke. It had been discovered that
the only thing Alice craved was, “of all
things, an inner spring mattress.” Amid
much hilarity, such a mattress was pre-
sented to her. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell,
an old friend, was among the guests.
Plenty of color was provided by the floral
decorations and the hats worn by the
women guests. Mrs. Frank Watts chose
a small blue and pink feather hat to go
with her black frock, and Valda Luke,
with a hat of the same tonings, was in
black with silver-fox furs. Isobel Green
set off her grey hair with a small hat of
pink and blue feathers and repeated these
tonings in the corsage pinned in her black
frock. Pearls and tiny beads formed the
deep collar on the black velvet frock
worn by Marjorie Spry.
It was a husband and wife party, the
only exception being Wallace Mitchell,
who through illness was unable to be
present. Later, most of the guests went
on to the Ken Lukes to celebrate peace.
Among these were Mr. and Mrs. Arthur
Crofts, the latter chic in black with a
high red straw hat trimmed with lots of
matching veiling. Leslie Potter was hat-
less and wore her hair in Edwardian style,
softly waved at the back. She, too, wore
black.
Mrs. T. J. Ryan, after many years’
residence in Melbourne without a holi-
day, is visiting Queensland. Well known
there as wife of a former Premier, she
will renew many, old friendships. In Mel-
bourne Mrs. Ryan is representative of
the Queensland Government and is also
known as the mother of Jill Lambert,
wife of pianist Raymond Lambert. Mrs.
Ryan, a member of many committees, is
one of the pillars of Red Cross, and in
the northern State she will visit many
Hamps and hospitals.
Beaumont and Fletcher’s “The Knight
of the Burning Pestle” was the play
chosen by Queen’s College Dramatic
Club ancl produced by Keith Macartney
at the Union Theatre. A play of the
Elizabethan period, it features the
Rabelaisian humor of its age, and some
of the lines brought a gasp from the
large audience. For scenery there was a
background carried on and off by two
pages. An audience (included in the
play) sat on either side of the stage. As
a member of this audience Ruby May
gave an excellent portrayal of a gossipy
wife of the period. With her stage hus-
band she interjected and at times directed
the play, choosing the plot and how she
would have it played. Madrigal singers
added atmosphere and a Maypole dance,
arranged, as were the other dances, by
Joy Youlden, was gay and colorful.
Robin' Mackay was a delightful Princess
of Moldavia and Margaret Cochran, with
Major John Allan, whose duties have
since called him back to England, were
interested members of the audience.
Others were Mrs. Colin Mackay, whose
black frock was worn with a small black
hat, trimmed with pastel flowers, and Mrs.
James McDougall, an elegant figure in
black with a squirrel coat.


as finish does
In the post-war home there’ll be lustrous white enamel fixtures
and fittings, glistening snowy surfaces of refrigerators, cookers,
cabinets, suites and appliances. Though it is the external beauty
that will be apparent to all—the finish can, after all, be no better
than the steel sheet which it covers. That is why the best and most
durable as well as the most beautiful vitreous enamel will be on
the special Comrol Enamelling Steel Sheet.
- . TJZ
W 5
"or information about this special sheet, write
to the manufacturers.
9.
9.
STEEL SHEETS
COMMONWEALTH ROLLINS MILLS PTY. LTD. : Head Office and Works: Pork Kembla. N.S.W.
ARMCO (AUST.) PTY. LTD., GENERAL SALES AGENTS:
SYDNEY: Kembla Building
MELBOURNE: Temple Court
ADELAIDE: C.M.L Building
BRISBANE: Victoria Chambers
PERTH: John Lysaght (Aust.) Pty. Ltd,
WELLINGTON, NX: John Lysaght Limited
Public Notice.
I WILLIAM GOSSEN, of German nationality, born at
Cologne, Germany, and resident 32 years in Australia,
now residing at Main Street, Capertee, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality A
1920-1936.
Le«ral Notice.
RUTTLEY ELSIE (possibly known as ELSIE CLEM-
ENTS or by another name) formerly of AdamstOT
near Newcastle N.S.W. a daughter and a
ficiarv under the Will of the late JAMES RU
of Adamstown Colliery Proprietor By Order of sth
November 1943 in suit in Equity No. 238 of 194
between John Leslie Adam Plaintiff Frederick
Paul Ruttley and others Defendants Suprem
Court of New South Wales has directed the Master
in Equity to inquire who is entitled to the share
the residuary estate of the late JAMES BUTTLE
which was bequeathed by his Will to his daughtc
ELSIE RUTTLEY Any person who has any inior-
mation as to the present or past whereabouts of t
said ELSIE RUTTLEY or any information which
may lead to her discovery or which may show or
tend to show that she is alive or dead or any infor-
mation as to whether she ever married or as to me
whereabouts of any husband or child or grandchil
of the said ELSIE RUTTLEY is requested kindly
to advise the undersigned without delay and P ar iiod"
larly on or before the 28th September 1946 ANU
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN to the said ELSIE
RUTTLEY and to all persons who may claim to be
entitled to her said share in the said estate that she and
they respectively are to send by post prepaid to the
undersigned at the address given below so as to
reach them on or before the 28th September 191®
their full names addresses and descriptions and full
particulars of their claims in default whereof she
and they may be excluded from the beheflt of the
said proceedings unless the Court or the Master in
Equity on application otherwise orders Any claimant
to the said share not residing in New South Wales
must send with the said particulars of claim the
name of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent Claimants are
to attend personally or by Solicitor before the Master
in Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street
Sydney on Tuesday the 30th October 1945 at 11
a.m. being the time appointed for proceeding in the
said inquiry and for adjudicating upon the claims
which must be supported by proper evidence.
PERCY L. WILLIAMSON & CO., Solicitors, 3i»
George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
SMOKE-OH!
“Corset Restrictions Slackened.”
—Hobart “Mercury-”
Ah, that’s a relief!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“So far, so good, and now let’s see about
exercising away those curves, too.”
—“New Idea.”
Now, girls, let’s get this straight.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Selfishness of any kind has a shrivelling
effect.” — “New Idea.”
Except on bank balances.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Man required about 50,000 years to develop
a chin.” — “World’s News.”
But he can double it in no time.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Discord.
No sorrow, darling, do I find
On being told that love is blind;
But here’s the fact that I’m deploring:
Love isn’t, deaf —I heard you snoring!
Nat.
The Hog Derby.
“The United States Patent Office has granted
a patent number to Leo F. Buck, whose nation-
shattering project is to use pigs to replace
horses as racetrack attractions.”
—“Daily Telegraph."
They’re off! and the first to show out
is The Grunter, closely followed by
Oinck; then come Flitch, Rolf (the pig
they couldn’t kill). Bloater, Susie and
Solomon’s Delight in that order. Round-
ing the turn Oinck tries to boar in, but
The Grunter hogs the rails and stalls him
off.
At the furlong mark Solomon’s De-
light dashes past Susie (the saddleback
sow from Sappin) who is now running like
a ham, and Oinck outpaces The Grunter
for the lead. Bloater (the lordly boar
from Grimlow) looks like rising to the
occasion, but no: as they enter the
straight someone leans over the rails
flourishing a butcher’s knife, and Rolf,
squealing like a stuck pig, races to the
front, with Oinck lying second. Flitch
now makes a desperate run on the out-
side, but appears to be too late to bring
home the bacon.
The crowd is on its feet! It’s hard to
separate them, but I think Rolf wins by
a snout from Oinck, with Flitch about
three rashers away third. Then come the
rest, bunched together, except The
Grunter, who finishes a bad last amidst
ironic cheers from the disgruntled suckers
who backed him.
D. H. E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“A number of hogs is called a sounder.
—Weekly paper.
And the greater the hog the louder the
sounder.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Post-war mail ’planes are to have automatic
pick-up devices.” — Announcement by P.M.G.
Sort of super-hostesses?
So Why Not?
“Went to live in a shed.” — “Truth."
He isn’t fussy, so they say :
He’s out all night and home all day.
But all our interest soon fell flat:
It turned out he was just a cat.
Looby.
“Have women always displayed a reluctance
to reveal their span of years?”— “New Idea.’
Adam probably ribbed Eve about this
very thing.
. 4* + 4*
“Wanted, a small man’s suit, in exchange
bush land.” — “S. M. Herald."
Measurements must be satisfactory, of
course.
4 1 4* 4« 4*
Fish Story.
“Had Sardines: Month’s Gaol.”
—“Sydney Sim.’
He had sardines, this foolish man,
Despite the interdict or ban
Placed on them when the war began..
Now he himself is in the can !
P. M.
4• 4* 4* 4*
Caledonian Stern and Wild.
“At half-time during every match he plays
in a Sydney Soccer player is handed by his
Scottish mother a marrow-bone and a spoon.
Mother trains him on bree, pease brose, Scotch
kale and haggis.”
The history of sport is liberally studded
with examples of Caledonian toughness.
The first Scottish team to meet the
Sassenachs at Rugby were shocked to see
their opponents pansily sucking lemons at
half-time. Each braw lad frae the Hie-
lands was handed a pineapple, which he
chewed up, top, skin and all. In every
scrum after the resumption the three Eng-
lish front-row forwards were licked in
two senses by their doughty opposite
numbers. After the match they were
taken straight to hospital to undergo
extensive skin-grafting.
It was Crankie Mcßawbee, the great
Glaswegian golfing pro. who early learned
the value of oysters as a source of
strength, stamina and grit; particularly
of grit. Before starting off in big tourna-
ments it was his invariable practice to
Jiave his caddy line up for him six dozen
unopened oysters. The bivalve’s hinged
overcoat he accounted even more palat-
able than the slippery inmate. Having
crunched the lot off, he would wash them
down with a dipperful of mountain dew,
and would then drive off from the first
tee.
Crankie would account himself hope-
lessly out of form if he couldn’t thereafter
belt the pill across a loch and thence over
a burn, a haugh, a firth, a forth and some-
times even a fifth. During the round, too,
a few pocketfuls of oysters, which he used
in place of chewing-gum, helped him to
concentrate, while the crunching of them,
especially when his opponent was trying
to sink a 20-footer on the green, was not
without a certain advantageous psycholo-
gical effect.
It is not generally known that the haggis
served a dual purpose in the training of
Usquebaugh Mcßamfeezle and enabled
that famous athlete to break the Scottish
throwing-the-hammer record.
He prepared for it by throwing around,
and then eating, haggises so soft that they
could be easily cut with a hacksaw. As
time went on he used haggises which were
more matured, until a few months before
the sports meeting he was tossing around,
and off, old and tough haggises which
after lengthy captivity would defy any-
thing short of an oxy-acetylene blow-
torch to crack even the outer skin.
Before eating them Usquebaugh had
them dropped on him as he lay on his
back, at first from as low as 200 ft. and
finally from the top of a mountain, thus
strengthening his stomach muscles. He
insisted on using a 1001 b. ball, and so
great was the momentum he worked up as
he swung round and round that after he
had thrown it out of sight he couldn’t
stop whirling. He finished up boring
himself so far into the earth that they
had to commence drilling operations to
recover him.
It is, however, in training for Scot-
land’s most strenuous sport, pibroch-
skirling, that the Caledonian is called
upon to display his greatest toughness,
for it must be remembered that playing
demands even greater endurance than
listening.
To toughen up the throat, so necessary
to sustain a long burst on the pipes, por-
cupines are eaten raw —only elderly and
fretful porcupines, anxious when handled
to make full use of quills that won’t bend,
are used. Razor blades are eaten in place
of puddings, ensuring that no loose pieces
of tonsils will be left dangling to perhaps
become caught in the mouthpiece when
the player makes a big blow.
Breathing practice usually takes the
form of hopping into a deep loch with
a heavy weight tied to the ankles, after
instructions to a diver to descend on
receiving a signal. Just before the
championships start the diet is switched
to wirrahs, emu thighs and restaurant
steak specially imported from Australia.
It is this last item which wears down
the bagpipe-blower’s teeth and thus ad-
mits of a terrific long blast that can cause
the elimination of all animal, bird and
vegetable life within a mile radius of the
scene of the contest and make necessary
bagpipes with wire-woven leather.
80.
Beauty and the Beach.
“I agree that there is nothing indecent in
human bodies, but anyone who’s seen a beach
in summer should know that only a small per-
centage are beautiful.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Not every man who walks the Corso
Looks like Adonis with the torso
Of Hercules, for padded suits
May change weeds into husky brutes.
But nothing half so well debunks
Such masquerades as swimming trunks
Or robs the fat of slim pretensions
By showing up their true dimensions.
And when on Bondi’s promenade
Milady bares what once was barred
Not every lass that I and you know
Can boast the noble form of Juno.
So, girls too plump and too athletic.
If you would charm man’s sense (esthetic,
Don’t aim to be bare A phrodites —
Trot out sheer hose and satin nighties.
D. H. E.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
A Soldiers View of It
Seven years of active service in two
wars have convinced me that little is wrong
with British methods and the British
Empire.
When we sailed for the M.E. early in
’4O it was hoped our return would mark
the end of aggression and totalitarian
methods. In this we were disappointed.
Japan changed the whole outlook of
Australia. We became a threatened
nation, and Communists, driven to
earth by the previous Government,
emerged like a plague of mice and started
to gnaw into the vitals of our national
structure. Through coal strikes and
labor stoppages, they gradually assumed
control of key industries, then of ' the
A.C.T.U. No doubt they will try to rule
our lives on demobilisation.
Unfortunately for them, the A.I.F. is
composed of men with red corpuscles,
men who have fought and held their own
in many different spheres of warfare.
Just watch how they will fight to retain
the ideals they went away to defend.
Just watch how they will fight for the
right to have a job to keep their wives
and families. Watch their reaction when
shown the gunyahs they will have to
occupy while Communists live in ill-
earned comfort.
We of the A.I.F. are not in the least
bit interested in how Russians live nor
in the methods they adopt to earn a liv-
ing. We do, however, have a very
healthy interest in how Australia lives
and works, and also what makes it go.
Personally, I wish to live in peace and
security after the war, and, from what I
have seen, so do servicemen in general.
We know what we fought for and we
know our rights. We are tired of being
strangers in our own towns; almost, it
can be said, strangers to our own wives
and families. We are tired of hearing how!
our families have had to support black
marketeers, to submit to the tyrannies
of petty officials with their myriads of
forms; tired of hearing about muddles
in the marketing of food, of little pre-
paration being made to prepare homes
against our return.
We are disgusted to note swaggering
union officials throwing their weight
about and ignoring constitutional law and
order. All this must end.
It just needs the unions to refuse
tickets to returned soldiers, to disagree
with the posting to industry of partly-
trained ex-servicemen in order to assist
their rehabilitation, and the resultant ex-
plosion will see the last of them as at
present constituted, and also the Gov-
ernment which nurtured them. — Gart-
more (A.1.F.).
Social Justice
The cessation of hostilities should
enable the Australian nation to review
the manner in which it was served by
its components during the years of war.
Nurses, teachers, transport workers and
other groups, who cheerfully endured
additional burdens because of their sense
of national duty, should "have their in-
comes substantially increased.
Conversely, coalminers, slaughtermen,
wharf-laborers and others who, with
selfishness and disregard of their coun-
try’s plight, repeatedly retarded the war
effort and increased the hardships of civi-
lians, should have their wages drastically
reduced. Such a step would reward the
deserving and punish the undeserving in a
tangible way, thereby achieving a measure
of social justice.— Fiat Justitia (N.S.W.).
Queensland’s Regional System
Queensland’s Labor Government is
planning a new muddle. A committee of
three—Clark, Kemp and Robinson, from
the Bureau of Industfy—has made recom-
mendations and has mapped Queensland
out into 25 regions, each having a cen-
tral town. The object is the amalgama-
tion of local authorities as they now
exist into regional authorities, to control
social services, town planning and so
forth. It is evident that local authorities
as now constituted will be abolished, and
that the central town of each region will
flourish at the expense of outlying and
remote districts. The notion seems to
be that the grazier will leave his sheep,
the farmer his stock and implements, and
go to the centre for “social life.” They
won’t.
But the population will be more and
/ more centralised. The roads and streets
in outlying parts in each region will be
neglected; the road-making gangs will
oft-times be idle while their overseer
hies off to the far-away centre for this
or that part of machinery. And the
farmer-ratepayer, burdened with rent,
rates, interest on the mortgage and taxa-
tion, will have to pay for this fool idea.
The Bureau of Industry committee and
Acting-Premier Hanlon have lost sight
of the main function of local govern-
ment, and a storm of protests from all
parts of the State is rising in volume.—
H. B. (Q.).
Superannuated
Let me add my protest to “Mid-
Channel’s” (B. 25/7/’45) anent the raw
deal served out to superannuated Com-
monwealth employees. It was compulsory
for us retired employees to subscribe to
the fund, and many of us lived very
frugally during our employment so that
we might live free from want during
old age. Now we find that our pensions
have shrunk 25 p.c. owing to the increased
cost of living. ,
In addition, many are paying income
tax on the gross pension, which includes
the Government’s contribution. It is un-
fair that such contribution should be in-
cluded for taxation purposes. It might be
said that employees’ payments to the fund
are savings and the proceeds are taxable
income. Even so, surely the Govern-
ment’s share of the pension should be
exempt. The Government whilst giving
something to its former employees, re-
covers a part of it through taxation.—
W. I. M. (Tas.).
the returning serviceman. It will not be
long before the returnee will find that he
cannot obtain membership of a union.
It is imperative that the position should
be faced now. Arrangements whereby
competent men can practise their trades
in civil life must be made. —W. I. S. (Q.)-
Juries
A juror is usually simply an average
man of the time and of the neighborhood.
He is rarely free from unconscious sym-
pathies, antipathies and prejudices. A
small percentage of citizens —often
ignorant, and arrogant as well—enjoy
their little brief authority in the role of
jurors. Most people, however, are con-
scious of their unfitness for the task and
have an aversion to the responsibilities
involved.
The absurdly low level of jurors’ capa-
city is often exposed when they are given
a set of specific questions to answer.
Quite commonly their answers are self-
contradictory. The fact is that most
jurors have neither sufficient specialised
knowledge nor sufficient general intelli-
gence to perform their functions capably.
There is an appalling significance in the
remark made daily in the corridors of
law courts, “You can never tell what a
jury will do.”
The alternative to a jury? Three
Judges. Judges, although fallible, are not
nearly as fallible as untrained laymen. *
Gordon G. (Vic.).
Underpaid Educators
“J.A.C.” (B. 1 / 8 / ’45) complains of the
low standard of Australian education.
nothing for it to key to. That lime
plaster does key the mud I know from
experience. I had the experience with
cement that “H.C.B.’s” experimenter had ;
tried the lime stucco and found it good.
The total cost of mud bricks, concrete
and labor in erecting my 100 ft. by 25ft.
machinery shed to the roof line was £3O.
My house cost, with outbuildings, to the
roof line, £BOO. If there are any other
building media that are as cheap and as
durable I should be glad to know of them.
For I have more work to do and I don’t
want to be involved with the dilatory
gentlemen who will be directing housing
after the war and strangling energy and
enterprise with forms and more forms.
Finally, lest “H.C.8.” put me down as a
builder by trade, I am merely a farmer.
—One Swan (W.A.).
Land Settlement and Publicity
Before any closer settlement or soldier-
settlement scheme is put in motion in
Queensland the Crown Lands Office in
Brisbane had better wake up and at least
make a show of being energetic.
Servicemen with an eye to post-
war farming who inquire about land for
settlement are usually told that there is
no land whatever for selection in Queens-
land. This was the Brisbane Land
Office’s slogan six years ago, and possibly
for years before that. Only through the
Lands Office in the district in which
selections are situated can information
be obtained.
Requisitioning the services of estate
agents would do much to encourage
settlement. A good idea, too, would
be the publication, perhaps half-
yearly, of a list of all classes of
lands open for selection in Queensland on
similar lines to that published by the S.A.
Lands Department in pre-war days. This
was a very comprehensive publication,
listing all lands available, with detailed
descriptions and a synopsis of State land
laws. •
In the Cairns hinterland there are
scores, possibly hundreds, of Perpetual
Lease selections, opened for occupation
during the past ten years or so, but
lying idle because no one, least of all any
serviceman, is aware they can be had at
an annual rent of under id. per acre.
Nearly all these blocks are capable of
producing valuable crops—maize, .pea-
nuts, cotton, cowpeas and vegetables, not
to mention tobacco. Also, all of them are
within easy reach of small towns and local
markets. — Abeeram (N.Q.).


■
I
m
/|
: ,
i
H
.■f,
■
j
mwmMm
I
v '4:V
■
HUMn
<
MssW
r
wmsm*
: . .... ,;■*,.
4-
.
' '
mBI
7R
■
rf
mm.
•V‘
I
r 3
■
y ',;
wmm
m
An open hearth furnace at the Newcastle Steel Works
gets a “refresher” of some 40 tons of molten iron
which will be refined into B.H.P. Steel.
■.Aft&.M...;. u&p?' .Awwway
' ' *" , '
fern « v * -.
4 s *<✓*
Steel
serves every minute
—everywhere
Steel makes possible every funda-
mental process of modern living.
It helps you every minute of the
night and day in a score of ways.
It is the metal symbolic of pro-
gress . . . the basis of economic
strength measured by international
comparisons. Steel serves you in
your job, your travel, leisure and
THE BROKEN HILL PROPRIETARY
COMPANY LIMITED.
Offices at Melbourne. Sydney. Adelaide. Perth and Brisbane.
IRON AND STEEL WORKS .. .. NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
SHIPBUILDING YARDS WHYALLA. S.A.
comfort. It provides the founda-
tion for every post-war plan of
industrial construction or housing
development.
Australia is fortunately self-provi-
dent in steel through the operations
of The Broken Hill Proprietary
Co. Ltd. The munition effort
proved our steel industry’s worth
in an emergency. When victory in
the Pacific is history low-priced
B.H.P. steel will be found serving
you in the many post-war pro-
ducts and services we are all look-
ing forward to.
