

GRAPE
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE BUY VICTORY BONDS
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin/’ VoL 66—No. 3396
Wednesday, March 14, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspapß;
Seppelts
TANTALLON CASTLE, FAMOUS STRONGHOLD OF THE DOUGLASES.
OUILT probably in the fourteenth century, Tantallon Castle
was famous as a stronghold of the Douglas family. Its most
important appearance in history is in connection with Archibald
Douglas, sixth Earl of Angus, stepfather and protector to James
V of Scotland. In 1528 the King, then sixteen years old, made
his escape from the hands of Angus, deprived the Earl of his
Chancellorship, and framed a sentence of forfeiture against him.
Angus retired to the Borders, and James besieged Tantallon. After
two months he withdrew his troops, leaving the artillery to follow.
Angus suddenly appeared with sixty horse, routed the detachment
who were convoying the artillery, and captured the commander.
He then conducted the artillery along its destined route, released
the commander and ordered him to assure the King of his loyal
services. James, instead of being won by such magnanimity,
declared with an oath that while he lived the Douglases should
find no refuge in Scotland. The enclosed area of fortress, cut off
from land by the wall and towers and inaccessible from the sea
because of its precipices, is occupied by a pile of dilapidated build-
ings on the west, and by a piece of garden ground. This is all
that remains of the favorite haunt of Scott’s Lady Clare.


liMi
This Book FREE to YOUi
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. ‘
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245
The Red Page
THE MAN FROM THE MOON
“Slim and wiry, sombre-eyed and
bearded,” a Russian gentleman less than
feet high stepped ashore on the north
coast of New Guinea. The crew of the
clipper Vitiaz built him a hut, surrounded
it with a circle of land-mines —“wired to
controls so placed that should he be
threatened or should he return from a
walk abroad to find the natives in posses-
sion of his home he could set off the ex-
plosives”—and left him there with his
two servants, a Swede and a Polynesian.
A scientist, the Russian gentleman
wished to study the natives. In particu-
lar, he had a great yearning to examine
their hair, to find out whether or not it
grew in tufts: a desire which later he
was able to satisfy by exchanging locks
of his own hair with the fuzzy-wuzzies,
they being under the impression that this
was a custom of his country signifying
friendship.
But that was not for some time; not
until they had decided that he was harm-
less, friendly, courageous and probably
—owing to the fact that he walked about
at night by the light of a blue ship’s lan-
tern —a visitor from the moon. In the
first few weeks'they greeted him with
showers of arrows and spears, not in-
tending quite to murder and eat him,
though they had promised to do so, but
rather sportively and inquiringly, to see
by how narrow a margin they could miss
him. It was <in old New Guinea custom.
As with all exploring parties all over
the world, the relations between the Rus-
sian gentleman and his assistants, while
hardships and dangers pressed and nerves
became frayed, grew something less than
harmonious. The Swede was the villain
and the Russian gentleman, being a
scientist, was to some extent able to sub-
limate his rage against him into scientific
interest.
Tui returning from his plantation gave
me a very young pig which his dog had
killed. The great scarcity of animal food
and the frequent requests of Uhlson for
meat were my reasons for accepting the
present. I opened the skull and made a
sketch of the upper surface of the brain.
Having secured for further examination the
head, I gave Uhlson the body, who at once
began to clean and cook it, dividing it into
two portions, the one for breakfast and the
other for dinner.
Looking at Uhlson tenderly preparing the
pig and eagerly devouring the lion’s share
it was easy to conclude that men are natu-
rally carnivorous animals. It was inter-
esting to note with what pleasure and
voracity he ate not only the meat but
picked the bones, leaving not a fragment
of the cartilage, and even ate the skin.
Today he was less talkative than usual and
did not groan and sigh about the miseries
of our lives. Yes! a piece of meat is an
important thing. It does not appear
strange to me now that men accustomed to
animal food, having migrated to a place
where they could not procure meat, be-
came cannibals.
On the whole, Uhlson might have
counted himself fortunate that his master
was not tempted into opening his skull as
well as the pig’s in the interests of science.
The Russian gentleman, had he but
known it, was to develop a pretty taste
in such matters, and, some years after-
wards in Brisbane, would take the bodies
of murderers fresh from the gallows and
photograph their brains.
The Russian was Nicolai Nicolaevitch
Miklouho-Maclay, who was the first white
man to settle on the north coast of New
Guinea, and whose story has been told
fully for the first time by Frank S.
Greenop in Who Travels Alone (K. G.
Murray Publishing Co., Sydney).
Nicolai Nicolaevitch Miklouho-Maclay
—to give him once again, as Mr. Greenop
does on all possible occasions, his full
thunder of polysyllables—was of mixed
Scottish and Russian descent. The name
had originally been Maclure-Macleay,
and the family had emigrated to Russia
along with the Stuarts, the Camerons,
the Leslies and others in the time of
Peter the Great,
Maclay was one of the most extra-
ordinary characters in the history of Aus-
tralian exploration. Along with his
courage, his devotion to science, his
championship of the native peoples and
all the other virtues to which Mr.
Greenop does full justice, there was an
endearing touch of the fantastic about
him, reminding one of Leichhardt or New
Zealand’s Baron de Thierry.
To claim, as Mr. Greenop does, that he
was “the most fearless, more original,
most daring of Pacific explorers” is to
invite dispute—such generalisations take
a deal of proving. But there were cer-
tainly both a great fearlessness and a
great originality about the hero of the
following incident:
Bugai came to Maclay.
There were two men, he said, in the vil-
lage of Gorima, named Malu and Abui, and
they were bad men who had no love for the
tamo-ms [Maclay].
Malu and Abui did not believe in the
tamo-rus, and they planned to murder him.
Maclay should not, therefore, go to Gorima,
for in Gorima was danger,
Maclay had spent his life ignoring warn-
ings, and he made no exception of Bugai’s
well-intended and earnest plea. Perhaps
once again he was jealous of his reputation
among the Papuans, knowing that the fast-
travelling news would soon tell all the
coast that something, at last, could frighten
the white friend.
So, unarmed, as always, Maclay set out.
Wading waist-deep in water, Maclay
crossed the Kior River and travelled to
Gorima, where the assassins were.
The men of Gorima were in their village,
around a fire, at night. Out of the dark-
ness, dishevelled, water-stained, the tamo-
rus came to them.
Standing before them he spoke.
“Men of Gorima,” he said in their own
language, “I have come to you through
the night, through the forest across the
river. I am weary, and I wish to rest. If
Abui and Malu, for some unknown reason,
wish to kill Maclay, let them make haste,
for he is now about to lie down and sleep.”
Having spoken, he rolled himself in a
blanket, stretched out on the ground, and
quickly fell into a deep slumber.
He awoke in the morning.
The murderers had not taken up his
bluff; but Abui, in an expression of shame
and repentance, came with a butchered pig
as a peace offering, and Malu followed
him.
Maclay said he must leave Gorima, and
Abui and Malu went with him, walking on
either side of him back to his house, de-
claring their sorrow and vowing that they
were ready to defend him with their own
blood.
Mr. Greenop follows his hero on his
several visits to New Guinea ; on voyages
to many of the Pacific islands; on inves-
tigations of the negritos of the Philip-
pines and the primitive aboriginal Mela-
nesians of the Malayan jungle ; he is with
him during his sojourn in Brisbane when
he examines th 6 skulls of murderers,
learns about the excesses of native police
against the abos. and, in the cause of
science, exports the embalmed body of an
abo. to Berlin ; he pictures Maclay in his
house at Watson’s Bay, Sydney, with his
black servant and his caged monkey; he
watches the devoted little man with the
beard establishing a marine biological
station at Watson’s Bay, corresponding
with Governments and Governors about
the rights of the native peoples of the
Pacific, protesting bitterly and sending a
telegram to Bismarck when Germany an-
nexed its slice of New Guinea, including
his own Maclay Coast; he accompanies
him on his two visits to Russia, on the
first of which Maclay met Tolstoi and on
the second, at the age of 42, his death.
The biographer has serious faults of
style. As the quotation shows, he in-
clines to melodramatic paragraphs of one
sentence ; there is a kind of naive over-
writing throughout; the extraordinary
personality of Maclay tends to become
obscured amongst a cloud of common-
place superlatives. Nevertheless, Who
Travels Alone is an extremely valuable
contribution to Australian history. It is
carefully documented ; the errors of
earlier and contemporary Soviet writers
about Maclay are gently chided ; there
is a great deal of completely fresh
material, including Maclay’s own writ-
ings and pen-pictures of the explorer by
men who knew him ; and it will intro-
duce to the Australian public a man it
ought to know and will enjoy meeting.
The King of Iceland.
Anybody who doesn’t know that a
former king of Iceland is buried in Tas-
mania will find the story*in Dr. George
Mackaness’s Lags and Legirons (Angm
and Robertson). The king was Jorgen
Jorgensen, and Dr. Mackaness says he
took down the story at first-hand from a
great-grandson in Hobart.
A Dane, born in Copenhagen about
1780, Jorgensen drifted to the South
Seas, got to know Flinders, went whaling
and, when he made a voyage to London ;
took along a couple of Maoris and some
Otaheitans as a sort of present for Joseph
Banks. England and Denmark were at
war, and Jorgensen went privateering
against the British. Joseph Banks helped
him when he was made a prisoner of war
and, after supposedly doing some secret
service work for the British Government
the seafarer was given permission to run
a cargo of food to Iceland, where, on
account of the blockade, there was a
famine.
The Governor of Iceland —it was then
under Danish domination —was a certain
Count van Tramp who, having forbidden
any communication with the English,
ordered Jorgensen out of the country.
But on a Sunday, when all the Icelander;
were at church, Jorgensen with twelve
of his men walked into Van Tramp’s
sitting-room, arrested him and informed
him he was deposed. Jorgensen then de-
clared himself king of Iceland; and, as
he immediately reduced all taxes by half,
the revolution was popular.
The king came to grief when he visited
London in an attempt to get Banks to help
him negotiate a treaty, and was arrested
as an alien enemy. From that point his
behavior was something less than royal;
and after some years of living on his wits
he was transported to Van Diemen’s
Land. There he helped in exploration
and in rounding up bushrangers and
coming into money when his mother died
in Denmark, spent a comfortable old age
in Hobart.
Besides Jorgensen, Dr. Mackaness deals
with Fisher’s Ghost, Wainewright the
poisoner, William Buckley, the escaped
convict who lived 32 years with the
blacks, the Irish rebels who escaped to
America, and a dozen other historical
gentlemen whose whimsicalities ranged
from a simple plot to poison the officers
of a ship by putting arsenic in the soup
to Alexander Pierce’s almost incredible
feats of cannibalism. The sketches are
short, slight, and lightly and pleasantly
told.
Welsh Contortionist.
There once was a young lady of Wales
who could tie herself into knots and come
bowling into town with the motion of an
elliptical hoop.
As a result of these singular proceed-
ings her poems were published by Mr.
Robert Herring of “Life and Letters To-
day,” Mr, John Lehmann of “Penguin
New Writing,” Mr. Cyril Connolly of
“Horizon” and (with whoops of joy in
Welsh) by Mr, Keidrych Rhys of
“Wales.” The lady’s name is Lynette
Roberts, and her Poems have been
brought out in book form by Faber.
Taught by Gerard Manley Hopkins
never to say a thing smoothly if she can
say it with a bump, taught by Dylan
Thomas never to say a sane thing if she
can say a mad one, and taught by all the
Welsh Revivalists always to my every-
thing back to front if possible, the writer
masquerades sometimes as a wild Welsh
prophetess:
Here a perfect people set —on red rock,
White and grey as gull met
Pure to plough, each prince hamlet
Of slate strong as a rate ticket.
Now one mouth twisting twelve tongues —
of the flock
Unlocked the padlocked lungs:
Slung a trail of steaming dung
Blocking path of two not sung;
and sometimes as a happy village zany:
Spade jacket's and tapping jackdaws on boles
of wood.
Song of joy I sing.
Prim-pied under sky full of fresh livelihood,
Smile for eye of man.
Outhouses sweet with air stand whitened by the
flood,
Of sun-blanching spring.
In plate green meadows sheepdog and farmer
brood,
On galvanised can.
Calling cattle from celandine and clover to
mood,
Song of joy I sing.
Though the first poem, which is written
in an ancient Welsh verse form, might
be good if written by an ancient Welsh
lunatic, and though the second would be
a very good effort indeed if composed by
some slightly dilly old lady of the village,
it is impossible to believe that Lynette
Roberts is in reality either of these. Con-
sequently one feels she is not writing the
truth that is in her, but laboriously “mak-
ing up poems.” Straining to use un-
natural words in an unnatural order, the
verses emphasise how right Yeats was
when he advocated the use of the natural
words in their natural order.
Two seams of genuine feeling underlie
all this tormented and demented versify-
ing. One, the author’s affection for her
village in Wales, marks her with the other
recent Faber poets as one of the New
Georgians, writing about spring, stone
cottages, ploughmen and cows as did
the more melodious Georgians of the
’twenties. The other, her love for her
birthplace in South America, is reflected
in some landscape poems which, though
still awkwardly expressed, are strong
enough and rich and colorful enough to
suggest that she should never have left
her native land.
The first prize (£5O) in a short-story
competition conducted by Brisbane
“Topic” was won by Jean J. Laidlaw,
Brisbane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Outstanding Australian paintings at a
loan exhibition at David Jones’s, Sydney
(in aid of the British Centre), include: a
superb Heysen water-color, “Passing
Shadows”—a study of afternoon greens
with just that touch of roughness (a con-
trolled and vigorous roughness) that
makes for real vitality in landscape,
Gruner’s “Murrumbidgee Ranges” with
its astonishingly visible light and air
the blue haze on hills and ridges; Street-
on’s impressive “Blue Depths” ; a charm-
ing Tom Roberts portrait; a nude by
Lambert; Norman Lindsay’s spirited
“The Introduction” ; a richly decorative
picnic-piece by Lawson Balfour, showing
a mother and child among foliage glow-
ing with color and appropriately entitled
“La Vie”; and a glimpse of strolling
players in England, by Blamire Young,
showing the artist fascinated as usual by
the minuteness of human life against the
towering backgrounds of nature. A char-
acteristic Brangwyn, a delicately charm-
ing Russell Flint beach scene, two of Tal-
madge’s London nocturnes, a Lawrence
figure study, some fresh, breezy Connard
landscapes and a couple of A. J. Mun-
nings’s horsey pictures (he’s currently
P.R.A.) represent England.
Jean Isherwood, whose paintings have
been occupying the walls of the Mac-
quarie Galleries, Sydney, has a flair for
water-color and has attained considerable
proficiency as a landscapist in that
medium. When unaffected by the com-
monplace fashions of the day she can
achieve very pleasing effects, as in
“Lobster Beach,” in which the fight effect
is excellent, and in the nicely composed
“Falconbridge Glimpse.”
At the talkies:
In “The Seventh Cross” (Sydney St. James)
a striking portrait is given by Hume Cronyn of
a family man who shows unexpected moral
strength when a friend seeks refuge from the
Gestapo. The film is good “underground” stuff
and includes an exciting roof-top hunt for one
escapee who is a champion acrobat.
Edward Everett Horton makes an unexpected
but welcome appearance in the film version of
a Chekhov play, “Summer Storm,” at Sydney
Mayfair. As the dissolute Count Volsky Horton
is the light relief for the otherwise heavy—
though powerful—drama of the upstart peasant
girl who pays with her life for her greed after
being mistress to the Count and the local Judge.
As in Elstree’s “We Dive at Dawn,” technical
details in “Destination Tokyo” (Sydney Empire)
were supervised by submarine officers, with a
consequent rise in realism. The story is of the
submarine Copperfin, which penetrated Tokyo
Bay prior to the Doolittle raid and obtained
valuable information. Naval humor and tension
during depth-charge attacks are nicely blended.
Apart from the fact that the leading lady is
not threatend with a fate worse than death
“Wild Bill Hickock Rides” (Sydney Civic)
follows the time-honored western routine.
There are lynchings, bolting horses and burst-
ing dams, and goodly numbers of evildoers
are slain, but it is difficult to distinguish the
formidable Bill —who almost depopulated several
towns —from Hopalong Cassidy.
Art changes its fashion about once
in every decade, and Ethel M. Pater-
son, who has succeeded in getting 12S
canvases, some of them large ones, into
the Kozminsky Galleries, Melbourne,
goes artistically further back than that.
She was a National Gallery prize-winner,
a pupil of the late Phillips Fox, the win-
ner of five A.N.A. prizes and the original
illustrator of Dr. Leach’s Australian Bird
Book. One of her pictures depicts a Red
Cross nurse, a golden crown above her,
being worshipped by two winged mem-
bers of the fighting services, while the
old folk look up from the earth below.
If it were as surrealist in style as it is in
conception it would be regarded in some
present-day circles as a masterpiece.
“F.S.”: A show from a private collec-
tion covering 60 years of Australian paint-
ing at Georges’ Gallery, Melbourne,
which has almost sold out, includes the
names of almost all the well-known
artists. Not the least interesting are two
small landscapes by that little-known
Victorian artist Clarice Beckett. For
many years Miss Beckett seldom strayed
much farther than half a mile from her
front gate at Beaumaris, but there was
plenty of variety in her pictures. Motor-
cars with their headlights gleaming
through evening mist, garages, railway
crossings and bitumenised highways were
her immediate surroundings, and she
made strangely arresting compositions of
them. If she took a trip to the city she
returned with a memory picture —or
Collins-street at nightfall or a stretch of
the Yarra seen* in passing in the train
w'hich she transferred to canvas as a
single impression with a quite unusual
accuracy. She painted hundreds of pic-
tures and held an occasional exhibition,
but since her untimely death nothing has
been heard of her art, • and there is not
a single example of it in the national
collection. A comprehensive show ot
Miss Beckett’s work would be well worth
seeing.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING.”
“THE SENIOR STORE.”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
121 Years of Service
A
mm
**:*z
:t
\
% ''••;^s?>«xs : .
®s&*
-
VJ\V V
v%?
"51* *sr *
xfgrr.
W'.'"
\ m •
*sss
i 4f..
„.o>n\S!4*
,"t » «»'
flftssw
mm mmi ",;
s;-j
A.—“Mycladol,” a body-builder. Ex-
cellent for children, convalescents, pre-
natal conditions, nursing mothers, etc.
Contains “Super D” Cod Liver Oil,
Extract of Red Bone Marrow, Iron and
Ammonium Citrates and Malt Extract.
Palatable —easily taken by children.
Prices 1/6, 5/6, 7/11
B,—“Owbridges” Lung Tonic. The
old familiar preparation for Coughs,
Colds, Asthma, Bronchitis. Made in
England. Price, bottle ...... 1/9
C.—“ Palace” Rheumatic Salts. Made
from the purest chemicals. Stimulates
the system, expels harmful matter
from the body. Price 1/9
D. —Dr. Webster’s Asthma and
Bronchitis Cure. Relieves the
most obstinate cases. Containing
NO harmful drugs, this prepara-
tion has found the approval of
many users. 16-oz. size only.
Price 12/6
E. “Roomoova” Rheumatic
Remedy. For relief of Rheumatism,
Gout, Gouty Skin Diseases, Consti-
pation. Price 3/
F. —“Palace” Vegetable) Laxa-
tive Tablets. 100 in bottle, made
from purest ingredients. Price. 2/3
G. —Yeast Tablets. Guaranteed
a pure yeast product. A fine
corrective for all blood and
stomach disorders. Price, per
100 1/11
H. —Cascara Tablets. 5 grain tablets
Sagrada—the convenient way of
excellent laxative. Price
of Cascara
taking this
2/3
Postage Extra
• Chemistry. —Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
’PHONE: M 2401 (Day and Night) BOX 2712 C, G.r.O. SYDNEY


ANDREW FISHER
Labour Prime Minister of Australia
1908-9, 1910-13, 1914-15.
Banking Must Not
Be Political
Said Andrew Fisher
Mr. Andrew Fisher, the Labour Prime Minister who estab-
lished the Commonwealth Bank, said publicly that the Common-
wealth Bank “must not be subject to political influence.” He
added significantly; “Banking is not a political matter.”
The Curtin Labour Government is now deliberately
imposing political control of banking by abolishing the Bank
Board and substituting a Governor who must obey, not Par Ha-
ll / ment, but the Party in power.
The first Governor of the Commonwealth Bank, Sir
Denison Miller, wais, by Act of Parliament, specifically made
free from political control.
Why has Labour revolutionized its policy? Because Labour
leaders have adopted the Communist strategy: Control of bank-
ing is the first step to control of everything.
■ • \ ,
Are the safeguards provided by Andrew Fisher
to be destroyed by John Curtin?
TELL YOUR FEDERAL MEMBER:
“HANDS OFF THE
COMMONWEALTH BANK”
Sane Democracy League, 12 Spring Street, Sydney.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3396
Wednesday, March 14, 1945
“CHRIST IS ALL, AND IN ALL.”
“Cologne was dead. Only smouldering heaps and charred facades indicated its former greatness. Only the famous cathedral, situated on the main square, escaped
[?]nous damage.”- Harold Austin to “S. M. Herald.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth,
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings C opp•
G.P.0. ), Wellington.
London : I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London. E.C.4.
IN MACARTHUR'S COM-
MAND.
Even without anything he may yet do
to enhance this country’s deep-rooted
respect for him. General Douglas Mac-
Arthur is assured of a place in Australia’s
annals higher than that of any other man
of foreign birth. When he came here
he was hailed as a saviour, and his record
demonstrates that the national instinct
was right. He had compelling advantages
at the time. A spectacular, inspiring
figure, he stepped on to a stage peopled
by a cast of politicians singly and jointly
as inspiring as a heap of dead hens. Sym-
bolic of high heroism in both his deeds
and his words, he became the focal point
of the nation’s unity. Essentially his
presence had the practical value of re-
placing bewilderment with leadership.
The leader has been missed since he
moved north to the Philippines, leaving
the old clumsy crowd to take over again,
with the result admitted by one of them:
“Nevertheless, there are signs of com-
placency and reaction to war strain
throughout the community.” Missed also,
until he broke a regretted but under-
standable silence last week, were General
MacArthur’s references from time to time
to the splendid fighting quality of Aus-
tralian troops. In past references he had
said; “Any belief that these divisions are
lacking in discipline” [a preposterous
fallacy, though Australians are mainly
responsible for perpetuating it] “is en-
tirely erroneous. They are magnificent
soldiers, not only on the field of battle,
but in their conduct and deportment in
the back areas. There are no finer dis-
ciplined or trained troops in the world.”
General MacArthur had pointed also
to “that high tone of self-respect which
so characterises and dignifies the Aus-
tralian soldier.” Nothing remotely re-
sembling this line of appreciation has
been heard from General MacArthur's
successors on the Australian political
stage. Nothing much is ever heard from
them in enthusiastic praise of the fighting
forces, and they scarcely ever mention
Australian field commanders, present or
past, except when these men are dead.
They give the impression of being nearly
always defending—the fighting forces, to
whom their defending is superfluous ; or
themselves, who sorely need it.
In his special interview last,week, in
the midst of hjs crowded days in the
Philippines, General MacArthur empha-
sised how the Australians had “proved
their magnificence” under his command
at Milne Bay and in the Owen Stanleys
in 1942. That, he said, was “the land
campaign that turned the tide of battle,
and on which all future successes hinged.”
The full measure of this evaluation of
the Diggers’ past contribution to ultimate
victory in the Pacific is blazed into clearer
view by the fact that Australian troops
did take considerably the greater part in
the fighting in New Guinea from August,
1942, up to the middle of December,
1943, playing a lone hand until joined
in action by a smaller body of American
troops in that latter month. “At Wau,
Salamaua, Lae and Finschhafen,” Gen-
eral MacArthur proceeded, “Australian
veteran divisions carried through a bril-
liant campaign.” He returned to that
theme of his which cannot have too great
emphasis—“the discipline of the Aus-
tralians was of the best.”
As well. General MacArthur touched
on another matter, but in words which,
as reported, only add to a curious confu-
sion, He “expressed the hope that Aus-
tralian troops would play a major part
in future phases of the war in the south-
west Pacific.” Exactly what is the mean-
ing of the extraordinary phrase here
italicised? General MacArthur has shown
himself —very strongly in Australia and
spectacularly in the Philippines—as heady
a diplomat as he is heroically a soldier.
Then, was he diplomatically passing the
buck back to the buck-passers?
On the defensive —the familiar role
when this issue is in discussion —Mr.
Curtin at Canberra on February 22 spoke
with two voices (also not notably un-
familiar). In the one voice he “accepted
entirely the contention that the disposi-
tion of the Australian fighting forces” is
“the political responsibility of the Gov-
ernment of the day.” He said; “If Aus-
tralians are not fighting in any of the
various theatres at present it is because
the Government has made a decision that
they shall fightdri other theatres. I accept
full responsibility for the fact that the
Australian land forces are being em-
ployed in the South-west Pacific Com-
mand,”
In his other voice Mr. Curtin de-
claimed : “Before they [Australian forces]
can be dispatched outside this theatre
they will have to be separated, by deci-
sion of this Government, from General
MacArthur’s command. The fact is that
the maximum strength which Australia is
capable of organising as armed forces for
fighting, and for the maintenance of an
army, is at piesent assigned to General
Mac Arthur."
This palpable attempt at buck-passing
—none the more admirable for being
weak-kneed —having now apparently been
countered by General MacArthur’s retort
diplomatic, the next move is with the
Prime Minister. In making it, as con-
vincingly as he is able, Mr. Curtin will
no doubt recall those high words of his
inimitable colleague the Army Minister,
“I,” said Mr. Forde on January 7, “have
already indicated in statements in Parlia-
ment and in the press” (the statements
were issued to the press on Decem-
ber 31), “that the Australian Army
and Air Force are to play a full
part in the operations in the Philippines.
At the appropriate time full publicity will
be given to their activities.” Obviously
the Minister was referring to the Aus-
tralian Imperial Forces (A.1.F.) and the
Royal Australian Air Force (R.A.A.F.);
but brevity, though not always commend-
able, is at least excusable. Mr. Forde
also tried his useful hand at buck-
passing: “At the moment some of our
forces may not be as actively engaged as
some people might wish. That is because
of General MacArthur’s plans for their
future use.”
Clearly, this buck-passing business be-
comes curiouser and curiouser. In any
case, Mr. Curtin had subsequently to blow
the gaff on his colleague’s prognostica-
tions. “Reference,” said the P.M., “has
been made to a statement by the Deputy
Prime Minister” [Mr. Forde] “that the
Australian land forces would be fighting
in the Philippines. I may now say that
the enemy lost so much of his strength
in the fighting on Leyte that the attack
on Luzon has been conducted with less
strength than was, contemplated by the
commanders as being necessary to estab-
lish what has already been established on
Luzon.”
The inference of easy conquest to be
drawn from this is flatly contradicted by
the American war correspondent Royal
Arch Gunnison, who avers that, so far
from “less strength” being required, Ameri-
can troops will be fighting hard for the
rest of this year against “100,000 fanatical
Japs” in “7000 Philippines islands.” Mr.
Gunnison insists that, “despite the cheer-
ful note of General MacArthur’s commu-
niques, the rugged period of the fighting
lies ahead.”
Mr. Curtin’s plural, “commanders,” also
seems scarcely an effective disguise. The
commander, on the highest admission, is
General Mac Arthur alone. No smoke-
screen of words can hide the implication
of these double-talkers that Australia is
to believe that the failure to use its fight-
ing men in a role matching their unsur-
passed qualities as fearless, dashing and
efficient fighters is General MacArthur’s
final responsibility. Mr. Curtin was
merely clouding the issue when he told
the lopsided Parliament at Canberra;
“The argument appears to be that the
Australian Army is either idle, or not
fighting sufficiently, or has such resources
available that it is practicable, at the
present time, to distribute certain divi-
sions outside the south-west Pacific
theatre.”
The actual argument hinges on whether
better use could not be made of
those splendid forces. Nobody can
question the difficult job some of them
have on their hands. Destroying the Japs
in Australian-controlled island terri-
tories, they are fighting over dreadful
country, much of which this paper’s rep-
resentative up there, John Brennan, has
personally seen and described. Nobody
reading John Brennan’s reports and
those of other correspondents can have
any doubt about the arduousness of the
grim campaign that Australians are
waging. Many questions remain—above
all, is this the sole use that should be
made of them? Are the men ♦them-
selves satisfied with it? Would they
have preferred to share as a strong
fighting unit in the battles for the
Philippines? Can the scattered Japs
they are dedicated to destroy not
be contained where they are, with their
complete recall a condition of the peace-
making? As it is, can those responsible
tell Australia with a deaf conscience tO!
the men engaged in the grim, piecemeal
struggle are being aided by adequate
supplies?
An answer is needed, too, to General
MacArthur’s expressed hope. It seems to
imply that the responsibility for what has
been and what may be to come is not his
affair ; that he awaits a sign to act as he
is not now fully free to act. And if
both the responsibility and the decision
are General MacArthur’s and the gen-
eral’s hope a word without special
meaning, Mr. Curtin should say so
plainly, leaving it to others to question
(as no doubt he will) whether the respon-
sibility and the decision of an American
general who has moved far beyond Aus-
tralia and Australian territory can be
squared with section 68 of the Constitu-
tion : “The command in chief of the
naval and military forces of the Com-
monwealth is vested in the Governor-
General as the King’s representative.”
Forgotten Fighters.
The progress of the war in the Pacific,
sweeping northward from New Guinea
and skirting the eastern edge of the
Indies, has left a plenitude of targets for
R.A.A.F. flying men.
From Bougainville, where their Boome-
rangs are co-operating with New Zealand
Venturas and Corsairs; through central
New Guinea, in the Aitape sector, where
Beauforts, Beaufighters and Kitty-
bombers provide aerial artillery for the
A.1.F.; to Noemfoor and Morotai, with
targets through the western tip of Dutch
New Guinea, the Halmaheras and the
Celebes, there is plenty of work. Bivouac
areas, barge depots, supply and ammuni-
tion dumps, bridges, road transport, gun
positions, airfields are sought out and
bombed and strafed in low-level attacks.
If to pilots who have served over
Europe and in the Mediterranean area
this bombing and strafing seem at times
to be of secondary importance, an im-
pression deepened by the absence of the
tremendous ack-ack barrages of the
European war, they are still of primary
importance in the strategy of the South-
west Pacific. The raids, day after day,
harass and disorganise the thousands of
Japanese troops who remain scattered
throughout the area, demoralise them and
prepare the way for the eventual land
assault which will be necessary to clear
them from their hideouts.
And the total of destruction keeps
mounting. One Kittyhawk squadron
operating from Morotai has completed
a year in service. In that time it has
flown more than 15,000 sorties, occupy-
ing 35,000 flying hours. It has moved its
base seven times, through Nadzab, Cape
Gloucester and Aitape, all the way to
Morotai. The squadron claims 122 small
ships and barges as destroyed and 276
damaged; 312 storehouses and huts are
chalked up as “completely destroyed,”
with another 242 “damaged beyond
repair” (a nice distinction), 30 anti-
aircraft batteries as wiped out, 26 dam-
aged and 70 oil and ammunition dumps
blown up.
The Kittyhawk, adapted for dive-
bombing and strafing, can scarcely be
now considered a fighter, but on the
last occasion on which the squadron had
any opportunity of tangling with Jap-
anese ’planes^—over Biak in early June
of last year—nine of the enemy were
downed for the loss of one Kitty.
The record of success, multiplied
through other squadrons and added to
by the work of the Beaufighters and
Beauforts, is no mean one. There still
is plenty of duty ahead, and there are
jobs waiting for the R.A.A.F. Liberator
squadrons as they move to the north and
west.
But for R.A.A.F. fighter squadrons—
squadrons equipped for interception with
the latest model Spitfires, rated second to
none in the world as combat ’planes by
the men who fly them —there is just
nothing. So far as aerial combat is con-
cerned they have been forgotten.
Machines and men, they are held in
areas where they have no hope of encoun-
tering enemy ’planes.
Sixteen months ago Wing-Commander
(now Group-Captain) Clive Caldwell was
the third ranking Allied fighter pilot in
any theatre of war. There was only one
Allied pilot living with a greater total of
enemy ’planes shot down. In all that
time, in Darwin and later in Morotai,
this distinguished officer has had no
opportunity of tangling with an enemy in
the air. It was obvious that such must
be the case, for enemy air strength in all
those areas was already destroyed.
Caldwell moved his Spitfire Wing to
Morotai. For weeks now he has been
leading his pilots on routine cover mis-
sions over the Morotai airfields, where there
is no Japanese ’plane in the area service-
able enough to put in a possible appear-
ance. It was the same at Darwin during
weary month after weary month. Spit-
fires, peculiarly pursuit ’planes, are being
used in strafing missions against barges.
Pilots, highly-trained and hand-chosen
for the specific task of aerial combat, are
risking their lives in operations which
could be performed as easily and better
in more heavily-armed aircraft designed
for the purpose.
It is no secret in the service that Lieut.-
General Kenney, chief of the U.S. Fifth
A.F., and in that position overall
commander of the air forces in the South-
west Pacific, would have welcomed the
opportunity to attach Australian fighter
squadrons to his force for the campaign
in the Philippines. The R.A.A.F. was
unwilling to detach them for duty from
the First Tactical Air Force without
sending headquarters and command staffs
as well. Difficulties of transport would
render impossible the handling of the
various forward and rear echelons that
procedure would entail. In Britain and
the Mediterranean Australian squadrons
have been simply “attached” to the Royal
Air Force without any of the overhead
of R.A.A.F. command.
At Leyte Caldwell and his pilots would
have had every opportunity to add to
their score. In three months in the Philip-
pines the Fifth’s Major Bong increased
his tally by 13 kills, thus placing
himself ahead of all his friendly
rivals, the leading Allied ace. Yet
before he went to Leyte Major Bong
was trailing the long-unoccupied Cald-
well. It is reasonable to suppose that,
given equal opportunities, the Australian
would have made a grand tussle of it for
the honor of topping the score. With
21\ confirmed kills to his credit, he cer-
tainly deserved the opportunity.
If it is short-sighted policy on the part
of the R.A.A.F. that is denying Austra-
lian fighter pilots that aerial combat in
the Pacific for which they long, that
should be remedied as soon as possible.
Not only Caldwell is affected. There are
many other fine pilots in his Wing. All
would welcome the chance to get on with
the job for which they enlisted and for
which they were trained—to fight the
enemy in the air. And there is Squadron-
Leader John Waddy, D.F.C., third rank-
ing R.A.A.F. ace, with 15£ German
’planes shot down in the Western Desert,
flying with and leading a Kittyhawk
squadron from Morotai,
Australian Spitfire pilots have seen one
Japanese aircraft in flight in sixteen
months. It was caught in the searchlights
over Morotai on Christmas Eve. One of
Caldwell’s men shot it down.
JOHN BRENNAN.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Free-Enterprise Countries.
Reviewing his visit to Canada and the
U.S.A., and acknowledging the generosity
of both countries, Senator Keane admitted
that he had come away impressed with
“the miracle of American production.”
The miracle has been wrought by
free enterprise, to which Republicans and
Democrats, industry and organised Labor
(certainly the A.F.L., the Railway
Brotherhood, and many of the C. 1.0.
unions) are committed. The Minister
didn’t say that, but he did say that “the
unions seemed to be closer to the em-
ployers” than in Australia, and that the
chain system, so far from being “a terrible
strain on workers,” lightened their labors
by “eliminating beastly manual work.”
Senator Keane spoke mainly on lend-
lease and mutual aid, but did not mention
Britain. John Bull’s part was referred
to in very plain terms when the White
Paper on the British war effort was pub-
lished. It was pointed out that “our large
gold reserves in the United States have
been paid over and the money spent in
building up American munition indus-
tries,” which “helped America to come into
the war with its industries already on
something like a war footing.” Indeed,
not the least of “the unexampled sacri-
fices of the British people,” borne “under
hard living and working conditions,” with
“the agony of bombing” added, was “the
sacrifice of the treasure of our grand-
fathers.” And none of the burden had
been transferred in a selfish spirit.
We have not attempted to mulct the
British Empire. Canada is the only Empire
country from which we have received
reverse lend-lease. With all the other
Dominions we have made financial arrange-
ments much less favorable to ourselves
than has the United States. The United
States has received a lot of goods and ser-
vices from Australia. We get similar goods
and services, but we pay for them. And
everything we have got from the colonies
we have paid for.
The speaker was Mr. Brendan Bracken,
Minister of Information. His great and
generous country, like Canada and the
United States, is a glorious example ot
free enterprise and free institutions,
though, like Australia, it has a Labor
party set on taking leaps into the bog ot
Continental socialism, hoping to nnd
bonanzas there. It would find only debt
and despots.


A Cruel Loss.
’Plane crashes during the war have cost
Australia the lives of splendid men.
In this way at Canberra on August 13,
1940, died Lieut.-General White, Chief of
the General Staff, Army Minister Street,
Air Minister Fairbairn, Vice-President of
the Executive Council Gullett, Lieut.-
Colonel Thornthwaite, R. E. Elford (Mr.
Fairbaim’s secretary), Pilot-Officer Hitch-
cock and three members of the crew.
And on March 5, 1945, the waters of
the Pacific closed over a ’plane going
north from Cairns and bearing Major-
I General Vasey, whose name will always
be identified with command of the
Seventh A.I.F. Division ; Major-General
Downes, with the A.A.MC. in two wars ;
Colonel Russell, A.A.M.C. ; Lieut. -
Colonel Bertram, who increased in the
A.I.F. the reputation he made at Dun-
troon ; Major-General Vasey’s aide Lieut.
Riggall, member of an old Victorian legal
family; Flight-Lieut. Newell, Flying-
Officers Bassett, Thomson and Freize and
L.A.C. Moore. A cruel loss to the Com-
monwealth and to their families.
Of Major-General Downes Mr. Curtin
said “He was one of Australia’s most
distinguished medical men”; and of
Major-General Vasey: “Throughout the
last war and this he proved himself a
magnificent soldier and an inspiring
leader; his record, particularly in the
New Guinea campaigns, made him out-
standing as perhaps Australia’s most bril-
liant divisional leader.”
All the troops who came under his com-
mand were inspired by his leadership and
personal courage, and by the example of his
great ability as a commander.
True ; but in their lifetime these officers
received no such tributes from men who
could have paid them. Vasey and
Downes were names never mentioned in
Parliament, and, save for an occasional
line in dispatches or on honors lists, rarely
la any newspaper. The Australian public
was kept in ignorance of their work.
This when the American public has been
regularly apprised of the composition of
its forces in battle regions, and when the
American press has been allowed, and
even encouraged, to expatiate on the
prowess of every U.S. divisional com-
mander and almost every general of
brigade.
" Tis Sixty Years Since."
An old newspaperman again:
Although the young Bulletin 'had no use
for the Sudan expedition, and crowned its
objections with “Hop’s” historic “Roll Call”
cartoon, it had a soft spot in its heart for the
expeditionaries. “The contingent,” it wrote
on June 27, 1885, “is to be disbanded with a
month’s pay for each officer and man. Had six
months’ pay been given none would have
thought it too much.”
“These men volunteered for military service
in a country fatal to Europeans. By doing so
they rescued the [Stuart] Ministry from the
humiliating position of having made an offer
of armed assistance without being prepared to
carry it out. They faced the pestilential climate
—even when in quarters the army of occupa-
tion of Egypt and the Sudan requires constant
reinforcements to keep up its strength-—and
their having seen no hard fighting is no fault
of theirs. It was theirs to obey and they obeyed.
“They had contracted with their Government
to serve for a period of 12 months or for
two years if required. They return, having lost
a few men by sickness, and having brought back
many others who, judging by appearances, will
be lucky if they ever regain their former health.
And their reward is a month’s pay—enough,
perhaps, to bring some of them to their distant
homes, but not enough to provide them with
decent clothes for the journey. It is mean in
any case. It is especially so when we re-
member how many of them left comfortable
homes and good situations at the call of what
they considered their duty.”
When the sixtieth anniversary of the departure
of the contingent was coming round it did
not find the McKell Government wanting.
Learning from Colonel A. J. Bennett, veteran
of Sudan, South Africa, Gallipoli and France,
that there were 42 old Sudan men still surviving,
McKell invited them all to come to Sydney at
the State’s expense, and 37 were able to accept.
Those from distant places (one came from Vic-
toria and another from Queensland) were put up
for a week in comfortable quarters. For the
others cars were provided to take them from
their dwellings to Sydney for the round of
ceremonies and back to their dwellings; in fact,
home-to-home transport was furnished in every
case. .
Members of the State Government and the
Commonwealth Government and heads of the
fighting services had a part in the ceremonies.
On Monday, March 5, the 37 old soldiers were
received by the Lord Mayor at the Town Hall,
where they laid a wreath at the Sudan plaque,
the “Reveille” and the “Last Post” being
sounded on the silver bugle they brought back
from Africa so long ago. Then to Martin*
place, where they laid a wreath on the Ceno-
taph. Afterwards they were the guests of the
State Government at a Parliamentary luncheon
to which Army Minister Forde came for the
Commonwealth Government.
All very thoughtful and generous, and
showing a fit sense of history and of what is
due to Australia’s first overseas soldiers. For
once party spirit was cast to the winds. Men
of all shades of opinion, among them, of course,
returned soldiers from the last war, laid them-
selves out to give the fine old men the feeling
that they, as representatives, were proud of them
and glad to be fellow-Australians.
Only in one quarter were the Oldest Diggers
ignored. Beyond a few lines in the “Herald,”
there was nothing in the Tuesday papers. But
the “Daily Telegraph” found a column and a
half for the affair of a “jitterbug champion,”
a U.S. serviceman, a.w.l. from “a northern
battle area” for the second time, together with
a portrait—the second —of the lout cutting his
monkey antics with a young woman. In be-
tween the Sunday “Telegraph” had had a lot
about the “jitterbug champion” and other per-
sons of both sexes engaged in the “jitterbug
championship,” recording the statement of a
semi-naked young female that to reach the right
orgiastic pitch you had to take drink. This sort
of journalism was unknown when the Sudan
Continent set forth from Circular Quay.
Associated as it is with sportmania and Russo-
mania, it must strike them as being the greatest
change for the worse that has occurred be-
tween the Sydney of 1885 and the Sydney of
1945 • _
A Governor-General Arrives.
Dear Bulletin. — Well, the Duke of
Gloucester duly arrived on his first
“official” visit to Sydney as Governor-
General, accompanied by the Duchess,
and everything went off in the good old
Sydney style, the elder afternoon paper
distinguishing itself in its fashion:
The State Governor (Lord Wakehurst)
and Lady Wakehurst (who was the only
woman present) moved forward. Lady
Wakehurst curtsied and Lord Wakehurst'
saluted and shook hands, then presented
their Royal Highnesses to the Premier.
And the oldest morning paper, having
published an itinerary and time-table,
plus a diagram that even included a
shade of the defunct G.P.O. clock and
was marked off in ten- and five-minute
stages, both of which, being 20 minutes
out, caused people to come forth
and witness the stirring spectacle of
police stacking barriers and other people
going home—the oldest morning paper
handed this to its public next morning in
return for the faith its public had so
touchingly displayed:
The arrangements were entirely in the
hands of the local authorities, and it is
explained that the leading police-car, which
set the pace, proceeded as slowly as it
could without stalling the engine. The
public, of course, must play its part on these
occasions, and to expect perfection of
official timing over every part of such a
route would be ungracious.
After which those who missed the pro-
cession because of the oldest morning
paper were told, in effect, to stop being
testy, and be early next time. To which
it might be replied that while nobody
may expect “perfect” timing—though they
do pretty well elsewhere —20 minutes mis-
timing is over the odds.
As for the procession, your correspond-
ent must refer you to the journals men-
tioned, for, having brought his missus to
town and got her to the vantage point ten
minutes before time but ten minutes
too late, he had then to convince her
that it wasn't his fault; and you know
what women are. As it happened, the
war shortages, queues, muddle and mis-
management she has had to endure as a
housewife have made her tolerant,
if long-suffering, and she charitably
granted the possibility that her Royal
Highness may have been anxious to get
over to Kirribilli to see how the butcher’s-
meat position would be for the week-end,
news from the Government abattoirs at
Homebush strongly suggesting that the
position (not necessarily the meat)
would be rotten, lam informed and be-
lieve that those who ignored the oldest
morning paper on the question of time
and did see the royal pair gave them a
royal welcome. —Yours, etc., Old-Timer.
A "Deep-sea Port."
It was buried among other paragraphs in
a roneod publication called “Review of
Marketing and Agricultural Economics,”
issued by the N.S.W. Department of Agri-
culture, and is quoted verbatim;
Recently the Chief of the Division of
Marketing and Agricultural Economics was
appointed the Department of Agriculture’s
representative on an inter-departmental
committee of experts called together by the
Premier to inquire into the possibilities of
developing a deep-sea port on the Far
North Coast of New South Wales. Basic
to the scheme is an adequate survey of the
present agricultural importance of the dis-
tricts likely to be served by such a port
and some idea of their potentialities. Re-
search Officers of the Division of Marketing
and Agricultural Economics are at present
engaged in a preliminary agricultural survey
of the regions.
Words, words, words. That’s all
country districts ever get from Sydney.
Still, it might have been expected that
even a McKell expert would refrain from
blithering about “a preliminary agricul-
tural survey of the regions” as though
the North Coast were like Australia Felix
a century ago.
Any schoolboy can tell the Premier all
he wants to know. Tell him about the
sugarcane and tropical fruits, the bananas
and timber and butter and milk of the
coast itself; of the timber on the high-
lands ; of the wool and mutton and beef,
tobacco and fruit and wheat, lucerne and
potatoes and apples of all that rich coun-
try running back to Moree in the west,
north to the border and south to Gunne-
dah and Armidale and down to Coff’s
Harbor, with Grafton and Lismore and
Glen Innes and Inverell and the rest of
them in the heart of it. And have the
Premier and the chief of the D.M.A.E.
ever seen a Sydney Royal Show at which
the North Coast district did not carry off
the prize with the richness and diversity
of its exhibit? Have they never heard of
Nymboida or New England, the Clarence
or the Richmond or the Tweed, or of the
great wheat crops of the black-soil plains?
Words, words, words. The “deep-sea
port” will be silted up with ’em before
the day laborers get to work on it —if they
ever do
DESIGN FOR A VICTORY MEMORIAL.
“Mr. Curtin saved Australia.”— Dr. Evatt. “There was practically nothing to meet the threat of Japanese invasion, but there
were such people as Mr. Forde guarding the country and keeping it safe.”— Mrs. Bvatt. “Opposition members who said the
Brisbane Line plan was a figment of my imagination have been proved to be liars.”— Mr. Ward.


PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rati Is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates install
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months!
instalments.
Apply Persona! Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & 00. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON, Manager.
POLITICAL POINTS
Another war loan is on the market.
For preliminary there was a fantastic sale
of yearlings in Melbourne (145 brought
107,555 guineas) to which Curtin ob-
jected. Thousands of other people ob-
ject to his Government’s own prelimi-
naries: reckless additions to old-age and
invalid pensions and child endowment,
and bills placing banking and currency
under the ultimate control of Caucus.
Nevertheless, most of the objectors will
subscribe to the loan and all others who
can should. If it failed, the fighting men
would feel that not the Government but
the nation let them down.
Famous sayings of our Mr. Forde, the
first being his help-is-on-the-way message
to the garrison at Singapore the week
before it fell:
It will go, not as a few consignments
from a shrinking store, but as a stream
which will swell to a flood, and a flood
which will grow to an overwhelming torrent.
Our forces will play a vital part in the
operations yet to be fought in the Philip-
pines.—Dec. 31, 1944.
He has been tackled on that, but never
on the help-is-on-the-way message. Small
beer is what interests most members most.
Details of sales of wheat from the
No. 6 pool, read by Scully in answer to
McEwen:
Shipment’s to destinations east of Suez:
Bulk, per bushel .. ..4s. 10.15 d.
Bagged „ „ ~ .. ss. 3.75 d.
Shipments to destinations west of Suez:
Bulk, per bushel .. .. 4s. 4.35 d.
Bagged „ „ .. .. 4s. 9.95 d.
Song of the bag of wheat: “Ship me
'somewheres east of Suez.”
Analysing the state of Italy a Mel-
bourne paper’s “special” declared that it
had definitely improved, and the paper
put up the line “Sturdier National Spirit
Gradually Emerging.” The same day
brought accounts of “disturbances arising
from the escape of General Roatta,” in
which “an angry mob surged round the
Quirinal waving red flags” and demand-
ing the death of the King, Prince Um-
berto, Roatta and other persons. One
exemplar of the sturdier national spirit
flung a bomb, and other bombs exploded
in front of the royal palace; meanwhile
“prisoners awaiting trial for alleged
crimes under Fascism broke out from
their antiquated cells.” True to the tradi-
tions of the Fascist High Command,
Roatta beat them to it. At the week-end
he hadn’t been caught, and it was con-
ceded that he had won by a neck.
Gratuities to servicemen, as agreed
upon by a committee consisting of
Chifley, Frost, Collett, Cooper, Finlay,
Archie Cameron, Allan McDonald and
Pollard, and accepted by the Government,
are to be £3 15s. a month (30 days) for
overseas service, and 15s. a month for
Australian service after December 7, 1941.
Payments are to be made in cash, plus
interest at 3J- p.c., but, except in special
cases, are to be deferred for five years
“from date of entitlement.” Estimated
cost to June 30, 1945, is £63,000,000. The
last-war gratuity for serving seamen and
soldiers was Is. 6d. a day; for those
who did not go overseas, Is. a day. It
was paid in five-year Treasury bonds
bearing interest at 5} p.c.; 360,000 per-
sons received it, and total cost was just
on £27,500,000.
It is so rare for persons caught stealing
for black markets to be dealt with with-
out kid gloves that sentences imposed by
Judge Magennis at General Sessions,
Melbourne, on two young fellows who
had broken into garages are worthy of
note. One, described as a wharf-laborer,
aged 17, got two years’, with subsequent
detention in a reformatory; the other,
a boilermaker, aged 19, is to serve four
years less remissions and take the refor-
matory prescription then. A wharf-
laborer, aged 17, seems odd. It was
supposed that wharf-laborers were be-
yond the age of military service, but seem-
ingly “protection” and the union ticket
can start at any age.
The Commissioner of Taxation doesn’t
seem to share the flattering opinion of
Colorful Punters and Dashing Book-
makers entertained by Sydney sporting
scribes. In his report for the year to
June 31, 1944, he publishes a long list
of these worthies from whom he ex-
tracted additional tax and fine for “for-
getting” to return their actual income.
In one case, that of a Randwick book-
maker, the amount “forgotten” was
found to be £11,178, and additional tax
imposed was £266o—perhaps half the
proceeds of a “good” day. And a ladies’
hairdresser whose racing interests have
been extensively advertised was charged
£5401 for “omitting” to account for
£10,070. It would help the Commis-
sioner and the revenue if these cases led
automatically to refusal of licenses, but
these things are not done.
WHEN THE BANKING REVOLUTION ARRIVES.
Guests at a Y.W.C.A. function in Mel-
bourne were “shocked” when the wife
of the recently returned Australian
Minister to Washington told them there
was only one Australian case in the Wash-
ington museum and that contained a
model of an aborigine with spears and
flints, labelled “Australian Man.” This,
the lady said, helped to explain why
some Americans had strange conceptions
of this country. If so, it is a snocKing
criticism of the Department of Informa-
tion which keeps an expensive staff
specially to give the Yanks the dinkum
oil about us.
“McKell Puts Foot Down on Shearing
Strike,” cried Sydney “Sun” in a three-
column headline. He didn’t, of course,
being—like Curtin —forcible-feeble in
such matters. For a day or two the
“Sun” was off the streets again because
of a strike among its delivery men for,
among other things, a 40-hour week and
four weeks’ holiday per year. This time
McKell’s foot wasn’t even raised.
Canberra is making a great to-do with
meetings and reports and recommenda-
tions and appointments and commissions
and so forth, ostensibly to destroy the
black markets. There will always be
black markets while commodities are
“controlled” and while penalties are such
as drew from Queensland Judge Philp the
comment “It seems a small fee for the
license.”
A Melbourne “Herald” reporter,
assigned to investigate Melbourne’s black
markets, had no difficulty in collecting
in an evening enough port, sauterne,
whisky and beer in bags of a dozen to
make the mouth of any toper water
simply by tooting round in a taxi. He
paid £l4 12s. 6d. for wet goods whose
fixed price is £5 ss. 3d., .and found
illicit trading so general that rows of
cars parked outside the black-liquor
depots had ceased to excite comment.
Rationing was brought in so that all
might get a fair share of what was
going. All it has done is to give criminals
and their patrons an advantage over
people who play the game.
Probably warned by the commo.
strike among shearers in Queensland (fail-
ing last week, although corns, are doing
their worst to spread the infection to
N. S. Wales) and aware that nothing is to
be expected from Canberra, the S.A.
Stockowners’ Association and the State
branch of the A.W.U. have subscribed to
an agreement that ensures shearing being
done on time. All disputes and claims
are to be dealt with by a tribunal when
the season is over. Infuriating to corns,
but a good Australian way of doing
things, and saving loss on both sides as
well as giving the sheep a chance.
Playford is making a painful discovery
that will sooner or later be felt by his
fellow-Premiers. Moving of the war away
from Australia has brought about a steady
decline of S.A. railway revenue, but ex-
penditure goes on increasing. Heaven
knows what will happen to State
finances in N. S. Wales, Victoria and
Queensland when their railways lose their
war-time business. And their Govern-
ments won’t be able to keep motor trans-
port off the roads in the speed-minded
world that will follow the war.
It looks as if Forests Minister Lind
wasn’t far wrong when he said that there
would be no bushfires in Victoria this
year like those in 1939. Lind based
his judgment on the efficacy of his
preventive measures. They were never
tested ; the summer turned out to be the
coolest for a generation.
That unfortunate optimist Scully is in
trouble again. At first he announced that
there’d be no wheat for sheep in drought
areas. Then he recanted or repented or
something and announced that there would
be wheat for sheep in drought areas.
Now the Poultry Farmers’ Association
has called his performances “vacillating
and meeting with the contempt and dis-
gust of poultry farmers, particularly in
view of the industry’s response to appeals
for greater production.” However,
Caucus and Curtin are blind to all
Scully’s tomfooleries, and the job and
the salary and the 1942 Chrysler go on.
Army Minister Forde ordered the re-
lease from Long Bay gaol of three
Diggers, Wilson, Derrick and Chalmers,
who were sentenced to five years for asso-
ciation with a riot in a Queensland
detention camp. Justice Reed, who in-
quired into the affair under Royal Com-
mission, reported that two years would
have been sufficient. Even that seems
excessive compared with the sentences
handed out to black marketeers, wharf-
looters and others who rob and loaf while
other fight. And a thrice-convicted wharf-
looter is allowed back on the wharves.
If you are aged or infirm the
Labor Government reckons you’re en-
titled to 325. 6d, a week from the public
purse. If you’re under 16 aqd are lucky
enough to have an elder brother or sister
also under 16, you are to be worth seven
and a bender a week of public money.
But if you happen to be somewhere over
40, ambitious, industrious, thrifty, with a
family and a home on which you’re pay-
ing instalments, then you’re just fair game
for the tax-gatherer, and also the looter,
the black marketeer and the striker. No
wonder Australia is the wonder of all
who discover her.
The proposed new League of Nations
could be compared to the old league as a
boneshaker could be compared to a mod-
ern bicycle, said Robert Garran, presi-
dent of the old League Union, at a Mel-
bourne Rotary luncheon. The new league,
formation of which will be discussed at
the World Security Conference at ’Frisco,
will consist of an assembly, a council, a
secretariat and a permanent Court of
International Justice and, according to the
speaker, it will make war impossible. All
that is needed is international goodwill
and understanding of the point of view of
other countries. The first test of that was
at Yalta and there are large differences
of opinion as to whether much of it was
shown to Poland.
In B. 24/1/’45 there was comment on
the case of a Victorian degenerate who,
while at large on a good-behavior bond,
continued his crimes against children, in-
fecting his latest victim with a disease.
In that instance a two-years’ sentence was
imposed. The fellow was up last week
before Macfarlan, J., for violating the
good-behavior bond and sentenced to an-
other six years. No doubt these cases
should be placed in a special category,
but good-behavior bonds should be no
part of the treatment.
People around Edgeroi, a nor’-west
N.S.W. wheat district, financed the build-
ing of a ’bus to carry their children to the
nearest high school. A woman is acting
as volunteer driver. The residents expect
to receive a Government subsidy now that
the service has been established. What
they’re more likely to receive is (a) a de-
mand that they take' out third-party in-
surance with the Government insurance
office, (b) a demand that the lady-driver
become a member of the Transport Union,
and (c) a long questionnaire as to where
they got the money, tools and hands to
build the ’bus.
Manchester “Guardian” (December 15)
dips into history;
There were occasions when Britain and
Germany came very near an alliance—
When Randolph Churchill urged the advan-
tages of an Anglo-German alliance on the
German Ambassador in 1885 he was met
by the argument that Gladstone might come
back to power and his hostility was well
known. In 1898 Gladstone was dead land!
Joseph Chamberlain pressed for an Anglo-
German alliance.
There are no more Chamberlains in
British politics, but there is another Ran-
dolph Churchill. Surely it will never be
written of him that he “urged the advan-
tages of an Anglo-German alliance in
1965.”


iTNw*
m
CH\U6INO
BATTEW
m
W(
1/44
This man is completely nuts. He’s got a
crazy notion that by increasing his idling
speed he charges his battery! And oh! how
it eats up petrol coupons.
The wise way to keep your battery in tip-top
shape is to get a fortnightly check-up and an
occasional re-charge from your nearest Exide
dealer. It will give you many extra months
of service.
BATTERIES
BTIU. KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
William Glasgow is back in Aus-
tralia from Canada after five years,
full of admiration for that coun-
try, its people, its war effort and
its generosity to Britain, Australia and
the rest of the United Nations. He is
just on 69, but doesn’t look it. Through-
out his five years in Canada he had to
overcome a longing for the bush, and
Sanders station, Dingo (Q.), will be his
address in the future as in the past, three
wars excepted.
More than half of Maoriland's
Supreme Court Judges are ex-servicemen.
One of them, Judge Arthur Fair, com-
piled the history of the 1 / sth Battalion of
the Suffolk Regiment, in which he was
a captain. Born at Charleston, an extinct
mining town on the M.L. West Coast,
he happened to be in England when the
first war broke out, and so joined up with
Kitchener’s army.
Leader of the Senate Opposition
George McLeay, one of the delegates to
San Francisco, has represented S.A. as
Senator since 1934. After four years he
joined the Ministry—having previously
been Government Whip—and a year
later blossomed as a full Minister and
Senate leader, his portfolio including the
P.M.G. job and Customs. He was a
member of the Menzies Economic Cabi-
net. McLeay’s pet aversion is govern-
ment by regulation. He’s 52.
The only inmate of Melbourne Zoo
who can -claim to be an older inhabitant
than director Andrew Wilkie is a parrot.
Now 92, the curator has known Queenie
the elephant, Mollie the orang-outang and
Rosie, the widowed giraffe, for 70 years,
the earlier part as a boy under Baron
Ferdinand von Mueller and as an assis-
tant under A. C. Le Souef. When Wilkie
started a herd of deer and four monkeys
comprised the entire animal population.
Harold Alfred Maurice Campbell, edi-
tor of Melbourne “Age” since 1939, and
W. Macmahon Ball, head of the Depart-
ment of Political Science at Melbourne
University, are among the contingent
heading for San Francisco. Campbell
has been a journalist all his working life,
except for an interim when, having gone
to the war from the Perth “Daily News”
office, he won the M.M. in France, Ball
was Director of Short-wave Broadcasting
under the Department of Information
from 1940 to 1944, when he kicked over
the job after a dispute with Calwell. Sub-
sequently he organised for A.B.C. the
debates on public questions called the
Open Forum, including the one on sex
education. Ball was Research Scholar in
Psychology in 1923, and in 1929 gained
a Rockefeller Travelling scholarship
which took him to France, Italy and Ger-
many. On his return he published Pos-
sible Peace, an argument for collective
security by all-nations’ world control.
Melbourne has seen some hn usual
overseas conductors, but probably the
most unusual of them all is Sergeant
Christian, the 19-year-old Papuan who, at
General Blarney’s suggestion, has brought
the band, 39 strong, of the Royal Papuan
Constabulary to Australia. More of the
time of his players has been spent chasing
Japs through the jungle than in music-
making. He himself is credited with kill-
ing three Japanese and taking three others
prisoner in one foray.
Anyone who thinks the Diggers and
Diggeresses haven’t been doing anything
should turn up the latest list of gallantry
awards for the South-west Pacific; they
spread over the best part of a page in
Melbourne “Argus.” C.Bs. to Lieut.-
General F. H. Berryman and Major-
General G. F. Wootten headed the list.
Others included C.B.Es. to Colonels E. J.
Milford, D. A. Whitehead, W. J. V. Win-
deyer (all holding temporary higher
rank), F. H. Beare, J. C. Belisario, A. H.
Green and Lieut.-Colonel J, Leah. Lieut.-
Colonel F. O. Chilton gathered a bar to
his D.S.O. The Royal Red Cross went
to Major Olive Ada Kestel, and Asso-
ciate to Royal Red Cross awards to
Major Janet Lyall Cook, Captain Honor
Hardy and Captain Elizabeth Ruth Mc-
Ghie. The fine list also included 10
D.S.Os., eight M.Cs., two D.C.Ms. and
14 M.Ms.
With the gameness of the best horse
he ever watched in over half a century
of turf-writing in Sydney, “Pilot” (J. F.
Dexter), who passed on last Friday, in-
sisted on carrying on his Bulletin racing
comments until sickness got the better of
him a couple of months back. He was
then turned 80. A Queenslander, born at
Toowoomba in 1864, “Pilot” did most of
his writing for the old “Referee” before
joining The Bulletin. Of his sons, Alan
is racing editor of Sydney “Sunday Sun,”
Frank left a like job with Melbourne
“PILOT."
(Modelled by Frith.)
“Argus” to become a war correspondent,
Harry and Cliff are also both sporting
writers, Ralph (like Cliff) is in the A.1.F.,
Gayne (“Bob”) is publicity director for
M.G.M. in London, and eldest son Jack,
now in business in Sydney, is a last-war
Military Cross winner. Before her mar-
riage, daughter May Dexter was one of
the best of Australian women journalists.
From Fred Duncan;
Maud Fanning (B. 21/2/ ’44) was not the
wife of Charlie Fanning of old Ricfcardian days,
but his sister. Mrs. Charlie was Georgie Devoe,
a pretty woman, which was her only asset', as
she freely admitted. I was stage manager at
Sydney Tivoli and Melbourne Opera House for
Harry Rickards for four years, and managed
his theatres in Adelaide and Perth and many
tours of Maoriland, so was brought into per-
sonal touch with many of the old brigade.
Maoriland’s most decorated airman is
Wing-Commander W. V. C, Compton,
of Mission Bay, North Island. He has
the D.S.O. and bar, D.F.C. and bar, the
American Silver Star and the Croix! de
Guerre. Leader of a wing of Spitfires
operating over Belgium, he ties with
fellow - countryman Wing - Commander
Alan Deere with a bag of 21£ enemy air-
craft. The highest scoring M.L. pilot
is Wing-Commander Colin Gray, whose
bag is 27y.
Lieut.-Gen. V. A. H. Sturdee, now con
trolling the exclusively Australian opera-
tions in New Guinea, New Britain and
the Solomons, started in the Aus. Staff
Corps in 1911, when he was 21, and has
been soldiering ever since. Born in
Frankston (Vic.), he has been an A.I.F.
leader in both wars.
Before getting his “wings” last year
Robin (“Pop”) Ordell, reported missing
in an R.A.F. raid over Germany, was
widely known to radio listeners in Aus-
tralia. He had his start as a schoolboy
in sketches put over the air by his father,
radio storyteller and former Bulletin
contributor Tal Ordell. Later young
Ordell organised “The Youth Show.” Tal
has an elder son, who has often been
missing, but has turned up again—once
after a long term with the French Foreign
Legion.
Dr. Eileen Fitzgerald, retired chief
school medical officer of the Victorian
Department, did more inconspicuously
good work for the health of the State’s
present generation than almost any other
individual. Her annual reports made
officialdom’s hair stand on end. She
helped on the prevalence of
preventable « among the- State’s
childrc ' icr inquiries back to
homes oi tiie children. Dr. Mary Lane,
her assistant, has stepped into her shoes
Melba was the cause of some sensa-
tional contributions to war charities dur-
ing the last war, but even her art couldn’t
do the trick so remarkably as billiardist
Walter Lindrum’s. In this war he has
raised upwards of £lOO,OOO for ameni-
ties for servicemen. It involved giving
3000 exhibitions and travelling 100,000
miles. On one occasion an enthusiastic
sportsman parted with £5OO to see the
champion pot the whole sequence of
snooker balls in correct succession, the
pockets on the table being the old boots
of soldiers. The feat was nothing to
Lindrum; he has done it hundreds of
times. Born in Kalgoorlie, his present
h.q. is Melbourne. He’s 47.
From a job with the Army Education
Service Dr. G. S. Plant becomes Public
Relations Officer in Melbourne for Post-
war Reconstruction. After gaining his
M.A. at Melbourne Uni., Plant made a
name for himself in philosophy at Lon-
don Uni.
A fifth-generation Australian, Flight-
Lieut. John Lewis Rowe, of the R.A.A.F.,
is now presumed to have lost his life
.while ferrying a Spitfire to Port Moresby.
Born at Cowra (N.S.W.), he was in the
pastoralist line in s.-w. Queensland before
the war, and was a son of the late George
L. Rowe, of Teeswater, Mitchell (Q.).
His mother lives at Mosman, Sydney.
Dr. J. V. Hall-Best is the boss cocky
of the “open wide” profession—president
for the past four years of the Australian
Dental Association’s Federal body. Born
in 1894, he graduated B.Ds. at Sydney
University with first-class honors in 1916,
then went to Harvard for his D.M.D.
(1922), and later was made a Fellow of
the American College of Dentists. Chair-
man of the Central Dental Advisory
Committee to Man-power, he was, with
the rank of lieut.-col., consultant to the
Australian Army Dental Corps, and he’s
DR. J. V. HALL-BEST.
been president of the A.D.A. in N.S.W.
since 1937. Hobbies: golf (of sorts)
and excellent after-dinner speaking,
“Kashmiri” (New Delhi, India):
Passed through here some time back
on his way to Greece, George H.
Johnston, war correspondent. When I
first met George 11 years ago in the Mel-
bourne “Argus” office he was a cadet
doing shipping rounds. Even then he
had a remarkable knowledge of shipping,
so no one was surprised when he joined
the Royal Australian Navy at the out-
break. Later he became a war corre-
spondent, and he recently completed his
seventh book—every one of them a finan-
cial success. George arrived in India
just in time to be rushed to the
Mogaung Valley in Burma to cover
the Wingate show and the eventual cap-
hire of Myitkyina. He went from here
to report the doings in Greece and the
Balkans generally. t
F. E. Allen, in retirement at Lindfield
(N.S.W.), feels satisfaction at a “good
job done,” after being called back from
normal retirement from his C.S.R. mana-
gership in Melbourne. As administrative
head of munitions production in Queens-
land, he saw that State’s huge small
arms plant (112 acres of it) rise out of
virgin bush.
Major-General George A. Vasey, killed
in the Queensland air crash, was one of
the A.l.F.’s most distinguished soldiers
and forthright personalities. Born in Mel-
bourne in 1895 and educated at Wesley,
he graduated from Duntroon just before
the last war to a commission in the Staff
Corps. Service on Gallipoli and in
France brought him a D.S.O. and numer-
ous “mentions.” His work until the out-
break of the present war was mainly ad-
ministrative, except for three years on the
North-west Frontier of India. In 1939
he sailed with the advance party which
established the A.I.F, in Palestine, and
his organisation there and in Egypt
earned him a C.B.E. and brigadier
rank. He led the 19th Brigade in some
hard fighting in Greece, directed the rear-
guard action at Brailos and covered the
withdrawal at Thermopylae. He was still
in command in Crete, which called for
still further dogged action. Returning,
he helped plan the defence of Australia,
led the 7th Division in the campaign
over the Kokoda Trail to Sanananda and
Gona, returned to Australia for re-equip-
ping and training, and once more led the
same division, now airborne, back to New
Guinea. The 7th and 9th then took Lae
and finally swept the Japanese from the
Markham and Ramu Valleys. Vasey was
one of those selected in a recent sym-
posium as the six handsomest Australians.
A son is with the A.I.F.
Major-General Rupert Major Downes,
C.M.G., V.D., M.D., M.S., F.R.A.C.S.,
another of the air-crash victims, was a
leading soldier-medico. Born in Adelaide
in 1885 and educated in Melbourne, he
graduated from Melbourne University as
a surgeon in time to serve in the last
war on Gallipoli and with the Anzac
Mounted Div. and the Desert Mounted
Corps under Chauvel. Back in Australia,
Downes became Director-General of
Medical Services at Army Headquarters.
He had just completed a visit to India,
Egypt, New Guinea, Rabaul, N.E.1.,
Malaya, England and U.S. when this war
broke out. Appointed Inspector-General,
he visited the Middle East and Malaya.
He was retired last month and appointed
War Historian, Medical Services.
“Friday Island”: Australia owes special
gratitude to Major-General Downes
for his initiative foresight in un-
authorised huge purchasing and import-
ing of drugs such as quinine. The defence
of New Guinea depended on the store of
anti-malarial drugs as much as on the
store of arms. Early Japanese victories
gave practically a world monopoly of
quinine. Downes was the doctor who
forestalled them.
Into the silence;
In England, Lady Caroline Ogilvie-Grant,
who, born in Oamaru (M.L.), was eldest
daughter of the tenth Earl of Seafield; he
unexpectedly came into his title in the ’eighties
while doing ordinary manual labor round
about Oamaru. Lord Strathspey, Chief of the
Clan Grant, and his sister, Lady Nina Knowles,
both natives of Oamaru, now living in England,
are the surviving members of the Ogilvie-Grant
family.
In England, aged 62, M.L.-born artist Frede-
rick Porter, who in 1914-18 was a British Gov-
ernment war artist and did good work.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 60, Father O. M.
Doyle, chaplain of the N.Z. Rifle Brigade. He
served continuously for two and a half years
with the boys in France and Flanders without
leave —claimed to be a record. Born at Burra-
gorang (N.S.W.), he was educated in Sydney,
crossed to M.L. in 1907, and was ordained there
a year later.
After a long illness, Mrs. Peter Fraser, wife
of the N.Z. Prime Minister. _ She was pTesi-
dent of the organisation which included all
women’s groups engaged in war work.
In Melbourne, Miss Ellen Jane Mohan, the
major part of whose life was lived in unusual
surroundings. She was 30 years at Pentndge,
first as assistant matron and then as matron.


m
m
as
y r usaoc
mm
mm
5
m
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHIUNK
Sft
'S
Established 1808 in Reign ol George HI.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.§.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia A New Zealand.
LEONARD PETXITT,
Manager for Australia k New Zealand.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Caucus to Control Our £ s. d.
In presenting his banking legislation
the Treasurer, Mr. Chifley, said : “The
legislation I am proposing today is based
on the conviction that the Government
must accept responsibility for the eco-
nomic condition of the nation.” Mr,
Chifley’s Government is incapable of
accepting responsibility for anything. It
has never carried out its responsibilities
to the nation, and it is unlikely that it
ever will. It acts chiefly for the vested
interests of Labor politics. In matters of
business it is doubtful if it could conduct
successfully one of those unauthorised
itinerant horse-drawn city fruit barrows
which always seem to be just a step or
two ahead of some relentless policeman.
Labor’s financial policy now is hardly
more than a step or two ahead of
economic retribution. Inflation, waste
and abuse of essential functions are turn-
ing the foundations of our economic secu-
rity into political pulp.
Australians face a money monopoly
and a money dictatorship. There is to be
Commonwealth Bank coercion of the
trading banks instead of the co-operation
with them recommended by the Bank-
ing Commission,
With the passing of Mr. Chifley’s legis-
lation Caucus will become the dictator of
Australian credit policy—so long as Labor
is in office. There is to be a governor of
the bank, but no bank board, and where
the governor and the Treasurer clash the
will of the Government is to prevail. The
will of the present Government is the will
of Caucus. The note-issue reserve obli-
gation is to be abolished.
For what it is worth, the governor is
to have an advisory council of five. The
central-bank staff is to be put on a civil-
service basis. The general banking sec-
tion of the Commonwealth Bank is to
be separated from the central-bank por-
tion, and it shall be “the duty of the
bank to develop and expand its general
banking business.” The bill specifically
encourages the taking-away of business
from other banks. A new department is
to concentrate on finance and other prob-
lems of “industrial undertakings, particu-
larly small undertakings.” Advances up
to 85 p.c. of valuation are to be made
buyers or builders of homes, terms five
to 35 years. All the other ramifications
of the present bank, including “Wimmera
Wilson’s” mortgage section, are to be
retained by this universal provider of
political palliatives.
The central bank is to have control of
interest and exchange rates, as well as
of the note issue. It will have the right
to retain all the deposits taken from the
trading banks during war-time, and to
take from those banks whatever it wants
of their new post-war deposits. Interest
payable shall not exceed 17s. 6d. per cent.
The Auditor-General shall periodically
investigate the affairs of each trading
bank. Every bank must furnish the
Treasurer with such information as he
requires, apart from details of an indivi-
dual customer’s account.
“Reduced to its simplest terms,” said
Mr. Chifley, “one of the main responsi-
bilities of a central bank is to control the
issue of bank credit by all the bapks in
such a manner as to avoid expansion of
credit in times of boom and contraction
of credit in times of depression.” This
statement itself denies the basis of the
present legislation, the fundamental of
which is political “responsibility” for the
national credit. The sweeping-away of
the bank board makes this perfectly clear.
An extraordinary condition of the legis-
lation is that a trading bank must not do
business with a State, a State authority
or a local-government body without the
permission of the Treasurer. In other
words, the Bank of Ne\y South Wales
cannot now run an account for the N. S.
Wales Government without special per-
mission, even if, as in the past, the Slate
Government prefers this arrangement.
The war-time banking regulations are
to be continued in peace-time, with the
licensing of trading banks and firms which
do business in the nature of banking. In
short, a totalitarian war-time measure is
to be made permanent when this “democ-
racy” returns to peace.
What it failed to achieve by a referen-
dum the Labor Government proposes to
achieve by back-door methods regardless
of popular feeling. The nation does not
favor political control of citizens’ money
any more than it was favored prior to
the suspension of payments by the Gov-
ernment Savings Bank of N. S. Wales
during Lang’s regime. In those days the
public feared suspension of payments by
the savings bank, and by their alarm pre-
cipitated that suspension. “Suspension” is
not likely to worry them today, because the
Commonwealth Bank can print notes and
issue credits until the cows come home.
But there, as well as in the shackling and
fettering of the trading banks, lies the
great present danger.
What a Government bank can do for
one purpose in the way of issuing un-
limited “credit” it can do for another.
It can attempt permanently to finance
Budget deficits by issuing bank credit.
That has been the story of inflation and
currency ruination all over the world —
as an “easy” way out of financial diffi-
culties the temptation of bank credit has
seduced political financiers and brought
inflation and disaster to countries which
have not had the honesty or the courage
to deal with their real problems in a prac-
tical way. Let us not forget that Aus-
tralia’s war effort has been accompanied
by an alarming amount of financial make-
believe and depreciation of savings and
life-assurance values.
Votes at Any Price
During the present war the Curtin
Government has almost had socialism in
its time. It has had the handling of as
much as £686 million of the people’s
money in one year, when the total
national income was perhaps £l2OO mil-
lion. It seems to hate the idea of letting
go its spending privileges and has just
placed before Caucus a programme of
gross post-war extravagance.
If there is one thing a Labor politician
knows anything about, or thinks he
knows anything about, it is votes. And
he likes to splash public money about —
he thinks it brings him votes. During the
present war, if a Minister, he has had a
remarkable opportunity to splash money
about, quite apart from the expenditure
on luxurious Ministerial cars that are
gorging petrol in running along high-
ways and byways in Canberra and
far away from it. If an ordinary mem-
ber, he has often had more grandiose
ideas as to what should be done with
public money than the average Minister,
Cabinet last week decided to grant
old-age and invalid pensioners a rise
of ss. 6d. a week, subject to adjustment
where they had other income. Pen-
sioners who had an income of 11s, a
week or more from other sources would
have received none of the increase. But
Rowley James opposed any such adjust-
ment, and in Caucus he carried the day.
Pensions will be 325. 6d. a week from
July 1 where a full pension is payable,
compared with 275. previously. When
war began the standard rate was
20s. a week. War-time increases, includ-
ing the latest, will represent 62j p.c. The
cost of living is reputed to have risen 24
p.c. in the same time. It has undoubtedly
risen more, but 24 p.c. is the official
figure.
In order to obtain the equivalent
of the proposed 325. 6d.-a-week pension
a “capitalist” would need to have £2BOO
invested in Commonwealth loans paying
an average rate of 3 p.c. Some war loans
carry only 2\ p.c. The rate of interest
payable to a thrifty person has been re-
duced during this war as the cost of liv-
ing has grown. And the pay of soldiers
or their dependants has not been in-
creased p.c.
Simultaneously with the rise in old-age
pensions, child-endowment rates are to
be lifted 50 p.c.—from ,ss. to 7s. 6d. a
week for each child under 16 in a family
of more than one.
The increased cost to the Common-
wealth for pensions and endowment is
estimated at £lO million a year. This will
be in addition to the £6 million by which
pensions have already risen during the
war, and in addition to the £3O million
being extracted from taxpayers’ pockets
to pay for “free medicine,” etc., under
the heading of “national welfare” expen-
diture. Child endowment, which cost
£11.9 million last year, is also a war-time
measure.
The present Government is over-
loading the taxpayer with financial
burdens of a civil nature just as the tax-
payer is beginning to hope that some
relief from war-time taxation is in sight.
Inflated Government Budgets usually, in
the first case, breed excessive spending
that leads to monetary inflation, and
after that we have a slump in which
swollen Government commitments mean
heavy taxation that kills the incentive in
enterprise. Just so are depressions made
and recovery impeded. This Labor Gov-
ernment, which has made such a com-
motion about its freeing the country
from the danger of depressions, is an
arch-offender in sowing the seeds of de-
pression. It is recklessly sowing such
seeds now.
With justifiable defence expenditure
rapidly on the decline the Government
is nevertheless loath to relinquish any of
its right to splash money about. No
beggars were ever set on horseback in
such exhilarating conditions. It has been
the aim of Labor to see every possible
person a trade-unionist, a civil servant,
a munition worker or a pensioner. At the
height of the war effort the number of
Government dependants of all kinds
increased enormously. With needed muni-
tions work cutting out on all sides, there
have been ill-considered new ventures in
aircraft and similar production involv-
ing large financial outlay. In spite of
much wasteful expenditure, direct con-
trol over many wage-earners is slipping
away from the Government. The rise in
pensions and child-endowment rates has
come at a time when Labor stocks are
rapidly declining.
The burdens which Australians are
carrying in the way of war-time expen-
diture, and the extent to which many of
them were inclined to expect relief (sub-
ject to the inevitable increase in the in-
terest bill on the national debt and the
increase in departmental expenses arising
from costs inflation) may be seen from 8
this comparison of pre-war outgo and
estimates for the current year;
+
Estimate, or
1938-39. 1944-45.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
1914-18 war & repat. .. 19.4 20.1 +0.7
Defence and war (1939-?) 8.8 177.6 +168.8
Invalid & old-age pensions 16.0 22.0 +6.0
Child endowment .. 11.9 +11.9
Widows’ pensions .. 3.0 +3,0
Other statutory payments 4.5 3.8 —0.7
Departmental votes .. 4.0 7.2 +3.2
Miscellaneous services .. 1.4 1.1 —0.3
New works .. .. 0.5 1.4 +0.9
National welfare fund .. 30.0 +30.0
Territories .. .. 1.8 1.7 —O.l
Payments to or for States 15.6 13.5 -2.1
Relief to primary pro-
ducers 2.0 1.9 -0.1
74.0 295.2 +221.2
In addition to that expenditure from
revenue, the Commonwealth during the
current year has budgeted for an outlay
of £328 million out of loan money. Aus-
tralians obviously are entitled to see a
vast reduction in Government expenditure
when the war is over, even if it is neces-
sary to spend more on defence each year
than was the practice before the present
conflict started.
In pre-war years defence expenditure
was neglected by Labor or opposed
by it when attempted by another
Government. There was the memor-
able occasion when (1936) a defence
vote of £B.B million was under dis-
cussion, and, criticising the proposed
expenditure, present Minister E. I. Ward
said “The workers of Japan, Germany
and other overseas countries are fighting
for the identical things that the Austra-
lian workers desire.”
The following table shows the manner
in which the Commonwealth has ex-
tracted an extra £217 million in taxation
since war began in September, 1939:
+
Estimate, or
1938-39. 1944-45.
£mil. £mil. £mil.
Customs and excise .. 47.6 67.0 +19.4
Sales tax .. .. ..9.3, 27.5 +18.2
Flour tax .. .. 1,8 1.9 +O.l
Land tax .. .. 1.5 3.8 +2.3
Income tax .. .. 11.9 167.3 +155.4
Estate duty .. 1.9 2.8 +0.9
Gold excise .. .. 0.3 +0.3
Payroll tax .. .. 11.0 +ll.O
Entertainments tax .. 4.2 +4.2
Gift duty .. .. 0.2 +0.2
Miscellaneous .. .. 2.8 7.8 +5.0
76.8 293.8 +217,0
The greatest multiplication has been in
income tax —a thirteenfold increase. This
has been a grievous economic burden,
borne cheerfully in many cases because
of the cause in which it was levied. But
to begin already to obstruct the chances
of a return to reasonable taxation after
the war by increasing class-conscious
“social security” charges on the public
purse is all of a piece with a Govern-
ment policy of achieving socialisation
through taxation of enterprise and
nationalisation of banking. Another part
of that policy is “votes at any price.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
CONNELL, Frank, formerly of Torrens Terrace, Wei-
lington, New Zealand, will hear something to his
advantage if he communicates with NATIONAL
TRUSTEES COMPANY, 95 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Who are the Owners of
The Brisbane Permanent Building & Banking Co., Ltd.?
The average everyday hard-working citizen who finds in it a means whe y g
invested at a fair return and be used in promoting an essential public service.
These ordinary neonle ARE THE OWNERS, not the Directors or Officials. In a co-operative relation-
ship of enterprize and confidence the Shareholders, Depositors, Customers, Directors and Officials are joined
in service for the mutual benefit of all. . . , .
There is nothing monopolistic about THE BRISBANE PERMANENT whose proprietors
number 2,092, comprising 698 men, 1,118 women, 64 joint owners, 8 companies, 199 estates
unclassified. The maximum voting power of any shareholder is 20 votes.
The average holding is 358 shares, and the quantity groups are set forth hereunder.
264 (being 13 p.c.) hold less than 50 shares each.
, ) hold between 51 and 100 shares each.
, ) hold between 101 and 200 shares each.
) hold between 201 and 500 shares each.
) hold between 501 and 1000 shares each.
) hold between 1001 and 2000 shares each.
,’ ) hold over 2000 shares each.
2,092 100 p.c. , , ~, , .
It is the enterprise of these people, together with the confidence and recommendation of thousands of
depositors and satisfied customers, as well as the efficiency of its service that
The Brisbane Permanent Building & Banking Co., Ltd.
has become Australia’s foremost Home Finance Institution.
IF YOU NEED A HOME CALL AND SEE US
We are ready to finance Home Building and Purchasing (in Queensland Won.most attractive terms,
we are xea y Repaymeuts are as low as 12s. 6d. per month for each £lOO of loan.
Shareholders’ Funds over One million pounds.
Founded 1874.
115 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE. G. H. NELSON, Manager.
395 (
477 (
589 (
228 (
97 (
42 (
COMSTEEL W.lB
18% TUNGSTEN
■■ -
mm
m
■ -
JR I ■
-
■ ■ I % n
H
■ j -
mm
m
msm
Australian manufacturers are to-day producing precision tools to standards of
accuracy and quality which before the war were believed impossible of achieve-
||||Sii||Hi^S' sawS s *wist gear tKese and matiy..
more specialised products are being made, and made well.
111111 l make' these tools. But we do make the steel from
m ade—fine quality high-speed steels capable of giving completely satisfactory
performance and giving Australian industries independence of overseas
supplies., now and in the future.
COMMONWEALTH STEEL COMPANY LIMITED. HEAD OFFICE & WORKS; WARATAN, N.S.W.
Branch Warehouses: Sydney Melbourne orbbone - Adelaide ...Perth.
Illili
-W/I2
COMSTEEL
Stainless, Heat-Resisting, High-Speed,, and.
Alloy Steels. Bromet Tips.
Inflation and Banking
From a Sydney actuary:
A practical definition of monetary inflation
is that state of affairs where the pound note has
fallen in value in relation to the sovereign.
To get a comparison of value, we must look
to world markets, for it is a truism that the
people of a given country rarely know the
value of their own paper money unless or until
they try to pass it over the frontier.
The latest news is that in Europe £5 in Eng-
lish notes (equal to £6 ss. Australian paper
money) is being given for one sovereign; and
it used to take only one Australian pound note
to buy a sovereign. This betokens a remark-
able state of monetary’ inflation, and it agrees
sufficiently well with other earlier quotations
from India, Egypt, Argentina and elsewhere.
In one respect, money is no different from
butter or any other commodity: that is to say,
if there be produced a double quantity in rela-
tion to a stable demand its real value must
fall. The cause of the fall in the value of the
pound note is simply over-issue under the
guise of “national credit,” which had better
be called “national credibility.”
The use of a sugary phrase does not increase
the value of over-issued paper—it merely de-
ludes. The use of “national credit” is simply
a means of imposing upon holders of the
pound note and upon all holders of contracts
to pay notes —life insurance policies, for ex-
ample —and it falls heavily upon wage-earners.
Any attempt by a Government to enlarge its
expenditure under such a state of affairs is
merely a futile attempt to fly on wings of
paper to paradise. And if banking comes under
political control the pound note will be called
upon to bear a still greater burden. History is
clear that an inconvertible paper money (that
is, one not redeemable in coin on demand),
coupled with political control of banking, in-
evitably ruins a currency; this is monetary in-
flation in excelsis. The Russian rouble under
like circumstances fell . away to one fifty-
thousandth of tenpence in value.
Queensland Mines Minister Gair has
allotted two applicants 460-acre leases
over the Callide coalfield. One appli-
cation was lodged by a syndicate headed
by L. G. Neill, who previously held a
mineral-oil prospecting license over the
area, and this license prevented an
earlier decision by the Minister in respect
of coal rights. The other syndicate in-
cludes J. H. Julin, H. Wood and A. Parn-
well. Each interest appears to be satis-
fled with the outcome of the contest for
coalmining rights, which has dragged on
for months. A good deal of publicity has
been given to the Callide field by local
papers, and the Government was blamed
for holding up development. But coal
leases were granted as soon as the field
was clear of the mineral-oil lease held
by Neill. It expired on March 2.
* * * *
Advocates of nationalisation of airways
might take notice of the South African
experience, where the Union Administra-
tion set up in the business in 1934. Com-
mercial services were suspended when the
organisation became a military unit in
May, 1940. Trading results for the three
prior years were:
South African Government Airways.
Years ended March —-
1938. 1939. 1940.
Mileage flown, 000 1,339 1,989 1,447
£ £ £
Expenditure* .. 307,301 560,492 428,043
Revenue .. . . 156,658 243,948 178,381
Deficit .. . . 150,643 325,544 249,662
Capital account .. 506,111 718,850 808,150
* Including depreciation and interest on loan
capital.
Working losses in the above years aggre-
gated 90 p.c. of invested capital, apart
from those incurred in the establishment
period. It is to be hoped that air trans-
port in Australia is not to become a
similar drain on the public purse. A
great deal of humbug is spoken in Aus-
tralia about the “subsidies” paid by the
Government to commercial airlines. The
humbugs rarely point out that if pay-
ments by the Government are subsidies
then the airlines must be regarded as hav-
ing carried all mails free of charge. The
airlines levy no postage charges.
« * * *
The United States is in danger of being
hit with as much industrial difficulty after
the war as almost any country. Its
economic arrangements were not in very
healthy shape before the war began, in
spite of its enormous wealth and natural
resources ; there was a lack of balance
between various sections of the economy
which the New Deal never really over-
came and which made unemployment a
major problem right up to the time war
started in Europe. Inflation has been a
big item in the United States war pro-
gramme ; the war-time set-up generally
has not been one in which the control of
inflation has been regarded as a life-
and-death matter, as has been the case
in Britain. The Roosevelt Government
has been a “popular” one, with one ear
flat to the ground, and there have been
a number of industrial concessions as
well as an inadequate taxation policy for
war purposes. In the two years of war
before Japan struck at Pearl Harbor the
European conflict brought about an in-
dustrial stimulus in America that pro-
duced boom conditions among some sec-
tions of the community, and since then,
though taxes, especially upon industry,
have risen, the great and invaluable war
production of the United States has had
the effect of giving widespread employ-
ment at higher wages. Except for rubber,
gasoline, leather-goods and meat, war-
time demands have resulted in few seri-
ous shortages among the civilian popu-
lation. But unless a sounder Government
financial policy prevails after the war,
and unless production and production
costs are in keeping with demands, the
country is likely to be hit severely by the
ending of war-time spending. The Gov-
ernment has used artificial and expedient
financial methods for a number of years
in order to meet difficulties that call for
courageous and radical economic treat-
ment. “Pump-priming” has been re-
sorted to in peace-time far too frequently.
War-time industries which have grown
up or expanded in a period of inflation
may strike sharp difficulties when the
immediate post-war boom cuts out. Some
may meet trouble before that. The
United States economy threatens to be
peculiarly vulnerable to the post-war re-
action. These probable difficulties may
spur the U.S. Government to commit
itself in a big Way to schemes for the
revival of post-war trade, even where
commitment involves at least a tempor-
ary tax upon the U.S. population to pay
for what virtually amounts to subsidies
in respect of foreign exports.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“W.J.E.”: Knight Murdoch, of the
Melbourne “Herald,” has a young
man in his London office who has been
making invidious comparisons in the
Jimmy Aldridge style. From the exalted
heights of non - combatancy Master
Jimmy wrote that the British soldier
would have to be taught to “hate Fas-
cism” before he could fight with the
“virility” of Ivan—and that was just
before El Alamein. Knight Murdoch’s
young man is not as clumsy as Master
Jimmy, but can be almost as nasty:
The Russians fight hard and with every
possible man, almost regardless of what
is happening behind them. We are inclined ■
to fight soft.
They are saying now that the British and
the Americans before crossing a river re-
quire Bailey bridges, pontoons, ducks,
alligators, crocodiles, weasels, amphibious
jeeps and the rest as part of their great
river-crossing paraphernalia. The Russians
simply require a river.
Capital reading for communists who find
in daily papers their most effective propa-
ganda. Knight Murdoch has been ac-
cused of being awfl’y afraid of corns.,
but if he goes on publishing this mullock
he will endanger his chance of becoming
Lord Murdoch of Toorak.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”; .Seen from the window
of a troop train a glimpse of a Bren-
carrier raising dust near Seymour (Vic.)
seemed commonplace enough. A second
glance revealed ingenious adaptation to
productive, instead of destructive, use.
Several feet astern of the carrier trailed
a multiple plough, upon which perched
a farm hand. Carrier and plough were
linked by metal tubing framework,
the carrier’s evolutions being directed
apparently by remote control. The com-
bination looked to be doing a good job,
and should help to alleviate the post-war
worries of the Disposals Commission —
farmers ought to snap up Bren-carriers
for use as tractors.
* * * *
“Ah Jay”; “Ceg” (B. 21/2/’45) slips
in placing Fasoli’s in King-street. The
real Fasoli’s, pride of old Melbourne's
Bohemia, went into oblivion when the
place in Latrobe-street, up near Exhibi-
tion-street, closed down. An imitation
show was started in King-street, and I’ll
concede that Dr. Maloney was there
sometimes by invitation. But the real
Fasoli’s flourished at the birth of the
century, and there, under the old grape
vine, one could count on meeting some or
all of the Lindsays, the Little Doctor,
Louis Esson, Brodsky, Billy Moore,
Mitchell, Grant Hervey and a mob of
lesser lights. Hardly any of these coves
patronised the new joint in King-street.
* * * *
“G’pa”; I dispute Eureka’s claim (B.
21/2/ ’45) that Sydney’s St. Stephen’s
Church is one of the first prefabricated
buildings imported to Australia. The
influx of population in the “roaring
fifties” set up a housing shortage in Mel-
bourne not even equalled by the present
position. Hundreds of Scotch iron houses
were imported, and these are dotted
round the older suburbs of Melbourne—
there’s a whole street of them in South
Melbourne. George Coppin brought an
iron theatre back with him in 1854,
opened it 18/4/1855 and named it
Olympic, despite which all Melbourne
called it “The Iron Pot.” The Comedy
Theatre now occupies the spot.
* * * *
“Flamer”; Nowadays if my grand-
children are offered a choice of an outing
to the pictures or the Australian Museum
(Sydney) they plump for the museum.
That once-despised institution has been
turned into a major attraction for the
young by its wild-life reconstructions.
The crowds there show that my grand-
kids’ choice is not singular. The latest
addition to the interest is a series of con-
tor relief maps of the whole Sydney-Blue
Mountain area, which show the whole
tangle of gullies, valleys and passes in a
very interesting way. Volunteers from
the bush-walking clubs, working under
M. J. Dunphy, secretary to the National
Parks and Primitive Areas Council,
helped with this work.
* * * *
“Tarry Rope”:, The arrival, 54 years
ago, of the tug Hero (now again in com-
mission after two years under water in
the deepest part of Sydney Harbor) was
turned into a sort of gala day. The vessel
had made the journey from Britain under
its own steam, and boats went down the
harbor to give the little craft and the
heroes who brought it a welcome. Every-
thing with steam in the port cock-a-
doodled a greeting. The tug typified a
change of ideas about port haulage as
compared with the days when steamers
of 3000 or 4000 tons were regarded as
leviathans. For months following the
Hero’s arrival there was a rush to the
“And to think Prcndergast , that I once thought of giving up the Navy.”
side of the ferries when the tug went
sweeping past, the incarnation of pride
and power. She was very faithfully built,
and her engines suffered no injury by the
immersion that could not be rectified by
oil. Over 500 tons of mussels and other
marine growth had to be scraped from
her hull before she was recommissioned.
* H; H 5
“Queenslander”: A quota of only six
law students at Melbourne University
might be more easily understood by
“Nakh” (B. 7/2/’45) if he consulted the
matriculation results. Queensland’s senior
examinations produced one matriculation
for law and none for architecture.
Queensland University quota for Law is
two ; for Architecture, nil. On the other
hand, the quota for Medicine is 60, and
for Engineering and Applied Science, 55.
* * * *
“Forgery Clerk”: I am old enough to
remember the transition from hand-
written to typewritten documents in soli-
citors’ offices. Even after machines were
admitted for copying documents it was
still looked upon as a sort of subtle insult
to send a typewritten letter to a client.
I still maintain that the prejudice against
typewriters was not without foundation.
Take letters: It was no doubt a tedious
and messy job to press-copy every hand-
written letter, but it had the advantage
that it was not possible to “ring in” a
letter at a later date, nor could a letter
be abstracted from the page-numbered
book without leaving a damning gap. The
present system of carbon-copying letters
on colored followers, though neat and
convenient, has no evidential value what-
ever, as more than one Judge has re-
marked. Furthermore, a deed engrossed
on parchment can stand examination
much better than one of the modern
documents consisting of a number of
loose leaves typewritten and sewn to-
gether by the office girl. They are too
easy to unsew and retype. The question
as to whether a typewritten will is valid
was'decided in N.S.W. in 1888, but so
late as 1902 Real, J., in Queensland held
that typewritten wills were objectionable,
and practitioners must stick to the long-
established practice of engrossing wills
in ink, “as was contemplated by the
statute.”
* * # *
“Melbn”: Idylwyde, chain-store pro-
prietor Oliver Gilpin’s remarkable Mel-
bourne mansion, has been sold to a reli-
gious association for £45,000, after being
passed in at auction. The new owners
just beat Lud Mayor Nettlefold to it, a
group of medical men having approached
his Worship with a request to raise
£60,000 and buy the place to serve as a
home for paralysed and invalid children.
The ornate dwelling, which nobody ever
lived in, is said to have taken 120 work-
men six years to build.
* H= * *
“Chevroford”: An amazed official at
Victorian Railways h.q. saw a reference
in a newspaper to two special trains
detailed to convey 800 people to Ballarat
for the annual picnic of the bakers’ and
butchers’ employees. He sent an urgent
request to the Geelong railways office
to “please explain” how it came about
that special trains could be found at this
time of transport shortage for a union
picnic. He was informed that the notice
in question had appeared in the “Files
of Other Days” column, and was dated
February, 1895.
“Hist”: The scramble at the G.P.O.
to buy Gloucester postage stamps on the
day of issue is a fingerpost to a source
of revenue neglected by Australia. Col-
lector and speculator sales of commemo-
rative stamps reach substantial figures and
are clear profit for the issuing country,
for they go into albums and no postal
service has to be rendered. Some ex-
amples: Papua’s Coronation commemo-
sold to the tune of £20,000 ; New
Guinea’s, £21,537 ; Nauru’s, £30,894. One
of U.S.A.’s “oppressed nations” flag
stamps brought in $31,396 for first-day
sales alone. M.L. sold over three million
of its 1944 health stamps, which bore the
portraits of Princesses Elizabeth and Mar-
garet Rose. When the commemorative-
.stamp practice becomes a racket (some
European countries churn out special
stamps on the slightest pretext), collec-
tors grumble, but they still buy. The
philatelic press has deplored the infre-
quency of Australian new issues. All of
which points to neglected opportunities.
We might be advertising to the world
our industries, scenic beauties, achieve-
ments in peace and war, pioneers and
explorers—and making a handsome profit
to boot.
* * *
“Sixenate”: Court costs in these days
are set out in such sums as £7 10s. and
£15., and doctors charge in multiples of
12s. 6d., suggesting that the guinea has
lost its professional significance. In
former days many people had a meticu-
lous regard for the difference between the
guinea of the professions and the vulgar
quid of trade. Sydney hat merchant
David Storey was one. A window-dresser
(one of the pioneers of his calling) hav-
ing presented David with a bill for 18
guineas, Storey returned it with a curt
demand that it should be made out for
£2o—he was prepared to pay all it was
worth for a good job, but he wasn't
going to treat window-dressing as a pro-
fession. A case actually reached the
courts in which a wealthy man de-
clined to pay an account presented in
guineas by a landscape gardener until the
bill was put into “plain tradesman’s
figures.” The Court held that there was
nothing sacrosanct about the guineas
charge, and gave a verdict with costs—
both in guineas.
* * * *
S.T.S.”; The very reasonable sugges-
tion (B. 14/2/’45) that the Customs may
yet refuse admittance to Pope’s harmless
hair-snipping poem, “The Rape of the
Lock,” as improper on the face of it,
recalls a performance by the old Adel-
aide “Register,” now extinct. A Judge in
the Criminal Court of S.A. had called
attention to the shocking increase in the
number of sexual offences in that State.
And it was just then that the “Register’s”
agricultural editor, lacking in a sense of
humor, printed a half-column article for
farmers on “The Advantages of Rape.”
* * * *
“Camsa”: The old Murray paddle
steamer Captain Sturt has come to life
again after lying silent and deserted for
years at Goolwa. An Adelaide couple
bought this 480-ton U.S.-built craft and
turned it into a holiday houseboat. With
30 guests aboard it is as lively as it ever
was. There was quite a fleet of steamers
on the Murray and the Darling in the
early days, and Captain C. Payne, of the
Merle, who has held a master’s certifi-
cate for over 60 years, has recalled and
listed 129.
“X.S.”: Judges aren’t any more appre-
ciative of jokes (other than ones they
make themselves) than are schoolmasters.
A man appeared in a Melbourne court
on three charges arising out of his posses-
sion of an identity card he was alleged to
have obtained illegally. Asked to state
the business or industry he was engaged
in, the defendant answered “pottering
about.” Requested to state any other
occupation he was willing and competent
to^undertake, he replied: “Agent-General
for Australia in U.S.” Fined £l7 for
wasting the time of a department.
* * * *
' A ‘Pookie” rides in a taxi:
I hailed it at the top of William-street and
(sign of the times) it slowed down. When
1 got in the driver resumed his talk with the
passengers, two English naval officers. “So one
of these Yank sailors, pretty drunk ’e was, ’e’d
been off the beer a long time, ’e says to me
‘Cabby, take us where we can get a drink.’ So
I takes ’im to a cobber of mine who has a sly-
grog joint. ’E gets a couple of drinks and then
’e wants to go somewhere else, so I takes them
to old Donald’s place—you know old Donald’s
place?” (turning to me). “No? Oh, well,
you’ve heard of it. Now mind you I’m not
supposed to do this —it’s illegal. Well, when
we gets to old Donald’s place I go in and
’ave a yarn with one of the girls, and then
the other sailor hands me a quid. ‘Watcher
cornin’ at?’ I says to ’im, all ’ot under the
collar? ‘D’yer think I’m a mug? A quid each
it is. This is illegal what I’m doin’.’ ‘l’m not
paying you any quid,’ this first sailor says, a
real cocky (beauty) ’e was. ‘Ain’t you?’ I says;
‘you give me that other quid or I’ll chuck you
out that window.’ Just then a couple of the
boys came in and this (peanut) takes one look
at them and sobers up a bit. ’E ’ands over
the other quid all right. Now yer couldn’t
call ’im a gentleman, could yer?” We came to
Wynyard and I got out, handing the taxi-driver
two shillings. His envenomed glance showed
quite plainly that he didn’t think I was a
gentleman either. But fortunately for me none
of “the boys” were around.
* * * *
“Craiser”: In his final messages to
Melbourne the Duke of Gloucester gave
a special pat on the back to the police
for their admirable arrangements and
management of the crpwds that greeted
him. The fact that no mishap occurred
is certainly to their credit. There was
an unreported incident;, however, that
might have* occasioned anxiety. As the
royal procession was approaching a
woman of short stature was seen to
detach herself from the crowd, go over
to a rockery by the roadside and abstract
two bricks fhat had caught her eye. As
she walked back with the two objects
resolutely held in two strong hands un-
easy eyes were cast in her direction, and
an observant policeman edged nis way
towards her. There seemed to be a crisis
pending. The lady bent down, placed one
brick upon the other and calmly mounted
the eminence thus created. Everybody
breathed again.
“Spokeshave”: The Duke and Duchess
were due to pass along a highway outside
Melbourne en route to a military hospi-
tal. Two exuberant damsels drew up m
a car and parked themselves alongside
a tree plantation, and one got out an
hoisted a miniature Australian nag on
a little flagstaff attached to the wind-
screen. The Duke must have sharp eyes,
because he gave the flag a special saiu.c
in passing. He may or may not navf
noticed, however, that it was being now
upside down —and half-mast.
A NEW MARINE DISCOVERY.
(After Lewis Carroll.)
“Speaking in the Assembly, Mr. Weaver described
certain Sydney magistrates as ‘weak-kneed jellyfish.’ ”
He thought he saw a Genial Bung
Disposing bottled beer;
He looked again, and found it was
A blatant auctioneer.
“The other would have been,” he said,
“A lot more welcome here.”
He thought he saw a Harbor yacht
With husky males aboard;
He looked again, and saw it was
A girl who drove a Ford.
“That surely ought to win,” he said,
The Archibald award.”
He thought he saw a stadium
With pugs at grips therein;
He looked again, and found if was
A hare thought genuine
By racing hounds. “Poor mugs,” he said,
“They’ll never learn it’s tin.”
He thought he saw our Reps, erlgaged
In sparkling repartee;
He looked again, and found it was
A nig. corroboree.
“A natural mistake,” he said,
“I think you’ll all agree.”
He thought he saw a platypus
Staging aquatic sprees;
He looked again, and found it was
A jellyfish with knees.
“I’d best be getting home,” he said,
“I must be near d.ts.”
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Pookie”: As a p.o.w. in Germany I,
like all Australians and Britons, was in-
terested in the lag in war news and the
soft-pedalling of adverse reports. One day
the loud speakers in the main compound
began blaring a round-to-round descrip-
tion of a terrific battle at Dieppe. The
Englanders, we were told, had launched
a full-scale invasion and were being re-
pulsed with heavy losses. The British
Army was being swiftly annihilated, the
Navy having gone to a watery grave
about ten minutes before. Later we met
some Canadians, and got the oil at first
hand. The Jerries had suppressed the
news for 24 hours, then faked a com-
mentary. Then came the invasion of
Pantellaria, and the “Frankfurter Zeitung”
came out with tearful fulminations
against the inhuman British and heartless
Americans, who, it seemed, planned to
tear native Italians away from their own
land to toil amid the alien corn of the
allied countries. That was such a good
one that it has been frequently repeated.
I read it again in a Sydney newspaper
only a week ago.
* * * *
“Q.E.D.”: A cable from New York
reports that Private Albert van der
Scheuren was discharged from the U.S.
Army as “allergic to khaki.” Tests proved
that contact with khaki caused Van der
Scheuren to develop a severe rash which
healed quickly when the khaki was taken
away, Australian Army medicoes have
been aware of this form of allergy for
many years. They know that certain
types of skin are allergic to the chrome
“Can you accurately describe this pain you get?
“My oath, doc. — it's a proper cow !”
dye in khaki clothing, and they identify
these skin types by means of a “chrome
patch test.” A small piece of material
treated with chrome is placed on the skin
and held in place with adhesive plaster
for 24 hours. If the result is positive a
severe rash develops, spreading beyond
the limits of the patch. The only known
cure is to forbicUhe victim to wear khaki.
“Dina Doo”: Illingsworth’s bust of
Henry Lawson, referred to as missing by
“Ike Hollar” (B. 3/1/’45), is in the pos-
session of the sculptor’s younger daughter.
The Lawson College ought to have it.
* * * *
“Cauboy” on first nights:
The Paris custom was to invite press, critics,
fashionable people and alleged cognoscenti to
the first performance. If they praised it the
show was made, generally speaking; if they
damned it it was often withdrawn without
further trial. This method has its dangers.
When “Tannhauser” was first performed in
the French capital Wagner was pestered to
transfer the ballet to the second act, because
the members of the Jockey Club, the main sup-
porters of the Paris Opera, dined well and
arrived in their boxes late. Wagner refused and
suffered hostility in consequence. But Pans
takes the theatre very seriously. When Nijinksy
danced “L’apres midi d’un Faune” for the first
lime his voluptuous movements horrified some
people as much as they charmed others.
Duchesses slapped other duchesses in the face,
gentlemen challenged other gentlemen to duels
and the house was in such an uproar that the
ballet stood in the wings trembling with terror.
In the confusion Rodin, who was in the audi-
ence, slipped behind and embraced the dancer.
Next day Calmette, editor of “Figaro,” lashed
himself into a moral fury in a special leader,
calling Nijinsky’s faun “an ill-made beast,
hideous from the front, even more hideous in
profile.” Rodin took up the cudgels for
Nijinsky and Calmette retorted that the old
sculptor surrounded himself with nude models
at his studio for no respectable purpose. The
controversy became world-wide and ended in
the complete discomfiture of Calmette. Pro-
fessional critics and artists haven’t the prestige
in Australia that they have in Paris, so the
French system would be a farce if introduced
into this country. It is the gallery girl who
decides the fate of most Australian productions.
# * * *
“Ike Hollar”; When I was a boy the
pet superlative was “spiffing.” Now the
word is “bonzer,” which succeeded
“bosker.” I understand “bonzer” has
even spread to England, where it dis-
putes favor with “topping.” Derivation
of the word gives point to Napoleon’s
remark about a nation of shopkeepers.
A “spiff” was an article hard to sell that
won the counter-hand who did sell it a
bonus. The extra payment was rubber-
stamped “Special Payment Increase: Fine
Free.” “Fine Free” refers to a practice
of fining shop-hands for various small
offences. Apparently regulations were
waived when there was a chance of un-
loading a “spiff.” Being a joyful extra,
the “spiff” naturally gave birth to the
adjective.
* * * •
“Arter”; I never fully realised the
difficulties that beset an ordinary Court
asked to decide an aesthetic squabble till
I read a letter addressed by painter Joshua
Smith (whose portrait by William Dobell
won the Archibald Prize, an award later
contested in Court) to a Sydney morning
newspaper:
I regret that, after granting leave for it,
the Archibald Prize appeal has been dis-
allowed. I say this since that decision
denies justice to me.
Neither I nor any of my people accept
the painting as a portrait, but regard it as
a caricature. I had hoped that the verdict
of the appeal would have been in accord
with this point of view. While feeling this
(which is personal), I had also hoped that
the prize would still have gone to Mr.
Dobell for the painting as a caricature.
Since the verdict of the Court that tried
the Archibald Prize case was, in effect.
that a caricature may qualify as a por-
trait if that theory is supported by a
sufficient number of witnesses, and as it
seems to have been accepted that only a
portrait can win the Archibald Prize,
exactly what Mr. Smith expected the
judges on appeal to do for him is one
of those things no fellow can understand.
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: “Robby’s” Fritzes who
were depth-charged from the air (B.
21/2//45), were not the first to experi-
ence the treatment. Early in January,
1918, the German battle-cruisers Goeben
and Breslau sallied forth from the Dar-
danelles in an attempted dash for home
waters. Breslau ran on a British mine-
field and Goeben turned back and
grounded on the sands off Nagara Point.
R.N.A.S. squadrons operating from Im-
bros and Mudros dropped everything they
had on Goeben for several days and
moonlit nights. The final effort came
when a Farman “Shorthorn” staggered off
C squadron’s ’drome at Mudros with the
unfamiliar bulk and weight of a Navy
depth-charge under her nacelle. Luck
“Rather expensive, but I suppose it includes breakfast .”
was on Goeben’s side, for the depth-
charge thudded harmlessly into the sand-
bank. Shortly afterward Goeben’s crew
got her off the bank unscathed and she
made for the (then) comparative safety
of the Black Sea.
* * * *
“Jamwood”: Kitchener stories are
going the rounds again in the U.K. One
of the best concerns the blast that came
from him at the War Office in August,
1914;
There is no Army. Not a scrap of Army,
hnd not a pen which will write! What-
ever can be said of my colleagues, no one
at any rate can deny them courage. They
have no Army, and they have declared war
against the mightiest military nation in the
world.
And there is the one about the Lord
Lieutenant who invited him to inspect
a system of trenches of the magnate’s own
design. After looking them over the man
of Khartoum barked, in the hearing of
a party of Territorials who stood by with
picks and shovels, “They wouldn’t keep
out the Salvation Army.” Still, he wasn’t
always like that. Australians who met
him during his visit to this country in
1909, and who had expected to find a
stern, cold martinet with a rough tongue
and a glittering eye, vowed that they had
never met a more courteous or agreeable
officer. On occasions he was known to
take his ease where the glasses were clink-
ing and swap soldier-stories with the
young fellows.
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: On March 16, 1687, John
Evelyn, of Sayes Court, near Deptford,
recorded in his diary:
I saw a trial of those devilish, murder-
ing mischief-doing engines called bombs,
shot out of a mortar-piece on Blackheath.
The distance that they were cast, the des-
truction they make where they fall, is pro-
digious.
Surely the earliest record, by a non-
technician, of a weapon that has since
become painfully familiar to the world.
* * * *
“Prop”: Recently I saw my first talkie
for a couple of years. It was about a
bloke who was in jail. His wife,
divorced, was going to marry another
cove for the sake of her two kids N This
cove was rolling in oof, and, as he rolled,
he scattered it. Well, after he’s splashed
a lot on the dame, supplied her son with
a flash car and a speed-boat and made
arrangements to send daughter to a music
cahledge, poppa, pardoned from prison,
appears. He turns out to be a he-ro, and
momma falls on his neck. After going
all juicy-eyed over the pore prisoner she
suddenly remembers the universal pro-
vider. She looks at him, iceberg-like, and
says “Well, thanks for everything”;
and he goes out into the night. When
I’d finished wrestling with my waistcoat
for laugh room I suddenly noticed some-
thing. In the audience nobody laughed:
they just lapped it up as a matter of
course. I took the first train for the land
of sin, sand and sore eyes before some-
one could mistake me for a rich squatter.
* * * *
“Clicker” with some war memories:
Even in the mechanised warfare of today
there intrudes a breath of mediaeval romance
in the use of passwords and countersigns. On
the lorabaiwa Ridge, when the Jap, was at the
gates of Moresby, if you heard anyone yell
“fish” you called out “chips” as fast as you
could, for trigger-fingers were itchy. Other pass-
words used on the Owen Stanley trail were
“Woolloomooloo,” “woolly woollens”- and
“sunshine.” Reasons behind their choice were
that the Japanese pronounce “1” as “r” and
their sibilant “s” is unmistakeable. A password
which caused a lot of comment among the
troops was in force during the Seventh
Division’s campaign in Syria. The answer to a
challenge was “kookaburra,” but a further chal-
lenge had to be faced. You were asked “where
is the kookaburra?” and you had to say “in
Canberra.” There was a school of thought that
found significance in the connection.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I wrote recently “Did they?
Not much!” and was tickled to find that
the note-of-exclamation found its way
into print. For The Bulletin has con-
sistently frowned upon that mark; and
rightly so, as a rule. Described originally
by the grammarians as showing a mere
exclamation (with no verb in the sen-
tence as a fair test), it has sunk to being
used mostly (a) in prose, as a kind of
cackle to show that the writer has laid a
joke which he fears you might overlook ;
( b ) in poetry to suggest an entirely
spurious strength in the last line of a
verse. Still (like italics), it has its proper
use at times. Any casual curse, down
to “Great Scott!” seems lost without it.
And the mild “Not much” doesn’t mean
the same thing as the forcible “Not
much! ”
* * * *
“A Major”: Quite a vigorous con-
troversy has been aroused among Syd-
ney’s musical by that very uncompromis-
ing recital of the disabilities and shortcom-
ings suffered by Beethoven, contained in
an “S.M.H.” Saturday article by a Mac-
quarie-street man (B. 7/3 / ’45). That the
great Ludwig (or Louis as he sometimes
preferred to call himself) was often as un-
couth as he was shaggy is the testimony
of all his biographers, but I side myself
with those musical commentators who
refuse to swallow an allegation that
after 40 Beethoven was addicted to
drink. As evidence I adduce a note he
wrote in 1825, two years before his death.
He had had a glass or two too many
the night before, with the one-eyed com-
poser Kuhlau (every young piano
student knows Kuhlau’s sonatinas and
transcriptions of Beethoven’s songs) and
other merry souls. The note, written to
Kuhlau the morning after, opens: “I
must confess that the champagne got too
much into my head last night, and has
once more shown me that it rather con-
fuses my wits than assists them
That isn’t the testimony of a man who
habitually sought refuge in the convivial
glass.
& * * * *
“Traymon”: A reference to “Christ-
mas Holiday” by “Machoots” (B.
14 / 2/’45) recalls that Somerset
Maugham, when asked by a magazine
publisher to name a price for a series
of 1000-word short stories, demanded
£675 for each. He argued that each story
required plot and characterisation, and
that, having once devised these, he could
develop them into a novel which would
return several times the figure asked. The
contract was completed on Maugham s
terms.
FRISCO-BOUND.
It’s a balanced delegation
In John Curtin’s estimation
That will soon be on its trans-Pacific way;
Quite a notable collection
Chosen from each party section,
With a whole lot more to tell them what to
say.
Satellites and special pleaders,
As it were, to give their leaders
Sound advice and (when it’s needed) timely
warning,
Knowing birds of many a feather
Who will shortly flock together
To be off to San Francisco in the morning,
Irrespective of their talents
You must see their poise and balance
Are qualities designed to hit the spot,
Though it really seems a pity ,
The advisory committee
Comprises such a devil of a lot.
One suspects it has been figured
That Australia can’t be niggard
And that mere expense is just a thing for
scorning;
She must make a worth-while showing
When her delegates are going
Away to San Francisco in the morning.
Off you go where duty calls you,
And though we know the bill will fall due,
We will foot it all ungrudging when we’re sure
You’ve contributed ingredients
To concocting the expedients
Which shall make the world we live in more
secure.
There’ll be even some resplendence
For your numerous attendants,
The entourage your activities adorning,
If officialdom produces
Evidence they have their uses
Ere you’re off to San Francisco in the morning.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Bo”: Joe, the hand, was superstitious,
and his curious beliefs were a source of
unending amusement to everyone else on
the farm. Ned, the cocky’s eldest son,
chiakked him a lot about stepping around
ladders, refusing to wear anything green
and being extra-careful on the 13th of the
month, but Joe took it all in good part.
One Saturday morning Ned confided to
the hand that he’d dreamed Joe had been
skittled by a motor-bike in the township.
“Y’ oughtn’t to go in for y’r usual few
beers this arvo, Joe,” he said earnestly.
“It’s a sign—sure as I’m standin’ .here. If
y’ don’t take no notice o’ this warnin’ y’
deserve all y’ git.” The hand didn’t seem
greatly impressed, but Ned kept it up
all the morning. After dinner Joe dis-
appeared. During the afternoon heavy
rain fell. Around 7 p.m. the hand stag-
gered into the kitchen, his clothes covered
with mud and a big three-cornered tear
in his trousers. Ned hopped up from
the table as he took one look. “My best
suit, y’ swine!” he shrieked. “Who told
y’ y’ could take that?” Joe looked at him
blearily. “Now, Ned,” he said gently.
“Y’ warned me I’d be knocked rotten by
biksh, didn’t y’? Wouldya wanna man
to be taken hoshp’tal in that ole frowshy
thing I wear? Coursh y’ wouldn’! Sho
I borrered thish Jush in case, an’ when
I heard bike cornin’ down road I got
through barbed-wire fensh for shafety an’
fell in the dam.”
*i*
“Larry”: We boarded the train at
Kybybolite (S.A.) hoping to get 5 a bit of
apricot-picking down Coonawarra way.
As the train jolted and rattled along Eric
fell asleep. Soon we arrived at Nara-
coorte, where most of the passengers
made for the refreshment rooms. Out-
side our window a truck containing a pig
was hooked on to the engine for shunt-
ing. As the engine emitted a hiss of
steam the porker started to squeal. Eric,
who had been snoring softly, sat up with
a jerk and suddenly thrust his head out-
side the window to see who was being
murdered. There was a crash of splin-
tered glass and Eric slowly and with great
care withdrew his face. But he put on
a better turn still when a guard produced
a notebook and a pencil and made nasty
remarks about passengers causing damage
to property.
* * * *
“Primer”: Those bucks of the Mt. Isa
tribe might have eaten gelignite, as
“Edjudina” (B. 21/2/’45) discloses, but
if so it is a wonder they had any heads
left to tell their legs which way to go.
Let anyone who cares to try handle a
stick of gelignite, then rub his hand on
his forehead. The feeling that will follow
will be like having his head lifted off.
JjS •'? , ?
“Dionnan”: I hadn’t heard that cat
and fox mixed it well before, but Mrs.
Worthington, our spring-built mbuser,
showed me what these two species think
of one another. Trying to sleep one de-
hydrating night near Moree (N.S.W.) I
heard and felt two small beasties canter
under my bed. By the time I had my
torch going they had gone. But a few
moments later came that dry, grating
cough which is either one of those radio
ads. for cough mixtures or a fox not
feeling too good. My spine being
now all a-tingle, as it always is when vul-
pines are near, the boss and I investi-
gated, In a right-angle of netted fence
Mrs. W. paraded, plus sparks. She floated
round that fox, and it didn’t dare do
more than sniff tentatively for three or
four inches along each angle of netting.
I admit the boss sheep-dog was prancing
up and down on his front feet t’other
side of the wire, his eyes popping. But
it must have been Mrs. W. who rounded
up the intruder. A log of wood put the
vulpine on the other side of the valley,
and when we looked for Mrs. W. she
couldn’t be found. The fox was a vixen,
if you follow me, and a bit weak from
lack of water by the look of her. Later
we found Mrs. W., still furiously licking
her fat and foolish progeny on .the
dining-room couch.
* * * *
“Zake”: Recently struck a brochure
which gives the meanings of abo. place-
names. E.g., Parramatta: “where eels
sit down.” I have never seen an
eel reclining in a lounge chair with
its feet up on the mantelpiece; I,
therefore, pin my faith to the His-
torical Records of N.S.W., Vol. 11,
for a more likely version. In it is
a letter written by John Macarthur to
his wife ; he refers to his “Residing on our
farm at Parramatta, a native name signi-
fying the head of a river.” And the
small, thriving city is the head of the
river which bears its name.
* * * «
“Ex-C.G.”: Of course Tasmanians had
a nickname other than Apple Islanders
(B. 7/3/’45), but it can’t be printed
owing to the sumptuary laws or some-
thing. Anyhow, “Swanlo” has been
using his imagination about the other
nicknames. “Cornstalk” was applied
generally to Australians for their tallness
when all Australia was N.S.W.; after
the division into colonies the N. S. Welsh
retained the title, and Victorians, equally
tall and straight, took Gumsuckers
"No playin' gooseberry—home you go!"
from the straight, erect and tall saplings
bunched along their rivers and hillsides.
And what “first big party” from Adelaide
confessed to eating crow on the “over-
land track” to Ballarat? ,
* * * *
“Pat Ater”; Eucalypts in any locality
are not given to blooming together
(B. 28/2/’45). Each variety has its
own flowering period, and there is
little overlapping. On the lower Blue
Mountains (N.S.W.) creamy-white blos-
soms of the bloodwoods may be seen
when the redgum is in bloom; but the
latter is an angophora, not a eucalypt.
“E. 2” must have been mixing his drinks
instead of “closely-related varieties”
when he saw the eucalypts flowering
simultaneously. Here’s the sequence in
one locality. The scribbly gum flowers
in September-October; peppermint in
November-December; red mahogany ( E.
notabilis ) in January; white -gum (E.
deoni) at its top in February; bluegum
“roundleaf” (E. shiressi ) February to
March; bloodwood January to March
and again in September, with a chance of
a cross there; stringies ( E. agglomerata )
April-July. Anyway, insects don’t get
much of a chance in the myrtle family,
especially with gums, where the dense
clusters of ripe pollen-sacs literally guard
and swamp the just-receptive pistils.
Natural hybrids are rare.
js * * *
“Esk D.”: Was yarning with Dan
French and the Richards boys when
Charlie Pike rode over. He was
goggle-eyed with excitement. “There’s
a big mob of brumbies on the old black-
berry selections,” he told us. “I on’y saw
the tail-end of the mob spear into the
timber, but by the noise of ’em and the
tracks there must be a coupla dozen.”
Well, the wild horses hadn’t come in so
close before, but the ranges are short of
feed and water now; so we organised a
drive. Early next morning ten of us
fanned out around the head of the basin
and rode wildly and noisily until a
crashing through the scrub told us we’d
started up our quarry. Then we went
pounding along after them like madmen.
Three miles down our sweating horses
broke into a clearing and we caught sight
of the “brumbies” —Dan’s old hack and
her half-grown foal and Charlie’s own
broken-down old half-draught, which
had taken to the backblocks after roam-
ing the roads for weeks.
* * *
“Lub”; Dan was putting up a new
boundary fence along the fringe of
forest, but when I rode over there was
no sign of him. Along the line I came
on a large wombat burrow from which
a terrific din issued. Judging that there
would be a chamber about ten feet from
the entrance, I grabbed a shovel and
was about to dig when the earth erupted
and five muddy animals tumbled out. I
missed the first, a wombat, with a clout
from the shovel; another tottered erect
and started scraping mud from its eyes
and whiskers before I could get a crack
at it —a mud-soaked Dan minus his usual
identifying features of hat and pipe.
“Cripes,” he spluttered, “I couldn’t ’ve
lasted much longer. I crawled in t’ pull
out the pup I’m trainin’ from getting into
bad habits worryin’ wombats —an’ ol’
Bluey chased another one down behind
me. I could’ve got out even then, but
ev’ry time I slid me rump back Blue sank
his flamin’ teeth into it. If I don’t boot
the stuffin’ out of them damn’ dawgs me
name ain’t Dan Martin!” And that’s
why I’ve had a couple of extra hounds
to feed ; knowingly, they slunk around
through the timber and followed me
home.
“Sarina”: For weeks the big black
spider had been “netting” insects in a big
web spun between two mandarin-trees
and my verandah-roof. Then it dis-
appeared, leaving its web behind to catch
dozens more wasps, bees, locusts and
sundry fry. Under the growing weight
of its catch the web began to show signs
of wear, but still the owner did
not reappear. Then one evening I found
the web again occupied, but by a tiny
arachnid that looked as though it had just
emerged from an egg. It seemed to have
a good idea of tying its victims up by
the manner in which it tackled a large
moth, but it made no visible attempt to
repair the now badly-sagging web. I
wondered what would happen to the cor-
sair when he was discovered, for I had
seen my old friend busily spinning an-
other web at the far end of the verandah.
When it was finished the big spider
headed straight across to its old web. I
expected ructions, but the meeting be-
tween the capitalist and the socialist was
cordial enough. Without waste of time,
the former put the disordered web to
rights, and, since then, mother and child
have worked both webs on a monopo-
listic basis.
* * * *
“Monachos”: Let “Eureka” and others
stop their wild bulls by fancy methods.
My own means of doing it are infallible.
I simply say quietly and in friendly tones
to the frenzied Ferdinand; “Listen, bull,
I’m a Government slaughterman. I’ve got
my commo. badge if you want to see it.”
Immediately the sirloin-supplier puts on
the four-wheel brakes and slaps his
tongue up and down my face in gratitude.
* * * *
“Chuck”: Yair, the color of a bloke’s
hair affects his chances, same as a nag’s
does. Like some chaps won’t have
nuthin’ but a chestnut hack, an’ some
buys a grey ; so, if that army medical
bloke hadn’t called a halt at the shade o’
me poll, cripes, I mighta been a brigadier
or a corporal be now. Y’ see, when the
call-up come I fell in like all the other
coots, an’ the M.O. taps on me front an
grabs his headphones t’ listen-in, “Any-
body home, Doc?” I inquires, “Too
right. Whole blinkin’ fam’bly,” he tells
me, goin’ on round me chesterfield, then
movin’ downstairs and havin’ a shot at
proddin’ out me innards. “Right,” he
sez. “Right.” An’ a bit further on,
“Right,” So I’m just congratulatin’ me-
self on not bein’ left when his nibs stands
up, flips me with the back of his mit and
sez “There’s physique for y’.” “A 1
Doc?” grins the bloke at the table’
grabbin’ his founting-pen an’ spillin’ a
few blots. An’ it’s then I scent trouble.
The M.O. lifts his hand to wait, stares
hard at me, then leans across t’ tell the
bloke why. “No,” he whispers, running
his fingers through his own mat an’
jerkin his noddle at me, “e’s a bit light
on top.”
* * * *
“Solitude”: The job we were on took
us daily to the top of a high ridge, and
as the climb was more easily negotiated
without the nags, we left them at the last
fence, waded the stream in a couple of
places and spent an hour clambering and
skidding in a slope of loose shale. Usually
I pulled off my trilbies for wading, but
not so the old bloke. His one concession
to comfort consisted in rolling his pants
to knee level and wearing them that way
till his shanks dried off. Then into the
shale he’d plough, boots squelching water
with every step. Never beard him com-
plain about the climb, either, though each
time we hit the top and sat down for a
smoke he’d start off mumbling about some
“lousy cow” that seemed on his mind
lately. Over a week we’d been at it when,
returning to the hut one night, the old
cove limped to the box in the corner and
pulled off one boot. There came a sur-
prised gasp. “By cripes, it’s done it!
Look at that, will y’?” He held aloft a
boot through the side of which he had
poked a couple of fingers. “Rotten!” he
exclaimed, staring at the offending foot-
wear. “Rotten right through!” “Yair;
water,” I murmured, wearily indifferent.
“Water nuthin’,” he snorted. “It’s the
lousy stuff the store’s got in this month.”
He heaved a long-suffering sigh. “Well,
ol’ Sandy warned me it’d do it,” he
grieved slowly ; “but cripes, a man’s got t’
smoke somethin’ !”
* * * *
“The O.D,’ ? ; Pardon me, “Eureka”
(B. 7/ 3 / ’45), I mean neither to question
your veracity nor your sense of observa-
tion, but I would like to know what year
that grasshopper plague hit the N.S.W.
South Coast, and what impelled the silly
things to hop into the water so the eels
could chaw ’em up? Couldn’t they see,
or was it that, having come from the dry
inland, they didn’t know what water was?
♦ * * #
“B. A. Ker”; Mother Nature rarely
makes a mistake, but she is not infallible.
In a forest of young box interspersed
with stringybarks I once found a sapling
that resembled no tree I’ve ever seen, yet
bore characteristics in bark, grain and
timber that suggested a blend of box and
stringy. The logical conclusion was that
bees had produced a hybrid. Possibly
the same solution could be applied to the
freak which grew on a rock-melon
vine. No bigger than an apple-cucumber,
it was bright-lemon in color, with a
smooth, shiny rind —both unnatural in
all rock-melons I’ve encountered. The
smell was decidedly that of a rock-melon,
the centre similar to a cucumber and the
taste —terrible. If there is an explanation
other than cross-pollenation I’m listening.
But the Dame’s greatest blunder occurred
in a friend’s aviary. Five cock zebra-
finches were the only captives (and no-
body could mistake the sexes in common
zebras). Several times they built nests,
which is not unnatural in male zebras;
nest-building—and destroying again—is
the favorite pastime with the species.
Then one day three eggs miraculously
appeared in a nest. Ridiculous as it
sounds, one of the birds must be either
a hen with cock’s plumage or an egg-
laying cock. Presumably the former is
the case, but, like the three-card-trickster,
I challenge anybody to “find the lady.’
* * * *
“Dionnan”: Ring, a yallery-colored
mong with a ruff in the style of a Chow-
dog, has two of the craziest habits I’ve
seen. With shadows he is hopeless, squat-
ting on his chest with forepaws scratch-
ing at them, digging furiously if the
shadow moves. He seems to think they
go underground, not over it. Yet when
a shadow comes at him and goes over
him he turns a half-somersault, halt-
rabbit-skin movement, and searches fran-
tically where his rear was a moment ago.
Then, when we do allow him a run
after rabbits, he runs them back to you.
But I prefer Ring to Angel-face, the cute-
looking thing that rushes off after butter-
flies just when you’re nearing a trick}
gate with a mob of young wethers,
don’t know what’s come over the yount
dogs lately.
THE DINGO AND I.
At last he stands, his rogue-ears high;
,1 come up-wind and hug the ground,
And squeeze my trigger on his heart.
Too late the bullet’s warning sigh,
Too long delayed the frantic start —
Oh, Death must have an ugly sound)
His mate leaps on alone in flight,
A squalling host of feathered folk
Condemns my curling powder-smoke
In milky shafts of splintered light.
I vault the dog. There is no thorn,
Yet something reaches out and stings;
And, frozen then, I see the coil:
The lidless eyes of evil born,
Unholy dweller of the soil
Wide bound in slate and ashen rings.
I break my stock in lust to kill. . .
What mortal use for guns have I
Since now we three must surely lie
Together on the stony hill?
N.S.W.
A. S. ALLISON.


“X.E.D.”; Sam was doing
casual blade-shearing in a dairy-
ing district where the biggest
flocks ran to 200 or thereabouts.
On Friday afternoon at Mum-
ford’s he got a telephone call to
inquire if he’d do some sheep
for the Blake brothers. How
many? Aw, the voice didn’t
know until they’d finished mus-
tering—but, could he start on
Monday? Sam put off the
others for a week and turned up
at Blake’s first thing on Monday
morning. One of the long,
sandy brothers left the cow
bails and led;him to the yard.
Sam counted the mob twice —
18 skinny old ewes! “Yairs,”
drawled the part-owner, “it ain’t
sich a big mob as we expected.
The dingoes et a lot of ’em.
’Struth, we must’ve had dashed
near 30 head larst winter!”
“Blime”: With feed almost gone and
the stock growing daily weaker, “Plugger”
mustered his jumbucks and carefully
drafted them up. The aged ewes he
drove to the saleyards, where they were
offered. At first there were no bids. Then
the auctioneer, with several lightly-
stocked properties of his own, saw a few
bob in the star vers and put in a shilling.
There was no advance. “What about it,
‘Plugger’?” came the call. “Aw, cripes,
it’s pretty crook sellin’ ’em f’r that,”
wailed their owner, knowing he couldn't
take them back home. “Might’s well give
’em away. Tell y’ what. I’ll toss y’
eighteenpence or nuthin’.” The auc-
tioneer hesitated, looking round the fence
at his impatient clients. “Righto,” he
agreed, “I’ll book ’em in at a bob and
we can arrange our private matter later.”
After the sale they met and enlisted the
aid of another bloke to toss, “Plugger”
called, lost, and with a resigned grin
turned off to his horse. It wasn’t the
loss of his jumbucks he was feeling sore
about when I ran into him the following
week ; it was an account just received from
the auctioneer for selling commission.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: I agree with “Mat” (B.
7/2/’45) that shooting parched Toos as
they come to the waterhole for a drink
is a heartless sort of game. Improved
technique even places an acetelyne lamp
so that it lights up the drinking-place on
moonless nights. Have know a couple
of guns to bag a hundred head in a single
night. But Nature herself is often as
deadly. Knew one pool along the Fitzroy
that was a regular death-trap to mar-
supials. Shaded by tall rocks and flooded
gums, this water was always icy cold.
Coming in parched from the sun-blasted
plains the ’roos could never resist taking
in a gorged bellyful. It acted on them
much the same as a full two-gallon water-
bag would on a man all out with thirst.
Dead ’roos were always to be found in
the vicinity where they had dropped,
killed by cold cramps in the stomach.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Went with George to look
at an old mine he was interested in, and
we entered a gloomy tunnel with water
streaming out underfoot. There were
patches of red slime on the floor, and
the roof and walls were covered with a
peculiar whiskery mould. After what
seemed a couple of miles of twisting and
turning we came on a vertical rise with
a' fairly sound ladderway, and -some dis-
tance up this we crawled over fungus-
encrusted, rotting timbers to the stopes.
Water oozed and dripped from a thou-
sand places above our heads where the
old chap halted and pointed out a quartz
leader he’d been working on, and a
steady, cold blast of air sucked at the
candle’ flame and chilled me through.
“Need to be plenty of gold to risk your
health* in here,” I remarked. “Cripes,
it’ll do me,” said George. “The air’s pure
an’ the temperature don’t vary summer
or winter. But what I like about it most
is this —it keeps y’ out of the weather!”
* * *
“G’roper”: Australia is a land of queer
contrasts. During normal times the
“rivers” from Geraldton (W.A.) north-
wards to Broome are beds of dry sand,
across which it is customary to lay
stretches of wire-netting, thus providing
a pathway for motor vehicles, etc. The
other day the inevitable cyclone arrived,
bringing from 4in. to 6in. of rain. Both
the Gascoyne and the Murchison rivers
ran to flood. Carnarvon, the one-horse
port at the mouth of the Gascoyne, hhd
its main street under water ; but the most
interesting times were had at the Murchi-
son, thp only bridge being swept away,
which necessitated the improvisation of
a ferry to get Carnarvon-grown bananas
to the Perth market. The tragedy of
“It Would appear , gentlemen , that the coins have fallen head uppermost!"
it is that in a few weeks all these millions
of tons of water will have rolled into the
sea, the riverbeds will resume their
appearance of being sand tracks, and
the inner country, after its chain of river
pools have slowly dried up, will
revert to its normal condition of drought.
No use speculating on how a few earth-
work dams, placed at the right spots,
might enchain a few millions of these
precious gallons, nor of what effect a
series of big inland lakes would have on
cultivation of both the Gascoyne and the
Murchison valleys,
* - * * *
“Bughouse”; Arguments pro and con
re the earth’s ability to restore her fields
after the ravages of soil erosion lead me
to contemplate the Hebraic proverb : “A
thousand years is but a day in the life
of God.” For although none of those
now living will see it, the day eventually
will come when both the Sahara and our
Red Centre will rehabilitate themselves.
But it won’t be until the earth again
enters a frigid zone of the universe, thus
bringing about another glacial period.
As for soil erosion, in northern China
are millions of acres built up hundreds
of feet deep with now-solidified dust:
dusk that was probably blown from the
dry desert plains of Siberia and Russia,
now mostly wet lands drained by • im-
mense ever-flowing rivers. That may have
.. .And y' better tell Katie's planner-teacher it's no use 'er cornin' out
before tomorrer!"
been the times when the now foggy High-
lands of Scotland were scourged with
duststorms, and -the sole inhabitants of
those regions were a few lizards and ants.
« * * *
“Mat’s Mate”; The train was coming,
the station was 200 yards from the pub,
I’m at the bottom of the stairs with our
swags and Mat is just starting to come
down with the rest of our gear when
the pub foxy, hot on the tail of a mouse
or a shadow of something, shot across
the landing and upset Mat, who came
down those stairs in one somersault, two
bounds and three giant leaps. “Gripes,”
I said, “there’s no need for all that hurry.
The train stops here 20 minutes.” Mat
leaned against the wall, blowing and feel-
ing himself all over for sore spots. “One
of these days,” he said, slowly, “you’ll
say too much an’ another beautiful
companionship wMI be busted.” “Any-
how,” I said, “that’s the ‘mixed’ from
Culpra branch. The mail ain’t due for
ten minutes yet.” Then the real argu-
ment started, and we missed both trains,
because the John ran us in for disturb-
ing the peace. He kept us there till next
day.
* * *
“Old-timer”: Perhaps I’ve been luckier
than “Old Camp” (B. 7/3/’45) or maybe
I’ve kept low company, but I’ve seen
plenty of fights in my time. Certainly,
ordinary blokes hesitate about starting a
fight—if they’ve time to think of it —but
the fights I witnessed or got tangled in
generally flared* up like a celluloid collar
over a candle. In the old days in the
Victorian Mallee, vyhen men toiled
themselves almost stupid most of the year
and then relaxed after harvest, it was
the custom to save quarrels for the dis-
trict sales in late summer. No sale ever
passed without a battle or two, and most
of the crowd attended as much for the
fight as the sale. I’ve seen fights spring
out of small things in shearing sheds,
card-rooms, billiard-saloons, on football
fields and pretty well everywhere else,
one of the most prolific places being the
country dance. For my part, I’ve been
attacked by total strangers thrice, and
each time didn’t learn what their grouch
was until the stoush was over. One
picked me because, as he explained after-
wards, he didn’t like my straw hat; one
was a case of mistaken identity, and the
third alleged that I’d given him a dirty
look. As for the tough, bullying sort, I
don’t believe they know physical fear.
They’ll go anybody, anywhere, any time,
but they can be quelled by a look from
the right man. And I was once in a small
town whose male population over nine
and under 90 fought each other all
through one long blazing New Year’s
Day over something or other, and only
desisted when an old grey horse fell into
the store cellar and had to be rescued
with ropes and timber.
* * * *
“Ned”: “ ‘Young Joe and me was
helpin’ Uncle Herb at Grey Dog Flat
when the sports was held,’ said Peter, ‘and
the youngster spends the day gawkin’ at
a rival of Curyo Charlie that’s rollin’ up
the mugs’ sugar in a sweat blanket. Back
home, I sees he’s secretly doin’ a bit of
thinkin’, and when the big Saturday is
advertised at Croaking Hollow he gives
me the oil and I go along t’ do a bit o’
buttonin’. But we’re dead stiff. The day
the Croakers is celebratin’ turns out t’ be
the final kick of a Moral Revival cam-
paign, and the sweat blanket is as popu-
lar as old Nick. I duck back t’ the Bend
at night f’r a reviver, but Joe stops be-
hind t’ try his luck about the town. He
tells me later how he does 50 bob guessin’
the girth of a fat feller, the circumference
of a jazz garter and the seeds in a pie-
melon. But he won a horse and saddle.
He always wanted a nag, and when the
Croakers jibbed at a dollar a ticket he
buys 29 chits and wins. When he goes
f’r the saddle the saddler stings him f’r
a quid f’r stickin’ the bits together, and
at the council yard the overseer shows
him a defunct horse, says it’s the nag he
won and demands 30 bob for burial fees.
Joe squares him off with the saddle and
sweat blanket, and by the way he’s
shapin’ now I think Joe’ll win the Bend
woodshop next Saturday.’ ”
*** ' *
“Sol”: For an hour the Yank talked at
high speed. After he had left the old man
looked up. “Are all them blokes” —
prodding his pipe-stem in the general
direction of the door several times—“like
him?” “More or less,” I replied, “There’s
thousands of ’em here.” The ancient
coughed the dust from his throat and
nodded slowly to himself. “Wa-al now,”
he drawled at last, shoving his pipe back,
“an’ they wonder what’s causin’ all this
dust an’ soil erosion.”
* * * *
“Anthropo”: By the time Perth was
seven years old the local tribes after a
little earlier trouble had settled to the situ-
ation, accepting the whites as come per-
manently to stay. , There was always food
to be got around the settlement and at
times quite a trifle of money. But what
irritated and puzzled white authority was
the continual influx of wild blacks, some
of whom came from localities from up-
wards of 100 miles. It was noted, too,
that although the kangaroo by constant
hunting on the part of the whites had
become almost rare, Munday and other
abo. “heads” were even better dressed
than of yore, their ’roo-skin cloaks being
of most ample cut and invariably new;
also they had an inexhaustible supply
of spears, boomerangs and other curios
to sell to white visitors. Investigation by
Fraser Armstrong, the native interpreter,
led to the discovery that Munday and
Co. were conducting quite a little tourist
traffic. Far out the fame of the white
man’s city had spread, of his potatoes
and his '“very good” (bread), his tea,
sugar and tobacco. So Winjan of the
farther hills repeatedly upended himself,
and with his family and friends journeyed
in to witness these wonders. But for
tribes from so far off to invade Munday’s
territory would have meant war, and,
moreover, Munday was backed by the
terrible soldierman whose firestick killed
invisibly; so it was much more politic
to carry a few presents, and be received
as welcome guests. Munday and Migo
even indulged in personally-
conducted tours with the more
distinguished visitors, squatting
with them in front of Gubber-
mint House in St. George’s-
terrace, where one might view
the strange antics of the red-
coats, see a passing horseman
or even a bullock wagon ; or
perhaps, above all, participate
in a handout of flour should
the white rulers be in a
benevolent mood. So with not
a little native humor Munday
and Co. made the best of a
situation they were unable to
alter.
* * *
“Betcha”: I’m beginning to think, that
even sheep must have brains, after wit-
nessing a scrap between a couple of rams
recently. One bloke had been scattered
round the landscape so thoroughly that
eventually his opponent decided to save
him the trouble of getting up again. The
bout would probably have ended in a
complete wipe-out had it not been for
two onlookers who came across, and,
whether by accident or design, ranged
themselves between the fighters, allow-
ing the grounded one to regain his feet.
Spotting his quarry on four legs, the
■victor immediately began to back off toi
a fresh charge, but grasping his oppor-
tunity the belted one followed closely.
Resting a shoulder against his blood-
thirsty opponent, he prevented another
battering by holding his position, while
the backing went on all round the pad-
dock, breaking into short bursts of speed
as the frustrated bloke got madder.
Finally he gave in to the more pressing
need of hunting a bite.
A DOG, A HORSE, A MAN.
In dawn’s grey ghostly light three figures stand
In a ploughed field; black shadows on the grey,
Time-fixed in living stone; the man’s gaunt hand
Laid on the steaming withers of the bay,
The dog that stands behind his master’s heels,
Covered in mud. In this late-ravished field
Where like a ghost the shape of morning steals
Through bush and fence, by God’s white hand
revealed
Of dawn ahd grace, long moon-drugged shadows
grip
The silver group, and silver now the sun
Peeps through the river-trees. Long decades run
And wise old words slip lightly from earth’s lip,
Yet ages past a scene like this began
Which we see now —a dog, a horse, a man.
R.A.A.F.
K. COLLOPY.


which
hand.
In one there is a dice; in the
other a key. The dice represents the gamble
of spend-as-you-go. It symbolises the
to turn up”.
The key is the key to finaiicial security, to
stability, to peace of mind. The key is a
Commonwealth Savings Bank Account, built
up from week to week out of wages or salary.
It is the key to War Savings Certificates . . «
to War Bonds ... to contented prosperity.
Which will you have ... the key or the dice?
Decide for the key! Open a Commonwealth
Savings Bank Account next nav-dav!
COMMONWEALTH SAVINGS BANK
OF AUSTRALIA
Micawberish belief that “something is sure
WITH THE
CB.fO-26
QUICK RELIEF
AND IMMUNISATION
FOR UP TO 2 YEARS FROM
CATARRH
INFLUENZA. HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA. ANTRUM, & SINUS TROUBLES
These distressing complaints are all
caused by germs in the bloodstream,
and lasting relief can only be ob-
tained by defeating these germs.
Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a
Vaccine which, instead of being in-
jected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, by mouth), and is
produced under Government licence
by an eminent physician. Upon
absorption into the bloodstream, Vaxos quickly sets to work
destroying the attacking germs and neutralising the poisonsj
created by them; with the result that the patient soon feels
brighter, headaches and body pains vanish, and health steadily
improves. With continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to
the disease is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for
children and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer
needlessly; obtain Vaxos from your chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe Type) Vaxos No. 3 for Boils. Pimples.
tor Rheumatism, Neuritis, Sciatica, Carbuncles. Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
Myositis. Fibrositis, Lumbago and matitis, Eczema, Impetigo. Septic
Spondylitis, Sores and most Skin Infections,
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
Large size (24 c.c’s). 5 weeks’*>|/ Medium size (IS c.c.’s). 3 weeks’l'VA
treatment for Chronic Cases ..A I ' treatment for Acute Cases .. • A O
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to:—
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lt. Collins St., Melb.. Cl!
advt
VAXOS N 9 l
ORAL VACCINE
0:
%
M
f
For Fast-Tempo Drama Keep Tuned To
Me* CUeyMu's
“THE URGENT HANGMAN.”
9 p.m. every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
from all Major Network Stations.
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the original.
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Jap Skeletons in Burma.
(from an article in “Britain ” by Rrigadier-
General H. S. Sewell.)
During the first nine months of
1944 more than 50,000 Japanese were
killed in action in Burma. How many
died from disease and starvation will
never be known, but the number that
have perished in this way must have been
high, particularly in the divisions that were
sent into the mountains to invade India
last spring. Failure of this expedition
meant starvation. It was a gamble and
the Japanese paid heavily with the fives
of their soldiers.
Skeletons by the thousand in immobile
transport—some still at the wheel—in
deathly silent camp areas, and scattered
as the men they had once been had fallen
by the side of the jungle tracks, were dis-
covered by the British and Indian columns
clearing the west bank of the Chindwin
River in Burma. They are all that re-
mained of two of the Japanese divisions
which set out to invade India.
In the area to the north and east of
Tamu there are lying the skeletons of un-
counted hundreds of Japanese, strewn
amid the wreckage of their abandoned
"transport. The story, given by a liaison
officer, is one of complete desolation.
Along an 11-mile stretch of road be-
tween the villages of Thanan and Tonke
transport, facing in both directions, lies
derelict in groups of up to 12 vehicles,
with little more than 300 yards separating
each group. In and around this transport
the officer gave what in his opinion was a
conservative estimate of the Japanese
dead as over a thousand. There were
skeletons still sitting at the wheels of their
trucks. Staff cars had four or five skele-
tons sitting in them, the backs of trucks
were filled, and on the road, lying with
their hands beneath their heads as though
asleep, lay more. All the bodies had been
eaten clean by white ants and maggots. In
some cases the boots and putties were
still on the leg bones.
In a rest-camp area there were 80 or
more skeletons lying in shelters, some on
their backs, some curled up on the floor
and in various positions of collapse. This
scene was repeated at frequent intervals
.all along the route and it was the same
ghastly spectacle on the road north from
Thanan to Humine, the track wh._h the
Japanese had used for their unsuccessful
drive on India. Transport was jammed
on this road among the dead Japanese.
These skeletons are all that is left of the
Japanese Fifteenth and Thirty-first Divi-
sions ; the extent of the disaster which
overcame them is still unappreciated, as it
is likely that this vast mortuary may ex-
tend far into the mountains along the
tracks used by the Japanese.
The explanation of the debacle is not
yet fully known, but it is generally be-
lieved that the men died of starvation, ex-
haustion and disease. Among the skele-
tons there were those which showed signs
of complete physical collapse. At the be-
ginning of this summer these two divi-
sions set out across the Chindwin and,
using dry weather paths, they succeeded
in penetrating deep into the border moun-
tains of Manipur State. Behind them
they dragged local labor to improve the
jungle paths and make them passable for
heavier military transport.
The rains came, and when they were
forced to withdraw by their defeat in
the Imphal-Kohima area they found the
tracks impassable. Their transport was
bogged down, they were without food
which they hoped the fertile Imphal Plain
would yield them, and they were in too
exhausted a condition to reform and
march back to the Chindwin. Today their
skeletons lie in the jungle-bound tracks
which a mule could scarcely penetrate —
symbol of a vainglorious failure.
Civil War in China.
(Condensed from an “American Mercury’'’
article by the eminent Chinese writer Lin
Yutang.')
The Chinese Government does not wish
to tell the story of China’s undeclared
civil war for the sake of face and appear-
ance, and the Chinese communists do not
want to tell the story because it makes
ghastly reading of their record in this
war. Thus a complete blackout on the
six-year-old civil war is established.
Not long ago, when the National Army
was surrounded and outnumbered by the
Japanese on three sides and surrounded
by the communists on the fourth side in
the Taihang Mountains, the result was
the unprecedented capture of two high
generals. The communists united with
the Japanese in destroying the Twenty-
Seventh Army of the National forces and
ambushed and wiped them out at three
places. After several such clashes had
taken place a Government official told
the facts to a foreign correspondent, but
the story was then banned by the Kuo-
mintang censors themselves. I was in
New York then, and I could not under-
stand the capture of these two famous
generals, until I went to Chungking and
heard the full story.
The history of this fratricidal conflict
constitutes the most inglorious chapter of
the China war, and I have no desire to let
the Japanese gloat over it. Unfortunately,
the Japanese already know the full story,
and have been known to “celebrate” fric-
tions between Central and communist
troops. It is doing nobody any good to
minimise this civil war and call it occa-
sional “clashes” when battles lasted as
long as 15 days, troops involved at one
time numbered 40,000 men, when syste-
matic and organised campaigns were car-
ried on for years from one province to
another, and when they involved succes-
sive attacks on three provincial Govern-
ment offices, the hounding out of the
provinces of two Governors and the cap-
ture of a third. Nobody’s interests are
served by glamorising the Chinese com-
munists or by under-estimating them.
Following their aggressive tactics of ex-
pansion, against which the Central troops
are powerless unless Chiang orders an
open war, the Chinese communists will
control half of China if the Japanese suc-
ceed in cutting China in half and if an-
other year elapses before they are driven
out.
• Naturally, in their plan to seize control
of areas not assigned to them the
communists found it necessary to elirai-
nate the Central troops and the People’s
Armies (both Chiang’s forces), and to
attack Kuomintang agencies and Kuo-
mintang-appointed county magistrates
and Governments. In this war of pene-
tration the communists had every advant-
age. The Central troops, not being ready
for open war, could not plan concerted
large-scale campaigns against the com-
munists, while the latter could and did
do so. Time and again the Central troops
were overwhelmed by surprise attacks,
Arresting county magistrates and sur-
rounding small local self-defence units
were easy for the well-organised
Communist Army. The main advant-
age of the Communist Army is that
of a determined aggressor against
a defender who has not made up his mind
for defence. A further important incen-
tive was the fact that it was much easier
to capture rifles and ammunition from
their Chinese brothers than from the
enemy. After every victory the commu-
nists became stronger by so many rifles.
Everywhere they went their first job was
to capture rifles and ammunition from
the minchiin and the paoantui and collect
grains and cash.
The plain fact, then, is that the Central
troops have not gone into communist
areas to attack them, but the communists
have come out to attack other Chinese
units in occupied areas in the name of
fighting the Japanese, The communists
openly admit now they have run all over
Shantung, Hopei, Kiangsu, Anhwei and
even Hupeh, and are proud of their vic-
tories and their growing strength. But
they have not captured these territories
from the Japanese but from other Chinese
by bloody battles. From the very begin-
ning the process of penetration and ex-
pansion was characterised by armed and
underground conflicts with other Chinese
soldiers, and by extremely subtle and able
tactics.of boring from within. In no in-
stance have the communists been able
to capture territories which the Japanese
intended to hold.
When, for instance, the Japanese at-
tacked Wutai Mountain, the communist
base in Shansi, in 1940, the communists,


advt
advt
Why not Draw
on the Experience
of Others ?
To secure the greatest benefit
with the least trouble in the
administration of an estate is an
achievement within the reach of
all, irrespective of the size or
nature of the estate or the
domestic difficulties involved.
With the growing pressure of their own
business affairs, and the added diffi-
culties of war-time conditions, the task
confronting the private executor has
been enormously increased.
Officers of Trustee Companies are
trained and experienced in the adminis-
trative management of all classes of
estates. This specialised knowledge is
reinforced by that of directors who are
all men of mature experience, and who
bring a balanced judgment to bear upon
the problems of estates committed to
their care.
The Trustee Company thus provides
experience, permanency, impartiality
and sound administrative capacity, at
charges that are fixed and reasonable.
The Union Trustee, with sixty years of
service behind it, is the ideal executor
and trustee for appointment under any
Will.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[Incorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J, C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., C.B.E.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
General Manager ; Samuel Cooke. Assistant General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A. Hay,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A, E. Heath, C.M.G.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K,c„ m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway, Assistant Manager; L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Sir Edward Macartney, k.b. (Chairman); T. W. Fletcher, O.B.E. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, M.C., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D.S.O., B.C.E.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., F.F.I.A., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.I.A., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
REPUTATION
0a
m
On truly great performance in the
past is built the confidence that
envisages still greater future achieve-
ments for Australia’s Empire-aviation
pioneers !
Qantas development of Overseas
routes under United Kingdom and
Australian Government control. ...
Qantas merchant air service opera-
tions of vital war-time value to
Australia and her Allies .... Qantas
maintenance of essential air com-
munications .... these contributions
to the Nation’s Coming-of-Age in
International aviation have won a
reputation universally acclaimed.
V
Qmtas
EMPIRE AIRWAYS LTD.
1
SYDNEY MELBOURNE .BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE PERTH
J
No one else can do YOUR share —
Buy Bonds in the Third Victory Loan.
following their tactics of fighting only
when having preponderant numbers,
abandoned the base. But when the Cen-
tral troops under the Second War Area
Command decided that Wutai was to be
the base for the New 2nd Division, Gen-
eral Chu Teh flew back with his commu-
nist forces to wrest control of the area.
When the New 2nd Division was on its
way to Wutai it was subjected to hit-
and-run attacks by the communists at
Taliushu, at Shouyanghsien, and at Tsao-
chiachun on the Chengtai highway, where
a battle was fought for two days, and was
again ambushed at Shunan. After stag-
ing such harassing attacks on the way,
from which the communists greatly pro-
fited in terms of scores of mules and
much valuable ammunition, the commu-
nists finally made the main attack on the
New 2nd Division at Yushuhsien. By
that time the New 2nd Division had
already exhausted its supplies, and was
doomed. Naturally, many Chinese officers
and soldiers were killed. The 130,000
dollars that its commander. Chin Tsien-
chang, was carrying for his troops were
taken as part of the communist “booty.”
Two companies escorting the mules were
massacred, and only one cook and one
muleteer escaped. Multiply these cases by
the thousands, and we can understand
why there is no unity in guerrilla warfare
against Japan.
In Shantung, over 35,000 troops of the
communist forces joined in an attack on
the Government Commissioner’s head-
quarters in the Seventh District. Over
5000 communist troops under Peng Ming-
chih attacked the Seventh Brigade of the
paoantui near Shuhsien and Szeyang.
While the Japanese were attacking Chih-
sia, the sth column ( chihtui ) of the com-
munist Eighteenth Army Corps took the
opportunity to attack the Central 27th
Brigade and the county Government at
Chaoyuan. This is but a sample of what
happened on a larger scale later in the
overpowering attack on Central Com-
mander Chin Chiyung in Shantung in
1943. They had as much interest in
wiping out the Central Chinese troops as
the Japanese. When the Japanese re-
treated the area would be theirs. The
same pattern in Shansi. The same pattern
in Hopei, Honan, Anhwei, Kiangsu. The
motive behind such a pattern alone can
account for the large-scale civil war. In
spite of everything the communists to
date have not obtained complete control
of these provinces, but have made enough
trouble for the Central guerrillas not to
be able to concentrate their energy on
Japan. Neither the communist guerrillas
nor the Central guerrillas are fighting
there for more than mere survival.
The communist expansion they are now
boasting about has not been a peaceful
expansion, but one achieved by “blood-
shed” and “armed struggle” against the
Chinese, in the exact words of Mao
Tsetung, the Communist party boss. The
communist statistics must be read afresh.
For every Japanese they claim to have
killed they have killed at least five
Chinese. For.every town they captured
from the Japanese they have captured 50
towns from other Chinese. Of the hun-
dreds of “clashes” per year they claim
to their credit a large percentage must
include those with the Chinese “enemy.”
Half of their weapons have been robbed
from other Chinese guerrillas and regular
units. Against their claim to have held
down 350,000 Japanese troops and
200,000 puppet troops in the occupied
areas must be counted the fact that they
have held down half a million Chinese
soldiers holding down the same Japanese
and their puppets in the same areas.
The communists did not derail a single
train when for a month they saw Japa-
nese troops pouring down the Peiping
Hankow railway to destroy the Central
troops in Honan through at least 400
miles of their famed guerrilla territory.
The truth is bitter, but must be heard.
Naturally, the communists would fear
nothing more than 500 airplanes and three
tank divisions for the Chungking forces.
By the logic of their circumstances they
must combat it. Whether in this they
are acting as patriots, however, is another
question. The communists have merely
drifted into a position where they must
discredit Chungking and, in discrediting
Chungking, discredit China as a whole.
The paramount question for China is
national unity. Who sins against unity
in time of war sins against the nation
as a whole. The problem of China’s
unity means exclusively the problem of
the Chinese Communist party. Without
the problem of the Chinese communists
there is no problem of unity at all, since
even the most backward provinces are
not under suspicion of planning an open
or secret revolt against the Government.
The cause of the communist revolt was
the opportunity the Chinese communists
saw in the war against Japan to expand
[their territory. I have in all my previous
writings taken a sympathetic view of the
Chinese Communist Army, though not of
the communist ideology; but I cannot
condemn too strongly their fratricide even
before the war is finished. It seems to me
that, at the worst, they should have set
up an independent kingdom administra-
tively, but fought as allies in military
operations. Such is the normal feeling
of a common citizen when his country is
at war. This they have not done. It
seems to me armed clashes with the
national army in time of war would be
called treason in any modem country,
and such leaders would be relieved of
their posts in short order and court-mar-
shalled. Ido not think the people of
Soviet Russia would stand for a cocky,
benighted general who preferred in infi-
nite love of his fatherland to clash con-
stantly with the Red Army, defy Mos-
cow’s orders and call the Ukraine his
own, even though he might on occasion
be fighting the Germans,
I have been compelled to tell the story
of this communist trouble because it is
affecting supplies to China and the inter-
national position of China after the war.
I wish I could say that there were no
“Chinese communists,” that they had co-
operated splendidly and unselfishly in the
war, and that the whole problem was un-
important, as some Chinese propagandists
try to suggest. I am afraid that refusal
to face the truth of the conflict may yet
cause endless troubles in years to come.
I suggest that the forces at work today
in China have something to do with
China’s international alignment in the
next world war.
Soviet Stand on Jews.
(From a report by a N.Y. “Times” correspon-
dent in Jerusalem.)
Nobody knows the exact number of
Jews left in Europe or how many who
sought refuge in Palestine will elect/ to
return when the war is over.
Some observers argue against attempt-
ing to deal with the immigration problem
until the terms are known. Others think
the British are withholding permits until
a final decision can be reached, leaving
the door open meanwhile as wide as pos-
sible, on the ground that the Arabs will
change their attitude when convinced
there is no danger of being out-numbered
If Zionists are going in for selective im
migration it means they are conscious ol
restrictions beyond those of the Whits
Paper.
One of these is the Soviet attitude to-
ward Jews in territory annexed to Russia.
New arrivals in Palestine in January were
eight weeks on the way from Bucharest,
held up first by the British because the
December quota was exceeded, and then
for three weeks at the Bulgarian border
by the Russians because some refugees
were suspected of being Soviet citizens.
Although a large number did come
from eastern Poland, Bessarabia and
Bukovina, Russia finally let them go. This
is not likely to happen again, however.
Moscow has since banned the departure
of 1800 orphans. As Palestine drew
largely from Jewish populations in terri-
tory now incorporated in the Soviet
Union, the situation in Palestine will be
affected by Soviet orders against emigra-
tion. . _
Russia gives every indication of inten-
tion to play a part in the evolution of
this part of the world, but so far has
made no other sign of active interest in
the Palestine problem.
In Elas Hands.
(From a report by A. C. Sedgwick, Athens
correspondent N.Y. “Times.”)
British soldiers and Royal Air Force
personnel who had been held captive by
the Bias in the recent fighting in Greece
and freed have described their treatment
at the hands of the Leftists.
Every Briton interviewed by the writer
said he had been dealt with harshly. On
many occasions they were forced to trek
great distances in the cold as part of
heterogeneous straggling formations,
never certain of their destination, which
was vaguely northward, or their fate.
Often the Bias would strip the British
of their shoes and sometimes of their
clothing. Sometimes their captors treated
them with a degree of martial respect,
although the Bias men were inclined to
become harsher if, as frequently hap-
pened, inhabitants of a village through
which they were passing showed kindly
feelings to them. Old men, women and
children who had been picked up,
apparently at random, were almost as a
matter of course robbed of all their pos-
sessions. Frostbite was a usual com-
plaint.
Persons taken as hostages were not by
any means from Greece’s small class of
well-to-do, although there were privileged
persons among them, and these suffered
no worse treatment than shopkeepers,
peasants and their families.
Many died of exhaustion, while the
human wrecks too weak to continue the
march were often shot. Women would


YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost!
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J, Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 Kino William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout 'the States.
OC^'
<}vO^
In the future, as in the past,
there will be occasions , , .
pleasant evenings at theatre or
pictures . . . anniversaries to
mark. Crown such occasions
then ... as before , . . with
'Golden Glory."
Cjolclm CJjpnj
y
i
m
\ \
m
\ V \
V \ 1
V \ «
\\>
—■■-■vVr
X\\
44/5
PROTECTION during Peace and War is
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE,
throughout Australia
ECKERSUV-, SONS PTV.UD.
93-105 CLARENDON ST.. STH. MELBOURKt SC.S
Age fits: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
sometimes ask to be allowed Christian
devotions, but such requests were refused,
and those who were not allowed a priest's
services were killed either by shooting or
a blow from a rifle butt while they were
crossing themselves.
A British soldier, recalling his experi-
ences in the first few days after his cap-
ture, gave the following account:
“In snow and slush we marched 17
miles, then they quartered us in one room
14ft. by 20ft.—50 of us.
“We asked for food and water, but
were given nothing. After a night of
misery we marched on the next morning.
In order to relieve our thirst we sucked
handfuls of snow. At the end of the
march of the original 16 Bias guards only
four were left.
“That night was not the worst, though.
After a march through the rain we spent
three days in a room 20ft. by 20ft. We
were now 80. We were given bread, water
and raw cabbage.
“When this thing began we almost felt
the way people at home felt —that we
were interfering. All the way we heard
the Bias shouting “Scobie is a Fascist”
[Lieut.-General Ronald M. Scobie, the
British commander who fought the Bias].
But after what we have seen of the Bias
and its treatment of people who are just
opposed to them politically it’s different.
I am a Socialist myself. These people are
just a gang of thugs.”
Earlier Zionist Aims.
{From a London “Fortnightly” article by Sir
John Hope Simpson.)
Judging by recorded statements of
Zionist leaders it is fair to conclude that
at the outset the policy of Zionism did
not aim at political dominance in Pales-
tine. At the tenth Zionist Congress, held
at Basle in August, 1911, the President
made a statement, from which the fol-
lowing is extracted: —
Only those suffering from gross ignorance
hy malice could accuse us of
the desire of establishing an independent
Jewish Kingdom . .. . The aim of Zionism
ts the erection for the Jewish people of a
publicly recognised, legally secured home in
Palestine. _ Not a Jewish State, but a home
rn the ancient land of our forefathers where
we can live a Jewish life without oppression
and persecution. What we demand is that
the Jewish immigrant to Palestine be given
the opportunity of naturalising as a citizen
without limitation and that he can live un-
hindered in accordance with Jewish customs
.... that and nothing else is our aim.
In the introduction to his History of
Zionism, written during 1918, Mr. Soko-
lov, at that time President of the Zionist
Organisation, wrote: —
It has been said, and is still being obstin-
ately repeated by anti-Zionists again and
again, that Zionism aims at the creation of
an independent “Jewish State.” But this is
wholly fallacious. The “Jewish State” was
never a part of the Zionist programme.
Dr. Weizmann is reported to have de-
clared at a meeting of Government
officials in Palestine held on April 27,
1918:—
All fears expressed openly or secretly by
the Arabs that they are to be ousted from
their present position are due to a funda-
mental misconception of Zionist aims or to
the malicious activities of our common
enemies.
Finally, Dr. Weizmann in an address
to the Zionist organisation in 1931, of
which he was then president, said: —
The Arabs must be made to feel, by deed
as well as word, that, whatever the future
numerical relationships of the two nations
in Palestine, we on our part contemplate no
political domination. But they must also
remember that we on our side will never
submit to any political domination.
That principle was also adopted by the
British Government, and was announced,
before the Mandate was actually granted
by the Council of the League of Nations,
in the Churchill memorandum of June 3,
1922. It included the following sentences:
Unauthorised statements have been made
to the effect that the purpose in view is to
create a wholly Jewish Palestine. Phrases
have been used such as that Palestine is to
become “as Jewish as England is English.”
His Majesty’s Government regard any such
expectation as impracticable and have no
such aim in view. Nor have they at any
time contemplated . . . the disappearance or
the subordination of the Arabic population,
language or culture in Palestine. They
would draw attention to the fact that the
terms of the [Balfour] Declaration referred
to do not contemplate that Palestine as a
whole should be converted into a Jewish
National Home, but that such a home
should be founded in Palestine.
Japs Not “Withering.”
(From an article by N.Y. "Times” military
commentator Hanson W. Baldwin.)
Except in the eastern Marshalls and
a few of the smaller isolated atolls, the
Japanese garrisons do not appear to be
“withering on the vine.”
On Bougainville, in New Guinea and
elsewhere the enemy has started exten-
sive gardens and is virtually living off the
country. From time to time these
gardens are sprayed with poisonous sub-
stances by our ’planes, and every effort
has been made to limit and restrict the
areas of these improvised Japanese farms.
Yet the enemy troops at Rabaul nerham
45 -°“ appear’,fbe S
good shape. They seem to have plenty
of ammunition and to have plenty to eat
lot c of ll P se in New Guinea is
variable. Some Japanese units have been
broken up into small groups and have
virtually gone native” in the interior
But considerable numbers have held their
military coherence and are supplement-
mg their dwindling rations by native
foodstuffs and garden produce.
Some troops of the Japanese Eighteenth
Army, estimated last summer to consist
of elements of three divisions, and other
units, numbering perhaps 45,000 to 60,000
men, still hold fairly extensive coastal
enclaves in New Guinea, and there is no
Nearly everyone concedes that
without the United States the world
security organisation, as planned at
Dumbarton Oaks, will fail. The
American people are anxious to
toke part provided the peace is
the kind of peace they believe to be
wotth while. Thus, much depends
on the nature of the peace. The
American people attach vast im-
portance to certain principles. The
Hoover-Stimson doctrine of non-
i ecognition of territory acquired by
aggression is among them. So are
the principles enunciated in the
Atlantic Charter. Arty peace treaty
or world security organisation
which ignores these fundamentals
is almost certain to turned down
if not by the American delegation
first called to pass upon them, then
afterward by the Senate. Diplomats
representing the small nations are
convinced that the key to American
influence on current events is to be
found right here. The United
States, they believe, should make it
plain that U.S. public opinion would
not sanction the use of American
soldiers to impose an injustice on
any people. If U.S. collaboration is
desired, that’s the way the game
will have to be played.—William
Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-Tele-
gram.”
immediate prospect of their dissolution.
The Australians, who are taking on the
job of mopping up these by-passed enemy
elements in New Guinea, have expressed
some fear that from a long-range point
of view there is danger of Japanese
“domination by propagation” of these
areas.
General Blarney, Australian Com-
mander-in-Chief, has stated that from
British New Guinea to the Solomons
there are 90,000 to 100,000 isolated
Japanese, who have put large areas
under cultivation, introduced rice grow-
ing and the breeding of livestock, and are
actually colonising these islands.
At the moment, therefore, only a few
of the by-passed Japanese garrisons in
the Pacific are “withering,” and there is
little prospect that their total strength
will be materially reduced, by tropical
diseases, malnutrition and natural attri-
tion, very quickly.
Ending the League.
{Condensed from a “Christian Science Monitor”
article by Homer Metz.)
When the Allied Powers established
the League of Nations in 1919 they made
no provision in its Covenant for abol-
ishing their handiwork. Because of this
omission, they now face a whole legal
library full of knotty problems.
In effect, the League will have to
repeal itself. It will have to assemble
in a final session and then declare itself
non-existent.
Before the representatives of the 45
States which still are technically mem-
bers of the League can declare thir jobs
finished —de jure as well as de facto—
they must, among other things:
Dispose of $15,000,000 in gold Swiss
francs which they have in various banks
throughout the world.
Sell or abandon title to their
$30,000,000 home in Geneva.
Decide what status, if any, will de-
volve upon branches of the League, such
as the International Labor Organisation,
the Narcotics Office, the Scientific Re-
search Bureau, etc., which have continued
to function throughout the war.
Find a reasonable method of writing
off the books the 500 or more treaties
which operate through the League, many
of which play important roles in the
daily lives of millions.
How will the vanishing League recog-
nise its successor?
Simultaneous action to disband the old
and establish the new is not possible,
because some nations which belong to
the League are not included in the Unitea
Nations war-time alliance, and vice versa.
The only specific suggestion heard with
much frequency is that the 45 Powers


End
v misery
,vv
FIGHT 3 WAYS
with
Double*!)’
faucaUffttuA fixtiuct
Wm
mm
%
mm
m
Don’t let Flu-Colds “get you down”—start with the Double “D”
Eucalyptus 3-way treatment at the first sneeze, and smash Flu-
Colds in record time.
TAME 3 Drops of Double "D" on Sugar .
C hesf and Back with Double "D"
UWfiMlt D ro p S Q f Double "D" in Hof Wafer .
Double “D” Eucalyptus is quick and effective for fighting Flu-Colds the
Double “D” 3-way treatment attacks the Cold germs right where they
lodge—in nose, throat and bronchial tubes. Always keep Double D
Eucalyptus handy in your medicine chest.
9|d.—ENORMOUS SALES—I/4
Double D
THE PURE, STRONG EUCALYPTUS WITH THE SWEET, FRESH SMELL.
I
I
I
\tf\Vs can’t r//4
loasfe/jj,
so JB&S toasters are in short supply for
civilian needs, the same as other of the company s
household electric appliances, to reappear after
the war in new and better designs to give you a
fresh appreciation of how much electricity can
do in the home; but until then metal and labour
must be diverted to priority requirements.
YDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH HOBART LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (QTand) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE; A. G. Healing, Ltd.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS,
sign a multilateral treaty declaring the
League defunct and transferring what
pacts and branches they can to the new
organisation. This cannot be done, how-
ever, without the written consent of each
League member, not to mention such
United Nations stalwarts as the United
States and Russia, which are not League
affiliates.
In any event, an interminable series
of conferences and diplomatic exchanges
seems inevitable before finis is written
to the League of Nations.
One of the most interesting questions
that must be answered is that involving
the fate of the World Court of Inter-
national Justice, which formerly sat at
The Hague.
The signatories of the Dumbarton
Oaks agreements —the United States,
Britain, Russia and China —provided for
a World Court, but neglected to specify
whether the existing one should be
brought up to date or a new one estab-
lished. There is a strong possibility that
the former course will be decided upon.
Experts on international law point out
that only a few changes would be needed
to dis-attach the tribunal from the old
League and affix it to the new organisa-
tion.
The Court, which held its last session
in The Hague in 1939, derives its
authority from the League of Nations
Charter and has a bench of 15 Justices,
elected by the Council and Assembly of
the League. If it is decided to scrap the
Court entirely, some disposition will have
to be made of its home in The Hague,
the imposing peace palace donated by
Andrew Carnegie. »
The United States, of course, never has
been a member of the World Court,
although individual Americans have held
office as Judges. It is, however, techni-
cally a partner,in the Permanent Court
of Arbitration, which was set up in The
Hague in 1899 and continued to 1907.
The difference between the two tri-
bunals is that the World Court hands
down, or did hand down, its own de-
cisions, while the Arbitration Court was
merely equipped to appoint special com-
missions to settle problems at the invita-
tion of two disputing Powers.
The place of the Arbitration Court in
a new international set-up is problema-
tical. Various agencies, including the
American Bar Association and the
Chamber of Commerce of the United
States, have publicly urged its retention,
but little official attention has been
directed to its reorganisation or adapta-
tion to post-war conditions.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Italy will be ruined by war, but will have
her monarchy left. Spain will have Franco
edged out and may get a king back. Greece will
be ruined, internally rent, but will keep a king
in name. Belgium, Norway will restore their
kings, Holland her queen. British point out
that Churchiil is very partial to monarchy in
countries where British influence will remain
strong. Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Rumania, Czecho-
slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Latvia, Lithuania,
Estonia, Finland will align their policies with
Russia, or, in some instances, will be absorbed
wholly, or in part, by Russia. France, tempo-
rarily at least, will be in the middle, will be
least hurt basically of any European nation,
will have suffered fewest war casualties, will have
least damage to her industries, her cities, her
whole economic structure. De Gaulle, for
France, will play one side against another for
advantage.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
The situation which made the United Nations
alliances necessary —created by the aggressions
of the Axis Powers —justifies them. But it
does not change the fact that some of the
nations thus allied against the Axis by sheer
necessity are fundamentally antagonistic to each
other in matters of interest and ambition. And
it does not change the fact that each of these
nations will pursue its natural interests and am-
bitions after the necessity for alliance passes.—
N.Y. “Journal-American.”
* * * *
It was expected from the attitude of Marshal
Stalin a year ago that he would co-operate to
establish and maintain law and order, and if is
hoped he will continue to do so, though com-
munist activities would indicate that no effective
brake has been applied to those ideologists;
and it would seem that the policy the Soviet
Union has pursued has operated to encourage
them— From the authoritative U.S. “Army and
Navy Journal.”
* * * *
Part of the French Government and the
General Staff, including De Gaulle, are said to
favor France’s outright .annexation of the
Rhineland. According to non-Russian sources
which, however, are often well posted on
Moscow’s policy, Stalin supports the plan
for the Rhineland’s complete separation from
Germany. Stalin is described as viewing
approvingly a project for giving the lion’s
share of the Rhineland to France and smaller
slices to Belgium and Holland. Stalin is said
also to favor the expulsion of several million
Germans from the Rhineland into the Reich and
—if France wishes —shipping a minority of
Rhinelanders to French colonies.— London cor-
respondent Chicago “Sun”
* * * *
“The League of Nations’ failure was a moral
failure. The League failed because its mem-
bers lacked the courage and the sense to do the
right; the League failed because of a false
and vicious idea that international morality
differs in some way from individual morality.
The League failed because far too many
nations, in the conduct of their international
relations, adopted the policy that a nation’s
pledged word is not necessarily its bond, that
expediency pays better dividends than principle,
that it is possible to serve individual national
interests without regard to international equity,
that we need not bother very much about our
neighbors so long as we are all right, that it is
both possible and right to save our babies by
throwing somebody else’s to the wolves.” —■
N.Z. Minister to the United States C. A. Berend-
sen.
a * * *
There are 15,822 veterans of World War II
in U.S. Veterans Administration hospitals out
of the 111,653 admitted in this war. More than
half —8475 —are mental cases, or neuro-psy-
chiatrics, as the military calls them. Of the re-
maining cases, 2798 are tuberculosis cases and
4549 are general medical and surgical patients.
Out of 296,223 veterans now receiving pensions
for disability suffered in the services, 130,338,
or 44 p.c., are in the neuro-psychiatric class.
This means that the latter number thus far are
at least 10 p.c. mentally or psychologically un-
balanced, since pensions are paid only for 10
p.c. or greater disability resulting from military
service.— N. Y. “Herald-Tribune.”
fi O £: *
The Czechoslovak Government in London
has informed the United Nations of the broad
basis on which it intends to deal with the
German minority in Czechoslovakia after the
country’s liberation. There is a determina-
tion to evacuate all zealous “Herrenvolk” to
post-war Germany. What proportion of the
3,000,000 racial Germans who lived in Czecho-
slovakia before Munich will be classified
as Nazi traitors, collaborators and generally
undesirable for the future security of the
Czechoslovakia State is not yet known. Esti-
mates vary from 1,500,000 to 2,000,000, but in
cases, according to expectations, those deported
to their “spiritual homeland” will be given
suitable indemnity for property losses.— London
correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.
* * * *
Nothing has yet been published to correct
the misapprehension that release of the news
[of the part Australians had been taking m the
Pacific fighting] was forced by statements made
by Mr. Spender in New York and the resulting
public protest in Australia. Actually, the Aus-
tralians are not aware that the news release
was controlled by General MacArthur himself
and for a very good reason. When the Solo-
mons and New Guinea garrisons were relieved
by the Australians in November, it came at a
time when it was particularly important that
the enemy should not know that large bodies
of American ground troops were being released
for future assignment. The Japanese believed
that with six American divisions pinned down
on Leyte and others committed to smaller
fronts in the rear areas it was impossible tor
General MacArthur to mount a new Philippines
offensive. Thus the relieving of the rear gar-
risons, and the sudden freeing of large numbers
of American assault forces, was made under a
blanket of tight secrecy.— “ Christian Science
Monitor” Pacific War correspondent Gordon
Walker.
* * * *
Whatever happens when we take Japan, the
population won’t commit hari-kari en masse, as
some have believed. On Saipan mass suicide is
no longer a problem. Now the problem is how
to feed and nurse 4280 Korean, Chamorran and
Mariana natives, and 10,000 Japanese, who
prefer life under American rule to suicide tor
the Emperor, A thousand of these Japs are
soldiers, and therefore prisoners of war.
“Saturday Evening Post.”
* * * *
A careful investigation disclosed that four
small German boys who had been taken into
custody by Allied authorities in Germany and
charged with sniping were completely innocent.
Pictures of the four boys, the captions and
stories stating that they were “outstanding ex-
amples of born and bred Nazis—arrogant,
tricky, intelligent and killers,” were earned in
the British press on October 25 [and m Aus-
tralian papers later]. Authorities who investi-
gated the case concluded the boys were inno-
cent, “had merely picked up a gun and were
shooting at a sandbag,” and released them.
Gerald Barry, editor London News-Chronicle.
* * * *
The Norwegian Home Front in it's hundreds
of papers—every little village possesses its own
illegal and well-edited organ—lays stress on its
loyalty to King Haakon and the ideal relation-
ship maintained with his Government, to whic
Parliament, before going into exile, had legally
transferred all its privileges. Contrary to the
experiences of other countries, there was never
for a moment any alienation between the fight-
ing country and its trustees in England.
Alfred Joachim Fischer; London Contemporary
Review.”
* * * *
In the Philippines the Japanese have appar-
ently run true to form —the form they showed
in Manchuria and North China, in Nanking
and Canton. They have no ideas to export,
no common intellectual or political tradition
shared with the other peoples of Asia. I hey
cannot use effectively the one weapon which
fell to their hands: the nationalist movements
of the East. They try to ram their inbred,
old-fashioned doctrines down the throats of
everyone they conquer; they understand propa-
ganda only as a means of social control in a
situation which they dominate with bayonets.
If they had any political sense at all they
could have parts of Asia at their feet instead or
under their heels. A liberal, democratic Japan
would have been a much more dangerous
enemy for us and the European Powers than
the present imperialistic Japan. As it is, the
Japanese have apparently stirred Filipino nation-
alism only against themselves, and not against
us as they hoped.— “ Atlantic Monthly.”
* * *
Petain accepted an armistice, and proceeded
to honor it, and at the same time, against all
odds, determined to keep unsullied the personal
honor which bade him never to allow France
to be mobilised by Hitler against her former
ally, and never to allow the French fleet to
fall’into German hands. The Toulon scuttliiig
was the result of long-standing orders from
Petain. — George Glasgow; London “Contem-
porary Review.”
* * * *
As a customer, Britain bought American
exports totalling $521 million in 1938. In pre-
war years she was consistently the biggest
foreign customer of the United States. Britain
is, in fact, so big a customer that economists
agree that her purchases or lack of them are
enough to tip the balance between prosperity
and slump in America. — A. Keith Fowler, in
“Britain.”


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
FOR ESSENTIAL COMMERCIAL USERS
NEW International trucks, imported by the
Government to ensure efficient road transport,
are available in capacities up to 4 h tons . . .
Equipped with Two-speed rear axles; Standard, im-
ported All-steel Cabs; imported Platform, Dropsides
and Triple-purpose Stakesides bodies, also other
approved essential body types .... A “permit to
purchase” must be obtained. Application forms for
official permits, full details of prices, specifications
and all arrangements for purchase and immediate
delivery may be obtained as usual from our branch
house in the capital city of your State, and also
from any Authorized Metropolitan Distributor or
Country Local Agent for International trucks.
Ask for assistance with your application
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
Buy and hold War
Savings Certificates
and Stamps.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE SELF-CONTAINED, SELF-EMPTYING SANITARY SYSTEM
THIS GUARANTEE IS FOR
YOUR PROTECTION
When you purchase a Hygeia Dissolvenator the com*
pletely self-contained sanitary system you will find
that its guarantee is backed by a long-established firm
of integrity and repute.
You are given authentic proof of up to 17 years con*
linuous service which you are invited to verify,
BEWARE OF IMITATIONS OF
SIMILAR APPEARANCE
The Hygeia Dissolvenator is the only chemical closet
of this shape that has this period of use.
v ‘* ..
•im
PRICE:
F. 0.8. Sydney, £l9/2/6 plus 10/9
crating if necessary.
Write for FREE illustrated pamph-
let.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY.
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney
Esl. 1927
Interstate Agencies —
Queensland Pastoral Supplies, Lta.,
Brisbane. Powell Gas Producers, Ltd., Perth.
Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Adelaide. W. Crosby & Co. Pty., Tasmania.
Victorian Producers’ Co-Op., Ltd., And from all Leading Stores. Pastoral
Melbourne. * Firms, etc.
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR ELIMINATES CLOSET PANS
WITH THEIR STENCH. DISCOMFORTS AND DANGERS.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lambing Losses.
“Sheepo”: Graziers pay too much
attention to the percentage of lambs
marked and not enough to the numbers
that turn up as weaners or hoggets at
shearing time (B. 6/12/’44). Blowflies,
worms, pulpy kidney, entero-toxaemia and
other ailments take a great toll of lambs
in N.S.W. Too many accept dead lambs
in the paddocks as a matter of course,
though investigation might show the cause
as one that can be cured.
Diseases apart, it is certain that most
losses occur between marking time and
the settling down of weaned lambs. On
one large station 25 p.c. of weaners died.
There was plenty of feed and water, but
wool blindness and blow-flies took heavy
toll. That was sheer neglect. Not enough
attention is paid to ewes and lambs after
marking nor to weaners after they have
been taken off their mothers. For every
dead lamb or weaner seen there are prob-
ably two unseen, which is why every
sheep-owner who finds a dead lamb
should want to know what killed it.
“Enyeen”; “Compared with other
countries sheep-raising in Australia is a
haphazard business,” says “Bungaree”
(B. 6/12/’44), but where is the job done
better? Nothing is proved by comparing
lambing percentages on a big station with
those of a small breeding farm. Nobody
can get around a 10,000-acre lambing
paddock as he can a 10-acre one. Give
the big place as many hands as you like,
it will still make a poor showing by com-
parison with a small place.
In W.A. and S.A., on big places, we
got 40 p.c., and thought it pretty good.
In Tasmania, where places are smaller
and ewes are lambed down on clover or
fodder crops, anything less than 90 p.c.
is regarded as bad. My neighbor gets
100 p.c., and has lambed two seasons in
succession without losing a lamb or a
ewe.
We once worked out how many lambs
he would have lost if he hadn’t been out
all day with a bottle and half the night
with a lantern. It came to about 21 p.c.
A crop of even 79 p.c. would be good
for an outback station without artificial
feed. Crows, dingoes, foxes and flies
must account for many losses in the big
paddocks. Also, on the lean feed a goodly
proportion of ewes don’t brefd. The
truth is that if you insist on having a
big run you’ll have big lamb losses.
Drenching a Horse.
“Drover”: It is easy to give a quiet
horse a drench without a drenching bit,
but it’s advisable to use a rope. Place
a halter or winkers without a bit but
with nose-band and throat lash on the
horse, and take it to where there is a
suitable overhead beam or stout tree
branch about Bft. above the ground.
Make a loop that will not run at one end
of a rope and pass the loop under the
nose-band and over the horse’s nose.
Throw the free end of the rope over the
beam and pull gently until the horse's
head is a little higher than its wither.
Don’t secure the free end of the rope;
if the horse struggles it may throw itself
down and become injured. Have some-
one hold the free end of the rope so that
it can be quickly slackened.
A beer bottle will serve for giving the
mixture. The drench must not enter the
windpipe. Stand a little to one side of
the horse in case it makes an attempt to
strike. If the horse persists in hanging
back on the rope do not attempt to give
the drench. Hurry-Tip drenching is no
good ; the horse must be given time to
swallow the drench. After the bottle has
been emptied don’t allow the horse to
lower its head until it has swallowed all
the fluid in its mouth. If the head is
freed too quickly some of the drench will
be lost. A quiet old-stager can be given
a drench without the use of a rope, but
its head must be held wither-high.
Perennial Pea.
“E. 2”: Trials by the writer (in n.-e.
Vic.) suggest it has great potentialities
as a fodder plant for cool mountain coun-
try, and it should do well in hotter parts
where rainfall is adequate. When prop-
erly established it is hardy and drought-
resistant, and develops a long, fleshy tap-
root which goes down 6ft. or Bft. The
semi-trailing growth extends for 6ft. from
the base, is thick and bushy and the
trailers are numerous. Cows relish it,
and it should prove valuable for fatten-
ing and milk-production.
Biggest drawback is that the pea takes
a couple of years to become fully estab-
lished, but would then give good stands
for cutting or rotational grazing. As
silage it should rank with the best. The
plants are dormant through the cold
weather, but the patch under trial, the
sets a foot apart, covered the ground to
a depth of 3ft, by late spring.
Best time for seeding is in late autumn,
but the pea is a slow starter, and sets cut
from the roots of established plants
proved the best bet. Lathyrus is culti-
vated as a garden plant only at present,
and it is doubtful if bulk supplies of seed
are available. But its possibilities as
fodder are convincing and, being a true
perennial and soil-enriching plant, it is
worthy of cultivation on experimental
lines.
The Capon Trade.
“Jock”; Caponising is practised widely
elsewhere, but never seems to have caught
on in Australia except in a few localised
areas. Caponising has a great weight of
advantages over its few disadvantages.
The first thing is the quality of the meat
—compared with a rooster it is as a leg
of prime sucker lamb compared with a
cut from an old ram. In parts of the
U.S.A. capon sells at four times the price
per pound of rooster, but here the capon
is not generally appreciated at his full
value, and the increase in price is less. A
caponised Sussex makes the best table
bird available, because his legs are white.
Capon meat keeps its quality up to three
years of age, and capons can be kept for
Easter and Christmas and pushed into
the top markets.
An experiment in the U.S.A. on feed-
ing'roosters and capons under the same
conditions for 33 weeks and then fatten-
ing for three weeks showed a profit on
each capon of 124 cents, a loss on each
rooster of 55 cents. Up to six months
roosters and capons show equal growth,
but after this the capon is a much bieger
bird. •
Capons are the best bet for the man
who keeps a few fowls as a sideline. They
solve the excess male-bird problem, and,
being quiet, large numbers can be kepi
together without any fighting or disturb-
ances. The greatest blessing of the capon
kept in the backyard fowlhouse is that
he does not crow. The caponised bird
goes broody and can be set on eggs. They
make wonderful mothers for incubator
chicks, and will look after twice as many
chickens as a hen. If a broody hen is
set she is out of egg production for up
to three months; if capons are used
broody hens are laying again very soon.
Deaths following the operation should
be less than 3 p.c. with an experienced
operator. An amateur operator may have
up to 50 p.c. of slips, but as he becomes
experienced more than 5 p.c. is a bad
day. Capons must be kept seven months
before marketing, but as they can be kept
in large flocks, which reduces labor costs,
and as they return a good profit, this
long period is not a great disadvantage.
The operation is not difficult once seen
and practised on a dead bird. A good
tip is to push the skin towards the legs
before incising it. After the operation it
springs back and covers up the wound.
Starving the chickens for 24 hours makes
the operation much easier. Capons
should be dry-plucked and have a few
long tail feathers left. This is to dis-
tinguish them from roosters, and gives
the'public something to remember them
by.
Lucerne Again.
“Bill C.”; Scarcity of leguminous
plants in natural pastures results in the
latter deteriorating in food value during
dry spells. That’s why J. Bligh, a
farmer on the Darling Downs (Q.),
has been trying lucerne with Paspalum
scrobiculatum. The two were sown in
the spring of 1943 in rows 3|ft. apart
in the proportion of one row of lucerne
to two rows of the new paspalum. From
late January, 1944, four sheep to the acre
were maintained over 12 acres, divided
into six two-acre plots. They were still
tackling the lucerne and “scrobic,” as the


For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
sn QxJt'®*'
J /iJL ~ Sterilised
BONE FLOUR
To Remedy
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
HARTS
Circular Charts ior all types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE. O'LO.
EYE LOTION
for Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co..Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
CERTAIN DEATH
■ to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
advt
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat'd). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all *
Storekeepers throughout Australia. 7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
Ready...
to throw
the switch..
(■:
\
When Peacetime
Production Permits
Today's objective is war, on its bitterest,
broadest scale. In that grim task none
dares relax for a single instant. Gerrard
wire tying equipment is almost entirely
engaged in wire tying food supplies and
other vital munitions consigned to forward
areas — but there is tomorrow — a day
of new opportunity for you and Gerrard.
FOR THAT DAY GERRARD WILL
BE PREPARED!
Gerrard
Model ••TP 9
Machine
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
Are you always weary...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
REGISTERED
TABLETS
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
grained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long- been realised that unnatural
weariness q.nd many chronic.pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood.
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; skin
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally; piles and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet—see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
that Elasto is not a
drug- but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of,
veins, arteries, etc., and so re- '
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It is this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
" ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
advt
new grass has been nicknamed, when this
was written.
Winter frosts turned the summer-grow-
ing “scrobic” brown, but the woollies ate
it readily in its dry state. The pasture
has been cultivated twice in the past year
to keep mintweed in check. To find out
the effect of the burning on the “scrobic,”
areas were burned off when quite dry. It
was found that ratooning was somewhat
stronger where the stubble was burned
off than where it was left. The health
and vigor of the two forage plants demon-
strates plainly that the partnership is an
excellent one.
De-forest with Care.
“Plane Creek”: They are rare birds
who permit scrub or bush to occupy
grazing country adjoining their cultiva-
tions. Sometimes they cut only a narrow
belt away from their headlands, but not
infrequently they dear a wide strip of
timber, leaving a barren belt round culti-
vated areas.
There’s nothing wrong with “letting the
daylight in” —to a fair extent. Crops
won’t come to much without direct sun-
light. The morning sun is particularly
beneficial in the cooler months — if it
doesn’t strike the frost on non-resistant
crops. Crops look sick in a hot drought,
but they would look sicker if they only
received diffused sunshine through the
foliage of sheltering trees.
Another motive for destruction of all
trees in the vicinity of a cultivated area is
the far-spreading root system character-
istic of certain trees. Running roots get
away with no small quantity of plant food
and soil moisture urgently needed by the
crop. Root-suckers prove a nuisance. The
roots themselves are an obstacle to effec-
tive cultivation, and are no respecters of
discs and other expensive implement parts
which hit them. Dead trees, of course,
can’t root and sucker any more.
On the other hand, consideration
should be given to the value of fringing
trees for windbreaks. It takes a pretty
tall tree on the edge of a culti-
vation to prevent the morning sun from
reaching all parts of it. Similarly, there
are not many trees whose foots are
known to trespass into the cultivated
areas. Such trees should be cut down,
leaving the smaller growth to break the
force of prevailing dry winds. I am
much in favor of letting strips of timber
stay between scattered cultivations. The
open, tree-denuded farm without hills to
shelter it is the one which suffers most
from drought and erosion, because it is
exposed to every moisture-evaporating
wind.
Budding Stone Fruit.
“Myrrhee”; The job (in Victoria) is
done in summer. To propagate, bud root-
stocks within a few inches of ground
level; to change the variety insert the
buds in healthy laterals of last year’s
growth 6in. to Sin. from the base., Several
varieties may be budded on the one tree.
The younger the tree is reworked the
fewer the buds needed.
A peach-tree budded to varieties such
as Brigg’s Red May, Anzac, Zerbes,
Smith’s and Catherine Anne will provide
a succession of ripe fruit from mid-
December until February. Good com-
binations of plums for cross-pollination
are Early Orleans, Angelina and King
Billy, or Grand Duke, President and Jef-
ferson. Select healthy, well-grown bud-
wood containing leaf buds. Blossom
buds are plump and round, whereas leaf
buds are flatter and pointed.
Fruit Flies on Tomatoes.
“Pat Ater”: Indications are a small
puncture which blackens and sticky
brown spots or lines showing through to
the outside skin as tomatoes ripen. When
cut a brown, dirty mush is evidence of
the maggot’s operations. Follow the lure
sprays used on fruit trees: A poison syrup
made of sugar, water and tartar emetic ;
sprayed on one or two patches over the
foliage of each plant (not on fruit) it en-
tices the flies to feed and they become
poisoned. The formula: Tartar emetic,
loz.; white sugar, l|lb.; water, 2gal.
Where only small quantities are required
for a few dozen plants a stock solution
can be made by dissolving loz. of tartar
emetic in a gallon of water. Store it in a
glass container labelled “Poison.”
For each spraying take a pint of the
stock solution, add a pint of water and
of sugar. The quart should do a
dozen or more plants. Spray weekly,
wetting a good patch of foliage on each
plant. Start five weeks before ripening.
If rain intervenes spray again.
In an effort to dodge fly trouble many
growers and home-gardeners pick their
tomato fruits dead green and ripen them
indoors. That procedure is at the expense
of flavor and freshness. Tomatoes on the
verge of showing color can be packed
or transferred indoors without loss of
attraction to eye and tongue.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”; Dairyfarmers in
Queensland should go in for elephant
grass, which grows to 9ft. in height where
soil is fertile and deep and grows well in
tropical and subtropical districts. Main
growth is made during the rainy season,
but if given a damp spot it will provide
green feed throughout the year. Heavy
frosts cut it back somewhat, but it soon
recovers when the spring comes. Though
a patch of elephant grass on my C.Q.
farm has often set seed in abundance,
root-sections are the best means of propa-
gation.
“Myrrhee”: The extra claw on the
inner side of the hind paws is best re-
moved from puppies when about a week
old. If left it might cause lameness later,
due to the claw growing into the pad.
The whole thing can be snipped off easily
with a sharp scissors, as there is no bony
attachment to the foot. No after-treat-
ment it needed, as the animal attends to
the cleansing of the wound itself. In
older dogs the claw could be snipped to
prevent it from growing too long.
“Bill C.”: Erosion of grazing country
occurs after overstocking (B. 27/9/’45).
As the verdure goes the ground is cut up
by the hooves of stock, and wind or rain
hitting the loosened top-soil takes it away.
Burning-off in a drought may leave vast
areas exposed to strong winds for
months. A fire on totally dry land always
injures the grass-roots more seriously
than a fire on recently rain-drenched
land. When putting down fresh pastures
make sure you plant grasses suitable for
your particular locality. Wise farmers
don’t put valuable acres under doubtful
crops.
“E.2”: Supplies of brucine strychnine
are available for dealing with rabbit-
infested areas. Used at the rate of loz.
to 121b. of bait, it is held to be fairly
effective. Baits should be rather small
and tempting enough to counteract bitter-
ness of tlie poison. Kills may be further
from the trails than when fully-refined
strychnine is used.
“Sarina”: If you have a cultivation
that is heavily infested with nut grass,
fence it off and turn the pigs in. They’ll
turn that paddock upside down, and won’t
stop rooting while a nut remains. After
they have cleaned up the paddock may
be cropped afresh.
“B.”: Gravel to be used as coarse
aggregate for cement should range in
size from iin. to 3in. in diameter. For
walls or similar structures size of the
stones to the thickness of the work in
hand should be in the ratio of 1 to 5 ;
diameter of stones should not exceed lin.
for a Sin. wall. For plain concrete floors
or yards make the ratio 1 to 3 ; diameter
of stones up to 2in. for a 6in. floor. In
mass concrete work don’t try to mix in
stones over 3in. in diameter. They’re
hard to work with shovel or mixer.
When massive stones are placed in newly-
laid cement to save concrete strength of
material will be undermined if they’re
not spaced two or more inches apart.
“Bennie”: Three spadesful of cow
manure and two gallons of water form
a rich food plant. The mixture should
stand for at least 48 hours. The liquid
should then be separated from the sedi-
ment and applied to the plants by spray
or watering-can.


!g|
|l AMOtNfM
Since
'Broadcasting Began
**His Master’s Voice” has aimed to
bring to radio reception a purity of tone
and a quality of reproduction which will
ensure that the world’s greatest artists are
heard —as they would wish to be heard*
RADIO RECEIVERS • RADIO-GRAMOPHONES
• After the war you will again he able to get new "His
Master's Voice” Radio Receivers and Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD. (Incorporated la England)
HOMEBUSH. N.S.W,
“HIS MASTER’S VOICE”
RS/45k
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
“C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R*’ DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
/
m
" ;
s-s
* BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
SMOKE-OH!
“Watching a stately ship, or a beautiful horse,
or a slender girl walking.”— “Woman.”
Sea legs?
“Shot in Bedroom/’ —“£).
So what—as long as he didn’t disturb
the other boarders?
4. 4. 4. 4.
‘Have been married a year. Am happy, ex-
cept for one thing. My husband.”
—lnquirer to Dorothy Dix.
You should have stayed wedded to
your job, dear.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“Good plain cook, over 45. — “SM.H.”
Well, how could she be anything else
but good? •
4. 4. 4. 4,
Grand Larceny.
“A Birmingham man has been charged with
stealing a £l2OO municipal bus.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
This particular operator would be re-
ceived with some camaraderie in the
thieves’ kitchen where I have my lunch
every Thursday. From our seats around
the electric stove, we often discuss our
coups, many just as thrilling as the cap-
ture of the bus.
The story of how he stole ten miles of
double-track tramline was told by a small
thief who looked more like a ferret than
the average ferret. Working with a gang
of 300 confederates and a borrowed
utility truck, he lifted the rails in four
nights. The theft was not discovered
until an influential local resident com-
plained to the council about the erratic
tram service, and by that time the rails
had been converted into No. 14 knitting
needles and sold on the black market.
Then there was the stout, taciturn thief
who commented briefly that there was
some profit in stealing suburban fowl-
houses, evicting the fowls and selling the
structures to the Government for use as
State housing units.
I am planning to steal one of the pylons
of the Harbor Bridge for resale in small
lots for rockeries. As there is nobody
appointed to count the bridge pylons, I
expect the theft to go undiscovered for
some time.
Plum.
“The long, strait, narrow and only path to
a streamlined figure is exercise.”
— Woman’s paper.
Therefore take long walks on a canal.
4. 4. 4. 4.
“Frocks, suits, hats, coupon free, lady going
abroad, all slightly worn.” — Suburban paper.
The sea trip should buck the lady up,
at any rate.
4. 4. v > 4*
Happy Ending.
“Writers should aim at giving their stories
an unexpected twist.” — Literary magazine.
Some stories never would be missed ;
They’re awful things, by heck !
They make one wish a sudden twist
Would break the hero’s neck !
T. W. N.
*l* *l* *l*
No Topoff!
“Sandwich woman, grill cook.”
— “S.M.H.’’ Situations Vacant.
Dear Sir, I seen your ad in the paper
for a sandwich woman, well, I reckon
I’d suit all right, for years I’ve been cut-
ting lunches for my family of 11, so
there’s nothing I don’t know about cak-
ing the butter out, but if I took the job I
would draw the line at grilling the cook.
If you think you’ve got something on her,
like she’s been ratting the till, or copping
a bit on the side from the tradespeople
or something, well why not hand her over
to the dees and let them grill her properly?
But don’t expect the staff to be a lot
of dirty topoffs ; apart from this I’ll be
willing to take the job on. —Yours faith-
fully, (Mrs.) Lotta Boloney, per P.S.C.
•I* 4* 4* 4*
“Exchange large flat, tramline, for small cot-
tage.”—Suburban paper.
Bound to be something wrong with the
tramline.
*4* *l*
“Ulverstone —Widower, aged 75, in good
health, hitherto batching, now requires help,
widow (45-50) preferred, genial disposition,
good' companion. Work easy, quiet home.
Room with two beds available. £8 month.”
—Burnie “Advocate.”
In very good health, we’d say. •
Pacific Policy.
“Every married man should be insured.”
— Advt.
This fits in with an idea I’ve enter-
tained for years. Married men undoubt-
edly should be insured against such things
as lug-biting fathers-in-law, daughters in
their teens, victory gardening, milkmen’s
racing tips, lemon sago, tripe and triplets.
Administration of endowments would
be simplicity itself. Suppose, say, Drooler
has a caustic mother-in-laW and his wife
comes to light with quadruplets. Having
satisfied a panel of assessors of his inflic-
tions, Drooler would receive £5 per week
and free hotel expenses until such time
as his wife’s mother went picking wild-
flowers in the bush and walked over a
precipice and/or the quads attained an
age competent to keep him in beer and
comfort for the remainder of his days.
That example is an open-and-shut case,
of course, but the thousand and one other
difficulties confronting the average mar-
ried man, from the star boarder to the
lounge-haunting Pekinese, would be
assessed and bonuses paid according to
circumstances. , Men more than once
married would be ineligible to participate
on the ground of irresponsibility.
P. M.
“Women, over 45, or Girl, housekeeper,
doctor’s home; no stairs, telephone, or door.”
— “S.M.H.”
The breeze keeps you cool while you’re
climbing up the walls.
•b _ 4*
Heavy Handicaps.
“Italian police in Rome are trying to deal
with a crime wave without sufficient cars,
whistles or socks.” — Cable.
That the execution of their duties
would be seriously affected through lack
of such articles as hock protectors is not
surprising to anyone who knows Italian
policemen.
During my brief stay there the Eternal
City was thrown .into hopeless confusion
because no check-up could be made of
the dogs to see if they were licensed, I
presumed that police matters in Rome
were the same as in my native Australia
—that the checking of dog licenses would
be considered of far greater importance
than the mere apprehending of evildoers
—so I asked a citizen why the police
couldn’t perform this vital function. The
Roman stroked some castor oil out of his
moustache and waved his arms volubly.
“You not-a unnerstan’, $/?” he cried.
“Da poliss-a-man he could not posseb
check up on a da mong.”
“Oh, I remarked. “What’s the trouble
—hydrophobia, hydatids or the high velo-
city of the savage Roman hounds?”
“Not-a them, no,” answered the cit.
“It ess-a da uniform.”
“What do they want before facing the
ferocious Peke?” I inquired. “Galvanised
pants and tunic, pressed steel boots, a
baseball catcher’s face cage and a pair
of boxing gloves?”
“No, no. You not-a da grasp. Not
posseeb check-a da mong without two
gold epaulettes. No have got-a two, only
one.”
Later on the Via Spaghetti I inquired
of a copper arrayed like the pre-war
floor colonel of a super-colossal cinema
house the way to the Palazzo Venezia.
He bent on me a pained look, shrugged
his shoulders and walked away, I sought
elucidation of his strange action from a
passing macaroni ingurgitator.
“Sapristi ! He moosta have forget it! ”
he exclaimed.
“Forget what?” I asked.
“His bona-handled penknife. Poliss-a-
man no can giva da directions without
heem! ”
I was afforded the most striking in-
stance of the inhibitions imposed on the
Roman flatfoot’s activities by sartorial
deficiency when, walking along a dark
street late one night, I was attacked by
a footpad. As I grappled with my assail-
ant 1 saw out of the corner of my eye
a policeman come up, take one swift
glance and move off, singing “Santa
Lucia” in a sweet boy soprano. A few
minutes later, as I lay on my back des-
perately holding my attacker’s right wrist
as his stiletto inched towards my jugular,
another cop came up, glanced swiftly
down and strolled off to the corner,
where he burst into “Questa O Quella.”
Then when I had turned the tables and
was bashing,the footpad’s head on the
pavement yet another policeman came
up. He even ceased playing his mandolin
the better to soak up the situation, after
which he meandered across to the boy-
soprano cop and lustily broke into “0
Sole Mio” in a robust tenor.
Suddenly my assailant gave a mighty
heave, struggled to his feet and, hissing
fierce maledictions, broke into a run. The
three cops, who by this time had got to-
gether and were practising the male part
of the sextet from “Lucia Di Lammer-
moor,” made no attempt to chase the
criminal. Instead, they sauntered over
to where I was painfully picking myself
up.
“Don’t tell me,” I said sarcastically,
“you couldn’t come to my assistance be-
cause your handkerchiefs haven’t got your
initials in the corners.”
One who was apparently the senior cop
stepped forward. “Si, signor,” he said
excitedly. How you make-a da guess
right, no? But, Corpo di Bacc’l Da
Chief-a Poliss he have it seen-a to soon-a.
No need-a for you to worry then, hey!”
80.
The Burning Question.
“In an American public opinion survey,
among six reasons why men marry, love was
placed at the bottom of the list.”
Well, / was always more discreet.
In fact, when she inquired why
I picked my ownest honey-pie
From all the feminine elite
That clustered humbly round my feet.
It was an even bet that I,
With winning unction, would reply:
“ 'Cos Tootsy loved his sugar-beet.”
Now, with the passing of the years,
The case is altered, it appears —
Although the answer might apply
As aptly as it did before,
The question’s framed a little more
Rhetorically, “Why, or why ?”
P. M. LUSK.
Another Story.
“ ‘Happy is the man who withdraws from the
hurly-burly of life and spends his leisure brows-
ing among books,’ says a writer.”
Twice blest is he who chucks up work
And finds himself a nook
Wherein, set free from tasks that irk,
To browse from book to book. -
Aye, books, beneath a man’s own roof,
Present him to the gods.
But woe to him who seeks the truth
’Midst those who call the odds ?
P. O. M. C.
Consolation.
’Twould fill me with admiring wonder
If some volcano I could see
Erupting with terrific thunder
And belching flame inspiringly !
But this I’ll never see, I’m fearing;
So, now I travel round no more,
I must content myself with hearing
The couple in the flat next door.
NAT.


Personal and Missing Friends.
WILL KATIE ELIZABETH NATHAN nee Bonner,
formerly of Stawell and Tongala, Victoria, or any-
one knowing her whereabouts, communicate with
John W. FAIRLIE, Solicitor, 303 Collins Street, Mel-
bourne.
STOPvou* Rupture j
Worries/
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEJj APPLIANCE CO..
(Deot. 27), 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Mark ® LoeaHon.
of YOUR RUPTURE
advt
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN EOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
Ol d Mother Hubbard
advt
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
Obtainable in 10’s & 20’s
in
m
\\
w..
K\\\v
x\
M
i.
\\
y
X\
N\\V
m
&
SS3
555^
f
b\|
%
%
m
V
XX
%
%
K. 0
'X.
%x
%
ss:
3T
\V\\v
FEW store cupboards in Britain are today without their emergency stock of food.
None should be, for total war makes “iron rations” necessary for civilians as
well as for fighting men. Thanks to the great strides in the science of food
conservation, the housewife now enjoys an increasingly wide choice of nourishing
and palatable foods that will keep for long periods. Although she is now using
many home methods (runner beans in salt, eggs in “water-glass” and other chemicals,
and fruit and vegetables either bottled in presence of sulphur dioxide as a
preservative or in vacuum jars) it is on the canning industry that she normally
relies. Canning in its turn relies largely on the chemist and the chemical industry
to maintain its high standards of pure and wholesome food. This involves incessant
research for example, into the acidity of different foodstuffs, special linings for the
containers and how to preserve both the vitamins and the appearance of canned foods.
At home great strides are being made in the drying of vegetables. The necessity of
war has given urgency to food conservation. Chemistry is also showing how, by
dehydration and other methods, our ships can carry to the
British housewife the greatest possible amount of nutriment
in the shape of meat, milk, eggs and vegetables in the smallest
possible bulk. When the story of the war-time feeding of
Britain can be told, the chemist will be found to have no mean
share in the great credit that must go to British farms and the
British merchant navy.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
IL-C33
Cl
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT
w
m
5786
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy kurrajong seeds or plants.—3586.
To buy used Duke of Gloucester stamps. —
3587
To buy Hard Liberty, by Fred Blakeley.—
3588.
To buy Coral and Atolls, by Wood-Jones. —
3589.
Information Sought.
Some facts about kangaroos ?
The kangaroo, which is fully grown at about
four of five years of age, is protected in all
States for certain months of the year. It adapts
itself to most parts of the country, but par-
ticularly the temperate zones. The females
give birth to young annually. For other facts
—and legends—read “Aboriginalities.”
Descriptions of tiger snake and carpet snake?
In general build the tiger snake resembles the
brown snake, differing mainly in having alter-
nate bands of a light and dark shade. The
ground color varies according to environment,
and may be olive brown, light tan or reddish
brown. The tiger snake grows to about 4ft. 6in.
and is highly venomous. The carpet snake is
one of the pythons, a variety of the diamond
snake. Its length is about 12ft. and its body
is variously marked with a dark pattern and
spots of yellowish color. It is from this
irregular pattern that it gets its name.
Is it true that after the black has been bred
out as the result of inter-marriage between a
white and an aborigine there is no chance of
a sudden return to black?
In the case of a full-blooded white and a
full-blooded aborigine “throwbacks” may occur
over long periods, the exact period not being
known, owing to the sorting out and recom-
bination of color genes. A true dark-skinned
child will be produced only if both parents
carry some dark-skin genes. This scientific fact
disposes of the belief that a woman with
hidden aboriginal blood, passing as a white
woman, may unexpectedly bear a coal-black
child to a white father.
Recipe for fruit saline?
Sift together 2oz. bicarb, soda, 2oz. tartaric
acid, 2oz. cream of tartar, 2oz. magnesia
citrate, loz. Epsom salts and ilb. castor sugar.
Roll, crush and sift again. Keep in dry bottles
and use one teaspoon to one glass of water.
Brief Answers!
C.L.: Coin is worth Is.... .W.K.C.: Com-
municate with Mauri Bros, and Thomson, 61
York-street, Sydney RJ.: Your reason is
correct M.G.S.: Cannot trace derivation
M.L.: Livestock is excluded from general de-
claration of goods H.B.E.: Iron pots are
quite suitable for cooking, and if kept clean
will not contaminate food D.K.S.: It is a
matter for the chairman’s discretion, as it is un-
likely that his ruling could be successfully chal-
lenged... .K.B.; Use of initials is optional
M.G.S.; John Charles Thomas is not colored.
L.H.H.: Get in touch with William Adams
and Co., agents for the wagon V.S.: See a
solicitor W.M.: (1) 5s. (2) 3d. (3) 2d.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS, should be addressed to
the Editor.
D.F.: Only cockatoos might be said to “com-
mune” by means of their “crests”... .H. 8.:
To those who rhyme “gang” with “land”’ no
quarter will be given... .G.J.: Your “Nepean”
is Burns’s “Sweet Afton”.... J.E.H.: “B'eauti-
ful Queensland” is like a departmental pam-
phlet put into verse G.D.P.: “Earnestly
believing it shows a daring individuality of
stvle.” Rather, a complete absence of it
W.G.L.: Picture of the “turb’lent” Colo as
“Australia’s Danube” amidst its “green’ry” and
“bow’ry barriers” is somewh’t high-f’lutin’....
L.G.: “We’re growing quite too blase to ques-
tion as to how Should spring on us such odd
things.” Quite L.N.McK.; Why do you
have to say “thou” when talking to a bird?
... .H.E.R.: A glimmer... .T.McC.: Amiable
but pedestrian.... J.W. (Tas.): Call again....
C.F.R.: Tut L.T.: Come in and sing for all
last week’s composers of drought poems, all this
week’s and all who may be meditating the
felony for next week: —
This appeal goes out to statesmen
As a national request
To sponsor irrigation
And erosion so arrest.
P.W.M.: Cheer up P.C.: Promising.
Read some of this century’s poetry C.0’8.:
Unconvincing... .C.L.: Of personal interest
only 8.5.: One glimpse of genuine feeling in
the opening couplet of “Passing of a Pool.”


[
Missing Friends.
TO EDITH BERNA HILL formerly of William Street
West Melbourne Victoria.—TAKE NOTICE that your
husband WALTER LUCAS HILL has instituted pro-
ceedings against you for divorce on the ground
of desertion The petition and affidavit in support
thereof may be inspected at our office Unless you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office of
the Supreme Court in Melbourne on or before the
Fourth Day of April 1945 and file an answer on
or before the Fourteenth day of April 1945 the case
may proceed in your absence. —GRAY & GRAY,
Solicitors, 340 Collins Street, Melbourne, Proctors
for the Petitioner. .
TO JOHN COLLIS BUSSEY formerly of Edward
Street Burwood in the State of Victoria Plasterer
but now of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that
your wife HELEN MAUD FLETCHER BUSSEY of
6 Normanby Place Richmond in the said State Mar-
ried Woman has instituted proceedings against you
for Divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Prothonotary’s Office
Law Courts William Street Melbourne in the said
State on or before the 21st day of April 1945 the
said suit will proceed in your absence and a decree
for dissolution of marriage may be granted and you
may be ordered to pay costs. If you intend to de-
fend this suit you must also file an answer in the
said office on or before the 2nd day of May 1945. —
CLEARY, ROSS & DOHERTY, of 40 Queen Street,
i.„”„,„rne, in the said State, Solicitors for the Peti-
tioner.
m
WsV'
po
G OOV>
e*
V4U99 6 '
_tV»e*e » s
YcO ts
tIW
t»n
yen
beV""
nee
et' e
bu
vo«
OOVO' 0 " 6
KO
Pies*- t
P *^>* UG6 -
, e rve
0«* s „il
««> °"S,oe I*"""
Missing Friends.
TO GERTRUDE NEIL, formerly of 287 Malvern
Road South Yarra in the State of Victoria but new
of parte unknown.— TAKE NOTICE that your husband
GARNET EDWARD NEIL has instituted proceedings
against you in the Supreme Court of Victoria tor
divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Prothonotary s Office o
the Supreme Court of Victoria in Melbourne on or
before the Fourth day of April 1945 and file a
answer in the said Supreme Court on or bef °re the
Fourteenth day of April 191 Si the_case may procee
in your absence.—MOßGAN FYFFE & MULKEARNS
108 Queen Street, Melbourne, Solicitors for the
Petitioner. ' ■ ——p
TO JOYCE IRENE LINTON formerly of 1027 Burke
Road Camberwell in the State of Victoria Ma
ried Woman but now of parts
NOTICE that your husband GEORGE EDWAK
LINTON has instituted proceedings for a divorce
on the ground of desertion UNLESS you enter a
appearance in the Office of the Prothonotary of the
Supreme Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or be-
fore the Fourth day of April 1915 the case Pro-
ceed in your absence If you intend to defend
suit you must also file an answer m said office
on or before the Fourteenth day of April 1915 AJNp
FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that the sealed copy peti-
rion and copy citation in the suit may be inspected
at the office of 'the Petitioner s Solicitor. JOAN
ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street, Melbourne, Sohci
for the Petitioner.
*.t>. all
In the Torricellis
By JOHN BRENNAN.
THE role of the R.A.A.F. Beaufort
bombers in the Aitape sector of
New Guinea is chiefly one of close
support to the Australian troops in
the campaign to clear the Japanese from
the Torricelli ranges. It’s an interesting
job and a specialised one—perhaps the
most satisfying one the R.A.A.F. is
doing anywhere in the Pacific; cer-
tainly it has a tangible result, and the
result is quickly known.
Most of the strikes are on “Army re-
quest.” The planning of the attack is
the task of the liaison officer attached to
each squadron. He takes over the brief-
ing of crews, the detailed instruction as to
what is required. Often enough it is
necessary to lay the bombs within 150
yards of the forward troops. Very often
they are showered with the dust and
debris of the explosions. There are occa-
sions when the bombers blast the enemy
from one end of a tiny, straggling village
while their own troops are already in
occupation of the further end. It is a
policy which has kept army casualties
in the Aitape campaign to an absolute
and almost negligible minimum.
Any strongpoint in the ridges, any
enemy-occupied village is a target foi e
bombers. _ As they circle for the as
time, their bomb% away, their strafing
run completed, troops are already may-
mg through the jungle to occupy the
position. Its a business that calls foi an
exactness of timing and air-to-ground
communication that must be calculated
m seconds. Its a war fought in and over
some of the most difficult flying country,
the worst tangle of ridges, ravines and
jungle, in all the Pacific. ,
Strange is that land across the Torn-
cellis from the coast a succession of
numberless, razorback ridges, winding
east and west, north and south broken
with spurs and outcrops, cut m a fantastic
jig-saw pattern by the tortuous mcred-
ible twists and turns of rivers and moun-
tain streams. It is dark-green and dank
with jungle, flecked with the lighter green
of native gardens, marked with the raw,
grey gashes of landslides and yellowing
stretches of kunai and with a profusion
of tiny villages perched on the ridge tops,
their brown, leaf huts with the long ridge
pole touching the earth at one end like
so many dead, discarded tusks of mam-
moths thrown across the land. And day
after day a thick, grey cloud of fog and
mist hangs heavily to hide the mountain
°When the cloud is down the Beauforts
need to find a way through passes across
the range. It’s ticklish flying, possible
only for men who, after months of ex-
perience, know the country intimately.
They, lead up the river valleys, flying low
down between the mountains which rise
steeply on either hand. They bank and
twist in right-angled turns, lifting a wing
to pass it over a giant tree that pushes
above the roof of the jungle, climbing
suddenly and steeply to cross an out-thrust
ridge, swooping down beyond it like a
roller-coaster. A wrong turn where the
valley leads to a blind end would crush
the ’planes between the hills,
Beyond the range the problem is one
of map-reading in an area where one ridge
j s a hundred others, each village like
h a jf a hundred more. There are natives
working in their gardens, waving ex-
citedly ; there is no sign of Japanese or
Australian, neither smoke of fires nor
movement beneath the jungle,
-poDAY the bombing is wanted on
| My i ab v iii age . It’s one of three on a
ser j es 0 f ridges just ahead and north and
west Q f it) one on j y two hundred yards
away> Somewhere at the foot of the gorge
are wo Australian detachments. The
flight i eader calls to his ground contact,
and voice comes over the inter-com;
“Two minutes to target; two minutes to
target indicate now.”
At one end of the village in the centre
wbere j t scram bles for a footing on the
nose 0 f the ridge there is a sudden blos-
soming 0 f white phosphorous smoke from
a mor t ar shell, and already as the smoke
begins to r j se the leading ’plane is dipping
j n^o a j ong> straight glide, its bomb-bay
doors G p en The ’plane bumps a little as
thg bombs are released . A s it pulls out
and away there is the flash of the bombs
among jhe huts on the crest of the ridge,
and tbe w hite mortar smoke is obscured
w ith the smoke and dust of the explo-
sjons Already some of the huts are
ab j aze f rom the incendiaries. One be-
bjnd the other the ’planes glide in on
tbe j r bomb run, then swing to circle
widd behind the leader . As t he fourth
. lane comes out there is the bright ex-
pj os j on t hat means a fuel dump has been
bd
‘ , . u no
When the last has dropped its bomb
seven of the huts are burning, six m
ha ve disappeared under the high xgo-
slvf * J he P lanes circle the ridge, turret
aad side-gunners strafing the village with
tra cers heir machine-guns. There is
minutes time before t
fhe target. They mak P nn
c ' rcdes : The fires are spreading. Then,
f““ase \and tolhe
S™“ nd c ° nta ? “ Detail com P kted - Leav '
m S tor base * . _ .
4 The _ co J? e^ ,
Roge !'- Thanks. Good show. W
B °’'X in , nOW ‘ , , , „
‘ Thanks. Good luck,
“Thanks.”
The fires are burning briskly. The tops
of some of the palm-trees around the
village are alight. There is not yet a sign
of the enemy or of the Australian forces
moving in through the jungle.
The Beauforts find a path back through
the mountains. Two hours later the mes-
sage comes back to the base: “Mylak
village has been occupied by our forces.”
The Beauforts will no longer go to
Mylak.
* * * *
T"' ACTICAL reconnaissance for Aus-
-1 tralian units pushing through the
foothills of the Torricellis has been
handed over to a squadron of R.A.A.F.
Boomerangs. Their part is very much
that of the forward scout in the reporting
of enemy movements and concentrations.
“Beach crawling” and combing the bot-
toms of the gorges searching for signs
of the Japs is a fascinating business,
duplicated nowhere else in the Pacific.
The Boomerangs are never more than
fifty feet above the trees. For the greater
part of the time they’re below the treetop
level, peering beneath them. Every pilot
must have had at least 500 hours flying
time before taking on the job: the
primary qualification, because it is rea-
soned that then he can fly the ’plane
instinctively and concentrate his attention
op the search.
In the broken mountain country of the
Torricellis some of their achievements
have been fantastic. Boomerangs have
flown a few feet above the river beds in
narrow gorges two thousand feet below
the level of the hills, the,’planes banked
on their sides to clear the trees, while
the pilots examine footprints in the sand
and mud to determine whether the people
who passed that way were bare-footed
natives or an enemy party. They’ve
needed to climb on their tails, to turn
backwards in a loop to get from out the
valleys. They have returned with pieces
of wingtip torn away by the trees. They’ve
followed jungle paths winding for miles
along the ridges, always just a few feet
above the trees. They’ve come down to
look in the open ends of the strange horn-
like huts to see who occupied them.
A pilot spotted a table covered with a
green tablecloth in one of the huts. He
was prepared to wager that there were
two tins of milk set on it. Another saw a
Japanese with a white shirt sitting per-
fectly still in a hut as he flew by. He
came back on a swing run and shot the
Jap with a burst of machine-gun fire.
The Boomerang pilots have brought
back surprisingly valuable information as
to habits and new tricks of the Japanese
in the area. They reported that a few
new fuel drums were hidden in dumps
already destroyed by bombing. They’ve
inspected installations and dugouts to
find the best methods of attacking them.
In very many cases they have been
fired on from above by Japs in positions
on the hillsides. Their losses have been
surprisingly low, and they’d rather fly
reconnaissance than any of the other jobs
they’ve been offered in those parts.
Various Verse
Boy Reading Gulliver.
While his old ayah gossiped and betrayed
Her sacred trust, the Major’s child
Into the compound, all unkempt and wild,
Has idly strayed in the crowning heat of day,
And, weary with play,
In the great banyan’s shadow cool and deep
Has dropped asleep
On the dusty ground.
And now the erring boy,
Waking, has found
Something new and fresh,
A strange and fascinating toy—
The serpent, wrapped about his arm,
So smooth, supple and sleek,
Its head against his chin,
Pressing closely to the warm
And tender flesh;
The cobra, instrument of death,
With subtly patterned skin
And gently heaving’ breath,
A toy, but alive, with eye gleaming,
All calm and harmless seeming.
He fondles, he strokes
The shinging scales, with tiny finger pokes
Each spot, and line, and band,
Mottle and streak,
In his teasing mood,
And lays his innocent hand
Upon the fearful hood.
Now comes upon the scene
The household, breathless and excited,
Horror-struck, affrighted;
Fearfully they gaze,
Statue- or image-like
Standing in shocked amaze,
And none dares intervene
Lest the accursed fang should strike
And fill the infant’s veins
With deathly burning pains.
And now, while they stand frozen fast,
Turned to cofd stone —
In one smooth movement flowing,
Without haste, without sound
Of his going,
Like pain from out a wound
Or mist before the sun flying—
Lo, he was there, he is gone.
But while they laugh and weep,
With spirits tempest-tossed
On emotions deep,
The little boy is crying
For his playmate lost.
Thus the boy will read
The enthralling tale
With thrills that never fail,
Of the inch-high men
The high-as-a-steeple,
And the horse-people,
And find it all true and good;
And he will never heed
The inward sense, unimaginable,
Nor ever know in what peril then
His spirit stood
From the Dean’s dark fable.
MX.
ARNOLD WALL.
Nobody.
Nobody here and nobody there,
Nobody sitting with a book in the chair,
Nobody in upstairs, she said.
Nobody there whenever I look
For a man who sits with his nose in a book
Is quarter alive and three parts dead
And he’s just as good as nobody.
Nobody smoking and nobody breathing,
Nobody sitting where the smoke is wreathing,
Nobody’s body and nobody’s head.
I might as well have been made of air
For there’s nobody here if there’s nobody theie
And a man with his nose in a book, she said,
Is just as good as nobody.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Appointment Books for All Professions.
Covers i-hour periods every day for Over One
Year’s Appointments. Size Min. x 12in.
Strongly Bound. Ledger Paper,
Price 12/6 post and tax free.
Don’t delay, post today and Save Office Worry
WILLIAMS & WILLIAMS (Dept. B),
147 Liverpool Road, Bunvood, N.S.W.
MANSE ASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’t
everyday wear.
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drurnmoyne, N.S.W,
AKUBRA
kccljS-
TWTANUFACTURED in Australia from
Pure Fur Felt, every AKUBRA Hat
is made to retain its smart shape and
colour throughout its long, all-weather
life. . * . Although not so plentiful
as in pre-war days, these popular Hats
are still obtainable, and discrimin-
ating men always select an AKUBRA.,
I
v y a n x v
1 S 3 a a n 0 A
7h Metfaurffowb
Is CANE-HE lined
FOR COMFORT. AND QUIET!
IK
n
5^
r
W
HHv
IM
'ft
“'I
Cane-ite Insulating Board is quickly
and easily fixed. Rooms lined with
Cane-ite are effectively insulated
against heat, cold, and noise, and walls
and ceilings can be attractively grooved
or panelled and finished in any colour
to suit your furnishing scheme.
A C. S. R. PRODUCT
BUILDS •
DECORATES •
INSULATES
ABSORBS SOUND
Manufactured by
THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD. Building Materials Division
MARKETING; CANE • I T E . . . SLASWOOI
PIASTER PRODUCTS . . . ASBESTOS FIBRE
CA 05-44
THE SECRET
By JAMES HACKSTON.
THERE was no activity about the
place ; nothing was being done. The
long-handled shovel stood deserted
—where Father had left it.
He had gone to clean the dam out and
had suddenly, for no apparent reason,
walked slowly and thoughtfully to the
shed and sat staring ahead of him.
The peculiar thing about this was that
he did not sit in the shed for just a while,
as a man does when he suddenly feels
off color or has had a touch of the sun,
but sat there the whole day; and,
stranger still, sat there the next day, too,
and the day after, and the day after that
—for the best part of a week.
With the exception of stray wisps of
gentle smoke that climbed lazily up from
our chimney when Mother lit the fire
to cook, or the slight movement of one
of her tea-towels drying on the line, all
endeavor, effort and industry had ceased.
And this inanimation was intensified
by the many things about our home that
were clamoring for attention. The shed
was leaning dangerously and its bark
roof slipping. Our corrugated-iron tank
was tilted over. The woodheap was
down. Mother’s fowlhouse was useless
—the palings had gone; and there were
other things that spelt neglect. And in
the midst of all this there was Father,
sitting motionless in the shed, as if he
had been carved out of stone.
It was hard to make out what had
come over him, or what was the matter
with him.
He even ate his meals in a half-hearted
manner, and when at table seemed as if
in a trance, looking at us vacantly, and
through us, and when spoken to would
hardly reply; and when he did his voice
was colorless, far off, and devoid of ail
interest. Sometimes he would make no
reply at all. Then, when he’d finished
his meal he’d get up very 'slowly from
the table, as if something were weighing
him down, and, with head down and
brows furrowed, go back to his strange,
silent, vigil in the shed.
Never in the creation of cats has a
man been so listless ; not stirring him-
self one jot; sitting on his bottom all
day long, as Mother said, as if there were
not one single thing in the whole wide
world for-him to do. Had he complained
of feeling ill we would have understood.
But he was not ill; he said so ; distantly,
vacantly, disinterestedly.
I figured it out that he was staring at
the top of the old gum-tree opposite;
but that wasn’t so, for when the men
started burning off opposite and the heavy
clouds of smoke hid the tree for a while,
he still sat staring at where there was
now no top of the old gum-tree to stare
at. Then another time I thought that,
maybe, he was looking at a little cloud
that hung solitary in the wide blue ; but
when the little cloud disintegrated and
then disappeared he still sat looking at
the spot where the cloud had been and
where there was nothing to see but the
wide blue.
Next I reckoned that he was not look-
ing at the wide sue either, but through
it.
When I’d take a cup of tea out to him
he’d reach out his hand in a dazed sort
of way without seeing me, and, like an
automaton, start drinking, still looking
bang through the same patch of wide
blue. He was just as still in the house ;
sat of an evening with his arms folded
across his stomach, the only movement
coming from him being the gentle rising
and falling of his arms with the rising
and falling of his stomach as he stared
into the fireplace —and beyond.
Sometimes he’d surprise us by becom-
ing almost energetic enough to breathe
industriously, and once or twice he even
discovered enough energy actually to
blink his eyes a couple of times. But
apart from these spasmodic bursts of
violent energy he might have been a
statue.
Sometimes out in the shed he’d change
his pose.
Instead of staring through the sky he d
transfer the stare to his feet, with arms
folded behind him instead of keeping
company the undulations of his stomach ;
and in the middle of one of these new
poses I distinctly heard him mutter:
“Yes, I’ll do it.”
Mother wondered if the statement was
in relation to the dam.
Then, instead of sitting with his arms
behind his back, he wore his hands on
top of his head, fingers interlaced, as if
something were pressing on his brain, or
his brain pressing on something. After
this hands-on-top-of-head session he
brought the hands to the front, but not
to his stomach ; they were held in mid-
air with the palms pressed sanguinely to-
gether, firmly, but not energetically ; and
with them held in that position his eyes
left his feet and returned to their old
quarters behind the empty sky.
Also he changed his expression.
Instead of the dazed, trance-like stare,
it was almost triumphant. With this
change I again heard him mutter to him-
self that he would do it; but whereas in
the past he had said only that he would
do it, this time he said he would do it
soon.
Mother said that she hoped so—before
the rain came.
I NOW saw that, in the evening, in the
I static atmosphere of our home, in-
stead of staring into the fireplace, he had
transferred his hypnotic gaze to the roof
overhead, and an enigmatic smirk had
come over his features:
All these separate changes and move-
ments were carried out with a minimum
of movement, without a trace of action,
energy or motion. With the exception
of the hustling, bustling time when he
had breathed industriously and blinked
energetically, not once had he stirred him-
self or roused himself from his self-
appointed stupor.
When two slabs of bark slipped
desperately off the shed roof and slithered
to the ground leaving a window of blue
where they had long been waiting for a
nail or two. Father did not take the hint
that Providence must have given him,
but took advantage of what had hap-
pened by looking at the sky through the
aperture above instead of looking at it
through the side of the shed as he had
been.
This change seemed more convenient
for him, too, for he leaned back with his
head resting on one of the uprights and
studied the blue above him with almost
as much comfort as if he were reclining
on a couch. So set was he in this new
position that when I trundled the old
wheelbarrow past the shed to get some
wood he did not even hear the wheel-
barrow, which was so skew-wheeled and
loose-jointed that when in motion it
rumbled and jolted like an empty goods
train.
We were just becoming acclimatised
to Father, passing him as we would the
furniture in the house, or the buggy in
the shed, when one quiet evening he
thawed enough to make us believe that
he was coming out of his period of hiber-
nation, for suddenly he worked up enough
energy to blow his chest out —slowly, not
busily—and say; “I’ve done it” instead
of “I’ll do it.”
He then settled down again to his old
statuesque pose. Mother now said that
she must have been wrong—he hadn’t
been referring to the dam after all.
Father was now so still that the busy
ticking of our industrious little clock
seemed almost out of place. Motionless,
he might have been a portrait in a frame;
a figure in a waxworks.
But an effortless change had come
over him ; he now began to wear a catis-
fied look, a proud look ; and, without
turning a hair, or moving one muscle of
his whole being, he again repeated that
he had done it, and gazed majestically
and nobly ahead, as if at some distant
peak.
With his eyes still glued to these
empyrean heights, he chanted that it had
been a hard job ; a very hard job ; an
arduous job, but that he had at last dis-
covered the secret. Then he sighed con-
tentedly.
Then Mother asked wonderingly:]
“The secret of what?”
“Why,” said the statue imperiously,
“the secret of perpetual motion, of
course! ”


m
It is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com*
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 66 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and complete continuity of
service. Charges are fixed and moderate.
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserve*, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Readings K.C.M.G.j Sir Lennon Raw*, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sit Alan Newton. M.S., Metb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS*
Sit Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
f.S.W. Manager* J. W. Rutiell French.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
SOME NEW BOOKS . . . .
THE POCKET HISTORY OF THE UNITED
STATES. A narrative history of the Ameri-
can people, by the world-famous Historians,
Allan Nevins and Henry Steele Commager.
512 pages. 2/9 (post 3d.).
LUCKY DEAN. REMINISCENCES Ol* A
PRESS PHOTOGRAPHER. By B. J. Dean.
Illustrated. 15/3 (post 4d.).
THE WINDMILL,. A selection of entertaining
Essays, Papers, Stories and Verses by
various writers. Edited by Moore and Lane.
Paper cover. 7/3 (post 3d.).
JESTERS IN EARNEST. Clever cartoons by
Czechoslovak artists, in colour and black
and white, with a preface by Low. 12/6
(post 6d.).
THE RUSSIAN ARMY. Its leaders, methods
and triumphs, by W. Kerr. 6/- (post 3d.).
FREUD AND HIS DREAM THEORIES, by
J. Jastrow. 7/6 (post 5d.).
MODERN POLITICAL PHILOSOPHIES AND
WHAT THEY MEAN. Communism, Christ-
ian Socialism, Marxism, Democracy, Co-
operative Movement, etc., by L. Wasserman.
7/6 (post 4d.).
ALLENBY IN EGYPT. Being Volume 2 of
Allenby: “A Study in Greatness,” by Field-
Marshal Viscount Wavell. 10/6 (post 5d.).
ARTIST IN lOWA. A life of Grant Wood,
American artist, by Darrell Garwood. Illus-
trated. 27/6 (post 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD.
MANAGEMENT AND MEN. A study of the
theory and. plan of joint consultation at all
levels. A comprehensive plan, by J.
Walpole. 13/- (post 4d.).
FUEL. EMPLOYMENT IN A FREE SOCIETY.
A summary by Sir William Beveridge.
Paper cover. lOd. (post Id.).
FORESTS OF PAN. Selected Poems of Hugo
McCrae. Paper cover. 4/6 (post 3d.).
THE POET’S EYE. Anthology of prose and
verse selected by J. Grigson. With 16 litno
graphs. 15/3 (post 6d.).
WHO DIBS FIGHTING? Malaya and Singa-
pore, by Angus Rose. 13/9 (post 4dd.
THE HOME BOOK OF PARTY GAMES, h
J. S. Myer. 7/6 (post 5d.).
IVOR BROWN’S BOOK OF WORDS. Com-
prising a Word in Your Ear and Just ad
other Word. 13/- (Post 4d.). _ ftTnNEl
THE INTIMATE PAPERS OF CO LONE
BOGUS. By Michael Barsley. C °P lO “ '
and curiously illustrated by the Autho
SOCIAE >(> IN SURANCB, includinglndustmj
Injury Insurance. Brief gume t
British Government’s plan. Paper
INVISIBLE ANATOMY. A of Nerves
and Hysteria, by E. Graham Ho .
(post 4d.).
, 89 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
British Tobacco Co. (Australia), Ltd.
, — 1 Dividends ~ Nominal
Pref. Re—
Oct., Profit. 6 J p.c. Ordinary. serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 585,850 96,507 6 p.c. = 488,068 33,396
1935.. 585,950 96,507 6 „ „ 488,068 34,771
1936.. 667,761 96,507 7 „ ~ 569,412 36,613
Special div. subsidiaries, £307,170 .. 343,783
Cash bonus (3J p.c.), £305,042 .. 38,741
1937 .. 911,386 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 40,174
1938.. 911,479 96,507 10 „ „ 813,446 41,700
British Tobacco and Subsidiaries,
1939.. 915,951 96,507 10 p.c. = 813,446 1,200,708
Unexplained addition, £126,960 .. 1,327,668
1940.. 990,140 101,401 10 p.c. = 862,944 1,353,463
Unexplained addition, £ll2l .. 1,354,584
1941.. 978,088 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,378,009
Unexplained addition, £lOO7 .. .. 1,379,016
1942.. 983,187 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,407,541
Unexplained addition, £16,112 .. 1,423,653
1943.. 981,427 111,188 9 p.c. = 843,474 1,450,418
Unexplained addition, £9902 ■ ..1,460,320
1944.. 961,910 111,188 9 p.c. = 848,474 1,467,568
* After deducting outsiders’ equity in profits and
reserves.
This big and efficient industrial orga-
nisation, which enjoys a commanding
position in the Australian tobacco trade,
is a handsome contributor to the public
Treasury. It hands the Government
more than £20,000,000 a year in import
and excise duties alone (amount of the
tax bill isn’t disclosed), the pay-sheet, on
which there are approximately 6000
names, tots up to over £1,500,000 p.a., and
ownership of the business is widespread.
The holding co.’s £11,082,521 of capital,
of which £1,710,588 carries a cumulative
6\- p.c., is held by 11,490 shareholders,
including investment cos., trustees, etc.
Apart from these corporate and trustee*
interests, the average holding is only 386
shares. The operating subsidiaries are
W. D. and H. O. Wills, British Australian
Tobacco, States Tobacco Co., Carreras
and S. T. Leigh and Co. The lastnamed
makes and prints the cartons in which the
cigarettes and tobacco manufactured by
the other four are packed and sold.
War brought a crop of problems, in-
cluding civilian rationing, price-fixing.
rises in the price of imported and local
leaf and lifts in the tariff, excise and
taxation, together with difficulties created
by bureaucratic controls and shortage of
skilled labor. Though the outturn of
cigarettes and tobacco is now greater than
ever, demand still runs ahead of produc-
tion, which has lately been retarded by
shortage of labor. To meet heavy service
requirements and releases to Red Cross,
Comforts Fund and special classes of
workers a basic cut was made of 25 p.c.
of 1940 supplies to civilian retailers. Dis-
tribution to retailers is supervised by
State committees, and fluctuates from
month to month, the retailer being left
to his own devices to regulate sales to the
public.
For a while the price-ceiling stood in
the way of passing on lifts in the tariff,
excise and price of American leaf. After
long delay the Government brought down
legislation in April, 1944, providing for
rebate of tobacco duties, etc. This has
given rise to difficulties and inequities
not foreseen at the time; so the co. has
put forward alternative proposals, which
the Government is now considering. The
prospective shortage of leaf that loomed
up a year or so ago has been abated by
delivery of 1943 American crop allot-
ments and by allocation in America of
the cos’, requirements from the 1944 crop.
So, subject to shipping space becoming
available, the immediate outlook for
stocks is “satisfactory.” End of war in
Europe will greatly increase demand for
American leaf. However, expansion of
suitable growing areas in U.S.A. is ex-
pected to largely solve the problem. Aus-
tralian production of suitable-grade leaf
is short of requirements, and there are
many economic difficulties in the way of
stepping-up the said production.
All increases in the retail price of
tobacco since the outbreak of war have
been on account of Government imposts.
All other increases in cost of produc-
tion have had to be absorbed by manu-
facturers within the business. The Gov-
ernment takes 6|d. of the lOd. at which a
popular brand of cigarettes now sells
retail, and Is. 9d. of the 2s. the
public pays for a 2oz. packet of a popu-
lar brand of tobacco. That leaves the
manufacturer and Is. lid. respec-
tively to cover cost of leaf and other raw
materials, manufacture, distribution, tax-
ation and other overhead, as well as
wholesalers’ and retailers’ profit margins.
After allowing £80,652 (down £37,319)
for depreciation and deducting outside
shareholders’ interests, last year’s net
earnings of the group (£961,910, down
£19,517) were sufficient to pay the holding
co.’s pref. div. and show 9.1 p.c. on its
£9,371,933 of ord. and B capital. The
div. was kept at 9 p.c. The profit ex-
cludes £9902 dropped from somewhere
into reserves, which are labelled nominal
because they are subject to £3,969,610 of
intangibles. In addition there are reserves
of £2,529,962 against freehold and plant
in at £2,941,319 (cost).
Here are consolidated balance-sheet
figures for the group:
1939. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £9,619,186 £11,082,521 £11,082,521
Outside shares* 18,854 89,022 90,457
Deprec. reserve.. 1,985,489 2,469,655 2,529,962
Creditorsf . . 621,631 2,313,209 1,985,091
Freeholds . . 1,138,241 1,263,451 1,264,272
Plant, etc. .. 1,470,620 1,668,245 1,677,047
Stock 6,625,660 7,523,314 8,472,866
Debtors . . 1,246,264 1,264,041 1,202,516
Investments . . 309,922 1,099,942 363,077
Cash . . ..• 124,557 709,941 299,930
Goodwill, etc. . . 2,693,293 3,969,610 3,969,610
* Including proportion reserves, f Including tax
provision, etc.
Last year’s net addition of £949,552 to
stock reflects delivery of leaf and pay-
ment of duties already referred to. To
meet the outlay and lop £328,118 off the
amount coming to creditors the board
drew upon investments and cash for
£1,146,876 and reduced debtors’ balances
by £61,525. The year’s improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£8,353,298)
was £69,269.
Myer Emporium (S.A.), Ltd.
, —• Dividends s
Pref. To Re- Re-
July, Profit. 7 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1934.. 53,123 27,790 6 p.c. = 18,000 7,333 68,265
Bad debts reserve taken in, £7500 .. 75,765
1935.. 67,105 27,790 7 p.c. = 21.000 18,315 94,080
1936.. 78,228 27,790 8 „ „ 24,000 26,438120,518
1937.. 88,019 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 33,229153,747
1938.. 97,056 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 42,266196,013
1939.. 94,007 27,790 9 „ „ 27,000 39,217235,230
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. ..215,230
1940.. 94,779 27,790 9 p.c. = 27,000 39,989 255,219
Written off buildings, £20,000 .. ..235,219
1941.. 49,459 27,790 9 p.c. = 27,000 229,888
1942.. 58,571 27,790 71 ~ „ 22,500 8,281 238,169
1943.. 55,429 27,790 71 „ „ 22,500 5,139 243,308
1944.. 57,190 27,790 71 „ „ 22,500 6,900 250,208
To staff fund, £3OOO .. .. .. 247,208
This is Adelaide’s biggest department
store, in which Myer Emporium (Mel-
bourne) bought the ords., and with them
control, from the Marshalls in 1928.
Trading policy is moulded on lines simi-
lar to the parent’s, and the two stores are
fed from their own buying office in Lon-
don, a string of locally controlled work-
rooms and factories, including the Myer
Woollen Mills (Ballarat), as well as from
the wide field of Australia’s growing
secondary industries. The woollen mills,
to which modern worsted-spinning plant
was added a couple of years ago, have
been a tower of strength to the organisa-
tion. Although still engaged largely on
defence work, they have been very help-
ful, together with the co.’s other internal
supply lines, in providing substitutes for
goods in short supply and in stepping up
output of essentials. And this at a time
when imports have been practically cut
off owing to shipping and other difficul-
ties.
Owing to limitations of rationing and
other controls imposed to meet war
needs, the difficulty during the last few
years has been to get rather than sell
goods. Some lines have become unpro-
curable, many others are in short supply,
delivery is irregular, owing to transport
difficulties, quality has deteriorated and
prices have risen. The Government stabi-
lisation scheme, including the price-ceil-
ing, has had a steadying effect; but con-
trols have stifled free competition, and
development of new lines of merchandise
and service, the keynote of successful re-
tailing, has been severely curtailed. And
so has expenditure on maintenance, im-
provements, advertising and other good-
will items.
Last term the co.’s turnover shrank a
fraction, owing to shortage of imported
goods, stocks of which became exhausted.
Still, the contraction in gross earnings
was more than offset by savings in exes.,
despite the upward trends of cost gener-
ally. After setting aside something for
taxation and depreciation, the board
figured the net result £1761 better than
the previous year’s at £57,190. That was
enough to give the prefs. their 7 p.c, and
show 9.8 p.c. on the £300,000 of ord.
capital as against 9.2, 10.2, 7.2, 22, 22, 23
and 20 p.c. back to 1937. The div. was
kept at 1\ p.c., and £3OOO was sent to
the staff fund. The £3900 visibly put on
the shelf lifted reserves to £247,208.
Here is the business looked at from
another angle:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Capital .. £697,000 £697,000 £697,000 £697,000
Liabilities' . . 182,921 394,497 353,832 333,423
Tax reserve . . 30,000 98,000
Freeholds, etc. 591,892 506,573 398,373 337,501
Plant, etc. . . 79,450 47,894 35,435 32,214
Stocks . . 846,950 705,024 766,603 693,240
Book debts . . 129,255 138,966 30,617 44,900
Cash .. . . 26,497 49,822 90,507 200,165
Over the last five years £254,391 more was
written off than was spent on fixed assets
(down £64,093 last term), stocks (down
£73,337) are about double the 1939
figure, and cash (up £109,658) has been
strengthened by £173,668 net over the
same period. When the books closed
more or less liquids exceeded the amount
coming to outsiders (it includes provision
for taxation) by £604,888, an improve-
ment of £70,993 for the twelvemonth.
As for the future, chief danger lies in
possibility of the co. being caught with
heavy stocks of unsuitable goods, which
would have to be sold at cut prices. It
seems unlikely, however, that traders will
be immersed in the flood of peace-time
problems and activities with the same
suddenness as after World War I. Ap*
pearances are that it will take some time
for industry to get back into full swing
with an adequate flow of suitable sup-
plies. Much will depend upon how the
Government handles its plan for relax-
ing and lifting controls. On the proper
tempo and sequence of this will de-
pend the smoothness, or otherwise, of
the transition from war to peace condi-
tions. The villain of the piece may
be undue delay or undue haste,
or both. C)ne thing that needs to be kept
in mind is that post-war rehabilitation is
not exclusively a Government function.
It is of vital concern to every business
in the land.
Hydraulic Power and Lifts (Syd.)
To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 8,559 7 p.c. = 8400 159 58,532
1935.. 7,920 6i „ „ 78 00 12 0 58,652
1936.. 7,855 6| „ „ 7800 55 68,707
1937. . 7,459 6 „ „ 72 0 0 259 58,966
1938.. 8,135 7 „ „ 84 00 58,701
1939.. 7,652 6| ~ „ 7800 58,553
1940.. 8,765 7 „ „ 8400 365 58,918
Removal exes., £Bl7 .. .. .. 58,101
1941.. 7,925 6 p.c. = 7200 725 58,826
Removal exes, written off, £ 600 .. 59,426
1942.. 6,439 6 p.c. = 7200 58,665
1943.. 7,778 6 „ „ 7200 578 59,243
1944.. 7,667 6 „ „ 7200 467 69,710
Nothing startling has ever come the way
of those on this Sydney co.’s register.
Still, they have never failed to receive a
div. over the last 40 years, the highest
being 10 p.c., the lowest 3 p.c. and the
average a shade over 7 p.c., which isn’t
bad. And ramifications were strength-
ened by acquisition of Major, Coates and
Stevens business and the Commonwealth
agency for express lifts of London, which
placed the co. in a position to supply the
latest types of high-speed electric lifts
and moving stairways.
The best returns have been won when
building activity in the city has been at
its peak. During less active periods lift-
maintenance and repair work have kept
the pot boiling. Consider these figures:
Ex- Ex-
Revenue. penses. Revenue, penses.
1932.. £39,025 £32,083 1940. . £86,358 £77,593
1934.. 46,261 37,702 1941.. 69,102 62,177
1936.. 88,507 80,652 1942.. 75,397 68,958
1938.. 105,577 97,442 1943.. 78,910 71,132
1939.. 83,223 75,572 1944..
Gross earnings, which fell to £32,025 in
the doldrums of the early 1930’5, climbed


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO TIMOTHY McENERY late of Oanley Yale near
Sydney in the State of New South Wales. —TAKE
NOTICE that JEANETTE GRACE McENERY has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4496 of 1944 on
the ground of desertion without just cause for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry Supreme
Court King Street Sydney by the second day of April
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from JACK THOM Solicitor 350 George
Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862.
DIRECTORS:
E R Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst Gen. Manager.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys.
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Aovi.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
, V"/
m
g
9
sss
i
a
# ■:
tow.
■yy<-y&-
M
. ■
w:
IfS
iiiilii
.
ms
M
ifS
%
i . S: :
- . ;, A :\ ”> ..
i
ii
SSSSfS
m
311
4- %-S
immm m m
m
wm
m
m
mm
m
m
mmt
m
m
*
* V < r*r
SSSI
I 111
; > MVI
li
a*
Help Your District Fill its
Victory Loan Quotas
Every town and municipality has Victory
Loan quotas and every district has a chance
to win one of the honour pennants
awarded for filling quotas in the Third
Victory Loan.
So help your friends and neighbours put
your town out in front. Buy as many
Bonds as you can for cash and then buy
more by instalments. £5 down and £5 a
month buys a £5O Bond.
When you apply for your Bonds write the
name of your district on the form you
sign.
FACTS ABOUT THE
THIRD VICTORY LOAN
1. All you lend will be used only for War.
Bonds for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO, and £l,OOO
may be purchased for cash or by instalments
through any Bank, Savings Bank, Money
Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
2. Interest is paid each six months, at I\% for
five years, or 3i% for 16 years. Repayment
In full at maturity is guaranteed by the
Commonwealth. Your Bonds are readily
saleable to meet an emergency.
3. You lend, not give, your money to speed
Victory. On your application form, credit
your subscription to your district to help its
quota.
NO ONE ELSE CAN DO YOUR SHARE
YOUR MONEY IS NEEDED IN
THE THIRD {VICTORY LOAN
3V2.83
FACING A PORK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the \Ventworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and bustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely "'round the comer
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
. . . the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan. Managing Director
YOU CAN STOP
THAT BACKACHE
But You Must First HELP YOUR KIDNEYS
to Flush Out Acid Poisons <
Recognise backache as a signal that therS
la something wrong with your kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubed
land filters. Every three minutes all the blood
In your body passes through these tubes to ba
filtered of waste matter and acid poisons,
(Unless your kidneys remove about 500 grains
of dangerous impurities, these tubes become
(clogged, causing backache, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
Swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
feyes, headaches, rheumatic pains and dizzi-
faess. Frequent or scanty passages with
Smarting and burning also show there is
Something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t delay and don’t experiment. Go to
chemist or store for DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS. Use them faithfully
and give your kidneys the help they need
before It is too late. Millions of users the
world over have had quick, satisfying relief.
Do as your neighbour does—take DOAN'S
BACKACHE KUWEY PILLS to-day.
to £105,577 in 1938, and then fell sharply
to £69,102 in 1941, following war-time
restrictions on building, improvements,
alterations, etc. Conditions have im-
proved a little since, and all through a
tight hold has been kept upon exes., en-
abling a steady 6 p.c. div. to be paid
over the last four years, despite the frac-
tious behavior of costs and taxation.
Revenue and expenditure figures
weren’t broadcast last term. But an extra
£1752 was set aside for depreciation
(£3931), and the board figured net earn-
ings £lll lighter at £7667. There has
never been much to spare. Net addition
to reserves over the last 20 years amounts
to no more than £7659. Renewals are
charged against each year’s earnings, and
fixed assets are reported in a high state
of efficiency, which means much in this
class of business.
The co.’s funds are mostly tied up in
hydraulic mains and lifts;
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Capital . . £120,000 £120,000 £120,000 £120,000
Liabilities . . 18,923 22,816 21,928 15,878
Mains & plant 134,880 132,891 131,160 127,375
Freeholds . . 35,231 39,397 39,397 39,397
Leaseholds . . 1,149 500 500 500
Stock.. .. 17,061 18,011 20,125 19,042
Debtors . . 12,734 13,661 12,979 12,253
Cash, etc. . . 20 620 620 620
When the books last closed more or less
liquids (including stocks) exceeded the
amount coming to outsiders by £16,037,
an improvement of £4241 over the twelve-
month, thanks largely to the allowance
for depreciation.
Maude and Yellow Girl, Glen Willis
(Vic.), has obtained Treasury sanction for
issue of 30,000 new £1 shares to be called
to 13s. 4d. each. These are to be offered
to those on the register, 3 for 10, pay-
able 2s. application and allotment and
the balance as required. Transfer books
close March 13. The money is wanted
to finance a limited programme of plant-
extension and shaft-sinking in accordance
with recommendations made by J. C.
Coldham. A feature of the mine is that
the proportion of pay-ore to length of
reef varies from 41 p.c. at No. 5 level to
60 p.c. at No. 8 level. Ore-shoots are
said to continue along the line of strike
for some 20,000 ft., but are irregular in
size and distribution, and the reef is
faulted. There is probably 3ft. of un-
tested load for every foot now being
worked. Alterations in treatment methods,
including production of a concentrate for
smelting, were recommended in order to
increase recoveries. Last term the co.
netted £lOOB (down £12,245) from 10,167
tons (down 523 tons) ore, averaging
7.2dwt. (down I.7dwt). That was with
the mill working at about half capacity
and after spending an extra £3869 on
development. Reserves of pay-ore were
put at 72,485 tons. There are 90,000 £1
shares now issued and called to 13s. 4d.
each.
* * * *
Discovery of wolfram-bearing veins on
a small field some two miles square and
20 miles nor’-nor’-east of Mt. Coolon
(Q.). has attracted attention. C. H.
Hutchings and D. J. Smiley have worked
a claim on this field for an aggregate pro-
duction of 2>l tons wolfram since Sept.,
1942. In one shaft the lode matter is said
to be 24in. wide at the junction of two
veins. The trouble is that the small
shoots of wolfram in the limonite veins
peter out at about 17ft. below the surface.
The small size and low yield of veins
now being worked, and the absence of
downward “trails,” offer little encourage-
ment of better results by sinking into the
hard country beneath the zone of oxida-
tion,
* * * *
Following the outbreak of war and the
cutting off of European supplies. Queens-
land Mines Department made an inten-
sive geological survey of cinnabar (sul-
phide of mercury) deposits at Kilkivan,
covering some 50 sq. miles. The result
suggests that the mercury metallisation
is superficial, owing to precipitate action
of lode lime upon the mercury sulphide
in solution. The richer ores have been
gouged out, and the formations as a
whole are far below commercially-pay-
able grades. The field was a prolific
producer during the early days of
Gympie, when amalgamation was an
essential feature of gold recovery. Pro-
duction was revived on a small scale dur-
ing World War I and again during the
present flare-up.
* * * *
A committee representing Adelaide
shareholders recently complained to the
Gt. Boulder board : (1) That no accounts
relating to the period Jan.-Sept., 1940,
had been published; (2) that monthly
gold yields were being published in the
Australian press under the heading “De
Bernales Group” ; and (3) that general
management of the mine was vested in
Mines Management and Secretariate,
Ltd., a De Bernales concern. The board
replied (1) that as it took office on July
1, 1943, it could not accept responsibility
for publication of accounts relating to
Jan.-Sept., 1940; (2) that steps had been
taken to prevent publication of Boulder
gold yields under the heading “De Ber-
nales Group” ; and (3) that the present
management of the co.’s affairs was “thor-
oughly impartial,” and any implication by
the committee that it was not in the best
interests of shareholders generally was
strongly resented.
* * * *
London-controlled Mt. Magnet Gold
Mines (W.A.), which had a champagne
banquet the day it began treatment opera-
tions, and some years later held a clear-
ing sale to lighten the outside debt, an-
nounces a loss for the year to March 31,
1944, of £ll5O stg., raising the p. and 1.
debit to £131,922, Accrued pref. divs.
amount to £23,625.
* * * *
In Australia the nominal price of gold
is £lO 12s. per fine ounce, of which the
Government takes 16s. in tax, leaving the
producer £9 16s. Because the levy is
labelled gold tax, not income tax, gold-
mining cos. domiciled in Britain and
operating here are allowed no rebate by
the British authorities in respect of the
Australian tax, and have to pay the full
British income tax as well.
* * * *
During the war Britain entered the list
of world crude-oil producers ; and annual
output of good-quality crude, from which
the whole range of refined high-grade
petroleum products is obtained, has been
stepped up to 100,000 tons, or 26,000,000
gallons. First serious attempts to de-
velop indigenous oil in Britain started in
1918, but were of little commercial con-
sequence. Not until the Petroleum (Pro-
ducts) Act was passed in 1934 was much
real progress made. By the time war
arrived a field had been located at a depth
of 2200 ft., and was yielding about 238
tons a month. The figure had reached
25,000 tons p.a. in 1941. Then, under
pressure of the U-boat campaign and the
shipping problem, efforts were intensified,
contracts were let to American drillers,
and production advanced to the figures
already stated. The search was made
chiefly by the geophysical process. Fol-
lowing surface explosions, measurements
of distant minute seismic waves enable
underground structural conditions to be
determined. The oil is carried by pipe-
line from well-head to tank cars at rail-
way sidings, and thence to the refinery.
* * * *
“O.B.”: War-time handicaps, includ-
ing shortage of labor and materials,
rising costs and abnormally heavy taxa-
tion, have caused total Transvaal gold-
mining dividends to fall each year since
1940, when the aggregate reached the
record figure of £20,359,500. Aggregate
for 1944 was £13,592,895 (down
£1,680,057) from 39 contributors, of
whom 25 paid less than in 1943, three
paid more and distribution of the remain-
ing 11 were unchanged. There was no
newcomer in 1944. Taxation now takes
about 70 p.c. of mining profit, and pros-
pects of any relief during the war are
slender. It is impossible at this stage
to predict the level at which costs are
likely to settle, and equally uncertain is
the future price of gold. Meanwhile, hopes
of a brighter future are doing something
to reconcile investors to present showings.


No guesswork
in to-morrow’s home
x
CU
VC*
I ?
A
m m
x
/
v
*
<Ss
'h
■ ■■:/■::■
*
I
rr
1
is
&
m
is
%
o
0»°
✓
0-°
l«r
/
7
K *
X
\
V
\
\v»
t
Jfi
\\
Wtt-
\n
"X
v
\\
y
V
%
•--
/A
V.
s<
\W
t-'ss
AV
Stewarts
and
Lloyds
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY : NEWCASTLE : MELBOURNE
PERTH : BRISBANE
Because architect, engineer and builder
will each contribute . . . tomorrow’s home
will be better built.
The use of Structural Steel Tubing in
your post-war home means it will be
stronger, more durable and hygienic.
Steel Tubing as a Structural material
can be applied to every type of building
construction ... it allows for the use of
all standard external and internal finishes.
Today, because Victory counts first, our
resources are devoted entirely to the essen-
tials of war.
Tomorrow, we will contribute to better
housing.
We regret it is not possible to answer
enquiries in the accurate detail necessary
to individual home-building problems.


am
THE SERVICE MAN
The Pacific War.
“Ek Dum”: The Japanese have been
showing an acute consciousness of the
danger of invasion, which has been
brought home further to them by a
great incendiary raid on Tokyo by Super-
fortresses. “About” 340 machines took
part in it on March 10, and they returned
with the report that they had burned out
an area nearly four miles square from the
heart of the city, near the central railway
station and the Maranouchi quarter, into
the dock area, along the Tokyo Bay. A
great raid on Nagoya followed.
Warnings have streamed from Tokyo
Radio that both China and the Japanese
homeland are in imminent. peril of at-
tack from the sea, and an ant-like move-
ment of Japanese forces in China is re-
ported. Chinese Army H.Q. estimates
the strength of the Jap armies in China
at 50 divisions, plus 22 divisions in Man-
churia. Lord Louis Mountbatten has
been in Chungking.
The taking-over of control of Indo-
China administration and the French
concessions in Shanghai on the ground
that the French are no longer co-operat-
ing is a fresh sign of Japanese nervous-
ness. The French are “co-operating” in
another quarter. They have sent as a
token their heaviest battleship Richelieu
to fight with the Allied fleets in the
Pacific-Indian Ocean areas.
In Luzon General MacArthur’s forces
are beginning to push into the passes of
the mountain chain to the north, east
and south-east, and at the week-end were
meeting considerable resistance. East of
Manila, Antipolo, one of the buttresses
of the enemy defences in the south-east
peninsula, was entered after it had been
smashed to bits by bombs and shells.
Zamboanga, which lies in the tail of
Mindanao, and in peace-time a port of
call for tourist steamers, was heavily
bombed on March 8 and 9, and Tokyo
announced again and again throughout
the next two days American landings,
made with tanks, after a heavy naval
bombardment. Confirmation came on
Monday, it being revealed that officers
and men of the 41st U.S. division landed
near Zamboanga and met only light oppo-
sition at first.
On Iwo Jima, after bitter and costly
fighting, the garrison had on March 11
been carved into pockets in the extreme
north and was indulging in the massed
suicide charges which characterise the
death-throes of Japanese defensive efforts.
On March 8 540 out of 750 were killed
during one of these desperate onslaughts.
In New Guinea
The Australians in Bougainville are now
at the extreme north-west of the island
at Soraken, where they were meeting
further resistance. During the week a
landing on the small island of Saposa,
designed apparently as flank protection
to the main drive, was reported.
In the Aitape-Wewak area the Aus-
tralians now control the district inside a
line running s.-s.-west from Sowam on
the coast, 50 miles crow-fly above Aitape,
to a point inland through the ranges five
miles west of Maprik. Fierce small patrol
fighting is kept up incessantly, and the
average bag of about 100 Japs per week
is being maintained.
Japanese raids on the northern part of
the Australian line across the neck of
the Gazelle Peninsula, between Open
and Wide Bays, developed last week, but
they were only probes. In the first two
assaults there were no Australian casual-
ties —the enemy retired and dug-in in
the scrub.
In Mandalay.
“Ek Dum”: The British gave another
example of their indestructibility and
capacity to pursue a purpose inexorably
when, on March 7-8, their troops entered
Mandalay and began to tear the Japanese
garrison to bits.
The final stage was made at a speed
which, considering the kind of communi-
cations which lay behind them, matched
anything in Europe. Since it was made
with armored cars and tanks it could be
said that it represented a complete break-
through of the defences. And, very sig-
nificantly, the spearhead was the 19th
Indian Division actually, one brigade
British, the other two Indian.
The enemy on March 11 obviously had
no chance, but he was fighting to the
last man in his rat-hole defences and in
Fort Dufferin, the citadel centre, which
is built with real British solidity inside
a moat.
Three years ago A.B.C.’s leading com-
mentator opined that India could only be
saved and made to fight for the Allies
by asking the United States to take over
the problems of Hindustan, since the dis-
illusioned and oppressed Indians would
not trust the British. Other “experts”
who had never seen a Chinese in uniform
“argued” that the only way to win the
eastern war was to arm the millions of
Chinese who were allegedly burning to
fight. Alexander was beginning his bril-
liant retreat from Burma,
Three Years of Change
Now, how changed the scene! The
British have managed the Indians so well
that millions of Indians are involved in
their campaigns. They have fought the
Japanese out of Manipur and off the
Indian borders. They have sent their
divisions 400 miles over ranges worse
than the Owen Stanleys, in such a force
as has never before in history crossed
such country. And they are in the heart
of Burma once more.
They have made this trek, which in-
volved the construction or improvement
of hundreds of miles of mountain road
and the laying down of hundreds of acres
of air strip with the Indians whom they
supposedly had lost, and with West and
East Africans who, according to anti-
British propaganda, were writhing under
the heel of “the Imperialist oppressor.”
The forces which have dealt with the
Burmese situation are cosmopolitan. The
bulk of the fighting troops have been
British and Indian. The convoys are
British-American ; the sea convoys in the
area British-guarded in the main. The
overall command is British on the western
approaches, which are all under Admiral
Louis Mountbatten.
The military command-in-chief is in
the hands of General Sir Oliver Leese,
Montgomery’s successor as leader of the
Eighth Army in Italy.
His group is the 11th Army Group, of
which the section which has implemented
the great drive in the Imphal and the
lesser one in the Arakan area is the 14th
Army, commanded by General Slim.
The troops of the North-West Burma
forces are English county regiments,
Scots, the flower of the 2,000,000-odd
Indian volunteers, West Africans and
East Africans.
The Central North Burma forces are
British, American and Chinese, spear-
headed on one flank by the British 36th
Division, in the early days of the drive
all under Lieut-General Daniel Sultan,
U.S.A., but now apparently split, with
General Sultan’s growing American and
Chinese forces aiming eastward to join
Chiang Kai-shek’s advancing divisions
and the British-Indians reverting to the
14th Army.
Engineer and Aircraft Wonders
There have been four main sectors.
Each had one thing in common —the com-
munication difficulties were enormous
and awe-inspiring.
In the overcoming of these American
engineering and equipment have borne a
great part. The Americans provided the
gigantic road-building plant, though the
British furnished much of the technique
of military engineering.
It was the air transport command
which enabled divisions to be moved
1000 miles in ten days during the Mani-
pur campaign last year, thus bringing the
Japanese invasion to naught. The Com-
bat Cargo Task Force flew right through
the monsoon, from May till October,
and in that period made 25,000-odd single
machine journeys and delivered just under
80,000 tons of materials, in some cases
providing the only supply service for
complete divisions.
The supply extended right into the
Salween area on the Chinese side.
Though the system was, brought to
great perfection, carrying all sorts of
cargoes from light tanks and bullocks to
wounded and cigarettes, Dakotas flying
in to drop gliders full of supplies and
hook on to and drag into the sky ambu-
lances and leave craft, air transport was
a temporary measure. Behind it all the
time other lines of access on firm ground
or on water were being constantly pushed
out towards the enemy against the day
when heavy artillery and more powerful
tanks would need to go into action.
In Arakan
The first fighting sector in Burma was
the Arakan, across the Indian border
from Chittagong, along the coast of the
Bay of Bengal, This is a narrow swampy
strip between the mountains and the sea.
Akyab was its hub. Up till the present
season the approaches to Akyab were de-
fended fiercely and successfully against
limited British-Indian and West African
land forces pushing down the Mayu.
But in 1945 further defence of Arakan,
except for delaying purposes, became use-
less. The access of great naval power
and carriers enabled the British Army to
climb steadily along the foothills of the
coast with a strength which ensured that,
however fierce resistance might be and
has been, there could be only one end
for the enemy, unable to escape inland
across the Yoma Passes —annihilation.
So great was British naval strength that
only a tithe of sea power was sent to
dally off Arakan. The great carrier
squadrons, with their battle squadrons,
turned their backs upon it. The Japs had
made a complete naval retreat;
The Assam-based Sectors
The second and third sectors are those
fed from the Assam narrow-gauge rail-
way, It has been placed under U.S.
transport management, which feeds up
enormous supplies through the tea-clad
hills and then flies those which the roads
cannot take to advanced forces.
This railway was the first prize sought
by Lieut.-General Kawabe and the un-
fortunate Chandra Bose when they drove
towards Imphal and Kohima to the
slogan “On to Delhi and Indian Libera-
tion!” Here Kawaba committed hara
kiri, and the seeds were sown of the blight
which wiped out Bose’s “Indian Libera-
tion Army” and led to his mysterious
death in Singapore.
There were two lines of advance from
this railway—one down the Imphal-Tid-
dim road, which had been pushed 100
miles from Imphal into the Burmese
border hills. Down this road and on-
ward through the rapidly-improved moun-
tain tracks, which were metamorphosed
under the bulldozers as the army pro-
ceeded, went the spearhead Fifth Indian
Division, pride of the Fourteenth Army,
to Tiddim, Kennedy Peak and Fort
White, while the 11th East Africans
moved down their eastern flank to the
Kabaw Valley. There the two columns
converged at Kalemyo, at the western
end of the 20-mile-long defile which
marked the end of the Chin Hills. This
was the gateway to the central Burmese
road system. Reaching it, the Indians
and British and their mule teams were
on the road to Mandalay. Behind them
came the horde of road-builders and
lines-of-communication troops who bear
a five- or six-to-one greater ratio to
front-line troops than is the case in the
European war. As the road was extended
from Tiddim, heavier divisions rolled up
from behind to lend weight to the final
drive.
Down the Irrawaddy
North of this, on the so-called Ledoroad,
the way had been opened for the scouring
drive down the Irrawaddy from Myitkina,
with the British 36th Division in the lead,
served by air and by jeeps with flanged
wheels flown in to run on the captured
railway.
This force was the west-central flank
force moving towards Mandalay to rejoin
the main command of the Fourteenth
Army. The east flank, on the other bank
of the Irrawaddy, was formed of Gen
era! Sultan’s Americans and Chinese
diverging towards Bhamo, the head of
the old Chinese - caravan route, and
swinging on to the Nam Yao and to
Lashio, on the way to join Chiang’s Army
of the Salween, fighting in from China.
In three months’ steady driving, fol-
lowing the injection of new divisions and
seething hordes of transport mules, don-
keys, jeeps and bullocks crawling among
the bulldozers and the bogging lorries
under a sky full of Dakotas and Hamil-
cars, the Fourteenth Army has reached
its first great goal. It has had to carve
its way through endless jungle and cross
great rivers—across the Chindwin the
engineers threw one of the greatest Bailey
bridges of all time, fit to carry an army,
within 26 hours. There have been
scrambling fighting on the edges of the
dry plain belt and fierce contests for Irra-
waddy bridgeheads. Now the tide of the
offensive has come to full flood, and there
is little hope for the enemy in Burma.
Thin Time for Japs
He has proved no mean enemy. His
fighter air force put up a good fight. His
squadrons at times proved hard to handle.
His land resistance has been tough, his
equipment excellent.
He must have felt there was a big
stake to be held and won in Burma, for
Kawabe of the Imphal failure was suc-
ceeded by Lieut.-General Hyotaro
Kimura, formerly Vice-Minister for War
under General Tojo and C.O.S. to the
Kwangtung armies on the Manchurian
front, which are estimated to consist of
22-25 divisions.
Kimura has his work cut out. With
naval ascendancy established by the R.N.
and air ascendancy by the R.A.F. (which
includes large numbers of Australian
pilots), supplies for the Japanese forces
can only be sneaked in by sea in small
coastal craft. There is no Japanese air
cargo transport worth the name beside the
C.C.T.F. of the Allies.
Reinforcements must march in through
the jungle, full of leeches and hama-
dryads, from Thailand. Transport can
move in bulk, whether on rail or road,
only at night. Otherwise, it is caught by
the rocket and gun-strafing squadrons.
Burma is becoming untenable for the
enemy; the fight for it a rearguard
action. It seems a tremendous pity that
the A.I.F. is not represented in the cam-
paign so that this country would share
in the Asian-wide prestige which will
come to the country’s reconquerors.
Over the Rhine.
“Ek Dum”: The battle of the Western
Front, of which Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery was the impresario, even though
he commanded only part of it, continued
its natural course, producing peculiar
but pleasant results.
In the north the First Canadian Army,
which consists of a bulk of British troops
with a powerful Canadian section, was
closing the fight for the Wesel bridgehead
by annihilating the isolated German rem-
nants. The Germans could not break
away, but they'used every device known
to modern military science and art to
hold the attackers back while they eased
considerable forces across the river.
Then they blew up the bridge, leaving
a few thousand rearguard troops to fend
for themselves.
Further to the south, the U.S. Ninth
and First Armies closed-in to the river
banks. The forces of the Ninth, moving
up on the southern flank of the German
defences of the Wesel bridgehead, had
encountered heavy resistance.
Twelfth on the Rhine
To the south of the Ninth Army’s
area, the realm of Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery’s Twenty-first Army Group gave
place to that of General Bradley’s
Twelfth Army Group, consisting mainly
of General Hodge’s First Army on the
northern flank and the Third Army of
General Patton further south.
Both these armies went forward to the
Rhine at a great rate once the Germans
cleared out of the area south of the
Wesel bridgehead. The enemy made no
attempt to defend the strong Erft lines
of river and hill in front of Cologne,
which revealed itself as a wide expanse
of broken rubble, a terrible monument
to the wrath of the R.A.F. This ruin
would have made a snipers’ fortress, held
together by mortar and artillery support
from beyond the Rhine. But the Ameri-
cans found in it no more than a few
scattered infantry and strolling tanks,
trapped or left as precautionary guards
to delay the Allied advance, should U.S.
spearheads reach the Rhine bridges
before they were totally destroyed.
There was the feeblest kind of resist-
ance in Cologne. Few prisoners were
taken there. •
South of the Cologne area the col-
lapse was as thorough. The southern
wing of the First Arjny and the Third
Army on its south, to the Moselle, had
been moving forward in terms of hun-
dreds of yards per day ever since the
evacuation of Von Rundstedt’s Christmas
salient, and its buttresses suddenly found
themselves able to travel as fast as wheels
could turn all the way for a maximum of
65 miles to the Rhine.
The operations of the Twelfth Group
resolved themselves into a race between
the First and Third Army spearheads
for Rhine crossings.
General Hodges’s men had only to
travel a third of the distance in front


Plan your own
INDEPENDENCE
MOST successful men can count the commencement of
their independence from the day they paid their first
premium on an A.M.P. Life Assurance policy.
That first small premium was to most of them a step in
character- building. It put their feet on the road to security.
It gave them a stake in Australia. Thousands have never looked
back since that first day.
Today great numbers of men and women are following
the same road. Last year the Society issued policies to the sum
of £32,711,044, a record in its 95 years’ service.
Are you among the wise young men and women of today
who are planning independence through A.M.P. Assurance?
Shall we send an experienced man to advise you?
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary,
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Offices 87 PITT STREET. SYDNEY. N.S.W.
successfully substituted for
RAPID EXPANSION of the use of felt
as a substitute for rubber has taken place over-
seas. Hundreds of components for mechanical
purposes, once made of rubber, are now
succcessfully made of felt. These components
have been used and proved in many vital
industries as a successful substitute for rubber,
and the possibilities of this versatile material
Dover a wide field.
• IF YOU HAVE A PROBLEM arising from fhe rubber
shortage, felt may be fhe solution to your difficulties.
Send full particulars by letter to Sales Manager,
FELT & TEXTILES of AUSTRALIA LTD.
261 SEORSE STREET, SYDNEY •
of General Patton. They soon burst
into wrecked Bonn, where there were
main bridges, into Gddesberg further
south, where Mr. Chamberlain had his
last meeting with Hitler, and into
Remagen, just to the north of the junc-
tion of the River Ahr with the Rhine,
There is a considerable local bend in.
the Rhine south of Remagen, filled up
by a broad alluvial flat on the west bank.
Where this flat is pinched out between
the hills and the river on the north
Remagen, a typically picturesque Ger-
man village with ponds in its outskirts
and waddling geese and cows that inter-
pose a friendly flank to the traveller,
nestles on the river. A railway bridge
connects Remagen with the eastern side
of the river, where stands —or stood —
the little village of Erpel, in the same
sort of topographical position as
Remagen opposite, since the flats have
here switched across the Rhine and
broaden out to the north on the Berlin
bank. Down through these flats runs the
main road and rail from Duisburg and
the Ruhr.
Just north of Remagen the Rhine shies
suddenly to the left and hits the high
western baqks opposite fiikel, then relaxes
luxuriously among the spreading plain
which runs almost to the Drachenfels,
with Byron’s “castled crag,” a few kilo-
metres south-east of Bonn. At Remagen
the river is only about half the width
between the pylons of the Sydney
Harbor Bridge, or a third less than the
width of the Brisbane at North Quay,
but a few miles further north it has
bulged considerably where the islands
divide it at Rolandseck.
Across at Remagen
At Remagen the story of Nijmegen
bridge in the north was repeated. It is
impossible to lay the large defences of
njodern war along the whole of a long
river. Attackers endeavor to capture
bridges. Defenders in retreat do their
best to keep them open till the last
minute and then blow them up before
the enemy can use them.
For the second time in the
war the Germans miscalculated the speed
of the advance of American mechanised
divisions as they had more than once
miscalculated the British speed.
Capture of the crossing seems to have
been touch and go, with a fight on the
bridge for possession of the explosive
charges. Actually, a charge or two seems
to have gone off without serious effect.
The railway bridge at Remagen was
intact when troops of General Hodges’s
Ninth Armored Division reached it, early
in the afternoon qf March 7. Engineers
were at work in a twinkling. Demolition
squads were driven off, and it was no
trouble to the engineers to turn the rail
bridge into a traffic bridge—a U.S.
armored division, among its odds and
ends, carries complete one 300-yard and
one 250-yard ready-to-erect bridge.
Major Deevers, whose mechanised in-
fantry had by-passed Bonn, racing down
from Cologne with the division, appar-
ently did not wait for the engineers.
They pushed a company across to Erfel.
They established themselves, and under
the command of Lieut. Emmert Burrows
secured the commanding round-headed
hill which hangs 600 feet above Erpel,
with support from the artillery, which
had been brought up. They thus cut
the road and rail along the river from
the south. They met no resistance either
in the crossing or the subsequent ad-
vance, saving wild firing. Then the de-
fence stiffened somewhat, but it was not
worthy of the occasion. Reinforcements
began to pour across, oozing up the flats
to the north and into the foothills. By
the night of March 11 they appeared to
hold all the flats to' the north of Erpel
and the town of Honnef.
It was a great moment for the Ameri-
cans and for the Allies; but it needs to
be remembered that main defences of
rivers are rarely on the bank. The coun-
try of the Siebengebirge (Seven Moun-
tains) behind is tough. The valleys are
re-entrant and do not cut straight
through, as in the Vosges. Much of the
hill country is covered by the dark, tor-
tuous forest of the Westerwald, an even
more difficult barrier than the Reichswald
and the Hochwald, which have given the
British and Canadians so much trouble
in the north.
Six miles from the bank runs the broad
high-speed two-way Autobahn from
Munster and Duisburg, Dusseldorf and
the Ruhr to Frankfurt, And not far off
is a road junction which leads to Fulda,
100 miles or so away, where hundreds of
Australian prisoners are immured.
Both these roads were reported to have
been reached on March 11, but at mid-
night the Germans declared that advances
had been stopped and armored spear-
heads pinched off in all directions.
The crossing of the Rhine is a great
step, though at a point not best suited to
formation of a main drive, but the
flapper-press impression that Patton and
Zhukov will compare notes next Sunday
is a little premature, unless internal Ger-
many is in a state of complete collapse.
These generals are still over 300 miles
apart, and while in the crucial area of
Kiistrin Marshal Zhukov is trying to take
that town on the east bank of the Oder,
Montgomery’s troops in the far north on
March 11 were still fighting in the bridge-
head approaches on the west bank of the
Rhine and meeting stubborn resistance.
The Russians took at least a dozen
bridgeheads over the North Oder in their
drives, all as easily as the bridgehead has
been acquired over the Rhine, but these
have now been decreased to a single one.
I The establishment of a single bridge-
head by the Americans* however, means
much more; for, despite the fantasies of
Moscow correspondents, the Red Army
has not nearly the same intensity of
mechanical transport power nor the kind
of road approaches available to the Allies
of the west. They have the power to
establish a bridgehead and pack it with
troops in far' less time than the Russians
could hope to do it, and, if the break is
Capitalised in the same way as the cap-
ture and holding of the Nijmegen bridge,
a great thing has been achieved, and the
war has been shortened.
Every road which converges on Rema-
gen will, by the time this is printed, have
been worn about a foot by the friction
of tens of thousands of tyres. The engi-
neers will be working feverishly flinging
over new bridges. The flats on either side
of the river which present one of the
best bits of terrain for the purpose south
of the Ruhr will be humming with bull-
dozers as the airstrips are laid out, while
the cargo ’planes and the strafers roar
overhead on their way to prevent the
enemy consolidating a defence and bring-
ing up reinforcements.
On March 11 Allied troops were said
to control the whole Rhine bank from
west of Coblenz, on the Moselle, to Arn-
hem, and to hold 23,000 Germans trapped
behind Andernach, north of Coblenz The
Germans, however, declared at midnight
that Andernach had been recaptured and
that all troops to the west had fought
their way clean across the river.
The German Retreat
It is clear that in the Twelfth Army
sector the main German forces must have
withdrawn from the path of the advanc-
ing U.S. columns.
Movement on a single road for more
than 60 miles in less than 2£ days would
be a triumph of organised transport con-
ducted in peace-time. But to take an
armored division bumper to bumper over
hill roads, as General Patton did, if there
were only a 'moderately armed enemy
in the vicinity would be the height of
imprudence, since 30 miles of road
vehicles have no phance of deploying and
getting into action against serious attack,
and it is a lovely target for strafing aircraft.
General Patton must have known that
the way was clear or nearly clear of in-
terruption and opposition. He certainly
would not have approached the kind of
fighting in which he and his men won
undying glory on the Bastogne plateau
and the Metz front in such shape or by
such a method.
Neither his troops nor the Ninth nor
the First Armies, battle-scarred as they
are from previous heavy fighting, have in
the present operations been engaged in a
main battle but in the pursuit which
forms the last phase of a victoriously
main battle, their fighting being in the
kind of delaying and forlorn-hope actions
which are incidental to large-scale retreats
covered by fighting rearguards and demo-
lition units.
West of the Rhine was proved by
Montgomery’s blows to be no safe place
for the enemy in the north, and he got
out, abandoning strong defence lines all
the way from the Wesel to the Moselle,
which runs up from the northern end of
the Low Vosges along the south Luxem-
bourg border. All British and U.S.
generals will deeply regret the enemy’s
retirement. Had he stayed wbst of the
river the final battle of the war would
probably be in progress ; this would be
especially probable if Mr. Churchill’s
estimate, made after the game old man
had visited German soil within 240 mm.
gun range of the enemy, that German
strategical reserves are exhausted is
correct. But that battle must be deferred
until the Rhine has been crossed in
strength or until the Russians break clean
across Germany, as their indiscriminate
eulogists believe they will do, though be-
fore the week-end they seemed to be
having a not over-victorious time on some
sectors.
Bulging Fronts
The position on the Western Front at
the week-end was a curious one, but not
unlike that of the Eastern Front of a
week or so ago in reverse. In the east,
the main line was along the Oder River,
with a long arm stretching out across
the less crossable part of the river to the
north parallel to the Baltic coast through
East Prussia. This arm has now almost
melted save for the defence pockets of
Danzig, Konigsberg and Courland in
Latvia. In the west the line to the
North Sea was formed by the Rhine
and its tributaries or adjacent bridge-
head perimeters as far south as the
Moselle. South of that river there was
a broad blunt fist of defence pushed


1 tie belching smokestack, mistakenly
regarded as a symbol of power, of
human activity and busy-ness by so
many, is, to the steam engineer, a
visible sign of waste.
Smoke is waste»--waste combustibles
. . . waste heat . . . waste energy.
Smoke is one of the world’s costliest
by-products*—dor where there is smoke
there is more than unburnt carbon,
there is unburnt gas ... a potential
source of power, literally ‘ going up
in smoke.”
As builders of steam generating
plant, we at Babcock & Wilcox are
vitally concerned with smoke <or
rather with the absence of it <— 1 for
the whole economy and efficiency of
a boiler plant depends upon how
much steam it can raise per pound
of coal.
f- >.
THE HIGH COST
- ctf £
y 2V+!
: *27% , . y*
The need to conserve
rubber is more urgent
than at; any time since
Japan overran the
\* c iplittiipiii i
chier vm^err^mducmg
fs
Save Rubber
to hasten victory
and the day when you
can again refit with
Olympic
TYRES
rU/CTORY Production of
LOAN THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
* BONDS *' I FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABU INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA
But coal is not a standardised pro-
duct and so boiler design is inti-
mately tied to the behaviour and
characteristics of the coal to be used.
What we know about Australian
coals results from 70 years’ experi-
ence and cannot be duplicated. This
knowledge, backed by constant re-
search and sound engineering, en-
ables us to design and build in
Australia steam generating plant
that upholds the Babcock tradition
of low cost operation, high thermal
efficiency and reliability.
BABCOCK & WILCOX
UNITED
STEAM ENGINEERS—INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK.N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all States.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Bahcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our British
organisation ... maintain to Babcock
users our world standards of workman-
ship with moderate first cost.
TIME HAS PROVED THE .S EK II C'E flf RUtr.OC.K HOU.KR I’l. Al\ I
westward to cover the Saar area, from
which it is about 60 miles over eastward
to the Rhine, which, however, joins the
defences in the Strasbourg region.
The most crucial and important point
is still in the First Canadian-Ninth Army
zone. This is the hub of the war, the
point from which Allied victory could
be won with great speed, either by a com-
plete break across the river or by weak-
ening some other suitable part of the line
by suction to permit a decisive crossing.
It is also the one area on the Western
Front where great numbers of Germans
have been killed in the last few
weeks and huge quantities of German
material wrecked. After the Canadian
Army—two-thirds British, through the
need to reinforce from British units after
heavy Canadian losses of the past —had
taken Xanten in heavy fighting, the
northern tip of the German-Wesel bridge-
head had begun to break on March 9.
But the British-Canadian forces reported
resistance even fiercer than any they had
encountered in Normandy until the
bridgehead was nearly wiped out.
Across the Rhine the Germans had
the greatest masses of artillery yet known
to prevent a crossing -where crossing
would mean national disaster. The car-
nage round this area has probably been
the greatest in the war in so confined a
space. The fury of the great “dogfight”
stage of the northern battle in which the
enemy was pinned down raged unabated
for days, little regarded by newspapers.
Meanwhile, the Allied bombers con-
tinue to sweep in fleets across crumbling
Germany and every cloud over the Reich
is tinged with the hues of fire and blood.
Hard Pounding in the East.
“Ek Bum”: The Baltic arm of the
German defence system west of Danzig
has crumbled, save for the ports, right
back to the great lagoon into which the
Oder flows. This stretch of water is
separated from the Baltic by a narrow
lake-eroded island and moated on the
east by the Dievenow River, which is
wider than the Rhine, and on the west
by the Swine River.
There was little resistance in the
Pomeranian collapse until the perimeters
of Kolberg and of Danzig on the south
and west, were reached. Subsequent Rus-
sian assaults to March 12 had not suc-
ceeded in capturing the cities. The
eastern perimeter of Danzig had not been
reached, though Marshal Rokossovsky’s
troops had apparently crossed the Nogat
branch of the Vistula into the Vistula
Delta.
Daily newspapers credited Marshal
Zhukov with being within 40 miles of
Swinemunde, taking Kammin on the
Dievenow. Berlin later asserted that the
town had been recaptured in “bloody
fighting,” in which “large formations”
were “wiped out,”
In East Prussia and Courland (Latvia)
no large-scale fighting was reported.
Berlin shouted that in both zones the
“Russians were regrouping,” having “suf-
fered heavy losses which in the East
Prussian battles totalled 275,000 men.”
Though the press stated that Marshal
Zhukov had broken into Stettin, the
news on March 11 from both sides was
that the fighting had reached Altdorf,
some distance to the east, at the base of
the Dammiscber See and separated from
Stettin proper by the Thue and Oder
Rivers, though there is a small section
of the city east of the Oder. The Ger-
mans on March 10 admitted penetration
of Altdamm, but asserted on March
12 that it had been recaptured. They
also claimed that they had widened their
bridgehead on the east of the Oder be-
tween Stettin and Kiistrin.
In the Kiistrin region, where the Rus-
sians hold their only bridgehead on the
Oder north of the Ratzdorf Bend and
the Neisse confluence. Marshal Zhukov,
Moscow correspondents declared, widened
and deepened his foothold and pushed
forward —some said to “within 28 miles
of Berlin,” some to “within 28 miles of
the environs of Berlin.”
Official reports had nothing about this
penetration, but mentioned a fierce battle
for the suburbs of Kiistrin, on the east
bank of the Oder. Penetration of the
New Town was admitted by Berlin, but
later, as elsewhere, the ejection of the
Russians was claimed. Both sides agreed
that an unusually fierce battle was going
on here on March 11.
A report for which Mr, F. Ehrenfried
Baume vouched was that the Red Army
could seize Berlin any moment it desired
but first wished to destroy 32 German
divisions in the south in the Gorlitz area.
Heavy fighting has obviously been pro-
ceeding here, though Moscow has said
nothing about it. The Germans on March
10 claimed the recapture of Lauban, 20
miles east of Gorlitz. Moscow was silent,
but appeared to accept the statement that
Hitler had addressed troops at Lauban.
Of the operations in this neighborhood
the enemy alleged that the Russians had
“lost 100,000 men and 8000 tanks and
armored vehicles” in “some of the
heaviest fighting of the war.” He also
Asserted that the Russian bridgehead
across the Neisse, between Glauben and
Forst, had been “wiped out” and that the
Bedlin side of the river was now clear of
Russians.
A battle, as yet indeterminate, seemed
to be in progress at Ratibor, on the Upper
Oder, for the approaches to the Moravian
passes.
And the enemy is on the offensive in
Hungary. Moscow admitted on March
11 that the Red Army was making her-
culean efforts to prevent a break-through
north-east of Lake Balaton to the
Danube. In this region, it was said, the
Germans were “throwing in fresh tank
divisions.” Berlin claimed that the Russians
had been pushed back some distance.
Harry Chauvel.
“Ek Dum’s” farewell:
Harry Chauvel gave away his military char-
acter whenever he appeared on horseback. The
animal would be turned out in apple-pie order.
It was always properly bitted.
Chauvel sat his horse British cavalry fashion,
like one of those boulders which perch safely
on clifftops in blizzards. His balance looked
perfect. His stirrups were set at the right length
to keep his insteps well astern of them and his
heel and sole nearly level. His reins were held
according to riding-school lore and not as if
he were about to yank in an obstreperous tar-
pon. His campaigns were ridden *to victory
with the same stylishness and attention to detail.
Chauvel, born on Canning Downs, Queens-
land’s oldest station, was the son of a retired
Indian Army (jfficer, which gave him British
sympathies and an Imperial outlook. He was
trained militarily in Light Horse regiments.
Service in the Queensland Mounted Police had
formed a base for this experience, and in S.
Africa he learned more of far-flung warfare in
country poor in resources. There his command
of Imperial Bushmen gave him training in the
control and usage of troops of mixed races, and
his contacts with British officers, including
Allenby, set him off at a good start in their
confidence when he reached high command in
Palestine.
The quiet years after South Africa in the
Commonwealth’s newly-fledged permanent
forces gave him a school in which to learn ad-
ministration, bright young brains like those of
Brudenell White and Foster against which to
sharpen his talent, and leisure to read and digest
the military masters —no great modern general
has not also been something of a scholar. And
his months cooped up with the First Light
Horse Brigade on Gallipoli and his temporary
command of the First Infantry Division added
to his versatility and his knowledge of the
detail of organisation, and enabled him to.
choose a staff whom he could trust when he
hoisted his pennant as commander of the
Anzac Mounted Division at Serapeum on
March 17, 1916. , ’ .
While many another leader of the Palestine
campaign is famed for several individual battles,
Chauvel is known in some degree for all of them
after bis Anzacs —First, Second and Third
A.L.H. Brigades and N.Z. Mounted Rifles, with
Territorial Batteries of the R.H.A. were
banded together. .
The three divisions which he commanded in
the Desert Mounted Corps from August, 1917,
which grew to four in the summer of 1918,
formed the greatest fighting force of horse in
recorded history. His command of it was
marked by the diligence, serenity, detachment
and self-confidence which are features of the
characters of great generals. His task called
for qualities far beyond those needed m a
master of any one particular arm of the ser-
vice ; those of a Wellington rather than those
of a Craufurd or a Stuart.
He had a meticulous knowledge of the details
of military administration. He was a good
chooser of subordinates and had the faculty oi
seeing that their work was carried through with
exactitude and care, without himself being
saddled with the minuitiae, together with a rare
knack of being able to look at a map and see it
come to life in front of him. .
Chauvel’s triumph in Palestine and Syria
came as a scintillating climax in the eastern war.
The day that lie stole out of his Desert Mounted
Corps H.Q. at Talat-ed-Dum, leaving his tents
standing and his lights burning, was September
16, 1918. When he set up his new H.Q. m
secrecy at Sarona, north of Jaffa, one of the
most victorious and brilliant months ever ® x "
perienced by British arms had begun. In a brief
fortnight, in the course of the vast sweep to
Damascus, most of the events happened which
permitted Harry Gullett later to write;
To Chauvel’s cavalry alone was due not
only the complete destruction of the
enemy’s forward armies, but the capture or
annihilation of his reserves, his supply ser-
vice, his dumps, his hospitals—in fact, every
enemy appliance used in the war and nearly
every man from the fighting soldier to the
laborer on roads and railways, between the
Plain of Sharon and Aleppo, more than 300
miles to the north. On September 18 the
enemy’s war-machine was complete—a vast,
intricate, but smooth-running organisation
served by scores of trains and thousands of
vehicles on a great system of railways and
roads, and by thousands of miles of tele-
phone and telegraph wire; mighty, formid-
able and instantly responsive to a single
will. Within a month the whole fabric had
vanished. The three armies were destroyed;
the British had taken 75,000 prisoners.
Chauvel would have been the last to deny
credit for the strategy to Allenby or to grant
others their meed, but his was the credit oi the
execution. , .
On February 28 the writer received a letter
which read in part:
Something should be said about the ne-
glect by Australia of Harry Chauvel For
his outstanding services he got no pension,
no grant, no anything beyond the grant of
his very modest request to have a charger
brought to his home for him to have a
daily ride. That ended when one of his
legs was injured in a motor accident,
Now he is in hospital, his eyes so affected
that he can do little or no reading. He
is verging on 80.
A few days afterwards he died. The hurrying
press had little space to spare to do his memory
justice. When a memorial service was held in
Sydney the city’s greatest journal reported it,
on a back page mainly devoted to picture-
show advertisements, in a four-inch paragraph,
with an article headed “Beef, Veal and Pork”
above it and a paragraph headed “Low-grade
Potatoes” below.
Mr. Churchill and President Roosevelt report
that during February a “moderate number” of
Allied vessels were destroyed or damaged by
U-boats, but more U-boats were sunk than in
January. The enemy, it was said, still had a
large number of submarines.
He * * *
For many thousands,of people the best news
that came out of Russia last week was that
about 3500 Allied prisoners of war, including
170 officers and 1221 qther ranks from the
British Empire were on their way home via
Odessa from Offlag 64 at Posen, Wormditt and
other camps.


'.A /■/
V**
UJ
/Sv,.
S'///
m
M
A
7*.
124 V-8 MOTORS IN
LONG-DISTANCE TEST
OF LANDING-CRAFT
%
%
I
vll
I
PHU'BANf
Sea-route of convoys
of Ford-built ALC-
40’s approximate
distance 1,000 Miles.
Two convoys of ALC-40 Landing Craft constructed by
Ford Motor Company for the Australian Army made
non-stop voyages from Brisbane to Cairns. Each of the
31 vessels, powered by four Ford V-8 motors, had a
loading of about forty tons. Number of motors under
test was 124 ... no engine trouble was encountered
and on inspection at the end of trip no wear was evident
in the motors.
The Army now runs these V-8 motors for 1,000 hours
before overhaul. To convert this into road performance
the motors would travel at 2,500 R.P.M., 59,000 road
miles before first overhaul.
roM
FORD V-8 CARS, TRUCKS AND UTILITIES . . . MERCURY CARS
PREFECT lb H.P. CARS AND UTILITIES . . . ANGLIA 8 H.P.
Ford Motor Company of Australia Pty. Ltd. (Inc. in Vic.). Reg. Office: Geelong, Vie.'
F4S-20C
SOUTH AUSTRALIAN JOCKEY CLUB INCORPORATED
AUTUMN MEETING, 1945.
Saturdays May 12, 19, 26, Morphettville Racecourse.
£15,450 TOTAL PRIZE MONEY £15,450
GOODWOOD HANDICAP,
Saturday, May 12, 1945,
Of £2OOO. The first horse to receive £l4OO, the
second £4OO, and the third *£2oo out of the prize.
For three-year-olds and upwards. About six furlongs.
ADELAIDE CUP,
Saturday, May 19, 1945.
A Handicap of £3500 (including War Savings
Bond, value £160). The first horse to receive£23oo
and War Savings Bond of £l5O, the second £7OO,
and the third £350 out of the prize. For three-
years-old and upwards. About two miles.
NOMINATIONS (£1 each) close with the Secretaries of the V.R.0., Melbourne, A.J.C., Sydney,
W.A.T.0., Perth, Q.T.0., Brisbane, Lockington’s Agency, Melbourne, or at the Club’s office, 49
Waymouth Street, Adelaide, before 4 p.m., TUESDAY, MARCH 20.
R. HYNES, Secretary, S.A. Jockey Club Incorporated, Adelaide.
//X
r:
/
/
ft
i —r-:
** i '
s < % .\’ '* (v /' \» x
»■ < ' . , »I•. » • '. / / »/ I't/I I I * / ' *v
TREAT AS TREASURE
What the artist means, of course, is that you should
take the greatest care of your self-stropping Valet Razor
nowadays. For one thing, no more are being made while
the war lasts. And for another, it gives you weeks of
perfect shaving from every single blade, and saves you
endless hunting in the shops for blades which are in
short supply because of limited production ... But even
a Valet pays for a little coddling.
So remember: Never let the strop get gritty or
dusty. Scrape it clean occasionally with the back
edge of a used blade and work in a little strop dress-
ing or lanoline to keep it smooth and supple.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades 3 \d. each
SPORTING NOTIONS
In beating Similar and Philander in the two
miles 1| furlongs Australian Cup, after 27
previous unsuccessful attempts to win a race,
the grey five-year-old mare Spectre took 2.49.
Tfiat was 1| seconds slower than Marauder
occupied in going half a furlong further in the
1938 Cup, and would say little for present-
season stayers if this Cup had not—in recent
years, at least—become a kind of rich En-
courage Handicap for moderates.
_'’, ‘ _ ’ '
The Cup, worth £2500 to Spectre s owner,
attracted a field of only 14, and the winner
started at 33 to 1, only one other being at longer
odds. Newmarket winner Three Wheder having
also started at 33 to 1, Spectre s success con-
eluded a harvest for doubles bookmakers; it
was, in fact, reported to be a complete skinner.
Spectre, who cost horse-salesman E. V. Cormack
60 guineas, led over the last half-mile. Last
year s winner, Similar, made a late run, but was
beaten by over two lengths. _ #
The other distance event, the C. M. Lloyd
Stakes (w.f.a.; If miles) enabled Tranquil Star
to add £lO5O to her record stake earnings by
beatimr thp T poor winner New Yorker
and Laughton, with Huntingdale the only other
startpr THp Am was ahnstlv • thk was phasilv
The time 3.2 C was second outsSe the
course record. After the early dawdling, New
Yorker led well coming to the turn, but the
mare quickly gathered him in and beat him com-
fortably by a length and a half, the other two
battling for third money eight lengths away.
r - - - ■
It was in very different style that Bootle won
the 10 furlongs Leonard Stakes from Sir
Marfield and Comedy Call. In a seemingly
hopeless position at the top of the straight,
the Enfield colt finished from there with a bril-
liant sustained run. Royal Gem—a Dhoti colt
owned in South Australia and ridden by the
S.A. jockey H. Bastian—led all the way to beat
Nestor and Kinder Gold very easily in the six-
furlongs Ascot Vale Stakes for two-year-olds,
with such recent winners as Apropos, Lincoln
and Lord Campbell among the also-rans.
In the other two-year-old event, the Gibson
Carmichael Stakes (seven furlongs), Attley
(Portofino-Coveshaw) also had a comfortable
win from River Hero and Macready. Consis-
tency itself, St. Fairy (9 to 2; the only win-
ning favorite) beat Private Chat and Evidence
in the Farewell Handicap,
......
Perhaps on the day Royal Gem’s perform-
ance was the best for future reference. Winner
at three of his last four starts, he’s from the
Oaks winner French Gem. He carries Aurie’s
star’s colors,
Tranquil Star’s Lloyd Stakes record: Third
at three years; won at four; won at five; second
at s j x . on at seven
’** * *
Both Flight and Tea Rose failed once more
at t h e Australian Comforts Fund meeting at
Randwick last Saturday, but there were some
good performances. Excluding servicemen
having it on he house the crowd totalled
non it mav
f ! f t n b ' ne “ m b L a i‘ if 2 ’?nL <Wv
have been a comment on the loose money
knocking around ttmt the damsels selling badges
for the cause were asking 15s. each for them.
Jut then, these days even chronic lug-biters dis-
dain the old famdl . ar ob J? f u ?X,,J heir
s l°B an now 1S Nothing Under Half a Quid,
„'' . '
Well placed all the way, the Marcomgram-
Mahlon gelding Rectifier, from the Payten stable,
won the Three-year-old Handicap nicely from
Tea Rose and Right Royal. A handy second
to the winner making the turn, Tea Rose
appeared to be in difficulty over the last bit, and
it was subsequently stated that she’s broken-
winded. She had fined down a shade since she
last ran, and looked in good racing trim. Still, it
was her best run this time up, and, even with
31b. overweight. Rectifier had an advantage of
331 b. Of the beaten lot, Accession (fifth) came
home particularly well. If he doesn’t live up
to his promise before the month’s out they
should change his name to Politician.
If Tea Rose’s failure was disappointing
Flight’s was harrowing. Well away, nicely
placed for half the journey, she simply couldn’t
go with them, and finished a pleading ninth.
Flight’s racing condition is not the easiest to
judge. She’s an exceptionally big-bodied mare
with legs that seem light for her weight. This
allowed, she looked and moved well, and may
yet reassert her patently high class over some-
thing longer than Saturday’s seven furlongs.
The result was further confirmation of the cur-
rent three-year-olds being a rather good lot, the
Brueghel colt Victory Lad beating Prince, Fel-
beam and a large field of fairly useful others.
Prince came late with a grand finish. Felbeam
performed very solidly. Cooringwang (fourth)
looks an even stronger six-furlongs probability
than his recent Glenfield Handicap win indicated.
Castle Frontenac did not have a great deal
to beat in the A.C.F. Cup. He came through
the mid-field in the last half-furlong to win
running away from Lady Marie and Kitalurgy.
The Queenslander Brown Dragon, backed to
favoritism, seemed to find the Randwick 10
furlongs further than he liked, though he’d won
over that distance at Townsville. He might
still be a dangerous customer in the Doncaster,
weights for which were about to come out when
this page went to the printer.
The Double Remove-Leila Vale black filly
Jamelie justified strong favoritism by a four
lengths’ defeat of D-Day in the six-furlongs Ser-
vices Handicap for two-year-olds, with Deliver-
ance third. At that, the winner ran greenly.
D-Day ran a tiptop race with more than a stone
the worse of the weights. The pricy Anne-Tien-
Et (fourth) was drawn wide and badly served
at the start. She’s a neat filly.
The Diggers’ Encourage (apprentice riders),
won by Thanks America (T. Clarke) from Lion
and Lord Kagal, was a rough race, Jimmy
Dingle falling and badly injuring A. R. Smith.
J. Thompson ended his second recent stretch
of more than 20 successive losers—29 this
time —by riding a double: Jamelie, and, in the
Welter, Beauhead, the latter beating the improv-
ing Puffham and Martheus. Mulley (Rectifier) ■
and Doon (Victory Lad) are riding well.
* * * *
For Rdsehill (before acceptances): —Encourage:
Portosanto, Silver Clare, Mentone. McArthur
Stakes: Magnificent, Courtship, Anne-Tien-Et.
Rawson Stakes: Katanga, Flight, Victory Lad,
Railway Handicap: Felbeam, Prince, Fine
Art. Autumn Handicap : Flying Cloud, Grand
Prodige, Craigie. Three-year-old; Ribbon,
Rectifier, Melhero. Parramatta Handicap:
Wellesley, Dick Whittington, Air Link.
* * * *
S. A. Jockey Club in May and Adelaide
Racing Club in June have arranged programmes
very similar. The one allots £2OOO for the
Goodwood Handicap and £3500 for the Ade-
laide Cup; the other gives the same amounts
for City Handicap and Birthday Cup, which
used to be run on the holiday for Queen
Victoria’s birthday, but now has to stand for
King George’s. Also both clubs are to follow
the lead of Port Adelaide in reinstating a w f a
event. #
♦ Jjc
Best Idea and Winsome Lad, from Sydney,
showing some promise on Adelaide tracks, have
been barred by the stewards from starting in
races until connections show proof that the
horses “arrived in S.A. in conformity with
National Security Regulations.” The present
owner says that he bought them only after
arrival, but is assured that they walked all
the way, through Victoria and Murray Bridge.
* * * *
If Cold Shower lives up to what is being
generally expected of him it will be a blow
to an old turf theory—that aged mares rarely
produce good stock. His dam, Society, foaled in
1922, had already given the theory a knock
when in 1933 she produced Talking, sire of,
among others, Main Topic and the present bril-
liant three-year-old Ribbon. Cold Shower was
foaled in 1941.
* * * *
At current yearling prices, breeding them
would appear to be almost as profitable as run-
ning a taxi when Yanks are about. Yet it
would be pretty safe to bet that, after the tax-
gatherer has got in, even the biggest studs don’t
show a yearly profit equal to what is sometimes
put on one horse in one bet, let' alone what the
bet might return. The two-days sales in Mel-
bourne last week aggregated 107,555 guineas;
average, 741|-gns. for 145 lots. On the first day
77 yearlings averaged 904 guineas. Top figure
was 3000 guineas for the Kismet Stud Law
Maker colt from Romaine. The colt’s related
to Courtship. Thirty of the offerings that first
day brought over 1000 guineas each, and six
over 2000, including an Enfield-Little Sister filly
for 2800, probably a Melbourne record for a
filly. Other pricy ones included an Enfield-
Dawn colt (2200), a Law Maker-Joanna (sister
to The Trump) colt (2000); a Law Maker-
Jennifer colt (2500) and another Law Maker
colt (2000).
* * * ♦
After watching last season’s English racing
whenever he could wangle leaves, an R.A.A.F.
chap who knoWk his horses is back with
decided views about it. For one thing, he thinks
that Australians, used to a clear view all the
way on practically all tracks, wouldn’t attend
meetings where the horses either gallop to-
wards you all the way for a straight mile or
else do not come into sight until they turn
into the straight. English race riding didn’t
impress him, either. The fact that Gordon
Richards has won the jockeys’ premiership no
fewer than 17 times in the past 19 years he
attributes largely to the prestige which gives
Richards the cream of the mounts. The riding
generally the visitor found not so much poor as
different. As he saw it, riding judgment did
not ever appear anything like as important as
the stamina of the horse.
The foregoing has a bearing on another of
the visitor’s findings—that it’s the horses that
win the races in England, and as for these he
holds them beyond praise. Most events as run
are sheer tests of stamina, the distance events
particularly severe. They have to be able to


Missing Friends.
TO JOHN ERNEST PHILP formerly of Foy Avenue
Chelsea in the State of Victoria Plasterer but now
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
ALMA VERONICA PHILP has instituted proceedings
for a divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS
you enter an appearance in the Office of the Pro-
thonotary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at Mel-
bourne on or before the Eleventh day of April 1945
the case may proceed in your absence If you intend
to defend the suit you must also file an answer in
the said office on or before the Twenty-first day of
April 1945 AND FURTHER TAKE NOTICE that
the sealed copy petition and copy citation in the
suit may be inspected at the office of the Petitioner’s
Solicitor.—JOAN ROSANOVE, 415 Bourke Street,
Melbourne, Solicitor for the Petitioner.
STRONGER... LIGHTER ...LONGER -LASTING
0
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
CAS E S
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,"
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
BUY THIRD VICTORY WAR BONDS
JO P
ciOtS
t
A
&
S
-cov-
t*
it
50p
%
s
tv
A.T.L offers you - without obli-
gation constructive advice in
connection with any post-war
production problem involving
tools, gauges, instruments or com-
ponents which must be engineered
to limits of super-accuracy.
<o.
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY , , , , MELBOURNE , . • • PERTH . i • » BRISBANE
ATL4-E
go flat out from the start and still have enough
left to finish with. Jhe course on which the
war-time Derbies are run includes a finish over
a straight mile, much of it uphill—'almost as
severe a test as the old jumping course at
Randwick. “There’s no doubt,” the visitor de-
clares emphatically, “they have the horses'.
Hence, he believes, the superiority of English
breeding. To win the top classics the horse
itself has to be good, without benefit of jockey-
ship fluking a win. Only the very best in horse-
flesh can come through the testing with colors
flying, and it’s from these best that they breed
’em. He rates Tehran the best of the present
ones.
* * * *
On approximately 80 tracks in the United
States last year there were 11,258 starters.
Crowds totalling 18,000,000 bet over a
billion dollars on the totes; States’ revenue
was just on 60 million, and, as well, war charity
benefited to the tune of 16 million. It gives
some idea of what the current ban on racing
means t'o those actively engaged in it. The
gamblers— i.e., the bulk of the 18 million
attending—are reported to have turned to other
forms of “investment,” with basketball promi-
nent. As there is no tax for these “invest-
ments” the chief losers on the deal —apart from
owners, trainers and the like —are the treasuries
of the States in which racing was held.
♦ * * *
An aspect of the ban on horse-racing in
America which may or may not have been
considered is that if the ban lasts for any
length of time millions in hard cash will go
west through the loss in horse value alone.
A good horse has only a few years of racing
value, and to keep their horses fit owners will
be under practically the same expense for
feeding and exercising as if they were racing.
* * * *
“First Slip”: Just now cricket in
the country is in the doldrums. The club
I preside over has sufficient material on
hand, and there are plenty of young
fellows for several teams, but interest
is lacking. I remember the waxing and
waning of the game in the country as the
Test series came and went. When the
Tests were on we always had a startling
crop of budding Bradmans and O’Reillys.
And as one who had his share of buf-
feting in a crowd of 90,000 at the
M.C.G. I never understood how the large
sprinkling of uninitiated got such a thrill
from the spectacle. Or the families,
never cricket-minded, who sat up till all
hours listening to ball-to-ball descriptions
from England. Seemingly, the stimulus
of international rivalry is necessary.
* * * «
“G.N.”: In answer to “Pat Ater” (B.
21/2/’45) the factor that makes all the
difference between great and not-so-great
bowlers is that final flick of the wrist or
fingers, or perhaps the two combined, as
the ball leaves the hand. However much
a bowler may model his style on that of
others, if he does not possess the tensile
strength in the hand to add that extra
little bit he will remain in the ruck.
Charlie Turner, one of the greatest
bowlers of all time, had the knack to a
remarkable degree, as well as a per-
fect length. In a test made during
his first visit to England, at one of
the big armament works, the velocity
recorded by instruments after the ball
had made contact was found to be over
62 miles per hour. Victorian Albert
Trott, younger brother of Harry,
modelled his style on Turner’s, and,
although a good bowler, both in Aus-
tralia and England, where he qualified
for Middlesex, he never joined the
masters.
* * * *
“P.A.”: Maurice Tate (B. 28/2/’45)
was a much better bowler than even the
sympathetic Australian crowds gave him
credit for. After their first meeting in
a N.S.W. v. England match at Sydney
Cricket Ground, Archie Jackson told me
his stumps must have been charmed,
they were missed by a coat o’ paint so
many times. Bradman himself had a
very unhappy introduction to Tate's
pitch-sizzlers in that match. A few weeks
later it was only the inperturbable
Herbie Collins who pulled Ponsford
through in his first Test match (Pons-
ford scored a century) when he was all
at sea to Tate.
* * * *
“M.G.”: Not before it was due, N. S.
Wales Rugby Union is aiming at estab-
lishing suitable headquarters for the
game. The plan is to combine under
one roof roomy enough administrative
offices and a club in which Union players
and country, inter-State and overseas visi-
tors can get together. As hon. organiser,
H. C. Holden, N.S.W. Rugby Union, 12
Spring-street, Sydney, is gathering into
the fold foundation life members at
25 guineas and foundation members
at five guineas, these payments cover-
ing entrance fee and a year’s subscription
of not more than two guineas.
♦ * ~ * *
“Golesneek”: Australian Rules foot-
ball is apparently regarded as an essential
commodity, since the V.F.L. had to get
the Prices Commission to ratify its de-
cision to increase the price of annual
membership tickets from Bs. 6d. to
10s. 6d. Spread over a season of from
17 to 20 games, half of which may be
played on the home ground, it makes
cheap entertainment even for the extra
coupla bob. All the same, the League
will have to be careful. There are hints
of a black market in players; a b.m. in
membership tickets would be too much.
* * * *
Against a slower man, Hockey Bennell
always puts on a pretty show. Boxing
Cliff Bowen at Leichhardt, he won every
round—there were 15—and might have
scored a knockout had he kept on attack-
ing when Bowen was in trouble. Before
the 12th ended Bowen was a picture no
contemporary artist could have painted;
nose and right eyebrow swollen, nose,
mouth and eyebrow bleeding ; body limp.
He kept going somehow till the gong
sounded for the last time.
Not so slow as in his meeting with
Jack McNamee, Ron Richards did well
to break even with Ern Clingan, much
younger and heavier, at Sydney Stadium.
Long-continued bustling tactics by
Clingan—in previous contests a safety-
first boxer —made some spectators think
he had won, but Richards blocked lots
of blows with his arms, and was always
waiting with counter-punches that kept
the score close. The decision was well
received.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The Duke and Duchess flew over the
city in a silver ’plane. That sounds like
the beginning of a fairy story, but it was
plain fact, last Thursday, when the Duke
and Duchess of Gloucester dropped in
on Sydney to pay their first official visit.
T hey arrived at Mascot at two minutes to
twelve, and were met by Lord and Lady
Wakehurst, State Premier McKell, Rear-
Admiral G. D. Moore, Major-General
Plant, Group-Captain Lachal, R.A.A.F.,
Mascot’s Mayor Lever and the Commis-
sioner of Police.
The Duchess’s slimness was trigly
tailored in soft cerulean tonings. Her
tiny burnt-straw hat with its up-turned
brim, its cluster of berries and its fine,
beigey-brown veil was one of the happiest
things that have happened to Sydney for
many a couponed month. Lady Wake-
hurst’s hat, too, caught the gaze. It was
white, and had a dash of the Mexican
in the upturned edge of its straight brim.
Their Royal Highnesses drove through
the city streets in an open car. They
passed through a dense human avenue
of huzza-ing factory workers out Mascot
way, of school children, of ageing men
and women, of servicewomen and -men,
of shop and office workers, on the jour-
ney from the airport to Admiralty
House. But, alas! the car did the jour-
ney ahead of the published time-table,
and crowds of breathless girls and boys
rushed to vantage points only to find that
the royal car had already passed. There
were confetti and rose leaves for the new
Governor-General and his Duchess;
there was a forest of waving flags; there
were smiles of welcome, and the warm,
excited glances of little children. But
there was no sparkling blue sky to tent
it all. Once again the city greeted the
Gloucesters with a cloudy day.
There was an unrehearsed pastoral
prologue to the Government House re-
ception last Friday night. The cards said
nine o’clock for curtain rise, but there
seemed to be a general opinion that one
should arrive a good twenty minutes
earlier. Long before the hour set guests
by the hundred were assembled at the
gates between the Lodge and G.H. Cars
swung across from the drive to the dewy
grass, and women in long frocks, their
color and pattern leaping to life under
the bright electrics overhead, slowly
paced the lawn from car to iron gate.
It was like a scene in an open-air theatre.
Moth was already there and if Pease-
blossom, Cobweb and Mustardseed had
also decided to blow along none of the
actors standing in the wings in that warm,
still night scene would have been very
surprised.
When the gates opened cars and
humans surged forward —630 of the
latter of the 780 invited. Down the
wide and mirrored hall they went, to the
lower door opening to the drawing-room.
Then in slow procession the guests
arrived at the entrance to the ballroom
whose doors were drawn open. Here
Mrs. C. R. Skene and Wing Commander
Mulroney, R.A.A.F., explained to each
the correct manner of receiving royal
presentation. “Follow your husband,
shake hands and curtsy,” Mrs. Skene
murmured to the ladies.
The setting was as pre-war as most of
the women declared their frocks to be.
Masses of zinnias, asters and red roses
were at vantage points to catch the gay
sparkle of the crystal chandeliers. There
were soft and sweeping frocks, jewels,
long white gloves. Autumn touched the
scene with bright red and yellow leaf and
berry brave in blue bowls on the dais.
This provided rich blue background for
the pastel-toned frocks of the Duchess
and Lady Wakehurst during the presen-
tation scene. This was no filing past
with a catch-as-catch-can smile. Lord
Wakehurst presented each arrival at the
dais, in front of which the Governor, the
Duke, the Duchess and Lady Wakehurst
stood.
The Duchess’s frock was the greeny-
blue of aquamarine. It was softly draped
at the waist, where it was caught with
a diamond clip. Its neckline gleamed
with rhinestones. Her slim erectness,
her direct gaze, her clear, low voice won
admiring murmurs.
All told, the party was a great succes,
and Lady Wakehurst in her hydrangea-
blue crepes was a graceful hostess. Two
other good-lookers were the Viscountess
Clive and the Hon. Henrietta Loder, the
first in pale-grey chiffons, the second in
lorelei-green chiffons, with which she
wore gardenias. Dame Constance
D’Arcy, deputy-chancellor of Sydney
University, who was one of the guests at
the small dinner party preceding the re-
ception, was dignified in a soft and
sweeping black frock.
Making out the list must have been a
headache. This was a very official party.
Church and State (Archbishop Mowll
and Mrs. Mowll and Archbishop Gil-
roy were dinner guests), the Army (from
brigadiers upwards), the Navy (from
captains up) and the civil services made
up the 780. Among the names were
the widows of three former Premiers:
Mrs. Ada Holman and the Wade and
Fuller ladies. Widows of four men
whose names are closely linked with Syd-
ney University were among the invited:
the Anderson Stuart, Anderson, Mac-
Callum and Edgeworth David ladies.
Knight Harry Budge and his wife came
to the party; General Anderson and his
wife were there. U.S. Minister Nelson
Johnson and Mrs. Johnson and U.S.
Consul-General Ely Palmer and Mrs.
Palmer, Lord and Lady Gifford, Chan-
cellor of the University Charles Black-
burn, the L. A. Robbs, the parents of
Australia’s first V.C. (Mr. and Mrs. J. H.
Edmondson, of Liverpool), Lieutenant-
Governor Frederick Jordan and his lady,
Premier and Mrs. McKell and Syd-
ney’s Mayor Neville Harding and his
Mayoress were a few of the many.
This is a photograph of Miss Eileen
Phipps, who has come to Australia
as one of the 'ladies-in-waiting to the
Duchess of Gloucester. Miss Phipps is
a niece of her Royal Highness.
•< orchestra played softly in the
eastern gallery during the reception given
by Mayor and Mayoress Neville Harding
in honor of the Duke and Duchess of
Gloucester. There were 2000 guests, and
therefore no handshakes from the civic
hosts or royalties. The arrivals filed past
the Mayor and Mayoress, who stood inside
the doors leading from the foyer, and
continuing their path up a long expanse
of red carpet, finally drifted into the side
lines, whence they could view later
comers.
The Mayor was impressive in robes of
office, the Mayoress attractive in pale
turquoise crepes, high at the back but cut
into a vee in the front. The whole effect
was very good. Ordinary guests came at
eight. Lord and Lady Wakehurst, who
were greeted in a smaller room, came later.
Later still came the new Governor-General
and his Duchess. They also were received
in the smaller room, and here the aider-
men and their wives were presented.
Then, in procession, the official party
entered the great hall, and between two
waves of humans furrowed by bows and
curtsys and divided by the red carpet,
made its way to the dais below the stage.
The stage was banked high with green
fern and shoot, the galleries about the
hall draped with flags.
When the tumult and the shouting have
died away and he can relax some-
what, the Duke ■of Gloucester should
have some happy hours sailing off Kirri-
billi Point. He has consented to become
Commodore of the Royal Sydney Yacht
Squadron during his term as G.-G. James
Lord Milson is Vice-Commodore, Dr.
Rupert Furber Rear-Commodore and
D’Arcy Mansfield Shelley the captain.
Just before half-past two on Saturday
Kirribilli residents strolled out of their
homes and grouped themselves in neigh-
borly fashion around the gates of Admir-
alty House to give a friendly wave to the
Duke and Duchess as they started out for
113th A.G.H, At the hospital the
Duchess opened the Red Cross cafeteria
and sitting-room, making her first public
speech in clear tones that carried per-
fectly. Her shoes, gloves and stockings
toned with her pretty frock of beige crepe.
Her handbag and shady straw hat were
in dark-brown tones. The royal visitors
spoke to many of the patients, and to
Sister Savage, the only woman survivor
of the Centaur.
Calls on the Anzac Buffet (tumultuous
welcome here), the British Centre, inspec-
tion of Chullora aircraft factory, Cocka-
too Island, where Rear-Admiral Moore,
knight Thomas Gordon and John
Wilson did the honors, quiet dinner par-
ties at the first of which Lord and Lady
Wakehurst were the guests, Sunday
morning service at St. Andrew’s and an
Investiture on Monday were other items
in a busy six days’ programme.
The Sydney Mission to Seamen is
proud of the new motor-truck that was
given to it by the Canadian Women’s
Association of N. S. Wales. This is going
■ to make the cartage of books, gramo-
phones and other amenities left at the
Mission for distribution to various ships
much less of a problem. There are also
many other ways in which that truck will
earn its petrol. There was quite a little
ceremony at its presentation by Canada's
High Commissioner, Mr. Justice Davis.
The money to buy the truck is part of
a grant of £50,000 from the Queen’s Own
Fund of Montreal. This fund was origi-
nally founded for the benefit of bombed
victims in England. When things began
to look gloomy in Australia the Queen's
Own Fund promptly drew a cheque in
favor Of this country. At the handing-
over of the truck there was a smiling
group of members of the Canadian
Women’s Association, included in which
were Mrs. Davis, who accompanied the
High Commissioner, Mrs. N. R. McMor-
ran, the association’s president, Mrs. Roy
Miller, Mrs. Gordon Young and Mrs.
W. A. Fox.
From Melbourne
Flemington racecourse was crowded
with smartly-tailored women for the Aus-
tralian Cup. Skirts, it may be said,
are gradually creeping up, and are at
least two inches shorter than this time
last year. Checks are noticeable, and
the coats are longer, even though skirts
be shorter. Topcoats are no longer worn
to the hem of the skirt but are three-
quarter in length. Snoods were to be
seen in great numbers, and those women
who favored black wore small matching
hats. Talking of hats, at the opening
night of the National Theatre production
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell wore a skull cap
of black net sewn with sequins and
finished with a tiny bow of black tulle.
Among the Englishwomen who are
making a temporary home in this country
is Mrs, Madge Smith, pictured here by
Athol Shmith. As Madge Aubrey, she
visited Australia in the course of a
stage career before her marriage.
The outbreak of war in Europe found her
married and living with her husband on
his rubber plantation some miles from
Penang. Then suddenly the Japanese
struck at Pearl Harbor, Sydney Smith,
her husband, joined the R.A.F. and be-
came a pilot and his wife got herself a
war job. One day she was not permitted
to go to her office. Intelligence had word
that the Japanese intended to bomb
Penang that morning, and sure enough
they did. Waves of Jap bombers passed
over the plantation. On telephoning
later in the day Mrs. Smith discovered
her office was still standing, though build-
ings on either side had been demolished.
Another time the entire household was
in the garden watching a solitary ’plane
dropping leaflets. When the natives
rushed forward to pick them up the ’plane
came down machine-guns blazing. Just
after this, turning on the wireless for
news, Mrs. Smith learned that Penang
was occupied by the Japanese. She had
to quit her home almost at once, at her
husband’s command. Next to leaving
husband and home Mrs. Smith mourns a
little terrier, her constant companion on
theatrical tours. Stage engagements have
kept this talented lass from mourning
over the past. For 12 months she was in
the Kiss and Tell co., and is now a
member of the “Dr. Clitterhouse” cast
Very shortly she will appear in “Kiss and
Tell” in Sydney.
A very smart dresser, Madge wears
brown, which sets off her fair coloring
One brown frock has a fine lace.yoke,
and this is outlined in shimmering bronze
beads. She is still impressed by the
amazing kindness of Australians. At long
intervals she has heard from her husband,
but the news has been many months old
when she has received it. Recently her
telephone was kept busy and letters and
messages came from complete strangers
who had heard a message from Sydney
Smith over short-wave radio from
Batavia, in which he spoke to his wife.
Among other things, her husband said
“Keep smiling,” and she has.
Informality was the keynote of the
afternoon party at the Y.W.C.A. hos-
tessed by Mrs. Essington Lewis to wel-
come the Dixon lady home from Wash-
ington. Before tea was served the guest
of honor spoke of her American experi-
ences to a most appreciative audience of
women. As wife of the Australian Min-
ister in Washington she found herself,
she said, instantly whirled into a busy
round of social engagements. Each day
began with a visit to the cook and a dis-
cussion on the menu and the number of
guests who would be present at luncheon
and dinner. The family of the Minister
had no more ration points than were
allowed to anyone else. Meat was served
only twice each week, but fish and
poultry were easy to obtain, and poultry
was cheaper than meat.
During the first six months the Dixon
family were in Washington there was no
domestic trouble, but later help became
scarce. A colored cook from the West
Indies was obtained with satisfactory re-
sults. Apart from the social round, the
Dixon lady gave some time four days
every week to the American Red Cross.
The first official duty of the Australian
Minister and his wife was to meet Mrs.
Eleanor Roosevelt, who asked many
questions concerning the aborigines of
Australia. Mrs. Stimson, Mrs. Cordell
Hull and Lady Halifax were visited by
the Dixons, also the wives of Empire
Ministers and the European countries.
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, Lady Mayor-
ess, was a guest looking charming in a
black outfit. Mrs. Herbert Brookes wore
a dark-green ensemble. Others present
were members of the United States
Women Auxiliary Corps, in the uniform
of the Red Cross, among them Mrs. Jud
Holt and Mrs. Wilfred Race, and Mrs.
Clarence Spiker, wife of the American
Consul.
The loss of Major-General Vasey and
Major-General Downes was widely
mourned. With their wives they had made
impressive figures at the Government
House reception for the Duke and
Duchess of Gloucester. Both Mrs. Vasey
and Mrs. Downes are tall, handsome
women, and Mrs. Downes at G.H., with
her white hair and clear blue eyes and
beautiful white-beaded gown, was one of
the most attractive women present. Mrs.
Vasey was one of the prime movers in
the A.I.F. Women’s Association activities
and her absence at the Fair in the Town
Hall recently was* keenly felt by her co-
workers.
The Fair was most successful, the
stalls being completely sold out by 4 p.m.
The stall over which Mrs. Peter Mc-
Callum presided was most attractive to
buyers, for all goods were coupon free.
Hand-made undies with dainty em-
broidery embellishing them were eagerly
sought after, and woollies for baby were
also snapped up. Of course the second-
hand stall was rushed and the White
Elephant stall, for which the organisers
had collected an amazing collection, was
also popular. Afternoon-tea was served
in the Lower Town Hall, and at luncheon
time many office workers dropped in, for
unusual salads were a feature of the
menu. At the end of the Fair Mrs.
Walter Carnegie and the Herring lady
were all smiles. With raffles and other
attractions,, the bazaar had helped to
bring the funds to the comfortable sum
of £4OOO. The money will all be used
on behalf of the families of A.I.F. men
and will help to make the Holiday House
at Seaford still more attractive.
Many of the talented youngsters now
appearing in plays and musical comedies
owe their success to the fact that they had
speech training and dramatic art from
talented teachers. So proud of the suc-
cess of former pupil Gwenda Wilson was
Mrs. Maie Hoban that in her honor she
gave one of the nicest parties of last
week. Mrs. Hoban is the Directress ot
Pilgrim Cottage, a school where each
week her pupils give play readings, and,
when ready, perform for various chan-
ties well-known plays. Mrs. Hoban wii
produce as her next contribution ba-
thing But the Truth,” proceeds to go to
the funds of the Opportunity Clubs.


THE OHTER FELLOW' MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Morale in Industry
Reports from the Summer School of
the Institute of Political Science disclose
the cleavage between the views of em-
ployers’ and employees’ associations, and
therefore, presumably, between employers
and employees.
Out of such disunity no good can come.
The future of Australia depends upon
our building our economy upon a firm
and expanding internal market at costs
comparable with those ruling for the
same products overseas, and upon a rela-
tively stable and expanding overseas
market.
We have not sufficient advantages,
except perhaps in the steel industry, to
enable us to compete on the basis of
lower costs only, so we must depend also
upon greater efficiency. But greater effi-
ciency means greater co-operation in in-
dustry ; it depends upon everybody in the
industry getting together with a determi-
nation to produce the best in the shortest
time. It depends upon morale.
We have shown in our defence forces
that we know how to build and maintain
morale. Why cannot we do it in indus-
try? Morale is confidence in one’s own
ability, and in the ability of one’s leaders;
belief that the task is worth doing, and
that one’s contribution is appreciated.
Above all, morale depends on a sense of
working together to reach a common
objective.
In the Army the officer builds up and
maintains morale by putting his men’s
interests before his own, by ensuring to
the best of his ability that they are well
fed, well clothed and well housed; he
sees to it that they are always aware of
the conditions and the objective ; he gives
them their due meed of .praise, and if
rewards are available all share in them.
If, instead of rewards, there is rebuke
or abuse, he takes it.
The Army, as an organisation, ensures
that its personnel is well trained. If tech-
nological changes occur it provides con-
version training without unemployment.
It ensures through welfare and kindred
associations that the home front, the wife
and family behind its worker are not
neglected or forgotten. It provides edu-
cation free of cost.
I am not suggesting that industry should
be able to do all that the fighting services
can do. Industry must produce profits,
which will produce more initiative, and
so on; but a lot can be learned from
service organisations, and I believe that
if experienced ex-service officers were
placed in administrative appointments in
industry much good would result.
If Australia is to have industrial peace
the pattern must be worked out at a
round - table conference over a period
of weeks or months by trade-union
leaders, industrialists, economists, bankers
and Government industrial department
officials. This was done in England at
the Nuffield School, and a plan for the
future was evolved. When such a com-
mittee is found here it will do well to
consider how morale is built and main-
tained in the services.—NX Two Figures
(A.1.F.).
Blacketeering Penalties
On various occasions in Victoria de-
fendants in rationing cases have been
sentenced to imprisonment by magistrates.
Upon appeal to the Court of General
Sessions I cannot recall a single case in
which the sentence was allowed to stand.
In every instance I can remember in
which the conviction was upheld the sen-
tence was replaced by a fine or suspended
upon a good-behavior bond. To a black-
marketeer a fine is only a cheap licence fee.
This leniency is not only doing indirect
harm to Australia’s war endeavors, but
is giving the lead to the layman when he
sits on a jury. Time after time a rob-
bery or similar offence is proved to the
hilt and thrown out by the jury. Again
and again a charge of murder is reduced
to manslaughter or the accused set free.
A late instance is that of the Melbourne
“taxi-cab murder” trial. The accused, on
his own admission, shot dead his friend,
sitting beside him in the cab, and then
killed the driver, who was trying to get
away. Yet the jury found the accused
not guilty of murder, substituting a ver-
dict of manslaughter.—McA- (Vic.).
Democratic Education
Little has been done in Australia to
apply the democratic principle of equality
of opportunity to education. The school-
leaving stage is and will remain fixed on
an age rather than an attainment of a
standard. Standard is governed by the
financial ability of parents to maintain
children at school. The number of
scholarships available is so small that the
winners may be termed exceptions which
prove a rule.
Education is essentially a national
matter. Therefore let the national Gov-
ernment make all education, including
universities, free. Divide into stages and
branches such as primary, secondary,
technical and university, and make entry
to the higher stages competitive.
Such a scheme would ensure that the
professions would be filled by the most
outstanding individuals, whose gradua :
tion from our universities had not been
dependent in any way on the length of
their parents’ purses. If we must have an
aristocracy, let it be an aristocracy of
ability.
Of course, to be logical, there should
be an entrance exam, for Parliament and
a higher one for Ministers. Erk
(R.A.A.F., Vic.).
Backsheesh
I have always admired the enterprise
of our Australian children, but on my
last leave I found some of them more
enterprising than praiseworthy.
I was walking with an A.W.A.S. friend
at Manly when a horde of young boys left
their play to pounce on me. “Give us
a coin, Dig,” they chanted. They swarmed
all over us, mauling me with brazen per-
sistence. Their ages apparently were be-
"No, thanks—just a glass of water to take my atabrin!”
tween seven and 12, and they looked well
cared for.
This is the sort of thing we despise in
Egyptians. Why do Australian parents
allow it and soldiers encourage it? —
Nodup (A.1.F.).
R.A.A.F. Promotions
R.A.A.F. ground staff (men with long
service overseas) are now being returned
to Australia in monthly instalments. It
has been announced (over the air) that
they will be given promotion which will
date back to the date of their disembar-
kation, Thereby hangs a tale.
All promotions of R.A.A.F. personnel
overseas are made by the R.A.F., after
approval by R.A.A.F. headquarters in
Melbourne. This is not satisfactory, and
in practice R.A.F. nx.os. are drafted into
R.A.A.F. squadrons overseas, to the detri-
ment of R.A.A.F. men. No mere Aussie
need apply, whatever- his services or
qualifications.
Australian ground staff n.c.os, who go
overseas are consoled with the news that
on their return to Australia they will be
given the rank they would have held if
they had remained in Australia, dated
back for seniority—but not for pay!—
Friar Tuck (Q.).
War and the Home
A far more serious problem, and one
more vital to Australia’s future than her
scarcity of population, is the fate of
young families of today.
The wife of the absent serviceman lives
in fear, worry and suspense ; children are
growing up without their fathers; homes
are breaking up where marital loyalty
weakens. What should be the best years
of married life are being lived in separa-
tion. Many men have been feeling that
they could be giving more useful service
in civilian life instead of their brains rust-
ing and their years wasting (their words,
not mine). Our small nation surely will
suffer for the dislocation of its family life,
not. only in this but in other generations.
Why doesn’t the Government attempt
some sort of salvage now before it is
too late? Two suggestions are:
(1) That all married servicemen not on
active service in a battle area should, on
application, be allowed their discharge on
attaining 30. (2) In the case of married air-
men, two years should be the limit of ser-
vice, when they should be given their dis-
charge, with the option of signing on for
another term.
I understand that something on the
lines of (2) has been adopted for the
Canadian Air Force overseas Jane
Edwards (Tas.).
Is Japan’s Object Achieved?
Who can say that Japan’s appetite was
insatiable in 1941-42? Quite a few
people think it was satisfied. The Japs
hit out at bases thousands of miles from
Japan just to keep us occupied in de-
fending them. They sacrificed a few
hundred thousand of their men in the
outlying parts to consolidate their inner,
nearer conquests.
We have by-passed 90,000 Japanese
already in New Guinea and New Britain ;
the Philippines are well on the way to
being conquered. Borneo and Celebes,
Timor and Sumatra, as well as hundreds
of other islands, have been by-passed.
The attack on Japan proper may come
next. In a few years we will have thor-
oughly defeated Japan and the war will
be over.
But hundreds of thousands of Japanese
will remain in the islands of the Pacific.
They will now be civilians. As soldiers,
you could shoot a thousand and receive
a decoration. As civilians, shoot one
and you will be hanged.
These Japanese civilians will inter-
marry and populate the islands. And
nothing will be done about it. The
“powers that be” will never bother to
get them all out. “It would cost too
much,” they will say. The Japanese will
be left there to grow and multiply. They
will have achieved their object. They
will have living space. They will gain,
eventually, by population and political
moves that which they failed to achieve
by force. They will fight the next war
on much more advantageous terms. —
C. A. L. (N.S.W.).
Filipino Education
“Lao-dah” (B. 14/2/’45) implies that
the Filipinos were uneducated before the
U.S.A. took over. But education in the
Philippines was considerably advanced
before the U.S. war with Spain. In
Manila there is a university which was
established in 1611 (St. Thomas).
“Lao-dah” refers to the dark gowns of
Spanish priests as symbols of the old dis-
pensation—apparently of dark ways of
ignorance. These same gowns would not
have been unknown at the establishment
of the University of St. Thomas and at
other centres of learning. They were also
present at the establishment in the Philip-
pines by Jesuit fathers of a world-famous
astronomical observatory.
The secular public school system in the
Philippines is also given a pat on the
back by “Lao-dah.” At the present time
there is rather a swing away from this
secular education idea, and some articles
in the “Times” express the opinion that
Britain’s experience of secular education
has been unsatisfactory. Apparently even
in the U.S.S.R. some thought is being
given to the shortcomings of an abso-
lutely secular education. — A. Devereaux
(Q.).
The Dangers of Bureaucracy
Australians should realise that during
the last five years or so a vast bureau-
cracy has been created. This has resulted
in setting up a huge privileged class. The
bureaucrats devise a multitude of regu-
lations to tie down the average citizen,
ration Him rigorously and ordain drastic
punishments against offenders.
One of the inescapable consequences of
such a method of control is the change of
mind of many people. To the love of
money is added the craving of the coupon
and the desire to obtain supplies beyond
the ration. For many there is no dis-
honesty in satisfying their wants by
patronising the black market.
The system is of a sort which may not
be entirely avoidable in war-time and is
not confined to Australia, but it should
be the determination of every Australian
to use his influence and vote to end such
a state of affairs as soon as possible. Let
us have our freedom to choose our way of
life as thinking beings and not be treated
like a lot of sheep.—R. R. K. (W.A.).
Post-war Travel
Thousands of young Australians have
been sent to England during the past five
years to wage war. They have gained a
knowledge of the history, life and cus-
toms of the people of the Mother Coun-
try that has given them a new pride in
their relationship with her. Returning,
they speak highly of the people and the
country they helped to defend. Not
only the fortitude in war impressed them,
but the general way of life, the kindli-
ness and good humor. Why shouldn’t
this experience in war-time be applied to
times of peace?
I suggest a scheme whereby boys and
girls of from 18 to 20 should be given an
opportunity to visit Britain for a six
months’ stay. Youngsters representing
every branch of society should be in-
cluded, and social distinctions ignored.
Travel to Great Britain could be either
via India and Suez or South Africa, a
few days being spent at any part of the
Empire touched. In Britain itself organ-
ised tours under efficient guidance could
be'made to places of historical interest,
and also to the great industrial and art
centres. Arrangements should also be
made for the Australian visitors to spend
some time in British homes, and to have
the opportunity of meeting and mixing
freely with youngsters of their own ages.
The parties could return via Canada, and
so have practically completed an Empire
tour.
Such a development would not only
tighten the bonds between Britain and
Australia, increasing security in our part
of the Pacific, but it should provide Aus-
tralia with an excellent advertisement. —
A. M. (Vic.).
War-torn Europe will be depressing
for years, so there will be a big tourist
trade ready to be diverted to pastures
new as soon as peace is declared. The
handicap of our insularity has been over-
come, thanks to aviation.
Queensland has plenty of superb
beaches, but the foreshores remain as
they were a hundred years ago. It is
left to the shire councils to develop
them, and they can’t do it quickly
enough. Most of their income is derived
from farmers, so they have to spend it
on keeping the roads passable for the
farmers to get their produce to market.
Week-end shacks are built, a store is
erected here and there. A seaside resort
is born, to grow sprawling as a vine
without a trellis. No shade or decorative
trees are planted ; no parks are formed,
though such colorful plants as poin-
cianas, laburnums, silky oaks, oleanders,
bougainvillea and crotons with a little
care will grow profusely at the seaside.
Mountain resorts such as Binna Burra
and some of the islands of the Great
Barrier Reef also need developing.
The State requires skilful landscape
gardeners to plan, build and beautify.
Good hotels, world-wide publicity, good
organisation, services guaranteed and
inter-State co-operation are necessary to
develop a tourist trade which would
create more jobs for Australians. —G. R.
(Q-).
Steam v. Petrol
Probably no other mechanical factor
could benefit Australia more than the
introduction of a really cheap but effi-
cient form of transport. Therefore I sug-
gest that the possibilities of steam for
mobile traction power should be investi-
gated, preferably under Government
auspices,»
Steam, still recognised by engineers as
the most efficient form of engine power,
is singularly suited to Australian require-
ments, and home-produced fuels. Most of
the constructional difficulties that limited
steam practice can now be overcome by
the use of modern methods and metals
(e.g., stainless steel) and the low number
of working parts means low manufactur-
ing costs.
A steam motor suited to Australian
purposes might burn crude oil, but could
possibly be adapted to use other low-
grade fuels, such as brown coal, on farm
tractors. Steams develop a high, steady
power, ideal for large cars, trucks and
tractors. — Fowse (R.A.A.F.).


fr ' *i. »
* |H( *** - 11 w " vr I* $ * ' ’
-S i • '
£v i
>< ," ' x -xi ■■• ■
mif
yy '' : .* f " ■ ’■' ■■:■\ v : , 4
-
s'
mm
s '
Mi
wm
1 >;•:•
Mi
all
>*
i iS:
St ...<
■fe ■' i
s>, ' s';
SMx 'MS
B;W:
■ u
"«rr>
«**¥
>'
in
m
mmmm
' ; '
111 k
p
■
.
J'.
: rww;
• S
. . IvV^.uifoi
;5X
'IS.,
:
:«>;X
;xs
-;VS : -- :: v
.
iililiiiliii
I »
&&
i
:M;
xii
id
ilil
; : s’
0B
m
:%: Vv <:
.•••:•: ,
.
■xx
iffi i ffl
’•X • .*
¥y>S
W
Mis
! Si
si;
I
Ml;
Mil
■
fiiil
m
■
-x :; -x- : r;vi^ ; i>:
■ Sfeitx
’■’ ■'• X. : 'is ■'■■X-
; j
•■■X"
ii ix-x- -, .
A most unusual I
actory
I / UST imagine! Munitions you can eat and drink! Yet .* •
that is just what this most unusual munitions factory
f / produces. MUNITIONS MADE FROM MILK AND OTHER
VITAL INGREDIENTS: The munitions of health!
The factory you see above is one of a chain of Nestle’s factories
throughout Australia; a chain which links health, economic stability,
employment and national welfare with vital food requirements fot
the fighting forces and for all on the home front.
To this and the other Nestle’s factories come millions upon millions
of gallons of milk annually, the output of many hundreds of
Australian dairy farmers . . . rich, pure milk from herds which arc
inspected regularly by Nestle’s veterinary experts . . . from farms
where the highest standards of hygiene are insisted upon.
To these factories, also, come huge quantities of Australian-grown
sugar and barley, for the condensing and malting of the milk, cocoa
beans for chocolate, and many other raw materials indispensable to
essential food products.
Many millions of tins, cartons and glass jars arc required to protect
freshness and purity ... all made in Australia. Then the timber
industry plays its part, providing cases to ensure safe transport*
COPYRIGHT RJOW
And so the work goes on, extending employment to industry after
industry. It takes a mighty army of people to provide you with Nestlc’s
products . . . thousands of men and women to process, pack, label,
despatch and transport; dietitians and laboratory technologists to
supervise formulae . , . engineers, electricians, agricultural experts
and a host of others all helping to meet the urgent national need.
And even these resources have had to be expanded to meet the super-
demands of war, again providing scope for Australian skill, workman-
ship, plant and equipment.
To-day, Nestle*s is more than a great Australian industry. It
has become a national institution, making a vital contribution
to the health, welfare, employment and economic stability of
the Australian people . That is why, in a very literal sense, the
S'
name NESTLE*S has become a household word throughout
the country •
A HOUSEHOLD WORD THROUGHOUT AUSTRALIA
