

GRAPE VINEGAR
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE BUY VICTORY BONDS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” VoL 66—No. 3403
Wednesday, May 2, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office. Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaoor.
Seppelts
THE BANQUETING HALL, KNEBWORTH.
THE Banqueting Hall, Knebworth, is vividly described in the
autobiography by Edward Bulwer, Lord Lytton, as he first saw
it in his childhood. The aspect and associations of Knebworth
had a powerful and permanent influence on his imagination. The
character of the house was in itself a romance,” he says; “the
long gallery was covered with faded portraits, the chambers
bristled with gloomy arras. The antlers of stags, so vast that their
genus seems to have vanished from our parks and forests, like
things before the Ark, were ranged below the grim Gothic masks
that served as corbels to the beams of the lofty ceiling that domed
the desolate banquet hall.” There were trap doors and hiding
places, and a kind of oubliette called “Hell-hole.” “How could
I help writing romances when I had walked, trembling at my own
footsteps, through the long gallery, with its ghostly portraits, mused
in those tapestry chambers, and peeped, with bristling hair, into
the shadowy abysses of Hell-hole?” His mother, Elizabeth Lytton,
spent a short time of her girlhood here with her father, a scholar
wrapped up in his work, and then engaged in writing a drama —
in Hebrew ; a drama, too, intended for the stage! “Elizabeth
collected legend and ghost tale; and contracted intimate friendship
with her ancestors through the medium of their dusky portraits
and the yellow pedigrees and papers which mouldered in the
‘Muniment Room.’ She accompanied Sir Giles to the holy wars
and the siege of Askalon, with her kinsman, the great Constable
of Chester; or followed with the first Sir Robert the fortunes of
the Lancastrian Duke and his mysterious, witch-like wife ; saw the
second Sir Robert beside Henry of Richmond, or welcomed, with
handsome Sir Rowland, the visit of the man-like Tudor.”


dfs
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE ,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND- MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
The Red Page
Compared with Excellence.
It cannot really be conceded that a
man is a good poet because he wishes to
reform the world. And if he wishes to
reform Australia—an uncomfortable but
perhaps more appealing ambition ; or if
he is young and therefore to be sympa-
thised with ; or if he has .an engaging per-
sonality, the test in all cases is the same ;
simply, does he write well?
Miss Florence Hagelthorn, who has
published her own The Lost Cause and
Other Verses at 85 Powlett-street, East
Melbourne, has an extremely engaging
personality: —
These, whether one agrees with them
or not, are creditable sentiments. But,
faced with the necessity of examining
their literary merits, the reviewer can
only strike himself three times upon the
breast and turn to The Life of Dr. John-
son: —
We talked of a lady’s verses on Ireland.
MISS REYNOLDS. “Have you seen them.
Sir?” JOHNSON. “No, Madam, I have
seen a translation from Horace, by one of
her daughters. She shewed it to me.”
MISS REYNOLDS. “And how was it,
Sir?” JOHNSON. “Why, very well for a
young Miss’s verses: that is to say, com-
pared with excellence, nothing; but, very
well, for the person who wrote them.”
For poetry that is well not only for the
person who wrote it, but for the world’s
literature, one could turn to Hugh
McCrae’s Forests of Pan (Meanjin Press,
Brisbane) or the admirable summer issue
of “Meanjin Papers” or to Leonard
Mann’s The Delectable Mountains
(Angus and Robertson). The “excellence”
Dr. Johnson demands is to be found most
readily, of course, in the McCrae book-
let: —
In “Meanjin Papers,” besides a short
story by Vance Palmer and the most
interesting array of critical articles the
journal has yet printed, there is Judith
Wright talking about an Australian family
that lost itself, as it were, in time, change
and the bush; —
The wrinkled ewes snatch pansies- through the
fence
and stare with shallow eyes into the garden
where Lucy shrivels waiting for a word
and Millie’s cameos loosen round her throat.
The bush comes near, thd ranges grow immense.
And there is Peter Middleton writing of
PapUa’s “World Without Women”; —
I keep my eyes on the path,
my ears are deaf to the dread sweet sound
which, some unguarded moment, might invade
my poor defence,
as, music on her mouth and in her eyes,
she compasses my ruin with a dream.
Leonard Mann’s writing rarely has this
sort of immediately striking excellence.
Where others fly he plods. But in the
long run —his step lightening as he throws
off his pack of politics and raises his
eyes to that world of Nature which is his
true theme and inspiration—he arrives at
much the same place. The conclusion to
Australian Soldier” will bear compari-
son with any excellence: —
In jungle green and desert dust
We see a small suburban street,
The sun-struck bush and pastured sheep
A beach and gold-dust on the wheat.
I can imagine a man might
Break his heart that he should come
No more along a stretch of road
And see a solitary gum.
It’s hardly to be expected that in a
magazine or in any man’s volume of
poems — even Hugh McCrae’s — there
would be an unvarying level of merit.
Leonard Mann slips badly at times; —
Soldiers, workers, to arms, to work!
You are the living cells
Of the man hero who shall slay
The triple-headed Fascist beast.
Not that these are not extremely proper
sentiments: but, as Mr. Churchill recog-
nises when, rather unsuccessfully trying to
avoid a corruption of English, he
describes Hitler simply as “that bad man,”
a “Fascist beast” is a cliche ; and the
stanza as a whole, obviously intended to
sound like a drum or a trumpet, has no
more boom or trump about it than a
lump of wood. Leonard Mann has two
consciences; a poet’s and a social re-
former’s. The two are at war through-
out his verse, and it says much both for
his innate capacity as a writer and his
devotion to the arts that, on the whole,
the poet wins. A book of poems is sub-
mitted to the world as a book of poems,
and it is Leonard Mann’s’“patient and
conscientious craftsmanship that makes
The Delectable Mountains moderately
delectable.
There are no politics in Forests of Pan.
McCrae might never have heard of the
referendum, birth control or Hitler. Yet
to condemn the philosophy behind his
lyrics as trivial one would have to say
that art, joy, beauty and love are trivial.
If McCrae’s “ideas” were under discus-
sion it would be easy enough to prove that
his songs have, in fact, more social value
than most of the more obviously socio-
logical poems of other writers. A man
might go more cheerfully to work, war
or the reformation of the world on being
informed that he is “a living cell of the
man hero who shall slay the Fascist
beast”; yet one imagines that he would
work, fight or think up regulations for
the annoyance of mankind much more
heartily if he had been fed on
The point to be made here, however, is
not that Hugh McCrae is thus an im-
portant social reformer, but that he
writes excellent lyrical poetry. Forests
of Pan, edited by R. G. Howarth, is “a
selection of poems not hitherto reprinted
from Hugh McCrae’s Satyrs and Sun-
light,” intended to bring forward verses
that were inexplicably omitted from the
Poems published by Angus and Robert-
son in 1939. Another sample of the very
high quality, sometimes charming and
sometimes of a glittering splendor, to be
found throughout the booklet: —
One may compare with that a few lines
from Ian Mudie’s Poems: 1934-1944
(Georgian House, Melbourne); —
And also something from Flexmore Hud-
sons As Iron Hills (Robertson and Mul-
lens) ; —
Far out on the plain a young bull is blaring
his want;
there is no mistaking what he means.
We, too, poets, must blare what we want.
Ian Mudie and Flexmore Hudson are
both possessed by high ideals. Mudie has
obviously a passionate love for Australia.
And Flexmore Hudson, though lacking
the other’s passion, is frequently to be
found sitting in the middle of a saltbush
plain and loving everybody in the world ;
and in this most difficult feat he un-
doubtedly thinks he is sincere. Both, too,
can write well on occasion. Ian Mudie’s
“Traveller,” for instance; —
Flexmore Hudson’s longish poem “In-
delible Voices,” written in the simple
discipline of the four-line stanza, was
praised by the Red Page when it was
first published ; and throughout his work,
in love lyrics and descriptions of nature,
there are lines and stanzas capably done:
The horses doze drooping their heads in hot
bushes;
till sundown not one bird will sing again ;
nothing moves but a dog-tired cloud
dragging a shadow on the sleepy plain.
But in the work of both writers the
final impression is not of merits but of
faults. Instead of meeting on page after
page, as in Forest of Pan, flashes of aston-
ishing beauty, one meets on page after
page Flexmore Hudson’s woolliness or
Ian Mudie’s stumblings. Instead of feel-
ing, as with Leonard Mann, that some
falling-short of inspiration has been at
least partly atoned for by most conscien-
tious craftsmanship, one feels that neither
Hudson nor Mudie cares a tuppenny
damn how he writes. A moment’s reflec-
tion would surely have told Ian Mudie
that “hitches our national waggon to the
stars of Australia’s dream” is dreadful
stuff.
Mudie has two especial ways of writ-
ing bad verse: he falls into the traditional
high-falutin poetic jargon: —
Then eucalyptine shores descried arrive....
and then he uses the contemporary free-
dom as an excuse for a jargon flatter and
clumsier still: —
The bones
of sheep lie ’neath the standing skeletons
of trees man slew in pocket-bulging race
for bigger cheque and s Toorak-mansion dream.
A writer blinded by an idea —the “Aus-
tralian dream”—Mudie too often mis-
takes mere metaphor for the illumination
of vision, sometimes with ludicrous
results: — •
Baa-ah, baa-ah;
when sheep rush, when men rush, wildings fall
back;
back, back before the rush. Sheep, sheep,
hooves, hooves.
But here and there one sheep stops, lifts head,
stares, sees, hears, becomes erect. A voice
booms . ..
Sheep becomes kangaroo.
Although he is not altogether happy
when he records
my soul is a frog with crushed utriculus
spinning
giddy down depths of horror, fear and cold . . .
Flexmore Hudson’s verses are free, on
the whole, from the obvious lapses of Ian
Mudie’s. His great fault is vagueness.
Failing to bring to his short poems the
power and precision that stamp McCrae’s
unforgettably on the mind, he rambles
amiably along in his more elaborate
pieces without ever pausing to consider
whether he is writing prose or poetry ;
or, it might be added, whether it is sense
or nonsense. Does he really believe, for
instance, that poets should “blare” like
bulls; does he maintain, in any case, that
writing of this sort: —
One low star shows red in the west. ..
I am happy still. . .
I have sent up this shout, this blaring,
before I too am poisoned by horror or hate,
before misery sends me mad or withers thought,
while I am happy still
sounds even remotely like the long, sonor-
ous trumpeting of a Hereford on the sky-
line at dusk?
Flexmore Hudson has probably been
reading Walt Whitman, and would like
to utter in Australia something like the
“barbaric yawp” which that mighty old
tub-thumper sent howling over the roof-
tops of America. Hudson would like,
that is to say, to have his poems accepted
for their philosophy. It’s a dangerous
ambition. Not everyone can make him-
self, as old Walt did, such a giant of a
“yawper” that criticism, while refusing, as
it must, to accept him as a poet, tells him
to go ahead and yawp for the fun and
the fire of it.
It seems just possible that Ian Mudie
could be accepted in this way; if not
as a poet, as a rhetorician. But
Flexmore Hudson’s thought is neither
strong nor original. It is easy enough to
sit down in a saltbush plain and express
kindly thoughts about Tibetans and Eski-
mos ; but it is much more sensible to face
the truth that not only distant nations
but most of one’s own relatives are not
entirely lovable. The love proper to
poetry is not Flexmore Hudson’s vague,
evangelistic afflatus but the ironic detach-
ment that approves of the scorpion for
exactly what it is, magnificently deadly
and evil.
Flexmore Hudson has fallen head-
long into the bog of humanitarianism
and is not likely to make much impres-
sion as a thinker while he continues to
flounder there. Also, he really must drop
his unmannerly practice of button-holing
the reader —“I want to help you climb
the mountain of my courage,” etc., etc.
However much he may think he loves
Australians, Eskimos or Papuans, a
writer is not entitled to assume that they
wish to be “helped” by him ; there must
be quite a lot of Eskimos who, precisely,
do not wish to go mountaineering with
this author, and quite a lot of Papuans
who, if they did, would eat him.
“I can no longer bother to rhyme a
pretty song,” says Flexmore Hudson.
McCrae “bothered” ; that’s * the whole
difference.
Hudson and Mudie, afflicted like
Leonard Mann with a social conscience,
have totally surrendered to it. The times
are troubled, the future uncertain, the
world calls to the humanitarian, the
nation to the patriot. But what makes
the nation great and enriches the life of
the world? What is demanded of the
artist?
What else but excellence?
But the Hagelthorn, kneeling down at the back
of the church,
Striking herself upon the breast three times,
said:
“Lord, give the country a Yes victory on August
the Nth.”
And she also has some desire to reform
Australia and, possibly, the world: —
Dear God,
Re the debate on birth control
I hope You listened in? Upon my soul!
Upon the nation’s “Forum of the Air” —
I never heard such badness anywhere.
Except for Enid Lyons and Colin Clark
The whole thing had me frozen stiff and stark.
He saw the tender flowers change
To silver ladies, slow and slim,
Star-eyed, mysteriously strange ...
Veiled to the navel in the dim
Deep cloud of water under him.
Behold, I am love’s prisoner—
Yet would I not go free
Though all the Queens of Nineveh
Bared golden breasts to me.
Nay! Hark! .. . 1 hear her petticoat
Lap-lapping like a wave
That' bears a Naiad-child afloat;
And O, again that stave
Of music from her throat.
Beat high, glad heart o’ me!
Go, place the pretty looking-glass,
Set in its silver tree,
Where she may pose again and pass
In fresh conspiracy.
Down time, and down tomorrows,
with the Southern Cross for team,
he hitches our national waggon
to tire stars, of Australia’s dream.
For when I think of water or of boats
I see a Murray steamer chunking to a bend,
or else a Flarbor ferry breasting to the Quay,
or yet a rope-wet vision comes
of river punts and barges
between flood-footed gums.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Noel Coward is a bright lad, and he is
at his bright best in “Blithe Spirit” at
the Comedy, Melbourne. Everything is
blithe about it—especially the situation
in which a bubbling idiot of a clairvoyant,
having succeeded in materialising not
only the first wife of an English subur-
ban Casanova, but also the second when
she has been hustled off to the astral
sphere by the first one, has to try to send
both spouses back to incorporeality;
which doesn’t prevent them continuing
to haunt the husband by banging doors,
knocking pictures off their nails and
breaking vases. Mr. Coward is too bright
or too war-weary to exploit the matri-
monial situation thus created in his usual
naughty manner, so the farce or extrava-
ganza remains essentially a smart under-
graduate’s joke which effervesces through
three acts and seven scenes, and blithely
finishes with the husband bolting from his
dwelling. Aileen Britton, Reginald New-
son, Maude Crougey, Bettina Welch and
Letty Craydon succeed in delivering Mr.
Coward’s lines with such velocity that
much of the dialogue is soundless or lost
to posterity in the laughter. Edwin Styles
loses Edwin Styles with more success than
usual as the husband.
“Curtain Raiser”: Having spent two
hours 40 minutes with “For Whom the
Bell Tolls” at Melbourne State, I can’t
see eye to eye with those who found it
a fine film. Gary Cooper and Ingrid
Bergman may be great actors, though I
know a dozen amateurs in Melbourne
who are better, but after a couple of
hours of alternate close-ups and receding
shots I could have easily imagined I had
been looking at a glassed enclosure at the
aquarium in the Exhibition building, the
rocky landscape and the strange colors
enhancing the illusion. Hemingway has
a world reputation as a writer, and there
are some powerful scenes in his book;
but both book and film are unsound at
the core because of that commonplace,
gimcrack, sentimental love story.
“The Suspect” (Sydney Victory): Kind-
hearted, jovial man goaded to commit murder,
which he does very efficiently, being snared in
the end only because of his chivalry. Charles
Laughton’s respectable killer is a masterpiece
of sureness, and Rosalind Ivan’s nagging virago
is unique on the screen for its sheer raw vin-
dictiveness.
“Air Force” (Sydney Tatler): A Flying
Fortress which, diverted from a flight to Hono-
lulu on Pearl Harbor morning, eventually makes
a landing in Australia and takes part in a strike
against an invasion fleet. Howard Hawks,
whose aerial films are always carefully docu-
mented, has again done good work with his
cameras, and the story’s convincing.
“Together Again” (Sydney State): Light satire
on respectability and family pride, in the facile,
practised hands of Charles Boyer and Irene
Dunne. Charles Coburn, as usual, rolls through
the film as Cupid.
“Passage to Marseille” (Sydney Plaza):
Convicts who escape from Devil’s Island and
become patriots in a Free French squadron of
the R.A.F. Too muqh use of the flashback
technique robs the film of tension. Humphrey
Bogart and Claude Rains in good form.
“Cauboy”: If I were asked who was
responsible for the success of Melbourne
CEMA’s musical festival I would be in-
clined to answer: “Melba.” Most Aus-
tralian mothers whose infants show an
interest in music think they have per-
chance produced an incipient Melba or
a future Brownlee ; just as the fathers, if
their male offspring show an interest in
ball games, think they have produced a
Bradman. It is individuals like Melba,
not movements, who create a tradition,
and CEMA had an enormous ready-made
reservoir of musical talent to draw from.
There isn’t the same reservoir of dramatic
talent in Melbourne, and the festival of
drama wasn’t of the same exalted order.
Included in it was an overcrowded pro-
gramme of ballet at the National Theatre,
wherein the cleverest dancers were P.
Perrottet and Jean Alexander, and the
most engaging item a playful scene set
to Johann Strauss’s music. The Puppet
Guild of Australia ambitiously attempted
the Insect Play of the brothers Capek and
an amusing skit on Henry the Horrible,
by Maurice Baring. Ever faithful to the
highest, veteran producer Beresford
Fowler released “The Wild Duck” of Ibsen.
At time of writing Catherine Duncan’s
Australian play “Sons of the Morning,
placed in Crete, hadn’t been inspected.
Len Annois, whose water-colors, oils
and lithographs are on view at David
Jones’s, Sydney, seems to be an ex-
tremely impressionable artist. As a water-
colorist he is reminiscent sometimes of
Blamire Young, sometimes of Kenneth
Macqueen. In oils he paints, on occa-
sion, in the manner of William Dobell.
He is at his best when his subject domi-
nates him, as in the seashore water-colors
“Shoreham Beach,” “Flinders’s Head-
lands” and “Apollo Bay.” “Templestowe
Hills,” the best of his oils, shows a very
pretty taste in color and design. The
lithographs are examples of good,
vigorous drawing, especially “Rough-
house,” a print of which has found
place in Victoria’s National Gallery.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE”
%
o
b/)
bp l
m
v
>6
/ }
W
o
o
m
iymim
%
55»
r
in
m
>'y
m
%
si.
l> ?
Pi
m
m
mm
m
m
m
Hi
Mi
m
m
m
m
mm
m
m
v;
m
mm
/i4AHCa^t
i
&SS&-
SBB
'
'
1
iPiii
sera;*
\s
■&J
wrrjs
■■■•■■
)
<<&•
<V
TPy
Hv-ks
■A' \ **
SS?» •■ S?
%
f (i i fvv^.^
> 'ir v-AO 2
p V-
**>o*
»•*/
V' ' *
s\?
v
&< 0
%3 JpL
■s
'
wm
■■< v
freest
;,- ■
FASHION SHIRTING. Quality
Fashion Shirting is now procur-
able in a wide range of striped
designs in Blue, Tan and
Green tonings. They are
obtainable in various grades.
36 inches wide.
Prices, 3/3, 3/9, 3/ll|, yd.
3 coupons yard.
PRINTED WINCEYETTE. We
can now offer a very wide
selection of designs in a fine
quality Printed Winceyette for
Ladies' and Children's Wear.
Floral and striped effects on
white grounds. Colours are
fast. 36 inches wide . 3/2 yard
3 coupons yard.
• Manchester Dept. —
Ground Floor, Pitt Street.
*, -
Freight paid in N.S.W. The difference between
Interstate and N.S.W. Postage will be charged.
CRIMEAN FLANNEL for men's
and boys' warm winter Py-
jamas. This material of British
manufacture will satisfac-
tory wear. Broad, Fancy Blue
or Fawn striped designs. 29
inches wide 6/1 yard
2i coupons yard.
ANTHONY HORDERNS
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT) POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


CIRCUS FOR BELGRADE
By
JOHN FOUNTAIN.
THEY lined up under the trees in the
harf darkness, two hundred - odd
dirty, ragged P.O.Ws.; Australians,
New Zealanders and Englishmen,
the backwash of the tide of German in-
vasion, which, arrogant and invincible
in those early days of the war, had swept
at its pleasure through Greece and Crete.
“I thought so,” Hamilton said to Bob,
the tall Kiwi. “We’re in Belgrade all
right. We got off at a siding. And this,” he
paused impressively, “is the King’s palace.”
Hamilton was fortyish, thin normally
and thinner than ever now. He had mild,
thoughtful brown eyes, a slow voice and
lank black hair streaked with grey which
had thickened to solid patches at the
temples. Back at Bardia he had won the
M.M.
“Been here before, Len?” Bob asked
curiously.
“Yes,” Hamilton said shortly.
“I wish I’d seen the town,” Bob said.
“Didn’t think I’d make that hill, though.
So this is the Palace, eh? Maybe the
Jerries are going to try to convert us by
kindness. You can have the King’s bed,
Len, you’re older than me. A Princess’s
will do me,”
Bob swayed forward slightly as the
“black-out” hit him, screwed up his bril-
liant blue eyes and shook his bare head.
They had become accustomed to “black-
outs” now —momentary mists of black-
ness that spun before their eyes and left
them weak and dizzy. He lifted his head
and grinned at Hamilton. “Doing it in
style, aren’t we?”
“Yair,” Darky, the nuggety Queens-
lander standing behind Hamilton, grun-
ted. “Special train and all.”
Hamilton wondered how old Bob was.
About twenty, he decided. He noted
idly how sunken his eyes were and how
they seemed to have acquired a fixed
glare during the last few days in the
cattle trucks. His square, youthful face
was pinched and predatory and even his
smile was slightly wolfish.
“What are we waiting for?” Darky
yelled suddenly, at the top of his voice,
for no apparent reason.
A torrent of unintelligible words
answered him from the head of the col-
umn. The voice was loud and furious.
Hamilton disliked it on the spot.
The guard to their left came abruptly
to life, took three quick steps forward
and gave Darky a neat butt-stroke.
Darky fell forward without a sound.
Rikki Ihaki, a round-faced Maori from
Hawke’s Bay, grabbed him and pulled
him to his feet almost before he hit the
ground. The guard went back to his
position and stared woodenly into space
as before.
The under-officer who owned the loud
and furious voice began a tour of in-
spection. If a foot was out of line he
ground a steel-shod heel into it, his un-
blinking little eyes on the man’s face.
Two soldiers armed with tommy-guns
stood at his elbow.
A SERB narednik, a bow-legged cav-
alryman with a ferocious moustache
and melancholy black eyes, met them in
the bleak quadrangle behind the first row
of darkened buildings and took them to
their quarters. They were stables; un-
used, apparently, for there was no straw
on the chilly, slimy concrete floor.
A Yugoslav lit a candle.
“Don’t we get anything to eat tonight,
either?” Jimmy complained. He stood
looking down at them miserably, shoul-
ders drooping. All their shoulders
drooped now —empty bellies did that —
but Jimmy’s had a spiritual droop, a
sickness of soul which was reflected in
his pale blue eyes. A fair young man,
pink-skinned under his grime, his sandy
beard had altered him amazingly.
“Dry your eyes,” Hamilton coun-
selled him brutally. “We mightn’t eat
for ages yet. Here,” he pulled a cigar-
ette from his pocket and carefully divided
it into thirds, “See if this will cheer you
up.”
“Where did you get it, Len?”
A volley of shots answered him and
Jimmy dropped like a stone as someone
snuffed out the candle.
“Are you hit, Jimmy?” Bob asked
anxiously through the darkness. “Not
—yet,” Jimmy replied, a little breath-
lessly. “Give me a bit of that blanket,
Len, blast you.”
Bob rolled over on his elbow. “You
know, Len, I’m sorry we didn’t see Bel-
grade. We might never have another
chance.”
“We’ll see it,” Hamilton said grimly,
“What do you mean?”
Hamilton’s reply was lost in another
volley followed by a few scattered shots.
“Hell, that was close. What’s wrong
with the bastards?” Darky demanded.
“The first ones were Lights Out, The
others are just fun and games—larkin’
like,” said a voice from the other side.
Hamilton recognised it as belonging to
the diminutive K.R.R. sergeant-major.
“Are you a Geordie, mate?” Hamil-
ton asked.
“Aye, Newcastle-on-Tyne.”
Hamilton was asleep when the next
shot came, but Jimmy, miserably hunt-
ing for chats, heard it distinctly, it came
so close: it killed Bob while he slept, he
neither beard nor felt it,
‘ l l OOK out, Len, here comes Billy
J — the Pig,” a warning voice called
when the prisoners were tasting the air
and the sunlight next morning. Hamil-
ton, who had been talking through the
wire to a Serb officer in the adjoining
compound, discreetly withdrew.
The under-officer—-a small, fat, almost
comic little man with a bar of 1914-18
ribbons and the Iron Cross third class —
had been christened Billy the Pig by
mutual consent.
Billy the Pig normally walked, or
rather charged, with that bounding blood-
and-guts-and-efficiency gait which all
German under-officers strove to attain.
With Billy it was partly natural, for he
was an energetic soul. At intervals, al-
most shyly, he practised the dignified,
leisurely, commissioned - rank stroll.
Rather remote, as though on a tour of
inspection from another planet, and ob-
viously preoccupied with matters of high
military import.
On these occasions Billy’s faithful
henchman. The Blond Beast, would step
up the tempo of his own bustling, hard-
boiled swagger. The Blond Beast was
a strapping youngster, handsome, high
colored, with eyes as blue and icy
as Arctic water and a livid scar run-
ning from the centre of his forehead to
the corner of his right eye. He was an
under-officer, too, a grade lower than Billy,
and he wore the bright Norway ribbon.
Billy came closer and stood, arms
akimbo, staring loweringly at a group of
Serb officers on the other side of the wire.
He shouted to them and motioned them
away with an outflung sweep of his palm.
They started to walk away. He shouted
again, more vehemently this time. They
shrugged and walked a little faster. Billy
turned a faint purple, whipped his revol-
ver out and fired five shots in rapid suc-
cession. He leant forward, peering in-
tently, the smoking revolver dangling
loosely from his plump hand.
“Drei,” he announced, turning to the
Blond Beast.
“Ja! Drei!” The Beast rumbled ad-
miringly. Three of the five bodies on the
ground were dead.
“Not bad shooting for a squarehead,”
Maitland, the K.R.R. sergeant-major ad-
mitted, a twinge of professional envy in
his voice. He wrinkled up his tanned,
rough-hewn face and narrowed his hard,
reddish-brown eyes, “Not ’arf bad for
that range.”
“Why did he shoot them, anyway?”
Hamilton asked Louis Stone, the little
East End Jew from the* King’s Royal
Rifles, when they fell into line near the
gate half an hour later.
Louis grimaced and gestured briefly.
“He told them to run and they walked.
That’s all.”
T* HE prisoners stood in a straggling
1 line while the guard counted them,
scratched his head, and counted them
again. The Blond Beast blustered over,
had a one-sided conversation with the
guard and did the job himself.
Billy the Pig, who had been watching
his subordinates with a beady, distrustful
eye, came over, shouted impartially at the
prisoners, the guards, the Blond Beast and
the wooden sentry at the gate, numbered
them off quickly himself and marched
them down the gravel drive and into the
tree-shaded avenue.
Jimmy was in front of Hamilton, limp-
ing badly. “Pity Bob isn’t here,” he said.
“We’re going to see Belgrade after all.
Hamilton made no reply. He felt at
his lowest ebb. He had known Bob only
since their capture, but in many ways
they had been better cobbers than he and
Jimmy were. Bob was younger than
Jimmy, blit his had been a strong spirit,
finding humor and romance in unlikely
places.
Since their capture the men had be-
come increasingly conservative in their
friendships, splitting into little groups,
self-sufficient cells of three or four men,
presenting a united front to an unfriendly
world. Within the cell there was com-
radeship ; outside was chaos.
Hamilton had seen plenty of men
killed, in Libya and Greece. They had
died, fighting, in the flood tide of battle.
He hadn’t felt sorry for them. Later he
had watched others die of wounds,
neglect, dysentery, or at the caprice of
some armed moron: but he lived in a
cold daze, gripped by the apathy of
semi-starvation, with emotions exhausted
by excess, In that state no horrors could
shock him.; the incredible had become
unremarkable, and only food and sleep
could give him much pleasure: but this
was different; Bob’s death had cut into
the protective shield of the cell.
They passed from the shaded park into
the glare of the street. Hamilton began
to sweat; that was the sign of weakness,
he knew, to sweat so soon. This was
the better part of the town. High walled
gardens and trees partly hid tall, brown-
ish stone buildings with sharply sloping
roofs. The city lay sprawled beneath
him at the foot of the hill, and far to their
left they could see the yellow line of the
river.
The two under-officers, dapper in
freshly pressed grey-green uniforms,
walked beside the head of the column.
Their silver eagles gleamed bravely in the
sun. Billy clutched his gloves tightly in
one plump hand, flicking them jauntily
to and fro as he walked. His boots and
belt were shiny with polish, his well-fed
cheeks were rosy and newly shaven and
his tiny eyes sparkled with Well-being.
It was a glorious sunny day and all was
well in Billy’s world. The Blond Beast
was more subdued, less jaunty, but he
oozed a silent, grim content. He marched,
stiffly, by Billy’s side ; tall, blond, soldierly.
They came to the foot of the hill,
wheeled slackly to the left and went on
past a row of wrecked houses. Darky
shot a quick glance down the silent street.
“Looks like a cyclone hit this place.”
“It did,” Hamilton said wearily. “Dive-
bombers.”
Billy called a halt, and they dropped
in their tracks like so many bundles of
soiled rags. Billy, perspiring lightly, lit
a cigarette and took slow, deliberate puffs,
blowing lazy clouds of smoke towards
them. Two small boys and a little girl
who had been playing in the street re-
treated cautiously behind a great white
gateway. Hamilton felt so parched that
he could scarcely close his mouth.
“How would a beer go?” Darky
inquired.
“No good,” the K.R.R. sergeant-major
said. “I don’t like foreign beer, Bass
or nothin’ for me.” He sat hunched in
the gutter, small and shabby in his dusty
battle-dress. One bootlace was missing
and he had substituted a knotted piece of
string for The sole of one black boot
flapped ludicrously as he shuffled his feet
feebly, trying to offset their numbness.
He grinned, and his unshaven, heavily-
jawed face became unexpectedly attractive.
Billy the Pig roared, and they straggled
on in loose order, through winding,
blasted streets. The guards made no
attempt to hurry them.
“What the hell is this, anyway,” Darky
demanded bewilderedly, “a sight-seeing
tour?”
“Yes,” said Hamilton. “But we’re the
sight. To impress the natives. A kind
of circus for Belgrade.”
'"THEY passed more civilians, workmen
and a few women in bright peasant
costumes. A well-dressed man asked them
in English who they were. They told him,
then he asked where they had come from
and someone shouted “Greece” curtly
dver his shoulder. He relayed the news
to the crowd which had sprung up from
nowhere, and there was a ripple of ex-
cited comment; eyes widened, and then,
as suddenly as it had risen, the murmur-
ing ceased.
They skirted a huge heap of rubble,
turned around the skeleton of a factory
and found themselves in the heart of the
city, Boulevarde cafes flaunted gay can-
vas awnings, and outside the largest and
most pretentious there was a row of Ger-
man staff cars. German officers sat at
the little tables, and white-aproned
waiters pushed swiftly buf respectfully
through the sea of uniforms. But the
smaller cafes were almost deserted, and
the civilians in the streets went about their
business swiftly or, if they stopped to
stare, stared silently. Not even a baby
cried, until a company of infantry came
swinging out from a side street and broke
into song at the word of command.
“What are they singing, Len?” Darky
asked, “Is that the Horst Wessel song?”
“No,” Hamilton shook his shaggy
head. “It’s ‘Gegen England.’ ”
“Goin’ to England, eh?” the sergeant-
major said scornfully. “Well, there’s a
lot of water between here and Blighty.”
He stared into the distance. “A lot of
water,” he repeated soberly.
Then they saw the tanks, row after row
of ponderous, clanking monsters with
plain black crosses, pouring close-packed.
nose to tail, down the road to Greece.
Most of the crews, standing up to see the
view, wore red neckerchiefs, a dash of
gay color against their sober grey-green
uniforms, and they all seemed in high
spirits, laughing, singing, pointing.
A youth with thick-lensed spectacles
leant out and hailed Hamilton. “Say,
guy,” he called in an astonishing Ameri-
can accent, “what about a little song? No?
Wal, I guess we’ll’give you one, anyway.”
The crew sang “We’ll Hang Our
Washing on the Siegfried Line” boister-
ously, pausing now and again to burst
into gargantuan, belly-shaking laughter.
Each tank crew caught up the tune and
sang it in German or in English as they
rolled by.
"THEY marched on and on with drag-
*■ ging feet and swimming heads, past
the wreckage of homes and through
blasted alleys and streets, down to where
the broken bridge lay like a stranded
monster in the yellow waters of the Sava.
They passed squalid, red-roofed,
Turkish type plaster houses, then back
and around through streets —narrow
streets, wide streets, deserted streets and
streets thronged with white-faced men
and women who seemed to be living an
evil dream, gripped in a grave-like, brood-
ing silence.
Hamilton had lost all sensation in his
feet now. His knees trembled and
crowds, guards, road and buildings kept
whirling before his eyes in a crazy cir-
cuit. He stumbled and almost fell and,
as he recovered himself, he looked full
into the face of the nearest civilian, a
young woman with dark enigmatic eyes,
high Slav cheekbones and with a red and
white shawl drawn over her dark hair.
In that instant he saw himself with her
eyes, a human scarecrow, pitiable and
ridiculous.
Rikki Ihaki turned round, too, said
“Pononga!” bitterly, to no one in par-
ticular, cursed savagely and then swal-
lowed with a sound that was almost a sob.
Hamilton knew what pononga meant
—slave. He felt the same self-loathing,
the same black flood of shame.
Then, just as a detachment of S.S. guards
goose-stepped by, jackboots and criss-
crossing arms swinging in perfect well-
trained rhythm, the unexpected happened.
Swiftly and unobtrusively, the K.R.R,
sergeant-major had dropped out and his
voice came crashing in a bull-like, parade-
ground roar.
“Pick ’em up there, you bloody
cripples. Left! Left, left, right, left.
Swing those arms! Hey, you—yes, you
—fall into line! ”
Billy the Pig whirled, startled, half
drew his revolver; then, slowly, pushed
it back into its holster.
. The sergeant-major still continued to
bawl obscene, effective instructions in
that amazing, brazen voice of his. He
looked as eager, as active as a bantam
rooster and he had grown several inches.
They fell into line, half-eagerly, half-
automatically. Men who had hated
“parade-ground stuff” all their soldiering
days swung their arms with a vengeance,
determined to outdo the guards. It was
a question of prestige now; Jimmy
dropped out of step once but was shocked
into it again instantly, so savagely was
he rebuked from all sides. Chins snapped
up, shoulders were straightened and
within fifty yards they were marching
like Guardsmen on parade at Bucking-
ham Palace.
Round the square they swung, almost
gaily, past the gaping crowd and back
beneath the huge equestrian statue. They
could march now until they dropped, in
a final madness of effort. The crowd had
thickened, but it was no longer silent,
breaking into cheers, unawed by the
guards. “Thumbs-up” signs waved every-
where above the sea of heads,
“March—at —ease.” They obeyed,
turning their heads to grin back at
friendly faces: but they still swung their
arms, still marched in step, and their
heads were still high.
They sang on the way back to camp,
marching songs, foolish ditties most of
them, innocent of all musical merit. Some
of the songs were improper and some
sentimental; but they sang them all,
“Tipperary,” “The Maori Battalion,”
“Roll Out the Barrel” and “Gundagai.”
Billy the Pig called a halt halfway up
the hill and dropped beneath a tree with-
out ceremony. After a moment’s hesita-
tion the guards followed suit, breathing
in labored gasps.
The prisoners stood their ground. They
might never get up again if they sat down
now.
“Billy looks a bit tuckered out, like,
don’t ’e?” the little sergeant-major said
mildly. “Who’s the circus now?”
Hamilton grinned. It had been a puny
victory, perhaps, but it had been their own.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3403
Wednesday, May 2, 1945
THE LAMPLIGHTER.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P• H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London ; 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
WAR IN WARD'S WAY.
Since Australian troops are not engaged
in Europe or in Burma or the Philippines,
though General MacArthur could have
two Australian divisions in Luzon had he
chosen to use them, it is manifestly right
that they should be employed in driving
the Japanese from Australian territory.
This is a duty which Australia owes to
its Allies, to its own dignity and pres-
tige as a nation which has to look be-
yond the present to the future, and to
the natives of the mandated islands, to
whom it stands in the relation of guar-
dian to wards, and who have been at
the mercy of a cruel and barbarous
enemy for upwards of three years. That
goes also for the Nauruans, the liberation
of whom would, incidentally, remove a
handicap to land production not attribut-
able to drought, communists or the meas-
ures of Mr. Scully.
But something is owed, too, to the men
charged with the tasks decided upon. We
know from bitter experience that cam-
paigning in the tropics against well-armed
and well-posted Japanese is a dangerous
and man-wrecking business. In the 1942-
43 operations the losses in combat were
severe, and disease took a still heavier
toll. And though great strides have been
made in the art of fighting the cunning
foe and in the field of medical science, a
high casualty rate from all causes has still
to be reckoned with.
So time should be the essence of the con-
tract. In bare justice to the troops their
Government should see that they have
everything they need, beyond the skill and
valor of their anonymous units and the
proved quality of their anonymous leader-
ship, to do a maximum job in the mini-
mum of time; sufficiency of numbers,
equipment, all manner of supplies, air-
cover and sea-power. Has this require-
ment been secured within reason? Is
there evidence that it has been even
striven for? No.
It is a Government responsibility, the
Government being accountable to the
nation, which is not the case with gen-
erals ; but the Government, following its
ignoble practice, is sheltering behind Gen-
eral MacArthur and General Blarney. In
the debate on army equipment m
Bougainville and New Guinea, which has
been reported on by Senator Fraser, who
has had no military experience, after a
very brief visit of inspection, the Prime
Minister quoted General MacArthur:
I consider that the local missions have
been carried out with skill and energy. I
am of opinion that the equipment of the
troops is sufficient for the accomplish-
ment of the assigned missions, and that the
provision of air transport has proven ade-
quate. In all material ways the enemy has
been completely outclassed.
“Local missions.” Air “transport.”
Well might Mr. Menzies comment that
“these observations must have been very •
carefully considered by the general”; but
Mr. Curtin read them as if convinced
that they settled all arguments. He added,
unnecessarily, that there was “no differ-
ence of opinion between the Government
and its military advisers: the forces
located in New Guinea and adjacent
islands and those allotted for forward
offensive operations are of the strengths
sought and approved by General Mac-
Arthur for his plans in the South-west
Pacific area.” And he dilated on what the
Americans under General MacArthur’s
command are doing in the Philippines:
They are clearing the Japanese from
the whole of the islands [7083] to free the
native people, to obtain the use of the re-
sources of the islands and to free their
forces from a prolonged and continuing
commitment. We are following precisely
the same principle.
That is “precisely” what “we” are not
doing. The troops assigned to the “local
missions” have been in their zones of
action nearly as long as the Americans
have been in the Philippines, and two
months longer than the Americans have
been in Luzon. The provision made for
our men is not even calculated to “free”
them “from a prolonged and continuing
commitment.” In a large measure they
are being obliged to fight 1945 campaigns
with 1942 methods.
Were the situation reversed, were these
mandated islands American, can anyone
believe that the Americans would go
about expelling the Japanese in a leisurely
fashion or set about it until their pre-
parations were complete? For all the
island attacks they have made in the past
twelve months they have mustered over-
powering forces. On the sea, on the
ground and in the air nothing has been
wanting. The men taken ashore in land-
ing craft have been given all the tools
required for a swift and complete deci-
sion, and in every case where a quick job
could be done they have done it. In no
instance has there been the slightest ap-
pearance of disregard for the value of
time, so immaterial to the Curtin Govern-
ment, so important to the troops.
Certainly none of these American
island campaigns has been halted by
shortage of shipping. Senator Fraser,
however, avers, and his leader agrees,
that “all the major difficulties that are
being encountered” in our “operational
areas in the conduct of operations, the
provision of supplies and many matters
affecting reasonable amenities to the
troops”—“a source of irritation to
them,” he allows —“can be attributed to
the shortage of shipping and of transport
facilities from the mainland, and to a
lesser extent to absence of the relatively
smaller type of craft essential to trans-
port from main-base installations to the
troops in advanced areas.” Mr. Forde’s
deputy asserts that shortage of shipping
is a “world-wide problem,” and pleads
that “the Government has been consis-
tently pressing on the highest plane to
meet the deficiency.”
The Government did no pressing on the
highest or the lowest plane when the port
of Fremantle, crowded with shipping, in
common knowledge never more urgently
needed, was rendered idle for a month by
a wharflaborers’ strike against a work-
spreading system in vogue in all the bigger
ports and supported by their own
Federation, and when the road trans-
port union refused to shift goods
unloaded by servicemen. And it has
done no pressing on any plane since the
port of Sydney became a prey to inter-
and intra-union strikes, in all of which
communists are concerned, and which
at the end of last week had laid up ten
vessels, one for 51 days, a second for 48
days and a third for 35 days, with .more
expected to be thrown out of commission
and “naval-construction and ship-repair
work” affected as well.
It is no particular secret that in
responsible quarters abroad the Govern-
ment has been looked upon with no great
favor since it insisted on recalling the
grand Ninth A.I.F. Division from El
Alamein at a time when great opera-
tions were beginning on both sides
of Africa and when every merchantman
and every warship were precious—for
1942 was the most frightful year of the
war for shipping losses. It is conceivable
that ships are refused because it is con-
sidered that the Government can’t give
acceptable guarantees that they won’t, if
sent, be held up by one or more of the
communist-bossed union mobs to whom,
after a period of scolding and affectation
of severity which closed in a general for-
giving of fines, it is now afraid to say
“boo.”
The war in Europe is moving to its
close, and, to the disappointment of un-
employed A.I.F. divisions, one as fine a
body of men as were ever assembled,
Australian soldiers have had no part in
it. What a bold aspect Australia presented
in 1918, year of glory for Monash,
Chauvel and their men, year of victory!
This year would have been as bright in
its annals could the servicemen have had
the ordering of things instead of a Gov-
ernment which has been unable to rise
above faction, huckstering and pandering
to petty tyrants and unwhipped mobs.
Acid Test.
In a fine tribute to an inveterate oppo-
nent, Disraeli said Cobden was one of
those public men who were “independent
of time and the caprices of constituen-
cies,” and who, though their voices were
for ever stilled, would continue to influ-
ence the deliberations of the living, since
their words and examples would not cease
to be quoted. So it is or so it should
be at San Francisco with the two Demo-
cratic w'ar Presidents who were fated not
to see their great dreams for their people
and for humanity become realities.
Said Mr. Roosevelt in his message to
Congress on January 6, 1941:
In the future days, which we seek to
make secure, we look forward to a world
founded upon four essential human free-
doms: freedom of speech and expression;
freedom of every person to worship God
in his own way; freedom from want'—
which means economic understandings which
will secure to every nation a healthy peace-
time life for its inhabitants—everywhere in
the world. The fourth is freedom from
f ear —which means a world-wide reduction
of armaments to such a point and in such
a thorough fashion that no nation will be
in a position to commit an act of physical
aggression against any neighbor—anywhere
in the world.
On August 14, 1941, he and Mr.
Churchill, looking forward to “the final
destruction of the Nazi tyranny,” ex-
pressed their “hope to see established a
peace which will afford to all nations
the means of dwelling safely within their
own boundaries, and which will afford
assurance that all the men in all the lands
may live out their lives in freedom from
fear and want.” Such a peace involved
disarmament of “nations which threaten
or may threaten aggression outside of
their frontiers, lightening of the crushing
burden of armaments” on “peace-loving
peoples,” and “a wider and permanent
system of general security.” This was
part of the Atlantic Charter, and there
were “certain” other “common prin-
ciples” to which “Franklin D. Roosevelt”
and “Winston S. Churchill” subscribed:
Their countries seek no aggrandisement,
territorial or other. They desire to see no
territorial changes that do not accord with
the freely-expressed wishes of the peoples
concerned. They respect the right of all
peoples to choose the form of government
under which they will live; and they wish
to see sovereign rights and self-government
restored to those who have been forcibly
deprived of them.
They will endeavor, with due respect for
their existing obligations, to further the
enjoyment by all States, great or small,
victor or vanquished, of access, on equal
terms, to the trade and to the raw materials
of the world which are needed for their
economic prosperity.
Reduction of armaments “to the lowest
point consistent with domestic safety”
and “a general association of nations for
the purpose of affording mutual guaran-
tees of political independence and terri-
torial integrity to great and small alike”
figured in President Wilson’s Message to
Congress on January 8, 1918, which em-
bodied the Fourteen Points. Though
some of the points are no longer perti-
nent, these two and others and part of
another remain independent of time;
Open covenants of peace, openly arrived
at, after which there shall be no private
international understandings of any kind,
but diplomacy shall proceed always frankly
and in the public view.
The relations of the several Balkan States
to one another [should be] determined by
friendly counsel along historically estab-
lished lines of allegiance and nationality,
and international guarantees of the political
and economic independence and territorial
integrity of the several Balkan States should
be entered into.
An independent Polish State should be
erected which should include the territories
inhabited by indisputably Polish popula-
tions, which should be assured a free and
secure access to the sea, and whose political
and economic independence and territorial
integrity should be guaranteed by inter-
national covenant.
Poor Poland! Partitioned and erased
from the map of Europe in the eighteenth
century, scene of ferocious campaigns
and heroic insurrections in the nineteenth
century, in the twentieth century resur-
rected, beaten and partitioned once more,
it remains a challenge to international
statesmanship and justice. It is a prob-
lem which cannot be solved by force of
arms, dismemberment, apparent oblitera-
tion or conversion into a puppet Stale.
Every partition of Poland has upset the
balance of Europe, and has been followed
by wars in which innocent and guilty
have suffered. Though, as the third
Democratic war President said, addressing
the delegates at San Francisco, “it is not
the purpose” of their conference “to draft
a treaty of peace in the old sense of that
term or to settle specific questions of
territories, boundaries, citizenship or
reparations,” “the treatment accorded
Poland by her sister nations will be the
acid test of their goodwill, of their com-
prehension of her needs as distinguished
from their own interests, and of their
intelligent and unselfish sympathy”
(Woodrow Wilson, with only one word
altered); and this will be true of the San
Francisco discussions whether the Polish
question is grappled with or shelved.
For Re-establishment.
' • U
Overlooking the preference section, the
Re-establishment Bill put before the
House at Canberra by Mr. Dedman on
March 23 reads as not at all a bad effort
in ex-service legislation. The disputed
section could easily be made satisfac-
tory by one or two small but vital
amendments, particularly to the qualifi-
cations clauses ; and in the reinstatement
section the measure would be improved
if it provided for returned men being
given consideration above all others in
filling vacancies caused by casualties or
by those who had held the positions de-
ciding on return to go in for something
else,
For the rest, the bill is generally a
great advance on what the 1914-18 ex-,
servicemen had provided for themj
Those who wish to return to jobs held
before enlisting seem to be assured of
getting them back, provided the jobs are
still there, as most of them will be. Not
only that, but the great bulk of employ-
ers will want to have such former mem-
bers back on their staffs. The applicant
for reinstatement is given a fair margin
of time to apply. He has 28 days from
discharge —which can be extended in
special circumstances at the discretion of
a reinstatement committee —and he has a
further eight weeks between making his
application and taking up the old post.
Other reasonable provisions in this
section include the obligation on the em-
ployer of making the job available on
the specified date or as soon afterwards
as possible, wi h, also reasonably, the
obligation on the applicant to take the
job at the time he himself has specified.
Very soundly it is provided that an appli-
cant is entitled to reinstatement under
conditions not less favorable than those
which would have been applicable if he
had remained in employment. The
whole purpose of such legislation is surely
to both assist and encourage the ex-ser-
viceman in re-establishing himself in nor-
mal civil life. While giving him all the
assistance needed, it necessarily must ask
something of him; but he will have
enough on his hands catching up without
having to get over merely artificial gaps.
The general run of men who were in
employment before enlisting will fit back
into it efficiently enough. Those who
were apprentices are, of course, a differ-
ent class. Apprenticeships are suspended
during service and have to be completed,
which is fair to the individual, who would
otherwise be handicapped for life. How-
ever, while completing his term the ap-
prentice will be paid an allowance at a
rate which will ensure him an income
equivalent to the wage he would have
been earning if his war service had not
intervened. Like others, apprentices
have a couple of months to make up their
minds on whether they’ll take up where
they knocked off or branch out into
something fresh.
For those who may prefer a change
of calling, or those who may have done
nothing in a settled way before enlisting
and now wish to set themselves up in
something steadier, there are the train-
ing proposals which, properly adminis-
tered, should be a service to the nation
as well as to those individually benefiting.
Training to fit men for new kinds of em-
ployment or to improve them in their
old employment has been going on long
enough to be well out of the experimen-
tal stage.
A point usually overlooked in all dis-
cussions of this kind of legislation is that
the ex-servicemen involved through any
separate section or in the legislation as
a whole are definitely a minority. Thus,
though the Commonwealth Reconstruc-
tion Training Scheme machinery has been
in working order for close on 18 months,
the total ex-servicemen and women
undergoing full-time training when Mr.
Dedman tabled his bill was only 1250,
with something over 3000 in part-time
training “for a very wide range of voca-
tional and professional activities,” This
part-time training, for instance, might
include a course in something that, while
practically certain to make a man more
efficient in his work, might never have
been undertaken by him in the ordinary
course of things. It is an excellent pro-
vision under both heads of assisting and
encouraging ex-servicemen and women,
not, as the usual phrase goes, to be re-
established, but to re-establish themselves.
Rightly, those responsible are advising
servicemen and -women about to be dis-
charged to avail themselves of either the
full-time or part-time training. For those
of the right age it represents an oppor-
tunity that certainly was not available to
the last-war Diggers, and one that any
of the present-war Diggers and Digger-
esses might long regret not having taken.
For the full range of the professions
training on the usual lines is available
at universities, technical Colleges and the
like. For those intending to go on the
land there is a special rural training. For
industrial jobs there is training in tech-
nical schools and industrial establish-
ments up to an approved degree of effi-
ciency.
Whatever the class of training, the train-
ees are paid allowances ranging from
£3 ss. to £5 ss. per week for full-timers,
and for part-timers there are allowances
of books, tools of trade and the like.
For placing all these when ready the
R.S.L. proposal for setting up very widely
decentralised employment services has
been adopted. The R.S.L. has also urged
that such services should be conducted
with the minimum red-tape, and in the
spirit of doing everything possible to
help and nothing to hinder. It has been
pointed out that only a few of those re-
quiring such help will be their own best
advocates. The R.S.L. therefore wants
the appointment of employment, author-
ities who know service personnel at first
hand. Selection for such posts will have
to be very careful, and made, to begin
with, on the axiom that no non-service-
man, however good his intentions, is
competent to give the right hearing to a
serviceman’s case or the right advice.
As well as the various forms of assis-
tance and encouragement here glanced at,
provision is made for weekly allowances
for those unable to find employment or
for whom employment cannot be found.
An important point that has not always
been kept in mind in this regard up to
now is that where the employment is
found it should not be unsuitable. Men
have been sent to jobs for which they
were quite unfitted, and the stand
appears to be that once a job of any sort
has been indicated all obligation on the
part of authority ends. There should be
a right and a means of appealing against
that sort of treatment. As the measure
stands, an applicant for this allowance


“must be willing to undertake employ-
ment,” variety unspecified.
Also, there are loan provisions for
those wishing to go on the land or set up
in business, and for housing and the like.
There are, as there certainly should be,
special provisions for the disabled, not
only as to pensions but in the vital matter
of trying to help and encourage them in
their own re-establishment. In this, as
in all other respects, the value of the
measure will depend in the long run on
its administration. Properly adminis-
tered, it can be a valuable national piece
of legislation, but that it most certainly
will not be if' the administrative appoint-
ments are to be political, as so many of
the home-front administrative appoint-
ments by this present Government have
been.
A pointer as to that may be had when
the measure is up for discussion by Par-
liament. The preference- section as it
stands is badly in need of a few slight
amendments, and how the Government
reacts to suggestions on these will indi-
cate the real spirit in which it is putting
the measure through. In any case, it
will be poor-spirited if it seeks to make
political capital for itself out of the meas-
ure, or out of the leave pay, deferred
pay and gratuities on which Mr. Dedman
put some emphasis. These, with any-
thing beneficial the measure accomplishes,
are not from this particular Government
but from the country.
PLAIN ENGLISH
"Our Enemies Have Fallen."
Fascist Italy was doomed from the day
(September 4, 1943) the British Eighth
Army landed in Calabria ; Nazi Germany
from the day (June 6, 1944) the Anglo-
American forces under General Mont-
gomery’s overall command landed in
Normandy.
The Italian collapse was swift. That
of Germany has been delayed until Ger-
many has become a hideous ruin. On
all the Allied fronts there have been de-
lays, reverses, cruel losses, but there has
never been a moment when the final
triumph was in doubt. Beaten in the
field by superior generalship and fighting
quality, their cities, arsenals, munitions
plants, fuel factories, communications
wrecked by the R.A.F. and the U.S.A.F.,
Hitler’s ever-dwindling legions have been
fighting for time in the desperate expec-
tation that the victors would quarrel.
And now time and expectation have de-
serted them.
What happens or has happened to the
leaders of the villainous conspiracy which
had all Europe and part of Africa and the
Seven Seas for theatre is of no conse-
quence in the final reckoning. Musso-
lini, it seems, was* captured and shot in
the back by a “people’s movement,”
usurping the prerogative of the Allies,
which was characteristically inert and
complaisant when popular opposition
to the stab in the back might have
had great results; whether or not
Hitler, Goring and . Goebbels are
dead in bed or with their boots on matters
not. Their cause is dead and rotten.
It remains for the Allied leaders to re-
ceive the surrender of the beaten foe or
to crush any resistance of which he may
still be capable. And it remains for the
peoples of the English-speaking nations
to offer up a prayer of thankfulness for
the victory and of gratitude to the men
who have achieved it, and to support them
to the limit in making a quick finish of
the only Axis enemy still to be dis-
posed of.
And Now it's Wooll
The Wool Use Promotion Bill reeks of
politics. When the Prime Minister men-
tioned it in November he said the board
would comprise four men from the Wool-
growers’ Council and two from the Wool-
producers’ Federation. The latter con-
cern, a thing of recent growth, which
supports “Labor’s” banking bills, is now
to have equal representation (three of
each) on the board. Tackled with the
change of front (in these cases “front” is
always in the picture), Mr. Dedman
“argued” that it was merely an alteration
of a proposal, not a breach of a pledge.
Passive acceptance of this sort of board
may lead to “ ‘Labor’ control” of the in-
dustry. One board is certain to lead to
others, with the usual teams of bureau-
crats, and it is already proposed to let
the A.W.U. and the textile unions have
a finger in the- game. Meantime, the
“Labor” Government has been demon-
strating “Labor’s” unfitness to run our
greatest industry by refusing to lift a
finger against the communist mobs who
have held up shearing in two States, this
with 20,000,000 sheep already dead in
the drought and millions more in peril
—though the Government has ample war-
time power to deal with them. When
Brisbane master-bakers refused to bake
bread for a price which, they contended,
didn’t pay the “Government” was off the
mark like a shot with National Security
orders and prosecutions.
As for wool, seeing that the British
Government contracted to buy all war-
time clips and the first post-war clip, and is
evidently eager to call in the woolgrowing
Dominions for consultation on the best
way to sell the surplus, there is no excuse
for partisan and meddling legislation.
With pressing matters to occupy them,
very few growers have the slightest
knowledge of what is proposed. The
results of “ ‘Labor’ control” of agriculture
are now plain for everyone to see. God
help the wool industry and the nation if
the same “ ‘Labor’ principles” are applied
to wool!
Who Pays?
It was not to be expected that Harold
Clapp, in drawing up his plan for the
conversion of railway gauges, would feel
himself bound by the Northern Territory
Acceptance Act, 1910, or any other mea-
sure not directly related to his task. He
was given what he would have insisted
on had there been any suggestion to the
contrary, a free hand.
It is a fact, nevertheless, that in the
Northern Territory Acceptance Act the
Commonwealth agreed “to complete the
construction of the transcontinental rail-
way from Port Darwin to Port Augusta”
(“Official Year-Book” No. 6). It has
constructed bits and pieces of lines
and a road between the gaps, but that
doesn’t amount to fulfilment of the con-
tract with South Australia, in which
Settlers in the southern part of the Terri-
tory have a material interest. And
Clapp’s proposal for a 4ft. B|in. railway
from Bourke to Dajarra and thence to
Birdum, plus cqnversion of the narrow-
gauge line from Birdum to Darwin, will
at the best indefinitely delay fulfilment
of the contract with South Australia, if
it does not, as is most probable, cancel it
out altogether.
In effect, if the Clapp plan is accepted
South Australia’s grievance will remain.
and conversion of its sft. 3in. and
narrow-gauge lines can scarcely be
accepted as adequate compensation, even
if the Commonwealth should bear the
whole cost. Financing of either part of
the plan—estimated to run into £76,000,000
without, £200,000,000 with, conversion of
the Queensland and Westralian 3ft. 6in.
lines —is another matter with which Clapp
was not concerned. But the whole question
of costs is of considerable interest to tax-
payers, particularly those who have not
shared in the boom in railway receipts
and income-tax revenue which have
placed the Sydney and Brisbane Govern-
ments in Easy-street.
The 1921 unification scheme, which
was adopted at a Premiers’ conference in
November of that year, provided for a
4ft. B|in. railway “between Brisbane and
Fremantle” and conversion of all the
sft. 3in. lines in Victoria and South Aus-
tralia. Total cost was reckoned at
£21,600,000, “alterations to existing rail-
ways and structures” coming in at
£9,012,000, new lines at £6,873,000 and
“adjustments of rolling stock” at
£5,715,000. Each of the State Govern-
ments concerned agreed to become re-
sponsible for part of the expenditure, the
schedule being as follows:
Cost of Work
Within State. Quota.
N. S. Wales .. £1,657,000 £7,094,388
Victoria .. .. 8,324,000 4,939,349
-Queensland .. 1,848,000 2,535,868
South Australia.. 4,674,000 1,632,292
Westralia .. 5,030,000 1,078,103
Commonwealth .. 67,000 4,320,000
They all thought it fair enough until
provincialism intervened, and, very harm-
fully for Australia in a variety of ways,
provincialism prevailed. All the same,
though provincialism may be expected to
raise its ugly snout again, there will have
to be some sharing of costs. With so
many pressing obligations to shoulder,
and with such a huge war deficit to be
provided for, the Commonwealth cannot
bear them all. Neither, of course, can the
three States which are receiving Common-
wealth grants be overburdened. But N.
S. Wales, Queensland and Victoria can
be fairly asked for substantial contribu-
tions, conditioned in Victoria’s case by
the circumstances that, unlike Queens-
land and New South Wales, it will not
benefit from new construction and that
its Government’s war surpluses have
never approached those of the Sydney
and Brisbane Governments. Those Ad-
ministrations have for years been hoard-
ing up money for huge post-war expendi-
ture, money which has practically all been
provided by the Commonwealth Govern-
ment as a customer of their railway de-
partments (other services, child endow-
ment, widows’ pensions and the like it
has taken over) and as a too-lavish distri-
butor of income-tax revenue.
National Pastime.
“0.T.”: When Australia had many more
country people than city-dwellers it was
widely accepted that Australians excelled
in the art of extending the nether limbs
of trusting newchums, an art brought to
near-perfection by the old A.1.F., with
its walking-stick and goanna ranches, its
boundary-riders on bee farms, its uncles
who owned a little place called Tas-
mania and its Condobolin sandwiches —
a slice of jew lizard between two bits of
box-bark. Later, as the city population
began to grow and to isolate itself from
the land, city chaps venturing into the bush
were apt to have their legs pulled un-
mercifully, to the great and hilarious
content of bush people, who felt that
they were getting even for city degrada-
tion of Dad and Dave, real bush charac-
ters in the beginning.
Now, though the growth of city popu-
lation and the vogue of city politics and
bureaucratism and of radio, cars and
films have sophisticated many country
people, while city folk have almost com-
pletely lost their relationship with the
land, the national love of kidding remains
as strong as ever.
But, deprived by the forces of time
and circumstance from expending their
kidding ability on others, Australians have
sublimated it. Thus it is that whenever
somebody speaks at a gathering of home-
keeping folk inevitably a reference is
made to their “magnificent record during
the war.” It matters not whether they
are professional footballers, bookmakers,
pugilists, politicians, policemen, wharf
laborers or any other collection of men
in a “reserved” calling, and that none
of them has ever seen the enemy face to
face, out comes the blah about their
“magnificent record in the war” ; and a
lot of them actually believe it. For, God
help us, we’ve taken to kidding ourselves!
WILD CALEDONIAN FROM CORIO.
“To his list of aversions Mr. Dedman has added war correspondents.”
“One toot an’ YOU’RE oot!”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
HOW MUCH WILL IT COST
TO HANDLE MY ESTATE?
Some folk hesitate to appoint a Company as Executor and
\S2
Trustee of their Wills, because they imagine that by so doing they will inflict a heavy
burden on the Capital of the Estate. Such a fear is groundless, so when drawing up
your will appoint the Permanent Trustee Co. as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company’s charges are extremely reasonable for an administration backed by over
50 years experience in the management of all types of estates, the investment of funds,
and the knowledge of the technicalities involved in Trusteeship.
The charge on the gross capital value of an estate up to £ 50,000
is 2J per cent., i.e., £ 2/10/- for every £lOO of capital.
AND —You are assured of integrity and financial stability. Through its permanence,
the Company’s administration is guaranteed until completion of the Trust.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO.
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses end
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal*
merits which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
Install
16
1 13
2 10
3 6
4 3
8 6
may
granted according to
with a corresponding reduction in the
instal ments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office. Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
A Bernadette was one of the architects
of Napoleon’s ruin, so it is fitting that
another Bernadette should figure, even
as a non-combatant, in the fall of Hitler-
ism, He is Count Bernadotte, a descend-
ant of the Marshal of France who
founded the present Swedish dynasty and
who turned against Napoleon after, with
the Emperor’s reluctant permission, he
accepted the throne. As a vice-chairman
of the Swedish Red Cross, Count Bema-
dotte transmitted Himmler’s offer to
surrender to Britain and the U.S.A., and
was told by Himmler that Hitler was
dying. Napoleon survived the first
Bernadotte’s defection, to march to
Waterloo in the following year and to
live for another six years an exile in St.
Helena.
Whatever the quality of army equip-
ment it hardly appears to be up to fluid-
drive Chrysler standard.
In the army-equipment debate Menzies
and Fadden gave the impression that they
were pulling their punches out of con-
sideration for Curtin’s state of health.
On Monday the P.M. re-entered hospital
with congestion of the lungs, a nasty de-
velopment for a man in his condition.
Menzies rebuked General Blarney for
having introduced politics in his war-loan
speech, referring to him, however, as “an
extremely distinguished soldier, who has
done a great service to Australia: in the
light of everything I would re-appoint him
G.0.C,” Archie Cameron, after de-
scribing the northern campaigns as “side-
shows” and the Fraser report as “this
little bit of cooked-up sawdust offered
as cake,” said the Blarney appointment
was “the worst appointment the Menzies
Government ever made and also the most
enduring.”
Before he set out for ’Frisco, Pollard,
M. in an unwonted burst of frank-
ness, admitted that members of Parlia-
ment — his —were not wanted in New
Guinea ; and when Fadden proposed that
a committee drawn from both sides
should be sent there he was knocked
back. In this matter, as in so many
others, Maoriland Labor is different. Not
only Fraser and members of his Ministry
(Sullivan was the latest) but, with Fraser’s
blessing, Opposition-Leader Holland and
his lieutenant Doidge have visited the
Maorilanders at overseas stations and on
fighting fronts; and they have travelled
much further than from Canberra to
Mandated Territory.
The Holland-Doidge itinerary included
Britain, Italy, Holland, France and Ger-
many. In all those countries they met
N. airmen and soldiers and invited a
running fire of questions on future ser-
vice and aspects of repatriation. They
found airmen keen on serving in the war
against Japan, particularly in Burma, and
—surprisingly to them —“greatly in-
terested in licensing laws.” Members of
a Lancaster squadron pointedly declared
that they didn’t want to go back to “ver-
tical drinking” in their own country after
becoming used to conditions in England,
where the pubs are open from 11.30 a.m.
to 2.30 p.m. and again from 5.50 p.m. to
10.30 p.m.
Lang’s “Century” gets a lot of inside
information about the party which ex-
pelled him without ceasing to be afraid
of him. It quotes McKell as confiding
that the McKell trip to Brazil won’t
cost Premier or taxpayers “a shilling,”
whence it infers that McKell and
party are going as guests of a
dictator, Vargas. Vargas, according
to the “Christian Science Monitor,” be-
came President on November 3, 1930,
after a military uprising which forced
the resignation of President Washington
Luis Pereira de Souza and prevented the
installation of Dr. Julio Prestes, who had
been elected the previous March.” There
have been no elections in Brazil since,
but on March 1 Vargas announced that
he would “fix an election date within 90
days. Perhaps he wants to submit Mc-
Kell as evidence, supported by a line from
S. M. Herald,” blazoned throughout the
country where the nuts come from, that
he can “best serve the State and the
nation by going along quietly.”
N. S. Wales has a very unusual Labor
Minister of Agriculture in E. H. Graham
a real farmer, whose name is honored
among pig-raisers in all the States,
Graham having by example and pre-
cept made • two or more pigs grow
where only one grew before. The
curiosity said recently that he had
warned the Commonwealth Govern-
ment 18 months ago that the wheat posi-
tion was bad and would become danger-
“Boys. boys, what will they say of us in Eng.—i mean Sydney?”
ous if drought came—as it did. Referring
to imports from Westralia, he commented
that they would have been insufficient
for stock requirements had everything
been in order, whereas delays had
occurred and would go on because the
“facilities” in Sydney were all for load-
ing, not unloading of wheat in bulk. Last
week he was heard putting the case for
poultry-keepers, who for lack of provi-
sion for their needs are threatened with
a first-class slaughter of birds. From all
of which it may be inferred that Comrade
Graham doesn’t think much of Comrade
Scully.
In the multitude of transport authorities
there is confusion, Newcastle (N.S.W.)
has been told by the almighty Transport
Commissioner that its trams are to be
replaced by buses after the war, and so
are being allowed to “wear down,” though
kept safe. At the same time, Melbourne
Tramways Board is toying with the
notion of scrapping buses and reverting
to trams, claiming that this is in line with
modern practice. Birmingham is scrap-
ping trams for buses. London has a five-
year plan for substituting the trolley-bus,
which, as Sydney and Perth have dis-
covered in a small way, is mobile, noise-
less, discharges its freight at the kerb-
stone and doesn’t hold up all other traffic
for the Juggernaut that thunders down
the centre of the streets. Moreover, its
fuel doesn’t have to be imported.
One of “S. M. Herald’s” corps of cor-
respondents at San Francisco put it as
mildly as he could (April 26):
It is regarded as unfortunate that Aus-
tralia was absent from last night’s con-
ference of British leaders, but it is under-
stood that differences of opinion have
arisen between Mr. Forde and Dr. Evatt
regarding the leadership of the Australian
delegation—an unhappy position which is
now resolved with affirmation of Mr.
Forde’s leadership.
Greatly bucked, Frances Michael in-
formed fellow-delegates that “nearly a
million Australians” had been “fighting
aggression in all parts of the world for
six years.”
With servicemen and -women voting
for the first time, and with an R.A.F.
wing-commander as candidate, the Com-
mon Wealth group has wrested Chelms-
ford, an old Conservative seat, from the
Coalition; and that looks bad for
Churchill and party—the general election
is now certain to be held this year.
R. W. G. Mackay, formerly of Sydney,
was a founder of the Common Wealth
group, but quitted it a few months ago
with a contribution to the funeral ex-
penses. No doubt he will now explain
that he was misunderstood.
Retain is back in France by permission
of the Nazis, and is to be tried for high
treason. His arrival looked very awkward
for De Gaulle, but that shrewd leader
at once caused it to be announced that
while a verdict of guilty would be pressed
for, there would be no opposition to a
gaol sentence on the score of Petain’s
age—he is in his ninetieth year. No
politician before the war, De Gaulle has
been handling his Leftists and Rightists
with a skill which Briand would have
envied.
Priceless Sydney item from the com-
munist “Tribune”;
Return of Saturday mornings off is de-
manded by clerical workers at the State
Lottery office. They voluntarily agreed to
work Saturday mornings as a contribution
to the war effort.
To the war effort! On the day Curtin
launched the Third Victory Loan,
which closed without results being
disclosed, a lottery was drawn in
Sydney: 100,000 tickets at ss. 3d.:
£26,250. Since then there have been
18 others, with the Brisbane, Hobart
and Perth lottery promoters also going
their hardest, and all competing all too
successfully with the Third Victory Loan.
This has been the case throughout the
war. It was put to Canberra that the
disgraceful competition should be vetoed
when war loans were on the market, or,
as an alternative, that all prizes must be
paid in war-loan scrip, but Canberra has
never had the ounce of pluck required.
It was soberly reported in “S.M.H.”
that Gunner Albert Ross Sloss, “Progres-
sive” candidate for the Sydney City Coun-
cil was (a) “not at present with his unit,”
( b ) had not been given leave to contest
the by-election, (c) had been medically
certified by an army board as B 2 and his
discharge to industry recommended by an
army specialist, ( d) did not intend return-
ing to camp until leave was granted to
him to contest the election. The Digger
who made the derisive noise is sentenced
to 21 days c.b.
Wise, the Westralian Labor Minister of
Agriculture, has a crow of his own to
pluck with Scully. His farmers are des-
perately short of tractors, but though he
has “repeatedly stressed the position,” his
department has been supplied with a
beggarly 41, leaving about 960 applicants
unsatisfied. Watts, the Opposition-leader,
quoting a wire from Scully, said discrimi-
nation was being practised at Westralia’s
expense, tractors being “largely concen-
trated” in Victoria, S.A, and N, S, Wales,
and added that it showed what Mountjoy
,and Lemmon thought of their responsi-
bility t$ their farmer-constituents.
A.B.C.’s pet bore, Haylen, M.H.R.,
has transferred his witless invective to
The Bulletin, blaming it for “the mis-
conception overseas of the Australian war
effort”:
The stuff it prints is deplorable. It plays
up the old staff-major and the old Tory
in a most detestable way.
If this means that The Bulletin stood
up for British generals against the im-
beciles who set up Colonel Blimp as the
type and raised the “Send for Timo-
shenko!” cry, it acknowledges its guilt
and will take the punishment, if any. In
mitigation it may plead that it has never
inflicted on the public any of Haylen’s
plays. A Government theatre is to be
the instrument of torture if Haylen can
bring it off.
Among other monuments to the waste-
fulness of war in Australia are the wheat
distilleries. The one at Warracknabeal
(Vic.) hasn’t yet boiled a pound of wheat;
the one at Cowra (N.S.W.) ceased dis-
tilling last November, and the ones in
W.A. and S.A. are “nearing completion.”
Heaven only knows what the things cost
or what use they will be, and a Govern-
ment with any gumption would stop work
on incomplete ones. But maybe the
unions concerned have ordered their com-
pletion.
Recipe of McGuinness, president of
N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation, for educa-
tional reform: - &
The best young people should be attracted
to the teaching service; they should be
adequately trained; they should be given
decent conditions; they should be paid
professional salaries.
And, of course, they should be compelled
to join the union, whether they believe in
boycotting teacher-critics of “the Revolu-
tion” or not.
“The function of Parliament,”
Churchill said recently, “is not only to
pass good laws but to stop bad laws.”
A great truth pithily expressed, but it
won’t be quoted by any Labor speaker
in the debates on the Caucus proposals
for rocking it into the banks. For a
while members of Our Party were very
fond of quoting Churchill, but they never
do it now.
According to a Gallup poll, the Aus-
tralian delegation to San Francisco should
have included three women instead of
one, in order to “adequately represent
the feminine viewpoint.” But who sup-
poses that Mrs. Jessie Street is represent-
ing any viewpoint other than that of Mrs.
Jessie Street?


df
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Playford has broken C. C. Kingston’s
half-century-old record for S.A. of hold-
ing one Ministry together for six years
and a half ; though the feat was much
more remarkable in Kingston’s time,
when Cabinets usually lasted a year or so
at the outside. The original Thomas
Playford—they have all been Thomas
was a Waterloo veteran, also a local
preacher. He took up a market garden
in the Adelaide hills; the second one be-
came Premier of.S.A. The present one
follows both those good examples.
Son of Sydney woolbroker Clarence
Bridge, Engineer-Captain Clarence Walter
Bridge, 0.8. E., Director of Naval Works,
was born in 1890, educated at Riverview
and Sydney Uni., and has served in the
Navy for 33 years. At the taking of
Rabaul in 1914, he was subsequently with
the Battle Cruiser Fleet in the North Sea,
and is mentioned in the R.A.N. Official
History for services in Destroyer Flotilla,
Mediterranean, 1917-18. In 1926-27 he
supervised the building of the Australian
submarines Oxley and Otway at Vickers’,
Barrow-in-Furnace, and more recently
ENGINEER -COMMANDER
CLARRIE BRIDGE.
served as Squadron Engineer Officer in
H.M.A.S. Canberra. His recreation is
golf, his hand at it best described as
cheerful. A grand messmate, he rates in
peace-time as the best-dressed officer in
the R.A.N. A daughter, Ann, is a medi-
cal student at Melbourne University.
Maoriland’s High Commissioner, Wil-
liam Joseph Jordan, who has been elected
to the Executive Court of the City of
London Liverymen and Sheriffs, is the
first overseas member of that body, which
elects the Lord Mayor of London. His
eligibility for the office hinged on his
being a liveryman of the Worshipful
Company of Girdlers. Born at Rams-
gate, Kent, 65 years ago, Jordan started
as a coach-painter, changed to the postal
service, then with heavy hoof did his beat
as a London John Hop. Moving tp M.L.
40 years ago, he was a farmer before get-
ting into business in Wellington. Elected
for Manukau, Auckland, in 1922, he’s
held the High Commissioner job since
1936. He was severely wounded with ther
N.Z.E.F. in France in the last war.
Outback Queenslanders can expect to
find the Moderator-General of the Pres-
byterian General Assembly, Rt. Rev. Dr.
R. Wilson Macaulay, on their doorsteps
any time between now and the middle of
May. He began a wide tour of Queens-
land on April 15, travelling by train,
’plane and car. Dr. Macaulay, who came
to Australia in 1907, was trained at West-
minster College, Cambridge, and is
senior master of Trinity Church, Cam-
berwell (Vic.).
The 23,000 who marched in Melbourne
on the 30th Anzac anniversary were mar-
shalled by Brigadier-General J. C.
Stewart, who was at the Gallipoli land-
ing and was wounded. Later he served
in France and Belgium. He was C.O. of
the 57th Battalion in 1916 and G.O.C. of
the 14th Infantry Brigade in 1918. Born
in 1884 at Port Fairy in the Western
District, he is a former chairman of the
Farmers’ Relief Board and the ■ Closer
Settlement Board of Victoria. It’s the
20th time m succession that he’s been
chief marshal of Melbourne’s Anzac
marches.
Charles Blake, shire clerk at Jondaryan
(Q.), has completed 55 years’ continuous
service with the council, including 46
years in his clerk’s job—claimed as a
Queensland and probably Australian
record. Danny Jones was Kilkivan (Q.)
shire clerk for 40 years,
G. U. (Scotty) Allan, who’s gone and
got himself engaged, was one of the star
Qantas pilots on the Singapore run be-
fore the war. He joined the R.A.A.F.
in 1940 as a pilot-officer, and commenced
a conversion course on Lockheed Hud-
sons under Pat Hall, whom he had
originally taught to fly. At the same time
Scotty did a short navigation course. Be-
fore he was through the Hudson course
he was sent with Lester Brain to America
to pioneer the ferrying of Catalinas to
Australia. After bringing the first and
several others out, Scotty went to Rath-
mines in charge of Catalina conversion
courses, and was responsible for the train-
ing of many young R.A.A.F. pilots in
the mysteries of these boats. He was
awarded the Air Force Cross and trans-
ferred to the reserve to rejoin Qantas
as a wing-commander. His flying time
is in the vicinity of 15,000 hours.
Frederick Oswald Barnett, a member of
the Victorian Housing Commission since
1938, has published a volume of verse
with illustrations which for blister-
ing comment on Melbourne’s slum condi-
tions and the general inhumanity of man
to man could scarcely have been beaten by
O’Dowd or Henry Lawson. Barnett’s
powers of poetic expression may not be
on a level with the warmth of his indig-
nation, but no doubt is left of what he
thinks of official Melbourne, vested in-
terests and organised religion. Before he
got hjs appointment he was the author
of The Unsuspected Slums, The Making
of a Criminal and Housing the A ustralian
Nation, all much in the same vein. Born
in Brunswick, Barnett started out as a
schoolteacher and became a public
accountant.
“2641”: Major J. A. Dpuglas, member
of the British Military Mission to
Moscow (B. 4/4/’45), is a sprig of
the Queensberry tree. His grand-
father, Premier of Queensland from
March, 1877, to January, 1879, missed
the marquisate by being one of many
younger sons. That Douglas also served
as Agent-General for Queensland, Ad-
ministrator of New Guinea and Gov-
ernment Resident at Thursday Island.
Major Douglas was associate to his father,
R. J, Douglas, J., when he accepted a
brief for Rex v. Hitler.
Three men who eluded Jap capture
lately had a reunion at Goondiwindi (Q.).
G. W. Fletcher, manager of the N.Z.
Loan and M.A. co.’s St. George branch,
belonged to the Eighth Div. Artillery, and
left Singapore two days after the capitula-
tion in a sampan that took him to free-
dom via South Java. G. D. Arnold, of
N.Z.L. and M.A., Brisbane, saw service
with the R.A.F. in the Middle East,
Malaya and Singapore. He was a step
ahead of the Nips to Palembang, Sumatra
and Batavia, whence he hitch-hiked to
Ceylon and saw further service with the
R.A.F. in India, Arakan and Burma as
a squadron-leader, E. Dillon, of Boonara,
Boggabilli, whilst returning from the
Middle East, where he’d been with the
Sixth Div., was side-tracked to Sumatra,
out of which he beat the Japs on the
Orcades. Subsequently he saw action in
New Guinea.
Knighted by George V “for services
to music in Canada” —the only musician
resident in a Dominion so honored—
A.B.C.’s visiting Canadian conductor
Ernest MacMillan had the hard luck in
1914 to be on the wrong side of the
border in Europe when war broke out,
and was interned in Germany till 1918.
However, he was permitted to conduct
camp musical and operatic productions,
and also while there he gained Oxford's
Doctor of Music degree. He comes to
Australia with a very high reputation
CANADIAN CONDUCTOR.
won as conductor of the Toronto Sym-
phony Orchestra. At the same address
he’s Uni. Dean of the Faculty of Music,
and he’s also musical. adviser to the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and
vice-president of the Royal College of
Organists, of which he became an asso-
ciate at 13 and a fellow at 1?, receiving
the La Fontaine prize for the highest
marks awarded. One thing that has
puzzled him is why more of Australia’s
good wines are not in circulation in his
country. Both his sons have served in the
R.C.A.F., the younger, Ross, a fighter
pilot, training and serving with many
Australians.
This Scorfield subject appears to have
a faint air of surprise engraven on his
features, and here is the reason why;--
Born Bangalore (India), V. A. Cox went
through the great Surrey public school of Cran-
leigh, which lies down by the Sussex border,
and which possesses a classic porch that might
make a boy of The King’s School slightly
homesick at the sight of it. Leaving Cranleigh,
he took a First Class in the Modern Lan-
guages Tripos at Cambridge (his college was
LIEUT. V. A. COX.
Jesus), and returned to Cranleigh as a master
with his honors thick upon him. He was a
hockey blue of the University, and earned an
international cap for hockey, with a few games
of Rugger for the University behind him. The
vista which stretched in front of him seemed to
consist of several placid years of sport and
teaching in that delectable bit of old Saxon
countryside—from Cranleigh you can look over
the timber round Vachery Pond past Knowle to
Baynards, where tradition says Margaret Roper
took the head of Thomas More, her father, or go
down where Ethelwulf fought the Danes at Ock-
ley, whose churchyard is cut across by the sheer
line of Roman Stane-street running straight as
a die from Chichester to London. Or you can
climb Pitch Hill and look far out on the Weald,
or find yourself in a mile or two where Shelley
was born, or prospect for Roman coins on
Farley Heath above Shamley Green, or hunt
for “hurts” round Hurt Wood, or watch the
shadows of the oaks and pines in the hammer
pond of well-hidden Friday-street. Instead the
hero of our tale soon found himself with two
gold rings on his arm learning the game of
running a war at the Admiralty, graduating to
running a war room for Churchill, being then
sent to the White House to set up the war room
there for Churchill’s first visit and to be at the
disposal of Premier and President during their
private conferences. Then Admiral Fraser took
Cox over and, now a veteran, he has managed
the Admiral’s war room across great expanses
of ocean which have stretched from Murmansk
and to the South Pacific. Who wouldn’t
acquire a slight look of surprise in these cir-
cumstances. President Roosevelt he found a
kindly, unassuming man who treated those
about him as if they were members of his
family; working for Churchill conveyed the sen-
sation of being harnessed to a friendly tornado.
The only sport Lieutenant Cox has time for is
squash on a very hard court.
First Y.M.C.A. welfare officer ap-
pointed to the Royal Navy in the Pacific,
“Ferdy” Hoepper was also one of the
first Y.M. men to go over the Kokoda
Trail. Before enlisting in the Y.M. mili-
tary work in 1942 he was a Salvation
Army officer.
Claimed as the world’s oldest war
worker, John Taylor is toiling in a Brit-
ish shipyard at 90. He retired in 1931, but
came back when he noticed the war wasn’t
going well for Britain in 1940. His
son and grandson work in the same ship-
yard.
Professor J. V. Duhig, in opening the
William Bustard art show at the Canberra
Gallery, Brisbane, referred to the artist
as “one of a small group that has kept
the lamp of art alight over a long and
difficult time.” Dr. Duhig, also stating
that Bustard was one of the pioneers of
art in Brisbane and had lived by and for
his art for 25 years, concluded: “His is
the art of the Queensland countryside.”
Into the silence:
At Lindfield (N.S.W.), at 84, Thomas Robert
McCristal, retired principal of Mentone Col-
lege, Victoria, where he was responsible for
moulding the characters and guiding the destinies
of many fine Australians.
In Adelaide, at 70, James Leonard Leal,
director of the stationery firm of Whillas and
Ormiston and member of the Municipal Tram-
ways Trust from 1922-37, and its chairman
from 1937-44. He was a former president of
the S.A. Master Printers’ Association.
At Dunedin (MJL), William Easton, for 53
years with Otago “Daily Times,” and after
knight George Fenwick’s death in 1929 its g.m.
till retiring in 1941. His son, Capt. Ronald
Easton, is serving overseas.
At Auckland (M.L.), Right Rev. Ernest
Augustus Anderson, formerly Bishop of Rifer-
ina (N.S.W.). A bishop from 1895 till 1925,
he had resided in Auckland many years since
retiring.
At Los Banos internment camp, Philippines,
Captain Hugh H. Williams, formerly of the
U.S.S. Co. A son of an M.L. Methodist
parson, he was a brother of Dr. Harold Wil-
liams, correspondent of London “Times” in
Russia and afterwards foreign editor.
At Ipswich (Q.), at 103, Jphn Hiron Jones.
Born in Tasmania, he migrated to Victoria early
and lived in Melbourne and Gippsland. Always
a lover of cattle, he headed for Queensland as
a drover, then went into the pastoralist business.
In Melbourne, at 79, Edward Norton Grim-
wade, chairman of directors of Felton, Grim-
wade and Duerdins, and, like others in that
firm, a noted benefactor. One of his sons,
Fred, in the R.F.C. in the last war, was shot
down in Belgium, badly wounded and made
p.0.w.; another, George, gave his life on Galli-
poli; a third, Lionel, served with the R.N,
In Sydney, John Marshall Welch, for over 33
years connected with Dalgety’s, Miller’s Point,
and a leading light in the Australian Shipping
and Officers’ Association.
In Sydney, F. R. V. Timbury, one of Aus-
tralia’s foremost authorities on water conserva-
tion and irrigation. Author of Battle for the
Inland and staunch advocate of plans for divert-
ing the flood waters of Eastern Queensland
rivers into the inland, he had terms as Mayor of
Roma (Q.).
At 84, Thomas J. Gordon, of Plentyana,
Ringwood (N.S.W.), one of the best-known of
Riverina landowners. A keen livestock breeder,
he controlled Plentyana for over half a cen-
tury; had there a flock of Corriedales of the
original Corbett blood, and locally raced horses
of his own breeding.
At 74, L. O. Wilkinson, formerly a leading
figure in Queensland mining and journalism and
over a long stretch of years a contributor of
verse and pars, to The Bulletin.
In London, aged 75, Walter Hislop Young,
son of the founder of the Maoriland jewellery
firm of G. and T. Young. He was the firm’s
overseas buyer when, in 1919, he resigned and
joined the M.L. engineering firm of A. and T.
Burt, acting as London director till his death.


Society
“Clooter”: The tram from Watson’s
Bay to the city stopped below St. Mary’s
Cathedral, Upon all tl\e passengers leav-
ing, the man with the Digger badge asked
the conductress “Don’t we go any
further?” Before she could reply the
tramdriver, also an Old Digger, came
along and replied “No, Dig. It’s Anzac
Day, and we have to stop here for the
procession.” “I know about that,” said
the passenger, “but couldn’t” he
paused, looked hard at the driver and
said “Aren’t you Doughy? I’m George
the Grunter,” The driver turned back
and peered at him, then both made joyful
noises and thumped each other’s shoul-
ders. “Where are you going now?”
asked the passenger. “Back to Watson’s
Bay for another load.” “Then I’m com-
ing, too. Hang the procession ; I haven’t
seen you since the day” but by then
they were out of earshot.
* HE * *
“K.K.”: War brings in its train re-
markable technical achievements, but
these are shrouded in secrecy usually
till the war is over. But already the veil
is being lifted. “The Times,” for instance,
has been allowed to reveal a wealth of
technical detail about the R.A.F.’s “Gen
Box,” This, fitted to bombers, sends out
a succession of electrical impulses which
bounce back from the ground and form
on a glass screen a kind of contour map
of the ground below. If such a device
can be the subject of even a generalised
description it is high time that a plain,
straightforward account of Radar, its
why and wherefore, was permitted. It
should prove very interesting, even if
phrased (as it would have to be) so that
the enemy was told nothing that he
doesn’t know already. The U.S.A. has
made a start by lifting restrictions on
publication of data on the propagation
of the higher frequencies (8 to 100 mega-
cycles), which means that subscribers to
American radio magazines will receive
copies henceforth without deleted pages.
“Hamfat” sighs for the circus of his
youth:
The circus of old came to town with a blaring
brass band, elephants pulling cages containing
lions and tigers, horses prancing and clowns
somersaulting. We kids knew the horses by
name, and would point them out to small sisters
or cobbers; even have an argument about which
was which, with a triumphant “I told you!”
when the showman called the animals by name.
Of course when there was a special star like
Mahomet, the talking horse, it was easy enough.
The circus today is a faded glory. Not only
is the procession forbidden, but the passing of
the horse age has lessened the interest in the
horse acts. Man-power has played havoc with
the brass band, the army of circus attendants
and the performers themselves (including the
clowns), and food-rationing has decimated the
menageries. Yet the kids still love the circus,
though now, as ever, the crowded audiences are
mostly composed of adults.
* * * *
“V. Cluse”: When it comes to the fan-
tastic the U.S.A. can give the rest of the
world a start and a beating. Latest in-
credible happening in that incredible land
is the story of Abe Schusterman, aged 28,
son of wealthy parents. Abe was kid-
napped and forced by his captors to tele-
phone his father demanding the equiva-
lent of £A7OOO as ransom. Pa having
stumped up, Abe talked his captors into
handing the money over to him to invest
in a chewing-gum factory. Then the
police arrived, and the arrested gang
promptly laid a charge of “fraudulently
receiving” against Abe, who faces an-
other charge of “fraudulently appropnat-
ing” his father’s money. Abe claims that
he borrowed the money from his kid-
nappers. It only remains for Abe to turn
out to be his father in disguise and the
stories in Leacock’s Frenzied Fiction be-
gin to look commonplace.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”; I’d like “Pawang” (B.
18/4/’45) to compile a list of the London
and New York successes which have
failed in Australia during the last 25 or
30 years. “Cauboy” (B, 14/3/’45)
broadly claimed that “it is the gallery
girl who decides the fate of most Aus-
tralian stage productions,” and I gave
reasons why she does not. There was
nothing in “Cauboy’s” statement to sug-
gest that he referred to the distant past.
Anyway, even going back 60 years or
more, there are very, very few instances
of imported plays which “clicked” abroad
having been flops here. Australians are,
and always have been, notoriously defer-
ential to the imported view or article.
This rule follows down through politics,
trades-unionism, sport and sartorial
modes to the arts. I deliberately mention
the arts last because that is the position
they occupy in the life of this country.
» 5)5 * *
“Tiki”: When the Kiwis who have
been helping Field-Marshal Alexander to
push the Boche out of Italy return to
“He Was born blind, lady. I'm his sole means of support."
the land of the fern they should be con-
noisseurs of opera, orchestra and ballet.
Leave is spent in Rome, and at the
splendidly-housed New Zealand Club
(which has a fine domed auditorium) there
is a performance once a week by the
greatest singers, instrumentalists and
dancers of Italy. Sopranos Maria
Carniglia, Elisa Ferroni, Emilia Carlino
and Lucia Mero, baritones Paulo Silveri,
Armando Dado and Georda Marcello,
tenors Renato Gigli, Nino Mazziotti,
Gino Sinimbergi and Giovanni Signorini
and basso Guilio Neri are often heard.
In addition to these shows one of Rome’s
best orchestras plays in the club lounge
daily every afternoon and evening. And
when Benj amino Gigli gave his first con-
cert since the Allies took Rome (he had
been under a political cloud) there were
plenty of complimentary tickets for the
Kiwis. Favorite airs of the Maorilanders
at latest advice were “Lilli Marlene” and
“Chiri-biri-bin,” but they may alter their
ideas under a barrage of symphony and
grand opera. At the conclusion of the
weekly concert all singers come on the
stage and chant “O Sole Mio.”’ The
Enzed audience reciprocates with “For
They are Jolly Good Fellows.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Edouard Herriot, who has
been liberated by the Russians from a
prison camp, seems to have had rather
more intestinal fortitude than the average
French politician. French Premiers are
ten a penny, and the most optimistic of
them never expected to last more than
a few months in office. Herriot had
three terms, all undistinguished. But he
was a cordial Boche-hater, and as Presi-
dent of the Chamber of Deputies during
the fall of France he vainly urged that
the Republic should continue the fight
from the colonies. Though his political
achievements may be forgotten, the name
of Edouard Herriot will live on —among
gardeners, at least; for Ducher, of Lyons,
who has produced some of the loveliest of
copperish roses by crossing the Persian
yellow with a hybrid perpetual, honored
the wife of the Premier by naming a new
rose after her. And Madame Edouard
Herriot is, when the conditions are right,
a beautiful bloom of yellow
and rosy scarlet. But that a rose asso-
ciated with French politics is, like all the
Pernetiana tribe, badly subject to die-
back and black spot seems not without
significance.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”; I see that Australian scien-
tists in association with U.S. mfedical
authorities are seeking the causes of tropi-
cal fatigue, and that investigations have
been in progress in a Queensland labora-
tory, artificial atmospheres being used,
for six years. Tropical fatigue didn’t
make its appearance for the first
time when the Australian forces went
into Malaya and New Guinea, and
atmosphere isn’t its determining factor.
If there is actually such a thing as tropi-
cal fatigue, per se, it is indissolubly linked
up with that other tropical mani-
festation, ennui. Young men who
come to the tropics are invariably
astonished at the lethargy of the old
hands, think the climate is healthy, walk
20 miles a day and go in for all sorts of
strenuous activities. After a few years
they have to be levered from their long
chairs with a crowbar, think that the
slightest physical effort will be their
downfall and get all sorts of complaints
and diseases. To relieve their boredom
they will indulge in stunts like having
their heads shaved or living a day back-
wards. These are psychological manifes-
tations, and scientists cannot-parallel the
conditions for reproducing them,
* * * *
“M 8”: When a farmer of Bombo, a
N.S.W. Illawarra village, found a naked
and “barely conscious” youth outside the
door one night he took him in, sent for
help and had him removed to hospital.
Whereupon the reporters arrived,
cameras clicked and the police became
interested. It fell to a detective at Wol-
longong court to blow the gaff on the
greatest tale-pitcher the war has pro-
duced :
The “castaway” had earlier claimed to have
fought in the Graf Spec action in December,
1939, as a M.L. naval gunner. In 1943 he con-
vinced an officer that he had missed his unit,
was flown from Queensland to N.G., arrested in
a forward area, returned to Melbourne and re-
leased.
Next, in A.I.F. sergeant’s uniform, he joined
a train taking commandos north from Brisbane.
He had decorations up, and two days later
appeared as a lieutenant. The sergeant in
command of the draft offered to hand over, but
was told to carry on.
The “loot” vanished, but bobbed up later,
still a “loot,” and talked Allied air officers into
flying him to N.G. Then he flew to a coast
base and went to the front line aboard a barge.
Pinched again, he was sent back, became ill
and went into a N.G. army hospital, but
escaped and returned to the line, still as an
officer.
Landed again, he was escorted back to Bris-
bane and charged with vagrancy. The magis-
trate, though told the fellow was a nuisance
to the military, let him off on bond.
Interval' of a few months. Then, “a shy
youth in overalls,” he turned up at N.E.I.
Army h.q. in Melbourne, said he was the orphan
son of Dutch immigrants from Lone River,
Cape York, had just heard of the war and had
travelled by horse, train and foot to join his
countrymen. Pickings: a Dutch uniform, a
fiver and a rail warrant to a Dutch army camp.
After ten days he vanished, was picked up in
Mt. Isa, sent to Melbourne by Man-power and
given a job in the country.
Later on he again bobbed up in Melbourne,
wearing Dutch uniform, was grabbed at a ser-
vice hostel and fined £l. Again he faded away.
His next appearance was at Bombo, where he
claimed to be the sole survivor from a ship blown
up between Moresby and Townsville and to have
lived alone on a raft for a month. He con-
vinced doctors of his ordeal and was “delirious”
for 36 hours. It came out that he had en-
listed in the A.I.F. while under age, was
discharged when that was discovered, then
joined the A.M.F., and was discharged medi-
cally unfit after two years.
Having heard all this, the magistrate gave
our 1945 answer to De Rougemont three
months for vagrancy. He is still only 20.
* * * *
“Alex.”; One of the major legal mys-
teries is the metamorphosis of the King’s
Counsel elevated to the Bench. At one
moment he is the man of the world,
master of every subject that may come
to him on brief, encyclopaedic, omniscient,
intellectually formidable. Next moment,
having assumed a little longer wig, he
is conventionally deemed incapable of
understanding the simplest matter unless
it is very carefully explained. Some
Judges foster the custom by affecting an
aloofness from mundane affairs that
makes laymen wonder where they spent
their lives. But at last a Judge has re-
volted. Blair, J., of the Maoriland
Supreme Court, hearing a case in
Auckland, in the course of which
counsel were wasting a lot of time
in kindergarten explanations, exclaimed
suddenly “I know all that; it is
a matter that had barnacles on it fifty
years ago. Some people assume a Judge
to be a congenital idiot who has to be
told that daylight follows the rising of the
sun.”
* * * *
“Tueno” on radio development:
A “citizens’ Radiocommunication Service”
(not to be confused with the national services
of radio amateurs) is to be established in U.S.A.
as part of post-war frequency allocation re-
quirements. Possibilities of such a service are
limited only by public imagination and indus-
trial ingenuity. War-time lightweight “walkie-
talkie” type of gear has opened the door to a
large variety of new private radio applications.
An example is a doctor’s calling service,
whereby a central exchange can reach medicoes
while en route by car. Department stores, dairies,
laundries and similar businesses will use the
new medium for communication with delivery
vehicles; trucks operating around vast indus-
trial plants and construction projects will be
aware immediately of radiophoned instructions;
farms and runs will have a much-needed
medium for contact with boundary-riders and
mustering teams; there will be obvious appli-
cations for harbor and river craft; for moun-
tainous areas; sportsmen and explorers. The
public generally will benefit from the conveni-
ence by utilising two-way portable equipment
for short-range private service between points
with no regular communication facilities.
U.S.A.’s commission responsible for radio tech-
nique has allocated 460 to 470 megacycles for
the proposed activity—that is, around a wave-
length of half one metre. Introduction of
similar facilities for Australia would benefit
the public, the radio industry and the com-
munity in general.
• * * •
“Spokeshave”: A Melbourne land-
scape painter went into an ironmonger’s
and asked for a tin of linseed oil, “What’s
it for?” asked the shopman. “Oh—a
drench for cows,” replied the artist.
“What on earth do you want with a
drench for cows, Mr. Dauber,” queried
the shopman. “Has Man-power called
you up for dairy farming?” “Not yet,”
replied the painter. “But when you asked
me what the stuff was for I thought
there must be some restriction on it, and
I reckoned I’d be on the safe side.”
BIG BEN.
“The lantern light over Big Ben, which formerly
shone after sunset to show that the House of Com-
mons was sitting, was turned on by the Speaker
last week after having been extinguished for over five
years.”— London cable.
The lights went out in London,
The lights that shed their glow
Over the “Flower of Cities,”
Five fateful years ago.
Again she sees them leaping
To every watcher’s ken;
Once more, awake from sleeping,
Shines forth, its vigil keeping,
Big Ben.
A signal post, a landmark.
More than mere hours it tells,
Or bids the people listen
For peals of Victory bells.
When lengthening shadows streaken
The skies for nightfall, then ’
It gleams, a quenchless beacon,
O’er wills that scorned to weaken,
Big Ben.
O’er halls of State, a symbol,
It gleams to noise aloud
The tale whereof a nation
And race may well be proud.
It stands, a sign and token
To tell of London when
From agonies unspoken
She rose unbowed, unbroken,
Big Ben.
IFORD
n.s.w.
FORDE’S FRONT.
“I say to the people of Britain, with all the
emphasis at my command, that there must be no
slackening until the military colossus of the East
is struck to dust.”' —Forde in London,
Stout words when voiced with earnestness and
unction,
And admirable sentiments, it’s true.
But, Forde, do you regard it as your function
To tell the British people what to do?
Think you they need a heartening injunction
To finish off their job from chaps like you,
They who have borne unflinching, undeterred,
Ordeals of which you’ve only read or heard?
Before for overseas you did your packing,
Some of “the emphasis at your command”
For solemn adjurations against slacking
Might have been useful in your native land.
And yet it somehow seems to have been lack-
ing ;
One can’t recall you ever took a stand
Against the muddling and the laissez faire
Of which you warn John Bull he must beware.
Here, where our servicemen grow ever sicker
Of daily tales of hold-up and of strike,
Where colliers and wharfies merely snicker
At all awards designed their guns to spike,
Where union bosses claim the right to bicker
(Even with one another) when they like, _
There’s sure more need for counsel such as this
To be administered with emphasis.
Before you pose as Britain’s staunch adviser
On matters just a bit outside your ken,
And take the role of strenuous emphasizer
No war-time effort should be spared till when
A war is won, would not it, Forde, be wiser
To hammer it into your own countrymen
That aught which may to slackened effort tend,
Though far behind the lines, retards the end?.
N.s.W,
T. THE R.


“Petermac”: It started in the morning
tram. “This is definitely the oil,”
whispered the tram-conductor: “the war
in Europe’s been over since Tuesday, but
they won’t release the news in case the
public go mad or something—my brother-
in-law’s cousin works in a cable office and
let us in on it.” “It’s true, too,” piped in
another straphanger; “my girl friend
works in a shipping office —but she said it
was last Thursday.” At the office I was
buttonholed by the office-boy. “Didja
hear the latest about the war being over
—a bloke out our way who can read
Morse code said he heard the signal
come over the wireless last night—great
isn’t it?” A waitress, a barmaid and a
newsboy were the next to give me the
great news. Aboard the tram for home
I was accosted by yet another herald.
“Have you heard the latest?”
“Yes,” I interrupted absently, “it’s been
over since” “Oh, so you’ve heard
about it. Well, anyway, our fellows
aren’t in it now, so it doesn’t matter
much.” “But,” I protested, “our boys
are fighting up on Bougainville.” “Oh,
yes,” he said, “but there’s only a few
of them, and that’s nothing to worry
about.”
* * * *
“X.S.”: A sturdy drinker is Joseph
Kenny, a waterside worker who gave
evidence before the M.L. Royal Com-
mission on Licensing. He stated that for
40 years he had spent four-fifths of his
weekly earnings on liquor, and as these
averaged £l4 to £lB he must have ab-
sorbed as monstrous a disproportion of
wet goods as Sir John Falstaff. When
asked if he had any criticism of the pre-
vailing system he answered in a way that
would have done credit to Shakspeare’s
immortal toper. He was “reasonably
satisfied,” but would like to see more
convenient hours for drinking and more
comfort in which to do it.
# * *
“S.T.S.”: Isn’t it a bit sweeping to
say (B. 21/3/ *45) that the Red Page’s
plucky attempt to create Australian nur-
sery rhymes “failed”? Some of them still
stick in the memory of good Australians,
and I am glad to bear evidence that a
recent reader of the S.A. Education De-
partment has reproduced for a new gen-
eration both “Bunny and the Dingo” and
“Baby Roo,” by Josephine and “ by per-
mission of the Sydney Bulletin.”
* * * *
“D.8.K.”: Ambrose Fleming, dead in
his native England at 95, laid the foun-
dation stone of modern radio by develop-
ment of the two-electrode valve in 1904,
but a press statement that “radio did not
exist when Dr. Fleming invented the ther-
mionic valve” is wide of the mark. Vari-
ous pioneers in fundamentals of radiation
and propagation of electro-magnetic
waves had tackled their problems decades
previously—-and Marconi had, in 1895,
sent and received wireless messages a mile
or so with the aid of Branley’s “coherer
and “tapper.” A year later a distance of
12 miles was covered. Fleming’s diode
valve comprised a stable but insensitive
detector, and it was not until an Ameri-
can, Dr. Lee De Forest, added a “grid’
to Fleming’s diode, in 1906, that the ther-
mionic valve in the form of the triode
detector-amplifier came into its own. That
additional element was probably the most
important of all radio inventions.
¥ * * *
“C.Q.”: The fifth or sixth drunk to
produce a live and presumably venomous
serpent in a bar in Melbourne within
two months, thus clearing the bar and
getting several drinks in comfort, has
been followed by two individuals who
have introduced the custom to city trans-
port. One succeeded in emptying a bus
iu quicker time than even the chairman
of the Tramways Board thought one could
be emptied. After the innovator had re-
turned his snake to his bosom the tremb-
ling passengers returned to their seats,
only to make a second blind rush to the
exits when the serpent was given another
breath of freedom. The second com-
panion of reptiles was not so lucky, and
had to go to hospital for anti-venom
injection.
* * * *
“Gramp”: Our family boasts a youth-
ful oracle who can always find an answer
to a question put to him. Even his errors
show ingenuity. One of his kid friends
had chanced on a word that puzzled him,
and of course came to Sir Oracle.
“Barmecide?” he pondered, and soon
solved the problem. “A barmecide,” he
pronounced, “is a man who murders bar-
maids.”
* * * *
“F.S.”: The Victorian Housing Com-
mission’s plan for building 5000 homes
on 1200 resumed acres in Heidelberg is
referred to as the largest single housing
scheme yet to be undertaken in Aus-
tralia. Heidelberg is the beautiful suburb
—now city—where Arthur Streeton, Tom
Roberts, the Lindsays and other artists
inadvertently founded the so-called Eagle-
mont school by residing there and paint-
ing. Walter Withers, McCubbin, Long-
staff, Mclnnes, W. D. Knox, Napier
Waller, Blamire Young and dozens of
other painters lived there, and the pic-
turesque old town, the farmhouse, the
winding Yarra valley, the hayricks and
the orchards are better known to Aus-
tralians than any other district through
their thousands of pictures. Burley
“Dear Merle, —Remember me telling you how it rains up north? Well ,
here's a sample .”
Griffin laid out a model suburb in the
district. It isn’t likely that many artists
will want to immortalise the Commission’s
project. There are no artists on the
Commission, and its conventional plan
with its commonplace dwellings could
have come out of any architectural
pigeonhole in Moscow, New York or
London.
* % % *
“Fitzwilliam”: “Clooter” (B. 18/4/’45)
need not worry about the legal status
of test-tube babies. In common law a
child born in wedlock is presumed to be
the legitimate issue of its putative
parents; if husband and wife are living
together the presumption is conclusive,
and cannot be rebutted. The House of
Lords decided in Russell v. Russell that
neither husband nor wife can give evi-
dence of “non-access” that would
bastardise the issue. In cases where it
can be proved by the evidence of other
persons that there was no possibility of
“access” at the relevant period, as, for
“Well, lady , what can I for you?”
instance, if the husband were overseas,
the Court will accept such evidence on
an issue of adultery. There is, unfor-
tunately, a rather common type of case
nowadays where the husband has been
on active service overseas and on his re-
turn finds his wife with a baby that can
by no possibility be his. I am awaiting
with great interest the decision of the
Divorce Court in a case where the erring
wife sets up the defence that it was only
a test-tube baby, and a very little one at
that. I imagine the eyebrows of the
Court receding into its wig, and its mur-
mur of incredulity. As a matter of fact,
such evidence by the wife would be re-
jected following Russell v. Russell.
Tell “Clooter” that there is no Australian
law on registration of births. If the
statutory provision in S.A. what
“Clooter” thinks it is, putative fathers of
illegitimate children must have a thin
time in that holy State. In N.S.W. the
Registrar is not allowed to enter the
name of a putative father of an illegiti-
mate child in the register unless at the
request of the mother and the putative
father.
* * * •
“Adelaide” : Enter for the queer bur-
glary championship an entry made here
on the city morgue. After an obvious
but unsuccessful attempt to force the
front door, a small back window was
used. Nothing was stolen, and a corpse
in residence was not disturbed. Morbid
curiosity of kids gets the blame.
* St * *
“Mid - Channel”: “Pink - Tape” (B.
11/4/’45) is mistaken about typewriters
being first used for correspondence in
Government offices of N.S.W. in 1903.
As far back as 1897 all correspondence in
the Supreme Court was typewritten, the
machines in use being the Smith Premier
No. 4 and the Yost—-both full-keyboard
(no shift-keys) type. Soon after (about
1901) the New Century came into use,
also full-keyboard. As an officer of the
court I operated a Smith Premier in
bankruptcy proceedings. Shorthand
wasn’t used then, and depositions were
taken on the narrative principle, combin-
ing question and answer. The typewriter
was used in the Water Police Court as far
back as 1894, when a case against a clair-
voyant was heard. I was there. The de-
position clerk had a glass canopy over his
machine to deaden the sound.
* * * *
“L.L.”: After three years’ service in
New Guinea a Victorian soldier, on a
brief spell of leave, got into civvies and
went out to have a look at some land he
owned on the shores of Port Phillip. He
was gazing round his garden, neglected
because the whole family was absent on
war service, when the man next door
popped his head over the hedge. “Can’t
you keep rabbits off your land?” he
asked, eyeing his neighbor with disfavor.
The soldier was momentarily staggered.
Then he recovered. “I’ve been too busy
keeping the Japs off it,” he answered.
*'* * *
“Pip” on a domestic problem of the
soldiery:
Cooling the weekly issue of two bottles of
beer presents a weighty problem up north.
By the time the sar.-major and the cooks have
stowed their brew away in the Company re-
frigerator there is no room for anybody else
except at the expense of the food. Wrapping
the bottles in a wet blanket for a few hours
is better than nothing, but it only partially
cools the beer. Canvas water-bags, issued
by the A.C.F., are in demand. Half a dozen
bottles can be stowed inside and a reasonably
low temperature maintained. At some island
bases ice is supplied to units on a limited scale.
The precious block is broken up and a piece
goes into each hot-box, with the beer on top.
But there are no such amenities up forward.
The soft mud on a river bank can be used, but
a guard is necessary. A deep hole in the floor
of the tent is safer, and quite effective, but
has the disadvantage that, someone is sure to
fall in before the night is over. Every issue
produces some new scheme, but none has yet
made a universal appeal. The matter is of some
importance Two bottles of warm grog drunk
quickly produce a startling stomachache —as
every soldier knows.
* * * *
“Uraraao”: Two hundred years ago
the embalmed body of a Maori chief-
tainess was deposited with the prescribed
ritual in a cave in the hills near Kaikohe,
North Island. A few weeks ago three
dusky-skinned youths dragged from the
cave the body, still in a good state of
preservation. The elders of the tribe,
appalled at the desecration, sat in council
to debate what action should be taken.
They fined the Maori lads heavily, the
two eldest (18 and 19) £l5 each and the
younger (14) £lO. But that wasn’t all.
The two eldest were placed under the
makutu, the “curse of death.” This used
to be mighty effective in pre-Pakeha
days, but it hadn’t polished off the
offenders when this was written.
* * * *
“Craiser”: The Turf always has its links
with literature. A gelding which has been
earning some support from punters in
Melbourne racing was called Charles
Garvice ; appropriate enough—the dam’s
name was Love Story. But it was found
that a full brother already bore the
moniker, so it was decided to name the
horse Balzac.
* * * *
“O’Fain”: I think “S.T.S.” is in error
in surmising that Young and Jackson’s
“Chloe” hung in James Ashton’s Adel-
aide studio in the ’eighties (B. 11/4/’45).
Painted by Jules Le Fevre, the picture
was awarded a gold medal at the 1886
Paris Salon, and later won the Prix de
Rome. When Melbourne’s National
Gallery bought it there was an outcry,
led by Bishop Moorhouse, who declared
“Chloe” immoral. After a lot of rum-
pus Knight Thomas Fitzgerald offered
to take the painting off the Gallery Trus-
tees’ hands, and they were very pleased to
get rid of it. When Fitzgerald died
Henry Young, ever a patron of the arts,
bought “Chloe” and hung her in the
saloon bar. Mention of her can still raise
a laugh on any vaudeville stage in Aus-
tralia. I think she’d bring a pretty high
price any time her owners cared to sell,
because she’s a national character.
» * * *
“Visitor”: The members of the Trade
and Press delegation lately touring S.A.
cherish warm memories of their visit to
vineyards and “cellars” round Adelaide.
They were given a glorious welcome
during three days of exploring the many
famous wineries that clamored to enter-
tain them. But just as they started from
the city each visitor had received —as the
powder before the jam—a solemn warn-
ing and protest from Frank Lade, chair-
man of the S.A. Temperance Alliance.
* * * *
“Melbn”; Time was when the Head of
the River race in Melbourne was a gieat
gala occasion. Yelling crowds lined both
banks of the stream as the youths
strained their hearts and their lungs pull-
ing their frail cockleshells through the
water, and it was carnival in the cafes,
hotels, theatres and cinemas in the even-
ing and oodles of publicity for days in
the papers. This year the race,
rowed on the Barwon, was viewed by
only a few thousand. There was a mere
handful of Melbourne enthusiasts, and
tabloid accounts of the event were rele-
gated to back pages.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Prop”: Johnson and Green had quar-
relled, and when they both appeared in
town on sale day the mob expected some
fun ; but, although Johnson was willing,
Green escaped into the fnain street among
the women and kids and started shopping.
However, his enemy was not to be denied.
Waiting at the shop door, he yelled down
the street “Green’s bought a pair o’
boots!” Then “He’s buyin’ a shirt.” A
little later “Hey! Greeny’s gettin’ some
terbaccer.” A pause ; then “Stiffen the
crows, he’s bought a pair o’ pants! He’ll
be a man yet!” That was when we
dragged Johnno off to the pub.
* * * *
“D.R.H.”; A country chalkie of my
acquaintance had an answer for the old
poser regarding the order of precedence
of the hen and the hen fruit (B. 11/ 4/ ’45.)
When the inevitable hobbledehoy trotted
it out he was immediately sent off to get
some water from the bottom of the not-
overclean school horse-trough. A drop
was placed under the teacher’s micro-
scope and the class invited to observe
the specimens of Paramecium. Then:
“There is an egg, boys, essentially an
egg, although it swims. And it was swim-
ming millions of years before scales or
feathers existed in this world.” I suspect
that his science may have been a little
strained, but thus are rural reputations
for erudition made.
* * * *
“Propalong”: For six years Long Jack
had camped alone at the ten-mile, and
every time the mustering camp invaded
'his territory it had to suffer a discourse
on the advantages of matrimony. After
hearing for the twentieth time how good
it was to come home and find tea cooked
and the lamp lit, the boys were fed up,
and Mick Donnelly asked Jack why the
sanguinary blazes he didn’t talk of some-
thing he knew a bit about. “Aw,” said
Jack, smugly, “I bin married.” “Well,
why don’t y’ get hitched up again an’ stop
y’r flamin’ yap?” Whereupon the whole
camp dared Jack to invest in the joys he
praised. For four days everyone chiacked
and taunted until, when the last crutched
ewe had been turned out, Jack wrote a
letter to a matrimonial agency. He got
quick results: within a few weeks the
mulga wire went round that Jack had
gone into the town to meet the mail and
his destiny. Then lamb-marking started,
and we forgot the joke until the camp
went to the ten-mile. “Hey, Jack, where’s
the missus?” yelled Mick as he swung
off his horse. The long bloke looked
sheepish. “Well, y’ see, there was a mis-
take,” he admitted finally. “They went
an’ sent me up me own wife under her
maiden name. O’ course, 1 sent ’er back.
Do y’ reckon I could come on ’em for
compo. or damages or somethin’?”
* * * *
‘.‘Chuck”: The new land girl at Bailey’s
was a snifter for looks, but sort of stand-
offish, and nobody was making any head-
way. Best Sam could boast was a
mumbled “Good morning,” while Tommy
claimed a half-smile. Then the boss put
me on ploughing a piece of frontage
where the sheilah passed on her way for
the cows each afternoon. You bet I was
flat out. Wore me white hat and red
shirt, pinched a loan of Jake s yellow
belt and borrowed Mick’s green-spotted
tie. She beat me the first afternoon,
though, passing just as I’d got round the
far side, but next day I waited over an
hour near the road stretch till I spotted
her coming. Quick as lightning I slid
down behind old Jess, straightened me
tie, combed me hair and tilted me hat
smartly over one eye. Then I perched
meself straight as a ramrod, with me
dooks high and wide in front like a bloke
I seen once in a pitcher, and I yelled
manfully to the nags. Boy, and did I
sweat! Slowly we drew opposite ; then,
wearing me most encouraging grin, I
twisted me head sideways, give a mighty
start like I was surprised at something and
says “Oh, er —g-good afternoon, Miss.”
She half-turned, looked straight at me,
blinked an’ then —well, then the seat of
the plough snapped off.
* *
“Sur Cingle”: Sounds as though “Julia
Creek” (B. 11/4/’45) is selling a patent
saddle polish in his spare time. If, as he
says, neatsfoot oil is so destructive, how
does he account for the fact that my
saddle, a good Queensland stock poley,
is in perfect condition after nearly 11
years of use and constant dressings with
neatsfoot? Last year the local colt-
breaker wanted to buy it, offering a
couple of quid more than I gave.
* H"- * *
“Wippegong”; A good test of anyone’s
way of life is the speed with which he
can return to normal after an upheaval,
and by that test many of the dusky vil-
lagers up north measure up well. When
the eastern side of a certain island was
needed for troops and aircraft and all that
goes therewith, the natives were gathered
up with such gear as they chose to take
and transplanted to another island an
“Your first time up North, Farquhar?”
hour’s run away; a larger island with
similar soil but clothed with matted bush
that looked —except for landslides high
up the mountains —as though it had been
so matted since the world began. The
men made clearings, took cedar for
canoes, built house-frames with the re-
maining timber and lopped tons of palm
leaf; then the Marys went to work.
Fronds were trimmed, split and woven
and reappeared as roofs, partitions and
platform floors. Black soil, all new to
the sun, was dug, tilled, plotted, planted.
Nobody hurried, nobody loafed —much;
but many hands with a common purpose
and a sensible division of labor turned
raw jungle into comfortable homes and,
incidentally, knocked out endless fun in
the process. When we last saw that
colony—it was still less than a year old —
the flat in front of the best residential
quarter was covered with neat rows of
taro, hip-high; yam vines were 12ft. up
poles at the back; sweet potatoes
sprawled over a slope to where a bank
of cassava formed a step to the wall of
jungle behind, while at the other side, an
echo from the timber country back home,
sweet corn and water-melons filled the
spaces among logs felled but not yet
cleared. All done by women, in between
feeding the mob, nursing their nippers,
making baskets, dishes and pots ; and the
final glimpse was of somebody’s missus,
with a yearling on her hip, chipping grass
from a garden path with a knife that
would cleave a bullock.
* * * *
“No. 1 Bench”: Mention of a 110 ft.
transmission pole (B. 28/3/’45) recalls
some of the tall sticks cut in the W.A.
forests and sent to Kalgoorlie as poppet
legs in the early days of the Fields. A
100-footer was not counted as much;
even wild-cat mines often sported such
saplings. It was when a mine installed its
second set of sticks that real tallness was
looked for, 120 ft. being not uncommon.
I recall that one of my bosses had a set
of four, each going 125 ft. Came the day
when word reached the city office that they
had been trucked and might be seen pass-
ing through the Perth railway yards on
a certain date. With a select company
of rival sawmillers, the boss went along.
Imagine his horror on finding that the
inevitable idiot had sawn his pet sticks
in halves, on the ground that they were
so long it would be impossible to round
the curves of W.A.’s narrow-gauge rails
without disrailing one or the other of the
two carrier trucks.
* * * *
“B. 4”: “Kelly” for crow had its genesis
in the deeds of the Kelly gang. Birds and
bushrangers were addicted to forays;
hence “Those damn’ crows are just like
the Kellys”; hence “Kelly.” The name
is indiscriminately applied to crows and
ravens.
* * * *
“Primer”: Miners on wages, we knocked
off a little earlier than we should have
done, and, turning into a cross-cut, ran
into the foreman. He looked at his
watch and said “You fellows are a bit pre-
vious, aren’t you? It’s only 25 to 3.” My
mate said “We thought we heard shots.”
“That wasn’t shots you heard —that was
a wages man panting,” said the foreman
as he turned and walked out to the shaft.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: Well cashed up, we hit
the town and found we’d have to wait
over the week-end for a train. There
was nothing much to do in the place
except absorb a few beers, and this we
proceeded to do. Our most persistent
company was a silent sort of cove who
said nothing much beyond “Well, we
better have another.” The Sunday was
a snorter, and by mid-afternoon we were
getting a bit merry, while our silent friend
was well on the way to becoming
properly molo. At last, when he was un-
certain on his feet, it struck Mat to ask
Bung who he was. “We might have t’
cart him home,” he said; “so we better
know where he lives.” Bung grinned.
“Oh,” he said, “everybody knows him.
He’s a J.P.” Mat pondered this, then
suddenly grabbed the sozzled one,
dragged him outside and ducked him in
the horse-trough a couple of times. Up
came the local John, curious. “J.P., ain’t
he?” snapped Mat. “Well, me an’ me
mate has t’ catch the two o’clock train
tomorrer. Be the way we’re headin’
we’ll be well inked before night. We
might be pinched. I don’t want t’ have
t’ come up before this bloke an’ him suf-
ferin’ a recovery. It might make us miss
that train. Come on, sober up, old
cock.”
* * * *
“Naturala”: There’s one point about
“Lub’s” satirical par. (B. 28/3 / ’45) —grass-
hoppers even in their millions couldn't
drink up his Dollypot Creek. Only suck-
ing insects and ifi sects equipped with
antennae drink. The ’hopper is a chewer.
* * * *
“Plain Angas”: If “Katiti” (B. 4/4/’45)
is so sensitive to the little bunny’s thump-
ing feet, he doesn’t want to go rabbiting
v .by the netted-in tank method. Lying on
the moonlit kopi, which looked like a
stirred-up meat-apts’ metropolis, with
rabbits instead of ants, I’ve seen every
thump of a buck’s feet produce a stam-
pede. And I’ve heard the yell with which
my mate greeted a stampeding bunny
which landed on his lace.
JB * ■* *
“Bo”; Peter the Painter and Broad-
side Bob, bagmen, lobbed ipto Shooter’s
Crossing around dusk on the day of the
picnic races. From generous winners the
beer flowed freely, and by the time they
started to think of a place to bunk they
were in a mellow frame of mind. When
they approached him Bung personally
. conducted them down the backyard of
the pub, out through the gate and on to
the racecourse, which almost abutted his
property. He got them on to the track
and pointed. “Just follow this an’ you’ll
be right,” he said jovially. “There’s a
shed round the far side where you’ll find
some hay—it’ll make as snug a shake-
down as ever you had.” The half-
sozzled pair set off. After a fpw yards
they came to a hurdle which nad been
left on the track after the last race.
Laboriously they fiddled for the latch
and, failing to find it, decided to climb
over. Two hours later Bung opened the
back door to loud knocking and found
the bagmen, leaning against one another,
fit to drop,_ It was Broadside who
spoke. “You an’ yer blasted hayshed,”
quoth he. “Listen! We bin goin’ in
shirkles ever shince we left ya, an’
climbed over ’bout shixty gates, an’ not
one o’ the blanks’d open. ’Aven’t y’ ever
’card of ’inges around this joint?”
* * * *
“F.8.G.”: Abo. burglars (B. 21/2/’45),
eh? Knew a man who in the old days
built his house at Staunton Springs, west
of Pingelly (W.A.). Wise in the ways of
local blacks, he didn’t pin his faith to pad-
locks and a heavy chain on the door of
his storehouse. He dug up an abo.
skeleton the skull of which he placed im-
mediately above the door. No boong
would ever come near the house unless he
was with a white man.
* H* * *
“Bulyanna”: Grasshoppers (B.
25/4/’45)? We were heading for Con-
dobolin (N.S.W.) by a car in October,
1935, when we spotted a dark, blueish
cloud up the road. It changed color as
we approached and turned into a mass of
’hoppers. They burst against the wind-
screen like overripe eggs,
plugged the radiator cells,
got into the hot engine and
almost asphyxiated us with
the smell of their roasting.
We couldn’t see more than
a chain ahead and the
driver slowed down to 15
m.p.h. Now and again
one whizzed through a
window and clouted a
passenger on ear or nose.
Before long the inside of
the car was crawling with
them. They obscured the
sun, and presently we had
to scrape the windscreen
to give the driver vision.
For 20-odd miles we drove
through them and ran into
Condo, to find the town in-
vested and the bowling
club, armed with flares and
empty kero.-tins on which
they beat with sticks, try-
ing to save the green, the
only bit of herbage left. In
the town they filled every-
thing, even the beard of
the wild-eyed individual
whom we discovered on
the pub verandah declar-
ing it to be the wrath of Jehovah.
Him we captured and carried to
the darkened and barricaded bar, where
it came out that, on the night betcrc,
having dropped his swag near the bridge
and come up the town to renew acquaint-
ances that had been severed for 15-years
—“and y’ can imagine me thirst. Mister
—he was confronted by a glaring n e °ff
sign that bore the legend “Milk Bar.
“Soon’s this flamin’ plague’s over, ne
assured us, “I’m headin’ west. Milk bar.
Strike me fat!”
* * * *
“Old Phil”: If we could accept “An-
thropo’s” account of the origin of Black
Brother in Australia (B. 28/3 / ’45) a long-
disputed question would be settled. But
is it all just as simple as he thinks? The
nearest point from the Deccan, on the
east coast of India, to “the long land
bridge of what is now a chain of islands
(to use his words) is Achen Head, on the
extreme north of Sumatra. Between,
there is 1000 miles of sea. As our
“abo” is no sailorman he must have been
first pushed up north about 1000 miles,
across the Ganges north of Calcutta,
down through Burma and Siam and still
approximately another 1000 miles down
that peninsula to Singapore before he
could set foot on that chain of islands
that was to eventually lead him to his
Eldorado, not one Indian, Burmese or
Siamese being co-opted on the way. A
later school of evolutionists believes that
man has ascended not from the ape but
from a sub-man, and that our. abo.
evolved where he is today—what is left
of him. “The several types m
Homo,” says Professor E. H. Evans, ‘ as
seen in the skulls of the Java, Piltdown,
Pekin and Broken Hill (S. Africa)
primeval men, are each so distinct and so
widely separated geographically as well,
that they are all incompatible as links in
a chain of descent from a common an-
cestor.”
AUTUMN MIDNIGHT.
O summer night, so wanton that you must
Snatch all that glitters to enhance your charms,
Smearing your velvet lids with gold moon-dusf —
Pollens on dusky petals; sheath your arms
And wild swan throat with diamonds, till we
stare
Bewildered by your beauty. In your hair
You set the crescent moon, and sleek your thighs
With seed pearls gathered from the Milky Way.
Between your satin breasts flames forth the rare
Pigeon-blood ruby, since in Mars’ hot eyes
You found such favor. Mined from the blue clay
Of mineral sky a thousand star points leap
To fold your limbs in radiance bright and deep.
How different then this aboriginal girl,
Moonless and starless, beating with a stick
Of wind upon the ground. Beneath the curl
Of black cloud lashes come the flash and flick
Of lightnings from her brooding eyes: her song
Is muttered thunder in the desolate dark.
Click, click-a clack tap, click-a click-a click —•
She beats the timeless measure while her long
Black fingers drip with dreams. No diamond
spark,
No scorpion clasp or fiery gleaming cross
To pulse her dusk; for her the ashen toll
Of mopokes in the gully, and the gloss
Of leaf on leaf like spear-haffs gathered up
In some brown hand. And yet no sense of loss
For summer’s jewels haunts her heart with
dearth:
She leans with eagA palms that richly cup
The great black opal of the drowsy earth.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“Old-timer”: Harry Spegel, sft, 2in.,
drifted into our little community, set up
a camp in the bend, said little and had
little notice taken of him until the day
young Purdy, spurred by drink, wanted
to fight him, “I can’t fight,” demurred
Harry, “but I’ll run y’ a hundred yards
if y’ like.” Purdy looked at Harry’s
bow-legs, blucher boots, weather-beaten
face and laughed contemptuously. But
the mob, eager for diversion, insisted on
the challenge being taken up. The stakes
were a quid apiece. Harry kicked off his
bluchers, spat on his hands and toed the
mark. Young Purdy, long-limbed and
with the fire of youth in him, lined up.
The hat fell and Harry shot away and
won in a canter. Excited, the mob got
him to run another hundred and timed
him. He did it in llsec., flat. Feeling
that it had a champion on its hands, the
mob began to talk about nominating him
for the Sheffield Handicap at the New
Year sports, but Harry wouldn’t agree.
“No,” he said. “I’d wear meself out
trainin’. Y’ know them little yeller-
bellied goannas about two foot long that
get right up on their toes and flash along
a track? Well, y’ might notice I got no
laces in me boots. I go along a track an’,
when one of them goannas jumps inter
action I kick me boots orf an’ set out
after him. Gripes, I nilly beat one once.
It’s only a pastime now, but if I took
on this runnin’ for a livin’ I’d be doin’
nothin’ but race goannas up an’ down the
roads. How long you reckon a bloke
could keep that up?” Whereupon, in a
thoughtful silence, Harry collected his
winnings, shouted once and departed.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: I doubt if anything is so
fascinating to the juvenile mind as the
gruesome ; certainly nothing stamps it-
self so indelibly on the memory. As a
boy I was taken on a visit to Sydney, and
in a barber’s shop window a photograph
attracted my attention. The printing at-
tached was beyond my comprehension
but the photo, clearly showed a horse
impaled on a rail that had entered the
“There y ’ are, Sid — TOLD y ’ I could pull up from 55 in 20 yards.”
chest, passed through the body and
emerged near the hip. Although kindness
to animals was a religion with me, and
even the sight of a jib being whipped
filled me with horror, I could not take my
eyes off that picture, and ducked back
twice to look again. Innumerable times
over the years memory has recalled that
photo., and I’ve always wondered what
was the story behind it. Then, last
March, while walking along the main
street in Wollongong (N.S.W.) I saw the
photograph on view—again in a barber’s
window. Memory had not lied: the rail
protruded three feet or more beyond the
horse’s hip bone, and even the blood-
stains around the point of entry in the
chest were exactly as I’d remembered.
But this time I was able to read that the
accident occurred at West Wyalong in
1909, when Boree Jack while compet-
ing in a race ran squarely into the end
of the loose fence-rail which a strong
wind had blown in on the track. Also,
I was able now to see that the horse was
dead, but half a dozen typical cockles
were assisting the photographer by lift-
ing the rail chest high, thus bringing the
carcase to a standing position, while on
the other side another assistant held the
poor dead animal’s head up in a natural
attitude.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: Here’s another unusual
cribbage finish. In a four-hander, after
the hands were played, the pair with
first take needed 11 to win ; the other pair
needed 26. First take held six, second
take 20, third take four and the last had
four in hand and his hat in crib, both
sides thus dying in the hole. In the next
hand six cards were played before the
winning score was made.
* * * *
“Zake”; The fight outside the little
shanty pub had been the longest and
bloodiest ever seen in Swinglebar. The
contestants, Carrots Maguire and Big
Jim Hunter, were fairly evenly matched,
both with more energy than science. At
last one of Jim’s wildly-swung hay-
makers connected in the right place, and
Carrots did the one-horse-shay act. But
as Big Jim turned to stagger away he
tripped over one of his opponents’ boots.
Half-turning as he fell, he came down
heavily on his side. There was a crunch
of glass and an odor of spirituous liquor
arose. As he picked himself up and
cautiously dragged the broken bottle from
his hip pocket there came into his eyes
for the first time that day a look of fear.
“Strike me stiff! ” he exclaimed, “a man’s
got no hope o’ gettin’ any more. The
missus’ll give me hell if I don’t go home
with the rum I promised to get her!”
* * * *
“Aichess”: “Old-timer’s” George (B.
18/4/’45) must have had a queer lot of
hounds, seeing that they tore into their
owner simply because he came home on
a bike instead of the usual prad. Where
I come from dogs, even on the blackest
of nights, can detect their owner from
yards away, whether homing on a steam-
roller or shanks’s pony. They depend on
a well-developed sense of smell.
* * * *
“Blime”: Mike shed his knot, propped
his hips comfortably against the gate-
post and tackled the owner on the sub-
ject of a job. The cove responded
eagerly, there were a few preliminaries,
then he showed the new hand into the
spare room on the end of the verandah.
The next couple of hours were spent in
the cowyard ; then Mike presented him-
self at the kitchen for a liberal sample
of farm cooking. He’d been in bed
about ten minutes when the first pang
arrived, and half an hour later he was
snooping round the kitchen in a desper-
ate hunt for baking soda. Breakfast
showed up as stodgy hunks of half-
cooked dough; midday brought what
Mike decided was a dish of small salted
mud-stones, and supper, it seemed, was
composed of slabs of hot greenhide
dipped in sump oil. Followed another
night of misery. Two days Mike stood
it; then he sought the boss and said he
was leaving. “What for?” the boss
asked, “Work too hard?” “Gripes, no,”
replied Mike, “just a misunderstanding
in our agreement, that’s all.” “Well, I
told y’ the wages plain enough,” argued
the boss worriedly, “and y’ said the
hours ’d be all right.” “So they are,”
agreed Mike. “An’ it’s me own fault,
really. Y’ see, I didn’t take you seri-
ously when you said I could live in the
house an’ you’d get the missus to do
for me!”
* * * *
Ore”; Johnny always kept a good
supply of tea, sugar, flour and other
necessities in the outstation shanty, but
when someone else found the supplies
convenient, leaving Johnny sometimes on
short rations, he thought of a remedy.
“Intelligence reporting, sir.”
Next time he went out on his rounds he
left a huge crudely-printed sign on the
wall: Food Poisoned, When he returned
a note in a neat hand under his warning
read: “If it wasn’t before, it is now.”
Johnny had to make the long journey to
the head station on an empty stomach.
“Swanlo”: Tell “Ex-C.G.” (B. 14/3/’45)
that when all Australia was New South
Wales there were no adult native-born
whites outside what is now the State of
N. S. Wales to whom the term “Corn-
stalk” might have been applied. Let me
refresh his history. Van Dieman’s Land
was settled in a small way in 1803 ; sep-
arated from the . mother settlement in
1825. Children bom there during that
period certainly weren’t called “Corn-
stalks.” The rest of the continent during*
all that time was blank so far as white
offspring was concerned. W.A. settled
1829, S.A. 1836 ; both drew their popula-
tions from the Old Land, and never re-
cognised Sydney rule. Victoria settled
1835, broke away 15 years later, too soon
for the native-born to become “Corn-
stalks.” Which leaves only Queensland,
the Moreton Bay area, 1825 to 1859-
Being 34 years under the yoke some
native-born might have appeared there
and won recognition as “Cornstalks” but
they were few. So we see that all Aus-
tralia ceased to be New South Wales as
early as 1829. Further, it never was all
N.S.W., but New Holland. As for Vic-
torians receiving their nickname from
poetical fancy likening them to gum sap-
lings—tut-tut! I sucked gym myself
there in the 80’s. And doesn’t “Ex-C.G.”
believe that big parties overlanded from
S.A. to Ballarat? Let him look up the
autobiography of Bill Day in the Mitchell
Library. Even Chinamen did it —that’s
how they got to Ararat.
H= * * *
“Sylvester”; The claim that the wild
dog of India is the dingo’s nearest rela-
tive (B. 28 /3 / ’45) is borne out by at least
one structural resemblance. Like the
dingo, the dhole has only 18 vertebrae in
its tail; dogs in general have 19,
* * * *
“Old Camp”: Jones was talking,
exhibit A being a lump of what looked
like burnt lead: “I’m up in the mulga.
The Wotavu G.M. is just closing down,
and two of the mine Johnnies are
having a bit of a clean-up of their own.
But they’re such mugs that they let the
bottom fall out of their crucible, and
then they had to leave it, being in a hurry
to catch the coach. So when the furnace
cools I clean the ash-pit out. But there’s
a lot of anti-friction metal in it, so that
the manager’s gold scrapings get all
mixed up. There it is—and I’m saying
there’s a dozen ounces in it.” Douglas
tested the weight. “Heavy; but so is
lead.” “Get the gold out and half is
yours.” A five-gallon drum with a few
holes punched in it made a furnace; the
flue an odd length of pipe. The old Ex-
tended scrap-heap yielded an unbroken
clay crucible, well slagged over but
usable. With charcoal for fuel the im-
prompfu furnace was soon white-hot.
Jones’s crude mass melted readily—too
readily, most of us thought. Douglas
started feeding in the flux. Slag boiled in
the crucible like burnt toffee. For hours
our alchemist kept it going, judiciously
feeding in the flux, but careful that it
shouldn’t boil over. Finally a subtle
change came over the boiling mixture.
“It’s finished,” he announced. Lifting the
crucible out he gave it a few taps, then
put it aside to cool. Half an hour later
he broke the crucible. A bright yellow
lump of gold came to light, all the baser
metals having vanished. Gold is the
unique metal!
* * Ht
“Esk D.”: “As a city youth I joined
the rush to an alluvial strike at Tinpan
Gully,” said George. '“I landed there
one evening in time to spot a likely bit
of ground an’ put me pegs ip before
dark. Just after daylight next morning a
burly digger yanks me out an’ drags me
to a post with a notice on it ‘Martin
Barrow. Pegged Out April 21.’ ‘Can’t
y’ read,’ he ses. ‘Y’ pegged over me
ground an’ I oughta shoot y’.’ Yair, I’d
seen the notice awright, but’d been
thinkin’ all the time it musta been a
blasted tombstone.”
H= * * *
“Carnie”: Yes, “8.4” (B. 28/3/’45),
my mokes did wait with stoical fatalism
to be stung to death by bees, but the
reason may lie in the fact that in each of
my three tases the horses were in a totally
strange neighborhood. Though horses do
not linger in the vicinity of a hive, a
horse is seldom attacked in its own stock-
yard or pasture. For 20 years there was
an immense bush hive in a neighbor’s
paddock less than two chains from our
horseyard shed, where sweating horses
were unharnessed almost daily. These
bees never once molested our horses.
Glenallen Shire (Q.) has had many com-
plaints from owners of horses killed by
bees. The assailants were all apiary bees,
the attacks occurred just after rob-
bing and the victims were invariably
horses in a strange locality.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Dick Whittington
and his cat would have received a warm
welcome in the Swan River settlement of
1830. Rats had arrived the previous year
and increased prodigiously. Cats were
scarce. Under the stress of demand it
was not long before the price of a cat
rose to £5. There was even a lawsuit, a
merchant being accused "by a lady resi-
dent of Fremantle of enticing her tabby
away. Verdict for the plaintiff, with order
for restitution. Then Hobart Town came
to the rescue. With a ship due to sail
for the Swan dozens of nippers made for
the Hobart wharf, each with a cat, for
which the enterprising skipper paid up
to ss. This influx soon brought the Fre-
mantle price down to £l. But even when
it fell to 10s. cats snatched in Hobart
still returned a fair profit to the enter-
prising sailor.
* » * *
“Esk D.”: “Scrub eczema” is com-
monly contracted by individuals allergic
to the contact of certain plants, and the
complaint varies from an aggravating itch
to a severe rash and swelling of the
glands. Dogwood is a bad offender, and
in one case the victim put in the next
couple of days in bed after walking
through a patch of it. There are various
“cures,” ranging from a poultice of
bruised bracken fronds to peroxide or
metho., but they seem to work indi-
vidually rather than generally.
CAMP-OVEN BREAD.
Long miles we’d trudged through mud and
mire
Or plodded through the sand,
When, just as night came cold and dark,
A house loomed close at hand.
A woman opened wide the door —
“You’re needing food and bed;
The best we have tonight is meat
And fresh camp-oven bread.”
Sweet odors of the steaming bread
Were wafted to the door
And seemed to linger on the air
From rafters to the floor.
Then bygone scenes came fleeting back —
Ah! how those years have fled
Since, hungry in a vanished home,
I first ate home-made bread!
The house was small and weather-worn.
Its rough-hewn walls were bare,
Yet swept and smooth the earthern floor
And wholesome was the fare:
Three-cornered loaves, camp-oven baked,
All dimpled at the crown,
Great flaky mounds, uncut and fresh,
With crusts all crisp and brown.
Few were the words the woman spoke,
Yet big and warm her heart;
Through flood and fire and endless drought
She’d bravely played her part.
Sound was our sleep; we rested well;
And when the east was red
We broke our fast by candle light
With toasted home-made bread.
N.S.W.
JIM GRAHAME.


sdf
DUPLICATOR
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
I has all the fines! features ol high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Flans. Music, etc.
ftuxlt entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
—- SYDNEY AND BRISBANE r_. —_r.r .
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All metis-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured hv Mansease Cn.. Drummoyne, N.S.W.
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES made on GRAZING PROPERTIES, 11 on stock, and on
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS. STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, OHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
EGELABRA MERINOS
Four tintes winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe, Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Rams dropped Oct./Nov., 1943
arc now ready for delivery
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 artv
per head.
H. E. KATER & SON - - Egelabra, Warren, N.S.W,
Telephone: Warren 10
’Jt*
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
sd
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanocaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (1 at d;.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
M
n
-
X
' S 5
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies—are
all banished. Approved by Board ot
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE. , m runir
VK}TORiAN CA pRpbuCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
POWELL B GAS N PRODUCERS, ltd. PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS . ■
NAME. ..
ADDRESS
8N.5.44
THE MAN ON THE LAND
Breeding Beef.
“Beefo”: The measures associated with
breeding and marketing in the Argentine
will have to be imitated in this country
if our beef is to find favor in Britain,
and it may be too late to begin after the
war. As a first step, horns must go.
Where polled cattle are not adaptable
dehorning must be done. In the Argen-
tine only beef from polled cattle can be
exported, but most Australian export
beef comes from horned cattle, with re-
sults that reduce it far below Argentine
quality. It would be better for us if
legislation were introduced stopping the
export of other than polled or dehorned
beef. Many cattlemen won’t use polled
bulls or dehorn unless compelled to, so
a big proportion of Australian beef re-
mains below top quality.
There are plenty of Australian studs
from which high-quality bulls can be had
and plenty of high-class cattle country, so
there is no reason why a much higher
percentage of first-grade beef should not
be forthcoming. Much of the trouble is
due to meatworks being situated in
coastal areas, too far from breeding and
fattening areas, but, even so, decentrali-
sation of the works won’t produce better
beef if the right cattle aren’t available.
A small percentage of our beef still
is equal to the world’s best, but the
average quality is low compared with
world standards. In pre-war days both
frozen and chilled beef from Argentine
made on an average Id. to Hd. per lb.
more than Australian. There is a big
gap to be bridged, and with good-quality
bulls and selective culling of cows it is
possible to improve quality, but these
things are merely a beginning. The whole
gamut of the export beef industry, from
paddock to dinner-table, needs careful
study and improvement.
Pigs and Diet.
“Nuffin”: Brood sows on a diet de-
ficient in vitamin A not only produce
weak litters but suckle them on deficient
milk. The deathrate under these condi-
tions is high and, as at weaning the litter
goes on to a diet similar to that of the
mother, losses continue. The nutrition
of breeding sows has a profound influ-
ence on their fertility.
In N.Z. tests from groups of sows were
used; one was given pasture only from
weaning to the next farrowing; another
was allowed pasture only from weaning
to six weeks before farrowing, when the
sows got 51b. meal daily; another group
was given 51b. meal for six weeks after
weaning and for six weeks before farrow-
ing ; and the fourth group got 51b. meal
for six weeks after weaning and pasture
only until farrowing date.
It was found that the two groups which
received meal for six weeks immediately
after weaning, and so for the early part
of pregnancy, produced the largest num-
ber of pigs born alive over three farrow-
ings. This was not so much because of
the size of the litters but because the sows
left on pasture without other feed after
weaning did not all come on heat. This
condition in some cases lasted several
months, although pasture was plentiful.
When these sows were later fed on grain
for six weeks after weaning they came on
heat normally.
Rearing a Calf.
“Myrrhee”; An average-sized calf
needs 121 b. of new milk daily in at least
two feeds during the first two weeks of
its life. Then, for some of the new milk,
substitute skim milk or gruel made by
mixing lib. of pollard, linseed meal,
ground wheat or a mixture of these foods
boiled in one gallon of water. The new
milk is progressively displaced by skim
milk or gruel as the calf grows, until by
the sixth week it gets little or no new
milk.
For the first and second week feed up
to 121 b. new milk; third week, 91b. new
milk and silb. skim milk or gruel; fourth
week, 61b. and 1 lib.; fifth week, 31b. and
; sixth to 24th week, no new milk,
221 b. skim milk or gruel. Add to the
gruel one teaspoonful of lime and one of
salt. The calf starts to eat solid feed
during its second week, and from then on
should be offered all the good-quality hay
and pasturage it will eat.
Grasses for Erosion.
“Prof.”: Perennial veldt grass {Ehrharta
calycina) is gaining prominence in the
temperate States as a fodder plant on
poor sandy country of low rainfall. It
has sand - binding characteristics to-
gether with an average palatability to
stock. Seeding & relatively abundant, but
germination is poor. Best results come
from sowing seed heavily on warm, damp
soil without any sort of cover crop.
Barrel medic grows well in association
with the veldt grass, and the mixture has
shown great promise in our S.A. district,
especially in the better Mallee areas on
sandy rises just beginning to drift.
For washaways, banks of lakes and
creeks and for land frequently flooded
with water, water-couch and salt-grass
will prevent erosion and supply abun-
dant more or less palatable feed.
Both have established themselves along
rivers and creeks in most of the States.
Best way is to plant pieces of the turf in
mud and stamp around each clump to
consolidate. The paspalum is reported
to be capable of growing in 2ft. of water.
Both are tolerant of fairly salty condi-
tions, and their increase in damp soil is
very rapid.
Reafforestation.
“Farmer Bill”: Reafforestation (B.
18/4/’45) in N.S.W. is to be done behind
a very high departmental fence, and to
get the strength of much of it the public
will be compelled to peep between the
palings. They won’t, of course, and so
it must remain as secret as ever, which
means that apathy will continue and fewer
trees \yill grow where more grew before.
The development and establishment of
forests should have been made a part of
the lives of the people—young and old -
on lines planned by Jocelyn Henderson,
who has won many local government
bodies to her community forests scheme
and has seen legislation to empower l.g.
bodies to work such forests passed in
three States.
But legislation, like conferences, doesn't
grow trees, and reafforestation, planned
merely as a departmental stunt, will re-
main something in which the people will
have little or no part. It’s becoming
very evident that things like forests, soil
and water conservation should be kept
free of State Governments and their
habits.
A Pise House.
“E.H.S.”; Properly built, houses of
sun-dried brick will last for generations,
and cost of construction is very much
below that of any other equally durable
building.
Basic material is available for the
taking anywhere clay exists, and any
handy man can make the bricks and erect
the walls. The clay, with the addition of
straw as a binder, is mixed to the con-
sistency of stiff mortar and pressed into
bottomless moulds of the required dimen-
sions set directly on the ground. The
moulds are then lifted and the bricks left
to dry for a few days before stacking.
The stacks are built so as to permit a
free" current of air between the bricks
until they are thoroughly dry.
Walls are set on stone masonry foot-
ings. Sills and lintels of doors and win-
dows are usually made of hardwood, but
reinforced concrete makes a neater and
more lasting job. When the walls are
finished the joints are well raked to afford
a good key for the plaster, and a good
coat of the clay and straw mixture laid
on over all and finished off with white-
wash.
In wetter areas the outer walls are pro-
tected by lime or cement plaster. Interior
walls are generally finished off with the
clay plaster and whitewash, but if a
more attractive finish is desired lime
or cement mortar is used, and the walls
are distempered and ornamented with
decorative lining and stencilled friezes.
The woodwork and plumbing should be
done by qualified tradesmen.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: When feeding dry mash to
pigs in a self-feeder provide plenty of
fresh water, otherwise the pig won’t eat
enough of the dry feed. The amount of
water needed daily increases from about
three pints for 251 b. pigs to ly gallons for
fattening pigs of about 2001 b. liveweight,
and four to five gallons for suckling sows.
Allow a margin for waste.
“Plane Creek”: Rich alluvial soils
along the C.Q. coast grow heavy crops
of field beans. First ploughing should
be done during the winter, and the ground
left in the rough till spring. Whip up a
fine seedbed, and sow 201 b. to 301 b. seed
per acre in rows 2ft. 6in. apart. Quan-
tity of seed per acre depends on the
variety planted. Successive sowings can
be made well into the summer, but watch
beanfly. Inter-row cultivation should not
be overdone, but the soil should be kept
loose and free from weeds. Harvest the
pods as soon as they change color or
there’ll be loss of seed.
“E. 2”: Navy beans are a *good choice
for cool districts. They are heavy crop-
pers, and are good for use as French
beans or drying for seed. Sow in rows
2ft. apart for hand cultivation, or 3ft.
where a horse cultivator is used. A big
advantage is that, if not saleable as
French beans, the pods may be left to
dry and the crop will still show a good
profit.
“H.C.”: Winter’s the best time to
transplant pepper-trees. Seedlings 4in. to
6in. high suffer the least setback. When
the plant is a year or older ctit it well
back first and remove with a good ball of
earth around its roots. Have the new
site prepared and well soaked with water
before slipping the tree into it. Firm the
earth well down. Once the tree shows
it’s well established add a one-inch mulch
of rotted manure to the top soil. Water
regularly for the first year. Don’t let it
grow straggly but prune to good shape-
casting form. Pepper-trees are hardy,
rarely affected by drought and prove
good friends to stock when winds are
bitter or temperatures soaring.
“Currumbin”; Most effective treatment
for controlling bunchy-top consists of
pouring a pint of kerosene down the
funnel of the last leaf of the affected
plant and allowing it to percolate down
the plant to kill all aphis; any suckers
being treated in a similar manner. Further
to this, the whole plant is sprayed with
nicotine sulphate, also adjoining stools
and soil near the diseased stool. The
following day the diseased plant is dug
out and chopped up to dry out and rot.
Burning is an additional precaution after
kerosening, but I have found it unneces-
sary. On no account burn prior to kero-
sening, as this will merely disperse the
aphis all over the countryside.
“Hortus”: You’ll lose a lot of fat if
you leave milk standing before separat-
ing. The best temperature is when it
comes from cow, viz., 90deg. F. At lower
temperatures not only is the separation
more difficult but the fat loss is greater.
“Hux”: Responsibility for cleaning
cream cans doesn’t rest solely on the
farmer. Faulty washing technique at the
factory is possible. Jamming lids on as
soon as cans are removed from the
washer causes a foul smell that's
hard to get rid of. If the water in the
can-washer isn’t hot enough cans are
banged through in a hurry and not given
long enough over the steamer. And if it
isn’t changed from day to day the cans
can’t possibly be 100 p.c. clean.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Churchill on Greece (2).
(A further extract from Mr. Churchill’s great
speech on the British intervention in Greece.)
Let me read an extract from a dis-
patch by our Ambassador, Mr. Leeper,
a man I have seen at close quarters in
difficult and dangerous circumstances and
who, I am bound to say, has grown in
stature with the test which has been so
severely and increasingly made on him,
a man who has labored with the utmost
earnestness for peace on the broadest
possible basis:
Ever since the Germans left the small but
well-armed Communist party has been prac-
xtSl _> a rei ® n °f terror all over the country,
i n j y can estimate the number of people
killed or arrested before the revolt in Athens,
but. when the truth can be told there will be
terrible stories to tell. When the fighting began
the brutalities increased rapidly and men,
women and children were murdered in large
numbers, and thousands of hostages were taken,
dragged along the road, and many were left to
die.
Here is another tale by a British officer.
Colonel Morrison, of the K.R.R., who
obtained his information by personal
cross-questioning of large numbers of
hostages he met at a dressing station: —•
On Christmas Day a column of hostages
composed of men and women, dragged from
their homes by insurgents, were moved north-
wards from Athens. They were collected in
one suburb, after most had been relieved of
their footwear and many of their overcoats,
and (hey were driven over the mountain roads.
Some died of exhaustion and others were exe-
cuted. . . The inhabitants of the villages from
whom they begged during halts were mostly
too terrified to do anything but stand impo-
tently on one side.
Two characteristic details. A woman dis-
covered to have money on her was deprived of
it and shot. When other hostages protested
the guards justified what they had done by say-
ing she had been working for the British. One
man extracted a gold tooth from his mouth
and bartered it for food. A few fortunate
stragglers were picked up, their poor feet in
ribbons. Hitherto the men unable to walk had
been executed, but on this occasion the guards
were in a hurry.
Mr. Gallacher (Com.): Tell me the old,
old story!
Mr. Churchill: I am not only telling
you ; I am reading the document.
Mr. Gallacher: We have heard of
these lies before. (Cries of “Order.”)
Mr. Churchill: The hori, member con-
tinues to presume
Mr. Gallacher: You presume.
Mr. Churchill: lam not presuming ;
l am reading out the facts and you don’t
like them. (Hear, hear.) 1 am telling you
the truth and you fear the true facts
about those you have so thoughtlessly
championed. There is a good deal more
to come, and I think the House has a
right to know it. When I quoted a
British colonel and said that he gathered
his information at an advanced dressing
station, where he examined numbers of
the victims, you immediately rose to sug-
gest that this was all faked propaganda.
You didn’t use the words, but that is the
whole sense of the interruption. This
officer has not the slightest interest but
to collect and convey the truth.
Mr. Leeper (the Prime Minister con-
tinued) adds this story of one column of
800 hostages of whom 200 were dead
within ten days. “The total number
seized runs into thousands and includes
many reputable; men and women well
known in the country. A good many
survivors have now returned td Athens
and tell a similar tale.’’
The following eye-witness account is
given by another British officer, Captain
Biackler, of the Royal Artillery:
Whilst at Peristeon, a suburb of Athens, in-
terrogating E.L.A.S. prisoners, I was informed
by civilians and National Guards that a great
many hostages had been executed by E.L.A.S.
and buried in ditches. I proceeded to the
place mentioned, where exhumation had begun,
and interrogated the cemetery guardian. Ac-
cording to his statement, batches of 15 to 20
hostages were brought to the north-east corner
of the cemetery and murdered. The bodies
were then buried in a system of ditches about
200 yards long. This system of ditches has now
been filled in, but trial digging has uncovered
bodies for most of its length.. .. He estimated
that in all 1200 to 1500 people were executed,
mostly with knives and axes. The latter testi-
mony was confirmed by the partial exhumation
of bodies which had deep wounds on the back
of the head, apparently inflicted with heavy
knives or axes. Apparently the hostages were
early prisoners who were systematically exter-
minated.
I am sorry (Mr. Churchill went on) to
trespass so long upon the House.
Mr. Gallacher; Nobody will ever read
this.
Mr, Churchill; This account only ar-
rived this morning from the Consul-
General at Salonica:
Between one and two p.m. yesterday, January
16, a number of civilians, of whom 17 to 20
were in a dying condition, were removed by
E.L.A.S. from the municipal hospital, many
wearing pyjamas or pyjama trousers only. They
were loaded on to carts and taken into the in-
terior. These facts are Confirmed by Greek
Red Cross officials who followed the carts and
distributed blankets. I may say also that three
days ago the roads leading out of Salonika were
crowded with long columns of horse-drawn and
bullock-drawn vehicles which hafd been brought
in from the country and left the city piled with
loot, stripped from every house, rich or poor,
in which was found anything worth taking
away.
Prisoners are coming home and the
truth is coming out. Horrible statements
are being made. First, the revelation and
proof of the atrocities committed by those
they had thought it their duty to defend,
and, secondly, there is going to be a
great surprise that will one day come
upon them in the vote the Greek people
will give upon these matters when our
purpose of free elections has been
achieved.
What War Has Cost.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
The aggregate cost of the war for all
belligerents has already passed the tril-
lion-dollar mark. Currently, war costs
are increasing at the rate of about
$200,000,000,000 annually. The United
States has accounted for about one-
fourth and Great Britain for about one-
tenth of the over-all total.
Data for other countries are less accu-
rate. But one estimate for Russia is
about $100,000,000,000, while the Axis
Powers are estimated to have spent about
$300,000,000,000. The balance is ac-
counted for by China, Canada and other
countries.
To these direct costs must be added
billions of dollars of indirect costs rep-
resented by property destruction, scorched
earth, broken careers and broken lives.
It is difficult to estimate such indirect
costs, but in the First World War they
were equivalent to about three-fourths of
the direct costs incurred. It is clear,
therefore, that the total costs of this
war will be substantially in excess of the
trillion-dollar mark before hostilities
cease and reconstruction is completed.
Precise data are not available to show
the extent to which this direct war-time
spending has been financed by borrowing.
However, most countries have been able
to meet only 40 p.c. to 50 p.c. of their
requirements through taxation. The total
world debt, therefore, has already been
increased by more than half a trillion
dollars —in the United States the increase
has been almost $200,000,000,000 and in
Great Britain about $50,000,000,000 —
and further large increases may be anti-
cipated. This huge debt increase will
create serious post-war problems in most
countries. There will be great tempta-
tion to encourage a world-wide inflation
as one means of reducing the debt bur-
den. Governments have not resisted
temptation too strongly in the past. The
dislocations to national economies crea-
ted during this war and the high taxes
required will remain to hamper and to
complicate the task of post-war recon-
struction.
The solution most frequently recom-
mended for the difficulties we will face
is additional Government spending.
But the record volume of debt already
accumulated will make it imperative
that further increases be strictly lim-
ited when the war has ended. All nations
will have to put their financial houses
in order.
In these figures of war costs, which
represent only the money cost of the war
and do not take account of the huge
loss in human lives and the tragedies of
broken homes, we are reminded once
more of one of the reasons why we can-
not permit the tragedy of a world war
to occur again.
Formosa.
(From a N.Y. “Sunday Mirror” article by
James R. Young, author of “Behind the Rising
Sun.”)
The island of Formosa, known to the
Japanese as Taiwan, now subject of the
most intense interest to our navy and
air force, is a combination Gibraltar-
Malta-Singapore for Nippon, was used as
her jumping-off place in her assault on
the Philippines, and has now become the
sector upon which the Japanese are lav-
ishing the utmost in military prepared-
ness and planning.
Thirty years ago the Japanese started
arming this island fortress, and have now
built it into the most formidable forti-
fied area in the empire.
Allied control of Formosa would dis-
rupt Japanese shipping lanes. I doubt
that the huge navy yard at Mako, in the
Pescadores Islands, a few miles to the
west of Formosa, could withstand a co-
ordinated assault by American, British
and Australian air, surface and under-
sea craft.
Formosa has ammunition, fuel oil
stored for coastal ships, aviation gas, in-
dustrial alcohol, ship repair yards, chemi-
cal plants, weather observatories, hydro-
electric power units, aluminium mills and
cement works.
Formosa is an autonomous air and
navy base centre, a giant industrial pro-
duction unit, a rice bowl and granary,
and was the springboard for the Japanese
plunge on Dec. 7, 1941.
The jagged and mountainous coasts
have been ringed with gun emplacements,
The treacherous channels and navigating
waters have been mined. New anti-
aircraft equipment has been brought from
Japan.
Repeated attacks on Formosa can lead
to panic in the Tokio Government.
Bombing factories and shipyards could
paralyse Japan’s outer link in her mili-
tary chain stretching to the South-west
When England had a population
that was rapidly increasing, even
when the yearly increase had
slowed do wn to very modest figures,
there was little hesitation about
facilitating migration from the
mother country to the Dominions.
But, as all know, we are now faced
with a net reproduction rate that
will not maintain our numbers.
While these circumstances persist
how far should we deliberately en-
courage our young people to go
oversea? Important demographic
changes have been taking place in
the Dominions, especially Australia.
That country, like ourselves, is
now also faced with the prospect of
an inadequate birth rate , While
there was little hesitation over
migrants going to a country whose
native-born population was expand-
ing, is it sound policy that they
should do so to make up what is in
effect a local deficiency? — L. C.
Cadbury, London “Times.”
Pacific. When Formosa goes Japan her-
self goes.
I knew two of the Japanese Governors
of Formosa assigned the task of making
the island an aerial highway and ware-
house fortress. One, Admiral Sankichi
Taskahashi, now commander of the
Kure Naval Base, told me in 1937 that
when war broke in the Pacific he would
control Formosa and direct the attack
on the Philippines. In December, 1941,
he was the naval garrison commandant.
His recent successor is Admiral Kiyoshi
Hasegawa, who last October flew to
Tokyo for a 20-minute report to Emperor
Hirohito pledging that “not a single
Japanese will evacuate Formosa.”
Perhaps the 500,000 Japs in Formosa
will join their ancestors by jumping off
the cliffs of the eastern coast, as did thou-
sands who committed suicide in the battle
of Saipan. None can return to Japan.
Unless there is surrender, the occupa-
tion of Formosa can be a long and bitter
hand-to-hand fight with bayonets, hand
grenades, mortars and flame-throwers in
the island’s mountains, caves and forests.
World-wide Press Freedom
(From an address on “Truthful News, a Basis
for Peace delivered by U.S. Associated Press
president Kent Cooper.)
“If we are convinced that to bring an
enduring peace an international commu-
nity of interest should be established, we
should see to it that America holds forth
inexorably for the three things that are
prime necessities to make world-wide
community of interest possible—a world-
wide free press, a world-wide communi-
cations system, and the necessary facilities
for news men to do their work every-
where without interference. >
“For myself I would proclaim now that
we expect to accomplish this in the peace,
I would not wait until the war ends, and
then to have these vital elements tossed
around upon the sea of indecision and
intrigue that always prevail in peace
negotiations.
“So important do I believe the matter
to be that I would ask acceptance of the
principles of this plan in advance of any
support or aid given by the United States
in the reconstruction of the economic-
life of any country devastated by this war.
and I would certainly impose acceptance
upon the enemy.
‘‘An international communications sys-
tern would cost a great deal of money, but
it would not cost more than a fraction
of 1 p.c. of the cost of world armament,
In the nature of things such a communi-
cations system should be regulated by in-
ternational agreement, but that is the ex-
tent to which Governmental power should
inject itself. There ought to be a forbid-
ding hand in time of peace for any Gov-
ernment to exercise control of the manner
or text in which public information is
exchanged on such a system. News dis-
semination should be left to those equip-
ped by experience to deal with it. An
international committee of Government
experts should establish a code applicable
to those who use the facilities of such an
international communications system. The
normal channels of news publication,
newspapers and radio should be made
the recipients of the news exchanged by
news agencies which would adhere to
high principles that should serve as a
basis of the entire structure of news
exchange.
“Lastly, those who gather and write
the news thus to be internationally trans-
mitted and printed by a free press should
be granted adequate facilities and physi-
cal protection equal to the facilities and
protection given to diplomatic agents of
any country.
“This is important. There are two in-
formative American sources that arc
regularly maintained abroad. One, the
foreign news correspondents whose dis-
patches are issued directly to the Ameri-
can people through the press and radio.
The other is our diplomatic and consular
corps, which keeps our Government in-
formed to the extent that it can. It may
have facilities for learning the thoughts
of the Government to which it is accredi-
ted. It does not have, and is not, by
training, equipped to have the ability to
learn the trend of thoughts of the people
as well as trained newsmen.
“Because of this equipment, and be-
cause newsmen work 24 hours a day
while diplomats do not, our Government
frequently learns of both trends, govern- #
mental and popular, in foreign countries
at the same time the American people
learn of these trends in their newspapers
and by broadcast. I cannot overempha-
sise the importance of the work that news
representatives abroad carry on.
“Moreover, they carry on against the
most adverse conditions. Even in times
of peace they suffer indignities that if im-
posed upon a diplomat would call for
public apology. The jealousy of the dip-
lomatic corps towards the news corre-
spondents is not reciprocated, in spite of
the fact that some* diplomats have an
exalted ego and an aloofness from the
common man in the country to which
they are accredited. Newsmen could
not afford to exercise this aloofness if
they were disposed to do so.
“This is not by any intent a criticism
of the diplomatic corps. It is by way of
emphasis that proper facilities for the
work of newsmen abroad should be
given. There should be an international
understanding through peace treaty or
other compact that an individual granted
a passport as a news correspondent in any
country signatory to the contract shall
have the right to pursue his duties in such
other country without hindrance or an-
noyance, and shall also be afforded dip-
lomatic immunities —independently, how-
ever, of any diplomatic missions. These
immunities would mean, in effect, the
right to report news without hindrance
and protection against being expelled
should a correspondent become persona
non grata —except by the officials of his
own country. In this case he would not,
as he should not, be detained, arrested or
otherwise have indignities imposed upon
him.”
Russian Far East Interests.
(From a N.Y. “World-Telegram” article by
William Philip Simms.)
Russia’s stakes in the Western Pacific
are materially greater even than those of
the United States. Unllss Japan, like
Germany, is forced to surrender uncon-
ditionally and her war machine dis-
mantled, she will continue to block Rus-
sia’s access to the Pacific.
Contrary to the popular impression,
Siberia is one of the richest parts of the
globe. Its mining, manufacturing and
agriculture are growing at a phenomenal
rate. Its forests surpass any in the world.
The Angara River, flowing out of Lake
Baikai—so Soviet officials said when I
visited that region—alone would provide
more water-power than Niagara Falls,
Muscle Shoals, Wilson and Boulder dams
combined. The late Col. Hugh Cooper,
who built Dnieprostroi, told me that
Angara would develop 44 times the power
of that gigantic project.
This vast empire, considerably larger
than the United States, faces the Pacific,
or rather the seas between the mainland
and Japan’s island chain. Yet at present
it has dnly one fairly good port—Vladi-
vostok. As long as Japan remains a first-
class Power she bottles up Siberia.
Russia is also vitally interested in Man-
churia. The Chinese Eastern railroad, a


B
World folio
Th
ta
r
n
a
ws
jm
m
rm
Hi
wm.
-
urn;-
m
_ m
i a
■
w
■ m
-
K Sck
seesss
MECHANISED WARFARE
TN the last world war, Britain evolved the Tank, — out-
standing military weapon of the period and forerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have con-
tributed more to peace than to war. Prominent amongst
the benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world is the
development, by Courtaulds, of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities of rayon and
brought it to perfection. Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no single
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory is won, Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new products and ideas destined to benefit all mankind.
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E.,C.8.,D.5.0.,R.E.
The originator of the
Tank , raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C.in 1916 The
tank was first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in I9IS,
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd
HAND
sss
*0
fcpjs
CASTS ITS SHAD 0 * oVERYOI/ -
Apart from the bureaucratic bungling which invariably
stifles service in public enterprises, the Government’s
proposal to take over civil airlines directly affects you
and every other taxpayer financially.
It means that without any greater efficiency in your
air transport services you, as a taxpayer, are saddled
with up to £8,000,000 purchase price for the existing
airlines.
Privately owned airlines have contributed £1,109,230 to
Government revenue in the last five years. This figure
does not include the millions paid out in taxes by the
airline companies. The Government’s record in trans-
portation ownership, in which £4,004,678 was lost on the
Commonwealth Shipping Line and the writing off of
£30,000,000 of taxpayers’ money from Government Rail-
way activities in one State alone, indicates that Govern-
ment ownership would make the air lines a further
drain on taxpayers.
This is the shadow which the Government’s plan of
socialisation casts on your future. Beware of Socialisa-
tion!
AIRLINE OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT
50 Market Street, Melbourne
short-cut between Chita, on the Trans-
Siberian, and Vladivostok, crosses Man-
churia, now a puppet of Nippon. Russia
built the Chinese Eastern, but Japan
cheated her out of it when Russia was
weak. The warm water port, Port Arthur,
on the Yellow Sea, once belonged to
Russia but now is Japanese.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
The Lublin Committee, whatever its other
virtues, is clearly not representative of the
Polish people as a whole. It may eventually
win the support of the Polish people, but at
present it is a minority Government which
could not exist without Russian arms. It
has indeed no obvious claims at all, for it is
not a constitutional Government, if has not
been elected, and it does not represent the
Polish resistance movement. Die president of
the Lublin Committee, Mr Bierut, has himself
admitted that force has had to be used against
he supporters of the London Government in
the liberated areas .—Manchester Guardian.
-p. , , • ... . , . .. . .
The decline in the Australian birth rate, to
which reference has. recently been made in
your columns began m 1889, about a year after
the unsuccessful prosecution of Mr. Collins a
Sydney bookseller, for selling a contraceptive
textbook had given widespread publicity to
birth-control propaganda.— G. F. McCleary;
London “Times.”
* * * •
How air-minded youngsters have become these
days was amply demonstrated at the opening
of the model aircraft exhibition at Borland
Hall, London. ’Plane modelling is no idle pas-
time but an exacting and absorbing craft,
and many a successful designer and pilot began
his career constructing models. There are now
more than 500,000 active aero modellers in the
British Isles, and Lancashire alone has 14
special clubs. People of all ages cultivate this
hobby. —Manchester “Guardian.”
* * * *
There are over-populated parts of the Empire,
besides the United Kingdom, from which emi-
grant's could be drawn. There is Malta, with
a population density of over 2000 to the square
mile, which has been sending her sons to
Tunisia, Egypt and Marseilles for years past,
Cbuld they not be encouraged to go to Aus-
tralia instead? They are a frugal, industrious
people and good cultivators of the soil. There
are other parts of the Empire which might
also provide emigrants. But if mass transfer
of population is undertaken it must be planned,
In 1922 the Empire Settlement Act was passed,
providing £3,000,000 a year—pound for pound
with the Dominions—for migration and settle-
ment in the Dominions. By 1931 expenditure
had fallen to £141,931, and the Act later be-
came a dead letter. Could not action under
this Act be revived, and be undertaken by an
Imperial development authority, responsible to
the Dominions and Colonial Ministers, in co-
operation with the Dominions Governments? —
C. W. W. Greenidge; London “Times.”
* * * *
The British motor industry has set' its own
post-war export target high, at £100,000,000 a
year—equal to perhaps ten times the pre-war
volume. To achieve this it must produce cars
more powerful, bigger and cheaper than be-
fore the war. Otherwise the markets will go
to America. — Manchester “Guardian’ 1 ' corre-
spondent.
* * * *
Walter Lippmann’s suggestion that the tem-
porary character of control by the Allies
be made implicit in the final charter of the
security organisation deserves consideration.
Such a declaration would give hope to the
smaller nations and it would put the strong
nations on notice that they were administrators
of a trust, and not receivers of stolen goods.—
“Saturday Evening Post” editorial comment.
* * v *
The Lords and Commons have been discussing
Britain’s post-war defence strategy needs, and
while there is general agreement that a strong
navy must be the basis of domestic and Empire
defence, many members pressed for greater
co-ordination. Lord Chatfield wishes to make
defence expenditure the first charge upon
revenue. Lord Cranbourne pointed out for the
Government that it is impossible to define
what adequate fighting forces will be until the
commitments of Britain and the Empire are
defined under the Dumbarton Oaks agreement.
—London correspondent “Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
The black market followed Hitler’s legions
wherever they advanced but was nowhere so
widely developed as in France. That was due
to the Frenchman’s traditional genius for dod-
ging regulations and the German’s deliberate
encouragement. The Germans perceived its
virtues as a corrupter of morals. They per-
ceived its virtues as a source of profit. So they
helped it to stretch its clutches on the soul and
the economy of the nation. You might think
that the first thing Free France would do
would be to attack this evil. As a matter of
fact the Government has never seriously attemp-
ted to interfere with it. It is no exaggeration,
in fact, to say that those who have undertaken
to launch the Fourth Republic on its career
adopted the black market as an ally. Ministers
recognise its existence publicly. They are
obliged to, because if it did not operate the
people would not have enough to eat. There
was a time, just after the liberation, when they
were threatened with starvation. It was because
the black market had become disorganised.
Since then it has reorganised itself. Today it is
working fairly well. The farmer and manu-
facturer tend to rely on the prices they get by
black-market sales to compensate for the prices
at which they sell other goods legally. If the
sale of all products were controlled, the pro-
ducer would be tempted to go out of business
unless the Government would allow increased
prices. To discourage production at a time
when everything is scarce would be suicide for
any Government. — Paris correspondent “Wall-
street Journal.”
The noose around the neck, which the Japs
complained bitterly was strangling them in 1941,
has become a reality. The war of easy con-
quest is now a fight for national existence. In
this pinch the Japs can be expected to fall
back more and more on the “banzai” spirit,
which at tinges is a potent weapon if added to
high explosives, . Our military leaders foresee
increasingly desperate Jap efforts. They hope
the people back home will not think that the
war is over yet. — U.S. International News Ser-
vice Pacific war correspondent.
* * *
In the post-war Europe, as things definitely
are shaping; France will develop a brand of
State socialism, will have joint employer-labor-
Government management of key industries, will
go in for State planning. That is the line De
Gaulle is deciding to take. Labor gets a key
role. Belgium will follow rather closely the
example of France. Germany will be im-
poverished; will be stripped of heavy industry;
will be on short rations as she works off very
heavy reparations. Germany will face no
alternative to widespread socialisation; will tend
to orient her economy toward Russia as she
pays major reparations in that direction,
Poland will be forced to a Russian orienta-
tion. It suggests a definite Left-wing turn,
Balkan areas will lose normal German markets,
will be forced to look to Russia for outlets
for surpluses. It will be the same with Czecho-
Slovakia. Italy will be impoverished; will tend
to be Leftist in economic policy. Also, in Asia
Japan will be ruined; will offer little trade
opportunity. Result is that U.S. may find little
world company as a strictly capitalist nation,
may find the going a bit rough in seeking to
induce the outside world to turn back toward
freer trade, toward less State control over the
economy. Even Britain is thinking in terms of
a Government-business partnership, in terms of
controlled exchange, controlled imports, planned
exports, more use of Empire preferences. The
post-war world definitely will not look like the
pre-war world. — “United States News.”
The long task of breaking Japan’s will to
fight has just begun. Now is the time when all
the devices of psychological warfare at our dis-
posal should be thrown into the scales. For
there are only two views of the Japanese: that
they are not human, and that they are. The
first school stresses the mumbo-jumbo of
Japanese uniqueness, of Emperor-worship and
long indoctrination, of superstitions and strange
beliefs. The second school stresses the basic
human emotions of love and hate, of fear and
hope. If the Japanese are to be treated as
human beings, then we should do our best to
base our policy and propaganda on that
assumption.— “ Atlantic Monthly.’"'
* * * ' *
Only a nation of primitive development
could survive piecemeal, as China has done,
Nor could it have resisted all this time with-
out a leader who has never doubted the cer-
tainty of final victory. Whatever his other
qualities may be, the Generalissimo has put
the civilised world in his debt by managing to
keep the Chinese flag at the top of the mast
all these years. The privations of war have
borne most heavily on the white-collar class
of teachers, Government employees and other
salaried people whose incomes under the in-
flation have become tragically inadequate. But
the war has been sustained chiefly by the
peasants, who have supplied rice through taxa-
tion and soldiers through conscription. Com-
prising about 85 p.c. of China’s enormous
population, they are the source of China’s re-
sistance. — Brooks Atkinson; N.Y. “Times
Magazine.’'’
* * * *
In post-war flying the United States is pre-
pared to take an aggressive role. Agreements
are being negotiated with Canada, Newfound-
land, Iceland and Ireland as preliminaries. Land-
ing rights already are held by American com-
panics all through Latin America and in some
European countries. The failure of U.S. and
Britain to agree on an over-all plan for control
of post-war flying over much of the world is a
barrier to landing rights in some important
places, but there is every prospect that Amen-
can aviation will lead the world after the war.
— “United States News.”
* * * *
The Moscow armistice agreement was worded
so as to give the Russians wide latitude in inter-
pretation—something about which the Finns
felt (and still feel) very uneasy. In the repara-
tions clause they got' their first bitter taste of
this loose wording. The $600,000,000 originally
asked for by the Russians was reduced in the
treaty to $300,000,000, which pleased the Finns
no end. But there was a catch in it. Repara-
tions are to be paid not in cash but' in kind,
and the Russians have decided they will credit
Finnish deliveries against reparations only at
prices obtaining in 1938. Since these are vastly
lower than today’s, Moscow’s dictum means
in reality that the Finns will have to deliver
products worth $700,000,000 at today’s prices!
The Finnish delegates were so elated over the
50 p.c. cut that it never occurred to them, in-
credible as it may sound, to ask what' would be
the basis for valuation. — Oscar Jacobi; “Col-
Iter’s.”
*
Francis H. Taylor, director of the N.Y. Metro-
politan Museum of Art, reports the Nazis as
having stolen European art treasures valued at
$2,000,000,000 to $2,500,000,000—m0re than the
total value of all the works of art in the United
States. Mr. Taylor credited Allied military
leaders with safeguarding many important
monuments of Western civilisation which lay in
the path of battle. However, similar precau-
tions cannot be taken to preserve the priceless
masterworks with which the Nazis absconded
to Germany. “We might as well face the Tact
that the historic civilisation of Germany has
been destroyed by our bombardments,” Mr.
Taylor declared. “We don’t know what has
happened to the works they removed, but I
hope the innate thrift' of the Germans led them
to put these treasures away safely.” N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
More than 19,000 Americans were stricken
with infantile paralysis last year, in the second
worst poliomyelitis outbreak in the history of
the United States. Scientists admit they know
of nothing to occurrence of this
disease. — N.Y. “Times.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
WOULD any person having any information regard-
ing JOHN MACKAY who practised as a dentist in
Wickham Street Fortitude Valley Brisbane Queens-
land in 1924 please communicate with RICHARDSON
& CARTER & CO. Solicitors Wool worth’s Buildings
129 Adelaide Street Brisbane?
ALL persons claiming to be next-of-kin of RONALD
HENRY JAMES MILLER late of Stowport in Tas-
mania Farmer deceased are requested forthwith to
communicate with O. ROBERTS THOMSON Solici-
tors Lincoln House Cattley Street Burnie Tasmania
forwarding particulars and evidence of their relation-
ship to the deceased when they will receive informa-
tion to their advantage.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN CLEMENT MCDONALD formerly of South
Street Walcha.—TAKE NOTICE that ALICE ELLA
McDonald has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 630
of 1945 on the grounds of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance in the
Divorce Registry Supreme Court King Street Sydney
before Slst May 1945 and obtain a copy of .the
petition without charge from DUDLEY WESTGA&TH
& CO. Solicitors 369 George Street Sydney.—(l.s.)
C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
In the forefront
of
Invasion
\ v fWKKKKKI
Hi
A*^
7/
<5
/r
-/U
“Af
s
'
> ’ A"
sss&sssssss
5 ;
■ !y>-v:i::
:■ ■■ ■ « »
$m
■ Aa
■
'f %s**?'"
.
m
a» s
■
Hi
Here we see three of thousands of “Caterpillar” Diesel-Powered No. 12
Motor Graders forming, in record time, an airfield on one of the fighting
fronts. Once the field is formed the Allied bombers and fighters move in
to use it as a base to harass the enemy, cut communications, and pave the
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name "Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and of track-type
tractors in the world.
>
illay
Cates
road to Victory. When peace comes,
“Caterpillar” tractors and earth-mov-
ing machines, with their tremendous
power and amazing economy, will do
their part to build a new world. Then
will be made available for your use,
and in an unending flow, the “Cater-
pillars” which are now going to the
Allied fighting fronts.
CATERPILLAR D/£S£C
lit. I).«. PAT • OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin's Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone — LA332l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326,
Service Engineers; Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie,
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. ‘Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane. 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
Fight, Work, Buy War Savings Certificates
CTI-3S-44
N
CRAVEN
tfeull apMeeiatt tfalt
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
99
•4
»•
mm
mi
PREVENT
S ORE
T H R
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy The Trees of N. S. Wales, issued by
the Department of Agriculture.—3622.
To buy Australian Sheep and Wool, by
Hawkesworth, and Diseases of Sheep, by H. A.
Vernon.—3623. _ „ '
To buy any of the works in verse of C. J.
Dennis.—3624.
To buy The Platypus—Its Life ana Habits,
by Robert Eadie.—362s.
To contact literary agent in Sydney to handle
book of war experiences.—3626.
Words of humorous recitation “Jenny Jinks
the Kitchenmaid.”—3627.
Information Sought.
What are the conditions applying to suicide
in life assurance policies?
Depends on the conditions of policy and the
laws of the State or country in which the policy
is issued. Most life assurance policies in Aus-
tralia contain a condition under which the risk
of suicide (whether while sane or insane) is ex-
cluded from the cover for a definite term,
with a proviso to protect any third party who
rq.ay have acquired an interest in the policy.
Why is water used in a gas-producer?
Water, sprayed over Che red-hot fuel, is con-
verted into steam, which reacts with the fuel to
form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. These
two gases provide the motive power.
How is a radio air cell constructed?
An air cell consists of a positive and a nega-
tive electrode immersed in an electrolyte. Ihe
positive electrode is made of specially water-
proofed spongy carbon; the negative is con-
structed of chemically pure zinc, insulated and
supported in spaced relationship around the
carhon electrode. The electrolyte is a saturated
solution of pure water and salammoniac. The
quantity of salammoniac required depends upon
the dimensions of the electrodes and the
volume of the glass container, but usually one
ounce for each seven cub. in. of volume of
the container will be sufficient. The potential
difference between the electrodes is from 1 to
1.2 volts, depending on the discharge rate.
To make a Coolgardie safe?
Make a square framework of solid timber (say
2in. x bin.) and put in one or two shelves and
a floor. Have the floor about 6in. high. Cover
top with wood or fiat iron. Cover back and
two sides with clean hessian, nailed on tightly.
Make a door for the front of hessian on a
wooden frame, with hinges and a fastener.
On top have a square tin tray filled with water,
from this run strips of flannel or flannelette,
about 15in. long and 3in. wide, thoroughly
soaked, and hanging from tray flush with sides
and door so that they stick to the hessian.
Two strips to each side are enough. The strips
syphon the water from the tray and it keeps
the hessian walls wet. To keep the floor under
the safe dry, stand it in a large tin tray. Size
of the safe depends on size of family—usually
about 4ft. high, 2ft. deep and 2ft. wide is
suitable.
Brief Answers.
W.A.M.: You could refuse to accept delivery
of the damaged piano; if you have accepted
delivery you have a right to claim damages
for depreciation in value W.S.; It is im-
possible to receive on a crystal set a _ broad-
cast from a frequency modulation station....i
Civis; The parties’ rights would be governed
by the contract; can’t say whether the council
was acting within its rights without seeing the
contract... .Adsum: Diagrams and instructions
for making a fly-trap appeared in the “Agricul-
tural Gazette” of N.S.W., December, 1926....
H.C.: Only the U.S.A.A.F. could give you the
information....P.D.: Henry Lawson was bom
at the Weddin Mountain diggings, near Grenfell,
N.S.W., on June 17, 1868. He died on Sep-
tember 2, 1922, at Sydney... .D.McK.M.: The
current market value of the silver in ten florins
is Bs. lid G.P.: Field-Marshal Sir Bernard
Montgomery was born in London.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and, no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
T.McC.: Murderer who remembers childhood
at mother’s knee is an old friend M.H.:
Utterly conventional 8.C.: Usual remarks
about pioneers H.C.8.: “Do you ever think
of the future?” Yes; resignedly anticipating
six poems every week opening with the same
flat rhetorical question... .W.A.G. ; Unable to
face “the cryptic leer of space-time’s popin-
jay” E.M.: Feeble J.A.: Clipped till
there’s nothing left G.1.H.: Might be par-
donable if written by the ancient Chinese....
G. : Elementary 0.C.M.: Speak plainly
in a natural language M.H.; Better than the
usual sunset-piece W.F.; “I wantonly watch
while a fragrant tree undresses.” Daring in-
deed... .T.E.: Only the first line shows a
glimmer of originality E.R.: Too slight
H. : Might suit a local paper R.K.; Art
is singularly absent from The Art of Art .. • •
R.C.G.: A touch of charm in The Old Road
but it needs a lot of patching... .U.M. ..
after “bombo” “throats” won’t rhyme with
“soaked”... .M.L. : Hackneyed .. .CW. -Cant
you find something more interesting to say
about a mopoke than that it weaves a spell. _
E.M.H.: You’d better explain. ...r...
If it needs two exclamation marks its odvi
ously a weakling R.A.P.: Not a nope.. ■ .
8.H.: Flat and prosy... .J.P.R.: *
a tiny tot, Happy with my contented
Well, then, nipper, oil you trot.


A us trail an-made
2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
From War
to Peace
mm
jgs
m
18BSWS51B
K
*** * 'SJtiIWA*
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... are
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
BEKSOH WHEELS
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
o
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE; INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH; 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
1.C.1.A.N.Z., Ltd.
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
r- Dividends
Year, Pref. Towards De-
Sept., Profit.* 5 p.c. Ord. Reserves, flcit.f
£'££ . £ £
Added intangibles, £846 .. .. 306,739
’39..389,099 48,293 6 p.c.= 241,870 98,936 207,803
Added intangibles, £12,947 . . 220,750
’40..404,491 50,000 6 p.c.= 242,1181 112,373 108,377
Added rights, etc., £163 .. .. 108,540
’41..354,981 50,000 5 p.c - 213,9401 91,041 17,499
Rights, etc., disappear, £lBO .. 17,319
’42..376,788 50,000 5 p.c.e 224,6371 102,151
Added intangibles, £l2B .. .. 84,704
From inner reserves, £1843 .. 86,547
’48..394,616 50,000 5 p.c.= 235,8691 108,747 195,294
Unexplained additions ..£l9B]
From inner reserves, £lO7 .. i „„„
Intangibles reduced, £B4 .. j
Outside equity bought, £B4 .. ]
'44..891,715 50,000 5 p.c.- 247,662 93,855 289,622
* Eliminating outsiders’ proportion. f Deducting
intangibles. 1 Paid in scrip.
This big chemical manufacturing busi-
ness has played an important part in Aus-
tralia’s war-time industrial development,
and it promises to play a part no less
important in the country’s post-war acti-
vity. In the section which turns out
organic chemicals, growth of which has
been accentuated by war requirements,
the range of production is extensive,
and a strong and growing demand for
industrial and other purposes can be ex-
pected post-war.
In preparation for this, eight new
chemical products were recently added
to the list of manufacture. These
were caustic soda, liquid chlorine, hydro-
chloric acid, ferric-chloride, carbon bisul-
phide, phenothiazine, rubber chemicals
and carbon tetrachloride. Other fac-
tory plants to turn out a number of basic
organic chemicals connected with pro-
duction of pesticides and insecticides are
either nearing completion or have just
been brought into operation. Also, some
of the new chemicals discovered during
the war, and considered essential to the
well-being of the civilian population as
well as the forces, are now being pro-
duced locally by I.CJ. and its string of
subsidiary and associated undertakings.
The big £1,500,000 alkali plant, oper-
ated by a subsidiary near Port Adelaide,
now turns out Australia’s requirements
of soda ash and caustic soda, etc. These
products are derived from treatment of
salt, recovered from the evaporation of
sea-w'ater in beds some six miles away
on the shores of Spencer’s Gulf, from
w'here it is pumped to the factory by pipe-
line.
Also, phosphorus is now being pro-
duced in Melbourne by one of the asso-
ciated cos. from the only plant of its kind
in the Southern Hemisphere. Phosphorus
compounds are vital constituents of a
large number of articles, ranging from
“sticky bombs” and grenades to tooth-
paste, matches and baking powder. Re-
search by the co.’s chemists has resulted
in production of a phosphate aerator
suitable to the particular type of flour
produced in Australia. Before the war
most aerators used in cooking in Aus-
tralia came from crude wine lees, mostly
imported.
Last term shortage of labor restricted
production at all factories, especially in
the explosives section. Australian sales
on defence account were 33 p.c. lower
than the 1943 peak. The drop was largely
offset by expanded commercial demand,
which reduced the net contraction to
4 p.c. Maoriland turnover, abnormally
high in 1943, fell to the level of previous
years. After setting aside £261,978 (down
£39,462) for taxation and allowing
£214,867 (up £24,307) for depreciation,
net earnings of the group were only £2901
lighter at £391,715. That was enough to
pay the pref. div. and show' 6.9 p.c. on
ord. capital as it now stands. The div.
was kept at 5 p.c.; and this time it was
paid in cash. For each of the four pre-
ceding years ord. divs. (total £916,564)
had been capitalised, a procedure that
must work its own cure in the long run.
The financial set-up and rapid expan-
sion of the group over the last half-dozen
years are seen in the next table:
1.C.1.A.N.Z. and Subsidiaries.
1938. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital .. £4,689,409 £5,717,370 £5,953,239
Outside interests*. . ' 15,746 15,231
Sundry creditors. . 271,271 1,096,287 1,074,906
Taxation, etc. .. 213,247 477,433 433,990
Freeholds, etc. 1,376,330 1,444,970
Plant, etc. .. J | 1,824,537 2,009,709
Stocks .. . . 1,090,747 2,165,698 2,172,586
Debtors .. . . 511,987 1,153,765 924,763
Investments .. 857,859 1,199,366 1,199,941
Cash .. ~ 1,106,483 28,462 272,769
* Including proportion reserves.
Last term a reduction of £229,002 in
debtors’ balances, together with surplus
earnings, including allowance for depre-
ciation, etc., and the previous term’s capi-
talised ord. div., enabled £68,640 to be
added to freeholds, £185,172 to plant and
£244,307 to cash. The improvement in
the more or less liquid surplus (£3,061,163)
was £87,592. Actual capital expenditure
at factories during the year was £481,564.
To help finance further expansion 500,000
new £1 ords. were issued on Oct. 1 last.
Registered in Victoria at end of May,
1928, the co. is an offshoot of the big
Imperial Chemical Industries Co., Eng-
land (paid capital £74,378,000), and such
leading industrialists as 8.H.P., A.C.1.,
the Barrier lead-zinc producers, Electro-
lytic Zinc and Commonwealth Fertilisers
also hold parcels of the ords. The prefs.
were put up by the public in 1938.
Gibson and Howes, Ltd. (Q.)
Net To Re- Re-
Dec., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.)
1934.. 21,462 6ip.c.=z 18,200 3,262 26,487
1935.. 28,001 74 „ „ 21,000- 7,001 33,488
1936.. 30,877 8 „ „ 22,400 8,477 41,965
1937.. 31,140 8 „ ~ 22,400 8,740 50,705
1938.. 30,512 8J„ „ 23,800 6,712 67,417
1939.. 34,349 9£ „ „ 26,600 7,749 65,166
1940.. 31,615 84,, „ 23,800 7,815 72,981
1941.. 24,932 84,, „ 23,800 1,132 74,113
1942.. 26,132 84 „ ~ 23,800 2,332 76,445
1943.. 32,320 8| „ „ 23,800 8,520 84,965
From inner reserves, £8,043 93,008
1944.. 25,810 84p.c.= 23,800 2,010 95,018
t Not including depreciation reserve—£236,so3 at
31/12/’44.
The contraction in last year’s net earn-
ings was due to a drop in the average
price of raws and rise in costs. The
average price of raws for the 1944 crop
is expected to be not less than £l9 per
ton, compared with £22 Is. 3d., £l9 Is.
and £l7 18s. 6d. per ton for the three
preceding seasons. From the production
point of view the season was more satis-
factory than its immediate predecessor,
thanks to more favorable seasonal condi-
tions and a better supply of fertiliser.
Here are some production figures for
the State as a whole:
Acres. Tons Cfane Tons Sugar
Harvested. Per Acre. Per Acre.
1940 VI 265,738 19.50 2.86
1941 ~ 246,937 19.41 2.82
1942 .. 238,213 18-2.6 2.54
1943 ~ 228,895 14.84 2.125
1944 .. 225,900* 19.5* 2.85*
* Estimate.
The labor position, both in the mills and
in the field, showed little improvement,
either in numbers or quality. Owing to
this problem more attention is now
being given to mechanical harvesters.
But the supply position in respect of
equipment is still unsatisfactory, though
with the tapering of war production the
outlook is more encouraging than it has
been.
With the sugar districts coming back
into normal production again, what
millers and growers want more than any-
thing else is efficient labor. That means
good work for good wages. In the field
extra cutting rates are now being de-
manded for all except best-cutting crops.
This means an increase in the cost of
production which, in the long run, can
only lead to an increase in the price of
sugar for home consumption (£22 10s. 6d.
per ton in 1943). Finally, it all shows up
in a rise in the cost of living.
For the 1944 season the Gibson and
Howes (Bundaberg millers and growers)
outturn of raws was 22,585 tons, as
against 19,690 tons and 19,931 tons for
the two preceding seasons, thanks partly
to the co.’s irrigation scheme. Still, net
earnings were £6510 lighter at £25,810,
for reasons already stated. That was after
making an unspecified provision for taxa-
tion and allowing £14,235 (up £339) for
depreciation. The £25,810 of profit
claimed was 9.2 p.c. on capital, compared
with 11.5, 9.3, 8.9, 11.2 and 12.2 p.c. back
to 1939. The div. was kept 8| p.c., and
the £2OlO that remained, together with
£8043 taken from inner reserves and put
in the window, lifted free reserves to
£95,018. In addition there is the deprecia-
tion reserve (£236,503), some of which
might be genuine profit.
During the year £17,407 net was added
to the book value of the chief earning
assets, freehold, plant, etc.:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital. . £280,000 £280,000 £280,000 £280,000
Liabilities* .. 51,453 103,560 145,780 153,854
Freeholds,
plant, etc... 484,138 512,540 527,956 545,363
Stocks.. .. 42492 122,392 163,837 175,409
Government
securities, etc. 20,000 40,000 50,000 55,000
Sundry debtors 40,707 4,317 2,030 2,289
Cash, etc. . . 11,272 1,444 1,526 1,210
* Including provision for taxation.
Liabilities (up £8074) include an unspeci-
fied amount of tax reserve. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£80,060) was £8447.
As for the coming season, the board
expects a crop similar to that of 1944.
The Commonwealth sugar production
target, however, has been lifted to 725,000
tons, which is 75,000 higher than the 1944
figure. Under the pre-war sugar-peak
scheme the figure was 737,000 tons. What
the post-war period holds for the indus-
try remains to be seen. War-time multi-
plication of producing centres threatens
to complicate the over-production prob-
lem. Australian growers are anxious to
resume their obligations in terms of the
pre-war International Sugar Agreement,
under which Britain took a minimum of
some 400,000 tons of Australian raws
annually.
Holeproof, Ltd. (Vic.)
r Dividends Nominal
To Be- Re-
Dec., Profit. 8 p.c. 6 p.c, Ord. serves, serves.*
£>£/£/ £, £, £
’34*. 6,904 1027 500 6 p.c. = 2,749 2,628 21,420
’35. . 15,199 2194 3000 8 „ „ 7,330 2,675 24,095
’36. . 22,626 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9,162 8,250 32,345
’37. . 25,150 2214 3000 10 „ „ 9,162 10,774 43,119
’BB. . 25,626 2215 3000 10 p.c. - 12,075 8,336 51,455
’39. . 27,887 2215 3000 10 „ ~12,827 9,845 61,300
’40.. 23,138 2214 3000 10 „ „ 12,828 5,096 66,396
Contingencies reserve, £20,000 ..46,396
Underprovided taxation charged to
specific reserves, £9OOO.
’41.. 20,072 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 4,596 50,992
To contingencies, £5933 .. ..45,059
’42. . 18,469 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 2,993 48,052
’43.. 18,092 2214 3000 8 p.c. = 10,262 ) cm as r«o
To contingencies, £2OOO 616 48,668
Prom contingency reserve, £12,500 .. 61,168
’44.. 17,551 2214 3000 8 p.c. zz 10,262 7
To contingencies, £2OOO .. j ' I,Z4d
* Subject to goodwill and trade-marks ( £15,934 at
Dec. 31). J Six months.
Shrinkage in net earnings of this
prising hosiery manufacturer since war
began is the outcome mainly of Govern-
ment controls and rising costs. Rationing
and other restrictions on production, to-
gether with price control, and elimination
of some of the co.’s most profitable lines
slowed up the rate of civilian turnover
At the same time profit margins were
eaten into by steep lifts in taxation, wages
and other costs, while the shortage and
other problems associated with labor
further complicated the task of manage-
ment. Although heavy demand for
standardised hosiery, etc., for both men
and women in the services helped to lift
the volume of physical turnover, these
defence contracts carried still narrower
margins. Hence net earnings for the last
five years averaged £19,464, as against
an average of £23,297 for the preceding
quinquennium.
Requirements on defence account eased
a little last term. But civilian demand
more than filled the gap; thus turnover
was a bit better than the previous year’s.
However, increased manufacturing costs
and other exes, more than offset the ad-
vantage of the increase, and net earnings
W’ere £541 lighter at £17,551. That was
after putting aside £15,507 (down £1298)
for the requisioner of the people’s money
and allowing £20,000 (same as previous
term) for depreciation. The £17,551 was
•enough to pay pref. divs, (together £5214)
and show 9.6 p.c. on the £128,270 of ord.
capital, as against 10, 10.3, 11.5, 13.7 and
17.7 p.c. back to 1939. The div. was kept
at 8 p.c., and £2OOO was sent to contin-
gency reserve, which is lumped with pro-
vision for taxation at £43,100 (down
£10,900). From this reserve £12,500 has
been taken and labelled “provision for
deferred maintenance,” lifting free re-
serves to £61,243, subject to £15,934 of
intangibles.
The main mill at Brunswick (Vic.) was
taken over by Staley and Staley from a
proprietary of the same name in 1929.
The nameplate was changed to the present
tide at the end of 1935, following the
co.’s association with the Holeproof
people in U.S.A. Early in 1940 the
Berkley mills, Sydney, with full-fashioned
and circular machines to turn out 70,000
dozen pairs of fine-gauge women’s hosiery
annually, were taken over. About the
same time the Great Eastern mill, Cam-
berwell (Vic.), was acquired, and produc-
tion of men’s woollen hose is now con-
centrated there. Owing to war-time re-
strictions these plants haven’t had an
opportunity to show what they can do
under conditions of ordinary competition,
which threatens to be very keen post-
war.
Much will then depend upon the effi-
ciency of plant, management, and opera-
tives. During the war plant has been
worked at high pressure, in some in-
stances almost to the point of destruction.
This means heavy expenditure on de-
ferred repairs and replacements when
labor and equipment become available.
Also a considerable degree of technical
progress has been made in the hosiery
and other industries overseas, which will
mean installation of some new plant if
Australia is to maintain a competitive
position post-war. The Government has
given far too little attention to the effects
of the limitation of profit upon the effi-


INVENTORS.—Hdve you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents. — Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of ail classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
• ♦ ♦ *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attoftieys, CoUins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
1099 V
Filler
Cylinder
ifni
i
F I
■h J =<ll
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
r-S#
Only
a scrap of paper
. . . . but In the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
L AND GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD
Head Office : 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wingello, House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
R. T. PERKINS, General Manager
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at ail branches
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course*
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
fs
dfs
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BONUSES UP 50^
75th ANNUAL MEETING OF NATIONAL MUTUAL LIFE
A marked expansion in the volume of new business for 1944, an increase in net
income and the raising of bonus payments to policyholders were some of the
features alluded to by the Chairman of the National Mutual Life Association of
A/asia, Ltd. (Sir Harold Luxton), at the Annual General Meeting of policyholders.
Since it -was founded in 1869, the National Mutual has gone steadily ahead, and today
over 250,000 people are members of this purely mutual Association. There are NO
shareholders, and policy-holders alone share all benefits.
THE
NATIONAL MUTUAL
LIFE ASSOCIATION/AUSTRALASI A. LTD
(Inc. in Vic.).
350 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
THA>
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even th§> most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to,
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - B. J. Nosworthy - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
Manager—L, S. Parker.
BURNS PDILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44.
TJkc JUqU.
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT
mass produced to microscopic precision standards
is another Pyrox “Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian
Industry*
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection
Equipment is a manufacturing achievement that
further strengthens famous, nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals, Diesel Service Depots,
under the management of Pyrox-strained experts,
are fully equipped for testing, overhaul, repair,
general maintenance, and tke supply of Injection
Spare Parts for all makes of Diesel Engines*
rox
DIESEL
SERVICE
I. SYDNEY: PYROX PYY. LTD.
ciency of industry in the future. It is a
short-sighted policy. , . .
There was no change in the financial
position;
1939. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Ord.capital.. £128,270 £128,270 £128,270 £128.270
Pref. capital 77,685 77,685 77,685 / 7,685
Liabilities . . 51,303* 165,686 102,796 108,139
Tax prov. .. —48,000 f 43,100 t
Freeholds, etc. 81,297 82,352] KQft
Plant and 116,675 109,580
fittings .. 64,308 45,317 J nrl
Stocks .. 158,647 301,049 255,586- 251,230
Debtors .. 6,017 26,557 27,915 81,671
Cash, etc. .. 2,659 ' 4,221 3,046 5,254
* Includes tax provision. t Includes contingencies.
When the books closed more or less
liquids exceeded liabilities, including tax
provision, etc,, by £129,751. Raw
material stocks are reported sufficient to
cover normal manufacturing require-
ments.
No mining has been done at Cuth-
bert’s Misima, on Misima Island, about
150 miles east of Milne Bay, since the
place was evacuated early in 1942, owing
to the Jap invasion. Meanwhile the co.
has lived within its means, and at end
1944 it had £25,190 in Government
securities and cash to meet £7633 of out-
side liabilities, including provision for
taxation. Last year a maintenance party
under W. Henley, former underground
manager, was sent to the spot. It found
the mine had escaped direct war damage,
and that, apart from destruction of three
steel vats, damage to surface equipment
was slight. A start has now been made
on underground repairs and retimber-
ing; the idea being to open up enough
working faces to keep 10 head of stamps
going. Before the remaining 10 head
in the other half of the battery begin to
fall another engine will have to be in-
stalled. However, ore production and
treatment cannot begin until the Govern-
ment authorises resumption of gold-
mining in the Territory, and arrange-
ments are made for the required labor
and maintenance of supplies and equip-
ment. At end 1940 there was over 1\
years’ work ahead in the measured
oxides in the southern sector, where
more pay-ore is known to exist. The
northern section, where little work has
been done, is also expected to prove a
valuable asset.
* % $ ♦
Glen Davis shale oi], undertaking
(N.S.W.) produced 4,000,000 gallons of
crude oil and 1,000,000 gallons of petrol
during 1944. The cracking plant for pro-
cessing the crude into petrol was held up
during the last half of the year, owing to
shortage of water following drought. Last
year’s production was less than a quarter
of the anticipated output (17,000,000
gallons) of crude. Over the last four years
about one-fifth of the original estimate of
crude has been produced, Hopes are
that reconstruction of retorts and other
improvements will substantially lift pro-
duction by the end of 1945. Estimated
cost to the Commonwealth of establish-
ing the undertaking is £2,300,000-odd.
* * * *
A London firm of solicitors has peti-
tioned the British Courts on behalf of
Knight Alexander Walker, a big pref.
shareholder, for compulsory winding-up of
London-controlled Youanmi Gold Mines,
Ltd., operating on the East Murchison
field (W.A.). In a letter to shareholders
the firm says counsel advises that if sup-
ported by a substantial number of pref.
holders the petition should be successful.
Directors’ report of May 31, 1944, stated
that operations at the mine had ceased,
and shareholders were invited to say
whether the co. should be put into volun-
tary liquidation. At an extraordinary
meeting to consider a voluntary winding-
up resolution 226,490 votes out of 252,244
cast by preference holders were in favor
of liquidation. The resolution was de-
feated by the votes of ord. shareholders,
who, in view of the prior claims of pref.
holders, would receive nothing on a dis-
tribution of existing cash assets. Share-
holders are invited by the legal firm re-
ferred to to support the petition, and, if
necessary, dub up a penny a share to-
wards the cost of litigation. Co. has an
issued and paid capital of £599,300 in
500,000 7 p.c. cum. prefs. of 10s: each
and 3,493,000 2s. ords. Pref. divs. accrued
to June 30, 1943, amounted to £142,245.
* * * »
Production of asbestos, blue and other
sorts, is being boosted in the West. Mines
Department and the papers are giving a
helping hand, and an author who has
gone there to write a book is expected
to render some assistance. Total produc-
tion to the end of 1944 was 3622 tons,
valued at £136,280. Of this output 1300
tons, worth £56,000, was blue asbestos
from the Hamersley Range; the re-
mainder consisted almost entirely of the
chrysotile variety from the north-west.
Hopes are that, with “vigorous and
courageous” developmental and explora-
tory work, sufficient deposits might be
opened up to supply the whole of the
Australian market, plus an exportable
surplus of high-grade fibre. There is
talk about reserves of blue asbestos being
sufficient for any calls likely to be made
on them for the rest of this century ; but
nothing is said about whether the per-
centage of fibre in the milling ore will
enable these deposits to be worked at a
profit.
* * * *
London-controlled Star Explorations,
Ltd., is offering shareholders 100,000 new
2s. shares, one for three, at par. The
money is wanted to extend the scope of
investments and reduce the bank over-
draft (approx. £35,000). First a re-treater
of old tailings at Kalgoorlie (W.A.), the
co. later became an investing concern,
interested in Australasian, South and
West African, Rhodesian and Malayan
gold and base metal mining. Chairman is
A. H. Collier, who is also on the Lake
View, Gt. Boulder and Wiluna boards.


Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Almost as important as your
WiLL
THERE is a wide realisation amongst people of means that the choice of the Executor
and Trustee who is to administer a Will is just as important as the Will itself. An
unsatisfactory Executor and Trustee may defeat the very purpose that the maker of
the Will had in mind.
If you follow the lead of many of the shrewdest of our successful citizens and
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, you will ensure that the terms of your
Will shall be faithfully carried out over the years, and that your beneficiaries shall
enjoy a courteous and sympathetic service.
We should like to send you a copy of a book, “Your Executor and Trustee.”
You will find it helpful. Write for it today.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIM ITED
DIRECTORS
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX
H. NORMAN POPE; ALLEN C. LEWIS; W. DEUOHAR GORDON.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration' exceed £62,800,000,
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: 0. E. COWDERY, Gunvood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. SHAW, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE _
Many of those gnawing l , nagging,• fiainrui
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
Relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acida and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a
iday or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
Hon’t work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons_ may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting ana
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
Ewelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
pnd dizziness. , __ . _
Don’t Wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY BEX B ,
Successfully by millions for over 40 years.
JThey give happy relief and will help the
miles of kidney tubes flush out poison _
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN S BACK
ACHE KIDNEY PILES to-day— the remedy
that will make 1 you jy ell and Jteej J ou eu ’-
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Unable to Change Gear
With a Prime Minister who is now,
often as not, an ailing man, and who
throughout his lifetime never seems to
have found out first-hand anything worth-
while about what makes the Australian
economy function ; with a Ministry that
ranges from boobs like Forde to narks
like Ward ; with a trade-union movement
that cracks the whip at all the members
of the Government and exercises over
the country a governmental influence that
is often militant and too often communis-
tic ; with a civil service that has been
built up on a basis of politics as much as
on efficiency; with private initiative
stifled by oppressive and sometimes illegal
National Security regulations; with all
these encumbrances Australians face the
confusion that will mark the beginning
of the end of the war.
When the war began there was, for a
time, a policy in this country and else-
. where of “business as usual.” The pace
set in the war by enemy countries soon
made that a policy of prospective defeat.
After the fall of France there was a grim
revision of war plans, and total war was
met with total war. Now that war is
ending in Europe and that the progress
of events in the Second World War
generally makes it necessary for the Com-
monwealth to prepare for the changed
conditions that will come with the peace,
we find our national Administration
suffering from the political equivalent
of hardening of the arteries, with an
inability to adjust itself mentally to the
prospect of a peace-time condition in
which initiative, vision, venture and re-
duced production costs will be necessary
if this country is to keep in step with the
world.
The Labor party has loqg been a non-
war institution, except perhaps so far as
the class-war is concerned, and its out-
look in this conflict has been little more
realistic with the enemy at its doors than it
was when the war was confined'to Europe.
Politics have entered into the nation’s
“war” effort on a gross scale, and dud
Ministers have had a whale of a time
within the scope allowed a Government
that has powers of the widest kind over
the lives, livings, incomes and property
of the nation. The party which has made
a high-pressure business of politics under
all conditions has used its war-time pre-
rogatives and economic opportunities ex-
tensively in order to win political friends
and influence the electorate. There has
been a big bill for Australians to pay
during this war simply as a result of
Labor’s attempt to curry political favor
at the nation’s expense. Judged by a
number of Ministerial statements, the
Labor party has learnt very little about
war-time obligations in spite of its re-
sponsibilities and powers and the people’s
sacrifices. The final result of its war-
time politics seems to be that Australia
is becoming more unprepared for peace
than it was for war.
It has been pointed out by responsible
authorities for a long period that the
economics of peace are much more com-
plicated than the economics of war. In
war-time one major objective stands out
—the winning of the war —but in peace-
time the citizen who has surrendered his
individualism in order to assist winning
the conflict will want his individualism
and right to select a variety of economic
objectives returned to him as one of the
first-fruits of peace. He will want the
right returned to him of being allowed to
spend his own money, to select his own
job and, within the limits prescribed by
democratic law, to lead his own life. He
will want to get away from the regimen-
tation of war.
This regimentation has been empha-
sised by the total nature of the
present war, and, where the policy of
the Government has been a misdirected
one, the burden on the people, or upon
sections of the people, has been equally
emphasised. It is true that Australians
have not suffered food rationing on any-
thing like the same scale as in Britain.
But the effect of our war-time admini-
stration has not been fully apparent
during the war. The consequences of
Government policy, right or wrong, will
be evident many years after the conflict
is over.
Instead of making all possible prepara-
tions for a full return to private enter-
prise when the war is over the Australian
Government has made a number of
attempts to continue war-time controls
after it has ended. There is an obvious
excuse for a limited extension of price-
control into the peace. Such a control
should benefit private enterprise if
carried out fairly and wisely. But the
controls which the Government is keenest
on are those of a socialistic order. Its
apparent political “success” while in
charge of so much of the people’s money
and liberty during war imprinted upon
it a fixed idea. It believes that it has
been, politically, “on a good thing” under
war-time controls, and it wants to stick to
it, apparently regardless of national wel-
fare and the hard facts of the economic
world at large.
After the war the basis of employ-
ment in this country will be private enter-
prise. If the Government succeeds
temporarily in socialising the nation it
will only be a prelude to economic break-
down, with a painful return to the com-
monsense of private enterprise subse-
quently. We have had a taste of social-
ism in our time during this war, and the
increasing waste and inefficiency, indus-
trial lawlessness and defiance of war-
time “controls” that have been a
highlight of Labor’s administration
are a sample of what conditions
would be like under a socialistic state in
peace. It is perfectly plain that the
Ministry is incapable of planning any in-
dustrial or economic programme and
carrying it through competently. Since the
improvement of a country’s economic
lot depends mainly upon efficiency and
well-planned production—Labor’s chief
grievance against pre-war conditions was
that living standards were not high
enough—and since it is clear that socialis-
ation and oppressive Government “con-
trols” that favor trade-union bosses re-
tard efficient production, we are wasting
time and jeopardising our future by toy-
ing with these impractical schemes. The
gravest immediate danger is the proposed
nationalisation of the banking system.
As private enterprise will be the main-
stay of Australia so long as it remains a
country fit for .modern, free-thinking
people to live in, a Government that is
sincere in its desire to keep up with the
rest of the world and is intelligent enough
to grasp the hard facts of this country’s
past economic progress should be giv-
ing close attention to the problems of
private industry. These problems, as
they immediately present themselves, have
most to do with taxation, restriction of
scope as regards finance, man-power and
materials, with industrial lawlessness
that is too easily tolerated by the Gov-
ernment and its officials, with the natural
shortcomings of the country, and with
costs of production.
The Government up to now has been
too prone to regard industry as a milch
cow for the production of taxation
revenue and as provider of employment
in a purely mechanical way. It has taken
the achievements of industry for granted,
giving little credit for the difficulties
which industry has had to meet and over-
come in establishing itself. Because the
ownership of industry is represented by a
comparatively few people when set along-
side the rest of the voting masses it has
been treated as a political minority in-
stead of as an feconomic essential. In-
dustry has to suffer double taxation and
other tax anomalies that are an exasper-
ating hindrance to enterprise but which
a wide-awake and willing Government
could remedy with very little difficulty.
Though war loans are persistently a
failure in the Commonwealth, savings-
bank credit being availed of to a dan-
gerous extent, the Government continues
to restrict Stock Exchange dealings and to
fix arbitrary prices that have no rela-
tionship to present share values. Bank ad-
vances to industry are “regulated” by red-
tape and politics. Price control on the
selling side of industry has frequently
assumed the nature of profits control, and
little regard is paid, either through taxa-
tion policy, availability of finance or price
control, to the post-war problems of in-
dustry.
Man-power control is a mysterious
muddle. Officialdom objects to a man being
put off in one industry but rejects the
application for labor by another. Trade-
unions appear to be dictating their own
policy to an impudent extent. Material
control is almost equally puzzling. Plenty
of bricks can be bought in Sydney, but
only in rare instances may houses be
built or essential additions made.
The Government attitude to industrial
lawlessness is inducing a feeling of
despair in the hearts of many industrial-
ists and businessmen. The sacking of a
couple of utterly useless men —frequently
worse than useless—is apt to result in a
strike on a building job or in a factory,
and usually Man-power and the Govern-
ment fail to back up the employer. The
difficulty could be largely overcome by
dealing firmly with trade-union bosses.
Too often they are the instigators of such
anarchy.
Nearly all the errors and omissions of
a Government with complete powers over
industry come to a common total in the
costs of production and living costs. Ex-
cessive taxation, Government waste,
waste of man-power “on the job” by go-
slow union methods, restriction of indus-
trial initiative by red-tape, obsolescence
of plant caused by inadequate deprecia-
tion allowance for war-time wear and
tear, and frustration Of enterprise by a
general Government policy of socialisa-
tion (as illustrated by the proposed
nationalisation of the trading banks) all
have their effects on production per head
and costs of production.
Production per head, types and quality
of production and costs of production are
going to have a great __ influence in the
post-war period on living standards, full-
ness or otherwise of employment and
upon social security. But our Common-
wealth Government, playing at politics,
mumbling class-war jargon and riding in
its Chrysler cars, is not interested in such
things.
The fact that the High Court has de-
clared invalid the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment’s demand for simultaneous sub-
scription to war loans in certain cases of
real-estate purchase will be accepted with
grim satisfaction by many people who
have a first-hand interest in the matter.
The anomalies, delays and evasiveness
which'have accompanied the attention by
the Treasury to applications by a number
of persons desirous of buying a house or
a piece of land are bringing the matter
of land-sales control into discredit. Ex-
cept to the extent that it was possible to
“ration” houses among those really in
need of them and to keep prices stable.
Treasury interference with realty deal-
ings was never justified. The support
obtained for war loans by the method
now declared illegal has no doubt been
extremely meagre. In spite of cajoling,
threats, “regulations” galore and coercion
of “non-Labor interests” support to war
loans in Australia has been the worst in
the Allied world. Savings-bank credit has
had to be availed of extensively time and
time again. Obvious results of the Labor
Government’s war-time “regulations”
have been to increase bureaucratic power
and to further socialism. The production
front has not benefited.
* * * *
Total war-time expenditure on the fight-
ing services in Great Britain up to March
31 was £27,000 million sterling. Of this
amount £13,000 million was provided out
of taxation, representing 49 p.c. Contri-
butions (in taxes and loans) towards total
Government expenditure during the war
period represented 42 p.c. of the com-
munity’s personal income. In Australia
war had cost £1999 million to March 31.
Taxation financed £660 million (33 p.c.)
of it. One of the faults all through the
war programme in the Commonwealth
has been that borrowing has been exces-
sive and that too much of the borrow-
ing has been of the bank-credit variety.
* * * *
During the financial year to March 31
last Britain was able to meet 53 p.c. of
all Government expenditure out of
revenue. That is a remarkable position.
During the year to June 30 next the
United States aims to finance 46.2 p.c. of
its total Budget out of revenue. Aus-
tralia’s forecast for the same period,
taking in surplus Commonwealth railway
and postal revenue as taxation, is 47.3
p.c. Taxation has played a more import-
ant part in Australia’s war effort over
the past two years. For a long time the
Government was afraid adequately to tax
its voting supporters. Lately it has gone
to the other extreme, slugging taxpayers
an extra 25 p.c. as the price of its
“elimination” of the “lag” year. Aus-
tralia’s expenditure under the heading of
war is now too high, too wasteful and
too political. And taxation rates are fre-
quently anomalous and discouraging to
production.
* * * *
Extract from a financial article in the
“Daily Mirror,” Sydney:
A frightening incubus of national debt
hangs over our heads; the creation of a
class of Government rentiers interest-
drawing bondholders—in our midst appals
many, while others of a contrary political
faith lift hands of horror as they con-
template the proposed expenditure on social
services.
The “Mirror” suggests as a remedy a
Budget balanced in terms of man-power
—the Treasurer estimates how much he
will require in the way of national credit
and taxation to provide jobs for those
out of work, and then raises the wind
to that extent. Sir William Beveridge is
mentioned. Provided the money spent by
the Government raises an asset with a
similar saleable or investment value it
may be true, as the “Mirror” says, that
the Government deficits “on paper will
be largely meaningless.” But that is only
proven when it is shown that deficits can
be wiped out or offset by the proceeds of
the spending, perhaps at a later date.
And the “Mirror” too lightly disposes of
the effect of a large internal national
debt; it says we owe it to ourselves, the
interest thereon making “some richer and
others poorer.” Hasn’t the “Mirror” ever
heard of the maldistribution of wealth
(and , incomes) leading to depressions?
But the reference to “a frightening incu-
bus” in speaking of our present national
debt has been found rather “appalling”
by some who have scraped up their last
few pounds to put into war loans, and
they would resent very much being
labelled “rentiers ” “interest - drawing
bondholders” or put in any such “class.”
Patriotism, not profit, has been mainly the
motive in supporting p.c. war loans.


Ur
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
RUPTURE
NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
wears’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-duy for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 21V), 248 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
df
ACTS
LIKE THE HRIID
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
51
's
mi’vL
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige,
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD,
( England)
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
. E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
Applications are invited for the position of
STATE SECRETARY
for the South Australian Branch of the Aus-
tralian Legion of Ex-Servicemen and Women
Inc. Duties include general supervision of the
Office Staff, Club-rooms, etc. Applicants to be
members of the Legion (or eligible), and must
state age, experience and qualifications and
submit copies of testimonials. The salary is a
minimum of £416 p.a. Applications close on
Saturday, 12th May, 1945, and are to be en-
dorsed “Application” and addressed to the
State President, Australian Legion of Ex-
Servicemen and Women Inc., Box 879, G.P.0.,
Adelaide, S.A.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors 1 . THOMAS A. MAGNEY, Chairman t F. W. Dvesbnry ; Sydney Sampson.
R - A - MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General Manager.
Pnone (three lines) : 117X61. /tranches in All States 129 Pitt Street, Sydney.
*
Airways will be made available
whenever war needs permit,
MADE BY
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
lllSliiliS
11
MnnouncemenS
The Manufacturers of
* FELTEX
wish to advise the public that although
Feltex floor coverings are now being
manufactured, it is regretted that factory
production is not sufficient to meet all
demands, and intending purchasers may
have to wait for delivery of orders placed
with their furnishing store.
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
FELTEX HOUSE, 261 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
treats
effectively
< \
fVAXOSj
No 2
RHEUMATISM
LUMBAGO, NEURITIS, SCIATICA,
MYOSITIS, FIBROSITIS, SPONDYLITIS
These are all * diseases of bacterial origin and all respond to Vaxos
treatment. Vaxos No. 2, produced in Australia by an eminent
physician under Government Licence, is a Warren Crowe type oral
vaccine. Unlike ordinary medicines, it is absorbed right into the
bloodstream, where it neutralises the bacterial toxins that cause the
complaint. Relief is rapid. Pains and joint swellings quickly
diminish. Muscular elasticity returns. Continued-
treatment brings long-lasting immunisation. Vaxos
is safe and simple to take —just a few drops in
water each day.
Cease your needless sufferings. Ask your Chemist
for VAXOS to-day
TWO OTHER DISTINCT VAXOS TREATMENTS
Vaxos No. 1 for Hay Vaxos No. 3 for Boils,
Fever, Catarrh, Common Pimples, Carbuncles,
Colds, Influenza, Bron- Acne, Psoriasis, Der-
chitis, Bronchial Asthma. matitis. Eczema, Im-
Antrum and Sinus petigo, Septic Sores,
Troubles, Tonsilitis and and most Skin Infec-
Middle Ear Troubles. tions.
EACH TREATMENT IN TWO SIZES.
ESTABLISHES
IMMUNITY
for periods of
up to 2 years
Large size (24 c.c.’s), 6
weeks’ treatment for 2|^.
Medium size (IS c.c.’s), 3
weeks’ treatment for ly'A
Acute Cases
Chronic Cases
If your chemist is out of stocks, write to
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lit. Collins St., Melb.
m
“Costless Credit” and a Railway
A popular fallacy is that the Common-
wealth Ro n r y « .
mst Of . T y . *n
cost or the east-west (transcontinental)
railway without borrdwlng, and that by
some remarkable manipulation of the
note issue this sort of thing can be done
°^ e . r over again without any fear
of inflation.
The real position was explained in the
House of Representatives in May, 1939.
Members were told by the Prime Minister
of the day that the Commonwealth Bank
was not directly concerned in financing
the construction of the east-west railway,
The total cost was £8,470,000. Of this
£1,826,000 was provided from revenue
and £6,644,000 from the Works Loan
Fund. Of the amount provided from the
Works Loan Fund approximately
£5,300,000 was borrowed from the Aus-
tralian Notes Fund, the “balance being
borrowed from other Commonwealth
funds and partly from the public. The
grea er portion of the Notes Fund moneys
loaned to the Treasury for the purpose
represented profits derived from interest
on investments. These transactions took
place before the note issue was trans-
ferred to the Commonwealth Bank in
1920.
It is perhaps necessary to explain that
the profits of the Australian note issue
are limited (a) to the size of the issue,
which is subject to public demand for
notes, and ( b ) to the prevailing rate of
interest at which those notes may be lent
to the trading banks or the general bank-
ing section of the Commonwealth Bank.
All the profits which have resulted from
the Australian note issue during the period
in which it has been under Government
control would not have paid for one
month’s Commonwealth Government ex-
penditure at the present rate of spending.
And that is taking full notice of the
present greatly inflated note-issue level
that has arisen from black-marketing and
evasion of war-time taxation.
The Australian sharemarkets remain
hungry for scrip of good quality, but, by
contrast, liquidators of the estates of
deceased people in which there are share-
holdings of front-rank stocks are paid
prices far below the real value of the
investments. This strange state of affairs
has been brought about by the Federal
Government’s price ceiling on Stock Ex-
change equities. Morris Hedstrom ords.
have a ceiling of 275. 3d. in the Com-
monwealth, while the New Zealand quote
for the same shares is around 48s. An
Australian who is forced to sell his shares
is in almost all cases penalised by com-
parison with his Maoriland cousin. Aus-
tralians who are financially able to retain
their shareholdings may live to see the
day when Stock Exchanges will be once
more free from Treasury control and the
people will be able to put their own prices
on investments. But in the case of de-
ceased estates, and in the affairs of living
people unable to meet staggering taxation
bills, forced realisation of good securities
now brings a great capital loss, as a rule.
At the same time it doesn’t appear that
hungry potential buyers of shares are put-
ting the money they can’t legitimately
invest into war loans. Australian war
loans have consistently been failures from
the point of view of popular support.
* * * •
The Taxpayers’ Association of Vic-
toria is asking for the abolition of Fed-
eral land tax. It points out that the tax
produces less than £4 million a year, but
is paid by 25,000 taxpayers. “The return
is not worth the trouble,” claims the asso-
ciation.
* * * *
There were 254,100 Australians engaged
in “transport and communication” ser-
vices at December 31 last. The total
compares with 244,100 a year earlier and
223,400 in July, 1941, before Japan came
into the war. In spite of this big in-
crease, in Sydney last week men engaged
in essential private industry were being
ordered into the metropolitan transport
services by Man-power. The tramway-
men in particular have been kicking up a
row about their conditions. They may
be short-staffed, but other transport ser-
vices would seetn to have plenty of hands.
Hs * * *
Says the Commonwealth Bank’s
“Statistical Bulletin”:
Owing to a deterioration in the man-
power position the Government has found
it necessary to reduce certain allocations of
labor for civil and industrial purposes.
The allocation of labor for rural industries
has been reduced from 21,000 to 17,000 for
1944-45, and the home-building programme
has been cut from 4600 homes to 3600
homes in the June quarter of 1945.
What sort of “deterioration” is referred
to? Decline of industrial morale? On
man-power statistics most people will find
it hard to swallow suggestions that war
industries are requiring more men than
hitherto.
* * * *
The shortage of wine in the Australian
civilian market threatens to be even
shorter. Consumption has doubled since
war began, and the loss of the export
trade has been no present monetary loss
to the industry as a whole. Now a bad
grape-growing season has come along,
and, particularly so far as sherries are
concerned, there is going to be a cut in
consumption quotas before 1945 is over.
The taxation position does not encourage
wine-makers to sell their stock. Where
vignerons have vintages that will improve
with the keeping (not all vintages will)
they may consider that a couple of years
in the vat or cask will bring in not only
a better selling price but a profit that will
not be subject to such heavy taxation as
at present.


THE SERVICE MAN
Darkness Over Europe.
“Ek Dum”: At the week-end it seemed
as if, for all practical purposes, the Euro-
pean war, or at least the main phase of it,
was very nearly over. Save on the North
Sea, and at points where the enemy was
surrounded and could not escape, there
was no resistance. In Germany and Italy
Germans were still surrendering in droves.
Mussolini had passed. All was chaos
within the Reich. But a sort of forebod-
ing hung over Europe. A great part of it
was in ruins. Millions of the survivors
among its young men were worn out;
millions of its peoples were homeless,
most of them hungry, ragged and drawn
with the fatigue of years of bloody effort.
From the east the Russians had come
over a land equally broken, drawing with
them a veil of darkness which obscured
events. As American forces set foot in
Austria Moscow, again without consulting
its Allies, established a puppet “Govern-
ment” in that country. And wherever
the Russians have occupied territory there
have been reports of wholesale deporta-
tions, wholesale forced labor and the dis-
appearance of inconvenient persons.
It will be premature to celebrate peace
in Europe until it is brought home in
the proper place that agreements are
meant to be kept by both sides. This
task of persuasion will need not only tact
but firmness, “realism.” But it will have
to be undertaken.
Last Days in Germany.
“Ek Dum”: The section of the fighting
forces which had least attention during
the week was the British Army which,
as usual, was doing nothing but fight.
The British Army had taken Bremen,
except for some sections of the port which
were well fortified, and the fall of which
could'be only a matter of time—taken it
by assault in the moonlight in what might
possibly have been the last fight of the
sort inside Germany proper. The Tommies
had to reckon with minefields, strong
artillery resistance from 88mm. converted
ack-ack guns and flooded ground in the
environs.
It was ‘across this area that the assault
was made in a full-scale offensive at mid-
night on April 24. Bombers had hit the
tangled old city all the afternoon, and
artillery fire shook the ground for miles
around.
The Germans were having varied
samples of British soldier thrown at them
from all directions: the 52nd (Lowland
Scottish) Division from the east, the 51st
(Highlanders) from the west, and assault
troops who rushed the defences from the
south, their spearheads in a torrent of am-
phibious buffaloes. This assault force
was made up of units from the old heroic
Third (Ironside) Division which F.-M.
Montgomery himself had commanded in
the retreat to Dunkirk, and which was
among the first ashore in Normandy.
The Lowlanders had support on the
flank from a West Country division, not
named, but no doubt that which had
smashed up a German crack formation
on the Dortmund-Ems Canal a few days
before —it includes the Devons and the
Monmouths.
Against this kind of opposition the
enemy succeeded in doing no more than
delay the advance. The city was pene-
trated by daylight on April 25, and within
a few hours the troops were in posses-
sion of the smashed streets down to the
port.
The British forces then began to push
down river towards the joint ports of
Wesermiinde and Bremerhaven the
52nd on the west bank. Third Division on
the east —while the Seventh (Desert Rats)
Armored Division tightened its hold on
Hamburg’s western suburb of Harburg
and the Guards Armored Division seized
the defences of Zeven, 25 miles north-
east of Bremen, and tore them to bits,
Zeven is about halfway across the low-
lying land between the Weser and the Elbe.
It was not long before a dash to the latter
river, south of Hamburg, was followed by
a drive across the river by the 15th Scots
and Guards. There was every need to
move quickly, since the river thereabouts
is nearly half a mile wide, and the dyked
country on either side is floodable. As
with the troops at Bremen, the attackers
faced heavy artillery fire, but they con-
solidated their bridgehead ten‘miles from
the Berlin road, 35 miles from the Kiel
Canal and less than 40 miles from
Liibeck. A drive to Liibeck would cut
Denmark and Norway off from the Reich.
Meanwhile, further west the Canadians
had forced Leer and were turning the
last defence line of Emden.
The defences of the North Sea area
were not caving in as easily as those of
central and southern Germany.
In Berlin
The fighting on the Berlin front was
described as being of the most terrible
character. But the Russians moved in
and round that vast city so quickly, tak-
ing woods, crossroads, factory buildings
and strong points, that there- could have
been little main resistance on the out-
skirts, a fact quite understandable in an
area which from continual bombing had
been plastered with more fire and steel
by a long chalk than Stalingrad.
The one area where there seemed to be
delays in the advance was round the
badly battered Government buildings in
the Potsdamer Platz-Tiergarten citadel
area, which might be said to bear the
same relationship to Berlin as a whole as
Hyde Park to London.
This area lies between the Tempelhof
aerodrome, about three miles south of the
Linden, and the Spree, which divides the
industrial city from the main Govern-
ment centres and the west end, and runs
across the part of the city directly at
the east end of the Linden. The Rus-
sians were attacking from two main direc-
tions —from the north-east toward the
east end of the Linden, and from the
Tempelhof, which they appeared to hold
before the week-end, via the Belle Alli-
ance Platz (named in celebration of old
Blilcher’s share in the victory of Water-
loo) towards the Potsdamer Platz and
the end of the Wilhelmstrasse, It was
not long before these drives were supple-
mented by one along the straight high-
way from Potsdam, 16 miles out to the
south-west.
The German communique on April 29
reported heavy fighting in the Pots-
damer Strasse, which runs into the great
Leipziger Platz, and the end of which is
only a block away from the Tiergarten
and the garden of Hitler’s Chancellery.
And Moscow reported that all resistance
on April 29 was confined to the central
square mile. It seemed on April 30 that
in Berlin resistance might cease at any
minute.
Reserved Zones
There, seemed to be good ground for
believing that zones had been defined as
the preserve of the Russians.
The Americans were actually across the
Elbe within 45 miles of Berlin above
Magdeburg before the Russians began to
move from the Oder bridgeheads. They
seemed to make no attempt to recapture
ground across the river after they were
allegedly driven back. South of Magde-
burg they were well over the river on a
main road going direct to Potsdam which
some of their spearheads, according to
Berlin Radio in its last hours, were sup-
posed to have reached.
The defence east of the river against
the Americans was penetrated laterally in
its rearward waist by the Russians with-
out any fighting worth the name, judging
by their rate of advance. But the Ameri-
cans stayed on the river in that area and
on the tributary Mulde to the south,
though there was nothing to prevent their
advancing, as was shown by an American
lieutenant who, with three privates, went
rollicking ahead for 21 miles and found
himself at Torgau, a neat littld town with
a castle on an island in the middle of
the Elbe, 30 miles n.-e. of Leipzig. On
the other side of the river were the
Russians.
It was an historic moment for corre-
spondents when they were able to witness
the formal junction of west and east. The
situation for a time absorbed their atten-
tion to the exclusion of all other happen-
ings, some of which were far more signi-
ficant and important.
Czech Defence Crumbling
It was more important, for instance,
that, with Brno captured by the Russians
on the east and Pilsen by the American
Third Army on the west, the defence of
Czechoslovakia seemed to be caving in
cdmpletely, ruling out the chance of the
bloody fighting which might have taken
place eastward of the Moravian Heights.
It was more important that the defence
of northern Italy seemed to have been
abandoned so that the Fifth Army by the
week-end had reached the Swiss border
near Como, and the complete occupation
of the Italian industrial north appeared
to be imminent.
It was more important also that the
U.S. Seventh Army, which had reached
the Danube the week before, should have
been able to push down the broad road
into the heart of Messerschmitt’s home-
land at Augsburg, whence Hess, a sound
prophet, left for Scotland almost exactly
four years earlier. They had their
columns within 20 miles of Munich on
April 29. In Munich a revolt had been
reported in progress, then suppressed,
while General Patton was over the
Danube at Regensburg, due north of
Hitler’s Bavarian capital, and some-
where about 130 miles by crowfly
from Marshal Tolbukhin. The defences
of Munich were like a man who is being
punched in the solar plexus and on the
jaw at the same time.
And in an outflanking drive far to the
south the First French Army, which in-
cludes magnificent Alpine troops, was
about 90 miles from Innsbruck and the
beginnings of the Brenner Pass, from
which the British Eighth Army, going
hell-for-leather across the Po, was en-
deavoring to cut off the German rem-
nants in Italy by capturing Verona.
The German Patchwork
Events were moving so quickly at the
week-end that it was impossible to say
where the fronts would be in three or
four days’ time, if there should be any
front at all. But there was still a con-
siderable amount of territory in the
enemy’s grip;
(1) The whole of Denmark and Norway.
(2) The whole of the North Sea coast from
the mouth of the Oder to the Hook of Hol-
land, with the exception of one or two areas
in north Holland captured by the Canadians.
Most of the land between the Elbe and the
Oder north of the outer environs of Berlin.
This was about 100 miles wide at its narrowest,
120 miles wide at its broadest and 80 miles
deep. It was being fast reduced.
(3) The isolated areas of Courland, in Latvia,
Breslau, for which * fighting was in progress
(Stettin and Frankfort-on-Oder had been lost),
Dunkirk, the Channel Islands, St. Nazaire,
Lorient and parts of the banks of the Loire
and Gironde estuaries on the Bay of Biscay.
(4) One or two other small pockets in the
north.
(5) About 9000 square miles of central
Czechia, which includes the capital, Prague.
(6) A bit of northern Italy and some of Yugo-
slavia.
(7) The so-called “fortress lair” of Hitler,
which saddles the Alps watersheds between the
Danube Valley and the Mediterranean.
The Salsburg Fortress
Roughly, the last section is a piece of
country 300 miles long and from 120 to
150 miles deep, which consists almost
entirely of solid rows of alps, with peaks
13,000 ft. or more high.
Its northern fringes are marked off by
a first-class military road, which runs
along the northern foothills from Lindau,
on Lake Constance, south of Oberam-
mergau, of the Passion Plays, north of
Innsbruck and the mouth of the Brenner
Pass to Berchtesgaden, which lies a few
miles south of Salzburg.
South of this road is another which
winds through the valleys east and west
from Feldkirch, south of Constance, to
Innsbruck, south of Berchtesgaden and
on to Kapfenberg and Vienna.
South of this again is the main road
from Italy, which climbs from Verona to
Trento, Bolzano and Bressanone, below
the Brenner, and then swings east via
Lienz, Klagenfurt and Maribor, whence
it turns north to Graz and Kapfenberg.
These roads are in the main paralleled
by railways. They form roughly the outer
frame of “the redoubt,” the main gates
of which might be said to be in the Salz-
burg-Berchtesgaden area.
This area has been described as the
best-defended from the air in continen-
tal Europe.
Such peaks as the Hochkonig, Hoher
Goll, Watzmann and others are believed
to be covered in anti-aircraft batteries,
and the district is full of old mines and
caves and ravines.
But all the defences did not prevent
R.A.F. Lancasters from breaking through
to Berchtesgaden itself and planting
12,000 tons among its florid halls last
week. And for all its potential strength
as a position for a last stand, the fortress
seemed to be of little use.
Spearheads from the U.S. Seventh Army
reaching Munich were said to have found
it little defended, and the 10th U.S.
Armored Division, driving down to a
point under the very nose of Berchtes-
gaden, was at Oberammergau, only 50
miles from Hitler’s nest. General Patton’s
army on the Czechoslovakian side was
beginning on April 30 to meet resistance.
Himmler, Dietmar, Mussolini
It was certain at the week-end that
Himmler had offered to surrender to the
British and Americans, but that there
had been insistence at Allied H.Q. on
complete surrender to all three Allies.
Lieut.-General Dittmar, the spokesman
of the German High Command for many
a year, surrendered to say that resistance
would cease with Hitler’s death, which
he seemed to take for granted. And there
were rumors that both Hitler and Goering
were already dead or dying, destroyed by
various means according to the fancy of
the reporter.
In Italy defence had collapsed in the
centre and west, and all the great cities
of the industrial area seemed to be in
partisan hands pending the arrival of the
Fifth or Eighth Army.
There was no doubt about the fate of
Mussolini. He had fallen into the hands
of Italian communists, his mute servants
when he strutted on the stage, and exe-
cuted, after a communist “trial,” with
such of his followers as had been cap-
tured, his body being afterwards exposed
in a barbarous manner which went out
with civilised peoples in the seventeenth
century. The Allies wanted his person
for a real trial.
A Voice Is Stilled.
“Ek Dam”: At the beginning of the
war German Shortwave Radio established
a ritual beginning with the cry of “Ger-
many calling!”
England began this war. England is the
only enemy. This war can end only when
England is destroyed.
The phraseology varied from time to
time, and as 1940 rolled along Berlin was
able to claim the swift achievement of
objectives. Not only did it exult in the sub-
mission or destruction of all the Govern-
ments in Europe, but it boasted that the
“remnants of the English Army in Europe
who are not dead are captive,” that an
immense trophy of British arms “had
been piled upon an enormous altar of
German greatness,” and that “decadent
England, the home of the drunkard
Churchill, is dying and friendless.”
In August, 1940, Berlin bragged, citing
American sob-sisters as witnesses, that
Londoners were spending their miserable,
frightened lives in a state of horrible dis-
organisation huddled in imperfect air-
raid shelters. The Channel coast was a
deserted waste whose denizens hid per-
petually in caves from German bombing.
“The Finest Thing in the World”
About this time, however, a note of
irritation began to creep into the Voice.
Although Britain was laid low it not
merely refused to admit it, but insisted
on being “insolent,” “the drunkard
Churchill,” who “must be punished,”
above all:
Hitler is now sprawled over Europe.
Our offensive springs are being slowly com-
pressed and we must slowly and methodi-
cally prepare ourselves for the campaigns
of 1941 and 1942. Two or three years are
not a long time even in our short precarious
lives. They are nothipg in the history of the
nation, and when we are doing the finest
thing in the world, and have the honor
to be the sole champion of the liberties of
all Europe, we must not grudge these years
or weary as we toil and struggle through
them It is our intention to maintain
and enforce a strict blockade not only of
Germany, but of Italy, France and all the
other countries that have fallen into Ger-
man power... .We have good reason to be-
lieve ourselves capable of continuing the
war if necessary alone, if necessary for
years The Empire stands invincible.
This made Deutschlandsender fume,
especially when “Churchill” went on to say
that the “process of bombing the military
industries and communications of Ger-
many and the air bases and storage
depots from which we are attacked may
in another year attain dimensions un-
dreamed of and afford one of the most
certain, if not the shortest, of all roads
to victory.” He added that “even if the
Nazi legions stood triumphant on the
Black Sea or even at the Caspian, or at
the gates of India” it would profit Hitler
nothing. The date was August 20, 1940,
and the Battle of Britain was a week old!
Berlin affected to laugh: “He is wel-
come to his bombardment, for in a month
he will be blown out of his lair.”
When the month was up the P.M.
was heard announcing that “several
hundred self-propelled barges” were
moving down the coasts of Europe,
besides convoys of merchant ships in
tens and dozens, “and behind them very
large numbers of German troops wait-
ing to set out on their very dangerous
voyage across the seas.” Deutschland-
sender’s rival had tlje temerity to seal
his fate by adding “Little does Hitler
know the spirit of the British nation,
and to tell that:
He [Hitler] has lighted a fire which will
burn with a steady and consuming flame
until the last vestiges of Nazi tyranny have
been burnt out of Europe.
Also that “quite a lot of things are going
to happen to Herr Hitler and the Nazi
regime before ten years are up. Even
Signor Mussolini has some experiences
ahead of him which he had not foreseen
when he thought it safe and profitable
to stab stricken France in the back.”
One of the experiences in store for
Mussolini was the destruction of the core
of his fleet in Taranto five weeks later by
the Swordfishes of H.M.A.C. Illustrious.
A fortnight afterwards Deutschland-
sender seemed to find no answer to the
defiant remark by the old Prime Minister:
“We are waiting for the long-promised
invasion. So are the fishes.” And its
critics became grimly contemplative
when on November 9, 1940, their terrible
adversary meditated;
People sometimes wonder why we are
unable to take the offensive against the
enemy, and always have to wait for some
new blow which he will strike against us.
The reason is that our production in muni-


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HENWOOD KEITH BLAMEY.—TAKE NOTICE
that HELEN HORTON BLAMEY has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 835 of 1945 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Ist June 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
from GEORGE MONTGOMERY STAFFORD Solicitor
79 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(i.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO HERBERT RONLEY HOCKEY formerly of Rose-
ville and Oanowindra.—TAKE NOTICE that MAR-
GARET RENEY HOCKEY has filed a Petition in
Divorce No. 188 of 1944 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Sydney on or before the 27th June 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
F. G. PARKER & ANDREWS Solicitors 3 Castlereagh
Street Sydney.—(i.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO CHRISTINA BAIN.—TAKE NOTICE that MONT-
GOMERY BAIN has filed a Petition for Divorce No.
3359 of 1944 on the ground of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the Thirty-first day of May 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition without charge from J. BIRNIE JACK-
SON Solicitor 117 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ALFRED AMOS CHANDLER-
TAKE NOTICE that CATHERINE SARAH BLACK
has filed her Petition for Nullity No. 405 of 1945
on the grounds that, at the time of the ceremony of
her marriage to yourself you were then and still
the husband of ENID EDNA IRIS CHANDLER If
you wish to defend you may enter an appearance
in the Divorce Registry Supreme Court, King Street,
Sydney by the 31st day of May 1945 and obtain a
copy of the petition without charge from MESSRS.
KERSHAW MATTHEWS LANE & GLASGOW Solici-
tors of Ocean House 34 Martin Place Sydney.—(l.s.)
O. K. BODY, Registrar.
Personal and Missing Friends.
TO ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON sometimes known
as Arthur James Pascoe formerly of Christchurch in
New Zealand (a son of Lavinia Martha Heighton of
Auckland Deceased). —TAKE NOTICE that by an Order
of the Supreme Court of New Zealand enquiries are
being made for the abovenamed Arthur James Heigh-
ton (or Pascoe) or his issue as beneficiaries under
the Will of his Aunt Ada Pascoe Deceased This
missing man lived in Christchurch New Zealand
and left there about 1897 and if alive is now aged
about 74 The said Arthur James Heighton (or
Pascoe) and all persons claiming to be his issue or
to be representatives thereof are required to com-
municate with the undersigned executor on or before
the 30th day of September 1945 failing which they
may be excluded from participation in the said
Estate Persons knowing anything of the missing
man are requested to communicate with the under-
signed.
THE TRUST MANAGER,
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY, LIMITED,
Queen Street, AUCKLAND, New Zealand.
CD
am
tions is now only in the early part of its
second year, and that enormous factories
and plants which we laid down on or
shortly before the outbreak of war are
only now beginning to come into produc-
tion. The Germans, on the other hand,
have long passed the culminating point of
munitions production, which is usually
reached about the fourth year.
This sounded all the more impudent
since it followed an admission that “we
must expect next year a still heavier
U-boat attack,” and that “we have to
look a long way ahead ; we have to think
of the years 1943 and 1944.”
Hitler on the Black Sea
Berlin Radio continued in its faith that
England was the only enemy, and that its
destruction would bring “peace for a
thousand years,” until the end of 1942.
At that time Hitler stood on the shores
of the Black Sea. Some of his forces
were within sight of the Caspian. The
Japanese were at the gates of India.
But on October 23, 1942, a British
agent named Montgomery opened an
exhibition of British Empire air-power,
armor and fire-power at El Alamein. A
few days later Rommel was running for
his life. Berlip Radio for three days previ-
ously had been reporting the assembly
of a large Russian force near Astrakhan
on the Caspian, which could have been
supplied only by Britain and the United
States. Three days after Rommel began
to run the Italian sector on the Don im-
mediately north-west of Stalingrad caved
in, foi Mussolini withdrew his troops on
the arrival of the news that the Americans
were landing in North Africa. The long
German retreat began on all fronts.
In a few days, the naval battle of the
Solomons having been fought, the Japa-
nese began to withdraw as well. The epic
of the Owen Stanleys and of Buna Gona
was well under way.
It was at that stage that Berlin ditched
its epilogue about England being the only
enemy. The U.S.A. commanded respect.
In February, 1945, the same Berlin
Radio which in February, 1941, had been
exulting that in the coming summer Ger-
man bombs dropped upon England would
be stepped up to “ten thousand tons a
month, which will reduce her cities to
powder and lay her literally in the dust,”
was complaining pL the barbaric cruelty
of the R.A.F. In 30 days the R.A.F.
had decanted 70,000 tons of steel and
high-explosive and incendiary bombs into
the industries and communications of the
Reich. U.S. forces added 70,000 tons.
Montgomery’s Knock-out Blow
About the same time German Radio
announcers were showing great concern
about the operations of British armies
opening a battle on a 10-mile sector on
the borders of Germany in a tiny corner
near Cleve. For the services of the com-
ing battle the heirs of the army of 1940
whose “remnants” had been described by
German Radio in June that year as all
prisoners or dead had assembled a frac-
tion of Britain’s replacements of those
arms which, at the time of Dunkirk, had
been supposedly piled to form an im-
mense trophy on the altar of German
greatness. True, it was only a small part,
for the Russian armies were largely
equipped by Britain, so were Yugoslavs,
Poles, Greeks and Chinese. And Britain
had might massed on several other fronts.
The U-boats had been defeated and the
Royal Navy, making for the Pacific, had
waved its contemptuous sterns at defeated
Germany in a last derisive salute.
Montgomery’s blow tore Germany
wide open and cracked its defensive struc-
ture to the nethermost corners. And in
the Battle of the Ruhr U.S. soldiers took
the most important region, with the
greatest bag of prisoners, gained through-
out the war.
The invasion of Germany from both
sides had become a vast exploratory surgi-
cal operation, revealing dead and black-
ened cities, factories blotted out and foul
ulcers, such as the Buchenwald concen-
tration camp, the sight of which sent civi-
lisation reeling back chilled and
nauseated.
As the voice of German Radio de-
scribed how the Canadians—those same
Canadians who provided the only fully-
armed division in England after Dunkirk
and who Berlin was certain would desert
—were forcing a position in desperate
fighting near the Zuyder Zee, there was
a muffled sound as if, in the distance,
Hermann Goring had fallen through the
gates of Sheol.
Since that moment the Third Reich has
been voiceless in the short-wave world.
Eighth Army's Triumph
“Ek Dum”: At the end of the third
week in April it was clear that the Eighth
Army drive, of which the ipcomparable
Maoris were the spearhead, had broken
a hole in the German front line of Italian
defence which could not be repaired.
Eighth and Fifth Army units had seen
Bologna, and the Fifth Army was racing
up the main highway towards Modena
and Milan, and was conning over the
spoils of Spezia. The Eighth Army spear-
head was only a mile or two from Fer-
rara, nearing the Po, where it was ex-
pected the enemy might make a stand.
Then suddenly all the hopes clung to in
weary months of fighting through the
snows and horrors of the Italian moun-
tains were realised. The whole German
defence of Italy collapsed like a pricked
balloon, and the remnants of the 26 proud
enemy divisions trailed hopelessly to-
wards the Brenner Pass and home, leaving
vast numbers of prisoners behind them.
So complete was the collapse that sur-
render of great cities and ports such as
Genoa and Milan did not await the com-
ing of Allied troops. They were handed
over to partisans, into whose hands there
soon fell Mussolini and party. Their shot-
torn bodies were soon hanging in a public
square.
Meanwhile the Fifth Army ranged to
the Swiss border, near Lake Garda, with-
out opposition, and the Eighth Army
raced towards Venice and the gates of
Germany along the Adige.
For the Eighth it was a glorious culmi-
nation. ‘EI Alamein, the Mareth Line,
Enfidaville, the Tunisian break-through,
the battle for Catania, the race to save
the Salerno bridgehead, the long, bitter
gruelling winter on the Sangro, Cassino,
the bloody, bullocking, unceasing fight
up the Peninsula*to Lake Comacchio's
fringes, the dreadful winter of 1944-45 —
all these things integral in 42 months of
campaigning were behind at last as, on
April 30, officers and men of the Eighth
raced across north-western Italy, beyond
captured Padua, towards the sun setting
over Germany.
The Maorilanders on April 30 had
reached the Piave River, 70 miles from
Yugoslavia, and the 56th (London) Divi-
sion was in Venice.
Advance on All Fronts.
“Ek Dum”: As in Europe, so in the
Pacific there was an air of victory,
though the way ahead is still long and
difficult.
In New Guinea the main advance
against Wewak had begun. From that
place Australian troops, with tanks which
were being used for the first time, were
on April 29 only 12 miles. A considerable
number of strongpoints, gun positions
and dumps had been captured in a drive
from the western side of the Wewak
perimeter, and it would soon be put to
the test whether there were actually
16,000 Japanese troops still in the Wewak
area and what their fighting quality might
be. About 3000 enemy troops have been
destroyed since November.
In the Torricellis, having captured the
key goldmining township of Maprik, th*e
A.I.F. quickly crossed the Screw River
and extended its positions, an outflanking
force operating on the north clearing the
Japs out of high ground.
Similarly, on Bougainville Australian
attacks on the Buin road were gaining
strength, backed by heavy N.Z. bombing
and strafing and the strongest artillery
support yet given. Patrols had reached
the Hongorai River, which may be con-
sidered as the outer defence line of the
Buin area. It cannot be long before the
main fight for the southern sector of
Bougainville is on.
In the Philippines, Baguio, the sum-
mer capital, on the approaches of which
the Americans have been hammering
since January, was taken, opening the
way to the northern sectors of the
Cagayan Valley. The capture was made
by converging columns of the 33rd and
37th Divisions, with tanks and mobile
artillery. This is the prelude to the clear-
ing of the north and to the final capture
of the last town of any importance in the
Philippines—Aparri, which is at the
northern tip of the island.
On Mindanao U.S. forces completed
their drive across the island near Davao.
Little of the Philippines, save for northern
Luzon, is now in enemy hands.
U.S. aircraft bombed Kyushu Island
day after day to block off supplies from
Okinawa, where the enemy continued
bitter resistance while his cramped inner
lines were battered to pieces by heavy
guns and bombers in the confined area
of his defences covering Naha from the
north. At the week-end it seemed that
the crisis must be near.
And great news, little advertised, came
from Burma regarding the tremendous
drive of the British Fourteenth Army,
which has now travelled nearly 600 miles
since it began its campaign in the hill
border country of Assam in December.
A burst of 140 miles in a week had
brought it within 62 miles of Rangoon,
while a westward sweep threatened to cut
off the route to Moulmein and the
Malayan border country. The Fourteenth
Army was on Rangoon’s outer perimeter
on April 29.
Japan is in a very bad way in south-
east Asia. •
The Supply Wrangle.
Ek Dum”: The awful and fruitless
wrangle now proceeding in press and
Parliament about war supplies for New
Guinea is surely one of the most disgrace-
ful episodes in the history of a British
country.
It is disgraceful that detailed discussion
of shortages should take place publicly
at all. Yet in the past few weeks the
whole world has been told not only that
the Australian forces in the mandated
islands are short of supplies, but what
they are supposedly short of. The enemy
must be delighted to have this knowledge,
which becomes easily accessible since
security regulations seem to have broken
down. A court case at Wollongong has
shown how easy it is for anybody who
cares to put on a uniform to get out of
the country with the help of military
transport, even though he has no papers
or passes to identify him.
So far from rousing public opinion the
whole effect seems to be to deaden it, as
is proved by the general lack of active
indignation against the shocking com-
munist-planned strikes in ships and dock-
yards, which must be inducing the Royal
Naval authorities to long with a great
longing for an effective base far from
Sydney. These strikes are carried on in
the face of the admission by the Aus-
tralian commander-in-chief that one of
the greatest shortages affecting Australian
forces in New Guinea is that of shipping,
from which it may be inferred that
Australians are dying and suffering be-
cause of that shortage.
However, let Australians read the facts,
and spare a thought for their soldiers:
(1) There are supposedly 90,000 desperate
Japanese in New Guinea holding Australian soil
and enslaving a harmless native people who are
our responsibility.
(2) These Japanese are concentrated in five
main areas—in Bougainville, on the west, south
and north; in Buka, which they hold entire;
in the Gazelle Peninsula of New Britain; in
New Lrelahd—the best-organised island in the
Bismarcks, wholly occupied by them; and in the
Wewak-Torricelli areas of New Guinea.
(3) It is clear, despite the boasts of the
futile Mr. Forde and his kind about the hun-
dreds of thousands of enlistments and the hun-
dreds of millions that have been spent, that
resources were not last November available to
attack any one of these strongholds head-on
and to wipe it out. And even the process
of fraying the edges of Japanese defence peri-
meters and cleaning up outlying pockets has
been hampered by lack of some supplies.
Public discussion of those shortages
can serve no good purpose. Most soldiers
agree that they exist in some areas and
in some degree—in food, in weapons, in
transport, in modern air support, in wire-
less plant and even in tobacco, the
greatest solace of the mosquito-ridden
fighting man. There is also, among ex-
perienced men, some agreement that even
where there is plenty in weapons they
are sometimes unsuitable.
The sensible course would be to send
a military delegation to Burma, where
the 14th Army is well supplied with
everything needed for the kind of task
which is being carried out in New
Guinea, and to apply Burma standards
in the mandated islands at whatever cost.
In Burma the howitzer and the heavy
mortar, weapon, sometimes
the flame-thrower, are staple and abun-
dant. Plentiful air-power, particularly in
transport, is available.
Even more than a year ago a whole
Indian division was moved lock, stock
and barrel to the Imphal front, 1000 miles
in a few days. The thought of attempt-
ing such a feat at the present juncture
with a modemly equipped Australian
battalion would stagger an army not
easily staggered.
The joint Allied Command appears to
have no use for the Australian Govern-
ment. While Anglo-American and Cana-
dian supplies are plentiful for Russians
and Maorilanders, and while Indians and
Chinese have all the help that can be
given, the Allied Chiefs of Staff appar-
ently dp not think it worth while any
longer to bother with a Government
which takes no action against large-scale
sabotage of coal-production and -supply.
Quite the worst feature of the situation,
however, is that the troubles of supply
and military inefficiency cannot be cured
while the present Government is in office.
The whole heart of military activity is
the Minister of Defence, not the mili-
tary command. His is the responsibility
for command ; for the relations of the
command with the public; for deter-
mining what is needed ; for seeing that it
is efficiently provided ; for seeing that
troops fight under conditions of maxi-
mum supply and safeguard. It is from
him that the Commander-in-Chief is sup-
posed to take orders. If the Commander-
in-Chief speaks politically and gets away
with it the Minister is to blame, since
the Commander-in-Chief is an adminis-
trative and not an executive officer, and
is responsible to the Minister for his
actions.
In a word, it is upon the shoulders of
the Minister of Defence who in Aus-
tralia, as in Britain, is the Prime Minister,
that the responsibility for all main issues
and decisions connected with the war
rests. Yet in Australia at this important
crisis, when the reputation of the country
and the lives of its soldiers are at stake,
the Minister of Defence is an invalid,
recently so ill that members of the Oppo-
sition profess the greatest reluctance to
engage him in debate for fear of the
effects of excitement upon his condition.
And the Army is in the hands of a human
babbling brook whose words excite
derision every time he opens his mouth.
In the palsied hands of such Ministers
the whole defence effort is drifting to
chaos. The ability of the Australian mili-
tary forces to fight, and they want to
fight, has become almost entirely depen-
dent on the willingness of overseas coun-
tries to supply them with arms, transport,
air-cover and other facilities.
And' even people concerned with dog
races and s.p. betting and lotteries should
be conscious of the disgraceful manner in
which the tremendous British naval and
air effort in the Pacific is likely to be
hampered by the strikes, the go-slow, the
Government lassitude and muddle and
other factors, and should bow their heads
in shame.


\
¥
s»
\
\
\ \
W.S. 169.
u
*e.
USES TRANS
In streets, in shops,
The ’flu germs are around,
In any place where there’s a crowd
They surely will be found.
So guard against the germs of flu
Be from them quite secure,
And for a certain
Use Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
For Coughs, Colds and Influenza;
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
SPORTING NOTIONS
At Flemington on Saturday the courageous
breed who bet on the hurdlers and ’chasers
qualified notably for the Extinguished Punter’s
Medal, with wreath. On the favorites in the
Hurdle-Steeple double £1 all-up would have
returned a profit—had it come off—of £1 165.,
this beggar’s ransom thus representing odds for
the double of less than 2 to 1! Before the
dauntless could collect their two favorites
would between them have had to travel four
miles and half a furlong, leaping the hurdles
and fences, and, of course, be in front at the
finish. To add to the joy, the one tackling the
fences had to carry 13st., giving 11b. short of
2st. to the next weighted and up to 4st. to
the rest!
In the spirit honored in the stirring words
“How can man die better than by facing fearful
odds,” the courageous laid 5 to 4 on the
Winslow Hurdle favorite, Intermission. They
had the delight of seeing L. Meenan get him
home with three lengths to spare ’from Ron
Rico, with Hearsay third, far enough back to
justify his name; but their palpitations all-but
started an earthquake when Hamlet nearly
figured in a new tragedy by falling at the
second jump just in front of Intermission, and
only instant action by Meenan saved the
favorite from falling over that 100-to-l chance.
And, as well as all this, it was reported that
in the weighing room Meenan was 111 b. light
and only just made it by calling for the bridle!
Meenan, plus ingots of lead, was again on the
favorite, game old Winterset, in the Autumn
Steeplechase. This time backers accepted
evens! Under his terrific weight Winterset
appeared to be making heavy weather before
hitting the fifth fence and getting rid of the
living part of his load. As a final commentary
in the citation, there were 12 starters in the
event, and only six of them stayed on their
feet to see it out! The winner was Victory
March (15 to 1), with Tente (33 to 1) a neck
away second, and Parentena (20 to 1) third five,
lengths back.
When the Dhoti-French Gem colt Royal
Gem, carrying 9.4, defeated Leonard and Carng-
ham at Moonee Valley early in April it was
here noted that he looked a probable worthy
rival to Magnificent if the war position should
permit their meeting in the spring. Royal Gem
(5 to 1) looked that even more after his con-
vincing defeat of the two successful Gay
Lothario colts Gay Lad (7 to 2, favorite)
and Don Pedro in the Stanhope Handicap (six
furlongs) on Saturday. At the Valley he took
1.151 for the distance, but that was good,
being better than an open-event winner’s time
that day. In the Stanhope Royal Gem, with
9 6 (giving the last-start easy winner Gay Lad
161 b.), did it in 1.13 i; also very good on the
day, seeing that Spearmain, in defeating such
performers as Versailles and St. Fairy in the
Fentona Handicap, was only quarter of a second
faster.
Royal Gem’s record now stands at five wins
from seven starts, including one in which he
lost his rider at the barrier. Magnificent s is
three wins and a third from four starts. It the
brown son of Dhoti and the chestnut son ot
Ajax do meet eventually—well, as the poet re-
marked of John Gilpin, may we be there to see!
Demonstrating that the hurdlers and ’chasers
haven’t an outright monopoly of short-priced
favoritism on the Melbourne tracks, the de-
feated Versailles started at 6 to 4, while Great
Victory (winner of the Aberfeldie Handicap
first division from Propontis and Jamestown)
was at 7 to 4, and Oatcake (winner of the
two-miles Brookside Handicap from Carlton and
Lar Toba) was at the same figure as Ver-
sailles. Private Chat, who defeated Vaneson,
and Contact in the Aberfeldie second division,
was an equal favorite at fours.
The first part of its two-days meeting
washed out by rain, the S.T.C. was compensated
at Canterbury on Saturday by a day so pleasant
that it was no wonder if some of the horses
dawdled to observe it. They had the additional
excuse of a holding track, resulting in such
typical times as Tactician’s 1.18 in the six-
furlongs Two-year-old Handicap. The 24,000
present put £69,997 through the tote, a Canter-
bury record.
A classy-looking brown colt by Titan-Desert
Lily, and one of F. W. Hughes’s big string,
Tactician (R. White) was turned out in spank-
ing order by trainer McCurley. He beat his
stablemate Tithonus (Titan-Speak Easy) a length
and a half, with Brandant (Brazen-Credant)
half a length away. Nothing could be much
surer than that Tithonus will win races. He
came from a long way back, finishing well.
Tactician, however, was giving him 191 b. It
must have indicated something that Thrums,
a big Kuvera-Soubrette bay colt, was installed
favorite, on no public form whatever, except
of an uninviting variety.
Another turned out in such capital order that
his brightness looked part of the day, the Con-
stant Son four-year-old gelding Thanks America
(trainer N. McKenna) won the main event', the
S. T. C. Handicap (11 furlongs), beating Lady
Marie a length, with Night Parade third. The
field is indicated by the fact that Neta Linette,
who manages 7.7. nicely, headed the weights
with 8.7 (unplaced, with 71b. allowance). Fhe
race saw Queenslander N. McGrowdie get right
back to form in the saddle, a nice exhibition or
good riding. He made it a double by bring-
ing Western Monarch home the easiest of
winners from Fire Chat and Cabonne in one
of the six-furlongs Welter divisions. A four-
year-old bay gelding by Brazen-Ardnagram,
Western Monarch carried 8.12, and probably
the best is yet to be seen of him.
In the other Welter division T. Clarke had
the now aged Freckles —holder of the Common-
wealth seven furlongs record, 1.22, and one
of the best sprinters around till his leg went
on him—in front all the way to beat Brazier
a long head, Cradle Song and the useful-look-
ing Queensland mare I Will dead-heating for
third. Freckles occupied 1.17 for the six,
carrying 10.3. War Effort (Cook) beat John
Halifax and Kingsdale in the Flying; Ascertain
(Doon) accounted for Idyllia and Gold Edifice
in the Encourage; and Chatster (Coutts; an-
other fine bit of riding) defeated Regal Step and
Tin Mine in the Maiden. The runs of both
John Halifax and Kingsdale were promising.
Ascertain made both Idyllia and Gold Edifice
look somewhat weak. I Will should shortly
return her boat fare.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances).—Three-
year-old Novice: Right Royal, 1; Regal Step,
2; Jimmy Dingle, 3. Two-year-old Novice:
Tithonus, 1; Sajakeda, 2; Tamaroa, 3. Car-
lita Handicap; Scene, 1; Lunar, 2; Twice
Royal, 3. Flying; John Halifax, 1; Warlock,
2; Kingsdale, 3. Warwick May Handicap:
Boomanulla, 1; Loyal March, 2; War 3.
High weight: High Flight, 1; Monaro, 2, i
Will, 3.
* * * *
“Wodgil”: There is a moral for mugs who
fancy that they can beat the books, year m
and year out, in the fact that Eric Connolly cut
up for a mere £5751, all personal property.
Than Connolly there was no shrewder or more
intelligent racing man in his time. As well as
being a wonderful judge of a horse and a
jockey, he had the equipment of a first-class
trainer, never let drink muddle his judgment ot
form and weights or cloud his vision of races
in progress, and was possessed of a ample
“bank.” In the ’twenties he won the New-
market two years running with his own horses,
Rostrum and Sunburst, the Epsom also with
Rostrum and the Metropolitan with Murillo,
besides persuading the Nightmarch people to
run their horse for the 1929 Epsom—his clean-
up was far richer than that of the Nightmarc
stable. In that decade he probably collected
£200,000 in wagers and stake-money. Yet ne
left only a fraction of it. Theo Marks, Syd-
ney’s most spectacular punter during the period
of Connolly’s unchallenged supremacy in Mel-
bourne, said before his death that with the
money he had lost on the racecourse he could
have bought a villa in the South of France and
lived in leisured retirement for years. Marks
himself was an excellent judge of a horse, had
an even temperament, a princely income - 1 ?
his profession as architect and was primed with
“information.” Considering these examples,
what chance is there for the average punter,
whether he bets s.p. or on the course?
* * * *
V.F.L. barrackers picked the Fitzroy-
Essendon affair as the match of the day
on Saturday and picked aright. There
was never much between ’em. The ’Dons,
“He says his terms is unconditional surrender."
nine noints down into the last quarter,
put on a stirring rally and drew level a
few minutes before time. Then, while the
crowd went into hysterics, there was a
hurricane finish in which nobody scored,
It ended in a draw, Fitzroy 8.16, Essen-
don 9.10, and laryngitis for pretty well
everybody else. Elsewhere the mighty
were falling: Carlton thudded hard at
Hawthorn, down 16.10 to 9.18, and Rich-
mond—yes, Richmond—barely managed
to scrape home from North Melbourne,
8.17-7.18. Footscray, as always early in
the season, shot well and ran all over
Geelong, 18.9-12.9. Melbourne some-
what moodily wiped the floor with St.
Kilda, 17.16-7.7, and there was a dread-
ful silence along the ’Wood side of
Smith-street when the awful news arrived
that South Melbourne had belted the
Magpies by 12.14 to 11.10. Fitzroy v.
Footscray next Saturday should be worth
watching.
* , T * * ...
Manly v. University was an exciting
Rugby Union ” atch - . ,®f b “ d Jk® a
minute before time, Biddulph made a
determined dash to cross for Manly, but
an easy kick for goal was charged
down; University 13, Manly 11.
Superior in the first half, West after-
wards wilted before Parramatta s virile
attacks, and went down 22-15. Randwick
had a scoring orgy at Gordon's expense,
notching 11 tries to two to win 41-8.
Winger Slattery equalled the record hel
by Crossman and Hemingway by scoring
six tries. Drummoyne held St, George aU
* h ™ u S, h ® n , a ' ly Wln 12 ' 7 ’ a " d E
beat North 28-17. t ,
At the Adelaide Head of the River
(four-oars, won by St. Peters by a can-
vas from Prince Alfred) there met as
usual three survivors from the start of
this fixture away back in 1884. Percy
Begg rowed then for the winners, Whin-
ham College (long since extinct); W. J.
Isbister, K.C., for Saints; and Arthur
Hill for Princes.
* * ♦ ♦
Shore (Sydney Church of England
Grammar) confirmed the form it showed
in dead-heating with the non-school crew
Haberfield at Riverview Regatta a week
earlier by winning the Head of the River
and both first and second fours on the
Parramatta on Saturday. High was
second in each of the three.
* * * *
Though he has lost something of the
speed and power of punch he had when
he beat Gus Lesnevich, Ron Richards can
still give an interesting
show. Eleven years
younger and
heavier. Era C 1 ing a n
got a decision over him
in their return match at
the Sydney Stadium, but
Clingan owed his success
to precisely these advant-
ages; he bustled Richards
in every round and was
tough enough to “take”
the many clean blows
with which the Queens-
lander connected. Clin-
gan often crowded Rich-
ards to the ropes and
leaned on him with every
ounce of . 12st. B^lb.
Those tactics weakened
Richards, but at long
range his clean punches
made a mess of Clingan’s
cheekbones, mouth and
nose, all of which were
bleeding and swollen at
the end. Richards threw
all he had into a hard-
fought ninth round; after
that the points decision
was no longer in doubt.
It was bad matchmak-
ing to bring Dal Conway,
a middleweight, and Stan
Wilkes, a welter, together
again at Leichhardt. The Queenslander
played light for seven rounds, showed a
bit more activity in the eighth and cut
loose in the ninth, flooring Wilkes for
three seconds with a right to the chin. On
rising Wilkes did not seem to know where
he was, and as Conway came at him with
another right that had knock-out written
all over it the referee, Pearson, signalled
for hostilities to cease.
* * *
Jack Read, who does the fights for this
page, has just got out a new edition of
his Boxing Records, mentioning that it
is only seven years since our last ‘Annual
was published,” and also that about a
million hours (they certainly seemed that
many) of intense concentration have made
the records hereinafter contained as near
to gospel as any human could make
them.” Though, as welUas all the present
champs., Jack includes some of the past
topnotchers, he doesn’t include any men-
tion of his own record ; but he was light-
weight champion of Australia in his day,
which was when they fought 20-rounders.
In his intro.. Jack gives a useful bit ot
good advice to youngsters. Instancing
the fact that Billy Conn, “considered
cleverer than any boxer now doing busi-
ness anywhere,” was taught the game b>
Johnny Ray for more than two years
before making his first public appearance,
Jack adds that “a number of local boys
have been put in preliminaries before
they’d had as much as a month s tuition,
and such scanty knowledge often meant
a few fights starting them for the tunny
house instead of the top of the tree.
Boxing Records sells at Is. 6d., and 1
Bulletin address will always find Ja
Read.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The birthday celebrations of the
W.R.A.N.S. ended with a dance at a
naval establishment in this city, where
the models of wicked-looking torpedoes
and mines did nothing to dampen the
ardor of the guests. Admiral Sir Guy
Royle and his lady, she in midnight blue
crepe embroidered with sequins, were
guests of honor. Also in the official parfy
were Commodore Drew, who brought
Mrs. Drew in a bouffant gown of black
taffeta, and Commodore and Mrs. H. A.
Showers. The R.A.N. band from Flinders
supplied the music. Profits went to the
Ex-Naval Men’s Association.
Sir Guy and Lady Royle will soon
leave Australia , his term of office having
expired. Lady Royle has been most inter-
ested in the W.R.A.N.S., and has done
much to improve life for women of that
service by means of leave clubs and
other amenities. To mark their apprecia-
tion W.R.A.N. cook Peggy Baird pre-
sented to Lady Royle a scrapbook with
drawings and pictures of the girls of this
service at work and play. Chief Officer
McClemans told Lady Royle how she
would be missed and expressed the hope
that the scrapbook would bring back
pleasant memories. Second Officer
Curtis-Otter had a busy night looking
after the official guests and had time for
only one dance. Third Officers Harding
and Barrett were the centre of a happy
party, which included the popular Lieut.
Fred McGrath, R.A.N.
The Dutch residents of Melbourne are
fully alive to the plight of their country-
men who are suffering. To raise money
to send to the Dutch Red Cross,
they arranged a bazaar at the Dutch
Officers’ Club in St. Kilda and had a
busy and successful day, working from
11 in the morning till 11 at night. The
bazaar was opened by the Baroness van
Aerssen, who was accompanied by her
husband (he is the Netherlands Minister
to Australia). She wore a very smart
outfit and matching hat. Admiral Kon-
raed, of the Netherlands Navy, introduced
her, and she was received by Col. F. H.
Wright, Netherlands Consul. Mrs. Wright
was president of the bazaar committee
and ran a stall which made a lot of
money during the day. Mrs. P. H.
Kremer, as treasurer, worked hard at her
job and also conducted a fancy goods
stall. Mrs. Peter Wessells was secretary.
Dutch coffee was served during the
afternoon and Indonesian food was on
the menu for dinner at night. Madame
Abdulkadhar, president of the Dutch Red
Cross, was an ardent worker. For the
occasion she wore a floral kabaja (jacket)
and a brown striped sarong, which was
ankle-length.
Mrs. R. Aarsen managed the novelty
stall, and her cushions attracted much
attention. Made of heavy linen in all
colors and shapes, they were embroidered
in white thread. She also had in
stock gloves in lizard skin, of her own
design and manufacture, the lizard skin
forming the backs of the gloves with
soft black suede for the inner por-
tion. She had also made elbow-length
evening gloves of black suede, and these
sold very well. Proceeds for the day
totalled over £l5OO, which will be sent
on to help relieve suffering in Holland
and the Dutch East Indies.
The committee of the newly-formed
C.E.M.A. has cause to be proud of what
it has done for music and the arts in this
city. After providing a feast of music
the committee turned its attention to
drama, and the Guild Players, as their
contribution, produced Shaw’s “Candida,”
played to a very large audience. But
the most notable of all the productions
was “Mrs. Moonlight,” presented by the
National Theatre group. Gloria Melody
was “Mrs. Moonlight,” and her per-
formance, although she is still very
young, won the approval of both audi-
ence and critics. Now C.E.M.A. is rest-
ing on its laurels, but only for a time.
As soon as the committee gets its second
wind it intends to bring to the people
more music, and will encourage the
talented in every artistic sphere.
The University Extension Board’s
Drama Classes have not been idle. They
recently produced in the Union Theatre
a play by Gregorio Martinez and his
wife Maria, “The Cradle Song.” This
was first performed at the Lara Theatre,
Madrid, in 1911, when it scored a
triumph. It was done in New York in
1921 and in London in 1926, and there
have been many other notable revivals.
John Gielgud revived it at the Apollo
Theatre, London, last year, with Wendy
Hiller as Sister Joanna of the Cross and
Yvonne Mitchell as Teresa. Most of the
characters are Dominican nuns, and the
setting of the play is in and around the
cloisters of a convent. Phyllis Matthews
made the most of her part as sister
Joanna of the Cross in th i s production,
and her charming voice and appearance
made her a happy choice for the part.
So that the players would have the right
atmosphere the producers paid a visit to
a Dominican convent.
~ . • ■. ~ A/r T a
Pictured here is pianist Mary MacLeod,
who . fi f st . made ber mark m this Clt y s
™ ca 1 1 , at on ,f i ho^. c T? ?
festivals which launch the budding talent
° f th f Melba Conservatonum. Since
the ? sh e ha f appeared as concerto sdloist
under the baton of Edwin MacArthur,
has fulfilled broadcasting engagements
under the A.B.C. banner and has given
much of her time to entertaining troops,
Miss MacLeod has consented to be one
0 f the performers who are to be a
“change-daily” feature of the University
reV ue “Stop Press.” This will be pre-
sented at the Union Theatre from May
15 to May 19. Others are blonde violinist
Poppe Olsen and Joan Rainford (pri-
vately Mrs. John Rountree), who is
making a special trip from her home in
Hamilton to appear on the first night of
the revue.
The revue, the first since 1941, is being
produced by Joy Youlden, who graduated
from University revue to the professional
stage. In addition to producing the revue
Joy has written several of the songs and
a couple of sketches for it. She will
appear in a specialty act with Keith Mac-
artney.
Critics praised ’cellist Martelli, whose
first recital was an unbounded success.
The Assembly Hall was nicely filled with
an audience that gathered in the foyer
during interals for a chat and discussion
on the music. Accompanist Freda Franks
set off her fair coloring with a moss-
green frock cut on full-flowing lines. The
flowers she received at the end of the
concert set off the rich tones of ner frock
to perfection. Blacks seems to be the
uniform of all smart women for these
semi-formal occasions, and the black suit
worn by Hilda Corbett attracted much
attention. Tiny black beads were closely
sewn all over the jumper, into which she
pinned two gorgeous brown slipper
orchids. The skirt was softly pleated, and
the outfit was topped with a small black
cocktail hat. With Hilda was Mrs. Don
McKenzie, whose smart black suit was
piped with silk braid ; a gay floral hat
provided contrast. Edna Taylor chose
unrelieved black and twisted black tulle
through her fair locks. Mrs. Alan Walters
pinned three pink roses on top of her
head as relief to her smart black frock,
which was made more distinguished by a
filmy lace yoke. The Robinson lady had
shell-pink touches on her black frock,
which was worn under a tight-fitting
black coat. Her tiny beret was orna-
mented with a clip of pink moonstones.
Mrs. Walters later entertained guests
at a small supper party. The R.A.N.
was represented by Lieuts. Bryan James
and Fred McGrath. Reg Newsom came
on after his appearance in “Blithe Spirit.”
The guest of honor, M. Martelli, brought
accompanist Freda. Adrian Wall was
another guest.
From Sydney
A week ago today was Anzac Day.
There was a strange feeling between the
hours of the Dawn and the Sunset Services
at the Cenotaph. It was as though the city
lived in a memory—a memory of youth
and high endeavor and something
precious that could never become thread-
bare or grow tarnished. The weather
was moody, bitter rain blew across the
Sunrise Service, then came alternating
greyness and sunlight. But the soldiers
of last war and of this war marched
through the city. They stepped past the
Cenotaph, hat on heart, the Cenotaph
that symbolises the immortals who can
never grow old, the marchers’ own youth
and the deeds that they wrought and
dared in their hardiness. In tribute
flowers, a blaze of bloom and shoot, were
heaped about the memorial.
Boys and girls, and fathers and
mothers, too, popped out in Saturday’s
brilliant sunshine to watch “Shore” win-
nmg the Head of the River. High was
a pretty close second and St. Joseph’s a
game third. Cabarita Point was the
special vantage point, and barrackers flew
their chosen colors, shouted and laughed
encouragement to the strivers at the oars,
From Gladesville along to the finishing
point cars were out in their hundreds—
there must have been some strict saving
of petrol awaiting the great afternoon.
Dances to round off the day were staged
by most of the G.P.S. involved.
Next Saturday at three in the after-
noon Lady Wakehurst in one of her neat
little speeches will declare open the British
Centre Officers’ Club in Macquarie-stteet.
This is being run under the guidance of
the Victoria League. It is centrally
placed—round the corner from the
Elizabeth-street tram and just two or
three blocks down from the King-street
bam ' mvited wbo can h°f cor J} e in
the afternoon may view the club on
Saturday evening from seven to nine and
on Sunday the 6th from ten o clock to
bve -
Sydney and inter-State visitors to
Orange and Borenore have been glad-
dened by the hospitality of Boree
Cabonne—the Mac. Smith home at Bore-
nore. If the visitor goes in the spring
she will see lilac and primroses mingled
in the spreading gardens of the home-
stead, with Australia’s own beauties of
bush flower and tree. Mrs. L. Mac. Smith
is the newly-elected State president of
the C.W.A. Always a keen member, she
had been president of the Central West
branch for some years. It was due to
her enthusiasm that the association started
its own paper “The Country Woman.”
Photograph from Norton Trevaire.
In a week when the Sydney Symphony
Orchestra, conducted by Canadian Sir
Ernest MacMillan (showing no sign of
baton shortages in spite of his lavish
breaking of two at an earlier concert), gave
three Town Hall concerts, Alexander
Sverjensky drew a big audience to his
piano recital. This was given in the Con-
servatorium last Thursday night, and
pleased both Beethoven and Debussy
fans. Mr. Sverjensky also played works
by Rachmaninoff, Medtner and Ravel in
a manner and style which the composers
would have approved, and which his
listeners applauded.
Well-known actresses Nellie Lamport
and Minnie Love put in a pretty piece of
work for people in the outback recently.
Nellie started it by asking Minnie Love
to get the signatures and photographs of
all the cast of “Autumn” (the just-passed-
on Minerva show), to be shown and later
sold for the benefit off the Red Cross at
Ardlethan, N.S.W. This is part of a
letter in acknowledgment:
We are selling the signatures, messages
and photographs. I thought it best to let
everyone have the pleasure of reading and
seeing them all, so I pinned them up
attractively on stiff, white paper and displayed
them in the windows of the shops before
the Red Cross Amateur Hour Night. On
the night we roped off a corner of the room
and, pinned them on the wall. Everyone
was" thrilled. Perhaps you cannot realise
what it meant. Some people live on the
land from one year’s end to another and
nothing thrilling ever comes their way.
But it did this time!
That sounds as though Nell and Minnie’s
little job of work was appreciated.
Pretty Patricia Whiddon became the
wife of L.A.C. Nicholas Kelso King
(R.A.A.F.) one day last week. Patricia’s
wedding frock was made of ivory brocade
which had been brought by Olive King
from Paris years before this world war.
With this went complementary tulle veil
and bouquet. The bride’s parents are the
Frank Whiddons, of Point Piper. The
’groom’s father was knight Kelso King.
His mother’s home is Kilbronae, Point
Piper. Ruth Sear and Nanette Hagon
’maided in the rustle of hyacinth-blue taf-
feta. The ceremony was in St. Stephen’s,
in Macquarie-street; the reception at the
Australia.
Bulletin writer Cecil Mann wrote a
poem with the recurring line: “But
autumn steals on us without a sound.”
A guest at the Veterans’ Home Appeal
Committee's lunch last week was re-
minded of those lines, for the new nation-
wide appeal which the committee is
launching stresses that season in the life
of the Anzac of World War I. How
brave a figure he was when he left for
Gallipoli 30 years ago, how fighting game
(even if not quite fit) he was even a
decade ago! But now autumn is stealing
on him without a sound. One of the
most laudable things planned to do with
the money when it comes rolling in is
to build attractive cottages for Old
Diggers and their wives—an attractive
brick house for each couple within
sound and sight of the rolling blue Pacific
and the Narrabeen lakes.
The War Veterans’ Home at Narra-
been is a delightful place, built in differ-
ent blocks, cottages and pavilions amid
the sunshine and the gum-trees,. What
the care and the friendliness of such a
place have done for the sick and unhappy
soldier of the last war and are still doing
for him must be done for the soldiers
from this war returning. To raise a fund
large enough to carry on this grand
work the committee is running a contest
that should find favor in every part of
the continent. It is a Miss Australia
contest. Main points for entrants are that
they be born in Australia of British
parents. The beauty and charm evoked
by this contest are going to make the
Hollywood stars shake in their shoes. The
winner gets a money prize and a trip
abroad.
The Trocadero was packed for the pre-
liminary meeting which was a lunch as
well. Almost every male guest was a
Digger of the last war. Women at the
lunch looked like wives or daughters of
the warriors. There were great enthusiasm
and sympathetic applause when Chairman
William Wood read aloud a handful of
letters poignant in their simple gratitude
for the help and renewed courage given
them at the Narrabeen colony. A graphic
speech by A. L. Robb held the attention,
so did Peter Dawson in singing “The
Road to Mandalay” and a song written
for the occasion by Edna Morris, who
already has had several songs published.
Mrs. Nigel Smith, president of the
Red Cross Seals auxiliary, is very pleased
with the new seals. Across the top
these carry the inscription: “Duchess of
Gloucester Red Cross Appeal.” The
seals have different colored back-
grounds red, apple-green, emerald,
brown, two shades of blue. The
design is a map of Australia in white.
Superimposed is a red cross, through
which a hospital ship is ploughing its way.
In one corner is an aeroplane winging ;
down in the right-hand corner is an
ambulance. The seals are one penny
each and are sold for the benefit of the
sick, wounded and prisoners of war.
Sleuths are busy trying to fill in cards
with seals on the different colored
backgrounds. This is not so easy, as the
colors are cunningly distributed, no one
post office getting a great variety. In
fact, it is desired to clear stocks of the
Lady Gowrie seals first.
Gilsullivan actress Evelyn Gardiner
made a stir in Martin-place when she
urged the glory and duty of investing in
the Third Victory Loan, and indeed in
every one of Australia’s war loans.
Evelyn, very smart in a cream tailored
suit and a small white Breton sailor, let
the full warm notes of her voice flow
freely. It is a rich, full voice that never
slurs its consonants. The matter of the
speech, too, was arresting. It followed on
the auctioning of Bing Crosby’s auto-
graphed photograph and his “Victory”
song, which has kept the thousands
rolling into U.S. loans. Bing’s photo-
graph with signature brought £5OO,
which, of course, means bonds.
A great chance has been missed by
s6me artist of the imaginative school. In-
stead of bothering about the human
anatomy, what a great and alluring canvas
might have been painted showing
“Butcher’s Shop After the Peace.” Here
might have been swimming carcasses, gory
hearts, "succulent livers, platters of brains,
the whole under the direction of a smiling
and bowing, almost salaaming, proprietor.
Maybe the Housewives’ Association
would have bought it.


X
IPT\»
5s
0
' FIXED PRICES
Supreme .. 16/5
Diploma .. 18/11
Autoflow .. 26/3
14ct. solid gold,
hand-made nib.
Iridium pointed
*MS
mprovßM/tt
or/
'/A
3
Increase the
growth of
thin and
weak hair.
Effective In
cases of baldness and bald
patches. Permanently re-
moves dandruff. McMahon's
Hair Restorer is a proven
remedy for men, women and
children.
Obtainable from Chemists,
Hairdressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Altken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
5
sdf
303 c
How can 1 assure
exclusiveness
without expensiveness?
•vV
5
Masonite boards are the ideal medium for
expressing exclusive individuality o£ design
without corresponding high cost. There is
practically no form of modern decor to
which Masonite cannot be perfectly adapted.
In this attractive bedroom, the walls, bed,
doors and dressing table are all of Masonite.
•PRESDWOOD
•TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
TEMPRTILE
QUARTRBOARD
*
MA 87-41
Manufactured by MASONITE CORPORATION (AUST.) LTD.,
SALES DIVISION. 369 Pitt Street, Sydney,
and 529 Collins Street, Melbourne.
*Limited supplies note available from all builders 1 supplied
timber merchants and hardware stores.
SMOKE-OH!
“Women are reported to constitute 30 per
cent, of Marshal Tito’s Yugoslavian Army.”
— “World’s News.”
But many think the figures are some-
what different.
•h -F •!« 4*
“Wanted, good home for lovely.”
. —Suburban paper.
Bachelor-girl apartment preferred?
“Brooch, R.A.N., mother-of-peal, buckle-
shaped.”—Lost advt. “S. M. Herald.”
Finder should ring immediately.
•I* •!• *l* 'l*
“Wanted avery, about 4x4x2; toy cup-
board, in good condition.”
— Advt. in suburban paper.
He should advertise again after a good
spell.
“Chinese fit in well.”— ‘‘Sun'.”
But what the hell are they doing, down
there?
4* 4* 4 1
“Good quiet young saddle and harness.”
—For Sale advt., “Clarion’'’ ( Willoughby,
N.S.W.).
Hardly a sound proposition.
•%
“Everyone in the office regarded Miss Drake
as a charming little person.” —Short story.
Ducky, in fact.
Indian Love Lyric.
“The mating call of the female mosquito will
cause male mosquitoes to burst into an answer-
ing chorus.” —“Sunday Telegraph
My Aunt Angina, who used to keep a
residential in the denser jungles of Bengal,
once conducted an interesting experiment
in mating calls.
Returning one day from her afternoon
walk, she was startled to find a tiger busy
eating an intrepid-looking explorer on the
front sun-porch. Observing her, the
explorer stopped gouging the tiger’s eyes
and. spoke.
“Good evening,” he said. “My name
is Smith. Will you please call off your
cat?”
After assuring him that the tiger was
completely new to her, my aunt thought
she might be able to lure it away, or, at
least, turn its mind to higher things than
food, by singing to it a collection of mat-
ing calls which she had picked up in the
jungle.
Her first effort was a cross between a
foghorn and an air-raid siren, which
startled the tiger so much that it had
an attack of hiccups for the next quarter
of an hour. Experimenting further, my
aunt began a kind of knotted cooing,
which had no apparent effect on the tiger,
but brought several alligators to the front
steps. /
The tiger by now had finished the
explorer, all but his boots, which it was
licking affectionately to see if they were
edible. Just as my aunt was gathering her
aching throat together for another effort
there came an impatient, peremptory roar
from the jungle. The tiger started guiltily,
tried to smell its own breath and hurried
off.
My aunt fed the boots to the alligators,
shooed them off the steps and went to
bed.
Plum.
•f* *l* *f* "f*
“Tarleton surveyed his rotund figure with
disgust. ‘l’ll have to give up my clubs,’ he re-
flected wistfully.” —Short story.
This man-about-town, who is getting too
fat.
Needn't give up his clubs to lose
weight.
We suggest an alternative better than
that —
Let him swing them each morning at
eight.
F.M.
4* + 4 1 4 1
“Dorothy Lamour has been married to Cap-
tain William Ross Howard 111 for two years
now and in all that time has never taken off
her wedding ring.”— Woman’s paper.
That’s not remarkable, but the two
years is.
4* + 4 1 4*
Taking No Chances.
“The Soviet requested the U.S. State De-
partment to furnish M. Molotov with a bullet-
proof car as part of a heavily-armed convoy
during his stay in San Francisco.”
The delegates were chatting on the
steps at the Conference venue. Just out-
side the main doors a dove, symbol of
the high hopes of the great gathering, was
conspicuous in its grenade-proof cage.
Anthony Eden, sartorially immaculate
as ever, leaned on a cane which few
would have guessed could be converted
instantly to an automatic weapon. Also,
none would have suspected that his nobby
Homburg was' in reality a shaped and
cleverly-camouflaged tin hat, whilst it
would have needed microscopic detec-
tion to observe that his beautifully-creased
striped trousers were of a light but
mortar-proof steel.
Mr. Stettinius moved among a forest
of drawn gats and sawn-off shotguns.
Suddenly there was heard the con-
certed whine of a covey of police-cycles.
The delegates looked down the street.
Around the corner came the lead-
ing cops, six abreast, the passengers
in the sidecars alert over the sights
of their Browning machine-guns. Be-
hind them came an armored truck
holding a couple of Oerlikon guns
and their crews; followed by a truck-
load of infantry in asbestos suits
holding flamethrowers. Then came the
main bullet-proof car holding M. Molo-
tov followed closely by two armored cars
packed with machine-guns, a battery of
self-propelled field guns and, finally, a
tear-gas platoon. The cavalcade along
its entire length was flanked on both sides
with a string of outriders whose cycles
bristled with weapons.
As the bullet-proof car drew up at the
steps M. Molotov dropped quickly to the
floor and wormed himself out on his
stomach to the roadway; then, crouched
nearly double, he rushed up the steps and
disappeared indoors as all anti-aircraft,
field gun, machine-gun and mortar crews
and tommy-gunners in the vicinity sprang
to the alert.
Two men standing on the top steps
looked op in amazement. One, a stout
person with a pointed nose, turned to
his bespectacled companion.
“Gripes, Bert,” he said, “I took a risk
coming in a taxi, didn’t I? , After
all, I’m a world figure, too, aren’t I?
What if a crazed conference-wrecker or
some vengeful Trotskyite were to start
something? And, don’t forget, we’ve got
our political enemies, too, Bert. At one
of my meetings in Rocky a U.A.P.
terrorist might have flung a tomato at me
if a policeman had not thrown him out
in the nick of time,”
In between sessions that day the stout
man with the pointed nose was observed
to be very thoughtful,
Next morning, immediately after its
armored column had deposited the
Soviets leading delegate at the confer-
ence there came a terrific rumble from
up the street. Delegates on the steps
craned their necks as two bulldozers
carrying depth-charges and mine-throwers
and their crews tore up the street. Behind
them came a Sherman tank carrying an
Australian flag. As it stopped at the steps
with a clatter about a dozen stout men
with pointed noses, all dressed in the same
bandsmans uniform and admira s hat,
leaped out and formed up into a phalanx,
As they began moving up the steps, still
keeping a solid square, another stout
pointed-nosed man, who was disguised
a deputy - assistant - under - secretary s
secretary, came cautiously from behind a
Corinthian column and sidled up to a
spectacled man in a snap-brim felt hat
who was looking from the top step,
“That 11 trick em, Bert! said the dis-
guised one. Our enemies will naturally
think that I’m somewhere there among
all my doubles, dressed in the manner by
which the world best knows me, and they
won’t know which one to shoot at. But
I’m U P here, and—ha. ha. Ive got this
to defend myself with as well
and from his hip pocket he pulled out
a small popgun, carefully examined the
cork and put it back,
His companion looked at him in no
amiable manner. ‘Hey, Frank he said
at last, whats all the noise. When
you move about you sound like a herd
of skeletons jitterbuggmg on a galvamsed-
iron roof.”
“Sh T Frank replied. Its a cham-
rnail shirt 1 bought,
That was what really started the row.
Bert never likes feeling that he didn t
think of it first,
BO.
Ladies’ Day.
“The day might yet arrive when we will have
race meetings conducted entirely by women,
with women jockeys, trainers, judges, bookies,
etc.” —“New Idea.”
The horses are ready, the barrier down.
But the riders dawdle still:
One can’t be persuaded her cap’s on
straight;
One powders her nose at will.
And down in the ring where the bookies
fair
In a wordy warfare clash.
It’s “9/11 to book,” they cry,
“Or 8 /11 for cash.”
They’re off in the end to a straggling
start;
Two racing in front collide;
The field dashes by, but the pair are left
With handfuls of hair and hide.
They thunder along by the judge’s box.
With the favorite running free;
The numbers go up; there are piercing
squeals:
Knit one, Purl two, Slip three !
D. H. E.
Alternative.
Since you demand it so, my darling Sue,
I will no longer spend my cash on beer.
It is a painful sacrifice, but you
Are one I’ve always held intensely
dear;
And so farewell to days of amber brew
That filled my heart so oft with merry
cheer!
I swear this promise I well ne’er resign —
So long as I can spend my cash on wine !
T. W. Nathan,


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
A.I.F. Equipment
When the rumpus started over the
adequacy of A.I.F. equipment Senator
Fraser rushed in with a dissertation on
the virtues of the Owen gun compared
with the Yanks’ tommy gun, chief point
(apart from the effort to create the im-
pression that Curtin and co. were respon-
sible for its invention and production)
being its lightness compared with the
other. I suggest that if Mr. Fraser weighs
them and finds out the difference for him-
self he will be surprised.
At Finschhafen at the end of 1943 I
was with a Seventh Divvy artillery
unit and remember seeing some of
the lads eagerly surrounding a couple of
Yanks. Strolling over, I found them
fondly handling and admiring the -dan-
diest little weapon I’ve ever seen. “Car-
bine,” they called it. Holding 16 in the
mag., it weighed about half as much as
our Owen.
Some time this year I saw Australian
troops embarking for the north, and they
were equipped with tommy-guns, not
Owen guns.
During the Huon Gulf campaign we
made frequent advances, taking gun and
crew on a tiny barge to a beachhead,
and then hauling the weapon by jeep or
muscle sweat to the gun position. On
one such occasion we were baulked by
a deep ravine which effectively blocked
further progress. One of the gunners
had noticed a caterpillar being used by
the Yanks a quarter-mile away ; a request
for a loan, after explanations, produced
two cats” for keeps! When it is borne
in mind that all ammo. (25-pounders) had
to be hauled from the same beach to feed
eight guns, it can be seen that the tractors
played an important part in the campaign.
My impression was that the Yanks had
us whipped in practically every article
of everyday equipment. For example
their compact folding mess gear, wifi
provision for holding lid, knife, fork
and spoon, so that all can be plunged
into boiling water after use (neces-
sary in dysentery-infected areas, such
as all places were where the Nip
had been), compared with our clumsy
oblong gear (too small to hold our eating
irons) which had to be juggled and fre-
quently dropped in the washing pot. This
may seem a trifle when the talk is of bull-
dozers and graders, but it counts. And it
is typical of the U.S. attitude towards the
smaller and more frequently used equip-
ment of the soldier.
I read that a Peat’s Ferry punt was
used in some of the latest A.I.F. land-
ings. I wonder if it was fitted with bunks
for the men, hot and cold showers, an
electric washing-machine, two lifts and a
kitchen, staffed by white-coated chefs,
where they baked their own bread each
night, as was the American L.S.T. barge
that I travelled on from Buna to Lae. —
J. G. Gunner (A.1.F.).
A Voice from the Farm
It’s a pity we don’t hear more voices
from the Outback and fewer voices
from Canberra. Sheep, the mainstay of
Australia, are dying in millions, but do
you ever hear of it from either politicians
or press? Rarely. It would be different
if the animals were coursing dogs.
The land men are the pillars of
the nation, but for all the considera-
tion they receive from the Government
they are not even reckoned as potential
votes. In the southern Riverina we feel
we are being governed by a lot of city
politicians, elected by city votes, who
don’t care whether we blow into the sea
with the dust or not as long as the unions
are all right.
Here farmers’ daughters have to go
cleaning out dams and skinning and burn-
ing dead sheep because we can’t get help.
The girls don’t mind, but you never hear
any Labor politician howling about it, as
you would if the slaughtermen at Home-
bush had their toes trodden on. —Gone
with the Wind (Vic.).
Reply from Concord
Under “Political Points” (B. 7/3/’45)
reference is made to municipal affairs,
and the Concord area is laid open to
criticism.
By direction of the Council I request
that the following be published in your
journal for the edification of readers.
The points raised by your commentator
are in all cases at variance with fact. The
Concord rate is fivepence (5d.) in the
pound, and has been at this level for
quite some years. Of this 7.16 d. in the
pound (the contribution applicable to all
municipalities within the County of
Cumberland) goes to the Department of
Main Roads. The reference to one half-
penny (£d.) main-roads rate is incorrect.
After all, is not the question of rates
governed by land values? On examina-
tion your columnist will find that land
values in the other municipalities men-
tioned are greater than in Concord and
that despite the variation in the actual
rate the yearly rate assessments there
yield on an average of from £6 10s,. 6d.
to £l5, figures considerably in excess of
Concord’s average of £5 per annum.
It might also be noted that in addition
to providing and maintaining the usual
Local-Government amenities free of any
special charges. Concord has provided a
great impetus in the field of public health.
It was Concord which, at the request of
the Board of Health, first undertook mass
diphtheria immunisation, and it was this
Council, too, which was the first to pro-
vide and equip a modern Baby Health
Centre for the free use of the public.
These facts would seem to indicate a
very desirable initiative and an enlightened
rather than an incompetent administra-
tion.
Finally, in its composition the Concord
Municipal Council is, and has always
been, definitely non-political.—J. Mendel
(Town Clerk).
[That Woollahra, Strathfield and Bur-
wood have efficient services and low rates,
‘I usually award this little medal for outstanding bravery
Burwood’s being 3|d. in the pound, was
among “the points raised.” No evidence
is offered * that these “points” are “at
variance with fact.”]
The Inland Sea Scheme
A point overlooked by those cranks
who would flood Lake Eyre with sea
water is a simple matter of hydraulics.
Water will not run with a fall of less than
6in. to the mile. Eyre is 47ft. below sea
level. The sea, at its nearest point, is
more than 200 miles distant. If power
must be employed to fill the lake it would
be far better to sink the money in the
so-called Bradfield scheme. Dowser
(Q-).
Can Japan Colonise the Islands?
Where do people get this idea that
remnants of by-passed Jap armies will
achieve Japan’s purpose by colonising
island areas after the war (“C.A.L.,” B.
14/3/’45)? Unless the Nips have evolved
some system of male parthenogenesis I
fail to see how it is going to happen.
If these people think inter-marriage
with the natives will result in a race of
Samurai they are up the wrong family
tree; this practice would mean absorp-
tion of the Japs within two generations.
No conquering army has ever imposed
its culture on an invaded country by
inter-marriage, though there are many
instances of the reverse happening. China
has absorbed countless invaders, centuries
of Malay marauders have left little trace
among the New Guinea tribes, and even
in Britain, conquered in turn by Saxons,
Danes and Normans —all fair-headed,
blue-eyed types —ethnologists claim that
the dark, round-headed man is once more
dominant in the population.
And does “C.A.L.” believe the Japs
to be capable of imposing their culture
on the island people? A visit to any of
the recaptured enemy strongholds in New
Guinea would change his opinion. In
places held by the Nips for upwards of
two years there remains nothing to show
he ever passed that way—not a perma-
nent building, not a decent road, no at-
tempt at drainage or sanitation and, above
all, no feeling in the hearts of the natives
of having been in contact with a superior
race.
Patrols who have worked with the
boongs testify to the hearty contempt they
have for the Jap. Any superiority his
arms may give him on the coastal strip
vanishes when he gets into the jungle,
and the native, quick to realise this fact,
has little fear of the “Japan man.”
Australians have taken to jungle patrol
work like ducks to water, but when the
full story of native co-operation is told
no one will be able to say that the
islanders did not play their part in the
liberation of their homes and villages.
It may be that after the “mopping up”
is considered to have gone far enough
small bands of Nips will retain control
of some inland areas, but it will be an
uneasy tenure, and can only end in their
extinction or absorption. If they get into
the head-hunters’ country it will be both.
—Jasby (A.1.F.).
Aims of the Liberals
The rise of the Liberal party has been
astonishing. About six months ago, in
my remote location, I casually noticed in
a Melbourne daily (“delayed”) an unob-
trusive report of a meeting in the hills at
the back of Mornington, Victoria. This
assemblage, of which R. G. Menzies was
apparently the convenor, discussed the
prospects of Liberalism in Australia and
the formation of a Liberal party.
Next event to renew my interest was
the astutely-conducted Albury conference.
From then on I have observed the steady
augmentation of the party until now I
am quite convinced of the soundness of
Mr. Menzies’s forecast that the elevation
of the Liberal party to power at the next
Federal election is assured.
Mr. Menzies’s lucid definition of
Liberalism, as given at his Melbourne
Town Hall meeting, March 27, bears re-
peating here and anywhere for the public
and services to examine diligently:
Liberalism regards as vital to progress
the freedom of the individual, the import-
ance of the individual, the development of
the individual, the protection of the indi-
vidual against disaster, the reward of the
individual, the encouragement of the indi-
vidual to become big and strong instead
of small and dependent, the prime responsi-
bility to do everything under his own power
to help .himself and then to help his
neighbor.
—H. R. J. M. (A.1.F.)
Man-power and Housing
Here are a few facts which may help
to explain “the man-power mystery” (B.
11/4/’45).
In the country town where I live the
munition factory has discharged 600 men
and women in the last 12 months. Most
of the women have returned to their
home duties, and man-power has placed
some of the men in essential industry.
Some of the men have found jobs for
themselves. Amongst cases that I per-
sonally know of a fitter has become a
fisherman, another fitter a fancy-goods
salesman, an industrial chemist runs a
dress factory, an accountant has taken a
pub and another accountant is now an
s.p. bookie, whilst unskilled workers are
in jobs ranging from barmen to jobbing
gardener. But 300 are still unemployed.
There is plenty of work in a No. 1
priority industry at a town 50 miles away,
and on several occasions representatives
have come from a factory there to try to
obtain men, but have failed to get even
one laborer. The local men argue, and
with justification, that they cannot afford
to leave here unless housing is guaranteed
for them at any place they might go to.
It is impossible, they say, to keep two
homes going on the basic wage or any-
thing near it, so they prefer to remain
where they may have a few fowls, a
vegetable garden, firewood for the
cutting and, in many cases, no rent to
pay, and where a meagre living can be
made from rabbiting, potato-digging,
wood-carting or the many casual and
seasonal jobs to be had in a farming dis-
trict.
Is there a remedy? Yes. Let Govern-
ment build houses, or allow them to be
built, where the work is and no difficulty
will be found in obtaining men. Senator
Keane declared that his Government
“could not build a dog-kennel,” but while
he was speaking some £30,000 was being
spent in Canberra on the erection of
temporary wooden buildings for clerks in
the price-fixing branch. Pending the
completion of those the clerks
must be housed somewhere, and even if
they are a bit crowded, why not let them
stay where they are until more essential
housing needs are met?
It might be necessary, of course, to
allow men who are not members of build-
ing-trades unions to assist in building
these houses. Perhaps that is the reason
why nothing is done. — Harap (Vic.).
Australian Novels
The reason why most Australian books
gather dust on library shelves is that the
Australian writer to date has shown a sad
lack of imagination. His and her books
are well enough written, but they are
mere reporting of the Australian scene;
and the Australian scene for the main part
is dull. Readers seeking escape have
already found sufficiency of it in the
papers and their own daily round. They
desire to be taken through what Conan
Doyle described as “the magic door.”
Yet pure narrative gets an excellent
hearing. Our suburban library has found
it impossible to keep such volumes as
Packhouse and Waterhole ; Knights of the
Boomerang and Idriess’s books on the
shelves —they are stolen so consistently.
No greater compliment could be paid,
and it shows that Australians really do
wish to read about Australia, provided
they can find stuff that really interests. —
W.C.C. (W.A.).
Coupons in Restaurants
As an Englishman I feel concerned
over the proposed meat-ration cut in
Britain and the proposal to reduce the
meat ration to all in Australia, including
mothers and children. Why not curtail
supplies of rationed goods to restaurants
and canteens? Under present conditions
one can live very comfortably without a
ration book. Three-course meals includ-
ing butter, sugar and an ample supply
of meat are available for 25., and for
6s. a day one can eat very well without
any recourse to coupons.
During World War I when I was on
leave in England I remember one had
to produce a ration book when dining
out, or go hungry.—R. Dodd (N.S.W.).
Slaughtering the Milkers
A pronouncement from Canberra that
the number of clearing-out sales of dairy
herds has not increased during the
war calls for correction and comment.
As a matter of fact, there has been no
period in Australia’s history when
drought has proved so disastrous or when
such wholesale destruction of dairy stock
has occurred.
Formerly clearing-out sales were attended
by dairymen seeking replacements or
additions to their herds. Nowadays these
sales represent a sacrifice to the dealers,
with the abattoirs as the inevitable desti-
nation, regardless of milking quality.
Within three months 16,000 cows have
passed through Homebush slaughterhouse
(Sydney). Allowing the usual percentage
for “crackers” and culls, the bulk of
this excessive supply obviously comes
direct from the herds. Every stage of
lactation is apparent, not to overlook the
scores of unborn calves trundled off each
day to the “condensers.”
This loss will take long to repair, as
with each batch of milkers sent to the
slaughterhouse go the dreams of another
poor chap who thought that by working
very hard he would be able to make a
living. Overcome by monetary, physical
and often mental exhaustion, he has given
up. The lure of a subsidy was the will-o’-
the-wisp that led him, with others, to
prolong the fight, but substance, not
shadow, was required.
A hard winter lies immediately ahead
and the need to apply statesmanship to
the condition of dairy-farming is pressing.
—The Witness (N.S.W.).


■
wm
L I
TEEL
to hasten victory—
serve the pursuits of peace
J
and shape the better world
of the future.
This spectacular scene shows an open
hearth steel furnace being tapped at the
B.H.P. Newcastle Steel Works.
The Broken Hill Proprietary
Company Limited
Offices at
Melbourne, Sydney, Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane*
IRON AND STEEL WORKS: NEWCASTLE. N.S.W.
SHIPBUILDING YARD: WHYALLA, S.A.
%
