

u A
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3405
Wednesday, May, 16, 1945
Price (ML
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LINLITHGOW.
“Of all the palaces so fair....
In Scotland far beyond compare."
LINLITHGOW PALACE was built on the site of an older
castle which was demolished by the order of Robert Bruce,
who hated it; for it had been one of the chief strongholds of
Edward Fs alien dominion. Before him Scottish kings had often
dwelt within its walls, which even then were of immemorial age.
It was soon rebuilt, and we read that an election of a king by the
nobles was held in Linlithgow Castle in 1370. Forty years later
the palace and castle were burnt, and once more they were rebuilt,
and twice they became part of the dowers of Scottish queens.
James V was born at Linlithgow, and did much to beautify and
enlarge it, and hither he brought his queen, Mary of Guise. It
was here, too, that Mary Queen of Scots was born. Here, too, the
Regent Murray was murdered. In 1617 Mary’s son, James VI of
Scotland (and I of England), visited Linlithgow and was right
loyally welcomed. After this period of splendour the castle was
allowed to decay, but in the '45 it was still secure enough to form
the camp of General Hawley’s English troops, to one of whom
the third destruction of Linlithgow was due. Some carelessness-
said to have been a fire too large for the hearth —caused a con-
flagration which could not be checked. Queen Victoria came to
the town in 1842 and was anxious to see the castle where Mary
Queen of Scots was born. But darkness had set in before she
could carry out that plan. Among the ruins is still shown Queen
Margaret’s Bower, which is named after Margaret Tudor, wife of
James IV. When he went out on the disastrous expedition which
cost him the Battle of Flodden she mounted to this turret and
watched the king depart. Of its beauties Sir Walter Scott sings;
“Of all the palaces so fair....ln Scotland far beyond compare,
Linlithgow is excelling.”


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
The Red Page
A Fine Thing.
To be a scarecrow
To lean all day in a bright field
With a hat full
Of bird’s song
And a heart of gold straw;
With a sly wink for the farmer’s daughter.
When no one sees, and small excursions;
Returning after
To a guiltless pose of indolence.
A fine thing
To be a figurehead
With a noble brow
On a ship’s prow
And a look to the end of the world;
With the sad sounds of wind and water
And only a stir of air for thinking;
The timbei cutting
The green waves, and the foam flashing.
To be a snowman
Lost all day in deep thought,
With a head full
Of snowflakes
And no troubles at all;
With an old pipe and six buttons,
And sometimes children in woollen gaiters
But mostly lonely
A simple fellow, with no troubles at all.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Charting a Continent.
One of the most pleasing anecdotes
in Lieutenant-Commander Geoffrey C.
Ingleton’s Charting a Continent (Angus
and Robertson) concerns the quarter-
master of the Pandora, a sailing ship of
about 400 tons which was engaged in sur-
veying the New Zealand coast around the
middle of last century;
On one occasion an earthquake occurred
at night, accompanied by a heavy storm,
during which the stout little sailing vessel
twisted and wrenched violently at her
anchors. The word was passed to call away
the boats. Some thought the end of the
world was at hand, but calmness was re-
stored by a sane old quartermaster, who
remarked, “If it so be the end of the world
has come, where are the boats to pull to?”
The anecdote is typical not only of the
sort of material available to the author,
but of his liking for a brave and steadfast
seaman —the underlying motive of his
book.
Quoted from original documents, there
is a dramatic account of a narrow escape
from massacre when Lieutenant Yule,
landing from the Bramble, took posses-
sion of southern New Guinea in the name
of the Queen and, his gig being swamped
on the return journey and a heavy surf
making rescue difficult, found himself
surrounded on the beach by a host of
armed savages:
At this critical stage of our anxiety
the second gig, at all hazards, was veered
through the surf and, to our great joy,
four or five men were drawn off in safety.
A second attempt was made and succeeded.
Then came the awful moment for us who
waited for the last trip, for only a few
moments before I baulked a native taking
deliberate aim at one of our last men who
embarked.
The natives, now seeing our numbers,
laid hands on us in the most violent
manner. My quintant was first wrested
from my coxswain who, in a tone of
grief, made known the circumstance. I
immediately turned round and exclaimed
“Oh, don’t part with that,” but it was too
late; and when I endeavored to recover
it I found that a club was wielded over my
head. In making my escape from this
wretch I was secured by four others, who
took first the Government micrometer,
which was slung round my neck. I then en-
deavored to struggle out of their clutches
and escape with the pocket chronometer
and notebook, but these, as well as every
article of clothing I had about my body,
were stripped off, when the second gig
was opportunely again backed in, and
in this forlorn state Mr. Pollard, the two
marines and I waded off and were dragged
into the boat.
Lieutenant-Commander Ingleton traces
the history of marine surveying in Aus-
tralian waters from the earliest times up
to the present war —when important (and
belated) work was done up New Guinea
way—and he observes: —■
Bligh is the link between Cook and
Flinders in the same way that Franklin is
the link between Flinders and the later
surveyors. Indeed, it is possible to trace
an unbroken chain of marine surveyors
from Captain Cook and Colonel Des Barres
until the present day.
Points of interest are the reassessments
of Bligh and Flinders. Bligh, as is usual
when seamen write about him, goes up in
estimation, Flinders comes down a little;
“It must be admitted that his period of
service devoted to hydrography was in-
deed limited and, in this history of Aus-
tralian marine surveying. Flinders,
although a pioneer of the coasts, must not
be placed on the same level as the other
pioneers, those long-experienced sur-
veyors, Captains James Cook, Phillip
Parker King, John Lort Stokes and Henry
Mangles Denham.”
Although there are thus some passages
of much general interest, Charting a Con-
tinent is pretty tough going. The bulk of
the book amounts to hardly more than a
list of marine surveyors, historically im-
portant but oddly dry for such a wet
theme. By placing the emphasis on the
adventurous side of surveying a fascinat-
ing book could have been made, but the
author is content on the whole to list
the names and the bare facts for later
writers to make into literature.
Prisoners in Italy.
Empty tins were cut and hacked into all
manner of ingenious devices for the conserva-
tion of tire. From five hundred to a thousand
men would be there at a time Savory smells
would arise from meals that were, at best,
minute. Countless little columns of smoke
would drift up, and hundreds of tiny fires
in the grey evening pall.
In this manner we cooked our foodstuffs
from the Red Cross parcels, or, in earlier days
before they came, warned up a re-hash of the
Italian meals. In the desperately hungry days
after the ration-cut and before the coming of
the parcels, 1 saw one group of men “brewing-
up” a stew made from grass and a roll of
sanitary paper. And some of my friends
“brewed-up” the camp cat.
The Italians supplied a small amount' of wood,
but it was meagre and very green. In the
first days they supplied none at all, so we
“brewed-up” with our beds... .Then we started
on the huts. Joints, joists, supports, rafters,
they went the way of all wood. With them
went the little notice-boards around the camp.
We brewed on.
When the Italians came in to count us of a
night they walked on floors that heaved and
dipped like a succession of organ pedals. When
the strong winds came in winter two of the
huts blew over. They were used as fuel, and
still we brewed our meals.
The authorities howled and gesticulated.
They imposed collective fines upon the whole
camp that might have paid for the entire damage
of the war; they deducted’ one week’s pay in
every five. Still we brewed on. In tire end
they brought in wood for us.
There was in interesting wager among the
officers of the Italian mess, some holding, some
disputing, that the entire camp, huts, beds,
offices and all would disappear in smoke before
the end of the war.
The quotation is from Edwin N.
Broomhead’s Barbed Wire in the Sunset
(Melbourne Book Depot). An Adelaide
chaplain serving with an ambulance
unit, the author was taken prisoner at
Derna, lived seven months at the Nazi
“Lager K.G.” in Tripoli and then was
transferred to Italy, where he remained
until repatriated. In a short book he
gives a good, straightforward account of
his experiences. Conditions in the Ger-
man camp were brutal at first, modifying
to some extent as time went on: “In
the early months it had been all cruelty
and abuse ; during the latter it was simply
an acceptance of our presence. The
atrocities at the end came from the new
drafts of heel-clicking young Nazis fresh
from the Fatherland.”
Conditions in Italy were as the quota-
tion indicates: hardships modified by a
good deal of humanity and enlivened by
comic opera. A typical anecdote records
the selling of packets of (used) tea-leaves
to the guards, who would re-sell them on
the black market. The guards gave wine
in exchange, and one prisoner, corrupt-
ing the sentry at the gate with a packet
of the tea-leaves when supplies at a party
had run low, was left in charge with the
sentry’s rifle, overcoat and helmet while
the obliging Italian went off to get him
what he wanted. ✓
Besides its anecdotes —which include
an impressive and moving account of
Anzac Day ceremonies in camp—the
book has passages of attractive travel-
writing and, recording good or bad of his
captors, the author shows a fine balance
of mind:
At 11 o’clock that night the carabinieri
burst into the carriage where a group of
us were sleeping on and underneath the
seats. They were in a state of considerable
excitement, but it was the excitement of
kindly souls. “Look, look,” they cried,
“Vesuvius! We have promised to awaken
you, and there it is!” The silver
mountain stood out in majesty with five
great fingers of fire stretching down the
slopes amidst the snows, and a vast, flashing,
changing, glorying light' illuminated the sky.
There are times —and this was one, and
many were to follow —in the prisoner’s life
in Italy when all thoughts of your dire fate
fall away and, just for the moment, in the
face of the superb grandeur of nature or
of the immemorial past, one feels that the
whole experience has been justified.
The Two Charles Barretts.
There are two Charles Barretts. One
is a lover of Nature who writes about
birds, bees and bugs as attractively as
any man in Australia. The other seems
to be under the necessity of boiling a pot.
Both of them have had a hand in Aus-
tralian Caves, Cliffs and Waterfalls, hand-
somely illustrated and produced by
Georgian House, Melbourne.
Hie first Mr. Barrett has personally
visited the caves he writes about. The
second Mr. Barrett is capable of quoting
from a tourist guide-book the sentence
“Mysterious wonders simply abound on
every hand.”
The first Mr. Barrett notes that a gum-
tree root in the Yallingup Caves, W.A.,
has reached a length of 200 feet: “It was
a living, not a sapless root, from a granc
old jarrah-tree.” The second Mr. Barrett
not interested in detail, gives only the
barest outline of the story of McKeown,
the escaped convict who lived alone in
Jenolan Caves.
The first Mr. Barrett, happily wander-
ing among caverns in the Nullabor
Plain, not only describes owls, bats and
beetles, but watches Nature so closely
that he is able to record the color of the
hairs on the legs of a spider. The second
Mr. Barrett, intruding on the observations
of the first, interrupts him just when he
is (surely) about to describe the wildflower
Thryptomene, so that one is left with
only the bare statement that the plant is
to be found in Victoria’s Grampians.
The first Mr. Barrett says of the peaks
of the Atherton Tableland “It would be
worse than folly to ‘develop’ them for
tourists, as some mountains have been
treated; their wonder and beauty would
depart were the plans of some misguided
people to be adopted.” The same Mr.
Barrett says that Wilpena Pound, in the
Flinders Range of S.A., “has lost its
charm of mystery, having so often been
invaded by holiday excursionists.” The
second Mr. Barrett offers the heretical
and unpardonable opinion that flood-
lighting has “added enchantment” to the
mountains at Katoomba, N. S. Wales.
The first Mr. Barrett sits still in one
wild place until he can tell us everything
about it. The second Mr. Barrett rushes
like a whirlwind all over Australia and
tells us nothing that is not to be found
in the guide-books.
For the sake of letters and natural
history in Australia, the first Mr. Barrett
should have a long, serious talk with his
doppelganger.
Exchange of Courtesies.
From Gordon and Gotch, Ltd., Mel-
bourne :
Dear Sir, —You will find it a pleasant
and stimulating recreation to look through
100 New Games and Competitions, by
Joyce. Thorpe, B.A.
Although designed primarily to help hos-
tesses . plan successful social evenings or
parties and to assist quiz masters, we found
it most interesting reading. So many sub-
jects an*d topics are suggested that perusal
kept, us testing our own knowledge.
It is new, different, and, we believe,
something better than the usual competition
book.
Try page 34 as an example, or look at the
first few pages.
Miss Thorpe’s previous book Successful
Parties and Social Evenings (see back cover)
is still selling remarkably well, the 6th print-
ing having just been completed.
Dear Sir, —
Page 34, on which one has to find the
correct adjectives meaning “Pleasure
awakened by a favor received,” “Heavenly
happiness,” etc., kept us in a state of
gratification, bliss, etc., for hours.
Nobody at King’s Cross had ever known
anything like it.
The night before poor old Lulu got it
in the neck with a tommy-gun we were
playing Edible Alphabets up to 4 a.m.
We are glad that the other little book
by Miss Thorpe, 8.A., is selling so well,
and any time you have immortal literature
of this sort we shall be delighted to give
it the same prompt attention.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
George F. Lawrence, whose pictures
have been on view at the Macquarie Gal-
leries, Sydney, is a painter in oils with
a style individual and distinctive. He is
sensitive to impressions, and is sometimes
extraordinarily successful in capturing an
atmosphere, as in “Campbell Street, Syd-
ney” (the Surry Hills part), “The Gos-
si/s,’’ “Clareville Beach’’ and “Donigc
an=es ‘
The Royal Art Society’s cabinet show
at David Jones’s gallery, Sydney, offers
characteristic oils by Howard Ashton,
Eric Langker, John Salvana, James R.
Jackson, J. H. R. Rousel, Albert Sher-
man and H. A. Hanke. The water-colors
are exceptionally interesting. G. K.
Townshend is devoting his talents these
days to studies of odd corners, somewha
in the Ronald Steuart manner; Rufu
Morris, a Bulletin black-and-white con
tributor, shows himself as a clever expo
nent of color and snappy technique i
“Pitt Town Landscape” and othe
sketches, Elaine Coghlan’s vigorous brus
has enjoyed itself in “Peaceful After
noon,” and G. V. Mann, in “The Rock
Cumberland,” shows his hand has not losi
its cunning. Wilfred Gates’s “Due
Pond,” Neville Smith’s “Street Scene,
L. Murgatroyd’s “Bygones,” H. R. Gai
lop’s “Autumn Showers,” Peter Bons
field’s “Street Scene, Sierre,” and Cedri
Emanuel’s drawing and etching are a’
worth study.
At an exhibition of aboriginal art and
crafts sponsored by Cema and housed
the Velasquez Galleries, Melbourne, th
engaging information is vouchsafed tha
in 1943 Majana, the author of one piece
killed Nowuwea, the author of another
Reasons are not stated, but it may b
inferred that primitive art in the Fa
North is genuinely primitive. It has, con
sequently, in addition to a certain infan
tile charm, an anthropological interest no
to be found in the imitation “primitive’
art of Europeans. The show has been
admirably arranged by Dr. Leonarc
Adam.
The massive forelock of Sir Ernes
MacMillan, who opened the latest sym-
phonic season at Melbourne Town Hall
appears to be driving, riding and enticing
the orchestra more than his hands do,
while his round face bears the absorbed
look of an infant focused on a Noah’s
Ark until the end of a movement, when
it bears the pleased expression of a jolly
monk who has just drained a tankard.
Any overseas conductor is sure of a warm
reception in Melbourne, though it is
moot question how much of the warmth
is due to his overseasness and how much
to his music. Sir Ernest, however, per-
vaded all parts of the orchestra without
visible effort through a diversified pro-
gramme that included the Australian
Arthur Benjamin’s sharp and witty “Over-
ture to an Italian Comedy,” The liaison
established between orchestra and soloist
was perfect, and the 22-year-old pianist
Richard Farrell deserved it.
At the talkies:
“King’s Row” (Sydney Taller): Bow # dlerised
version of the Bellamann best-seller’ about
tangled loves in the smalltown America of
50 years ago. One of the surprises is the
high standard of actors and actresses who have
previously been prominent in lighter roles:
Robert Cummings, Ronald Reagan, Charles
Cobum, Ann Sheridan, Nancy Coleman and
Betty Field. As the strange Dr. Tower (of
whom there is not enough) Claude Rains adds
to his already high reputation, and Maria Ous-
penskaya gives a fine reading of the dying
Madame von Eln.
“Western Approaches” (Sydney Embassy):
British naval film, even better than “In Which
We Serve” and “San Demetrio.” It tells of the
beating of a U-boat in mid-Atlantic by a
straggler from a convoy with the aid of a boat-
load of torpedoed men whose signals the ship
picks up. The cast is composed of men of the
R.N. and Merchant Navy, and they go about
their business as naturally as sailors do.
“Bride by Mistake” (Sydney Century): Poor
little rich girl who, on the lookout for an un-
mercenary male, switches identity with her
secretary-companion. The stock theme is given
a new twist and polished. “Dangerous
Journey,” at the same address, is a factual and
exciting record of travels in Africa and Burma,
with an informative commentary.
“See Here, Private Hargrove” (Sydney St.
James): Light-hearted nonsense, adapted from
a book of the same title, concerning a soldier
who spends his time being sentenced to fatigue
duties for military peccadilloes.
“Uncertain Glory” (Sydney Empire): Im-
probable Occupied Europe stuff, with Paul
Lukas as a French police inspector and Errol
Flynn as a devil-may-care criminal. Lukas is
capable enough but Flynn overdoes his death-
or-glory part, and the sentimental ending jars.
The autumn show of S.A. Society of
Arts is f.a.q. George Whinnen, president,
has a fine study of fruit and flowers. Jeff
Smart has striking views of buildings,
and the National Gallery has bought his
“Railway Station.” Fehlberg’s studies of
Tasmania are prominent among a good
selection of landscapes. ,
The Victorian Artists’ Society has
crammed its walls for its autumn exhibi-
tion with the usual heterogeneous collec-
tion, abominably lighted, and much of it
hung where a spectator could see it prop-
erly only if he suspended himself by the
toes from the ceiling. The only differ-
ence between it and previous exhibitions
is that the “modernists” who caused a
painful sensation by storming Mel-
bourne’s oldest citadel of art a few years
ago seem to have lost hope and taken
their dolichocephalic nudes and their in-
toxicated buildings elsewhere, thus mak-
ing the show even more solemn than
usual. President James Quinn contributes
undistinguished portraits of his Grace
Archbishop Booth and the Rev. Father
Hackett; P. Hurry has a couple of sensi-
tive still-lifes, and John Heath an effective
seascape.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
iO
81. GRAND BARRAGE, the Fourth Book by "Gun Busier."
A companion volume to "Return via Dunkirk," "Battle
Dress," "Zero Hours." A glorious soldier story of the siege of
Malta. A literary discovery of the war. 7/3. (Postage 31/2 c1.)
82. THEY WERE EXPENDABLE, by W. L. White. The
magnificent story of the perilous trip out of Bataan,
made by General MacArthur and Squadron 3. The result is
more than the adventure story of this single squadron, for
in the background is the whole tragic panorama of the
Philippine campaign. Price 6/-. (Postage 4Yzd.)
83. LIVE DANGEROUSLY, by Axel Kielland. A most un-
usual thriller by this Norwegian author. It is both
grim and gay, and tells how the hero, a rich young playboy,
is swept involuntarily into the Norwegian underground
movement. Price 8/6. (Postage 3V^d.)
84. GREY AND SCARLET. Letters from the war areas, by
army sisters on active service. Edited by Ada
Harrison, with a foreword by Her Majesty Queen Mary, and
eleven black and white drawings by Robert Austin, A.R.A.
Price 7/3. (Postage 4Vzd.)
85. A YEAR OF BATTLE, by Allan Moorehead. A brilliant
piece of reporting, and the author may be regarded
as the leading chronicler of the war in the Middle East.
Price 13/6. (Postage SVzd.)
86. the last days of Sevastopol), by Boris
Voyetekhov, a young Russian journalist. Surely there
is no more heroic story in the annals of war than the
siege and fall of Sevastopol in the summer of IP42 —and at
the same time more heartening and inspiring. 8/6. (P. 3Vad.)
87. TOKYO RECORD, by Otto D. Zolischus. A cool,
analytical conscientious study of Japan at war, more
damning than any invective. Price .... 16/-. (Postage SVad.)
88. SUBMARINE ALONE, by Hackforth Jones. The
thrilling story of H.M.S. "Steadfast," submarine.
Illustrated by Douglas Wales. Price .. 8/3. (Postage SVfcd.)
89. TRAVELLER FROM TOKYO, by John Moms. Deals
with every aspect of Japanese iife, and is written
partly in the form of an autobiography by one who spent
the years before the war as lecturer in English at a Tokyo
university. Price 7/6. (Postage SVzd.)
810. THE TRESPASSERS. A novel by Laura Z, Hobson.
The tale of Dr. Franz Verderle, a Viennese psycholo-
gist, and a refugee from Fascism, of his flight from Vienna
to Switzerland where he and his family spend an eternity
waiting for documents for their escape to New York.
Price 10/6. (Postage 41/2d.)
811. THE YOUNG LINCOLN, by Esther Meynell, Lincoln's
quality shines out from every page of this delicately
drawn portrait. Price 8/6. (Postage 4V^d.)
812. YEAR OF THE WILD BOAR, by Helen Mears. This
book reveals Japan and the Japanese as seen by an
American woman who snent an informal and intimate visit
to x the Japan of the immediate prewar years. 16/9. (P. &Vzd.)
813. A TREASURY OF SCIENCE, edited with an introduction
by Harlow Shapley. An over-all picture of modern
science, seen through the eyes of the greatest scientific
writers, including chapters by Einstein, Julian Huxley, Jeans,
Hogben, Eddington, etc. Price 25/- (Postage, BYzd.)
814. TIME IS FOREVER. A novel fay Gwen. Bristow. This
deeply moving novel will have a special appeal for
every mother with a son in the forces. 9/6. (Postage, 41/ 2 d.)
815. RUSSIA AT WAR, by Ilya Ehrenburg. Author of "The
Fall of Paris." Describes and exolains, as no other
book has one, the indomitable resistance of the Soviet people.
Price 13/6. (Postage si/ 2 d.)
1116. EVERYBODY'S POLITICAL WHAT'S WHAT, by Bernard
Shaw. The whole book is ■ t demand for Science in
Politics, Education and Religion. Price. 15/9. (Postage 6Vfcd.)
817. A PRISONER IN GERMANY, by Robert Guerlain. The
author of this book was a prisoner of war, confined
with some 60,000 others in a concentration camp in Germany.
Here are his experiences. Price 12/- (Postage 4(/2d.)
818. BOMBERS' BATTLE, by a Wing Commander, with a
foreword by Air Marshal Sir Arthur Harris, K.C.8.,
0.8. E., A.F.C. A book about Bomber Command in the first
three years of war. Price 12/6. (Postage 6Vfcd.)
819. DEAD MEN DO TELL TALES, by Byron de Prorok. An
interesting and anthropological description of strange
rites, details of curious native customs, some never before
witnessed by white men. Illustrated. Price, 11/6. (P. . sV£d.)
820. THE UNCONQUERABLE, by Helen Mclnnes. Author of
"Assignment in Brittany." An exciting novel of Polish
patriots working secretly to organise the defence of their
country. The love story of an English girl is skilfully inter-
woven. Price 11/6. (Postage 81/ad.)
821. JUDITH, by Janet Whitney, author of "Jennifer."
A novel set in Post-Revolutionary Philadelphia. The
story of a charming high-spirited girl and her love for a
young doctor. Price 10/6. (Postage 6Vfcd.)
822. THE BALLAD AND THE SOURCE, by Rosamund
Lehmann, author of "Dusty Answer." This novel
portrays the world as seen through the eyes of a young
girl. A powerful old woman takes up her residence in the
country near the home of fourteen-year-old Rebecca, and her
strange and passionate life is told as seen by this child. A
full-bodied dramatic story. Price .... 10/6. (Postage B^d.)
AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE Books By and About Australians and the Commonwealth
823. I FIND AUSTRALIA, by William Hatfield. Written in
autobiographical form, telling how the author, as a
penniless boy, worked his passage to Australia, tried many
trades, and finally made a living by his pen. This book has
established itself as one of the best descriptive volumes telling
of Australia. Price 9/6. ( Postage 41/2d.)
824. AUSTRALIAN NATIVE POLICY, by E. J. B. Foxcroft.
The author strongly believes that our still considerable
native population should be given a new deal. All other
"policies have been tried without success and it is now time
that the methods of modern anthropology were applied.
Price 10/-. (Postage 6i/2d.)
825. AUSTRALIAN LANDSCAPE, edited by Sydney Ure
Smith. A collection of reproductions in colour of
paintings by Australian artists, with a descriotion
of the Australian landscape by Myra Morris. 5/-. (Post. ?V2d.)
826. NATION BUILDING IN AUSTRALIA: The life and work
of Sir Littleton Ernest Groom, K.C.M.G., K.C., M.A..
M.P. This is a fine tribute to the memory of a great Aus-
tralian Liberal, who devoted his whole life to the service of
his country and his fellow men. It contains the story of the
Federal Parliament in Australia. Pried . . 12/6 (Postage SVfcd.)
827. THE PAPUAN ACHIEVEMENT, by Lewis Lett, The
story of the progress of Australian administration in
Papua during the last 30 years. Illustrated. 10/6. (P. 4i/2d.)
828. SCRAP IRON FLOTILLA, by John F. Moyes. R.A.N.V.R.
Sub-Lieut. Moyes, a former journalist, paints a vivid
and authentic picture of the five over-aged Australian
destroyers, which played such a part in the
Mediterranean and the Far East. Price, 9/6. (Postage 4Vzd.)
829. THE AUSTRALIANS, by Arnold L. Haskell. An his-
torical sketch in which the author gives a striking
account of the rise of Australia to nationhood. 7/3. (P. 3V2d.)
830. AUSTRALIA IN PICTURES, by Charles Barrett. A book
containing a selection of notable Australian pictures,
with a brief descripion of each by the author, who, during
his travels, has accumulated a wealth of knowledge on
Australia. Price 12/6, (Postage SVfcd.)
831. AUSTRALIAN CAVES, CLIFFS AND WATERFALLS, by
Charles Barrett. A unique collection of photographs,
supported by an informative commentary cn the wonders and
beauties of Australian caves, cliffs and waterfalls. Sixty-
eight illustrations. Price 10/6. (Postage Si/ 2 d.)
832. THE SUR D RISING BATTALION, by William Noonan.
The story of Australia's first commandos. It tells
of the men who went to Malaya with the 22nd Brigade, then
to Burma, to train under Britain's finest commando leaders.
Here is hardship, adventure, pathos and humour, suffering and
excitement. Price 9/6. (Postage 4V^d.)
833. WATER MAGIC, by C. Brunsdon Fletcher, late
editor-in-chief of the ''Sydney Morning Herald."
Written with a broad vision, the author has the courage to
clarify a sound policy for the solution of water conservation.
Price 10/6. (Postage 3V^d.)
834. THE FEDERAL STORY, by Alfred Deakin. This original
Deakin manuscript gives in intimate detail the inner
history of the chain of events which to the federation of
the States of Australia into the Commonwealth. 12/6. (P. si/ 2 d )
835. AUSTRALIAN BUSH SONGS AND BALLADS, edited by
Will Lawson. The purpose of this book is to preserve
for posterity as many as possible of the old bush songs and
ballads of Australia. These include verse by Kendall,
Lawson, Paterson, Ogilvie, McKellar and many others.
Price . 5/-. (Postage 2i/ 2 d.)
836. TABOO, by W. E. Harney. In this collection of short
stories, the author has etched a true vignette of life
in Northern Australia and all the details are based on actual
fact. A valuable contribution to the literature on the Aus-
tralian aborigine. Price 9/6. (Postage 4i/ 2 d.)
837. POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION IN AUSTRALIA, by R.
G. Menzies, D. B. Copland, H. C. Coombs, Lloyd Ross,
H. V. Evatt, and a paper on "A Future for International Law,"
by Sir John Morris. Price 7/6. (Postage 4(/ 2 d.)
838. WORD FROM JOHN, edited by John and Richard
Acland. The simply told tale of an Australian
soldier's journeyings with the A.I.F. to the Middle East,
Greece, Syria and New Guinea. It is not a war story but
reflects the daily round of a soldier's life on active service.
The descriptions of historical places visited will delight
the reader. Price 7/6. (Postage 3i/ 2 d.)
839. THE RED HEART, by Frank Clune, Stories of Central
Australia, each one illustrated with woodcuts.
P r^ce 4/6. (Postage 21/ 2 d.)
840. CONSTITUTIONAL REVISION IN AUSTRALIA, by David
Maughan, D. N. Drummond, P. C. Spender, F. A.
Bland. Price 4/-, (Postage 2V^d.)
841. AUSTRALIAN WEEK-END BOOK (Vol. 3). edited by
Sydney Ure Smith and Gwen More ton Spencer.
Two hundred and twenty-four pages of lively and interesting
entertainment. Seventy-seven contributions in stories and
verse; fifty-eight humorous drawings; thirty-seven story
illustrations. Price 7/6. (Postage 4V£d.)
842. COAST TO COAST: 1943. A selection of Australian
short stories without regard to authorship, so that
the anthology is neither a preserve for well known writers,
nor a school of encouragement for beginners. The contents
of this volume have been selected by Frank Dalby Davidson.
P r i ce 7/6. (Postage 4V^d.)
1143. ONWARD AUSTRALIA, by lon L, Idriess. The range
of this book is wide and presents plans for water
conservation, irrigation; it quotes the great inland railway
scheme of A. A. Griffiths; it tells how old industries may
be developed and new ones founded, with special reference
to plastics and synthetics. Price 4/-. (Postage 3i/ 2 d.)
844. AUSTRALIA'S CHANGING CONSTITUTION, by D. H.
Drummond, M.L.A. The book is a dispassionate
analysis of the several methods of constitutional revision
that offer themselves. Price 3/6. (Postage 2i/ 2 d.)
845. STORM CHILD: An Australian Novel by A. Hawkes
Mansell. The love story of Jan and Michael Marny,
in a setting that depicts Australia in many moods, its beauties
and its terrors. Price 9/6. (Postage 41/ 2 d.)
ORDER COUPON “B”
ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.
Box 2712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.
Please send me the Books whose numbers I list below:
Name
Address ••
Cash, £
Charge to my account
enclosed. ) ~ . r.
> strike out one line.
Signed
ANTHONY HORDERNS'
Book Department Second Floor
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


m
> v; ■
I
m
■
'
m
m
m
'%: y :
w a
i
&
I
■- -
r
MS
L-l
■ »»s
■
ns n
H
/or the future
Here is a picture of a young married couple . . . they are
no different from any other young people in that they
derive pleasure from building “Castles in the Air”; in
planning the things they will have some day ... a family
. . . a home of their own ... a car perhaps . . . the
pleasures that they should have from life . . . and inde-
pendence in their old age. But their “dreams” are based
on solid foundations ... on Whole of Life and Endow-
ment Assurance policies.
You, too, should plan now for the
future. You can look ahead to a
future of your own design. You
can be assured that your children will
have the education you want them
to have; you can go through life
with the knowledge that you are
covering every financial emergency
that is likely to arise; above all, you
can enjoy the freedom of knowing
that, in the event of your unexpected
death, your wife and children will at
least not have the additional burden
of immediate financial distress....
All of these things and more you
can achieve with Whole of Life and
Endowment Assurance Policies.
Have you sufficient cover to meet
any emergency ? Consider now; and
remember that Assurance is always
an investment
LIFE ASSURANCE . . . TODAY’S PROTECTION
TOMORROW’S SECURITY.
THE
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LTD.
f!
II
I II
II
“‘“airisi
II DU DU DSHD I
ii tm raicrn crnji
II QHCffidDffll
»if
CITY MUTUAL
Facts
A PURELY MUTUAL
ENTIRELY - AUSTRALIAN
SOCIETY.
INCORPORATED IN NEW
SOUTH WALES IN 1878.
POLICIES CONTAIN
SPECIAL ACCIDENT
BENEFITS.
ALL AVAILABLE MONIES
INVESTED IN CURRENT
WAR LOANS.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: City Mutual
Building, 459 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
TASMANIA: City Mutual
Building, 26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart.
QUEENSLAND: City Mutual
Building, 307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
SOUTH AQSTRALIA; City
Mutual Building, 113 King
William Street, Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building, 62 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
OFFICE; CR. HUNTER AND BLIGH STREETS, SYDNEY.
TELEPHONE: BW 2021


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3405
Wednesday, May 16, 1945
TO MATCH ANOTHER FOE.”
“Japan, with all her treachery and greed, remains unsubdued. The injuries she has inflicted and her detestable cruelty call for justice and retribution
Advance Britannia!”— Mr. Churchill.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
' Australia for the White Man”
Directors;
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 8797 L
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street .
London, E.C.4.
STILL ON UP NORTH.
Though few seemed to be aware of it in
Australia last week, only one of the wars
is over. The other is still to be fought
out, and it would be a rash prophet who
would say when it will end, though the
defeat of this other enemy, too, is certain.
It is much the more important war
from this country’s own point of view,
the complete crushing of the Jap menace
being as necessary to its future security
as the complete crushing of Germany
was to Britain’s. That holds here as no-
where else, China perhaps excepted. For
these microscopic nations of Australia
and New Zealand there remains a threat
to very existence. Other nations involved
could make an accommodation with
Japan with little fear—not that there is
the remotest likelihood of their doing so
—on easy terms.
The unpredictable element in it is the
character of the Japs; evidently even
more fanatical than the Germans who
preferred to go on fighting, seeing their
country more and more wrecked in ruins
about them, when every one of them
must have seen that complete defeat was
only a matter of weeks. The hope is
raised that that defeat may now have
shattering repercussions in Japan. If
the Jap fanaticism, of which the evidence
is only too conclusive, could be over-
looked, that might well be expected to
happen.
Logically there is reasonable ground
for hope. The Japs did not come into
the war till it looked to them —and to
others besides them —that the European
end of their Axis was well on the way
to practically sure victory. Up till then
there had been Axis defeats only on the
sea, in the Battle of Britain and in Africa.
The Russians were taking a bad belting, *
and when they were knocked out it
would again be, as it had been before,
Britain alone until the (in Jap eyes) effete
and reluctant Americans could get into
fighting trim; by when, the Japs evi-
dently believed, they themselves would
be in an unbeatable position, as the others
of the Axis would be in Europe.
Instead of it working out that way
the Axis presently began for the first time
to lose battles in Europe. For a while
the Japs continued to ride on the crest
of their wave of conquest; then they,
too, began to lose, first on the sea, then
in the air and on the land. Since their
first reverses they have gone on losing.
They have nowhere had a single victory
to chalk up. Landing on whatever Jap-
held territory they choose, the Americans
have moved the thousands of miles up
to the mere hundreds of miles from the
main Jap islands. They have des-
troyed the myth of invincibility of the
Jap navy, sent a great part of the Jap
merchantmen and supply ships to the
bottom of the seas, and gained control
of the skies wherever they have sought
to do so. In Burma the British have
driven the Japs in front of them, with
frightful Jap losses. In New Guinea and
on the islands where they are now fight-
ing the Australians have proved their clear
fighting superiority over the most deter-
mined of the enemy.
Another consideration on the favorable
side is that probably it is the pick of the
Jap forces that have been encountered
up to now. There are no doubt a good
many more of these, but there must be
a lot of inferior troops as well. What-
ever the quality of those that are left —
there is no question about the vast num-
bers of them —the encouraging fact stands
that successful landings have been made
and can be made on whatever Jap-held
territory is chosen. They may fight back
fiercely, fanatically—as they have done
on Iwo, Okinawa, Tarakan —but the
end is the same in every case. They
are wiped out, and more of their sprawl-
ing “empire” is taken over for use against
them. The walls of their citadel crumble.
Logically—perhaps the most inapplic-
able of all words for such a people—they
should now see the grim prospect ahead
of nothing but ruin, starvation, the
wrecking of their whole national eco-
nomy, the burning of their cities, and
finally defeat, complete and ruinous.
They know already in their homeland the
actuality of bombing, and as to this, even
what they have so far experienced—fires
square miles in extent reducing vast areas
of Tokyo, Kobe and other centres of
their national life to ashes —is compara-
tively nothing to what is ahead of them.
It is pointed out truly enough that
bombing alone did not blast Germany
out of the war; nevertheless, reports
agree that some of the results of it were
even more valuable to the Allies than
had been reckoned. And the weight of
the bombing was' a gradual growth,
from the German half-ton bomb dropped
by a comparatively limited number of
’planes on London, Coventry and else-
where to the Allies’ two-tonners, four-
tonners, and on to the 22,0001 b. mon-
sters, over 25ft. in length, and called,
with grim accuracy, town-busters. The
growth was, too, from ’planes by the
score to ’planes by the thousand; in-
creasingly bigger ’planes.
If they were logical the Japs could see
that this terrific force of destructiveness
will next be turned against them. It has
not to grow over the years as it had to
do against Germany; it is there. Before
they are through it will be wrecking their
homeland from end to end. What has
happened with the fire bombs raining
down on Tokyo and elsewhere will be a
mere circumstance to it. So will be what
happened to Germany. Against that
finally crushed and destroyed country the
Allies were never able to launch their full
air strength. America and Britain —
whatever action Russia may care to take
—will now be able to do so against
Japan; and their full land and sea
strength as well.
Unless the Japs quit. They certainly
have every incentive to do so if they are
capable of taking a realistic view of what
is inevitably ahead of them. That is the
hopeful outlook. The doubt is whether
they—that is, their rulers —even with the
German example to go on, can yet see
the prospect as it is seen from this side.
Another doubt —perhaps a greater one —
is whether the price that would be im-
posed on their surrender may not be re-
garded as too high. This would include
their total retreat to their home islands,
losing their hold on China and the rest
of the Asian mainland ; the total aboli-
tion of their navy and army and air
force ; probably, also, the abolition of in-
dustries capable of supporting another
attempt at world conquest. And this,
and the rest of the programme that was
drawn up at Cairo, would mean, above
all in this reckoning, such a sum of
national humiliation that, for such a
people, fanatical resistance drawing to a
suicidal end might seem a bargain price
in comparison.
Certainly up to now, though the vic-
tories against them have been continu-
ous and their ultimate defeat is sure, the
fighting Japs have given no support to
any surrender hope. Their casualties
have been fantastically to the con-
trary. Figures published in America
show that from the landings on
Leyte up to near the end of March the
Japs in the battling thereabouts lost
282.000 soldiers and sailors killed,
wounded or captured, to the total Ameri-
can casualties of 29,796, of whom some-
thing fewer than 7000 were killed. These
comparative figures have been matched
elsewhere, but, while they alone ring out
the ultimate doom of the Japs, they have
an element in them that could be of fear-
ful significance—that up to the time when
Germany and Japan had each lost about
500.000 men killed in fighting the Ameri-
cans and British the respective totals
of prisoners taken in that fighting were
1.000. Germans and about 7000 Japs.
An American listing shows: At Buna
land Gona 14,000 Japs killed and no
prisoners; at Attu Island 2500 Japs
killed and no prisoners ; in the Marianas
and Palaus more than 66,000 Japs killed
and about 3300 prisoners ; on Luzon and
Leyte more than 150,000 Japs killed and
about 1500 prisoners; on Iwo 21,000 Japs
killed and a few score prisoners; in Burma
50.000 Japs killed and 600 prisoners—a
great many more have been killed by Lord
Mountbatten’s forces since the listing was
made. It also needs to be added that
up to now most of those who have been
taken prisoner were either wounded or
unconscious from’ shell- or bomb-blast,
nor were they all Japs. Add, as well, that
the Jap regular army is put at about
4.000. with millions of reservists,
and, unless the surrender hopes are as
well based as they can be made to appear
in a theoretical survey of Japan’s pros-
pects, VP Day would still seem so far
off that many may look back on last
week’s bell-ringing and jollity with aston-
ishment at the human enough folly of it.
On Tarakcm.
John Brennan, from Borneo:
Tarakan was a return to the mud, swamps and
tangled rain forest of the earlier campaigns m
the South-west Pacific. It sits in the wide delta
of the Sesajap River, on Borneo’s north-east
coast, 320 miles north of Balikpapan. A tiny,
pear-shaped island, 15 miles long and 11 miles
across at the northern bulge of the pear, it
is ringed round with mangrove swamps and
wide-spreading mudbanks. Beyond the swamps
there is little other than the rough hill country.
Till oil was struck there Tarakan was almost
uninhabited. To the discovered field the Batavia
Petroleum Company brought laborers and office
staff from Java, and before the war the popu-
lation had risen to 8000, grouped in the town
of Tarakan and Lingkas, its port, fwo miles
away at the southern tip of the island, The
Pamoesian oilfield was close handy, and built
up out of the swamp was an airfield.
Output was 6,000,000 barrels a year, but in
relation to the general oil position quantity
was less important than qualify. Here on this
tiny island was the world’s purest oil supply.
It needed no elaborate purification; dehydration
alone was necessary before it was piped for use
in diesel and crude-oil engines.
Lingkas port, with its short stretch of par-
tially-firm sand, offered the ofily possible area
for landing a mechanised force. For de-
fences the Dutch garrison had iron rails driven
info the mud of the channel beyond the jetties
and wired between to form a barrier against
assault craft, with gun emplacements covering
the beach. The Japanese invaders did not
approach Lingkas. They came wading across
the mudbanks on the east coast. Against the
small garrison they had no need of equipment
other than what each man could carry; their
numbers were sufficient. There was nothing the
Dutch force could do but destroy the oil in-
stallations.
The underwater barriers remained. The
Japanese knew that a force challenging their
hold on the island must needs come more
heavily equipped; there could be no wading of
men across a wide mudflat. They added to the
obstructions before the port; sank the light-
ship which showed the entrance fo the channel,
and sowed mines. Then they made strenuous
efforts to bring the oilfield back into produc-
tion.
From Morotai, 740 miles away, Allied
bombers destroyed the work the enemy did on
the field. Except that mines and underwater
obstacles necessarily had to wait till the in-
vasion force could attend to them, the bomb-
ing of Tarakan was systematic and effective.
Indeed, R.A.A.F. heavy bombers combined
with the U.S. Army’s Thirteenth Air Force in
a month-long programme of intensive prepara-
tion for the assault. In their effort's to
neutralise the enemy’s airfields and destroy his
meagre air arm they ranged throughout the
length and breadth of Borneo. The aerial
attacks on Borneo, American and Australian,
was co-ordinated under an R.A.A.F. command:
First Tactical Air Force.
In the south the mudbank extends 15 miles
from Tarakan. The channel is a bare 2000
yards wide.
Minesweepers made their first entry into the
channel four days before the Australian land-
ing. H.M.A.S. Lachlan, another of the frigates
which have taken the names of Australian
rivers, was with them to buoy the entrance.
Lt.-Cmdr. G. D. Tancred, R.A.N., her com-
mander, had recently been decorated for hydro-
graphic survey work in the New Guinea area.
The mine-sweepers moved along the channel
opposite the port. They came under small-
arms fire from the beach.
The morning before the troops were to invade
Tarakan A.I.F. Cavalry Commandos seized the
islet of Sadau, in the channel just beyond Ling-
kas, to put ashore an artillery unit with 25-
pounders and anti-aircraft guns.
Three hours later R.A. engineers moved in
to blast a gap through the underwater obstruc-
tions. They were covered by the artillery on
Sadau, and by a smoke-screen laid by low-flying
’planes. Other ’planes kept up a constant
strike on the Lingkas port and the Tarakan
township areas.
When the engineers finished their work in
the late afternoon the gaps in the rail and
barbed-wire barriers were ready buoyed for the
assault craft which would come the following
morning. The convoy was already well across
the Celebes Sea, moving towards the entrance
to the channel.
In the bombardment force were Australian
warships and Australian troopships. Manoora
and Westralia, which have been with General
MacArthur’s forces in their drive along the
northern coast of New Guinea and in their Philip-
pines invasion, now carried Australian troops
for the first time in an amphibious operation.
H.M.A.S. Hobart, which earned its first honors
in the Pacific war as part of Admiral Halsey’s
cruiser force in the battles for the Solomons,
was in again, and Warramunga was back with
the destroyers. There were some newcomers
to escort the landing ships—the all-Australian-
built frigates Hawkesbury, Barcoo and Burde-
kin. The assault force, except for an infantry
company of the Netherlands Indies Army, was
all A.I.F.
The concentrated fury of the bombardment
astounded the assault troops. From first light
they lined the decks of the troopships, watch-
ing the growing cloud of smoke rising from
the hillside beyond Lingas port, the occasional
flash of flame as the shells burst along the
shoreline; listening to the whine of the shells
overhead and the crash of the broadsides from
the cruisers and destroyers.
“Have you ever seen a barrage like that?”
they asked. “Not with Australian troops, you
haven’t 1 ”
It was an impressive show by any standards.
It was not as large-scale a bombardment as
many another in the Pacific, but the target area
was concentrated, and the oil, already trickling
down the hillsides behind the port and lying in
pools and gutters, burned steadily and added a
thick, heavy blackness to the smoke of the ex-
plosions. The huge oil-storage tanks of the tank
farm behind the port had already been de-
stroyed. They were twisted into grotesque
shapes which showed out blacker still against
the thick darkness of a grey morning when-
ever the slow breeze pushed away the curtain
of smoke.
One tank burned like a gigantic dull red
torch, a sweeping, solid sheet of flame battling
the enveloping smoke-cloud. It had lit the
Tarakan coastline with its flame during the three
nights the minesweepers lay in the channel, and
it burned on now throughout the day, when
the rest of the smoke was gone, sending a
long, black, lazy pillar towering towards the
sky.
As the big guns of the warships finished their
task, and the rocket-firing gunboats moved in to
cover the assault craft, two flights of heavy
bombers came in above the smoke-bank to
drop their bomb-loads in perfect pattern along
the shoreline. There was some sporadic, in-
accurate anti-aircraft fire from a position in
the hills away to the north, but the barrage
brought no answering fire from the island’s
defenders.
Then came the landing, which carried the
Pacific campaign to the furthest point of its
westward advance. The task was entrusted to
elements of the Ninth A.I.F. Division, which
has shown the mettle of its pasture in two
far-removed parts of the earth. The division
now has a large number of reinforcements,
but they have been long trained and there is a
solid backing of battle-experienced veterans.
And the occasion was historic for Australia,
being the first on which ail arms of the ser-
vices had combined in sizable operations.
The first assault boats touched the beach less
than two minutes after schedule time. The tide
was full, and there was no necessity to wade.
The gaps in the underwater defences made by
the engineers the day previously were well
marked.
The troops moved slowly inland and swung
north-west along the road which parallels the
coast, and leads to the airfield, three and a half
miles away. There were landmines and booby
traps; bunkers and pillboxes; wide, deep,
log-sided tank traps; but, at first, no sign
of the enemy. The muzzles of his field pieces
poked from the slitted dugouts on the hillsides,
but he had left none behind to man the guns.
The advance was steady and cautious; a
wondering advance past line after line of power-
ful and long-developed defence positions. The
troops progressed in careful search of house
after house which lined the road on either side.
They were confident, sure of themselves, well
ordered. Nowhere was there any indiscriminate
fire.
Soon they began to find groups of natives
cowering in and under the buildings, and herded
them out to the road and back down towards
the beach. These natives were in poorer con-
dition physically than had been any of the
indigenous peoples encountered elsewhere in the
Pacific. Almost all of them showed signs of
starvation. Many of them were little more than
living skeletons. They were covered with sores;
a large number had wounds bound with filthy
cloth. They moved slowly back along the
road, bowing low as they passed each soldier
along the way, hobbling on sticks and crutches.
Many of them lay by the roadside till stretcher-
bearers came to carry them back.
North of Lingkas a column swung away on
the road to Tarakan town. There was no cover,
but the road was dominated by low ridges on
either side. Here came the first sign of the
enemy. He occupied tunnels and dugouts in
the ridges, covered the advance with mortar
and machine-gun fire.
To move around his positions, contain them,
then destroy his groups was a long, slow task.
There were casualties, but surprisingly few. By
nightfall the position on the first series of
ridges was secure. .
Towards the airfield the * advance continued
3000 yards from the beachhead. Where another
roadway turned north towards Tarakan the
enemy was in position on the high ground.
His intent was obvious now. He had felt
obliged to evacuate the immediate landing area,
but' he would leave strongly-placed detach-
ments to fight delaying actions before his mam
force could be brought to contact.
Meantime the landmines and booby-traps,
which were on a scale not previously encoun-
tered anywhere in the Pacific, were being
attended to. On a thousand-yard section ot
the road leading to the airfield mines were
grouped every half-dozen yards or so. It was
impossible to move tanks or vehicles across
the swamps which flanked the roadway, and the
job of “delousing” the road ahead of the
tanks was long and tedious.
A bomb-disposal unit, under Lieut. J. F.
Liddy, of Melbourne, disarmed 35 mines m
the first six hours. They were of all types,
designed to explode either on pressure or
wired for remote control from observation
posts. There were buried depth charges that
would explode under a weight of 130 pounds.
Hundred-pound aerial bombs were buried m
clusters of a dozen or more in a radius of ten
yards. . ,
There was too much work for Liddy’s unit.
Next day engineer detachment’s were put with
each troop of tanks to feel a way forward.
R.A.A.F. bomb-disposal men whose job it was
to clear the airfield when it was occupied were
used on the roads and trails with the advancing
Losses in personnel were light; and during
these first two days there was not one case or
a vehicle meeting a mine. But the delay
caused were undeniable. Three mines exploded
by remote control some 50 yards ahead ot a
group of tanks blew craters 25 yards across and
ten feet deep in the roadway, pere were
hours of work before they could be filled
sufficiently to allow the tanks to proceed.
Now that the enemy had been located supply
became a problem. L.S.Ts. moved up to the
beach to discharge trucks and tanks so soon
as the assault waves were ashore. When me
tide ran out the large ships l*iy immovable
on the mud; it was possible to walk around
them dryshod. Off the road there was no move-
ment for vehicles of any kind. Even the bull-
dozers bogged down in the soft clay beside the
built up roadway. The fields on either sid
were passable only to foot troops.
On the mudflats left by the receding tide
(he engineers continued with their task of clear-
ing the beach barriers and laying swamp mat-
ting. There was work, too, filling in deep
bomb-craters which made the road impassabl
in places. There was no halt when night came
Unloading of ships went on, and the line
of trucks moved along the road in darkness all
first day the beach area had
been unmolested by the, enemy s mortar-and
artillery, but’ round midnight his 75s began to
open on the beached ships. It was not the
usual Japanese shoot-and-scatter method, but
a continuous hour-long barrage. It was no
more effective than , his usual attack There
were casualties, again few [in the first week
they amounted altogether to 76 JailedI and -71
wounded in action, General MacArthur an-
nounced]. There was no damage to matenaL


PLAIN ENGLISH
VE Week in N. S. Wales.
N.S.W. people whose menfolk died or
were badly wounded in the war against
Germany and Italy and those whose lads
are fighting the Japanese or have been
imprisoned by them for upwards of three
years had no heart for victory rejoicings,
and those in the mood found obstacles
placed in their way. But unionists, con-
trolled or demoralised by communists,
did a lot of celebrating on their own
account and in the mob fashion.
“About 4000 employees in heavy in-
dustries at Port Kembla absented them-
selves from work to celebrate May Day.”
They had asked Industrial Justice Cantor
for the day off, and he replied that it
could not be sacrificed without damage
to the war effort; indeed “failure to work
would be a breach of awards, and a Com-
monwealth law binding all would be in-
troduced in the interest of national
security.” Introduced it was not. On the
contrary, the companies concerned were
sternly bidden in the name of Common-
wealth law to drop any notion they had
of suspending the “absentees.”
On the last two “working” days of the
previous week coalminers had achieved a
production-loss of 29,000 tons. They
took the May-Day holiday, the VE-Day
holiday and an “unofficial” holiday in
between, the production - loss being
reckoned by the Coal Commissioner as
120,000 tons. “Stocks, already poor, have
been greatly reduced this week,” Mr.
Mighell said ; but nobody among the holi-
day-makers or in the “Government” paid
any attention.
A Ward National Security regulation
ordered transport workers to present
themselves for duty on VE Day, and this
tramway men, busmen and ferry-co. em-
ployees did. But after demanding as a
bribe, refused by the Commissioner,
an addition of two days to annual
leave and an extra week at the
end of the war against the Japanese, the
A.R.U. had a 24 hours’ strike, which tied
up all Government lines. It knew
that Mr. Ward would wash his hands of
the business and that Mr. Holloway
would say, as he did, that it was “a State
matter,” and that in his view the Com-
missioner should give in to the mob. The
strike over (the anti-communist N.U.R.
took no part in it, but could not itself run
the trains), the A.R.U. secretary chortled
that “to A.R.U. men VE Day signalises
the reawakening of the spirit of militancy
among rail way men.”
And all the week the strike of dock-
workers went on. It did not cease when
Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser made a public
remonstrance, saying “Although the
docks here are not my responsibility, I
do have the responsibility of ordering my
ships forward when I know they are not
right,” and that position had been
reached; “British shipping” was being
“sent forward without receiving proper
docking in Sydney.” This so staggered
Ministers, who had made the most ex-
plicit promises of “complete co-opera-
tion” with the Royal Navy, as to coaling
and docking and turning ships round,
when the British Fleet in the Pacific was
on its way, that they were reduced to
unwonted silence.
After two days Mr. Makin, the Navy
Minister, made the mumbling and disin-
genuous admission that “inconvenience
has been occasioned by inability to dock
some vessels for maintenance.” Mr.
Holloway remained as dumb as a
drum with a hole in it, though at
the beginning of the week he had
been all broken up with emotion at the
“failure” of the Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Court to fix women’s wages and so
secure the delivery of their votes in the
right quarter. Mr. Holloway could not
be baited even by Opposition statements
that the half had not been told, and that
by its “complete surrender to forces of
disorder” the “Government” was not only
letting Australia and its fighting services
down, but was “breaking its contract of
honor with Britain.”
And so this inept and guilty Govern-
ment drifts on, taking the cofmtry with
it —towards what destiny?
Kremlin Diplomacy.
In 1939 and 1945: —
As with the reporting of “the war against
Hitlerite Germany,” the reporting of the San
Francisco conference has a strong Leftist smell.
Melbourne “Argus,” which should really know
better, has set up Max Werner as an impar-
tial and dispassionate observer. With his
origins and associations —he is a Jew from
Kharkov —he couldn’t be that if he tried.
Bias oozing out of him, Maxie asserted that
“Mr. Churchill’s 1939 definition of Soviet
foreign policy as ‘a riddle wrapped in mystery’
is outdated and misplaced”; and again:
“The diplomatic disasters of 1938 and 1939 were
due to the constitutional inability of Western
diplomacy to understand the meaning of
Soviet policy.” How could Western diplomacy
understand it when an Anglo-French mission
invited to Moscow was told, when still
there, that the Bolshevists had signed up with
“the Nazi assassins,” with whom, and with
“the Jap butchers” (now their associates in
neutrality, fisheries and oil agreements, still in
force) they had exchanged insults and threats
for years? Within a month they had come
in for their cut of the fourth partition, and
begun grabbing huge numbers of Polish fighting
men and civilians, of whom over a million were
deported to the U.S.S.R. Other than those in
the British services, not many are known to be
alive.
“In San Francisco,” Werner proceeded,
“Molotov clearly offers co-operation and com-
promise.” On the Polish question he offered
neither, and the British Foreign Secretary and
the U.S. Secretary of State broke off the dis-
cussions with him after he admitted, very
tardily, that 16 Polish leaders, represent-
ing all the Polish parties except the Reds,
who had gone to Moscow by invitation,
with a virtual British guarantee of safe conduct,
had been arrested for alleged crimes against
the Soviet. This Mr. Eden and Mr. Stettinius
pronounced a “flagrant breach of the Yalta
agreement,” as it indisputably is. All the non-
communist British newspapers, from the “Times”
to the “Daily Flerald,” have denounced it as
such, and according to the “Daily Mail” “the
situation is regarded as one of the utmost
gravity.”
Besides the bit about “a Polish Provisional
Government of National Unity,” to be
“formed in such a manner as to command
recognition by the three major Powers,” Stalin
undertook to consult with the British and
American Governments as to the formation of
Governments “in any European liberated States
or former Axis satellite States.” He has set up
puppet Governments in Rumania and Austria
without consulting his allies, by whom these
Governments have not been recognised.
The scene shifts to Italy and Yugoslavia.
Moscow is backing the Communist parties in
both countries. But Tito, Moscow’s Croatian
agent, wants to grab Trieste for Yugoslavia or
(as many Americans believe) for Russia, and no
Italian party could abandon Italy’s claim to
Trieste without pronouncing its own dissolution.
First arrivals in Trieste (May 2) with arms in
their hands were Freyberg’s New Zealanders, to
whom the German garrison surrendered, and
the Italian Premier Bonomi announced that he
had heard of the N.Z. occupation “with great
satisfaction.” To this Tito reacted with a
characteristically cheeky bulletin claiming that
his forces had occupied Trieste on April 30, and
referring to “some Allied troops,” who, acting
“without permission,” had entered Trieste and
Gorizia, threatening “undesirable consequences,
unless this matter is properly settled.”
The Trieste situation was complicated by the
appearance in the same region of a couple of
Cossack divisions from the Don or thereabouts,
which had been serving in the Wehrmacht,
and by the long-missing army of the Serb
Mihailovich. They, it seems, surrendered, but
not to Tito. General Freyberg can be trusted
to deal with that communist and his motley
following, whether or not the Tito head bursts.
Mention of the Cossack divisions recalls that
no small proportion of the “Germans” cap-
tured in Normandy were soldiers and laborers
from the Workers’ Fatherland, coming from
places as distant as Turkestan. Many of them,
all wearing German uniforms, were taken as
prisoners of war to Britain. It was alleged from
Moscow that the TJ.S.S.R. Government had
been kept in ignorance of this development, and
that some of the prisoners had been ill-treated
by the English. The reply was that all the
facts had been placed on the table at Yalta,
that 35,000 of the prisoners had been sent back
to Russia in British* ships and that the others
would follow as shipping became available —
though doubtless many don’t want to go. The
charge of ill-treatment was ignored.
One of the many odd features of the de-
veloping situation is that, while the Soviet
leaders are going out of their way to antagonise
Anglo-American opinion, they have asked for
immense assistance—from the U.S.A. not only
continuance of lend-lease goods on a vast scale
but a loan of six thousand million dollars. The
English-speaking nations are not insensible to
Russia’s sufferings, which must have been
terrible beyond description if it is true, as a
Russian general has stated, that there are
12,000,000 to 15,000,000 Russian dead (even the
gap has a dreadful significance), and they are
very willing to be real, not doctrinaire, friends
of Russia. But there can be no real or abiding
friendship if the Russian leaders choose to treat
their signed and sealed engagements as written
in water.
Defamation of the Dead.
In its VE-Day issue Sydney “Sun” re-
turned to the form it displayed when it
published a muddy attack on General
Percival after the capitulation at Singa-
pore, and explained, through its Mr. Ald-
ridge, why the British 'soldier was so
dreadfully different from the Russian:
You can expect impossibilities of the
Russians They hate Fascism passion-
ately and are constantly reminded of what
Fascism means.
Tell this to the Tommy and he would
get the speed and anger of hatred, the
vjrility of a new life, the toughness of a
man determined to destroy if it means
winning the war.
The Tommy in question was the
Tommy of the Eighth Army. At the
mature age of 22 Mr. Aldridge had con-
descended to make a brief study of him
in .the course of travels (summarised,
doubtless, with his authority, in Who’s
Who in Australia ) which in the course of
18 months or so took him to “Scandi-
navia,” Finland, Norway, Russia, “Bal-
kans, Syria, Libya, Persia, Albania,
Greece, Crete fronts, back in Australia on
visit, 1941.” His judgment on Mont-
gomery’s soldiers appeared four months
before the break-through at El Alamein.
Though they never received the instruc-
tion the young gentleman bespoke for
them, Montgomery’s soldiers have done
pretty well. Though a bit short of “hatred”
after battles, they had enough speed,
anger, virility and toughness to take them
from El Alamein to Cape Bon, via Tripoli
and the Mareth Line, and so to Sicily and
Italy. There they separated, some going
to Bremen and Hamburg, via Normandy
and the Rhine; others, travelling via
Rome, Florence and Bologna, were last
heard of in Austria.
The “Sun’s” Victory-issue performance,
rivalling its Aldridge achievement, con-
sisted in the publication of four columns
of photographs, with letterpress in the
nasty clipped English that Left-Wing
writers affect. On one side of a page
were portraits of “Ten Who Rose”; on
the other side portraits of “Ten Who
Fell.”
The Ten Who Rose were Roosevelt,
Churchill, Molotov (“the mild metho-
dical statesman, in war became Russia’s
No. 2 man and Russia became No. 1
European Power with his aid”), Stalin
(“man of iron, who outmanoeuvred Hitler,
and with an inspired People’s Army
smashed him as Napoleon was smashed”),
Montgomery (“Bible-toting blitz-master”),
Rommel, Eisenhower (No. 7), Timo-
shenko (“former stableboy, son of a serf,
moved wherever the situation was blackest
in Russia’s desperate days”—the man hasn’t
been heard of for years), De Gaulle and
Tito (“myth-shrouded chief of Yugoslav
guerrillas, emerged from the Balkan con-
fusion to confound the tottering Nazi
supermen”). Not one British admiral or
air-marshal. Yet had it not been for the
genius of men like Ramsay (Dunkirk,
(Continued on page 8.)
ROUNDING-UP THE STRAGGLERS.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An. Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
StLWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
In'
of
CT|D
pN A(=Pi
Lime
*Lr rt£ PASSi^r
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE 00. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal*
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURALBANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
North-west Africa, Normandy) and Por-
tal the war in Europe might still be drift-
ing on indefinitely.
The Ten Who Fell were Mussolini,
Hitler, Quisling, Goring (“built Luft-
waffe and heads it; skilled diplomat”!),
Heydrick, Hess, Thyssen, Chamberlain,
King Boris and Gamelin.
Chamberlain in that lot! And with an
inscription which could be taken to mean
that he was guilty of the bloodshed and
destruction (“sowed words of appease-
ment ; reaped world war”); Chamberlain,
the honest, upright Englishman who tried
to save humanity from the Horror, and
when all his efforts had failed took the
British people into the war with clean
hands and with all the moral and much
of the material stuff of victory, though
with a breaking heart and soon to die.
The “Sun’s” motto, sandwiched between
a mob of horses which may and may not
symbolise the “Sun”-fed craze for gamb-
ling, is “Above All for Australia.”
“Above All for Red Muck” would have
been more appropriate that day.
POLITICAL POINTS
The victory remarks of Chifley,
Menzies and Fadden, with Speaker Rose-
vear as M.C., were broadcast, and the
experiment wept well enough to warrant
the broadcasting of debates. There has
been a much needed improvement in Par-
liamentary reports in the papers, but the
information thereby furnished, though
every Australian is concerned, is still far
less than English people get in papers
like the “Times” and the “Manchester
Guardian.” Speeches such as those of
Menzies and Hughes on the Re-estab-
lishment and Rehabilitation Bill, infor-
mative as well as critical and rising above
party spirit, should always be put over
the air.
Before the British delegation went to
the San Francisco conference the Com-
mons for two days debated the matters
to be discussed. They were not debated
for ten minutes in the House at Canberra.
The procedure there is for Dr. Evatt to
make a statement on foreign affairs, with
no one else having a say. Pronounce-
ments and proceedings attributed to this
Minister at San Francisco, rightly or
wrongly, have left an impression, well or
ill-founded, that he considers Australian
foreign policy his private property, like
his furniture.
Before flying back to Moscow Molotov
made a fuss of Dr. Evatt; and why not?
Dr. Evatt removed the Menzies ban on
Russia First prints and organisations, and
this and the persistent one-eyed report-
ing of “the war against Hitlerite Ger-
many” led to what had been a nuisance,
though pestilent, becoming a danger. And
Dr. Evatt’s Government, whether or not
at Russia First instigation, as Russia
Firsters boasted, caused Australia Firsters
to be arrested on accusations which there
has never been any attempt to prove;
but of that the last has not been heard.
From a manifesto issued by “the Secre-
tariat of the Australian Communist
party”:
Berlin has fallen, the leaders of Fascism
are defeated. On to final victory! ON
TO TOKYO!
So though the “Fatherland” is a neutral,
they do consider themselves at war with
Japan, at least with words. You would
never think it judging by communist
actions, exhibited in shearing strikes and
the like.
“Poor old Holloway” was deeply
grieved last week. Not because of the
Sydney waterfront strikes, which come
within his province as Minister of Labor
and National Service, and which moved
Admiral Fraser to the strongest expres-
sion of dissatisfaction ever made on be-
half of the Admiralty in a British Em-
pire port, but “because of the refusal of
the full Arbitration Court to make a de-
termination fixing minimum rates for
females, which has come as a surprise to
every member of the Government.” It
is common talk that many of these
“females” keep themselves busy knitting,
except when morning and afternoon tea
comes on, whereupon thev return to their
needles; but “poor old Holloway” seems
to think the war or their votes will be
lost unless they get 90 p.c. of men's pay.
Sydney “D.T.,” seeing visions again:
Everyone in America or England or Aus-
tralia who says “We’ll have to fight the
Soviet next” is a dangerous public enemy,
as traitorous to his country in peace-time
as if he fired on his allies in war-time.
Nobody out of Bedlam wants war with
the Soviet. Nobody wanted it even when
Moscow was spawning revolutionary
bodies all over the British Empire and
furnishing them with propaganda, etc.
But decent people expect the Soviet to
be at least sufficiently grateful for its
salvation to live up to its Crimea com-
mitments.
Melbourne had a May Day procession
wfiiph had none of the features which
distinguished similar occasions in the
capitals of Europe in pre-war days, especi-
ally Paris, with its ancient memories of
revolution. Still, there were some familiar
touches. Hammers and sickles outnum-
bered Union Jacks. Dimly recognisable
portraits of Stalin, Lenin, Tito and others
were hoisted and received with plaudits.
One of President Roosevelt went by in
silence. Dunstan had the rare distinction
of being the only British public man
represented ; he was depicted up to his
neck in Mallee sand. A damsel represent-
ing Britannia was warmly applauded, per-
haps because of her personal attractions.
An interesting contributor to the debate
on Re-establishment and Rehabilitation
was Pilot-Officer Falstein, back from
operational service against the enemy.
Saying he regarded the bill as a first in-
stalment, the member for Watson pointed
out that it did not go nearly as far as the
Maoriland measure, and declared that
additions and amendments would be re-
THE MAKIN TOUCH.
“Replying to Mr. Harrison’s reference to ‘sabotage of the war effort on the [Sydney]
waterfront,’ and to Mr. Morgan’s statement that ‘there is a conspiracy,’ the Navy Minister
dismissed the Opposition campaign ‘as political, to provide it with election material.’ ”
“I can’t see anything but propaganda"
quired, notably in respect of training and
local committee. And he said a thing
which rather astonished colleagues; “the
preference clause should apply to every
Government appointment.”
In “Forgotten Fighters” (B. 14/3/’45)
John Brennan wrote that Group-Captain
Clive Caldwell’s Spitfire Wing, then based
on Morotai, had seen one Japanese air-
craft in flight in sixteen months, adding:
If it is short-sighted policy on the part
of the R.A.A.F. that is denying Australian
fighter-pilot's that aerial combat in the
Pacific for which they long, that should be
remedied as soon as possible.
There followed an allegation, dressed up in
some of the papers, that a distinguished
airman was to be court-martialled on a
charge of “trading.” Last week it came
out (1) that Group-Captains Caldwell and
Arthur, Wing-Commanders Gibbes and
Ranger and Squadron-Leaders Waddy,
Grace, Vanderfield and Harpham had dis-
turbed Minister Drakeford by offering
their resignations ; (2) that Air-Commo-
dore Scherger was returning to the com-
mand of the First Tactical Air Force, suc-
ceeding Air-Commodore Cobby, who was
“expected to fill a staff position in Vic-
toria”; and (3) that a general inquiry as
to “allegations” was to be entered upon
by J. V. Barry, a Victorian K.C. Sydney
“D.T.,” whose sole reference to these
matters till the week-end consisted in an
invidious publication of the name, rank
and decorations of the distinguished offi-
cer alleged to be concerned in the charge
of “trading,” is now characteristically
posing as the god out of the machine.
Thornton, the communist representa-
tive of the A.C.T.U., is back from the
second of his overseas jaunts, bragging
that he had helped to overbear opposition
to “the admittance of delegates from
former enemy countries” (all corns.) “to
the World Trade-union Congress” but
disturbed at the revolt against communist
control of his own racket. Beasley, who
used to lead the anti-communist Labor
group but has chosen to forget it, was
asked in Parliament who footed this com-
munist’s travel-bills? He replied that “the
cost of Mr. Thornton’s passage, but no
other expenses, would be met by the
Commonwealth Government” which
means the taxpayers, whose terrific bur-
den Beasley’s Government refuses to
lighten.
Thornton bobbed up at the A.C.T.U.
conference and demanded to know why
“production” had “ceased at the blast
furnaces at Port Kembla, Newcastle and
Whyalla.” Somebody humbly informed
the great man that it was because of a
coal shortage. As if the great man didn’t
know!
After a court-martial —public—occupy-
ing a matter of minutes, an A.M.F. lieut.-
colonel was found not guilty of having
negligently contributed to the loss of a
camera which disappeared a year earlier
from a Yale-locked bathroom when he
was in hospital with hasmorrhage, brought
on by war injuries. If the unfortunate
officer needs somebody to condole with
it might be possible to introduce him
to a much-decorated R.A.A.F. man, dis-
tinguished in this war as in the last war,
whose pay was docked to cover small
amounts paid to head-hunting Kuku
Kukus in New Guinea from whom he
“failed to obtain receipts”!
According to Premier Dunstan, Vic-
torians had every reason to be proud of
the way they celebrated the end of the
war in Europe, it being absurd to suggest
that people couldn’t celebrate unless they
had access to hotels. Well, they cele-
brated satisfactorily in London, where
the people had access to hotels, and only
a dozen drunks were haled up before the
Beaks out of a population of seven mil-
lions. Melburnians “celebrated” as if
they were going to their own funerals.
At the week-end Commonwealth Min-
isters of the Crown went before their
union masters to receive their orders.
Threatened with defeat if the Government
didn’t lift income tax from overtime earn-
ings, and told by sundry communists
about other things, Chifley, as Acting
P.M., did his best to be forcibly-feeble.
“Poor old Holloway” got on the right
side of the mob by “bitterly attacking”
Chief Arbitration Judge Piper. Mean-
time the Sydney waterfront position was,
if anything, worse than ever. And the
city’s electric light and power were threat-
ened by a powerhouse strike for a 25 p.c.
increase on dayshift rates.
Though they couldn’t have been in-
fluenced by the exultation of communist
rags, few Australian papers of standing
came out with a disapproving comment
on the butchery of Mussolini and his
associates, one a woman, and the de-
filing of their bodies. “S. M. Herald”
was an honorable exception; it used the
terms “massacre” and “sheer squalor and
savagery.” There were indignant pro-
tests in the Commons, and the “Daily
Mail” records that the illustrated story
of communist savagery “sent a wave of
disgust through Britain.”
People loathingly recoiled from its re-
volting obscenity. It shocked Britain even
more than the pictures from Belsen and
Buchenwald.
The extracts are from a leading article,
which went on to draw attention to “the
ugly passions abroad in Europe,” and
closed on the note that “Justice must be
executed, not by mob violence, but by
the processes of law; these are the only
principles by which Europe can live
again.”
Doubts as to whether Graham, the
N.S.W. Minister of Agriculture, can re-
main “Labor” increase with every public
statement he makes. Last week he said
that “while the fodder shortage lasts I
will do nothing to assure food for race-
horses in Sydney.” Surely he should
have learned by this time that it is a
“Labor principle” to encourage working
people to gamble, by way of making them
“enlightened and self-reliant,” and bring-
ing about the socialisation of everything.
Bellowing at the communist-Labor
“demonstration” in the Sydney Domain,
Ward invoked communist-Labor hate for
the Liberals, who, he said, are “just as
Fascist-minded as the people we have
been fighting overseas.” Considering that
he didn’t fight in the first German war
(and proud of it) and was opposed to
Australians fighting in the second, those
words, “the people we have been fighting
overseas,” equalled his own record for
brazen impudence.


(yiUutd»
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
There was a nice touch about the
release of Smithy’s nephew, Flight-Lieut.
Peter Kingsford Smith, D.F.C., from
German p.o.w. detention. His brother,
Wing-Commander Rollo Kingsford Smith,
D. 5.0., D.F.C., flew over from England
to collect him. It was a grand week
for other Smiths of Sydney—N.S.W.
Cricket Assoc, president Syd. Smith’s son,
Lieut. Syd. Smith, captured in Greece,
having been also released from a German
p.o.w. camp. Syd, Smith, sen., is
president of the P.O.W. Relatives Associ-
ation, which has done a great job for
prisoners of war and their folk.
A visitor to Australia with the British
Pacific Fleet, Captain G. B. D. Pease,
Royal Marines, has a special interest in
Australia—his grandfather, Sir George
Le Hunte, was once Governor of S.A.
Captain Pease has been in the Royal
Marines for 13 years, and has seen action
in the Persian Gulf and in the attack
on the Tirpitz off Norway.
Captain James Ronald Patrick, who
passed on suddenly in Sydney, was about
the most picturesque figure in Australian
shipping. A Scot, born at Bothwell in
1880, he went to sea at 15 and got his
first command in 1908 in one of the ships
of the Currie Line. Holding a lieutenant's
commission in the R.A.N.R. when the last
war broke out, he served for the duration
[Modelled by Frith.]
CAPTAIN PATRICK.
in five seas. Later on he became govern-
ing director of the Patrick Line, with his
Sydney headquarters where you’d expect
it to be—at Scottish House. In the cur-
rent war he was a member of the Mari-
time Industry Commission and the Ship-
ping Control Board.
Dr. Maurice David Goldman becomes
the first Lazarus and Abraham Sicree
Professor of Semitic Studies at Melbourne
University. The chair is the first of its
kind in the Southern Hemisphere, and,
along with the projected chair of Far
Eastern' Studies, is a sign of the ,*new
orientation towards foreign languages and
countries that the war has produced in
Australia, where aliens of all sorts have
foregathered in remarkable numbers. Dr.
Goldman is a linguistic freak, being
credited with speaking at least 16 lan-
guages with the same facility that he
speaks English, which is considerable.
His abilities have been used in Govern-
ment departments since the war began.
Born in Poland in 1898, he arrived in
Australia in 1938, and was naturalised
last year.
Any sculptor commissioned to do a
present-war soldiers’ memorial wouldn’t
need to search further for a model than
Warrant-Officer Charles Kennard, of
Geelong, now of Tarakan, Borneo, with
an Engineers’ unit. His hawklike visage
would be a joy to any artist, and a re-
markable record goes with it. Special
courier, ship’s steward, circus performer,
companion to an American millionaire
and proprietor of a New York night club
between wars, he was an officer in the
French Army in the last war, a Loyalist
soldier in the Spanish internecine war-
fare and a member of the R.A.A.F. for
five years in this war. Born in Shanghai,
he speaks French and German like a
native, and holds the Belgian Cross and
the French Croix de Guerre.
Had an 80th birthday in Adelaide,
David Gordon, till recently President of
S.A. Leg. Council. Till he gave up jour-
nalism for politics, he was chief of staff
on the old “Register,” and also chief of
“Hansard” staff. He has published several
volumes on S.A., and particularly the
Murray. Last year’s edition of Who's
Who gives tennis as still his favorite
recreation.
Although lately having his first look
at Australia, Acting-Commander A. W.
F. Sutton, D.S.C., Fleet Air Arm, has
seen quite a lot of the Australians in the
Middle East. He was on the Illustrious
in the early M.E. days, and collected the
D.S.C. for his part in the Fleet Air Arm
attack on Italian warships in the Gulf of
Taranto. Later he was naval liaison
officer during the first Libyan campaign,
leaving in February, 1941, for Greece,
where he had the difficult job of co-ordi-
nating what air support was available.
He ran into the A.I.F. again at Malami
aerodrome during one of the stickiest
phases of the invasion of Crete. Austra-
lians were manning Bofors in the teeth
of devastating attacks, and Commander
Sutton has paid a high tribute to their
courage and tenacity. After a nightmare
march to Sphakia he got away from Crete
by a very narrow margin.
Norman Angus Martin, Victorian Min-
ister for Agriculture, has been nominated
as the State’s Agent-General in London
in succession to Louis Bussau. If the
job has any importance it is in finding
markets for Victorian products, and the
hefty farmer from Cohuna knows a lot
about the primary industries. His an-
cestors opened up at Werribee, and subse-
quently moved to Cohuna, where they
were pioneers in irrigation. Like Dunstan,
Martin is a tireless organiser and worker.
He served for four years in the last war,
and his son-in-law, Major J. A. Hutchin-
son, lately received a D.S.O. from the
Duke of Gloucester.
John Macpherson Smith, who has
passed on at Wangaratta (Vic.) at 76, was
a grandson of the John Macpherson who,
about 1830, settled on Limestone Plains,
where Canberra now stands, and brought
up a family there, the first white children
born on what was to become Australian
Capital Territory. J.M.S. started with the
Bank of Australasia in the late ’eighties,
and just before retiring was carrying out
special work for it as a valuer. The gen-
eration of Macpherson Smiths that in-
cludes J.M.S.’s sons John, grazier, of
Darraweit (Vic.), and Melville, solicitor,
of Melbourne, is very definitely Aus-
tralian-bred, three of the four grand-
parents having been born here.
Dr. Julian Smith, responsible for a
direct method of blood transfusion which
is probably saving Australian lives in
Borneo, is the trim-bearded, dapper
medico known for his camera studies
wherever amateur photographers fore-
gather. He was a foundation member
of the Royal Australian Camera Society.
Two model engineers of Melbourne,
Laurence Hansen and Gordon Machin,
helped him to perfect his blood-trans-
fusion apparatus, the first model of which
was used in the caves of Tobruk. Dr.
Smith is an honorary consulting surgeon
of St. Vincent’s Hospital, Melbourne.
He was born in Adelaide,
Apart from doctoring, the main interest
of Charles Duguid, elected president of
the Corpmonwealth Club in Adelaide, is
the abo. He’s president of the Aborigines’
Protection League, founder of the Erna-
bella Mission to Natives in the Musgrave
Ranges and author of The Future of the
Aborigines of Australia. In another of
his books. The Desert Trail, Duguid re-
counts his experiences as a Light Horse-
man in the last war. He’s 61, hails from
Saltcoats, Ayrshire, and is a graduate in
arts and medicine of Glasgow University.
Charles Burton, First A.I.F. Digger
here pictured, is Sydney Harbor Trust
Commissioner, after having been with
the Trust’s engineering branch since
leaving school 33 years ago. With the
original 17th Battalion, Burton won the
M.M. as a battalion runner in 1917, and
CHARLES BURTON.
next year was invalided home, wounded.
Since then he’s made time from his Har-
bor Trust job to take an active part in
R.S.L. doings, and is a life governor of
Furlough House and a director of the
War Veterans’ Home.
George (“Snowy”) Howell, V.C., has
been recommended by the U.S. com-
mander in Hollandia for the Purple Heart
decoration. One of a group of Diggers
serving with American small ships in
northern operational areas, Howell won
the M.M. on Gallipoli and the V.C. at
Bullecourt.
Herewith Surgeon-Commander J. M.
Flattery, recently mentioned in dispatches
for his work in H.M.A.S. Australia dur-
ing the Leyte action. Graduating from
Sydney University, where he played a
solid game of footy, he joined the Navy
in 1924. Handball champ, of N.S.W.
SURGEON-COMMANDER J. M.
FLATTERY, R.A.N.
for many years, he’s also a good all-
round cricketer, a demon fast bowler in
Navy games.
Completed a quarter of a century of
service to the blind of Victoria, S. W.
Hedger, M.8.E., superintendent of the
Royal Victorian Institute for the Blind.
When he was 23 the N.S.W. Blind Insti-
tute sent him on a tour of inspection
of the institutes of Europe, America and
Great Britain, and he was the youngest
representative at the International Con-
ference of the Blind in 1914 in London.
On active service in the last war, he met
Sir Arthur Pearson, who thought so much
of him that Hedger was given special
leave to demonstrate modern methods of
training blinded soldiers at St. Dunstan’s.
The Victorian institute got him when he
was 29, and during his incumbency its
income has increased from a few thou-
sand to £40,000 p.a. Also, the factory of
blind workers turns out £60,000 worth of
goods annually and pays £35,000 in wages,
and blind tuners tune 2000 of Mel-
bourne’s pianos.
Colonel Francis Roger North, C. 8.,
M. and bar, E.D., has crammed a lot
of soldiering into his 50 years. Graduat-
ing from the Oxley Regiment in Brisbane,
he sailed with the original 15th Battalion
as a loot and fought on the Peninsula
and in France. Later he was with the
47th, then the 46th on the 47th’s being
disbanded-after the March affair in 1918.
Wearing a major’s crown, he was in the
August 8 push, and ten days later was
wounded at Lihons. After the fighting he
took a partnership in a Townsville legal
firm, but maintained association with the
militia, commanding the 31st Battalion.
In charge of the 11th Brigade when the
Japs struck, he improvised all manner of
defences up north. He’s now in charge
of a lines of communication sub-area in
N.
■ An Old Digger, T. Sten, M.A., Dip.
Ed., is new principal of Perth Teachers’
\ raining College. Sten, who’s done
most of his tearching in agricultural
schools, got his M.A. for a thesis on
agricultural development in the Hay
River area. Now 51, he’s been a promi-
nent figure in R.S.L. affairs.
War correspondent George H. John-
ston, holidaying in Melbourne (six days
earlier he was in Chungking), confesses to
being like the chap celebrated in an Aus-
tralian poem—he says that everywhere he
went he “should have been there last
week.” The day after he left China he
learnt that General Stillwell had retired
and the Chinese Government had been
reorganised ; just after he departed from
Iran the Russian dispute over oil de-
veloped ; on his way from Cairo to
Libya and Rome he heard that Lord
Moyne had been murdered ; and the civil
war broke out in Athens a week after he
left there. His luck would have broken
in Bucharest if he had not had to enter
Rumania as a flight-sergeant, who is not
allowed to write stories. Johnston, a
Melbourne “Argus” correspondent, started
out as an art student at the National Gal-
lery in Melbourne. He has written half
a dozen war books.
Had a 90th birthday in Adelaide,
widely celebrated, J. M. Black, a former
“Hansard” man on the “Advertiser,” and
always an authority on botany, especially
the flora of S.A. His son, A. B. Black,
is underground manager at the South
Broken Hill mine.
Colin Gilray, headmaster of Scotch
College, Melbourne, was M.L. Rhodes
Scholar for 1907. Born in Scotland, he
was grounded in M.L., mostly at Scots,
Dunedin; after leaving Oxford he
taught at Mill Hill, one of England’s
great public schools. While thfjre he was
called to the Bar, and back in M.L. set
up as a practising lawyer till 1915, when
he went to England and joined the Ritle
Brigade. Back once more to M.L., he
practised law at Milton till he was ap-
pointed principle of McGlashan College,
Dunedin.
Into the silence:
At 81, Rev. William Westwood, Queensland
secretary of the China Inland Mission for the
past 21 years. Born in Melbourne, he sailed
for “China in 1892 as a probationer with
C.1.M., and worked for 32 years in Anhwei
Province. For a time he lectured in Chinese
at Queensland University.
In Brisbane at 83, James Kinlock Henderson,
one of Queensland’s best-known early bank
officials. Bom in Scotland, he was for many
years associated with the Royal Bank of
Queensland, resigning to become first manager
of the Commonwealth Bank in Brisbane.
In Brisbane, F. H. C. Sanders, Queensland
manager of T. and G. Mutual Life, with which
he was associated for 43 years. He was patron
of the State’s Australian National Football
League and played an active part in the A.C.F.
and the Musical Society of Queensland.
In Melbourne, Theo Brooke Hansen, artist.
A National Gallery student, he studied subse-
quently in Paris and was hung on the line at
the Paris Salon and figured twice at the R.A.


The Mutual Lite and Citizens'
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. O. Alder. A.1.A.,
Genera) Manager,
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & CO. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Street*
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
'adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Law Must Rule
Among the rehabilitation problems con-
fronting Australia when the war is over,
if not before, will be the restoration of the
law of the land to its proper dignity and
authority. Like economics, the law has
been to an extent the plaything of poli-
tics and the tool of expediency over
several of the past disturbed years. The
drift has been an alarming thing. De-
feated Germany is an example of a
country in which the rule of law and the
sanctity of contractual obligations were
made subordinate to arbitrary power and
political expediency.
That British law and British justice are
the envy of the world is no mere ex-
pression of insular self-satisfaction. Such
appreciation usually comes from non-
Britons who have lived under “law”
and “justice” of other kinds. The law
under which people carry on has a wide
influence on their daily living and the
course of their lives. Observance of a
wise legal system is necessary to the exis-
tence of a decent, prosperous, confident
and harmonious people. And there can
be no economic progress where a man
does not feel that he may leave the pro-
tection of his rights and property to the
law of the land whilst he concentrates
upon his work, whatever it may be, in
his own and the nation’s interest.
The spirit of fair-play and of freedom
is the essence of British law. The State
is supreme, and it has been held that it
is better that a law should be certain
rather than it should be fair in every
anomalous circumstance ; but, as a whole,
the basic principle of justice as we know
it is that all men are .equal under law,
and that any charge, trial or suit must be
dealt with in a spirit of fairness and with
regard to established law.
Politics or pressure-groups have no
place in the administration of British
law. Inevitably, politics have to do with
the framing of laws —that is the demo-
cratic system—but bad law tends to de-
grade all law.
Laws should be passed only within
the framework of a nation’s constitution
so far as legislators can interpret that
constitution. It is setting an extremely
bad example where a Government treats
the laws of the constitution cynically,
and passes legislation which it knows to
be illegal but which it hopes to “get away
with” because of the “popular” nature
of the measure among a weighty poli :
tical section.
It is also degrading to the law for a
Government to pass legislation imposing
penalties for industrial and similar law-
lessness and then fail to enforce it when
broken. To uphold the law a Govern-
ment must govern, and the judiciary
must be supported in its fair admini-
stration of the law. This applies in all
jurisdictions, from the High Court down
to industrial magistrates and police
courts.
In Australia, and especially in N. S.
Wales, there has been a great deal of
lawlessness in industrial behavior. On
repeated occasions during the war trade-
unions have broken the law without any
effective retribution overtaking them.
Early in the war northern N. S. Wales
coalminers refused to abide by the de-
cision of a constituted industrial tribunal,
and at monotonous intervals since there
has been similar defiance of the arbi-
tration courts. In Sydney last year there
was a strike in daily newspaper offices
because, among other matters of con-
tention, the proprietors would not break
the law (as laid down by the National
Security Act) and introduce a shorter
working week!
During this year’s May Day procession
in Sydney there was a communist ban-
ner: “Arbitration —Is It On the Level?”
That is typical of much propaganda and
related activity aimed against confi-
dence in our industrial and other
laws. Usually it comes from com-
munists and militant unions. But
the greatest tragedy of it all is the
fact that the Government tolerates
this form of subversive activity. In
the case of the proposed abolitibn
of the seamen’s war-risk bonus the Gov-
ernment plainly took the side of the law-
breaking unions, and Judge de Baun
resigned from the Maritime Industries
Commission. Taken as a whole, there
is more than a suggestion of intimidation
by pressure-groups against the system of
industrial arbitration. The Federal Labor
Government gives the arbitration system
little moral support in these matters.
The unions hold too dictatorial a sway
over the Government.
The disregard for law by many* union-
ists in the industrial-arbitration sphere
is very serious. There are well over a
million unionists in the Commonwealth,
and, while they are not all of the same
outlook in these matters, they are being
regimented into a “class” or section by
mob leaders. They are striving to make
men unequal under law, to bring pres-
sure into law as they have done in poli-
tics, and to flout the law where it does
not favor them.
In their attitude they take heart from
the activities of the Federal Labor Gov-
ernment. That Government, long an
addict to expediency in matters of politics
and finance, also adopts expedients in
matters of law. In debating the Income
Tax Assessment Bill in Parliament re-
cently Mr. Chifley is reported to have
said, in connection with the proposed
“zoning system,” that if somebody was
going to get a benefit nobody cared
whether it was constitutional or not.
Either the Ministry is very badly advised
by its lawyers or else it all too frequently
adopts the principle of expediency re-
vealed by Mr, Chifley. The High Court
has decided against the Government on
a number of matters involving constitu-
tional authority during this war. And
there must be many other illegalities tiiuit
have never been contested.
The Taxation Department has been an
influence in the lives of over a million
people during the war, and in its transac-
tions with the public it has been inclined
to deal with some circumstances accord-
ing to a departmental rule of thumb
rather than a rule of law. The effect on
the public mind has been bad.
Prior to the referendum in August last
year the Government, which was led in
its campaign by the Attorney-General,
went so far as to suggest that child-en-
dowment and repatriation were matters
outside the administrative powers of the
Commonwealth, and that the passage of
the referendum was necessary to estab-
lish the requisite authority. Since the
referendum was lost the Government has
shown no twinges of conscience in con-
tinuing to control child endowment and
repatriation. In fact, it is raising the
child-endowment rate by 50 p.c.
The laws of the nation cannot be
treated so lightheartedly in high places
without undermining observance of the
law throughout the community. Where
a person feels that the Government itself
has been an unrepentant party to illegal
activities, and that it blinks at the illegal
behavior of political pressure-groups, his
confidence in, and respect for, the law is
likely to deteriorate. It is a situation,
too, which makes it difficult for the
courts to uphold their authority.
It has been pointed out in these pages
before how economic strain or break-
down, encouraging the use of arbitrary
“controls” over the freedom of business
initiative by Governments, is a definite
step towards a totalitarian economy.
Inflation of the currency or credit, bring-
ing loss of financial confidence, is one of
the chief causes of a demand for Gov-
ernment economic controls. Similarly,
loss of respect for the law is another ex-
cuse for the exercise of arbitrary power
by a Government which has failed to pre-
serve the dignity of the law.
A. V. Dicey, the classical exponent,
contended that the rule of law “means,
in the first place, the absolute supremacy
of regular law as opposed to the influence
of arbitrary power, and excludes the exis-
tence of arbitrariness, of prerogative, or
even of wide discretionary authority on
the part of the Government.”
We have seen during this war that the
law does not always rule, and we have
seen too often that defiance of the law
in industrial matters breeds greater law-
lessness, The danger to our entire system
of justice is plain.
The responsibility for the condition of
our laws rests ultimately with the people.
They are under the obligation of mak-
ing their attitude clear to the Govern-
ment. There is a section of the commu-
nity which bases its political outlook
upon what the Government puts into its
pocket. In order to keep putting extra
money, however transient in value, into
the pockets of pressure-groups a Govern-
ment tends more and more to extend its
arbitrary controls, perhaps by way of tax-
ation, perhaps by legislation. There is a
danger that, ultimately, both money and
law will sink into disrepute.
The present Labor Government has
endeavored systematically to divide the
country into groups. It makes special
concessions to the trade-union group,
to the civil-service group, to the child-
endowment group, to the old-age-pension
group. In doing so it is striking at the
principle of equality of men under law ;
and that, as we have seen, ultimately
leads to defiance of law. Australians
should ponder deeply the question of
what their “economic benefits” are likely
to be worth .to them if the law that is
based on fair-play, freedom and confi-
dence ceases to reign.
With the pressure of war-time commit-
ments' slackening, and war expenditure
already down considerably, New Zealand
industrialists and investors are becoming
increasingly critical of their Govern-
ment’s economic policy. The criticism
has reached a high pitch following the
announcement that the privately-held
shares of the Bank of New Zealand were
all going to be acquired by the State.
Said the “Dominion,” Wellington:
The opinion is reported to be growing in
informed financial quarters that the Govern-
ment, for the implementation of a policy
of the control of industry through borrow-
ing, is gradually strangling the investment
business through the extension of its de-
partmental activities, aided by its restric-
tive legislation. War-time exigencies, it is
stated, operate to the furtherance of this
end
The difficulty of renewing investments
suitably had been making itself manifest for
a considerable time, it was said on April 5.
Industry had not expanded so much in the
war years, except in certain munitions pro-
duction and processing, and there had not
been the same demand as previously for
loans to finance capital extensions to plant
and buildings. People were not building
nearly so much, because of the State’s
activity in this direction, and because of
the shortage of labor and materials. There
used to be a lot of borrowing by small
people to finance the erection of houses.
Now the State did it —and out of the
public purse. Furthermore, what private
borrowing was being done for house-build-
ing was largely through the State Advances
Department. Business in city property in-
vestment was almost static, except for
houses, which usually carried a mortgage
with them. Local bodies had pruned war-
time expenditure to essential requirements,
the normal work of development having
had to wait
“What is going to happen,” it is asked,
“when the £lO million involved in the
purchase of Bank of New Zealand shares
is released for investment on financial
markets already crowded?” In answer.
the rather bleak suggestion is made that
the Government may “pay off” in Gov-
ernment stock. As “national loans were
being subscribed on a patriotic, and not a
hard business, basis,” the interest offered
on Government stocks was not a satisfac-
tory returned under virtual compulsion
* * * *
The National City Bank of New York
has found it necessary to criticise the
nature of subscriptions to United States
war loans:
While the declining annual percentage of
debt taken by the banks is encouraging, the
proportion of bank credit involved in a
war-financing programme that is aimed at
raising funds outside the banking system
is still much too large. The results demon-
strate how much is still to be done in
getting the right kind of subscriptions be-
fore we can sit back and congratulate
ourselves on the enormous totals being
rolled up in loan drives. It is easy enough
to float large quantities of securities that
can be paid for directly or indirectly by
expansion of bank credit. The real job
is in selling securities to individuals and
other investors who will pay for them out
of money that is saved.
The last loan drive hardly made a dent
in the volume of money in circulation,
now swollen to over $25 billion. Retail
trade last month (January) was still, at
peak levels, and there was continued evi-
dence of free and extravagant spending
for luxury goods, amusements and travel.
Canada, by contrast, has had magnifi-
cent support by individual citizens to its
many war loans.
* * * *
Canada is to remove special waf-time
taxes on radio, building materials and
household appliances. The removal is
part of a plan to assist in the marketing
of popular goods at 1941 prices, thus
tending to offset war-time inflation in
costs and prices. So long as war com-
mitments remain high it is unlikely that
there will be big reductions in overall
taxation, such close attention being paid
to the inflation menace. But Canada's
Budget year is beginning at a time
when war in Europe has finished, and it
is likely that there will be some reduction
in defence commitments.- Even where
Government expenditure remains high in
order to assist in the transition from a
war-time to a peace-time economy the
outlay, if well planned, need not be such
a dead loss to the Canadian economy as
is expenditure on munitions. One signi-
ficant thing about the Canadian tax-reduc-
tion move is that, however small the re-
duction may be, it is not the intention of
the Administration to burden the country
with war-time taxes any longer than
necessary.
m * * *
The grain shortage in Australia has
precipitated a contract with Britain for
the sale of 1000 tons of frozen poultry at
Is. 3d. a pound sterling, undrawn, equal
to about lid. a pound live weight. The
poultry will be confined to boiler-type
fowls. The Old Country has come to
light again at a critical time. It now
remains for Mr. Scully’s Government to
see that there are no hitches on the ship-
ping side. The feed shortage has been
calamity enough,
* * * *
When the war generally is over shop-
ping hours wall need to be reconsidered.
Not perhaps so much as regards retail
stores —Friday night as late shopping
night may never return in some States—
but restaurant and refreshment-room
hours should go back to something like
the pre-war time-table, and garages, in
the interests of motoring as a whole* and
for the benefit of most other busi-
nesses, should be open all Saturday and
Sunday, with emergency service available
at night where any garageman cares to
provide it. It is not necessary to make
it compulsory for garages and restau-
rants, etc., to remain open longer. AU
that needs to be done, after increased
supplies of stock and labor are available
and after war-time taxation has been
reduced, is for it to be made permissible
for trading to be carried on after the
hours now set down by war-time legisla-
tion, Competition would then see to it
that public demand was satisfied.


BACKACHE,
LEG PAINS MAY
BE DANGER SIGN
Of Tire 3 Kidneys
If backache and leg pains are making you miserable,
don’t just complain and do nothing about them. Nature
may be warning you that your kidneys need attention.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking excess
acids and poisonous waste out of the blood. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters don’t work
well, poisonous waste matter stays in the blood, causing
nagging backaches, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, swelling, pufflness
under the eyes, headaches and dizziness. Frequent and
scanty passages with smarting and burning show there
is something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used successfully by
millions for over 40 years. They give happy relief
and will help the 15 miles of kidney tubes flush out
poisonous waste from the blood. Get DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY'PILLS to-day—the remedy that will
make you well and keep you well.
A ustralian-made
2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
From War
to Peace
m
"***o3* HOWlX uxeillaA mi. T—*
SmiwKsm
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... arc
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
fKvfft
BEHSOH WHEELS
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY
PTY.
LTD.
this year celebrates its
.^ANNIVERSARY
1895 1945
- .
1.
n
i)
W:
A LIFETIME OF LEADERSHIP
For fifty years the Vacuum Oil Company Pty. Ltd.—
the pioneer oil company of Australia-has steadfastly
VACUUM
QUALITY PRODUCTS
lived up to its ideal of complete nation-
wide service, serving Australian Industry
and Transport in city, town and country
with Petroleum Products that have earned
a reputation for 'highest quality and
suitability.
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
(INCORPORATED IN AUSTRALIA)
PLUME MOTOR SPIRIT LAUREL KEROSENE
VOCO POWER KEROSENE MOBILOIL
and other High-Quality Petroleum Products
Waiting for Opportunity
Men and women who have organised
industry in past years, or who have in-
vested or worked in it, are in many cases
wondering now whether their sacrifices
during the war period will be acknow-
ledged politically and whether, when
World War II is over in both hemispheres,
they will have a chance of restoring their
capital and net incomes to the point at
which they stood when war began.
Many men in their fifties or sixties
were preparing to “make their run” when
war started. Having educated and per-
haps “married off” their families, they had
hopes of putting by enough income in
the final years of their working lives to
see them through their period of retire-
ment. It is a common practice at the
present time to disparage “middle-class”
ideas such as these—to ask why any sym-
pathy should be reserved for those who
have aimed to make themselves indepen-
dent in their old age when so many people
are obliged to live on a Government pen-
sion. The answer is a matter of common-
sense rather than abstract reasoning. The
leaders in industry are bound to have
different expectations from those who
neither save, plan nor make business or
agricultural ventures.
During the war people on higher in-
comes have made disproportionately
heavy sacrifices. Taxation has been ex-
ceptionally severe, while business profits
have been restricted and initiative curbed.
Interest on invested money has been re-
duced. Wage-earners, on the other hand,
have in the main had a big increase in
incomes, and, even after taxation has
been paid and higher living costs met,
they have been in a position to put more
money in the savings banks than at any
period in this country’s history.
The present condition of heavy (often
double) taxation of industrial proprietors’
incomes, the restriction of new business
ventures by the Department of Recon-
struction, the control of man-power, the
“regulation” of financial accommodation,
the limitation of profits and the “prior-
ity” system of obtaining raw materials
raises a present picture of extreme doubt
about the chances of investors and busi-
ness organisers regaining their feet when
the war is over. But the natural conse-
quences of a system of free enterprise
should be a return to a vigorous and
venturesome industrial system as soon as
possible after the end of the war. It is
no use a country’s basing its economy
on private enterprise and then contradict-
ing itself by clumsily shackling enterprise.
Nor do Australians generally want social-
isation.
Apart from the older generation of
business and professional people who
have made their war-time sacrifice of
income and opportunity, there is a
younger generation which is anxious to
carry on and expand the nation’s busi-
ness life. Thousands of young men in
the forces hope to have an opportunity
in peace-time of exercising their abili-
ties to general advantage, including their
own, under political conditions similar to
those which preceded the war. They can
see no chance of any successful social-
istic system arising in the country, and
therefore hope that, whatever Govern-
ment happens to be in power, it will set
itself out to re-establish a system of free
enterprise, subject to reasonable demo-
cratic controls, as expeditiously as pos-
sible.
The war has brought us, economically,
scientific development, new manufactur-
ing methods, new designs, heavy taxation
and great debt. It had not made Aus-
tralians politically any wiser up to the
time of the last Federal election, though
since then there appears to have been
some awakening to the realities of our
economic and industrial life.
The Commonwealth Government has
chosen the war period to burden the
heavily-taxed with further taxation to pay
for hastily-“planned” social security.
This and the cost of an inflated civil ser-
vice, plus the interest on the war debt,
may be held out as an excuse for con-
tinued taxation of industry that would
mean virtual socialisation. It is a line
of politics that Australians will have to
attack if they, individually, desire a
chance to make their way in the indus-
trial and professional world. All the un-
avoidable financial burdens left by the
war can be handled if we make a whole-
hearted attempt. We must object to
carrying avoidable and unnecessary bur-
dens, no political excuses for them being
tolerable.
The National Mutual Life Association
is declaring interim bonuses on its main
whole-life and endowment policies at a
rate approximately 50 p.c. higher than
those declared during the triennium to
Sept. 30, 1943. The net rate of interest
earned during the last financial year was
£3 16s. lid. on the mean life fund, com-
pared with £3 18s. sd. per cent, in 1943.
The rise in bonuses has followed a
strengthening df the assets and actuarial
position to the satisfaction of the board
rather than from any improvement in
interest or other immediate surpluses.
During the war the association’s holding
of Government securities has risen from
33.3 p.c. to 48.1 p.c. of the increasing
total assets. Loans on mortgage have
dropped from 23.6 p.c. to 16.5 p.c. The
chairman at the annual meeting quoted
a London actuary, L. Brown, on the
future of interest rates:
It is fairly safe to assume that for some
time, during the remainder of the war and
the period of reconstruction, the control of
interest rates is likely to continue. During
this period further large Government - bor-
rowings must be expected, and the increase
of holdings in this group and the decrease
in the average yield from funds will prob-
ably continue. It must be emphasised,
moreover, that these investments are for
medium and long-term periods, so that their
effect on the average yield will continue
long after the war phase has passed.
The National Mutual’s chairman added:
“These comments apply with equal force
to the situation in Australia.”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Wodgil”: The end of the second Ger-
man war came in a fashion which nobody
could possibly have predicted during the
68 dreadful months: the surrender
speech was made to the beaten people
by a Rhodes Scholar, Count Schwerin
von Krosigk. It Was not Rhodes’s origi-
nal intention to extend his bounty to
Germans, but provision was made for
them in a codicil to his will: five a year,
one-fortieth of the total. It was annulled
by an Act of Parliament in 1916. For
Americans there were to be, and are still,
32 scholarships (now worth £4OO p.a.)
every year by way of “creating in Ameri-
can students an attachment to the country
from which they originally sprang, with-
out weakening their feeling for their
own country, and so fostering the cause
of the union of English-speaking peoples.”
It has certainly had that effect, though
when the Chicago “Tribune” has a bad
liver it morosely declares that the Ameri-
can Rhodes scholars are in a conspiracy
to take the U.S.A. back into the Empire.
“Bo”: Salute the Four Freedoms! On
the morning before VE Day N.S.W. coal-
miners were just about to go down the
pits when someone told them that the
surrender had occurred. This totally un-
expected news so shocked the poor fel-
lows that they all went home, there to
recover from the previous day’s holiday
and prepare for the next day’s holiday.
Furthermore, the Government had issued
a stern warning that immediately an-
nouncement was made of the end of the
European war all hotels must close. That
announcement was broadcast at 11 p.m.
on Monday and again on Tuesday
morning, and it also appeared in the
morning press. All that day celebrating
citizens packed the pubs ten-deep. Then
on VE Day railwayman, defying orders
and National Security Regulations, took
the day off. In each case the spirit of
the Atlantic Charter was clearly mani-
fest, for each defiance was marked by a
complete Freedom from Fear that any
punitive action would be taken.
“Zake”: On the day that brought the
news of the Unconditional Surrender only
one house in our outer-Sydney residential
suburb sported any outward manifesta-
tion of patriotism —and the Australian
flag which draped ostentatiously from the
front verandah measured at least Bft. by
4ft. Need I add that a year or so before
the place, one of the best in the street,
had been bought—for cash, of course —
by an Austrian refugee?
« * * *
“Pawang”: A Melbourne medical
authority has made the needlessly alarm-
ing statement that the prisoner of war who
has spent long years of semi-starvation
in German stalags will be suffering from
neurosis. White, M.H.R., spent three years
in Turkish prison camps under conditions
which he has vividly described in his
book Guests of the Unspeakable. He
occupied his time in studying the lan-
guage, history, topography, manners and
customs of his hosts with a view to es-
caping, and there is not the slightest indi-
cation in his narrative that he was
afflicted with the “fear of fear” which is
the characteristic of the neurotic. The
fears he had were real fears, inasmuch as
he never kneW when his efforts might be
discovered by his captors and result in
his removal to another and a worse
prison. Sir Ernest MacMillan, the Can-
adian conductor now in Australia, won
his Mus. Doc. degree from Oxford
University for a bit of music he
composed while in a prison camp in
the last war. In this war it is on record
that hundreds of* prisoners have passed
examinations in everything from art to
accountancy and engineering. Mental
breakdowns can, of course, be acceler-
ated by bad conditions, but the fear of a
fear that produces a neurosis can attack
a pampered young lady in Toorak who
has never missed a meal in her life just
as easily—or in fact, more easily—than
it can attack a prisoner of war whose
fears are quite real.
* * * »
“Bernard Hackshaw”; A Melbourne
“Argus” writer has suggested the ap-
pointment of an Australian Poet
Laureate. The Poet Laureate was origi-
nally an officer 1 of the royal house-
“Got your conduct sheets with you ?”
hold who was required to furnish an ode
on the birthday of the sovereign or in
celebration of a national victory, the com-
pensation for doing something on com-
mission, so to speak, being £lOO and
a tierce of canary wine annually. A
tierce is 36 imperial gallons. It would be
a good idea to establish the office in Aus-
tralia ; but why not one for each State?
Why shouldn’t Mr. Dunstan have an ode
written about him on his birthday? It
would have added to the joy of the nation
to read a panegyric by Poet Laureate
Henry Lawson on Dooley when Dooley
became N.S.W. Premier. But one doubts
if Henry would have had a hope of being
appointed to the position—Poet Laureate-
ships go generally to the tamer sort of
bard, such as Alfred Austen.
*** * *
“Quirk”: “Pip” (B. 25/4/’45) is ap-
parently riot old enough to remember that
the sergeant-major set the hairdressing
style, with a neat parting on the left side
and a lovelock curving beautifully down
across his forehead and finishing with a
curl where it met the hair on the right
side. His moustache was long and stiffly
waxed at the ends. I wonder what be-
came of him. As to “Pip’s” point on
hair-cutting, the knowledge had leaked
out already. In Victoria, where hair-
dressers are registered and pride them-
selves on their skill, one has put a card
in his window “military haircuts re-
paired.”
* * * *
“Rokeby”: “Jay Jassie” is wrong
when he says (B, 25/4/’45) that the
present possessor of the Knopwood diary
for 1805-8 is a member of the family.
Knopwood, by his will, left all that he
had (his personalty was sworn at less
than £2O0 —the old gentleman lived pretty
well) to a young girl, Elizabeth Sarah
Morrisby. But Miss Morrisby did not
get the diaries. The will was proved by
the two executors, T. G. Gregson and
George Stokell, neither of whom was re-
lated to the old chaplain. In a Victorian
Parliamentary paper issued in 1878
is printed a copy of Knopwood’s
diary for 1803-4. An editorial note
states that the diaries were then in the
possession of V. W. Hookey, solicitor,
of Hobart. Town, who married a mem-
ber of George Stokell’s family. Miss
Mabel Hookey, a daughter of V. W.
Hookey, now has what remains of the
diaries, together with other Knopwood
personal relics.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: A new form of sentence for
house-breaking by a youth of 19 has been
devised by S.A. Criminal Court: (1) To
pay compensation, at a minimum rate of
£1 a month; (2) to find a surety of £5O
for good behavior for three years; (3)
“to reside during that period with his
sister at Waverley, N.S.W.”
* « * •
“Geebung”: “Fitzwilliam” (B. 2/5/’45)
misses the point that in the greater per-
centage of artificially inseminated babies
(wrongfully tabbed “test-tube babies”)
the husband is and always will be the
father. Only couples who have given the
matter serious and reverent thought
would be prepared to take the necessary
steps to have a child by such methods.
The argument that in the small number
of cases where a donor is resorted to the
husband would harbor resentment has
been exploded ages ago. Who hasn’t
heard of a marriage where the man mar-
ried the lass to save her further disgrace
after some other chap let her down? As
the word implies, artificial insemination
is an operation performed by a medical
practitioner. Surely it’s better for an
impotent man to have a child of a selected
healthy male and the woman of his choice
than adopt one with the possibility of
unknown vices and hereditary taints from
both its parents. Adopted children are
often, physically and mentally, aliens
to the homes they are taken into, and
while environment can do much to rettiedy
this, no adoption can bring the physical
and psychological changes that come with
normal motherhood. After a few months
the improvement in the outlook and
health of the mother —not to mention his
own —will quash any qualms the husband
might have had.
sH * * ♦
“Sprat”: “Spare Corp’s” twisted
rhymes (B. 11/4/’45) remind me of a
schooldays pal, Joe Wilson. Joe hadn’t
no time fer poitry, but he had to memo-
rise his issue of what our dominie served
up for us. Came the day when Nemesis
listened, cane in hand, while Joe
floundered through his cut of Coleridge:
All in a hot and copper sky (long pause)
The bloody sun at noon (longer pause)
No higher than the mast did stand
(Still longer pause, then in desperation)
And 'so did the bloody moon!
The tears that ran down our stem school-
master’s cheeks gave us a glimpse of the
real man underneath.
* * * *
“Tent Shifter”: “Hamfat” (B. 2/5/’45),
who laments the passing of the old-time
circus, should visit the back country. Six
months ago a circus, about 1900 model,
made its way through the Moonie-Conda-
mine-Dawson country (Q.), complete with
everything from man-eating tigers (three
of ’em) to a donkey “all you little boys
can ride,” and another donk. that all the
boys couldn’t —in that country the fact
is considered a considerable compliment
to the donk. Processions are, as “Ham-
fat” says, forbidden, but the rural John
Hops don’t interfere with public feeding
of elephants and other herbivores and
carnivores and hilarious chasings of small
boys by clowns, all of which take the
place of the procession. A sad touch
here ; the band is a gramophone attached
to a megaphone. This show I’m talking
about distinguished itself by getting
bushed in the Dawson Valley and feed-
ing performers and trainers on kangaroo
steak for several days.
* * * *
“Darwinite”: “Coil’s” assertion (B.
28/2/’45) that the “Tin Bank” is Dar-
win’s only cyclone-proof building, and
that townsfolk shelter there after each
blow which other buildings are damaged,
will evoke wide smiles from folk who
know the North, Darwin gets an average
of one cyclone every 40 years (there was
one in 1896 and another in 1937), so
there have been few claims on the place
for shelter. The population of Darwin
when the last cyclone struck it was about
5000, scattered over an area of about
three square miles; several houses were
destroyed and others were damaged, but
folk rendered homeless found shelter with
near-by neighbors; the bank was not
called upon for house-room to any extent.
It wouldn’t hold more than a hundred,
anyhow.
♦ * * *
“Tarry Rope”: An old seafaring friend
having fallen sick, but having the full use
of his hands, my thought was (having old-
time prejudices in mind) that he would
like some plug tobacco rather than the
cut-up variety. The first tobacconist I
applied to took the inquiry in a jesting
spirit. He had heard of bath plugs, elec-
tric power plugs and wage plugs, he said,
but never of tobacco plugs. Anyway,
he had no tobacco of any descrip-
tion. But it isn’t so long since most pipe-
smokers cut the tobacco off the plug.
They used to swear that the cake tobacco
kept fresher than the cut-up stuff, and a
great many of them regarded the use of
the latter as sissy. The feeling was
especially strong amongst sailors, who got
their tobacco in twists. But my old sea-
dog gave me a greater surprise than the
tobacconist did: he said he smoked only
cigarettes, and mild ones at that.
* * * *
“Katiti”: At a big meatworks near
Wellington (M.L.) a word is passed round
to indicate that some of the manage-
ment are on the premises. When a visit
to the works by the heads is expected the
office boy’s duty is to watch the approach,
and when the party comes into view he
pushes in all the call buttons on the inter-
phone system and says “Pansies passing.”
Each departmental satrap receiving this
word puts his head out of his door and
repeats the cry, which is passed on to
every branch in a matter of seconds. One
day the general manager came in in a
hurry by a side door and heard the call
echoing all over the place. He asked a
foreman the meaning of the phrase. The
foreman, who deserves a medal for diplo-
macy, explained that it indicated that
there were visitors on the premises and
that there must be no bad language.
“Quite a good idea,” said the g.m. easily.
But he went out looking very thoughtful.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: A constable here has put
in a useful bit of work at the telephone.
While helping to raid a home suspected
of illegal" betting he was deputed to
answer ’phone calls. These kept him busy
for over an hour, during which time he
received and booked a bet a minute. The
owner of the house, who was fined £lso>
swore he was only an agent, but would
not disclose his principal’s name.
* * * *
“Molly” unwinds a psychological yarn:
It happened at a remote, almost forgotten,
R.A.A.F. station where for many unspectacular
weeks men had flown their kites on patrol.
One day with the mail ’plane came the circuit
M. 0., and with him a psychiatrist as squadron-
leader. As the jeep bumped its way from the
airstrip over the bumpy roads to the bough
shed which bore the legend H.Q. the squadro -
leader suddenly sat up alertly and a gnn o
delight lit up his rugged face. This was too
good to be true. His first “troppo case
already. Coming along the path between th
sheds was an airman with a lantern, its yeuo
flame almost dimmed by the sunlight. lh
bearer peered anxiously at the flame as it
flickered and danced in the stray puffs of wind.
“Excuse me a moment,” said the squ
leader, as he dis-jeeped and fell into ste P
beside the airman. They talk f d °. f
hundred things, the weather for a Jick-ott.
family trees. The airman answered dutifully
all the questions about his hazy ancestors. -,
they were all well, none of them was specify
temperamental. “How s the M e y esl^- . •
the squadron-leader. ‘ 0.K., ; re P , th s st
man (“Troppo,” he thought inwardly, mus-
humor the bloke”). “Have to get along now,
sir,” he said finally; “the chaps are waiting; for
this light,” and he swung along to the mess
tent. Silently the squadron-leader entered th
tent. Pensively he drank his scho “
grins in his direction were smothered as
asked “Had many cases of . tr °PP°. ~
“None,” said the C. 0.; “and, incidentally,, s ir,
that chap you were speaking to, is as righ
the bank. We ran out of matches some days
ago and we now have a roster for light-carr>
ing.”
PRE-VE DAY LINES.
“Asked in the Commons if he did not think that
sober restraint should be exercised in Victory cele-
brations, Mr. Churchill replied that sobriety and re-
straint did not necessarily prevent a joyous expression
of the human heart.”
There’s none will dispute it’s an excellent thing
That sober restraint to your aid you should
bring
At times when you feel you can hardly forbear
From whooping and hulling your hat in the air.
When news to be greeted with salvoes of cheers
First falls upon millions of listening ears,
It’s only a fool who would voice a complaint
’Gainst the need—within reason —of sober re-
straint.
There’s a mean, notwithstanding, it’s fitting to
frame
Between riotous revel and righteous acclaim.
Deep, grateful rejoicing who wouldn’t display
At what’s destined to rank as ia red-letter day,
But “mafficking’s” now an invidious word
For those ebullitions to which it referred,
A feature run wild, an antithesis quaint
To all that’s denoted by sober restraint.
And some thought of the cost you can scarcely
evade,
Of the price that it’s taken, the reckoning paid,
The saddening toll of the desolate years
In death and destruction, in blood and in tears;
And of captives still wearily waiting, we know,
The fall of another implacable foe
For rescue from ordeals beyond us to paint,
Inhuman immurement and savage restraint.
True, sober restraint is an excellent thing, ,
But the bells loud and long a thanksgiving may
ring
To token the gladness and /hail the release
From the terrors of war to the blessings of
peace
Of so much of the world. And, as Winston
reveals,
The heart can express all the joy that it feels
Without risking reproof, be it ever so faint,
From the sturdy upholders of sober restraint.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


Tynesider”: A quaint way of cele-
bratmg the peace spread like an epidemic,
in 1918-19, through the industrial dis-
tricts of my native n.-e. England. It took
tne form of public “Victory Teas”—high
tea in grand style, spread on long trestle
tables m the middle of the street. The
districts most eminent men were asked
to do the honors, and there was great
rivalry between neighboring streets in the
matter of flags and floral decorations,
inese hearty community affairs were got
up by the women. The austerities of
rationing made a repetition of that
kind of celebration unlikely in 1945, and
twenty-five years of entertainment from
Hollywood may have blunted the public
appetite for such naive pleasures. But
there s no knowing what happened in
.Tyneside. The Geordie doesn’t change
his spots,
* * * *
Hamfat”; The “tag-line” which either
gave a play its name or used the name
to clinch the finale was once an indispen-
sable feature of the drama. “Not again
will you find him “Sowing the Wind,”
We will again look with happiness on
the Lights of London,” “The clouds
have gone and the sun of gladness smiles
on this mating of the Shamrock and the
Rose” were typical. Younger playwrights
of a generation now old scoffed the
convention off the boards, and the cinema
with its scope for impressive endings
seemingly felt no need for it all through
the period of the “silents.” Yet three
talkies recently seen finished up with one
of the characters speaking the line which
included the title. A curious usage con-
nected with the “tag” was that it was
omitted at rehearsals; the superstition
was that it was unlucky to speak the
tag before the opening night.
* * *
“Ike Hollar”: Australia’s newly-
naturalised citizens, whose names regu-
larly fill a couple of pages in the
“Gazette,” sport such titles as Karl
Bostil Gjorl, Taavi Jalmari Mundaring
Hernesniemi and Nicolas Karagiana-
kas; but some have already taken a short
cut to Australianism. Witness, Zylbersz-
tajn (known as Silver), Dionisios Vange-
latos (Denis), Josef Wilhelm Jallowetz
(Joseph) and William Jarvis Silberberg
(Stevens). Best of the lot occurred some
times ago—Staikovjn Szloma Gzychsyn-
koff (known as Bill Smith). I have an
idea those simple Australian monikers
will stick,
* * * *
“Feng-Shui,” with some Bornean his-
tory ;
Australian troops in Tarakan are in the
neighborhood of one of the strangest experi-
ments in the history of British- colonisation—
the last of the great chartered companies to
carry on the East India Company’s tradition.
“ I was Wondering if you could advance me eighteenpence, Miss Smithers,
repayable Friday at four and a quarter per cent."
British North Borneo, with its quarter of a
million Malays, Chinese, Dusuns, Muruts,
Bajaus and Booloodoopies, with its 900 miles
of pirate-infested coastline, its jungle, impene-
trable except to headhunters and river traders,
and its central crown of Kinabalu (13,455 ft.),
became a commercial concern formed in the
fertile brains of -three Hong Kong merchants.
Their interest had been excited by the success
of Rajah Brooke in turning single-handed
neighboring Sarawak from a hotbed of head-
hunters and pirates into a prosperous kingdom.
Most of the trio’s trade was conducted by
Malays, who paddled up mighty rivers like the
Kinabatangan with Birmingham geegaws, built
rafts in the upper reaches and floated down to
the sea loaded with the products of the jungle.
Obtaining grants from the Sultans of Brunei
and Sulu, who had the vaguest notions where
their territories began and ended, the syndi-
cate endeavored to develop its new posses-
sion in the opposite way to Brooke by im-
porting Chinese coolies. It was given a
Royal Charter in 1881, with a Governor
appointed with the approval of the Secretary
of State, an ornate Court of Directors in
London, a Postmaster-General with no posts
or telegraphs, and a midget army. Principal
sources of revenue were opium, birds’ nests
and court fees. But the colony failed to flourish
and was in serious financial difficulties when
the rubber boom happened. It wasn’t long
before the colony was sub-divided into rubber
concessions, some of them under water at high
tide, and younger sons of company directors
who didn’t know a rubber seed from a broad
bean came out in droves to administer the
plantations. Visiting an estate on one occasion
I found the young planter painting water-color
landscapes from the verandah of his bungalow
while the monkeys were digging up his freshly-
planted trees and replanting them in the jungle.
Before the Jap invasion, however, oil and
rubber had lifted exports to upwards of half
a million p.a.
* * * *
“Wingella”; The use of ’planes for the
capture of criminals is no new thing to
Territorians. Ten years or more ago
Constable Koop flew by ’plane to
Bathurst Island to arrest a fugutive who
had vamoosed there, hoping to get away
by pearling lugger to the Dutch Indies,
where he thought he would be safe. He’d
forgotten there were such things as aero-
planes, and his captor dropped up him
a veritable bolt out of the blue.
$ * * *
“Esk D.”: An ad. in a Victorian
country newspaper: “Lost, in Wednesday
afternoon’s Beetle or at Tallangatta rail-
way station, one light-fawn rain-coat,’’
would puzzle folk outside the district, but
not those of n.-e. Victoria who saw it in
the Tallangatta “Herald.” The Beetle is
the rail-motor which runs daily between
Wodonga and Corryong, and though for
a time miscalled the Spirits of Salts
(prompted by the then new Spirit of
Progress) the old name sticks. Few in
these parts are without an amused regard
for the little, old Beetle and its skittish,
bucking gait on the rails.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: I wonder what the ex-
Duce will have to say if he meets W. T.
Stead in the next world. That once-famous
journalist’s death is one of the most mov-
ing stories in history. When the Titanic
hit an iceberg officers came to Stead and
offered to find him and his wife a place
in an already overcrowded lifeboat.
Stead refused, and he and his wife went
into a saloon and quietly waited for the
ship to sink. And he wasn’t even re-
sponsible for the iceberg.
“K.A.”: Como, the scene of Musso-
lini’s death, has an Australian namesake
on the banks of George’s River, 13 miles
from Sydney and three miles from
Botany Bay. The place was so named by
James Murphy, associated 'with the en-
terprising pioneering schemes of Thomas
Holt. Murphy, who founded the settle-
ment, lived there until his death in 1924.
He established the Como pleasure
grounds about 1894. A striking railway
bridge spans the river at Como.
* * * #
“E.H.M.”: If lighter ales are now
popular in England (B. 18/4/’45) tastes
have altered since I drank the stuff during
World War I. Then the standard tipple,
containing only a trace of alcohol and
known as “Near Beer,” was called many
narnP c a li abnsivp hv tbnc P ™hn
°mer names, an abusive, by those who
had to drink it. I well remember the
Digger, having his first snort of the stuff
j n a London pub, who asked the bar-
•* ,< r•. t> • t, .
maid the name of it. Being told it was
“near beer” he remarked that the brewers
0 f it must be rotten judges of distance,
......
» Tan ». Not on i v beer not so strong
lan • or V y ’ S . u ,5 . 80 Btr . < ? n . g
today as it was, but the brewing of it is
m much fewer hands. According to the
Australian Handbook and Almanac for
1875, which I recently unearthed, theie
were in 1874 126 breweries in Victoria —
just about one for every town! In 1872
the beer brewed in that State amounted
to 13,061,145 gallons, “being,” my Hand-
book goes on, “as has been carefully esti-
mated, aij 18-gallon cask-full for every
man, woman and child in the colony!”
* * * $
“J.A.W.”: “Ike Hollar” (B. 14/3/’45)
in his reference to “bonzer” says the
"l've been pretty uncomfortable with dyspepsia, doctor .”
word “gives point to Napoleon’s remark
about a nation of shopkeepers.” But did
Nap originate the phrase? Lord Rose-
berry says Paoli, the Corsican patriot, was
responsible for the pithy expression.
Napoleon was so much impressed with its
value as a political disparagement of Eng-
land that he ordered the “Moniteur” to
use it whenever the opportunity occurred.
The phrase also appeared in Adam
Smith’s Wealth of Nations.
* * * *
“Hamer”; Somebody mentioned hitch-
ing-posts. The last of its race in the city
of Sydney, as I remember, stood by police
headquarters in Phillip-street; a horse-
trough alongside if disappeared about
the same time. - Horse-troughs " with
assorted drinking fountains were a
feature of the town in former days, the
most ornate being the gifts of citizens
who wanted to perpetuate their memory
in stone. Of the hundreds that used to be
I have been able to find only one remain-
ing, in Alison-road, Randwick, but the
water in that has long been cut off. Not
so many years ago an old lady left a fair-
sized fortune for the provision of horse-
troughs with an understorey to slake the
thirst of dogs. The executors felt bound
to go to the court for guidance. They
argued that it was absurd to spend money
establishing horse- and dog-troughs all
over the place when the city dads were
removing those that already existed. The
Court concurred.
% - * * *
“Tarry Rope”: “Benbow” (B. 25/4/*45)
guesses rightly that the choice of bellig-
erent names for tugs was “a form of ad-
vertising.” Towing today is a regulated
business under supervision of the Harbor
Trust, but in the old days there was fierce
:ompetition and tug-captains stole jobs
from one another by methods remem-
bered in many a water-front legend.
When sail was usual, the tugs, cockle-
shells compared with the modern craft,
used to go far outside the Heads in the
dirtiest of weather to look out for cus-
tomers. When tows were short the skip-
pers would do everything short of run-
ning their rivals down to beat them to a
job. In this tough business names had to
have the right flavor. No windjammer
that had buffeted its way around the
world would want to be towed into port
by a Ladybird or a Swap. The Heroes
and the Gamecocks appealed, and such
names have become a habit.
* * * *
“Ceg” revisits the Melbourne of 1912:
Let’s walk abroad on a Saturday night.
Starting from the top end of Collins-street, at
the United Services Hotel —it became the
Occidental when Miss McCrae came across
from the Oriental to take it over —we turn into
Exhibition-street. Here is located the Ghost
Show, with almost as much show outside as in.
Tree ferns ornament the outside, with a liberal
supply of tan to keep the dust down. Sitting
on hard wooden benches, adults can be scared
for sixpence and children terrified for three-
pence. All worked with mirrors, and good fun
of its kind.
Pass on and cross to the Eastern Market.
In the upstairs gallery a brass band makes the
roof shake. It is supplemented by numerous
animal and bird noises from the pet shops which
share the upstairs part with poulterers, her-
balists, tattoo artists, corn specialists (these
latter‘with saucers of specimens removed from
human feet in the window), musical-instrument
makers and second-hand dealers. Downstairs
pendemonium reigns. Spruikers shout from
shooting galleries which have every conceivable
form of target, of which large sprays of swing-
ing bottles seem to be the favorite. All sorts
of Test your Strength and Skill machines add
to the noise of the band upstairs, and with
rifle shots, smashing bottles and a surging
crowd, some drunk and some not, the Eastern
Market exudes a flavor all its own.
Huge ice cream-cones or -wafers, bilious
colored jellies and a plate of peas and gravy
can be bought here for a penny. Sammy
Myers, pioneer of the ice cream trade in Mel-
bourne, controls many of fhe stalls and has
his home and factory nearby in Myers-lane,
off Little Collins-street.
Let’s leave the Market and go into Bourke-
street. Crowds stroll up and down, late-shop-
ping, and the pubs are open until half-past
eleven. A pot of beer and as much counter-
lunch as you want can be had for threepence.
Small wonder the crowd is noisy and happy.
Turn into the old Eastern Arcade, and find
another collection of strange stalls and wine
shops. Here Madam Ghurka will read your
palm for half a crown. Further down on the
north side are the old waxworks, Kreitmayer’s,
or some such name, and close by the “live
pigmy,” which turns out to be a shaved and
enamelled monkey.
Near the Tiv. is the Palace Hotel, a labyrinth
of bars, rooms and theatres. The Gaiety is on
the ground floor and the Bijou up some marble
stairs, and then one passes through a long
corridor or gallery furnished as a divan. The
Gaiety runs “trial nights” when amateurs are
chiacked by a sportive crowd. Mo has Stiffy
with him. Not far away from the Palace on the
Swanston-street corner are Percy Brunton and
his peanut barrow, and a person who looks
like a pirate selling the “Hawklef.”
* * *
“Inglegar”: For good craftsmanship
and standing up to traffic, there’s no road-
making effort in Australia to beat the
Pass of Victoria (which is in N. S. Wales)
by which westward-bounders travel from
the Blue Mountains. Back in 1832 the
west beyond the mountains had started
to perk up, but a trip there by way of
Cox’s-road down Mount York was a
hair-raising experience, so that canny
Scot surveyor Thomas Mitchell had the
bright idea of blowing the top off a
mountain and filling it into a ravine.
The Pass of Victoria, called after “the
youthful Princess,” five years later to be
Queen, with a grade of but one in fifteen
at its steepest, was the result. The con-
victs who built the road did things other
than blowing tops off mountains and
making a noble causeway. One of them,
Connolly by name, made a clean get-
away. That fact, chiselled in stone by
his pals, is there for all to read just above
the Sydney end of the causeway. A
mythological figure, too, generously
equipped with tail and horns, has been
graved ip imperishable stone.
* * * *
“Jurumudi”; A Harvard anthropolo-
gist, Dr. Ernest A. Hooton, believes the
Allied victory will be wasted unless the
breed that tends to militarism and nation-
alism is driven from Germany md settled
in more pacific countries, its place bring
taken by people of less belligerent habits.
By these means, thinks Dr. Hooton, a
synthetic race of Teutonic people would
be created without the characteristics of
the present population. Evidently he
thinks nationalism and militarism are in-
born faculties, like the digestive system.
But the Arabs weren’t nationalistic and
militaristic until Mahomet started to
preach at them, and 50 years ago the
symbol for a German was a placid, be-
whiskered old gentleman sitting in a beer
garden smoking a meerschaum, talking
philosophy and listening to great music.
If a change has occurred, it has been
educationally, not biologically, brought
about. Anyhow, where will the doctor
find a country whose people aren’t nation-
alistic?
SQUARING THE CIRCLE.
The joy the prohibitionist experiences in con-
necting alcoholic indulgence with all evils is his
form of solace.— B. 25/i/’J,S.
P° n \ think by what I have to say
m lovesick, cynical, or may
nave lost a quid and found a trey.
S* i J II Persuaded life’s a bore;
i,? a 5 ] . ove s a passion to abhor;
mat death s the state we should adore.
Pioof that this is a vale of tears?
Weil, narks find solace, it appears,
In censuring the cup that cheers!
N.S.W.
P.O.M.C.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: When the end of the
1918 war arrived at Tapalin, Old Bill,
Chicker and Albert hadn’t much with
which to celebrate, so they decided to
run up a flag over the premises, then
depart for Euston and the doings. There
was neither wireless nor telephone at
Tapalin in those days, and the boys were
actually two days behind. That didn’t
worry them so much as the provision of
a flag. Eventually Bill found a 6ft.-by-4ft.
piece of turkey twill, and they set to work
cutting out white strips for the Union
Jack and white stars for the Australian
part of it. The blue in the Jack came
from a blue-bag. Presently all the stitch-
ing and coloring were done and the
banner floated proudly from the newly-
cut gum sapling, twitched with wire to a
corner verandah-post. Then Bill, Chicker
and Albert left to spend the day in town.
Shortly after midday the boss, coming
up from Mildura, sighted that flag, stared,
let out a curse and hastened to the hut.
Guessing where they were, he headed for
Euston, burst in on them as they were
downing their fifteenth victory drink,
howled that he “wouldn’t have any of
that damn’ rot on his place” and sacked
’em. It wasn’t till next day they dis-
covered that their flag was. all red on
one side, the side presented to the boss
as he came over the hill, and which
caused him to think they’d gone Bol-
shevik.
:{: sfi *
“Propalong”: Let the Council try
this: Stuff a wheat bag with grass or
straw and set it upright against a post.
Vertically down the centre draw a narrow
white-paint line. Then step off 100 yards
and set to work with the .22, firing four
or five shots at a time and concentrating
on getting every bullet into that white
streak. Keep this up until you can boast
a good average of hits on the line. And
then you’ll notice that, if you’ve really
concentrated on solving the - problem
of lateral error, you’ve punctured that
bag from top to bottom. Then you’ll
understand how McGrogan came to be
so careless of his elevation. And you’ll
know a damn-sight more about shooting
than “The 0.D.” (B. 18/4/’45), who
seems to do his musketry practice with his
mouth.
* * * *
“Nor’-west”: For a really sharp point
one must go to Mother Nature. Hand-
ling a creeping plant, the mock orange,
I found its thorns so exquisitely sharp
that my hands were full of them without
my hardly feeling their penetration,
though the subsequent extraction was
painful. The point of the bee’s sting is
so fine that under the microscope the
finest needle appears like a crowbar in
comparison. But the sharpest points I
ever encountered were some “sea-eggs”
along Australia’s north-west coast. Spines
on one variety were quite 15 inches long,
and so sharp that one member of the
party, incautiously attempting to pick up
an “egg,” found an inch or more of
glassy spine protruding through the back
of his hand with scarcely any sensation
of the impalement other than a slight
prick.
* * * *
“Narrin”: I see by the papers that
Murray Shipping (S.A.) is offering for
sale the paddle steamers Pevensey and
Renmark. The former is an old friend
of mine. She came to the rescue when
the 1939 flood was receding and had left
my floating domicile hard aground at a
landing near Waikerie. The locks were
out and contact by ’phone was impos-
sible. However, just when we’d chocked
the piano to stop it plunging across the
listed floor of the living-room and so
through the wall into the river, Pevensey
came chuffing down the reach. In re-
sponse to signals, her skipper, McLean,
brought her around in a racing current
in a narrow channel under cliffs. Then,
edging round a great rockfall on his port
hand, he nosed the old girl into the eddy
—a very nasty spot on a high river—and
brought her alongside. The first tenta-
tive efforts at moving us failed and Mac,
jockeying with the engines all the time
to hold his ship against the swift back-
current, slacked his hawsers off, made
fast and sent Pevensey full astern. The
ensuing jerk nearly pulled the game little .
steamer clean out of the river, but it also
shifted Decoy from her bank, while both
ships groaned under the strain and the
taut hawser vibrated like a fiddle-string,
showering sparkling drops of water under
the glare of the forecastle lamps. So,
here’s luck, Pevensey!
* * * *
“W.O. 2”: Most interesting sea-deni-
zen encountered by our p’atrol in N.Q.
waters was at low tide in a reef-pool of
the Great Barrier to the north of Lizard
Island. While we were admiring the
pool’s exquisite midget coral fish of fan-
tastic shapes and hues a pair of long,
thin, pinkish-white arms shot out from
a cavity in the coral on one side of the
pool just below the surface to grab a
little red-and-blue striped fish, which was
ftistantly whisked into the cavity. Again
and again the arms shot out to seize two
more victims from that finny fairyland.
“Plurry petrol shortage not going to let this fellow's car go rusty in
the shed.”
With the aid of a gaff we forced the hidden
thief from his lair; he was a small octo-
pus with 30in. tentacles and was the most
extraordinary quick-change artist any of
us had ever seen. The creature did not
appear to have any permanent coloring ;
in the few minutes he was under our ob-
servation his body and tentacles changed
color six times: from brown to yellow,
from yellow to pink, then to white, then
back again to brown, then to pink, and
again to yellow as he shot back into his
coral home. Our M.O. opined that the
colors are apparently contained within
minute pigment cells, which the octopus
can expand or contract at will, but
whether the creature employs the quick-
changing colors as a means of camouflage
or for frightening its enemies is not
known. That octopus was the largest we
saw during our many months in Barrier
Reef waters, alleged by some thriller-
writers to be the home of giants of the
species that are “immense, black, beaked
man-killers.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: One of my hounds collected a
trouncing from every tyke that sighted
him, so I fashioned a spiked collar for
his protection. A fortnight later, after
a row of easy victories. Rusty had lost
his air of furtiveness and was actually
looking for stoush. A couple of lessons
convinced him he was no terror when
deprived of the collar, but after that
Rusty was always ready for fight when
it adorned his neck and at other times
kept his distance ; there was no happy
medium.
“Betcha”: Bob’s half-bred sheep mong.
usually managed to get the jumbucks to-
gether provided neither sight nor scent
of a rabbit crossed the job. With a
bunny in the vicinity the tyke, forgot
everything in an all-in hunt, often lasting
many hours, while Bob and the pup got
the sheep home or not as best they could.
Bob stood it for a time; then after a
particularly trying day with the mong.
continually hunting elsewhere, he toot
the brute over and gave him to Mike tor
his rabbit pack. A couple of weeks later
he met Mike on the road. “Hows the
dog goin’?” he inquired. “Pretty good
rabbiter, eh?” “Aw, no, he, ain’t much
good,” was the reply. “More nuisance
than he’s worth. The silly cow’s always
musterin’ sheep.” _
“Simon”: I believe that a dog’s sense
of smell (B. 2/5/’45) functions while
he sleeps. When my hound follows
me for a regular swim he even dosses in
the shade on the track that the bathers
take back to the dressing-sheds. To all
he is quite oblivious until I come along;
then his eyes open and he is on his feet
in an instant.
* * * *
“Lub”: There’d been an outsize
goanna raiding Jud’s chookyard, and
Bob, the gawky offsider, found it caught
in the netting one morning, beheading
it with an axe. Then, noting the dis-
tended belly, he operated with his knife
and salvaged 11 eggs in good condition.
These Bob set under the ducky hen in
the chaff-shed. An ingenious youth, he
had notions of pre-natal influence pro-
ducing a breed of goanna-killing poultry ;
but the job was too much for “Clucky.”
* * * *
“Naturala”: Can hardly believe that
“Buzzer’s” wallaroos died from the at-
tacks of sandflies (B. 11/4/’45). Most
animals, including man, seem to be sub-
ject to periodical plague attack. Before
the arrival of an epidemic there is usually
a superabundance of the particular ani-
mal, so the plague may be regarded gen-
erally as Nature’s way of restoring the
balance. But she doesn’t use such large
creatures as sandflies, except possibly as
carriers of her microbes or virus. Some-
times the plague is beneficial to man, as
when it wipes out an over-production of
grasshoppers, or, as more than once has
happened, mice. Even the creatures of
the sea seem to be subject to devastating
epidemics. A few years ago the shallows
of the south-west W.A. coast used to
swarm with whiting. Then, practically,
in a year they passed away. Twenty
years ago an estuarine fish, Perth herring,
existed in such multitudes as to constitute
a nuisance to net fishermen, not being a
very saleable article. Then almost in a
season the herring disappeared—and
from every estuary along hundreds of
miles of coast. But in recent years they
have appeared again—in such multitudes
that it has become profitable to can them.
>jt * * *
“D.R.H.”: There were five big-hatted
and be-spurred gentlemen roosting on the
top rail of the trucking yard when the
local schoolie came along. He stopped,
and presently the talk got on to German
atrocities. Larry, who was fooling with
the keen stockblade of his pocket-knife,
muttered something about “a few of the
boys an’ some leg-ropes an’ Stockholm
tar.” “Oh, I say,” protested Chalkie.
“That’s a bit mediaeval, isn’t it? And,
anyway, tar-and-feathering wouldn’t do
much good.” Which is how Bluey Smith
came to fall off the rail and bust up his
wrist.
* * * *
“Prop”: When Hoppy McGrew had
sobered up enough to realise his impe-
cuniosity he accepted the publican’s offer
of a job “out at the Major’s” as he ac-
cepted his splitting head and shaking
hands, just as a matter of course. Being a
stranger at The Crossing and therefore
unacquainted with the Major’s little
eccentricities, which included everything
from dressing for dinner down to breed-
ing Shetland ponies and Siamese cats,
Hoppy took the track indicated without
a qualm. The afternoon was hot, and by
the time he sighted the homestead his
mouth was a lime-kiln, his face was
twitching and the mallee had started to
play hide-and-seek. It was evening when
he got to the house-yard gate ; one of
those queer evenings, very clear and still,
the light a mysterious compound of dead
daylight and moonlight, a green sky in
the west. Hoppy reached for the gate-
fastening, then stopped. On top of the
post was a cat, so still that it might have
been dead. It glared straight into
Hoppy’s eyes with queer, bluish eyes,
horribly crossed. Hoppy shuddered,
hitched up his swag and plunged through
the gate. He got as far as the big pepper-
tree when he became aware of another
cat on a branch. He tried to look away
but the cat’s gaze drew his eyes. It, too,
was cross-eyed. Hoppy stared in horror
and the feline optics seemed to advance
towards him. With his hands to his eyes
he started to run, fell over the fence and
found himself facing another cross-eyed
monster. This one cried out in a voice
that certainly didn’t belong to a normal
cat. They found Hoppy in the Ten-mile
scrub next day, naked except for his
shirt. That was tied around his head
like a blindfold.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: “C.E.’s” “Skinflint” Bailey,
who improved his status to Mr. Bailey
on acquiring his former employer’s land,
and Mr. Jenson, who was reduced to
“Hookie” after losing the place, don’t
ring true to outback traditions (B.
25/4/’45). There’s an easy familiarity
among men of the soil, and the quali-
tative title isn’t measured by the acres
under a man’s control. “Mr.” is generally
applied to a stranger or to a collar-and-
tie official person, or a neighbor who
doesn’t fraternise enough to merit con-
fidence. As for the hungry type of farmer
who works outlandish hours and lives
miserably to amass property and wealth,
he earns the contemptuous title of “Skin-
flint,” “Hungry” or “Starvation, 15 and
rarely outlives it.
* * *
“B. A. Ker”: As well as bricklayers,
men in other branches of the building
trade regard a billycan as an essential
(B. 25/4/’45); and a motley collection
the “Nipper” generally finds lined up for
his ministrations, from the blackened
and battered pre-war veteran to the jam-
tin austerity model and the —very occa-
sional these days—white-enamelled aris-
tocrat. Twice I’ve seen a billy deliber-
ately holed, but not for the same reason
as was Brickie’s, When tea rationing was
first imposed one bright brain, finding the
billy boy persisted in filling the can to
the brim, despite the smaller quantity
of tea therein, punctured a hole in
the side at the required plimsol,
thereby assuring a strong brew. The
other act of sacrilege was inspired
by a nark who, 'after wingeing all day
about a lost billy, brought in a new one
and vowed the murkiest of ends for the
son of a bachelor who attempted to “lift”
the replacement. Nobody did ; neither
did he. And neither did he establish the
identity of the humorist who threaded a
rubber washer on a screw, screwed the
bottom of the can to the bench, and per-
suaded the nipper to fill the whole row as
they stood. But the same practical joker
didn’t see the point when, as a precaution
against billy “bolsters,” he had spilled
several drops of water on the tea and
sugar in his William, chalked underneath:
“This billy is no good to you. I’ve spat
in it,” and found at lunch a rider had
been added, “So have I, mate. ’
* * * *
“G’roper”: The average Australian
may not believe that a mere snake can
lay him low (B. 11/4/’45), but laid low
he will be if bitten by the right reptile
and then fails to take rapid counter-meas-
ures. A few years ago Perth used to
watch the snake-charming of an operator
of Australia-wide fame. Every working
night he used to handle the deadliest or
the serpent tribe ; he was bitten occasion-
ally, but, having the antidotes at hand,
always escaped anything serious. Then
one night his wife, who assisted him.
found herself experiencing that terrific
physical shock which follows the intro-
duction of venom into the veins. While
handling a supposedly quiet Murray
River tiger snake she had been bitten
on the thumb without noticing it. Despite
the best medical aid she succumbed. A
few weeks later the charmer’s new
partner, a male, thought it an excellent
joke to take a snake or two along to a
meeting of the Buffaloes. He, °n,
was bitten without knowing it, realised
it too late and passed on. The mam
reason why snake-bite fatality has always
been low in Australia has been good
boots and loose trouser legs. Many a
reptile has spent his venom on a flapping
trouser leg without the wearer being
aware of it.
THE GREEN SEA.
When, like to some lagoon or lake,
A dream in inland places,
The sea lies calm with scarce a break
On rugged headland bases,
Be not deceived, O fisherman,
Rockhopper or reef ranger;
For in its deep tide unasleep
There lurks a hidden danger.
When underneath a gracious moon,
As though tired out by labor,
It seems as if by beach and cliff
It sleeps, a friendly neighbor,
O dreamer, Spellbound by its charm,
Take heed, lest you discover
Too late the claw within a paw
That waits the beauty lover!
For known it is to sea-wise folk
Schooled in its guileful guises,
That doom looms nigh when, green and
high,
A sudden sea arises:
A monstrous sea from out the gloom
Of deep-set sands, and boulders
Thick draped with weeds, that shoreward
speeds
With death-astride its shoulders.
N.S.W.
RODERIC QUINN.


“8.A.”: I was fishing a tributary of the
Goulburn (Vic.) and had landed a couple
of nice cod, when another disciple of the
craft about 100 yards upstream strolled
down and tapped me for a smoke. While
we were talking I landed a four-pounder,
and when the newcomer saw the spinner
I was using he ejaculated “Well, stone the
flamin’ crows! Here’s me bin layin’ for
’em for the last three hours with wood-
grubs, shrimps, yabbies an’ them little
yaller an’ green frawgs wot roosts on the
bulrushes without as much as a nibble,
an’ here’s you haulin’ em out left an’
right on that damn’ thing!” He seemed
so keenly interested in the “damn’ thing”
that I offered him the use of one of my
spares to try for himself. He went off
to try the new-fangled gadget out. I
fished on for a couple of hours, and thep
went along to see what progress he had
made. I found him seated on the edge
of a quiet pool with the spinner resting
on the bottom.
* * * *
“Sundowner”: Best horse-wrangler I
knew was a little cove name of Seth —we
never discovered his second moniker nor
the reason underlying the Biblical handle.
He blew into the homestead one day
when we were breaking-in some wild-
looking brumbies. All but one had been
successfully introduced to bit and bridle.
The outlaw resisted all efforts to tame
him, and two of the men narrowly escaped
serious injury when the brute lashed out
and smashed the stable door. The new-
comer vowed he could bring the animal
around. Dubiously I consented. The
stranger immediately entered the yard
and began running until he had broken
into a sweat. Then as suddenly he darted
into the stable, pulling the door shut
after him. I expected to see him emerge
amid a shower of splinters, but all was
quiet. Soon he came out leading the
horse. After a quiet parade of the yard
the animal docilely allowed itself to be
shod while its conqueror fondled it. Be-
fore that little fellow was through the
prad was rearing up and placing its fore-
legs on the kijees of the stranger and
taking sugar from his lips like a child.
Seth told me later that on entering the
stable he had quickly placed his sweat-
covered hands to the horse’s nostrils. In
a few seconds the animal was trembling,
and the rest was easy. No horse, he de-
clared, can resist the strong smell of man.
* * * H=
“Lub”: Young Joe Walters was help-
ing Dan cut blackberries on the terrace.
Dan caught a young rosella, and the boy
was greatly taken with the idea of keep-
ing it as a pet, so Dan told him to take
it down to the hut and put it in a box
with something over it. That evening
after work Joe hurried ahead to see how
his charge was doing, but when Dan
approached the hut he saw Joe streaking
down the road in the direction of home.
The reason was apparent in the little box
on the floor with Dan’s new hat wedged
over it. There was a hole three inches
wide nibbled in the crown.
* * * *
“Aznanob”: “Bo’s” “expert” who said
to the rabbit-trapper “Surely you don’t
expect to catch them without cheese or
something” mightn’t have been quite so
dumb as at first appears. The average
trapper merely sets his traps near
droppings in small mounds, near tracks,
etc. But knowing bunny likes to scratch
in freshly disturbed soil, some trappers
make it a practice to drop apple or carrot
peelings near the traps. It is a good lure
and helps the bag, especially when feed
is scarce or dry.
♦ ♦ • •
“C.E.”: Was riding along the frontage
the other day when Jim drew my atten-
tion to the holes under the fence, and I
expressed surprise that a wombat should,
be in that vicinity. “Oh, he come in
from the bush months ago,” Jim ex-
plained. “Hangs out on the river all on
his own. Look here,” he pointed. “Did
y’ ever know anything more stupid than
a flamin’ wombat? Makes a hole t’ go
into the paddock an’ a bit later makes
another a coupla yards along t’ come out
again.” We rode on, encountering more
and yet more wombat burrows along the
bank. “Yair, he’s made the lot,”
growled Jim. “Seems to have the same
idea with his livin’ arrangements. Digs
himself another bloomin’ home wherever
he happens t’ be when he wants one. The
kid from Ridgeways is after him, I be-
lieve.” A bit further on we met the kid.
“No, haven’t got him yet,” he answered
Jim’s sally. “I got a coupla traps, but he
never comes out the same hole. I tried
digging him out, too. Got two o’ them
burrers dug, but he wasn’t in ’em.
Trouble is, y’ can’t trail him with the
“Better knock of after another couple o’ hundred, Mick, or I Won t have
room to move!”
ground so hard, an’ I dunno which o’
them holes the chump’s in.” Been think-
ing since that maybe I should have con-
tradicted old Jim when he said that about
a wombat being stupid.
* * * *
“Migelo”: Our southern rivers are
mostly sluggish ; it is the northern ones
that flow along at a good bat (B.
9/5/’45)). The Daintree has a meas-
ured mile along which many argu-
ments as to the speed of oarsmen
and motor-boats have been decided.
During the 1938 floods four of us clocked
a yellow-beech log which some unfortu-
nate cutter had left on the bank further
up. That stick, with no roots or
branches to assist or impede progress,
covered the distance in 3min. 7secs.,
which makes the pace of that stream at
a trifle less than 20 m.p.h,
* * * *
“Chuck”: Bung had a new pot-filler
on, and the cove got talking the other
night when the mob of us rode into town.
“See that bloke?” he says, nodding to
where Algy is sipping at his booze like
it was hot. “Bet he’s a sissy. Y’ learn
to pick ’em when y’ve been in the game
“Catchem necklace longa dump!”
long as I have. It’s the way they drink,”
Gripes, I knew Algy all right, an’ I’m
just wonderin’ how the coot struck it
when he turns his blinkers on “Buzzer.”
“Buzz” was laying the law down about
setting traps, talking all the time, doing
a lot of actions and gulping his beer at
odd moments. “Now, there’s a man,”
I
says Philpots, “that’s absent-minded. So
busy he forgets what he’s doing. An’
there’s another,” pointing at Sam, who
was draining his glass thoroughly before
answering Tommy, “who’s careful and
sure. Ain’t I right?” He was too. Then
it come my turn to drink. Mostly I just
swallow mine sort of quiet, coming up
once or twice for air and a few remarks,
but with a coot like that looking on, well,
I just put my head back and poured her
down in the best he-man style. Then I
leant agin the bar trying to get me wind,
and silently cursing the half that went
down wrong. “Seems to me,” I hear the
cove say to Bill as I’m making for the
door, “that a bloke that pours his drink
down without even tasting it is a bit of
a fool.” Gripes! And here’s me almost
thinking there was something in the silly
cow’s argument!
» * * *
“Colonial Cove”: Speaking about pre-
fabrication in cast-iron, the old cemetery
at East Perth (W.A.) holds a prefabri-
cated tomb, erected to the memory
of Panter, Harding and Goldwyr, in
that metal. Panter was a Westralian in-
spector of police ; Goldwyr a constable ;
Harding the working manager of the Roe-
buck Bay Pastoral Co. up the
country of which Broome is now the
capital, the three rode out early in
1865 in search of grazing country. Their
prolonged absence alarmed the one man
left at the main camp. Being affected
badly with ophthalmia, he was unable
to make a search, but managed to send
word to Perth by boat. A party under
the leadership of the youthful Maitland
Brown was sent north. After consider-
able searching, Brown found the bodies
of the three missing men, they having
been speared by blacks whilst asleep. With
much difficulty Brown managed to con-
vey the remains to the coast, beating
off several aboriginal attacks. On the
recommendation of Governor Hamp-
ton the British Government sent out
a massive iron tomb. Many years
later, when Brown himself passed on,
he was brought from Geraldton to
lie beside the three with whom his name
is linked in Westralian history.
* * * *
“Old Phil”: It is incorrect to say (B.
21/3/’45) that Achernar alone of all the
easily recognised stars is always above
the horizon in the latitude of Sydney.
There are other, and I think better-
known, stars which do not set in this
latitude. Achernar is less than 11 degrees
above the horizon when on the lower
meridian; it is doubtful whether the un-
aided eye could follow it round, even
under the most favorable conditions. Far
better known are those “pointers” of the
Southern Cross, Alpha and Beta Centaun
and A. and B. Crucis, at the foot. All
four are from three to six degrees above
the horizon (Alpha Crucis is actually over
61 deg. above) when “down under.”
Achernar —end of the great celestial river
of Eridanus that stretches from 60 south
to the Equator —is easily identified.
If we take a line through the long
axis of the Cross and determine a
position about 41 times the length of the
Cross upon the sky dome we are looking
at a point very near the South Celestial
Pole; continuing this line rather more
than the same distance again, it passes
over a bright star, which is Achernar.
It cannot be mistaken, as there is no star
near it except a third - magnitude one
(Alpha Hydrus), which is, of course, quite
dim by comparison. Looking time should
be around midnight, when the nearer
“pointer” of the Cross (B. Centauri) is
on the meridian (i.e., nearly overhead)
and to the south (the Cross will have
passed over and be well on its western
journey) on the horizon due south.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We had an Englishman
in the camp who was always booming up
his own country to the detriment of ours.
We took it pretty well at first, hoping
that he’d tire of it, but he didn’t. A man
had only to mention Ballarat or Ban Ban,
South Wheogo or Sydney, and off he’d
go about Wigan or Wolverhampton
or some such place. In the end it
began to get on Mat’s quince, and I could
see he was awaiting his chance. The chap
began a yam about London. “I was
walking up Fleet-street one day and”
“Hold on,” barked Mat; “y* don’t walk
up Fleet-street, y’ walk down it.” The
Englishman turned a startled face to him.
“I say,” he said, “I didn’t know you’d
been in England.” “Neither I have,”
said Mat; “what’s more, I wouldn’t go.
I like plenty of room. Why, a man might
start out for a walk in your flamin’ Lon-
don, get caught in a fog an’ fall off the
bloomin’ place into the sea.” That
ended it.
* * * *
“Blime”: Jeff had no idea of tune, but
the nights we dragged Joe and his hurdy-
gurdy out for a sing-song he always
joined in. We’d stand it for a bit, then
someone would pelt something, the rest
would follow suit, and Jeff usually ended
up outside. Yet, despite our candid ob-
jections, the good-natured trapper always
came up for more, till the night the city
bloke dropped into camp. His car had
been cut off by the rising flood and he sat
listening mildly to our collective warb-
ling. Then Jeff started. First the bloke
looked surprised, then he edged close and
cocked an ear. Most of us stopped ; but
not Jeff. Jeff went while the going was
good, his voice shooting up and down
and ricocheting in the most surprising
manner, while a determined stuttering
filled in where he’d forgotten the words.
“Marvellous! MARVELLOUS! ” The
city bloke grabbed him with both hands.
“You must take it up seriously. I’m in
the line myself and I’ll see you started.
Big money, I promise you. Here, this
type of thing.” And dashing to his car
he Switched on the radio. There came a
pandemonium of voices all singing dif-
ferent lines, and all fighting for first place,
then as they shut off, a mournful wail
from one babbler informed the world
that he ‘w-w-wanted his mom-mom-
momma.’ “That’s your style exactly,”
crowed the city bloke enthusiastically to
the gaping Jeff. “You’ll be a howling
success in modern stuff. What about it?”
Then Jeff jobbed him.
* * * *
“Nuffin”: The McGillicuddy family
decided to take Mary, their recently
acquired help from the aborigine mis-
sion, with them on their shopping excur-
sion to Cobbadamana (s.-w. Q.). Mary
appeared ready for the road ; around her
head she had tied a flaming red ribbon
Sin. wide, with a bow which stood out
4in'. beyond her forehead. Mrs. Mac.
exclaimed “Gracious me, you must be
trying to get everybody to eye that ter-
rible get-up.” “I is,” rejoined Mary.
“Gottem holes belongem shoes.”
THE RIDER.
War is a horseman in the evening, proud
above the battlements of hill and cloud
where impatiently he waits the guise of night.
He rides; his sword is flashing like the night
of fugitive birds beneath an eagle’s shade.
On, on, he rides, until to earth are laid
the earth’s proud young; then with the stench
of death
retreats across the valley. I hid beneath
the blackened forest as I saw him go.
He looked back on the desolation below;
his heart was heavy, his sword fell from his
ride, , . .
his face was old with sorrow as he cried:
“Not mine, O Maker, but Man’s will have I
done, _
who set me king upon an alien throne.’
a.i.f.
VAL VALLIS.


THE WORLD FOLLOWS KKHAIMS LEAD.. /
HI
HF
SSS93SSSS*** 1 : •
y£rJ--*\ >^V.v^V
5* : ;v
* \s * ;
>£gs
s£*J>
;&i
■3^:
iS
i£%JS
0^
_^r
s^
w
gi?
‘■>rt
m
&r,
£££
;v <
§
w,
>/»>■
s
mi
11■!/*
k J. •-»•■’'
ikki-
-2
.L,A.<
UO'
\UiOiJ
«W
i.
?*fcw
g*fe
7*«A*
o’*/h
- s
S',
*
<£Sg*
Er
PORTLAND CEMENT
A MONGST all the discoveries in history, Portland
*’*• Cement has probably had more “ monuments ” erected
to it than any other. Buildings and bridges, roads and
reservoirs, do permanent honour to the British discoverer
of this magic powder, this indispensable ingredient for
all concrete structures.
There is, however, a discovery of parallel importance in
the textile trade. Less than fifty years ago Courtaulds
initiated the rayon industry in England. Through their
enterprise Courtaulds have been instrumental in estab-
lishing a rayon industry of vast proportions, not in
England alone, but also in the United States, Canada
and other countries.
Courtaulds rayon yarns and the lovely fabrics made from
them, have done much to foster the love of beautiful
things and raise general standards of taste and comfort
everywhere. Unfortunately Courtaulds rayons are
scarce in war time, but peace will restore them, made
even more beautiful and serviceable through the research
and development which continue with unabated vigour.
JOSEPH
ASPDIN
of Leeds. Invented and
patented Portland Cement
in 1824. The perfected
cement in use to-day was
developed from this Brit-
ish invention. Past quan-
tities of cement were used
in the construction of the
Assouan Dam in Egypt,
a part of which is illus-
trated above.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Xourtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World 'Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns; Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry. England
\ \
m
Y
tb.
Y.
Si
V sr '*s :
fef
vr-
e men who made the
Armoured lighting Vehicles
When the mighty roar of engines broke the
stillness of the desert at El Alamein, British-
built armoured fighting vehicles set forth on »
the road to Victory, but to the technician
back home it had additional significance; it
was to prove a journey of discovery.
fd
f
From the successful solution
of problems involved in such
arduous campaigns, better
cars will emerge after the
war, when Britain’s auto-
mobile engineers turn their
unique wartime experience
to peacetime account.
THE MOTOR INDUSTRY
OF GREAT BRITAIN
AUTOMOBILES • TRUCKS • BUSES
expressly designed and built for overseas
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Fraternising in Germany.
[From a first-hand report made on his return
by the member of the U.S. Congress from
fennessee, Representative Albert A. Gore, who
left the House of Representatives, served as a
private in the American Army in Europe and is
now back in the House again.]
The U.S. Army’s non-fraternisation
policy is designed, first, to have Ameri-
can soldiers bring home to the German
people that they must share the guilt of
the war-makers, and that they cannot be
taken into friendship by the civilised
people of the world until they have
proved as a nation that they are worthy
of friendship ; and, next, to prevent too
much tender-heartedness in individual
application of policy which it is thought
might grow out of fraternisation.
Therefore, the American troops are
ordered not to fraternise with the Ger-
man people, not to visit with them nor
shake hands, nor speak with them except
on business, not even to say “good-morn-
ing” nor to smile. It is not a policy of
hate, but rather one of cold and distant
aloofness which the Army wishes its men
to show before the Germans. In this
way, it is hoped, the Germans may come
to realise their war guilt and to realise
that decent people of the world do not
wish to associate with war-makers as
friends. To do otherwise, the Army
holds, would be to play into the Nazis’
hands and to have the Germans feel they
can pull the wool over our eyes until
their next war-making programme is
ready.
In theory that sounds very good, but
enforcement of the policy is very diffi-
cult, so difficult thfiat it may have to be
reconsidered.
I find it very difficult to describe the
attitude of an American soldier toward
German civilians with whom he is
thrown. Perhaps I can relate two inci-
dents which happened in towns where I
was located that will serve to give a
better description than narrative and
words of my own devising.
During the time that circulation restric-
tions on the German population were
very rigid the German women in
Kohlscheid, Germany, were allowed on
the streets only from two until four. Ger-
man males were not allowed on the
streets at all except to go into the coal-
mines, attend the sick or some other
essential activity. An elderly German
woman had been after a bottle of water.
They use very large bottles for water over
there. She was a few minutes late in
returning home, A Belgian guard, in
conformity with his duty, stopped the
woman, gave her a good bawling out and
demanded to see her registration certifi-
cate. The woman sat her big water-bottle
on the street and produced her papers,
which the Belgian guard found in order.
He returned her papers accompanied with
more harsh words, and then kicked her
water-bottle over. An American soldier
who had been watching the procedure
walked over and kicked the Belgian guard
soundly and gave him a thorough thrash-
ing, then got into his jeep and drove off,
leaving neither name nor sign except a
distraught Belgian and a bewildered Ger-
man.
Then at Herzogenrath this incident
happened. A German child, about two
and a half or three years of age, was
running on the sidewalk, stumped his toe
and fell into the gutter, skinning his knee
and getting mud on his face. An Ameri-
can soldier picked up the crying boy,
took his handkerchief and wiped the mud
from his face, carried him to his home,
gave him a piece of candy and went on
his way—a non-fraternisation policy
violator.
I heard one soldier say “I came to
Germany hating everything German in a
sort of abstract way, hating Germany in
the mass. Before I was here very long
I saw her as a nation of people, men,
women and children, some shrewd and
some simple, I saw her as a nation of
factories, schools, churches, a nation with
enormous gapacity*for good badly mis-
directed. I still hate it all in the mass,
but somehow I have no hate for the indi-
viduals I meet, and particularly those who
try to be friendly.”
These examples of American service-
men’s reactions to German civilians with
whom they are thrown serves to indicate
the difficulty the Army has in handling
this troublesome problem of human rela-
tions, which grows out of the elementary
fact of life that human beings, instinc-
tively gregarious, instinctively respond to
each other, sometimes kindly.
The American soldier has traits and
characteristics typically his own, and it
will be as impossible to make the Ameri-
can soldier uncivil and unresponsive to
human wants and acts of personal friend-
liness as it is to suddenly make a disciple
of the Golden Rule out of a Nazi S.S.
trooper.
Pacific Peace Discussion.
[Condensed from an article by a ‘‘Free World”
(U.S.A.) correspondent.]
Officials in Washington, London and
Paris are paying closer attention to poli-
tical problems which may crop up after
the defeat of Japan. Some of these
officials have before them the confiden-
tial reports of their delegates to the
Ninth International Conference of the
Institute of Pacific Relations, which fin-
ished 12 days of hush-hush discussions
at Hot Springs, Virginia.
The conference recommendations,
being studied in many capitals of the
world, included: (1) A 10-point tenta-
tive plan for peace with Japan. (2) A
“Pacific Charter” assuring equal rights
to all peoples of the Far East. (3) An
international committee to supervise, in-
vestigate and report upon colonial ad-
ministration in the Pacific area. (4) Ac-
ceptance of the United States’ bid for
complete sovereignty over the Pacific
islands mandated to Japan after World
War I.
Admiral Hart (now a Senator), former
commander of the U.S. Navy in the Far
East; Representative Frances Bolton and
Phillip Jessup of the State Department
were among the American delegates.
Great Britain sent men like Sir Andrew
McFadyean, a director of the North
Borneo Company; Sir Paul Butler,
British Foreign Office ; and Captain L. D.
Gammans, a Conservative member of
Parliament, who formerly was attached
to the Tokyo Embassy. France sent Paul
■Emile Naggiar, Ambassador to China
until 1937 and to Russia until the out-
break of the war, and Prof. Pelliot, one
of the world’s outstanding specialists on
the Far East. Australia’s Minister to
Washington Frederick Eggleston attended
during the first part of the conference.
Then certain disparaging remarks which
he was reported to have made about U.S.
newspapermen were published, and
Eggleston had to return to Washington,
Reporters discovered that “sharp dis-
agreement” had occurred when the ques-
tion of peace with Japan was discussed.
A certain group of specialists, including
many representatives of Far Eastern
countries, favored a very “mild” armis-
tice ; another group held out for more
severe measures. After much discussion,
the following 10 points were worked out
and presented in official conference docu-
ments, as a basis for peace with Japan:
1. Total and immediate occupation of Japan
by troops from all the United Nations, in-
cluding China and India, to show the Japanese
that they had been conquered by a “working
alliance” of the West and the East. It was
suggested that the presence of Asiatic forces of
occupation might also tone down the frantic
hatred of the Japanese for “white” races.
Occupation, according to the delegates, should
be “as short as is compatible with military
security.” Even military specialists agreed that
a lengthy occupation of Japan would serve
no useful purpose, but might foster an ex-
tremist and anti-Allied Japanese underground.
2. Signing of the armistice by the Emperor
himself. This would be a humiliation for him,
and would serve to remind the Japanese people
that their Emperor and his advisers are re-
sponsible not only for the war, but also for
their country’s defeat. Specialists expected that
this would prevent the formation of a martyr
legend about Hirohito, such as the one started
in Germany about the “undefeated Hinden-
burg.” After signing the armistice, delegates
suggested, Hirohito should be exiled. Here the
conference split wide open, for one group
favored his permanent deportation, whereas an-
other proposed that Hirohito might be returned
to his throne after a plebiscite. Not a single
mention of capital punishment or imprisonment
was made.
3. Capital punishment was proposed for war
criminals such as the “zaibatsus” —big business-
men who had thrown in with the military clique


THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
“C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
9.6. C.
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD.. OF ENGLAND
in War as in Peace
af the service of the Empire
11
: : m
An important example of how electrical inventiveness has served the
urgent needs of war—afterwards to become of great service to industry
generally, when the war is won —is the mobile Rectifier Substation.
This is transported by road or rail to wherever it may be required for
providing direct current; for example, on building
sites; for ship loading and repairing; for traction
purposes; or to replace a substation temporarily
out of action.
In this and many other ways, G.E.C. has sur-
mounted innumerable problems in all applications
of Electricity, including the important one of
Electronics—experience which will be of incal-
culable value to all electrical services after the war.
&&C. —Always in the Forefront of
Electrical Progress.
ELECTRIFICATION
SCHEMES have been
applied to all indus-
tries; Aircraft;
Chemical; Collieries;
Food; Mining;
Smelting; Locomotive
and Wagon Works;
Ships and Shipyards;
Textile and other
Mills; Oil Fields;
Refineries, etc., etc.
{Sole Australian Representatives of the G.E.C. of England ).
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
r-* ,h “' °,f“ S a W t “of £td P £
B St there were no definite sugges-
tions on who should be punished and how.
of a “responsible and demo-
Anvprnment A certain scepticism was
expressed as to whether it would be. possible
to P find enough democratic elements in Japan
to form a rlgime. It Jfe» aftriSS
that a “regency council of imperial princes
or big businessmen might be responsible enough
to take over the reins of Japanese Government.
5 Complete disarmament of Japan’s navy
army and air force. Also partial destruction ot
her fishing fleets, and elimination of her civilian
Economic disarmament through the dis-
mantling of “key industries” which directly or
indirectly might help the Japanese people to
prepare for a war of revenge. .
7. Extermination of all secret societies, such
as the Black Dragon Society.
8. Re-education of the Japanese people, by
new methods in the schools and thiough free
interchange of information through press and
radio. , _
9. Distribution of the Japanese Empire among
the nations from whom its present territories
were robbed. This should be done accoidmg
to the Cairo declaration, although . delegates
cautioned the conference that Russia s seal of
approval on the proposed changes would be
necessary. . ,
10. Payment of reparations by the Japanese.
It was pointed out that Japan would not have
enough foreign exchange to pay these repara-
tions in cash. Therefore a system of payment
in kind was devised, with the largest exports
going to those countries which suffered the
greatest destruction at Japanese hands.
In addition *to these points, several
delegates emphasised the view that “Japan
should be given her proper place in the
family of Far Eastern nations after this
war.” Sir Andrew McFadyean, for
example, told this correspondent that he
would favor exports of cheap Japanese
goods to certain Pacific areas because
this would help the Japanese people to
get back on their feet again. When asked
whether this would not prevent the
British people—who will depend heavily
on exports after this war —from getting
on their own feet, Sir Andrew argued
that cheap Japanese goods would only
create a greater demand for higher-class
British goods in places like Borneo, the
Straits Setlements and other territories.
The problem of dependent territories
in the Far East was another point of
major controversy, the following pro-
posals being subscribed to by Great
Britain, France, the Netherlands and
other colonial countries.
Firstly, the principle of the inter-
national accountability of nations having
dependent territories was accepted: It
was suggested that a committee be
formed, composed of non-partisan
colonial experts from all countries, with
the right to investigate and advise on
grievances of colonial people against
their administrators. Complaints would
be received directly from the “injured
party,” and the committee, after due in-
vestigation, would have the right to
demand a reversal of executive decisions.
Secondly, the conference drew up a
“Pacific Charter” to be signed by all
United Nations. The Charter reads in
part:
The United Nations emphatically reject
the theories of “master races”....to rule
... .over other races.
The United Nations proclaim the funda-
mental equality of all peoples. They pledge
themselves to unceasing efforts to enable all
peoples to enjoy the benefits of that
equality.
They further proclaim the principle of
universal international accountability for
CO -ru lia ar U dependent peoples....
They favor the adoption of regional
councils under the general responsibility of
a general assembly as envisaged in the pro-
posals adopted at Dumbarton Oaks.
In the final discussions of security in
the Pacific, Admiral Hart introduced the
ticklish subject of the mandated islands
ir l the Pacific. “We have spent millions
of dollars and thousands of lives recon-
quering the Japanese-held islands in the
Pacific, the admiral is reported to have
told the delegates, “and we have no in-
tention of relinquishing their sovereignty
to another international authority after
this war. This statement, the first con-
crete evidence of U.S. plans in the Pacific,
received general approval from confer-
ence members.
Russian Views of U.S.
(“Saturday Evening Posteditorial comment .)
In this country [U.S.A.] we have all
kinds of societies dedicated to the task
or promoting understanding of Russia by
Americans. This is doubtless God’s
work, when it isn’t straight propaganda,
nd we go along with the idea that better
understanding of Stalin’s point of view
and purpose should be promoted, let the
chips fall where thdy may.
But even more urgently needed is some
cans or promoting among Russians
QPt^ff; UnderSt j n^*ng American ideals,
activities and purposes. At present
Russians have a poor time of it when
tney try to learn something about that
hnfS ,£ ap . ltalist country where they
A f ? eep> Russians who talk to
ncan visitors find themselves tailed
and even jailed by N.K.V.D. spies. If
they read the Russian Government-
controlled newspapers they find items like
these about America; —'
Dorothy Thompson; Paul Ward, of
the Baltimore “Sun”; George Axelsson
and Raymond Daniell, of the New York
“Times,” are “participants in the collec-
tive creation of a myth” that Russia
planned to use the captured German
generals to head a Communist regime in
Germany! (“War and the Working
Class.”)
The New York “World-Telegram,”
Washington “Star” and New York “Sun”
are “friends and protectors of Hitler.”
(“Pravda.”)
Former Ambassador William C. Bullitt
is a “spy” who “openly advertised h;s
sympathies for Hitler.” (“Pravda.”)
• Hanson Baldwin, military critic of the
New York “Times,” is “attracted to false
German sources for his information.”
(“Pravda.”)
Wendell Wilkie was “the obedient
speaking henchman” of the “secret ad-
herents of the Fascist adventurers in
Europe.” (“Pravda.”)
If the Soviet Union had a free press
Russian readers would know that the
journalists named are hard-working
people who try to present the day’s con-
fusing events in honest packages. They
would know that Mr. Bullitt is not a spy ;
that Mr. Wilkie’s offence was to mention
Poland in an article extremely friendly to
Russia; that the captured German
generals are no “myth,” but for months
have been broadcasting post-war promises
to Germans who would revolt against
Hitler; that the news in “Pravda,”
“Izvestia” and “War and the Working
Class” about what goes on in the United
States is fantastic nonsense concocted for
a purpose unconnected with accurate
news presentation.
What the Russian people should know
about the United States is that millions of
us desire to co-operate with Russia. But
in spite of this will to believe, Americans
have had to take the devil of a beating
from Russia’s leaders, Americans have
swallowed their pride in the hope that
some day the people of Russia would be
permitted to learn the truth about the
United States. American determination to
make a friend of Russia is so strong that
editorials like this one, which express sur-
prise at Russian indifference to our feel-
ings, are greeted by some Americans as
mischievous efforts to “stir up disunity.”
Because of Russian courage and military
prowess, most Americans are all out in
their admiration of Russia, and resent
slurs even on her imperialistic acts. Why
are the Russian people deprived of the
real news about America?
Unfortunately, history shows few in-
stances in which unity has emerged from
a relation in which one party was obse-
quiously conciliatory while the other con-
tinually represented its over-anxious
friend as an enemy and a conspirator.
The sad part of it all is that Stalin appears
to cherish our friendship less than he
welcomes the opportunity to use us as
whipping boy in the Russian press. That
role appears to serve the communist pur-
pose —which is to promote “unity”
among Russians behind Stalin better
than an honest picture of America would
do. It is on this inexorable fact that
hopes of fair American news in the Soviet
press have so far broken down.
Pacific Sea Battle.
(Condensed from an account in the “American
by Rear-Admiral C. A. F. Sprague, U.S.N., as
told to Lieut. Philip H. Gustafson, U.S.N.R .)
A half-hour after sunrise on October
,25—0645, to be exact —I received a radio
message from one of our ’planes on local
anti-submarine patrol: “Enemy surface
force of four battleships, seven cruisers
and 11 destroyers sighted 20 miles north-
west of your task group and closing in on
you at 30 knots.”
“Now, there’s some screwy young
aviator reporting part of our own forces,”
was the thought that ran through my
mind. “Undoubtedly he’s just spotted
some of Admiral Halsey’s fast battle-
ships.”
“Air Plot, tell him to check his identi-
fication,” I yelled into the squawk box.
About 100 miles to the south and west
of us, as a ship would cruise, the shore
was black with‘thousands of men estab-
lishing a beachhead on Leyte, and their
ships were thick in the harbor.
At 0648 as I got my reply from the
pilot: “Identification of enemy force con-
firmed. Ships have pagoda masts.”
The force was the middle prong of a
three-prong Japanese advance on our
Philippines occupation. It was making
through the mists towards the docile
shipping in Leyte Gulf, a rich prize to
be destroyed with frightful leisure.
They’ll steam on down close to the
Leyte coast, I thought, meanwhile sending
out a few cruisers to polish us off. That
will be about a 15-minute job. But if
we can get this task force to attack us
we can delay its descent on Leyte until


IT WON'T BELONG NOW!
—before the Japs have taken the knock-out
and George is back from the war to take you
places, on a full tank of petrol. But, mean-
time, look after your battery. Your nearest
Masse dealer will be glad to service it once a
fortnight, and an occasional re-charge should
give you many extra months of service.
Hasse
ARE TIGERS
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
2-44
r- .ja
i Jfe-
£ -
k
sR
3
BURNING COAL
-ai'-fj/nf/al FACE POWDER
Up and down the world
and all around Australia you will
find Babcock boilers burning a
fuel as fine as face powder.
Pulverising to face
powder fineness has advantages of
the kind that show up in the books
of steam users as direct savings of
pounds, shillings and pence . . .
savings that ultimately are passed
on to the community.
The Babcock pulverised
coal-firing system is closely tied to
an intimate 60-year knowledge of
Australian coals . . . and. in part, is
the reason why, in contrast with
older installations, the modern steam
generating unit burns less coal to
produce an equivalent amount of
steaxm-is tolerant of wide variations
BABCOCK & WILCOX
LIMITED
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK, N.S.W.
Branch Offices and Agencies in all Sfates.
in fuel properties and is as flexible
in following load changes as if the
fuel were liquid.
In no two instances are the
boiler requirements of users identi-
cal. and to the problem of making
the one right installation there is a
decisive solution Babcock world-
wide design experience and con-
struction resources.
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to pul to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
‘ROVED THE SERVICE OF BABCOCK BOILER PLANT
help conies, though obviously the end will
come sooner tor us.
Out of the fog loomed the Jap’s big
battlewagons, and opened with their 14-
and 16-inch guns at 25,000 yards. He
had committed his whole task force to an
attack on us! Wicked salvos straddled
the U.S.S. White Plains, and then colored
geysers began to spout among all the
other carriers from projectiles loaded with
dye to facilitate the spotting of gunfire.
In various shades of pink, green, red,
yellow and purple, the splashes had a
kiiffl of horrid beauty.
I didn’t think we’d last 15 minutes.
What chance could we have —six slow,
thin-skinned escort carriers, each armed
with only ope five-inch peashooter,
against the 16-, 14-, 8-, and 5-inch broad-
sides of the 22 warships bearing down on
us at twice our top speed? No carrier is
built for surface engagements, and these
10,000-ton C.V.Es. were originally in-
tended for convoy escort, airplane trans-
port and air cover —not even for fleet-
to-fleet air strikes. The thought that six
of us would be fighting 22 Jap warships
at gun range had never entered anyone’s
mind.
Bearing down on us at 30 knots were
four new Jap super-battleships, in action
for the first time; the Yamato, Nagato,
Kongo and Haruna (32,720 to 45,000
tons), averaging eight 14- and 16-inch
guns; 16 to 20 5.5-inch and eight 5-inch
guns; seven cruisers of the Nachi,
Mogami and Tone classes (8850 to 12,000
tons, speed 35 knots), averaging eight
8-inch and eight 5-inch guns and eight
to twelve 24-inch torpedo tubes; 11 de-
stroyers, averaging 1700 tons, five 4-inch
guns and four torpedo tubes.
Well, anyhow, I thought, we might as
well give them all we’ve got before we
go down, so the minute the Japs were
sighted I took several defensive and offen-
sive actions in quick succession. At 0650
I shifted from my northerly course and
ran directly east,, heading at full speed
for a friendly little rain squall near by.
On the new course we were bearing
almost into the wind, and at 0656 I
ordered all carriers to launch aircraft for
torpedo and bombing strikes on the Jap
fleet. Many of our ’planes were over the
beach on support missions, and I radioed
Commander Support Aircraft to send
these back on the, double. They had
bombs which we could use.
At 0657 I instructed my carriers to
throw up all possible smoke from their
stacks and break out tanks of screening
chemical ordinarily used by the ’planes.
Open to the air, these tanks were soon
billowing clouds of vapor over the stern.
At the same time I ordered all the escorts
to get on the stern of the formation and
whip up all smoke they could muster.
From Vice-Admiral Thomas C. Kin-
kaid, commanding the Seventh Fleet, I
requested all available air and surface
assistance, particularly from two other
groups in our carrier task force. Rear-
Admiral Felix Stump, commanding the
nearest carrier group, 30 miles to the
south, responded at once with a series
of bombing and torpedo strikes that con-
tinued during the next two hours. ’Planes
were also thrown at the Jap fleet by car-
riers under Rear-Admiral Thomas L.
Sprague (no relation of mine), operating
the third group 70 miles south of us.
Commander Richard L. Fowler, U.S.N.
Fargo. N. Dak., leader of the flagship’s
air group, roared off into the murk with
a division of torpedo ’planes, and himself
scored a hit amidships on the battleship
Nagato. Others of his section hit cruisers.
Fowler and the rest of the first attackers
flew into a blinding flak thrown up by
the whole Japanese force, still in a single
group deployment.
Launched hastily—singly or in small
units —the Avengers and Wildcats could
seldom rendezvous in the smoke and con-
fusion to make co-ordinated attacks;
consequently, the torpedo ’planes often
went in without benefit of bombers and
strafers to clear the decks ahead of them.
Fighters ran impromptu interference
whenever they could find a good ball-
carrier, or, bombs lacking, just flew
into clouds of anti-aircraft fire to chase
the Jap gun crews and divert the ships.
Salvos were splashing thickly around
all my ships as, at 0713, still heading east,
we entered our little rain squall, and in
its slight shelter finished launching air-
craft. This providential rainstorm, plus
the funnel and screening smoke laid down
by all ships, seemed to bother the enemy
fire-control parties to an unusual degree,
at times causing lulls in the shelling.
In the squall I did some thinking. I
didn’t like my easterly course, because I
felt the Japs were not being drawn as
far from San Bernardino Strait as I’d like.
I wanted to pull the enemy out where
somebody could smack him, for if we
were going to expend ourselves I wanted
to make it count. Furthermore, 1 felt
I should run south-west to meet whatever
help might be coming to me out of Leyte
Gulf. And still I wanted to keep myself
between the enemy fleet and our landing
operations to the south-west.
It was a hard decision to make, but at
0730 I changed course to the south-east
and then to the south. It was hard, be-
cause in so turning we moved in an arc
—roughly semi-circular—and I feared the
Jap commander would cut across the
diameter and blast us out of the water as
we emerged from our little squall. Rack-
ing my brains for some trick to delay
the kill, I resolved to throw my destroyers
and destroyer escorts at him in a torpedo
attack as we emerged from the rainstorm.
As we came out of the squall, I was
surprised to find that the Jap commander
had not moved to cut us off but had
stupidly followed us %round the circle.
However, going now at almost twice our
top speed, he closed in on us with depress-
ing rapidity, slipping up to 25,000, then
to 20,000, and soon to 15,000 yards.. The
volume and accuracy of his fire increased
until, at one point, it did not seem that
any of our ships could survive for an-
other five minutes.
Some urgent counter-action was de-
manded at once, and this was the time
for my little group of seven escorts to
charge our big tormentors. In they went,
pressing their attack to close range in the
most heroic fashion. And not a single
one of these little ships was lost! Results
were obscured in the heavy smoke-screen,
but we know that one destroyer got a
direct torpedo hit on a battleship. More
important, the escorts turned the battle-
ship fleet away momentarily and created
a diversion of immense value.
As the Japs came within range I
ordered the carriers to open up with their
peashooters (the single 5-inchers, with
which each carrier is armed).
The St.-L6, singling out a cruiser 1400
yards astern and closing, scored three hits
and started a large fire.
At this point the enemy split his forces,
advancing two heavy cruisers on our port
quarter, which soon moved up abeam of
us, closing the range at will and deliver-
ing salvos from as close as 10,000 yards.
Straddles and hits were being scored all
over our force. On the starboard side, the
Jap O.T.C. (Officer in Tactical Command)
also moved up a group of cruisers and
destroyers in a similar tactic, and these
also closed the range to 10,000 yards. His
battleships he kept in the rear, closing
to 10,000 to 15,000 yards. The Japs were
now firing at us from three sides.
Within this three-sided “box,” my car-
riers were formed in a large circle, with
the destroyers and destroyer escorts in
a larger circle around them. I kept this
formation on a south-westerly course,
squeezing over 10 to 20 degrees to one
side and then to the other, according to
which side was throwing the hottest fire.
Within the rough circular formation the
individual carrier skippers manoeuvred
violently, chasing salvo splashes on the
assumption that the next salvo would land
somewhere else. This was the pattern of
our movements for most of the two hours
and a half we were under attack. During
this time I figure they fired about 300
salvos, letting go at two-second intervals.
Between 0800 and 0900 the whole for-
mation was under continuous fire. My
flagship, the Fanshaw Bay, was hit six
times. From the splashes, it appeared
that the Kalinin Bay was getting the worst
working over. She suffered 16 hits. The
shells created a shambles below decks, her
officers told me later, and only the heroic
efforts of her crew kept the little ship
going. Bos’n’s crews wrestled under five
feet of water to plug up big holes in the
hull; engineers worked knee-deep in oil,
choking in the stench of burned rubber;
quarter-masters steered the ship for hours
from the emergency wheel below, as fire
scorched the deck on which they stood;
and all hands risked their lives to save
mates in ..flooded or burning compar.
ments. . ,
At 0820 the Gambier Bay reported
being so heavily hit that she lost the use
of one engine. Her speed reduced to 14
knots, she dropped back rapidly m the
formation and passed through most oi
the Japanese fleet. As the big enemy war-
ships heaved abeam at 2000 yards they
pumped 20 8-inch shells into her un*
armored hull until she sank. Swarming
down the side on lines, her crew scattered
over the water in life-jackets and rafts,
the hubbub of battle quickly passing them
by. Rescue craft came out of Leyte Ouli
to pick up some 700 survivors.
The Japs’ destroyers and cruisers on
our flanks continued firing broadsides at
us frpm 10,000 yards, and I never did
figure out why they didn’t close to SUW
and polish us off. Around 0840 the Japa-
nese fire from the starboard beam was
punishing us so unmercifully that some-
thing* had to be done. At 0841 I ordered
part of our destroyers and destroyer
escorts to get between us and the cruisers
to throw up a heavier smoke-screen.
While they were thus protecting the car-
rie", the destroyers U.S.S. Hoel and
U.S.S. Johnson and the destroyer escort


d
f
Mistakes In Wills
are Common
Therefore be doubly sure yours
is carefully drawn, to mean what
you intend, and that the executors
to administer it are competent
and experienced.
One of the commonest mistakes is to
assume that the testator desiring to
leave his property is the only person
who will die. Bequests to relatives are
made as if those relatives were immortal.
If any of the beneficiaries should die
first the administration of the Will may
be complicated and the testator's
property may go where he never
intended.
Wills also become complicated when no
provision is made for possible additions
to the family.
Another serious mistake in the careless
Will is failure to differentiate clearly
between a life interest in property and
the fee simple, or straight-out gift.
Finally, much trouble and loss may
arise when the Executor named dies,
or becomes incapable, or is unsuited
for the duty of administration.
The safe course is to have your Will
legally drawn, and to entrust the
administration of it to those who possess
the requisite knowledge and experience
and are always, impartially, at your
disposal.
The Union Trustee meets all require-
ments, For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor: Samuel Cooke. General Manager: John Larritt.
Manager: J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector: H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson; 1
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G, H. Shipway. Assistant Manager ; L. K. Stephens
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOA&D:
Sir Edward Macartney, K.B. (Chairman); J. W. Fletcher, 0.8. E. (Vice-Chairman);
Roy M. Bell; Byrne Hart, m.c., f.c.a. (Aust.); R. J. Donaldson, D. 5.0., 8.C.E.;
Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., F.Eat.A., A.I.C.A,
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., A.A.I.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street —L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors ; C. W. Stumm, P. C. Neville.
HP
\ _
l w\
fr
u.
S’
More than three-quarters of a million Australian men and
women are serving in the fighting and auxiliary forces. So
someone has to prepare two million meals a day, and
efficient cooking has become a national service.
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is playing its -part in fulfilling this vast requirement. AGA
Cookers have been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air
Force, for unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of your
AGA Cooker is not made with normal promptness, please
bear in mind the urgent needs of the fighting men and
the auxiliary services.
Whether in military or civilian use, the AGA Cooker burns
continuously; cooks fast or slow as desired; conserves food
flavours, and is almost unbelievably economical.
A demonstration will be gladly given if you call. Or
write for illustrated catalogue R 5.
AGA
RES D. JT RA 0 E MA R K
The Original Heal Storage
COOKER
MADE IN' BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Est. 18S2 (Inc. in N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. S. Webster &
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
§ Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
df
If any illustration in “THE BULLETIN” takes your fancy, write
to the MANAGER, who will quote you price for the
U.S.S. Roberts were fatally hit and
dropped back out of sight.
All during our flight from the Jap fleet
pilots of all three air groups were hitting
the Jap ships with everything in the
armory. After the first launch from my
own task group, the heavy firing, violent
manoeuvres and cross winds made it im-
possible for me to land ’planes. How-
ever, Admiral Stump’s group recovered
and launched ’planes without pause.
Admiral Thomas Sprague also threw in
the ’planes he could get off, but un-
fortunately his carriers were under land-
based attack a good share of the time.
Deck crews on all these carriers worked
at terrific pressure landing ’planes, refuel-
ing, rearming and launching over and
over again at top speed.
To me it was a miracle that under such
terrific fire for that length of time only
one carrier had suffered a crippling hit.
Two others had suffered several hits, and
three others none at all. And all of my
six carriers, except the Gambier Bay,
were able to make their maximum speed.
But at 0920 the Japs, having given us
everything they had in surface fire,
opened up with a torpedo attack, launch-
ing from 12 to 14 fish on our starboard
quarter. Again they showed their timidity
by striking from too far away—about
10,000 yards—so that when the torpedoes
reached our formation they were near
the end of their rope and, fortunately,
parallel to our course. Several of our
pilots, passing over our carriers between
strikes, were quick-witted enough to strafe
torpedoes which seemed about to hit
ships, and exploded several of them in
the water.
At 0925 my mind was occupied with
dodging torpedoes, when near the bridge
I heard one of the signalmen yell “God
damn it, boys, they’re getting away!”
I could not believe my eyes, but it
looked as if the whole Japanese fleet was
indeed retiring. However, it took a wholb
series of reports from circling ’planes to
convince me. And still I could not get
the fact to soak into my battle-numbed
brain. At best, I had expected to be
swimming by this time, along with all of
my crews ; instead, we still had five car-
riers and four escorts able to make maxi-
mum speed after the hardest shelling that
any fleet unit has ever undergone. I am
convinced of this.
The “Windy Corner” at the Battle of
Jutland previously held the record, but,
as they advanced on the Germans and
turned for firing, the British cruisers
underwent the intensive fire of the Ger-
man fleet for only 15 minutes. We took
it for 150. Our fatalities were incredibly
light for what we had been through. A
quick check of the surviving ships showed
less than six killed per ship, not counting
the Gambier Bay. Surprisingly, the car-
rier air groups lost an average of only
one flier apiece.
Incredible as it may seem, I am con-
vinced that the Japs retreated because
they were suffering more damage than
they could stand. Between the three task
groups we had thrown 400 ’plane-strikes
at the Japs, and I know definitely that
the ’planes from my group sank one
heavy cruiser, besides damaging another
heavy cruiser so badly that she lay dead
in the water, to be polished off later by
’planes from the other two carrier groups.
Every ship in the Jap formation had been
damaged by bombs or torpedoes. The
decks of the Japanese ships were prob-
ably so badly messed up that the fleet
was in no condition to carry out its origi-
nal objective of pounding to pieces the
landing ships and ground forces at Leyte.
I personally feel that it is a lucky thing
for our Philippines occupation that my
operating area was where it was, and that
the Japs picked on us. Certainly, it was
fortunate for the forces then landing on
Leyte. As it was, the Japanese task force
reached a point only 70 miles and two
hours away from a firing position. And
I still think it was a miracle that we came
out as we did. In my combat report I
have said: — . , .
“The failure of the enemy mam body
and encircling light forces to wipe out
completely all vessels of this task unit
can be attributed to our successful smoke-
screen, our torpedo counter-attack, con-
tinuous harassment by bomb, torpedo and
strafing air attacks, and the definite par-
tiality of the Almighty God.’
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
At Yalta Stalin began the discussions on
Poland by taking an exceedingly firm, rather
emotional and, it seemed, inflexible position.
He spoke with great intensity, and simply
couldn’t remain seated in his chair while he
was talking on this subject. He would bounce
to his feet every time he would speak, sit down
momentarily while the translator was interpret-
ing, then bring himself up and quickly start in
again with a fluent, earnest statement of his
cast—“ Christian Science Monitor” correspon-
dent.
* * * *
The British have disclosed that when they
entered Brussels they captured a vast stock of
German maps that had been drawn for the
invasion of Britain. With a delightful sense of
the ironic, they turned the German charts
over and drew their own plans for the invasion
of Germany on the reserve side. — “Christian
Science Monitor.”
* * * *
The Russian price for U.S.-British use against
Japan of air and naval bases on Russian terri-
tory is such that there is doubt whether those
bases will be used by other than Russian forces
in the event that Marshal Stalin enters Russia
in the Pacific war. This price, in terms of
command and other factors, apparently was not
reduced at Yalta. — “United States News.”
* * * *
Taking everything together, France under
General de Gaulle is making an amazing re-
covery. The prediction of South Africa’s Field
Marshal Smuts that she never could regain he>
old-time stature apparently is not to be borne
out. Already she is assured a place as one of
the five permanent members of the World
Security Council. With U.S. help, she is build-
ing a new army and is preparing to rebuild her
industry. If the aims of General de Gaulle are
realised she will become once more the No. 1
Power of the European continent outside Russia,
and rank next below the Big Three in the world.
—“United States News.”
w * * *
With one of the smallest per-square-mile
populations of the large countries on the Euro-
pean continent, with the lowest birthrate, with
reportedly more than 5,000,000 unemployed and
in the grip of the greatest economic crisis in
the history of that country, France, according
to De Gaulle, wants all that large slice of
German territory on the west side of the Rhine.
Not only that, he wants some territory on the
east side. The reason he gives is “security”
against a Germany that is to be completely dis-
armed, demilitarised and made impotent.—
N.Y. “Journal-American” correspondent.
* * * *
Despite the Government’s assurance to labor
that an effort will be made to raise wage rates
to offset loss of overtime, American workers
can expect a general flattening of pay envelopes
within a fe\V weeks after peace comes to Europe.
Cutbacks in war plants will cost many workers
their jobs. Overtime pay will end for most
war workers. The unemployed may total
3 ? 000,000 within six months. Grievances lead-
ing to strikes will multiply.— “ United States
News.”
* * * *
“We are beginning to see the pattern of the
post-war world in the liberated countries of
France and Rumania. The liberation of those
countries will not quite bring liberation to the
Jewish people because anti-Semitism has be-
come a vested interest in those countries.” —
U.S. Zionist president Dr. Israel Goldstein.
* * * *
A flare-up of anger appears to be sweeping
parents of America’s 18-year-old draftees. It
is related to the fact that boys of 18 are being
shipped to combat areas after 15 to 17 weeks
of training and are turning up as casualties
within six or eight months of their induction.
An impression is widespread among the nation’s
parents that the Army had promised that boys
drafted at 18 would be given a year’s train-
ing before being sent overseas. This, too, was
the impression of some members of Congress
when the draft age was lowered to 18. The
anger now flaring among parents stems from a
feeling that their boys are not receiving ade-
quate training. The Army explains that it finds
boys of 18 can be hardened and taught the use
of basic infantry weapons in 15 weeks, after
which they make excellent replacements when
used with more experienced troops. — “United
States News.”
* * * *
The militarists may split under the extreme
pressure of events, but there will probably be
enough die-hards to prevent the Japanese Gov-
ernment from accepting unconditional sur-
render. Americans spend a lot of time dis-
cussing what to do with the Japanese Emperor
—without taking into account the probability
that these extreme groups will take him with
them to the mountains, for in him they have
the source of all authority. But the Imperial
family is so large that we could probably find
a substitute Emperor if we so desired. What
the Japanese do about their Emperor is surely
the answer to what we should do. If they de-
stroy the Imperial institution it would be foolish
for us to restore it. If they leave it intact it
might be equally foolish for us to destroy it.
—“Atlantic Monthly.”
« * * *
The Polish settlement has already been called
the “Alsace-Lorraine of World War III.” It
can breed dissension and sow the seeds of
another war not just because of the few mile?
of territory involved but because of the lack of
principle in the whole procedure —the high-
handed method by which the territory was arbi-
trarily taken from an ally in this war. Wars
grow out of seemingly unimportant' bits of
territorial aggrandisement and the indifference
of peoples to issues capable of becoming fester-
ing sores. — American syndicate writer David
Lawrence.
* * * *
Conceding that the Army, Navy and Marine
Corps had made great strides in the Pacific,
William L. Batt, vice-chairman of the U.S.
War Production Board, warned against under-
estimating the fighting potential of the Japanese
enemy. “There are three things about the
Japanese that must not be overlooked,” he
asserted. “The Japanese land army is numeri-
cally today just about as large as the German
Army was at its peak; the largest portion of
that army and really their ‘first team’ is still
up north in Manchuria; and they are an enemy
with completely unknown powers of continued
resistance. Our present naval operations and
victories must certainly be preliminary to big
military landings somewhere at the end of
supply lines three times as long as those that
have separated us from the Germans.”— N.Y.
“limes” report.
* * * *
There will be no reduction in the rate of tax
Americans pay on their 1945 income even if the
German war should end within the next few
weeks. If the Japanese war should end early
in 1946 there may be a very modest reduction
in tax rates applied to income earned by indi-
viduals in the last half of the year. Otherwise,
1947 income will be the first to enjoy' relief.
Furthermore, tax relief, when it comes, will not
be a straight across-the-board reduction. The
idea that everyone’s taxes should be reduced 50
per cent, or 20 per cent, has been abandoned.
Tax cuts are to be designed to promote business
investment and consumer buying, while still
yielding large revenues. That means carefully
selected reductions. —“ United States News.”


T|Ur> i> j^;
*tv\T \IiVU
ri VAJL «uv * **££ as
■We t°pe p ble to «***“* a a<boi-
that V°“*£to fce Q
. » nt3 Cy
iSe alSe9° alon ' 3
■ssss
; eoof
ENJVME I*
Juil Tav'ot s» <• present. ,
a«a^ eP ° S *® ie “ e
due to deSencenee^^^e
NO STOCKS saVoU rilest
olvoU r P « f
J i}-^0
M
r4i
A
■R.
H
but v , t#e
PREPARED
fAVtorjj
paint
Three coals o! first-grade
s,— paint give 5 years' full protection.
ir’s Paints Ply. Ltd., Sutherland Ave., Paddington, N.S.W. Tel. FA 21
SUPPLIERS TO ARMY NAVY AND AIR FOROF
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
E6ELABRA MERINOS
Four times winners of the Stonehaven Cup. Winners of Ist and 2nd
prizes on two occasions. Also winners of Grand Champion Ram and
Ewe # Sydney Sheep Show, 1940.
RAMS FOR SALE
Rams dropped Oct./Nov., 1943,
are now ready for delivery.
Prices from 5 gns. to 15 gn?
per head.
H. E. KATER fir SON - - - Egelobra, Warren, N.S.W.
Telephone: Warren 10
w jr
A
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
OnogaS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
The safest, surest and, most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Sydney Beef Sales.
“Bulago”: Last year’s abnormal prices
drew record entries this year but many
bulls went home unsold. Demand for
high-quality animals, particularly from
imported blood, was good, but for the
rest the market was patchy. Drought and
the impossibility of obtaining fodder
affected Shorthorns most —the Hereford
country has had relief rains—but there
was keen demand for Poll Shorthorns
and for cows of all breeds.
Some new records were made, E. L.
Killen’s champion Poll Shorthorn bull,
Antrim Romulus, went to Mt. Margaret
(Q.) for 2100gns., and W. Mcllrath’s
champion Hereford cow, Windsor Mari-
tana 14th, to Rawdon Vale for 550gns.
Top price was again made by the Wind-
sor stud for the champion Hereford bull.
Royal Robin, to J. F. and S. Vickery for
2500gns.
Herefords sold comparatively well.
High prices for top-line animals made
an average of over £240 for 104 bulls,
and the females made top average. Golf
Hill Beaulute was sold privately to Colly
Creek for 2000gns., Herbert Park Bando-
lier brought* 1450gn5., and Bexley King
Cup made lOOOgns. Hereford females
sold for 410gns., 255gns. and 210gns.
Colly Creek Electric—the calf that beat
the champion—was purchased for
1600gns.
Polled Herefords made satisfattory
prices. Milton topped the averages—one
bull at 400gns. and a heifer at 300gns.
Wantabadgery got 350gns. for a bull and
260gns. for a heifer. Poll Herefords
averaged over £l5B a head.
Among Aberdeen-Angus there was a
strong demand for Booroomooka bulls—
B. Memory, the champion, went to a S.A.
buyer for 925gns. Other Booroomookas
sold at 500gns. (2) and 220gns. There
was a limited demand for Devons, but
Havilah got good prices for both bulls
and females, and the two other studs
offering made good averages. Buyers
showed little interest in Red Polls, and
only two bulls were sold at auction.
Shorthorn sales were very subdued
except for topnotchers. Top price at auc-
tion was llOOgns. for a Turanville bull;
Hambledon Sovereign, the res. champion,
brought 510gns. The Coonong champion
railed to reach owner’s reserve, and Coo-
nong Noble King, junior, res. champion,
went for 500gns. A ten-year-old imported
bull brought 140gns. Demand for Short-
horn females was better, and the average
of the 22 sold at auction beat the average
of the bulls. A Turanville heifer was sold
privately at 900gns. Poll Shorthorns
caused plenty of excitement, and left no
doubt about their growing popularity.
Antrim Romulus, champion, brought
2100gns., and though the next-best prices
were 400gns. for a Gundibri bull and
370gns. for a Kaluga, the average price
was just a shade behind the Herefords
and well ahead of their horned brethren.
The females were keenly sought, the two
Peel River champions bringing 260gns.
and 215gns. respectively.
Saving the Country.
If only some means could be
found of bringing together all those per-
sons and organisations concerned with
the saving of our soil, water and forests
and of then forming a united drive
against both public and Parliamentary
apathy, this country might begin to save
itself. The duststorms of last year, the
continuing drought in the south-east and
the mournful evidence of failing food
supplies, stock losses and siltation have
caused alarm and a desire for reform
that, though not as widespread as they
ought to be, at least provide a basis from
which a vital movement could begin.
At a conference in Sydney on soil and
water conservation 16 organisations were
represented. It lasted two days and had
audiences varying from 200 to 700, What
it achieved is a matter of some doubt,
but this applies to all conferences, Aus-
tralia has the conference habit very badly
developed. There have been thousands
of the things, but little ever comes from
them, largely because the inspiration that
launches them ceases with the actual
conference and doesn’t appear again until
somebody else decides to call another
conference.
The one in Sydney heard from various
experts of what is happening to the soil,
forests and water supplies of N.S.W. It
was told by W. F. Dunn, the only
Minister for Conservation in seven Par-
liaments, that his Government has set
aside £3,000,000 for re-afforestation and
that it has submitted to the Common-
wealth Works Council a proposal to
spend £2,000,000 a year over 15 years on
water conservation in N.S.W. TTiat may
be something, but measured against the
appalling national losses caused by per-
sistently bad farming, irrigation, water
conservation and forest abuses, it is like
throwing a bucket of water at a bushfire.
This isn’t to condemn either the Sydney
conference or the N.S.W. Government’s
“ I'm Shire President, see, an We don't Want a lot o' dirt like this left lyin
around in case the Duke o' Gloucester pays a visit here."
plans. The conference was an honest
attempt to stimulate public interest in
what is probably the nation’s most im-
portant and most dangerous problem, and
the Government’s plans are better than
no plans-at all. But it must madden
everybody who is aware of the state of
the nation’s land industries—and its soil
—to compare these things with the grand
and glorious “social service” plans and
the vast sums of tax money proposed to
be spent on them now and after the war.
Even the proposition to spend £73,000,000
on unifying rail gauges conjures up a
vision of trains steaming through a land
wasted by erosion, running over bridges
across dried-up streams and having to
carry their water with them from the few
storages left on the coast. ,
Obviously, the post-war problems of
conservation, agriculture, transport and
decentralisation are so closely related that
what is called for is a vast and powerful
national organisation to control and de-
velop them and other related matters.
That would come expensive, but it
would provide employment for thousands
of men, it would be reproductive and, in
the long run, it would put this country
in a fair way to becoming the nation it
ought to be. Meantime, conferences and
the minor plans of minor Governments,
for all their value, merely scratch the
surface in one place while the rot con-
tinues over all the rest.
Brown Hay
“The Tatler”: Up here in the N.T,
sugar-cane grass, fair stock feed when
young and short, is practically useless at
its full height of 14ft or 15ft. In clear-
ing a lot of this grass was stacked green.
A few weeks later we found it had cured
as an apparently good “brown hay,” a
sort of cross between grass-hay and silage
(well-known in Britain, whose damper
climate prevents methods used here),
The Territory has a sparse stock popu-
lation owing to the long dry season. If
some economic means could be devised to
boost dry-season stocking this country
would carry numbers little dreamt of
down south. Provided sufficient country
was cleared of its present light timber
this could be done, and with very few
implements, by using brown hay.
At Kybybolite (S.A.), a district enjoy-
ing probably the most luxuriant spring
growth of all southern areas, when all the
silage and grass-hay which could be rea-
sonably dealt with had been cut a
power mower ran over the remainder of
the 3ft. high pastures at 7 m.p.h., knock-
ing it down. Within 12 hours came a
hay rake which, having speedily gathered
the grass into windrows, was then run
along the rows, cocking the grass into big,
rough cocks, about four times the size


iiiiilii
U
Mi
H
' e
There's only one "Caterpillar"
The name Caterpillar" is the property of the
Caterpillar Tractor Company of Peoria, Illinois,
manufacturers of the original track-type tractor
and the oldest and largest makers of track-type
tractors in the world.
I)
&
m
/
allar
Cater
When a Caterpillar Diesel Tractor says:
“Come ashore!” to a big gun, ashore it
comes, in short order and up it goes into the
fighting line. But lumping guns is only one
of the jobs of this most versatile of all diesel tractors. With equal dash it turns itself
into a jungle fighter. Armed with a bulldozer, it uproots giant trees, moves aside
rocks, clears river crossings so that infantry and supplies may move forward pronto.
And it will build a permanent road or an airport as part of the day’s work. Nothing
can withstand the amazing power of a Caterpillar Diesel on the warpath.
Meantime, on the home front, Caterpillar Diesels are drawing ploughs and all forms
of food-producing equipment—sometimes on a 24-hour-a-day schedule, to feed
the troops who win the battles.
CATERPILLAR D/ESec
REG. U.B. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH - MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin’s Bridge Rd„ St. Peters, Sydney. 'Phone—LAß32l. Marquis St., Gunnedah. 'Phone—Gunnedah 326.
Service Engineers: Mr, J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St., South Grafton, Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie,
'Phone—Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. 'Phone — 2B39. 102 Melbourne St.,
South Brisbane, 'Phone — Jl4s6. Rankin St., Innisfail. 'Phone—lnnisfail 475.
gh t. Work,. Buy War Savings Certificates
OT.«- 38.44
LYS>SHrrS
&
PROOF
100% Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Oar MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHTS
Fencing Wire
*«■ «. ’rw
jaiijnWNiiiii ■t"' i»iiii»m«ir»iffinnirfiii)inij.
MM
J&.
mwm
m
ESTABLISHED ISB4
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable*from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY ” LYSAGHT'S" WIRE, WIRE NETTING, ETC.
of an ordinary grass-hay stock. There
the operation ceased, the grass being
allowed to cure in the miniature hay
stacks.
As the grass was cut at roughly between
the silage and grass-hay stage, there was
always a good second growth. The big
advantage was that the first growth was
arrested at a stage of maximum nutritive
value instead of allowing the grass to
seed and the stalk to harden, bleach and
become almost worthless, dry, standing
feed. With its own moisture and sub-
sequent showers, the grass cured into
brow'n hay. Some Kybybolite farmers
averred that in previous years the ewes
ate every particle of this hay-cum-silage
by the middle of the following winter
and thrived on it.
In the Territory the grass is already
here —no top-dressing needed —and the
tonnage would be tenfold that of southern
areas. The only implements required
would be a mower and a rake. It isn’t
too early to start an experiment which, if
successful, would intensify carrying
capacity immeasurably.
Sugar Experiments.
“Plane Creek”; To discover the effect
of cultivation on cane yield Bundaberg
experiment station produced three crops
—plant, first and second ratoons —on
sub-soiled land, and three crops on land
ploughed to a depth of 12in. The sub-
soiled land, cultivated to a depth of
20in., gave in all 63.3 tons per acre, as
against 61.7 tons on the other. Inter-row
scarifier cultivation, in another experi-
ment, failed to prove its worth. One
paddock was regularly scarified during
the growing period of a plant cane crop.
Another paddock wasn’t scarified, weed
growth being kept in check with the hoe.
The scarified area yielded 36.5 tons per
acre, as against 37.6 tons for the unscari-
fied.
The first result suggests that 12in. of
soil will grow a very satisfactory crop,
and that sugarcane cannot find much
nourishment in the subsoil. Subsoiling
might prove of great benefit on very
shallow soils, however. It would give
the anchoring roots more room, and
reduce the risk of the cane being blown
over by high winds or washed out by
floodwaters. But where there is good
depth of soil subsoiling wouldn’t pay.
Scarifying is certainly of no value, ex-
cept for clearing weeds from between the
rows and for breaking the surface after
heavy rain. It was once thought that
constant cultivation helped conserve
moisture, but now it is realised that it
really accelerates its loss from the soil
and damages the feeding roots of grow-
ing cane.
A Brooder.
“Jock”: The electric brooder is a great
thing—easily knocked up by a bush car-
penter in half a day, costs less than two
bushels of Scully’s wheat ; there is no
temperature variation, no trouble with
lamps, practically no fire danger.
The bottom of an old 3ft. diameter
tank is cut around the sides leaving only
12in, of the sides upright. A pop-hole
is cut for the 100 chickens it broods. A
piece of down-piping 11 in. long is sol-
dered above a corresponding hole in the
centre of the bottom. In this hole a fix-
ture is made to take an electric globe
for heating. Two pieces of hessian are
cut for the floor —one is aired while
the other is used. The top is made of
wood and has the usual pieces of cloth
nailed on its under surface. The roof
rests on the sides of the tank with £in,
gap for ventilation.
For the first few days a 60 watt lamp
may be used, and thereafter a 40. The
40 watt costs about l|d. for 24 hours
with power at l|d., as here in S.A.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”:' There are small, black
tusks in the jaws of sucking pigs, and
these should drop out of their own accord
(B. 14/3/’45). If they don’t, draw ’em
with forceps or they may grow long and
lacerate the tongue. Should injury be
caused to the mouth abscesses may form
and the pig die from starvation.
“H.C.”: Piglets of sows that have
farrowed within 24 hours of each other
can be changed over if the foster mother
has enough wet teats. Don’t attempt the
transfer if there’s a longer time between
births. The older piglets will be attached
to their own special teats and strong
enough to push the newcomers out,
hence the runts.
“Bill C.”: The zamia palm, whose
fronds cattle are likely to eat when there
is a scarcity of grass, is easily killed. Just
knock a hole in the top of each zamia
with a crowbar and pour in a little water,
Tall palms will have to be de-topped be-
fore they can be “watered.” The water
becomes stagnant and poisons the zamias
as effectively as arsenic pentoxide. The
zamia palm contains a poison which
attacks the spinal cord of cattle and
brings on a form of paralysis that is
commonly fatal.
“Myrrhee”: Keep the brooder floors,
food apd water containers clean, and so
construct the latter that the chicks can’t
walk into them. Dryness and strict
hygiene reduce the incidence of parasites
and direct sunlight acts as a disinfectant
and preventive of rickets,
“Nedher”; If the garden digging fork
breaks at the butt of the handle get a
thread cut on the steel butt above the
prongs and screw on a length of inch
piping with a T-end for a hand grip. The
fork will then last a lifetime.


BUILT TO SERVE!
n«
<S2f>
IS
m
Quality
the keystone of
Willard dependability
Willard
• . • have the power to carry on!
Distributors for N.S.W.
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. OF AUST. PTY.,
LIMITED,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
Are you always weary ...
do you lack vigour, or
suffer constant pain?
then take a course of
register 0
Blood, Veins, Arteries, Etc.
Thousands of sufferers have
gained relief from this wonder-
ful biomedical treatment. It has
long been realised that unnatural
weariness and many chronic pain
conditions are frequently the re-
sult of poor or sluggish circula-
tion of the blood. Elasto goes to
work right at the source of un-
healthy conditions of the blood-
Elasto creates within the system
a new health force. It promotes
a feeling of well being and
arouses the Inherent healing
powers of the body, with the re-
sult that ailments arising from
poor blood condition are quickly
relieved. The speed with which
Elasto goes to work Is truly
amazing. Varicose veins are re-
stored to a healthy condition;
arteries become supple; B^*n
troubles clear up and leg wounds
heal naturally: plies and rheu-
matism are relieved. This is not
magic—it is the natural result of
revitalised blood and Improved
circulation brought about by
Elasto the tiny tablet with
wonderful healing powers.
"What is ELASTO"? Free
Booklet Answers Questions
A free booklet —see offer below
answers the question that
everybody is asking. In simple
terms it explains just how Elasto
revitalises the blood. It explains
TABLETS
that Blasto is not a
drug but a vital
cell food that re-
stores to the blood
elements which
combine with the
blood albumin to
form organic elastic
tissue, thus enabling nature to
assist elasticity to the broken
down and devitalised fabric of
veins, arteries, etc., and so re-
establish normal healthy circula-
tion. It is this restoration of
proper circulation that brings
the quick relief that you seek.
What users of ELASTO say:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.” . .
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.” •
t ‘Blasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “ElastoV, Box 1552 E.
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Blasto’ booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
d
fd
SMOKE-OH!
“Burwood Expects You To Do Your
Share in the Third Victory Loan.”
—Suburban paper.
Well, plain speaking was demanded in
the closing stages.
•J* *l* *l* ’‘J*
“Sold all ijiy vices, cranks, etc.”
— Advt. in Queensland paper.
What’s he got to live for now?
* *F *i* , ,
“You should experience no trouble m making
this skirt.” — Woman’s paper.
But we always heard that skirts and
trouble were inseparable.
+ 4*
“Broody, 24 chicks £2, Australorps.”
For sale advt. in suburban paper.
Hatching their count before their
chickens.
Party Wire.
“Maryland State Legislature has passed a
bill making it illegal to use the telephone for
making immoral engagements.”
Making immoral engagements isn’t all
beer and skittles, especially in the diplo-
matic world.
It was in the tense of days of ,’3B, when
everyone in Vienna was keeping a close
tab on everyone else, that I tried to con-
duct a liaison with the wife of the Mol-
davian charge-d’affaires, an effervescent
lady by the name of Baroness von Seid-
litz. My object was a purely diplomatic
one, connected with the plans of the Mol-
davian M 2 tank, which she was reputed
to have tattooed on her left big toe.
One afternoon I rang her up to make
an assignment. As I got through a
series of clicks like a volley of musketry
betrayed the usual corps of telephone-
tappers coming on to the line. I therefore
tried to be non-committal.
“Ach, so! It is you, my little
maraschino,” she greeted me.
“Could be,” I said guardedly. I could
distinguish the Bessarabian Consul’s
asthma somewhere on the line.
“Eet ees tonight, then,” the Baroness
breathed sultrily.
“Very likely,” I replied. The sound
of coughing and throat-clearing from the
other listeners was now rather like the
stalls of a theatre during the overture.
“You play wit’ me, you tarrible man!”
gushed the Baroness. “Eet ees so cruel,
when I lof you so!”
“Wheesht!” I warned her, forgetting
myself in my alarm. “The Italian
Minister is listening in. He will be
jealous.”
“The signor lies,” came an indignant
"No, no, Sid —you always hang a shirt by its TAIL!”
voice. “Eet weel be peestols at-a dawn
tomorrow. I weel keel you.”
It was, and he did.
Plum.
“Maternity Frock and Jacket, navy blue
wood. S.W. — Suburban paper,
This should guarantee the baby a
square deal.
“Lost, Philagree and Stone Brooch, soldier’s
keepsake. Reward. JA6637.”
—“Great Northern” (Sydney).
Another war-time ersatz?
“Lost, Handbag, navy blue, lost Hornsby
station or train containing ration book, identity
card, clothing coupons, glasses and money.”
—Hornsby (N.S.W.) “Advocate.”
The Commissioner is worried.
•F
“Wanted, two laundresses, over 45, for
pyjamas and blouses.” — Suburban paper.
Day and night shifts.
4*
Anthem a La Artie.
“Artie Shaw has been commissioned to com-
pose a national anthem for Saudi Arabia.”
Gus Hepkatski, Butch Humperdinck
and Manny Jivestein, who had been col-
laborating on the lyrics, were in confer-
ence with Artie.
“Now,” said Artie, “take your opening
woids:
‘From the Hejaz down to Yemen
You will find the sun-scorched he-men t
Lopin’ lazy o’er the desert on their broncs.
“Nice work that, fellers, though it ain’t
quite sentimental enough. But it’s okay
to fit a spot of rhumba to; Um-ti, um-ta-
ta, whee-aa-whee-umti —you know, good
stuff for four sultry saxophones with
massed trombones half a tone flat to get
a good discord effect. Now the next three
are swell, just the right sentiment, with
some sex appeal:
‘Sure they got some pleasant duties
For they escort dark-eyed cuties .
Who are off to visit Mecca on their donks.
“Boys, them woids has sure* inspired
me, and then some. I’ve fitted in the
opening bar of the Beethoven Ninth with
a shot from the second movement of
Mozart’s ‘Adelaide’ Concerto, finishing
with a snippet from the Dead March in
Saul, all in hot swing time that’ll go swell
with the band at double fortissimo. Now,
I ain’t so sure about the next lines;
‘Boy, oh boy! We’ll say our guess is
That when sheiks arid their sheikesses
Hit the hooch, they sure make whoopee on
the sand.’
“Now, boys, I ain’t questionin’ the
whoopee-makin’, Arabs having the same
sense of fun as any downtown Man-
hattan commuter and his honey, but
that ‘Sheikhesses’ kinder looks screwy *to
me. You sure they call ’em Sheikhesses
in Arabia?”
“Sure, Artie,” said Butch. “Why!
Didn’t Laurel and Hardy mention ’em
in one o’ their Oriental slapsticks? It
must be okay!”
“Swell! Then I can use that stanza
for some sizzling trumpet woik. Up and
down the scale at top pace a few times.
I was gonna slip in a few snatches of
Debussy and Handel for effect, but if I
make it too melodious it won’t sound like
an anthem, see? By hepping it up they
can put it in the groove, ad lib. We
gotta keep it in line with the best that
Tin Pan Alley can turn out. Yes, sirree.
Now the next woids is tops, you boys have
sure gotten a winner here —they oughter
bring patriotic tears to the eyes of any
guy who wears a tent, smokes camel by-
products and lives on dates and black
coffee. Tardle -a - dardle- a-umpti-umpt
ta-ta-ump-ump. I think I’ve got it. Goes
swell with ’em;
‘Sultan, Imam and Wahabi
Put the Ra! in old Araby,
It’s a wow, a peacherino of a land! ’
“Now as I was coming along this
morning a kid on the sidewalk was
rattling some buckshot in a tin. I aim
to reprodooce that in the final bars, with
some hoots, wails and grunts from the
saxophones, highlighted by the drums
going flat out. With the Syncopating
Neurotics giving the opus the woiks,
Dinah Bore doing a torch solo and the
Four Stinkpots crooning the obbligato,
it’ll sure get under old Ibn Saud’s skin.
“Artie, you’ve said it!” opined Manny
Jivestein. “It’ll sure knock the old bozo
frigid when the maestro’s baton bashes
the last down beat.”
Well, Ibn, old boy, you asked for it.
80.
Decision Wanted.
The hour has now arrived, curvaceous
maid.
For you to make a choice. I want your
heart
In its entirety, or I’m afraid
That all is over, that we two must part.
No share of that sweet organ must be
laid
On other altars, causing mine to smart:
So choose between us! Which, then,
shall it be ?
Either your onion sandwiches or me!
T. W. NATHAN.
Defence.
“She declared that whenever her husband lost
his money on the races he would merely treat
it as a joke.”— Divorce item.
Though married life is far from sunny
With one who thinks it merely funny
When horses make him waste his money ;
Worse off the spouse who cops a bashin ’
Because her lord has done his cash in.
NAT.
Wartime Substitute.
“A woman whose husband threatened to pull
all her hair out has been granted a divorce.”
—“Sunday Telegraph.”
Why did he do it ? Here’s my theory :
His hair had left him years before,
And so the fellow, growing weary
Of hunting wigs from store to store.
Had thought to camouflage his dome
With tresses culled from nearer home.
P. M. LUSK.
“....On Young Shoulders.”
“The studied cynicism of young men and
women today is to be deplored.”
— Woman’s paper.
A youth proficient in the art
Of pasquinade in verse and prose.
Though sentimental deep at heart.
Takes cynicism as a pose.
He lampoons that, he sneers at this.
And finds his faults in faultless style.
He sees deception in a kiss
And traces falsehood in a smile.
His love is fairer than the rose
(Her beauty isn’t clinical).
But now he’s frightened to propose,
Poor cow, because he’s cynical.
P.O.M.C.


Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND
ROCKHAMPTON — In Divorce.
MR JJJSTIOE BRENNAN.
TO ARTHUR WILLIAM WEISS whose last known
address was Sydney in the State of New South Wales
Electrical Engineer (but whose present address is
unknown and whose present occupation is unknown).
—TAKE NOTICE that an Action No. 25 of 1945 has
been commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland Rockhampton by petition filed therein
and writ of summons issued thereout on the Twenty-
seventh day of March 1945 by DOROTHY ALICE
WEISS of 39 Nicholson Street Rockhampton in the
State of Queensland your wife claiming a dissolution
of her marriage with you on the ground of your
desertion without cause continuously for three years
and upwards and that by an Order of this Honor-
able Court made on the Twentieth day of April 1945
it was ordered that service of the said writ of sum-
mons and of the said petition on you by filing and
sticking up on the notice board in the Registry of the
Supreme Court of Queensland at Rockhampton an
office copy of the said petition and the affidavit verify-
ing the same, a copy of the said writ of summons
a copy of the abovementioned order and a copy of
this notice and by publishing this notice once in the
Sydney Bulletin a newspaper published in Sydney-
aforesaid shall be good and sufficient service on you
of the said writ of summons and of the said petition
If you desire to defend the said action you must
within Thirty days from the date of the last act done
in compliance with the said order cause an appear-
ance to be entered for you at the said Registry
and in default thereof the said DOROTHY ALICE
WEISS may by leave of the Court or a Judge pro-
ceed therein and judgment may be given against you
in your absence. —DATED the Thirtieth day of
April 1945. — (1.5.) J. L. BUCKLEY, Acting Regis-
trar. THOS. J. HALLY, Solicitor for the Plaintiff,
Sharpe’s Chambers, East Street, Rockhampton.
Missing Friends.
ARTHUR LEE, son of George Philip Lee and Emily
Lee (nee Creig). Would the above or anyone know-
ing his whereabouts communicate with SNOWDEN
NEAVE & DEMAINB, 433 Little Collins Street,
Melbourne ?
THIS
DUPLICATOR
Built entirely in Australia by
I has all the fines! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing,
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Omega & Alpha
. 'rm 1 ’ 1 ' i* nl
■ ■■
m
vv\\«.W\
®?a
$
m
'***=
K?
«
Z 31 I *.
fjmt
, • Aioiiri ;; -- :; - ; iafc.
W:
H;s>
m
%c
M»»
i!'s«
W'M
mlm
I*js
»
■tWf
«
rT-. -'•
its
wSimm
m
¥/V one sense a salvage dump is an end, the last resting place of tyres, rusted iron,
M. boots, paper, rags and bones. In another sense it is a beginning, for, to the chemist,
matter is not only indestructible but reconstructive. By his magic, new forms arise
from the scrap-heap like the Phoenix from its own ashes.
Bones afford a good example. First, they are treated with solvents to remove the
fats from which is made glycerine. Glycerine treated with acids becomes an explosive,
nitro-glycerine from which is made cordite. The degreased bones are next steamed
to yield glue and gelatine, which, with glycerine, go to produce a wide range of
articles from printing rollers to adhesives. What then remains of the bones may
be ground into a fertiliser or feeding stuff, or heated in steel retorts to extract bone
oil from which many drugs are made. All that is now left is a charcoal called bone
black, but even this is used in sugar refining and, when spent, may be burned into
bone ash and employed in the manufacture of china, or as an assay.for gold and silver!
These astonishing transmutations may be paralleled in other kinds of salvage. Metals
usually remain metals, but the chemist may use scrap aluminium to make khaki
denim dye. Dirty linen may be turned into bank notes and woollen rags into battle
dress. Waste paper may reappear as the wing tips of gliders or the heating pipes in
a bomber; grease from sewage becomes candles, camouflage paints or Army dubbin.
Rubber is particularly valuable, a pair of old Wellingtons, for instance, can make a
Mae West jacket.
A noteworthy wartime discovery is a chemical which enables
both natural and synthetic rubber to be reclaimed from scrap
in one-tenth of the pre-war time.
Necessity has stimulated British research into the chemistry of
salvage, and the achievements of wartime will stand the nation
in good stead in the years to come.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD.
c
ILG 33
CRAVENA
5785
.. ate always
smoolk*{tedt!
Obtainable in 10’s and 20’s
SPECIALLY
DD
PREVENT
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To exchange prints for film and enlarging
or contact papers.—3632.
To buy Vincent Shean’s In Search of History.
-3633.
To buy words and music of comic song
“Misery Farm.” —3634.
Information Sought.
Can army recreational leave accumulate?
Recreational leave is two days per month,
subject to service requirements. If may accumu-
late if soldier lives more than 150 miles from
his station. He may take leave at intervals
of six months or more, according to where he
is stationed. Army authorities endeavor to
see that leave does not aggregate more than 24
days, but in operation areas this is not always
possible.
(1) What annual return can be expected from
a hive of bees? (2) Name of a book on bee-
farming ?
(1) Depends upon the variety of useful honey
flora in the locality, standard of breeding
maintained, and competency of management.
Generally the return should be about 1001 b.
honey a year over a five-year period. (2) The
N.S.W. Department of Agriculture’s publica-
tion Bees and Honey, 2s. 9d. post paid.
Were any changes made in the calendar
during the eighteenth century?
In September, 1752, Britain adopted reforms
of the calendar which had been made by Pope
Gregory XIII 150 years previously. In that
year the day following September 2 was called
September 14, and the method of adjusting
leap years now in use was adopted.
Does the presence or absence of trees in an
area effect its average rainfall?
No definite proof, but experienced observers
are convinced that trees, by throwing off cool-
ing currents of air, precipitate rain. Bushmen
know from experience that showers almost
always follow timber line of a river.
Further, the wettest parts of Australia are those
with plenty of trees, such as Gippsland, N. S.
Wales North Coast and coastal Queensland.
Brief Answers.
S.L.: Michau, wigmaker, ' 160 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney, may be able to help you
R.H.S.: The manufacturing of asbestos cement
sheeting requires the installation of elaborate
machinery; a book on the subject may be had
from any of the firms manufacturing the pro-
duct K.W.: Shirley Temple was born on
April 23, 1928; she is engaged to be married.
F.S.T.: No objection would be raised by
Man-power to your opening a retail business,
but should you wish to manufacture permission
must be obtained from the Department of War
Organisation of Industry; Man-power would
not insist u P° n y° ur busband remaining on his
farm, but he may have to continue doing essen-
tial rural work Interested; National Security
Regulations embody the restrictions on cash
orders. A copy of the regulations can be
obtained at the Sub-Freasury office of any
capital city... .H.R.M.: There are no snakes m
Maonland; in Tasmania there are Copperheads
and a few small species of Denisoma without
vernacular names... .J.H.8.. The two days a
month which you get are considered home leave,
not local leave.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
E.M.: No place here for that sort of vaguely
tuneful moralising D.G.: Featherweight.
. ...K.L.K.: “Furry fine fellows frolicked free,
unafraid.” Fluffy E.E.R.: If you observed
Nature more closely the “paradox” would dis-
appear....O.R.: Strong feeling tamely ex-
pressed... .H.W.: For a woman’s paper....
8.W.: Too introspective. Use more dialogue.
aM ■ Riverina farmers gave up six-
.. . . A.M.. K taw- ftprlin looks
shooters years ago... .T.A.W.. “ tip
strangely like Kings Cross.. ..K.M.. tie "
his beautiful wife A picture of radiant health.
You should be advertising patent medicines....
F.H.8.: Turgid.. . .A.M.: You ca „VcßWn
“shine” with “sublime .... A.H.H.: Folisn em
when you have more time.


•Si]- r
: .■; wm
mmm
i
SEM
H
m
Crusader
m m
11 •
Bmmi
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
R.
m
vas
ua
!)
y
qci Vlllg
■ ■
fiJV
Pi
-KT
m
&
-<x
V
Gerrard
Model
r TI”
Machine
the war front
... by supplying machines
and millions of feet of
wire strapping to the
Army, Navy, Airforce and
Canneries throughout the
Commonwealth, so that safe
delivery of munitions and
food are made possible to
forward areas.
Servicing...
the home front
... by doing our very best
to supply our regular cus-
tomers on lesser essential
work with as much wire,
flat band strapping and
packing room supplies as
has been possible under
war-time conditions.
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
sf: Branches throughout Australia
"JELLICOE"
By “STANDBY.”
HIS name was Godfrey Vernon
Smithers and he stood five feet
four inches in his boots. If he had
straightened his shoulders he
might have increased his height to five
feet five, but it always seemed too much
of an effort to him to stand up straight.
Apparently shaving was also too much
of an effort, for his jaw was usually cov-
ered with a greyish-brown stubble. He
neither rolled his sleeves up nor buttoned
them at the wrists. They hung flapping
over his knuckles in a manner that would
have intensely annoyed most men. His
age must have been about fifty and he, or
rather his wife, kept a small grocery shop.
Mrs. Smithers was a large aggressive
woman who ruled Godfrey with a firm
hand. There was also a tribe of young
Smitherses, noisy, dirty and apparently
ruled by no one.
Apart from his unshaven chin and
flapping sleeves the only thing you
noticed about Mr. Smithers was his um-
brella. Except on the finest of days he
never went down the street without it.
He never swung it like a walking-stick
and he seldom opened it. He hooked his
left thumb into the waist band of his
trousers and hung the umbrella on his
wrist. Unkind people said he used it
solely as a weapon of defence —to pro-
tect himself against the onslaughts of
Mrs. Smithers.
The last thing you would have called
Mr. Smithers was a hero. You might
have called him a waster or even a worm,
but a hero —never.
Before Mrs. Smithers married him he
had been a sailor and, what is more, an
officer. Only in a very humble way it
is true. For a few months he had been
mate of a small lighter carrying sugar
along a fifty-mile stretch of the coast.
He was given the job because the first
(and only) mate had been taken to hos-
pital badly injured, and the company
could not put their hands on another
man with the necessary qualifications. As
soon as the mate recovered Godfrey
Smithers went back to the fo’c’sle.
He held a ticket, too —a master’s
“mud” ticket —allowing him to take a
vessel anywhere along the Queensland
coast within sight of land. Up to the
time of his marriage no one had seemed
inclined to trust him with the responsi-
bilities of command, and Mrs. Smithers
had quickly put an end to any ambitions
he may have had in that direction. She
took possession of his savings and bought
the grocery shop. Another seaman had
thankfully “swallowed the anchor.”
With the outbreak of war in the
Pacific a gradual change came over God-
frey Smithers. His sleeves still flapped
untidily round his wrists, and he still car-
ried his umbrella hung over his arm. He
didn’t shave any more frequently, but
he seemed brighter in some indefinite
way. It was even said that he stood up
to Mrs, Smithers when she attacked him
one morning. But that is only hearsay.
As Australia’s peril grew greater the
change became more marked. On several
occasions he was seen to straighten his back
and attempt to throw out his narrow chest.
And then one morning he was gone.
He left a note to Mrs. Smithers in which
he handed over the shop and (presum-
ably) the entire Smithers tribe to her.
He was going back to sea, he said,
“where good men are urgently needed.”
Mrs. Smithers made the appropriate re-
marks to the neighbors about “good men.”
WHAT authorities Godfrey Smithers
interviewed and what rebuffs he suf-
fered he alone knows, but he eventually
turned up in Darwin. He came up on
one of the coastal boats to take over his
first command—an ancient lighter with no
engines in her. When she had to be moved
the services of a tug were necessary.
But Godfrey was in command of her
and he had a crew of two. There was
only one change in him when he arrived
in Darwin. He still walked with a stoop ;
his shirt-sleeves still flapped about his
wrists; but his face was different. He
had solved the shaving problem by grow-
ing a beard —a real beard, neatly trimmed
in true naval fashion. He stepped ashore
carrying a battered old suitcase in his
right hand and over the crook of his
left arm hung the umbrella.
In a few weeks his manner underwent
a change. He issued orders with an air of
authority. Certainly no one took him seii-;
ously, but that didn’t seem to worry him.
It was the tug master who gave him
the name that stuck to him wherever he
went, right up until the day he died. The
tug was having some difficulty in berth-
ing the old lighter in a tight corner one
hot afternoon. Godfrey was pacing the
deck in true nautical style, evidently not at
all pleased at the way things were go mg.
“Go astern,” he ordered the tug master.
That was quite all right with the tug
master. He was about to go astern in
any case. He’d just gathered sternway
when Godfrey held up his hand.
“Stop ’er,” he ordered. “Now come
slow ahead and hard a’starb’d.”
The tug master put his head out of
the wheelhouse.
“Listen!” he bellowed, “Who the bloody
hell do you think you are? Jellicoe?”
In two weeks the whole of Darwin
waterfront was calling him Jellicoe. But
it didn’t worry Godfrey. In fact, he
seemed rather proud of the name. When
the lighter was alongside the wharf he
would step ashore for his evening walk.
On the edge of the wharf he would pause
for a moment to survey his command.
“Bill,” he would say, unshipping his
umbrella and pointing aft with it,
“tighten up that after spring.”
And Bill would grin and say:
“Right-oh, Jellicoe. I’ll fix ’er in a
minute.”
Then y came the great Darwin raid.
Bombs rained down on the waterfront
and ship after ship was struck. Anchored
well offshore, Jellicoe and his ancient
lighter seemed far too insignificant a
target. But apparently nothing was too
small for the raiders that day. One of
the last bombs to fall struck the lighter
squarely amidships and in thirty seconds
Jellicoe had lost his first command. Jel-
licoe himself was blown clean overboard
and was the sole survivor.
He struggled ashore, apparently little
the worse for his experience, and in half
an hour was giving orders to the men
engaged in rescue work along the shat-
tered waterfront. But his umbrella had
gone down with his ship and Jellicoe didn’t
seem to be the same man without it.
THE next time I saw him was in
Townsville. He was just the same
stooped, untidy little Jellicoe as ever,
but from his left wrist hung a brand-
new umbrella.
Evidently, as there was nothing
in Darwin for him to command, he had
pestered the authorities until they shipped
him round to Townsville. Here, after
heaven only knows what persistence, he
was given his second command.
She was an old lighter of about 300
tons gross register, powered with Diesel
engines, and about the ugliest, unhandi-
est craft afloat. Originally intended for
lightering cargo on short runs, she had
a designed speed of eight knots. She
may have reached eight on her trials,
but she certainly never did at any time
thereafter. Her speed fell away till at
last she could only make four knots with
everything in her favor. She was so
unhandy on her helm that she needed
the whole bay to come around in. Masters
left her one after another until no one
would take her over and she was tied
up and left to rust herself away in
peace. Even in her prime she was
hideous. She was flush decked—straight
as a ruled line from stem to stern with
no flare of bows or graceful curve of
line. Dead amidships her living quar-
ters stood four-square and barren. On
top of this structure, as if erected as an
afterthought, was a tiny bridge and a
wooden wheelhouse, which bore a strik-
ing resemblance to certain essential
buildings that stand in most old-fashioned
backyards. It even had a gable roof.
Directly aft of the wheelhouse was
the funnel —a tall, skinny, rakish affair
that looked more like the chimney from
the galley stove than a ship’s funnel.
Right aft someone had absent-mindedly
dumped another square house. When
Jellicoe assumed command she was in
the hands of a gang of dockside workers.
Gear, old and new, littered her decks.
Great patches of fresh red lead showed
everywhere, and the sound of chipping-
hammers made speech impossible. Dented
and buckled plates showed where each
successive master had left his mark on
her as he tried vainly to put her along-
side in a seamanlike manner.
But to Jellicoe she was a thing of
beauty. No master of a crack Atlantic
liner was ever more proud of his com-
mand. This was his ship —a ship that
could move under her own power. He
climbed to the bridge and stood admir-
ing her. He went back on to the wharf
and admired her afresh from there. No
master was ever more anxious to get his
ship to sea than Jellicoe, Once at sea
his powers would be unlimited. He
could ring “Full Ahead” and feel the
engines throbbing as they obeyed his
command. A word from him and she
would swing obediently round. He was
Captain Smithers now.
During the next few weeks they made
a number of improvements in the old
Wordina. They even put armor plating
around her absurd little wheelhouse, but
they could not improve her looks. To
Jellicoe it seemed as if they would never
finish, but at last the great day came
when he was ordered to report to Navy
office for his sailing orders. Hooking his
umbrella over his arm he hurried off up
town.
“Being in all respects ready for sea
you are to depart from this port at 1500
hours today and, subject to safe navi-
gation, proceed to Milne Bay via the
inner route and the North-east Channel,
At Milne Bay you will report to the naval
control officer for further instructions.
Signed R. T. Hague, Lieut., Com., R.A.N.”
For some time Jellicoe sat reading
and re-reading the orders. Milne Bay!
New Guinea! He, Godfrey Vernon
Smithers, was going to take a ship all
the way to Milne Bay! Going abroad!
What would Mrs. Smithers and the kids
think if they only knew? He puffed out
his puny chest with pride. Never for
a moment did he doubt his ability to get
his ship there. He’d get her there if it
took him six months to do it.
THEY gave him a pilot to take the old
Wordina out. Jellicoe would gladly
have dispensed with his services, for he
was yearning to assume sole command.
The pilot had heard all about the Wor-
dina and was giving her plenty of room.
He thanked his stars it was a calm day
with only the lightest of breezes blow-
ing. Jellicoe answered his few conver-
sational remarks absently and could
hardly disguise his pleasure when at last
the pilot lowered himself into the wait-
ing pilot launch. He leaned over the
wing of the tiny bridge, waved a hand
in half-salute to the pilot and strode to
the engine-room telegraph. With feel-
ings of intense pride and happiness and
not the slightest misgiving for the future
he rang “Full Ahead.”-
“Hard a’port,” he said to the helms-
man in his deepest voice. “Steady ’er
on north by west.” And the M.V.


df
soon relieved
with
DFSHELDONS
GIN PIUS
RELIEF from Backache (caused
by weak, inflamed Kidneys)
comes quickly when you take Dr.
Sheldon’s Gin Pills.
GIN PILLS assist the Kidneys in
their action . . . help them to become
stronger . . . more active . . . and
free from inflammation. Then, with
your kidneys working normally
again, nagging backache is soon for-
gotten.
Assist your Kidneys by taking Dr.
Sheldon's Gin Pills NOW. 27 Pills 1/9;
60 pills 2/9.
Dr. S H E L D O N'S
.. . :
mmm
0355 [POQaOb 1
British Right Through
Imperial
Typewriters
Standard and Portable Models
DOBELL PTY. LIMITED, 29 Reiby Place, Sydney
Interstate Agents:
GEO. RAITT CO. PTY. LTD.
467 Collins Street, Melbourne
HOLDSWORTH & CO LTD,
51 Grenfell Street, Adelaide
BURRIDGE & WARREN LTD.
69 King Street, Perth
L. DOBELL & CO. PTY. LTD.
47 Creek Street, Brisbane
J. C. McPHEE PTY. LTD.
99 Collins Street, Hobart
JOHNSON 8c HEY
37 Hunter Street, Newcastle
2988
Wordina gathered headway and pro-
ceeded according to Navy orders.
Throughout the whole night Jellicoe
stayed on the bridge and in the whole
Pacific Ocean there was no happier man.
The breeze being from dead astern the old
Wordina was making her full four knots.
Back in port the pilot was having a
“quick one” with Lieut.-Com. Hague.
“Think he’ll ever get there?” the pilot
asked.
The naval man shrugged his shoulders.
“I doubt it,” he answered. “Still, we’ve
got to do the best we can -with poor
material these days. There’s one good
thing. If he hits anything he won’t hit
ir too hard at the speed he’s doing. Here’s
to him, anyhow.”
But Jellicoe did not hit anything. He
took a long time over the voyage. When
he got up among the reefs he took no
chances. Sunset always, found him with
his anchor down in the lee of some island.
Sometimes when the wind blew fresh from
the nor’ard he made only twelve miles in
the day. Once, with a heavy northerly
buster blowing and a short, steep head-
sea running, he weighed anchor at six
a.m. and proceeded; at three p.m. he
was only two miles from his previous
night’s anchorage, and, very wisely, he
returned and waited two days for the
wind to drop.
He arrived in Milne Bay long after the
authorities had given him up for lost.
In that busy port he settled down to a
humdrum routine of lightering from the
big ships to the various jetties around the
bay. The only difference between this
job and his Darwin job was that he was
now independent of tugs and their abusive
skippers. Sometimes he would be idle
for days at a time while the old Wordina
swung to her anchor. Whenever this hap-
pened Jellicoe would become restless.
After the second day he would take his
umbrella and go ashore to interview the
supply officer. In this rainy climate the
umbrella was proving of real value, and
the whole waterfront had become used to
the sight of the bearded little man, um-
brella held high over his head, picking
his way along the muddy road.
“Nothing for you today, Jellicoe,” the
supply officer would say. “Go back and
take it easy. We’ll let you know when
we want you.”
But Jellicoe didn’t want to take it easy.
Milne Bay had long ago become com-
monplace to him, and he was longing
to go further afield. To him it didn’t
seem right that a fine vessel like the
Wordina should be wasting her time per-
forming lightering jobs around this bay.
It was during one of his visits to the
supply officer that he overheard an in-
teresting bit of conversation. As usual,
Jellicoe was standing just inside the door-
way unobtrusively waiting for someone
to notice him. The supply officer was
talking to an irate colonel, and Jellicoe
could plainly hear the conversation.
“I know it’s urgent, sir,” the supply
officer was saying, “but I don’t see how
we can handle it. The barges are over-
loaded with rations and ammo, as it is
and this stuff is so bulky. I’m short of
shipping space, always short, and you
can’t expect me to manufacture ships out
of nothing, can you, sir?”
At this point Jellicoe edged himself
forward.
“Wot about the Wordina, sir?” he
asked. “Why couldn’t she take it?”
The supply officer waved an impatient
hand.
“Go away, Jellicoe,” he said. “Can’t
you see I’m busy?”
“But, Captain,” Jellicoe went on, “if
it’s heavy gear you want taken up the
Wordina could do the job. She’s doin’
nothing, and”
“Who is this man?” the colonel broke in.
“Oh, he’s skipper of an old lighter
we’re using here in the bay, sir,” the
supply officer answered.
“Well, why can’t he do the job?” the
colonel asked.
The supply officer tapped his pad irrit-
ably with his pencil.
“It’s impossible, sir,” he said. “The
old tub only does four knots at the best.
If she got caught outside a port in day-
light she’d be sunk by the first Jap
bomber that came over.”
“I’m sure she could do it, sir,” Jellicoe
put in pleadingly.
“Nonsense! ” the supply officer snapped.
“Clear out, Jelli:oe, and leave us aione.”
Jellicoe was sitting disconsolately in a
patch of shade under the bridge when
a launch came alongside.
“Hi, Jellicoe,” the launchman hailed
him. “You’re wanted up at the transport
office right away. You’d better come
with me,”
Pausing only to pick up his umbrella,
Jellicoe clambered aboard the launch.
The colonel was still there when he
reached the office, and seated opposite
him was a young naval officer. On the
table between them a chart was spread.
“Come over here, Jellicoe,” the naval
man said, “and have a look at this chart.”
He pointed to a spot on the chart and
explained the situation carefully.
“That’s the job, Jellicoe,” he finished
up. “Do you reckon you could do it?”
Jellicoe shifted his umbrella to a safer
position and drew himself up to his full
five-feet-five.
“Easy sir,” he said. His tone seemed to
imply that where the British Navy could
go he and the Wordina could follow.
“It won’t be easy,” the naval man said.
“Get that idea right out of your head.
You can’t just go barging along in day-
light or you’ll mighty soon get sunk.
Tojo’s been pretty busy up there lately, so
you’ll have to make port and hide in the
daytime and do your travelling at night.
You can’t mistake the place you’re going
to. Even at night it’s easy to pick up,
but for the Lord’s sake don’t try to get
in there in daylight. The Japs hold a
ridge overlooking the bay, and you’ll cop
hell if they spot you. If you anchor close
inshore when you get there you’ll be out
of sight and fairly safe. Do you still want
to take it on?”
“Yes, sir,” Jellicoe answered. “I’ll
do it.”
T' HE following night the Wordina,
1 loaded deeper than she had ever been
in her long life, steamed slowly out of
the bay. Up on her bridge stood Jellicoe,
once more supremely happy.
Following Navy instructions, he re-
versed his usual order and slept by day
and travelled by night. It didn’t take
him long to realise that the naval officer
had been right. The job was not easy.
times Jellicoe was lost, utterly and
completely lost, but.somehow sunrise on
the third morning saw him dropping
anchor in a place he was looking for.
He would spend the day there and that
night he would complete the last leg of
his journey. He’d carefully worked the
times out. By getting under way at seven
p.m. he would reach his destination by
three a.m. —say three-thirty at the latest.
Owing to her heavy load and deep draft
the Wordina had barely been averaging
three knots this trip.
At seven p.m. he weighed anchor and
proceeded. The night was calm and clear,
but at ten o’clock a light off-shore breeze
sprang up. By midnight it had hauled
dead ahead and was blowing hard. Until
nearly three o’clock it continued, and in
those three hours it is doubtful if the old
Wordina altered her position. As far
as Jellicoe could see she was just going
up and down in the one spot.
No thought of turning back entered
Jellicoe’s head, although he must have
known that it was now impossible to
reach his destination before daylight. At
three a.m. the breeze died away and the
Wordina once more forged ahead. The
sun was rising when she swung in towards
the bay. As the naval officer had said,
there was no mistaking the small bay with
the razor-backed ridge dropping steeply
into the sea and the little island just off
the Cape.
“Port about two points,” Jellicoe
ordered, “Steer straight for that strip of
beach.”
In spite of the fact that he had been
up all night he had never felt better.
He’d done it! The Navy bloke had said
it wouldn’t be easy, and the supply officer
had as good as said he couldn’t do it,
and here he was. He, Godfrey Vernon
Smithers, Master of the M.V. Wordina,
had completed another hazardous voyage.
He was about to slip aft and cadge a
cup of tea from the cook (for with all
his newly-gained assurance he’d never
been able to bring himself to order the
cook to bring a cup of tea to the bridge)
when he heard a long faint whine. A
few second later there was a crash, and
a small fountain of water shot up away
out on the starboard bow. Five seconds
later there was another, a little closer this
time, but still a long way off.
By the time Jellicoe realised he was
being fired on there were quite a few
fountains going up. A battery of Japa-
nese guns on the far ridge was firing at
hing*. The range was extreme, and the
shooting poor. By turning round and
steaming out to sea Jellicoe could have
been out of range in ten minutes.
. To get in under the safety of the razor-
backed ridge was a full twenty minutes’
steaming for the old Wordina, but Jelli-
coe never wavered. Straight for the little
strip Of beach that the naval officer had
so carefully described the old Wordina
held on. In ten minutes she was well
within range of the guns, and the shoot-
ing was improving each minute. Great
fountains of water were bursting up all
around her. Fragments of metal were
flying through the air with a sound like
the buzzing of angry hornets. The crew
had very wisely sought whatever cover
was available, and Jellicoe was alone on
the bridge. In the tiny armor-plated
wheelhouse, just behind him, a badly
scared helmsman was doing his best to
keep his attention fixed on the strip of
beach ahead.
Jellicoe must have been scared, too.
No man could be otherwise in those con-
ditions, but he was still very much the
master of his vessel. Once, when a well-
aimed shell landed close alongside and
exploded with an ear-splitting crash, the
helmsman let the ship swing oil her
course. Jellicoe moistened his lips with
his tongue and in a queer high-pitched
°i C Sn ,^ r e ; .
tw? on w ! Wmg . t 0 S l a l bd H ke
that! Watch your steenn and keep er
straight for that there beach.”
To the watchers on the shore there was
something both absurd and magnificent
in the spectacle of this lumbering, ugly
old caricature of a ship steaming at snail’s
pace straight through a hail of shellfire,
They forgot her absurd looks in their admi-
ration for the man who commanded her
And as for Jellicoe—the real Jellicoe
on the bridge of his giant flagship in the
height of the battle of Jutland could not
have had a more quiet, noble dignity than
this queer little man standing all alone
on his unprotected bridge. Scared he
must have been, for his hands were shak-
ing under his untidily flapping shirt
sleeves, but he did not crouch or seek
the protection of the wheelhouse. He stood
erect, drawn up to his full five-feet-five.
One shell struck right aft and the galley
was no more. One carried the crazy
funnel overside and then, when they were
almo , st . unde r Ihe prolectmg ndge, one
a “ uc J !: I '“? t £^ r “ d n?/ f ‘ h ® h Mf £ tinv
unconscious.
But the old Wordina held on. As if
ghe owed a debt t 0 the me man who
had idolised her she carried straight on
f or tbe j as t f e w hundred yards and ran
her nose gently up on the shelving sandy
beach. The Wordina, with Captain God-
frey Vernon Smithers still on the remains
of her shattered bridge, had delivered her
cargo “according to Navy instructions.”
They buried Jellicoe in the little mili-
tary cemetery up on the hillside. I expect
he would have liked to be buried at sea ;
but also he would have liked his wife and
his family to hear the final words of the
chaplain as they filled in his grave.
“There, in the company of brave men,
said the chaplain oyer the remains of
Jellicoe, “lies a hero.”


WAR S E RIE S
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
The Money You Invest in War Savings Over Here
Saves Lives Over There I
■
'JHIS Generating Set comprises a 16 h.p. type “CE” twin-cylinder,
totally - enclosed, radiator - cooled, vertical Ronaldson -Tippett
Diesel Engine, direct tandem-coupled to 35 and 180-volt Generators.
It is mounted on a fabricated steel base and is complete with switch-
board. It is one of many types of generating sets supplied, and still
to be supplied, by us for Defence Dept, telephonic communications.
Ever-lengthening lines of communication demand unfailing re-
liability, and the choice of Ronaldson-Tippett Sets is a recognition
of their sterling worth in the performance of this vital duty.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.B.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House. 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
Almost as important as your
WILL
THERE is a wide realisation amongst people of means that the choice of the Executor
1 and Trustee who is to administer a Will is just as important as the Will itself. An
unsatisfactory Executor and Trustee may defeat the very purpose that the maker of
the Will had in mind.
If you follow the lead of many of the shrewdest of our successful citizens and
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, you will ensure that the terms of your
Will shall be faithfully carried out over the years, and that your beneficiaries shall
enjoy a courteous and sympathetic service.
We should like to send you a copy of a book, “Your Executor and Trustee.”
You will find it helpful. Write for it today.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS.
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX
H. NORMAN POPE; ALLEN C. LEWIS; W. DEUCHAR GORDON.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £6ZJ&OOJOOO.
S 3-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. COWDERY, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative; H. A. SHAW, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
✓
Gi7*P,
A
DON'T
FORGET
That urgent need.
One ’tis wise to have and heed.
Note its name to get it right,
On your homeward way to-night.
Don’t forget or you’ll regret
When the days are wild and wet,
Best relief for colds assure,
Get that Woods’ Great Peppermint Care.
For Coughs and Colds, never fails;
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Mutual Life and Citizens
Ordinary Life Department.
Added
Ex- Written to
Dec., Income.f Claims.* penses. Off. Funds.
To staff fund, £12,285 .. .. 1
1939.. 3,090,661 1,551,769 317,545 9,646 [
To tax reserve, £101,000 .. .. [ a ' 4 >4lo
To general reserve, £124,000 ..J
To staff fund, £14,952 .. • • 1 i ovn o*7
1940. . 3,201,274 1,557,087 303,553 54,726 )
To staff fund, £14,668 .. ..]
Profit on sale of securities, £6267.. (, 1on
1941. . 3,263,475 1,684,266 267,390 — f l,i»0,4is
To tax reserve, £113,000 .. .. J
To staff fund, £14,831 .. .. ‘
1942. . 3,429,797 1,651,406 275,866 52,105 1,335,589
To general reserve, £100,000 ..J
To staff fund, £14,503 .. ..‘
1943. . 3,662,4’2 1,665,787 280,518 50,000 1,652,004
Profit on sale of securities, £338 ..
To staff fund, £20,802 .. ..'
1944.. 4,000,659 1,462,951 321,076 50,000 1 2,148,046
Profit on Sale of Securities, £2216..
* Includes dividends to shareholders,
t After deducting taxes.
Industrial Life Department.
Expenses Added
(Including Written to
Dec., Income.f Claims. Dividends). Off. Funds.
To staff fund, £ £6217 f. , £ ]
1939. 507,610 419,406 6733 1 „, a „.
To tax reserve, £82,000 .. .. f
To general reserve, £32,500 ..J
To staff fund, £7838 .. ..1
1940. . 1,452,237 530,257 417,756 2820 ( oon ...
To tax reserve, £13,000 .. .. f 380,566
To general reserve, £100,000 ..J
To staff fund, £8250 .. .. 1
1941.. 1,570,713 581,294 436,364 1263 1 . 10n , 0
To tax reserve, £31,500 .. .. [
To geenral reserve, £100,000 ..J
To staff fund, £8426 .. . „
1942.. 1,678,500 489,131 437,242 1742 ) 741,9o9
To staff fund, £8542 . . . . 1
1943.. 1,850,484 896,209 441,641 — ( 905,503
To general reserve, £100,000 . . f
Profit on sale of securities, £1411 .. J
To staff fund, £12,111 .. |
1944.. 2,031 ; 637 430,456 460,180 — 1 1,126,546
Loss on sale of securities, £2344. . J
t After deducting taxes.
The stabilising influence of life assur-
ance upon the social and economic struc-
ture is a triumph for the voluntary sys-
tem of collective security which member-
ship of a sound life office affords. Mem-
bers and their dependants, as well as the
State, benefit; and the system has with-
stood the tests of time, including the
strain of financial depression and the
crises of two world wars. Moreover, the
offices cater for a wide variety of per-
sonal wants and needs outside the range
of social security legislation. Hence a
strong and growing demand for life-assur-
ance protection can be expected to con-
tinue into the future, and such protection
warrants a minimum of Government
interference.
The M.L.C. —it is the youngest of Aus-
tralia’s big life offices and one of the
most economically managed in the
Empire—has always been a staunch sup-
porter of Government and public-body
loans. Pre-war, it made a lot of money
available, at favorable rates, for build-
ing, home purchase and other purposes,
too. Since war began practically all avail-
able funds have been channelled into the
public Treasury in support of the war
effort. Subscriptions to date total
£ 19,500,000-odd:
„ ~ 1943. p.c. 1944. p.c.
Public securities £28,777,316 73.1 £32,833,875 77.2
Mortgages . . 7,192,887 18.3 6,623,544 15.6
Loans on policies 1,651,138 4.2 1,528,050 3.6
Cash, book debts,
etc 608,928 1.5 575,424 1.3
Property. . . . 549,386 1.4 422,646 1.0
Debentures, shares,
etc 578,039 1.5 543,396 1.3
£39,357,694 £42,526,935
Liabilities* . . 1,814,530 1,615,499
Net assets . . £37,543,164 £40,911,436
* Other than under policies.
Net increase in public securities last year
was £4,056,559, raising the amount so
invested to 77.2 p.c. of total assets, com-
pared with 62.5 p.c. at the end of 1939.
With war came a crop of difficulties,
common to all life offices. Reduction of
field staffs and absorption of younger
lives into the services affected the volume
and nature of new business. And war
mortality has bitten into the surplus that
would have been otherwise available for
distribution. Claims on account of war
deaths to the end of 1944 totalled
£623,320. Here the strain, which was
easier last year, arises from the difference
between the sum assured and the reserve
accumulated in respect thereof, which is
comparatively small at the earlier ages.
The heaviest blow came from the Gov-
ernment’s policy of cheap money and
high taxation. This reduced the net return
from investments —which used to be the
chief source of surplus earnings—and
with it the bonuses paid to policy-holders.
Here is a comparison of surpluses avail-
able for distribution in the ordinary and
industrial sections, as figured by the
actuary:—
1938. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Ordinary .. £849,680 £563,782 £596,532 £670,398
Industrial .. 115,459 119,063 123,113 118,180
Total . . £965,139 £682,845 £719,645 £788,578
Rates of bonuses to policy-holders aren’t
mentioned these days, but they are known
to compare favorably with those of offices
here and abroad. To keep surpluses as
large as possible and thus protect future
bonus-paying capacity, life offices have
adopted more stringent bases of valuation
of their liabilities under policies. The
M.L.C. now values on an all-round 2\
p.c. net premium basis —the most strin-
gent basis in force in Australia. Last
year’s net effective return from invest-
ments on assurance funds and reserves
combined was £3 18s. 7d. p.c. ordinary and
£3 17s. 7d. p.c. industrial, compared with
£4 10s. lOd. p.c. and £4 12s. 2d. p.c. re-
spectively at the end of 1939. So there is
# still a satisfactory margin between the
*rate the office assumes its funds will turn
in and the rate they actually earn.
And the co. handles its business at low
cost, too —comparable with that of any
other office in the world, the chairman
says. Last year exes, in the ordinary
branch took 10.9 p.c. of premium income,
or 7.7 p.c. of total income, compared with
14.5 p.c. and 9.8 p.c. respectively in 1939.
In the industrial section last year’s rates
were 24.8 p.c. of premium income and
20.2 p.c, of total income, as against 32.5
p.c. and 25.9 p.c. respectively in 1939.
A record amount of new business
(£13,743,760, up £2,800,645) was put on
te books during 1944, Group assur-
ance, now a prominent feature of staff
superannuation schemes of commercial
organisations, accounted for a large slice
of acceptances. Total income was
£6,247,923 (up £515,350), of which
£4,746,431 (up £428,662) was in respect
of premiums and £1,501,492 (up £86,688)
interest, rents, etc. After payment of all
legitimate claims and exes., etc.,
£3,274,591 was added to the assurance
funds (£37,864,570) and £lOO,OOO to
general reserves (£1,200,000). Share-
holders received a 15 p.c. div., same as
for previous year. Policy-holders are en-
titled to from 85 p.c. to 95 p.c. of the
surplus, or profit, on all participating
business, Of last year’s surplus 88.75 p.c.
in the ordinary and 85 p.c. in the in-
dustrial section is to be distributed among
policyholders. That is to say, the co.
earned for policyholders £7 17s. 9d. and
£5 13s. 4d. respectively before share-
holders became entitled to a pound.
or * n• 1 TIT ms \
Northcote Brick Co., Ltd.
Mar., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves,
£ £ £ £
1936!; 1 g’ < -j 75 1 9,375 t5’,334
1937'.; 9’,591 ej "r. 9,’375 216 43’, 550
JSSS;; 11,532 7 1 uS *282 IS
Depreciation reserve disappears, £10,000.. 36,568
p-c - = J 1,2 f0 1906 fo’fotl
19«.. 11,211 7J „ „ 11,250 - 38,436
■ 3 >779 if „ „ 2,500 32,156
1944’.; 2, 878 Nil 25’,664
1945.. 3,927 Nil 2ij37
There was no change in basic condi-
tions governing the building and ancillary
trades last term, and lack of efficient
labor and absenteeism aggravated the
position. So, although a second kiln
started up early in the term in anticipa-
tion of things improving as the year ad-
vanced, expectations were not realised,
and trading again resulted in a loss. Some
idea of the position in the trade can be
gathered from the following table, show-
ing average monthly value of private
building permits issued by local-govera-
ment bodies in the Victorian metropolis:
1936- .. £667,000
1937- ~ 669,000
1939-40 " 774’000
1939 40 . . 774,000
1940-41 .. £865,000
1941-42 .. 343,000
1943 44 ” ge’oOO
1943-44 . . 86,000
The improvement last year was mainly
on account of Government housing.
About the only other demand left for
this and some 13 other Melbourne brick-
makers has been that for which Govern-
ment and A.R.P. bodies didn’t require
cement. At the same time wage, material
and all other costs, including taxation,
rose sharply.
Thus over the last four years the co.
has registered net losses aggregating
£14,198. And satisfactory returns on
capital are not likely to emerge until
present official taboos on new building
are removed and a start made to over-
take the acute lag in home construction,
etc., which is one of the most urgent and
important of our post-war problems,
Nothing tends to produce better citi-
zens than the responsibilities and plea-
sures of family home fife. If anticipa-
tions are realised expenditure on build-
ing in Victoria will aggregate about
£19,000,000 p.a. for the first few post-
war years. In addition there is a large
volume of repair work waiting to be
done on all kinds of premises. Obviously
much will depend upon what the Gov-
eminent does in connection with controls
and priorities. If the Government section
of the post-war building programme is to
receive priority, then it will be some time
before the requirements of ordinary
home-buyers can be met.
At the moment W. 0.1., from whom
permission to build must be obtained, is
retarding private construction for home
and other purposes. In its wisdom it in-
frequently permits private enterprise to
build a house measuring 24ft. by 35ft.,
giving, roughly, three rooms each Bft. by
lift. 6in. The Federal Housing Corn-
mission has recommended continuance
for some time after the war of Govem-
ment control of land prices and invest-
ment .’ and aims at ste PP in g U P building
activity to about 75 p.c. of the pre-1940
tevel by the end of the war. And War
Cabinet approved release of 30,400 men
from the services and protected under-
takings for employment in the building
tf ade between July, 1944, and June, 1945.
All but a Small traction Of the men and
materials being released are, however,
being , Q Governmen ,. housing
activities. The history of Government
housing, particularly in N. S, Wales, is
a sorry advertisement for bureaucratic
planning and control. The sooner private
enterprise is allowed to enter the field on
a very much larger scale than at present
the sooner will the present mess begin to
straighten out. Not until then will people
get better and cheaper houses designed
to meet their own particular needs. The
Government can best assist by helping to
make finance available and by encourag-
ing private enterprise to turn out essential
materials.
The co.’s unprofitable trading is further
reflected in its financial position:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Fa * d capital. . £150,000 £150,000 £150,000 £150,000
Liabilities . . 6,747 12,355 2,513 3,514
Freeholds •• 87 >426 86,187 86,146 86,285.
plant> etc> 31,590 31 671 31>650 52)912
stocks .. 5,105 4,321 2,930 3,023
Book debts .. 12,861 9,505 3,623 4,100
Shares other cos. 44,321 44,946 44,946 44,946
cash, etc. .. 21,419 17,880 8,882 3,334
Including shares in other cos., the more
or less liquid surplus (£52,667) was £5199
fighter than at the previous balance,
making the slip £24,290 over the last five
years. Shareholdings are mainly the co.’s
interest in other brickmaking concerns at
Blackburn, Auburn and Oakleigh.


INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Giiffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sidney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—AfiVT.
t. * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. Aovt,
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSEASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
The
Bank of Australasia
Small Loans Department
Bank of Australasia Building,
154 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
(Phone; Central 632)
and at
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
(Phone: BW4411)
Also available at all Branches throughout
Australia.
Public Notices.
I Giocondo Pasquale Simonetto, of Italian nation-
ality, born at Fonzano, Italy, and resident seven years
in Australia, now residing at Horsely Road,
Revesby, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I NICOLAOS MOISIS, of Greek nationality, born
at Makrohorion, Greece, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at Lachlan Street, Forbes,
intend to apply for naturalisation under the Nation-
ality Act 1920-1936.
IGOR ALEXANDER STERELNY, Stateless, of
Russian parentage, born at Yokohama, Japan, and
resident five years, three months in Australia, now
residing at 9 Forsythe Street, Willoughby, soldier
in A.1.F., intend to apply for naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
fd
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER—34th April, ’43: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER —32nd May, ’42; “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER—I4th May, ’42; “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER—I7th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT—9th May, ’42:
“1 find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, w'hich have combined to vastly
Increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’35. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part....l have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a halt
years.... 1 have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
TR.'VDE —12th May, '42: “Each
lesson "has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, '42; “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Pel man
Institute are in London,
The Institute has been established In
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years,
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
jvoman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation
Will-Power
Decision
Self-Confidence
Judgment
Organisation
Concentration
Initiative
Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute*
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand * Inquirer*.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute. Mel-»
bourne.
f
King Island Scheelite, N.L.
A loss of £315 was recorded for the year
to end of October last, compared with
a profit of £29,241 for the preceding term.
That was because the old worn-out mill
ceased production on February 5, 1944,
and all available labor was diverted to
quarry development and erection of the
new 20,000-ton-a-month mill and ancil-
lary works.
In preparation for increased ore deliv-
ery roads from quarry to mill were con-
structed, and 106,433 c.y. of barren over-
burden was removed from the quarry.
Here the open-cut is laid out in a series
of 20ft. vertical benches to a depth of
150 ft. The diamond drill disclosed an
estimated 1,293,200 tons ore, averaging
0.75 p.c. WO3, as well as 917,400 tons
waste rock and overburden and 227,700
tons sand, all of which will have to be
removed before the whole of the proved
pay-ore is treated. A large section of the
property remains to be tested when time
and finances permit.
The crushing section of the mill, origi-
nally expected to start up early in 1944,
didn’t begin until October last. Delays
in design and drafting work, and in
receipt of plant and materials, owing to
shipping difficulties, were mainly respon-
sible. Completion of other plant units
followed, adjustments had to be made
and satisfactory gravity recovery wasn't
obtained until April of this year. Weekly
production was then at the rate of 20
tons scheelite concentrates, worth £7OOO,
of which about £5OOO was reckoned
to be profit. The flotation section
to handle the gravity slimes has yet
to be installed, and some pioneering work
in connection with this process remains
to be done on the spot before desired
results are likely to be achieved.
Production is not expected to fall
below the weekly output just mentioned.
On this basis, and under the existing Gov-
ernment contract for purchase of concen-
trates, the annual profit would be around
the £250,000 mark, subject to taxation
and depreciation. Too much reliance,
however, need not be placed upon this
estimate, because a complete metallurgi-
cal balance of the full plant has not yet
been obtained, and the problem of suc-
cessfully handling “sticky” ore, especially
during the wet winter months, has also to
be overcome. And there is doubt about
the efficiency of a 150 h.p. motor in driv-
ing one of the two ball mills. Also, there
is the possibility of unforeseen war-time
developments affecting costs.
For shareholders the vital question is
what will happen when the Government
contract runs out six months after the
end of war with Japan. He would
be a bold man who would venture a defi-
nite answer. Indications are that demand
will be stronger than pre-war. Every-
thing will depend upon the price of tung-
sten concentrates and the level of the
co.’s costs. Hopes are that the new mill,
when in full swing, will reduce costs suffi-
ciently to enable the co. to earn a “fair”
rate of profit, with concentrates fetching
much less than they do today. As for the
price, it remains to be seen what will
happen after the Chinese mines, whicii
used to be the world’s chief source of
tungsten, come into operation again.
Until the co.’s present contract with the
Federal Government runs out annual
profits are to be applied: firstly, £20,000
free of tax to the co.; secondly, in pay-
ment of interest (4 p.c.) on loan account;
thirdly, to repayment of loan principal.
After that the basis of profit appropria-
tion is to be proportional to the amount
of share capital and loan money invested
in the undertaking. When this apportion-
ment begins interest payments, except
arrears of interest, if any, cease.
In June last the Government asked the
co. to icvise its plans so as to cut output to
approx, half full-scale production. Finan-
cial adjustments were, and still are, the
stumbling block. Until agreement is
reached in this connection the co. is going
ahead under the existing contract.
Cost of the new project, put at £260,000
a year or so ago, is now expected to reach
£520,000, of which £460,515 had been
spent at the end of October last. In
round figures cost of the mill, power-
house, etc., is now put at £310,000, quarry
plant and development £lOO,OOO, stores,
etc., £29,000, housing, etc., £26,000, over-
head £55,000.
When the books last closed the mine
figured at £33,673, old mill £17,835, new
mill and development £413,132, new
housing £25,175, stores, etc., £24,438.
There were cash and debtors’ balances, etc.,
totalling £40,381 to meet current liabili-
ties of £21,780. Government loan ac-
count, repayable out of profits and
secured by debenture, stood at £415,515.
Paid capital is £52,500 in ss. shares, of
which 20,000 are fully paid and the
balance paid to 4s. each.
Austral N.Z. Mining, an Austral Malay
float operating auriferous river gravels
near Cromwell, on the Clutha (M.L.),
made a loss of £16,064 for the year to
September 30 last, compared with a profit
of £8776 and a loss of £3778 for the two
preceding years. That left the co. with
a deficit of £11,066. Bullion, cash,
debtors’ balances, etc., totalled £11,280.
The property, dredge, sundry plant and
spares and stores together appear at
£325,414. There was £4186 coming to
sundry creditors and £95,885 to the
Chartered Bank of India, Australia and
China. The debt to the bank includes
provision for exchange on repayment
(£19,177), and is secured by debenture.
Paid capital is £211,750. Dredging re-
suits over the last four years compare as
follow:
Bullion.
' Total Average '
Dredged, recovered, c.y., * Cost,
c.y. oz. gr# c.y.
1941 .. 3,302j000 12,361 i.so 4.osd.
ISS :: !:!!I:SSS S 2 SI sS:
1944 .. 2,882,000 5,513 0.9 i 4.46 d.
Early last term it was decided to abandon
the remainder of the Athenaeum area
and move the dredge upstream to the area
above Lowburn bridge, where richer
ground is available. The passage be-
tween the two areas was in unpayable
ground, which mainly accounts for the
year’s poorer showing and increase in
costs. The dredge is now in the new
area and operating at a small working
profit. Recoveries, however, are still dis-
tractingly below bore values. The trouble
appears to be that the gold, which occurs
in about 18 inches of wash on an undu-
lating blue-clay-and-schist bottom, occurs
in narrow gutters and pockets, and that
original test bores bottomed on an un-
due proportion of these enrichments, thus
giving an exaggerated value for the
ground between them. Deficiencies in
recoveries have been most marked in
ground showing comparative high bore
values. Treatment losses have been very
small indeed.
The survey party which inspected
Bulolo Gold Dredging’s property (New
Guinea) last year found the co.’s eight
dredges in good structural condition, and.
except for one partly submerged with a
17-degree list, all above water. The
hydro-electric plant at the mine and the
J 1
co.’s aeroplanes, etc., at Lae on the coast
have been destroyed, and some minor
dredge equipment damaged or requisitioned
for war purposes. Value of assets totally
or partly damaged is put at $3,582,761
(Canadian), and preliminary claims total-
ling $2,620,270 have been lodged with
the Australian War Damage Commission,
Equipment necessary to ensure a prompt
start, when the Government authorises
resumption of activity and labor and
transport become available, is on order,
Reserves of pay gravel are put at
150,000,000 c.y., of which 129,000,000 c.y.
is to be dredged and the rest worked by
hydraulicing. For the seven-odd months
before operations were suspended in Jan.,
1942, 11,526,000 c.y. were treated for
102,6910 z. fine gold and 46,2860 z. silver,
an average of 4.301gr5. fine gold per yard,
Working costs were 9.174 cents per yard,
At the end of May last the co. s holding
of cash and Government securities, etc.,
totalled $1,875,441, and there was a
further $3,041,454 of cash and Govern-
ment securities in the amortisation fund,
Outside liabilities amounted to $19,002.


No guesswork
in to-morrow’s home... v^y>
f
x
r v
•w: v
V
' A I
M
iS
f
*9
•«?
M’k , '’A^.iaae
Vf-W'/.’-wyjKte
'• \. vr . . 1 /\ /vi- /i avj/ I
o
.-Hi’
•W&tUtySW*
d'rV> :,%i'".l ‘Jtilt.
mmm
f • f * i f J .
mffll
i a
i
m
WM
i
/
7
X
is
i
vs
sX
*22
i
1
S 8
1
m
/
X
&>■
ijW
&
f
X
v^.
tess
«e
w.
&
m
&
■ <s
1
r<
m
i
!»«t
tS^fy
%
X
V:'
<|P
;
X/
£26
Stewarts
and
Lloyds
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY : NEWCASTLE : MELBOURNE
PERTH : BRISBANE
Because architect, engineer and builder
will each contribute . . . tomorrow’s home
will be better built.
The use of Structural Steel Tubing in
your post-war home means it will be
stronger, more durable and hygienic.
Steel Tubing as a Structural material
can be applied to every type of building
construction ... it allows for the use of
all standard external and internal finishes.
Today, because Victory counts first, our
resources are devoted entirely to the essen-
tials of war.
Tomorrow, we will contribute to better
housing.
We regret it is not possible to answer
enquiries in the accurate detail necessary
to individual home-building problems.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Stepping It Up.
“Ek Dum”: Both Mr. Churchill and
President Truman have made it clear that
there would be no delay in switching the
main Allied effort to the Pacific.
Said the President: “The war is only
half over. Only when the last Japanese
division has surrendered will our fighting
job be done.” And Uncle Sam is prepar-
ing to move 2,500,000 troops to the
Japanese zone, leaving 400,000 occupation
troops in Germany.
Said Mr. Churchill:
Japan with all her treachery and greed,
remains unsubdued... .We must' devote all
our strength and resources to the continua-
tion of our task both home and Abroad,
The latest communist line is that the
Soviet Government proposes to remain
neutral for a few months to act as a go-
between in producing surrender. No go-
between will be needed in the kind of
surrender the Allies propose to exact, but
it will be surprising if the Russians do not
become involved before the end in order
to secure their own interests. Nothing
would suit them less than to have British,
U.S. and Chinese armies of occupation
on the mainland.
The usual optimists were abroad, con-
vinced that Japan was already near its
end, blasted to pieces by the Superfortress
raids. Japanese industry certainly is being
considerably damaged. But until last week
no force greater than 400 machines had
been used against Japan proper, and, in
view of the distances, the average loads
carried can scarcely be much more than
those taken by Mosquitoes to Berlin,
unless some machines already are operat-
ing from Iwo and Okinawa. It will be
some months before attacks can be
stepped up to European standards, which
cannot be attained without a foothold
on the China coast. Before that, in view
of the Allies’ overpowering naval
strength, a landing may be attempted on
the Japanese islands proper. Even then
it must be remembered that the Japanese
holdings on mainland Asia have scarcely
been bombed at all and that land attack
on them, in view of their integral re-
sources and long distances, must involve
something in the nature of a major war.
Bombing was on a large scale accord-
ing to present standards against Formosa
and Saigon, where numerous installations
and war facilities were smashed from the
Philippines to the Honshu mainland,
north-east of Tokyo, where the Tateyama
naval yard was blasted. Marcus, Truk
and Palau had their share of explosives,
and the bombing was supplemented by
mine-laying round Japan proper.
Off the Sakishimas, Vice-Admiral Sir
Bernard Rawlings, becoming thoroughly
annoyed by the attentions of Kamikaze
followers, turned the prows of his battle-
ships towards the shore of the Sakishimas
and blasted their lair until it was giving
off columns of smoke and flame thou-
sands of feet high. The British ships had
suffered only small damage and the fleet
aircraft had claimed the shooting down
of two enemy machines and the destruc-
tion of two on the ground.
On May 13 it was reported that the
Japanese had lost 165 machines while
attempting a mass suicide attack on the
U.S. Fleet off the Ryukus. The chief
fighting was over the Okinawa battle-
field, where 93 enemy aircraft were des-
troyed, 40 by pilots from U.S. carriers.
A major unit of the U.S. Fleet was ad-
mitted to have been damaged.
Tokyo declared on Sunday that the
attacks were still proceeding and added
that a U.S. carrier force had begun a
strike within 900 carrier-borne machines
on Kyushu, with the object of “breaking
the stalemate on Okinawa,” but that the
force was hit heavily and driven off.
The Okinawa Battle
* The battle for Naha, the chief town
of Okinawa, was in full swing at the
week-end, with well on to 100,000 U.S.
troops pushing forward or squeezing
into the streets of the town against bitter
and continuous artillery, mortar and
m.-g, fire. Naha appears to be a well-
organised and modern town, as Oriental
towns go, and though the U.S. troops
have been using smoke screens on the
approaches, forward air bombardment,
long-range gun support and flame-
thrower tanks, every yard is being con-
tested amid the city ruins,
U.S. casualties on Okinawa were given
officially to May 7 as 2684 killed, 13,202
wounded and 539 missing. Admiral
Nimitz has admitted that 26 minor U.S.
naval vessels have been lost, but gives
the assurance that losses have not slowed
up the campaign. A Japanese “esti-
mate” of U.S. casualties on the island
from March 18 to May 9 was 34,700
killed and wounded with 459 tanks and
141 heavy guns.
The Burma Campaign
The Burma campaign was sufficiently
forward to allow Mr. Churchill to an-
nounce, in a message to Lord Louis
Mountbatten, that a Burma star would
be struck to commemorate the great
deeds of the South-east Asia Command.
During the week troops of the Arakan
force had crossed the Yoma and had
linked up with detachments who had
come down from the north, west of the
Irrawaddy. Though there was still fight-
ing where the British were in contact
with the enemy 75 miles north of Ran-
goon, the campaign in Burma was vir-
tually over and the confusion of the re-
maining Japs in the west was assured
finally when the rciad from Pegu to
Martaban, at the mouth of the Salween,
and to Moulmein was cut on the
approaches to the Sittaung River.
The culminating acts included large
mass surrenders of members of the so-
called Indian National Army, a forlorn
body of “troops” organised by Subhas
Chandra Bose.
Advance on Tarakan.
*‘Ek Dum”: Events of the week
proved that Tarakan is no easier to cap-
ture than any other Japanese-held island
equally strongly garrisoned.
It took four days of hard fighting—
not expensive, since many members of
the Ninth are experienced in jungle war-
fare, as in the other kinds, and do not
suffer unnecessary casualties—to account
for the airfield, Tarakan town was occu-
pied after what seemed like endless pill-
boxes and strongpoints had been melted
out with flame-throwers, blast mats and
other deadly products of modern demoli-
tion engineers.
The fight for the airfield evidently pro-
vided the harder fighting, for it was sur-
rounded by a hilly horseshoe with plenty
of reinforced cement and a maze of
communication tunnels. The pillboxes
were strong enough to withstand
direct hits from shells. Altogether the
enemy mustered a very substantial fire-
power, mainly mortar and m.g., which
pushed back the Australians after they
had captured one side of the airfield
ridges and essayed to take the other.
Eventually the positions in the short
jungle and among the trees were cleared
up by 10001 b. bombs, which made the pill-
boxes too hot for the occupants to hold,
though they did not wreck' the concrete.
However, the enemy got out, leaving
behind the usual stinging tail of snipers
and rearward suicide posts, as well qs
enough mines to make the advance after
him slow.
Tarakan township was a ruin when it
had been shot over. The Dutch bar-
racks were like a sieve before the
Japanese set fire to them, and the long
rambling, wooden dirty street was largely
given over to fire by means of oilcans
linked to electrical cables and set aflame
at the moment which the enemy believed
would be most inconvenient for invaders.
But the town eventually went up and
was overrun in a hurly-burly of gunfire
and explosions.
Possessions abandoned in some build-
ings showed how hurriedly the enemy
had left. Part of the loot was about 700
Japanese bicycles.
The Hell of Oil
Tarakan is a small island, shaped much
like Iwo Jima —that is,, like a pear. The
stalk side lies at the south-eastern end.
The Australians landed over the mud-
banks some distance on its underside
upon the south-western shore. As they
pushed inland they must have wondered
why anybody had sent them to take such
a place. Dark evil-smelling swamp diver-
sified by low ridges is the staple of the
landscape. Low palms and oil der-
ricks stick out of the swamps. The
pipes that run across them have been
smashed in parts by incessant air-bomb-
ing by the R.A.A.F, and their colleagues,
resulting in large areas of burnt-out
inferno.
The Australians were driving at first
inside a loop of hills round the oilfields
towards the north-eastern shoulder of
the pear, but their direction changed to
due north, while they widened their
coastal perimeter with N.E.I. troops on
their right flank.
With the capture of the airfield and
the town they had made a good start.
Ahead lay the two main oilfields,
Pamoesa, north-east of Tarakan, and
Djoeata to the north, in the very heart
of the island.
By May 10 the Australian holding on
the island covered about six square
miles, with a coastal strip five miles long.
The town had been cleared and, with
the deepest penetration of the island
about three miles, the Pamoesan airfield
had been captured, with oilheads intact,
and also cleared up. Api Hill (50ft.), the
only dominating feature covering the ad-
vance to Djoeata, about two miles ahead,
had been occupied ; but this had failed
to stop the fire from linked tunnels and
pillboxes on the flanks of the road lead-
ing forward to the objective or to do
away with the need to clear up hundreds
of mines, including tank mines weigh-
ing about 3cwt., planted along paths
which tanks were likely to take.
The forces on May 13 were still main-
taining pressure on the enemy. The
time had arrived for thorough consoli-
dation and cleaning up of the rear area
and for providing sound communications
and abundant forward stores before
making the main attack on the en-
trenched enemy, whose next stand was
certain to be desperate, since it must be
his last.
By that stage the Ninth Division had
pushed a mile north of the Djoeata oil-
field, while the hold on the south-west
coast had been extended to within a mile
and a bit from the southern tip of the
island. But opposition had continued
scattered and the last fight was still to
come.
All through the week heavy bombers,
including Australian Liberators, blasted
airfields and other facilities and com-
munications on Borneo proper from
which relief might be expected by the
Japanese garrison on Tarakan. Seemingly
these operations have had a good effect.
Supplies and Casualties
The little campaign was marked by the
sort of disgraceful wrangling which has
become chronic about whether the
equipment supplied was sufficient. A
Sydney “Herald” correspondent who,
having only recently come out of a prison
camp, can himself know little of the de-
velopments of equipment, quoted naval
observers as saying that “too much
manual labor was used” and that the
“provision of more mechanical equip-
ment would have made the operation
easier.” “They” i.Jded, he declared, that
the equipment required was easily obtain-
able and that the Australian commander
had been advised to borrow some. Vice-
Admiral Daniel Barbey, Commander of
the Seventh Amphibious Force, was re-
ported as saying cautiously that the fall
of the tide and mudbanks presented
great difficulties, demanding lots of en-
gineering equipment, and that “the speed
with which men and materials were landed
and moved from the beachhead was an
important factor in saving lives and
material.”
General MacArthur, however, after the
matter had been aired in the usual fashion
in Parliament, said that he was entirely
at a loss to account for any criticism of
the Tarakan operation, which had been
completely successful and had been
accomplished without the slightest hitch:
The equipment and methods were essen-
tially the same as those used in nearly 40
amphibious operations, all of which were
victorious. I know nothing of any criti-
cism by Vice-Admiral Barbey, and am re-
questing him to clarify this point.
Australian casualties to the morning of
May 8, 1945 (i.e. in the first week of fight-
ing) are reported as 76 killed and 276
wounded in action —light figures in view of
the great objective attained. If there has
been any finer operation of this size in the
war I do not know of it. The Australian
forces performed as they always have under
my command —with splendid efficiency. I
have nothing but praise for them and for
the operation.
There followed more arguments in Par-
liament, during which General Mac-
Arthur’s report was referred to as “white-
washed” and as not supplying a complete
and satisfactory answer to the charges.
The issue appears to have become a
matter of party politics, of little credit to
either side.
If the operation was of the kind
and on the scale and timetable
described from Tarakan —namely the
obtaining of a foothold from a mud-
shoaled shore, across swamp and jungle,
against heavily pill-boxed and mined
ground held by 4000 Japanese the
casualties are, as General MacArthur
says, very light, and seem to postulate a
very successful operation in which the
greatest care has been shown to save the
lives of men and to keep down losses.
The position certainly cannot be judged
by anybody from this distance or by any
correspondent new to the business, ex-
cept on somebody’s else’s opinion. jßut
on the face of the facts the complaints
appear to be nonsense. It is a pity that
Parliament is not given Lieut.-General
Morshead’s views to clear the matter up.
Heat on in N.G.
“Ek Dum”: In every area in which
there is fighting in New Guinea Aus-
tralian troops have reached or nearly
reached what must be main lines of resist-
ance. If operations which lie ahead are
to be finished quickly there will be a
need to see that there is abundant ship-
ping and aircraft available and sufficient
naval support. Conditions in these re-
spects seem to have improved.
No area promises an easy victory on
the present showing, even those which
are adjacent to well-established airfields
from which the A.M.F. can obtain ade-
quate or reasonable air support at a
moment’s notice.
The Buin area appears to present im-
minent possibilities. Since the Australians
reached the Puriata River, which by
crowfly is about 35 miles from the Kahili
aerodrome and about 40 miles by road,
the enemy has shown by his fierce on-
slaughts that he still has a power of fight
in him.
It will be remembered that he pounced
in force on the Australians advancing to
secure Darara Ford, which crosses the
river where it extricates itself from an
angle of bends and debouches into a
broad stream-bed about five miles from
its mouth. The battle of Slater’s Hill was
fought and the appearance
of the Matildas was decisive. It was the
biggest engagement since the Finisterres.
A few days later the Japs were shelling
Australian positions, but in time, with
hard fighting, the Puriata was secured
and the front line began to move
forward along the track to Buin through
the rich garden area which forms the Jap-
occupied zone.
This district is on the south-west end of
Bourgainville. It is smoothed and enriched
by the water and silt coming down from
the 7000 ft. volcanic Mt. Taroka, which
commands the landscape from the north-
east, its slopes scored by several streams
which run fairly across the track which
the Aussies are following to Buin—the
track which runs from Darara Ford to
Maigi Mission, which crosses the Hongo-
rai River to Runai, passes through Kirinani
across two minor streams to the Mibo
River, crosses three other main streams
to Nakaro, just south of one of a main
Japanese airfield at Kara, and thence goes
into the Kahili aerodrome area and Buin.
Generally speaking, until the coast turns
towards the north the track is shaped to
the contour of the shore, but is a few
miles inland.
In point of terrain, the operation repre-
sents a tough drive from river to river,
on each of which a bridgehead must be
secured against an enemy who appears to
be well armed, even holding six-inch guns.
Kiwis Cut a Track
The main moves after the Slater’s Hill
affair might be dated from Anzac night,
when, about 8 o’clock, the A.M.F. asked
for R.N.Z.A.F. support to provide a blast
from every available aircraft to mow
down the jungle on either side of the Buin
track. By this time the Australians, in
battalion strength, were on the track
about 25-27 miles from Bum, facing
strong Japanese defence. The specifica-
tion called for the jungle to be torn down
for 25 yards on each side of the track,
commencing 250 yards ahead of the Aus-
tralians, for about 900 yards with bombs
and depth-charges, with a final strafe to
make way for the advance of the
Matildas.
The job was scheduled to take two
hours. The R.N.Z.A.F. had to take care


m:*
PUP
vN.
2?.
pu^.
. W' .
—*s *
P'A
'?/ omcstcaS
Our Inland has developed a
fasfe for verandahs and more
verandahs. Our sfyle has
developed accordingly, and
follows Ruskin's dicfum for
the low resfful treatment
required by our flaf open
terrain.
WHATEVER THE STYLE, cost or location of the home you build,
one thing is essential to its comfort, long life and appearance —
“Sisalkraft.”
“Sisalkraft” protects against drip, damp and dust when used as
sarking under roofs and sheathing for walls, etc.; safeguards ceilings
and interiors for the life of the building. So moderate in cost, so
gratifying in results, it is unwise to build without “Sisalkraft”
protection Defence requirements absorb our output at the moment,
but make sure your architect specifies “Sisalkraft,” because there
will be ample supplies available for post-war building.
SI^LKMFT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftus Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, 0.1.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-891 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA: William Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty . Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND; W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. H. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street.
Auckland.
STROMBERG-CARLSON PRESENTS
ADVENTURES INTO THE UNKNOWN
X
■ 'Vcs
SIR FRANCIS DRAKE
His was the greatest name when
Englishmen sailed uncharted seas
to harvest the ungarnered riches of a vast New World.
Like Prahe in the 'Golden Hind ”, Stromberg-Carlson
to-day is .charting unknown seas, opening up a new world
of realism in radio, for you to enjoy when Victory is won.
Post-war, too. there will be nothing finer than a
STROMBERG - CARLSON
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia
50 YEARS OF COMMUNICATION ENGINEERING
BUY WAR SAYINGS CERTIFICATES
'
not to hit any of the Australians waiting
calmly below besides their Matildas, only
250 yards from the starting line, or the
Matildas themselves, since both would be
needed. And they were asked not to hit
the track since the tanks had a good use
for it. They were using 10001 b. bombs
with spiked fuses, designed to explode
above ground and spread shrapnel knee-
high. Led in by R.A.A.F, Wirraway
reconnaissance machines, the Kiwis
slipped into position at 2000 ft. and began
operations, each squadron taking 300
yards of track while the A.M.F. sat
calmly smoking. Finally, the Corsairs,
each of which carries six guns, went in to
clear any remaining enemy.
River Obstacles
The enemy defence was strong and well
established, and did not yield to pressure.
The streams to be crossed are not mere
brooks. The Puriata called for a 360 ft.
Bailey bridge capable of carrying heavy
equipment—bulldozers and scrapers—to
push the road up towards the front line.
Advances, therefore, were slow even after
tanks had been brought forward to sup-
port the Victorian infantry which made
up the spearhead.
Because of the nature of the country it
was impossible to keep the enemy off the
flanks of the advance save by wiping him
out. This task, carried on by specially-
equipped patrols and eager Kanaka units,
was continually in process of bitter little
- jungle fights, in which the troops are now
thoroughly experienced.
Meanwhile, the enemy force west of
the Hongorai was obviously only a
Screen, di awing back without much re-
sistance but keeping contact. On the
whole the enemy was being harassed
pretty thoroughly, for commandos were
abroad and the Kanaka patrols were
doing excellent work in hit-and-run raids
in forward areas as well as on the flanks.
On May 7-8 the Victorians were less
than a mile from the Hongorai, and the
Maoriland bombing and strafing had
reached crescendo. Mainly, it was car-
ried on in front of the main advance
against the defence lines of the river, on
the eastern or further bank of which a
considerable force was entrenched. More
particularly the blast was against gun
positions, from which the enemy was
bombarding Australian lines with artil-
lery up to six-inch. Then came more
fighting as bitter as any which has been
seen in Bougainville before on May 11.
The Australians looked down on the Hon-
gorai, the first main defence line of Buin,
towards which their eyes had been turned
for six weary months.
Converging on Wewak
In the meantime the main fight for
Wewak had flared up. Three forces of
the veteran Sixth Division began to con-
verge on the centre, and for the first time
such an operation by Australian troops
was reported in the same detail as is
customary in other armies.
Firstly, there was Brigadier Moten’s
force, moving from the inland side at
Maprik. Brigadier J. F. G. Martin's
force came in from the west from the
Dagua airstrip along the coast. This
advance was timed to coincide with an
amphibious landing on the beach at
Dove Bay, 10 miles east of Wewak — i.e.,
on the Madang side —under ‘Major-
General Stevens.
The amphibious force consisted of
commando troops and infantry, with the
normal artillery, mortar and sapper de-
tachments. The usual routine was fol-
lowed. The beach was heavily shelled
by a naval squadron which, for the first
time in Australian warfare in the Pacific,
included a Royal Navy ship, H.M.S.
Newfoundland (a Fiji-class cruiser carry-
ing 12 six-inch guns), together with
H.M.A.S. Hobart, Arunta and Warra-
munga, Swan, Colac and Dubbo and a
number of lighter craft. Air co-opera-
tion was hampered by weather condi-
tions, but seems to have been effective.
Within an hour the beachhead was
secured, and the force at once pushed
across the Wewak-Sauri road inland to
prevent the enemy v getting away. It then
moved up the coast towards the aero-
drome area.
Wewak peninsula had been captured
against stiff resistance, calling for the use
of infantry, tanks, flamethrowers and all
the paraphernalia of blast used'for tear-
ing down pillboxes. The enemy fell back
to last-stand defences at the north-eastern
corner of the peninsula, but was wiped
out by the flood of Australian arma-
ment. Australians on May 14 controlled
a considerable part of the shoreline, and
it seemed only a matter of days before
Wewak and Boram airfields were over-
run and the conquest of the area com-
pleted.
Casualties were reported to be light
and those of the Japanese very heavy.
Nazi Germany Perishes.
“Ek Dum”: On May 8 in the House
of Commons Mr. Churchill wrote “finis”
to the war in Europe, save for a few
aftermaths, while President Truman issued
a simultaneous statement in Washington.
Mr. Churchill said that at' 2.41 a.m.
on May 7 General Jodi, representing
Admiral Doenitz and the German High
Command, had signed the act of uncon-
ditional surrender to the Allied Expedi-
tionary Force and the Russian High
Command. The paper was authenticated
by the signatures of General Bedell Smith
(General Eisenhower’s C. 0.5.), General
Francois Sevez for France and General
Suslapatov for the Russians.
Next day the agreement was ratified in
Berlin, where Air Chief Marshal Tedder,
Deputy Supreme Commander of the
A.E.F., General de Lattre Tassigny and
Marshal Zukhov, for the Allies, and Mar-
shal Keitel, for the enemy, signed the
document.
On the same day Admiral Doenitz an-
nounced the disappearance of the Nazi
party. He said that there was no longer
unity between party and State; the foun-
dations of the Reich were gone.
I believed my first task was to save the
life of the German people. Therefore early
on Monday morning I gave the order to
arrange for unconditional surrender. I
have pledged myself to alleviate, as far as
possible, the fate of the German people,
but the power lies with the occupying
authorities. It depends on them whether
the Reich Government formed by me con-
tinues in office From nine o’clock to-
night our guns will be silent.
The cease-fire was being sounded in
the west long before that time, and, in-
deed, the war might be said to have ended
for all practical purposes when the Ger-
man forces of the north capitulated to
Field-Marshal Montgomery. It could
have ended, except in the south, earlier
still, for it is now quite clear that the
Americans and British of the Ninth Army
could have taken Berlin at any time after
they reached the Elbe, and that some of
their patrols actually reached the out-
skirts of the capital.
Except in Czechoslovakia, where strong
remnant forces continued to resist Czechs
and Russians in supposedly heavy fight-
ing, all the rest was aftermath.
The Allies were faced with a tremen-
dous task in dealing with huge German
forces still under arms, some of whom
seemed to know nothing of tne
surrender.
But there was plenty of signs that die
war was over as Germany began to give
up its captives, many of whom in news-
paper reports had long before been done
to death. The King of Belgium, Dala-
dier, Reynaud, Weygand, Gamelin,
Jouhaut (the French Labor leader whose
arrival will start a pretty to-do in Paris),
the husband of Princess Mafalda, the old
King of Italy’s daughter who died in
Buchenwald, Chancellor Schuschnigg of
Austria and hfis wife. General Papagos
of Greece, Pastor Niemoller and many
more.
Goring was captured; Quisling sur-
rendered.
At 1.10 a.m. on May 9, Marshal Stalin
announced the news of the capitulation,
and Moscow went mad, as Moscow well
might in view of its sufferings and the fact
that it has no Japanese war to fight.
On May 10 the Channel Islands were
free and Dunkirk was again in English
hands. The French ports of La Pallice,
La Rochelle, St. Nazaire and Lorient were
handed over, Crete and Milos were fully
in Allied Lands ; the Russians had entered
Prague, and the German forces in Cour-
land, in Latvia, surrendered after months
of resistance against attack after attack.
Next General Bor emerged from cap-
tivity to announce that the Warsaw rising
had not been the responsibility of the
London Polish Government. It had, he
said, been ordered by himself because he
thought the Red Army’s approach made
the time propitious. The Russians, he
said, were only 500 yards away at one
point, but the attacks which they launched
were in less than battalion strength. The
rising failed when the patriots were with-
out food and when six out of every ten
Poles involved had become casualties.
The final remnants of the German fleet,
outside U-boats, which were steadily sur-
rendering, including the cruisers Prinz
Eugen and Nuremberg, three destroyers,
10 minesweepers and some others, by 9
a.m. of May 9 had come under control
of a British naval force headed by H.M.S.
Birmingham.
Rear-Admiral Muirhead-Gould, R.N.*
recently commanding the Australian
squadron, has taken control of the Ger-
man Navy in north-west Germany.
Oslo was preparing at the week-end to
celebrate the arrival of a large British
fleet in its fiord, and Crown Prince Olat
has returned to Oslo.
And from Yugoslavia the immortal
Tito reported that, having “liberated
Zagreb, Ljubljana and other towns, his
armies.,were “advancing towards Austria.
By May 14 the Third Reich was dead.
Its courts had ceased to function. Ger-
many was under military government. Its
inhabitants were being levied to clothe
and feed the wretched inmates of the con-
centration camps, and already some ot
the 6,000,000 prisoners whom the Allies
in the west have taken were being released
to help clear up some of the mess and


Legfa! Notices.
CHARLES JOHN HILLMAN late of Third Street
Home Hill in the State of Queensland Retired Black-
smith Deceased. —AFTER FOURTEEN CLEAR BAA S
from today ROY HILLMAN of Home Hill in the
State of Queensland Labourer and STUART VALMA
HILLMAN of Leichhardt Sydney in the State of New
South Wales Storekeeper lawful sons of the deceased
and the executors appointed by his will dated
the Fourth day of April 1941 will apply to the
Supreme Court Townsville for probate of the said
will Any person interested who desires to object
to the application or to be heard upon it may file
a caveat in the Registry at any time before the
grant is made.—R. J. RUDDY & TOMLINS Solicitors
for the Executors, Eighth Avenue, Home Hill. Town
Agent, ALBERT ERNEST DEAN, Solicitor, Towns-
ville.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE AUSTRALIAN
CAPITAL TERRITORY. — Probate Jurisdiction.
IN THE WILL of MARGARET McDOUGALL
BARRELL late of Queenscliff near Sydney in the
State of New South Wales married woman deceased.
—APPLICATION will be made after fourteen days
from the publication hereof that Probate of the Will
of the abovenamed deceased granted by the Supreme
Court of New South Wales may be sealed with the
Seal of this Honourable Court and all notices may
be served at the undermentioned address All per-
sons having any claim against the estate of the said
deceased are required to send particulars of their
claim to the undersigned within the said period.—
E. R. BOARDMAN, Solicitor, City, Canberra.
TO ARTHUR JAMES HEIGHTON sometimes known
as Arthur James Pascoe formerly of Christchurch in
New Zealand (a son of Lavinia Martha Heighten
of Auckland Deceased.). —TAKE NOTICE that by an
Order of the Supreme Court of New Zealand enquiries
are being made for the abovenamed Arthur James
Heighten (or Pascoe) or his issue as beneficiaries
under the Will of his Aunt Ada Pascoe deceased
This missing man lived in Christchurch New Zealand
and left there about 1897 and if alive is now aged
about 74 The said Arthur James Heighten (or
Pascoe) and all persons claiming to be his issue or
to be representatives thereof are required to com-
municate with the undersigned executor on or before
the 30th day of September 1945 failing which they
may be excluded from participating in the said
Estate Persons knowing anything of the missing
man are requested to communicate with the under-
signed.
THE TRUST MANAGER,
NEW ZEALAND INSURANCE COMPANY,
LIMITED,
QUEEN STREET, AUCKLAND.
NEW ZEALAND.
* /
yr-
fl-
II
OOLCAit
O^U2A<j
OtyUA.
YOUR CAR WILL RUN BEST ON
OLYMPIC
RUBBER
w
INSULATED
CABLES
Olympic
TYRES
Production of
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA j
d
fd
fd
The lifts or escalators you order
now will embody the latest
advancements and practices in the
field of vertical transportation.
Our engineers will advise you in
drawing up the specifications to
ensure you obtaining the best type
of lift to suit your business and
anticipated traffic conditions.
A POST-WAR PLAN FOR
LIFT INSTALLATION
cct ifout genqre tif>
Lift and escalator installations are at present
restricted to essential undertakings—but to
those of you who are looking ahead and
anticipating future needs we provide a post-
war Plan to save you delays and disappoint-
ments.
The Plan is simple. In, brief—you place your
order now—and all we ask is that you do so
in good faith. No payment is requested until
work commences on your behalf, and we will
accept cancellation at any time till then
should conditions necessitate. Costs will be
based on to-day’s rates, with variations either
way to your account, and, the moment
restrictions are lifted, your order will be
executed in the sequence of a Priority
Certificate issued you.
Meet the future now call your nearest
Waygood-Otis office for details of this prac-
tical, forward-working Plan. No obligation
whatsoever.
m
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
WAYGOOD-OTIS (A U S T.) PTY. LTD INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE . BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH . HOBART . NEWCASTLE
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICA L TRANSPORTATIO N
prepare to see Europe through the next
dreadful winter.
There was still much to be done, and
there were terrible problems of hate and
greed to be solved, before Europe could
be said to be at peace.
European Panorama.
“Ek Dum”: Germany defeated, her
leaders dead, captured or in hiding, her
naval remnants in British hands and her
war resources at the complete disposal
of the Allies, Europe still presents a sorry
picture.
Italy, the first of the Axis Powers to
fall, is a morass of hunger and terrorism,
with which the Allied control is finding it
difficult to deal. Into the industrial north
almost at the moment of victory Moscow
decanted the terrorist Ercoli (Tagliatto),
a former secretary of the Comintern,
under whose auspices the barbarous de-
struction and exhibition of Mussolini
were carried out without the slightest
pretence of an impartial trial.
On the other side of Italy Tito’s Par-
tisans have been claiming Trieste,
occupied by Freyberg’s Kiwis, as a
liberated Yugoslav city. It is about as
Yugoslav in character as Doodlakine, and
Tito failed to take it, or, indeed, any
other defended city where his mysterious
armies lacked Russian or Bulgarian sup-
port. The claim has been icily rejected
by the U.S. State Department.
Despite the fact that the Yugoslav
“Government” is supposedly to be settled
on a permanent basis by free elections,
Tito has acted throughout the role of a
conqueror and permanent head of the
State, making treaties with the U.S.S.R., of
which he is a citizen, and' whose uniform
he has worn. Rumania, Poland and Bul-
garia are all in the hands of the Russians.
With Russian incursions, darkness has
descended upon them. No neutral or
Allied correspondents are allowed to
wander through them and tell what is
happening. The Russians show no dis-
position to dispel the ugly rumors of
wholesale deportations and other horrors
by admitting a free press to exculpate its
administration.
Marshal Stalin keeps on reiterating
through one official channel and another
his earnest wish to see free, strong and
independent Governments established in
all these countries. This moves pale-pink
daily newspaper editors to great enthusi-
asm. Thus the “S. M. Herald’s” young
man from San Francisco:
Unreasonable, even provocative, as the
Russian attitude on the Polish question may
seem to the Anglo-Saxon mind, there is
no evidence, despite the assertions of Lon-
don Poles, that the Kremlin has any in-
tention of imposing communism on Poland
or denying her independence which Mar-
shal Stalin has so often proclaimed as her
right.
No evidence whatever, except that the
Lublin Government consists almost en-
tirely of communists or near-communists
whose allegiance in the past has been to
Russia rather than their own land. The
only denial of independence which the
marshal wishes to impose on Poland re-
volves round his insistence that Russia
should dictate who should govern the
country and that any member of a Polish
Government whom Russia considers
“hostile” to the Soviet Union should go.
In other words, he calls for considerably
more power over supposedly independent
Poland than the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment has over our State Governments.
Russia
Russia itself, torn and bleeding, is a
vast illusion built largely of propaganda.
Estimates, based on the say-so of a
Russian general, were published during
the week. It was said that the country
had lost between 12,000,000 and
15,000,000 killed, half of whom were civi-
lians, and that on occasion it had been
necessary to sacrifice as many as 500,000
troops in order to save a Russian army.
Russia emerges with hundreds of thou-
sands of square miles of its most fertile
land devastated. It has not seen a harvest
within 40 per cent, of normal west of
the Urals for four years.
Its steel production last year was one-
fifth per head of that of the United King-
dom —the figures were Stalin’s own. It
has unimaginable devastation to repair.
Its people are tired, and unnumbered
millions of those who are not dead are
maimed or destroyed in health. But poli-
tically it is strong, because its inter-
nationalist communist organisations en-
able it to white-ant other countries and
to influence their policies into a respect
for Russian “realism.”
Air-raid Ruin
Germany is an appalling ruin. Mar-
shal Kesselring has added his .testimony
to that of Marshal von Rundstedt: British
and American air superiority made it im-
possible for the country to carry on the
war.
The tremendous rubbish heaps of the
Ruhr and Berlin bear them out. Hard-
working and frugal as the Germans are,
it will take them generations to recover
from the disaster brought on them by the
crimes and follies of their leaders.
France and the Small Powers
France, physically, is not as badly
knocked about as the rest of continental
Europe. Its resources are largely intact.
Its losses were greatest in young men,
spirited away to German slave camps,
and in spiritual pride. But France knows
that the resources of Britain and the
Americas —including Latin America —can
be drawn on to enable her to restore her-
self quickly and become a stable and
great Power.
For the rest, the little countries of
Europe have serious wounds to lick.
The Dutch are worst off for the
moment, with their fields awash and the
rich territories from which they draw
their lifeblood still in Japanese hands.
There is a common bond between British,
French and Dutch in that the Japanese
war continues for them while other coun-
tries can, if they wish, withdraw them-
selves from contact with it.
The Norwegians take over a country
which has long been in German occu-
pation and stripped by the enemy of man-
power and resources. But the Norwegians
have had the advantage of saving most
of their merchant shipping, and, with the
respect of everybody who has dealt
with them, will quickly restore themselves,
and no doubt will do their part in the
eastern war as they have in the present
war, in the knowledge that closer bonds
have been forged between themselves and
British-speaking peoples everywhere. Den-
mark, too, will have a part to play in
feeding Europe. But her economy also
is something of a ruin.
Britain’s Glory
Lastly, there is Britain. It scarcely seems
to have dawned on the average onlooker
that Britain, if she cared for such a role,
could become the mistress of Europe.
She is far ahead of any European coun-
try in industrial equipment and industrial
method. Her scientific equipment is
without peer. She has what is probably
the world’s most powerful air force,
though she may not have the numbers.
No other nation can carry such heavy
mile-for-mile bombloads on aircraft.
No other country can match the
Spitfire, the Mosquito, the Lancaster.
Britain’s Navy is absolutely supreme
both in the south and north of Europe.
Her radar, a tremendous element in her
superiority, is streets ahead of any other in
use. With command of sea and air, and
with the only European mercantile fleet
outside that of Scandinavia effective for
large-scale transport over long distances,
she has a virtual monopoly in the realm
of shipping.
All this, together with the existence of
that great and friendly nation that speaks
the English tongue, that mighty power
for the punishment of evil and for the
succor of distress, is for the good of the
world. And it should be a lesson to many
a noisy editor in the “free” countries who
joined in propagating the conception that
the British were a decadent race who
need Americans to teach them how to
run their colonies and Russian Timo-
shenkos to teach them how to fight a war.
Morally, Britain is the strongest Power
in the world today. Despite her burdens,
which are great but not so great as those
of any other European nation, she is also
immensely strong in a physical and
economic sense. And it is important to
the future of Europe and civilisation that
all parts of the British Empire, including
Australia, should put every ounce of
effort into the task of beating Japan
quickly so that British influence in recon-
struction and stabilisation in Europe can
be carried on without distractions —though
with a due detachment from Europe’s
internal political problems it may be
hoped.


Wk
A Sign of the Times
TOP DOG
WORE TROUSERS
... have a reputation throughout Australia
for hard wear and satisfactory service. In
workmanship., fabrics and careful attention
to detail., they are recognised to be “tops”
in quality. So., hasten the day when civil-
ian supplies of TOP DOG WORK TROUSERS
are again unlimited by investing to the
limit in National Savings Stamps and War
Savings Certificates.
V;
wlP 5
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
' §\
mm
RUPTURt
L NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARK ERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavltv.
Write Today lor
FREE LITERATURE.
RAKKERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 21W), 113 KT.I/ABUTB sT.. svnVFT
ACTS
LIKE THE Hfllia
SPORTING NOTIONS
Whatever any of the 24,000 paying customers
who put £68,970 through the“ tote at Canter-
bury on Saturday may have lost in cash, they
should have drawn a dividend or two in health
from the day. Apart from one meeting washed
out by rain, the S.T.C. has been very lucky
in the sort of weather Sydney can turn on at
this time of the year.
The customers shouldn’t have fared so badly
on the cash side, either: only one wild out-
sider got home—Edigram (G. Weate), who
downed Silverelda and Davinia in the nine-
furlongs Canterbury Handicap. Silverelda was
fairly solidly supported on the strength of her
recent sprint win, no doubt coupled with the
fact that last time up she won twice over the
reputed “hard” Moorefield mile, and hence
should manage the Canterbury nine furlongs.
Certainly the Moorfield mile is up hill and
down dale, but horses notorious for stopping in
shorter races have been known to succeed over
it, so perhaps it isn’t as hard as alleged, and
that idea of it might profitably be discarded as
an infallible guide. Silverelda, however, is a
solid mare, and is just now in good form.
Davinia is on the small side, but is getting
weights she can manage, and should be near
a w i n - e #
r *, *. s ‘ • , ...
Loyal March (Mulley), winner of the Vic-
tory Handicap from Night Parade and Thanks
America, was heavily backed, though anyone
with only what could be seen of the Limarch-
Winrose three-year-old’s performance at Rand-
wick the previous Saturday to go 6n would
hardly have backed him with gift money. At
Randwick, carrying 7.12, he never raised a
gallop in the 11-furlongs Warwick May Handi-
cap, and was last of a field of nine. On Satur-
day. carrying 8.4, he led throughout over the
same distance, and was five lengths • clear at
the finish. The explanation was a change of
bits, the one used at Randwick having bruised
his tongue '
Making a steady habit of it, three-year-olds
also won two other events—three out of the
five open to them. Ascertain (Doon) defeated
Invictus (another three-year-old) and Royal
Janette in the Three-and-four-year-old Handi-
cap, and Silver Link (D. Munro) downed
Prince Regent (also a three-year-old) and Magic
Wand very easily in the Encourage Stakes.
Invictus, sparingly raced, showed promising
form, coming from behind to run the solid
Ascertain to three-quarters of a length. Murray
Stream (fourth) should do better on another
track.
......
Tr ,- ed ; n tbe plying Handicap against slightly
better company than he had been beating,
Western Monarch failed to measure up, though
a f a j r tb i rc j to Nobleman (J. Thompson) and
Tahmoor. The Manitoba-Nightlight bay colt
Deliverance, urged along by J. Duncan, lasted
]ong enougb to beat improving Thrums and
gramalt in the six-furlongs Maiden Handicap
for two-year-olds, and the Talking-Gemini
filly vocal Gem (McGrowdie) was much too
good for j r j beam and Sound Effect in the like
race for flni es . The big Ajax-Bubbles filly
Sonning (fifth) and the Marconigram-Speed
colt glanmar (fourth) are two improving
youngsters. Prometheus, one of the Titan
breed, led the colts and geldings at the turn,
and lbe bree( j ; s proving so good that he may
d much better t £ an his tenth before long.
*
.. . ,
The unsinkable optimists who take the sort
of odds offered about hurdle-steeple favorites
grieved again at Moonee Valley on Saturday
when West Haran (7 to 4) finished only a
moderate fifth to Grand Central, Accelerate
and old Tente in the Spotswood Steeple. A
newcomer to the fences, lately graduated
through hurdling—he beat Bay David in the
Boisdale Hurdle at Mentone on April 14—the
winner is bred for speed rather than stamina,
being by the good sprinter and sire of good
sprinters Pentheus, whose stock includes
Trimmer, Lagoon, Fine Art and a string ot
other fast ones over short distances.
The optimists were better served in the
Kororoit Hurdle, Bay David (evens) getting
home with threp lengths to spare from Hear-
say, with another six lengths to Manly, third.
The five-year-old David gelding has nothing
much in looks to commend him, but hes
steadily improving Ridden by Meenan, he
was always handy to the main pace-maker.
Hearsay, and drew level at the last jump, to
win going away.
An even hotter favorite, the Gay Lothario-
Baba chestnut colt Gay Lad (5 to 4 on) com-
fortably defeated Tilly Black, Kinderlass and
16 others in the six-furlongs Seaside Handicap
for two-year-olds. Gay Lad’s favoritism and
win were presaged by his good win at the
Valley on April 21 and his even better second
to Royal Gem at Flemington a week later.
His success further confirmed Royal Gems
patently high class, since at Flemington the
Dhoti-French Gem colt carried 9.6 to Gay
Lad’s 8.4. Saturday’s field was weaker, but
Gay Lad was topweight with 9st., was giving
the second horse 2st., and won well, though
Preston had to ride him hard over the last
half-furlong.
Another of the day’s favorites to land the
money, the Tasmanian performer Night
Fighter’s win in a division of the Beach Welter
was also strongly indicated by his previous run,
his first since coming over. On that occasion
the winner of the lasmanian Doncaster mile,
and at other distances there, from short
sprints up to a mile and a half, drew the out-
side of a big field, did not have the clearest
of runs, and was only very narrowly beaten by
Gala Chief. On Saturday he carried 8.12,
giving weight to both place-getters, Antes and
Grand Legend, and had a clear length to spare
at the finish. A plain five-year-old brown
gelding by The Night Patrol-Petra, Night
Fighter is such a consistently strong galloper
that he should be equal to winning much better
winter races on the Melbourne tracks.
A good winner in better company at’ his
previous start in the two-miles Brookside Han-
dicap at Flemington, Oatcake failed to handle
the tricky Valley track in the Bay View Handi-
cap (13 furlongs), finishing weakly in fifth
place in a field of six, whereupon some that
had thought evens about him was picking up
money howled with wrath. However, the
winner, the big Enfield four-year-old brown
gelding Duntroon, had sound enough form,
having been narrowly and unluckily beaten by
The Trapper in the Ascot Thousand. Dunfroon
defeated Anthony and Ola Rose very easily.
The Gay Lothario-Mazar bay colt Metro
Star also had a runaway win in the 10-furlongs
Gellibrand Handicap for three-year-olds, four
lengths ahead of John Law, with Real Guy a
head away, and the country performer James-
town finished too strongly for Baffin Bay and
Judith Louise in the day’s other event', the
Beach Welter second division.
* * * *
Always a hot favorite, Rainbird, who was
moved from Melbourne to Adelaide last year,
comfortably defeated Lashio and Indian Silver
in the S.A. St. Leger, run at Morphettville on
Saturday, and Univari reversed a recent defeat
by Ducal in winning the Goodwood Handicap,
with David Innis in third place. Heavy rain
helped to bring about topweight Ducal’s defeat.
Chart, winner of the Ascot Park Hurdle, paid
£ll3 9s. for £1 on the tote.
* * * *
• For Rosehill (before acceptances).—Wilber-
force Encourage: Spearex, 1; Survivor, 2; Mara-
belle, 3. Mulgrave Two-year-old (colts and
geldings): Tithonus, 1; Prometheus, 2; Moon-
galba, 3, Pitt Town Two-year-old (fillies);
Sonning, 1; Vocal Gem, 2; Franjean, 3; Clar-
endon Flying: Vermeil, 1; Silverelda, 2; Tah-
moor, 3. Hawkesbury Handicap: Boomanulla,
1; Goose Boy, 2; Wellesley, 3. Windsor High-
weight : Bruce Wood, 1; Western Monarch, 2;
Brazier, 3.
« * ♦ *
Paradoxical as it may seem, the result of
the classic Two Thousand Guineas, run at
Newmarket (Eng.) on May 9, was a further
tribute to the judgment of handicapper Fawcett,
who retired last year. The Two Thousand was
won by Lord Astor’s Fair Trial colt Court
Martial, from the previously unbeaten Nearco
colt Dante, with another son of Nearco, Royal
Charger, third. In the last of Fawcett’s Free
Handicaps, published just before Christmas,
Dante was naturally allotted top weight, 9.7,
but the weighting of Court Martial next to him,
with 9.6, was a great surprise to keen judges,
the “Times” racing correspondent commenting
that Court Martial had evidently been rated so
high “not so much on the intrinsic merit of his
two victories but by the promise he showed in
gaining them.” The keenness of the Fawcett
judgment was further emphasised by the fact
that up to then Dante had been unbeaten in all
his six starts.
The “Times” correspondent, while not in-
dulging in the always risky business of question-
ing the handicapper —especially risky with one
Whose judgment had been proved over many
years almost uncanny—pointed out that, going
strictly on form, several others would have
been rated higher than Court Martial. In the
classic which so vindicated the Fawcett judg-
ment there was only a neck between the two
Free Handicap topweights. “What Mr. Faw-
cett has made very clear,” the “Times” man
commented, “is that Dante is a very good
two-year-old in a very good year, and that,
brilliant as he is, he will not have matters all
his own way in the classic races.” Court Mar-
tial, incidentally, is the second son of Fair
Trial successful in the Two Thousand Guineas.
The other was Lambert Simnel (1941).
The One Thousand Guineas, run on May 8,
was won by Lord Derby’s brilliant Hyperion-
Drift filly Sun Stream, with Blue Smoke, a
daughter of Blue Peter, second. In a pub-
lished cable of the results third place was
allotted to Miss Feathers, but that would be
Miss Paget’s Fairway filly Mrs. Feather. In
the Free Handicap weights Fawcett gave Sun
Stream 9st., Blue Smoke 8.11 and Mrs. Feather
8.8.; so his judgment was fair enough there,
also, though it was based much more on form
than his weighting of the colts. Sun Stream
has an Australian association through F. W.
Hughes’s very successful imported Titan, sire
of the recent winners Tactician and Tithonus,
among others. Titan, a son of Hyperion, is
the season’s leading sire of two-year-olds m
N.S.W. The intention at the close of last
season in England was to send Sun Stream to
the stud, but luckily she has been given the
opportunity to prove herself as a three-year-old.
« y * *
Herbert Morris, killed in a level-crossing
accident near Dandenong, was one of Vic-
toria’s best distance riders, his big wins in-
cluding two Australian Cups —on Mutable
(1927) and Taramoa (1943).
* * * *
When A. R. Adams, who won the V.R.C.
Oaks on Opera Queen in 1928, lately won a
Juvenile Handicap at Victoria Park, Adelaide,
on a 10-to-l chance he admitted that it was
his first win for nearly five years, these having
been spent in munition-making.
* * * *
Dedicated to the good cause of
amateur sport, the Sydney Cricket Ground
has, through political influence, come
under the control of a professional con-
cern. The winter monopoly granted to
this outfit is having sordid results, while
arousing unsatisfied speculation as to
why so many of its mealtickets have been
“available” when so many R.U. cracks
are among the dead, wounded and


Divorce Notices.
IN’ THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO JOHN McOAFFERTY. —TAKE NOTICE that
KATHLEEN McOAFFERTY has filed a Petition in
the Supreme Court of New South Wales (No. 4095 of
1944) praying for a Divorce on the ground of your
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 31st day of
Julv 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. PIKE AND PIKE Solicitors
141 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO EILEEN JOYCE ELLIS late of Randwick.—
TAKE NOTICE that LEO FREDERICK ELLIS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 373 of 1945 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance in the Divorce Registry
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Ist June
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from EDWARD LORENZO EVERETT Pank
of New South Wales Building Bondi Junction the
Solicitor for the Petitioner or from MESSRS. JEN-
NINGS & JENNINGS Solicitors his city agents of
129 Pitt Street Sydney.—(us.) C. K. BODY, Regis-
trar in Divorce.
If j'our
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if lie is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/0
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/0
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BARKO
X
\or
d«
Q^v*
5n
FIXED PRICES
Supreme .. 16/5
Diploma .. 18/11
fy Autoflow .. 26/3
14ct. solid gold,
hand-made nib.
Iridium pointed
Announcemeni
The Manufacturers of
* FELTEX
wish to advise the public that although
Feltex floor coverings are now being
manufactured, it is regretted that factory
production is not sufficient to meet all
demands, and intending purchasers may
have to wait for delivery of orders placed
with their furnishing store.
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
FELTEX HOUSE, 261 GEORGE STREET, SYONEY
S'
Sv
0
0 V*
o
vA
©■*■ * .
yv
G
PI
0
i
o'-
H
e
o
IM
yA
VA
V s
o
o
|. SL§
Ipr ■
H
o %
o^V
B
C\^
:
m
o v
o
L'A
fe Sv
l\#^’
JIGS &
FIXTURES
PRESS TOOLS
DIES, MOULDS
& GAUGES
Full-time maintenance of a toolroom is a serious economic
proposition for the individual manufacturer. By taking advantage
of the specialised and permanent resources of A.T.L., however,
he has at his service when and as required the most modern
precision machinery in Australia, ready to produce jigs, fixtures,
press tools, dies, moulds and gauges at lower cost and in shorter
time than would be possible were production attempted within
his own establishment.
J
o
V*
\y
c \
»x
. c*
m
/ .
a*
A
<6.
ST
AUTOMATIC TOTALISATORS LIMITED
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS. TOTALISATOR ENGINEERS
i SYDNEY . . , MELBOURNE . . . PERTH . . . BRISBANE
ATL2A-45
SB
missing. Betting is rife, beer is one
of the attractions, and the foot-
brawl is apt to be of the lowest order.
On Saturday there was a disgraceful ex-
hibition, in the course of which three
fellows were sent off, another was led
off, others were laid out and the referee
was abused and threatened. Amateurs
have applied for the use of the ground
for Duntroon v. Great Public Schools,
the match of the year in Sydney football.
So greedy and cheeky is the crowd in
control that the modest request has been
refused.
* * * *
Melbourne football fans are having a
hard time picking ’em. Nobody worried
about the Footscray-North Melbourne
match at Footscray, seeing that ’Scray
had downed everything it had met, while.
North had only one win. But, having the
wind for the last quarter. North went
flat out and piled on the points to win
14.8-11.13. Only about 12,000 saw the
disaster. ‘Pretty well everybody picked
the Melbourne-Richmond affair as the
game of the day, but it wasn’t; the Tigers
chawed the Demons up by 13.7 to 9.11.
There were sundry festivities elsewhere,
but all they did was leave South Mel-
bourne—yes, South—alone at the head of
affairs, so far unbeaten: Carlton 12.12 v.
Fitzroy 11.11, Essendon 23.18 v. St. Kilda
14.17, Collingwood 13.23 v. Hawthorn
9.9, South Melbourne 1.0.23 v. Geelong
9.13.
Todd, the ex-Collingwood forward
whose transfer to Williamstown almost
caused a civil war, kicked 20 of Williams-
town’s 28 goals against Oakleigh last
Saturday.
* * * *
Randwick and University are still
supreme in the Rugby Union. On Satur-
day West held Randwick to 8-all at the
spell by rugged spoiling tactics, but wilted
afterwards, the ’Wicks making it 21 to
11. Markedly superior in backs and for-
wards, Uni. trounced Parramatta 24-9.
Surprise win of the day was Gordon’s
18-9 victory over St. George, the High-
landers scoring three tries to nil. East
was hard pressed by Drummoyne 11-6,
and Manly by North 11-9 ; all the same,
Manly is improving with every match.
* * * *
“Tus” Morton, who had a big football
funeral the other day in Adelaide, was
a notable player there 50 years back. ’He
will be remembered on the Westralian
goldfields, too, and about 1901 he cap-
tained North Fremantle.
* * * *
After the recent Head of the River on
the Parramatta a protest entered on be-
half of High (second) against Shore, who
won after rowing a somewhat erratic
course, was upheld, though it awaits final
decision by G.P.S. authorities meeting
next month. The grounds of the protest
have not been given out, and the course
towed by Shore may not have been the
point of objection. The committee that
dealt with the protest was reported as
“strongly in favor” of its being upheld.
High’s coach, Frank Nichols, was re-
ported as declaring that he personally
had not lodged the protest, which had
been entered by school authorities. Some
years back High lost on a protest, the
event on that occasion being finally de-
clared no race.
The Brisbane Head of the River, rowed
on the Toowong-Milton reach, went to
Brisbane Boys’ College, with Church of
England Grammar second, and Brisbane
Grammar School third. As the winning
school also won the second and third
fours, it repeated last year’s record-break-
ing success in all events. Its coach, T.
W. Erskine, is an A.I.F. veteran of Singa-
pore and Timor.
Though still far from being a cham-
pion, Dave Sands proved vastly superior
to Max Cameron in their contest at Leich-
hardt, which should be their last. He
did all the leading, although Cameron
sometimes flicked light open-handed lefts
to his foe’s face. By the time the sixth
round arrived Cameron seemed very sick
of the job in front of him, and few were
surprised, though many were displeased,
when he decided that he had had enough.
Two other middleweights. Jack Kirk-
ham and George Cook, supplied a far
more interesting contest at the Stadium ;
in fact, the best seen at Rushcutter Bay
for many a day. Kirkham floored Cook
for “eight” with a right on the chin in
the third round. Though himself groggy
in the fifth, his work was cleaner through-
out, and wild cheering greeted the verdict
in his favor.


Woman's Letters
From Melbourne
Faces are brighter and hearts gayer
than they have been for a long time in
this city. Conventions last week broke
down to such an extent that strangers
greeted each other with smiles and good
wishes. There was very little wildness in
the peace celebrations; most people pre-
ferred to spend the day quietly at home.
But the churches were thronged with
thoughtful people who gave thanks for
deliverance from a hateful enemy. The
ceremony at the Shrine, arranged by Lud
Mayor Nettlefold, attracted over 100,000
men and women. Ministers of all de-
nominations, including the Rabbi of the
Jewish Liberal Synagogue, joined with
Archbishop Booth in conducting the ser-
vice.
Brotherhood Week functions were
many, and most popular of all was the
dance held on the eve of VE Day. The
committee in arranging the date of the
dance had no idea it would come at such
a time. . The Town Hall was thronged
with groups of young men and women in
national costumes. Most popular item
was Scottish dancing by girls They were
indeed a delight to behold, and no foreign
ballet-dancer could have been lighter or
more lissom. The Greeks also did a tra-
ditional dance, and the unusual costume of
men, with their wide starched skirts and
black velvet gold embroidered jackets,
made an impression. The great moment
was at 11 o’clock, when through the hall
sounded the sonorous tones of Big Ben,
and then, over the radio, Mr. Churchill
spoke, while Belgian, Dutch, Yugoslavs
and French representatives stood in
silence as they heard the words which
made their respective countries free.
The official party, a large one, in-
cluded knight Herbert Olney and his lady,
Prof, and Mrs. Woodruffe (Prof. Wood-
ruffe was chairman of the Brotherhood
Week Committee), Dean of the Consular
Corps in this city, the Consul for Bel-
gium, M. Rene Vanderkelen, M. Le Plas-
trier, Consul for Chile, and Prof. A.
Barker, president of the Australia-China
Association. Mrs. Eric Marshall, who
was Convenor of Brotherhood Week and
chairman of the dance committee, was
in the official party. She wore a smart
black dinner frock.
The R.A.A.F. Locker Fund Com-
mittee, under the leadership of the wife
of Air Vice-Marshal George Jones, is
making new plans for helping the men
of the R.A.A.F. In this, as in all its work,
it is being aided by girls, most of them
busy about their own affairs as office
workers, teachers or University students,
who give generously of their time and
money. Each month these members of
the junior auxiliary, who have Miss
Frawley as their president, engage the
Lower Town Hall and entertain men of
the Air Force from Laverton, Point
Cook, Ascot Vale, Showgrounds and
Exhibition. They also provide supper.
On the eve of VE Day the girls organ-
ised a specially jolly dance and had as
guests of honor Air Vice-Marshal Jones
and Mrs. Jones, she most attractive in
cherry-red crepe and a lei of real flowers.
Mrs. J. McEwen, wife of a former Min-
ister for Air, was also a guest. Air
Commodore and Mrs. Bladen were in the
official party, accompanied by Wing-
Commander and Mrs. Porteous. Mrs. E.
Phillips, one of the godmothers of the
junior section, attractive in mauve
and silver, helped the girls enter-
tain. Most eye-taking was June Richard-
son, who sported a vivid red jacket
heavily embroidered in silver over her
long white evening gown. Busy secretary
Jean Sievers wore black velvet, and the
two hostesses for the evening were Pat
Lukis, in blue crepe, and Maureen Keast,
in white with narrow lace trimming.
Yet another Service Club has been
opened in Melbourne —the Wing Club,
which has its rooms in King-street, a very
quiet spot and out of the hurly-burly
but not so far from the centre of the
city as to make travel a trouble. This
club, part of the post-war planning of
the Women’s Air Training Corps, is to
function as a haven for girls discharged
from the W.A.A.A.F. They will have
the friendly atmosphere of the club
while they are waiting for jobs. The
Brookes lady, as commandant, was well
in the picture on the night of the open-
ing, and Mrs. Eric Harrison, of the
R.A.A.F. Welfare Association, handed
over a cheque for the support of the
club. Air Minister Drakeford was a
guest.
Bazaars for patriotic purposes usually
sell articles of clothing which are coupon
free, and this creates problems. Recently
the auxiliaries of the Women’s Hospital
combined in one grand effort and stocked
many stalls with good things. When
the doors of Melbourne’s Lower Town
Hall opened on the day of the fair a
bodyguard of stalwart men in blue
awaited the rush on the second-hand
clothes stall, where in many cases they
acted as referees. With Mrs. E. M, Corn-
foot, president of the auxiliaries, was
Mrs. A. E. Kimpton, president of the
Women’s Hospital Committee. Lady
Mayoress Campbell declared the fair
open. A popular part of the doings was
a doll-dressing competition. The winning
doll was garbed in pink taffeta and the
sewing in the small garments was ex-
quisite. Altogether 38 auxiliaries of the
Women’s Hospital worked valiantly all
day at their stalls, raffles and fishpond
and a substantial harvest of shekels
resulted.
What with VE Day wedding day and
a last-minute hitch in the plans for the
reception, its a wonder that Sheila Rob-
inson, the pretty lass pictured here, ever
got married. However, she arrived safely
at Christ Church, South Yarra, and was
linked to Major Tom Staughton, ex-
A.1.F., by the Rev. J. McKie. Sheila
was given away by her father, E. W.
Robinson, who with Mrs. Robinson
came from St. Ives, Sydney, for the wed-
ding. It was a happy reunion for them,
because before going to Sydney they
lived for many years in South Yarra.
Mrs. Robinson’s floral frock went with
a navy-blue coat, and her blue hat
featured flowers. Sheila’s heavy off-white
lace gown was cut on slim-fitting lines.
Her Limerick-lace veil, which was
pinned flat on her head by creamy gar-
denias and then fell in' graceful folds to
the floor, was 400 years old, and was
lent by the matron-of-honor, Faith
Whitehead, whose frock was of pale-
green georgette and featured a yoke of
green net attached to the frock in scal-
lops with rows of tiny green beads.
Sheila carried a bouquet of gardenias.
Bridegroom and best man were in
mufti. Two very excited little guests at
the church were Tom and John Bos-
tock, nephews of the bride. Their
mother, Mrs. Keith Bostock, was in
powder-blue crepe and a bandeau of
black velvet, studded with gold sequins,
adorned her fair hair. There are four
handsome Robinson girls, all married,
and all have the same fair coloring. Mrs.
Rex Ebbott, one of them, sported a small
beanie of velvet ribbon strips and
trimmed with a diamond clip. Another
sister, Mrs. Pat Mclver, was in grey. Mrs.
Len Travers chose slate blue and a tiny
matching hat trimmed with veiling.
Her sister Mary contrasted black
and silver fox fur. Another guest in
black and silver fox was Mamie Clark.
The Staughton home in Clendon-road,
Toorak, was the scene of the wedding
reception. Although booked months
ago, the original setting was closed
because of the holiday for VE Day.
However, with many friends lending a
helping hand, sandwiches were cut and
cakes obtained and Mr. Staughton was
a charming host. A black cocker spaniel
wandered dismally around the house —
cause of his discontent a huge white
satin bow. Now that Army days are over
for Sheila (she was an A.W.A.S.) and
Tom, they will settle on the land. Wal-
bunyah Station, Benalla, will be their
address.
The Duke brought rain to Adelaide,
which had seen none all April, and very
little all summer, and he earned great
applause at the start by waving away a
closed car and giving the enormous
crowds a fair sight of himself and the
Duchess. Mrs. Daisy Bates, now an
Adelaide resident, was presented to them,
and cheerfully expressed an intention to
live “for some years yet.”
From Sydney
There’s a story told of a French
general who went across to London
after the 1914-18 war. Visiting a
night club while rejoicings were at
their height, he regarded the dancers
for a long time, then he turned to
his companion saying in his imperfect
but somehow adequate English “Their
behinds are gay but their faces are sad.”
Sydney on VE Day was gay neither
behind nor before. Throughout the day
people went about their affairs in a sub-
dued fashion. Only here and there did a
girl mount the red, white and blue in her
frocking. However, in a big store all the
shop assistants wore a saucy red, white
and blue V in the hair or on the lapel.
In the afternoon hours hotel lounges
showed no sign of hectic merriment.
There were no pealing bells; even the
telephone bell didn’t ring too much, by
request of authority. And then the button
of repression suddenly snapped. As one
girl said as she ran blithely around the
corner to Martin-place “We haven’t
finished off the Japs yet, but this takes us
three-quarters of the way to Tokyo.”
Martin-place seethed with city workers.
They cheered everything. They ran an
open-air concert, they waved flags.
A girl who had evidently heard of
Barrie’s “Kiss for Cinderella” warmly em-
braced a policeman. The passers-by in
Castlereagh-street trod with abandon on
a carpet of forms which had been flung,
presumably, from the lowering Taxation
Department’s windows. Up in King’s
Cross revelry ran high throughout the
nights of Tuesday and Wednesday.
But all the thankfulness was not ex-
pressed by ear-splitting rattle, by shriek-
ing whistle. Many of those who laughed
and sang the loudest on Wednesday
helped form the thronging congregations
at the many church services of thankful-
ness. Over fifteen thousand, it is reckoned,
went to the Domain, there to raise devout
hearts in prayer and hymn.
Mair Rhydderch, the girl in the picture,
is a Sydney singing girl who has
gone to New York for further study.
Mair (the name is Celtic) studidd singing
here with Lute Drummond. Then the
thought of U.S. and of working
under the direction of de Gogoza
(or Don Emilio) lured. Don Emilio
was John Brownlee’s teacher, and
through John groomed Kenneth Neale’s
notes when that tenor, now a serviceman
in Canada, first arrived in New York.
Mair is having a grand time meeting
people, getting dug into the new life and
working at her art.
New York prices stagger Mair. An-
other thing she found was that bed,
with or without board, is as hard to
find in the skyscraper city as in Syd-
ney. Eventually, through the Y.W., she
found a one-room apartment with con-
genial people. John Brownlee, although
piled high with engagements for opera
performances and touring arrangements,
found time to interest himself in the Syd-
ney girl—arranged for a meeting with
Don Emilio and for an accompanist with
whom Mair could work beforehand.
Here are some of the bill of costs a
girl faces down Manhattan way: a
respectable room, about ten dollars a
week ; food at cafes, cafetarias or such-
like, 18 or 20—just about 30 dollars to
eat and sleep. An accompanist charges
three dollars an hour, hire of piano about
another dollar. Teachers’ charges range
from 20 to 25 dollars a lesson.
From the guard of naval ratings at
the door to Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser him-
self, the sailors had it at the opening of
the Navy Branch of the British Centre.
This is going to be one of the harbor
lights as far as the navy lads are con-
cerned if the outward and visible signs
of the opening party are to be relied on.
Committee members and helpers declare
they didn’t convey one-half the good
things in store for guests. The Phillip-
street premises were crowded from the
ground floor up. It was VE Day, and
many of the R.N. from England
wore a contented look. A young lieu-
tenant gave expression to the feeling in
their minds: “It’s not over for me yet,
of course, but it’s wonderful to know that
my people (they live in Ealing, London)
can go to bed and have their fill of sleep
without fear of bombs.”
The place is bright—gloom seems to
have been chased out of every corner —
and it is equipped with all the amenities.
Best of all, prices are to be kept low.
Admiral Sir Siuce Fraser, who declared
the Centre open, modestly disclaimed
gipsy blood in ms veins, although he had
picked the date for the opening months
ahead. The Admiral thinks it would be
a good idea for him to fix another date
to open another club—he’s so good at
picking V Days.
Pmna (the name means pearl) Sali-
man, slim, upright and a dazzle of white
satin, lifted the Town Hall from the
gloom that lay in dust-covers over the
theatres in the city where all shows were
suspended because of Victory in Europe
night. However, Pnina’s concert was in
aid of Red Cross, and, in spite of a train
strike, just an added touch of glumness,
to prove that the British Commonwealth
was exalted by a great military and moral
triumph, the large concert hall was packed.
The young white and lucent figure sat
weaving its charm amid the flags of all
the Allies. There was a Union Jack in
the grand manner right across the top
of the stage. Decking its front there were
other flags and palms. Clouds of V.As.
in their sky-over-Cremorne-blue uniforms
ushered the audience to their places and
later, at the end of the concert, handed
up flowers and a bottle of champagne to
the musician.
Pnina, who comes to us by way of J el
Aviv, Paris, and, last of all. South Africa,
has classic features, creamy skin, rose-
red mouth —a type the film publicity
experts would term “exotic.” She is
a sensitive artist of power and imagina-
tion. Her programme opened with the
Bach-Liszt Prelude and Fugue in A
Minor, and went on to three sonatas by
Scarlatti —like some delicate and exqui-
site pendant. Schumann’s “Carnaval” and
works by Chopin and Albeniz were also
on this high-voltage programme.
Last week the Wilfrid Kingsford
Smiths had a cable from son Wing-
Commander Rollo, D. 5.0., D.F.C., tell-
ing them that, he had had the great joy of
flying his brother Peter, D.F.C., who is a
flight-lieutenant, to England. Peter had
been a prisoner of war in Germany for
two and a half bitter years. This called
for a celebration, so on Friday night the
Wilfrid Kingsford Smiths had a theatre
party at the Minerva. Their guests were
Mrs. Rollo Kingsford Smith, Peter’s
fiance Peggy Bercli, Wing-Commander
John Kingsford Smith and his wife, and
Flight-Sergeant Reg Harricks and his
wife (who was MaTgaret Kingsford
Smith). After the show the party further
jubilated at Romano’s. And here, too,
with them went Muriel Steinbeck and
Ron Randell, who are both starring in
the film “Smithy.” A glass was raised
also to Wing-Commander McCormack,
Rollo’s best friend, also just released
from a p.o.w. camp. The three lads, by
all accounts, were having something of
a party in London.
Sheila Kearns, one of the many
pretty nurses who have trod St.
Vincent’s, was the storm centre of a
shower tea last Saturday. It was at the
home of Dr. Adrian Johnson and his
wife, in Mosman. Like the other three
hostesses, Mrs. Johnson had been a
trainee with Sheila at the big Darling-
hurst hospital. Mrs. H. Hughes, Judy
Bloxham and Helen Mooney made up a
good-looking receiving line. Sheila will
be married as soon as her young man
comes to Sydney again. He is Josephus
Bollen, officer of the K.P.M. shipping
line. His home town is Valkenburg, in
the province of Limberg.
Pakie is dead. Pakie (Mrs. Mac-
dougall) was the friend of every writer,
painter and musician in Sydney—more
especially those who were down on their
luck. Her restaurant, up towards the top
of Elizabeih-street, was a sort of in-
formal club for the arts. Besides food,
the dreamer found kindness there. Since
the war young servicemen had found it
a sympathetic foregathering place. There
was laughter, too, to be met at Pakie s,
and music and the atmosphere of friend-
liness. She died as the result of an acci-
dent. Her funeral was attended by many
followers of the creative arts. A pane-
gyric written by one friend of long
standing was spoken by another. _
The Woollahra Music Club will give
its second concert in the Lawn Tennis
Association’s hall at Rushcutter Bay on
May 30. An all-Brahms programme wi 1
be supplied by Kathleen Tuohy (cellist).
Olga Krasnik (pianist) and singer Alfred
Lorance. Vice-president Mrs. Isabel
Henchman will play Mr, Lorance s
accompaniments.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4i|d. per line; all others 2id. per line.
Education Reform
When we start reconstructing after the
war why not put first things first and set
about improving the education of youth?
Australian methods of education have
made little or no progress in the last 30
years. Schoolmasters and professors
never cease their monotonous repetition
of the same old subjects long enough to
look around the changing world, whose
philosophies and Values have changed
vastly in the last ten years.
What better subjects could there be
for the Intermediate than the principles
of good health and the correct relation-
ship of rest, exercise and diet? The
present curriculum bristles with mental
deadwood which merely irritates young-
sters who are beginning to ask what for
and why. My own son asked me why he
had to learn French, and all I could
answer was that in England French was
taught because France was only 20 miles
away and the language was handy when
visiting that country. For Australia
Basic English or Esperanto could pro-
vide all the foreign language instruction
•
At the end of the last school term I
attended the prize-giving at my daughter’s
school. The guest of honor, a very cul-
tured and successful gentleman, said in
the course of his address: “You know,
children, I went to school myself and
studied chemistry, Latin, geometry, the
same as you are doing, and as a re-
sult I can add up and subtract quite well.”
‘The teachers joined in the laughter that
followed.
All education should be free and, as
hard work is good for the soul, all youths
should spend three months in camp to
teach them a healthy and democratic
way of living. Country Teacher
(N.S.W.).
Over-stocking and Erosion
It seems a pity that those who write
to the papers about soil erosion, over-
stocking, the Bradfield scheme and so
forth usually lose sight of the fact that
Australia is a big place with a wide range
of climatic conditions, soils and vegeta-
tion.
A case in point, “W.C.” (B. 25/4/’45)
scathingly criticises E. W. Cowen (B.
21/3/’45) and “can’t see how heavy over-
stocking ... tightens up the ground.” If
he wants proof, let him get some of the
old maps issued by the Lands Depart-
ment when the country north of the
Diamantina out Kynuna (Q.) way was
thrown open for selection. He will find
that country described therein as “loose
ashy downs.” Let him then make a trip
to some of those same selections, and
compare those that have been judiciously
overstocked with those that have been
consistently understocked. He will find
the former is now first-class Mitchell
grass country while the latter is still
“loose ashy downs.”
In that country heavy stocking in good
seasons tightens the ground, and that
tightening conserves the moisture and
promotes strong vigorous growth of
Mitchell grass. Anyone flying over the
Western Queensland downs in a dry time
can see thin winding strips of green
where motor cars on bush tracks have
hardened the ground and the stalks of
the Mitchell grass are still juicy by com-
parison with the tussocks a foot away.
As to “W.C.’s” comment on noxious
weed growth—in the district above re-
ferred to hard packed soil encourages the
good grasses, while loose soil produces
roly-poly and rubbish.
My advice to would-be settlers on
the land is to give little heed to popular
parrot-cries and rely more on common
sense and a broad outlook —if such can
be found. — Vamac (Q.). •
Put Immigration Second
We read of Ministers visiting Britain
and making arrangements to attract im-
migrants to Australia. Isn’t this putting
the cart before the horse? The settling
and employment of even our own service
personnel seems a task beyond our ad-
ministrative bodies. How then do they
propose catering for additional people
who, will be handicapped while adjusting
themselves to their new environment?
Expansion of the population of a
country is the natural result of pros-
perity. First it must be our aim to achieve
this prosperous state. Attaining a large
population alone will not make this a
thriving country. There are such things
as over-crowded countries.
Britain’s great epoch pf industrial pro-
gress and commerce, commenced at the
dawn of the nineteenth century, increased
her population from 14,000,000 to
46,000,000 in less than a century and a
half. If we devote ourselves to the ad-
vancement of Australia’s trade and re-
sources we rpay hope to follow in the
footsteps of Britain. Most certainly our
path will not lie in the same direction if
young people cannot see secure years
ahead for themselves and their families
to come. — Puck (R.A.A.F.).
Westralia’s Water Problem
To live in some of the outback districts
of Westralia means to many that they
and their children are deprived of most
of the benefits of civilisation. No elec-
tricity, no real culture, no comfort or
security, only a slight smear of educa-
tion, and, most terrible tragedy of all,
no water, is often their lot.
Yet Nature has placed ready that
which would give good water supplies.
In the wheatbelt there is a deep under-
ground basin of stock water which can
be tapped by bores, but which till this
year of drought was almost entirely un-
“Never mind HIM —I'm Waiting on THIS!”
touched. In almost every district in the
eastern wheatbelt there are great rock
catchments spreading over many acres. *
It has been proved possible to build
giant cement reservoirs to hold the water
from these catchments, water sufficient
to irrigate gardens, lawns and fruit trees
for nearly every farm. Yet this season of
terrible drought has seen stock going for
days short of water while farmers carted
water fifty miles and more in an effort
to save them. — Olive Willey (W.A.).
Housing and the Birth-rate
Australian women want babies, but
haranguing by politicians won’t produce
them; neither will baby bonuses nor child
endowment. Nor does fear of future in-
security prevent babies from being born
—is not the future always a gamble?
Give working-class married couples
decent houses at moderate rents and the
birth-rate will take care of itself.
Consider my own case. My husband
and I began married life in rooms. When
baby arrived a year later we were still
without a house, therefore an added
worry was to keep the baby always quiet
lest it annoy an elderly landlady. I
don’t blame her —she had a right to ex-
pect peace in her declining years.
Later we got a furnished house for
three guineas a week, and to help pay
this rent I had to take in two boarders.
Now, although I would dearly love
another little one, I am being prevented,
because that would mean that the
boarders would have to go, and then we
wouldn’t be able to pay the rent and
would have to return to rooms, this time
with two babes to harass the landlady.—
Worker’s Wife (S.A.).
The Wool Bureau
As a woolgrower I am grateful for
your short pithy article concerning wool
(B. 2/5/’45). The closing stages of the
debate on the Wool Use Promotion Bill,
when the socialistic wolves threw off
their sheep’s clothing and rejected every
amendment designed to give a fair
measure of control to growers who are
supplying half of the fund involved.
showed clearly that wool has been cap-
tured for use as a social implement.
This complete capture of wool shows
clearly also that the so-called represen-
tatives of woolgrowers who have led
growers into this socialistic trap were
stupidly optimistic. These people actually
set the trap, even if unwittingly, and
baited it with grotesque propaganda.
Powers reserved to the appropriate
Minister by the bill show that there is no
obstacle to the rapid growth of the new
bureau. Bureaucrats of war can now be
found comfortable homes in this new
establishment of peace, which is one of
the many which the socialists are deter-
mined to establish for the comrades
whom peace will displace. There lies
the sole interest in wool of the dictating
socialists. —O. J. McCutcheon (N.S.W.).
Ward’s Wards
“D.H.R.” (B. 21/2/’45) has his facts a
little mixed. It is quite correct that the
A.B.C. allots three periods weekly for
the Motu broadcasts, but as far as talks
on hygiene and agriculture are concerned,
these items seldom awaken the native
from his age-old lethargy. The most
popular items are of the type which give
news from villages to laborers in various
centres, and messages to families from
patients in the Base
Native Hospitals. Also
high on the popularity
list are translations of
songs sung in Motu by
a native choir. “'Hie Dog
Sat on the Tucker Box,’’
“The Long, Long Trail”
and other bathetic ex-
amples of modern culture
always get an attentive
hearing.
“D.H.R.” speaks as if
radio receivers were scat-
tered all over file coun-
try. There are only
about 15 sets owned by
natives ; the others listen-
in during the infrequent
periods which they spend
on a Government station
where the District Officer
or staff happen to have
a receiver. Village natives
from semi-remote areas
might hear one broadcast
per year.
It is not correct that
A.N.G.A.U. “gives food,
clothing and medical at-
tention to the natives in
return for labor.” Natives
enter into a contract of
service to work which
guarantees specified
wages, ration scale, equip-
ment, such as blankets,
mosquito nets and eating
utensils and strictly con-
trolled housing regula-
tio n s. If “D.H.R.”
glanced at the Native Regulations and
Ordinance he would see his mistake. Pay-
ment for labor is not in kind but in hard
cash. — Lau Diba Sisina (New Guinea).
An R.A.N.R. Achievement
“Ek Dum,” in his account of the war
services carried out by ships of the
R.A.N., omits the sinking of one “cer-
tain” large Japanese submarine and one
“probable” on January 20, 1942, by
H.M.A. corvette Deloraine, Lieut,-Com-
mander D. A. Menlove, R.A.N.R. (S), in
command.
Things were looking black at that
period, and the sinking of this large sub-
marine in northern Australian waters by
a small vessel, officered and manned
almost entirely by a Naval Reserve crew,
was highly creditable. This was the first
enemy submarine, 1 believe, to be sunk
in these waters by an Australian-built
and -manned vessel.-HMATLOW (N.S.W.).
Lo, the Poor Indian!
I have just seen Mohammedan Sport-
ing take the Calcutta hockey premiership
for the season. The play needs no de-
scription, it was in world class ; but the
striking contrast between this final and
any of ours was in the crowd. There
they sat, from greybeards seeing again the
games of yesterday to youngsters, like
ours, hero-worshipping through the fence;
but through all sections the only interest
was in good play. You couldn’t pick a
single partisan ; the general attitude was
purely academic.
Clever moves were applauded as we’d
applaud at a concert; trickery was appre-
ciated as fine entertainment; but the ap-
plause and appreciation were always for
the play, never for the side—and the
referee wasn’t mentioned. With memories
of our finals, with the blind team-wor-
ship, the snarling recriminations, the ugly
voice of a mob roaring and the local
brawls, the contrast hit hard.
Martin Conrad in his admirable work
The Crowd in Peace and War argues that
the Indians are the most civilised people
in the world, because in India good man-
ners have permeated farther down
through the many levels of society than
anywhere else. I haven’t yet met all
classes in India, but would suggest that
the crowd at a premiership match is a
pretty good cross-section of them. By
comparison of that cross-section with our
equivalent \ye are still barbarians. —Wip-
pegong (India).
Back to the Damper
During Brisbane’s bread strike, when
the down-trodden workers were crowding
the City Hall with shout of “We want
bread,” I had lunch in a cafe. There was
an elderly woman within earshot of me.
Her neighbor asked her how she fared
in the bread strike. “It doesn’t worry
me at all,” she said. “I bake a damper
now and again, though I have trouble
with the gas stove for such cooking.”
That damper-maker, I learned, was
from an old pastoral family, reputedly
exceedingly wealthy—in the language of
the day, one of the idle rich. But she
could bake a damper; she had four
children on active service; she refused to
growl. Somehow, I think our old
squattocracy has a bit of breeding.—
U. 2. B. (Q.).
Not So Much of “The Kids ’
I have noticed an increasing tendency
among middle-aged people to 'use the
derogatory term “kids” when referring
to young men and women of from 18
to 21. This attitude causes annoyance
and dissatisfaction.
From my own observation, (and even
in my infancy I have developed the fac-
ulty of using my eyes) I have discovered
that most ’teen-age Australians have a
more comprehensive knowledge of poli-
tics and social justice than the average
adult. The veterans should bear in mind
that the world was plunged into its cur-
rent troubles by the incompetence and
short-sightedness of the older generation,
and the responsibility of retrieving it falls
on the shoulders of present-day youth.
Instead of allowing young people to be
ridiculed, Australians* should appreciate
their sensitiveness, and encourage their
idealism, which will prove the life-blood
of any post-war reconstruction.
Also the cynical old-timers might do
well to remember that the “kids” are
fighting this war, and when it is over
will continue to fight for a lasting peace
in a new and better worldi—RiFF
(R.A.A.F.).
Mental Hospital Reform
Much has been done in N. S. Wales,
according to Dr. Edwards, superintendent
of Callan Park Hospital, to improve
methods of admission and treatment of
mental hospital patients, but the percent-
age of patients improved by treatment
and environment to the extent of becom-
ing self-supporting and self-caring is still
low as compared with results achieved
in the U.S.A.
The matter is of very general import-
ance. It has been said that one person
in every 20 at some period during his
life enters a mental hospital, and Aus-
tralia, like other belligerent countries,
now has to cope with cases of mental
derangement arising out of military ser-
vice, as well as an increase ip the number
of sufferers whose condition has been
caused by the “domestic and social
stresses” which occur in war-time.
It has been stated that “patients may
be allowed to leave hospital months
earlier during the process of recovery
than was deemed safe 20 years ago”—in
1943-44 about 64 p.c. of those admitted
came 'into this category. This would be
satisfactory if it could be established that
there is no fault in the way admissions
are made, but on that subject Dr. Frank
Louat appears to be far from convinced,
according to a report made by him re-
cently as president of the Constitutional
Society of N. S. Wales.
Another feature that seems susceptible
of improvement is the environment of
many patients who are curable but who,
presumably for reasons of accommoda-
tion, are forced to associate with others
who are not. If patients for whose cure
there is hope could be accommodated
separately from the others their recovery
might be assisted, instead of being re-
tarded through forced association with
patients whose mental state is much
lower than their own.
Wonderful recoveries have occurred at
Gilbulla, the Red Cross rehabilitation
farm at Menangle, where any suggestion
of a hospital atmosphere is carefully
avoided. If such satisfactory results have
been achieved among patients whose
mental health has suffered through the
stress of war conditions, similar results
should be expected among those whose
loss of mental health has been brought
about by other causes. —G. M. T.
(N.S.W.).


1
r
fc?
%
il
>2
<x
25=^
K
2^
m&m
\
\
\
%
s?
\
J' /
/ a'C "
* y^^zr.
S
V&
s
///
m
DuRING THE WAR amazing progress has been
made in every branch of wireless—at sea, on land and
in the air.
In this work the extensive research and manufacturing
organisation of A.W.A. is playing an important part.
It is to-day producing in ever-increasing quantities
high-grade wireless equipment for the Navy, Army,
and Air Forces of the Allied Nations, as well as manu-
facturing stations for vital Wireless Communication
Services.
When Victory is ours, most of these wartime develop-
ments will be applied in giving the public better service
in communications, in broadcast transmission and
reception, and in other phases of wireless.
The post-war Radiola , incorporating many
wartime technical developments, will again take
its place as “Australia’s finest broadcast receiver.”
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
