

GRAPE
VINEGAR
The Bulletin
,fhe Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3416
Wednesday, August 1, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
CLIVEDEN HOUSE.
pLIVEDEN HOUSE crowns a densely-wooded ridge of hills
overlooking the loveliest reaches of the Thames between
Maidenhead and Cookham. It originally belonged to the Mantiela
family, and from them it passed to George Villiers, Duke or
Buckingham. To him are due the building of the present house
and the planting of the famous woods, which are one of the gl° ri^ s
of the great river. Here the duke lived for a long while with the
Countess of Shrewsbury, ‘‘Gallant and gay in Cliefden’s proud
alcove, The bower of wanton Shrewsbury and love.” During this
time the duke fought his celebrated duel with the lady’s husband,
in which two seconds on either side joined. The high position of
the chief parties, and the scandal of the duke’s evil life, caused
much outcry even at Charles’s dissolute Court. In his diary Pepys
writes of it: “My Lord of Shrewsbury is run through the body,
from the right breast through the shoulder ; and Sir John lalbot
all along up one of his- arms ; and Jenkins killed upon the place ;
and the rest all in a little measure wounded. This will make the
world think that the King hath good counsellors about him, when
the Duke of Buckingham, the greatest man about him, is a fellow
of no more sobriety than to fight about a mistress. And this may
prove a very bad accident to the Duke of Buckingham; and I shall
not be much sorry for it, that we may have, som<e soberman
come in his room to assist in the government
not a severe moralist. In the last century Cliveden was the summer
residence of the Prince of Wales, George 111 s father. Here, m
1740, “Rule Britannia” was for the first time sung in a masque
called “Alfred.”


at HOME
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 .
AGE
The Red Page
INTRODUCING BRUSHER.
Brusher : And such and which, a book
has been written and I am in it.
Reviewer : (recognising the beard ):
Never tell me you are Mr. Brusher Botts
from Jane Lindsay’s Kurrajong, publishec
by Angus and Robertson?
Brusher: And then and there, and ]
am. And that’s me. And I’m the best
character in Jane Lindsay’s novel.
Reviewer: And a noble character
you are, but I don’t know that I prefer
you, even when you set your beard on
fire, to Ma Rooney who lives in an “un-
pretentious fowlhouse,” or Maudie Leary
her daughter, or old Miss Wiggins with
her hairy chin, her disapproval of every-
one in the district and her passion for
Mo Slattery. I have a great affection
for the Leary youth who, when he makes
his rare, daring excursions from the
Blue Mountains to Sydney, always takes
a tram from the Railway to the Quay,
goes backwards and forwards two or
three trips on the Manly ferry, then takes
a tram back to the Railway: fully satis-
fied that he has tasted the delights of the
great metropolis and pleased that he has
managed so much without getting lost.
Brusher: And the Learys is nothing
and I am a marvel. And I am.
Reviewer: Brusher, you’re a wonder.
But I wouldn’t say the Learys were
nothing. I would say they were as de-
lightful a brood of rogues as I have ever
met. What about that scene when the
lads in the pub force poor old Pat Leary
to admit to them —and what’s worse, to
himself —that the lodger Slim is carrying-
on with his missis? And when he dashes
his hat on the bar counter and says he
won’t stand it a minute longer, and
rushes home to bawl Slim out and is
given a tremendous walloping by.
Maudie?
Brusher: And then and there he de-
served it. And he’s nothing to the marvel
I am. And I’m going to read you the
bit about me:
Brusher Botts lived in a stringy-bark hut
on a clearing at the corner of the fence.
He rented the hut from Miss Wiggins for
a shilling a week.
Sam found Brusher sitting morosely on a
box outside his door with a swarm of flies
buzzing about his head. He was gazing at
the ground Between his great hobnailed
boots, his head bowed and only a grey
bushy beard visible under an old felt hat
with a bright blue band.
“G’day, Brusher,” Sam said.
Brusher raised his head slowly and con-
templated Sam with incredibly small black
eyes. “Day, Sam,” he said at last.
“Will you come over and pick for me on
Thursday?” Sam had to roar at Brusher be-
cause he was usually deaf t'o such requests.
“Eh? And what’s that you’re sayin’?”
“Pick my peas,” Sam roared.
“And then and there, Sam, I couldn’t.”
Brusher’s conversational style was an inven-
tion of his own.
“On Thursday.”
“And Sam,” he said, and paused before
he mumbled, “and then I better not.”
“Why not?” Sam demanded. “You’ve
picked for me before and you said you’d
pick this time. I’ve got to have pickers and
you can’t turn it down now.” Sam stopped
roaring and looked hard at Brusher, who
looked meekly back.
“And then, Sam, it’s different.”
“What’s different?” Sam yelled.
“And then and there. I’m getting the
pension, you know, Sam. And I’d catch
it if the copper was to see me foolin’
around with work. And Sam”
“Be damned. He won’t see you”
“And such and which, Sam, you never
know.”
“I do know.”
“And Sam, I wouldn’t go trusting that
copper.”
Brusher’s faith in man was damaged for
ever. As a youth he had been misled by
some lads who assured him that the local
barmaid was in love with him. Accord-
ingly, Brusher had from mysterious sources
collected a lady’s trousseau of calico, stiff
white lace drawers, camisoles and stockings
with clocks on them, It had taken him
two years t'o fill a tin trunk with these and
then propose to the lady. She had laughed
at him, and Brusher lost heart and went
away with his trunk to live alone and trust
no one. He still had the trunk after 40
years, and occasionally opened it to muse
on man’s, or woman’s, brutality.
Reviewer: Brusher, you are a marvel.
You lick the Learys hollow, and they
take a’ bit of licking.
Brusher: And I lick them hollow.
And I am going to keep on reading about
me:
“And Fred Corrick .wants you to pick
his peas,” Sam roared again.
“Eh?”
“Corrick’s peas.”
“And then, Sam, I couldn’t. Tell him
me back’s bad.”
“Your back’s all right. You might get
t'wo shillings a bushel if the price goes up.”
Brusher winked at Sam. It was an in-
voluntary wink, indicating that his mental
processes were busy. “And then and there,
Sam, I will.”
Reviewer : I should have known
better than to argue with you. That wink
is beautiful.
Brusher: And it is. And I am a
beautiful character.
Reviewer : All the characters are
good. The background. New South Wales
Blue Mountains, is nicely painted ; the
foreground, the small farms of fruit and
vegetables, also attractive ; the struggle
of the small farmer, who —if he doesn’t
simply retire from work, like the Learys
—is at the mercy of merciless weather,
is capably described; the atmosphere is
thoroughly Australian ; the comedy is the
sort that makes you laugh out loud and
keep on laughing ; but
Brusher: And no buts.
Reviewer: But why did Miss Lind-
say, who obviously loves the Australian
earth, choose for her central character a
woman who hates it? The underlying
structure of this novel is a triangle: Sam,
the lover of the earth (who should have
been the hero of the story), is married to
Leila, who hates the farm and who goes
off at the end with Corrick, turning her
•back on Sam and on the land. That is de-
pressing. And I am sure that Miss Lind-
say couldn’t have intended to be depress-
ing. She is to some extent a victim of
the prevailing fashion. Not that her
characters are dummies —far from it.
But the modern fashion is for “realism,”
and realism is interpreted as disillusion.
Perhaps, too, she is a victim to the Law-
son tradition of hating the land.
Brusher : And I don’t understand you.
Reviewer : Well, then, put it this way:
Miss Lindsay didn’t really want to write
a love story, but a comedy of the Aus-
tralian earth ; only, like a thousand novel-
ists before her, she found it convenient
to have some sort of “romantic interest”
to provide a plot—a pattern in which her
comic characters could move. All right.
I have no quarrel with that. But I really
think I prefer the romantic interest, in
novels of this kind, to be romantic ; as it
is in Fielding, Scott and Dickens. I
know Scott’s heroines were a bit silly,
but better silly than depressing; they
were easier, somehow, to “skip” ; and
aren’t they meant to be skipped?
Brusher: And I’m a great skipper.
Reviewer: Well, then, in spite of the
fact that there is too much depressing
triangle and too little of the rich and
earthy comedy of character which is
Miss Lindsay’s proper forte, you will
thoroughly enjoy Kurrajong.
Brusher: And I do.
The Wog Dog.
Willie: Uncle, no.
Uncle: Bless my soul, you flea-bitten
little puppy, you decline my present
before you even know what it is.
Willie: The short sharp barking tone
you employ, and the dogginess of your
metaphors would be enough in them-
selves. And from five yards away I can
recognise on the jacket of that book the
portrait of Horrie the Wog Dog.
Uncle: And don’t you want to read
about Horrie the Wog Dog?
Willie: No.
Uncle : This book, published by
Angus and Robertson, was written by
your old favorite lon Idriess.
Willie: I admit, Uncle, that in the
days when he used to roam about the
bush talking to hatters, fossickers,.cattle-
men, camels, etc., Mr. Idriess used to
enchant me. But I will wager you two
valuables marbles to a quart of rum that
he hasn’t been within fifty miles of the
Wog Dog.
Uncle : He has written this book from
the diary of Pte. J. B. Moody; and how
much is Moody and how much is Idriess
I don’t know, but it is all delightful.
Willie: I never read books about
dogs. They always make me feel that
the authors want to be patted.
Uncle: Sometimes, Willie, I feel that
you should be patted. Firmly. Horrie
Wog Dog isn’t in the least like the
ordinary doggy sentimentality.
Willie: I suspect you of trying to sell
me a pup. Look you, wasn’t Horrie the
Wog Dog the hound that some members
of the A.I.F. adopted in Egypt and took
with them as a mascot through Greece
and Crete —which, by the way, everybody
pronounces Creece and Grete?
Uncle: My boy, Private Moody
smuggled him aboard ship in the most
exciting manner and Horrie behaved
amusingly and gallantly throughout the
campaigns in Grete and Creece. Inci-
dentally, I never get those names wrong
myself.
Willie: And then, after Creece and
Grete —you did get them wrong, Uncle
-—and after Syria, wasn’t that unfortunate
hound brought back to Australia and
(correctly, I suppose ; I don’t know about
these matters) destroyed under the quar-
antine regulations?
Uncle: You got them wrong your-
self. You have the facts correctly, though
—to my astonishment.
Willie: Now you are not trying to
tell me, are you, that this book isn’t one
long flood of tears from cover to cover?
Uncle : If you are going to get
muddled up over simple words like Grete
and Creece how can you ever hope to
get on in life? There are no tears what-
soever in this book. I think it was
written before Horrie met his untimely
end. As a matter of fact, I like quite as
much as Horrie the pen-pictures of sol-
diers, Private Moody’s cobbers; their
yarns and adventures; the naturalness
of them ; the naturalness of their “chiack-
ing,” especially. I like the fact that,
through all these years of war, through
all the campaigns in the Middle East,
including Creece and Grete, these half-
dozen excellent Australian soldiers have
only one joke, upon which they play
infinite variations: their sergeant, Poppa,
is older than they are ; a last-war man.
This seems to me very true of soldiers ;
and, so good is the dialogue, the joke
never palls.
Willie: But what about Horrie?
Uncle: Horrie had a great sense of
his dignity; and when he fell off a log
into a creek and the soldiers laughed at
him he immediately walked out on the
log again and jumped, in—to show that
he had really done it on purpose the first
time. Horrie is a real dog ; a humorous
dog ; and a gallant dog. He could recog-
nise the sound of German ’planes long
before anyone else could hear them, and
he would bark a warning to the Austra-
lians. Horrie is a noble dog. Also, he
has an extremely amusing—indeed, a
very tender —love affair.
Willie: Uncle, you tempt me. But
is it not a sad fact that too many books
have been published about —about
Greece and Cretel
Uncle: Mr. Moody and Mr. Idriess
do not set themselves up as historians ;
they do not set themselves up as critics
of military strategy. They tell —roughly
and readily—a simple tale of men’s and a
dog’s adventures and no man could fail
to be interested. This is, indeed, the
model for all soldiers’ books —tell what
you did, tell what you saw, and tell it
with spirit. Because it’s told in this way,
it’s one of the best things I have read on
Crete and Greece.
Willie: Creece and Grete, please.
The Magazines.
In their latest issues the literary maga-
zines all seem to have taken a step up
in the world. .
Produced in a decorative colored cover
“Barjai” (No. 18) runs to 40 pages—
mostly verse—and announces that there
will be reviews in the next number. “A
magazine for youth” (contributors to the
present issue, mostly somewhat grim, are
aged from 16 to 20), it serves a useful
purpose as an arena for experiment. Con-
tributions are paid for: address, Box
1773 W, G.P.0., Brisbane, or Box 4373,
G.P.0., Sydney.
“Meanjin Papers” (Autumn, 1945) is
now published by Melbourne University
Press; and “Poetry” (June, 1945) has
enlarged itself by a review section of 25
pages.
“Southerly” (No. 1, 1945) has an ex-
tract from an unpublished Norman Lind-
say novel —part of the same delightful
comedy of late boyhood from which “The
Pleasure House” (Bulletin Christmas
issue, 1944) was taken. When published
the novel will fill the gap between
Saturdee and Redheap.
£725 For Stage Plays .
Another competition for full-length
stage plays is announced by the Play-
wrights’ Advisory Board, Room 17, 3rd
Floor, Victoria Chambers, 44 Castlereagh-
street, Sydney.
Prizes are £lOO and £25, with book
publication of the winner guaranteed,
while the P.A.B. will make every effort
to see that worth-while entries are staged.
Closing date, January 31, 1946 ; details
and entry forms from the P.A.B.
To help popularise Australian litera-
ture an Australian Book Society has been
formed in Sydney—patron, Mary Gil-
more ; president, G. F. Godfrey. Acti-
vities are to include the selection of a
Book of the Month, and members are to
be supplied with a monthly list (with
reviews) of new Australian books. Details
from the secretary, Mrs. N. Handford,
sth Floor, 61 Market-street, Sydney.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Norman Lindsay, Margaret Coen, G
K. Townshend, Lorna Nimmo ’and
Dattilo Rubbo are represented with
characteristic vitality at the Australian
Watercolor Institute’s exhibition at the
Education Department Galleries, Sydney.
John Eldershaw’s style shows further de-
velopment—his latest essays are less for-
mal, less strictly conditioned by subject
than those of a year ago. Stepping into
the niche Eldershaw has just vacated
comes Alfred Cook, whose compositions
closely-knit, well-drawn, achieve a rich-
ness usually associated solely with oil
technique. Max Ragless is an important
exhibitor, notably in a painting of a
white boat drawn up on a slip, back-
grounded by dark-blue sea. Albert
Namatjira holds his own in good com-
pany, and Frank Macnamara presents a
vigorous piece of impressionism—a storm-
beaten breakwater.
The South Australian Max Ragless,
who has a show at David Jones’s gallery,
Sydney, is about the only Australian
artist bar Norman Lindsay , who is
equally at home in oils or wa'tercolor.
Ragless, who farms a vineyard on the
foothills, was first inspired by Streeton,
but soon developed an approach of his
own. Like Heysen, he finds charm in the
unusual features of the South Australian
landscape. He paints directly, simply
and effectively. More than any other
painter of his generation he seems to feel
what Thoreau called “the infinite and
unaccountable friendliness” of solitary
places. Most likable among his oils are
“Kooringa” (main street of an Australian
country town, sleepy in the sunshine),
“Northern Hills,” “Birkenhead,” the
ideally-framed “Hall’s Gap” and two
pictures “from the air” —“Beach” and
“Coast Country.” In water-colors “Mel-
rose and Mount Remarkable,” “Lane-
way,” “Hotel, Dunkeld” and “Haystack
at Dunkeld” are outstanding.
Hazel Napier Thompson, a young
pupil of Maorilander Maud Sherwood’s,
shows oils and water-colors at the Gros-
venor Galleries, Sydney. She has courage,
plenty of talent, and if her industry con-
tinues may make a name. There is some
good painting in “Flannel Flowers”
(oils) and “Cotyledon” (water-color) is a
considerable achievement.
The only link between the various
members of the Contemporary Group,
whose show was at Farmer’s Gallery,
Sydney, seems to be their existence to-
gether in the year 1945. Among the
more conventional of the exhibitors are
Thea Proctor, Enid Cambridge and J.
Carington Smith, water-colorists in the
current English smudge-and-smear mode;
Lloyd Rees, the peculiarities of whose
style are encroaching on his ability to
convey an impression, Joseph Connor,
Kenneth Mac Queen, Muriel Medworth
and Ronald Steuart. Roland Wakelin
(almost included among the conven-
tionalists, so far behind has the tide he
once led left him) is represented by some
compositions in his mellowest, cheer-
fullest vein. Frank Medworth is clever
in five manners, and a still-life (exactly,
what it represents is doubtful) has been
acquired by the N. S. Wales Gallery,
which also found merit in a naive Surry
Hills study by G. F. Lawrence and a
woolly composition entitled “Blue, Yellow
and White,” in oils, by J. Carington
Smith. George Bell and Arnold Shore
brandish the torch of revolt from Vic-
toria, and Helen Stewart, Donald Friend
and D. Orban make responsive gestures
on the Sydney front. About the most
striking thing in the show is John D.
Moore’s “Tennis with the Macphersons
ar Chesterfield.”
“Here Come the Waves” (Sydney Capitol):
An entertaining musical which depends on the
soundness of its comedy rather than the usual
gorgeousness of setting. Betty Hutton has
vivacity and a flair for wringing the most out
of wittily-worded songs. In the dual role of
twins (the changes that have been rung on that
theme!) she provides a double-headache for the
U.S. Navy. Bing Crosby, obviously with no
great reluctance, takes part in a skit on bobby-
sox swooners.
Melbourne University Union Theatre
went into the mystery-drama business
with Emlyn Williams’s “A Murder Has
Been Arranged,” the University Dramatic
Club being solely responsible for the
occurrence. The story concerns Sir
Charles Jasper, a leading actor, who has
a hoodoo on his family, or perhaps the
hoodoo is on his theatre. Anyhow, at
11 p.m. on Friday the 13th —it happened
to be a Friday, the 13th, when the present
commentator saw it, which fact added
greatly to the eeriness of the evening—;
Sir Charles is to come into a fortune of
two million, but there are strong indica-
tions that the hoodoo will get him. Much
ingenuity was expended by Lola Russell,
Marjorie Mehaffey, Stephen Murray-
Smith, Bruce Anderson and others on this
bit of highbrow Edgar Wallace.


ANTHONY HORDERNS’
“Truth in Advertising”
PR
5
rp
m
OJ
m
gjggfl
ui! n
m
m
I
Bill.
£3
&
W**
“THE SENIOR STORE”
122 Years of Service
Cn August 6,1945, we celebrate the one hundred and twenty-second anniversary of our
foundation as Australia s oldest retail establishment.
Lnlike the birthday of a private individual, whose hopes and plans are necessarily of a
personal nature, that of a great Store such as this is inevitably bound up with
the life of the whole community.
IH A esponsibilities which we review and assess at this time are not those which concern
l&< ourselves and our own future primarily, but those which we have undertaken
and shall undertake for the benefit of our nation at war and of our country in
the peace to come.
Because we believe that the Commonwealth has a great role to fill during the years of
reconstruction we wish to play a useful part in it.
I
IR
t is our ambition to continue to serve the people with every means at our disposal, to
a degree even greater than in the past;
esolving that no effort shall be spared, no opportunity foregone, to bring to men and
women after their years of sacrifice all the good things which industry may soon
be producing to make life easier and more worthwhile for the average citizen.
T
IR
D
hat is the fundamental obligation of the distributing business as we see it.
ow we may best fulfil it is the problem at present engaging all our faculties and
occupying all our attention.
ecidedly there are many factors, some of a very complex character, to be taken into
consideration.
A
y
formation of the principle of private enterprise —under which the creative instinct
alone can flourish — is, however, our first step towards this goal.
ou, the public, know that only a system which encourages the initiative of the
individual and assures his independence can provide the scope for endeavour
that is the birthright of every human being.
ANTHONY HORDERNS’


GINGE
By BRIAN JAMES
WHEN the experts looked at Ginge,
as they often did, they disagreed
about her breeding.
Ginge arrived at Jack’s place
on St. Patrick’s Day, from which it Is not
to be concluded that Jack was Hibernian
or that Ginge was an Irish terrier. At the
most, the arrival and day must be attri-
buted to pure coincidence. The gate hap-
pened to be open and Ginge, who had no-
where else to go, walked in. That was all.
Ginge was not lost,
but homeless that
was clear enough.
The discovery shortly
after that Ginge was
what the children
termed a “girl-pup”
no doubt explained
the homelessness.
And don’t say dogs
have no knowledge of
psychology: Ginge
saw Jack mowing the
front lawn, gave him
one .quick glance, and
Greyhounds
are a race
apart.
decided that “this was the place.” So
she went up to Jack and claimed him; and
she was right, too, for it was “the place.”
Jack brought her over to where I was
mowing, and we leaned over the gate for
an hour and watched her and discussed
her and let the mowing go. We decided
she was “a beauty all right,” though her
breeding seemed a trifle vague. Still,
as Jack summed up: “Mongs—mixed
breeds, 1 mean —are mostly the best.
Hardy, faithful and intelligent, -and no
false pride about them, either.”
I said, “Wouldn’t she be a bit of a red
kelpie, now?”
Jack’s eyes lit up. I could see I had
made a sworn brother for life.
Since no small boys mooned about the
streets “looking for a dog,” and the
paper had no advertisement, and there
was no placard about it in the butcher’s
window, Jack concluded that he might
safely keep Ginge.
And so Ginge at once established
proper relations with Whisky, the lethar-
gic cat; and buried bones and crusts;
and scratched out seedlings; and tried to
catch sparrows, and even to win respect
from the two willie-wagtails; and played
with slippers (and lost them, or left them
out in the rain); and tangled herself in
stockings—a contingency that the manu-
facturers had obviously not provided for ;
and swung with great enjoyment on shirts
and aprons and other garments on the line.
Mrs. Jack didn’t view these activities
with any enthusiasm to speak of. But
Jack would say “She’s only a puf> yet.
They all go through that stage. Can’t
have a dog without it, really.”
Ginge in other ways settled down as
the dog of the house. She inspected the
milkman twice a day, and let it be clearly
understood that he would be tolerated
only so long as he behaved himself; she
argued with the garbage man on Wed-
nesdays, and indicated a strong dislike for
him; she refused admittance to Long
Sue, the greengrocer ; and she woofed at
the grocer in half friendliness.
Proper visitors and children she met at
her gate and escorted over the lawn to the
front door. A dog has all these duties
and many more to perform. That is, one
to whom the house belongs. Also stray
cats have to be chased out; trespassing
dogs defied: magpies scooted off. So
Ginge’s days were busy ones. Of course,
a dog has to sleep sometimes, but in the
endless round of duties sleep must be
taken in very small doses —and would
have to be, even if flies, fleas and mos-
quitoes didn’t exist.
THEN there is, of necessity, the social
and community side of a dog’s exist-
ence. Very important it is, too.
The street was full of dogs, and Ginge
had to call on them, and see to it that
she entered the right set —dogs can make
fearful mistakes in social matters, just as
humans do. There were all sorts of
friendly gatherings to attend, fights to be
witnessed —all manner of such things that
no dog can afford to neglect.
There was, too, the Ceremony of the
Declaration. Perhaps this is as solemn
a duty as any dog has. It consists in
declaring “This is MY house” to dogs
that pass by in the street; and is followed
by chasing these dogs—up and down and
up and down, with the fence between.
In deference to this ancient custom Jack
removed the long flower bed by the front
fence. There really wasn’t much of it
left to remove.
It is not to be inferred that Ginge had
any animosity towards these dogs. Far
from it—many of them were her best
friends. It was just a rite that most dogs
understand perfectly.
Towards the greyhounds two doors
away, however, Ginge was very circum-
spect. All the other dogs were, too.
Greyhounds are a race apart. No dog in
the street had anything to say to them—
no greetings, no friendly abuse, nothing.
There was a feeling that they were too
well-fed, too pampered, and that the
decent instincts of dogs
were not in them.
Ginge never defied
them as they went by
—even when they were
on the leash. Grey-
hounds know nought of
etiquette, and as like as
not would leap the
fence and do murder —
and think nothing of
it. No, one just left
greyhounds alone.
But there was Bob —
the cocker spaniel.
Great fellow Bob, even
if he didn’t smell of scented soap. One
could hang on to his flop ears and Bob
didn’t get nasty. There was Mate —
staunch old Mate, always ready for a
game. He had an air of dignity, too, but
no silly pride. He didn’t put on airs, even
if he did live with a Belgian sausage-
marker from whom he got great quantities
of bullock’s liver and choice scrag, and
with whom he went everywhere by car.
There was Clip—the Doctor’s only
dog ; decent enough, too, if he could only
forget the enormous importance of being
pure-bred. It was well to be a wire-
hair, but there was no need to harp on it.
Especially when Ginge and many of her
friends had such sketchy notions of their
grandparents—and most of these notions
were pretence, anyhow. And what matter
—if you were good enough to run a big
house on the river! In any case, there
were certain not-too-nice stories about
Clip, and the things he had stooped to in
his time. There was Mac down at Mc-
Gregor’s. The sort of fellow one would
like to know better, but Mac was seldom
at home, and was mostly on cattle duty
out in the bush. And then there was Gruff,
the Airedale, much given to unneces-
sary brawling, but good-hearted, too. Still,
one had to be careful of Airedales.
Again, there were the Pekingese over
at Mate’s place, noisy and impossible they
were. They knew about their great-great-
great (heaven knows how many greats)
grandmothers, and grandfathers; never
stopped yapping about them. And when
they had new families the lot were sold
(girls and all) for pounds and pounds. It
was really a shocking sort of business.
Thank goodness they weren’t allowed out
in the street; or perhaps it was a pity—
it might have taught them something.
By far the oldest dog in the street was
the black-and-white terrier at Morton’s
place. Pete he was named, and seldom
has age run so much to empty vanity as
it did in Pete. All the sprightliness of youth
had gone long since, but, with mincing
gait and a special predilection for young
company, he tried to
deceive the world as
to his age—and only
deceived himself.
“Yes!” he would
say when he found
any to listen, “I
was in the surgeon’s
hands for over half
a day. Major opera-
tion, by gad, I
should say! Good
patient vet., said
never a better. Op.
successful, too, by
jove! Yes, indeed! ”
Then he would leer.
“I was in the surgeon’s hands for
over half a day.”
The general opinion was that that
operation was not entirely successful, and
Pete was viewed either as an old fop or
an old reprobate.
Foley’s Lass occasionally called on
Ginge. The visits were bleak failures,
for there was disparity in age and incom-
patibility of taste and temperament. Lass
never had a family, and seemed to take
it as a special virtue in herself that she
hadn’t. She viewed what her “dear pa”
used to describe as “the natural processes
involved; and the inevitable course ot
events” with a disdain she made no effort
to conceal. Hers was an austere life.
Although she was the last of her line,
she took a hurtful pride in remembering
that her grandmother belonged to Gov-
ernment House and her great-grandfather
had six blue ribbons and was twice
grand champion. “And,” she would add,
“none of them was, as. the vulgar term
goes, a good mixer! Not one of them.”
Lastly, there was Albert—the white
Pom. There was a dog for you! Almost
pure Pom., too. Folks might say that
Albert was frivolous, that he was proud,
that he had been disgraced once in a dog
show, that he would have been drowned
if there hadn’t been a hole in the sugar-
bag, and so on, and so forth. But Ginge
knew when she first saw Albert that here
was the dog of her life. Albert had an
air of distinction and a touch of romance
to him. Albert had —and Albert was —
but there is no need to say more. Albert
it was.
ft
JACK came over and told me about
it. It seemed very sudden —only a
few weeks ago there was Ginge tearing
up slippers and ruining socks. I said
“She’s really had no young life at all.”
Jack looked gloomy: “I just hate the
thought of drowning them. And yet”
All the children received the news with
joy. Advance orders—without consulta-
tion with elders —ran to dozens. There
were quarrels about it. It seemed im-
possible that Ginge could ever hope to
have enough pups to fill a tenth of the
demands. Perhaps drowning was a very
remote contingency after all.
It can’t be said that Ginge was worried
over her impending maternity. She glided
on from day to day. Her , little world
hardly noticed or made comment;
although it must be recorded that the
unspeakable Pete leered more than ever
and waylaid any he could, and talked
confidentially and laughed meaningly.
Meaningly. But that was like Pete. He
even tried to tell Lass, but she snubbed
him. “Fancy! Talking to me at all!
And trying to tell me that ! ”
At exactly twenty past five on Thursday,
September 23, the first
of the pups arrived.
By seventy-thirty the
family was wholly de-
livered. There were five
in family, and very
early next morning lan
and Bessie came with
the news: “Ginge has
pups —five pups. There
are two boys and three
girls.”
There was bustle; ex-
citement ; comings and
goings and sharings and
She spew the days Salmost entirely
with her family.
preparations. Everyone was late for
school —and grieved not a little that there
should be school at all on such a day.
And other live things were neglected:
Maggie didn’t get her meat; the chickens
weren’t fed ; Michael the crow found no
lumps of stale fat on his board and
“cah-hed” all day about it; the canaries
got no seed and the galahs no corn.
Ginge allowed no one except Jack to
see her pups. She let no one else go
near the garage door. It was plain indeed
and pleasing, too, to see that Ginge took
her motherhood seriously. She spent the
days almost entirely with her family—
and when she came out never moved far
from the garage.
Mrs. Jack said
“You’ll drown dll but
the little dogs, of
course.” And Jack
said that he was late
for work already and
he’d see about it
later!
When he was re-
minded later he said
he didn’t know so
much about drown-
ing, after all. There
was quality in Ginge
and it must come out
in the pups; and
Albert had breeding
on his side. Some breeding at any rate ;
Jack couldn’t say how much. Also, the
chaps in the V.D.C. should be given a
chance to have those pups. Jack put
down his cup in an argumentative sort of
way and leaned over the table and de-
clared : “Those fellows will rush the
chance of getting one of those pups —
that is, if I know them at all.”
SO the “girls” were spared for the first
week. Tuesday came with its usual
night parade.
Jack, as sergeant-major, addressed
the company in friendly infor-
mality ; would anyone like a pup,
a superior sort of pup? There was
only a very limited number of pups
left. No charge, of course, he
added. There was much silence
and interchange of glances. Then
someone asked what breed.
“Well, now” and Jack stopped.
“Breed! Is breed everything in a faithful
dog? Is it anything? But, if you must
have breeding, the father is a Pom., three
parts thoroughbred at least.”
A sun-dried old fellow who might easily
have been a Sudan veteran thought he
“might like to try a dorg.” Jack said the
dogs were all bespoken. The wild
scramble for Ginge’s pups didn’t go be-
yond that. The rest of the evening Jack
seemed to spend in earnest conversation
with different individuals. It was easy
to see by his earnest manner and a gentle-
ness in gesticulation that he was talking
of Ginge’s pups.
The Colonel was present that night,
and was in close conclave with the Adju-
tant in the latter’s office. Doubtless, they
were discussing problems in the higher
planes of military strategy, though Private
Larkin averred he could smell rum “near
that corner.” Someone suggested to Jack
that he present one of the pups to the
Colonel and another to the Adjutant “as
a gesture.”
Everyone laughed, for Jack was in dis-
grace at the moment over his recent row
with the new W.O. —on which occasion
Jack had publicly confessed to a complete
inability to believe that the new W.O.
was sane, moral and legitimate. It had
been while it lasted a decidedly interest-
ing quarrel, and it made the rest of us
see that there was something worth while
in the V.D.C. after all. But now the
reference to the Colonel showed Jack
clearly enough that no pups could be dis-
posed of “among the chaps.” It would
have to be a drowning matter after all.
There was yet one, chance left. Near
by lived Mary the Quandong.
Mary was an entirely shapeless lady,
clad in a very simple garment, who trudged
and slithered about in the very early
hours to pick up unconsidered trifles;
such things as jam-jars, cornsacks, loose
gates, pram wheels and hosts of other
things. Also Persian
cats and likely-look-
ing pups. What she
did with all these was
a mystery, but she
lived on them, none
the less.
So Jack put the
girl pups in the
bushel case under
her favorite beat.
From a coign of
vantage he watched.
It was horribly disap-
pointing, Mary came
along in the streaks of the dawn, bent
under the weight of a spotted-gum log.
She stopped at the box, put down her log,
wiped her forehead with her sleeve and
peered into the box. She lifted out one of
the pups for closer inspection. She put it
back, and Jack heard her chuckle to her-
self derisively. Then she took up her log
and went on.
'T'HAT should have convinced Jack that
A those pups were pretty useless —per-
haps it did ; but it didn’t make the drown-
ing job any easier to do.
He went to the shed for a sugar bag
and a brick, and while he was hunting for
a stout piece of string Ginge came in.
She was in agony—obviously poisoned
and near her last. While Jack was col-
lecting his wits she stretched out, con-
vulsed and her jaws clamped. Jack got
charcoal from under the copper, ground
it with the back of a spoon, mixed it with
lard and was ramming it down her throat
all in the minute. Here was tragedy—not
for Ginge only, but more so for those pups.
The remedy was effective, and less than
an hour later Ginge was able to stagger
about —just stagger. But she went down to
the bushel case to feed those three pups.
You couldn’t drown those pups after
that. Now, could you?
Ginge quite recovered during the day
and was given much milk to drink. Jack
9 reckoned that her suffering and her
motherhood had given her a refined look
and a large softness to her brown eyes.
Even Mrs. Jack agreed that the pups
couldn’t drown now.
In a few weeks Ginge’s sons departed
for their new homes. The daughters
stayed with her, and were likely to for
ever. Quite mechanically Jack would ask
everyone “Want a pup?” and everyone
said “No.” It was thought more than
likely that they would say “no.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3416
Wednesday, August 1, 1945
In a contemplative fashion,
And a tranquil frame of mind,
Free from every kind of passion,
Some solution let us find.
Let us grasp the situation,
Solve the complicated plot —
Quiet, calm deliberation
Disentangles every knot .


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams ,
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
FATE OF THE CHURCHILLS.
In his biography of Marlborough Mr.
Churchill recorded in the majestic style
of the historian, and with the natural
partiality of a member of the family, how
the English rejected him after his success-
ful wars with the contemporary Hitler,
the “Sun King.” The biographer of the
second great Churchill will have to record
how they rejected him, after he had led
them in wars equally glorious and fraught
with greater perils and, privations. In be-
tween they broke Wellington’s windows
not many years after Waterloo. To mis-
trust and turn away from a servant of the
State whom they judge to have become
too powerful seems to be in the blood.
As a good Parliament man who has
known vicissitudes, Mr. Churchill accepted
the crowning stroke of misfortune with
the philosophy which has always sustained
him. He thanked the people for the un-
swerving support they had given him
during five fateful years of his Admini-
stration. He could be excused if he had
chosen to moralise on the ingratitude of
democracies. It seems cruel to have re-
fused him the triumph in the consti-
tuencies granted to Mr. Balfour after
the Boer War and to Mr. Lloyd George
after the first German war; crueller still
to have struck him down when he was
engaged in momentous discussions with
the leaders of the United States and the
U.S.S.R. ; perhaps cruellest of all to so
loyal and affectionate a man to have
roughly expelled his soldier-son, his son-
in-law, the Minister of Works, and so
many of his other Ministers —29 alto-
gether, among them members of his
own special group: Mr. Amery, the
Secretary for India; Sir James Grigg,
whom he took from the War Office and
named Secretary for War; Mr. Bqnar
Law’s son, the Minister for Education,
and Mr. Brendan Bracken, First Lord of
the Admiralty.
Rarely has there been such a rout.
The Conservatives and the National
Liberals lost 180 seats, practically all
to Labor. With gains from other groups,
Labor, which had 165 seats in the last
Parliament, when there were 615 mem-
bers, will have 390 out of 640 in the next.
Though it will be its third period of office,
it never before had a majority over all
other parties and groups.
Labor was under-represented in the last
Parliament. This was common know-
ledge,-and the release of long-stifled am-
bitions and discontents must have helped
the party at the polls. It was helped still
more by a distribution of electorates, to
Australians strangely unequal, which (to
quote only a few examples) enabled 6669
Labor voters to elect a member in Bethnal
Green, 8489 in a Liverpool division and
9749 in part of Birmingham, while Con-
servatives who secured many more votes
in other districts —24,636 in southern
Derby, 23,526 in Kettering, 21,595 in
Chorley, 20,684 in Northampton and
20,406 in north-east Leeds—failed of
election. Of still greater assistance was
the first-past-the-post system. Compara-
tively few of the new Labor members
who had two or more opponents got
absolute majorities, and the same is true
of the solitary communist who went ih
with the exuberant Mr. Gallacher—a Mr.
Piratin, of Mile End. When nearly all the
votes had been counted Labor had
250,000 1 fewer than the Conservative,
Liberal and National Liberal totals, which
means that Mr. Attlee’s party will have
many more seats than proportional or
preferential voting would have given it.
However, the Conservatives can claim no
commiseration on this score ; they had
most to do with making the electoral
arrangements which worked out so badly
for them.
As it now appears, with ten years be-
tween elections, the majority of the elec-
tors women —in the main war-weary,
shaken by bombing and with great long-
ings and needs which could not be satis-
fied in the two months of Conservative
Government —and millions of people vot-
ing for the first time, Labor must have
won anyhow. In its propaganda it was
at pains to draw a distinction between
Mr. Churchill the war leader of heroic
stature and Mr. Churchill the politician:
in youth probably a Tory democrat like
his father ; then a Liberal; then a Nation-
alist; then a Conservative again, grudg-
ingly readmitted, out of favor with the
heads of the party and suspect at the
Carlton Club; finally chairman of the
Conservative organisation. It dwelt on
his age and its relation to the peace poli-
cies he had promised. It suggested that
he was another Shaftesbury without
Shaftesbury’s vices:
A daring pilot in extremity;
Pleased with the danger, when the waves went
! high
He sought the storms.
Mr. Churchill’s 1919-20 zeal for war with
Bolshevik Russia was recalled, and it was
insinuated that he had not changed. In
a nation which has had so much of war
fear of another is natural and can be
easily aroused.
In his first campaign speech, delivered
at Blackpool on May 23, Mr. Bevin,
speaking as “a, prospective Foreign Sec-
retary,” and with Mr. Attlee at his side,
gave a pledge that a Labor Government
would “remove the fear and suspicion
growing between Britain and Russia.” It
was inferred, if not implied, that Mr.
Churchill could not and would not “re-
move the fear and suspicion” ; and this
assurance, repeated in a thousand speeches
and articles, must have had a great effect.
And it is palpable that Mr. Churchill’s
evil genius, Lord Beaverbrook, did his
cause a power of harm. Lord Beaver-
brook was permitted to become an un-
official director of the Conservative cam-
paign, and he directed it badly. Always
disliked by a great body of Conser-
vatives, he infuriated the co-operatives by
threatening to tax them, with the result
that those wealthy and influential organ-
isations “greatly increased their direct
representation in Parliament.” Lord
Beaverbrook pioneered in Britain a kind
of journalism, imitated in Australia to
the great advantage of the A.L.P., especi-
ally when Mr. Curtin was its leader,
which permits brash Left-Wing writers
to whoop for Labor and damn its oppo-
nents in signed articles, at the expense
of the Policy of the Paper, otherwise
handicapped by being confined to short
anonymous editorials. The event has
shown that readers of the Beaverbrook
newspapers were far less impressed by
the short, anonymous editorials than by
the signed articles, reinforced as they
were by the Leftist gibes and sneers
served up in Low’s cartoons, which were
widely syndicated.
In the Blackpool speech Mr. Bevin,
after undertaking to “remove the fear
and suspicion growing between Britain
and Russia,” a constant theme in Ameri-
can newspapers, though the United States
is often substituted for Britain, had sooth-
ing words for other countries. “France,”
he said, “will come back and Labor will
help her.” As for the Italians, “Labor
does not intend to continue treating Italy
as though Mussolini were still in power.”
Concerning the Poles, “some people here
state” that the Polish leaders in exile are
“Fascists,”
Some are, but I knew General Sikorski
intimately, and no one could fell he was a
Fascist. Nor is Mikolajczyk. Nor are
the Polish Socialists.
This is at least interesting; but the
appeasement of Russia at the Poles’ ex-
pense has gone too far for a mere vocal
defence of the exiled leaders, from whose
Government Anglo-American recognition
has now been withdrawn, to be of any
avail. Mr. Bevin did not mention Spain,
India, Greece, Yugoslavia, Rumania, Bul-
garia, Czechoslovakia or Austria, all
countries in which the change of Govern-
ment in Britain could have explosive pos-
sibilities, and nobody now mentions the
extinguished Baltic republics, it being con-
veniently forgotten that they were the
British Commonwealth’s fellow-partners
in the League of Nations. Nor did Mr.
Bevin refer to the setting up of a Jewish
Commonwealth in Palestine, though that,
it seems, was on the Labor programme.
With an Arab League about, and with
even Egypt asking for the withdrawal of
British troops, the project is loaded with
dynamite.
Of Britain’s economic future under
Labor control, Mr. Bevin said that Britain
stood between “the extremely free enter-
prise of the United States” and “the
socialised internal economy of Russia,”
and thus had “a tremendous progressive
chance to attain the socialist economy
that we need.” When the election results
were in Mr. Attlee addressed himself to
this congenial theme, saying that “Labor,
with a clear majority for the first time,
will be able to implement a socialist
policy.” Australians, who are witnessing
clumsy attempts to “implement a socialist
policy,” made in violation of their late
Prime Minister’s undertaking and in con-
tempt of their own refusal of authority
for an extension of powers, will not be
thrilled. Nor will it please them to learn
from Mr. Bevin that “Labor will retain
Empire preferential tariff rates as long
as other countries use tariffs against
Britain, but will reconsider the question
of preferences if there is any general
lowering of tariffs.”
Certain other parts of Mr. Attlee’s
election-night remarks are welcome:
“First of all, we have to finish this war
against Japan,” and, again: “in foreign
affairs we have, a long tradition dating
back many years.” These remarks may
still doubts in the United States, where,
possibly as an outcome of concern at
changes which the British election might
bring, a Captain Zacharias, who speaks
to the Japanese in their own tongue with
the authority of W. 0.1., has been per-
mitted to offer them the benefits of the
Atlantic Charter, denied to Poland and
other European countries under Russian
control, as well as to Germany and Italy.
Mr. Churchill has had a greater vogue
in the United States than any other Eng-
lishman, present or past. The home policy
of his Government, as well as his conduct
of the war, has been almost universally
praised. His unexpected fall and the
advent of a party Government with
“a socialist economy” and a 1919-39 his-
tory of pacifism must cause anxiety in
quarters where material assistance to
Churchill’s Britain has been accepted as
part of America’s post-war policy. It
may be necessary for the Attlee Govern-
ment to give more attention to its rela-
tions with the mightiest and most gener-
ous of our allies than to its relations with
Russia.
Issues in Fremantle.
In 1924, when Mr. Curtin was a Labor
editor with political ambitions as yet
unfulfilled, he was sent to Geneva as a
delegate to the 1.L.0. conference, ac-
credited by the Government. Fellow-
delegates from Australia were a Cabinet
Minister and a representative of the Em-
ployers’ Federation and the three had
the assistance of a man from the High
Commissioner’s office in London. It
would be wrong to say that frugality
was practised in those days, but it was
accepted that custodians of the people’s
money had no right to throw it about.
With Mr. Curtin dead and Mr. Chif-
ley installed as his successor, a delega-
tion to another 1.L.0. Conference, this
time at Paris, has been chosen. It is to
consist of a party almost as large as the
one sent to the San Francisco Confer-
ence, at which only Dr. Evatt was ever
heard, except for an occasional interrup-
tion by Mr. Forde.
The Government is to be represented
at Paris by Senator Fraser, Minister of
Health and Social Services and recently
Acting Minister for the Army, and by
Mr. Lawson, M.H.R., as “consultant” and
Mr. Haylen, M.H.R., as “adviser” or some-
thing. Mr. Lawson and Mr. Haylen were
unsuccessful candidates for the Ministry
at the Caucus election, and their appoint-
ments, the cost of which would estab-
lish a few returned servicemen on farms
or in small businesses, are consolation
prizes charged up to the taxpayers.
For the A.C.T.U., which has the same
objective as Labor and the communists,
“the socialisation of industry, production,
distribution and exchange,” a Mr. Monk
and a Mr. King are to go, with all ex-
penses paid. The Employers’ Federation
is still to have only one representative,
Mr. Oberg, a member of the San Fran-
cisco party, but, perhaps because his
expenses bill would lead to awkward com-
parisons, he also is to be allowed an
“adviser.” And Mr. Johnson, the new
Minister of the Interior, was selected to
go to Paris for another conference, or
it may be the same one, as a repre-
sentative of the A.W.U., though it
is now expected that another member
of the union will make the trip
instead. Representation of the A.W.U.
was decided upon as a counter to the
A.C.T.U. selection of the communist
Thornton, who has already had two trips
abroad, largely at the public cost. From
the second he returned to Australia in
an R.A.F. Liberator as a privileged
guest. But he has fallen into tem-
porary disfavor, and when the United
States Government refused him passage
across its country for the third trip, the
Chifley Government raised no objection.
Considered alone, these may be small
matters, but they are symptomatic. Aus-
tralia has fallen into the hands of a
crowd which spends the people’s money
with a profusion unprecedented here
and unmatched elsewhere.
The Government, source of all the ex-
travagance ; has 19 Ministers, barely a
dozen of whom have ever been fully
employed. It bought a fleet of 1942-
model fluid-drive Chrysler cars to take
these gentlemen and their retinues and
others around. It ipobilised a great army,
only half of which has ever been out of
Australia, and in war factories and de-
partments it has another large army, the
excess of which, now painfully evident,
it will have to provide for somehow,
though it doesn’t know how. No Aus-
tralian worth his salt would have be-
grudged paying for a war effort compar-
able with that of 1918, but almost every-
one except the predominant party and
its blind supporters realises that the war
has cost a great deal more than it should
have done within the limits assigned,
now to be further restricted, and has
come across instances of wild prodi-
gality, evidence of which can be seen on
every hand.
Though the circumstances are so dif-
ferent that it would be impossible to draw
a fair parallel, a comparative statement
of war and defence expenditure in 1917-
18 and 1943-44 is in order. In 1917-18 it
amounted to £71,000,000 and in 1943-44
to £544,000,000. Details were published
by the 1917-18 Government; by the Gov-
ernment now in office they have been
withheld.
While trying to run a war Labor has
been playing politics to an extent and
with an effrontery unknown in peace
years. Last year it divided the nation
on the powers referendum, accepting the
alliance of communists and their direction
of Sydney “demonstrations”; and, although
its proposals were rejected by huge popu-
lar majorities, it is behaving as if the
powers were granted. A case in point is
its effort to “take over” the inter-State
airlines, which is not only an outrage on
the people’s verdict but an infraction of
its late leader’s express pre-election
pledge: “My Government will not during
the war socialise any industry.” And it
has gone in so lavishly and with such con-
tempt of consequences for so-called
“social-security” measures, the silliest of
which provides for free medicine (doc-
tors’ prescriptions are not to be free),
that, as the new Prime Minister himself
confessed in a startled moment, “social
security” is to cost £69,000,000 in 1945-46
and £80,000,000 in 1947-48. This will
amount to £6,000,000 more than the 1938-
39 Commonwealth tax-i;evenue from all
sources- (customs, excise, estate duties and
sales, flour, land and income taxes) and to
£8,000,000 more than the 1940-41 income-
tax revenue of the Commonwealth and
States.
TheSe vast commitments were light-
heartedly entered upon when the country
was in the grip of a drought, which deci-
mated the country’s flocks and herds and
reduced it to the necessity of importing
grain and feed, with the financing of the
war, the care of broken servicemen and
of the families of the dead and the re-
habilitation of the returned and returning
hosts remaining as inescapable obliga-
tions.
There can be no recourse to fresh taxa-
tion except in the field of lotteries,- which
Labor encourages and refuses to tax.
Every other field has been exploited to
the full. Income tax, as Mr. Chifley con-
fessed in another startled moment, has
reached saturation point; it is the highest
in the English-speaking world. Cries for
relief are coming from all quarters, but,
except as a fleeting and dishonest pre-
election expedient, there can be no relief
without a substantial reduction of un-
necessary expenditure, which would be
against “Labor principles.”
In the circumstances, Labor’s thoughts
have turned to the hated banks, and,
having a majority in each House, it is
taking control of the delicate mechanism
of banking and credit. Into this new pro-
vince it is carrying rooted prejudices, the
valor of ignorance and the ineptitude
which has marked its “controls,” particu-
larly in the domains of man-power,
housing and food-production ; and unless
it is halted in its wild career the possi-
bilities of disaster are enormous.
The electors of Fremantle are to have
it irt their power to halt this party in its
wild career. The loss of the late ffiime
Minister’s seat would be a chastening
blow to it, especially as Fremantle is a
borderline electorate which twice rejected
Mr. Curtin himself and refused him a
majority of primary votes on two occa-
sions. Though its feeling for Mr. Curtin
changed to a sentimental attachment, it
has nothing to thank his Government for.
Indeed, there is no discernible reason why
it should elect the Labor candidate, even
if the gentleman is a local schoolteacher
in his twenties who has been “a delegate
to the State Executive and Metropolitan
Council of the A.L.P. for some years. ’
Electorate and State have experienced
the consequences of the industrial
anarchy, much of it sheer larrikinisrri,
though not less wicked and danger-
ous on that account, for which Labor
has found neither preventive nor cure.
In December Fremantle had a water-
front strike, the work of an un-
punished mob, which held up the
port for a month when it was crowded
with ships, and when there were special
reasons for getting them turned round
in the minimum of time. And the clumsy
hands of Mr. Dedman and Mr. Scu.ly
have fallen on the State of which Fre-
mantle is the One Big Port more heavily
than on any other State. The one
gentleman by taking three-fourths of the
men out of the goldmines, when
Sydney, for one, had large untouched
supplies of professional “sports” and
jitterbug dancers, and the other b>
enforcing a crop - restriction policy
,which looked perfectly mad last year,
when the farmers paid for not growing
crops could have doubled the actual pro-
duction of wheat and wheaten hay, have
deprived Westralians of a substantial pro-
duction and diffusion of real wealth.
And the housing situation, so appalling


everywhere that the Government has had
to come out with an agonised declaration
that it will build 24,000 dwellings in
twelve months, with the unintelligible Mr.
Lazzarini as chief miracle-worker, is as
bad in Perth-Fremantle as it is anywhere,
if not worse. And the Labor distribution
of uniform-income-tax revenue is so cock-
eyed that, while the N.S.W. and Queens-
land Governments have been able to build
up huge hoards for post-war expenditure
—in the Queensland case over nine mil-
lions, as the Labor u Treasurer admitted
with an artless candor which his Sydney
opposite number has never practised —
the Westralian Government, like the
South Australian and Tasmanian Gov-
ernments, has been saved from thump-
ing deficits only by Commonwealth Gov-
ernment grants, which in all cases have
had to be increased. It would not be
too much to say that Canberra’s manage-
ment of its financial relations with the
States, including payments for “services,”
has made the rich Governments richer
and the poor Governments poorer.
The Liberal candidate is a returned
soldier of this war, a 1939 man. He is
coming out at a time when there is a
plain need for a Parliamentary champion
of the Young Diggers and their com-
panions in the other fighting services, a
remarkably large proportion of whom, as
in the last war, are Westralians. The
Government has been prodded into pro-
mising to take five-year men out of for-
ward areas, thopgh if it had a vestige of
the feeling and spirit shown by Mr.
Hughes when he got Anzac leave for the
1914 Diggers prodding would never have
been needed. And in the test case of
the returned servicemen employed at the
Government small-arms factory in the
Prime Minister’s electorate it has been
placed in the position of having to decide
whether these men are to have preference,
as provided for, though in terms which
have not satisfied the R.S.L., in its Re-
establishment Act, or whether unionists
are to have it. A Cabinet sub-committee
announced that the order of retrenchment
was to be (1) single men and women,
(2) childless married men, (3) married
men with children and (4) “members of
the forces and persons judged to be
entitled to preference under the Act in
accordance with length, locality and
nature of service.” To which a mass
meeting of small-arms-factory unionists
retorted that the Cabinet sub-committee's
resolution was “rejected,” and that the
“union principle” of “last to come, first to
go,” would be insisted upon. And hitherto
when union pressure has been applied,
however disgraceful the circumstances,
the Government has always wilted.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Wanderer Returns.
Back in his native land, Dr. Evatt had
an eventful week. It began placidly, but
had lost that character when it ended.
In a statement on his mission he had a
complacent reference to “the adoption of
the policy of full employment put for-
ward at the San Francisco conference by
Australia” (i.e., himself), adding “Experi-
ence has shown that when there is full
employment in the great industrial nations
like the United Kingdom and the United
States there is full employment else-
where.” This is true, but it is not what
Labor speakers have been saying in the
debates on the banking bills or in the
Fremantle by-election, these gentlemen
being unanimous on the point that de-
pressions are caused by the capitalists
and prolonged by the banks.
Going to Canberra and receiving the
congratulations of Caucus, the Minister
for External Affairs gave an indulgent
hearing to Mr. Ward’s quip on his
absence from the party lining up for the
election of leader and deputy-leader—
“the doctor has been sighted 77 miles
from Sydney Heads swimming strongly.”
(He didn’t hear the sequel which
occurred in a Labor-Opposition lobby
dialogue: “Swimming towards Sydney?
No—in circles, as he always does.”)
Then Mr. Anthony tried to catch him
with a question : “Did the Minister ask
the Soviet delegation when Russia in-
tended opening a Second Front in the
Pacific?” But he wasn’t taken off his
guard by that one.
In fact, he was going along blithely
when he read in the papers that Britain,
the U.S.A, and China (Chiang being at
Chungking) haddssued a total-and-imme-
diate surrender ultimatum to Japan in
the terms of the Cairo declaration—
oddly modified as to Emperor and
people. That provoked him into a
declaration that the thing had been
arranged and published “without prior
reference to, still less the concurrence of,
the Australian Government,” and that to
the extent to which “the terms appear to
treat Japan more leniently than Ger-
many” he and the Government —or he
as the Government—objected to them.
In his first statement to the newspapers,
after disengaging himself from the atten-
tions of Mr. Forde (magnanimously for-
getful of his relegation to obscurity at
’Frisco) and “several other Cabinet Min-
isters,” Dr. Evatt said “Australia cannot
possibly contract out of Europe.” In
his protest against the Potsdam impro-
visation, or whatever it was, he used the
words “Australia’s interest and concern
are no less significant than those of
China,” Perhaps the idea among Im-
portant Persons abroad, who must have
noted the absence of the A.I.F. from the
victorious campaign in Europe, its old
glorious stamping ground, and had fore-
knowledge of the Government’s plan for
reducing it to three divisions and send-
ing, “if possible,” a “token force” to Sin-
gapore, is that Australia has “contracted’
out of Europe and Asia.
The Jap and the Native.
In the early days of the Balik Papan land-
ing (John Brennan writes to The Bulle-
tin) surprisingly few natives were found
within the beachhead area ; after three
days 150 or so. They told the only-too-well-
known stories of Japanese ill-treatment.
When ill and unable to work they were
beaten and left without food. But their
emaciated cbndition -told the story more
pointedly than any words. Their appear-
ance was appalling. Very many cases were
worse than anything that had been seen
at Tarakan or in the Brunei Bay area.
There were men and young women
whose bodies had shrunken until the skin
was stretched almost to breaking point
across the framework of their bones.
Thigh- and hip-bones, shoulder-blades
and ribs were marked as in a medical-
student’s dummy specimen. There were
poor creatures unable to move or to talk ;
some too weak to be fed, needing blood
transfusions to put life into their bodies.
On the beach fronting the airstrip seven
bodies were found. Six of the dead were
natives; the seventh was apparently a
Japanese. All were bound, their hands
behind their backs ; some had their heads
lopped as with a sword, and they were
hanging to the trunks by sinews. They
had been wounded several times with
bayonet thrusts. They lay at the high-
water mark, and had possibly been
washed there, for they were covered with
oil from the water.
Nica —the Netherlands Indies Civil
Administration unit —was better fitted to
cope with the problem of the living than
it had been at Tarakan. There Nica had
been overwhelmed, so many natives
crowding into the area in the first two
days ; but it had learnt its lesson. At
Balik Papan, besides the doctors and
Government officials, there were native
boys and volunteer Red Cross workers
from the Dutch West Indies, mostly
from Curasao. There was plenty of work
for them and every appearance of more.
Before the war Balik Papan had 30,000
inhabitants. It appeared that the enemy
had driven the population ahead of him
when he made his withdrawal. His
troubles about the people to whom he
offered a place in his dissolving co
prosperity sphere’ !
Northern New State
The current movement in North Queens-
land for the creation of a new State is
not the first of its kind by a long chalk.
In 1882 a Townsville meeting declared
for separation, and drew up boundaries,
though the hostility of the sugar interest
and of the miners on the Towers delayed
matters, the sugar people fearing the loss
of colored labor and the miners its intro-
duction in the mines. But in 1885 a
Townsville convention formed a Separa-
tion Council. Petitions and counter-
petitions were got up for presentation to
the Queen, and a Separation Council was
formed in London. .
In 1886 a John Macrossan motion lor
the creation of a new colony was defeated
in the Legislative Assembly by 40 to 9.
A # year later Winton district was asking
to be included in the projected colony,
and that year a deputation —M. H. Black
and I. Lissner, Ms.L.A.—went to London
and appealed for separation. The British
Government thought its case too weak.
In 1890 Macrossan, having become
Secretary of Works, again moved for
separation. Samuel Griffith was for the
creation of three provinces, Central, Soutn
and North. His proposal found support
in Parliament, but never came to any-
thing. However, G. S. Curtis battled
away for separation of Central Queens-
land. Macrossan died untimely, and the
arrival of Federation scotched all the
agitations for local self-government, in
Westralia as well as Queensland.
It’s doubtful if the present stirring will
be as easily lulled. North, Central and
West are fed to the back teeth with Bris-
bane rule and with government from
Canberra —to the extent that it is ill-
informed and unsympathetic —and the
North has an uneasy feeling that it might
have been left to its own resources had
the worst come in 1942. War-time re-
strictions on transport, the general muddle
in foodstuffs, clothing, housing, man-
power and agriculture, together with the
favored treatment of “certain sections,"
have combined to convince many people
that, where northern affairs are concerned,
government of the North by Northerners
is overdue. _____
THE SHOW MUST GO ON!


AUSTRALIAN ART AND BALLET
Two Important Books Just Published.
PEACE, TASTE AND TRADITION. A Study of Australian Art since 1788, by Bernard
Smith. This book, lavishly illustrated, is a comprehensive study of the various
periods in the development of Australian Art. Over 100 illustrations, including four
in colour. 21/- (post 6d.).
PIONEERING BALLET IN AUSTRALIA. A handsome volume, with coloured and other
plates. Edited by Peter Bellew. In word and picture is told the history of the first
professional Australian Russian Ballet Company, with unique action photographs.
25/- (post 9d.).
Some New and Recent Books.
World Words: Recommended Pronunciations.;
By W. Cabel Greet, published for the
Columbia Broadcasting System. 21/- (post
6d.).
As Much As I Dare. A personal recollection
as a writer, educator, editor of many sides
of American literary and social life. 24/6
(post 9d.).
Fleet Destroyer. A unit of the Australian
Squadron. By Petty-Officer J. E. Macdon-
nell, R.A.N. Fully illustrated. 6/- (post 3d.).
They All Had Glamour. A vigorous chuckling
book about the great personalities of the
stage and opera. By E. B. Marks with hun-
dreds of photographs. 32/- (post 1/-).
So Sorry, No Peace. By Royal Arch Gunnison,
“Collier’s” Far East correspondent. This
book deals amazingly with that cruel, fan-
atical creature, the Jap. 21/- (post 6d.).
Persons and Places. The Background of My
Life. By George Santayana. A distin-
guished book. 15/9 (post 4d.).
Things Past. By Michael Sadlier. A book of
essays, the product of an exquisite mind.
15/9 (post 4d.).
James Joyce. A critical introduction by
Harry Levin. 13/9 (post 4d.).
Evenings with Music. A new approach to
music appreciation. By Sid Skolsky. 22/6
(post 6d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
EVERY MARRIED MAN
should be insured. A few shillings a week put away regularly now will buy a surprisingly
large amount of security for your dependants in the event of your death. By taking out an
endowment policy you can ensure against want in your own and your wife’s old age.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD.
“THE A.C.A.”
has ample funds to meet claims, and is now paying liberal bonuses
in both the Industrial and Ordinary Departments. For review of
actuary’s report see “Bulletin,” 1 7/3/’43.
All Classes of Assurances Effected.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices:
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia: Warwick House, St. George’s Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
POLITICAL POINTS
Forde, promising relief to the doomed
soldiers at Singapore in a message which
reached them a few days before the cul-
mination of the greatest disaster that ever
befell Australia (February 15, 1942):
It will go, not as a few consignments
from a shrinking store, but as a stream
which will swell to a flood, and a flood
which will grow to an overwhelming torrent.
Chifley, with the disgraceful sequel
(July 27, 1945):
It has also been proposed that a token
force should be associated, if possible, with
the British forces in the operations for the
recapture of Singapore, to avenge the de-
feat of 1942 and to contribute to the
liberation of our prisoners-of-war.
A “token” force, “if possible,” for Sinjk-
pore! Churchill may be an “old Tory,”
as Canberra dnd Sydney Domain
celebrators of the Great Victory pro-
claimed (wait till their party has to face
women weary to death of queuing-up and
pigging it in slums!), but can anyone
imagine him getting down to that level?
According to a London Sunday paper
there was betting at Lloyds on the result
of the British election —3 to 1 against a
Labor majority, 4 to 1 against a Con-
servative majority of 100 over Labor,
6 to 1 against a Conservative majority of
150 over Labor, 7 to 1 against a Con-
servative majority of 150 over all par-
ties. Sydney “D.T.” put up the head-
lines Election Betting Favors Labor
Government in Britain. Three to one
against the favorite in a field of three:
two racehorses and a carthorse! Aston-
ishing for a paper which gives more space
to “sports” on which betting rages than
to the war.
Malcolm MacDonald, one of the two
British High Commissioners who kept
their seats in the 1935-45 Parliament, was
shrewd in deciding to retire undefeated
as the last of the National Labor clan.
Sir Ronald Cross contested Rossendale
again and was beaten on a split vote. It
is not likely that he will settle in Aus-
tralia, but if he did he could become a
figure in the House at Canberra. There
can have been few finer speakers in the
Commons, and in the Representatives
he would scarcely have a peer.
Donald Clifford Tyndall Bennett, the
dashing Queenslander who became (at
34) the youngest Air Vice-Marshal in the
R.A.F., and then went into politics, has
had an early experience of the caprices of
constituencies. Elected as a Liberal for
Middlesborough West in the dying Parlia-
ment, he lost the seat in the late catas-
trophe. At that he polled better, rela-
tively as well as actually, than almost
any other Liberal, including the leader,
Sir Archibald Sinclair, and Beveridge of
the Plan (both defeated), getting 17,458
votes out of 37,529. Fewer votes put in
many a Labor candidate.
The fluent and very self-satisfied R. W.
G. Mackay, formerly of the Sydney Bar,
Greater Union Theatres and A.8.C., is
in the Commons at last. He had two
tries as a Labor candidate; then he
twisted to the Commonwealth party,
abandoning it with a gift to the perishing
“party” funds when the “party” itself
was about to perish. In that he was
shrewder than Sir Richard Acland, who
twisted from the Liberals to the “party”
and flopped with it. Twisting back to
Labor, Mackay has become member for
North-west Hull.
Party majorities at British elections
over 60 years, it being premised that
“Unionist” was the term applied to the
contemporary combination of Conserva-
tives and anti-Home-Rule Liberals:
1886 Unionist 114
1892 Liberal 40
1895 Unionist * 152
1900 Unionist 134
1906 Liberal 356
1910 (Jan.) Liberal 124
1910 (Dec.) Liberal 126
1918 Coalition 263
1922 Conservative 79
1924 Conservative 225
1931 Coalition 425
1935 Coalition 247
1945 Labor 140
In 1923 and 1929 no party gained a
majority. The 1931 and 1935 Coalitions
were composed of Conservatives, National
Liberals and National Laborites. The
National Laborites have now disappeared,
as did Hughes’s followers, so-called after
the conscription split, though in a much
briefer period. Fourteen National Libs,
survived the late rout, but they are sure
to be absorbed in the Conservative party,
as were Joseph Chamberlain’s Lib.-
Unionists.
The United Nations charter is through
the U.S. Senate, 89 votes to 2 —a three-
fifths majority was necessary. Sending
congratulations from Potsdam, President
“With the Fremantle by-election coming on and housing an issue, Mr. Lazzarini is busy holding
conferences.”
“Now, McGirr, we’ve only got to get manpower to carry it and everything
will be ‘jake.’ ”
Truman promised to refer to Congress all
military arrangements proposed under the
charter. So far he has had no trouble
in Congress—his predecessor had plenty.
Mr. Brown comes to town:
In April last year A. J. Brown, of Sydney,
received a letter from Premier Dunstan offering
him the job of chairman of the Victorian Town
and Country Planning Board at £1350 p.a.
Unversed in the ways of politicians, Mr. Brown
asked for a release from his job in the De-
partment of Labor and hastened to Melbourne.
There he found himself provided with a cosy
office, carpeted wall to wall and with a window
opening on the gardens, and settled down to
deal with planning problems. After sitting in
his office with nothing to do for a year he
started looking for the board of which he was
the chairman, but up to date has failed to
locate one. He has since returned t'o Sydney,
presumably to see if the board is in hiding
there. He has received no salary. Possibly his
appointment got mixed up with a requisition
for a specimen for the Geological Museum,
in which the cosy office with wall-to-wall
carpets is situated.
Already rejoicing or expected to re-
joice in six Education Departments,
each with a Cabinet Minister, Australia
is to have “a Commonwealth Office of
Education,” with Dedman’s blessing.
Details are lacking, but it is apparently
to be a spending office without respon-
sibility. Menzies wants a commission
to go into the whole question of school-
ing, with special reference to pre-school
training, rural, technical and adult edu-
cation and provision of new universities.
In his speech he made a reference to the
Speck which must have pleased even his
opponents Cosgrave and Dwyer-Gray:
“The Tasmanian area school represents
the most interesting modern educational
experiment yet performed in our
country.”
It is one of the ironies of Labor’s
bureaucratically designed economic sys-
tem that the Apple Island has a lower
fruit consumption than any mainland
State, although it has an apple surplus.
This came out in a recent report of a
survey taken by the Health and Medical
Research Council’s nutrition committee.
Another fact that came out was that,
although' most Australians get “energy”
foods in abundance, they don’t get nearly
enough of the “protective” foods neces-
sary to provide minerals and vitamins
essential to health —milk, fruit and vege-
tables. The committee’s comment was
that fruit and green vegetables should be
included in the price index numbers used
by the Arbitration Court. It might have
added that putting food control into the
hands of academic “experts” and uni-
versity passmen is obviously capable of
bringing about a situation where malnu-
trition can be artificially produced in the
midst of plenty just as effectively as by a
U-boat blockade.
The war of Jenkins’s ear was nothing
to the \yar which has broken out in Syd-
ney since a Rugby League player lost a
large part of one of his “listeners” in
a match. For a leather-chaser accused of
biting it off it was stated in evidence that
the charge must be false, since he
had left his teeth in the dressing-
room. The combativeness displayed by
all parties to the strife would be wel-
come in places like Borneo and Bougain-
ville, where nobody but the enemy would
object to anybody nipping off a Nip’s
ear. But then professional footballers,
like professional pugs and other “sports,”
enjoy a singular immunity from contact
with the Nips, as well as other privileges,
among them Sunday matches at which
the money is “good” and betting brisk.
They are permitted by “Labor” as a
means of “promoting the cultivation of
an enlightened and self-reliant commu-
nity.”
Giving evidence against Petain, and
denouncing him as a traitor, the slippery
Reynaud, who admitted that he had tried
to buy Italian neutrality with African
“concessions,” referred to Churchill’s
“generous” offer of an Anglo-French
Union when the French were on
the point of giving in, and said that some
day it might have to come. According
to one account, he used the term “inevit-
able.” The Dominions were never con-
sulted about the offer and they will have
something to say about it if it is ever
revived, now most unlikely.
It transpires that two representatives of
the League of Nations, Sean Lester and
Alexander Loveday, were invited to
attend the proceedings at San Francisco
as onlookers. When they arrived “they
wandered about the headquarters build-
ings, finding no place to register or to
deposit credentials or even to be re-
ceived,” and on the opening day they had
no tickets of admission. One arriving just
before the start, “Mr. Lester, a distin-
guished career diplomat from Eire,”
turned it over to Mr. Loveday. That
gentleman found himself “in almost the
highest spot in the whole vast Opera
House,” with an interrupted view of “the
backs of the heads of dowagers and
schoolgirls, promoters and publishers,
socialites and socialists.” In a day or two
seats were found for the pair, and, each
having in his mind’s eye the League
palace and other buildings in Geneva,
“worth perhaps 15,000,000 dollars,” they
were privileged to hear a translation of a
Moscow proposal that the United Nations
should have its H.Q. at Prague or Vienna,
both now under Soviet domination.
When the British Labor party parted
company with the Conservatives Bevin
said “foreign policy” was “the most vexed
and most difficult problem with which
Labor in office would be faced.” He is to
have to do the facing as Eden’s successor.
Needed sorely is a new charter for
unionism, providing for proper legal pro-
tection of minorities and individuals, for
secret ballots when strikes are proposed,
for annual publication of precise and de-
tailed balance sheets and for imprison-
ment without the option where dissatis-
fied men are overawed or hounded out
of their jobs, homes and callings by being
threatened or branded with the wicked
larrikin term “scab.” It is from the
shocking state of trade-union law and
from Labor’s refusal to enforce penalties
even where penalties are prescribed that
communists derive most of their union
power. But the position will not be recti-
fied while white-livered Labor Govern-
ments remain in office.
“Melbn”: You can’t beat the ladies
when they become politically minded.
After an address by Menzies, 600 mem-
bers of the Australian Women’s National
League met in Melbourne. Any woman
not a member was refused entrance and
a representative of the city’s most digni-
fied daily had the door slammed in her
face. Members who got in had to sign
their names on a docket. Some objected,
and remarks were heard that nothing
more resembling Nazism than the tactics
of the A.W.N.L. had been seen in Mel-
bourne. Men said to be police told
women who were distributing pamphlets
that they were breaking the law, and
press representatives who had wormed
their way in were escorted to the door.
The subject of discussion was whether
the name of the A.W.N.L. should be
changed to “Liberal.”
[J. E. Webb, Cecil Mann, David Adams and
Malcolm Ellis, of 252 George-street, Sydney,
sign for any matter with a bearing on the Fre-
mantle by-election.]


mm!
g-* • . »
DKWU
Some men are so crazy they keep the motor
running while their cars are parked. They
think this re-charges the battery.
Don’t be fooled with crazy ideas. Take your
battery to your Exide dealer every second
week. He’ll help you get months of extra
service from it by keeping it properly ser-
viced and re-charged when necessary.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australia Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Britain’s new P.M., Clement Richard
Attlee, is one of the rarest variety of
politicians—he’s excessively shy and
modest and actually shuns publicity!
Also, he’s Old School Tie —Haileybury
and Oxford. And, further, he’s a British
counterpart of the Old Dig.—South Lan-
cashires on Gallip., and Tank Corps in
France. He graduated politically, first as
mayor of an East End borough and mem-
ber of the Fabian Society, then to the
Commons as member for Limehouse,
which he’s continued to be since 1922.
Australia’s latest V.C., Sgt. Ray Rattey,
worked on his father’s farm at Bellarwi,
10 miles from Barmedman (N.S.W.), till
he joined the Army four years ago.
Corporal Rattey at the time, taking part
in an onslaught on a strong Jap possie on
Bougainville, he not only went out and-
made a singlehanded attack, firing a Bren
from the hip, and then at close quarters
throwing a grenade among the Japs, but
he came back, still under heavy fire, got
more grenades, and went at them again.
That time he wiped out seven of them,
silencing the position. He enters a grand
company of V.C.’s of this war, Edmond-
son, Anderson, Middleton, Gordon and
others, who came from the bush.
Arrival in Sydney of a big batch of
R. back from Europe brought to-
gether three members of a famous flying
family. Wing-Commander John Kings-
ford Smith was on the wharf to meet his
brothers, Wing-Commander Rollo Kings-
ford Smith, D. 5.0., D.F.C., and Flight-
Lieut. Peter Kingsford Smith, D.F.C. The
three, nephews of Smithy, belong to a
Neutral Bay, Sydney, family. Rollo was
with Bomber Command, while Peter, shot
down over France in February, 1943,
spent a fair stretch of the war in the in-
famous Stalagluft 111, having been cap-
tured by Vichy police after the French
Underground had kept hiip out of sight
for 23 days. Wing-Commander John is
at present R.A.A.F. liaison officer for the
film history being made of Smithy. Re-
turning on the same ship, Flight-Lieut.
C. S. Downes, of Beecroft (N.S.W.), was
welcomed by his brothers representing the
other services ; A.B. Downes, who served
on H.M.A.S. Australia, and Sergeant
Downes, who has had three and a half
years in the Army.
Isaac Isaacs celebrates his 90th birth-
day of August 6. Still active, physically
and mentally, he is a familiar dapper
figure in Melbourne streets.
Albert Arthur Dunstan has romped
home with the Victorian record for
length of service as a Premier —10 years,
three and a half months —the five days’
when Labor-leader John Cain held office
being excluded from the total. Dunstan
is probably the most imperturbable
Premier Victoria has ever had. His
unshatterable calm when criticised, along
with his great bulk and his grin, almost
conveys the impression of contempt,
though it may be he is satisfied with him-
self as a prodigious worker. As with
most of the ladies, his age, curiously
enough, isn’t stated in Who’s Who, but
his political birthday was 1920, when he
started being M-L.A. for Korong and
Eaglehawk.
An Old Digger chairs the Royal Com-
mission to inquire into the Australian
Army detention system —Judge Geoffrey
Sandford Reed, of S.A., who graduated
and later lectured in law at Adelaide Uni.
and was admitted to the Bar in 1914.
He was secretary of the Law Society of
S. (1924-27), later becoming yice-presi-
dent, and was Acting Judge of the
Supreme Court for two years prior to
becoming K!C. in 1937. Chairman of
the S.A. National Security Advisory Com-
mittee since 1941, and Judge of the
Supreme Court since 1943, he’s 53.
Handing on his job, under doctor’s
orders, Westralian Premier J. C. Will-
cock has been in office for 18 years, hay-
ing reached the Assembly in 1917, a rail-
wayman from Geraldton. First entering
Cabinet as Minister for Justice and Rail-
ways in the Collier Government in 1924,
he was deputy party leader in 1927 and
again in 1935, and became Premier in
1936. He had a bout of serious illness
about a year back and recovery has been
slow.
Harold Rabling (mentioned B. 4/7/’45)
as succeeding C. K. Gamble in Mel-
bourne) is the first Australian appointed
chairman and managing director of
Vacuum Oil, which has now been in busi-
ness here for 50 years. A last-war Digger,
Rabling joined the company in 1923 as
a lubrication engineer, and became New-
castle (N.S.WO manager in 1924. Eleven
years later he was off*to New York as
assistant to the resident director, and in
another three years he himself held the
latter post. Born at Clunes (Vic.), Rab-
ling graduated at Melbourne University
in 1914 with degree of 8.M.E., and won
Dixon final honors scholarship. He
rowed in three successive head-of-the-
river races, twice represented Melbourne
successfully in the inter-university boat-
races, and in his final year was captain of
both the rowing and rifle teams.
Abraham Marcus Loewenthal, who
lately passed on in Sydney, was a notable
member of the Chosen. As an A.M.P.
representative, he is credited with having
written business of record proportions,
and the money he made was distributed
with the generosity of a Montefiore.
Loewenthal did great work for the
N.S.W. Jewish War Memorial, the Aus-
tralian Red Cross and the Scarba Home
for Children, was on the board of the
Royal Alexandra Hospital for Children
and founded its Northern Travellers’ Cot
Fund.
Melbourne architect Captain W. H.
Merritt, here pictured by Mcßeath, looks
jolly and contented. Hence people en-
joying good health who look otherwise
might benefit by knowing that when fly-
ing with the R.A.F. in the last war Cap-
tain Merritt was shot down from 2000 ft.
and sustained a permanent limp, a riveted
bone or two and continual pain. De-
signer of many notable buildings, his
latest, now under construction, is Metro
Clothing’s £lO,OOO factory at Albury
(N.S.W.); part of the Commonwealth
Government’s decentralisation scheme.
Another of his Albury buildings is a hotel
which is one of the few in Australia with
a bathroom to each bedroom. Born in
ARCHITECT MERRITT.
England 49 years ago, Merritt came to
Australia as a lad. His wife was the girl
who nursed him after the shooting-down
incident.
An Australian woman and an English-
woman with Prime Ministerial associa-
tions passed on over the week-end —
at Bathurst (N.S.W.), Mrs. Isobella Mac-
Kenzie, mother of Mr. Chifley’s wife ;
in England Margot, Countess of Oxford
and Asquith, whose husband was P.M.
(1908-16). The Countess, originally Emma
Alice Margaret, became world-known as
Margot through her Autobiography and
other very pointed writing. She was a
daughter of the wealthy Glasgow mer-
chant and art patron Sir Charles Ten-
nant. A sister of old Gallipoli Digger
Dr. Fiaschi, of Sydney, married into the
Tennant family, and has been a candi-
date at the last two British elections.
“Ek Dum’s” appraisal:
Dr. F. W. Wheatley, C.8.E., is one of those
Australians who are better known outside their
own country than in it. Born at Kapunda
(S.A.), he took a B.Sc. at Oxford, after gradu-
ating in Arts at Adelaide University, of which
later he was to hold a Doctorate of Science.
A fine mathematician and an associate in
metallurgy of the S.A. School of Mines, he
went from the headmastership of Rockhampton
(Q.) Grammar School —the fortunes of which
he revolutionised during the eight , years he
was there—to do two years’ research on the
ionisation of gases with Professor Townsend at
Oxford.
In 1914 Dr. Wheatley became Senior Naval
Instructor at the newly-founded R.A.N. College
DR. F. W. WHEATLEY.
at Jervis Bay, and most of the senior R.A.N.
officers of the present war passed through his
hands —and, incidentally, topped the R.N. list's
in most cases when they left the college to do
their special courses overseas.
Headmaster of the college in 1920-31, Dr.
Wheatley these days is secretary of the Royal
Empire Society, and, with his characteristic
energy, making a great success of it. The
doctor earned fame in the first world war
for his ability to break German codes. When
Captain Richardson, R.A.N., Victorian District
Naval Officer, captured, by guile, the secret code
of the German ship Hobart, off Port Phillip
Heads, it was Dr. Wheatley, then seconded
to Naval Intelligence, who deciphered the code,
and afterwards two others which the Germans
substituted for it. Among the messages inter-
cepted through this fine bit of cipher work was
one announcing the advance of the De Wet
rebels with the s.-w.-African Germans on
Upington, and naval documents which altered
the history of the sea war directly after Coronel,
and assured the destruction of Von Spee’s
troublesome squadron.
No German would have suspected Dr.
Wheatley of a job like that. He looks exactly
like the traditional John Bull.
Recognised as one of the leading
anthropologists of the day, Maorilander
Dr. Diamond Jennes is chief of the
anthropological section under the Cana-
dian Government and in charge of the
like department of the National Museum,
Ontario. A schoolmate of present M.L.
Minister of Justice, H. G. R. Mason,
Dr. Jennes graduated M.A. in 1908 at
Victoria College, Wellington. In 1913
he went with Stefansson’s North Pole
expedition, which for three years was so
isolated that those in it didn’t know a
World War was on.
Having a 60th wedding anniversary in
Adelaide (although not 81 yet), Ernest
Mitchell, Mus.Bac. and composer, and a
mighty Methodist. For many years he
did good work on the Faculty of Music
of Adelaide Uni., and as examiner for
the combined Australian Examinations
Board in his subject.
G. E. Humphreys, general secretary of
the Selectors’ Association of Queensland,
has been appointed Queensland rep. of
the Australian Wool Producers’ Federa-
tion on the Australian Wool Board. He’s
widely known as one of his State’s most
able administrators of various Primary
Producers’ organisations.
Alexander /Solomon, station - hand,
shearer and drover from the Peak Hill-
Dubbo district (N.S.W.), becomes the
aboriginals’ rep. on the N.S.W. Aborigi-
nal Welfare Board. Solomon, now 40,
had a primary-school education, and has
held his ticket in the A.W.U. since he
started work as a lad.
William. Goodman, who moved from
M.L. to electrify Adelaide’s tramways
nearly 40 years ago, and is still g.m. of
its Municipal Tramways Trust, is to have
C. R. Moyes, its secretary for 30 years, as
his second in command, and J. N. Keynes
becomes secretary and accountant.
Keynes learnt his job in S.A. with the
Union Bank and then B. H. Smelters, but
latterly has been in N.S.W. with the
Austral Bronze and the Kalamazoo Cos.
“Old Boy”: Retiring after a record
30 years as head of Ipswich Grammar
(Q.), R. A. Kerr, M.A., B.Sc., first joined
the staff there as assistant master 40-odd
years ago. He later became head of
Hamilton College (Vic.), returning to
Ipswich as head in 1915. The G.O.M. is
proud of the fact that two of his former
assistant masters are now heads of other
Grammar Schools in Queensland: G.
Carson Cooling (Brisbane Grammar) and
H. E. Roberts (Toowoomba Grammar).
Commander David Bird, R.N., now on
his first visit here, has several interesting
links with Australia. A great-uncle was
one of Perth’s first architects, and Com-
mander Bird spent his first night ashore
in Australia in his great-uncle’s former
home, a historic granite building roofed
with slate that was brought from England.
The house has the engaging name of
Strawberry Hill Farm, and was built in
1833 by Sir John Spencer, one of Nel-
son’s captain' 1 Bird’s brother,
A. Leyland ._, was here with the Bush
Brotherhood, and was married at St.
James, Sydney; a cousin, Harold Bird,
was once head of the Westralian Cus-
toms ; and, to round things off, Com-
mander Bird was promoted to his present
rank the morning his ship reached Sydney.
Into the silence:
In Melbourne, Mrs. Lizzie White, who was
associated with footlights and sawdust almost
from the age of three, when she started in
panto. He! family were circus people 200 years
ago, and her great-grandfather was a famous
clown in the days of Grimaldi, the Italian jester
who, convulsed England in the eighteenth cen-
tury. She married a musician of the Theatre
Royal in Birmingham and all her six children
wear the buskins. Clem Dawe and Eric Edgley
are well-known comedians and Leslie, Richard
and Dorothy are the Dick and Dorothy Trio,
of Melbourne.
At 64, Edward James Hamilton, member of
one of Melbourne’s oldest legal firms. He died
suddenly" while waiting for a tram. President
of the Law Institute of Victoria, in 1931-32,
and one of the State’s leading golfers, he was
a son of the Judge Hamilton who, when counsel
on one occasion remarked “I come here for
justice,” snapped out “I don’t dispense justice
in this Court, I dispense law.”
In Sydney, at 72, Harry Burrell, world
authority on the platypus, a great collection of
exhibits on which, valued at £lO,OOO, he pre-
sented to the Institute of Anatomy at Can-
berra. His big published work The Platypus is
standard on the subject.
At Caboolture (Q.), artist Vincent Sheldon,
best known for his etchings and drypoints.
Six months ago he purchased Boolarong, a
Caboolture Jersey stud property, and went there
to reside.
At Rockhampton (Q.), at 90, W. H. McLean,
pioneer of the Dawson Valley and Central
Queensland, where he owned Wangado station
at Baralaba.
James White, of Edinglassie, Musswellbrook
(N.S.W.), one of the best-known figures in
Australia’s beef cattle industry. A breeder on a,
large scale, he was also a successful exhibitor of
Aberdeen-Angus cattle at Brisbane, Melbourne
and Sydney Royal Shows. Apart from Eding-
lassie, he also controlled Tucka Tucka (Yetman,
N.S.W.) and Brunette Downs (N.T.), and was
a director of Schute, Bell, Badgery and Lumby.
At Kyneton (Vic.), at 81, Thomas Fisher
Levick, head of the art department at the
Working Men’s College, Melbourne, from 1902
to 1930., Earlier he organised art classes at
Castlemaine and Kyneton Schools of Mines.
He held the British National Medal for Design.
In Adelaide, at 76, H. E. Whittle, M.8.E.,
who started out as a gaol warder, did good
work in criminal investigation, also from 1916
on the Military Intelligence staff, and so be-
came head of the C. 1.8. and finally Controller
of Prisons.
In Brisbane, at 84, Walter John Roebuck,
early friend of “Banjo” Paterson, and pioneer
postal official in n.-w. Queensland. He was
staying at Dagworth station when “Banjo” there
wrote the first draft of “Waltzing Matilda.”
In Hobart, at 74, Melbourne-born Henry I.
Featherstone, for over 40 years one of the
Speck’s notable shipbuilders. A son, Lieut.
Ralph Featherstone, is in New Guinea.
In Perth, at 81, Robert Hope Robertson,
pioneer of education in Westralia. A Victorian,
and a Melbourne Uni. M.A., he was classical
master at Geelong Grammar and subsequently
acting head of Melbourne C. of E. Grammar,
his not being a rev. preventing him from hold-
ing the top post. Invited to the West, he
eventually became Inspector of Schools and
Deputy Director of Education, and before his
retirement back in 1928 he was chairman of
the Board of Classifiers and of the Coombe
Scholarship Board, and a member of the
Board of Examiners.


“Society
“AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS”
“Bo”: In tfiat witty book The Eternal
Masquerade Dennis Bradley traced the
influence of habiliments on the politics
and manners of the times when they
were worn the swagger and loose-
ness of the Charles II ruffles-and-lace
era, for instance, as compared with
the severity, in dress and morals,
of the mid-Victorian period. Churchill,
now swept into the political shades,
certainly gave point to Bradley’s
theory. Conservative Winnie may have
been in his politics in his latter
years anyhow but in dress, also
in his latter years, he became the
Compleat Radical; and that at a time
when most men sartorially become more
conservative than ever. Could one ever
imagine a Salisbury or a Palmerston
travelling in a boiler suit? But it was in
the matter of hats that Winnie added to
the gaiety of nations, with a selection
ranging from 10-gallon Stetsons to the
fez and the Russian astrachan. Winnie’s
admirers must have often wondered,
though, why he didn’t turn up in Berlin
sporting a Tyrolese mountaineering hat
with a feather in it. Anyway, even out of
office he can still indulge his fancy. A
member of the Bricklayers’ Union still —•
a queer hobby of his is building brick
walls—there is nothing to stop him get-
ting around in one of those ancient,
mortar-pitted felts so beloved of the
“bricky.”
* * * *
“B. Hackshaw”: Justifying his assump-
tion of the full robes of office, the
Labor Mayor of Balmain (Sydney) said
Labor’s attitude was wrong, and why
shouldn’t Mayors wear robes, since
parsons, Judges and Masonic officers
wear them? And one of Balmain’s two
alderwomen said: “I think the lad—l
mean, his Worship'—looks sweet.” Well,
why shouldn’t a mayor look sweet in
ermine and black, white and scarlet, if
he thinks it gives dignity to his office?
It is not as ridiculous as for a professor
of philosophy or literature to carry letters
after his name. Socrates, Ph.D., or Wil-
liam Shakspeare, D.Litt., wduld look
cockeyed to everybody.
* * »• *
“Pawang”: A mental hospital super-
intendent told a meeting of the Mental
Hospital Association in England that he'
believed that all mental disorders are
caused by germs, and that he was inject-
ing penicillin into all his patients. Just
before the German invasion several hun-
dred of inmates of French mental asylums
were convinced that they were Hitler.
With the imminent approach of that dic-
tator, 90 per cent, switched over to
Napoleon. If the superintendent’s theory
is correct they must have caught a new
germ or the old germ must have done
some quick thinking.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: Like Berlin, Potsdam
(before it was blitzed) gave the impres-
sion t.of being a synthetic creation. You
turned a corner in the vast imperial gar-
dens and came on a' windmill, a broken
Grecian column, a Roman triumphal
arch with German inscriptions or a rep-
lica of the villa where Marie Antoinette
played at work with her dairymaids on
the eye of the Revolution. Originally
a fishing village, Potsdam was selected
as the site for a palace by King Fred-
erick William in 1660. Frederick the
Great developed the idea by building the
vast and ornate Sans Souci. Various other
Hohenzollems labored to make Potsdam
a monument to the family’s greatness.
One of the strangest flights of the human
imagination was the contribution of
Crown Prince Willie, one of the burlesque
figures of World War I. It consists of
a huge chamber the walls and ceiling of
which are studded with shells and rare
stones collected from all parts of the
world. Willie is said to have gummed
the lot up with his own hands.
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: A seventeenth-century
English card table knocked down for
£l5O at auction in Melbourne had his-
torical associations, haying been brought
to Tasmania in 1840 by Governor
Sir John Franklin. It is a mistaken
notion that antiques were very much
cheaper in their own day than they are
now. In the days when Chippendale
and Adams flourished a good table was
regarded as an original work of art and
the maker might charge as high as £5OO
for it. This makes official price-fixing
of antiques absurd.
* * * *
“L.P.”: Many of the alluvial gullies
on old goldfields are still known by the
names given them by the diggers in the
early ’fifties. When the gold discoveries
were reported hundreds of sailors de-
“Yes, a skull and crossbones to cover that unsightly vaccination mark."
serted their ships, and a Sailor’s Gully is
to be found on nearly every goldfield.
New Chum’s is another common name.
Women were said to be scarce on the
early diggings, but many gullies were
named Lucky Woman’s. Argyle, Tipper-
ary, Kilkenny, Cockney’s and Cumber-
land gullies tell of the places in the British
Isles where the early miners came from,
and such names as Italian, Scandinavian,
Frenchman’s, Californian and Cosmopoli-
tan are reminders that foreigners other
than Chinese were on the spot in the rush
days. The surnames of their discoverers
were given to many gullies. Nuggetty, a
common name, should explain itself, while
Dry Bread, Poverty, Hungry and coarser
appellations were given to gullies that
produced little gold. Shicer’s, Madman’s,
Black Joe’s, Charcoal, Shepherd’s Rum
and Snakes are other names suggestive,
some of them, of interesting stories.
* * * *
“Hist”: The proposal favored in some
quarters to split Germany into a number
of separate States strikes stamp-collectors
merely as a reversion to an older dispen-
sation. Their albums show them that up
to about 1868 the duchies or cities of
Baden, Bergedorf, Bremen, Brunswick,
Hamburg, Lubeck, Mecklenburg, Olden-
burg and Schleswig-Holstein and the
kingdoms of Hanover, Prussia and Saxony
issued their own stamps. Large regions
of Southern Germany were at that time
part of a postal monopoly possessed and
managed by the Austrian Counts of Taxis
and Thurn, who provided the regional
stamps. Wurtemburg maintained its own
postal service until 1902, Bavaria until
1920. In 1868 the North German Con-
federation took over the postal services
of Northern Germany, an arrangement
that continued till, in 1872, the German
Empire came into being. Heligoland was
British territory when its first stamps were
issued in 1867, and they bear the head
of Queen Victoria, though designed by
a German artist, Schilling, and printed
in Berlin. The island was ceded to Ger-
many in 1890. Possibly it may again be-
come entitled to use British stamps.
* * * *
“Pawang”: The disappearance near her
home in Hobart of a six-year-old girl has
produced the usual crop of letters to the
police from persons who have dreamt
about the girl and imagine that some clue
as to her whereabouts might be disclosed
thereby. Evidently they don’t hold with
the Freudian theory of dreams. Accord-
ing to Freud, dreams deal with symbols,
the clue to which, in most cases, is hidden
from the dreamer and can be elucidated
only by a Freudian psychiatrist. But
sometimes an interpretation can be sup-
plied by commonsense. A young man
told that he had had a frightful night-
mare. He wandered from one room to
another in a big house looking for a bed.
In each room was a bed, but he didn’t
like it. Finally he found a heap of saw-
dust and crept into that, but felt an awful
feeling of compression and woke up.
Two interpretations suggest themselves.
On waking the dreamer found that he
had so many blankets on him that he was
bathed in perspiration. That provides the
physical cause. A mental explanation is
the fact that this young man can’t make
up his mind what employment is best for
him. When he gets a job he always
thinks he ought to have had some other.
“C.Q.”: Ballarat wants a senior officer
at its free library and has advertised for
applicants amongst whose intellectual
qualifications must be the qualifying cer-
tificate of the Australian Institute of
Librarians. The amount of lore which
this institution requires before it grants
a certificate would have taxed the erudi-
tion of a Gibbon. The salary offered is
£5 a week.
* * * *
‘fX Red X” on the Egypt of today:
I’m afraid “Ceg” (B. 17/6/’45), who would
like the R.S.L. to arrange a tour for Old
Diggers, would be a bit disappointed with Egypt,
from which country I’ve recently returned after
an absence from Australia of 29 years. “Ceg”
could still take a walk through Esbekiah
Gardens, but he won’t hear any bands: Esbe-
kiah Gardens has become a sort of Sydney’s
Martin-place for Gyppo functions. Alongside
the iron fence on the Opera House side is a
street bookseller’s stand, with dilapidated maga-
zines displayed. Shepheard’s was “out of bounds
for all ranks” until the management met cer-
tain ' requirements: the Continental has been
more favored by the troops of this war.
Groppi’s remains, with its pleasant out-of-
doors tea garden. You still buy cakes at the
front counter, pay a piastre each for them, then
duck out with them to the garden and order tea
or coffee. The old Wazzir, this time, was com-
pletely out of bounds, as were numerous side
streets and lanes. Strung across the forbidden
roads were illuminated signs, in various lan-
guages ; and the M.Ps. kept close watch. Some
new night clubs pass muster, judged by Middle
East standards; at these you can get a fairly
decent meal with drinks, and see a good floor
show at the same time. Charges are reasonable,
if you can manage to keep clear of the “hos-
tesses.” The big attraction in Cairo these days
is the Gezireh Sporting Club, over on the Island,
alongside the Showground. It runs to about
15 tennis courts, two cricket fields, three foot-
ball grounds, a golfcourse, a racecourse, plenty
of gardens and lawns, tiled swimming pool,
clubrooms and cafeteria. It is open to members
only, but servicemen were charged very little
to join. “Ceg” would be pleased to know that
the road to thev Pyramids is now a wide con-
crete speedway, with swanky homes and clubs
facing it. The finest of the clubs is the
Auberges des Pyramides, in which King Farouk
is supposed to hold a controlling interest.
The Gyppos are ‘as fond of processions and
funerals as ever. Hardly a week passes without
the streets being beflagged for some function
or other, and not long ago I saw a row of
Gyppo flags flanking the railway line to Ismailia
for 30 miles or more in honor of a trip the
King was to make.
? 4;
“Petermac”: He came in looking for a
job. About 16, with hair tousled, tie awry
and shoes grey from lack of polish, he
munched an apple loudly. I directed
him to the manager’s den and he emerged
a few minutes later still munching the
apple and glaring contemptuously at the
staff as he made his exit. F.a.q. sample,
1 fear, of the hobbledehoys who have
grown up in an abnormal atmosphere of
jobs and money galore and fathers away
on active service. What’s going to
happen to them?
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A. talks of spending over
a million to make a deep-sea port of
Robe, in its south-east, established by
the Governor of that name a century
back on Guichen Bay, Robe did a big
overseas wool trade for a time, had a
small British garrison and still shows
the Governor’s summer residence and
the jail where Adam Lindsay Gor-
don did duty as a mounted trooper.
Most vessels between Melbourne and
Adelaide called there. Also it was
a coach stop on S.A.’s way to the
Ballarat and Bencligo diggings and made
a lot of money out of the Chinamen it
put up and guided across the border
while Victoria kept up a £lO poll-tax
on them. But for 60 years now Robe
has been just a summer resort, being
never hot; and it still has no railway.
* * * *
“Todd”: As an admirer of those
Bulletin front-cover advertisements de-
scribing places of historical interest in
the British Isles I wish, in the friendliest
spirit, to offer 2t correction of part of the
account of Cowdray House (B. 18/7/’45).
The sickly lad Edward VI, who in
1547 was 10 years of age, is credited
with referring to “the goodly house
of Sir Anthony Brown, where we were
marvellously, yea, rather excessively,
banqueted.” Surely this could be more
easily credited as coming from his gouty
Falstaffian father rather than from the
puny child who was King.
* * * *
“Sach” on signals and scares:
During this war there have been scares and
upsets in Australia over interception of alleged
enemy signals. The fisherman’s bobbing light,
which, on occasions, seems to cut itself into
dots and dashes, has caused not a few false
alarms. During the process of signalling by
lamp from one high spot to another, one of
our unit of signals blinked out a snappy mes-
sage about a fleet of enemy ’planes and ships
approaching the Heads. Waaafs were being
trained in the neighborhood; they had learned
Morse, and some of them were reading our
messages as they flashed back and forth. A
black-out of a suburb and a turn-out of air-
raid wardens and police were results; afterwards,
such messages had to be preceded and ended
with “Practice only.” In the case of a mock
tank “battle” one of our transmitted messages
was picked up (because of its proximity) on
the domestic set of a near-by house. Great
was the panic that had to be quelled in that
town. On another occasion we ourselves were
duped. We had noticed for some time
signals from a near-by hill, so one night
we decided to do the place over and see
whether it really was “fifth-colly” work. It
turned out to be a civvy two-up school; the
light a strong torch, used by the look-out for
warnings. When we surrounded the players
they were almost as surprised as we were.
A WARNING.
The radio comedian,
The humorist upon the air,
Who’s not invariably a man,
As all of you are well aware,
Must take the maximum of care
Henceforth to see his ebullition
(Or hers) should be the sort of fare
That one may readily compare
With Caesar’s wife —above suspicion.
It must be stuff where one would seek
In vain for what perchance might' bring
Faint blushes to the flapper’s cheek
Who happened to be listening.
The ban goes forth on anything
That doubts and protests might engender,
Whether the aim is not to sling
Among the jokes the subtle sting
Of what is called “a double-intender.”
Our politicians froth and fume
And bandy words that would excite
Disgust in any drawing-room,
Remarks that jar on ears polite.
But such is their prescriptive right,
While radio scripts need close revising,
And often, it would seem, invite
Quite justifiably a slight
Touch of what’s known as bowdlerising.
Watch out, you birds, and take a tip,
Who noise abroad with cheerful zest
Your stock-in-trade of nimble quip,
Your quantum stiff, of sprightly jest
To win the guerdon that’s expressed
In an appreciative chuckle!
Beware in your intensive quest
For mirth-provoking sallies lest
You get “a bit too near the knuckle”!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
SAMPLES OF STIRRING SPEECHES.
“The Prime Minister, Mr. Chifley, said that he
was in favor of the broadcasting' of interesting
speeches from the House of Representatives, speeches
that would stir the national emotions.”
My dear, switch on the Canberra politicians,
Let’s hear their ringing voices hit the breeze.
I weary of aerial transmissions
From sporting oracles and chaps like these,
And tedious academic disquisitions,
And Quiz Kids’ amiable futilities.
Tonight I’m feeling in t'he mood to greet,
If only for a change, some stronger meat.
Here will be wit and wisdom, I’ve a notion,
Product of fluent tongues and massive brains,
Sturdy addresses prompted by devotion
To all that amor patriae ordains;
Tack that will stir my generous emotion
And make the blood run quicker in my veins,
And set me realising just how proud
I’d be to have a seat in such a crowd.
Whose voice is that I seem to hear rehearsing
The words that fearless democrats address
To bloated tyrants bent upon coercing
Submerged humanity by sheer duress?
Oh, only Calwell venomously cursing
With all the power of his lungs the Press.
But' even such a maledictory roar
Sounds tiresome when you’ve heard it all before.
Who is this pair of disputants infusing
Such rancor in their tilts? Both seem annoyed.
Eh? Only Eddie Ward and Rankin using
The lingo old-time bullockies employed.
Of all that’s edifying or amusing
I find their mud-scrap utterly devoid.
It leaves my pulse unstirred. May heaven
guard us
From more! I’d sooner list to Neville Cardus.
n.s.w.
PIPARDS.


“This is the suit I got for Aunt Martha's funeral!”
“Jasby”: War is a great changer oi:
maps. As a campaign unfolds unnamed
features are conveniently christened for
easy reference. Pimples, Bald Knolls,
Woody Hills and Sugarloafs are common,
and some of the names stick. A famous
example is Shaggy Ridge behind Finsch-
hafen. Newest of these is “The Blot,”
five or six miles south of Wewak, in the
Prince Alexander Range. When the fight
for the foothills of this range was in pro-
gress a prominent feature several ridges
beyond our lines was identified as Shibu-
rangu, and continued to be known by
that name despite native protests that the
real Shiburangu was much further back.
When the false Shiburangu was captured
after a tough fight the problem arose of
firfding a new name for the genuine
Article, now visible 1000 yards to the
south. It was decided to honor the
commander of the platoon that first
reached the top of the new Shib, so the
name of Mt. Trethowen flashed on to the
map. Trethowen’s friends thought this
too formal by far, so they facetiously
began to refer to the hill as The Blot.
It caught on at once, and became officially
recognised. The Blot is no longer a
target. It has been captured. After the
war the natives may call it what they like,
but to the men of this campaign it will
always be The Blot.
* * :H *
“Cauboy”: Official banquets used to
be the excuse for alleged statesmen and
others spoiling the enjoyment of good
food by making public announcements
primarily intended for the newspapers.
Now it is the turn of art shows in Mel-
bourne. If a person interested in pictures
goes to one of these exhibitions he runs
the risk of having to listen to a 20-minute
lecture on Cultural Relationships, deliv-
ered by a gentleman whose knowledge of
his subject seems mainly to consist of dull
statistics about the number of museums,
art galleries and suchlike institutions in
the respective countries, as a preliminary
to declaring the show open. Leading
actresses used to be called on to perform
this office. They usually talked about
themselves, but, at least, they were some-
times good to look at.
* * * *
“Adelaide”: An old friend has turned
up with a new face at Port Augusta
(S.A.). The police heard “heads” and
“tails” being called, saw money chang-
ing hands and found dice marked
H. and T. The players claimed, “from
wide experience,” that two-up can’t be
played with dice, but “an unlawful game
of a kindred nature,” the S.M. said, and
fined them £4 to £6 each.
* * * *
“Melbn”: Fisherman’s Bend —some-
times spelt Fishermen’s —the picturesque
peninsula once inhabited by shags, gulls,
ducks, swans, the metho.-drinkers of
Dudley Flats and other fauna, now
almost completely covered with war-
production plants and a model suburb,
irritates Port Melbourne bumbles by the
vulgarity of its .nomenclature. Sand-
ridge (die original, forgotten name for
Melbourne) and Garden City have been
suggested. There are thousands of
Garden Cities in the world, but Fisher-
man’s Bend is probably unique.
* * * *
“Lao-dah”: No comparison is possible
between the tropics to which “Kasi Taoe”
refers (B. 18/71/45) and the tropics of
which I wrote. In the tropics I knew
cheap native labor was one of the
determining factors, and it doesn’t exist
in N.Q., where only a millionaire could
afford five servants, even if he could get
them. But even that is not the most im-
portant factor. “Kasi Taoe” is correct
in saying that tropical ennui waits on
people who have no interests. Alfred
Russel Wallace, who hit on the theory of
natural selection, the same as Darwin,
didn’t find the Malay Archipelago boring,
nor did Sir Stamford Raffles, “Rajah '
Brooke or Malinowski, who studied the
sexual habits of the Trobrianders. I
don’t suppose the architects who built
the magnificent- temples of Java found
the tropics boring or unhealthy either, or
they could not have achieved such re-
sults. I have met a few white men in the
tropics obsessed with some dream or
other which kept them healthy, but that
applies the world over, and the opposite
condition can produce a neurosis in
Paris, London or Melbourne just as much
as in Kuala Lumpur. I merely pointed out
that the scientists who are trying to re-
produce the necessary conditions in a
laboratory for studying tropical fatigue
are wasting their time, since the psycho-
logical factor, which is the most im-
portant, is missing.
* * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Recently the Vic-
torian Health Commission charged the
Town Hall authorities with overcrowd-
ing their concert chamber in contraven-
tion of the health regulations, and ordered
the removal of two rows of chairs, thus
reducing the seating accommodation by
114. The council, much hurt, retorted
that its present equipment of 1810 chairs
had been approved by the Commission
in 1938. The Commission stuck to its
decision, and the two rows went out.
Now it has been discovered that the re-
duction of space had been a gradual pro-
cess. Long usage had bent the backs of
the chairs, thus lessening the space be-
tween the rows. In my experience the
space was never sufficient to allow of
comfortable access to or exit from a seat
in the middle of a row.
* * * *
“jasby,” with some scepticism:
My colleague Uncle Henry, a veteran of
Libya, Greece and Crete before Buna, the Torri-
cellis and Wewak transformed him into a
Pacific warrior, scoffed loudly at “Ashphar’s
story (B. 6/6/’45) of the Marines who car-
ried York’s Bin. guns ashore at Suda Bay.
York, he tells me, was sitting on the bottom
about 600 yards from the shore. “Ashphar”
makes no mention of the jollies using boats,
rafts or pontoons; the “silent group of men
“waded out” and presumably carried ashore
on their brawny shoulders the umpteen tons of
metal that go to the making of two Bin. naval
guns. As an Bin. shell weighs only 2561 b.,
that part would be easy. Each Marine would
just emulate Stanley Holloway’s Sam Small
and “swim ashore with a cannon ball under
each arm.” On the subject of artillery on Crete,
I wonder if “Ashphar” remembers the captured
Itie field and ack-ack pieces that were brought
to the island just before the invasion. At
about the time the Marines were dog-paddling
York’s guns ashore some of our gun ser-
geants were hustled down to the bay to see if
use could be made of the Itie weapons. They
found the guns in good order and were arrang-
ing to shift them to vantage points when some
inquisitive Digger started looking for ammo.
There wasn’t a shot in the locker. Presumably
it was still piled up in the Libyan desert. .
* * * *
“Hunter River”: Touching the refer-
ence to the drogher navigated by General
Carpenter’s father (B. 25/7/’45), a queer-
looking craft once plied up and down
the Lower Hunter and the Paterson rivers
in N.S.W. between Morpeth and New-
castle—a flat-bottomed, stern-wheeler or
the drogher type called the Anna Maria.
I daresay she is still to be seen tied up at
the wharf of the Newcastle and Hunter
River S.S. Co. at Morpeth. Built in
Britain in mid-Victorian days, her curious
engines carried the date 1862. The origin
of her name seemed to be completely lost,
and it was only quite lately I learned sne
had been called after the mother or
Premier John Robertson. This ir *t° r '
mation was supplied recently by a grand-
daughter of the doughty and profane oi
statesman, whose father had been a direc-
tor of the Hunter River New Steam
Navigation Co., the corporation that im-
ported the ancient craft in sections away
back in the eighteen-sixties.
*** . *
“Si Ami” on opium in China:
The stiff penalties imposed on opium smokers
in Brisbane (B. 11 / 7 /’45) were being more than
reproduced when I was in China in the ea y
years of the Republic. The reforming zeal
the new party was turned to this national naoi ,
and cases were reported in the papers ol pro-
vincial Governors who went so far as to p
petrol over ancient addicts and set them aiig »
thus giving them their last smoke, realistically
speaking. Even ownership of a pipe incurr
a drastic sentence. When I asked my b' y
to get me one as a curiosity he looked quee
but performed the office. I subsequently J ea
that he had run the risk of being shot or som -
thing if it had been found in his possession.
Cultivation of the poppy was never stamped out,
corrupt officials always being ready to wink
such gardens in their districts. Apropos, no bo y
has proved that opium smoking is more physi-
cally damaging than excessive drinking, and it is
certainly not as objectionable in its manifesta-
tions. The hopeless addict is a ana
millions take a small dose daily m much the
same way as the moderate Western drinker
takes his pot o’ evenings. In Singapore: nek
shaw coolies used to line up m the morning tor
a mild restorative nip, and pulling nck^. a .w,
is a strenuous occupation. Many Bntisn
colonies legalised the habit, puttmg habitues
under registration, and a glancethrough
Statesman’s Yearbook wffi show that it was im
crime in Sarawak, the B N. 8., the Malay States
and the Dutch East Indies, where the Chandu
was a Government monopoly, revenue m the
N.E.I. in 1928 being 39,762,000 guilders.
* # * *
“Melbn”: Another 'Melbourne an-
tiquity is to go to the wreckers, this time
the cottage in Lewis-street, Brighton,
where A. L. Gordon lodged for 14
months before his death. The sole other
memorial of the poet remaining in Mel-
bourne is the decaying hitching post, a
mile from the cottage, where he tethered
his horse when he called at the pub for
a pot. The Historical Society rejected a
proposal to preserve this simple emblem
on the ground that a plaque would make
it the prey of souvenir-hunters who
would whittle it away. That could easily
be prevented by the erection of a guard.
Probably the real reason is that such a
memorial would draw attention to the
convivial habits of poets.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Why stop at dandelion ale
(B. 20 /6 / ’45) ? In my boyhood days in
England pretty well anything that grew
could be used as the foundation for a
drink, from elderberries (a fine wine when
taken hot) right down to dandelions and
even stinging nettles, though, oddly enough ,
I can’t recall any use being made of rose
hips now claimed to have a big vitamin
value. The drink would be called “wine”
or “beer” if intoxicating, “tea” if not.
But the latter was rare. I remember a
delightful ginger-wine, home-made, and
reputedly harmless, of course, but heavily
dosed with brandy “to make it keep.”
* * * *
“Pip” on a military hobby :
For a long time butterfly hunting has been a
popular pastime with the soldiery in tropical
camps. Some of the collection? represent a
couple of years’ rest-day activity and contain
a gaudy tapestry of lepidoptera measuring from
an inch to six inches across the wings The
snecimens, mounted on boards, are treated with
formalin for preservation. Connoisseurs swap
theh treasures with the same enthusiasm as
nbilatelists do. There are collectors who, for
a new variety, will trade their most precious
possession, their weekly two bottles of. beer.
Hunters usually go about in pairs, one wielding
Sf net and lhe g other carrying lunch water--
bottle and a box for storing the captures. The
net is home-made, from a piece of wire and
an old strip of mosquito netting, rhere is an
art in handling it which comes only of long
practice A beginner’s efforts are farcical.
Suggestions such as .“Why don’t you gafl K
first” don’t improve his temper. Non-collectors
are always derisive and go into fits of laughter
over an enthusiast stalking his prey with deadly
intensity. The butterfly is cheered on to vic-
tory Sometimes an insect seems to enter into
the spirit of the chase and flutters around just
out of reach until the hunter is exhausted.
Then, amid the applause of the scoffers, it dis-
appears into the distance. Many a fight has
started that way. # # *
“Pink Tape”: Along with the Lazzarini
promise of 24,000 dwellings in twelve
months, there is talk of new public
buildings which will absorb a lot of
the available labor and material. The
big new (and expensive) extension of the
G.P.O. in Pitt-street has proved inade-
quate even for reduced war-time
activities. Also the Commonwealth de-
partments housed in the Commonwealth
Bank Building are cramped, and the bank
itself wants the space some of them
occupy. People are saying now that
King O’Malley was no fool when he
proposed the resumption for Common-
wealth offices of the whole Martin-place,
George, King and Pitt streets block and
the creation of a plaza on the King-street
frontage.
* * * *
“Pookie”: Why didn’t the Germans
invade England after the fall of France,
when the ball was seemingly at their
feet? In the main, because of the Chan-
nel and the Royal Navy ; but there are all
sort of intriguing tactical theories. Wheß 1
was a guest of the Reich I met a French
colonel who had been a liaison officer to
the B.E.F. He had been informed by his
opposite numbers in the Wehrmacht that
an invasion of Britain was in fact im-
possible in 1940 because it hadn’t
been planned. Full plans had been made
for the invasion and occupation of France,
but nothing further. That the Germans
tried and failed ; that oil was spread on
Channel water and ignited by the R A.F.,
and that destroyers dashed up and down
among the blazing invasion barges
—I heard this many times, once in
Austria from French medical orderlies,
who said they had treated survivors.
Churchill has given some color to it;
but even among men who took part in
the operations there are two schools of
thought, some claiming there was an actual
invasion attempt, others believing it was
only a rehearsal. A fact sometimes over-
looked was the escape of the bulk of the
Dutch and Norwegian merchant fleets
from German control.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Tens of thousands of repro-
ductions of famous paintings have been
bought by the public as a result of the
policy adopted by the New York Metro-
politan Museum of Art in getting rail-
way authorities to hang copies in
their subway trams, and it was sug-
gested to the Victorian Railways Com-
mission that similar facilities should
be allowed to the Nat tjauery.
The Commission tartly retorted that
space was available tor sucn pic-
tures in suburban trains provided tney
were suitably designed (shades of Kem-
brandt!), were in the best interests of the
public, conformed to standards oi
decency and (most importantly) Were paid
aHvprtkini? rates
tor at advertising rates.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Hanko”: “Yer strike all kinds of
loons in the bush,” Ben said, “an’ the
worst is bush poets ; blokes wot want ter
sling lines an’ pieces at yer. I was camped
once be Needlewood Bend when one of
them bards sniffed me out. ‘Wot a
barmy afternoon,’ he bleated at me. I
ignores the cow. ‘Don’t you find it a
barmy afternoon, friend?’ he keeps
harpin’. I told him it was no stupider
an afternoon than any other flamin’ after-
noon. ‘But the ultertramline sky,’ he
yelps on. ‘The helluvatripe haze on the
faraway hills ; the scent of sun-saterrated
gum-leaves ; the earth warm an’ pulsin’
underfoot’ It was then I clouted
him,” concluded Ben. “The cow was
standin’ on me damper wot I’d just pulled
out o’ the ashes.”
* * * ¥
“B. 4”: In “the trots” at a Hughenden
(Q.) show a touchy chestnut colt with an
abo. aboard lashed out at a sulky wheel
and brought the issue down in a tangled
heap. The abo. fell off into the middle
of the melee of reefing, kicking hooves,
and, regaining his feet, tried to
escape, but all he could do was to jump
up and down on his mundowies. His
boss and the crowd roared “Jump out
and run, Billy,” but Billy kept going till
the mokes were released. When he was
anchored his boss yelled “Couldn’t you
hear me?” Billy replied “Yowi, boss,
mine bin hear it, but me legs didn’t.”
* * * *
“Munja”: The abo. fish-trap at Giralia
Landing, W.A. (B. 4/7/’45), shattered
by cyclones and “cock-eyed bobs,” is now
a rusty relic. Binghi, however, is as in-
genious as ever. Up Jubilee Creek, close
by the Landing, the abos. have con-
structed another V-shaped fish-trap, with
the apex pointing down the creek. When
the ten-foot tide of Exmouth Gulf surges
up the creek Binghi, full of confidence,
sits down to wait for the ebb. Typical
catch I saw included whiting, mullet, cat-
fish, salmon, herring, butterfish and
silver bream; fiddle-back “gummy” and
grey-nurse sharks (all babies up to four
feet long), stingrays, devil-fish and two
turtles. Grand total, 260 fish. Within
an hour the abos. had gobbled the lot,
turtles excepted, the best gourmandising
effort being a 101 b. stingray, consumed
by a 901 b. lubra. A sticky fate awaited
the turtles; the beautiful shells were
literally carved off them; then, more
dead than alive, the turtles were tossed
back into the creek. The object of this
barbarous treatment is twofold. The
shell is good for “plenty ’baccy,” and if
the turtles do survive they will grow
more new shell for Binghi.
* * * *
“Pises”: It is a strange fact that of all
Queensland rivers, coastal and interior,
the Georgina is the only one whose
upper reaches are without crayfish.
Shrimps "abound, thicker, perhaps, than
in any other interior waters. But above
Boulia, in the Georgina and all its tribu-
taries, if an abo. is shown a cray he
classes it as “debbil-debbil.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: After six years
on Tammit on the mid-Murray, that
station’s 50 miles of river frontage being
the best goanna country I know, I think
“Notaden’s” par. (B. 27/6/’45) libels old
go. a bit. As a safeguard from the tree-
climbing crawlers there, Nature induces
tree-nesting birds to build in ungetatable
hollows or on wispy upper limbs, and,
with the exception of rabbits and an
odd possum, marsupial rat, ground-lark
and quail, what “other animals” does
the goanna kill? Their main attribute
is the way they clean country of snakes,
big and little. The huge 1931 flood
washed down hundreds of snakes, but
the gos. soon eradicated them, for
Tammit was always remarkably free of
longtails. Old go. also did a lot of good
“When we get back I'll show y' me collection of stamps, Ben”
work with his passion for Murray turtle
eggs. Since the abos. have gone these
Murray-cod-spawn-eating reptiles have
increased greatly, but now the go. digs
up their hundred-egg nests beside billa-
bongs. Moreover, I’ve found those
Murray goannas rarely venture more
than a few miles from water, and from
seeing them eat chickens, offal, etc., their
appetites aren’t large. Once on a dead
box by the horseyard I watched a seven-
foot specimen take two days to gorge a
full-grown rabbit,
* * * *
“Fang”: There was a fair mob of us
sleeper-cutting along the Murray, and,
though it was close season for ducks and
fish, we did pretty well with those deli-
cacies. A bit of a stir was caused in
camp one evening when Charlie an-
nounced that the constable had caught
him in the act of taking fish from a drum-
net and was going ahead with a sum-
mons. “Cripes, that’s tough,” said Joe.
“Everyone knows the John does a bit of
it himself.” “Yair, that’s jist the trouble,”
Charlie moaned. “It was the John’s net
I was liftin’.”
* * * *
“Blime”: Bert skinned his rabbits, cut
off the heads and had just flopped down
in the shade to bait them for foxes when
Andy pulled up for a yarn. The heap of
baits rose by fits and starts as the men
discussed prospects, and ten minutes later
one of the mongs, creeping in, helped
himself from the edge of the pile and
retired unobtrusively. “Hey, Bert,” Andy
said, having spotted the culprit, “the dog’s
got one o’ y’r heads.” Bert glanced up and
nodded indifferently. “Yair. An’ as I
wus sayin’.... ” “But, cripes, it’s one
o’ the poisoned ones.” “Awright. Now
if we don’t get rain before ” “Yair,
but he’s goin’ to eat it.” Andy was watch-
ing the mong pop-eyed. “Eh? Aw, don’t
matter Before the end o’ the month
we’ll be in a bad way.” Bert baited
another head, held his bottle of poison
up to the light for a few seconds, then
with a gasp jumped for the dog. “Drop
that, y’ greedy cow,” he yelled angrily.
“Pinch a bloke’s baits, will y’? Drop it,
I tell y’. Cripes, y’ wus right, Andy,” he
added as he replaced the bait on the heap.
“Didn’t realise I wus so flamin’ short o’
strychnine.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: I pounced on the little, scrawny
chap I saw lumping his bluey on the
road, and, for a small fortune and a bit
of crawling on my part, he agreed to
put in a couple of weeks with me on the
clearing. Making a start, he rolled up
his sleeves and showed me a ragged scar
on his forearm. “Nasty things, goanner
bites,” he told me. “Break out agen
ev’ry year regular to the day. An’ they’re
pretty painful, too.” “How long since
you collected it?” I asked. “ZTzat!” he
said. “It weren’t done by no goanner.
But don’t y’ see? It could’ve been,
couldn’t it?”
* * * *
“Notaden”: Whatever was done in
Stone Age Egypt, the claim of “D.R.H.”
(B. 11/7/’45) that polished stone tools
followed the introduction of copper ones
there does not apply to Europe. Many
discoveries show that the Bronze Age
evolved very rapidly amongst the various
human types, Mediterranean, Alpine and
Nordic, which made up European man-
kind of the New Stone Age. The whole
business was one of elementary applied-
metallurgy. Copper was the first metal
worked and used by man, probably due
in the first place to its relatively low melt-
ing point and to its frequent occurrence
in surface outcrops. Some forgotten genius
found that by adding tin, another low
melting-point metal, harder compounds
could be made. These were either yellow
(brass) or brown (bronze), according to
the amount of added tin, and bronze was
the more useful of the two for adzes,
hatchets, picks and chisels. Stone imple-
ments persisted only in places where the
component metals or manufactured
articles were difficult to obtain, but both
stone and bronze were finally superseded
when iron came in. Incidentally, there
are many Cro-Magnon people yet living
in the central plateau of France identical
in every anthropological detail with their
ancestors of the later glacial period of
60,000 years ago.
* * * *
“Zake”: The storekeeper of the little
township unfolded the note handed to.
him by Fred the mailman. It had been
scribbled with a blunt pencil on wrapping
paper, and read:
Deer Alf plees send out bye Fred the
necks time he’s cuming a bag of flour a
packet of assawted nales a couple of
pounds (not £) of that sharp cheese if yuve
got 42 singlits (size I meen not number)
lets have a couple as I cant get in this/
weak as the quak had to opyrate on the
misses rite away when he come out yestiddy
she couldn’t be mooved to orspit'al he took
' her appendicks out and a coil of number 8
fencing wire and a pound of staples too
Alf and sum smokes if yuve enny she’s
doing awright a bit ankus but thats to
bee eckspected I sippose. I’m getting rid
of the lite draft 1 bort from McNiven
last' year so if you no of a buyer yure on a
cut the quak reckond it wood of busted if
it had gon anuther 24 ours dont forget the
smokes Alf its importent.
Clem.
# * * *
“B. A. Ker”: Even such a mug fisher-
man as I was could guess that an octopus
had taken the bait. A tentative attempt
to pull the line in confirmed the fact; a
stronger pull suggested that he was big
(to my standards) and had “dug his toes
in” for the tug-o’-war. A strain that
twanged the line couldn’t shift him, nor
could a series of quick jerks. Steady pulls
with sudden releases sometimes “spring”
a hook off a snag ; the method failed to
break the deadlock. A fisherman might
have known the solution; all I could
think of was a mighty pull and a prayer
that the line would break down near the
hook. For a second resistance seemed
to slacken, but only for a second. Just
as the line was almost singing something
moved, and with passive resistance a
white object came up through the green
water. On the wharf, like a genie from
the Arabian Nights, an octopus emerged
from a broken demijohn. Perhaps I
imagined the bewildered expression in
that octo's eyes.
* * * *
“Lub”: Jud and his missus took their
holidays in mid-winter, leaving Bundy,
the know-all offsider, in charge of the
place, with firm instructions not to try
any of his. crackbrained experiments in
their absence. Things went along quietly
and orderly for a week, but it was too
much to expect Bundy’s itch to lie dor-
mant for a fortnight. When Jud and
wife returned i Mrs. Jud’s first thought
was for her pet cockatoo, and she hur-
ried out to the back verandah. It was
close on dusk, and there was no sign
of cocky’s familiar white bulk in the
cage. She called out, and there answered
a quavering “hello” from where a dark
shape stirred in the corner. Investigating
with a torch, Mrs. Jud found a pure-
black cockatoo in place of the white one
she’d left. Jud sought out Bundy. “What
happened about the cocky?” he de-
manded. “Well,” said Bundy, “I seen
the pore old cow shiverin’ on his perch
ev’ry mornin’, an’ I felt I had t’ do some-
thin’ t’ help him keep warm. So I got
some dye at the store an’ fixed him up.”
“But w-what the blazes was the sense
in dyin’ him blackV' spluttered Jud.
Bundy bent on his boss a look of pro-
found sympathy. “T’ let him warm up,
of course,” he said. “Fat chance he had
t’ raise a decent temperature when all
them white feathers were reflectin’ the
heat!”
* * * *
“Esk D.”: George, breaking a long
sojourn in the wilds of Alluvial Creek,
was staying for the week-end at Rudd’s
place. It happened that young Charlie,
the lugubrious cowhand, had notions
of himself as a second Bing Crosby. On
Saturday night his full-throated warbling
was wafted from the hut to the kitchen,
where George and Rudd were toasting
their feet at the stove, and they listened
a while in silence. “Musical, ain’t he?”
remarked Rudd appreciatively. “Aw, I
dunno,” said George. “What instrument
is he tryin’t’ play?”
* * * *
“Propalong”: “Jus’ bint’ see me boy
Jake up at the orspital,” explained Ned.
“’E was electrocuted las’ week be the
drought. Y’see, Jake was shearin’ that
little lot o’ weaners that was runnin’ out
in the hill paddock. The two-stan’ plant
was goin’ good but I wasn’t shearin’—
had a crook back. But I reckon I musta
bin tellin’ Jake some o’ the tallies I put
.up when I was a youngster; anyway,
he tears in like blazes. All of a sudden I
sees the wool in front o’ the cutters dancin’
an’ cracklin’ an’ the hair on Jake’s arms
all standin’ up on flamin’ jpnd. Nex’
minute ’e steps back on to the damp
ground where the water-bag’s bin drip-
pin’, an’ there’s a bang, a flash o’ light
an’ Jake’s out to it with most of his hair
burnt orf. The doctor reckoned it was
that statistic electricity done it.”
* * * *
“DR.H.”: A piece of galvanised-iron
lies in the rubbish heap here. Its edges are
protected by grass and lumber from the
lifting effect of the winds, but across its
level and often wet surface howl gales
straight off the Southern Ocean, while
perhaps twice a week the iron is iced
over with a bristling mat of frost crystals.
And yet under this natural refrigerator
lies a three-parts-grown stumpy-tailed
lizard. He has curled himself into a
tailor-made depression in the dead grass
beneath the sheet, but his back is bare
to the chill that strikes down from the
cold iron a fraction of an inch above it.
He appears to be quite Comfortable and
stirs drowsily if his roof should be lifted
on a sunny day. It seems either that he
has more resistance to changes of tem-
perature than most reptiles or that he
is on the way to becoming a “warm-
blooded” animal. Theoretically, being
“cold-blooded,” his body temperature
should be about that of his surround-
ings, but I’ve noticed on very cold morn-
ings that a family of black beetles clus-
ters about him in a way that suggest
that his dormant body exudes a little
warmth.
* * * *
“Rover”: Dingoes have also become a
serious menace in N.Q. (B. 11/7/’45).
In the Atherton district small packs 01
the killers have been encountered hunt-
ing in the day-time, running down calves
and poultry. A shire councillor re-
ported to the Atherton Shire Council that
when cows are being milked at his tarn
a rifle has to be kept at the bails, seven
dingoes having been shot from the ban*
in recent weeks.
THE UNKNOWN RIDER.
Above Star Valley’s stockyards they hung it
high and clear:
“None but the best of horsemen need ply their
calling here.”
They kept a great black outlaw to test the
stranger’s pride,
A hose that fifty fellows had tried in vain to
ride.
Up to the yards at sunrise one still November
day
Cantered a sunbrowned stranger astride an
iron-grey.
Grey tinged the rider’s temples and streaked his
tawny hair,
And whip-like scars on his features that bold
scrub-dashers bear.
“I’ve heard of your buckjumper—how far his
fame has gone!
But I would ride the west wind if you could
leg me on.”
They helped him gear the black horse, who
“struck” the air and pawed—•
He scarcely touched the pommel, but vaulted
saddleward.
Then from the stockyard railing the* watched
with hearts aglow
The glory of a horseman no horse on earth
could throw.
Oh, splendid was the rider and fiercely fought
the black—
He reared with forefeet reaching, and screamed
and toppled back.
Death lurks in that swift impact where earth
and saddle meet,
But, quickly writhing sideways, the stranger won
his feet.
Dusty and now dishevelled, his lean face grey
with pain,
He gripped the rising outlaw and mounted him
again.
They saw the fight was ending, the first wild
surge had passed,
And then, with hot sweat dripping, the black
horse stood at last.
The stranger wished the Valley a light and
swift “Good-day,”
Then calmly doffed his wide hat and swung
astride the grey.
Eager, but yet not reefing, the great grey took
the road;
Proudly, with neck high-arching, lightly he
bo%e his load.
Far out beside the scrubline, deep in a watered
glade
Where horses had been hobbled, they found the
camp he’d made;
And his ride became a legend, a tale the drover
tells
When the silent night is broken by the tinkle
of the bells.
And still Star Valley’s stockmen would sell
their souls to know
Who was the master horseman that brought
their pride so low.
Queensland.
LEX McLENNAN.


“Old-timer”: Messrs. Henson and Mc-
Naughton, skin, dead wool, bag and bottle
buyers, pulled into the solitary bowser at
Dead Finish one dark night, kicked and
hammered on the closed door of the ad-
jacent garage, spied the glimmer of the
hurricane lamp hanging outside the pub
and made for it. There they encountered
most of the nine local adult male citizens
and spent a lazy 30 minutes in talk and
refreshment. Meantime, out of the dark-
ness meandered One-string Stevens, itiner-
ant performer on a home-made fiddle. He
blundered into Messrs. Henson and Mc-
Naughton’s silent truck, swore feelingly,
felt around the body of the thing and
discovered a pile of wool and empty bags.
Being slightly fuddled and in need of
rest, One-string climbed aboard, care-
fully nursing his fiddle, and settled down
among the bags and wool. Presently the
partners appeared with the garage-man,
got their needs in petrol and oil and faded
from Dead Finish into the western dark-
ness. Two hours later, as the truck
purred steadily towards dawn, a thin wail
from the rear startled Mr. Henson. He
didn’t wake his partner, but got out, felt
the four hubs, tested the brakes, mut-
tered to himself, and drove on. Ten
miles later a long-drawn cry came from
the rear. Mr. H. stopped, looked at his
unconscious partner, cogitated, then set-
tled himself to sleep with the philosophi-
cal remark that “It’s no use tryin’ t’ fix
the blinded thing in the dark.” He didn t
“Are you gentlemen guests of the house ?”
hear One-string’s spasmodic attempts to
run through his repertoire, but when the
dawn came and he and Mr. McNaughton
climbed from the cabin and realised the
cause of the trouble the very sun stood
amazed at the sounds that welled up from
that spot on the lonely plains.
“Nan-in”: Tell “The O.D(B. 4/7/’45)
that 1 certainly did mean the longbow.
The crossbow, while it might be employed
for shooting rabbits, is not so hot either
for using 28in. arrows or for dealing with
the more noisy types of vermin. And tell
“Ultima Art” that with the English-type
longbow the arrow is drawn right to the
head for every shot, which could be done
only by a giant with those fathom-long
N.G. harpoons of his. When shooting
the nock of the arrow is fitted to the
centre of the string, but the thrust of the
left arm against the bow is exerted at a
point below the level arrow and, there-
fore, below the middle of the bow. To
compensate for this the upper arm of the
bow is made a little longer and a fraction
weaker than the lower arm. The bow I
mentioned was designed to take a 28in.
arrow, which meant that it would be
likely to break if a 30in. shaft were drawn
to the head. But the cove who made the
bow did not allow sufficiently for the
extra strain on the upper arm, which
presently developed a tiny crack. Since
when I’ve been thinking of the end of
the war and the appearance of bows on
the market once again.
* * , * *
“Double One”: I have sometimes heard
it said that the early settlers in northern
Victoria had their land “given” to them.
What the “gift” amounted to was brought
home to me when the State Rivers and
Water Supply Commission had to put a
channel through a shelter belt left on one
side of my farm. It cleared an acre and
a quarter with a grubbing machine ; cost,
£5O. The early settler,had to do it all by
hand.
* * * *
“Biridja”: A concordance will disclose
that there are actually 14 references in
the Old Testament to the turtle (B.
18/7/’45). Ten of these may be passed
over as referring to turtle-doves, but as
they also refer to pigeons two of these
may be put aside. The remaining two
each are connected with spring. The
first (Song of Songs, chap. 11, v. 12), m
spite of difficulties of translation, points
to a familiar sound —the voice of a bird
—which a lover would note. The other
reference Jeremiah VII, v. 7, mentions
the stork, the turtle, the crane and the
swallow as harbingers of spring, and so
the turtle-dove is the natural inference.
The Hebrew word “tor” is usfed in each
of the 14 references. The Latin changed
the name of the bird to “turtur ’ and we
in turn to turtle—all from “the voice of
the turtle.”
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The Australian officials
who surveyed the burying of a cow’s head
after a ceremonious killing on the pre-
vious day by pious natives at the reopening
of the pumping station at Tarakan oilfield
were looking at a symbol for something
much more sinister. The heads used to
be human ones in parts of Borneo in, the
memory of living white men. No chief’s
house was expected to stand up unless a
head had been buried at the four corners,
and professional headhunters made a
lucrative business of supplying the
material. The grisly old tradition still
lingers and crops up in unexpected places.
In pre-war days engineers started throw-
ing a new bridge across the Singapore
River. The rickshaw coolies promptly
went on strike. No runner would take
you out of the city after dark for ten
times the usual tariff. It was discovered
that the Chinese population was firmly
convinced that the British authorities
urgently required 60 Celestial heads to
secure the stability of the construction.
The custom wasn t confined to Asia, In
that fascinating book Strange Survivals
Baring-Gould gives numerous examples
of human sacrifice in connection with the
building of European cathedrals bridges
and private homes, as late as the last cen-
tury in backward countries. The architect
who built his own son into the founda-
tions of a building which was threatened
with subsidence crops up so often in local
legend that there is probably some basis
for the story.
“Australia man he no good at camouflaging.”
“Patrol Leader”: Tell “8.4” (B.
4/7/’45), who asks for a leech repellant,
to try eucalyptus oil, which we found
effective when moving through leech-
infested N.Q. forests. Our M. 0., a bit
of an authority on all creeping things,
explained why bleeding from the leech
puncture is difficult to control. When a
leech starts to suck blood from a victim
numerous minute glands around the
mouth discharge a peculiar secretion,
which, mixing with the blood as it is
sucked in, prevents its coagulating. Thus
the leech is able to store blood in its crop
for an indefinite period. Invariably a little
of the secretion gets into the punctured
wound and prevents coagulation after the
leech has dropped off. Incidentally,
leeches are hermaphrodite.
sjc* sfc #
“Mat's Mate”: We were camped by
the Dimboola Bridge just outside War-
racknabeal when the dapper little cove
arrived and said, “You fellers any good
at singin’?” We denied it. “Sorry,” he
said, “we could do with a tenor and a
alto in the Choral Club. Got jobs for
’em, too, but you’re no good.” Later, he
arrived again. “Any good at tennis?”
We denied it. He apologised and re-
treated, remarking that it was a pity,
since there were jobs for tennissers. He
appeared again as we finished our dinner.
His face had a slight air of strain.
“Look,” he said, “how about football?”
“Ah,” said Mat, “that’s one thing w e can
do.” But he wasn’t cheered. “A pity,”
he said, “the football season is five
munce away.” Deep in thought, he with-
drew, but was with u& again shortly, more
worried than before. “How are y’ at
dancin’ an’ euchre parties an’ that?” he
asked. “No flamin’ good,” said Mat.
The dapper man almost groaned with dis-
appointment. “Look, who’s got these
jobs you’re talkin’ about?” Mat asked.
“Me,” was the reply, “but it’s no good if
y’ can’t do some of them things I asked
y’ about” ; and off he went. We strolled
up the town and saw him in the distance.
Mat grabbed a local and said, “Who’s
that little feller up the road?” “Him!
That’s Tommy Dwyer, the builder. Got
five daughters. He ” But Mat had
grabbed me and rushed me back to the
bridge. As we headed for the S.A. border
he said, “Cripes, just as well we got away.
That bloke would have lighted on some-
thing we could do. Reckon he’s got t’ get
them girls off somehow. ’Struth, ain’t it
lucky we can’t sing?”
J ** * *
“Bo”: “Stepper” Brogan, who lived
with his very mild-mannered and long-
suffering wife right on the river, had a
fla g P Q n such occasions
when he come home and pro-
it was ms furniture out into the*
ceed to J contrite he would
river ; in his
y &. v stufb This had been
ooat to without any word of
going on nlacid spouse. Then
protest from his placid
one csai y few m i nU tes later,
! r °m a , fami i iar splash, there came
i nstead of the lamlU P
the sound of an axe sinking into hollow
timber. Tom Petrie, a neighbor, rushed
over in time to save the top half of the
wardrobe, which was in the yard, being
reduced, like the rest of it, to matchwood.
Having wrenched the axe from the pro-
testing “Stepper,” Tom asked him what
was the new idea, not shooting it into the
river. “Stepper” looked up with a bleary
eye. “Shick o’ puttin’ up with the
mishus’s bad temper” he said.
* * * *
“Dickie Beach”: Ever been stung by
a bullrout, that small, inshore fish against
whose spiky back it is so confoundedly
easy to jab a toe when wading or netting?
The pain is agonising, so much so that
big, hefty men will writhe in agony and
even collapse. From a puncture in the
toe that can hardly be seen it shoots up
the whole length of the leg and into the
groin. The old treatment for it used to
be similar to that for snakebite, ligature
and permanganate of potash, but it had
little effect on the pain. The new one seems
nothing short of a miracle to me. Sur-
veying my squirming, swearing mate from
whose forehead the sweat of agony was
pouring, our new local doc. produced a
hypodermic, and remarking “We’ll soon
fix that,” half-filled it from a small
rubber-capped bottle of clear fluid and
squirted the contents through a needle
down the puncture-line on Bill’s toe.
Within two minutes the pain had eased,
in another five it had gone. “What on
earth is it?” asked the astonished patient.
“One of the newer miracle drugs,” ex-
plained the doctor. “One per cent solu-
tion of Novocain. Another, name for it
is Adrocain.”
* * * *
“Bull-ant Bill”: That left-handed axe-
man depicted by Ted Scorfield (B.
11/7/’45) is due for a spot of trouble
before long. In the first place, he’s put
in the first scarf-cut on the upper side of
the tree’s lean. If he goes much deeper
the trunk may split up and possibly knock
his block off with a comeback. Should
he escape that and get safely to work on
the other side he will be liable to get
caught by the falling trunk if it conies
away quickly. Anyhow, with the branch-
spread suggested by leaves and the line
of his cut, the paling fence over which
his sarcastic neighbor is looking will cei-
tainly lose at least a couple of panels
when she-comes down. As the damage
will have been his own straight-out fault
he will be responsible for repairing it.
And if it comes to a scrap I’ll be in-
clined to back the neighbor for his height
and reach.
THE WEATHERCOCK.
The weathercock his head’s in air, he seems
tpo proud to crow
As, honking past, the motors whizz their way
to Bendigo;
And, perched above the stable loft, through
years of flood and drought,
There’s not a bird on earth that has so much to
crow about.
Along the road that thousands trod t'o goldfields
in the north,
That reckless bird he gazes yet as if he’ll still
set forth
And follow where the diggers, went, that rush-
ing motley crowd
Who climbed the distant ranges there and
vanished in a cloud.
A hundred tents have risen there as night began
to fall,
And from his perch the weathercock looked
down upon them all;
And when the camp in silence slept and showed
no light or spark,
He saw the thieves who robbed their mates go
creeping through the dark.
Or lucky diggers coming down would start a
wild carouse
And sounds of revelry arose within that wayside
house
Till bearded men came rushing out with loud
and angry roars
And, man to man, stood up and fought beside
the stable doors.
The bullock teams came creaking past, so slow
that' you would say
They’d never reach the mining camps a hun-
dred miles away;
The coaches came and brought their loads of
human hopes and fears
And stopped an hour and changed a team and
vanished with the years.
The inn is gone, the stable’s left, but empty are
the stalls;
And Time is at his silent work and eating
through the walls.
He’ll bring you down, you stubborn bird, and
boil you in his stew,
So hurry up, old weathercock, and tell us what
you knew.
VICTORIA.
DOUBLEGEP.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LOWDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures
Bone«chewing Cattle
and Licks for
-gki
: • GJ-'S?
To Remedy
Phosphorus
in Pastures
BONE
Deficiency
and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
G.P.O. Boxes 4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ĺ
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out ail
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYANOGAS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM” -
Cyanogas blower (Pat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY.,
mSSSS iZU'L 7-11 MARKET ST R r.F.T. SYDNEY^
LTD.
f
A
m
■
The “MARS”
Plain MILLER
Built to Schlesinger Standards of
Accuracy.
A Sturdy Machine of Maximum Out-
put and High Quality Work.
All necessary Rotating Parts are
DYNAMICALLY BALANCED.
l
Manufactured by
MARS
Machine Tool
Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
TH.trihntimr A (rents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street, Melbourne.
Thomson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street, Melbourne. ......
STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
THE MAN ON THE LAND
“DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS.”
Fat Lamb Sires.
“Jumbuck”:, Although fresh blood
from England is urgently needed there
are some splendid studs in Australia
from which good rams can be obtained.
Buying rams of doubtful heritage at what
appear cheap prices is silly. Good rams
are needed to mate with good ewes, but
no matter how good' the ewes poor results
will follow the use of poorly bred or
wrong-breed rams. Experience and re-
sults alone can determine which breed of
English rams is best for a particular pur-
pose. Climatic and pastoral conditions
are important factors. Because a breeder
somewhere else has had splendid results
from using say, Romney Marsh, rams,
it does not follow that Romneys will
suit another district. Early-maturing
lambs of high quality must be the aim,
and returns per acre rather than per head
determine which breed of rams is most
suitable. Experience and knowledge of
the returns obtained by other fat-lamb
breeders in the locality are the best
guides. •
Some small breeders, on the score of
economy, keep aside ram lambs dropped
by a few of their best first-cross ewes for
use as future sires. This is harmful; it is
nothing more or less than introducing
crossbred rams into the flock. The
results soon show up. Pure-bred rams
from old-established flocks are reliable
and impressive and possess the prepotency
to impart to their progeny their own
desirable features.
When the war is over a great demand
for fat lambs will exist abroad and with
the knowledge that the public do not
want large joints breeders should culti-
vate types that will find favor in the
British market. For success, use sires of
the English breed most suitable for local
conditions and the best obtainable. Early-
maturing lambs of the right quality can-
not be obtained unless the right types of
sires and ewes are used.
Drought and Horses.
“Clyde”: H. J. DeC. Talbot, chief vet.
inspector in Victoria, reviewing draught-
horse breeding for 1944-45, notes that the
number of registered stallions was only
367, as compared with 500 the previous
years. As 61 young stallions were certi-
fied as against 64 the year before, the
drop was almost entirely confined to the
old fellows and was certainly due to
drought, a good many of them being
destroyed rather than left to die of star-
vation.
For about ten years now there has been
a steady fall in registered stallions in
Victoria, power-farming being on the
spread, and the drought may have hast-
ened the process. Fewer mares were
mated this season. Talbot believes that
there’ll be a shortage of good farm horses
for the next few years, and he advises
breeders to hang on to their best colts
and mares. Of all stallions put up for
certification last year only 12.22 p.c. were
rejected, the second-lowest rejection figure
since the Act came into force in 1919.
It suggests that entires being kept are
of the best type and coming from sounder
stock, and, of course, is a strong argu-
ment for retaining the supervision of
experts over horse-breeding.
Four years ago the Victorian Govern-
ment decided to pay a bonus of £2 for
every foal thrown by an approved mare
by a registered draught stallion. So far
4452 foals have collected the bonus.
Talbot is a bit worried about arranging
stallion parades this season, petrol short-
age and other transport difficulties stop-
ping his staff from getting about. How-
“ Righto, mate —take it round the tradesmen's entrance .”
ever, where owners can manage to get
their stallions to a main centre the in-
spection will take place.
Sow and Litter.
“Myrrhee”: The Victorian Journal of
Agriculture points out that about 25 p.c.
of pigs don’t survive to weaning age,
largely through mismanagement. Before
farrowing the sow should go into a grass
paddock which has not carried pigs for
some months. Don’t feed her heavily
during the first two days after she
farrows, but provide plenty of water or
milk. From then on increase her ration
gradually so that by the end of the first
week she is receiving all she can eat
either in three meals a day or from a self-
feeder. Continue full feeding for the rest
of the suckling period.
Provide the suckers with a low trough
in a “creep” when the litter is three weeks
old. Give them a dry meal mixture such
as wheatmeal, barleymeal or pollard, with
20 p.c. meatmeal added, if there is no
separated milk. Make sure they get plenty
of water when on dry food and keep the
trough clean. If the sow and family
haven’t a run of pasture give them green
food and a shovelful of fresh soil every
day.
Tree Killing.
“Plane Creek”: The killing of forest trees
where necessary by ringbarking, poison-
ing or actual cutting out (B. 27/6/’45)
presents endless difficulties in wet locali-
ties. I always follow the advice given
by Queensland Department of Agricul-
tuer to ringbark in summer and poison
in autumn-winter. The sap of most trees
is in brisk upward flow in summer, and
many ringbarked trees die cleanly, but
the rains (50in.-70in.) on the N.Q. coast
make others sucker strongly. Winter ring-
barking means 100 p.c. suckering.
The department states that the sap is
largely concentrated in the butts of trees
during cooler months, and winter ringing
sends the sap to the dormant buds, caus-
ing then) to develop into suckers.
When trees are doped with arsenic pen-
toxide in winter the poison travels to the
roots with the sap, and usually destroys
the whole tree. But when the poison is
applied in summer the rising sap takes it
away from the roots. Thus, whilst the
upper portion of the tree is killed, the
butt and root system are usually un-
injured and sprout a mass of suckers.
Silting of Creeks.
“Gip”: It is serious in the country west
of Mareeba (N.Q.). I own 50,000 acres
of grazing land on Leadingham Creek,
one of the main tributaries of the Walsh
River, the banks of the latter being given
over to tobacco-growing, with peanuts
and cowpeas as sidelines.
In 1877-82 three pioneering families
settled on and around Leadingham Creek
—a heavily-timbered stream carrying a
large volume of water for half the year.
The pioneers were attracted -by the long,
deep waterholes, teeming with fish. Dry
years came and went —the waterholes
remained as deep and cool as ever ; corn,
lucerne and potatoes flourished on the
moist creek flats. In the 1902 drought
the waterholes were life-savers for thou-
sands of cattle and horses.
Gradually the wet seasons became
lighter and banks of sand started to pile
up. Soon the permanent waterholes be-
came much shallower, until by the 1920’s
they did not last ordinary dry spells. One
by one the original settlers gave up in
despair and left, after half a century of
doing well. ■ /
Now, except for one or two shallow
rock-holes, the once-permanent holes
have entirely disappeared. Water can be
obtained only by digging soaks in the
fast-deepening sands. The surrounding
country has changed ; it is much drier
and barren in places, inferior grasses
have replaced grass that formerly fat-
tened some of the finest types of Indian
Army remounts. It will take years of
careful work in re-grassing and water-
conserving dams and wells to repair
the ravages of flood, drought and erosion.
Hints lor the Farm. *
“Plane Creek”: Sudan grass will grow
anywhere along the Queensland coast,
though rust sometimes troubles it in
N.Q. At times it reaches a height of
7ft., and is one of the quickest-growing
grasses we have, suitable for hay, ensil-
age and green feed. Like all the sorghums,
it contains hydrocyanic acid when im-
mature, and must be fed with caution.
From 101 b. to 201 b. of Sudan seed is suf-
ficent to sow an acre broadcast. The
stand should be thick to enable the for-
mation of thin stems, and it is generally
ready for cutting within 10 weeks from
seeding.
“Haven”: Dairy cattle should have
easy access to water. It makes up 87 p.c.
of the milk yield. Strawberry needs three
to four gallons for every gallon of milk
she produces; given salt licks she needs
more. From 12 to 15 gallons daily is
about the right average. Fattening cattle
should get all they can consume. Water
supply of calves should be doubled after
weaning. If it’s lacking when the milk’s
cut down they get a check in growth
that can’t be made up.
“C.J.D.”: To make kerosene emulsion
chop up lib. ordinary washing soap and
stir into lgal. of boiling water until dis-
solved. Allow to cool and add lgall. of
kerosene. To get a true emulsion, use an
ordinary garden syringe and spray the
mixture back into itself or stir strenuously
with a wooden batten. When cold and
solid there should be no trace of free
oil on the surface if there is, add more
boiling soap solution and mix again.
Free oil will destroy the foliage of
plants. To use, dissolve in Bgall. of water.
Mix well away from the fire.
“Myrrhee”: Make the potato pit 6ft.
to Bft. wide and frame it by ploughing
inwards two parallel furrows 9in. to 10in.
deep. The furrows act as checks as the
potatoes are built up and as drains. Length
depends on quantity. Pit only dry, sound
potatoes. Thatch as the potatoes are
built up, using rye pr wheat straw or
reeds. Oaten or barley straw tends to
consolidate and check ventilation. The
thatch should be only so thick as to pre-
vent sunlight getting to the surface layer.
Secure with a light covering of soil, rails
or quartering.
“Bob M.”: When the potato has been
“stung” by the potato moth it cannot be
marketed or stored. For home use, com-
pletely cover the potatoes with water
for two days and spread out to dry.
Store in closed sacks suspended in a cool
place. They’ll keep for months.
“Scrubby”: To combat saltiness in the
soil dig in a generous quantity of iron
scale, readily obtained from any factory
where steel is being annealed.


Sunk by
United States.
Brit. Empire.
Other Allies.
Neutrals.
.—Total—>
No.
Tons.
No. Tons.
No.
Ions.
No. Tons.
No.
Tons.
U-boats
.. 440
2740
1360 7620
670
3260
300 930
2770
14,550
Mines .
. .. 15
TO
340 830
75
210
90 270
520
1,400
Surface
daft 13
90
210 970
87
460
20 50
330
1,570
Aircraft
.. 58
360
440 1590
202
770
50 110
750
2,830
Other causes 12
30
220 370
138
330
30 60
400
790
Totals
*- 538
3310
2570 11,380
1172
5030
490 1420
4770 21,140
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Europe in Fair Health.
(From an article by the N.Y. “Times” Paris
correspondent Gladwin Hill.)
Major-General Warren Draper, Deputy
Surgeon-General of the United States
Public Health Service and chief of Allied
Supreme Headquarters’ military govern-
ment public health branch, has indicated
in a rdsume of conditions in Europe that
the health of both the liberated countries
and occupied Germany was not only far
better than was generally supposed, but
also in many respects evidently approach-
ing the peace-time normal.
General Draper said that in France and
Belgium, while children generally had
probably suffered from undernourish-
ment, “up to now the shortage of food
has not harmed *the mass of population
at all.” Mortality figures for France and
Belgium imply that the people actually
became healthier after the Germans had
moved in, he acknowledged.
German public health, General Draper
said, is “very good.” The Germans are
“in good condition,” he added. “They
have not been starved. They show signs
of hardship that many of the rest of us
do.”
The deputy surgeon-general hazarded a
“guess” that a survey of the whole civilian
population of Germany—at least a sizable
part of which right up to the occupation
was getting a pound of meat a week,
twice as much as the English—would re-
veal the Germans as “more robust and
better off” than some sections of the
English population, although the German
tuberculosis death-rate has been rising.
General Draper acknowledged that the
nominal French ration of 2000 calories
daily was at least 500 calories under what
was needed for well-being, but said that,
nevertheless, Supreme Headquarters
officers had found “very few cases of
serious malnutrition —very few more cases
of malnutritional disease than you would
find anywhere.”
The general made it clear that he was
not criticising or advocating anything, but
simply reporting his observations. He in-
dicated surprise at the falling French
mortality rate during, the German occu-
pation. V
In the newly liberated areas of the
Netherlands, General Draper said, Allied
medical teams sent in to administer in-
travenous protein for extreme malnutri-
tion found that this was not needed and
that the Netherlands had not even distri-
buted much of the food that the Allies
had sent in by ’plane, ship and trucks
under a special truce with the Germans
for the supposedly starving people, but
had collected it in warehouses. This may
have been due to - the fact that the Nether-
landers did not know when the war —or
the emergency food supply—was going to
end and were husbanding what they had.
Playful Joe.
(From Washington “Post.”)
Our friends and allies the Russians
seem to have made very little progress
in their effort to adjust themselves to the
methods, manners and values of the press
under democracy as it is conceived and
as it prevails in western Europe and the
United States. The Soviet Foreign Office
has raised a diplomatic incident over an
article appearing in a Swedish magazine
called “Obs.” The Russians asked that
an entire edition of the magazine, con-
taining an article they considered scanda-
lous, be confiscated and destroyed. The
Swedish Government, of course, refused,
but expressed polite regret that the article
had given offence and said that, this was
not at all the intention.
The article was called “Steel Man,”
which, of course, is a straight translation
of the name Stalin, but is also the desig-
nation of a celebrated Swedish comic-
strip character. The author appears to
have undertaken to explain, in a rather
gay and amusing vein, the place occu-
pied by the great Russian leader in the
minds and hearts of the Russian masses.
It ascribed his power and influence over
them to the proverbial Russian hagi-
olatry, asserting that Stalin has something
like the status of a saint and that the
Russians always like a certain robustious-
ness in their saints.
Thus, said “Obs,” it never injures
Stalin in the eyes of his people when
they hear rumors of the Marshal’s gar-
gantuan feats at table or at the bowl; or
how “after a night of heavy feasting and
drinking he drove back to the Kremlin
happily shooting off his revolver,” or how
“he hopped up on a table and danced
among the glasses,” or how “he let his
happy feeling be increased by one. or
another girl.”
Two .questions immediately suggest
themselves concerning the uproar in Mos-
cow over this article. One is why the
Russians did not realist that their protest
would promptly cause excerpts from the
article to be cabled to the United States
and various other countries. The other
question is why the Russians have never
seen the wisdom of allowing correspon-
dents at Moscow to send out articles in
the very same vein. Don’t they realise
that such stories, whether truth or fable,*
are worth millions and millions of roubles
in export goodwill? The American con-
ception of Marshal Stalin which pre-
vailed until very recently, based largely
on what we saw in the movies or read in
the newspapers, was of an impassive, in-
scrutable, ascetic personality, who spends
all his waking hours at his desk direct-
ing the course of an amazingly compli-
cated domestic policy and an even more,
complicated foreign policy, and by way of
From my long observation of
over a quarter of a century in
Japan and my close association
with Japanese of all classes, I
firmly believe that any attempt on
our part to impose upon the Jap-
anese people a republic, 'for which
they are mentally unprepared and
which would run counter to their
historical background of centuries,
would lead in the quickest possible
time to another war. Such a re-
public would become an alien sym-
bol of foreign domination, and vir-
tually every Japanese would be pre-
pared to sacrifice himself to restore
the imperial lineage and to avenge
the humiliation. Successive presi-
dents would be assassinated. They
could only be maintained in office
by force of arms as are Hitler's
Quislings, and Japan's puppets in
China and elsewhere, frequently
murdered. There is no way of
changing a man’s religion by force.
—From “What to Do with Japan,”
a book by Wilfred Fleisher, who
lived in Japan as an editor and
newspaper correspondent for 25
years.
relaxation or recreation writes erudite
but heavy polemics on abstruse points of
Marxist theology. As he is thus con-
ceived Americans respect and admire
Marshal Stalin, but they don’t exactly
warm to him. But this playful Stalin,
who has hilarious moments in which he
dances on a table between the vodka
glasses or exuberantly shoots up the town
like a cowboy in the films, is something
we can understand and enjoy as much
as the Russians can, though we may
wonder if such strenuous pleasures are
really quite good for him at his age.
Any Hollywood press agent or any
professional American shirt-stuffer could
explain these points to the Russian
Foreign Office if given half a chance. A
shipload or so of first-rate American
publicity specialists would, at this point,
be worth more to the Kremlin than a
whole convoy of jeeps, tanks and ’planes.
“Peace or Chaos.”
(N.Y. “Times.”)
Josephus Daniels, who was Secretary
of the Navy in World War I, an adherent
of Woodrow Wilson, an interested ob-
server of the fight for the League of
Nations, and- a supporter of President
Roosevelt’s efforts toward a permanent
peace, compares the temper of the U.S.
nation during the League fight with the
attitude today:
“The only difference between the situa-
tion as to a world peace pact in 1919
and 1945 can be summed up in the old
saying, ‘A burnt child dreads the fire.’
Seeing the frflfilment of Wilson’s pro-
phecy of a worse war in twenty years if
we did not enter the League, the people
are' resolved not again to permit frontal
or other attacks on the coming instru-
ment of peace to succeed.
“The Republican leaders of vision re-
sponded to the late President Roosevelt’s
appeal and are co-operating with Presi-
dent Truman in a patriotic spirit and are
working to perfect a pact that will keep
us out of a war.
“There is another contributing factor
that is working to prevent a second
failure. The high protectionists now see
that prosperity depends upon world trade
and do not worship the great god pro-
tection as they did in 1919.
“It is for these reasons I am confident
that we shall not fail this time. But there
are pitfalls to be avoided, prejudices to
overcome and adjustments which must
be made.
“The League Covenant was not perfect,
but there was provision by which it could
be amended. The latest covenant will
not please everybody, but it is, as Presi-
dent Truman so well says, ‘Peace or
chaos,’ and millions of the armed forces
and all the rest of the people have highly
resolved that there must not be another
debacle.”
Trial of Mussolini.
(As reported in the Milan “Corriere Infor-
mazione.”)
Mussolini was discovered in the third
truck of a German column, and was not
hidden under blankets as reported. Wear-
ing a German army overcoat, he
crouched with a loaded machine-gun
among 10 German soldiers.
Several Italian Partisans searched the
truck. Carlo Ortelli, a policeman, be-
one of the German soldiers slyly
winked at him as if to tip him off to
make a thorough search.
Mussolini had his coat collar up and
his helmet down. He wore dark sun-
glasses. A Partisan sergeant jumped on
the truck, and, despite the protests of
the Germans, tore the helmet and glasses
off the crouching figure. “It is he!” he
shouted. And the Partisans roared with
joy.
Mussolini rose and still held his
machine-gun. He could have used it, but
his whole body was trembling. His face
was pale. He was immediately disarmed
by Ortelli and another Partisan named
Peralli, and brought to the city hall of
Dongo.
In the city hall Mussolini was searched
again, and a pistol was found on his
person. He wore an officer’s uniform of
the Fascist Black Brigade. Throwing off
the Wehrmacht overcoat disdainfully,
Mussolini cried out: “This is the second
time they betrayed me.”
Then began Mussolini’s trial for his
life. Ortelli asked him: “Why did you
drive the country into the war? Why
did you stab France in the back?”
Mussolini hesitated, and replied: “A
long speech would be necessary to explain
everything, but if I had not entered the
war the Germans would have exter-
minated us with poison gas.”
“No, that’s not true. Hitler said many
times that he could win the war without
Italy’s help,” Ortelli interrupted.
Mussolini jumped up and shouted “It’s
not true, not true! ”
“And your speech after the Germans
freed you from Gran Sasso, was that
spontaneous or demanded by Hitler?”
“It was demanded and forced on me,”
Mussolini replied. “There were hundreds
of S.S. Elite Guards always around me.”
Dr. Rubini charged that Mussolini fol-
lowed a foreign policy that systemati-
cally betrayed his country and consti-
tuted treason.
“After practising cajolery and deceit
upon the United States by offering to pay
war debts and upon Britain by sending
an exhibition of Italian masterpieces to
London,” Rubini said, “you attacked the
Anglo-Saxon Powers and drove your
country to ruin. Thus you betrayed also
our emigrants, most of whom live in
America, and have learned to love North
America as a second Fatherland.”
Mussolini stammered, and could not
reply coherently. Then Rubini accused
the one-time dictator of torturing and
putting to death loyal Italians and their
families.
“I’m sure I didn’t know a thing about
it. You are ill-informed.” *
“What then were you doing in the
Government if you didn’t know about
it?”
At fliis point Mussolini protested: “I
granted pardons to hundreds of men con-
Table issued by the■ United States Navy and British Admiralty, giving
a summary on Allied merchant ship losses during the war ; the gross tonnage
being stated in thousands : —
demned to death. * Only the other day 16
were saved. I spared the jvomen.”
“Yes,” Rubini answered him, “political
prisoners were never spared. We know
your methods.”
Mussolini asked for a drink. He was
given a glass of water, and later some
coffee.
\Rubini taunted Mussolini for failing to
take part in the Fascist march on Rome
in October, 1922, instead enjoying the
peaceful comfort of his newspaper office.
Mussolini made no reply.
Then he accused the prisoner of order-
ing the murder of Socialist Deputy
Giacomo Matteotti.
“I did not kill him myself.”
“But you ordered him killed.”
Evading that, Mussolini said: “In two
general elections I had a great majority.
“What election?”
“The election in which there was free-
dom of the press, opinion and assembly,”
“But you suppressed all that. You
governed by oppression.” The crowd
stirred into a crescendo of voices and
threats. „ .
The entry of Italy into the wap was
broached again. Mussolini said: “I did
not want war; the Germans imposed it. •
The German Ambassador came to see
me about it twice daily, threatening woe
to Italy if after concluding the alliance
[Tripartite Pact] we should betray it. Be-
sides, the people didn’t oppose the war
and proved it in many mass meetings.”
“No, that’s not true,” Rubini replied.
“The Italian people did not want war.”
That ended the trial. Mussolini was
taken away under guard. He said he felt
cold. The German army coat was thrown
over his shoulders, but he again scorn-
fully refused it.
He was kept in a German barracks
until the next day, when he was shot.
Other Fellows’ Patriotism.
(From a “United States News” signed editorial
by David Lawrence .)
What a shock it must have been to the
superficial in our midst when Niemoeller,
the famous anti-Nazi pastor, told news-
paper correspondents in Italy frankly that
he had volunteered his services to the
German Government early in the war,
and that he would have gladly returned
to his command of a submarine if his
services had been accepted. Instead he
was imprisoned.
But should we be surprised if a person
born in Germany loves his country and
is willing to lay down his life for it?
Have we overlooked the fact that each
country teaches patriotism and that the
slogan “my country, right or wrong” is
written indelibly in the history of pur
own nation and that this doctrine always
prevails when war breaks out?
Why should we be surprised if the
German people throw bouquets at their
returning troops, defeated though they
be? Why do the dispatches of our press
associations, written by thoughtless cor-
respondents, emphasise this sort of thing
as only a manifestation of German “arro-
gance”? The dispatches at the time of
the German surrender described the Ger-
man officers as arrogant and haughty. Is
it arrogant for a general to march erect
into a room to sign surrender papers?
Did w 7 e expect anything else of General
Wainwright as he signed the formal sur-
render of Bataan?
Lively Sea Scrap.
(.From a N.Y. “Times” report .)
Just after 3 a.ra. on a moonlit night a
’plane from the escort carrier Block
Island spotted the U-boat on the surface.
The ’plane’s pilot radioed that the
submarine was “taking shots at me, and
I wish I had something to throw back at
him.”
Within five minutes the destroyer escort
Buckley raced into range and opened up
with three-inch guns, scoring a direct hit
on the forecastle of the submersible, the
first shot of an almost constant hail of
fire from every gun on the D.E. that
could be brought to bear on the enemy.
The U-boat, twisting and turning to get
away, replied with deck and machine-gun
fire. This burst of missiles went high,
and scored only one hit, doing minor
damage to the Buckley s stack. The air-
plane pilot radioed:
“Buckley is cutting hell out of the
conning-tower. Sub. is not making the
speed it was. You are hitting him nice,
there is a glow in the conning-tower.”
The Buckley pressed the attack, escap-
ing several torpedoes fired by the U-boat.


sleeping beauty
5
Since 1939 style and femininity have
been put to sleep by restrictions, regulations, lack of materials and enemy
action, but craftsmanship, ingenuity and resource have been very wide awake at
Clarks and over a million pairs of shoes have been made each wartime year.
Soon, we hope, style and high fashion will be awakened by peace and in
Australian shoe shops Clarks shoes will be seen again, refreshed by
nearly six years of beauty sleep.
C. & J. Clark Limited, makers of Ladies and Childrens shoes for more than a
century at Street, Somerset, England.
ytiii
§
WL
mm
rm
5 gPul
PgggHfl
3tMgss
BB V «
m
mm
ESS ' :>
PREVIEW
A peep into the future of post-war homes
reveals that Feltex on every floor is the
choice of discerning young couples who
wish to combine economy with comfort and
good taste ... They feel they really have
a home to be proud of when they invite
their guests to the restful luxury that only
Feltex can give.
\Ei
M
FELTEX
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
MANUFACTURERS OF PLAIN AND. MARBLED F_ ELI EX'
* Insist on genuine
FELT EX look
for fhe name .
Lieut.-Commander Abel, who was having
a 28th birthday on that date and who
was previously a New York lawyer, deter-
mined to ram the submersible, and sent
his ship up on the U-boat forward.
Men swarmed out of the sub. and up
to the D.E’s forecastle. Several fell under
the fire of small arms. Two Germans
were bowled over with heavy coffee
mugs. One gun crew on the D.E., which
could not bring a gun to bear, repelled
the boarders with empty shell cases.
During this furious melee the crew
of the Buckley suffered its only casualty:
E. L. Hiott, carpenter’s mate, third-class,
of Charleston, S.C. ( , bruised his hand
when he knocked a German overboard
with his fist.
Then the Buckley backed off, taking
with her five prisoners. One of them
surrendered to Edward B. Finch, gunner’s
mate, third-class, of Washington, who
carried a hammer.
• The U-boat attempted to get away, but
the Buckley closed in again. The sub-
marine swerved, its bow was pinned be-
neath the D.E’s hull and American tor-
pedomen threw hand-grenades into the
open conning-tower hatch.
The U-boat scraped along the Buckley’s
hull until it was freed, and then made
away at about 15 knots. One of the
D.E’s three-inch guns caught it with three
direct hits and the underseas raider went
down. A moment later a heavy under-
water explosion was heard, followed by
several lesser blasts.
The Buckley picked up 31 survivors
from the underseas raider, in addition to
the boarders who had been taken
prisoners.
Dragnet Digest.
( Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
New home construction in Canada is wide-
spread. Building permits aggregating more than
22 million dollars were issued in 1944 in Mon-
treal. A total of 691 new houses were built in
Toronto last year to accommodate 2615 persons.
The Canadians have also taken steps to adjust
their tax structure to a peace-time economy.
The special excise tax of 25 per cent, on house-
hold electric and gas appliances has been re-
pealed and that on passenger automobiles,
radios, phonographs and cameras has been re-
duced to 10 per cent. The sales tax on build-
ing materials has been removed to encourage
the transition to civilian production. —“ Chicago
Tribune.”
A report prepared for the Foreign Policy
Association by Lawrence K. Rosinger, Far
Eastern expert of the association, * states that
France fears it “will have to accept conditions
fixed by the Allies and conform to standards
set up by an international agency” in its deal-
ings with Indo-China. “The French Govern-
ment is most interested in the position the
United States may take,” the report says. “At
present Washington considers it undesirable to
make precise commitments on Indo-China until
international conditions and the situation inside
the colony have been clarified. The problem of
developing post-war markets may also enter
into the picture. This approach probably re-
flects the generally unsettled state of colonial
questions and the American interest in seeing
to it that Indo-China does not again serve as a
springboard for aggression.”— N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
* * * *
One of the fundamental principles for which
this war has been and still is being fought is
the principle, stated by U.S. Acting Secretary
of State Grew, that settlements must be by
agreement in fair discussion and not by force.
But one cannot help adding that there would
be a much better chance of that admirable prin-
ciple being established in fact if the great
Powers who now so severely uphold it had a
clearer idea of the bases on which the agreed
settlements may ultimately be arrived at. Great
Britain and the United States are both prepar-
ing to exert a strong and continuing influence
in the intricate tangles of European affairs, and
there is unquestionably much that the European
peoples need and need desperately from them.
But if either has formulated anything more than
a purely opportunistic policy by which its in-
fluence is to be directed the fact is not yet
apparent. Mr. Grew has reminded us that there
are some 30 frontier problems alone to be
settled in Europe. Every one of them represents
a complex involving not simply territorial mat-
ters or historic nationalist claims, but also pro-
found issues of economics, of social organisa-
tion, of class and political conflict. Most of
them also revolve around vigorous personalities,
strong men thrown up in the cauldrons of war
and revolution, practical men more impressed
with the necessity for prompt decision than with
the of fine-spun justice. To refer
all such issues to some distant peace conference,
without being able to give any clear idea of the
terms in which they are to be settled there,
or the policies which the great Powers will apply
to them, is unlikely to prove a very practicable
course. — N.Y. “Herald Tribune .”
* * * *
The means taken to achieve Russian security
in eastern Europe are means that have been
taken in the past by nations that the Soviet
have called “imperialistic” and “capitalistic,”
but they are means that the San Francisco
Conference has been trying to outlaw. They
are means that can in no sense be described as
democratic; they flout the principle of the self-
determination of peoples and, above all, they
show so little regard for not only the States of
eastern Europe but the other Powers of the
world that what has been happening in eastern
Europe is a bad portent for the future. For
the ends can never justify any and all means,
and any doctrine that proclaims this is contrary
to all American'' ideas of justice and freedom.
But so far the vital security requirements of the
United States, Britain and Russia in Europe,
Asia and the rest of the world are intact. The
heated discussions in San Francisco, reflected in
newspaper articles about “fundamental” differ-
ences and an “inevitable” clash between Russia
and the United States and Britain have—so far
—no sound strategical basis. It is absurd and
unthinkable to talk about imminent war between
Russia • and Britain and America, as some
writers have done, for no peoples—Russian,
British or American—would fight such a war
today. Nor is there today any basic reason for
such a conflict. But to say this is not to dirnin-
ish the potential peril of the distant tomorrows
—the peril of a world in which the great
•Powers should find fundamental strategic differ-
ences blocking the onward path of history.—
N.Y. “Times” war commentator Hanson W.
Baldwin.
* * * *
The influx of “unwanted” eastern peoples into
the Shaef zone, a mixture of non-Russians
ranging from Bulgars to Germans moving ap-
parently under Russian pressure, has forced the
Allied military authorities to adopt a pragmatic
pokey. There is a report that the Third Army
had to blow up a number of bridges to halt the
stampede. There is even a report that a whole
train-load of babies under the age of three
suddenly pulled into the Shaef zone from the
east The system of reparation is that the dis-
placed persons are interviCTved in camps by a
corps of Shaef liaison officers of 11 of the
United Nations to determine their citizenship.
Each person is earmarked for return to his own
country unless he does not want to be, in which
case he is left for the time being as a prospec-
five Stateless person. The single excepbon to
this is the Russians, who under the Yalta agree-
ment are turned over to the Russians whether
they like it or'not. N.Y. Times report.
*„**.*
International life with the Russians will not'
be easy. And the difficulty will have as much
to do with Russian mannners as with Russian
policy. Even when Russia is doing the right
thing she may do it the wrong way, sometimes
out of sheer cussedness. Molotov left many
outraged feelings in San Francisco. — Washing-
ton “Post. ’
* * * *
With the huge German population on our
hands feeling sorry for themselves and resentful
of Allied bombing, we need an intelligent pro-
gramme of education to teach them how this
war began, who started it, how it has been
fought and why Nazism has made the name of
Germany hated throughout most of the civilised
world. These people in conquered Germany,
spoon-fed on Goebbels’s propaganda, with no
antidote, do not know or understand the reason
for all this. And until they do there is no hope
of reformation. — N.Y. “Times Magazine’ 1 ’ corre-
spondent in Germany.
* * * *
The Cairo conference promised Manchuria
to China and pledged the independence of
Korea in due course. Gen. Chiang Kai-shek,
the late President Roosevelt and Prime Minister
Churchill signed. It was made before Roose-
velt and Churchill went to Tehran, and since
Russia was still on terms of neutrality with
Japan at the time, the Russians are not con-
sidered parties to the Cairo agreement. It may
be asked, if Manchuria and Korea are to be
taken from Japan anyway what difference does
it make to Japan whether Russia or China gains
Manchuria—either presumably bodes ill for 'the
future of Japan. Actually, however, there are
reasons for believing that the Japanese, if
they had to choose between China or Russia in
Manchuria, would prefer China. This is be-
cause the recent history of China has shown her
to be lacking in national unity, and Japanese
business interests might feel that, while their
country would be giving up sovereignty over
Manchuria, a post-war partnership between
Japanese and Chinese business interests with
other foreign financing could not impede the
economic recovery of Japan as much as could
a Russian occupation and control. — David Law-
rence; N.Y. “Sun.’''
* * * *
The improvement in China is not to be
judged by the tone of the recent Chinese corn-
muniques, which continue to be—as barometers
0 f t h e actual military situation—rather unreliable
indices. It is an improvement that is behind
the scenes rather than apparent, and that may
no t make itself manifest ,in any spectacular
f as hi OI1) but only in increasing Allied military
s t ren gth in China and in increasing strain upon
j a p anese there. Nevertheless, insofar as
this war is concerned, China probably has
p assed her darkest days. Militarily, and per-
baps politically, the Japanese victories and the
Ch^ne^e s j ns Q f omission and commission
pushed Chinese war effectiveness and Chinese
h o p es to a nadir last year. Between the time
of *\ he Cairo conference in December, 1943,
and Dece mber, 1944, China passed through
ome of the worst phases of the long and
chequered history of her “war” against the
Japanese. There were times prior to and during
this period when China, already virtually de-
feated militarily, also was staggering on the
verge G f complete psychblogical defeat and
w ben the possibility of her withdrawal from
t h e war aga inst the Japanese was real. Those
times have passed.— Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
All the wrangles in the Levant left apart,
Anglo-French relations have been steadily de-
teriorating since last December. General de
Gaulle and Georges Bidault, the French Foreign
Minister, went to Moscow and signed there a
treaty with alliance with the Soviet Union. A
few days earlier Prime Minister Winston
Churchill and Anthony Eden, British Foreign
Secretary, had been received in Paris with great
solemnity and warmth of feeling. But their
hosts sedulously hid from them the major diplo-
mafic step they were about to take. The first
knowledge the British had of it was through a
direct communication from Stalin. They
keenly resented what was to them an unwar-
ranted lack of candor. In February Bidault
went to the British capital and got' from Eden
a report on the proceedings at Yalta. He was
disappointed to find out, afterwards, that he
had received only part of the facts. — N.Y.
“Times” Washington correspondent.


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce) —Launceston District Registry.
TO MARIE JEAN STRETTON (wife of GEOFFREY
RAYMOND STRETTON) formerly of Launceston m
the State of Tasmania. —TAKE NOTICE that a, peti-
tion had been filed in this Court endorsed with a
notice to you to appear and answer the charges in
the petition of GEOFFREY RAYMOND STREITON
of No. 56 Wellington Street Launceston in the State
of Tasmania praying for a dissolution of his marriage
with you on the ground of adultery In default ot
you so appearing you will not be allowed to address
the Court and the Court will proceed to hear the said
petition proved and pronounce judgment in respect
thereto AND TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that for
the purposes aforesaid on or before the Seventeenth
day of September 1945 an appearance must be
entered at the Principal Registry of the Supreme
Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street Hobart or at
the Launceston District Registry Cameron Street
Launceston. — '(1.5.) R. G. BINGHAM, Principal
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF TASMANIA.
(Divorce)—Launceston District Registry.
TO CYRIL JOHN MUNRO formerly of Launceston in
the State of of Tasmania Lorry Driver. —TAKE
NOTICE that a petition has been filed in this Court
endorsed with a notice to you to appear and answer
the charges in the petition of GEOFFREY 7 RAY-
MOND STRETTON of No. 56 Wellington Street Laun-
ceston in the State of Tasmania praying for a disso-
lution of his marriage on the ground of adultery
In default of you so appearing you will not be
allowed to address the Court and the Court will pro-
ceed to hear the said petition proved and pronounce
judgment in respect thereto AND TAKE FURTHER
NOTICE that for the purposes aforesaid on or before
the Seventeenth day of September 1945 an appear-
ance must be entered at the Principal Registry of
the Supreme Court of Tasmania, Macquarie Street
Hobart or at the Launceston District Registry
Cameron Street Launceston.—(L.s.) R. G. BINGHAM,
Principal Registrar.
HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us to
be copied. We enlarge, colour and
frame. We will be glad to give a quote
on any work, and the greatest care will
be taken with your original; pack your
originals in cardboard.
Our address is:— g Goldie Place>
G. O. KEVIN, Melbourne Cl.
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
Airways will be made available
whenever war needs permit.
MADE BY
FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Interest - - Power
The Pelman Course increases interest-power. It is this quality of the
Pelman Course which makes it of peculiar usefulness to members ot
the Services.
Interest makes duty purposeful, helps to quick apprehension of the
subject matter of training and educational courses, adds to the
pleasure and profit of free time and keeps the mind in trim for 're-
entry to civil life. Interest discovers the real meaning, the energy and
movement of what engages our minds and so keeps us alert and
responsive in any circumstances and in any company.
Interest-power is sometimes the cause and sometimes the effect of
other qualities which Pelmanism sets out to develop in the individual
pupil. These qualities are:
Perceptive Faculty Concentration Self-Control Initiative
Self-Confidence Organisation Will-Power Judgment
and a good memory for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
Alongside we publish extracts from a few hundreds of letters received
during 1944 from members of The Services referring to the qualities
developed by Pelmanism.
The same full service is given to civilians with similar results.
More is said about this and other interesting aspects of person-
ality in “The Efficient Mind,” sent post free. Inquiries are
confidential. We have no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Note’ Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
171
The Headquarters of the Pelman Institute are in London. The Institute has been established in Melbourne under
the same direction for over till years, and has enrolled more than 50,000 of the half-million world Pelmanists.
mmrnm - wmmmi
m m
■
You’ll
s s' <: •
outsi
■
'S*»
m
■ -
.
I :)Mi
x-Sv>
V
MADE S P ECI ALLY T 0 P REVE NT SORE THRO AT S *^9
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Words of the songs “I Don’t Suppose He’ll
Do It Again for Months and Months and
Months” and “The Gay Caballero.” —3634.
To buy copies of “Wild Life” magazine
previous to 1945. —3635.
To buy new or secondhand books dealing
with circus life. —3636.
To buy The Sentimental Bloke and Ginger
Mick, by C. J. Dennis. —3637. •
Information Sought.
Some information about wasps?
Wasps, or hornets, are members of the
Hymenoptera order, which includes bees
ants, all of which have the common character
of having the fore and hind wings locked
together when in flight by a series of minute
hooklets. There is a great diversity of form
among the insects classed as wasps. Some of
the parasitic forms are very minute and have
simplified wing venation or system of veins.
Others have a complex wing venation permit-
ting the wings to be closely folded when
at rest. The parasitic forms (Chaicids, Braconids
and Ichneumons ) deposit their eggs in the re-
mains of their victims and make no nest. The
Cynipids make galls on plant tissue. Sand wasps
buiTOw in the sand and store up their burrows
with the paralysed bodies of spiders, cater-
pillars, grasshoppers and beetles as food for
their young. Mason and Potter wasps make
large clay nests, consisting of one or many cells,
and stocked with their victims, and the Paper-
nest wasps construct honeycomb nests formed
from wood fibres and saliva.
Can a captain demand a substitute for a
player injured during a cricket match ?
M.C.C. rule 37 states: “A substitute shall be
allowed to field and run between wickets for
any player who may during the match be in-
capacitated from illness or injury, but for no
other reason, except with the consent of the
opposite side.” There is a note on this; “It is
well to remember that a side which loses the
player’s services through illness or injury
brought about by the match is entitled to a
substitute, whereas in other circumstances con-
sent is necessary, which must depend upon the
courtesy of the opposing captain.” A substitute,
however, 'is allowed only to field for the side.
Some facts about falconry '/
Falconry, or hawking, which dates back to
the Chinese in 2000 b.c., was a popular recrea-
tion of the aristocracy during the Middle Ages.
Training is done through the bird’s appetite and
requires much patience, care and gentleness.
The birds consist of two main classes,
“falcons” (long-winged hawks) and “hawks
(short-winged hawks) whose wings are not
pointed but round. The falcon is gradually
accustomed first to the falconer’s voice, then
to strangers, dogs and horses, and is trained to
catch his quarry by using dead birds. When
fully trained the falcon will, when a dog
“points” the quarry, rise into the air and wait
on the game until it is frightened into the air
by the falconer, where the hawk’s superior speed
will always triumph. Hawking in modern times
is fostered by the British Falconer’s Club.
Falcons have been used in the war for the
purpose of catching carrier pigeons. There is
an article on falconry in the Encyclopcedia
Britannica.
Brief Answers.
T.M.U.: Soak sugarbags (or hessian) in warm
water overnight, next day rinse two or three
times in hot water and hang out to dry. When
dry 'press well and use as you would linen;
if sugarbags are used, sew together before cut-
ting out frock J.P.: Robertson Stamp Co.,
P.O. Box 5826, Johannesburg, South Africa
N.G.: Cannot trace the quotations W.P.8.;
The usual price is 3 p.c. of cost of job, plus
3 p.c. of supervision of job, but for charity
organisations the price is sometimes reduced.
P.E.C.: Angus and Robertson, Sydney,
have books on that subject T.L.: Economic
Development might be obtained from Robertson
and Mullins, Melbourne, price about 55.; Road
to Serfdom, from Dymocks, Sydney, 9s. A
condensation of this book appears in the
“Reader’s Digest” for May H.H.H.: A
President plum should fertilise an Early Orleans
plum L.H.: (1) There are no naval colleges
October SI, 1914.—1 find myself becom-
ing more methodical about things and
can deal with problems more clearly and
quickly. In fact, Pelmanism has ful-
filled exactly what I wanted. It has
widened my horizons socially and cuI-
turaIIy.—LIEUTENANT.
March 3, 1944. —I am afraid force of
circumstances had caused my fires of
interest to die down. Now I feel that 1
have regained my grip and have defi-
nitely laid the basis of a successful
Course. —MAJOR.
November 10, 1944.—My memory is good.
I have an interest in life, and I am no
longer a mind-wanderer. I have gained
a great deal of general knowledge, and
I find I can accomplish more work and
take more interest in people and things.
—NURSE.
September 6, 1944.- —I feel I must thank
the Institute for the co-operation and
the almost unbelievable benefits I have
received through the Course, but most
of all for the happiness that I have
derived since I started. —CORPORAL.
September 17, 1944.—My interest and
powers of concentration have increased
to a surprising extent. I look forward
to each day with pleasurable anticipa-
tion and undertake each new matter as
it arises with added confidence in my
ability to see it through to a satis-
factory conclusion. SOLICITOR, EX-
SOLDIER.
September 17, 1944.—1 must tell you how
much you are helping me and how
very encouraging your advice is. About
three months ago I dreaded the thought
of meeting people or mixing with them.
I just could not do it. I thought my-
self inferior to them. Well, now I am
just the opposite. I love meeting
people; I have found how very interest-
ing they are.—GUNNER,
September 18, 1944.—Frankly, I feared
my future when I returned to civil life.
Now I feel I am advancing towards the
goal of the fuller man. Fear of the
future has been replaced by willingness
to embrace it with open arms and a
desire to serve my fellow-men in my
own caIIing.—PRIVATE.
September 30, 1944. —Without a doubt, I
have made progress. My original aims
—clearer perception, concentration and
more astute mental employment—have
become clearly defined. In covering the
ground I have found other information
of which I had not previously thought.
—CAPTAIN.
March 11, 1944. —My work in the Pelman
Course was of immense value, and to
my surprise I mastered the tricky sub-
ject “Engines,” to the extent of 95 p.c.
I have never been “mechanically”
inclined, and the mechanics of the
simple egg-beater were formerly about
my Iimit.—FLIGHT-SERGEANT.
October 30, 1944.—0ne of the require-
ments was the memorizing of a 50- word
message of words, place names and
reference numbers. By using the Pel-
man methods I was pleased to find I
had the whole list correctly reproduced.
Similar instances often occur.—COR-
PORAL.
that train boys of that age. (2) It is to the boy s
advantage to have matriculated but not abso-
lutely necessary. (3) 17. (4) As a general rule
apprentices are not accepted for naval service.
.. .Fog: There is no record of any troops
having been there; the ones mentioned might
have been casual volunteers.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address mtist appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
' the Editor.
I.McD.: Promising M.C.: Sentimental.
P.M.P.: Family situations like that need
the Galsworthy touch M. 8.: Try a woman’s
paper... .K.G.J.: Storekeeper still a caricature.
. ...M-.E.: Characters vivid, but avoid over-
emphasis... X. .. p ]easant q but sketchy
inspired. ...B. • • tdted an d unreal
F.8.C. : _Conversatio ~ , nlank
F.D.: Pegleg t * ie f na S, ■ , t»„ d dv stuff
a.H.: Slight J.W.: Goody and Baddy stu L
B.McK.: Humor labored •••• tv*
Featherweight R.K.W.: “Little by Eitt e^
gj™ a F U °ifoPh a terarffa d is. we . a.aTcan’t see
the horse for the fairies. .. .A.J.D.: On that
j were as thee a fowl of heaven. Fair dinkum,
. , . rea jj y w ha't you say to eagles? ....
’ _ <-, used j n that way merely makes
the whole thing look slipshod.... H.V.0.:
earl y» aC ßhat>sodV^excessively^ Celestial
N.G.F.. SS'Tnoun ...J.R.R.:
8.. original poetry by
You w°nt make any very ong y
tinkling the Muses dulcet lyre.


ļ
How Will My Estate
he Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over 67 years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees "will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges are
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages'of the Company’s service.
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS!
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sit Lennon Raws, C.8.E.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Melb., F.R.C,S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
BOOKS TECHNICAL...
Consult us for your needs on: —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Ballarat Brewing Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
May, Profit. Dividends. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £
1936.. 38,048 llj p.c. = 19,516 18,532 141,172
Share premiums, £65,000 .. .. 206,172
1937.. 38,553 12* p.c. = 29,318 9,235 t oil 496
Brokerage, etc., written off, £3911 J ’
1938.. 42,498 12* p.c. = 31,249 11,249 222,745
Pref. Ord. Total.
1939.. 46,008 6 p.c. 12* p.c. 33,750 12.258 235,003
1940.. 40,683 6 „ Hi „ 35,625 5,058 240,061
1941.. 34,502 6 „ 10 ~ 32,500 2,002 242,063
1942.. 31,145 6 „ 8J „ 29,376 1,770 243,833
1943.. 43*258 6‘ „ 7* „ 26,250 16,008 259,841
1944.. 35,686 6 „ 7| „ 26,250 9,436 269,277
1945.. 33,389 6 „ 7* „ 26,250 7,139 276,416
The brewery is at Ballarat (Vic.), and
the business, which was expanding rapidly
before the war, extends throughout the
west of Victoria and over the border to
Mt. Gambier (S.A.) and the N.S.W.
Riverina, and to Melbourne as well. Civi-
lian consumption has been pegged since
the beginning of March, 1942, at two-
thirds the immediately preceding lan.-
Feb. level. Before that turnover had been
widened and anchored by purchase of
hotel properties—£l2s,ooo of 6 p.c. pref.
money was gathered for the purpose in
1939 —and stimulated by lengthening pay-
rolls, wage lifts and growing service
demands, which fall outside the public
rationing scheme. These service demands
helped to offset the effect upon earnings
of beer rationing, as well as to soften the
blow from lifts in taxation and costs
generally.
About the only recoverable cost-
increase has been war-time lifts in excise
—2s. lOd. per gallon since 1939, making
total excise 4s. 7d. per gallon. These in-
creases have been passed on to hotel-
keepers and over the counter to con-
sumers in a combination of price lifts and
adjustments in the size of containers.
From the beginning 6f 1945, however,
the Prices Commissioner reduced the sell-
ing price of beer in Melbourne from 7d.
to 6d. for 7oz. glasses and from 4d. to
3£d. for 4oz. containers. That was be-
cause hotelkeepers there were recovering
the extra excise, plus a gross profit of a
shilling a gallon on sales in 7oz. con-
tainers and 6d. a gallon on sales in 4oz.
containers.
Gross, earnings from the trade kept on
expanding until 1942. Then, before the
close of accounts in the following year,
the number of troops located in the area
which the co. serves began to decline, and
continued to do so. And so did demand
and, therefore, the co.’s earnings from
this source. The following comparison
of p. and 1. figures shows what happened:
—Gross Earnings.— —*
1942. 1943. 1944. 1945.
£££ ■ £
Brewing . . 113,268 105,999 90,142 84,846
Rent, etc. .. 37,914 35,912 37,389 43,220
Total .. 151,182 141,911 127,531 128,066
Exes .. . • 120,037 104,153 95,345 96,177
Profit.. .. 31,145 37,758 32,186 31,889
Last term the shrinkage of £5296 in gross
earnings from the trade was more than
offset by an improvement of £5831 in
rent receipts, etc. Exes, were only £832
heavier. Taking into the ' reckoning
amounts “transferred from the assets
account to plant renewal and property
depreciation reserve” —£1500, down £2OOO
last term —the net result was £2797 lighter
at £33,389. That was enough to pay the
prefs. their 6 p.c. and show 10.1 p.c. on
the £250,000 of ord. capital, compared
with 11.2, 13.8, 9.4, 10.8, 13.2 and 17.4
p.c. back to 1939, when taxation and costs
generally were not nearly so heavy as
they are now. Though a little relief might
be looked for from taxation, it is doubt-
ful whether costs have yet passed their
summit. The div. came down by annual
steps from 12y p.c. in 1939 to 1\ p.c. in
1943, and has remained steady since.
The financial position improved:
1938. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £250,000 £375,000 £375,000 £3(5,000
Mortgages .. 38,500 116,000 103,500 97,000
Overdraft .. 66,176 40,784 14,877 6,0«5
Sundry creditors 13,107 10,627 9,945 13,978
Tax reserve .. 10,500 27,000 25,000 28,000
Brewery, hotels,
etc. .. 425,652 564,194 563,855 563,356
Plant etc. .. 49,500 65,000 61,500 66,500
Stock .. .. 24,872 35,715 35,466 36,234
Sundry debtors 111,412 146,737 127,647 121,546
Shares other cos. 358 346 346 346
Cash, etc. .. 5,904 17,502 30,568 42,403
The year’s growth in the more or less
liquid surplus (£55,546) was £14,841. The
vigorous policy of hotel purchase, which
more than doubled the book value of
fixed assets during the four years to the
close of accounts in 1939, should mean
much when rationing and other restric-
tions are removed. Deferred maintenance
and improvement of these properties will
call for some capital outlay when labor
and materials _ become available, but
shareholders aren’t likely to be asked to
assist.
Chief factors affecting the immediate
outlook are shortages of barley and sugar.
Of the two the barley position is the more
serious. Brewers now pay 9s. a bushel
for the malting variety as against 6s. sd.
pre-war. Although the 9s. represents an
increase of lOd. per bushel on last year s
figure, no corresponding increase in the
growers’ first advance of 3s. 6d. a bushel
has been made. Fears are that unless
growers receive more encouragement ade-
quate supplies for the coming season will
not be obtainable.
North Coast Steam Navigation Co.
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £ £
1934.. 35,954 8 „ „ 35.496 458 157,296
1935.. 40,924 8 ~ „ 35,496 5,428 162,724
1936.. 41,006 8 „ „ 35,496 5,510 168,234
1937.. 35,911 8 „ „ 35,496 415 168,649
1938.. 42,915 8* „ „ 37,714 5,201 173.850
1939.. 40,191 9 „ „ 39,933 258 174,108
1940.. 42,530. 9* „ „ 42,152 378 174,486
1941.. 39,685 10 „ „ 44,370 169,801
1942.. 27,529 8* „ ,» 37,715 159,615
1943.. 25,169 8 „ „ 35,496 149,288
1944.. 26,692 7 „ „ 31,059 144,921
1945.. 26,824 6 „ „ 26,622 202 145,123
North Coast Steam is one of those
thrifty, diligent concerns which have suf-
fered a recession of earning power under
war-time controls. Austerity has come
its way in large lumps. Shareholders’
hopes mainly rest upon the chances of
the enterprise passing through the period
of war and post-war “controls'” with
assets and initiative intact and scope for
earnings unrestricted. One post-war prob-
lem will be the high level of costs in
the industry resulting from the many
war-time concessions to seamen and
wharf-laborers and the fall in produc-
tion and service rendered by many
unionists.
The Shipping Control Board now runs
that part of the fleet not chartered to the
Navy, the co. acting as agent. Although
the Navy released one of the co.’s
vessels during the term to resume
service in its mainly cargo-carrying trade
on the N.S.W. North Coast, profit figures
showed only a faint ripple of improve-
ment The cautious board decided not
to dig into reserves (as it had done since
1940 to pay an average 8.4 p.c. div.) and
clipped a point off its handout, reducing
it to 6 p.c. —the lowest div. shareholders
have had in the “Wild Cat’s” records.
Enough remained to tuck away £202 to
reserves.
The net profit shown was only £132
higher at £26,824, and that was after a
substantially lower allowance for depre-
ciation had been made —£16,800 (down
£1200), compared with nearly double that
figure in 1938. The profit claimed repre-
sented 6 p.c. on capital, against 6 p.c.,
5.6 p.c., 6.2 p.c. in the three preceding
years and 9.7 p.c. in 1938.
Apart from the requisitioning of
some of its fleet for national ser-
vice, the co. has had to contend with
soaring costs, including taxation, sea-
men’s wages (including war-risk bonuses),
insurance and fuel; and only a propor-
tion of these were passed on to the public
in increased freight rates, which are con-
trolled by the Prices Commissioner.
As to present Shipping Board control,
Government charter rates have not been
satisfactory in many cases of inter-State
acquisition. Returns from investments,
mostly Consols, help the North Coast
co.’s figures.
Liquid strength is what hits the eye
in the balance-sheet-figures:
1939. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £443,700 £443,700 £443,700 £443,700
Liabilities* .. 50,578 78,354 79,260 71,144
Ships.. .. 314,401 267,195 179,045 101,045
Freeholds, etc. 16,383 14,408 13,408 12,408
Liquids .. 357,568 417,813 490,963 499,825
* Including tax provision.
The £499,825 (up £8862) of. more or less
liquids mainly consists of Consols
(£442,798, up £10,000), with debtors
(£35,284), which lifted £5767 last term,
the next-biggest item. Liabilities
(£71,144), including an undisclosed pro-
vision for taxation, dropped £8122, the
more or less liquid surplus (£428,681)
ifnproving by £16,984 over the twelve-
month.
In normal times the only factor likely
to interfere with profits was seasonal
vagaries, the co. shipping farm and dairy
produce to city markets and returning
with supplies for storekeepers and sundry
others.
%
Malley’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r Dividends * Towards
Pref. Re-
April, Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinaries. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 8,299 4741 f Nil 3,558 17,839
1936.. 20,090 73241 4 p.c. = 6,659 6,107 11,732
8 p.c.
1937.. 23,426 2400 8 „ „ 13,821 7,205 4,529
Reserves.
1938. . 28,945 2400 8 „ ~ 16,000 10,545 6,016
Loss realisation property, £1299 .. 4,717
1939.. 28,328 2400 8 p.c. = 16,000 9,928 14,646
Profit sale property, £324 .. • • 14,969
6.97 p.c.
1940.. 15,241 2092 Nil 13,149 28,118
7 p.c.
1941.. 18,098 2100 7 p.c. = 14,000 1,998 30,110
1942.. 22,502 2100 7 „ ~ 14,000 0,402 36,518
1943.. 21,873 2100 7 „ „ 14,000 5,773 42,291
8 p.c.
1944.. 30,069 2400 8 „ ~16,000 11,669 63,960
1945.. 44,076§ 2400 8 „ „ 16,000 25,676 79,636
t 9 p.c. for 11 months to 30/9/’3l, and 6.9 p.c. for
13 months to 31/10/’32. t Includes ail arrears.
§ Subject to taxation.
Not a bad showing, all things con-
sidered. And the approaching revival of
home and other building, and all the an-
cilliary activities that go with it, brightens
the outlook. Chief limiting factors will
h£ the nature and extent of Government
controls and the way in which they are
handled, together with the level of costs,
which have probably not yet reached
their highest point.
The works at Alexandria, near Sydney,
normally turn out builders’ and plumbers’
hardware, dairy utensils, kitchen equip-
ment, etc., and there are three selling
branches in the N.S.W. metropolis and
one at Brisbane. Following the economic
stagnation of the early 1930’5, when losses
totalling £24,654 showed up, earnings
made an encouraging recovery until war
brought building activity, etc., practically
to a standstill. The gap has been filled
largely by Government demand for war
goods of one kind and another. But
mounting taxation and other costs bumped
up the ratio of exes, to turnover. Thus
net earnings for the five years to the close
of accounts in 1944 averaged £21,556
(== 9.3 p.c. on capital) compared with an
average of £25,197 (= 10.9 p.c. on capi-
tal) for the four years before that.
Last term Government and service re-
quirements eased, and more goods were
turned . out for essential civilian needs.
But continued restrictions and controls
stood in the way of turnover. Leaving
taxation out of the reckoning, the board
wrote the year’s profit at £44,076, or
£7585 less than the comparable figure for
the previous term. Since 1941 no specific
provision has been made at balancing
dates to meet the Government’s share of
each year’s earnings. The tax bill, when
it arrived, has been charged against the
amount brought forward from the pre-
vious term. In the table taxation has


ľ
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE RODSSEIi APPJLIANCE CO.,
(Dent. 27), 9 Martin Place, Syuiiey.
Announcing
A Practical Course in
AIRCRAFT
NAVIGATION
One of the qualifications for appointment
as pilot in civil air lines is knowledge
of aircraft navigation. To provide the
necessary training the College of Civil
Aviation, which was established in 1939
for tuition in aeronautical subjects, is
commencing classes to train for examina-
tions for Aircraft Navigator’s Licences.
The training is in the hands of experi-
enced ex-R.A.A.F. personnel. Home
study lessons will be issued to any part
of the Commonwealth. Regular lectures
will be held in Metropolitan centres.
For Syllabus and Full Particulars
Apply to
COLLEGE OF
CIVIL AVIATION LIMITED,
255 a George Street, Sydney.
Phone 8W5482.
l
ĺ
the
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, H asset and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.—Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collint
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notices.
I, GEORGE BORIS ROBAL, of Estonian nationality,
born at Jarva Jaani, Estonia, and resident nine years
in Australia, now residing at 14 Gladstone Street,
Bexley, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
I, OSKAR SULAKATKU, of Estonian nationality,’
bom' at Rapla, Estonia, and resident eight years in
Australia, now residing at 80 Flinders Street, Dar-
linghurst, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
VALUABLE INVESTMENT
Not everyone has a safe for his Valet razor, but we agree
with the idea! Your Valet razor is something worth
looking after because no more will be made until peace
comes again. Meantime, while others hunt for blades,
your self-stropping Valet gives you weeks of perfect
shaving from every single blade. Get the utmost from
it by a little extra care.
For example: Don’t try to get your morning’s exer-
cise out of stropping. A dozen strokes to and fro
are all that is necessary. Strop with a slow piston-
like movement from elbow to shoulder.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades s\d. each
The Queensland National Bank
LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET as at close of business on 30th June, 1945
LIABILITIES
Authorised Capital—
-400,000 Shares at £5 per Share £2,000,000 0 0
Issued Capital—
-350,000 Shares at £5 per Share
fully paid
Paid-up Capital ..
Reserve Funds
(Used in the business of the
Bank)
Final Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss
Account
Total Shareholders’ Funds
Interminable Inscribed Deposit
Stock
Deposits, Bills Payable and other
Liabilities, including Provisions
for Contingencies
Balances Due to other Banks
1,750,000 0 0
1,750,000 0 0
860,000 0 0
43,750 0 0
23,625 11 4
2,677,375 11
3,018,750 11
19,944,226 6
15,407 18
Note. —All assets and liabilities
are expressed in Australian
currency.
£25,655,760 8 5
Contingent Liabilities .. .. £372,408 2 3
(Under letters of credit, guaran-
v tees, etc.)
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at
Bankers
Cheques and Bills of other Banks
Balances with and due from other
Banks
Money at Short Call—
(i) London
(ii) Elsewhere
Treasury Bills—
Australian Government . .
Public Securities (excluding
Treasury Bills)
Australian Government Se-
curities (under cost or
face value)
Special War-time Deposit Ac-
count with Commonwealth
Bank of Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances
in Transit ...
Loans, Advances and Bills Dis-
counted (after deducting provi-
sion for debts considered bad or
doubtful)
Bank Premises, Furniture and
Sites (at cost less amounts
written off)
All other Assets (floating—under
cost or market value)
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £372,408 2 3
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
in respect of the year ended 30th June, 1945
To Expenses. Head Office, Branches
and Agencies (including Direc-
tors’ Fees, £2,941/6/4) ..
„ Income, Land and other
Taxes ..
„ Balance, being Net Profit for
the year carried down
£267,747 4 11
47,491 8 7
82,561 4 2 t
£397,789 17 8
To Transfer to Reserve Funds—
„ Amounts written off Bank
Premises and Furniture .. 3,000 0 0
~ Dividends—
Interim Paid £35,000 0 0
Final proposed
Payable ..£43,750 0 0
—. 78,750 0 0
~ Balance Carried Forward .. 23,625 11 4
Note. —All amounts are ex-
pressed in Australian
currency.
£105,375 11 4
By Discount and interest earned,
net exchange, commissions and
other income after deducting
interest paid and accrued on
deposits, rebate on bills cur-
rent at balance date and ap-
propriations to the credit of
Contingencies Accounts (out of
which Accounts provision for
all bad and doubtful debts has
been made) £397,789 17 8
£397,789 17 8
By Net Balance brought forward 22,824 7 2
„ Net Profit for the year .. 82,551 4 2
£105,375 11 4
been deducted from the year’s profit to
which it relates. Since the 1945 figure is
still subject to taxation, it is not strictly
comparable with those for preceding
years. Still, the final figure promises to
be better than the average for the immedi-
ately preceding quinquennium, which
more than covered the all-round 8 p.c.
distribution. The pref. capital (£30,000
9 p.c. cumulative) is subject to the N.S.W.
Interest Reduction Act.
The financial position is healthy
enough:—
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £230,000 £230,000 £230,000 £230,000
Liabilities . . 127,020* 91,831 26,266 42,811
Freeholds . . 90,738 100,275 102,073 102,420
Plant, etc. . . 49,072 43,578 43,855 » 44,970
Stock.. .. 106,991 123,005 120,382 145,129
Book debts . . 139,239 116,109 63,716 59,457
Cash, etc. . . 1,791 5,954 19,146 17,824
* Including provision for taxation.
To carry an extra £24,747 of stocks
£16,545 was added to the amount coming
to outsiders last term. This and the re-
duction of £4259 in debtors’ balances re-
flect the tapering of Government war
spending and continued restraint of
ordinary trade rehabilitation. The more
or less liquid surplus (£179,599) was
£2621 better than at the previous balance.
Nothing is said of the need, if any, for
reconversion of any portion of the co.’s
plant.
Adelaide Cement Co. has shown a loss
of £9lBO for the year ended May 31,
the first thing of its kind ever experienced.
Previous year the profit was £11,693, and
in 1939 the figure was £33,668. Up to 1941
25 p.c. divs. were common, most of the
earnings being handed out as they accu-
mulated. But the position was extremely
snug, an investment portfolio almost equal
to capital having been built up and an
excess provision made for depreciation.
In 1942 the div. dropped to 12} p.c., in
1943 to 10 p.c., in 1944 to 6} p.c., and
last year no distribution was made. High
production costs and heavy maintenance
charges that coincided with a further fall-
ing-off in production were responsible for
last year’s loss, the board states. Con-
sidering. that investments must bring in
a useful revenue, and that no deprecia-
tion allowance has been made since 1942
(previous provisions being considered ade-
quate for the present), the loss of £9lBO
last year indicates an extremely difficult
manufacturing position. The co. shares
the S.A. market with South Australian
Portland Cement.
* * * *
Shares in both North and South are
sometimes available among Barrier
stocks. The London cos., Zinc Corp. and
New Broken Hill Consolidated, are
pressed tightly against the ceiling levels.
South has the shortest working life
in prospect, with North next. Zinc
Corp. and its affiliate, N.8.H., can see
ore a great deal further ahead. But none
can exactly see the post-war prospect for
metal prices or the course of taxation.
That there will be a great demand for
metal prices there can be doubt. But it
seems likely that attempts will be made
to control the cost of metals used in re-
building devastated sections of Britain,
while oh the home market there is strong
pressure at the present time for a con- .
tinuance of post-war control of all prices.
Professor Copland, the Prices Commis-
sioner, has suggested that a period of
four years’ restriction of price move-
ments will be necessary. It can be said
in favor of the Barrier mines that they
have supplied their products to both the
Australian and British Governments
during this war at prices well below those
prevailing elsewhere. And they have paid
very heavy taxation considering that they
are working a wasting asset.
Tableland Tin, Return Creek, Mt. Gar-
net (Q.), has come up to scratch on
’Change after a long wait. Both ords.
and prefs. are up to the “high” allowed
by the Treasury—ords. 20s, (par) and
the prefs. 20s. 6d. Over the most recent
eight weeks working profits have aggre-
gated £14,662. Paid capital is £319,652
in 240,000 £1 ords., 80,000 participating
8 p.c. prefs. and 120,000 shilling de-
ferreds. There have been no divs. on the
ords. up to date, but on July 27 a dis-
tribution of £l5 11s. 4d. per cent, was
made on the prefs., covering arrears to
June 30, 1943. There was a good deal of
difficulty with plant early in the piece,
and considerable time was lost and some
capital spent on ineffective machinery.
No. 1 dredge was subsequently lost in a
flood. Plant and equipment costs ran far be-
yond prospectus estimates and debts were
incurred in addition to the issue of pref.
capital, but eventually the big new dredge
got working satisfactorily, and, under
Pratten management, earnings have been
increasing. The property is a good one,
as certified to by J. Malcolm Newman,
who fathered the show; it was on the
financial, mining and mechanical side
that most trouble was encountered. The
co. has, in addition to its large dredge,
a comprehensive water-supply and elec-
tric-power system. Original share-issue
flotation took place in 1937, and until the
last 12 months or so the proposition was
a market disappointment.
* * * *
Freney Kimberley Oil (W.A.) has had
two technicians on the property to advise
as to the new equipment required to put
the plant into drilling order again. The
co. suspended operations in 1942 because
it was considered too dangerous to go
deeper with the equipment available, and
because a Japanese invasion seemed immi-
nent. With the outlook now clearer, the
co. has been attempting to get Federal
aid in obtaining necessary machinery from
U.S.A. The depth reached in 1942 was
4271 ft.; the co.’s objective at this stage
(with the help of machinery then on order
in the U.S.A.) was the horizon of the
limestones, believed to be petroliferous,
and in which it was hoped to find oil
accumulations in the bore. Government
cancelled the machinery order for defence
reasons.
# * *
Montana Silver Lead, N.L., which had
a spectacular run on ’Change in 1937 —
it was working galena lode-channels at
Zeehan, Tas. —has sold all its treatment
plant and some other equipment to the
Ministry of Munitions. Payment has
been received, and the proceeds have
paid off the debenture liability to the
Hydro-Electric Commission and the Tas-
manian Government. The Zeehan field
in the main has been rich but extremely
patchy. A couple of cos. did well in the
old days, but since 1910 nothing of a
major nature has come to light.


a scrap of paper
• • . . but in the event of your
death a most important document
which will provide security for
your dependants. Without delay
see the Equitable Probate and
General Insurance Company for
expert advice on protection for
your family.
Be prepared—Be assured.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AND gen eral INSURANCE CO.LTD. a
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House, Angel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
V> PERKINS, General Manager.
TIM- r
RELIEF FROM A
MAJOR ANXIETY
Even the most expert and conscientious individual executor is subject to
accident, illness and incapacitation. Continuity of administration and unin-
terrupted attention to your estate and your beneficiaries are of paramount
importance. Both can be positively assured by appointing this Company
your sole Executor or as co-Executor with your present appointee. An
interesting explanatory booklet will be forwarded on request.
DIRECTORS—James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitcbel
P. T. W. Black. Manager—l. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
""" " "■ Jm-jrnrn. ■■ I. ■ ,
7 BRIDGE BT>B E T , SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 5.P.0., Sydney.
BP 4 44.
MtfPßUff
6°B/£%
Si
a
After a few appli-
cations of Mc-
Mahon's Hair Re-
storer . . . leav-
ing the scalp clean and fresh. Mc-
Mahon s is quickly effective for scurf,
itching and dryness of the scalp and
for falling hair. Good, too, for
cradle-cap . . . because McMahon's
may be used on the tenderest scalp.
McMahon's Hair Restorer promotes
growth, keeps the hair lustrous and
soft.
Obtainable from Chemists, Hair-
dressers and Stores.
Wholesale: Craig & Aitken Pty. Ltd.,
Sydney.
HAIR RESTORER
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Social Security
The idea of “sbcial security” has cap-
tured the imaginations of many people
lately in a way not hitherto experienced.
Social security is a goal attempts to
reach which in past years have been re-
sponsible for much of the hard work,
thrift and enterprise that have helped
to build up production capacity and liv-
ing standards of the whole community.
In seeking this social security for him-
self and his family many a man has
found an outlet for expressing some of
the best characteristics in his make-up.
He has helped to establish the basis of
our whole civilisation.
Thrift the Basis
This has been principally so in cases
where he has attempted to provide his
own security by increased productive
effort and by not consuming all the fruits
of his efforts immediately. Increased
production and the reserving of some of
that production in order to establish
mechanical and financial means of further
increasing output per person have made
life a great deal more comfortable and
easy for the whole community. This im-
provement of living standards may be
said briefly to be due mainly to a com-
bination of hard work, inventiveness,
organisation and thrift.
What has improved our living standards
in the past is much the same thing as that
which can be reasonably looked to to
provide what measure of social security
is possible in the future. We cannot have
anything of a worth-while nature in the
economic field without working for it.
There may be lucky loafers who seem
to disprove this rule, but they are the
exception, and represent a charge on the
more industrious folk. The more non-
productive and parasitical members of
the community there are the greater be-
comes the problem of providing even a
decent standard of living for the present,
let alone preparing a layby for the future.
An Uncertain World
Those who have attempted to estab-
lish their own security of income during
their working lives and afterwards know
only too well how uncertain life is in
this respect. Security at best is relative,
never absolute. No person is sure of any-
thing in this world except a final exit
from it. Yet British people in the past
have considered that whatever measure
of security is humanly possible, economic
or otherwise, is worth trying to achieve.
Their efforts have written many chapters
into their history.
Savings Bring Employment
A spendthrift people can have no social
security. Neither can a lazy people. With-
out both hard work and saving there
could have been no Broken Hill Prop,
steelworks, and without B.H.P. there
could be no Australian steel, the cheapest
in the world, the production of it keep-
ing money and employment in Australia.
So it is throughout industry. The sav-
ings of tens of thousands of Australians
are invested in all sorts of industries and
Government services. Some of these sav-
ings are directly invested in shares. Others
are indirectly invested, through the banks,
assurance companies and by means of
Government bonds. The saving person
receives his income from the investment,
and the nation receives the benefit of the
industries which his money has estab-
lished and which have helped to increase
the productive capacity, employment and
living standard of the community.
But no people can sit back and look
to the savings of a past generation to
provide them with, a better immediate
income and a bigger pension in their old
age. They have to pujl their full weight
to carry on the good work. If they want
improved conditions under which to live,
work and retire they have to pay for
them. Payment is made through their
production or service rendered.
Security Must Be W'orked For
The people of a nation are the greatest
part of it. When it is said that a country
should be able to provide a greater
measure of social security it is implied
that the people of that country should
be able to provide it for themselves. A
Government which comes forth and says
that it is going to give the people some-
thing in the way of social security with-
out cost to them is lying or deceiving
them in another way. A social-security
fund that is not an inflationary delusion
has to be paid for by taxation or by
direct contribution from the people. And
there rnust be a carry-forward of real
productive value' from one year to the
next in order to back up the money
figures of the national security fund.
When ageing people cease to work they
cease to produce, and then they become,
economically, mere consumers. The pro-
ductive capacity of the nation must be
such that it can bear the strain of provid-
ing for these non-productive consumers.
It is not enough only to put money in
the hands of pensioners and tell them to
go out and buy their necessities. There
must be sufficient surplus production to
satisfy the needs of these old people.
No Mere “Redistribution of Income”
Nor is it enough for a Government
to exact heavy taxation from the people,
or a politically-weak section of the people,
and earmark it for Jhe ostensible purpose
of “social security.’* There must be real
saving of national income and wealth
that accelerates rather than retards
greater production. Therefore, it is
best that all should contribute rate-
ably to their own pension and unem-
ployment funds, and that private indus-
try should not be made almost the sole
beast of burden simply because it appears
to have wealth behind it. That wealth
is nearly all invested in the machinery of
production, one of the essentials to living
standards, and without that machinery
(and replacements and expansion of it)
the whole productive system would break
down.
The profits of private industry are
monetarily one of the smallest benefits
which it distributes among a community.
Increased and cheapened production, with
improved wages and working conditions,
are very important contributions to the
nation. But the profit factor is of far
greater consequence than would appear
at first sight. It is an incentive to thrift,
investment and reinvestment. The value
of these factors has already been empha-
sised.
In the Commonwealth we have an in-
dustrial arbitration system that estab-
lishes what the Courts believe to be fair
wages for workers. It well may be, as
time goes on, that industry will have the
capacity to pay better wages, with rises
beyond mere living-cost increases. But
to earn such wages the worker will have
to work harder or get greater results from
the machines that he handles. There will
have to be the increased output to pro-
vide better wages. And so it is with
unemployment insurance and old-age and
invalid pensions. They have to be worked
for and saved for.
Simple Truths
If there are sincere and intelligent
leaders among the trade-union movement
■—and there must be some—they will
endeavor to educate wage-earners in the
simple economics of social security. If
a wage-earner extracts the maximum pos-
sible from industry in the form of wages,
then he must be prepared to pay for most
of his own social security. If the fruits
of industry are split up fairly between
wage-payer and wage-earner in the form
of profits and wages it is entirely wrong
that a large portion of the wage-payer’s
income should be taken from him by
taxation to pay for the wage-earner’s old-
age and unemployment pensions. A pro-
portion of the contribution to the pension
fund should come from general revenue,
but those who are to benefit directly
themselves should make a substantial con-
tribution out of their own pockets.
Phony Security
Our Australian Government is profess-
ing to give pensions and unemployment
insurance, “free” medicine and so on with-
out cost to the people. It is really exacting
enormous taxation from the nation with-
out taking care to see that those who are
going to benefit under the scheme are
paying for it or doing anything at all to
give it a solid backing. A great deal of
the taxation revenue is being wasted in
political stunting.
Few objectives of a political or econo-
mic nature are impossible of achievement
by a people who set themselves out whole-
heartedly, industriously and intelligently
to attain an end. But this matter of social
security has been played-up by some
sponsors in the worst way. It has been
put forward as “something for nothing,”
and little regard has been paid to the
effect that the taxation cost may have
upon industries, from which expectations
of greater production are a fundamental
of the plan. Coincidental with requests
for social security we hear demands for
a shorter working week, for higher real
wages regardless of the trend of produc-
tion per man. A plan of social security
that is not supported by increasing saving
and production on the part of the people
who are to benefit may really bring
economic disorder and grave social
distress.
The accession to office of the Labor
party in Britain may place a big strain
upon the country’s export trade. It is
a question of production per man or
woman and production costs. If these
factors go the way they have gone in
Australia during the reign of our war-
time Labor Government, then Britain is
in for a period of great economic hard-
ship. A successful exporting country
must have both quality and price right
to compete with other exporters, and
labor has much to do with both quality
and price. Lower production and higher
costs resulting from concessions to labor
not justified by results could cripple
Britain’s export trade. And upon Britain’s
exports depends her volume of imports
and much of her standard of living. There
is going to be a great tussle for post-war
world markets, and Britain, the most
economically vulnerable major country in
the world, will have to show great skill
and productive energy to compete. A
“popular front” type of- Government
would be fatal.
* * * *
The fall in prices on New York Stock
Exchange that followed rumors of
Japanese peace feelers is perhaps better
understood when it is known that in
1938 representative U.S. companies
earned only 2.3 p.c. on their funds, com-
pared with 7.5 p.c. in 1943 and 7 p.c.
in 1944. Already there is a tapering-
off in war-time activity in American in-
dustry\, and early next year, even if the
war with Japan is still on, a big drop in
munitions output is expected. The
United States economy has been in some-
thing of a spin ever since the depression;
the New Deal didn’t stop the fall. War
gave industry an unprecedented fillip,
with the best earning and employment
figures since 1929. There is likely to be
a big post-war demand for civil goods
in America, though war-time shortages
have not been nearly so great as in this
country. Nevertheless, there will be a
jolt to many activities when war ceases
in the Pacific.
♦
Burlington Mills (Aust.), Ltd., which
took over leases of a Government muni-
tions factory at Rutherford (N.S.W.),
already has a couple of looms running
experimentally, with over 100 more being
set up. The Rutherford factory is en-
gaged in the weaving of rayon. The
Tapitex plant in Sydney is still making
tapestries, furnishings, etc., on a profit-
able basis. The co. represents a 50-50
capital arrangement made between Bur-
lington Mills Corporation (U.S.A.) and
Tapitex Pty., of Sydney. Tapitex changed
its name to the present Burlington Mills
(Aust.), and issued more scrip 7 ; the
American partner was allotted £175,000
in shares in consideration for plant
and/or cash. Issued capital is now
£350,000, a portion of the Australian
half being in lOs.-paids. These are un-
officially quoted at 365. on ’Change. The
fully-paids are at around 48s. 6d.
* * * *
Reconstruction Minister Dedman says
that four concerns General-Motors-
Holden’s, Ford, Nuffield and Chrysler-
Dodge have submitted plans for car
manufacture in the Commonwealth.
Equal facilities would be given to each.
A message from Detroit states that the
American Chrysler Corporation is not
interested, Chrysler-Dodge Distributors
in Australia being an Australian company.
It has control of Richards’ Industries,
head office of which is in Adelaide, and
which before the war was mainly inter-
ested in car bodies. It has had a big
munitions job during the war.
* * * *
In stating that it would take four years
at least after the war to put the Australian
economy in balance, Professor Copland
denies that he meant that price control
would have to be continued for that
period. Price control, he says, is a matter
of Government policy. But whether such
control was continued or not, for four
years after hostilities ceased the under-
lying pressure in the economy would be
inflationary
* * * *
Australia’s first crop of maturing public
war loans falls due on August 15. There
is £15.3 million of 2\ p.c. stock and
£10.3 million of 3f p.c. bonds. The bond-
holders will get their money, of course.
There have been a couple of commun-
ism-preaching taxi-drivers in Sydney giv-
ing advice to the contrary, but com.
propaganda is often so low and lying
that only mugs will swallow it for long.


HARTS
Circular Charts io» all types oi
Recording Instruments tor any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation-
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
BRISBANE. Q’lO.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course'
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS l/<*
SKIN LOTION 2/it
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/it
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ĺ
A
LET
ATLAS
CARRY THE
BURDEN
Established 1808 in Itelgn of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH, Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
IN MIDDLE-AGE-
KIDNEYS OFTEN
NEED THIS HELP
Many people going into middle age note a
slowing down of the healthy bladder action of
youth. While this is to be expected to a degree,
if passage is frequent and scanty, accompanied
by burning and smarting, Nature may be warn-
ing that there is something wrong with your
kidneys or bladder.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of taking
the excess acids and waste out of the blood.
Most people pass about 3 pints a day or about
3 pounds of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons in your blood,
when due to funtional kidney disorders, may
be the cause of nagging backache, rheumatic
pains, leg pains, loss of pep and energy, getting
up nights, swelling, puffiness under the eyes,
headaches and dizziness.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
successfully by millions for over 40 years. They
give happy relief and will help the 15 miles of
kidney tubes flush out poisonous waste from
your blood. Get DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY PILLS to-day. They are a special
remedy for the kidneys and will give quick and
lasting benefit. Old and young alike can take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS with
perfeqt safety.
For Sale.
COMPLETE ELECTRIC GENERATING
PLANT, suitable for electric lighting or pump-
ng purposes, comprising:—
WOLF COMPOUND CONDENSING SUPER-
HEATED HORIZONTAL STEAM ENGINE,
275 b.h.p., with Boiler Pressure of 2251b5.
Generator made by the Lancashire Dynamo
Co. A.C. Belt-driven.
The above plant is not working at present,
but is in good condition, having been fully
naintained whilst idle. Full particulars on
ipplication in writing to —
BAKEWELL BROTHERS PTY.. LIMITED,
Box 1, P. 0., Newtown, N.S.W.
l.iff jf. t*JUJL UA-«Ui ? f... t t
Sbk ,
liinfaZi-Lili
111111111V1I iiiii'iTiiiiilijiTilililillMllllillll!
Lila;
SLIDE RULES
Each of the three Cal Slide Rules listed
below carries the following Scales A, B,
C, D, Reciprocal of C, Sine, Tangent and
Log. Log. These rules are useful for a
wide variety of calculations.
No. I.—Handy Pocket Size (sin.) Scales
recessed into white celluloid mounted on
Ivory Wood screwed to all-metal flexible
spring back. In soft ■ leather case.
Price, 30/-
No. 2. —Ten-inch. Scales printed and pro-
tected by clear celluloid mounted on
solid wood stock and slide. A popular
rule. Price, 25/- in case.
No. 3. — Ten-inch. Scales recessed in white
celluloid mounted on Ivory wood
screwed to all-metal flexible spring back.
In case, 40/-.
Book of Instructions with fifty practical
examples, 1/6. Send remittance by
Postal Note, Money Order or Cheque.
Money refunded if not satisfied. ,
CAL RULE CO. (Dept. 15),
66 KING STREET, SYDNEY.
He's learnt a lot
about wireless..,
That's why
when he comes back
his new radio will
have to be a real
engineering job.
ļ
r
“His Master’s Voice”
True-to-life RADIO
After the war your local Radio dealer will once again
be fully equipped to serve you with new “H.M.V,’*
Radio Receivers and Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD.
(Incorporated In England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W.
• R6/44
f/nll
VII,
m
>\wy
V/'/. '✓/
PROPRIETORS OF THE
FOLLOWING TRADE MARKS
“C.O.R PLUS" MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE" KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM"
“C.O.R" DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R" FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
ľ
Branches in all States
ca
Figures in the Air
Drakeford, in the capacity of promoter
of one section of Australia’s “New
Order,” has put up a specious proposition
which on analysis turns out to be a nasty
wildcat. The reference is to his introduc-
tion to the Representatives of his Aus-
tralian National Airlines Bill. What
Drakeford told the House was strained
with distortion and notable for its subtle
omissions.
The House alone is not concerned.
Australians generally are deeply inter-
ested in the precedent involved in the pro-
posed nationalisation of civil airlines, in
itself, to begin with, a direct repudiation
of an election pledge.
Mr. Drakeford claimed that “almost
all the propaganda of the Airline
Operators’ Secretariat had been mislead-
ing, and not a little of it, he suspected,
deliberately so.” Then he went on with
his own propaganda. Others may adjudi-
cate as to who is doing the misleading.
He claimed that the £3,294,000 received
by the Department of Civil Aviation
from the post office during the 12 years
to June, 1944, representing the bal-
ance of air-mail postage after the
P.M.G. had deducted his expenses, was
a “tax levied on the public,” and “bore
no direct relation to airline operators’
costs or to their remuneration for con-
veying air mail.” Yet Mr. Drakeford
must be very dull i£ he doesn’t know that
this revenue is calculated to the very
half-ounce of mail carried —that it bears
a most precise relationship to the letters
carried by air mail. It constitutes, in
short, the net revenue from stamps put
on air mail. Though the Minister has
said that this postage represents “a tax
on the public,” he has not proposed to
abolish air-mail postage if the airlines
are taken over by the Government.
Mr. Menzies has pointed out there are
about 42 letters in a pound of air matt.
Each letter bears a surcharge of 3d.,
making postage syd. The total surcharge
on a pound of mail is about 10s. 6d. Of
this the P.M.G. takes Is., and pays
9s. 6d. to the Department of Civil Avia-
tion. The department retains ss. 3d. for
administration purposes and pays 4s. 3d.
to the airline operators. Over the last
three years—particularly busy ones —the
Government received £3,103,353 and the
airlines £1,723,000.
After implying that the airilnes have
little or no right to any of the £3,294,000
revenue from mails, Mr. Drakeford went
on to insist that the £3,167,000 returned
to the airlines contained “a very large sub-
sidy component.” The Airline Operators’
Secretariat had offset one figure against
the other to show that the Treasury was
£127,000 in pocket in the matter ; but
Mr. Drakeford insisted, in effect, that
they cost the Government a huge
subsidy on. the one hand and levied
a huge tax on the people (through
air-mail postage) on the other, the tax
being used to finance aerodrome and
similar facilities and “provide a-fund
for the payment to the airline operators
for their share in the carriage of mail.”
All this special pleading, apparently, is
intended to demonstrate that £3,167,000
paid by the Government did not come
out of £3,294,000 of air-mail revenue
diverted to the Government. The detailed
figures offered by Mr. Menzies give the
lie to that.
The total Commonwealth investment
on ground facilities for aircraft is £11.5
million, Mr. Drakeford said. The greater
part of the facilities is being used by “the
private companies” free of cost, he avers.
But he has already alleged that the public
is being “taxed” through air-mail post-
age to “contribute” to the cost.
Even if these were the only relevant
figures Mr. Drakeford wouldn’t be
allowed to have it both ways. They are
not the only figures. The Minister avoided
all reference to the duty on petrol (aver-
aging 11yd. a gallon), paid on aviation
and motor spirit alike. This revenue to
the Government represents hundreds of
thousands of pounds a year on aviation
spirit alone. About £1,000,000 a year is
paid at present by airline cos. in taxation,
petrol duty, sales tax, etc. It pays
adequately for all aerodrome and
navigational facilities offered by the Gov-
ernment. Therefore it establishes the
truth of the contentions made by the
Airline Operators’ Secretariat —that air-
mail postage received by the Govern-
ment has more than offset the “subsidies”
paid, and that the fanciful figures charged
against the postage by Mr. Drakeford
are not legitimate debits at all.
Mr. Drakeford declined to table the
report of A. B. Corbett, formerly
Director-General of Civil Aviation, on
the future of Australian airlines. But he
quoted it where it suited his book. Mr.
Corbett has since thought fit to state his
belief that political control of the running
of airlines would “inevitably lead to
disaster.”
Mr. Menzies has produced evidence to
ffiow that the charge by Australian air-
lines for the carriage of mails is the
lowest in the world. This is the obvious
reason why Mr. Drakeford had to present
a pack of humbug as a “reason” for their
socialisation.
The Division of Import Procurement
has a staff of 2045 in Australia, 394 in
the United States and 25 in Canada. The
S i P nowadays mainly looks after lend-
lease and the licensing of imports. The
War Organisation of Industry director-
ate has 374 on its payroll, against 573 in
March A number P o y f tte staff have re-
cently been absorbed by the Post-war
Reconstruction Department.
The Taxpayers’ Association of N. S.
Wales has brought out a 1945-46 Sup-
plement to Income Tax Guide 1944-45.
The price is 2s. Income tax of servicemen
is specially dealt with, and so are new
concessional allowances and the zoning
system.” A detailed weekly tax-deduc-
tion schedule is included. The publica-
tion is up to the associations usually
helpful standard.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: The operations at Wewak
and on Bougainville are entering their
last phases, though this does not mean
that the fighting will end quickly. In
the Wewak area the enemy, perhaps 6000
strong, is moving back into the plain
country, with the Sixth Division hard and
eager on his tail.
The Solomons situation is coming near
its crisis. Patrols having cleared Choiseul
finally of Japs, there are none of the
enemy south of Bougainville except in
the Treasury Islands. On Bougainville,
where, when the Americans left, the only
ground held was the few square miles
in the Torokina Perimeter, nine months’
arduous advance through hill, swamp and
jungle has won fourth-fifths of the island,
leaving the enemy only the northern nob
of the Bonis Peninsula, the southern,
strongly-held' perimeter area of Buin
across the Mivo, which the Australian
Third Division is preparing to force, and
a thin strip along the east coast.
But the enemy still has the Gazelle
Peninsula in New Britain, the whole of
New Ireland and other areas, and still
has some 70,000 men in Australian Man-
dated and Dutch New Guinea territory.
It is reported that 1385 Japanese have
been killed in the past three weeks, bring-
ing the total to 12,385 since November 4.
Maorilanders in New Britain
The Rabaul front remains quiescent,
but consolidation and development of
Major-General Robertson’s forces there
goes ahead vigorously, and air support
has been strengthened by the establish-
ment at Jacquinot Bay, about 100 miles
from Rabaul, of Maoriland squadrons.
These squadrons, it has been an-
nounced in Wellington, will provide most
of the support for the Australian ground
troops. The N.Z. camp is established at
Palmalmal plantation, with the airstrip on
a bluff, and to it the units moved, pre-
ceded by their own servicing equipment
from Green Island (Nissan).
It is a horrible area: black mud under-
foot and rain on a scale which compares
with the wet Burma hill country.
If the Gazelle Peninsula campaign
should develop it will be the most ardu-
ous and uncomfortable which the Aus-
tralians and their air support have faced.
The Bornean campaign is in a consoli-
datory stage, and the difficulty in some
sectors has been to catch the Japs rather
than to fight them, as the Seventh and
Ninth Divisions push inland to mop up
the bush hinterlands.
The main operations have been in the
air, with R.A.A.F. Kittyhawks and U.S.
18th Air Force Liberators blasting all
areas due for softening up, from Sanda-
kan, in the far north, to Banjermasin, and,
in the south-east, ranging the Celebes and
Halmaheras, which are still well seeded
with the enemy.
The R.A.A.F. heavies also extended
their destruction to Samarang on succes-
sive days.
Down to Three Divisions.
“Ek Dum”: In B. 6/6/’45 it was sug-
gested that the time was nearly ripe for
a change of command arrangements in
the South-west Pacific and for the inclu-
sion of the Australian forces in the
British South-east Asia Command, with a
restoration of Parliamentary responsibility
for the A.1.F., the Australian Govern-
ment having abdicated its authority over
that force so soon as it could find any-
body to take the responsibility for it.
The plans suggested in that article, not
based on any specific knowledge of the
future, are now well on the way to be
realised —in the customary Labor fashion,
the Government being content to win its
reputation abroad with its mouth. It may
be inferred from Mr. Chifley’s statement
that it is prepared to fight on, not
apparently to carry out its obligations to
allies which have loyally supported
and defended Australia, but to “secure
an effective voice in the peace settle-
ments” —the voice, of course, to be that
of Dr. Evatt, which Caucus will after-
wards declare to be the voice of Aus-
tralia.
The Navy’s Part
The Navy is to be maintained at its
present strength, and will be “exempted
from sharing in the man-power reduc-
tions of the forces,” because the R.A.N.
is “the means by which the Common-
wealth could most readily maintain its
representation in the forward offensive
against Japan.” The R.A.N. will be
Australia’s “principal contribution.” It
would be a very awkward business to re-
duce the R.A.N., because it is under
Admiralty command and depends on the
Admiralty almost entirely for ships.
Actually, no fighting men are more de-
serving of preference in release than men
of the R.A.N. The R.A.N. is the only
force which has been virtually in spear-
head action continually since war broke
out. But, because of past policy and par-
ticularly because of the abolition of the
Jervis Bay Naval College by the party at
present in power, it has a desperate
struggle in keeping its officer strength up
to the limit needed. And on the material
side it can scarcely be called an Aus-
tralian “contribution,” since nearly all its
ships have been built in Britain, many
of them, including one major cruiser
and several destroyers, having been gifts
from the British Government.
Actually, Australia, where it takes
about four times as long to build a de-
stroyer as it does in Britain and the
United States, has managed by herculean
efforts to turn out three destroyers during
the war. Britain, under the blitz and with
all its other preoccupations, turned out
literally dozens, apart from a capital
Navy which includes several new battle-
ships. This position is not the fault of
Cockatoo Dock and similar organisa-
tions, which have done a wonderful job
under heartbreaking labor conditions.
The P. 8.1.
Next, the six divisions of the “front-line
army,” of which the Government boasted
at the beginning of the week, are to be
reduced to three —probably the Sixth,
Seventh and Ninth. This was inevitable.
As was here pointed out last week there is
more sense in the Government’s telling
the country exactly how many divisions
it intends to operate than in throwing out
silly figures which, as everybody knows,
cover a mirage. It is not possible for
Australia to maintain six divisions under
present conditions. It never has, in fact,
maintained six divisions at fighting
strength or anything like it, though there
are almost enough brigadiers, major-
generals, lieutenant-generals and other
senior officers in the country to run the
Russian Army.
There have been divisional H.Qs., and
there have been masses of troops, some
trained and some not, some with a modi-
cum of armament and some not. The
claim that they are “divisions” is based
on the Tito theory that all that is needed
to create a division is to set up a H.Q.,
decant a few generals into it and give it
a name. “Armies” in Australia exist in
the same way. The “Second Army” con-
sists of a few base training camps and
supply depots.
At any rate, with half the casualties
of the last war, with 2,000,000 more popu-
lation to draw from and with war in-
dustry reaching the moribund stage, Aus-
tralia hopes to be able to maintain three
divisions this year. And Mr. Chifley pro-
poses that a “token” force —yes, "token"
is the word—-should be “associated, if
possible, with British troops in operations
for the capture of Singapore, to avenge
the defeat of 1942 and to contribute to
the liberation of prisoners-of-war.” The
avenging is to be done by the Allies, but
there will be enough Australian troops
present to show that Labor approves.
The r6le of the remainder of the forces
will be to continue the present operations
in Borneo, New Guinea, New Britain and
the Solomons until the objectives laid down
have been achieved.
New Guinea’s Position
What objectives are to be achieved?
Perhaps the taking of Rabaul to avenge
the defeat of January, 1942? If the esti-
mates of enemy strength there are correct
there are 40,000 men in Rabaul; and if
they fight as the Japs on Bougainville
and in the Wewak area have fought it
will take all the time of three divisions
to finish them off if they have to be
finished off.
While the Japs were at large in wide
areas and could affect the lives of large
numbers of the natives, whom Labor poli-
ticians were against defending by ground
troops from the mainland until the Japa-
nese were actually in the islands, there
was some ground for sacrificing numbers
of Australian lives. But the enemy is
now contained everywhere, save in the
Wewak area, where —again if estimates
are correct —he can scarcely have the
strength to muster a brigade of fighting
men. And if he could he would be no
menace to Australia.
Indeed, the position is defined by the
Prime Minister himself, who quotes Gen-
eral MacArthur as having said that “the
operations of Australian troops in Borneo
have virtually completed tactical control
of the entire South-west Pacific.”
It seems that Australian forces in the
New Guinea-Papua area are likely to be
reduced to a division, if any land effort
whatever is to be maintained further
north in the Malaya-Borneo areas.
Mr. Chifley says:
The views of the Government and the
Advisory Council are that, if any change
is made in the boundaries of the present
command set up in the South-west Pacific
area, operational control of the forces on
the Australian mainland of the Common-
wealth and in Papua and Australian man-
dated territory should revert to Australian
authorities, who would, also, control any
Allied forces which might be assigned to
the area.
There is a considerable British naval
force in the area, apart from Maoriland
airmen, and Mr. Chifley has about as
much chance of controlling that as he
has of controlling his own Caucus.
More important, however, is what is
going to happen further north and how
it is going to happen.
R.A.A.F. Reductions
The R.A.A.F. is to be reduced “in
proportion to the reduction made in the
Army.” This will “result in the whittling
away of the approved objective” (not
actuality) “of 53 squadrons to a figure
yet to be determined, but estimated at
36 squadrons.”
A natural inference is that Australia
has been keeping 53 squadrons support-
ing Australian ground troops, but that,
with the reduction of six divisions to
three, 53 squadrons are no longer neces-
sary. The plain fact is that there have
never been enough squadrons in the
Pacific, having regard to the needed
variety, to give normal support to two
A.I.F. divisions. In Bougainville Maori-
landers have been the supporting force,
In Rabaul area the N.Z.A.F. is taking
over the job of providing most of the
support for the A.M.F. And in the
Borneo area a great deal of the slogging
work has been done by Americans.
Meanwhile, changes in the Australian
higher command, if any, await develop-
ments, and it is allegedly not yet settled
whether the Australian expeditionary
force will be under British or American
supreme command.
It will be very surprising, in the light
of the strategy of the situation, if it is
not under British command.
Australia’s “Limitations”
The feature which the Government is
always most eager to impress on Aus-
tralian electors is the gigantic nature of
its war effort.
The feature which is always impressed
on allies is “the limitations of our man-
power and material resources.”
However, it is considered at Canberra
that when the expeditionary forces have
been reduced the number of troops which
Australia will have in the field will com-
pare well with those of the major allied
nations proportionately to population.
Last April the United States had 89
fully-equipped front-line divisions, against
the Australian six, some of which were
little more than token divisions having
regard to their equipment and support.
On the same basis (even taking into
account Uncle Sam’s immeasurably
greater proportionate naval and air effort)
Australia should have had at least five
first-class divisions in the field, fit to fight
anywhere.
, The United Kingdom in April had 24
divisions engaged in actual fighting, in-
cluding five armored and two airborne.
And these did not include over 20 other
fully-equipped divisions not at the battle
front, or the Marines. On the same basis
—again making no allowance for Britain’s
infinitely greater industrial, transport, air
and naval effort by comparison with our
own —Australia would need to produce
at least five infantry divisions for regular
front-line service, or seven to eight in full
fighting trim available altogether.
But the British and American Govern-
ments are not the slaves of bodies which
condone and even encourage “go slow,”
and some of which believe that the war
against Japan will only become their war
when Moscow gives the word.
Strange Events.
“Ek Dum”: There have been curious
political developments in the war in the
Pacific.
While the decisions of the Big Three
remained “strictly secret” up to the time
Mr. Churchill left Potsdam for England
(he did not return), numerous observers
and commentators are satisfied that
Russia will now either come in fighting
or hand over Vladivostok as a base, citing
these occurrences as evidence:
(a) Lord Louis Mountb'atten visited Pots-
dam and saw Marshal Stalin.
( b ) A Three-Power ultimatum was sent to
Japan from Potsdam, held to indicate that
the U.S.S.R. was a consenting,
a signing, party.
(c) China was supposed to have agreed
to allow Russia to have Manchuria (Japan
hasn’t yet done so) as her customary Rus-
sian imperialist spoils of war.
(and) A group of American “experts” left
Potsdam for some destination unknown,
interpreted to be somewhere in the Rus-
sian Far East.
Contemporaneously came very credible
reports from China: (1) The communists
were loudly complaining that the Chung-
king Government had started a civil war
against them. (2) The Chungking Gov-
ernment had been forced to retrieve some
of its territory, which had been seized by
the communists.
Ultimatum! Rejected
The ultimatum which was sent to
Tokyo proposed that the Japanese should
retain sovereignty over only their four
home islands and some smaller ones
which would be nominated by the Allies;
that they should be completely disarmed ;
that their Government should be super-
vised while providing the people with
freedom of speech, religion and thought
and imbuing them with “strengthened
democratic tendencies,” and that Japanese
industries should be limited to those
which would enable the Japanese to live
and to provide reparations.
Dr. Evatt found cause to complain
that Australia had not been consulted be-
fore this document was launched.
He made no complaint that Australia was
the only part of the British Common-
wealth which was not asked to send
ground troops to the Berlin ceremonial
parades, being the only part of the British
Commonwealth which did not have
at least some ground force fighting Ger-
many in Europe in the last half of the
war.
The position might suggest that one
fighting soldier in a major field is a better
ambassador than a persistent voice at San
Francisco, and that the sooner an Aus-
tralian force (not “token”) joins the
armies in Burma the better. In those
armies British, East and West Africans
have been fighting alongside the Indians,
but not troops of Australia, though Aus-
tralia, next to India, is most vitally
affected, since its communication line by
air with Europe and Western Asia lies
through Burma. And Australia during
the crucial months before the Bornean
campaign was entered upon was the only
country which did not have troops in an
actual major battle-line. It was the fault
of the Government, not of the battle-
eager A.I.F.
The ultimatum sent to Tokyo was re-
jected after a three-hour Cabinet meet-
ing in Tokyo. The Premier announced
that the fight would continue to the end,
Russia or no Russia.
Effects of Russian Entry
If Russia were to come in at the
present juncture it could not add any-
thing to the naval war in the Far East.
Moreover, the use of Vladivostok would
not make Japan more accessible to the
Allies ; most of the Siberian coast will
be ice-locked before the time comes to
launch a campaign on land inside Japan
proper. The one great advantage would
be to assure that the Japanese forces in
Manchuria would be occupied, provided
the Allies could supply the Russians with
material to fight and for transport, as
they did in Europe. However, equip-
ment standards as between the Russians
and Japanese are on more of an equality
than they were between Germans and the
Russians, who had to rely almost en-
tirely on American transport in their
long moves forward, and on the British
for much more in the way of food,
clothing and armament.
Nevertheless, if the American forces
have the strength to land in Japan and
to fight the war out in the heart of that
country, any campaign on the mainland
would only be subsidiary, especially since
the present Allies already are in a posi-
tion to control the movement of sup-
plies and men between the Asian con-
tinent and the home islands to a domi-
nating extent, if not totally.
A curious delusion prevails that Far
Eastern U.S.S.R., as represented by
Siberia impinging on the Japanese coast,
is a teeming, hearty nation of Russians
armed in tens of millions, all waiting for
the day when they may attack the
Japanese enemy. The hard fact is that
when the last figures were available the
population of the Russian districts east
of the Yenisei River and including
Irkutsk was less than that of Australia.
The East Siberian region, of which Vladi-
vostok and Khabarovsk are the centres,
has 4,000,000 people. Much of it is
frozen in for long periods. And it is
sandwiched between Manchukuo, which
has a population of about 35,000,000,
and the Sea of Japan, with all Jap-
controlled North China to the south.
Vladivostok is 200 miles further from
Janan nroper than Okinawa.
It will be interesting to see how Russia,
without any bombing force worth the
name, without a mercantile marine and
with only a single open winter port —
Rashin, which is inside the Sea of Japan
7 I


WANTED TO SELL.
U.S.A. ARMY RAINPROOF
COATS - - 35/-
(Send height).
Postage 1/6. Interstate 2/6.
NO COUPONS.
U.S. Disposal Co., 103 William Street, Mel-
bourne.
Local Sales at only 26 Greenwood Street,
Abbotsford, Victoria.
_ Missing Friend.
WALTER CURTIS, brother of the late Mrs. Ellen
May Doherty, of Jamieson, Victoria, thought to be
employed in N.S.W. as a farm labourer, or anyone
knowing his whereabouts please communicate with
Messrs. Madden and Candy, Solicitors, 443 Little
Collins Street, Melbourne.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
CD
am
—will be able to help, if help it does,
apart from helping itself in the manner
so effective in Poland and the Balkan
States. , .. ' .
As to that, it is worth while to see what
Russia has seized in this war, “defensive
positions to protect the Socialist Sixth or
the World ostensibly against a German
imperialism which doesn’t now exist.
Actually, almost every point which has
been seized is strategically of more use
for offensive than defensive purposes:
1. A full third of Poland, apart from the
fact that the rest is under Russian military and
police occupation. , . , ,
2. East Prussia, which has been seized and
not merely occupied. _ ,
3. The Baltic States, Latvia, Estonia and
Lithuania; composed of peaceful, democratic
peoples offensive to nobody. The pretext that
these little republics were needed for defensive
purposes proved to be absolute rubbish when an
attack came. The Russians did - not even
attempt to defend the Baltic States when Ger-
many attacked. The Germans overran most
of them in a matter of days against slight re-
4. Karelia and the Hango Peninsula, taken
from Finland, as well as the isthmus area west
of Leningrad. Petsamo, with its chrome-nickel
mines. Thus Russia obtains the control of all
Finland’s metals and of her northern port.
Finland is virtually a Russian slave State.
5. The Finnmark in Northern Norway has
been occupied, and there is no word as yet of
the Russians getting out of it.
6. Bornholm, Danish territory, near the mouth
of the Baltic, was occupied without prelimi-
nary consultation with the Danes, who were
forced later to acquiesce. Not a defensive
position, it is a position very suitable for
offensive action against either Sweden or Nor-
way, and it controls the entrance to the Baltic
I. Ruthenia, across the Carpathians, which
formed Poland’s national boundary, has been
“ceded” to Russia by Czechoslovakia.
8. Bessarabia has been taken back from
Rumania and Constanza, and the Ploesti oilfields
seemingly are under Russian control.
9. From Bulgaria, the Black Sea port of
Varna has been seized. It is a port which
Russia would need for an attack on Turkish
Thrace and Chataldja and the Dardanelles.
And the Russians are now claiming the Kars
and Ardahan areas, which would rob the Turks
of their strategic defences in the _ north-east
and render it difficult for them to resist Russian
attack from that direction. Moscow Radio
has dwelt fiercely in the past few weeks on the
unfriendliness of the Turks, who since 1939 have
never shown anything but a conciliatory front
to the Russians. And the Russians are demand-
ing “modification” of cbntrol of the Dardanelles
and apparently the right to plant a detachment
of the Red Army in fortifications upon them.
10. In Persia, the Russians have been trying
to force themselves into control of portion of
the oilfields, though they possess vast un :
touched oil resources on the Caspian Sea ana
elsewhere. , , , , . ,
II. Moscow has demanded and obtained a
right to share in the talks on the fate of Tan-
gier.
In effect, while still professing to hate
imperialism, Russia has “acquired” a lot
of territory since 1940, apart from the land
which it occupies by agreement with the
Allies, whose timely help saved the Rus-
sian peoples, and whose friendly Govern-
ments and political systems Communist
parties are now pursuing a concerted
plan to overthrow.
The Australian Communist party is
issuing copies of (1) speeches by Stalin,
delivered in 1939, laying it down as an
axiom that the communist plan cannot
mature in Europe while “capitalist” Gov-
ernments there remain unliquidated; (2)
pamphlets by Stalin giving detailed in-
structions for the organisation and pro-
motion of revolutions.
Of course, Marshal Stalin may be un-
aware of this output. Since he is the
owner of the copyright and can prevent
the use of his writings on a wholesale
scale in friendly countries, our Mr.
Maloney, who was Poland’s Protecting
Power, might be asked to call his atten-
tion to what is happening.
The Navies Visit Kure.
“Ek Dum”: Far more effective than all
the ultimatums and the chatter has been
the continued battering of western Japan
by Allied fleets and air forces.
The lull after the previous week’s
operations was short indeed. On Tuesday,
July 24, more than 1000 British and U.S.
aircraft from carriers appeared at dawn
to attack Kure, one' of Japan’s half-
dozen largest naval bases, in weather
which, though improving, was still cloudy
and in parts foggy.
The raiders were compelled to fly over
Shikoku Island on the way, but cloud
gave them some cover, and they reached
their destination safe. They proceeded at
once to dive-bomb everything in sight, in
the face of intense and accurate flak fire
which cost some aircraft.
Before the day was far advanced it had
become the busiest the Pacific air war had
seen. Nowhere in the heart of Japan
Was it necessary to look for either quan-
tity or variety of Allied machines. These
were deck-launched Avengers, Seafires,
Fireflies £fid Hellcats, each in their
own quarter performing their own func-
tion against Kure and Kobe. There were
93 Mustangs, working from Iwo against
Nagoya, with 600 Superfortresses, load-
ing h.e. bombs, of which they were de-
clared to have dropped 4000 tons on the
Osaka-Nagoya area. And there were the
U.S. and British fleets, steaming comfort-
ably half an hour off the Japanese shore
without molestation worth the name from
anybody or anything. And further north
there were flotillas of desjroyers hunting
the waters of the Kuriles and bombarding
military installations and fishing bases.
Further south-west General Mac-
Arthur’s squadrons were at work on
Shanghai and Fusan (Korea), and de-
stroyers were smashing up small ships
along the coast of Chekiang, while units
of the U.S. Fleet Air Wing roamed
the Yellow Sea and the Tshushima
Strait, leaving a trail of burning
vessels and wrecks behind them. It was
reported that on the previous Sunday
night U.S. destroyers had even driven into
Tokyo Bay and sunk several ships in a
convoy.
The great feature of July 24 was the
lack of secrecy with which the work was
done. There was no radio silence. The
fleets moved openly. And next morning
Admiral Halsey announced over his
radios that “the Pacific Fleet has opened
a new phase of naval warfare which can-
not be interpreted otherwise than as the
beginning of the final plunge into the
heart of the Japanese Empire. ’' The
admiral, in his usual picturesque manner,
added a light touch by regretting that his
ships had not wheels “so that we could
chase the enemy inland when our guns
drive him away from the coast.”
It was announced that the raiders had
heavily damaged the converted battleship
Hyuga, which has been turned into a
hybrid aircraft-carrier, also the heavy
cruiser Tone (14,000 tons), a light cruiser
of the Kone class, the heavy carrier
Amagi and a destroyer. Moderately dam-
aged were believed to be the Converted
battleship Ise, the heavy cruiser Aoba,
the light cruiser Oyodo, the heavy air-
craft-carrier Katsuragai and a gunboat.
The battleship Haruna—for sinking
which off Aparri, Philippines, in the first
month of the war a daring officer received
a Congressional Medal of Honor —an old
heavy cruiser, the heavy carrier Asom,
the light carrier Kaiyo, two destroyers
and a midget submarine were mentioned
as lightly injured, together with 60 Japa-
nese aircraft destroyed and 110 damaged.
British reports merely mentioned Kobe
operations. They claimed a Kobe-class
escort carrier and five merchant vessels
as sunk, an old destroyer, a train ferry,
eight merchant ships and a number of
small vessels as damaged.
No U.S. casualty list was issued, but
the British admitted that eight machines
and 12 pilots and aircrew had not re-
turned.
Thick weather hampered operations for
a day or two after the strike of July 24,
though activity continued as far as was
possible, and the Superfortresses con-
tinued their attacks, especially upon oil
centres. And it was mentioned that the
new Dominator, which is the “super”
edition of the Liberator, was in action.
The toll for July 24 and 25 was even-
tually counted up to 23 warships damaged
—total, 250,000 tons —82 merchantmen
and small ships sunk or destroyed, 200
small craft damaged, 156 aircraft shot
down or- destroyed on the ground and
212 others damaged. Off the Tsushima
Strait General Kenney’s bombers claimed
22,000 tons of ships in three convoys as
destroyed.
The final touch to the Kure raids was
applied on Saturday morning, July 28,
when 1500 British and U.S. carrier-borne
raiders met fierce opposition, both from
flak batteries and from interceptor squad-
rons, which developed a heavy airborne
defence not always easy to penetrate.
“Scores” of enemy machines were re-
ported shot down, and the battleship
Hyuga sunk.
The Haruna and Ise, battleships, were
further damaged, the escort Kaiyo finally
crippled and the heavy cruisers Tone,
Aoba and Oyodo left on fire. More than
150 enemy aircraft were destroyed. Three
submarines were sunk, and a considerable
bag of destroyers’ destroyer escorts and
small fry was damaged. Then General
MacArthur’s bombers joined in with 700
machines used against Kure and other
bases, and claimed to have left a battle-
ship burning furiously and to have hit
two cruisers and a carrier. Allied ships,
including King George V, bombed Hama-
mai Suo.
Death Sentence on Cities >
Meanwhile, the American Fleet had
begun a bold policy of announcing “death
sentences” on Japanese cities, “to be
carried out within the next few days,” for
the purpose of “bringing home to the
Japanese people the fact that we can de-
stroy any Japanese city we like.” The
belt of cities named reaches from Hako-
date on Hokkaido, in the north} to Kurume
on Kyushu, at the opposite end of the
islands. They were advised that the U.S.
Air Force “does not wish to injure inno-
cent people,” who should “evacuate the
cities and save your lives.” Tsu,
Aumori, Ichinomiya, Ujiyamada and
Ogaki on Honshu and Uwajima on
Shikoku, all with populations in the
50,000 - 60,000 class, were promptly
attacked.
The warnings were accompanied by
shoals of statistics about future bomb
loads which, according to General
Kenney, will soon be “easily” stepped up
to 5000 tons for single raids, against 3700
maximum single-raid loads carried in the
European war.
The general declared that the Allies
could now put 7500 machines over Japan
and occupied territories, and this total
did not include reserve bombers and
fighters now being deployed from Europe.
General Arnold, C.-in-C. U.S. Air
Forces, who is in Manila, said that the
2,000,000 tons of bombs would be
dropped on Japan by the R.A.F. and the
U.S.A.F. during 1946 — i.e., twice as much
as .was dropped on Germany during the
whole European war and equal to about
14 tons per square mile over the whole
of Japan proper. If this can be achieved
the Allies are certainly on the way to
winning the war by bombing alone.
Air war always sounds easy and one-
sided when reported or forecast,
especially when the reports or prophecies
are for the benefit of the enemy. In
estimating promises of what is going to
happen it is well to recall that the 5800
tons of bombs per day which were to fall
on Japan from July 1 have not been
actuality by a very long way, and that
the Superfortresses’ difficulties are illus-
trated by the fact that 180 of those in-
volved in the raids of July 24 were com-
pelled to make forced landings on Iwo
through fuel shortages.
The Kamikaze’s Game
The kamikaze has been a main
Japanese weapon against Allied fleets in
the North Pacific and it seems to have
been policy to pour on it a ridicule which
it did not deserve. For this no authority
is to blame. Ridicule is one of the
weapons of war; and if authorities can
deter the enemy from using a dangerous
weapon by laughing at it they naturally
laugh loud and long in the attempt to
lead the users to believe that they were
wasting time.
Mounting facts, however, have made it
plain that the kamikaze is no laughing
matter, especially since there seem to be
limitless Japanese who are prepared to
turn themselves into non-returnable bomb
material. It has been written that only
one per cent, of kamikazes get through to
an area where they become dangerous.
But, provided there are enough pilots
available to die for their country,
it would pay the enemy to lose 1000
men and machines to sink one of the new
45,000-ton American battleships or A.Cs.
or one of the Royal Navy’s K.Gs. or
Indefatigable.
The kind of damage they have done
and are still capable of doing is illus-
trated by the casualty lists of the Philip-
pines, Iwojima and Okinawa.
Apart from the ships at Okinawa and
medium and small craft, there was
H.M.A.S. Australia, so badly knocked
about that it was deemed worth while to
lose her services while she voyaged to
England for repairs. Then the new
United States carrier Princeton, badly-
mangled and nearly sunk, despite her
heavy defence.
Next, the 33,000-ton U.S.A. a.-c. Sara-
toga, which was hit seven times and sub-
jected to more varied damage than had
ever been seen on a ship of the size at
Puget Sound, where she was repaired.
She had a large hole above the water-
line, another below the waterline. The
forward part of her flight deck was
churned up beyond use. A hangar was
penetrated, its parked aircraft being set
on fire; and there were other items in
the catalogue of damage which kept her
out of the fighting fleets for months.
One more kamikaze victim has been
reported—the reconstructed U.S. battle-
ship California, which was flagship of
the U.S. fleet during its visit to Australia
in 1925, and which was sunk in Pearl
Harbor on December 7, 1941. The
damage happened in Lingayen Gulf dur-
ing the Philippines landings on January
9. The suicide craft crashed upside down
and caused 203 casualties, including six
officers and 26 ratings killed.
During the week it was reported Jhat
an Australian device, known as a “dis-
integrator,” had been sent to Canada by
Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser for urgent
manufacture to deal with kamikazes. It
is a combination of two weapons already
in use. There is said to be nothing revo-
lutionary in its principles, but it promises
so well that it was thought worth while
to rush its development at top speed.
Jap Debacle in Burma.
“Ek Dum”: Sir Montague Stopford’s
Twelfth Army, the new formation which
has joined General Slim s Fourteenth
Army in General Oliver Leese’s Group in
Burma, turns out to be the force which
has broken the escape attempts of the
Japanese in the Pegu Yomas.
Its baptism in the floods of the Sit-
taung was a very literal one, because much
of the fighting was done in the font of
the Sittaung valley, anything from a foot
to three feet deep in mud and water.
From this dreadful flounder the troops
of the Twelfth have emerged with few
casualties but clutching large bags of
forlorn captives—the largest in any single
operation in Burma. They are hungry,
sometimes almost living skeletons, but the
fact that they were still making eastward
with no machinery for crossing the swift-
flowing Sittaung, which was running over
its banks beyond the canal, advertises the
inhuman tenacity of their race.
Of the original 12,000 shut off in the
Yomas 5500 had been counted as corpses
on July 28 and over 550 had been caged.
And many had been shot on the river.
Over a drenched sector 200 miles
long the countryside was still full of
hungry little yellow men worming their
ways through the bush, some of them
clutching the half a dozen bamboo sticks
and hank of twine with which they
hoped to find their way over the Jordan
into the promised land round Moulmein.
Those who arrive will scarcely be an
asset to the Japanese Army.
Mysterious Japanese reports asserted
last week that Allied troops (“American
in the first instalment) had landed on
Puket Island, 600 miles north-west of
Singapore, off the mountainous elbow in
the Siamese isthmus. It was said at first
that the Japanese positions were being
shelled; then that the landing had been
beaten off; finally that a new landing
had been made in rubber boats. Two
Allied cruisers, it was alleged, had been
damaged during the landing operations
and on July 28 fierce fighting was m
progress. There was no confirmation
from Seac up to July 30.
The Chinese have retaken Kweilin, the
former main U.S. air base in Kwangsi.


VICKERS.. .VICKERS GIN..
'«• 1*
icKers
in
m.
ers
Si
S^A
UMlimHiß
The Fmest Leathe
XvPreservdtive
mm
WR4S/31
mmmx
SHOE POLISH
FOR OVER 50 YEARS
A GOOD POLISH
SPORTING NOTIONS
There were enough exciting and unusual
doings at the season-ending meeting at Moonee
Valley on Saturday to send the most financially
lightened customers home feeling they had had
a reasonable return for their money—if fol-
lowers of the racing game took such things into
account in striking a balance.
Leading flat rider A. Breasley figured promi-
nently in the doings of this eventful afternoon.
He began it by ending Oxford Street’s mono-
tonous run of seconds (six in his previous seven
starts), urging him along through the mud to
defeat his stablemate Irish Myth a length in the
six-furlongs Derrimut Handicap, with Camou-
flage a distant third. The scratching pen, which
removed seven of the prospective starters, in-
cluding the most likely of them, and the time,
I.lBs, spoke their piece on the going, and the
starter spoke his on the going forth, fining
Breasley a tenner for disobedience.
In the Cooee Handicap Breasley’s mount,
Ski-Wakee, was taken out, because of sickness,
four minutes before scheduled starting time.
As Ski-Wakee was a strong favorite, bets up
to announced time of scratching were adjusted
to tote odds. The winner was the Solar Bear-
Chopper bay colt Leryhen, from Keep Smiling
and Dame Dorrie, both improvers.
Breasley rode Philander into third place in
the principal flat race, the 12-furlongs Glen
Orla Handicap, behind Clayton and Parvena,
then wound up the day with a most brilliant ex-
hibition of horsemanship, getting Brace up just
in time in the mile Sunset Welter to snatch
victory by a head from Camouflage (having a
second run) and Panmure, two others shaping
like early winners. Once more Breasley in-
curred the starter’s displeasure, this time assessed
at a fiver’s worth, but he made his winners
for the season 53, with also a couple of dead-
heats for first. Breasley’s two wins and a third
from three mounts are typical of his riding for
months past. He is the season’s leading jockey
not only in number of wins but in consistent
first-class horsemanship, his fine riding in recent
months all the more praiseworthy in coming
after a nasty fall in a race that put him out
of the saddle for a couple of weeks.
The excitements of the flat racing were still
mild to those of the Brunswick Hurdle and
A. V. Hiskens Steeple, each of which provided
the unusual spectacle of the winner being actu-
ally passed and headed by lengths in the run
home, then raising a winning effort. The Hurdle
was an extraordinary affair in another respect.
The winner, Manstar, going to the front early
and leading out up to six lengths, hit practically
every obstacle both times round, and nearly sold
out altogether at a couple of them. At the
last' Walladale outjumped and passed him, but
Manstar produced the needed extra effort to
come again and get there by a head. Still, he’s
bred for gameness, being by Manfred, who once
gave a field a furlong start and beat it.
Whether thq. similar. occurrence in the Steeple
was an exact repetititon might perhaps be
doubted, though there’d be no difference in the
effect on the pulses of backers of winner and
loser. This time Victory March, apparently
coming very fast, headed Lime Rock as they
were approaching the last fence, cleared it well,
and seemed to be drawing away when Lime
Rock astounded the multitude by ranging up on
the outside and having half a length advantage
at the finish, with Balzac third. It is recalled,
however, that L. Meenan, who was on Lime
Rock, managed precisely the same sort of win
on another mount some weeks back; and in
both cases he might have been merely using the
other horse to give his own a sighter over the
last obstacle. Anyhow, win nicely by evident
fine horsemanship he did, and at the odds (10
to 1 against) Lime Rock’s expenses for the trip
over from S.A. should have been easily liqui-
dated. It was the best price about any Meenan
winner during the season, and he was on 15
of them altogether. Also, he was on five
seconds and five thirds, being only 11 times
unplaced in 36 rides.
Lime Rock, who carried 10.3, has only 9.11
in the three-and-a-half miles Australian Steeple-
chase on August 11. He had 10.2 when fourth
in the Grand National Steeple, and his training
had been interfered with. The distance will
not bother him, but if Winterset comes along
all right the South Australian, who is firm favo-
rite foi the big Steeple, will be without the
unquestionable benefit of Meenan’s horseman-
ship. Moreover, Winterset is also down in
the weights.
Scratching of Isambard, Bay David and Sil-
garo, the three at the top of the weights, robbed
the Brunswick Hurdle of some of its value as
a pointer to next Saturday’s Australian Hurdle.
Solvent —favorite on Saturday, as he was for the
Grand National Hurdle —ran an erratic race,
but could do better. Manstar has the same
weight as he carried last week, 9.6, and if he
could improve in the time as a jumper, and if
his legs got over the battering they must have
suffered in the Valley race he would t'ake beat-
ing neitt Saturday. However, Gay Invader —
third with 10.9 in the National—reads well in
the Australian Hurdle, in which he has 10.11,
as does Bay David, who should be easily up
to 11.6 (101 b. more than he carried to victory
in the National).
* * * *
The S.T.C. held the last Sydney meeting
of the season at Moorefield, and, with events
for two- and four-year-olds, an Encourage and
two Trials on a card of seven races, gave some
of the lesser lights a chance to win their ex-
penses for the year. The customary awards
were made to the leading jockey and owner.
Four and a half wins behind at the start,
W. Cook rode t'wo winners, but failed to coyer
the difference, and J. Thompson, without riding
a winner on the day, collected the premiership
and wristlet-watch. Leading owner F. W.
Hughes handed both prize and the honor to his
trainer, J. W. McCurley.
Always nippy early, the Nuffield filly Gracious
led the two-year-olds out from the barrier, with
Strauss, a colt also by Nuffield, and the Pen-
theus colt Pension close on her heels. The filly
quickly faded and the two colts disputed the
lead to the home turn, from where Strauss
held his lead to the post, finishing two lengths
ahead of Don Giovanni, with Pension, a
strongly supported favorite, third. Don Gio-
vanni possibly had bad luck. Usually a smart
beginner he missed the jump slightly, worked his
way to be in the first three, struck trouble at
the turn and fell back, and was coming again
strongly at the finish. With only one previous
start on the track, he seems still a little uncom-
fortable on the hills and dales of Kogarah.
In the Flying, Star Gold’s chances seemed
too cut-and-dried to be true, but very few of
those looking for something to beat the favorite
picked Fermanagh, who came from an appar-
ently hopeless position to beat the front-running
Twice Royal, and pay £l7 10s. 9d. and
£3 12s. 6d. on the tote. Star Gold was third
and paid 6s. 9d. The winner, an aged chestnut
horse by Dunnottar from Glow, won his last
race, a mile handicap at Randwick, three
years ago.
The other open-company event, the S.T.C.
Handicap, enjoys some notoriety as a snare
for punters—nearly two dozen successively de-
feated favorites. Despite his recent win over
the Moorefield mile and a quarter, the four-
year-old Hua-Peal-o’-Bells horse fum Again,
a very capable galloper, was sent out a 6-to-l
third favorite, punters preferring Haripur and
the Denis Boy gelding Timken, who ran Turn
Again to half a head at their last encounter.
Neither of the favored gave supporters much
of a show, Turn Again leading all the way
and once more winning by half a head, after
gamely holding off the Veilmond six-year-old
Allan Veil. Marquis was third, and the time,
2.8, was only two seconds outside Cavedweller’s
track record, which had stood for 15 years.
The Encourage gave spectators their money’s
worth, Gay Mogtrch, the leader most of the
way, and Attention, who joined him in the
last furlong, staging a ding-dong battle over
the last 50 yards for a dead-heat. Penni-
cuik collected what was left of tlte prize-money.
Prince Hua, Cockcrow and Nepean River, in
that order, finished best of seven starters in
the Four-year-old Handicap, after the consis-
tent sprinter Cargeonel had led them for most
of the mile journey. Three-year-olds took three
of the five events open to them, including both
divisions of the Trial (six furlongs). The
Medieval Knight gelding Prince Galahad led
all the way to beat Bab Hall and the Midstream
mare Notre Dame, and, in the second division,
the Beau Pere gelding Oriental, also an all-
the-way winner, beat another three-year-old,
the Pent'heus gelding Pearler, and Constable.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):
Three-year-old: Civic Pride, 1; Don Gio-
vanni, 2; Lakshmi Vallis, 3. Trial: Questing,
1; Even Time, 2; Melos, 3. Green Hills Handi-
cap : Strathdarr, 1; Kingsdale, 2; Bragger, 3.
Flying: Gay King, 1; Vermeil, 2; Star Gold,
3. Warwick August Handicap: Night Parade,
1; Buzz Off, 2; Marabelle, 3, Highweight':
D. 5.0., 1; Philgita, 2; Dieppe, 3.
When the routine applications by jockeys
for permits to ride in the coming season came
before the S.A. Jockey Club it refused leave
to the first arid second on the winning list of
this season, and also two others well known.
Bastian, easily at the top, had long experience
in Victoria, and Silburn also had plenty in
N.S.W. The club published no reason except
“As recommended by the stipendiary stewards,”
and there does not Seem to be any appeal from
the decision.
jfg jj*
The Australians in England:
The Services XI had two matches last week,
both drawn. Coventry called it a day at 273
for 7 (Fagg 100). Australia didn’t see the best
of this Kent player with the 1936-37 English
XI: he scored only 32 runs in three Test innings,
his total for the tour being 399, averaging
24.93. Cristofani again came with a good effort
(5 for 83). This former Sydney High School
all-rounder is certainly building up a reputa-
tion for consistency. Australia’s reply was 202
(Cristofani 52, Staines 40 and Carmody 38).
In the return match against Yorkshire the
Services scored 232 (Miller 111, Whitington 30
aqd Sismey 23), and 5 for 162 (Sismey 46, Whit-
ington 35). When Yorkshire had 153 for the
first wicket it looked like a day’s runabout in
the sun for the Aussies. Then Pepper took a
turn and the side collapsed for 243 (Hutton 111,
Mitchell 57 and Leyland 25). Pepper got 6 for
69 off 32 overs, Cristofani 1 for 71 and Pett'i-
ford 1 for 43. Miller bowled five overs for
nine runs, then was spelled to give his injured
back a chance to recover.
As the 1914-18 A.I.F. did, the Services team
is negotiating for a series of matches against
South Africa, and possibly India. The Old
A.I.F. played nine matches in S’Africa; won
seven, drew two.
For the fourth Test, beginning this week,
England has dropped the colts Carr, Deeves
and White for Robertson, Pollard and Fishlock.
The new man, Fishlock, is a hard-hitting 38-
year-old left-hander from Surrey, who promised
big things in first-class cricket, with 2129 runs in
1936, 1850 in 1937, 2121 in 1938 and 1730 in
1939, while his smashing 93 in 70min. (out of
104 for one wicket) is still remembered by the
Australian bowlers of 1938.
A bit of a change in the three “Victory” Tests
already played has been the triumph of the
bowlers. Maybe they’ve been helped a trifle
by the batsmen’s lack of practice or by the
raw state of some of the wickets. Australia’s
455 and England’s 294 (both in the first Test)
are the highest totals in the series. Compare
these with the pastings in the last Tests in
England in 1938, when there were scores of
7 for 903, 8 for 658 and 494 by England;
and 6 for 427, 422 and 411 by Australia.
* * * *
“Old Reg’lar”: Bowled by Time last
week, Bill Stuart, curator of Sydney
Cricket Ground, helper, adviser and
friend to thousands of cricketers for
more than 40 years, until ill-health called
a halt. The jeers and cheers hurled at him
while, bucket and broom in hand, he fol-
lowed the old horse and roller between
innings were to him a tonic, and he’d
chuckle “Oh, well, let ’em have their
fun; they’re only youngsters once.”
Stuart was an artist in the preparation of
shirt-front wickets. He had grim views
on the footballers who tore the Bulli-top
soil to shreds.
* * * *
The V.F.L. competition is shaking itself
down for the final stages. South Mel-
bourne, which jumped to the lead early,
is still there, but the chopping and chang-
ing for the other three places goes on;
’Wood, ’Scray, North, Richmond and
Fitzroy all in it. ’Scray, as in other years,
has been threatening the leaders all
through the piece and, as in other years,
looks like fading out at the finish, hav-
ing been stoushed two matches running.
Last Saturday week ’Scray had Fitzroy
in the bag and lost on the bell; last Sat-
urday it was worn down in slushy going
and beaten 11.7-8.6 by North, which put
’Scray into third place, allowed ’Wood,
with a 15.9-9.13 win over Hawthorn, to
get second place and kept North in
fourth place over Richmond. The Tigers
disposed of Melbourne in a willing go
by 13.14 to 11.13, and South Melbourne
had Geelong served up for a feast of
18.27 to 10.7. Out of the limelight Essen-
don beat St. Kilda, 18.15-3.6, and Carl-
ton beat Fitzroy 9.4-7.12. Next Satur-
day Footscray meets South Melbourne
in what could be the match of the season.
* * # *
Battling against Parramatta for a place
in the Rugby Union semi-finals, Northern
Suburbs had a willing and capable set of
forwards, but Parramatta’s backs were
too good and “Parra” won by 14 points
to 5. St. George is another team with
fiery forwards, but here again the backs
were inferior to the Randwick lot. Winger
Paterson, who has scored more than
double the total points of any other
player this season, notched another 16
for Randwick, including a try, to give the
’Wicks a 22-6 win. Scoring five tries to
one University overwhelmed West 25-10.
Other games: East 42, Gordon 3 ; Drum-
mo yne 25, Manly 17. The leading teams
(they will almost certainly be “the four”)
are Randwick, Parramatta, East and
University.
* * * *
“Nuffin”: Johnny Ross, chairman of
the Queensland Rugby Union, has been
sports master at Nudgee College for 20
years, and for 30 years has coached sport-
ing teams there. A life member of the
Q.R.U., chairman since 1940, he has been
secretary of the G.P.S. Association (Q.)
since 1929, and is also a keen member of
the Q. Amateur Swimming Assn. It was
largely due to his persuasion that the
G.P.S. adopted R.U. in 1928, which, in
turn, was the direct cause of the revival
of the code in the State in 1929. In his
college days Ross held the All Schools
400yds. track record.
“P. McM.”: That little extra pace has
been the foundation of Randwick winger
Len Slattery’s success in the games war
service has allowed him to compete in.
He won the 110 yards Rugby Union
championship last season. A young
A.I.F. infantryman, he wormed his
way out of a “protected” job to enlist
at 17, and has seen three years’ ser-
vice. He has three brothers in the A.I.F.
—one, John, who plays with Randwick
reserves, managed somehow to get out
of the militia early in 1942, when militia-
men were not allowed to change over, and
join the A.1.F., serving two years in New
Guinea.
* * sH *
The value of a clean straight left was
shown at the Sydney Stadium when the
Royal Marine Jimmy Brunt met Bill
Fadden. Always active. Brunt forced
Fadden from ringside to ringside in every
round. But while he kept boring in he left
himself wide open, and Fadden piled up
points with snappy lefts to head and
body. With powder-charged rights Brunt
knocked Fadden down for nine' seconds
in the sixth round and for “eight” in the
eighth. On each occasion the Australian
made a fine recovery, and only cheers
were heard when Joe Wallis gave the
decision to Fadden.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The tempo of Melbourne life quick-
ened last week. First item in the social
calendar was the Mewton-Wood con-
cert, and this young pianist received a
great ovation for his fine performance
with the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra,
which was under the baton of Prof. Ber-
nard Heinze. Lady Dugan was there,
an elegant figure in her black evening
gown, over which she wore a long-fitting
coat of black velvet. Her entourage in-
cluded Mary Lisle Johnson, also attrac-
tively garbed in a black gown. Another in
the audience was Mrs. Bernard Heinze.
The ballet has grown in popularity
with each succeeding programme. Each
performance has found the house com-
pletely sold out, and the performers
have been vociferously acclaimed. A
factor in the warmth of public response
is the composition of the company,
which is almost all-Australian. Dorothy
Stevenson dances across the stage like
a fragment of thistledown, and her
performance in “L’amour Ridicule”
is a poem in movement. Recently
R. G. Menzies relaxed from affairs
of State at the ballet, accompanied by
his wife and daughter Heather. R.G.M.
takes pride in presenting Heather as “my
only unmarried daughter.” As he has
only one, friends appreciate the mild jest.
With the Menzies family were Janet and
Bowen Pain, Janet a graceful figure in
lon£ gown and brown fur wrap.
Also noticed in the audience was Hilda
Corbett, delightfully garbed in aqua blue.
Her frock, embellished with tiny bronze
beads on the bodice, was allied to a full-
pleated skirt. Her matching coat of soft
Angora featured a square-cut kolinsky
collar. Her small blue hat sat far back
on the head and was finished with a tiny
eye veil. Betty Jess, an energetic mem-
ber of the A.W.A.S., in town on leave,
was with her W.A.A.F. friend Jean Wal-
lace Mitchell. With Jill Burnett were her
two “middy” sons, Rory and Pat, up
from Flinders Naval Depot. Fourth
member of this party was Eve Clark.
The Wings Club’s sinews have been
strengthened by more than £lOO as the
result of a bridge party in the clubrooms,
arranged by the Brookes lady and her
Elm Tree Cottage Auxiliary. Among
those who assisted were Mrs. Wallace
Mitchell and Valerie Purves, who is to
be hon. amenities officer for Land Army
girls. Mrs. David Syme, smart in wine
cloth coat and tiny matching hat, was
with Mrs. Lindsay Plant, also smart in
red. Another of the players was Mrs:
Edric Henty, who highlighted a suit of
dull olive green with a brilliant emerald-
green mushroom felt hat banded in
brown. At another table Mrs. George
Mendes, in black Persian lamb-trimmed
coat and small black hat with gay colored
ribbon bows, partnered Sylvia Green, also
smart in black. The Brookes lady covered
her black frock with a silver-fox cape.
Her small black hat was trimmed with
blue ostrich feathers. Marea Lucas, wear-
ing the uniform of the Women’s Air
Training Corps, helped to serve afternoon
tea.
Lady Dugan cut a large birthday cake,
later enjoyed by guests who attended the
third birthday celebrations of the
Women’s Land Army. Lady Dugan was
received by the State Commandant of
the W.L.A., Miss Kitty McEwen. Mary
Lisle Johnson, who attended Lady Dugan,
was smart and elegant in a black tailored
coat, in which was pinned a brilliant
brooch featuring her initials. Her large
black felt hat had ribbon trimmings.
Many congratulatory messages were re-
ceived and read at the party. Among the
guests were Don Cameron, Deputy Direc-
tor of Man-power, and Mrs. Cameron.
Daughter-in-law Mrs. Don Cameron, jun.,
who hails from Edinburgh, was smartly
attired in a three-piece ensemble of green
and white check tweeds. The McPherson
lady, a hard worker on the Land Army
Girls’ Amenities Committee, favored
black. Prof. Wadham spoke highly of the
work done by the Land Army girls, and
said he was in favor of the Government
including them in all the rehabili-
tation plans made for girls of other
services.
Each year the Business Girls’ War Ser-
vice Bureau makes a special effort to raise
funds for patriotic causes. This year a
“Miss Victory” competition is being held.
Louise Stagoll, a member of the bureau
since its inception, is one of the candi-
dates and she organised a dramatic and
humorous recital which was presented
by Iris Shaw. Also assisting was the
Young People’s Orchestra, conducted by
Madame Agnes Smyth. Each year the
8.G.W.5.8. gives £lOOO to the P.O.W.
fund and also makes donations to the
A.C.F., Red Cross and other war-time
activities. The bureau presented an am-
bulance to the Army and is responsible
for a ward at Heidelberg Military Hos-
pital. These girls also give a dance every
fortnight for servicemen.
A large birthday cake in honor of the
fifth anniversary of the formation of the
Silver \yings Auxiliary was made by Mrs.
J. McEwen and occupied the place of
honor during the annual meeting, held
at Menzies. This auxiliary has few mem-
bers but they work hard. In the last five
years this group has raised more than
£4OOO, all being spent on the men of the
R.A.A.F. Fifty beds at Air Force House
was the first gift made by this auxiliary
and in the second year money was raised
to purchase a Tiger Moth training ’plane.
Then followed gift of a mobile X-ray
outfit, and in the fourth year a film pro-
jector was presented to the R.A.A.F.
This year £473 was raised to buy a
welfare outfit for an entertainment van,
which was sent to a squadron in a north-
ern battle erea. At the annual meeting
it was decided to spend £lOO on wireless
sets for another squadron. Mrs. Barry
Thomson, president of the auxiliary, en-
tertained the members at afternoon tea
after the meeting, when the cake was
ceremoniously cut. Members also en-
joyed the singing of Joyce Macartney.
The Land Army celebrated its third
birthday anniversary with a special night
at the Tivoli. Director David Martin
handed all proceeds to Lady Dugan to
provide comforts for Land Army lasses.
When Sir Winston and Lady Dugan
arrived at the theatre they found a guard
of honor composed of Land Army girls
waiting for them. Lady Dugan wore
the uniform of commandant. The per-
formers on the stage gave of their best,
and it was announced during the evening
by Bankes Amery, who also referred to
food shortage in Britain, that £llOO had
already been counted and more would
come in.
Many people in the audience paid two
guineas for tickets. Among them were
Wing-Commander and Mrs. John Phillips,
she in black with a silver-fox cape.
Violets pinned in her fair locks were re-
peated on the cape. Betty Ince was also
in black, with a smart little hat of
japonica pink feathers finished with wide
streamers of turquoise ribbons. With
Mrs. Essington Lewis, who covered her
black dinner gown with a kolinsky coat,
was sister-in-law Mrs. Lance Lewis, of
Adelaide. She, too, wore black, with a
silver-fox cape. Kathleen Grant-Hay,
pictured here by Broothorn, was one of
the ticket secretaries.
After the performance the Governor
and Lady Dugan gave a supper party at
G.H., the guests including members of
the Tivoli Gala Night committee, among
them Rosemary Knox, an ermine coat
over her creamy satin gown. Valerie
Howse set off her fairness with a pink
gown, which shimmered with crystal
beads. Kathleen Grant-Hay looked stun-
ning in black and Valerie Purves was
snugly clad in a ruby-red velvet tailored
coat. Assisting to care for guests was
Mary Lisle Johnson, whose black even-
ing skirt was topped by a powder-blue
wool jacket decorated with red sequins.
Staying at G.H. is Mrs. Lisle Johnson,
who, at the supper party, was distinctive
in black with a lustrous fur coat. Miss
Kitty McEwen, State Commandant of
the Land Army, was present, in
uniform. Lud Mayor Nettlefold also
came to the party. Mrs. A. Lord was ac-
companied by her husband. With Min-
ister of Agriculture Norman Martin was
his wife in a floral gown. This couple
soon will leave to take up residence in
London, for Mr. Martin has been
appointed Victoria’s Agent-General.
From Sydney
Sydney welcomed another group of
homecoming prisoners-of-war early last
week—lloo of them. Their faces beamed
happily as they were reunited to children,
wives and parents at the Showground. It
is up to Australia to see that the happy
return is never darkened by any di&-
tresses which can be overcome by a grate-
ful country. These men, as is the case
with all p.-0.-w., have suffered years of
privations and frustrations. Let their
own country’s welcome be so sincere
that it will wipe out the memory of past
bitternesses.
Minister for External Affairs Dr. Evatt
and his wife returned to Sydney last week
with the U.N.C.1.0. incense still about
them. (The Girl in the Flat Opposite
says she hopes the word will never have
to be written “incensed.”) Mrs. Evatt
has talked Australia wherever she went,
and no doubt her words would be as
interest-holding as the small hat she wore
when landing. A mere woman couldn’t
but wonder if it wasn’t an American
model. Awaiting the home-comers was
three-months-old granddaughter with
proud parents, Lieutenant and Mrs. Peter
Evatt.
U.N.R.R.A. central depot in Castle-
reaght-street had a very keen and
observant worker all last week in Mrs.
Robert Jackson. Her husband, Com-
mander Robert Jackson, R.A.N. (0.8. E.
military division), served in Malta
and in the Middle East, and in Malta
Mrs. Jackson was with him. Mrs.
Jackson this week is learning all the
details of the work at Wynyard depot.
Eventually she hopes to join her husband
in his work abroad. He is now senior
Deputy-Director-General of U.N.R.R.A.
and is in Washington, U.S. Mrs. Jack-
son is a Tasmanian. Her mother is Mrs.
Isabel Dick, whose novel Wild Orchard
is having a great sale in America.
U.N.R.R.A. last week was strengthened
by the arrival of six Maoriland lasses.
They are off to Europe, and the winters
there, of course, will hold no terrors for
these daughters of the isles of blustery
winds and snow-topped mountains.
More workers and more clothes are
still needed to keep the ten city depots
going. Parcels can be dropped at Wyn-
yard, the Central depot in Castlereagh-
street, at the Town Hall basement, all
underground stations and at Central
Railway assembly platform. All that is
asked is that the clothes sent in should
be clean, warm in quality and in good
repair. Let all remember as they shiver
in what may be by comparison termed
our Indian summer that the winters in
Europe are bitter-cold, and hurry with
these parcels of mercy.
The committee of the War Veterans'
appeal is proving that courtesy still flour-
ishes in Australia. To leave the field open
to the A.C.F. outsize art union (£20,000
for a shilling if you get the right ticket)
the committee put off the launching of
its own art union. Now, in consideration
of the new war loan opening in October,
it has changed the date of the grand finale
to its “Miss Australia” quest from one in
October to a day in December. One of
the entrants in this Commonwealth-wide
competition is Tivoli Theatre’s Diana
Hartt of this photograph. Diana’s father
was the well-known and popular black-
and-white artist Cecil Hartt. The Smilin’
Thru Club is supporting her candidature,
and has plans for a series of entertain-
ments to help Diana in this good cause.
Photograph by Norton Trevaire.
The Y.W.C.A. is out after an exten-
sion fund of £60,000. All who have fol-
lowed the steady and continuous activi-
ties of Y.W. throughout the war are
hoping this amount will be given gener-
ously, and that the quest for it will not
become a sort of glorified scavenger
hunt. The John Butters lady, who is
president of the association, impressed
on a meeting last Thursday afternoon
that the continued support of the general
public was essential to ifs well-being.
The city hostel is already overtaxed by
demands on its accommodation, and the
pleasantly-placed Y.W. house at Kirri-
billi has a waiting list of 80.
Above all, the association is anxious
that the facilities for education and en-
joyment it has extended to servicemen
and women during the war should grow
and flourish in days of peace. General
secretary Jean Scott made impressive
statement of the situation, and treasurer
Mrs. John Moyes had all ears when she
told of the two first donations: one for
£lOOO and one for £lOO from leading
city firms.
Whispering grass could not fling any
story more widely than the guests at the
reception to the Duchess of Gloucester
are spreading the praise of its flowers.
They were like a trumpet to spring. Great
sprays of almond blossom were a pink
profusion in the vestibule and in the ball-
room. Camellias and violets, too, formed
a heady brew, and altogether the Tro-
cadero looked as though the murk of
winter had been shed like the old poet’s
garment of repentance.
The arrangements, too, were very
smooth : running. Women’s organisations
were represented to the number of 150,
and the president of each group was pre-
sented to the royal guest. To make the
march-past easy to all concerned a low
dais had been placed in front of the stage.
On this stood the Duchess, and the
elect, approaching from the left, were
presented by Ruby Board, to whom
names of organisation and representatives
were murmured by Mrs. Metcalfe.
As each representative dropped her
curtsy she gave a posy or bouquet
to the Duchess. The Viscountess Clive, in
turn, placed the flowers on, a table near by.
Later, when H.R.H. left the party she and
Lady Clive carried some of the offerings
with them, but most of these prize blooms
from the gardens of almost every suburb
circling the city went, at the request of
the Duchess, to hospitals.
Dorothy Wilby, for two and a half
years one of the bright Red Cross V.A.’s
of Sydney, is now in Melbourne where
she writes from 3XY broadcasting station.
Flat-hunters are even less sure of a
quarry there than in this city and Dorothy
can’t feel as certain as the poet who
wrote:
“Serene I fold my hands and wait,
For what is mine will know my face.”
She reports the gardens in Melbourne as
entrancing as Sydney visitors remember
them, but the winds blow cold and hard.
Sitting at a tea table in one of our big
restaurants a week or so ago wete a pretty
young girl and a very upright, good-look-
ing, querulous old lady. Everything! ac-
cording to the old lady, was wrong with
the world. The girl dutifully agreed with
her over many things. Then the old lady
took a sip of her tea: “Dreadful,” she
said, “what do they put in it?” The
young girl was worn out: “Probably
just a dash of arsenic, Grandmother,”
she replied in a bored way. “Arsenic,”
repeated the old lady, taking another sip,
“well, at least that’s clean. I'thought,
maybe, they had stewed a bit of old lace
in it.” Then the two burst out laughing,
and harmony was restored.
The old libel that Sydney is not music-
conscious has been getting its death blow
this season. Crowded audiences have
greeted the musicians —ejther solo or in
orchestral cohorts. Last week the bril-
liant and forceful William Kapell, a just-
into-the-twenties pianist from U.S., gave
two recitals to tumultuous applause,
which was well deserved. Last Saturday
the slim, vibrant Malcolm Sargent led
the Sydney Symphony Orchestra in a
programme the second half of which
was given to the Brahms E Minor sym-
phony. Dr. Sargent needs no testimonial
to his qualities as a conductor. The
whole concert was a rich and sensitive
feast of sound.
Mewton-Wood, Australian pianist by
way of London, was the soloist in the
Stravinsky Capriccio for piano and
orchestra. There was a high-wind-in-
September quality about this .to which
the pianist seemed in tune.
Canberra will be all the brighter for
the presence of the Hubner family. Mr.
Hubner is Charge d’Affaires for Chile,
and his wife, three daughters and son,
Douglas MacArthur Hubner, have come
to Australia to be with him. Mrs. Hub-
ner and her daughters speak both Eng-
lish and Spanish, and Alma, who is 18,
is very keen on music. She describes
herself as a “jazz expert” and has brought
a collection of jazz records with her.
Wearing the Barron christening robe,
the infant daughter of Sgt. (R.A.A.F.)
and Mrs. E. F. Mewton was christened
recently at Shore Chapel. It will be a
wonder if Virginia Ann is not musical, as
grandparents’ were both well known in
musical circles. Godmother Aunt Pat-
ricia has just returned from Melbourne,
where she gave a successful pianoforte
recital.


FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
MAASEASE
the perfect comfort male
support for everyman’#
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
BRANDAEJER3
O''
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations..
a bbxxdjlVlx * on. M. wxiuhghajl eho
Peacetime strapping
drafted For War..
\
\ N
as
A
m
z:
*
c-
-2
i
X.vi
J
%
3|r
r^RPME
GERRARD
MODEL
“L”
MACHINE
Our specialised service—result of long experience
in efficient packaging of all commodities —is now
almost entirely concentrated on packaging vital
war supplies.
But peace will come again, and with it, equipment
that will be as always, soundly engineered and
honestly built to carry on the Gerrard tradition
of stronger, faster and more economical
reinforcement.
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
18-24 IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
Thousands have written ... .
THESE TABLETS can help YOU,
too, to new vigorous health!
W^, £ e/srf«£° TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS, ARTERIES, ETC.
ŀ
ł
Thousands of
grateful users have
written of the
amazing speed and
effectiveness of
Elasto in relieving
weariness and pain
resulting from
sluggish or poor
blood condition.
People suffering from rheuma-
tism, varicose veinsj varicose
ulcers, piles, eczema - and other
skin complaints, and even phle-
bitis, have successfully taken
Elasto tablets.
Elasto brings quick relief —-the
amazing efficacy of this new
Biomedical treatment is due to
the fact that it goes to work
right at the source of the trouble
—on the blood stream.
Much unnatural weariness and
many chronic pain conditions are
due to a break-down of the blood
circulation system or a paucity
of certain elements of the blood
itself.
How ELASTO Works
Elasto is not a drug, but a
vital cell food. It restores vital
elements which combine with the
blood albumin to ..form organic
elastic tissue. This in turn en-
ables nature to restore elasticity
to the tired and devitalised fab-
ric of veins, arteries, etc.
Results
As a result, normal, healthy
circulation is re-established and
true natural healing follows.
Varicose veins are restored to a
healthy condition; arteries be-
come supple; skin troubles clear
up, leg wounds heal naturally,
piles and rheumatism are re-
lieved. This is explained simply
but more fully in a free booklet
offered see below.
What, users of ELASTO say:
“No signs of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers ”
“ 'Elasto’ has quite .cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself * what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, OttO,
month’s supply.
l
SMOKE-OH!
“While Snodgrass served thirsty patrons in
small nips, he thought in terms of hogsheads.
When he died last April it was found that' he
owned 15,000 gallons of Scotch.” — “D.T.”
He liquefied his assets.
-I- v
“Onion plants. Mixed sorts. Now ready.”
—“Great Northern.”
Never mind the onions'—just' trot out
the sorts!
•j*
“Guards shoot sardine smuggler.”
—‘‘Sunday Telegraph.
That’s shooting! It’s doubtful if even
“Narrin” could hit such a target.
“Wanted, land girl, young, willing learn
sheep.”— “S. M. Herald.”
So they can’t pull the wool over her
eyes?
“If you have lovely eyes key your make-up
and your clothes to them.”— Woman’s paper.
Better still, strike a natural note and
you’ll turn more heads.
•j 1 *1* j
“Ex-serviceman, 38, wishes fleet sincere young
lady, view mat.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Only fast young things need apply.
“A horse can live for 25 days without solid
food.” —“ World’s News.”
Conversely, a horse can have solid food
every day and still be dead.
*2* *5*
, Dogged Misfortune.
“Terracena, the most outstanding greyhound
for years, will probably be barred from racing
because he is too good.” — Sporting column.
Reminds me of Pongo, the best grey-
hound I ever bred. At his first start he
caught the hare and sailed past the judge
baying to the moon and sitting on the
hare’s trolley. Next up Ponga was first
out of the box, and after leisurely investi-
gating several posts en route won by ten
lengths.
At his third attempt Pongo suffered a
surprise defeat. Beating them all for pace
early, he hopped theleger fence, chewed
a bookmaker in the third row, set after
his field and failed to catch the winner
by a short neck.
By now Pongo’s speed was giving the
grader severe pains in the neck. Then
one of the stewards thought of an in-
genious idea, and the Association told me
that Pongo’s nomination would be re-
fused unless I trained him to run back-
wards.
This proved tricky, but eventually I got
him ready. As usual, Pongo was first
out, and, by snarling and snapping
viciously at his rivals, he held his ad-
vantage to the straight, where a couple
gamer than the rest challenged him, but
he won by a long tail. Pongo was barred
after that, of course, but it didn’t matter.
That same evening, proud of being able
to gallop in reverse, he started walking
home that way, and walked himself under
a tram.
Percy.
•J* *1* , . .
“That night the old optician became boister-
ously drunk, and was arrested while creating
a disturbance in. the street.”— Magazine story.
He made a spectacle of himself.
•f* *1*
“One of the greatest jockeys was Harry Wragg,
nicknamed the “Head Waiter’’ because he likes
to win his races from behind.”
" —‘‘Sunday Empire News.
And carry off the plate?
•i* . *J* *i*
“ ‘We have placed woman on a pedestal,’ the
male proclaims.”— Woman’s paper.
And she has taken a firm stand ever
since.
Epitaph.
This politician, now so still,
With undiminished vim
Went over the same ground—until
The ground went over him.
Brian Bureau.
-I- ;I-
A Poona Peril.
“A negro in Northern Rhodesia saved his
life by throwing his boots and bicycle at a
lion which chased him while passing a golf-
course.”
From an experience of my own at
Poona I can fully appreciate such slight
anxiety as to the outcome of the contest
that the “negro” may have had.
Why I had set out that morning to
search for a posy of edelweiss is some-
thing about which I am still somewhat
hazy. I have an idea it had something
to do with the charming wife of my regi-
ment’s C.O.
Colonel Usquebagh McBawbee was a
man whom the tabloids would have
described as “colorful,” with his iron-grey
hair, deeply bronzed face, steely eye and
brassy voice; he was also very tinny at
solo whist. He was, in fact, described
by a subaltern, who was also a student
of metallurgy, as ore-inspiring. Rising
86, the colonel was approaching that age
when the urge would come upon him to
return to the peat bogs, clogs and apple
cider of his native Tyneside, there to
resume the law studies which his army
service had interrupted some 65 years
before.
Perhaps it was that I had been fired
by the intoxicating beauty of his newly-
arrived 19-year-old bride, though it might
well be that I had simply been fired out
of the mess for tossing off the dipperful
of cherry brandy which was the colonel’s
invariable pre-breakfast “snifter.” What-
ever the cause, I remember getting into
my baby Boston and roaring out towards
the hill country. I was determined not
to return until I had woven a garland
of the dainty flowers for the alabaster
brow of the woman of my rival in the
lists of Cupid—for so I had come to deem
my C.O.
As the fine frenzy of my romantic
ardor wore off and the scorching day
wore on I wrung out my singlet, tossed
into the car the bunch of rather mangy-
looking yellow daisies which were the
only substitutes for edelweiss I could find,
and disconsolately made back towards the
barracks.
As I was chugging along that sort of
third sense which every keenly-trained
Poona man possesses urged me to look
behind. There, loping along after me, not
ten yards away, a hateful smirk on his
face —no doubt he had heard of the old
limerick —was a gigantic tiger!
I immediately pulled out the accel-
erator, the choke and a cigar. The cigar
I lit, for I think more' coolly when smok-
ing. I was now dashing along recklessly
at around 18 m.p.h., but the tiger kept
pace.' After another minute I observed
to my horror that he was gaining on me.
I threw the dead match at him, but
that didn’t seem to check his gait. Then
I threw the cigar. My stratagem worked,
for he picked it up and started chewing
it. I couldn’t help noticing then the
striking resemblance he bore to a photo,
I had once seen of the chairman of direc-
tors of an armaments concern with inter-
national ramifications.
But the confounded animal coughed
and spat the cigar out and broke into a
gallop in an effort to catch up. I yanked
off my pugaree and tossed it out, but
the beast merely took one sniff at it and
kept coming on.
In desperation I pulled off one of my
socks and heaved him. Agamfte
tiger stopped and took a sniff. Ihen he
reeled. His eyes turned inwards. Grog-
gily he looked around. Then, shaking his
head, he came after me again, this time
gaining fast.
There was only one thing left to do.
By now we were almost in the shopping
centre. Stopping the car, I got out and,
grabbing it by the back and front axles,
I swung the Boston straight at the on-
coming tiger. He ducked and the car
crashed against a telegraph pole.
As I fell back exhausted with the
effort the tiger came up and started rub-
bing his tongue up my face in a series of
very slobbery licks. At the tenth lick,
by which time his rough tongue was be-
ginning to excoriate me, a harsh voice
broke angrily in.
“Hey, cut that out —you’ll be muck-
ing up the tiger’s lick!” it said. A sharp
whistle and a peremptory “Come along,
Arbuthnot, you’ve had the whole circus
in a stew—they thought you wouldn’t
be back in time for your act” ; and the
tiger obediently mooched off at his
master’s heels.
I haven’t been able to stand cats
around ever since.
80.
Oddity.
"An apple a day keeps the doctor away .”
There’s wisdom in that, we were apt to
say :
To crunch through the skin of a big Five
Crown —
Ah! Better thtm medicine, bitter and
brown.
And we saved a lot on the doctor s bills,
For apples were cheap and few were the
ills.
But now, with apples the price they are
To bring in the doc. is cheaper by far.
EVE MERRITT.
Refusal.
For you, sweet, I would sit on ice
Throughout an evening hitter chill,
Or place my head within a vyce
And squeeze it till l felt quite ill;
A thousand things like this I’d do
If / your wayward heart could win,
But no! I will not share with you
My treasured, hard-won flask of gin!
T. W. NATHAN.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTie'^xzileim,.
The limitation! on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:
i>l2 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months . . .. .. 15 0
6 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£l9O
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4ad. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Exit Thrift
Recently I asked the Taxation Office
in Brisbane “How much income can my
wife and I (both over 70) receive, by way
of annuity, without taxation?” The reply
was £2OB.
That means that we are worse off
financially than old-age pensioners. A
married couple on O.A.P. can have a
nice house and garden, with £SO each in
the bank or an earned £SO, and still get the
full pension of 325. 6d. per week, making
a total of £269 a year without taxation.
But if my wife and I earn or receive in
annuities £269 we are taxed on £6l.
Interesting isn’t it? What a grand in-
centive to work and save! —C. J. S. (Q-)-
Policy of Full Employment
Among the rosiest items of the prom-
ised New Order is full employment for
all, after the war. There is little doubt
that those people who were caught in
the grip of the depression, and others
who wfcre fearful of their own prospects
in those days, will welcome almost any
programme that seems to guarantee em-
ployment.
The war has brought about, among
other things, two industrial developments
which will in all probability be the basis
of the post-war era of full employment.
One is conscription of labor; the other
the State as a large-scale employer of
the conscript.
In one form or another these two de-
velopments will remain and, no doubt,
expand. The result of this expansion will
be that the State as an employer of labor,
either directly in State enterprises or in-
directly in subsidised “private” indus-
tries, will split the nation into two very
unequal sections —the few who will pos-
sess the means of production and the
many who will not.
In short, “full employment” will mean
servility for the majority. The worker
will enjoy subsistence security—which
he may consider an improvement on pre-
war conditions —but to gain this he will
have sacrificed all hope of economic free-
dom. —E. -T. Rolf (Q.).
Front-line Soldiers
Recent statements by Archie Cameron,
M.H.R., and Army Minister Forde cast
some sidelights on the ramifications of
soldiers’ preference and the gratuity
plan. Mr. Cameron said: “I did not
favor the payment of a gratuity for
home service... .more than half the army
has not been abroad.....” (B. 11/7/’45).
Mr. Forde said: “It must be remem-
bered that five to seven men are required
to every fighting man, so that this talk
of ‘base wallahs,’ as they are called, is
the talk of the uninitiated.”
Preference and gratuities are the in-
violable rights of soldiers, but they are
more particularly the rewards of the fight-
ing%oldier, rather than the five to seven
“base wallahs.” Promotion comes more
readily to base troops—the great majority
of personnel of such units as D.F.O. and
D.R.O. hold n.c.o. rank, and they are
either billeted (and receiving a substan-
tial daily allowance) or are in camps,
which, because of their permanent nature,
enjoy many luxuries. The fighting man
shifts from staging camp to transit depot,
from foxhole to foxhole, and leads a
Spartan existence, with little hope of ris-
ing from the ranks.
Nine out of ten of the heroes of the
New Guinea and Borneo campaigns are
privates, some with upwards of five years’
service. The front-line soldier, the great-
est specialist, the most highly-trained man
in the army, is beset by untold hazards,
and no matter how efficient he is, no
matter how long his service is, his reward
is “six bob a day” and the promise of a
“bob-a-day” gratuity.— Nuffin (Q.).
The Owen Gun
I agree with “1940 Sucker” (B.
11/7/’45) in regard to the capabilities of
the Owen sub-machine gun. I saw the
trials of the Owen in 1941, in competition
with the Sten and the American
Thompson. Some of the tests: (a) guns
buried in mud, unearthed and fired ; ( b )
guns buried in sand, dug out and fired ;
(c) sand poured on working parts whilst
firing.
The Owen passed with flying colors. It
did not stop firing when sand was poured
on the working parts whilst firing. The
other guns did stop. Neither of the other
two guns came through ( a ) and ( b ) as
satisfactorily as the Owen. In the years
since my faith in the Owen has been
strengthened. I am convinced anyone
who decries it has (a) never used it or
( b ) attempted to use it in a 25-pounder
role. —Sach (A.I.F.).
Unknown Australia?
“Pookie” (B. 18/7/’45) is off the track
when he attributes the reluctance of Brit-
ishers to settle in Australia, ''preferring
other parts of the Empire, to their lack
of knowledge of Australia and of the
conditions prevailing here.
Those who elect to go to Canada, South
Africa, etc., do so because they do know
the sort of life they would be compelled
to lead in Australia’s “back of beyond ”
Drought, pests, hardships of all de-
scriptions have been detailed ad. lib. by
Australian writers. In fact, the struggles
of the Australian bushman, and especi-
ally the Australian bush woman, constitute
the principal theme of most Australian
fictionists. They present a grim prospect
to the Britisher who is seeking a place
where conditions are better than he is
experiencing at home —so he goes else-
where.
Those who came here in the past did
so, in the main, after attending lectures
on Australia given by officers whose mis-
sion was to attract people to the “land
of sunshine and milk and honey,” and
what a picture those artists painted!
Work for the asking, land for the taking,
“I’m goin' to chat the boss some day about buyin' a bulldozer.”
fruit for the picking, sport of all sorts,
“finest educational system in the world,”
free hunting—but why go on?
I was among the mugs who attended
these lectures, and all the hunting I have
experienced is hunting for a roof to live
under (at any price). As for work for
the asking, it took a world! war to pro-
vide that blessing, and that is attended by
black-marketing and tax-slugging to such
effect that the average worker will have
nothing to show for his few years of
steady toil when it is all over and Aus-
tralia returns to its normal condition.
No, “Pookie,” “intelligent publicity”
has had its day in Britain. Romantic
stories by romancing writers will not
bring a single emigrant. What is
needed is an Australia where a man
can work and keep a fair proportion of
his earnings, and where his womenfolk
can live decently and not have to put up
with conditions that make the slums of
Glasgow appear desirable in comparison.
—Digester (N.S.W.).
European Immigrants
The U.S.A., with its incessant “land-of-
freedom” propaganda and tempting
offers of material prosperity, has attracted
and welded together a heterogeneous col-
lection of European misfits into a success-
ful nation. But occasional symptoms of
emotional instability seem to indicate that
the mixture may not be as happily pro-
portioned as might be desired.
Australia’s aim should be a mixture of
races calculated to blend as happily as
possible with our present population for
its ultimate good—say, a good basic pro-
portion of English, of suitable general
type, and Scandinavian, with a leaven,
perhaps, of Polish and other European
blood. Instead of making immigration
policy a political handball, put it into the
hands of a group of trained eugenists
with social consciences and the ability to
decide in the light of present racial ten-
dencies in Australia the best proportions
of foreign blood to admit. —D. R. H.
(S.A.).
Our Education Standard
Having been unit education officer
for many months, I have come to the
conclusion that the standard of education
in Australia is lamentably low. That is
hardly surprising when the school system
is scrutinised. This does nothing towards
awakening an interest in further know-
ledge, but merely crams facts and dates
into reluctant pupils in order that exami-
nations may be passed. The passing or
failing in these tests is no indication of
the knowledge acquired, but simply
reveals whether or no the pupil has a
memory capable of absorbing facts for
a sufficient period to carry him through
these all-important examinations.
The average Australian leaves school
satisfied if he can write legibly, do sums
in addition and read the newspaper or
a magazine story. He has in no way
been stimulated to venture into the vast
field of knowledge and do some exploring
on his own account.
It is true that school cannot complete
education —it can only make a beginning
—but our schools hardly do even that.
It is also true that education has been
improved in late years, but there is still
great need for improvement. Indeed there
is need for a complete overhaul of the
present unsuitable system if Australians
are to fulfil their part in world reorgan-
isation. —J. A. C. (A.M.F.).
Justice for the Poles
Your reprints from American journals
on the Russo-Polish dispute have been
heartening to read. Alone of all the
widely-circulated Australian journals The
Bulletin consistently has shown us
opinions and facts widely at variance
with the “All’s well” attitude of our press.
My purpose in writing is to bring to
notice the plight of the Polish army, our
Allies since 1939, in France, Norway,
Tobruk, Italy and again in the liberation
armies of 1944-45. They deserve a better
fate than obscurity, overshadowed in
favor of a later and more po’werful ally.
The Poles are farmers, artisans and
foresters —many from Eastern Poland
with British wives and British-born chil-
dren. Australians in Tobruk will remem-
ber them as doughty comrades in war.
We should ask these men to seek a new
home in Australia. They would be a
decided asset to Australia’s farming in-
dustry.—Kosciusko (Vic.).
“As Your New Prime Minister. ”
This was getting interesting. I moved
closer to the radio.
“And so, Australians,” continued Mr.
Chifley, “I have a little more than twelve
months in which to win your confidence.
As you know, my party and I are con-
vinced socialists. But you have given us
no mandate to change the present eco-
nomic system. It was for this reason that
our late beloved leader pledged us not
to bring in socialistic measures, and that
pledge will be respected. Naturally, we
shall try to convert you to our views. But
the funds of our party, not of the nation,
will be used for any educational campaign
of this kind. Meanwhile, winning the war
will come first.
“Unhappily, certain elements of our
people have lost sight of this supreme
necessity. We shall try to recall them to
a sense of their duty. While, as Labor
men, we understand the attitude that all
opportunities for improving the position
of workers should be used, we do not re-
gard war conditions as a legitimate oppor-
tunity and will not allow them to be ex-
ploited by any section.
“We are determined, then, to end the
industrial unrest that is crippling our war
effort, letting down the fighting men and
causing unnecessary hardships on the
home front. 'Genuine industrial griev-
ances will be investigated and remedied ;
but we shall firmly repress frivolous
stoppages- and strikes. Nor shall we be
tender to profiteers, black - market
operators and their patrons or any other
group of exploiters and parasites.
“To the same end, my Government de-
clares immediate war on waste and ineffi-
ciency. To begin with, we shall overhaul
Government departments with a view to
simplifying their administration, paying
particular attention to overlapping of
duties and duplication of effort. Many
war-time regulations, whose necessity has
long ceased or never existed, will go. In
this and other ways we shall save money
and release personnel for urgent produc-
tive tasks so that Australia will have a
streamlined economy, geared to the tasks
of winning the war and preparing for
peace. The late Mr. Curtin’s slogan
‘Work or Fight!’ will be implemented as
never before.
“With regard to the financial errors
made by our Government in the
past....”
There was a loud burst of static, and
—yes, you’ve guessed it —I woke up. —
Arc (Q.).
Lodgers in Pubs
Why doesn’t the Government make Bung
let his pub rooms out as apartments when
he can’t or won’t provide living ac-
commodation himself? Home-hungry
people would be glad enough of bed-
rooms-only, and could arrange among
themselves a roster for kitchen and care
of the public rooms, or pay some of their
fellow-tenants to do their share.
Each unit could care for its own private
rooms, and a family should be entitled
to turn one of the bedrooms into a living-
room if they so desired and the necessary
extra rooms were available. Alternatively
some or all of the rooms could be let to
casuals on a room-and-do-your-own-
housework basis.
A publican is supposed to supply food
and shelter to all who seek it. If he is
allowed to fall down on the job those
who permit him to do so must see that
his function is preserved in some other
way. What about it, Mr. Chifley?—
S. E. and O. (Tas.).
Sun-dried Bricks
The fact that sun-dried mud bricks were
used in ancient (and arid) Egypt does not
make them suitable building material
under Australian conditions (B. 4/7/’45).
Moreover, “Bumpkin’s” observations ap-
parently ceased when he saw the bricks
moulded and left to dry in the sun ; he
gives no instance of a building erected
and proved.
Here in eastern N.S.W. I’ve twice wit-
nessed the experiment. One man built
a wall with mud bricks, plastered it all
over with strong cement for added
strength—and saw it literally melt away,
the cement dropping in sheets in the
sloppy mud as a storm ruined weeks of
work in a few minutes. Another experi-
menter built a shed with similar bricks.
Far from “lasting ten centuries,” the walls
were already bulging with the Weight of
the roof when a few inches of rain com-
pleted the wreck.
Pise houses (similar to the adobe of
Mexico and South America) have proved
fairly successful in parts of N.S.W., but
they are built similarly to concrete houses,
clay (not mud) being moulded in the walls,
with logs and branches laced in for re-
inforcement.
“Bumpkin” asserts that 800 mud bricks
would build a small house. A small cot-
tage with a brick foundation (and even
a mud house needs a foundation) requires
at least 20,000; therefore the mud brick
must be '25 times the size. Multiply a
brick that measures 9x3x4iin. to 25 times
its cubic content, and you have a block
of mud that would fall to pieces in hand-
ling if it were not burnt.
Anyway, why* all this talk of freak
methods? We have both the materials
and man-power to overcome the housing
shortage according to tried and proved
practice. The war-time restrictions, red-
tape and bungling have brought about the
housing shortage. When they are removed
our building methods will prove adequate.
Until restrictions are removed nothing
will be effective. —H. C. B. (N.S.W.).


radar
\\ s
\V
&
&
.V k V* Nv M
N^S
»
ss
SsVi
S?SS
S*
J^Ci.
SK
V*b>\ v
m
///'<.
s*. „ //
-X ;;
I!s%
S-Jf.\
% \\
that “sees” an enemy ship on the darkest night or through the heaviest tog . . .
and then sinks her! Still another example of the witchcraft of electronics!
\
MV,
Mi
is ft
h'i l 1 ii^~.
W'/A
M
1/.
VW/s
Va
V,
AMA
m
vyjy/,
MM/
r*
7' ■
YA
'/ /
Wn
r.b
fZC'
a
%
&
Yk
PHILIPS
electronics
Radio & Television , . . Lamps & Lighting . . . Transmitting Equipment . . . X-Ray Apparatus . . . Electrical Equipment for Industry, etc
It was RADAR that played a vital part in the defeat of the Luftwaffe in 1940.
It was RADAR which took a hand in the <4 buzz-bomb” offensive of 1944-45.
# .
RADAR controlled through the magic of electronic tubes is but one
application of a force which, in future, will be harnessed to a multiplicity
of other tasks —in industry and in nearly every other phase of post-war
living. Through untiring research and experiment, through unique wartime
experience, PHILIPS have established the same leadership in the wider
spheres of electronics as they have in its simplest yet best known application
—the Philips Radio Valve. It will* he to your benefit in the post-war world.
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. —SYDNEY. MELBOURNE. ADELAIDE. PERTH. BRISBANE
