

J ' ■
The House of Seppelts reminds you to
DO YOUR SHARE BUY VICTORY BONDS
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66 —No. 3401
Wednesday, April 18, 1945
Price 6d*
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.WI, Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
GLAMIS, HEREDITARY SEAT OF THE EARL OF STRATHMORE.
GLAMIS CASTLE is the hereditary seat of the Earl of Strath-
more and Kinghorn, and lies five miles to the west of Forfar.
Sir Walter Scott, in his “Demonology and Witchcraft,” tells how
he passed a night at Glamis, and how impressed he was by the
venerable castle and the traditions attaching to it. One thing
especially appealed to his boyish imagination: a secret chamber
whose entrance, according to the custom of the family, must only
be known to three people at once —the Earl of Strathmore, his
heir-apparent, and any third person they took into their confidence.
On his way to his apartment in a distant corner of the building
he was conducted through the straggling rooms and passages of
the old house —Malcolm II was supposed to have been murdered
in the “King’s Room” —“and I must own that as I heard the door
shut after my conductor had retired I began to feel myself too
far from the living, and somewhat too near to the dead.” Accord-
ing to tradition, the murderers of Malcolm were drowned in the
Loch of Forfar, and pieces of chain armour, swords and battle-
axes have been found in the drained portions of the loch.
Antiquarians, however, always ready to disprove tradition, affirm
that the armour belonged to the less interesting soldiers who fell
at Forfar during the rising of Robert Bruce. One of the countesses
of Glamis was executed at Edinburgh for witchcraft; and the
Lord Treasurer ordered a payment of £4O for the “Keeper of the
Glammys and Baby,” which shows that if the king and his court
did not at times live at the castle, it was, at any rate, kept up by
consent of royalty during the forfeiture of the Strathmore property.
In 1654 the army of the Commonwealth was quartered at Glamis
Castle, and the records of their commissariat are preserved there.


fdff
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 •Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your Sew Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin,”
My Same
My Address
S.B. 145 AGE
The Red Page
LAW AND LITERATURE.
A Shaw story from Reginald L. Mine’s
Confessions of an Uncommon Attorney
(Dent) —Shaw sent one of his plays to
J. C. Squire inscribed “with the author’s
compliments” ; Squire sold the book to
a second-hand bookseller in Charing
Cross-road and Shaw, by coincidence,
found it there ; he bought it and returnee
it to Squire with the added inscription
“To Sir John Squire with the Author’
renewed compliments.”
A lawyer and antiquarian who occa
sionally came into contact with th
literary world, Mr. Mine makes the mosi;
of his opportunities. There is a meet
ing with W. B. Yeats, when the poe:
shows him his library, chants some o::
his poems and expresses his approval o:
two definitions of poetry —Gavin Doug
las’s “Pleasance and half wonder” anc
Lafcadio Hearn’s “There is something
ghostly in all great art.”
Mr. Mine also meets Alice Meynef,
who quotes Wordsworth on style—“lt i
in the highest degree unphilosophic to
call language or diction the dress of ou
thoughts. It is (he incarnation of ou
thoughts”—and tells him anecdote
about Walter Savage Landor:
‘Sometimes, worse than irascible, Landor
would live down to his name and behave
like a savage. It seems he had a passion
for his flowers and a passion for his food.
One day his Italian cook dished up an
omelette that to the poet’s epicurean taste
was quite uneatable. He did not rail at
him. His rage was too deep for words.
Rising from the table he seized the stout
and unfortunate man by the waist, dragged
him to the open window of his upper room
and flung him out. Then, as he fell with a
sickening thud upon the flower border a
dozen feet below, Landor was heard to
shriek “Good God, I forgot the violets.”
Mr. Mine sees W. H. Davies, in the
days before he won fame, reciting his
poems to passers-by in the street outside
a London bookshop. He attends a lec-
ture by Chesterton and remarks “He hac
a fat man’s impatience against thin anc
spiky views. How entirely he agreec
with the stout fellow William Morris
‘Half a dozen stanzas of ballad poetry
are worth a cartload of the whining in-
trospective pieces today.’ ”
He encounters # H. G. Wells at a
Quaker college where lectures on history
are being given and Wells tells him that
he has just visited Stonehenge in connec-
tion with his Outline of History : “You
may care to know,” Wells said, “that I’ve
polished that off in forty minutes. I’ve
left a couple of experts behind —they
have the fussy kind of knowledge that
looks well in a footnote.”
As a teller of legal and literary anec-
dotes, Mr. Mine has one maddening fault
-he likes to hint at knowing some es-
pecially good story and then, for one
reason or another, to keep it to himself.
The worst example of this occurs when
he records his discovery in the cellar of
an English country house of forty letters
written by Walter Scott to Mrs. John
Hughes, of Donnington Priory:
There, on top of papers for which I
had no eyes, there, tied up in green ferret
and endorsed “Letters written to me by
Sir Walter,” was the hidden treasure so
long, so vainly sought.
To the best of my memory there were
forty letters in all, closely written upon
quarto sheets, the record of a friendship
that began when Sir Walter saw Mrs.
Hughes dart to the rescue of a dog under
the kicking hooves of a horse in the streets
of London. When she came out unscathed
he limped up to her, grasped her hand with
impulsive admiration and exclaimed “You
and I must be friends, you and I must be
friends.”
Beyond recording that the letters were
sold to America, Mr. Mine gives no
other details of his find. What the reader
really wishes to be told is not that Mr.
Mine found the letters, but what the
letters said.
The fault arises from an attempt to
cram too much material into one volume.
Confessions of an Uncommon Attorney
is partly a, lawyer’s reminiscences, partly
a record of literary associations and
partly a history of the life of the author’s
village of Hitchin as revealed in anti-
quarian researches. Having so many
themes, Mr. Mine is not able to do full
justice to any of them.
Nevertheless he offers an entertaining
medley. The Will of Mary Swain, spin-
ster of Preston Hamlet (1764), for
instance:
“To my niece Mary Swain my best stays
and my worst, together with the nutmeg-
grater and the jack and spit. To May
Doggett my second-best stays, my red
cloake and a frying-pan.”
And the squire’s death-bed:
The rector, the family, the lawyer, the
agent were hoping for a quiet and godly
end, for in his time the squire had been
a good churchman, and in support of the
Tractarian Movement had written many a
pious and learned pamphlet.
But it was not to be.
“James,” he commanded, “fetch me my
Wellington boots.”
The master must be crazy, said the butler
to himself, but the habit of unquestioning
obedience was too strong. He did as he
was told. Then, glowering upon the
assembled company, the old man took hold
of each heavy Wellington by the thong,
mustered every ounce of available energy,
paused awhile for breath, then hurled the
boots at the heads of his daughters as they
stood beside the bed.
“I hate you all,” he screamed, sank
back upon thfc pillows, and expired.
There is a story about a mad lady
who would walk out naked into the
night and pray to the nearest pillar-box ;
and there is an unforgettable glimpse of
a murderer:
As I sat there in the cells, taking pre-
liminary instructions for the defence, much
embarrassed by two prison warders leaning
forward to catch every syllable that was
said, I could not keep my fascinated eyes
.off the accused’s right hand. Twelve
hours had passed since he had fired the
nine alleged bullets into the body of his
wife’s paramour (whose riddled corpse was,
just then, being photographed—the grue-
some Exhibit B), but his dilated eyes were
still fastened on his quarry, his features
were still blazing with fury, and his finger
was still pulling, pulling, pulling at the
trigger.
One of Mr. Hine’s purposes in writing
this book is to defend the lawyer against
Government competition:
Another change for the worse is the
gradual displacement of the old family-
solicitor-executor by the bank trustee and
the public trustee. No doubt there is an
advantage in having a trustee who does not
die, and who never would play ducks and
drakes with the estate. But in the office
of a personal representative what you need
is not a cold, correct official, an impec-
cable machine, but a human being, even
if he be a fallible mortal, someone who
has been the confidant of the testator and
his household, the repository of the family
secrets, the trusted adviser and friend....
And he certainly demonstrates that in
life and in death there occur situations
that could hardly be discussed with ease
in a Government office. The case of
Mrs. Sarah Smithson, for example, a
lady addicted to spiritualism, who
learned that her deceased husband was
devoting his eternity to studying the be-
havior of ants in the spiritual world—a
blameless pastime in which he was
assisted, unfortunately, by a female
spook of whom Mrs. Smithson dis-
approved so strongly that she sought legal
advice.
In style and appearance, Co/ifessions
of an Uncommon Attorney is probably
the most handsome book its publisher
has turned out during the war ; it would,
indeed, have been notable even in pre-
war times.
A Writer in His Dotage .
A man who had just read Shaw’s latest
book told me he had come to the con-
clusion that the poor old chap was in his
dotage. Being a Shavian of 40 years’
standing, I was saddened, but I borrowed
a copy of Everyman’s Political What’s
What, and read, amongst others, the
chapter on Pavlov. The senile Shaw deals
with this famous man of science in
extenso from the point of view of an im-
placable opponent of vivisection.
Have we benefited ourselves by prac-
tising vivisection? Shaw would say, No.
But he doesn’t say that we cannot add
to our knowledge that way. If we put
our mother in the bath and poured boil-
ing water on her we would no doubt
get information as to how long it takes
flesh to disintegrate under the impact of
scalding water. What Shaw says is that
if we can add to our knowledge only by
inflicting suffering on helpless living
things the benefits would be more than
offset by the loss of spirituality entailed,
and we should forego the knowledge or
seek it in some other way.
Shaw is not only irritated with Pavlov
because of the cruelty he practised, but
because the experiments were worthless,
the deductions false and the whole busi-
ness what Shaw calls “a crackle of blaz-
ing nonsense.”
According to Shaw, whenever his ex-
periments gave a negative result, instead
of recognising an error in his theory.
Pavlov believed he had made a new dis-
covery. When the sequence of reactions
in a set of experiments did not turn out
as they should in terms of his theory, he
announced the discovery of a new pheno-
menon —excitatory and inhibitive re-
flexes. When they occurred in the reverse
order to what was expected, he discovered
still another new phenomenon l —the Para-
doxical Phase, as he called it, and when
the Paradoxical Phase didn’t work out
he announced the failure as the discovery
of a post-paradoxical phase.
As Shaw points out, an investigator
who could interpret his results* in that way
could prove by spectrum analysis that the
moon is made of green cheese, and would
be entitled to the job of Astronomer
Royal. And all the time he was making
these “discoveries” Pavlov was doing
things to dogs for which a man who was
not a professional scientist would not only
be prosecuted for cruelty but held up in
court as a fiendish monster.
Shaw does not object to Pavlov’s ex-
periments,'however, only on the ground
that they were useless; he objects to
them on - the ground that they were bad
for Pavlov ; and it is a logical step from
the inhumanity of the laboratory to the
inhumanity of the battlefield. Shaw be-
lieves that Pavlov’s passion for experi-
menting on dogs was not a pure objective
emotion but a manifestation of the very
thing he was trying to demonstrate on
the writhing bodies of his victims —a con-
ditioned reflex possibly determined by his
Druidic forefathers, who disembowelled
living creatures in ‘ order to read the
omens. .
The ancient Druids acted bloodily and
cruelly, but they were not bloody and
cruel men —they were virtuous simple-
tons whose frightful butcherings were
sanctioned by a superstitious public which
believed in omens, just as Pavlov’s tortur-
ings were sanctioned by a superstitious
public which believes in the omniscience
of the man of science.
Pavlov was not,a bloody and cruel man
but a fool so deluded by his own asso-
ciations and bolstered up by a supersti-
tious public and Government that he
could not see what any nursemaid could
have told him—that when you give a
child a pot of jam and a spoon he will
exactly illustrate the functioning of Pav-
lov’s Excitatory Reflex by stuffing him-
self with the jam until he can stuff no
longer, and then, although he still likes
jam, he will react to the remnants in the
pot just as if he didn’t like jam—
which exactly illustrates the behavior of
the dogs to which Pavlov gave the re-
sounding title of the Inhibitory Reflex.
If Shaw -was in his dotage when he
wrote this book I hope I am as senile as
he is when I am a year off ninety.
PAWANG.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The' most charming act at Wirth’s this
year in Sydney is that of a gentleman
dressed as Mephistopheles, who wanders
around the entire circilmference of the
tent between each of the major perform-
ances, lugubriously eating fire. There is
a merciful absence of wire-walkers;
rather too many balancing acts, and a
particularly good show of animals—the
lions, the elephants, the ponies and some
dogs. One of the Misses Wirth, resplen-
dent in red riding costume on a red saddle
on a black horse, gives a captivating dis-
play of the various possible and impos-
sible paces a horse can perform ; and the
elephant item, conducted by another of
the Misses Wirth —she lies on the ground
and the elephants pile themselves peril-
ously above her —is all the better for the
dropping of last year’s mad scene of the
British officer at bay in the jungles of
Burma. Trapeze up to standard ; Con-
tinental clowns —the act varied, but the
uproarious conversation with the trom-
bone still included —as marvellously
funny as ever.
By the end of the first act John van
Druten’s “The Voice of the Turtle” at
Sydney Minerva is, in effect, finished.
The blonde man-hunter has temporarily
dumped one of her boyfriends—a soldier
—in her girlfriend’s apartment; the
soldier and the girlfriend are attracted
to each other, and he is obviously going
to stay for the week-end ; the pair, each
supposed to be suffering from disillusion,
are going to fall in love and marry; and
the blonde man-hunter is going to be
mildly, though only mildly, annoyed. The
amazing things about the play are that
this is precisely what does happen, and
that it continues to be interesting and
amusing through six scenes and three acts.
Modern and “daring” enough, the play is
a pretty little bit of sentiment, the girl is
an excellently-drawn character, and the
writing is delightful. It’s something of a
feat to have carried a full-length play
through on so slight a theme and with
only three characters ; and it’s also a feat
for Agnes Doyle, Ron Randall and
Bettie Dickson to have played it success-
fully. Agnes Doyle “makes” the show;
but Randall also does remarkably well,
and Bettie Dickson, though she carica-
tures, her role, is amusing in her own way.
“C. Ma”: Funny how conventions are
accepted in one place and not in another,
“Gaslight,” recently released at Mel-
bourne Metro, is the story of an accom-
panist who murders a singer for her
jewellery—which he doesn’t get —and
then, marrying her beautiful niece
m order to grab the booty, walks
over the latter’s head and turns the
gas down to make her believe she
is hearing imaginary noises and is
going mad. This piece of melodrama is
presented with all the resources of Holly-
wood, and is performed by such eminent
figures as Charles Boyer and Ingrid Berg-
man, who got the Academy Award for
her achievement. If it were presented on
the flesh-an’-blud stage today the audience
would split their sides laughing at it, as
they did when Muriel Starr revived “East
Lynne,” though they wouldn’t have done
so in the days when Maurice Moscovitch
made an Australian fortune out of simi-
lar stuff by Edgar Wallace. The audience
at the Metro received it with the respect
due to great art.
In writing the script of and directing “None
(1 ? Lonely Heart” (Sydney Century)
Clraord Odets has neither tampered with the
general tone of the Richard Llewellyn novel
nor made concessions to what is generally re-
garded as box-office appeal. The story of Ernie
Mott, victim of London East End environ-
ment, who, ever hoping but never greatly striv-
ing for a happier life, drifts into a gang of
crooks, is stark; and the slum setting is re-
lived by only occasional touches of emotion.
Ma Mott is played with great insight by Ethel
Barrymore, Cary Grant gets right inside the
skin of the restless Ernie, and Jean Duplex
does well as the gangster leader’s ex-wife who
lures the casual idealist from the little ’cellist
who proves in the end to be his sheet-anchor.
One doesn’t usually look for emphasis on
character in a murder thriller, but “Laura”
(Sydney Mayfair) not only supplies if but throws
in some sound psychology and an ingenious
plot. Also a brooding and subtle young de-
tective —a welcome change from the barking,
quick-moving sleuth whose roars at unhappy
suspects have kept film patrons awake for
too long. As a columnist who has a vanity
to match his enormous daily audience, stage-
actor Clifton Webb turns in an out-of-the-box
performance. Dana Andrews is the unusual
bloodhound.
Claude Flemming’s matured acting
stands out like a beacon from the tranquil
sea of support in “Kiss and Tell” at
Sydney Royal. The play itself is light
fare, concerning a family feud with
humorously complicated situations crop-
ping up.
The Australian C.E.M.A., Victorian
Division, started off its autumn arts festi-
val with a first annual exhibition at the
Velasquez Galleries, Melbourne. Keith
Murdoch’s opening discourse, one of the
longest on local record, was so much
concerned with “movements” that one
almost forgot the pictures: - which is an
unfortunate way with movements, and
oughtn’t to be too much encouraged. The
exhibition Was lively, and unusual in
that the artists had been permitted to
select and hang their own pictures. This
made for a diversified collection, rang-
ing from the traditional still-life of Miss
Bale and the equally traditional land-
scape of Dora Wilson and Jo Sweatman
to the skeletons, emaciated Jews, soup-
eaters, images and abstract designs of
the “modernist” dispensation. It is
Cema’s intention to organise travelling
exhibitions, so the Mallee and other
places have something coming to them.
A collection of* drawings and small
sculpture at David Jones’s gallery, Syd-
ney, sponsored by the Society of Artists,
contains some work which is incompre-
hensible, some which is merely clumsy,
a great deal that imitates European eccen-
trics and a leaven of sincere and interest-
ing work. In this last section Hans Hey-
sen, John Rowell, A. Dattilo-Rubbo,
James Cook, Norman Carter, S. Ure
Smith and H. Badham are represented.
Maorilander Maud Sherwood’s work is
beginning to show the influence of “con-
temporary” tendencies and to lose its
individuality. Eric Wilson’s “Snow in
Pimlico” exactly suits his monochrome
method, and clicks. Lloyd Rees shows
a pencil drawing in his old manner-
much better than his new.
A memorial exhibition of Arthur
Streeton’s paintings at Sydney’s National
Gallery places most emphasis on Streetou
the landscapist—no interiors, few sea-
pieces and not more than one or two
figure studies and still-lifes. Streeton was
one of the few Australian painters who
could fill a large canvas in the grand
manner, with dignity and with a nice dis-
crimination between the significant and
the incidental. He painted landscapes
in which a man could walk about, as it
were, for half an hour, finding new beau-
ties at every turn. He is accused ot
having stylised the Australian landscape
and of having equipped his successors
with slick formulae for dealing with the
native scene, but some of his finest work
was done in England and on the Conti-
nent. The technique of “Australia Felix
finds no echo in “Corfe Castle,” and
Streeton on Boulogne is not reminiscent
of Streeton on Bondi. Streeton is the
symbol and the expression of the best
period of Australian art, and, as was to
be expected, the exhibition evoked noises
of pain from “S. Herald.”


"TRUTH I'N ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
4
(WIW
w
Ca&e*
W
a
belend rubinstein
B
«*?
>\
7
ii
j|r
j
*
r
m
m
M
m
*)
43
m
V-
-10
m*
11
12
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
I.—CYCLAX DAY LOTION. Protects the skin and
forms a perfect powder base 7/2 and 13/3
2—CYCLAX ROUGE. So true to nature that it is
undetectable. Yet it will not harm the tenderest skin.
Sold in shades to blend with your lipstick, 5/6 box
3.— CYCLAX LIPSTICK is of that standard quality
that gives satisfaction and adds to the charm o
ladies of discrimination and taste. Colours are
Auxiliary Red, Brilliant, Wild Poppy, Velvet Grape.
Price 8/3
4. HELENA RUBINSTEIN APPLE BLOSSOM BODY
SACHET. A highly concentrated perfumed powder
for the body. In a pastel shaker box.
deodorant also
It is
7/7
S.—HELENA RUBINSTEIN BEAUTY FOUNDATION.
It conceals surface imperfections and gives a
delicate glow to the complexion. Produces that
enviable "matt" tone 4/2 and 7/7 jar
g. HELENA RUBINSTEIN FACE POWDER. Fine
in texture and will stay on. Brings a new loveli-
ness to the face. Colours are Naturelle, Racjielle,
Champagne, Rose, Aquarelle, Peaches and Cream.
Price 6/6
7.— LOURNAY FOUNDATION FILM. Creates a
delicate tint and protects the skin. The shades
match the face powder 4 / 9
B—LOURNAY FACE POWDER. Particularly fine
and of delicate fragrance. Colours are Magnolia,
Frangipani, Dawn Pink, Rose Glow, Sun Kissed,
Gipsy Tan
9. LOURNAY HAND LOTION. A smooth, soothing
lotion to keep the hands, neck and arms soft and
beautiful 4 / 9
10. —CASHMERE BOUQUET CLEANSING MILK.
Cleans and freshens the skin, a perfect make-up
remover. Excellent for oily skin 1/2 and 2/10
11 —CASHMERE BOUQUET FACE POWDER. Soft,
smooth, clinging, fine, fragrant and delightful.
Colours are Sungold, Rachel, Peche, Light Hawaiian
Tan. Prices lid.. 1/1. 1/8 and 2/10
12.—CASHMERE BOUQUET FOUNDATION CREAM.
A dainty greaseless cream of satiny texture, forms
a film which protects the skin 1/2 and 2/10
• Perfumery—Ground Floor , Pitt Street.
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


The Casey
Country
By
BRIAN JAMES.
THE Casey country
was a wild and wide
stretch of sandstone.
Mostly its lines ran
to the perpendicular;
bluffs and bastions and
cliffs, stretches of barren
and heathy plateau, steeps
of spindly trees and coarse
tussocks. It was a flower hunter’s para-
dise, and a hardy home for a few mar-
supials ; but it offered precarious exist-
ence to the few leggy and bony cows
and steers. -
Still, the country had something more
to offer than all that; there was the big
creek—the Flat Rock—with deep, black
sandy loam in the narrow flats that
bordered it; good, kindly, gracious soil
it was. “Man alive!” old Sheehan used
to say, “that soil’d grow anything at
all.”
And so it would —if anyone took the
trouble. Old Sheehan never did, nor did
anyone else in living memory. Anyway,
old Sheehan hadn’t the time, what with
his bullocks and a “bit o’ sniggin’ ” every
so often when ironbark girders were
wanted, and turpentine piles or black-
butt poles were in demand. Also he was
hampered by “the absince of m’boys.”
He always looked forward to the time
when some of them might come back
and “give a hand.” They never did.
Besides the Flat Rock, there were a
number of smaller creeks. Some of them
had quite extensive flats, with deep good
soil at the lower end that thinned out
towards the upper slope near the sand-
stone. Where the creeks bit back into
the rocks there was timber on the hill-
sides —big timber: giant blue gums, iron-
barks, stringies, blackbutts and turpen-
tines, according to the soil,
A half-dozen families of generous
dimensions had once lived on the main
creek and its tributaries. Heaven knows
where they had all gone to, but gone
and scattered they were. Old Sheehan
was left, old Sheehan and his old woman.
And they lived from the soil no longer,
only from “a bit of drawin’, now and
thin,” or sometimes “a road contract,
or sich like.”
You could see where the homes had
been ; there were bits of evidence every-
where, so typical of many of Australia’s
older settlements: a few fruit trees (here
they were hardy common oranges, still
able to bear big crops), broken fences
with enormous round corner posts “as
solid as the day they were put in,” ribbed
patches of earth where the cultivation had
been, traces of roads and tracks on the
sidings, perhaps a mound or two of
rubble where a chimney had stood. Over
the whole scene was a kind of Celtic
brooding—in a land given strangely to
lavish waste and casualness.
And iflto this scene the Casey fitted.
He was “the” Casey, for he was the
senior representative of his line; and,
as far as the “Casey country” went, the
last of it, too, no doubt. He was as char-
acteristic of the landscape as those solid
corner posts, ruined fences, mouldering
chimneys, and fading cultivations. There
is a pathetic dignity in all ruins, and no
sensitive soul has ever laughed at decay.
There was a dignity to the Casey that
eighty years and all didn’t diminish.
True, if you would notice, there were
some buttons missing on his front, a
gaping hole in the seat of his trousers,
distinct traces of soup and porridge on his
faded black cloth coat, a toe or two (long
black nails attached) peeping from his
slippers, gold-rimmed glasses tied to his
lapel with twine in the gaps of the gold
chain. But these are no real part of
man, and only the vulgar would confuse
them with inner worth. The Casey face
was drawn in fine lines, the eyes could
still flash, the forehead still bespeak in-
tellect.
T'HE Casey mansion stood on a clear
f knoll well above the Flat Rock and
higher up stream than the tidal water.
Below the house the Flat Rock was a
clear and swift stream, narrow in quiet
days, but given to sudden flood.
The track up the creek —the maps
called it a road, but it was never more
than a track —skirted the knoll between
house and creek. Two hundred yards
from the house the “drive” began,
branching out from the track to the right.
It announced its beginnings by the big
brick pillars of the iron gates. These
pillars were somewhat groggy and leaned
away from the perpendicular. On one
of them still sat its crowning glory—a
huge stone ball.
The gates themselves were open—
rusted rotten, broken, half-buried in
rubbish and nettles. A few strands of
barbed wire, in lieu of the ornamental
twisted iron, gave a mournfully modern
touch. Then the drive took its sweeping
curves around the slopes of the knoll to
a level space between the house and
where the outhouses had been.
The roadway was rutted and gutted by
a hundred storms. -No vehicle could
negotiate it now. It crossed a little dell —
just beyond the gates—by a little bridge ;
or at least it had done, but the bridge
was rotted now, and fallen in. A tree
fern, maiden-hair in the mossy banks
and a clump of lilli-pillis marked the
dell. These were fortuitous, natural and
lent a cheerful note. The “drive” was
lined with ragged hawthorns. In all,
the gates, road and hawthorns looked
like Casey.
No one ever went to the front of the
Casey home any more, for the front
looked dead and blind, and out of all use.
Even the fowls, lorded over by a very
rakish-looking red rooster, didn’t bother
about the front of the house. They took
possession of the side verandah, where
obviously the inhabited part of the house
was. They seemed to have improvised
a roost from what was left of the veran-
dah railing. They made any walking on
the verandah itself a matter of no little
concern for the fastidious. Those not so
nice in these matters still found the
verandah precarious on account cf two
broken floor-boards near the door.
“Mind your step by the broken
boards,” Casey would say to visitors.
“They are distinctly dangerous. I must
have them attended to forthwith.”
Should the visitor be a lady: “Allow
me to assist. I should have had the
repairs effected at once had I but known
of your coming.”
The other obstacles on the verandah,
which made the visitor often take minc-
ing steps, Casey always ignored. As to
the broken boards, however, old hands
agreed that they had been in that state
for just on fifty years, and they could
detail the peculiar accident that caused
the two boards to break and to leave the
gaping hole.
\X/TTH Casey lived his two sisters,
v v Deidre and Angela, but neither looked
their names now. Deidre was ninety, so
everybody said —without being able to
prove it. Fairly active still, and able to
“run” the house; with the proper defer-
ence to her brother, of course. Angela,
about seventy-five and youngest of the
family, was palsied, decrepit and lost to
most ( of her faculties. She was the
“baby” once again. Both were unmar-
ried, and had joined forces with the
“Casey” when the evil days had closed
around them all.
Angela was never presented to visitors,
and old friends only saw her as a sort of
courtesy. She didn’t know them any
more. She swayed in her rocking-chair,
and mumbled to herself in an unintelli-
gible manner, asking every now and then
“Have I had my dinner yet?” Since
she asked this question fifty times a day
she was always assured that she had had
her dinner. She was greatly pleased at
the assurance, would nod quite under-
standingly, and then resume her rocking
and mumbling till the question came into
her mind again.
What the three lived on was a mystery
to everyone—except the local school-
master. He knew, for he had helped
without publicity to arrange the matter
of their old-age pensions. This was a
secret, and one hardly likes to mention
it at all. In fact, had it been made
known they would cheerfully have fore-
gone the right and starved.
At least, Deidre and the Casey would
have. For the truth was that the Casey
country could keep them no more—even
in their slenderest needs—the Casey coun-
try that once supported a half-dozen large
families.
It would be a mistake to think that
their poverty was paraded in any way at
all. It wasn’t. The “front” was always
that of the autumnal side of riches and
splendor.
“My uncle the Bishop is”—it was
always the present tense, though that
worthy divine had gone to his reward a
good half-century before. And a great-
uncle was still sitting in the House of
Commons, though the records had failed
to notice it for nearly a century. There
were other highlights, too, all refusing to
conform to the regular pattern of mor-
tality. No, you couldn’t think of a
plebeian pension in such a presence.
The Casey’s own family was many and
varied. The “sainted wife” had died
early. The sons and daughters had scat-
tered as Australian families so often do.
and, as is often the case,
seemed blind to the glories
of their breed.
Certainly the daughters
had done well, and were
settled in Sydney. Two of
the sons were “in the
law.” These were always
“Gerald” and “Maurice.”
But Desmond was only “my son.” He
had married one of the Hogan girls, and
had remained what anyone would who
married a Hogan. He lived over on
Western Creek side, and cut sleepers. He
was only “my son on the Western Creek.”
It might be recorded, too, that “my
son” came over now and then from
Western Creek, and that he always re-
membered in a tangible way the old
gentleman’s birthday and those of Aunts
Deidre and Angela ; also Desmond’s wife
came over when she could to “lend a
hand with things.” Perhaps, for a Hogan
girl, she was really no worse than she
might have been. There is no record of the
“well” married daughters or of the well-to-
do Sydney sons ever doing such things.
Mrs. Sheehan, it might be mentioned,
came unthanked about once a week. She
was a good soul, of course, but very gar-
rulous : it was hard to put up with these
people who had “never been used to any-
thing.” Yet Mrs. Sheehan did put the house
to some sort of order when she called.
When you called on the Casey the
faded graces of a long-dead day came
back to life again. You were made to
feel your own true worth. Poverty might
be explained, but never was apology
offered for it. Perhaps, rather than say
that the glories Were revived, it would
be more fitting to say that you were
carried back a half-century and more.
And so you forgot, or didn’t notice, how
shabby was the sitting-room, how poor
was the best that hospitality could offer.
So you became ashamed that you ever
noticed the polished black toenails that
showed through the slippers, or the finger-
nails that matched the toenails ; you were
almost convinced that fingernails should
be so. The years dropped away from
Deidre as she presided at the tea, telling
you that “her sister asked to be excused.
She was not feeling well.” Your tea was
made a vital concern. Perhaps the tea
was awful, the bread stale and the butter
rancid. What of that? You felt that
you were privileged, and were made to
feel that you were conferring a privilege.
A T the appointed time the Great Wrong
** was brought forth. It always arrived
with the cigars.
The Casey, of course, had no cigars—
“the last order has seemingly gone astray.”
They were your cigars, and the Casey took
one appreciatively—-‘‘if you will insist.”
A good cigar lends a proper flavor to
a great grievance. You knew the whole
story, word for word, but it never lost
in interest. Though the telling never
varied, each telling presented some new
angle and pointed some new moral that
had escaped you before.
You knew, for instance, that an early
Governor had granted the Casey coun-
try to the grandfather of the present
Casey; that the grant had embraced the
Western Creek on the one side to as far
as the Little Myrtle on the other; that
the Caseys, as was only right, had been
lords of a wide domain ; that the Casey
cattle were known to the “ends of this
great colony” and that the Casey “horses”
had carried the Casey colors to victory
on every course worth the name. That
was all as it should have been.
And then came the local taxes. Coola-
nt ong Shire levied its local rates on the
whole of the Casey country—“and for
what? I asked them,” said Casey in the
best tones of well-matured grievance.
“They told me for maintenance of roads.
I pointed out, as in truth and justice I
was bound, that there were no public
roads in all my country. What roads
there were I maintained myself, or caused
to be maintained, wjiich was the same
thing. And, further, that I never used
any public road in the shire; when I
travelled at all it was by private road to
the wharf and then by steamer. In short,
I refused to pay. Was I not justified?
If Deidre were still present she mur-
mured something almost to herself, and the
Casey nodded approvingly, almost fiercely.
The Council took legal action, and
won. Casey went to a higher court, and
lost. “Naturally I thought of the Privy
Council. My legal advisers dissuaded me
from going on. I am not convinced yet
that they were right.” Deidre interposed
again with a murmur.
“The costs nearly ruined me. I had
to part with Western Creek, and v many
a beast had to be shipped from the old
‘Blue Bear’ wharf —you know, the old
wharf called after the public-house that
stood near by.”
He paused to relight the cigar. Then:
“That wasn’t all. Councillor Peachy was
the prime mover in it. The Council de-
cided to put in a public road from The
Peak to the Blue Bear. They resumed
and ran their road right down the Flat
Rock. It was my own road to the Blue
Bear ; but they put extra rates on me for
it. You doubtless know the Peachys?
There are some of them still over on the
Little Myrtle.” You nod agreement.
“Where Council’s road crossed the Flat
Rock they put in a causeway instead of
a bridge. That causeway turned all the
flats above into a swamp. I fought them
in the courts and lost. Little Myrtle
went the way of the Western, leaving me
only the Flat Rock.”
You learned —during the second cigar,
most graciously accepted—that no one
had ever used the causeway, that the
Council’s road was a forgotten thing.
You surmised to yourself that a few
shillings’ worth of dynamite would have
disposed of the causeway and drained
the drowned and flooded flats. But you
knew, too, that a Great Wrong is a sacred
thing and must not be disturbed, •
CASEY detailed how he had written to
the Honorable the Premier, to the
Governor-in-Council; and though he
was pleased at the apparent sympathy in
their reception of these letters, their
promises to have the whole position in-
vestigated had not led to anything.
Casey waved his hand to northward, as
you were leaving, towards the causeway
and then towards the cliffs, and then
down the valley, as a sort of summary
of a tale of woes. It was all that was left
of the Casey country, ruined by the malice
of a stubborn council —a council as long
forgotten as the useless causeway over
the Flat Rock.
Then you saw only the Casey standing
there, dilapidated, but with something in-
expressibly fine and sound in him still,
personifying in himself all the decay of
the valley—the lost cultivation, the gutted
road, the ragged hedges, the rusted gates;
all the things that once had flourished.
But most of all, most lasting of impres-
sions, he was like one of the big round
corner-posts —with the fences all gone-
meaningless, useless but substantial yet:
just waiting for the inevitable.
The Devil and the Angel.
[(2) Lost Soul.]’
Somewhat confused about the date of reckoning,
Arriving late—the Devil there before me—
Pardon me if the story reads obscurely.
Here was this fellow caught upon the canvas
Between the floor and ceiling, Heaven and Hell,
Whilst all day long the idle and the curious
Stabbed him with glances in his Purgatory,
Sharp like the vultures tearing at Prometheus.
Hundreds of years and still he served his time
there,
Prisoned more surely than a courthouse
drunkard,
Handcuffed in a gesture, arrested at an inn.
“Awake!” cried I. “He, Devil, or I, Angel,
Will take you to your final destination.
Time gave you knowledge Surely; silence,
wisdom
To choose the path you travel in the future.
Now break from bondage of a painted picture;
Your time is served.”
Five centuries unloose him,
Brown as the tall dark bottle and the loaf.
His hand, stretched towards the flagon of dis-
aster,
Completes the gesture which the paint arrested,
Sketched in a tavern by a painter person,
Brouwer or Hals—indeed the name escapes me.
He brushed his eyes free of the time and darkness,
Broke into laughter, tilting up the wine.
I shook my head against his invitation,
Closed up the book and settled back my quill
(The Devil laughing softly at my shoulder).
“Clearly,” I said, “you journey with this other.”
Who led the way there I can only surmise,
I turned about and left them both carousing.
N.S.W.
ROSEMARY DOBSON.
Cap and Bells.
Tonight the stars are yellow sparks
Dashed out from the moon’s hot steel;
And for me, now, no menace lurks
In this darkness crannied by lights; nor do I feel
A trace of the old loneliness here in this
crowded train;
While, far below me, each naked light trails
a sabre
Of blue steel over the grave great peace of the
harbor.
To know this peace is to have outgrown
Thoughts of despair, of some driving crank of
fate,
Of corroded tissues in the bleak shell of a
town:
Darkness, lights, happiness—all are right,
All bear messages of the hidden heart;
And for me always the grave great peace is
stronger
In flaring colors, and a laugh, and a careless
singer.
Die in the blood and salt of your thoughts; and
When the columns of your sun are thrust aside
and broken ;
But I have chosen the little, obscure way
In the dim, shouting vortex; I have taken
A fool’s power in his cap and bells
And know that in my time the haggard Prince
will discover „ , ,
A blunt shell of Yorick, that laughs for ever
and ever.
R.A.A.F.
F. WBB.


The Bulletin
Vo!. 66—No. 3401
Wednesday, April 18, 1945
ARE WE GOING TO LET THEM DOWN?
“On February 28, 6955 Australian servicemen were listed as missing and 25,276 as prisoners of war. On April 15, with 12 days to go, there were 180,000 subscribers
to the Third Victory Loanj and subscriptions were nearly £28,000,000 short of the £100,000,000 required.”


The Bulletin
Tf, Mi* i a i. - T
.me I'M at toned Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
n .
„ Directors:
p" u n r - or E *Weljk
rior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
ictoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Queensland: Brisbane.
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings (opp .
London : I %?e X Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
THE LATE PRESIDENT.
In men of power, as in poets, contem-
porary greatness can be deceptive. His-
tory has a habit of applying values that
make a mockery of assessments once
current and regarded then as final. In
the upshot Tomorrow rubs its eyes and
gazes on pedestailed figures that would
have made Yesterday rub considerably
harder, and Ozymandias, king of kings,
becomes host to a lot of very surprised
company in the desert dust.
But also, in exceptional instances, the
contemporary assessment sometimes not
only stands but may even be enlarged.
The final placing of President Roosevelt,
- both in his own country’s and in the
world’s history, might eventually provide
such an instance. This could depend on
events now shaping up; on whether or
not his pacing has changed these events
from what they might otherwise have
been, from what he undoubtedly sacrificed
himself in dedicated endeavor to try to
ensure that they would be. That is,
whether or not what now seems his most
untimely death from a cerebral hemorr-
hage at Warm Springs, Georgia, on April
12 has made a difference to the ushering
in of the finer world of his vision, and
of President Wilson’s vision before him.
History has a harsh hand for failure.
Wilson had the experience of feeling it
in his own lifetime, and it crushed him.
The harsh verdict on Wilson has been
that he himself failed his vision. He
stands in this view in the paradoxical sem-
blance of a public hermit; in the world’s
and his own country’s political crowds,
but not of either; insisting, to use a
recent Roosevelt term that must have
been reminiscently employed, on perfec-
tionism or nothing; and, fatally for his
project and himself, refusing to unbend
to anything so common, so worldly, as en-
listing the co-operation of political oppo-
nents. The more generous verdict rates
Wilson a noble visionary before his time.
It makes no difference either way. The
historical assessment places him without
sentiment only among the world’s great
failures, as it was his last bitterness to
know.
At least Roosevelt has been spared any-
thing like that. However the now loom-
ing events may affect his ultimate stature
of greatness —whether San Francisco and
the rest lead on to the realisation of his
vision of an ordered world of lasting
peace planned and controlled, or whether
it all breaks down on the rocks of selfish-
ness or greed or mean cunning mistaken
for wise foresight; marking him, on the
one hand, with the distinguishing kudos
of success, or, on the other, with the
diminishing stigma of failure—however
this may turn out, it must always be said
of him that he was a contemporary great
man to his last moment on earth.
It must be said of him, too, that in
the most literal sense he gave his life for
his vision, which is to say he gave it for
the whole civilised human world. That
he was a personal sacrifice none who saw
pictures of him taken at the Yalta meet-
ing would dispute. Before he went there
his failing health was viewed with con-
cern in America by those who were wit-
ness to it and were able to speak their
minds. These urgently opposed his going
again overseas. They contended —reason-
ably and wisely, as it turns out, but un-
successfully—that if there had to be a
meeting of the Allied leaders it should be
held in America. They were shocked by
their President’s appearance when he re-
turned. Now they see it to have been
not merely a risk but a bitter cruelty—
one of the war’s countless cruelties —that
their ailing great man should have been
dragged across the world.
That conclusion is not softened by the
feeling that the Yalta decisions, while no
doubt militarily expedient, opened on to
a prospect very different from that to
which the President’s vision, as set forth
in the Atlantic Charter, had been regarded
as a signpost. The President had, how-
ever, given advance notice that such might
be the position: “Perfectionism, no less
than isolationism or imperialism or
power politics, may obstruct the paths
to international peace.” In effect, the
world is imperfect, and the best must be
made of it as it is. Then, riding the
storm that began to rise after Yalta, he
put the logical issue squarely to the two
Houses of Congress:
It will soon be presented to the Senate
and the American people, a great decision
which will determine the fate of the United
States, and I think, therefore, of the world,
for generations to come. There can be
no middle ground here. We shall have to
take the responsibility for world collabora-
tion, or we shall have to bear the respon-
sibility for another world conflict.
With the decision of his Constitution-
ally elevated successor, President Truman,
that the San Francisco world security con-
ference is to open next week as arranged,
those few Roosevelt sentences might yet
prevail to shape destiny. Certain of adop-
tion as the guiding light of the Democrat
delegates, they may have an influence on
the Republican members none the less
strong for the passing of the President
who, profiting in this and in other respects
by the mistakes of his mentor in inter-
national planning, not only invited them
to join in forming a non-partisan or bi-
partisan United States representation at
the conference, but made .it clear that
they were to be completely free agents.
The combination of that last practical
act and those last of his words to Con-
gress may now have the effect of making
a new world security league certain, thus
at once increasing the historical stature
of the late President’s greatness even be-
yond the very high contemporary assess-
ment and of placing still further in debt
to him the particular countries, among
them all of the British Empire, that
already owe so much to his generous
wisdom, and eventually, in the future,
indebting the whole human race.
If that —and, of course, in a long view
ahead it is a blinding if —should come
to pass, the late President would then be
as outstanding among the great of all his-
tory as in the present view he appears in
the Presidential line. The thirty-second
in that varied line, he seemed already
before his life ended to stand unquestion-
ably with such of its men of destiny as
Washington, Jefferson, Monroe, Lincoln.
In the one most obvious respect, his years
of office, he stands before them all, and,
likely enough, will stand before all his
successors. The fourth term precedent —
established in the face of campaigning
opposition based sthongly on the very
issue of the candidate’s health, and hence
on doubt of his living a fourth term
through—is most unlikely to be ever fol-
lowed. Superstition arising from his death
so soon after inauguration 'would alone
seem a certain and sufficient deterrent,
even if President Truman rises—as others
have done before him —above the promise
of his Vice-Presidential speeches and cir-
cumstances.
That is possible. Responsibility is the
great exposer of weakness, but authority
has its own gifts of strength. Viewed at
this distance two things stood out in the
campaigning regarding the then pros-
pective Vice-President —on the one side,
the venom expended by enemies on his
shortcomings; on the other, the silence
of friends regarding his merits. In the
ruthless fashion of Presidential warfare,
there was no scruple'about drawing the
worst conclusions from his having been
ushered into politics by a bribe-taker
who debauched the community by turn-
ing it over to ballot-box fixers, dope
peddlers, brothel-keepers, panderers and
murder gangs. That not the faintest hint
of any but immaculate associations with
that early patron attached to the candi-
date made no difference to the mud-
slingers. Pausing only to note that his
subsequent nine years as Senator had
been undistinguished, they made an even
more fearsome pumpkin-bogey from the
fact that his nomination was a sheer acci-
dent —a Mr. Hillman-sponsored, and
hence a quasi-communist, compromise
between Mr. Byrnes and Mr. Wallace,
unwanted by one or another of the party
factions.
Against this line of attack—which
would have been ten times more veno-
mous, and most probably successful, had
it been possible to know then that the
object of it was so soon to become Presi-
dent —it has since been pointed out that
actually Mr. Truman is the soul of
honesty, the last word in political in-
tegrity ; a man of proved ability and per-
sonal popularity. All of this, and per-
haps more, might possibly have been dis-
cerned in the candidate’s speech on ac-
cepting nomination. Chiefly it was an
open and praiseworthy tribute to the
greatness of his team-mate; but it would
take a keen eye to detect anything in-
spired about it.
Not that that need have any special
importance. In the old Log Cabin to
White House tradition —a one-time em-
ployee in the mailing room of the Kan-
sas City “Star,” timekeeper for a rail-
road contractor, bank employee and be-
tween times working on his father’s farm
in Missouri before getting into politics
via a political judgeship—Mr. Truman
would be first to credit his present high
position to nothing other than the great
fame and prestige of the late President,
whose policies he has avowed to be also
his own. And on the assumption that
Mr. Roosevelt’s death was not so un-
timely as it might seem—that actually
his life work was completed, his mission
of ensuring, if not the ideal peace that
had been hoped for, the sufficiently great
boon of international collaboration for
peace and world security accomplished
when he died —the new President, self-
described as a politician and by others
as an astute one, might well prove as
sound a supervisor of the finishing
touches to the work as could have been
chosen.
That consummation devoutly to be
wished is now for the world to wait on.
In the meantime the late President seems
to stand out as a giant in the current
perspective that death instantly estab-
lishes. One biographer—the German
Emil Ludwig—has given him the fitting
title of nobleman. Another has seen his
great strength of purpose and character
as an inheritance from his mother, Sara
Delano, who rounded the Horn t in a
clipper ship in the China trade, and to
the day of her death in 1941 could still
sing the round-phrased chanteys she had
heard the sailors bawl in the rigging of
her father’s merchantmen. In a like
matriarchal acknowledgment, another has
asserted that no estimate of the character
of the late President would be worth
anything that did not take into considera-
tion the influence of the cousin he mar-
ried—like himself, from the beginning
an aristocrat —particularly as that influ-
ence aided in the inspiring moral triumph
of his conquest over the scourge that
rendered him a cripple for upwards of
the last 20 years of his life ; an inspira-
tion not only to others similarly stricken,
but also to the crippled victims of this
war which he himself hated the thought
of, and which he would have averted if
his persuasive voice could have persuaded
madmen. ,
Failing in that good purpose, he suc-
ceeded beyond measure in the alternative
this left him. He gave his country the
leadership necessary to launch its pre-
paration for the inevitable. He set it
production objectives that were scoffed at
as fantastic; and, of course, the great
country took them in its stride and
doubled them. Since Pearl Harbor not
even the diehard scoffers question the
genius of that leadership. The paradox
of the born aristocrat, the only child of
very wealthy parents and further mar-
ried to wealth, leading his country out
of depression by the route of bloodless
social revolution stands capped now by
the other paradox of the war-hater lead-
ing it up to and into the blood of war
as the route not only inevitable for its
immediate security but as a quick way
to the national greatness of a colossus
bestriding the oceans of the world.
That is something for his own nation’s
gratitude, and, all working out as he him-
self hoped and planned, should hence-
forth be something for the gratitude of
the world at large. Whatever the out-
come in this respect, the gratitude of
Britain and of such other orice imperilled
British countries as Australia and New
Zealand should be imperishable. At any
rate it will never be questioned that in
their day of peril these countries were
directly saved from incalculable horrors,
perhaps from obliteration, by the instru-
mentality of this man’s leadership.
In the final assessment it will probably
be written of Roosevelt that his great
year was 1941. That was the year of
Pearl Harbor, with consequences that
haven’t yet worked out to finality. It was
also the year of lend-lease, the conse-
quences of which are that the wars that
might otherwise have been lost are being
won, and so the earth’s foundations stay.
And it was, as well, the year of the
Atlantic Charter, the stepping-stone from
Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s Four Free-
doms to the brave new world of his
vision—a stone that looks a shade worn
and broken already, but on whose re-
maining substance rests the hope of man-
kind and the fate of its generations
unborn.
Decidedly Controversial.
Introducing his Government’s “Re-
establishment Bill” on March 23, Mr,
Dedman qualified for a place among the
masters of understatement by referring
to the part of the bill dealing with prefer-
ence as likely to “excite more controversy
than perhaps any other part.” It has
been since jumped on with considerable
vigor by the representative R.S.L. Coun-
cil (N.S.W.), which resolved:
This State Council repudiates the alleged
preference clauses of the Re-establishment
Bill, and demands absolute preference
for ex-servicemen, without danger of
evasion, by substituting in its place the bill
provided by the R.S.L. Federal Executive.
The League Diggers will have seen that
the preference section of the bill is an
expedient compromise between what the
Government’s bosses demanded it should
do and what the Government dared
to do. “The Government,” Mr. Ded-
man declared, “has endorsed the prin-
ciple of preference according to ser-
vices rendered and hence disabilities in-
curred, and to the relevant and surround-
ing circumstances of the persons apply-
ing for preference. At the same time
the Government has taken the view that
something more than mere declaratory
statements of principle is required.” Any-
one reading no further in the Minister’s
speech would feel that here was a Gov-
ernment taking a positive stand on prefer-
ence to ex-servicemen—the words “ser-
vices rendered” and “disabilities in-
curred” being likely to hoodwink the
hasty. “The preference scheme,” the
Minister added, “is the most liberal and
comprehensive that has come to the Gov-
ernment’s attention from any country.”
The snag words there are “liberal and
comprehensive” for the real meaning of
which the preference section of the bill
has to be consulted. It requires em-
ployers (including the Crown) “in engag-
ing an employee to engage a person de-
fined by the provisions as entitled to
preference, unless reasonable and sub-
stantial cause exists for not doing so.”
The “reasonable and substantial cause”
provision is to be determined by con-
sideration of “( a ) the length, locality and
nature of the service of the person en-
titled to preference ; ( b ) his qualifications
as compared with other applicants ; (c)
the qualifications demanded for fulfilling
the duties of the position ; ( d) any pro-
cedural requirements prescribed by law
for engaging an employee for the posi-
tion ; (e) any other relevant matter.”
This, finally, has to be studied in conjunc-
tion with the further provision: “Civilians
who are granted registration will become
equally entitled with ex-service personnel
to the benefits of the preference provisions
of the Act.”
The meaning of Mr. Dedman’s "liberal
and comprehensive” now becomes fairly
clear, though it will not become com-
pletely so till the classification and num-
ber of privileged civilians is exactly
known. This would mean that both civi-
lians and home-front servicemen will
have clear advantages over the front-line
fighters, particularly in the demobilisa-
tion period, which has been put at up to
18 months. Apart from this, clause ( b ),
as it stands, can be employed to nullify
every other preference provision in its
section of the bill.
Naturally the N.S.W. Council of the
R.S.L. and other representatives of the
League and other ex-service organisations
have voiced heartfelt hostility. The
N.S.W. Council’s legal adviser, Mr. V.
Brady, has told it that “any employer
could drive a horse and cart through the
loopholes” and choose anyone he wanted.
Servicemen would be competing with
non-servicemen whose experience might
have been acquired while the servicemen
were away fighting. In the struggle for
business supremacy employers would be
apt to take years of experience into con-
sideration.
Other Digger League statements were
not so soberly expressed. Designating the
preference proposals as “a damnable in-
sult to serving men and women,” Mr.
W. Yeo added:
If 800,000 returned servicemen are to be
frustrated they will smash the country with
civil war. These young men are not pre-
pared to put up with what we had to after
the last war. K they are not given a fair
deal they will take the only means they
know of to get one.
Few of the “800,000 returned service-
men” would be found supporting Mr.
Yeo in this violent outburst, though com-
munists may be delighted. The great
bulk of the 800,000, or whatever the
number may be, are not going to be
either dependent on or frustrated by
lack of preference. Being the men they
are, their chief objective on return will
be to fit themselves back into the Aus-
tralian community as a strengthening and
not as a destroying force. Most of
them are men who went to the war from
jobs, and there are reasonably sound pro-
visions in the bill to ensure that
such men will get their jobs back
in cases —surely not many—where en-
suring will be required. A sugges-
tion that Parliament might well consider
is that provision should be made to give
first and positive preference to returned
men in filling all jobs that were previ-
ously held by the fighting men, where
these, either by their own decision or
through the misfortune of their having
become casualties, are not available.
Unfortunately for their own sakes, the
“union of ex-servicemen” mentioned by
another League Council member, Mr. S.
L. McDonald, is something of a fiction.
There could have been that once
if the League had recognised in time that
there were elements working for a post-
war division among servicemen’s organis-
ations, had wiped “returned” from its
name and had extended a brotherly hand
to at least all who volunteered to serve
their country, irrespective of where ser-
vice requirements placed them.
Even so, the League alone, with all its
members taking a united stand, represents
a force that no political party will be
able to ignore. It sensibly adheres to
its policy of not being party political, but
obviously it must muster its strength be-
hind the party supporting and against
the party opposing its aims in the in-
terests of Diggers and of Australia —aims
which have always been identical. One
unmistaken move of open action on these
lines will have more effect than enough
protesting resolutions to paper the House.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"Just Like Mr. Roosevelt's."
A glozing Federal “Labor” pretence with
which Dr. Evatt has been particularly
identified is that Federal “Labor’s”
“policy” is “just like Mr. Roosevelt’s.”
Actually they are poles apart. This was
shown in the military field when the
Roosevelt Government, with the sanction
of Congress, made the youth of the
United States liable to serve anywhere in
the world in the wars against Germany
and Japan, whereas Federal “Labor” tied
such ignoble geographical limits to militia
service that the very country which saw
the agony of the Eighth A.I.F. Division
was placed beyond bounds.
It was shown in another field when,
with Federal Labor “taking over”
the airlines and “nationalising the banks
on the cheap,” the President gave his
blessing in writing to the industrial peace
charter to which Green, of the A.F.L.,
and Murray, of the C. 1.0., and Johnston,
of the Chamber of Commerce, affixed
their names. It must have been one of
the last things he wrote, and it was worthy
of him.
I am very pleased to learn of your
plans to organise a committee of repre-
sentatives of industry and organised labor
to ensure continued dose co'-operation
between labor and management to win the
war and the peace.
Close co-operation between labor and
management during the war has made pos-
sible our great and unexcelled achieve-
ments in war production. That close co-
operation must be continued to make pos-
sible full employment of labor and capital,
under our system of free competitive enter-
prise, when hostilities cease.
The Federal “Labor” idea, expressed in
a hundred ways from the moment the
party took office, is that there are
two nations in Australia, “the exploiters”
and “the exploited,” and that “the war”
between them must go on, even while
foreign wars convulse the country.
Solving.the Problem.
Sydney people read last week that a
reward had been offered for information
that might lead to the arrest of a burglar
who shot a blameless solicitor in cold
blood with a U.S. service revolver, and
that the police had seized 1800 pistols
and revolvers, mostly service revolvers, in
18 months. Also that “notorious crimi-
nals,” whose fear of the Law seems to be
small, “are building Up armories which
include hand grenades and sub-machine
guns.”
Just when some of the people may
have been wondering whether similar
“armories” had fallen into the hands of
a private army, such as “independent
socialists,” now communists, were so
keen on raising in 1942 that Mr. Forde
himself had to chide them, it came out
that “three masked men,” using a
stolen car and “armed with a sub-
machine gun and U.S. service pistols,”
had held up five Cockatoo Dock men
taking the week’s pay to the dock, and
got away with the lot, just on £12,000.
Still, there is no need for anyone to
be unduly alarmed. Two conferences
have been held, and others are sure to be
arranged. And any problem can be
solved by a conference, as every Labor
politician knows.
In point of fact, the Sydney Premier
has “conferred” on the crime wave with
the Sydney “Colonial” Secretary, and the
Sydney Police Commissioner has been
asked to supply a report of a conference
he had with service chiefs about prevent-
ing military weapons getting into crimi-
nal hands. An under-the-table report of
the Premier’s conference has been fur-
nished by an unreliable authority:
“I am convinced,” said the Premier —“and
remember I have been in politics since 1917 —
that stern measures are called for. I suggest
that we stagger the starting times and”
The door opened and a nondescript individual
entering, said, “Look, you gotter use the rope.
You gotter make the penalties more severe.
You gotter” He was seized by a lackey
and thrust outside.
“Don’t you think,” said the “Colonial” Secre-
tary, “that this is a Federal matter? Take it
from me, we have more important things to
attend to, such as that good and useful snort
dog-racing and my coal-pensions’ scheme, which
is actuarily insolvent. Anyway, didn’t I bring
in a Police Offences Amendment Bill providing
that anyone found with a machine-gun could
be fined 50 quid?”
“Federal matters,” mused the Premier'hope-
fully. “Federal matters. As a once-great
journal said, I can ‘best serve the and
the nation by going along quietly.’ We”— —
Again the door opened. Again the nonde-
script spoke. “Look here. You gotter increase
the pen” Again he was thrown out.
The Chief Commissioner spoke. “ ’Tis nae
good for ma men tae ha’ tae gang oot an’
reesk their lives amang yon rottens, pittin’
they popguns agin machine-guns. ’Tis
nae” . ,
“I can’t hear you,” said the Premier. But
remember, I’m Ministerial head of the force.
It’s too bad those fellows should start shoot-
ing just when I want to go along quietly to
America and Europe, also Irup, Orup and
Jollup.”
The unreliable authority closed his
report with the statement that at that
juncture a fusillade broke out in the street
below, and that while he was trying to
burrow into the basement the conference
closed.
■' ' \
Scientist and Politician.
“Bumpkin” : Melbourne’s meteorological
bureau distinguished itself by issuing a
“fine and warm” promise for a day which
turned out to be the chilliest and wettest
for six months.
This tends to confirm the assertion ot
S. H. Ebery, the retired farmer whose
long-distance weather forecasts have at-
tracted attention all over Australia, and
who has his own private station at Black
Rock, near Melbourne, that seasonal pre-
dictions can be more accurate than day-
to-day ones, which are liable to be dis-
rupted by the vagaries of local conditions
that do not affect the general character
of a season.
Ebery’s forecasts have been so remark-
ably correct that scores of Victorian
farmers swear by him. Ttfe Victorian
Graziers’ Association has decided to sup-
port his case for a State Government sub-
sidy to continue his researches, and a
similar decision by the Victorian Dairy-
men, the Melbourne Chamber of Com-
merce and the Millowners’ Association is
expected.
It is to be hoped that Premier Dunstan
will take notice. Mr. Dunstan based his
belief that soil erosion wasn’t as bad as
it had been made out to be, and would
cease to be a problem when the rain came,
on a hasty visit to the Mallee and other
afflicted districts. Ebery’s predictions are
based on 30 years of observation of the
behavior of the upper-air currents and
an interest in the subject which started
in his childhood. The difference may be
between the objective findings of the
scientist and the subjective improvisations
of the politician.
In Yugoslavia.
Written by a, returned p.0.w.:
I was in Yugoslavia shortly after if was in-
vaded by the Germans and occupied by Ger-
mans, ’ Italians and Bulgars, and I met Serbs
Croats, Slovenes and other elements of the
hotch-potch population in p.-0.-w. camps I
learnt something of the Croato-Serbian language,
and for a time I tried to understand some-
thing of the varied viewpoints. I must confess
that after months of striving I was left with
much the same baffled feeling that 1 experience
after reading an art criticism in “S. M. Herald,”
probably due to the same cause—lack of cul-
ture.
This much I did gather—the people who
opposed the Germans most bitterly were Serbs.
We came into Skopliye late one night, were
hustled out of cattle-trucks and took up quarters
in a fortress-like building overlooking the
Vardar River. Next morning we had an excel-
lent view of the town from our eyrie-like re-
treat. Traces of Turkish occupation were
everywhere. There are more mosques than
churches. But I can testify that the inhabitants
proved themselves superior to any insularity of
racial sentiment. The welcome given to the in-
vaders was warm and unaffected. At any hour
German soldiers could be seen strolling arm in
arm with native lasses.
A “Victory March” was arranged. Scarcely
an inch of space was visible on the dirty
buildings as battalion after battalion of Ger-
mans goose-stepped by. The narrow streets
were choked with complaisant, cheering cohorts
of townsfolk. At first we thought we would be
dragged out to grace the triumph, but it was
not necessary. The people were sufficiently im-
pressed. Later we saw some volunteers being
drilled in a park by a German Unteroffizier.
A week later we came to Nish, an emphatically
Serbian town. Times were hard, and we shah
always be grateful to the Serbs who, at no small
risk to themselves, slipped food into our hands
as we went by.
We received even more assistance in Bel-
grade. Here we were subjected to “Victory
Parades.” Something had to be done to impress
upon the obstinate Serbs the omnipotence of
the Herrenvolk and the impotence of the
British. When men have been on short rations
for a time, are unshaven and very dirty they
look a pretty unattractive lot. The Germans
have always exploited this with us, and —even
more ruthlessly—with the Russians. We re-
ceived no sneers or gibes from the people of
Belgrade. They cheered us; and this after their
city had been horribly mangled. I saw a lot
of Belgrade one way and another but I never
saw a Serbian woman with a German soldier
nor did I see a Serb voluntarily speak to a
German.
We saw plenty of Croats in the prison camp
itself. Most of them wore white arm-bands
to show their political sympathies. They car-
ried emblems of office —stout cudgels. More
than once a Serb, driven to desperation, struck
back savagely. When that happened it became
painfully obvious that these Croats were backed
by the might of the German Army.
The last Slovenians I met were at Marseilles.
They were members of the S.S. and had gained
a reputation for enthusiastic brutality.
I do not wish to imply that the Serbs are
angels; there will be a dearth of angels in
liberated Europe. But the Serbs are frank in
their friendships and hatreds and are pro-British.
Croats? They fought against us m the last
war, and many have fought against us in this
war. Marshal Tito is a Croat, and, according
to communiques, many of the people he is
fighting are “Serbian Chetniks.” Mihailovich?
Nothing has been heard of him for months, but,
according to an American account, he has taken
refuge “in the mountains” till better times come.
F-DAY.
“Mr. Forde has paid a short visit to the Western Front.”
F.D.R.
He rose when tyranny had struck again,
And threatened all with serfdom or the
grave;
He led his people on the path of pain,
Pain-racked himself, but wise and
strong to save.
Above the flame and thunder of the fight
He saw the Stars and Stripes in
grandeur rise;
Beyond it, peace, like dawn that follows
night,
Came in a vision to his tired eyes;
And, borne on every wind that whips
the main,
Tidings of battles won, of triumph
near.
Not his to hail it in the noble strain
Of eloquence so many hearts held
dear ;
Not his to greet the homing hosts, his
sons
Among them, from his well-remem-
bered place.
Silent the people, sad the sound of guns :
No more the stricken form, the kind
firm face I
His greatness distant judges shall decide.
Today by this his stature is defined:
Not in his land alone the grief, the pride,
But over all the world of humankind.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIME.


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
iii*!
iM>!
Op
('NAFPeCXEi
Hme
pass^
ay
The
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is S% p.a.
and the following table indicates install
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months:
granted according to circumstances
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
When the Americans departed from
their tradition that no President should
have more than two terms many super-
stitious folk shook their heads. In the
first year of Roosevelt’s third term the
country found itself at war. Three
months after his Fourth Inaugural he
died. Though he was guiltless of the war,
in which he wore himself out, the dual
memory may in time to come be an in-
superable obstacle to any successor’s am-
bitions for a third term.
The San Francisco conference is not
to be postponed, and Molotov is to attend
it, instead of the Soviet ambassador at
Washington. “Marshal Stalin’s decision
to send Molotov is regarded as an extra-
ordinary demonstration of friendliness
towards President Truman.” Excellent;
but another theory is that it is making a
virtue of necessity. »
No slouch in controversy, Blarney in a
war-loan broadcast hit back at the
“equipment critics,” accusing them of
being the same crowd that squealed so
piercingly in “the panic of 1942,” when
the Japs were believed to be marching
to Moresby. Some of them are 1942 r
squealers, but not all, and the others have
still to be answered, Curtin, as Minister
of Defence and leader of the Govern-
ment, should do the answering.
Moved or made nervous by the indus-
trial charter to which American organi-
sations of wagepayers and trade-unions
have subscribed, the A.C.T.U., through
its Mr. Monks, has offered to “confer,”
provided there is no discussion, much
less sacrifice, of the A.C.T.U. objective,
the socialisation of industry, production,
distribution and exchange. In other
days the “objective” was attained by the
Peruvians and the Polynesians. Both
fell an easy prey to small parties of in-
vaders with other views.
The Americans in Germany have cap-
tured Hitler’s gold reserve, undisturbed
by the comment of an official from the
Reichsbank that it would be useful for
propping up the mark. One of the
British army’s prizes is a Goring car with
“a built-in radio and gadgets for heating
water, lighting cigarettes and defrosting
the windscreen.” If the Curtin-Ward
Government’s fleet of Chrysler cars is
without any of these improvements
Ward should be asked to see that the
omission is rectified. Ward’s “reason”
for joining in the boycott of the Sydney
dock opening was that the expense was
unwarranted, which should have made
his cat laugh,
' Along with Tommies and Poles,
Canadians have had a great hand in
rescuing the English from the horrors of
the flying- and rocket-bombs and the
cross-Channel shelling; and it has come
out that at Calais there were great guns
designed to bombard London with
rocket shells, “10 a minute, day and
night,” But the cost has not been light:
Canadian casualties to February 28 were
the greatest among the Dominions: 31,439
killed, 42,251 wounded, 8367 prisoners
and 4163 missing; 89,220. Australia’s
were 87,256 19,430 killed, 35,595
wounded, 6955 missing and 25,276 p.o.w.
Maoriland’s, 36,746 (9334 killed, 17,987
wounded, 934 missing and 8501 p.0.w.),
remained highest in proportion to popu-
lation. Britain’s were 685,638 (216,287
killed, 255,142 wounded, 30,967 missing
and 183,242 p.0.w.), plus 34,161 dead
merchant seamen and internees and
144,542 bombing casualties among
civilians—s 9,793 killed and 84,749 hos-
pital cases.
“The Commonwealth Government is
to be asked at the Premiers’ Conference
for an education subsidy of £10,000,000
a year.” So said Premier Cosgrove, back
in Tasmania after an Adelaide conference
of Education Ministers (he is one of the
six), at which he suggested that the amount
of the subsidy should be £5,000,000 a
year. It having no doubt been pointed
out that £5,000,000 would be nothing
to a Government which is handing out
free medicine to everyone with a hang-
over, Cosgrove agreed to the doubling
of the figure, and “the resolution was
unanimous.”
Nobody is more forcibly feeble than
Curtin when he is being feebly forcible.
Replying to a Menzies charge that his
Government had all along failed miser-
ably to handle the coalies, the P.M. said:
There are many others besides coalminers
who can be said to be engaged in prac-
tices detrimental to the war effort. This
applies equally to people who dispute the
authority of the censorship or who will not
observe prices. The law should be re-
spected.
Precisely, but nobody will respect any
law unless it’s enforced whether by man
or Nature.
North Queensland has “a considerable
number” of men on the dole. The
How he lies in his rights of a man!
Death has done all death can.
affected area Bundaberg, Mackay,
Townsville and Gladstone —is stiff with
“National Service officers” and “senior
rural officers of the Manpower Director-
ate,” but about all they could offer
among them was a month’s work at
Kingaroy picking peanuts. Queensland
Labor Minister Gair says it’s Manpower’s
fault and an A.W.U. man backs him up.
Meantime, tax-money is being used to
support idle men in a country howling
for productive labor.
W. J. Cleary has been succeeded as
chairman of A.B.C. by R. J. F. Boyer,
one of the two non-Labor members:
“Worker” editor Jack Hanlon, latest of
the three Labor appointees, is having to
withstand a challenge on the soldier-
preference issue by ex-Senator Dunn, who
has R.S.L. support. Curtin beckoned
Boyer to the vacancy with high-sounding
words which the new incumbent in-
terpreted as “forthright assurances of the
independent charter of the Commission.”
All the same, he will have to be vigilant
and firm to prevent Labor politicians in-
terrupting performances of Beethoven
symphonies and Shakspeare plays with
“flashes” on their momentous work for
the peepul; and, for himself, he will need
to remove a suspicion that he rather
too fond of hearing the sound of the
Boyer voice. It was one of Cleary’s
merits that he kept away from the micro-
phone.
There is no truth in the rumor that
when the rain began falling in Canberra
Scully was seen out in it without his hat
and heard triumphantly exclaiming “I
organised it! I organised it!”
Franco’s Spain has broken off diplo-
matic relations with Japan for reasons
which would justify a declaration of war:
Japanese deliberately fired the Spanish
Consulate buildings at Manila and assas-
sinated the entire staff, as well as many
other Spanish subjects. To which
“S. M. Herald’s” Jack Percival has, on
the authority of “one of the highest-rank-
ing Catholic prelates in the Philippines,”
added that the Japanese butchered 82
Spanish priests and brothers, and refugees
beyond counting, in addition to “destroy-
ing more than 90 p.c. of the Spanish con-
vents, churches and religious houses.”
Father Cosgrave, a Redemptorist priest
from Sydney, was one of many who
were bayonetted at La Salle 'College;
there the dead were thrown upon the
living, and, with three bayonet wounds in
his body. Father Cosgrave was left for
dead. Particulars of these atrocities and
others as foul are in the hands of the
War Crimes Authority at Washington.
As London “Times” puts it:
To instil into a boy’s mind a pride in
and love for his country, and to give him
a knowledge of the greatness and mean-
ing of the Empire, should be the first duty
of every school and every master.
It is to be hoped that some greatly daring
fellow, risking expulsion and the odium
of being termed a fascist, will urge it
upon the N.S.W. Teachers’ Federation
and Minister Heffron.
Scully’s State is importing W.A. wheat
for the first time. Shipping and unloading
difficulties and doubts as to whether the
shipments will reduce stock mortality to
any extent are features of the innovation.
In the last three seasons Westralia could
have grown a great deal more wheat, with
all concerned benefiting, humans and
animals, if farmers, at Scully’s instance,
hadn’t been paid for not growing it.
From July 1, 1942, to December 31,
1944, “wheat-acreage restriction Wes-
tralia” cost the Commonwealth £1,160,881.
Crazier item never figured in a financial
report. /
A Sydney “Sun” man, waiting at Can-
berra for the politicians to return, went
through the list of “social services,” esti-
mated to cost £73,300,000 in the third
year, and used the term “formidable”;
Invalid and old-age pensions, £26,000,000;
child endowment, £12,000,000; widows’
pensions, £3,000,000; maternity benefits,
£3,000,000; funeral benefits, £300,000;
unemployment benefit's, £10,000,000; sick-
ness benefits, £8,000,000; pharmaceutical
benefits (free medicine), £2,000,000; hospital
benefits, £5,000,000; tuberculosis benefits,
£1,000,000; employment service, £2,000,000;
housing-rent subsidies, £1,000,000.
“Formidable” is right. It means a tenner
a year from every man, woman and child
in Australia, with an odd couple of mil-
lion from the unborn and the just dead.
Playford has had to announce that his
State’s hopes of building up coal stocks
in April won’t be realised. Because of
strikes in N.S.W. mines one voyage had
had to be cancelled: another ship put
out short-loaded ; three others were await-
ing coal cargoes, but it seemed that at
least one wouldn’t sail for S.A. “Forward
to the Revolution!”
The “Farmer and Settler” quoted A. G.
Hecker, president of the Temora (N.S.W.)
F. and S.A., as coming out for “one
great national Farmers’ Union.” Hecker
himself quoted James Turner, leader of
the British farmers’ delegation, as saying
that Australian land men are “divided
into so many sections that they are un-
able to speak with one voice.” Going
on British and Maoriland experience,
“one great national Farmers’ Union”
would be a good thing, but it would be
necessary to foil Left Wingers’ efforts to
gain control. Communists are always
busy among farmers, and nothing would
suit them better than to run their union
as they run so many others.
It is on historical record that after the
Japs beat the Chinese in 1894 “Russia,
Germany and France presented a joint
Note to the Tokyo Government ‘recom-
mending’ ” that the mainland territory
ceded to the Japanese—a tasty part of
Manchuria, then Chinese, with Wei-hai-
wei, the latter to be occupied pending
payment of the indemnity, 200 million
taels —“should not be permanently occu-
pied, as such a proceeding would be
detrimental to peace.”
The recommendation was couched in the
terms of diplomatic courtesy, but every-
thing indicated that the signatories were
prepared to appeal to arms.
The day (hat saw the publication of the
ratified treaty saw also the issue of a
rescript in which the Emperor, avowing his
unalterable devotion to the cause of peace,
and recognising that the counsel offered
was prompted by the same sentiment,
yielded to the dictates of magnanimity and
accepted the “advice” of the three Powers.
So there is a precedent for surrender by
the Emperor himself. With a vaster force
mustered and Japanese islands invaded
it could happen again.
J. J. McDonald, “Labor” member for
Bass in the Hobart Assembly, is resign-
ing to give all his time to bookmaking.
Under proportional representation he
should be succeeded by a defeated
“Labor” candidate after the election
ballot-papers have been re-examined, but
there is only one available, A. H. Welsh,
and he has an A.W.C. job, Supervisor of
Stores and Shipping at Darwin. Hobart
“Mercury” suggests that Welsh “may not
accept the seat, in which case an Oppo-
sition member will be elevated.” “Labor”
never lets anything like that happen.


fd
Special Old
SHERRY
PERTONAL ITEMS
T. * Malcolm Ritchie, whose appoint-
ment as Federal chairman of the new
Liberal party gave rise to some conten-
tion in limited quarters last week, does
not look like a bone of contention. He
is small, boyish in a style that belies his
51 years, always good humored in public
contacts and unassuming enough to dis-
guise himself easily in any line-up held
to identify a man who was managing
director of Electric Equipment Manu-
facturers at 30, and who at 35 was man-
aging director of Metropolitan Vickers,
who has since held several first-class
directorates in the industry, who is man-
aging director of the great firm of Noyes
Bros., and who has been business ad-
ministrator for N. S. Wales of the Minis-
try of Munitions. T.M.R. holds the
respect of the whole electrical industry
as an administrator. Though he has little
political experience, he certainly will
teach the new party something of busi-
ness methods.
“Recco”: Westralian Peter Drum-
mond, missing in that Atlantic crash (B.
4/4/’45), had a very close call as an
R.F.C. flight-commander in 1918. In a
dust-up with German ’planes his engine
failed and he glided down for a forced
landing behind the enemy lines. Just be-
fore he could touch earth the engine
picked up, so off he went hedge-hopping
with the opposition hot on his tail anxious
for a kill. Once his ’plane’s wheels
actually touched ground, but the engine
again picked up and he was able to make
it back to base —bringing home attached
to the ’plane a clothes-line with a week’s
washing on it! Peter was always pleased
to see members of old No. 1 Squadron,
as I found when I called on him at the
Air Ministry in London.
Arthur Ernest Cook, M.L.A. for Ben-
digo for 20 years and one of the Vic-
torian Leg. Assembly’s most popular
members, has»been the third to die in the
precincts of the House in the last two
years. The others were E. A. Coyle and
R. A. J, James, A trenchant debater,
Cook always fought impersonally for his
favorite causes, which included the in-
terests of miners and children’s welfare.
It was he who got Prendergast to change
the title of that welfare department from
the horrible “Neglected Children.”
A.B.C.’s new chairman:
Though R. J. F. Boyer fills in his identifica-
tion card as a grazier, of Charleville (Q.), it is
probable that if he walked through the wethers
those supercilious animals would these days
regard him as a stranger. He’s been pretty
busy almost ever since he was born in 1891
at Taree (N.S.W.), the son of a parson. From
Newington he graduated M.A. at Sydney Uni.,
with first-class honors in European history, and
a year later was off with the Old Diggers to
help make some of it on Gallipoli and in
France, with the 26th and Ist Battalions. By
1920 he was settled on the Charleville
property, but it wasn’t long before he began
to appear as a delegate to various conferences
—Empire Producers (Sydney) and Imperial
Relief (Lapstone), 1938; World Agricultural
(Dresden), International Chamber of Com-
merce (Copenhagen), Wool Federation (Brus-
sels), League of Nations Assembly and lecture
tour of U.S.A., 1939. By 1940 he was a
member of A.8.C., and a year later hon. direc-
tor of the American division of the Depart-
ment of Information, president of the Graziers’
Federal Council and United Graziers of
Queensland, vice-president of the League of
Nations Union, member of the Australian
Woolgrowers’ Council and the Australian In-
stitute of International Affairs, leader of the
Australian delegation to the Pacific Relations
conference in Montreal. He succeeds W. J.
Cleary, having been assured by the Prime
Minister of the “independent charter of the
Commission,” and with J. D. G. Medley
makes the only two of the five members who
have not been associated with the Labor party.
Ernest Wunderlich, eldest of three
brothers who have been notable figures
in Sydney for upwards of half a century,
died in Sydney last week at just on 86.
Born in London of Swiss descent, the
brothers came to Australia young, and
Ernest was for many years chairman of
directors of the big concern with the
family name whose tiles have topped
many thousands of Australian structures,
with the Commonwealth Savings Bank
in Sydney perhaps Exhibit A. A perfect
host, Ernest Wunderlich had many cul-
tural interests, and was a composer of
merit. When illness confined him to his
house in Bondi Junction he wrote his
reminiscences, and he had the pleasure
of seeing them in print and of inscribing
the names of friends in gift copies in his
last days.
A Maorilander, Rev. Melville Har-
court, has become rector of St. Ann’s
in the oldest Episcopal parish in Brook-
lyn, N.Y. Rev. Harcourt had been
vicar of Birkenhead in Auckland since
1940. Author of several books, includ-
ing one on prison reform entitled A
Parson in Prison, he started out originally
as a newspaper reporter.
George Hume, here pictured by Mc-
Beath, was reared in the Victorian bush
and moved to Melbourne at 18 years
with a few pounds. Today a city council-
lor, he’s a director of many concerns,
varying from real estate to stud farms
and from mining to totalisator cos.
Travelling the world in 1924 he took the
schoolboy runner C. J. Lane to the Olym-
pic Games and returned driving the
Daimler car which was made for the Prince
of Wales and shown at the Wembley
Exhibition. His “Linden Court” project,
a street of 16 £4OOO houses built in 1927
at East St. Kilda, Melbourne, is still con-
sidered a model of town planning. Later
demolishing his own home in St. Kilda-
road, he erected the first block of air-
conditioned flats in Victoria. A promi-
GEORGE HUME.
nent member of cricket, football and
racing clubs and carrying facial remin-
ders of early cycling and boxing days,'
he’s one of the small bunch of Melbourne
early-morning all-the-year-round swim-
mers. Developing his stud farm Bay
Meadows at Mornington (Victoria) takes
up his spare time. His only son, Flying-
Officer Hume, has been with the R.A.A.F.
in England for the past four years.
It’s some time now since The Bulletin
heard from its old friend Will Ogilvie, so
it was all the more of a coincidence when
a letter and verse from him came along
jusf after last week’s Red Page, with the
mention of H. M. Green’s appreciation
of him, went to the printer. In his letter
Will Ogilvie referred to the verse—it
appears, where many another good
Ogilvie bush ballad had stood, in “Abo-
riginalities’'—as “just a thought in an idle
hour,” adding “In one’s 76th year one
writes but seldom.” Verse and letter
came from Kirklea, Selkirk, Scotland.
When Major E. W. Dilena blew into
his home town, West Croydon (S.A.),
the other day on a spot of leave he car-
ried an insignia new to Australia, the
yellow dragon emblem of Wingate’s
Chindits. Now a senior chaplain in the
British Army, Major Dilena left his
Tumby Bay (S.A.) charge in 1938 for
London. After preaching for a time at
St. Augustus’s Church, Kilburn, he en-
listed, saw the blitz through in London,
went to the Middle East and Syria, was
bombed in Tobruk and arrived in Ceylon
just in time for the first Japanese bomb-
ing of that island. In India he heard
of the Wingate outfit, joined it, became
its senior chaplain, supervised the wel-
fare work of the force and established
in the jungle a church which he dubbed
“St. Martin’s in the Field.”
Eighty-two years young, Dr. Edward
L. Gault, M.S., is still in practice in Mel-
bourne, aided and abetted by daughter
Adelaide, who’s also an eye-specialist. A
Melbourne University 1888 graduate, the
Doc. did post-grad, eye work in London
DR. EDWARD L. GAULT.
in 1890. On the Board of Missions for
years, he must have been one of the
oldest present at the Methodist Confer-
ence lately held in Melbourne. In his
London days his barber told him he
was going bald and would have to be
careful, but the area hasn’t increased
noticeably in the last 55 years. Son
Edward left Melbourne as a medical mis-
sionary some years back, and is now Pro-
fessor of Pathology at the Vollore (India)
Medical School.
William Henry Spooner, chairman of
the N.S.W. Liberals’ Provisional Execu-
tive, is a second-generation Sydneysider
and an Old Digger with four years’ ser-
vice, during which he collected the M.M.,
a “blighty” and a commission in the old
Australian Flying Corps. He’s doing a
bit of flying about these days, organising
and working for the Libs., attending
and addressing public meetipgs and lend-
ing the weight of his business and ad-
ministrative experience to political re-
form. The rapid growth of the party is
a tribute to his energy. A chartered
accountant, Spooner got his Dip.Ec. by
evening study at Sydney Uni., is associ-
ated with brother Eric in the Hungerford,
W. H. SPOONER.
Spooner accountancy firm, had a success-
ful year of office as president of Sydney
Legacy, and is closely associated with the
War Veterans’ Home. At 47, W.H. hasn’t
much spare time, but chases par around
Manly course when he can.
Bishop Alain de Boismenu, Vicar-
Apostolic of Papua for the past 33 years,
has resigned, and in recognition of his
work up there the Vatican has made
him Titular Archbishop of Claudiopolis.
Born at St. Malmo, Brittany, in 1870, he
became bishop at 29, after two years on
New Guinea Mission. He succeeded
Archbishop Navarre as Vicar-Apostolic
of Papua in 1912.
Dr. Ida Alison Brown has become the
first woman president of the Linnean
Society of N.S.W. The new president
invaded the science school of Sydney
Uni. from Fort-street Girls’ High School,
won a fellowship of the Linnean Society
and her D.Sc., and represented the Aus-
tralian National Research Council on the
fourth Pacific Science Congress. Her
bread-and-butter job is as lecturer in
geology at the Uni.
Recently back from covering the
Western Front fighting, John Hethering-
ton succeeds Archer Kyffin Thomas as
editor of Adelaide’s evening “News.”
Victorian born and educated, Hethering-
ton spent several years as magazine
editor of Melbourne “Herald” before
going to London in 1935 for Australian
Newspaper Service and Australian Asso-
ciated Press. In 1937 he became sub-
editor with Australian Associated in New
York. Now 38, he’s author of two books
—Airborne Invasion, published in Lon-
don, New York, Cairo, New Zealand and
Australia, and The Australian Soldier ,
lately published in Sydney.
Into the silence:
At Geelong (Vic.), William Maxwell Bell,
pastoralist, former director of Dennys, Las-
celles, and a great benefactor. He gave Gee-
long Grammar its music school, one of the
best in Australia, and his gift's of pictures
formed the backbone of the Geelong Art
Gallery.
In Sydney, Dr. E. S. Stokes, for over 30
years medical officer to the Metropolitan Water,
Sewerage and Drainage Board, and between
whiles an A.A.M.C. major—he was at the Gal-
lipoli landing. With Dr. Fiasdii, of Phillip-
street, a lifelong friend, he figured in the first
major operation performed on a member of the
A. en route to Egypt in 1914. In private
practice as a water t'echnicologist since 1935 —
Dr. Stokes was one of Australia’s greatest ex-
perts in that line —he returned to the board to
do his old job for it in the present war. A
son is an eminent physician.
In Melbourne, Miss Adelaide Burkitt, for over
40 years a Christian Science leader. Gaining
a degree at the Massachusetts Metaphysical
College founded by Mary Baker Eddy, Miss
Burkitt returned to Melbourne and conducted
classes which have sent out hundreds of pupils,
now in all parts of the world. Before that
she was a musician, one of Marshall Hall’s
most brilliant pupils. One of her own pupils
was a six-year-old named Percy Grainger.
In Brisbane, at 80, William Madison Hayne,
for 16 years committee member of Brisbane
Stock Exchange, and for two years its president.
Early teaching days begun in Ipswich in the late
’seventies led on to Thursday Island, where he
resigned to join the staff of “Pearl King”
Clark at Am Island. With the late Capt. E. W.
Cleveland, Hayne subsequently went into the
pearl-shelling business himself, and was very
successful. Appointed Vice-Consul for Bel-
gium in Brisbane in 1918, he became Consul
seven years later. Both Leopold decorations
(Chevalier de I’Ordre de Leopold Class I and II)
were conferred on him.
At 82, at Maleny (Q.), pioneer cattle-raiser
R. A. Cork, one of the State’s foremost breeders
of Ayrshires and a judge of cattle and other
stock at countless shows in Queensland and
N.S.W.
At 53„ in Brisbane, F. J. McCarthy, Commis-
sioner of Taxes, Federal Deputy Commissioner
of Taxation, and Commissioner of Stamp
Duties. He gave 27 years’ service t'o the State.
At 84, in Brisbane, Dr. F. G. Butler-Wood,
leading dentist and Freemason. Born at Gren-
fell (N.S.W.), he was educated at The King’s
School, Parramatta.
In Brisbane, at 58, leading ear, nose and
throat specialist Dr. R. Graham Brown. From
1914 to 1916 he was an army medico with the
B. He was a brother of Rhodes Scholar
Leonard Graham Brown.
In Los Angeles, May Beatty, who, hailing
from Christchurch (M.L.), joined Tom Pollard’s
Juvenile Opera Co. in 1892, and soon came
to the front as a principal. When the co.
dropped “Juvenile” from the ads. she won
successes in “The Belle of New York,” “The
Geisha,” “Falka,” and the rest of Tom’s
liberal repertoire. In Australia she played with
Musgrove Co. in comic opera, particularly “The
Fortune Teller,” “Fra Diavolo” and “The
Daughter of the Regiment.” In 1905 she and
her husband, Edward Lauri, starred in Stephen-
son’s Musical Comedy Co. Her last visit here
was in “No, No, Nanette.” As a principal
boy she sparkled in sundry Williamson pantos.,
and in England and the U.S.A. she was a great
favorite on the screen and stage.
At 74, J. W. Pennington, former M.L.A. for
Kara Kara (Vic.), and one of the few remaining
links with the old Poseidon goldfields, Tarna-
gulla,-which yielded many valuable nuggets.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Blue P.”: In a radio quiz “session” the
object the contestant had to identify
was Cook’s cottage in the Fitzroy Gar-
dens, Melbourne. As a clue the orchestra
played “Lookie, Lookie, Lookie, Here
Comes Cookid,” and with this and several
very broad hints from the compayah the
contestant concluded that it had some-
thing to do with cooks. Whereupon it
went like this:
Contestant: Cooks, eh? Would it be
something to do with a cook?
Compere: Yes, and a very famous cook,
too.
Con.: Ah, would it be Billy Cook, the
jockey?
Comp.: No.
Con.: H’m. Cook? Cook? Aw, you
mean Joe Cook.
The compayah had practically to tell him
which Cook. And the “session” was held
in the city wherein stands the cottage.
* * * «
“Fuligo”: “Hamer’s” chain-smoker
who started nine cigarettes in ten minutes
can scarcely be regarded as typical,
especially in these days when smokes are
so hard to come by. As one who for
many years seldom smoked fewer than
50, sometimes more than 70, cigarettes
in a day, I can assure “Hamer” that it
is possible to do so without wasting
tobacco. A good deal depends upon the
brand of cigarette used. I found that the
time taken to get through one varied,
according to brand, from five to 12
minutes. Even on the 12-minute sort it
is quite possible to get through 50 a day
—it only takes ten hours’ smoking time.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”; I see that an Ameri-
can mother has christened her twin off-
spring Iwo and Jima. Those are pleasant
sounding names in any language, though
one shudders for the fate of future infants
if the Marines make their first landing
in Japan on Shimonoseki or Kagoshima.
In the first flush of the Revolution Rus-
sian patriotic fervor expressed itself in
mothers naming their children Little Five-
Year Plan, Red International, Dialectic
of Materialism and similar cognomens
which may or may not be euphonious in
Russian. But that has passed and Ivans
and Peters and Sonias are again in
fashion.
* * * *
“Hist”: I have discovered why my
friend McTavish is adorning his weekly
letters to his Maggie with 3£d. Gloucester
stamps, when 2jd. would suffice —stamp
dealers are ready to buy the and
values of the Gloucester issue at
from 2s. 6d. to 4s. a dozen, used. While
patriotically contributing an extra penny
to revenue on every letter, McTavish col-
lected a refund of by selling the
used stamps which Maggie returns to
him. Market figure for Gloucester
used is Is. 9d. a hundred. Speculative
buyers have bought so many of the
higher values of this issue that the pro-
portion left for ordinary postal service is
small; hence the demand for used copies,
which may eventually prove scarcer than
unused,
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: I don’t think Adelaide really
got its last-century nickname of “City of
Churches” through barring Sunday sport
(B. 28/3/’45). It was before even my time,
but I have always understood that the
title was given by visitors just because
of the remarkable number of churches
that happened to cluster round the civic
centre of Adelaide, the Town Hall acre.
Anyway, the City Council couldn’t have
been barring sport on Sundays 80 years
ago; nobody would have dreamed of
suggesting any.
w * * *
“Bo”; As the youth, cycling from work
in the peak-hour traffic, was rounding a
corner he skidded in some loose gravel
on the edge of the newly top-dressed
street. He braked quickly, lost balance
and fell, luckily towards the gutter; the
bike slid the other way, right under the
wheels of a following utility truck, which
swerved too late. The rider escaped with
only slight gravel-rash ; after the truck
had passed over it the back wheel of the
bike looked as if it had been tied in a
knot; the front wheel was buckled into
an S and the handle bars were twisted
around the main framework, which had
a bend in it like a bow. Wearing a rather
scared look the youth recovered the
wreck of his grid. While one of
the crowd which quickly gathered was
dusting him down, a motherly-looking old
lady who had just come out of a shop
walked over, a look of deep concern in
her face as she scanned the youth’s coun-
tenance and laid a hand on his arm.
“You’ve had a very bad shaking-up,
“ Heavens , what have I said now ?”
young man,” she said kindly. “If I were
you I’d wait a little while before getting
on your bicycle again!”
* * * *
“Jasby”: Army hygiene? At a hot
northern staging camp where water was
so short that it was cut off several times
a day (usually just when we were soaped-up
for a sluice); where drinking water was
lukewarm at night and hot in the day;
and where “lolly-water” queues stretched
300 yards from the canteen door, the
place was plastered with notices “Don’t
Spit.” Growled Jazzer Jones as he fell
in at the end of the queue, his tongue
hanging out over his dry pannikin:
“‘Don’t Spit’? A man’d have to drink
20 gallons in this joint before he could
even raise a spit.”
* * * *
“Tiki”: “Maltcrobe” (B. 21/3/’45) is
not alone in a belief that Maoriland beer
used to be pretty strong. One of
the members of the M.L. Royal Commis-
sion on Licensing, F. G. Young, M.L.C.,
cross-examining a Customs man, put it to
him that the alcoholic content of the
brew had been reduced from 12 p.c.
in 1915 to 6 p.c., and that excise had
risen from 3d. to 3s, a gallon. He sug-
gested that the M.L. brewers, who pro-
duced 2,000,000 more gallons of beer in
1942 than they did in 1940, saving
£49,182 on sugar and malt as a result
of the reduction in alcoholic content be-
tween the periods, had made a profit on
the additional water that exceeded the
amount of taxation on the 2,000,000-
gallon increase. The witness, justifiably
said the proposition seemed a bit too in-
volved for a “yes” or “no” answer, but
he had no reason to challenge Mr.
Young’s basis of computation. There
seems to be the germ there of a move to
base beer excise on alcoholic content and
to pass any war-time saving on to the
public.
» * * *
“Seismo”: Ruapehu, one of Maori-
land’s comparatively young volcanoes,
has been showing signs of activity after
a peaceful sleep for close on 40 years.
There is a fair amount of settlement in
the vicinity nowadays, and the railway
linking Wellington and Auckland passes
within ten miles of the peak, so anxiety
has been expressed. The symptoms have
grown no worse, but they were rather
terrifying at one stage. Observers in two
R.N.Z.A.F. ’planes which flew over the
crater reported that in the centre of the
large lake that fills the hollow an island
about 50ft. in diameter had emerged. In
the centre of this was a vent about 4ft.
across emitting steam, sulphurous smoke
and showers of stones and mud. There
was a strong smell of sulphur, *These
didoes of Ruapehu were widely adver-
tised by a cloud of steam reaching 100
miles across the North Island to the east
coast. Maoriland lies on a line of thin
earth-crust extending northwards through
Japan. Nervous and credulous folk con-
nect the rumored bombing of Nippon’s
volcanoes with the M.L. manifestation.
* * jJc *
“Traileye” :* As a youth swotting for
my Leaving Certificate preparatory to the
study of Law, I appreciated readily
enough the necessity for a pass in Eng-
lish, but I couldn’t understand why I
had to pass in Latin and French, plus
maths, with all its beastly cosines and
logarithms. These subjects were felt to
be equally unreasonable by lads who had
chosen medicine as a career. What we
had failed to realise was that in the study
of these (to us) irrelevant subjects our
minds were becoming trained and dis-
ciplined, and consequently better fitted
for later and more difficult studies. The
war has shown that the acquisition of
specialised knowledge, such as battery
staff work in field artillery, is easier for
the soldier who is used to studying than
it is for the man who has done vdry little
or none of it. A medico stands a greater
chance of mastering navigation and other
subjects an Air Force pilot has to learn
than a bricklayer does. The professional
man has a start in the race for commis-
sions in the services not because of his
profession but because of his ability to
acquire rapidly and retain the necessary
knowledge. Besides that, of course, there
are virtues in the study of Latin as a
gateway to classical knowledge.
* * * *
“Petermac”: A lanky young Digger
battled his way through the raucous
throng to the bar and called for a
schooner. It eventually arrived with a
fine tall collar. The Digger surveyed it
distastefully for a moment and then
called the barman over. “Hey, sport, is
there enough room in this for a dash?”
he asked. “Sure,” said the barman grop-
ing for the lemonade. “Good,” remarked
the Digger venomously, “then why don’t
you fill it up with beer?’”
* * * *
“Athos”: I don’t know what grounds
“Hacksaw” has for doubting the sound-
ness of C. P. Mountford’s suggestion that
Aussie youngsters can be induced to pre-
fer abo. legends to Little Red Riding
Hood and co. (B. 21 /3 / ’45). The young-
sters where I live lap up such tales as
“Why the Crow is Black” and ask for
more. Early this year A.B.C. broad-
cast for Victorian schools an abo. tale,
“The Mischievous Crow,” as a serial in
three parts, with sound effects and an
abo. theme tune. When the last episode
was held over because of a rush broad-
cast of some important news there was a
howl of disappointment. To modern
ideas many of the tales of Grimm and
Anderson are quite unsuitable for chil-
dren, and some are banned from kinder-
gartens. Native folk-lore offers plenty of
suitable material, and as for Australian
nursery rhymes being a failure, I don’t
believe it. Some of those Red Page
attempts are still firm favorites here and
“Hacksaw” hasn’t been near a school
lately if he hasn’t heard of Wallaby Joe,
Blinky Bill, Benjamin Bandicoot and
others. Our writers have done an excel-
lent job in catering for Aussie youngsters
in such books as The Meeting Pool, The
Magic Pudding and The Animals Noah
Forgot, to mention three out of dozens.
If Departments of Education weren’t so
stingy in the matter of copyright fees
there’d be more of this stuff in school
readers, and that would be a darned good
thing.
* * * *
“T.McN.”: People who think that
since the country has made its peace
with Russia all must be well with Fin-
land must be uneasy over the published
words of Jean Sibelius, the 79-year-old
Finnish composer who -was discovered
by a Reuter man penniless and starving
in a cottage near Helsinki. Told that
thousands of pounds in royalties on his
works had accumulated in Britain and
America, Sibelius said:
I am not' in any real distress, although I
am sharing the fate of my countrymen.
I am deeply touched by the efforts of
British admirers and musicians to send me
necessities, but do not make a fuss of me.
I am in the same boat as the rest of the
Finns. I am an old man nearing the end.
I am just an ordinary Finn and must be
treated like everybody else. If I could
get some of my accumulated money it
would help, but I do not want favoritism.
Australians who have been charmed by
“Finlandia” and “Valse Triste” and the
Sibelius symphonies will see something
pathetically heroic in the artist insisting
on sharing his people’s fate.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Melburnians are so in-
jured to sitting on chairs when they
listen to music that they were as uncom-
fortable as fish on a jetty at the first
promenade concert to be held at the
Town Hall. The few who dared to take
a couple of steps across the floor looked
as guilty as if they were bent on stealing
chickens. When the interval came every-
body rushed out, as of yore, into the
foyers. That wasn’t surprising. The
Town Hall concert chamber is a bleak,
angular, austere and uncharitable-look-
ing place, about as fit for a promenade
concert as a whale’s back. At the Folies
in Paris there are boxes, a seated portion
with expensive seats, a barrier behind
which people who came in cheaply can
promenade, and behind that again vesti-
bules full of bars and cafe tables, tobacco
smoke, laughter, the clink of glasses and
murmurs of conversation. Melbourne’s
city daddies will have to install all this
if they want to make a success of
promenade concerts.
* * * *
“H.C.K.”: Brown bought a small
thermometer, with some idea, now that
winter’s coming on, of testing his room
heat. He stowed the thing in his vest
pocket, then ran into three friends, whom
he invited to lunch. The four sought one
of the larger restaurants. At coffee time
Brown, for his stomach’s sake, ordered
milk. There was a speck on the milk
and, looking for something with which to
remove it, he found and drew forth his
thermometer. The thermometer wiped
and put away, Brown asked for one pay
docket. He got it, and the waitress said
the manager would like to see him.
Mystified, Brown complied. The manager
smiled affably, reached for the docket,
tore it up and pressed a 10s. note upon
the astonished Brown. It was only when
they got away that the four realised what
could be done with a scientific instrument
and a prevailing fear of inspectors.
* * * *
“F.S.”: Nijinsky, reported to have
been executed in Budapest by the Nazis
(B. 28/3/’45), was the greatest dancer
Russia produced and there was more of
the artist in him than in most notabilities
of the ballet. Exquisitely proportioned
and credited with being able to leap from
one wing of a wide stage and disappear
on the other side, he was not proud of his
physical prowess and resented any praise
of his dancing from the point of view of
acrobatics. D’Annunzio said to Nijinsky:
“Pray, dance me something.” The dancer
icily retorted: “Please write me some-
thing.” Nijinsky’s admirers say he revo-
lutionised the art of dancing, but pos-
sibly he tried to get out of it more than
the medium was capable of giving and
discouragement may have brought about
his madness.
BALLAD OF LOST LIQUORS.
“Is there any difference between ale and beer?
—“S.T.S.” (13. 11/h/’-W)-
None, I imagine, for the work they do
In making brighter, cheerier and blither
The world appear to him who sinks a few —
And little (some will tell you) between either
And what in Groperland is termed shypoo,
Hop-beer or horehound. In my hour of need
I’d swap all beverages brewers brew
For one good swig of cider or of mead.
Caelum non animum mutant — their skies
They change above, but not their hearts who
roam.
And oftentimes their palates, I surmise,
May stray to preferences formed at home.
O’er nut-brown wets let others rhapsodize
And pot's whose brims the winking bubbles
bead,
Above a gallon of the stuff I’d prize
A mug of cider or a jug of mead.
Dreams, idle dreams! Though autumn apples
cling
Round countless orchard boughs, a goodly
stack,
Ripe for remunerative marketing
(Unless malignity should brand them black),
Though tireless bees are ever on the wing
To fill the waiting hives with golden feed,
This is a land where beer—or ale—is King.
The day is gone for cider and for mead.
Breweries and stills provide our liquid fare,
New stimulants old favorites supersede.
Where now is Keats’s apple-press? And where
The tipple praised by Hardy’s Angel Clare?
Not here. Farewell to cider and to mead!
N.S.W.
MIDFORD.


“Wodgil”: Among my radio aversions
were plays spoken or gabbled at the rate
of 200 words a minute, Wurtlitzer-organ
performances and community singing. I
still hate the 200-words-a-minute plays,
but a Brisbane man who plays the Wur-
litzer at a cinema theatre has extinguished
my loathing for that instrument and for
community singing by combining them
in “a sing-song for the forces,” broad-
cast every Sunday night. He, of course,
is at the organ and servicemen do* the
singing, and they sing uncommonly well.
Naturally, the fare consists mostly of
popular songs, but the organist always
strikes up a hymn, and none of the
popular songs is sung with greater spirit
or effect. By collecting lonely lads who
might otherwise be wandering idly about
the streets and making them parties to
half an hour of honest entertainment, en-
joyable to others as well as themselves,
this man is doing a kindly and useful
war job, and I take off my hat to him.
His name is Rupert Hayes,
* * sH H*
“C. 8.”: The Young Apollo, the Mel-
bourne strong man, who holds 14 inter-
national records for weight-lifting, added
another when he pulled with his teeth a
15-ton fire engine loaded with equipment
and 50 people at Chelsea. He had been
tugging at the load for an hour and a half
when a sceptical onlooker remarked “He
couldn’t pull a pram.” This put Apollo
on his mettle. The ponderous object
began to move and didn’t stop until it
had covered 18ft.
* * * *
“Jamwood”; It may be that the
examples of Andreas Hofer and Colonel
Schill, as well as that of Frederick the
“But he asked me to show the Court exactly what I did!
“Great,” are helping to give Hitler and
his gang the notion that they can pro-
long a lost war until something turns up.
Both carried on little wars against
Napoleon when their faint-hearted
sovereigns had turned it in. Schill, a
Saxon in the Prussian army, defended be-
sieged Kolberg, recently taken by the
Russians, for many months after the
great defeats of the Prussians at Jena
and Auerstadt. Two years after the
siege he had another go at Nap, as com-
mander of a regiment which collected
many recruits; but, abandoned by his
King, his little army was rolled up by
Dutch and Danes, then in Napoleon’s
service, and he was killed. Hofer, a
Tyrolese peasant, raised a force of irre-
gulars and with it beat the Bavarians, to
“We must be getting closer —where there's smoke there's fire!"
whom Napoleon had ceded the Tyrol,
anc j a French army under Marshal
Lefebre. With headquarters at Inns-
bruck, Hofer actually ruled the Tyrol
f or a CoU pi e c f months, whereupon the
Austrian Emperor, his master, concluded
a disgraceful peace which gave the
Tyrol to Bavaria again. Betrayed by the
ignominious Hapsburg, Hofer was cap-
tured by the French and consigned to a
firing party, Napoleon afterwards protest-
ing that this was done without his know-
iecjge an d against his wishes. But modern
wea pons and transport will render it im-
possible for any imitation Schills or
Hofers to have more than a brief and
fugitive, existence. For upwards of two
years Christian de Wet and his horsed
burghers defied the British ; but in 1914,
when the old Boer took the field again
a s a rebel, Botha, using motor vehicles,
disposed of him and his men, also Beyers
and Fourie, in a few weeks.
* * * *
“D BK • Other reasons why radio
amateurs deserve praise (B. 28 /3 / ’45) are
be found in their nat i o nal.service in a
capacity. Shortly after Japan
h f the N.S.W. Division of
, u y . -++ o ri tr .
opeJe'VrTEmergency Communication
Network. Radio telephone stations were
NE S (ol Tr.P =£ aS
manned voluntarily by amateur radiomen.
Another job has been a harbor patrol
radio service, designed to counter
sabotage and pillage. An outstand-
ing example of services and equipment
volunteered by civilian radiomen is the
N.S.W. Bushfires Network, in which
pack-sets working back to control posi-
tions play a vital part. A similar scheme
is now under way in Victoria.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: Recently cabled statement
that Adelaide dramatist Max Afford’s
“Lady in Danger” was “the first Australian
play to be produced on Broadway in the
memory of regular New York first-
nighters” calls for correction. Harrison
Owen’s “The Happy Husband” was pro-
duced at the Empire, N.Y., in 1928, after
being played in London, Paris and Vienna.
It was later filmed as “Uneasy Virtue.”
Owen, who was'born in Geelong, spent
ten years in London, but he’s back now
and writes leaders for “Sun-Pix” and dra-
matic criticism for the “Herald” in Mel-
bourne.
“Pawang”; The dictum of “P.0.M.C.”
(B. 4/5/’45) that the box-office career of
plays produced in Australia is assured be-
fore the gallery girl sees them because they
have been London and New York suc-
cesses, and therefore have proved to be
safe investments, may apply to present-
day conditions, which are abnormal, but
any old mummer will testify that that,
wasn’t so in the so-called hey-day of
“legit,” when there were a dozen or so
theatres in Melbourne and nearly as
many in Sydney. In a long life of theatre-
going I have seen one Broadway success
after another and many London long-
runners, even one by Noel Coward, col-
lapse in this country. And, generally
speaking, it was the g.g. who passed the
word around which sealed their J^te.
“Cauboy”: That the theatre is still under
the stigma placed on it by the Puritans is
suggested by the fact that nobody has
thought to leave a handsome bequest to
establish a national drama or school of
opera, as chemist Alfred Felton left his
whole fortune to foster the art of paint-
ing. If a theatrical or even a commer-
cial magnate did that he would be
assured of the same immortality as
Felton.
* * * *
“King’s Pawn”: The jubilee of the
Sydney Chess Club is being made a peg
on which to hang what will be virtually
an Australasian chess championship
tourney. The club was formed in Sep-
tember, 1895; but there were also in
those days a Chatswood and a University
Chess Club, as there are today, though
possibly their history has not been con-
tinuous. It was correct for the intelli-
gentsia in the ’nineties to be associated
with chess ; the “S. M. Herald” printed
the full records of important games.
Major-General Hutton was president of
the Sydney Chess Club and Colonel Las-
setter was a vice-president. Major-General
French succeeded the colonel in that job
as well as in his military one. Lord
Hampden was president of the lively, now
moribund. School of Arts Chess Club,
and army officers, professors and poli-
ticians were pillars of Sydney’s 10
suburban clubs. Although the game is
booming again—eight new clubs are rep-
resented in the N.S.W.C.A.’s metropoli-
tan competitions this year, and the teams
entered number 34 —chess has not re-
gained its social prestige of the old days.
* * * *
“Kay”: The 50th anniversary of the
introduction of motion pictures has been
celebrated in the U.S.A. by the issue of a
commemorative three cent stamp, which
illustrates the screening of a movie in an
open-air jungle theatre to a group of
servicemen and -women. Previous recog-
nition of the “industry” was given in
1939 when Nicaragua printed five stamps
in memory of film actor Will Rogers,
who met his death in Alaska in 1935.
In 1931, when an earthquake devastated
Nicaragua, Rogers flew to the stricken
area to finance and organise relief work.
One of the stamps represents Rogers dis-
embarking from a ’plane at Managua,
capital of the republic, his portrait being
shown on other values.
* * $ *
“Melbn”: A daily-paper correspon-
dent in Melbourne has protested against
the treatment handed out to prospective
brides and bridegrooms at the registry
office in Melbourne. In his own experi-
ence not a kind word was spoken by the
official who performed the ceremony.
When the Correspondent said he had
a ring the functionary barked “Well,
stick it on!” H. , R. Grove, Assis-
tant Government Statist, who has linked
12,000 lives together in the
last ten years, hotly denies
that any of his officials
could have acted in this
way. It was my lot to be
married twice to the same
woman within an interval
of three weeks, there being
some dispute between
Church and State authori-
ties over certain prelimi-
nary conditions in the
British settlement where I
was stationed. The Eng-
lish dean who performed
the ecclesiastical office was
certainly a jollier person
than the British Consul,
who subsequently repeated
its forms with extraordi-
nary stiffness. The dean
didn’t refuse the cham-
pagne which followed, and
he even offered to provide
a choir and a peal of bells
or something, for a con-
sideration. If these’ ad-
juncts were available for
the civil ceremony (with
costs regulated by the
Price-Fixing Commission, of course)
objections might be met.
* * *
“Lord Luvus”: An enthusiast wrote
to a Melbourne newspaper announcing
that he had completed a statistical survey
of the Bible, ascertaining the number of
words in Holy Writ, the number of chap-
ters, the number of times various words
are mentioned, and so forth. Another
correspondent claimed an edition, printed
in 1811, containing the same statistics
with some additional information, such
as that Ezra VII, 21, has all the letters
of the alphabet (it hasn’t, J being
omitted) and that the 19th chapter of the
Second Book of Kings is practically
identical with the 37th chapter of
Isaiah. But the original researcher
counted 773,622 words in the inspired
work, whereas his modern exemplar
made it 773,746.
*.* * *
“P. Jackson” with a bit of Sydney Har-
bor history:
A couple of generations ago the most con-
spicuous landmark on the northern side of
Sydney Harbor, west of Milson’s Point, was
an old wood-and-stone cottage known as
Gibraltar, which stood at the tip of Blue's
Point. It was built by a Captain Meredith, well
over a century ago. Billy Blue is supposed to
have once resided there, but he really lived a
good deal further inland, though the point was
part of his 80-acre grant from Governor Mac-
quarie. The projection’s original grimly
picturesque name was Murdering Point. The
first harbor ferries ran from Blue’s Point to
Dawes’ Point and Miller’s Point on the oppo-
site southern shore. Richard Teece, of the
A.M.P. Society, lived in the old cottage, as did
Isaac Ellis Ives, a former mayor of Sydney.
The place derived its name of Gibraltar from
the fact that, in its natural state, a huge rock
faced the water at the end of the point, which
had to be cut away in order to make room for
the cottage. The steps to the waterside were
carved out of this rock. The property was
bought by Sydney Ferries about 40 years ago,
and the cottage was occupied for some
time by the co.’s manager. It was demolished
a few years back.
* # *
“Clooter”: Adelaide, city of churches
and conservative to the hilt, has thrown
a spanner into the Australian system of
registering births by announcing that an
Adelaide woman is about to be delivered
of a “test-tube” baby. Australian law
requires that unless the registrar is sup-
plied with the names of father and
mother he must refuse registration,
in which case the infant, in law,
doesn’t exist. It looks as though
the Parliaments will have to bring
in legislation to cover the new possibilities
either by providing for legal adoption by
the de facto parents or for allowing it
to be deemed that the offspring is legally
the offspring of the mother’s husband.
The notorious slowness of Parliaments in
such matters is likely to cause headaches
in the meantime.
* * * *
“Hackshaw”: Anent the dancing con-
troversy in Melbourne a correspondent
of “Sun-Pix” writes:
Captain Cook found the health of his
crew improved on voyages by dancing.
Let the young people have their dancing
in church halls. Dancing is not the curse,
but drink.
Cook, on the evidence of his own jour-
nal, reached Australia with what seems
to have been the most drunken crew of
reprobates it has ever been the lot of any
navigator to clap below hatches. Yet he
said that in a crisis he would not have
exchanged these same reprobates for the
soberest crowd of non-drinkers in
Christendom. So it hasn’t been proved
yet what is the real curse of erring
society. Possibly it is moral indignation.
BUY A YEARLING.
“Vast sums are allowed to change hands without
restraint on the purchase of racehorses, while it is
almost impossible to buy or sell real estate without
having to submit to conditions and regulations ot
every conceivable nature.” — Vic. Premier Dunstan.
To buy a house, or add a bit thereto,
Has long become, as lots are well aware,
Instead of being a simple thing to do
A singularly intricate affair.
Our rulers watch with jealous, zealous care
The way we dissipate our local sterling,
But anyone who has a bit to spare
Is free to splash his guineas on a yearling.
Restrictions framed in every form and shape
Transactions touching real estate surround;
Great coils of what is often called red tape
You’re liable to get about you wound
If you should seek to buy a bit of ground
To start thereon a nursery or pottery,
But you can splash (no questions asked) a
pound
Or fifty, if you like, upon a lottery.
In Victory loans they call us to invest
And advocate —what’s pretty much the same—
Curtailing other modes of spending lest
It interfere with this essential aim.
Meanwhile all patrons of the racing game
Who note to books or totes the punters scram-
bling
Have a complete assurance that the claim
Can never be applied to sturdy gambling.
Son, keep a watchful eye upon your dough,
If you’ve a bit to spare. Though worlds are
whirling
About your ears, there’s nobody can know
There isn’t a Phar Lap in embryo
Waiting for anyone who buys a yearling.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ABORIGNALITIES
“Old-timer”: George is a living wit-
ness, as he sits on the station verandah,
wrapped in bandages and iodine, that
dogs are creatures of habit and haters of
change. For three years, averaging at
least twice a week, George rode a prad
into the town, five miles away, to see his
girl, seldom returning before midnight.
A week ago, complaining that he was
tired of catching and saddling the moke,
buying it a feed in the town and so forth,
George accepted delivery from the mail-
man of a brand-new bike. Last Sunday
afternoon he rode the grid into town.
About 1 a.m. on Monday we were startled
in our bunks by the ungodly clamor of
the hounds, a human voice cursefully
crying for help and sundry grunts and
thuds. Between the woolshed and the
stables we found a mass of canine fury
bent on tearing George and his bike to
pieces. They took no notice of horsemen
lobbing back at all hours, but this silent
thing sweeping through the night was too
much for them, and they fell upon it with
abandon. George won’t be seeing the
girl for a week.
*** * *
“Mallee Hen”: If the idea that a man’s
marksmanship goes to the pack when he
is given an unfamiliar'target (B. 11/4/’45)
were sound it would be a poor lookout
for army musketry instructors, who have
to teach recruits how to hit dummy tar-
gets, the soldier not getting a chance at
a real one until a war comes along. Yet
the British Army’s capabilities with the
rifle were the envy and despair of enemies.
And what about these young bush-
whackers who begin shooting at bunnies,
’roos, old tins and so forth and then go
down to city shooting galleries and leave
the proprietors thereof speechless as they
bowl over moving targets, ring bells and
blow out lights without apparently
bothering to take aim? I know. I’ve
won a pocketful of cash backing ’em.
s|e * * *
“Prossox”: Does “Dionnan” in his cat
v. fox yarn (B. 14/3/’45) mean to infer
that the lady Reynard was aiming at mak-
ing a meal off one of the kittens? If so,
then the fox must be listed among the
very few carnivores that will eat cat. By
my observation even a pig won’t, and
there are few things that the porker will
turn up its nose at. Nor would the wild
abo., though he has long since learned
the taste of rabbit and in an earlier time
favored dog. Nor will the lion or tiger
eat cat, though they are cats themselves.
But cat will eat cat, as is often seen
among felines domiciled in factories,
warehouses and such places where they
run half-wild.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader”: Visiting at low tide a
crescent-shaped reef to the north of
Lizard Island (N.Q.) we encountered 27
giant clams scattered about the coral; the
smallest 3ft. long and 2ft. thick; the
largest apparently close on sft. long, but
so wedged between two clumps of
coral that its actual size could not be dis-
tinguished. Stories of these clams trap-
ping and drowning humans who have
stepped into the gaping shell valves leave
me cold. It would have been impossible
in this case, except for a medium-sized
specimen, the edges of its partly-open
shell and the top of its beautifully-
colored mantle lying flush with the
surface of the coral on either side —
and only a. blundering fool would have
stepped into the mollusc. A stick poked
down into the creatufe’s mantle caused
the clam to slowly close its shell-valves—
and not with the “swirling rush” so be-
loved of thriller-writers. In any case, it’s
the easiest thing in the world to open a
clam with a gaff or even a stout sharp
stick inserted between mantle and
shell and driven hard against the ab-
ductor muscle holding the shell-valves to-
gether. A few blows will sever the
muscle, causing the valves to drop apart.
* * * *
“Wippegong”; Anyone from crow
country knows that you only need to
pick up a stick and Kelly dives for shel-
ter, even if The Drover’s Wife did make
a practice of shouting “Bang!” for good
measure; so the first impression upon
seeing hundreds of the unsavory fowl in
the streets at Colombo was that they were
in league with the other dusky spielers
with which these thoroughfares are lined.
But no! It appears they are scavengers
—of which there seems to be a shortage
—and are respected as such. They actu-
ally boarded the boat before she berthed,
and yelled for customers —a general local
habit —but as the terns, gulls and fish-
hawks are well established in the harbor
the few black intruders were either early
pioneers in new fields, or those who
couldn’t stand the competition and regu-
lations in the land of their birth, or both.
Apart from carrying out the jobs in con-
sideration for which they escape molesta-
tion, they indulge in blasphemous repar-
tee from little ledges such as are occu-
pied by pigeons in Pitt-street, and, further,
monopolise the better shade trees to
such an extent that the occupation of any
part of this shade by those for whom it
was intended becomes a risky business
Not a good start for a bloke who is apt
to judge a place by its birds ; but a soft
note from a jacaranda drew the eyes just
“In future. Captain, We intend to rest on our laurels."
in time to catch the same burnished-
copper flash that flickers above the inland
belts in our summer sun —rainbow birds.
They were in good condition and hawk-
ing vigorously, and I wqs just drifting to
favorite camps along the ’Bidgee when a
squawk yanked me back into the suburbs
—lndian mynas!
* * * *
“The 0.D.”; I suppose this’ll bring
“Propalong” (B. 11/4/’45) raging out of
that drapery shop or whatever it is he
gets his ideas in, but I can’t accept his
allegation that because Dad gave “one
neat tap with the pliers on the left side
of the foresight” it caused McGrogan’s
gun not only to send the bullet wide of
where Mac aimed, but also raised the
elevation so that the offending sheep was
hit in the neck. The probable explana-
tion is that Mac was shaken by reading
previous “Prop” dissertations on shoot-
ing.
* * * *
“Nigil D.”: My queerest equine ex-
perience was helping to lower a medium
draught, one of four, down a Boulder
(W.A.) mine. The shaft was 4ft. by 3ft. in
the clear, as vertical as the mine engineers
could make it, and the 1000 ft. level first
stop. First we had to swing our ton of
horse. A specially-woven net was draped
over Dobbin and worked with draw-
strings so that his legs were pulled from
under him, and he sat down heavily on
his rump with front legs well above his
ears and hind hoofs up about level with
his chin. For this yanking and hoisting
we had a first-motion winding engine
that handled his bulk like a penny bun.
Carefully we let him swing into the shaft
mouth. He filled it neatly. My job was
to accompany him down, seated in a
bosun’s chair just above him. Passing the
200 ft. he got a foot out of the net and
started kicking the shaft timbers. Finally
he dragged the shoe off with a jolt that
nearly burst him out of the net entirely.
But the real fun was at the end of the
journey, dragging the netful of horsemeat
out of the shaft on to land while the
engine - driver far above, operating
only by signals on the knocker line, paid
out the rope. Untangling him from the
net in a rock vault lit only by candles
was the next phase—anyone who has had
a heavy horse down in harness can
imagine it. Finally, we stood him up on
the slippery flatsheets, ten of us, while he
recovered his poise. Ten minutes later
he was having his first meal underground.
* * * *
“M.U.R.”: What is a good seat on a
horse (B. 11/4/’45)? We find the best
way to get the stirrup length that will be
easiest on horse and rider is to make
the length the same as that from the
fingertips of the rider’s stretched arm to
the armpit. Moreover, that length keeps
the rider well balanced and alert for the
baulk, shy or pigroot.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: He was big enough and
masculine enough to have been Mat him-
self. His long-haired mate was (naturally)
well under the light-weight limit and
as aggressive as a bull-ant. Her
voice had the mellow tone of a fork being
scratched over a tin plate. At every shop
she draped more parcels on his person
until he began to look like an old iron-
bark turned into a Christmas tree. Only
when she shoved into his hand one of
those ridiculous string bags did he growl
a protest: but he was fighting a losing
battle when, for shame of our sex, I crept
into a men’s outfitter’s shop. Carrying
the bag the crestfallen giant entered later
and requested “Give us an athletic singlet,
son.” The young chap eyed the customer
over. “Haven’t got ’em,” he said ; “we’ve
only got men’s.” It was the first time I’d
ever seen a sizable youth yanked over a
counter by his ears. Only the arrival of
The Mighty Atom saved me from wit-
nessing a murder. A somewhat shaken
youth dived back over the counter be-
fore trying to explain that a “man’s”
singlet fitted an average man ; the big
bloke needed an X.O.S.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: On the first Sunday
after his arrival the new manager ap-
peared in the horse paddoek with golf
sticks and balls and started smiting and
hitting. Mat was amongst those who
strolled over to watch, and some of
his remarks were scornful. Exasper-
ated, the manager glared at Mat and
challenged. “Well, let’s see you have a
go.” Mat swaggered over, took one of
the irons and made a mighty swipe. The
ball sailed through the air for a good 150
yards and crashed through a bedroom
window in the homestead. Appalled, Mat
gazed at the manager, but he appeared
to be stupefied. Recovering, he said
to Mat “Gosh, I’d give quids to be
able to hit it like that. Here, have an-
other go and let me watch your swing.”
But, try as he might, Mat couldn’t hit
the dashed ball more than 30 yards,
though he tried for most of the afternoon.
That night at tea he was pretty thought-
ful. At bunk time he said “I’m pullin’
out in the mornin’. I often wondered
what made them golfin’ fellers chase
round paddocks. Now I know. I’m off
before it gets me, too.
* * * *
“Bumpk”: They breed ’em tough in
Gippsland. Reginald Clark, a 70-year-
young worker in the Victorian Forestry
Commission, was thrown off his horse and
rolled upon in dense forest. With one
leg fractured in three places, he crawled
round in a semi-circle to the head of his
mount, which was grazing a chain away,
succeeded in getting a grip on the bridle
and pulled himself erect on one leg by
grabbing the saddle. Lengthening the
stirrup to the maximum, he inserted the
knee of the undamaged member in the
loop of the leathers, and, after a lot of
wriggling, managed to get his injured leg
across the saddle. Four hours later he
rode into camp.
* *
Frank Hurley, from Cairo: Touching
on recent pars, anent albatrosses. A full
gale has no terrors for them. They glide
in against the wind, and when a couple
of feet up throw out the webbed feet in
a retractable-undercarriage motion and
come to rest with a slithering splash.
It’s a noble sight to watch them riding
the surges and scrapping with other wan-
derers who come to share the feast. They
don’t beat the wings when taking off —
that would require excessive energy—but
half-extend them and paddle full speed
ahead into the eye of the wind. The lift
increases with gathering speed, and, just
before becoming airborne, the huge
webbed feet skip along the surface, then
in effortless glide the wanderer is airfree.
Nor do these monarchs of the southern
seas need cliffs for their homing or nest-
ing. The “sooties” like the high-up ledges,
but most of the rookeries I have seen
at the Macquaries, Kerguelen, South
Georgia, Gough and Heard Island are
on sheltered flats. When taking off from
cliff heights the giants launch out into
space with wings outspread in a down-
ward glide, and are almost instantly air-
borne : but, like the mollymauks and giant
petrels, they can also take off with a short,
rapid-strided run. When overgorged and
alarmed by an intruder all of these birds
will disgorge to lighten themselves for
the take-off. They can’t take off from a
ship’s deck as the runway is too short
and the rolling deck makes an unfamiliar
foothold that causes the birds to flounder
helplessly. Strangely enough, they can
ride a turbulent sea, but a ship’s roll
makes them violently ill.
* * * *
“Pat Ater”: “Botano” (B. 4/4/’45)
overlooks the fact that a “sport” generally
has the same characteristics in bark,
foliage and outline as the parent tree ;
only the floral envelope is changed in
texture or color. So hybridisation be-
tween “sports” is hardly likely to give us
the big diversity in the eucalypt family,
such as ironbark, stringy, bloodwood,
gum and peppermint. There must have
been a natural freak hybrid at that mil-
lionth milestone back, with the blood-
wood as probable progenitor. But we’ve
nothing to show how the original ances-
tor of both eucalypt and banksia evolved,
either, as their ancestors were undoubtedly
ferns or pines (croptograms). The first
actual flowering plants are held to have
been the buttercup family.
* * * *
“Creel”: Darnley isn’t the only Torres
Strait island with stone fish-traps (B.
28 /3 / ’45). Along the south-eastern and
eastern coasts of Mer are others of great
antiquity which the Merites claim were
built by Abob and Kos, mythical beings
who settled at Mer when “the world was
young.” Called sei by the islanders, the
traps consist of stone walls, two to three
feet high, built of piles of rounded lava
blocks, which divide the waters between
the surrounding reef and the island into
a series of “fields.” Only during the
summer months, when the north-west
monsoon replaces the south-easterly
trades as the prevalent wind, are the traps
of any use. The high day.tides bring
large numbers of fish over the reef, and
the low night tides, called tugei, prevent
many from escaping. Imprisoned by the
stone walls, they fall easy victims to the
natives’ spears and nets. During the sea-
son of the south-easterly trades the walls
are so battered by the sea that extensive
repairs are necessary every summer.
* * * *
“Naturala”: Nothing ridiculous about
“B. A. Ker’s” yarn of the five male zebra
finches discovering a female among their
number (B. 14/3/’45). Females with
male characteristics are not so very un-
common even among humans. Among
birds they are even more common, though
the mechanics cannot be discussed here.
Lower down the animal scale we find
hermaphroditism, both sexes in the one
animal, occurring among the molluscs.
So we see that Nature, once having made
the experiment, is capable of repeating
it, especially among such adaptable crea-
tures as birds. Such a bird may be born
with double sex, but since the male
among beaked, loose-feathered birds in-
variably develops much quicker than the
female the latter sex is for the time sup-
pressed. Likewise, since the male in-
variably fails in virility much the quicker
the suppressed female sex is likely m
middle age to push to the front. So we
have “B.A.K’s” finch and the quite com-
mon caged parrot after many years start-
ing to lay eg£s.
BACK TO THE BORDER.
The face of the Bush, men say, has changed
Since the far-off days of the ’Ninety flood
When over the Darling roads we ranged *
With hope in our hearts and fire in the blood.
Lorries fun out to the Border gate
Where cattle fed through the frontage grass,
And lonely the little townships wait,
Derelict now as the swift wheels pass.
The waggons have gone and the twelve-horse
teams
Crawl no more through the mantling dust;
The dear old Bush where we ride in dreams
Has faded away as all loved things must.
But sling me a saddle on some good horse
Bred on Belalie or Lila Springs,
With the Warrego mud in his mana, of course,
And the grass-feed green on his snaffle rings.
Over Bourke bridge at the dawn of day
Let me north where the red tracks run,
And blindfold yet I could find my way
Through EnngOnia to Barringun.
SCOTLAND.
WILL OGILVIE


“Bo”: As Ted Roach came out of the
general store he was sighted by big Mick
Maguire. “Y’re just the bloke I want
to see,” said Mick. “Y’ drew No. 37
in the sweep, Joe tells me. Would y’
sell it to me? I just fancy it somehow.”
Mick’s efforts to make his hunches work
to land him a turf winner were a standing
joke m the township. “Aw, well, I sup-
pose one number stands as much chance
as another in a draw out of the hat for
a pair o’ turkeys,” said Roach good-
humoredly. “You can have it if you
like. I’ll be seeing Joe this morning and
I’ll get another.” Mick thanked him and
departed. When the sweep was drawn at
the pub that afternoon No. 37 was the
winner. Mick’s brother Harry having
pulled the number out of the hat, dark
suspicions were aroused in the mind of the
unlucky one who had parted with the
right ticket. “And what hunch was it
you had that that particular ticket would
win, Mick?” asked Roach sarcastically.
“Did y’ dream it?” “Well, no, Ted,”
said Mick seriously. “Y’ see, it was like
this. Yestiddy me an’ me brother was
out shootin’ rabbits, and we bagged 43.
When we gets home we finds that a
chicken hawk had got nine o’ Harry’s
chickens. The figgers strike me as un-
usual. I takes the losses from the gains
an’ thinks that number might win—an’
be cripes it comes orf!”
* * * #
“Bob M.”: Topic of discussion was
the Burdekin River (Q.) railway tragedy.
Commenting on a statement of a sur-
vivor that the river was running at seven
miles an hour, one of the boatmen re-
marked that no river runs at more than
five m.p.h. I find that hard to believe
of rivers such as the Snowy or the
Barron, the latter from Atherton to
Mareeba having an average fall of 52ft.
per mile. What is the top speed of our
fastest-flowing river?
* * * *
“Vitis”: That veteran viticulturist
Franfois de Castella (B. 21 /3 / ’45), on a
tour of the Murrumbidgee Irrigation
areas in 1944, was shown a grape the
name of which was not known locally.
“Cass” said he did not know either,
but it recalled a variety he had seen
in S.A., Rouchette. This year the
South Aus. Department sent some leaves
and fruit of this vine to the M.I.A.
for comparison, and it was estab-
lished that the Old Master had been
right first pop. The diagnosis may not
impress the layman unless he is aware
that there are more than 5000 varieties
of “European” grape vines, not counting
the American, listed in the literature
of the subject. To make the recog-
nition more difficult Rouchette is not
described amongst the 5000: it is a white
wine grape and only about 20 acres are
known to exist in Australia.- It is pos-
sible that it was introduced to the south-
ern State via the collection Busby
brought out in 1832 and planted some-
where in what is now the Botanical
Gardens.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Most eyes are drawn
by rainbows, whether they are faint, low
arcs or scraps of color born of a wisp
of passing shower, or great, rich arches
that seem to start a couple of chains
away, reach to the skies and end miles
off; but to see them in their complete
glory you must fly. From about 5000 ft.
upward, with a low sun at your back and
a good spreading rainstorm in front,
there will be as much rain below your
level as above and the rain “bow” be-
comes a complete circle, varying in ske
according to your distance from the
storm. On the other hand, if you’re fly-
ing higher, above broken raincloud with
the sun overhead —the summer storms
along the Macpherson Range are ideal
for this —you’ll see circular rainbows
surrounding your shadow on the clouds
“If's quite simple—you do it like this!”
below. With a hatch open, you may
look down at these phantom aircraft
chasing you—the big ones close, where
on the nearer clouds the clear-cut
shadow fills most of your view ; the little
ones flitting across the clouds far below
and looking like venomous fighters scoot-
ing from cover to cover trying to head
you off. In between are craft of all inter-
vening sizes, but sharing with the others
a common speed, direction —and rain-
bows. Sometimes the ’bow stands well
out from the shadow ; sometimes it is so
compact that the centre is all violet, and
the shadows slipping along in that frame
look like the ghosts of the lost squad-
rons, flying through space with a glori-
fied R.A.A.F. cockade for a halo. It’s a
sight as far removed from an evening
rainbow on the ground as the roar of the
engines is from the sound of water drip-
ping from trees ; and it’s some compen-
sation for the cold at those levels and
the bumps you take reaching them.
* * * ' *
“Lub”: Old Abe Stidwell had a one-
track mind. Joe, his son, climbed to the
top of the sugar-gum behind the house
and couldn’t quite reach the limb below to
“I'm callin' tenders f'r the ceremony. Reverend. Anything over two quid
and you're not in the race!"
climb down. Abe studied the position
thoughtfully from all angles, then went
for the axe. He had the second scarf
well in before neighbors, attracted by the
boy’s frantic yells, got there and found
other means to get him down.
•i'
“Esk D.”: Miss Kidstrapper, thin, an-
gular and very prim, was taking a quiet
stroll by moonlight and, as she reached
the turn of the road, a shout drew her
attention. Then she fled screeching in a
high treble —two naked men were racing
wildly down the road after her. Two
sharp explosions reverberated into the
night and her pursuers came on with an
extra burst of speed. Miss K. put all
she had into a sprint to the gate and
flung inside with a desperate effort. Dad
Higgs and the boys, in a long search,
failed to locate the miscreants. “It’s
them Rawsons,” Tom Simpson told me
with a grin a few days later when the
district was agog with the scandal. “Had
an idea they were liftin’ me water-
melons, so I put in the evenin’ watchin'
f’r ’em. Sure enough they come to the
river, peel orf an’ swim over t’ the melon
patch. So I sneaks around an’ pinch
their clobber, an’ then go home fr the
shotgun. But don’t tell anyone. Y’ see,
with the scare an’ the chase an’ the
rumors flying about them Rawsons aren’t
likely t’ come prowlin’ near the melon
patch by night again.” Nor, I am firmly
convinced, will Miss Kidstrapper.
$ * * * 1
“Betcha”: In the East Gippsland dis-
trict that I frequent leaving a lamb’s
lower leg unshorn (B. 21/3/ ’43) has be-
come a rather common practice. There
are two reasons for it. Firstly, this short
scrappy wool dust is not only almost
valueless, but its inclusion spoils the
appearance of the rest of the clip when
opened up. In certain localities, how-
ever, the unshorn leg is a trick of the
trade designed to improve the appear-
ance of lambs for selling later. As the
wool from the hock down grows slowly
in comparison to the rest of the fleece,
a couple of months later the lamb with
“leggings” looks better clothed, being
well woolled clean to the hooves.
* * * *
“Solitude”: We were nearing home
when we found the wether down, and
Seventyfiver climbed off to lift it up.
“Don’t know what’s the matter with that
bloke,” I observed. “Shove it through
the gate there and we’ll kill it for the
dogs.” “Aw, cripes, no. Hell be right,”
claimed the old chap. “I’ll fix him.”
‘‘Bet you an ounce of tobacco y’ can’t.”
“Done.” He transferred the wether to a
small paddock near his hut, and during
the next few weeks that jumbuck swal-
lowed doses for every known disease, to
say nothing of some weird mixtures the
old cove thought up as possible benefits.
In mock seriousness I made suggestions,
but the more I chaffed the more deter-
mined Seventyfiver grew to win the bet.
It became a vital matter. His reputation
was at stake. More and more time he
spent with the wretched thing, pinching
my nag feed and mixing the brute special
eats tiff far more than its value had gone
down its neck. “It’s gettin’ better,” he
crowed one morning. “It can walk.
Don’t seem t’ like the heat, though. I’ll
put it in the creek paddock out of the
sun.” My offerings of a spare hat, an eye
shade, an umbrella and an old bell tent
were pointedly ignored. Two nights later
the old bloke arrived in late for tea. He
looked about ropeable. “Don’t talk t’ me
about sheep,” he bellowed. “The flamin’
senseless cusses.” I struggled with a
threatened explosion. “What!” I man-
aged heroically, “you don’t mean the un-
grateful brute went an’ died?” There
was a choking noise. “D-died!” he bab-
bled. “C-cripes, know what he done?*
Walked inta the blasted bog an’ drowned
hisself.”
* * H: *
“Edjudina”: Yes, I’ve heard of the dis-
tressing results likely to follow on one
caressing one’s forehead after handling
gelignite (B. 14/3/’45), but long before I
was warned about it I had handled hun-
dreds of sticks and probably wiped my
sweaty brow with the same careless
hand, without experiencing even a head-
ache. And I’ll say that though a
feed of gelignite might produce a power-
ful digestive upset there is nothing in its
composition to make it a poison.
* * * *
“Old Camp”: One of the oddest inter-
ludes in the Jap’s connection with Aus-
tralia was his service as a laundryman
on the W.A. goldfields during the first
decade of this century. Although the
Chinaman almost exclusively did the
washing for Perth, an unwritten law for-
bade him entry to the goldfields, so the
Jap stepped into the breach. He used a
box iron almost the size of a small boat,
grated, and fired with charcoal. When
out of use it was turned on its
side across an iron ash-box. Thus it
kept always at a fine heat; and, it being
an age of starched fronts, the Nipponese
ironer with so fine an implement turned
them out to perfection. Charges were
moderate, but with the little men work-
ing from morn till midnight they coined
money. Presently some of them attempted
eating-houses. But they lacked the culin-
ary abilities of the Chinaman, and it
wasn’t long before both cooks and
waiters returned to the cult of the box
iron. Then, as it were almost overnight,
their laundries closed and the Nip faded
from the goldfields scene.
H: * * *
“M.U.R.”: I’m with “Fang” on the
speed of brown-snakes (B. 4/4/’45). You
can believe this or not, but it’s a pretty
good,snake yarn either way. In the
harness-room we had an empty piano-
case standing against the wall, and I went
in there and spotted a brown-snake in the
case. Snake watched me and I watched
snake while Bert brought the gun. Bert
fired and missed and, because of the
close range, the charge drove a hole
about three inches in diameter through
the back of the case. Before Bert could
reload that brown-snake had vanished
through the hole.
* * * *
“Ibis”: The first mention of the Mur-
rumbidgee in Australian history seems to
have been in 1821, when Throsby, set-
ting out from Lake George, crossed the
stream in what is now Australian Capital
Territory. Lake George had already
been visited, in 1820, by Macquarie, and
anyone “poking about” the Lake must
have stumbled on the headwaters of the
’Bidgee less than 30 miles away. How-
ever, the main length of the river after
it leaves the hills runs west across the
huge plains for 300 miles (not account-
ing for meanderings) to its junction
with the Murray, and information about
its discoverer is hard to find. Oxley, of
course, nearly did the trick in 1823 when,
on his exploration of the Lachlan, he
was blocked by swamps and, turning
east, reached a spot believed to be near
Yenda on the Irrigation Areas before
he turned back to Sydney. To Sturt,
beyond doubt, must always remain the
laurels of ’Bidgee exploration after his
epic boat trip from Yass to the Southern
Ocean and return. But as he seems to
have set out equipped specially for that
purpose its existence as a long inland
river must have already been known to
the authorities in Sydney. Does anybody
know who was the first white man to dis-
cover the big river of the plains, as dis-
tinct from the stream in the distant hills?,
APRIL.
Indian summer has us, she whose hands
Rustle with swallows, warm as purple grapes,
And darling wrens that coil each finger slim
With hoops of sapphire; finches twist gold bands
About her wrists, and where the bushfire drapes
Blue silk across her breast bush robins brim
Its dusk with rubies ... we who moaned like
pines
In bleak December, knew the icy flash
Of frost upon the lips of the New Year,
Sorrowed that summer died before her wines
Could flow across the hills and spill and splash
To thaw numbed gardens lonely and austere.
The children’s breath was silver tulips flung
From laughing mouths; the plough teams wove
fair veils;
The sleek cows blew sweet bugles from their
bails.
Winter was in full cry. Cold rain gave tongue
Down glade and gully, sinking sharp white teeth
Deep in the earth, devouring every warmth,
Crunching the soft silk-pelted grass until
It stretched out stark and lifeless underneath
The lilac-shadowed reaches of the hill.
Lean ran the dingo wind, lean and wild,
To clash quick fangs about the glittering bone
Of that white gum high on ti\e black rock
ridge—
Chaste feast for such ripe hunger. Now comes
mild
April and, when she comes thus, shall we moan
Back to the pines, blind to the clustered peas
Of wattle pods that hang like muscatels,
Tawny, with bloom on them? The frail draw-
bridge
Of beauty gleams like starlight to your feet —
Cross it, O worshipper, and seek the shrine.
Myrtle-dark are the dwindling memories
Of frozen summer when the iron cowbells
Pealed a cold music thrilling thin and sweet
Among the scrub, when sleek and satiny fine
The milkers wandered homeward in a line.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: E. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
WAR
V
SERIES
RONALDSON-TIPPETT
War Savings win battles! Buy Bonds, Certificates and Stamps!
r m
m
TLLUSTRATED above is a Portable Air Compressor
Unit used for supplying compressed air for
various requirements of the U.S. Air Corps.
This unit comprises 4} h.p. Type “NA” totally-enclosed
Ronaldson-Tippett vertical petrol engine, V-belt driving two-
stage twin'cylinder air-cooled Air Compressor, which is
complete with tank.
Compressed air must be available instantly in operational
areas for various uses, and therefore it is natural that a
Ronaldson-Tippett engine is fitted to drive the unit.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BAXXARAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
X.B.W. Distributors: Ronald son Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
>' razer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Bonaidson, Tippett (Qld.) Pty. Ltd,
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
r:
■
Sf
X
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewage material is chemically transformed
into a sterile solution that drains away
into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY IS
REQUIRED. Unhealthy odors, embar-
rassments of emptying, germs, flies—-are
all banished. Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED—the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
INTERSTATE AGENCIES—
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES, LTD.,
BRISBANE. , . T t»i?
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD., ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS’ CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
POWELL GAS PRODUCERS, LTD., PERTH.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
HYGEIA SANITARY CO. PTY., LTD-
-30 Bridge Street, Sydney. ’Phone: 8100,.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS. 1 8N.5.44
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Lamb-marking.
“Sheepo”: The aim should be to have
a minimum of losses. Careless and‘ hur-
ried methods of marking and lack of
attention afterwards cause more deaths
than any disease. Marking should always
be done in temporary yards so as to get
away from tetanus and other germs fre-
quently prevalent in permanent yards.
Hot, windy days and cold, rainy or windy
days are equally dangerous. The man
doing the “doctoring” should not be a
novice.
Size of the mob should be regulated
so that marking will not continue later
than the early afternoon: the ewes must
be given every chance to mother before
■dark. Sterilisation of instruments should
be frequent. Newly-marked lambs must
never be driven far; this can be avoided
by having temporary yards in each pad-
dock. After marking remove the tem-
porary yards, rake the ground and burn
the tails, etc. Spraying ground and net-
ting with a disinfectant is time well spent.
After marking has been completed a
man should ride through the ewes and
lambs for a few days, trying to fin*!
mothers for the lost or bringing them in
to be poddied. He should watch for
and treat fly-stricken lambs. Dogs should
be taboo. A successful lamb-marking
isn’t so much the high percentage marked
but rather the percentage that turns up
at weaning or shearing time.
Goats Out West.
“Mackay”: It’s a wonder more people
in the dry country don’t use ’em. Goat’s
milk is great stuff. In England and
America they are using it in hospitals
and babies and invalids thrive on it.
The most common types in N.S.W.
show Nubian, British Alpine, Toggen-
burg or Saanen characteristics. Milk
from the last two types is white, rich and
free from goaty taste ; the butter flavor
is indistinguishable from that from cows.
Generally speaking, wrong flavors are
due to the animal living on garbage, the
udder not being washed before milking
and the buck being present at milking
time.
To keep the flow going goats, like
cows, need regular feeding and attention.
The ration may be varied. A mixture
that will fatten the poorest specimen
consists of 10 pints bran and five pints
each of linseed, maize and pea meal,
five pints wheat and barley meal mixed,
41b. coarse salt and 41b. bone meal. Feed
at the rate of 141 b. to 21b. per goat per
day, plus 31b. roughage. At Nyngan
experiment farm, where the goats had
access to scrub and grass, 4oz. of whole
oats or cracked maize and 4oz. of bran
per head per day gave good results.
The U.S. ration when the animals are
stall fed is 21b. lucerne or clover hay,
141 b. silage or turnips and 11b. to 21b. of
grain per day, the grain being a mixture
of 1001 b. maize, 1001 b. oats and 101 b.
linseed meal. When the animal’s on
pasture the grain ration is lib. or 141 b.
per head per day and linseed meal is
omitted. Goats are ruminants and need
roughage.
The period of lactation is usually four
to five months. When kept for family
use, two goats are more satisfactory than
one. If the mating of the second goat
occurs six months after the first a con-
tinuous supply of milk is ensured. Quan-
tity of milk produced by the well-kept
animal varies from 1000 to 2000 pounds
per year. They need good shelter.
Soil Conservation.
From E. J. Hogan, chairman, Victorian
Soil Conservation Board:
Noted article “Greatly Disturbed” (B.
28/3/’45). Your comment indicates you are not
aware of what Victoria’s S. C. Board is doing
and proposes to do.
The S. C. Board made an extensive inspec-
ti*-n of Mallee and Wimmera Feb. 12 to
Feb. 16, examining farms where erosion had
occurred and farms where methods adopted
had prevented drift in normal years, and where
even this year soil drift is of such a minor
nature as to be almost negligible. If the prac-
tices followed on these farms became general
the soil drift problem would be reduced to a
minor degree. The secret of erosion prevention
is the maintenance of ground coyer, whether
it be stubble, standing crop or edible or non-
edible grasses or shrubs. The work of protect-
ing roads, railway lines and water channels will
be reduced to a minimum when erosion control
has been effected on the farms.
Causes of wind erosion: Settlement, accom-
panied by excessive clearing; short rotational
periods, bare fallowing, too frequent cultivation
and burning of stubble; failure to manage and
work different soils according to their specific
requirements; drought; rabbits; overstocking
with sheep; failure to take remedial action when
drift begins; economic factors, size of hold-
ings and land tenure.
Methods of combating wind erosion: Board
to continue competitions and demonstrational
and experimental work in co-operation with
farmers and relevant departments; to re-estab-
lish vegetative cover as quickly as possible—a
cereal crop which is allowed to mature for grain
is most effective and farmers should plant as
large an area as possible with wheat this
season; avoid overstocking and conserve as
much fodder as possible; stubble should not
“Don't stand there gaping—hand me a slick!"
be burned; lengthen the rotational period and
reduce the amount and frequency of bare
fallow; work the farm according to the types of
soil ; plant rye-corn on sand ridges and sand
dunes; intensify the propagation and testing
of grasses and shrubs for drought resistance
and binding and holding the soil; planting of
trees and shrubs by individuals and organisa-
tions; destruction of rabbits and hares; in
drought years furrowing or ridging bare land
as an emergency measure.
Re-afforestation.
“H.C.”; So, in post-war years N.S.W.
will spend £3,000,000 on re-afforestation
and the amount will become an annual
grant! Judged by what has been left
undone in the past the amount is large ;
judged by what should be done in the
future it isn’t even a beginning. Victoria
is to spend £2,000,000 per annum for the
first two years, and developmental and
maintenance works will be on an even
more extensive scale. Not only is N.S.W.
four times the size of Victoria, but its
total forestry area is 4,000,000 acres
against Victoria’s 5,550,000 acres. Still,
in the matters of despoliation and ero-
sion N.S.W. beats Victoria hands down.
In his optimism, the N.S.W. Minister
for Conservation visualises £3,000,000
as aiding the State to meet the heavy
demands that will be made on it for
timber when peace arrives. For the next
50 years Australia won’t supply any out-
size quantities of timber. Nor can any
other country apart from Canada. There
will be a world shortage for many years
to come. Timber takes from 80 to 100
years to grow. Mr. Dunn was appar-
ently thinking in terms of vegetables.
Throughout the report of the Rural
Reconstruction Commission it is con-
stantly stated that work must develop
slowly for this reason or that. It is pro-
posed that 2500 ex-servicemen will be
absorbed by the N.S.W. Forest Training
Camps. Those showing promise of de-
veloping into field officers will be given
special training. By specially directed
silvicultural systems, the commission
aims at maintaining the State and export
demand for sleepers, girders, fences, es-
sential oils, etc. Timber stand improve-
ment: will include the rehabilitation of
2,000,000 acres of indigenous forest.
Nurseries will be developed throughout
the State to provide plants for the com-
mission’s schemes as well as for amenity
planting in parks, streets, windbreaks,
etc. Over 2000 acres of hoop pine will
be planted each year for five years.
Industrialisation of certain centres is
another idea. One of these is Wool-
goolga, where pine plantations will be
grown for cellulose. In the Tumut-
Batlow area a further 25,000 acres of
Tine plantations will be planted. Im-
proved protection from fire, a sawmill
licensing bill enforcing erection of mills
close to heavy belts of timber and public
recreational areas in forests are also
part of the scheme which, taking it by
and large, does not measure up to the
State’s needs, either in urgency or dimen-
sions.
Hints for the Farm.
Nuffin”: Here are five arguments why
the calf should receive the colostrum for
several days, and why protein-rich sup-
plements are needed with whey. Colo-
strum contains the following percentages
of food materials: water, 74.5 ; minerals,
1.6 ; protein, 17.6; carbohydrates, 2.7
and fat, 3.6. The percentages of these
materials in other forms of milk are;
whole milk, 87, 0.7, 3.3, 5.0, 4.0 ; skim
milk, 90.5, 0.7, 3.4, 5.1, 0.3 ; butter milk,
91, 0.8, 3.5, 4.2, 0.5; whey, 93.4, 0.7,
0.8, 4.8, 0.3.
“Kiwi”; The Maoriland idea of bam-
boo for shelter belts and pampas-gmss for
thick, short hedges should work well in dry
areas of N.S.W. and Victoria. All either
plant needs is a good start; aftercare
requirements are small. Bamboo thrives in
windswept areas where other plants won’t
live. Cuttings or roots establish them-
selves easily and quickly and form a dense
belt some feet thick. Plant in a single
row one foot apart. Fence off. Young
shoots are luscious to stock. One-year-
old plants of pampas set sft. apart form
impenetrable hedges that protect vege-
table crops from devastating winds.
“Myrrhee”: Fed coarsely crushed and
mixed with chaff, wheat won’t hurt horses.
Introduce it to the ration gradually, start-
ing off with 41b. a day and rising to
approximately half the weight of the
chaff. Working horses at Hawkesbury
Agricultural College (N.S.W.) are doing
well on a ration of 161 b. chaff and 91b.
wheatmeal giVen in three feeds a day.
Check the weight of wheatmeal in the
feed measure, because foodstuffs of the
same bulk often vary in weight. Crushed
wheat weighs about one-third heaviet
than crushed oats, measure for measure.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A Jap Weakness.
(From war commentator Hanson W. Baldwin’s
N.Y. “Times” column.)
The U.S. Infantry Journal puts its fin-
ger upon a Japanese weakness that has
lost many battles, in an article on “The
Jap Fighting Man” by Maj. Eugene A.
Wright. ,
“Truth, as we know it, is unknown in
the vocabulary of the Jap officer,” Major
Wright says. “That, of course, stems
from his early schooling when he was
taught not to reason for himself. But
it has resulted in many false reports.
“A Jap junior officer on New Georgia
reported to his superiors that an Ameri-
can Army beachhead had been destroyed
and half the landing craft sunk. The
beachhead had not even been threatened
and not a single boat had gone down.
“A Jap company commander reported
to his battalion that he had repelled
United States infantrymen at the Barike
River, east of Munda, and that the Ameri-
cans were withdrawing. Actually, the
Jap’s own company was virtually annihi-
lated and the American line was well past
the Barike.
“Minor gains are painted as major vic-
tories. A few casualties inflicted on the
enemy become a gekimetsu, or annihila-
tion, a word that the Japs love. No sub-
ordinate wants to call for reserves or to
admit that he cannot stem the Allied ad-
vance, so he sacrifices his men in cross-
fire, lets them be butchered by accurate
artillery fire and roasted by flame-
throwers. The high commander has been
given a rosy picture of the situation at the
front line and he learns too late that his
force has been decimated.”
This eternal tendency to “save face,”
the “tactical rigidity” of the Japanese
officer and his mental limitations have
been of the greatest help to the Allies in
the Pacific war. If German officers had
been commanding Japanese troops our
tasks would have been infinitely harder.
Towards Another War?
(Condensed from a “Harper’s Magazine ”
article by Bernard B. Smith, a New York
lawyer who is counsel for several trade associa-
tions identified with British imports, and John
A. Kouwenhoven, a “Harper’s’'' editor .)
If the United States persists in its
present plans for post-war expansion of
foreign trade we are headed straight for
another world war. Business leaders
and Government officials are apparently
being driven, by their fear of the domes-
tic crisis which will surely come if we
fail to maintain something like full em-
ployment, into the kind of scramble for
overseas markets which at first glance
looks deceptively like a perfectly respec-
table sort of internationalism, but which
in the long run will force other natjpns
to protect themselves by economic and
then (inevitably) by military alliances.
Briefly stated, the situation is this: The
best estimates indicate that if U.S. post-
war production equals that of 1940 (pre-
war peak year) U.S. will still have
approximately 19 million unemployed.
Businessmen and politicians are afraid
—with good reason —that such a whop-
ping failure to provide jobs would knock
the props out from under them. Even
making optimistic allowance for the pent-
up post-war demand for cars and dwell-
ings and consumer goods of all kinds,
they doubt if the U.S. home market can
absorb the whole production. So they
look to foreign markets to take up the
slack.
The connection between the fear of
unemployment and the demand for in-
creased exports is perfectly clear in the
statements of those who are currently
concerned with foreign trade. Spokesmen
for the Farm Bureau, the labor unions,
and the manufacturers all link the two
subjects in their pronouncements. And
in his Chicago speech last October the
President, having asserted that there
would obviously be an increased demand
abroad for U.S. industrial and agricul-
tural products, went on to say that he
was convinced that, with Congressional
approval, U.S. foreign trade could be
“trebled after this war —providing mil-
lions of more jobs.”
After the announcement of proposals
for creation of a new executive depart-
ment to carry out the U.S. Administra-
tion’s programme for expanded foreign
commerce, Assistant Secretary of State
Dean Acheson told 500 industrialists at
the annual congress of the National
Association of Manufacturers that the
United States must find markets abroad
“in sthe neighborhood of 10 billion
dollars,” and thus provide three million
jobs in industry and one million in agri-
culture.
The point to notice is that we Ameri-
cans are committing ourselves to expand-
ing our export trade primarily as a means
of providing domestic employment. To
be sure, a part of the export programme
is intended to help rehabilitate nations
which have been devastated in battle.
But basically the foreign trade policy is
being evolved in response to stark poli-
tical necessity at home.
It is this fact which explains the em-
phasis which is being placed on exports,
as opposed to imports. U.S. cannot, of
course, continue to export to other
nations unless it in turn buys from them,
thus enabling them to get dollars with
which to pay for U.S. goods. In the
final analysis, only by importing more
can U.S. export But an increase
in imports is politically impossible in
the United States today.
In the early post-war period U.S. will
have to lend and invest money abroad
to assist nations which want to restore
or increase their productive capacity. But
dollar loans and investments are really
“deferred imports” (that is, they merely
postpone the time when repayment in
the forms of goods and services must be
accepted). Before long U.S. must open
its markets to their goods or the loans
will be defaulted, as they were after the
last war, thus precipitating world-wide
economic collapse. The danger is that
the United States “will not willingly face
this economic reality and so adjust its
tariff schedules as to bring about an
excess of imports at some reasonably
early date." Judging by the evidence at
hand, the danger is indeed acute.
While powerful pressures are arrayed
against increased imports, no such poli-
tical opposition is aroused by attempts
to expand U.S. export trade. The result
is that U.S. is moving, willy-nilly, into a
campaign, backed by all U.S. industrial
and financial might, to capture as large
a share of the world’s markets as pos-
sible. And this will inevitably bring it
into conflict first with Britain and then
with most of the other nations of the
world.
As C. B. Morrison said in an address
to the Export Managers’ Club of New
York, such a policy will force Britain
and other countries into a series of pro-
tective measures which will lead from
trade agreements to non-aggression pacts
to full-fledged alliances. The United
States is, to be sure, in a powerful posi-
tion to counter such measures, but power
: —as Mr. Morrison warned —often leads
to arrogance “and no nation is strong
enough to pit itself against the world.”
Lord Halifax, the British Ambassador,
has on several occasions made the prob-
lem clear. Britain cannot exist after the
war without importing tremendous quan-
tities of food, raw materials and con-
sumer goods. Yet to get the finances
merely to maintain her imports at the
pre-war level she will have to export far
more than she did then, because during
the war she has depleted her treasury,
used up her overseas assets, and suffered
heavy losses to her shipping and other
income-producing property. In order to
pay for the goods which she desperately
needs (and which U.S. desperately wants
to sell) Britain therefore must sell goods
which U.S. not only refuses to buy but
which it also apparently intends to pre-
vent Britain from selling to other nations
if it [U.S.] can capture the markets for
itself.
If this deadlock is not broken the con-
sequences will be catastrophic. Behind
barriers of tariffs, “Empire preference,”
and all kinds of trade restrictions,
America and England and the other
nations of the world will be condemned,
in Lord Halifax’s impressive words, to
“feverish years of jungle life, in a cut-
throat war for international trade; of
scrambling and out-smarting each other ;
of stealing each other’s customers and
blackening each other’s faces, until an-
other Hitler arises to exploit the miseries
of the peoples and to multiply them ten-
fold by another war.”
Singapore’s Symbol Dock.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
When Superfortresses came down upon
Singapore and destroyed a certain float-
ing dry-dock they wrote a new chapter
in an ironic history.
The Singapore dry-dock was part of
one of the world’s greatest naval bases.
Twenty-odd years ago the British Labor
party attacked the building of this base
as an unwarranted expense, a piece of
imperialism and an uncalled-for shake of
the fist at Japan. The Washington Con-
ference had just put a limit on the navies
of the United States, Britain and Japan.
Hopes for peace were strong.
But British Conservatives went ahead
when they had the power. Between 1924
and 1938 they completed 21 square miles
of naval facilities at Singapore. To these
they added military airfields, great fuel
tanks, munition dumps and batteries con-
sidered adequate for the protection of
the area. The floating dock was towed
out from England in three sections—a
notable feat, or rather three notable feats,
of seamanship.
The “Little Englanders,” as Kipling
called them, lost a battle. A greater
battle was presently to be lost by the
world-viewing Englanders, who planned
well but not well enough.
It was reported that the British scut-
tled and sank the dry-dock before the sur-
render on Febuary 15, 1942. If they did,
the Japanese raised it again. It could
have held the largest warship in the
world, but just now the Japanese are not
putting their big ships in dry-dock within
Allied ’plane range. All it contained was
one 460 ft. merchant ship, which burned
and went down with the dock.
Anyone can write his own moral. A
bigger dock would have saved Singapore
in 1942. A smaller dock, or no dock at
all, would have dissuaded the Japanese
from attacking. Modern defences, well
manned, on the Malaya peninsula might
have averted the 1942 disaster. But the
original cause is deeper and farther back.
Even in 1924 the time had come when
Britain alone could not afford to protect
her outlying possessions against any pos-
sible assault. The error lay in Geneva,
where the League daily grew more
powerless; in Washington, which was
isolationist during critical years; in
nations falling back upon power politics
as a substitute for effective international
organisation for peace.
The Singapore dry-dock, in ruins, has
a monumental quality. Some parts of it
might be preserved as a memorial to
human error and shortsightedness when
the peace of the Far East, and of the
world, is at last established on a strong
andjust basis.
Britain’s Air Output.
(From N.Y. “Times.”)
In the months from the outbreak of
war to the end of 1939 British industry
produced no heavy bombers, 1072
medium and light bombers, 447 fighters,
and naval, trainer and miscellaneous air-
craft, which brought the total number
for that period to 2924.
In 1940, the desperate year of the
Battle of Britain, the total rose to 15,049 ;
in 1941 to 20,093 ; in 1942 to 23,671 ;
in 1943 to 26,263, and to 14.609 in the
six-month period from January to July
of last year. In that same six months
2889 heavy bombers came out of British
factories; 1391 medium and light
bombers and 5665 fighters.
With totals of floor-space, available
man-power and woman-power and
accessory suppliers far below those of
the United States, with the war on her
doorstep and almost unceasing harass-
ment from the sky, Britain had been able
to produce, from the invasion of Poland
to last June, no less than 102,609 military
aircraft. The ’plane total included, ( in
addition to some 6200 naval aircraft,
more than 10,000 heavy bombers, more
than 17,000 medium and light bombers
and more than 38,000 fighters.
When we recall the very high quality
of the ’planes in these categories, includ-
ing the Halifax, the Mosquito and the
Spitfire, we can well take off our hats
to our companions in arms, not merely
as fighting men, but as producers.
Tough Pacific War.
(Condensed from a N.Y. “Times Magazine”
article by George Horne.)
Lieut.-General Brehon B. Somervell
said recently that the war in the Pacific
would be the biggest war the United
States ever had fought, costing
$71,000,000,000 a year after the elimina-
tion of the Nazi fighting machine.
War leaders have said that in reaching
the Philippines* in reducing the Imperial
Navy to less than first-rate and in open-
ing the sky-borne war of attrition with
the 8295, we have “come back” faster
and farther than the most optimistic
schedule of two years or even a year ago.
But they say at the same time (and
they are careful to reiterate) that the
fight is just beginning. They know the
huge cost in men and materials required.
They know the patience, the fortitude,
the courage and the resourcefulness of
the enemy. And, as most correspondents
do, they must often feel a profound sense
of anxiety when they see, day after day,
headlines which tell of our advances, of
the enetpy’s colossal losses in man-power,
in airplanes and in shipping ; when they
see multiplying evidence of compla-
cency on the assured proposition that
now we have only to do the mopping up.
Those reports tell only part of the
story. They rarely tell specifically what
it cost us.
For reasons of security it is impos-
sible to keep the profit and loss ledger
up to date, recording the progress of the
war. It is very doubtful if people realise
what the war is costing and what it will
cost in the future.
Reporting on the war, whether it be
by civilian correspondents, by public an-
nouncements on behalf of the naval and
military leaders, or by the growing
echelons of Army, Navy and Marine cor-
respondents, is one-sided. It has to be.
It tells what we accomplished, and ad-
mits our losses only if, in the opinion of
the authorities, the enemy already knows
about them. If not, it doesn’t. Hiding
losses is legitimate military practice. No
one who wants to win can object to mini-
mum-damage announcements.
Apart from the outright losses in a big
naval battle, ships get hit and do not sink,
but men are killed and wounded. Some-
times the damage is minor, but a number
of ships may be out of action for weeks,'
sometimes longer. In the aggregate
minor damage has an important effect on
the immediate future disposition of the
task forces. It requires constant replace-
ment of men and materials. The divert-
ing of other ships to cover vacancies in
the formation demands the utmost speed
in effecting repairs.
Combat losses in aircraft are eventu-
ally announced, but not so the opera-
tional losses. Reports on vast air-search
operations are made public; over a dis-
tance of thousands and thousands of
miles big seaplanes or land-based search
bombers roam from Pearl Harbor to the
China coast. The network of air circuits
and combat patrols grows as the war ex-
pands westward, covering every Pacific
area right up to the shores of Japan. And
it is a mathematical fact that ’planes
are lost in ordinary operations some-
times in higher ratio than in combat.
These are just tiny facets of the whole
complex picture of war-making as it pro-
ceeds in the Pacific. The vastness of this
sea and the complexity of the kind of
war it demands keep every naval and
military department anxiously alert and
perpetually straining to keep abreast of
the fighting.
Our Pacific enemy is clever and cun-
ning. And he fights with skill and dar-
ing—qualities which our modern methods
of propaganda somehow (and foolishly)
turn into devilish trickery and fanatic-
ism. We delude ourselves by calling a
skilful raid a “hit-and-run” raid. Once
when the enemy was holding fast on
Leyte, fighting determinedly, someone
said, petulantly, he was using every trick
to keep us from winning—as though
that weren’t cricket!
We have become accustomed to speak-
ing of the enemy with contempt, mini-
mising his ability, ridiculing his fighting
habits. It is a fairly common practice
to speak of him patronisingly.
The cold truth is that the Japanese, in
almost every respect, is a first-class war-
rior—fearless, ready to die for his cause
and able to do tremendous damage
before he does. In jungle warfare, he
lacks nothing—except, perhaps, the
quality of individual initiative. This is
possibly the principal weakness of the
Japanese, but they are cagey and able.
They have no peer in camouflaging or in
taking advantage of terrain. Their snipers
are clever and rarely submit until
knocked down from their tree holds or
gouged from their burrows.
This determination and fortitude
(whether it be born of a blind and un-
reasonable fanaticism or whether the
Japanese are just good fighting inen) is
something we must remember in our
view of the fighting to come. In the
Marshalls the Japanese have been raided
almost every day for more than a year
by bombers based on our own Marshall
atolls and in the Gilberts, They still
fight with fury and send up ack-ack —
good, accurate ack-ack, often as not —so
consistently that a year later it is still
no “milk run,” even though this term
has found ready application for these
bomber activities.
There is a lot of theorising about what
the Japanese will do if, and when, we
invade their home islands. They have an
army which has demonstrated its strength
and ability in Asia and has not been met
on a broad front in the Pacific. They
are masterful fighters and they have good
leadership.
Someone asked a high-ranking admiral
when he thought the Japanese would


THE WORLD FOLLOWS BRITAIN'S LEAD
TELEPHONIC
COMMUNICATION
'T'HE telephone, most useful and übiqui-
* tous of modern instruments in business
and social life, was invented by a British
engineer.
In the forward march of civilisation
British inventions and discoveries have
always played a leading part. Particularly
in the realm of textiles, the British record
is one -of continuous progress, and no single
firm has contributed more to raising the
standard of living than have Courtaulds through
the development of rayon.
In the course of a mere generation, untiring
research and experiment carried out by Court-
aulds succeeded in establishing rayon as a
recognised and valuable addition to textile pro-
duction throughout the world, and in the
creation of a vast new industry not only in
Britain, but also in the United States, in Canada
and elsewhere. Courtaulds rayon yarn and the
beautiful fabrics made from it have brought
luxury and variety into the lives of millions in
almost every land.
Today, unfortunately, the demands of total warfare
leave only a limited amount of rayon fabrics available
to the public; but present research and development
will place an even wider variety of lovely raygns
within the reach of everyone when normal times return.
'
7S
ALEXANDER
GRAHAM BELL.
Born Edinburgh in
1847 and settled in
Canada. Invented and
exhibited in 1876 the
apparatus from which
the modern telephone
has been developed.
The World's greatest inventions and* discoveries originated
within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns:
Lustre Fibres, Ltd,, Coventry, England.
LISTED
IN
¥
Services
a
/
\
The Navy, Army, Air Force, and the American Army are
using AGA Cookers in unit kitchens or military hospitals.
AGA Cookers have also been supplied to the Ministry of
Munitions. So any delays which may occur in the delivery
of AGA Cookers for civilian use are due to the urgent
needs of the fighting forces, and the forbearance of our
customers is therefore requested,
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
is still pre-eminent for economy in fuel, continuous depend-
able service, conservation of nutritional qualities and finer
flavours in foods, and for simplicity of operation.
Vou are invited to call for a demonstration, or write for
illustrated catalogue R 4.
AGA
HEGO. TRADE MARK
The Original Heal Storage
COOKER
MADE IN BRITAIN
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
fst. issi (Tnc. in N. 1.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Boorke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agents: Colton Palmer ft Preston
Ltd., Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents: A. G. Webster ft
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents; Malloch Bros. Ltd,
Perth.
<?ld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
g)
stand and fight. This was before the
Philippines sea battle.
“I see nothing to indicate that they
don’t stand and fight right along, and
always have,” he replied.
Then there is the Japanese people. The
Japanese themselves have said the people
—the women and children—will fight
with knives stuck on bamboo poles, with
their hands or any weapon available.
There is a very good chance that they
will. But whatever the people do, the
army will fight to the end and land-based
air power will cause us much damage and
loss. We do not yet know the extent of
their fighting resources. There are un-
doubtedly weapons and fighting methods
of which our public is unaware.
That is how it is going to be all the
way through to the end. We are pitted
against an opponent second not even
to their Nazi comrades in strength, and
in fighting heart. We ought to keep re-
minding ourselves of that.
However long it takes, we will do it.
There is no doubt of that. But it is going
to be costly in blood, and in all the other
coin of war —heartbreak, death and
horror. There is not a fighting man in
all the Pacific services who retains a shred
of smugness about the fight that lies
ahead.
The admirals and generals know what
is coming. The enlisted man knows.
They can do the job, but they ask readi-
ness and understanding at home —the
kind of understanding that permits no
single moment of relaxation on the wide
and vital home front.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
As an “injured State” Russia has already
held trials of war criminals and inflicted pun-
ishments —perhaps in more instances than she
has yet made public. Whether anything would
be gained by a full-dress trial of such creatures
as Hitler, Goebbels, Goring and Himmler may
be questioned. Each one of these men has
already made a full confession which would
doom him in any court—-and the fact that the
confessions were otherwise labelled by those
who made them is of no consequence. More-
over, these felons may die at the hands of their
own countrymen before we can get at them.
When we come down to simple terms there
seem to be but three necessities. One is to get
rid of men whose continued life and freedom
endanger our civilisation. The second is to do
this in such a way that present and future
generations, including such Germans as have
remained sane and such Germans as will, like
members of other races, be born sane, will
recognise that justice has been done. The third
is to make it clear to the Germans that pun-
ishment will not be indiscriminate. — N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
No cash, the U.S. Army insists, has been
paid to a foreign owner (such as Lever Bros.,
soap) for coconut trees knocked down by
artillery fire or trees destroyed in any combat
operation On the Pacific islands. Army figures
on sums paid for destruction by American
forces in ousting the Jap invaders are these:
(1) New Hebrides (jointly administered by
British and French resident commissioners),
520 trees; $llB5 paid. (2) Tongatabu, of the
Tonga Islands (British Protectorate), 323 palm-
trees; $196.50 paid. (3) New Caledonia (French
administration), 20 trees; $4O paid. The policy
outlined by the War Department is this: “The
War Department does pay for damage to
private property which results from clearance
of ground for bases, airfields or negligence.
It does not pay for damages caused in or as a
result of actual combat. The amount paid is
determined after individual investigation in
each case of the local market value of the item
damaged or destroyed.” — John O’Donnell; N.Y.
“Daily News.”
It won’t be long after the war until the
political relations of the Big Three are put to
the test, and Iran has been called the “proving
ground” of the United Nations’ policy of col-
laboration. In Poland, Eastern Europe and the
Balkans Britain has given ground, and a lot of
it, rather than wrestle with the Red bear. But
she will hardly be as complacent' where the
Near East is concerned. Whoever controls the
Near East could split the British Empire in
two by land, and Iran is a key to that area. —
William Philip Simms; N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
* * * *
There is scarcely a day that a giant Douglas
C-54 does not put down its wheels at Mitchel
Field or some other centre on the U.S. Atlantic
coast with a load of wounded men from Europe.
Some of the soldiers, not a few of them with
the mud of a foxhole still on their uniforms,
find themselves in a spotless bed at Mitchel
30 minutes after the big ’plane has stopped
rolling. Many begin to receive the benefit of
full surgical and medical facilities only a little
more than 18 hours after taking off from a base
in Scotland. Since D-day more than 10,000
have been evacuated by air to the Long Island
base alone. Perhaps no other factor has been
more stimulating to the morale of wounded
and unwounded soldiers alike than this swift
service of air evacuation out of the hell of the
front line to the quiet haven of the homeland.
• — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
It seems more and more likely that our
formula of unconditional surrender will have
to be applied not to Germany as a whole, but
to bits and pieces of the German Army, to
cities and provinces of Germany. If this
happens, the chaos and misery of tfip Germans
will be stupendous. It is not in our power
to prevent it, though we shall be compelled
on grounds of interest and of humanity to
alleviate it. The suffering which it will im-
pose on the German people, the guilty and the
innocent alike, is incalculable. There is no
precedent in history for what is going to happen
when 70 or 80 million people living in a com-
plicated modern economy find themselves with-
out a general Government of their own which
can provide the elementary necessities of
life. But, thanks to Hitler, that will be the
condition of Germany, and what the Allies can
do about it, in view of their own necessities,
and the commitment of the Japanese war, is
not clear at all. — Walter Lippmann; N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * *
Great Britain is approaching the competitive
field of post-war civil aviation with full confi-
dence in her ability “to make as good and
better aircraft than any country in the world,”
Sir Stafford Cripps told the House of Com-
mons. “The pressure from the other side of
the Atlantic is too strong to allow us to stand
still,” the Minister of Aircraft Production said,
“and in the very near future—as the war circum-
stances turn more in our favor—superlative
British-made air liners will be ready for the
market in quantity.” There was no lack of
demand, Cripps assured the House, which had
expressed fears that the’“partial failure” of the
Chicago air conference and vast production
superiority of the United States would leave
Britain with little more than out-worn and out-
moded war ’planes when the time came for a
resurgence of commercial air transport. The
record of British military ’planes throughout
the war, the Minister said, was an enviable
one and known around the world. Not only
British customers but foreign customers as well
are now coming forward and expressing their
desire to have British aircraft, he said. — London
correspondent N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
* % n: :J;
As a private in the paratroops I get two shil-
lings a day jumping pay. Out of it I am re-
quired by law to pay lid. income tax. —
British paratrooper, London “Daily Mail.”
* * * *
Japan'cannot protect herself from our under-
sea fleet. She no longer controls the waters of
the Pacific, either on the surface or in the air.
She has no chance of regaining that control.
She has not the economic strength to outfit
an effective anti-submarine force. As a result,
she has lost considerably more than a third of
the merchant tonnage with which she began the
war and on which she relied to carry it on.
Early in 1944 the rate of Japanese loss had
risen to 38 ships a month. It is now higher.
Our submarines have destroyed upward of 520
of these vessels, while ’planes and surface
craft have accounted for hundreds more.
General Harmon says it is in her shipping,
the essential binder of her empire, that Japan
has suffered her most grievous wounds. As we
gain new bases nearer Japan our submarines
will inflict even deeper wounds. This “silent
service” of ours, always alert, always stalking
the enemy, represents only a small fraction of
our Navy. But for Japan it is proving to be
a fatal fraction. — N.Y. “Times:”
* * * *
Two big unanswered questions that are all-
important are: — (1). Will the kind of Europe
being devised by Roosevelt-Churchill-Stalin
work in an economic way; will it result in pros-
perity and contentment? (2). Will the new
league of nations really have power to say
“No” to Russia or U.S. or Britain if one of
the Big Three seeks to control Governments, or
to reach out for bits of territory ih neighboring
States? If not, this war will not settle much;
will not prevent a recurrence of frictions, of
discontents, of political manoeuvres leading to
trouble.— “ United States News.”
* * * *
While Emir Abdullah of Trans-Jordan is not
the spokesman for Palestinian Arabs, many of
whom disagree with him on other issues, on the
question of a Jewish State he expresses the
universal Arab viewpoint. On this point there
is no dissent. Every Arab stands behind the
• British White Paper clause stating that when
the present quota is exhausted further Jewish
immigration will be permitted “only if the
Arabs are prepared to acquiesce in it.” The
Emir is definitely not prepared to acquiesce.
“If you want world peace and your own secu-
rity don’t bring up the question of more im-
migration,” he said. “The Palestine question is
the key to the co-operation of the Arab States
with Western democracies and therefore in my
opinion the key to peace. If you look at Arab
territory in relation to the British Empire and
the United States you will see we hold together
the strategic position that can ensure peace.
The Palestine question is the only knot between
the Arabs and the British,” he went on. “It
can be untied only by the Arabs and the British.
When Palestine’s future is decided other issues
can be discussed by Palestinians —and by Pales-
tinians I mean Moslems, Christians and Jews.
After the British have withdrawn as the man-
datory Power we can talk about immigration
among ourselves. Until now you have never
heard of anti-Semitism in the Arab world. We
lived on good terms for centuries.” — Jerusalem
correspondent N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
The conclusion drawn by officials is that the
U.S. cannot risk dependence exclusively on
bombing and blockade to defeat Japan. Barring
the possibility of complete collapse of her home
front, or sudden surrender by her Government,
a large-scale land invasion of Japan’s home
islands almost certainly will be necessary, either
before or after her armies in China are des-
troyed.—“ United States News.”
* * *
“We [French] are desirous of signing an
alliance some day with brave old England, as
soon as she may be willing to agree to what is
vital for us concerning Germany, and as soon
as we may succeed in eliminating among our-
selves certain traces of an outmoded rivalry
in certain points, traces which our tempo-
rary misfortunes have given—and are still
giving—an opportunity to show themselves.” —
General de Gaulle.


Public Notice.
I, HANS EGGENBERGER, of Swiss nationality, born
at Solothurn, Switzerland, and resident five years in
Australia, now residing at 144, William Street, Syd-
ney, N.S.W., intend to apply tor naturalisation under
the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Personal and Missing Friends. (
IN THE ESTATE of WILLIAM MAGNUS DOILE
late of Wellington New Zealand Retired Carpenter
now deceased. —If LIONEL CLEF DOILE who left
New Zealand for Australia in 1925 will communi-
cate with either of the undermentioned firms of
solicitors he will hear of something to his advantage
Friends of the said Lionel Clef Doile are particularly
requested to bring this notice to his attention Any-
one who know T s of his whereabouts or whether he is
alive or dead are asked to communicate promptly
with either of the undermentioned firms of solicitors.
MESSRS. MOULE, HAMILTON & DERHAM,
Solicitors, 394-396 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia.
MESSRS. LUOKIE, WIREN & KENNARD,
Solicitors, Brandon Street, Wellington, New Zealand.
MISSING RELATIVES—GRACE LOVETT.
PURSUANT to an Order of the Supreme Court of
New Zealand GRACE LOVETT, who was born in
Tasmania about 1880 and who is a beneficiary in the
Estate of her deceased half brother, William Lovett,
late of Stratford, New Zealand, or any person
claiming through or under her is required to send
in notice of such claim to the District Public
Trustee, Stratford, New Zealand, on or before the
30th day of June, 1945, otherwise the Estate may
be distributed and their claims disregarded. Grace
Lovett is about 64 years of age and if married her
married surname is not known. She is the daughter
of Charles Lovett and Martha Lovett {nee Hill) and
lived in her childhood at Penguin and Latrobe in
Tasmania. She is believed to haVe left Tasmania for
New Zealand about 25 years ago, but no information
as to her whereabouts in New Zealand has been
obtained.—YOUNG & CALLAGHAN, Solicitors for
the Estate, Stratford, New Zealand.
RUPTURE
, NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE HHna
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To day for
FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept.2lU), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
Made by
FORD SHERINGTON LTD
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
G LO BITE Travel Cases/
m n
i m iii i' n
• m
S. .
US
f t f
'
LitLL
. ---
... 0
ff
6*
«««
J
>
, :
iliii
/XN
■’ if?.
: si’r
Immm
-5 .. . V
mm
?1
a
a
STEEL
SHEETS
COMMONWEALTH ROLLING MILLS PTY. LTD.,
Port Kembla, N.S.W.
OIIT of the flaming cru-
cible of war have come new and
improved grades of sheet steel. One
of the results is that kitchen appli-
ances of the future are likely to be
lighter, stronger, more efficient and
attractive than anything we have
known in the past. Their design will
be highly functional* and stoves and
refrigerators will be integrated into
the architecture of the kitchen ... a
new beauty and a new convenience
for a new world.
One of the many improvements
developed in COMROL Sheet Steel
is in enamelling sheets, which will
give a better porcelain enamel finish
for all types of appliances .
h
WM
CkaVENA
ibafbe always,,
smectic *
Obtainable In 10’s & Si’s
■v/.
m
%
5707
df
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy How McDougall Topped the Score
and Other Verses and Why Doherty Died and
Other Verses, by T. E. Spencer.—36l6.
Typist residing at Brighton, Melbourne, to
make copies of author’s MSS.—3617.
Information Sought.
What Australian grower’s wool has brought
the highest price in the past 15 years?
Estate of R. G. O’Connor, Connorville (Tas.),
46|d., at Launceston sales, 1937. Connor-
ville has held or equalled the Commonwealth
record for the last five seasons, under appraise-
ment, with 33|d., 34id., 4o|d. and 40|d.
Is it true that the Sahara Desert was at one
time clothed in vegetation and, if so, what sort
of plants are presumed to have grown there?
In prehistoric times, down till 15,000 years
ago, the region of the Sahara Desert was
covered with vegetation of the tundra type
(small shrubs, mosses and lichens). Then be-
gan the drying process that turned the .region
into a desert.
Method for destroying rabbits?
Cyanogas (calcium cyanide in the dust form)
is blown through passages of the warren by
means of hand pumps. On contact with air
fatal hydro-cyanide gas is given off. As dust
emerges from the warren the exits are blocked
to insure retention of the gas within.,
(1) American casualties and (2) Japanese
casualties for the whole period of this war ?
(1) In the vicinity of 900,000. (2) Dead have
been reckoned at 865,000, excluding losses in
China.
(1) What property may an unmarried in-
valid possess without making her ineligible for
pension? (2) Any organisation' from which
assistance can be obtained?
(1) If all her assets, excluding her house, total
not more than £59, and her yearly income
does not exceed £32 10s., she is eligible for a
pension. (2) Local food-relief authorities.
Brief Answers.
F.F.: Apply to Red Funnel Trawlers, Ltd.,
No. 5 Wharf, Woolloomooloo, Cam and Sons,
Ltd., Bank-street, Pyrmont or Murrells, No. 1
Wharf, W001100m00100... .Old Subscriber:
There are about six types of Wurlitzer organ
in Sydney and suburbs.... J.A.C.: The token was
issued in Ireland about 1787 and is worth six-
pence A.H.H.: Municipal rates have not been
pegged; scale of rates to be levied is a matter
for individual councils... .W.T.: Send name
and address A.G.W.: On payment of 4s. 6d.
per copy the Payne Report may be obtained
from the Department of the Interior... .H.A.
Write to Rabbit Inspectors of following Pastures
Protection Boards: Goulburn, Bombala, Gunda-
gai, Merriwa, Tamworth, Glen Innes and
Bathurst J.A.S.: Angus and Robertson, Syd-
ney, have many books on carpentry and joinery.
Answers to Correspondents.
i Same and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
G.C.G.: Tim is much too close to Burns’s
Tam J.C.A.: That makes the 2754th drought
poem in the last four months E.V.D. What
do you mean by “Sacrifice will still hold
sway”? M.P.T.: Too many adjectives and
too few rhymes... .1.H.; Ruined by clumsy
phrases such as “instrument of Leer”
E.H.M.: Mildly amusing but trite R.M.:
Diffuse and wordy until the last four lines
J.M.D.: Genuine feeling; but when you say
•‘the wombat’s name is law” you make him
absurd for the sake of a bad rhyme with
“roar” M.F.C.: “Ode to a Beer Bottle”
mainly froth J.A.S.: We’ll just have to agree
to differ C.F.R.: Come on in, then, and
get it off your chest:
0, land of glorious yellow wattles
And empty heads and empty bottles,
O, land of endless open spaces
Just made for aerodromes and races,
0 wondrous land of dried-up dams,
And crowded flats and empty prams,
Whose stinging trees and prickly pear
Just blew along from Lord knows where,
Whose young dance boogie-woogie dances,
Whose people live on Buckley’s chances,
1 raise my voice to sing your praises,
And greatly fear you’ve gone to blazes.
SSSVTtS'SZ 3TVSVa*.';
Gorge on, o dingo, fox and crow
Till soil erosion wrecks the show.'
. ...T.G.W. : Not far 0ff....E.H. : “Time”
doesn’t rhyme with “brine” L.H.C. : Closer;
gets Jost in the douds at the e nd....R.K.:
f.. *‘pT pnr(l rmT , P dread tales of war and
, lie line Hence come mcatl tales or war a
death and fuss is about the limit in bathos.
. ...M.D. ; Too vague... .A.J.D. : Strange pic-
ture of a dove carrying a scythe... .H.P.H.:
Not quite J. 8.: Sentimental F.P.M.:
Bill ’ s ™£°rttna‘el, are
you perceive, it needs a Byron... .N.C.. Point
less... .F. 5.8 .: Put a bit more beef into them.


The secrets
in the 333’s blend
“ ‘Three-threes’ always please—the secret’s in the
333’s blend.” Because so many smokers prefer
“Three-threes,” shortages sometimes occur under
wartime condijions of reduced output.
But keep asking for State Express “333” from
your usual supplier.
STATE EXPRESS
8 B 3'
CIGAR E T I E S
Shoulder your share in speeding Security
—lnvest in the Third Victory Loan.
fdf
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve for
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRIDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Woolworths, Ltd.
, Dividends n
Ist 2nd
Pref. Pref. Ord. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 10 p.c. 7 p.c. 174 p.o. serves, serves.!
£ £ £ £ £ &
1936. .147,550 7500 11,862 73,844 , 22 .0 97
Staff fund and charities, £4OOO |
Assets written up and unexplained
additions to reserves, £455,583 .. 577,980
Reserves capitalised, £421,969 .. 156,011
124 p.c.
1937. .172,341 7500 14,000 105,492 t . 0 198 3CO
Staff fund and charities, £3OOO j ’
Share premiums, £126,591 .. •• 324,951
15 p.c.
■>93B. .217,717 7500 14,000 137,562 1 r „ , = r . 37s 106
Staff fund and charities, £5500 j 53)150 5
Reserves capitalised, £185,667 • • 192,439
Insurance, etc., reserve disappears,
£7500 .. 184.939
174 p.c.
1939 27! 693 7500 14,000 194+50 \ 255>18 2
Staff fund and chanties, £5OOO )
19'40. .272,922 7500 14,000 194,950 1 51 i 72 2 86 654
To charities, £5OOO .. .. J ’ ’
Tax reserve taken in, £120,095 .. 406,749
1941. .282,566 7500 14,000 194,950 66,116 472.865
124 p.c.
1942. .253,790 7500 14,000 139,250 93,040 565,905
11 p.c.
1943. .148,803 7500 14,000 122,540 4,263 570,168
12 p.c.
1944. .176,574 7500 14,000 133,680 21,394 591,562
Added capital profits reserve, £1,725.. 593,287
1945. .172,073 7500 14,000 133,680 16,893 610,180
t Excluding depreciation reserve, £327,857 at
31/1/M5.
The extraordinary financial success of
well-run variety chain stores during the
between-wars period, and their very
satisfactory, though less spectacular, per-
formance under the restrictions and
handicaps imposed by war-time develop-
ments, have attracted attention to the
investment possibilities of this class of
business when the prior needs of the
fighting services give place to peace-time
civilian demand.
Shortly before the war a Royal Com-
mission was appointed by the N. S. Wales
Government to investigate the trading
methods of these cos. It found that their
success was due “not to any improper
practices, but to brains, organisation,
competence and fair dealing, all of which
have won the confidence of the buying
public.” Their trading technique includes
quick sales for cash —capital was turned
over five or six times a year pre-war-
enabling most lines to be cleared, the bill
paid and profit pocketed all within time
allowed under ordinary trade credit.
Hence capital investment in the chief
earnings asset (stocks) is kept relatively
low, and risk of loss from price fluctua-
tions is reduced. Small personal service
—the shops are a specialised development
of the bazaar-type of trading—helps to
keep overhead down, and there are no
book debts in the ordinary retail sense
of the term. Research and buying depart-
ments are constantly on the watch to
keep the stores stocked with new and old-
established lines having a high general
appeal. Combined with centralised buy-
ing, this makes for large-scale production
in manufacture, to the benefit of both
buying and selling prices.
In 1928, when the public became in-
terested, Woolworths had a paid capital
of £63,264. The figure is now £1,388,999
in 75,000 £1 10 p.c. and 200,000 £1 7 p.c.
cum. prefs. and 4,455,996 ords, of ss.
each. Of the £1,113,999 of ord. capital
no less than £944,712 (approx. 17s. in
the £) is bonus scrip, handed out during
the immediate pre-war decade. Over the
same period cash issues brought with
them £199,977 of share premiums. Still,
these issued were in the nature of
premiums to shareholders because of the
high price the scrip commanded on
’change.
Many lines in which the co. used to
deal have disappeared from the market,
owing to production plants being switched
to service requirements. And clothes
rationing, mobilisation of women in the
services and difficulty in obtaining goods
from abroad helped to slow down the
rate of turnover, too. Costs, especially
taxation, have rocketed, while man-
power demands have given the manage-
ment many headaches connected with
staffing and efficiency problems.
Net earnings fell sharply from a peak
of £282,566 for the 12 months to end
Jan., 1941, to £148,303 two years later,
rose to £176,574 for the following year
and eased to £172,073 last term, when a
further drop in turnover was reported.
The £172,073 (it excludes £1725 added to
capital profits reserve ; and no allowance
has been made to meet the next tax bill
when it arrives) was enough to pay
pref. divs. and show 13.5 p.c. on
ord. capital as against 13.9, 11.3, 20.8,
23.4 and 22.5 p.c. back to 1940. The
div. was kept at 12 p.c., making the
average for the last five years 13 p.c.,
compared with an average of 16 p.c. for
the preceding quinquinium.
Now that a few more goods are com-
ing on to the market turnover can be
expected to improve a little. Pronounced
improvement in earning power, however,
need not be looked for until war against
Japan ends and full industrial output is
available to meet civilian demand. Much
will then depend upon the level of costs,
including taxation, which are likely to
be much higher than pre-war.
The co. is well-equipped to take ad-
vantage of whatever opportunity offers:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
£ £ £ £
Paid capital 1,388,999 1,388,999 1,388,999 1,888,999
Liabilities. . 316,798 626,390 855,066 375,815
Freeholds, etc. 36,717 41,148 41,148 41,148
Leaseholds. . 82,506 82,065 114,205 107,309
Plant .. 282,531 350,928 345,734 346,546
Shares other
cos., etc.. . 1,226,263 1,376,268 1,376,263 1,376,261
Stocks . . 465,024 767,109 732,146 613,022
Debtors . . *344,625 *298,600 *108,454 *137,450
Cash .. 6,479 8,627 41,896 202,846
* Includes advances to associated cos. — £317,321,
1940; £287,624, 1942; £98,163, 1944; £122,978,
1945.
Last term stocks were reduced by
£119,124, and cash benefited by £160,950.
Liabilities (up £20,749) include credits held
on account of the subsidiaries, of which
there are seven, all handsome contribu-
tors to the pool. Including shares in the
offshoots, the more or less liquid surplus
at the end of Jan. was £1,953,764 (up
£50,071).
McDonnell and East, Ltd. (Brisbane)
, Dividends ~
Pref. To Re- Re-
Jan., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. serves, serves.
£> £, £ £ £
1935.. 10,544 720 4 p.c. t= 7,441 2,383 8,335
1936.. 9,465 720 4 „ „ 7,442 1,303 4,638
1937.. 11,814 720 5 ~ ~ 9,301* 1,793 6,431
1938.. 14,463 720 5 „ „ 9,301* 4,442 10,873
1939.. 17,039 720 5J „ ~10,231* 6,088 16,961
1940.. 13,492 720 5*,, ~10,232* 2,540 19,501
1941.. 15,836 720 ~10,232* 4,884 24,385
1942.. 11,275 720 54,, ~10,232* 323 24,708
1943.. 17,056 720 5* „ ~10,231* 6,105 30,813
1944.. 25,913 720 6 „ ~11,162* 14,031 44,844
1945.. 26,747 720 6 „ ~11,162* 14,865 ,59,709
* Includes special payment to directors, £B4O last
term.
Not since the present co. took over the
then 19-year-old business of McDonnell
and East in 1920 has the outlook for
shareholders been more encouraging.
There was trouble with stocks early in
the piece ; then reconstruction of prem-
ises, largely on borrowed funds, and
drought in the country interfered with
turnover, and the ords. averaged only
4.5 p.c. for the ten generally fat years
to 1930. The next three years were dry
ones, owing to slump, and for the half-
dozen to the outbreak of war divs, aver-
aged 4.3 p.c., with widening margins. For
the five years to the close of last accounts
the average wa3 5.7 p.c., with still wider
margins.
Meanwhile, revival of Finneys and the
appearance of Woolworths, Coles and
Penneys had brought a lot of trade back
to the George-street end of the city, and
the co. had strengthened its trading tech-
nique and position generally. War
brought rationing, the price ceiling and
a host of other difficulties. Still, there
was no. shrinkage in turnover of Bris-
bane retailers, thanks largely to a tem-
porary influx of population, mainly Allied
and our own service personnel. The fol-
lowing table illustrates what happened —
it shows percentage changes in aggregate
turnover of 12 Brisbane department
stores compared with the corresponding
period of the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
x
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1938- .. + 3.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1939- . . + 6.1 -f 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- .. + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941.42 .. +12.3 +10.6 +22.2 1.0 +ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 4* 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 4- 4.1
1943- .. 2.1 -f 8-5 4* 3.0 + 4.6 4- 2.4
Towards the close of 1944, and since, a
little mope clothing and other goods have
become available for civilian consump-
tion—thanks to the tapering of defence
requirements—and retail turnovers have
benefited. About 80 p.c. of merchandise
handled by Brisbane retailers is supplied
by manufacturers in the southern States,
which has made transport a major
problem.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the improvement in gross
earnings (£116,987) was £5035. Trading
exes. (£56,240) moved up only £2Ol. Pro-
vision for taxation, however, was £4OOO
heavier at £34,000. That left £26,747 (up
£834) net, the best showing iiL-the last 25
years. It was enough to pay the pref.
div. and show 15.1 p.c. on the £172,027
of ord. capital, as against 14.6, 9.4 and
6.1 p.c. for the three preceding terms.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c., and £14,865
was put on the shelf, lifting the lay-by
£59,709 in excess of goodwill (£5000), not
treated as an asset herein.
A feature of existing conditions that
should not be overlooked is that expen-
diture on maintenance, improvements,
advertising and many other items has
been held in check by regulation, thus
enabling net earnings to get more benefit
than they otherwise would from any in-
crease in turnover. When war ends and
controls are relaxed exes, can be ex-
pected to take a proportionally greater
amount of gross earnings.
The financial position further im-
proved, and movements in balance-sheet
figures suggest that the management is
wasting no time in getting after new busi-
ness :
1938. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £181,027 £181,027 £181,027 £181,027
Mortgages .. 47,250 32,187 23,685 22,935
Overdraft .. 47,901 50,512 21,058 25,550
Sundry creditors 17,903 21,398 31,116 44,008
Land, buildings,
plant, etc... 127,589 126,283 110,660 106,265
Stocks.. .. 107,682 130,662 189,670 183,753
Book debts .. 60,680 59,304 16,906 57,500
Cash, etc. . . 20,923 14,945 26,404 30,489
To carry an extra £40,594 of book debts
and increase cash, etc., by £4085, the
board leant upon trade creditors for an
extra £12,892 and went to its bankers
for a further £4492. The year’s improve-
ment in the more or less liquid surplus
(£179,249) was £22,128. Stocks (down
£5917) are still well above pre-war level;
much depends upon bow their type and
quality compare with goods now coming
on to the market.
Southern Portland Cement, Ltd. (N.S.W.)
( Dividends. Nominal
Net Pref. To Re- Re-
Oct., Profit. 8 p.c. Ord. Total, serves, serves.*
1934.. 25,131 Nil Nil Nil 25,131 57.488
1935.. 38.413 4.0 p.c. Nil 8,899 30,014 87,502
1936.. 43.233 11.8 „ Nil 24,879 18,354 105,856
1937. .52,402 37.2 p.c. Nil 78,353 79,905
1938. 6.2 ~ 2.5 p.c. 29,082 24,558 104,463
1939.. 6.2 „ 6.2 „ 52,758 1,339 105,802
1940.. 52,883 6.2 „ 6.2 „ 52,758 125 105,927
1941.. 44,572 7.1 „ 5.6 ~ 50,818 99,681
1942.-28,362 8 „ 3.5 „ 39,280 88,763
1943.. 8 „ 3 ~ 36,081 10,998 99,761
1944.. 40,459 8 „ 3.5 „ 39,280 1,179 100,940
* Subject to unspecified rights.
Most of this co.’s £850,940 of capital, of
which £211,055 carries a cumulative 8 p.c.
p.a., is held by Australian Iron and Steel
(138,033 prefs., 329,939 ords.) and
Howard Smith (138,299 prefs., 250,001
ords.). Production began at the anxious
end of the ’twenties, so the co. missed the
market, despite its connections and
favored situation as regards transport.
However, “paid” was put on the prefs’
account in 1937, and they have since had
their statutorily-reduced rate and then full
contract rate for the last three years. The
ords., which got into the picture in 1938,
have averaged 4.6 p.c. over the last
seven years.
Total cement production in N, S. Wales
reached 460,700 tons in 1938, or not much
more than half total plant capacity. The
figure had dropped to 380,000 in 1941, and
has receded further since. Man-power re-
quirements aggravated the position, so, as
a .rationalisation measure, the Standard
Cement Co.’s Charbon works shut down
toward the close of 1942. Since then
Standard has drawn its requirements from


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'solders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
THE BANK OF AUSTRALASIA
SMALL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Bank of Australasia Building,
154 SWANSTON ST., MELBOURNE
(Phone: Central 632)
and at
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
(Phone; BW4411)
Also available at all Branches throughout
Australia.
df
dfdfdfdfdfdfdfdfdfdfd
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts—he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Uog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDEKS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
f
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Auvt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.—Advt.
Xou cannot tire a naan
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All men s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S
Aiitnia
rl7 /1 n / wanted
ft. I / / iu/- ALL STATES
DUPLICATOR
Has all the fines! features ol high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction ot
their cost. The "National" Rotary Duplh
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing
Plans, Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
But It entirely in Australia by
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ,
Gfiampions
, . . and they will remain so for
Olympic Cables have established a
position of supremacy.
Where the best in wiring is needed—
now and post-war ...
Specify
BUY
HCTORY
LOAN
*'BONDS* [
Olympic
~ , GABLES
A product or
THE OLYMPIC TYRE & RUBBER CO. LTD.
FOUNDERS OF THE RUBBER INSULATED CABLE INDUSTRY IN AUSTRALIA !
RUBBER
INSULATED
.ft* 8
7
s *
; • x
.... > ...
■:...” : ■
m
»*J j >•
Typical example of a versatile British aircraft, the Bristol Beau-
fighter (two Bristol Hercules engines) first appeared as the world’s
most heavily-armed fighter. It was later adapted for rocket-firing,
torpedo bombing and other exacting duties.
SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST
In. Nature adaptable
species live on. In air
warfare the adaptable
aeroplane survives. Be-
cause of inherently
sound and advanced de-
sign, it is capable of con-
tinual and immediate
response to the changing
conditions of combat—
without interference to
production flow.
British aircraft are out-
standing in their proved
adaptability. Their
youth is perennial.
One famous fighter has
already appeared in no
fewer than 140 different
versions. Another
younger type has scored
28 variants so far.
Adaptability and versa-
tility of this order are
irrefutable evidence of
right design. They point
unerringly to a future in
which British airliners —
and British warplanes—
will continue to hold
the technical leadership
earned in the ruthless
arena of war.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT HI THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CON3TEOOTOBB • LONDON
Southern Portland’s 160,000-ton plant at
Berrima, which has thus had more of a
chance to cope with higher costs and
lower prices.
After setting aside whatever was con-
sidered necessary for the taxgatherer and
allowing £49,479 (up £695) for deprecia-
tion, last year’s net earnings were £6620
lighter at £40,459, or £1179 more than
the pref. div. and 3.5 p.c. to the ords.
called for.
After the war housing and public works
promise to create a strong demand for
cement, for a while at any rate. Com-
petition, however, is likely to be very keen.
Much will depend upon the level of costs,
which threaten to be much higher than
pre-war, and upon Government policy in
respect of priorities and controls.
Financially the co. is now better
equipped than ever to meet competition:
1987. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £850,940 £860,940 £850,940 £850,940
Overdraft .. 27,829 -
Creditors .. 80,556 111,321* 116,149 114,608
Fixed assets,
rights, etc.. 916,926 692,548 664,239 619,584
Stocks .. 39,476 103,659-104,332 72,492
Book debts .. 85,653 53,846 54,305 69,444
Cash, etc. .. 2,060 235,199 256,771 314,565
* Including taxation.
Chief earning asset (plant) is reported
thoroughly efficient. Last year’s allow-
ance for depreciation and a reduction of
£31,840 in stocks enabled an extra £15,139
to be added to book debts and £57,794
to cash, etc. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£341,893) was £42,634.
For the 25 weeks to Dec. 16 last Mt.
Morgan (Q.) mined 641,014 tons material,
of which 358,774 tons was discarded as
overburden. The balance was delivered
to the milis, which treated 283,750 tons,
averaging 2.2Bdwt. gold and 0.61 p.c.
copper, for a profit of £4BlB. No allow-
ance was made for depreciation ; and the
ore contained slightly less gold and
copper than was expected. A refund of
£21,212 in respect of gold tax paid during
the previous term lifted the net p. and 1.
credit balance for the period under dis-
cussion to £26,030. Equipment of the
inclined shaft for removal of waste from
No. 5 bench and the driving of No. 47
tunnel, enabling ore from this bench to
be transported by truck to the main
shaft, were chiefly responsible for the im-
proved tonnage figures of recent months.
Shortage of man-power and equipment
still stand in the way of adequate
throughput, and reduction of costs.
Attempts to obtain bulldozers and other
earth-moving appliances have been un-
successful, and though a second electric
shovel has been shipped from England it
has not yet arrived. The first electric
shovel, which arrived last year, was im-
pressed by the Federal Coal Commis-
sioner as soon as it was landed. Satis-
factory earnings largely depend upon
the handling of overburden on the hell-
for-leather principle. Delivery of mod-
ern boring equipment from U.S.A. is
also awaited.
* * * *
Briseis Consolidated, Derby (Tas.),
netted £12,899 (down £1406) for the 12
months to the end of 1944. That was
before charging £6687 (up £1614) to de-
velopment. The poorer showing was due
to lower grade and smaller quantity of
drift treated. Including overburden
(217,000 c.y., up 14,000 c.y.), a total of
711,000 c.y. (down 37,000 c.y.) was
handled for 265 tons (down 86 tons) t. 0.,
assaying 73.6 p.c. tin. Average value of
dirt treated was therefore 0.841 b. per c.y.,
compared with 1.051 b. and 1.451 b. for the
two preceding years. Heavy falls of
upper drift have interfered with the
quantity of higher-grade stuff that could
be handled from lower levels. A 3d. div.,
plus: £2500 from tax-free reserves, mak-
ing £7500 (= 5 p.c.) in all, was distri-
buted. Indications are that profitable
operations will come to an end about
three years hence, when the grade of
drift will be too low to support costs,
even at an enhanced price for tin.
Approx. 1100 tons t.o. is available for ex-
traction during the current and two fol-
lowing years. Recovery for the current
term is expected to reach a figure between
275 tons and 300 tons oxide. Paid capi-
tal is £150,000 in f.p. ss. shares. At end
1944 there was £l2Bl coming to out-
siders. Debtors and cash totalled £26,778,
stores £4861, mine, plant, etc., £198,301.
* * * *
Westralian Under-Secretary for Mines,
A. H. Telfer, discussing gold nuggets
found in the State, recalled'that the first,
one of 1270 z., was unearthed at Pilbara
Creek in 1888. In 1891 several of lOOoz.
and upwards were picked up at Nannine,
the largest weighing 400 oz. From Top
Well, on the Murchison field, came, in
1893, a lump of gold and quartz turning
the scale at 2980 z. In 1894 “Big Ben,” a
large specimen of 8500 z., was dug out of
the shallow workings of the Londonderry
mine, near Coolgardie. On the strength
of this find the Londonderry was sold
for £lBO,OOO ; it proved the biggest golden
dud of the period. In 1895 the 3330 z.
“Little Hero” was discovered at Shaw
Falls, on the Pilbara field. During the
same year a slab of gold weighing be-
tween 400 oz. and 500 oz. from the Devon
mine, near Broad Arrow, was lodged in.
a Perth bank. In 1897 the “Monarch,”
4630 z. was picked out of the ground at
Wilupa. Two years later the “Bobby
Dazzler,” 4870 z., was found at Sharks
Gully, Pilbara; and at the same place
and in the same year the “General Gor-
don” nugget, 3720 z., was discovered. In
1898 there was a rush to Kanowna, fol-
lowing a tale about the “Sacred Nugget,”
said to be worth £6500; hundreds
of claims were pegged, but little further
gold was found. This nugget was said
to have been lodged at a Coolgardie
bank ; but the manager declared he knew
nothing about it. In 1899 discovery of
two slugs, one of 168 oz. at Mulgabbie
and another of 1970 z. at Kurnalpi, was
reported; and some years later another
lump of gold from the latter centre,
weighing 2300 z., was brought into Kal-
goorlie. In 1915 a 1550 z. nugget was
unearthed in the workings of the Lady
Evelyn mine, Ora Banda. “Golden
Eagle,” the largest nugget recorded in
the west, was found in 1931 in a patch of
alluvial ground at Larkinville, near'Cool-
gardie. It weighed 11350 z. and was in
the shape of an eagle. Other nuggets up
to lOOoz. were dryblown on the same
field. In 1934 a 1650 z. specimen was
unearthed at Gullewa, and in 1939
another of 102 oz. was found at Norse-
man by two prospectors searching for a
quartz reef.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Blue Spec (W.A.) has been silent
since official announcement some weeks
ago that the new plant had started crush-
ing low-grade ore from the bins.
Whispers from the mine are that so far
very little gold has been actually re-
covered, the bulk being in the concen-
trates. Talk is also heard about wealth
blocked underground, but tonnage and
assays have not yet been broadcast.
* * % SfC
During 1944 Collie field (W.A.) produced
approx. 560,000 tons coal, worth £538,074.
Principal contributor was the Proprietary
mine with 143,159 tons, then Stockton
107,448 tons, followed by Griffen 78,481
tons, Co-operative 76,687 tons, Cardiff
76,695 tons. Open-cut 67,789 tons, Wy-
vern 9670 tons. In Dec. there were 859
men employed on the field, 648 under-
ground and 211 on the surface.


® Uy
b O
m
m 4 \
a
m
m
S -
S?
■ tm
m*
/
SATISFACTION
eMBAHmD
ANVJM'
YOM MON&nt
YOU DO A GOOD STROKE OF BUSINESS
when you buy a Victory Bond. Every way you
think about it will make you feel good with
yourself.
YOU’LL FEEL THE SATISFACTION that comes
with duty done—the duty that all of us owe to
our fighting men.
YOU’LL KNOW, too, that by investing money
instead of spending it you are helping to keep
prices down and prevent the evils of inflation.
When goods are in limited supply, as at present,
surplus spending money is dangerous!
FINALLY, you’ll be making sure that when the
war is over, and the things you have set your
heart on buying are available, you’ll have the
money to buy them. Victory Bonds, in short,
are the best and safest investment it is possible
to obtain. Go to it!
FACTS ABOUT THE
THIRD VICTORY LOAN
All you lend will be used only for War. Bonds
for £lO, £5O, £lOO, £5OO and £l,OOO may be
purchased for cash or by instalments, through
any Bank, Savings Bank, Money Order Post
Office or Stockbroker.
Interest is paid each six months, at 2 for five
years or 31% for sixteen years. Repayment in
full at maturity is guaranteed by the Common -
wealth. Your Bonds are readily saleable to meet
an emergency.
You LEND, not GIVE, your money to speed
Victory. On your application form credit your
subscription to your district to help its quota.
NO ONE ELSE CAN DO SHARE
YOUR MONEY IS NEEDED IN
THE THIRD l/ICTOHY LOAN
3V.19.83
Business,Rollery,Etc. .
The Fair Thing
A person in any country who gets paid
for what he earns is doing well. Out of
his pay he should be prepared to help
those physically incapable of earning, as
well as to pay his share of reasonable
government and defence costs. And
he should be ready to allow those who,
by their special efforts, skill and mental
diligence, cheapen production and lighten
the burden of toil a measure of
reward over and above the average. He
should be glad to award privileges to the
thrift of others where he himself is thrift-
less. After all, the thrifty often make it
possible for him to have modern machin-
ery to work with and a home to rent, as
well as a means of security in old age.
Attacks of various kinds on the thrifty
in the past are largely responsible for the
present housing shortage.
A good day’s work for decent wages
is a principle on which a nation may
build great things. The work of a coun-
try’s citizens ahd their recognition of the
rights of each other are vital factors in
national progress. Work, research and
organisation, industrial and social har-
mony and financial confidence represent
the keys that open up a country’s natural
resources to the greatest extent.
But in large countries, whether meas-
ured geographically or by population,
there must be a central Government
which recognises these facts. Political
opportunism must be made subservient to
economics. Especially where a Govern-
ment possesses, as our Federal Admin-
istration has possessed in war-time, almost
supreme powers over the individual and
over industry the country’s welfare de-
pends overwhelmingly upon the Admin-
istration’s regard for economic realities,
its upholding of the law and democratic
principles, its impartiality in essential
matters, and the firmness with which it
deals with the forces of selfishness and
sectionalism. Lack of sound political
leadership can become a national disaster.
Officialdom and Vested Labor Interests
In Australia, under the leadership of
the Curtin Government, the vested in-
terests of trade-unionism have made out-
rageous demands on their country during
a period of great community loss in which
equality of sacrifice should have been a
fundamental principle. Industries which
were first “protected” in furthering the
war effort are now mainly “protected”
in the interests of selfish militant trade-
unionism.
Man-power authorities and depart-
mental heads have clearly played the
unions’ game in a number of clashes of
interests involving Labor politics. There
was the case where Australian Iron and
Steel paid-off men because of a coal
shortage—the result of lawlessness in
other unions—and was “put in its place”
by Man-power; there was, before that,
the case of Mrs. Cassidy and “I could
send you to Bourke if I liked” ; there
has more recently been the affair of the
Ships Joiners’ Union in Sydney, in which
Man-power has signally failed to pro-
tect the interests of a legally-constituted
union which objects to being swallowed
by a notoriously militant and larger
union. There was the Government-
supported attempt at victimisation of
Peter Dargin, the Portland butcher.
There have been cases also where
Man-power has intervened to prevent
casual labor being dismissed from jobs
where work has been completed and
where further employment of the men
would be costly and useless, especially
as casual labor is paid for at a higher
rate. There is evidence in some States
that Man-power hears the “grievances”
of union bosses and carries out investiga-
tions of their complaints with a celerity
hard to match elsewhere in the public
service. The Ministry of Munitions also
appears to take far more than a produc-
tion interest in man-power questions..
This department, indeed, threatens to be-
come a home-from-home on full pay
for practically-unemployed munitions
“workers.”
The Maritime Industries Commission
last year directed a revision of the war-
risk bonus paid to seamen on the Aus-
tralian coast on the ground of reduced
danger, and immediately there was a
hold-up. Judge de Baun resigned when he
found that certain members of the com-
mission would not abide by its decisions,
and soon afterwards the reconstituted
commission, under Government per-
suasion, restored the bonus. It was to
be reconsidered on February 1. The
old bonus rates are still in force (50 p.c.
even in Spencer’s Gulf!), though only
one case has been reported of a sub-
marine attack on a vessel off the Austra-
lian coast since the question of reducing
the bonus The Government itself
in this case has abjectly surrendered to
trade-union dictation.
Living Standards and Industrial Morale
Full employment is a desirable thing.
But so are higher living standards and
other national aims. A better standard
of living depends upon the citizens of a
country pulling their weight productively
and socially to the greatest extent. It
does not raise living standards merely to
keep men on a payroll regardless of
whether they are doing work or not. It
likewise does not improve standards to
employ men in work that fails to satisfy
a national or popular demand. In fact,
payment of “workers” who are doing little
or no work, or who are doing non-essen-
tial work, drags down living standards
seriously, and very often affects the
social attitude of thousands of other
workers.
Where man-power and money are wasted,
and where anti-social union tactics are
condoned by the Government, a rot is
likely to set in in many aspects of trade-
union behavior. It has been held that
where employers have wasted materials
and labor on Government cost -plus con-
tracts in order to increase their profits
the labor employed has become lax and
dilatory on all subsequent work. Gov-
ernment-condoned wastage is similarly
demoralising. The wastage can take place
in man-power as in anything else. Gov-
ernment ships and factories generally are
wastefully overmanned, the labor often
* being overpaid.
Bankrupt of Industrial Plans
If a Government encourages the
payment of wages in cases where there
is little useful work to be done it admits
that it is bankrupt of good industrial
planning or that it is bluffed and beaten
by militant unionism. We are supposed
to be short of man-power, but there is
no doubt that there is a deplorable waste
of man-power, noticeable especially in
the metal and construction trades, though
evident enough on the wharves, on Gov-
ernment-run ships, in certain coalmines
and at the Sydney Government abattoirs.
If our Federal Government had anything
like the business acumen it claimed to pos-
sess before the referendum was defeated
there would not be the slightest need to
keep men in worked-out jobs. They
would be put on to work that would
tend to relieve the shortage of civil goods,
or at least to pave the way for a speedy
return to peace-time production once
war-time mobilisation of our industrial
resources ceases. There are many mil-
lions of citizens’ money almost bursting
out of owners’ pockets in eagerness to be
spent on household articles. But the
Government continues to encourage the
keeping-on of men in worked-out jobs
rather than do something worth while
about manufacturing or building for
present civilian needs and preparing to
meet post-war production problems.
Industrial Demoralisation
A great wave of industrial demoralisa-
tion is sweeping through the Australian
people. A Government which governs
only minorities and those willing to be
governed is being repeatedly beaten
by selfish, militant unionism and by
criminals. Black-marketing and similar
corruption has become a thriving indus-
try in many parts of the Commonwealth,
and, taken in with industrial lawlessness,
life in this country is becoming too much
a matter of relying on the whims of
those who break the law.
For failure to uphold the law the
Federal Government must be held
largely responsible. Though its minions
have shown remarkable zeal on occa-
sions in unearthing “political” cases
and petty offences, and though it
has used the heavy hand against daily
newspapers which offended some official’s
dignity and against trading banks which
have done no worse than serve their’
country well in a sultry political and
economic war-time atmosphere, the major
offences against the industrial efficiency
of the nation, against the price ceiling
and conservation of essential supplies
and against industrial law and order have
gone on and on in the style of a snow-
ball. In the midst of this social decay
the Government’s large-scale and deter-
mined vote-buying at the expense of a
war-strained public purse has smelt
hardly any sweeter than the results of its
failure to enforce the laws of the land.
Humiliation
Political, industrial and social standards
have undergone great degeneration dur-
ing the present Federal Government’s
term of office. Too often have the
patriotic been held to be mugs or “scabs”
by organised militants, and too often has
the Government sacrificed the principles
of good Australians rather than stand up
against mob bosses. On occasions a citi-
zen of principle has had the humiliation
of being given “advice” by some political
opportunist as to why he should get on
the right side of the “boys,” do as the
others do and sink his principles. De-
feated Labor politicians rise high in
Labor’s “civil service.” One, John Smith
Garden, was called in to “advise” Mrs.
Cassidy in the Duly and Hansford case.
An inert observer of the outrages com-
mitted by communist-controlled unions,
the Government is following a fiscal polic}
that threatens economic disorder. It has
become very busy in laying the foun-
dations of a non-contributory social-
security” scheme that embraces tree
medicine among its many alleged ser-
vices,” while it has increased old-age
pension and child-endowment rates on a
lavish scale. One need not be a cynic
to suggest that the idea is one oi
vote-buying, especially among women
electors, regardless of the high cost in
taxation, inflation and future financia
insecurity. For 1947-48 the Goverame
estimates the cost of social services a
£73 million, compared with £l7 million
before the war. In making a Goyernme
dole of so much of the national income
the Ministry is killing incentive and thrill,
both through its ostensible benevo-
lence” and through the heavy taxation
on the incomes of the enterprising


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £40,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,000,000.
M. O. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
X
\4*
A®
VS
V
FIXED PRICES
Supreme .. 16/5
Diploma ..‘lB/11
Auloflow .. 26/3
14ct. solid gold,
hand-made nib.
Iridium pointed
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO FREDERICK GEORGE JENSEN.—TAKE NOTICE
that THELMA EDNA JENSEN has filed a Petition
for Divorce No. 332 of 1945 on the ground of deser-
tion without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards You may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 15th day of August 1945 and obtain a copy of
the petition from JOHN CORCORAN & CO. Solicitors
Assembly Hall 2 York Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO BARRYMORE RAYMOND CRONIN late of Lith-
gow N.S.W. —TAKE NOTICE that AURIOL HELEN
CRONIN has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 982
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse Tor three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney New South
Wales on or before the 15th day of June 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
F. W. REILLY Solicitor of 79 Elizabeth Street
Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO VALETTA MAY HARRIGAN (formerly Osborne)
late of Upper Nerang Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE
that GEORGE HARRIGAN has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 1321 of 1945 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 30th day of June next
and obtain a copy of the Petition without charge
from CLAYTON UTZ & COMPANY Solicitors 136
Liverpool Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO MARY KATE NEWMAN.—TAKE NOTICE that
SYDNEY HENRY NEWMAN has filed his Petition
for Divorce No. 1152 of 1945 on the ground of
your desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance at the Divorce Office
Supreme Court King Street Sydney by the Thirty-
first day of May next and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from 0. L. SHEEHY Petitioner’s
Solicitor Wingello House Angel Place Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar.
Almost as important as your
WILL
THERE is a wide realisation amongst people of means that the choice of the Executor
an .“ Trustee who is to administer a Will is just as important as the Will itself. An
unsatisfactory Executor and Trustee may defeat the very purpose that the maker of
the Will had in mind.
If you follow the lead of many of the shrewdest of our successful citizens and
appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited, you will ensure that the terms of your
Will shall be faithfully carried out over the years, and that your beneficiaries shall
enjoy a courteous and sympathetic service.
We should like to send you a copy of a book, “Your Executor and Trustee.”
You will find it helpful. Write for it today.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIM ITED
DIRECTORS.
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ; Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. KNOX
H. NORMAN POPE; ALLEN C. LEWIS; W. DEUCHAR GORDON.
H. V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G. ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
S 3-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. COWDERY, Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. SHAW, 140 Lord’s Place, Orange.
CERTAIN DEATH
d
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out ail
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
HOTEL
S - GEORGE
WELLINGTON
Where efficient but un-
obtrusive service is a boon
to the travel weary...
where all the arts of
the modern hotelier
find expression
your greater
comfort.
NEW ZEALAND
&£L S T 610^
THE SYMBOL
OF SERVICE
Radio, Cable and
Telegraphic Address!
“SANGEORGE”
L I I-%
Hi
»» as
(M\ 'ln 2!
in
3*
iIL
L U L.
U 4.
iaa
ayy
H
SG.3
thrifty. “Social security” is only one of
its costly political stunts.
Confusion and Shameless Vote-buying
In an age when studious reading,
sober thought and a memory for relevant
facts are not prominent among the popu-
lation the confusion, disturbance and
shameless vote-buying of present war-time
politics have overwhelmed the common-
sense or political integrity of many
people. The Labor party has £o j
years followed a policy of brain-
scrambling among the masses ; it has en-
couraged envy and prejudice rather
than reason, discouraged thrift and the
development of British ideals, and it has
tended to put bookmakers, punters and
beer-merchants on a pedestal. Appar-
ently it is following a course similar to
that pursued in parts of Europe in the
Middle Ages, when popular ignorance
played into the hands of decadent and
uiirm 3 r tbe c 7 rg 7‘ , J racle ‘
iellvincr Australia ommunist leaders are
SdMdualiJS at^r? 80010^ 688
there has been no u °PP or ]7 nity -
The removal *u e P r ® sent ’,
backbone of Ana! brains and
monkevinn nf
evident wfll if it f 3" md at A P l6B ®/* 1
Dooulation to a ontlEues > red 7 c ® tbe
reonle Tbp inu second- Ol \ third-rate
head bv po-slow 17,1 °t P rodu 7 tlon P er
methork fbat anc ! ° tb f r trade-union
Government • are B^ ossed ‘ over by
There are nie °f C +I ery dangei ;
linh nnnn f v
the riemitin 7 latl 7 e and anc *
nolifical P “ront7i” m th tS i to j. p ace under
nf nrivate t • tbe eadlE 8 examples
whiKn nfm ee PnS6 ’ are f t 0
wnite-ant our economic and social foun-
dations. Ignorance, envy and prejudice
3re destroying common Sense, enthusiasm
and both the desire and opportunity to
make individual ventures.
At . , ...
loan bafl b P 7 ' 77^ lctory
of f7i s rnfli7r. . e -u tent
inrhidincr “fina su b scnbe rs,
vidnai mst . ltatlons - J ndl '
nnnr tntai , subs 9 ri P. tlons a
‘ Yet tbere 1S g enty money
waniPfl ?b IT Wh i ch 11 15
.poclcets and savings-bank
* civiban
To The end of March the present war
had cost Australia £1999 million—£66o
million taxation, £1339 million borrowed
ri y ; fin? r * b f brst 7 ne m ° ntbs
;j]i f 6 C 0? was o
million /o 28 P^ 1111011 - from I xes ’ £219 - 9
n f rom borrowing. 4he average
, expenditure during the three-
° e f year r rUn t r IS T 6
below the estimate of £505 million for
u year. But taxation continues to
be levied on a high scale in order to
finance Government vote-buying schemes,
officially described as “national welfare,”
and to keep the Government payroll at
influential dimensions.
* * * *
Morris Motors (Australia), Ltd., is
being formed to assemble Nuffield cars
in the Commonwealth and, later on, to
make Morris vehicles entirely in this
country. The announcement was made
last week in Britain by Sir Miles Thomas,
managing-director of Morris concerns.
General Motors-Holden’s has already put
forward a plan for the Australian manu-
facture of cars and utilities. It has asked
for very little more than the right of free
competition and protection by stable
tariffs at 1939 rates, though there has been
a suggestion that sales tax at its present
figure may tip the scale against success-
ful marketing.
* * * *
Before the war Australian steel was the
cheapest in the world. It probably still
is, in spite of the increase in costs gener-
ally during the war. Australia also pro-
duces the best and cheapest fine wool in
the world, notwithstanding handicaps im-
posed by politics. Australian artisans,
under rational trade-union control, have
shown that they can hold their own with
their opposite numbers in most countries.
These things represent a source of strength
to the nation. We should aim to retain
them, and should consider seriously any
course of action, political or economic,
which is likely to alter the position.
Economic survival, let alone better stand-
ards of living, depends upon industrial
efficiency rather than upon political plan-
ning of the “social” type,
♦ % * *
The Bank of England is calling in all
notes of £lO and upwards in order to
catch tax-dodgers and black-marketeers.
After .May 1 old notes of the affected
denominations will cease to be legal
tender, but will be exchangeable at the
Bank of England, Australian holders of
British notes may take them to the Com-
monwealth Bank until May 30. The
Australian Government, which has more
per capita, note-hoarding to deal with
than Britain, belled the cat recently
when it was announced that it “might”
call in big notes. There was an immedi-
ate rush to convert into “singles,” as well
as a momentary fillip to early support for
the Victory Loan,
* * * *
Eric Spooner, who was a champion of
Fadden’s post-war credits scheme even
when Artie proposed to make it retro-
spective and thereupon was disowned by
Menzies on election eve, last week re-
ferred to the “now-discredited Premiers’
Plan.” He put it on a par, for “nega-
tiveness,” with the present Federal Gov-
ernment’s policy. It is principally radical
Labor which discredits the Premiers’ Plan.
The plan, adopted on June 10, 1931, aimed
at balancing Budgets, reducing costs in
line with the world-wide fall in prices,
and distributing the burden of depression
“as equally as possible on everyone.” The
plan was adopted when prices were almost
at their lowest. Those who had their
incomes reduced by the operation of the
plan lost little or nothing in actual buy-
ing power, prices being so low, and, as
soon as Lang was dismissed from office
in 1932 there was a steady recovery in
employment, while manufacturing acti-
vity expanded tremendously. By contrast
with Australia’s resolution in “paying for
economic mistakes” and expeditiously
cutting-away inflation the United States
under the New Deal followed a policy
of heavy Government expenditure regard-
less of business and Budget conditions.
The U.S.A. never really got out of the
depression until the European war pulled
it out.
In the light of subsequent experience,
there are many things which might have
been done at the time which would have
helped this country more rapidly out of
the slump. Had the right sort of public
and private works been planned we might
have put more men into jobs that would
ultimately have been reproductive instead
of putting them into mere time-filling
occupations. But the lack of industrial
planning then does not deny the basic
merits of the Premiers’ Plan, which could
have been made to harmonise with any
sound industrial schemes of a national
character, had they existed. With enor-
mous funds at its disposal the Federal
Government at this moment is finding
great difficulty in employing men usefully
because it is hopelessly deficient in indus-
trial planning, largely owing to its having
made an outcast of private enterprise. The
usual charge against the Premiers’ Plan
is that it withheld finance from starving
industry in its insistence upon balanced
Budgets, and that businesses which had
inflated debts and inflated capital values
were forced under by “deflation.” As to
State Budgets, they were at all times sub-
ject to the public demands of the period,
and were mostly off balance for years. As
to overcapitalised industries, a “washing-
up” had to come some time.
No one is more aware of the financial
irresponsibility of the present Govern-
ment than The Bulletin. But rag-trade
and municipal-council economics are not
the answer. Our greatest concern should
be to see that wasteful Government
spending is eliminated, that “social-secu-
rity,” socialisation and “regulation” are
not overdone, that man-power is used
wisely and that productive industry is
given every chance. Next, taxation
anomalies should be eliminated, and then
taxation generally should be reduced as
the swollen Government Budget is de-
flated. At the heart of our problem are
the Government spending, earmarking
and wasting of 100 much of the national
income and the over-regulation of initia-
tive.
* * * *
During the four months to the end of
October last Australian mainland rail-
ways had gross takings of £24,317,000, a
fall of £2,698,000 compared with the same
period of the preceding term. But during
the calendar year 1944 10,000 employees
were taken on by transport and com-
munication services in the Common-
wealth, raising the total to 254,100 hands
at December 31 last.


THE SERICE MAN
In the North Pacific.
“Ek Dum”: The British role on the
Pacific naval front continues to be to
grind to pieces the Japanese defences on
the Ryuku sector’s south flank.
With periodical batterings of Sakishima
Island bases, off which arriving aircraft
and facilities are swept so soon as they
appear, was combined a two-day strike
against reserve air bases in Formosa.
These are assembly points for enemy air-
craft designed to take part in the Oki-
nawa battle. Needless to say, the enemy
has done his utmost to interfere with R.N.
operations by launching vicious concen-
trations of pilots and medium aircraft
against key ships. But he has had some
nasty shocks, and onlookers who believed
the British inferior in experience to the
well-blooded Americans have had sur-
prises at the nature of the receptions to
even the most vigorous attackers.
The R.N. has little to learn either about
attack on land objectives or defence
against aircraft. In the Formosa opera-
tions 20 enemy aircraft were destroyed
in combat. On April 14 U.S. bombers
supplemented the work done by the R.N.
on Sakishima aerodromes.
The battle for Okinawa continued on
its vicious way. There has been little
change either north of Naha, where the
Americans were held up about four miles
from the town, or on the south. It is a
matter of blasting Japs out of cave after
cave and fortress after fortress. The
enemy’s defences are a curious intensi-
fication of the German West Wall system,
applied in piecemeal, and what he lacks
in armament he makes up for in tenacity.
The week for U.S. troops was one Jap
counter-attack after another.
Not only on Okinawa but in the caves
of Iwo Jima there is still some little resist-
ance. In fact, in the whole area south from
the Kazan islands, omitting a few bases
such as Saipan, the landscape is seeded
with Jap pockets and survivors. Even
on Leyte there are said on good authority
to be still “thousands” of Japs. And
there, as in other Asiatic areas where it
is hard to distinguish them from the in-
habitants, individual Japs are apt to turn
up in picture shows and ration lines.
The air battle in the Okinawa area con-
tinues on a large scale, and the Japanese
appear to have aircraft to burn. Admiral
Mitscher’s task force, according to an
official communique, destroyed 1204
enemy machines from March 14 to April
12, including 841 shot down.
Tokyo was bombed again, with other
parts of Japan. On April 15 Tokyo Radio
reported that the Imperial and Omiya
Palaces had been damaged and the
Meiji Shrine, resting place of all
Japanese soldiers whose ashes are buried
in the homeland, “completely” destroyed.
On Luzon the main fighting was for
the approaches of Baguio. Although
American forces have made ground to
an extent not very clear, they have not
as yet broken through the main defences
and opened the way into the northern
fastnesses of the Cagayan Valley.
N.G. and Sydney.
“Ek Dum”: On the New Guinea
fronts fighting continues, small by the
standards of other fronts, but fierce.
In the Aitape area the Australians
below Dagua airfield, in the coastal
region, have secured control of the pass
leading to Maprik, on the southern sec-
tion of the advance behind the moun-
tains —a move which will considerably
accelerate proceedings.
On Bougainville the Japanese are try-
ing to hold their positions on the Buin
fringe, where artillery, including U.S.
155 m.m. guns, has been brought up.
In the south, particularly Sydney, the
battle over army equipment rages loud
and long. Here the names of the generals
and the political units involved are
known, so that there is no difficulty in
determining where the responsibility lies.
The hard-tried commanders in the field
are unknown, and their units fight “under
wraps,” though now and then individual
soldiers are mentioned.
Burma Campaign.
“Ek Dum”; No commander has
earned a K.C.B. more unobtrusively than
Lord Louis Mountbatten, who has been
decorated “for distinguished service as
Supreme Allied Commander in South-
east Asia on the occasion of the fall of
Mandalay.”
His has been a steadfast, brilliant cam-
paign, the more difficult because of the
weather, of disease, which has had to be
combated on a grand scale, and of the
tremendous task of maintaining the moral
fibre of huge forces of temperamental
troops, ranging from West and East Afri-
cans to Welch Fusiliers, during the long
breaks, when there was nothing to do
but sit and watch the rain and pick off
the leeches.
Fighting through country like the
Owen Stanleys, with forces very much
larger than any ever used in a front line
in New Guinea, Mountbatten’s men have
driven the enemy back 500 miles in the
season after tearing the lights out of
them in the Imphal campaign.
The Japanese Army in Central Burma
is “no longer an effective fighting force.”
The 33rd Jap Division, a special forma-
tion outside the 15th Army, has been
badly mauled alike during its incursions
across the Chindwin last season and in
the fighting this season. The 28th Divi-
sion, which was used to try to break the
drive from Mandalay to Meiktila, has
been chewed up. All North Burma is
in Allied hands, together with a good
road from Ledo, and another workable
road from Tiddim, with a huge Bailey
bridge across the Chindwin. The Burma
Road to China is open and roaring with
traffic, while the 36th Division fore-
gathers with the best-equipped and
trained Chinese divisions the world has
seen —they were trained in India —and
makes its plans for the next step.
The Japanese strove to prevent a
further push from Meiktila. On April 15
it was reported that powerful British
attempts were in being to exploit an ad-
vance which had been made for eight
miles east of Thazi, junction on the
Taung-gyi supply line to the Salween,
vital to the enemy.
The sea is so much under R.N. control
that naval units range almost at will, and
the air is dominated by British-Dominion-
U.S.-Indian aircraft. Rangoon is subject to
fighter attack from two directions since
Akyab was seized and the British forces
pushed into Ramree and the adjacent
mainland.
Last week a British-French naval
squadron, including H.M.S. Queen Eliza-
beth and the new French battleship
Richelieu, continued the battering of
Sabang, the naval base at the north-west
top of Sumatra, on the entrance to the
Malacca Strait.
Struggle on the Elbe.
“Ek Dum”: One account of the ad-
vances in western Europe described them
as “like a Sunday-school picnic.” The
correspondent must have pursued his re-
ligious studies in queer Sunday schools.
At best, the advance of any particular
spearhead unit would have been bone-
breaking driving under the greatest diffi-
culties, over a road which leads into ter-
ritory still held by the enemy, in which
every 100 yards might hold death. At
worst, the drive forward was achieved
after fighting none the less bitter because
on a medium scale, in which there were
casualties every hour and in which the
attackers were at a disadvantage.
This was peculiarly true in the British-
Canadian sectors towards the North Sea,
and in the American sectors along the
sides of the Ruhr pocket. The Germans
fought desperately on the Ruhr borders
both north and south, though by the
week-end their positions had been more
or less battered or sliced to pieces, the
interior of the ring penetrated by para-
chute troops, the sides staved in by the
pressure of Allied mechanised might. The
pocket on April 16 was almost cut in
halves, and within it Von Papen, fresh
from Turkey, had been captured, among
143,000 prisoners. Diisseldorf was the
only large Ruhr city in German hands
on April 16.
Far to the south, on the extreme Black
Forest flank, the same was happening.
The French First Army, proved fighters
in the Belfort region and before that in
Italy, where they broke the left flank of
the German armies in the Cassino battle,
were moving much more slowly than
those immediately between them and the
Ruhr pocket. They had taken Baden and
joined with U.S. forces to take Pforz-
heim, which is on the main road to Ulm
and the Danube ; but after that they seem
to have met stiff resistance, and Stutt-
gart and Tubingen remained in German
hands. The Germans on April 15 even
claimed that the Allies had been driven
out of Pforzheim, which lies at the break
of country from valley to hill.
In the whole area south of the point
where the West Wall main frontal de-
fences crossed the Rhine from west to
east, the Rhine had not been forced at
any point all the way to the Swiss border.
And southward from Ratstatt no troops
had essayed the more direct routes to
the Danube. This may have been be-
cause some of the roads are still the play-
things of weather. But it is difficult to
understand.
The road from Strasbourg to Ulm, via
Freudenstatt, on the way to Munich, is
at least 40 miles shorter than the road
which the Americans and French are try-
ing to force further north. The fact
remains that the German defences along
80 miles of the southern Rhine were vir-
tually intact at the week-end.
The Fight for the Flanks
Whatever the reason the position was
clear. The flanks, at as Caen and in the
battle which led to the Rhine break in
the north, have been fiercely fought for.
While the British, Canadians and French
held down the troops in them, the
central spearheads rolled ahead with
little interruption, by-passing the few
cities which decided to resist, a proceed-
ing favored by the fact that German
military roads in general do not enter
cities or the central zones of them.
The circumstance that the enemy
apparently has numbers of highly special-
ised and well-armed divisions still un-
accounted for did not dictate caution
to correspondents, who were ready to
believe that at any moment news would
be received that General Patton’s troops
were rolling down Hitler’s Sieg Allee
into the Tiergarten in Berlin. So were
head-line artists. One paper’s achievement
on April 15 was “Last Fifteen Mile Dash
to Berlin —Potsdam in Sight.” Potsdam,
a good 16 miles by road from Berlin—
and it is a straight road, the father of all
modern roads in Europe —was conveni-
ently moved to within “only 10 miles of
the heart of Berlin.”
In the north the 49th British (West
Counties) Division had had to fight with
all its powers to clear Arnhem, which
had been reported captured several days
before the full consummation of the
event. The place was reduced to rubble.
The eastern and north-eastern parts of
the Netherlands were well seeded with
paratroops engaged in difficult operations
and sometimes in desperate combat. On
April 16 it was reported that the Cana-
dians had reached Zoutkamp, on the
Lauwers Zee, a gulf north-west of
Groningen and west of the Ems estuary.
The Netherlands, therefore was almost
completely enveloped. But the Fortress
of Holland—that part which holds The
Hague, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Dord-
recht, Haarlem and Den Helder, and
which is separated from the mainland by
the narrow isthmus between the Zuyder
Zee and the Rhine mouths —had yet to
be breached, and there were signs that
the enemy units there would resist to the
last. But Emden is under immediate
threat.
The Guards armor and its support
were held up on the edges of the Bremen
defences, where all the major para-
phernalia of defensive positions called for
a pause while sufficient material and men
were brought up to assault it. The Ger-
mans, the staple of whose opposition
was based on minefields and concen-
trations of 88mm. ack-ack guns, de-
clared that huge British forces were being
assembled for the attack.
The 15th (Scottish Lowland) Division,
on its way to the Lower Elbe, aftei cross-
ing the Weser, was held up at Uelzen,
about 24 miles from the river. The
town is an important junction on the main
rail from Hamburg to Cassel and Frank-
fort-on-Main and the railroad from
Bremen to Berlin.
The determination of the enemy to
defend the North Sea region and Norway
and Denmark was proved by the appoint-
ment of General Busch, defender of the
Staraya Russa positions in 1942-43, to the
command.
Resistance on the Elbe
The U.S. Ninth Army, which includes
or included some British armor—notably
tank units of the Royal West Kents —
was held to be most forward of the spear-
heads. It was reported to have two Elbe
bridgeheads. One was said to be in the
hands of the 83rd Armored Division
south of Magdeburg, at Barby, near
where Saale joins the Elbe. This on
the direct route north of the Harz Moun-
tains. After preliminary fighting it was
given up.
The Second United States Armored
Division forced its way across the Elbe
on or near the main road from Hanover
to Rathenow and Berlin. Meeting blind-
ing artillery fire, it tried to cover a bridge
which was thrown across three times and
each time was smashed. The bridge then
was for a time established, and vehicular
traffic began to move across it to set up
supplies for infantry, but German guns,
of which there seemed to be some con-
centration, again broke down the bridge,
and it was found necessary to withdraw
in what boats were available or by swim-
ming.
The bridgehead near the Saale conflu-
ence, however, held. On April 15 it had
been pushed in four miles, and was being
widened against stiff and growing opposi-
tion.
The Germans reported that the U.S.
troops with at least three divisions—
Allied H.Q. correspondents confirmed this
estimate —were along the Elbe’s west bank
in parts from north of Stendal to the
Saale, and claimed that counter-attacks
were developing.
Berlin asserted that in the northern
part of the Harz Mountains, on the Ninth
Army’s southern flank, the U.S. First
Army was being held up, but admitted
the progress of its divisions operating
along the Nordhausen route to the south,
towards Halle and Leipzig.
It appeared that spearheads were on
the approaches of both these cities which,
German H.Q. declared, would be de-
fended to the last. Heavy concentrations
of German ack-ack guns were reported
here as elsewhere. Use of these mobile
and adaptable weapons has contributed
several times to slowing up the Allies;
they are usually well placed for quick
switches and seem to be abundantly sup-
plied with ammunition. The enemy has
been quick to learn F.-M. Montgomery s
technique of the “artillery plaster,” which
has been one of the greatest factors in his
success. The U.S. First Army had taken
the great Junkers plant at Dessau and the
little that remained of the much-bombed
oil refinery of Leuna.
On the Way to Dresden
The U.S. Third Army, driving along
the main Autobahn from the Saar to the
‘ eastern front, having taken Gotha,
Coburg and Jena, peace-time H.Q. of the
XV Corps, pushed on across the head-
waters of the Weser-Werra river system.
It penetrated the area of Chemnitz, the
great chemical city of the region, and was
only 38 miles from Dresden, having out-
flanked Leipzig.
These drives had certainly severed the
main all-German routes to Munich and
the south, though there were still direct
road and rail lines open to Prague and
Munich through Czechoslovakia.
Lastly, the U.S. Seventh Army in the
week-end reported the capture of Bay-
reuth, thus outflanking Nuremburg and
bringing U.S. troops within 30 miles or
so of the Czech border in the Sudeten-
land, and within 40 miles of the customs
border station known to most tourists in
those parts —Eger, a little more than 90
miles from Prague.
Berlin Defences
The positions both east and west of
Berlin are not easy to burst through if
there is sound defence. Lakes, rivers and
woods bar the way of the invader, and
unless attacks are absolutely concerted
as between western Allies and Russians
the enemy has the advantage in being
able to switch troops swiftly, if he has
troops to switch. That he holds fiercely
to the North Sea coast suggests that the
ports of Hamburg, Cuxhayen, Weser-
munde, Bremen, Emden, Wilhelmshaven
and those of the Fortress of Holland still
appear to him of great importance.
The picture of the remaining territory m
enemy occupation was a strange one. He
held Norway (124,000 sq. miles), plus
Denmark, and he controlled the entrance
to the Baltic —from the Rhine mouth to
the Elbe he held the North Sea coast
to a depth of from 25 to 60 miles
except in north Holland. South-east
of this belt (Hamburg to Stettin)
there was about 200 miles between
the east and west fronts. This nar-
rowed down gradually to about 150
miles on the line of the Scottish (15th
Division) advance, assuming that the
Scots were bound east and not north-east
to Hamburg, as they probably are.
From the region just north of Berlin
southward to the Czech border the corri-
dor between Americans and Russians was
about 100 miles wide. In the latitude ot
Bayreuth it was 300 miles wide; in the
line of Marshal Tolbukhin’s advance
towards Salzburg and Munich nearly
400 miles wide, with the western Ger-
man frontiers still on the Rhine.
Also, the Germans hold all industrial
Italy north of a line from below Spezia to
Lake Comacchio. They are still in Bres-
lau and the pocket of Courland on tne
Russian side ; also in part of Yugoslavia,
in Dunkirk, the Channel Islands, Lonent,
St. Nazaire and the area round the mourn
of the Gironde in Biscay. There the
enemy’s positions are under fresh attack
by French troops after a pounding by
1300 ' Flying Fortresses. The mucn-
advertised F.F.I. being perhaps more in-
terested in fighting Franco and col-
laborators,” the assault has had to await
the creation and equipment of a regular


Personal and Missing Friends.
ANY person having any information as to the present
address of DAISY EVELYN DAVIS formerly of 165
Station Street North Melbourne and 15 Vunabere
Avenue Bentleigh is requested to communicate with
NEWMAN AND WINGROVE Solicitors 100 Queen
Street Melbourne Victoria.
WILL anyone knowing the whereabouts of MARMION
CHESTER formerly of Tasmania but believed to be
late of New South Wales brother of Ernest Brewer
Chester late of Blackwood South Australia Retired
Accountant now deceased or of LEONARD CHESTER
son of the said Marmion Chester formerly of the
Royal Australian Navy Artificer but believed to have
been discharged therefrom at Wooroloo Sanitarium
Western Australia in 1942 KINDLY COMMUNICATE
with the EXECUTOR TRUSTEE AND AGENCY
COMPANY OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA LIMITED of
22 Grenfell Street Adelaide South Australia.
Public Notice.
I, EINAR VALENTIN HONGELL, of Finnish
nationality, bom at Gamlakarleby, Finland, and
resident twenty years in Australia, now residing at
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality
174 Arden Street, Coogee, N.S.W., Australia, intend
Act 1920-36.
CD
am
French Army formation really capable of
opening Bordeaux.
Eisenhower’s Grand Job
Though there might be some public
disappointment at there having so far
been no promenade to Berlin, this is due
not to the generals, men of proved
capacity commanding troops well tried
in battle, but to the manner in which
their deeds have been reported. The
German is a beaten enemy, and the only
question that remains is how much loncer
he can carry on. Holding over 270,000
square miles, he still has room to
manoeuvre in country with good com-
munications and divided into compart-
ments by barriers difficult for invaders
to compass, so long as he has enough
guns and ammunition and artillery to
man them at strategic penetration points.
The performance of the western Allies
has been stupendous. Technically, it is
miles ahead of anything which has been
done on the Polish Front, since it has
been made against an enemy with closely-
knit defences and communications over
the whole front. In Russia the long ad-
vances have been made along isolated
routes far from the enemy’s main muni-
tion bases until the very last phase, in
which till the time of writing attempts
at further advances had failed.
The Western Front remains a cohesive
whole, its main drives inter-related and
proceeding only as and when it becomes
possible for flank support to be obtained.
In shape, the drives form a huge swelling
bulge, increasing its expansion across its
waistline as well as in depth as it ad-
vances, like the force of an explosion
rolling out into the air.
General Eisenhower’s count of prisoners
since June 6 is nearly 1,700,000, and
nearly 550,000 since the beginning of
April. In killed and wounded the enemy
must have lost at least another 800,000
men. But he appears still to have fairly
substantial and highly skilled bodies of
combat troops and powerful armament
on all fronts if the will to fight remains.
For what has been achieved by the
fighting men of the English-speaking race
and their Allies, among whom the Poles
are not the least distinguished—they are
fighting in Holland, as well as in Italy—
we should be devoutly thankful. But the
indications are that before it is all over
there will be sad casualties to add to
the 2,000,000 which the western Allies
have suffered on all fronts against Ger-
many and Japan.
Germans on Biscay.
“Ek Dum” on a strange chapter of
the war:
In the first flush of victory in August, after
Field-Marshal Montgomery had pinned the
German armies to the landscape of Caen and
left the Americans free to range into Brittany,
armored columns went roaring down through
Dinan, through Morlaix to Brest, through Pon-
tivy and Ploermel towards Lorient, through
Redon towards St. Nazaire and along the
straight road, almost featureless as far as towns
are concerned, which leads from Rennes to
Nantes, on the Loire.
In a day or so they were reported at Vannes,
on Quiberon Bay, and before Brest. It seemed
a mere matter of weeks at most before all
the great Biscay ports and naval bases would
cease to be in German hands.
But it did not work out that way. The
Germans decided to fight for every port in tem-
perate waters on the direct Atlantic routes.
They surrendered Cherbourg when it had been
virtually razed. They gave up, after fierce
fighting, a badly-battered Rouen, the smoulder-
ing and ruined quays of Boulogne and Calais,
and St. Malo when the garrison was at its
last gasp. Beyond that place they held
a little island —it’s off the port mouth—until
Allied artillery and bombing reduced its surface
literally to pulver over the deep bombproof
shelters which had been built upon it. Then the
lieutenant in command capitulated, weeping.
At Brest, difficult to defend because of it's
peculiar approaches and its expansiveness,
30,000 Germans held out until the stem forti-
fications had been blown to smithereens. It
is notable, as an aside in the drama, that at
Brest and every other port in which they have
been ordered to make a stand in France the
Germans have allowed the escape of civilians,
whereas on the Eastern front they are reported
to get rid of them by murdering them in a
manner worthy only of fiends.
Antwerp saw the same policy pursued as
elsewhere in the west. It cost 40,000 Allied lives,
mostly British and Canadian, and untold hero-
ism to open the Scheldt, while precious months
went by and autumn sank-into winter. The
rearward approaches to Dunkirk were flooded
and the narrow shallow channels before the
sluice were mined. For months the ring of
Allied troops looked at Dunkirk’s spires and its
belfry across the swamp waters of the inun-
dated belt. The enemy also still occupied the
Channel Islands, some within long-distance shell-
fire of the Cherbourg Peninsula.
The chief naval ports of France in the north
and north-west are Dunkirk, Le Havre, Cher-
bourg, Brest, Lorient, St. Nazaire and Rochefort
(La Rochelle area), which includes La Pallice,
As February opened all, save Cherbourg and
Brest, remained fully or partly in enemy hands.
On the Bay of Biscay Germans were besieged in
all the main outer naval ports, ports which had
been the operating bases of the U-boat fleets that
sunk millions of tons of Allied shipping. The
forces immured in these areas were estimated to
number 100,000. Over the scattered garrisons
the Allies have absolute air and naval supre-
macy. No doubt it would be possible to take
the places quickly by battering them flat, but
this would have foiled the purpose of the Allies,
which was to obtain the basins and docks in
reasonable order. Each of these ports is the
starting-point of a great land supply route to
the Western front.
Possibly some of the reason for the failure
to capture them lies in the pairt left to
gasconading “liberation” forces, many of whose
units are better at shaving women’s heads and
howling communist slogans than at fighting a
real enemy.
The most northerly of the three Biscay ports
held by the Germans is Lorient. It is 109 miles
down the coastal road to Nantes from Brest,
on the estuary formed where the Scorff and
Blavet rivers join. It is a town of about 45,000
inhabitants, which was once the centre of the
great shipbuilding monopoly of the old French
East India Company. It was fortified under
Louis XIV, and again by Napoleon and by the
modem French Navy. The Germans literally
cased it in concrete and turned it into a main
repair dock centre for U-boats during the cam-
paigns at sea which followed 1940. Its forti-
fied roadstead is not unlike that of Brest, but
is not so easy for attackers to get at from
some angles—it has rivers on two sides and the
sea on another.
Sixty or seventy miles to the south-east is
St. Nazaire, just inside the Loire estuary. Apart
from its intrinsic importance its holders can
block entry to Nantes, whose easy fall was a
matter for great rejoicing in August. Thus,
also, it prevents the full use of the great river,
road and canal systems which operate all the
way across France from Nant'es to the Rhine
in the Strasbourg area.
St. Nazaire is on the north side of the river—
an orderly town, the first temporary base of
the B.E.F. in 1914, later used by the Can-
adians and U.S. troops in World War I,
also by the B.E.F. in 1940. In peace-time
it is the terminus of the French liner ser-
vices to the West Indies and Mexico. It is
one of the most bombed of German U-boat
and naval ports. Here the Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau lay for some time.
The harbor consists of the Avant Port, con-
fined in the waters of the Loire estuary and
dominated across a stretch of bay by the
rugged spur of Mont des Morts Pour la Patrie,
which projects into the sea along the Boulevard
President Wilson. It has an American monu-
ment. Inside the Avant Port are the two great
basins, St. Nazaire and de Penhoet. Near their
linkage point at an angle from the river intrudes
the Forme Ecluse, the huge naval dry dock
which the British Navy so gloriously rendered
useless. It filled the Campbelltown with high
explosives, shunted her, in the teeth of land fire,
against the outer dock gate and blew the whole
outfit to kingdom-come at the cost of some
gallant lives.
The third enemy-occupied position, part of
the La Rochelle area, is on either side of the
mouth of the Gironde, thus apparently hindering
passage to Bordeaux, the largest city of far-west-
ern France. Bordeaux serves the area governed
by “patriots” of Toulouse. La Rochelle itself
is used to being battled for. The English held
it 800 years ago. It was one of the first ports
in Europe to trade with America. Richelieu,
unable to subdue it, walled off its harbor mouth.
Charles I failed to save it and its walls were
razed. Its harbor gave way to the deepwater
port of La Pallice, at the nearest mainland
point across the narrow strait to the Isle de
Re, where the ladies of the flat sandy farms
still wear the quichenotte (kiss not) bonnet of
the days of English occupation, 250 years or
more before the ill-fated Duke of Bucking-
ham. La Pallice normally is a port for the
South American trade and for the trade of Bor-
deaux and Toulouse with London. But it is also
a considerable naval port. Here also Scharn-
horst sheltered for a time and was bombed when
the Coastal Command made other docks further
north unhealthy. La Rochelle proper fell m
September; La Pallice is in German hands.
In the same area further south is Rochefort,
between La Rochelle and the Gironde mouth,
the birthplace of Pierre Loti, a fortress harbor
and district naval H.Q. In the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries Rochefort many a time de-
fied the English Fleet. It controls entry to the
Charente River, with its naval dockage and yard
and considerable arsenal. It saw the sails of
the Bellerophon on July, 1815. Its towers look
out to the river mouth and the Isle d’Aix, the
last French soil which felt the tread of
Napoleon. Rochefort was abandoned by the
enemy, its facilities wrecked, but not so some
of its environs.
Fight for Bologna.
“Ek Dum”: Having broken out of their
Senio lines, troops of the Eighth Army
in northern Italy were soon across the
Santemo, the next stream flowing from
the hills in the south across the main road
up which they were pushing towards
Bologna.
The results of the drive by the week-
end represented an advance of eight to
ten miles and the capture of 100 square
miles of country, in which, however, there
were still pockets to be mopped up.
By April 15 further advances had been
made out of the Santemo bridgeheads
across the Sillaro, the last real water
barrier covering Bologna. Here, on
April 15, heavy counter-attacks were
issuing from the city’s strongly established
perimeter defences. Imola, on the main
road and the Santemo, was surrounded,
and operations were working towards a
climax both for that town and Bologna.
At the same time British troops had
pushed across Lake Comacchio’s southern
end in an area which the Germans had
failed to flood in view of drought on the
southern hills, though they opened the
dykes, Landings had aided the advance.
There was stubborn resistance on both
sides of the lake. On the west Allied
troops were on the Reno river, the main
stream of Santerno and Sillaro. On
the other, side of Comacchio forces
from the sea were trying to link with
north and south armies at the Argentan
Gap.
The Eighth Army is using unusually
powerful artillery, and in the first day’s
attack on April 10 bombers dropped 3000
tons of high explosives on German posi-
tions, while fighter-bombers operated as
near as 200 yards ahead of the troops.
The Germans, however, held the line
tenaciously, and threw in fierce counter-
attacks against the Allied positions along
the whole length of the Santerno, par-
ticularly against bridgeheads. They still
appeared to be well armed, but their
Tiger tanks were smothered by concen-
trated artillery blasts, and they obviously
were in difficulty with transport. How-
ever, the Luftwaffe seemed to have folded
its tents for good.
Before the week-end over 3000 priso-
ners had been taken.
The troops thus far engaged are
British, Maorilanders, Poles and Italians
—the lastnamed captured Alfonsine, just
south of Lake Comacchio.
Maorilanders Return
The Maorilanders had returned to
battle after a well-earned month away
from the line. They have been one of
the hardest-worked divisions on any
front.
After following the hard and difficult
fighting along the coast they had their
month’s rest in November. They were
then placed in position along the Lamone
River in the wet, marshy country in
front of Faenza. About a fortnight
afterwards they made two attacks in bri-
gade strength, backed by powerful
barrages—one to burst out of a bridge-
head already established. Their success
in this operation forced the enemy to
abandon Faenza. The second thrust took
up where the first left off, and forced
the enemy back to the Senio, where the
Maorilanders consolidated and held the
line for two frostbitten months enlivened
only by occasional patrol actions.
At the end of February they were with-'
drawn to a camp where Sir Patrick Duff,
the new British High Commissioner to
New Zealand, visited them and no doubt
recalled old times when he fought with
the 29th British Division at the landing
on Gallipoli and later in France, where
units of his own formation and the
Maorilanders were often associated.
While the Kiwis were on camp leave
parties of 200 at a time were driven to
Rome, taken on sightseeing tours and
treated to concerts and entertainments at
the magnificent Albergo Quirinale —one of
Italy’s finest hotels, now used as a N.Z.
Club—which is connected by an under-
ground passage with the Royal Opera
House. There the visitors enjoyed con-
certs such as can only be heard in Rome
or Parma in peace-time.
Now they are back in the blood and
mud on perhaps the last lap of the war ;
and perhaps in the zone which will be
the last defended, since it would not be un-
sound strategy for the Germans to shift
their main defence to northern Italy if
they had the resources there to fight out
a last-ditch stand,
Vienna and the Oder.
“Ek Dum”: On April 13 Moscow;
Radio announced that Vienna, taken by
the Sydney “Daily Mirror” on April 10,
was now fully in Russian hands, save for
small areas in which some mopping-up
needed to be done, with 5000 of the
enemy killed in 24 hours and 130,000
taken in 28 days. Appearances had sug-
gested evacuation of nearly all the last
of Austria before the Russians arrived,
demolition detachments and rearguards
being left to slow up the advance.
The two armies of Marshals Tolbukhin
and Malinovsky seem to have divided,
the former pushing westward without
meeting any great opposition, as is obvi-
ous from his pace.
He was reported last in the region of
St. Polten, which is 38 miles out on the
Linz road. From Puckersdorf, miles
from Vienna, the country is picturesque
and heavily wooded, and the routes domi-
nated by such heights as those of Buch-
berg and Stahlraut.
St. Polten, whose capture was an-
nounced on April 16, is 90 miles from
Linz, which in turn is 78| miles
from Salzburg and the wall of moun-
tains which shut otf Berchtesgaden
from the Russians. Before Linz there
is a good defence position. The
approach from the Vienna side is
firstly across the several narrow streams
of the Traun into the valley of the Weiser
Heath. Another stream runs to the Danube
on the west side of the valley, the whole
of which is overlooked by the hills of
which Linz forms a cornerstone where it
stands on the Danube’s right bank. An
iron bridge spans the river towards the
north, and the town is an important com-
munication centre. The defence positions
begin at Enns, where there are ancient
fortifications built with the ransom which
England paid for Richard Lionheart.
Marshal Malinovsky is operating to-
wards the armaments centre of Brno
(Briinn), which is 157 miles from Prague
and 90 miles from Vienna. The approach
is being made across the Morava from
Bratislava, past many a battlefield —
Wagram, Marchfeld, Austerlitz —and the
scene of the peace between Prussia and
Austria in 1866: Count Mensdorff’s
Nikolsberg. It was said in Moscow that
20 Russian infantry divisions and two
motorised corps were being used in this
drive, which was moving almost as fast
as the one west from Vienna. The Ger-
mans on April 15 asserted that the ad-
vance had been held in the Morava
bridgeheads.
Over the Oder front, a tight “security
silence” reigned, but the Germans re-
ported violent fighting along 100 miles of
the front, particularly in Marshal
Koniev’s sector, near the Moravian Pass,
where the enemy said that in places the
Russians had been pushed back by
counter-attacks. Berlin subsequently re-
ported a specialised drive along 40 miles
of the Frankfort-KiistriiL front. The
report claimed that the Russians had at-
tacked at several points “in regimental
strength,” but had been beaten back at ail
points save one near Kiistrin, where they
had penetrated the defence lines.
A Melbourne “Age” writer sees Dr.
Benes “in the fortunate position of re-
turning home, after six years’ exile, with
the complete support and enthusiastic
co-operation of all Czechoslovaks.” M.
Feilinger, the new Prime Minister, has
been counting the blessings about to fall
on “all Czechoslovaks”: “Close co-
operation with the Soviet Union, an army
reared in the spirit of sincere and real
alliance with the Red Army” and “a
common frontier” —there was none before
the war. But there is the little matter of
“the Carpathian Ukraine” to be attended
to. Called Ruthenia till 1939, the “Car-
pathian Ukraine” was given to Hun-
gary in that year and was “occupied by
the Red Army last autumn.” It is now
“urged” by “a Congress of Peoples’ Com-
mittees,” one of those communist impro-
visations with fancy names which have
sprung up everywhere in the wake of the
Red Army, to “join Soviet Russia” and,
as happened in the Baltic States, its future
is to be “decided by a plebiscite”; odds,
1,000,000 to 1 no Czechoslovakia. “Anti-
Imperialist” Russia will come out of this
war with vaster European territories than
any of the Czars had; and that with
Asia to come.


registered
TABLETS
FOR BLOOD, VEINS.
ARTERIES. ETC.
What is ELASTO? . . . What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
—HI as to, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed . ..
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long- been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to work at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries,
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing - .
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble Is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained in
simple language in a free book-
let — see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say:
The fact Is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
“No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my,
quick recovery from phlebitis." '
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name and
address to “Elasto”, Box 1552 E,'
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the Interesting "Elasto” booklet. 1
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)!
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful;
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-j
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
month’s supply.
££z4&r AasVe /
BURGLARIES
are Prevalent!
Householders should INSURE
against
FIRE—BURGLARY
HOUSEBREAKING
LARCENY and THEFT
and other contingencies
All in ONE Policy.
Cost from 7/6 per £lOO
Minimum Premium £ 1/2/6
The New Zealand Insurance
Company, Limited
99-81 PITT STREET, SYDNEY
L. Mudford, Manager.
Telephone 8W1931 for particulars
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidney’s contain 15 fidleS
of tiny tubes or filters ■which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
pf waste. . , „ ,
An excess of acids or poisons In your blood
lire the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back*
iache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
land ienergy, getting up nights, swollen feet
fend ankles, pufflness under the eyes, head-*
jaches and dizziness. _ „ „ c ,
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pintd a day 1 and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-j
ter, your body will taka up these poisons
causing serious trouble. Don’t wait! Ask
your chemist or store for DOAh S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and •will help to flush out the
15 MILES of kidney tubes. Get DOAN S
■BACKACHE JODNEI PILLS Z2«£
BE gtO£^
SPORTING NOTIONS
Further to their striking performance and
the joy of their biped relations, three-year-olds
won four of the five races open to mixed ages
at Rosehill on Saturday. Other features were
a day so pleasant that losing was almost pain-
less; a track fast enough to enable War Eagle
to come good and set up a course record; and
a crowd estimated at upwards of 26,000 put-
ting £65,040 10s. through the tote and Mc-
Shortodds knows what into the bookies’ bags.
Benefited by recent racing and not unsuited
as others were by the fast pace made chiefly
by Precise, War Eagle (Gollogly) came
with a grand run on the outside to cut out
the Autumn Cup mile and a half in 2.30 L
three-quarters of a second better than the time
put up by Dewar last April. Loyal March,
well up all the way and giving the winner a
good go for it over the last furlong, failed by
only a neck to complete the three-year-olds’
scoop. Wellesley was a handy third, with
Boomanulla and the two ancients Katanga and
Dewar best of the rest.
After the Cup there was a “demonstration”
which struck this onlooker as even more
thoughtless than such things usually are. It was
occasioned by Melhero finishing near the tail
of the field, after being well up early and
going to the front at the half-mile. The idea
appeared to be that his rider, W. Fellows,
rushed him. As to this, Fellows pointed out
that the good-looking Melfort colt is a puller;
but apart from this there appear to be other
considerations overlooked in the heat of the
moment. The backing of Melhero from sevens
to fours was doubtless on the strength of his
remarkable finishing run in the Doncaster.
That, however, was a mile, and at that dis-
tance Melhero was doing pretty well in this
Cup mile and a half. Is he, perhaps, much
overrated? Certainly he was being taken very
much on trust as a stayer, his best winning
distance being seven furlongs; and his best
distance run a placing at nine furlongs. Also,
Melhero was on Saturday one of the few in
the field weighted right up to weight for age;
and, anyway, the race was run in record time,
and, at that, was won by an acknowledged class
four-year-old carrying no less than one and a
half stone under w.f.a!
The Beau Pere dark grey colt Beau Lee
(E. Cracknell; a winner at Randwick the other
day was ridden by this lad’s father!) started the
three-year-old triumphs by downing another of
that age, Regal Step, and Generator in the
Maiden, the winner paying £l7 11s. for ss. and
£4 ss. 6d. for ditto on the tote; with the books,
33 to 1 if you were lucky. The Medieval
Knight brown filly Idyllia (J. Thompson)
finished very stoutly to defeat Magic Wand
and Glencrag in the Three-and-four-years-old
Handicap for fillies and mares; the Felcrag bay
colt Cragsman (Munro) led all the way to beat
Silverelda a length and Nobleman in the Flying
seven furlongs; and the Marconigram brown
colt Rectifier (Mulley) finally emphasised the
age’s dominance with a six-lengths win over
San Sebastian and Lance in the Welter.
The youngsters’ events over six furlongs for
colts and geldings and for fillies were respect-
ively won by the Brazen-Salworth bay colt Gay
Hero (McGrowdie) from Tamaroa and Impu-
dence, and by the Gold Rod-Visage filly
Goldage (Tomlinson) from those two game and
consistent fillies Merry Avon and Questing.
Time in the fillies’ event, 1.14, was a second
better than in the colts’. Goldage, who hails
from Newcastle, paid £7 ss. and £1 19s. 9d.
on the tote. Merry Avon, beaten a head, car-
ried Ist. 41b. more than the winner. Gay Hero
also had a big weight advantage. Purple Heart
(Midstream-For Valour) and Sajakeda (Gene-
tout-Cineraria) are two improving colts.
For Canterbury (before acceptances): Novice:
Right Royal, 1; Regal Step, 2; Ascertain, 3.
Two-year-old: Jamelie, 1; Fragile, 2; Tac-
tician, 3. Three-and-four-years-old: Lunar, 1;
Idyllia, 2; Glencrag, 3. Flying: Nobleman, 1;
Fine Art, 2; Cragsman, 3. Trial; Thanks
America, 1; Silver Clare, 2; Gold Edifice, 3.
Lord Mayor’s Cup: War Eagle, 1; Night
Parade, 2; Prince, 3. Welter: Goose Boy, 1;
All Scot, 2; Kitalurgy, 3.
♦ * ♦ •
In general Melbourne betting makes Sydney
odds look like an attack of the cramps, but
any price remains a good price to Melbourne
punters when it comes to hurdlers. At Men-
tone on Saturday Bay David, on the strength
of his easy win on this track in March, started
in the Boisdale Hurdle at 6 to 4 on. The five-
year-old son of David, that wonderful sire of
jumpers, might have rewarded the confidence,
too, but for hitting the first hurdle heavily. It
cost him a lot of ground, but he was still
a handy second to Grand Central, with Balzac
third. The ex-Sydney performer The Winger,
trying to avoid Wayen, who had fallen at the
second jump, attempted to leap the rails, crashed
through them, and started a geyser by bursting
a waterpipe there.
By Constant Son from that hardy matron
Society, dam of Talking and Cold Shower and
of a colt sold at the recent Sydney sales (hence
foaled by her at 23 years old), Distinction has
hitherto been regarded as a sprinter, or a miler
at most’, his wins including some of the best
Melbourne sprints. On Saturday he won the
main event, the 10 furlongs Powerscourt Handi-
cap, beating Cellini half a length and Private
Chat. Cellini did not have a good passage,
and in the straight appeared to suffer inter-
ference, but the honors were with the winner,
who, now aged, has become a definite middle-
distance stayer.
No favorite scored in any race, one of the
heaviest-supported losers being the Dhoti-
Jeanne Hachett chestnut colt Leonard, downed
by the John James-Beaunell brown colt Viva
in the Avon Handicap (two-year-olds). Leonard
(5 to 4 against) ran down the runaway Cheviot
in the straight, but was caught and beaten
right on the post by a bare half-head. It was
a stirring finish. The second favorite, Kinder-
son (Kinderscout-Ottermoa), was only a half-
head behind Leonard, with Cheviot only an-
other neck away. Leonard has been costly
in more ways than one. As a yearling he
brought the Melbourne record price of 3600
guineas, and at Moonee Valley a week earlier
he was about as heavily backed as on Saturday,
and had the hard luck to run into such a good
one as Royal Gem. However, Viva’s win, his
first in 11 starts, was not out of turn—he’d
previously been very unlucky.
Another of the day’s favorites to fill second
place, Varieson (9 to 4) was downed by the
six-year-old gelding Londoner, who showed a
belated return to form by easily winning
the Macalister Welter. Yet another, Valcurl
(7 to 4), went down half a length to John Law
(Caithness-Picardy) in the mile Stratford Handi-
cap for three-year-olds. This was another ex-
cellent finish. A furlong from home the favo-
rite looked a certain winner, but he had pulled
to the front about the half-mile, and that, with
his disadvantage in the weights of over a
stone, helped in his defeat, John Law fairly
worrying him out of it over the last furlong
to win by half a length. Though a very dis-
tant third, Sir Change ran well enough to
suggest success over a shorter journey.
There was yet another great finish in the
six furlongs Tinamba Stakes, the winner, Grand
Legend, and Dukedom leaving the field far
behind them in the run home and fighting it
out right to the post. There was only a head
in it; and Grand Legend had to survive a
protest. Also, the winner was yet another not
having it out of his turn. Twice third and once
second in his previous three starts, he made
practically all the running.
* * * *
Winning the Rosebery Stakes at Stockton
(Eng.) by four lengths, Yorkshire s unbeaten
Nearco-Rosy Legend black colt Dante he s
trained at Pontefract, near Leeds, by Mat
Peacock —has made his record seven m a row.
Cables mentioned that the coif is favorite tor
both the Two Thousand Guineas and the Derby,
“for which he has been backed to win
£1,000,000.” An interesting Australian link-up
with him appeared in Warren Hill’s London
“Sporting Life” columns of last November 29.
Hill’s invitation to readers to comment on the
past season’s two-year-olds brought in a capital
contribution from an entirely different Hilt
Sgt. A. A. (Arthur) Hill, R.A.A.F., air-gunner
from Queensland. Tossing in from memory a
column of Australian breeding lore as a quia
pro quo, Arthur plumped not for Dante but
for the Hyperion-Leger Day colt High Peak
as the next Derby winner.
The Australian compared the two colts:
“High Peak is the finest individual, as a two-
year-old, that I have ever set eyes on, and has
all that it takes —breeding, conformation, speed
and courage. We all know he is backward, but
what room for development... .Dante? Yes, a
beauty! What speed this handsome fellow has.
And such a ready-made galloper! I think he
might win the Guineas; an added year should
enable him to get the mile. What will beat
him in the Derby? His own brilliance. It is
difficult to restrain some three-year-olds, and
they beat themselves. Inability to settle down
in the field rather than lack of stamina is their
downfall. I think Dante will prove to be one
such, though I hope not, if only for the sake
of my Yorkshire uncle.” A month to the day
after that appeared the London “Times” racing
correspondent, also in connection with Dantes
Derby chance, said of High Peak that he
“looks like a Derby winner, and he did well
enough in his first season to suggest that he is
capable of much improvement.”
No good Yorkshireman, of course, would
agree with either the Australian or the “Times.’
Dante is the pride of the North; as well he
might be, seeing that he’s the only representa-
tive it has had for about 20 years capable of
more than holding his own in the best southern
company. Even at the close of last season
Yorkshiremen were rushing to try to get 4 to 1
about his Derby chance. If he can win it will
be a fine feather in the cap of the Yorkshire
rider Billy Nevett, who has been on him in all
his wins, and who was on last year’s Derby
winner. As well, it will greatly boost the
stocks of Dante’s sire, Nearco, for whom, last
time he changed hands, a syndicate paid the
tidy sum of £62,000! So far, Nearco’s sons have
shown little ability to stay more than a mile.
Incidentally, the ground for doubting Dante
as an English Derby winner—the difficulty
sometimes of restraining such brilliant colts
has a reverse application here to Magnificent.
In his stall before his Sires’ Produce Stakes
and Champagne Stakes wins the Ajax colt
looked like an old stager, doing everything in
the lolling line except smoking a pipe. Others
—Yaralla among them —have looked on their
racecourse stalls as places for taking a quiet
nap, but have been dashers on the track. Mag-
nificent is as tractable in a race as before one.
In both those recent fine wins he came from
behind, going well within himself till called
upon to stretch out and go after them.
* * * *
Perhaps through having nothing else to do
since the ban was imposed, U.S. racing autho-
rity Fred Klees has been gazing deep into the
crystal and has come out with a prediction that
when things settle down again there II be inter-
national horseracing classics. He forecasts that
horses fit and ready to race will be flown
over the seas to run in major turf champion-
ships. There might be more in another of his
visions—that it won’t be long before U.S. race-
courses have their own flying fields.
* * * *
“P. McM.”: References here to
C. T. B. Turner’s bowling recall that
in one important respect he differed from
modern bowlers—he never used body
swing. When Turner delivered the ball
the batsman got a full square view of
his broad shoulders. He deplored the
innovation of body swing, and in his
book on bowling counselled young
aspirants to develop instead a supple
wrist and good physical condition,
* * * •
“O’Yen”: “The old fox” Clarrie Grim-
mett (B. 11/4/’45) began his cricketing
on the Basin Reserve near Wellington
(M.L.). Soon he was playing in Plunket
Shield games, and before he was 20 was
representing the Dominion against visit-
ing Australian elevens. Crossing the
Tasman, he played for the old Sydney
Club before moving on to Victoria. In
the southern State he was in and out of
the Shield side in four seasons, and de-
cided to make his home in S.A. in the
hope of getting more permanent recogni-
tion in big cricket. He toured England
four times and South Africa once, finish-
ing with 106 wickets in Tests.
» » ♦ •
“S.T.S.”: Surely “G.N.,” in quite prop-
erly appreciating Turner, undervalues
Albert Trott by contrast (B. 14/3 / ’45)
as just “a good bowler; never joined the
masters.” Albert, after making in 1894-95
what is doubtless the record start for
brilliance in Tests —not out 38, not out
72 and 8 for 48, then not out 86 —some-
how went off a bit next season, and was
left out of the team for England in 1896.
It may have been thought that two
Trotts with convivial habits were more
than the side could stand. Annoyed,
Albert went to the M.C.C. in London,
and qualified for Middlesex. For years
he remained a champion all-rounder,
a master with ball as well as bat. Just
a sample: 1175 runs and 239 wickets
in 1899, 1337 runs and 211 wickets in
1900. However, as he had originally
played for Australia he couldn’t play
against us; or for us, because he was
resident in England. Having seen all
the masters, from Spofforth’s day to
O’Reilly’s, I would place Albert Trott in
Australia’s best XI of all time.
sic * * *
“Visitor”: Adelaide City Council
speedily, and by a large majority, re-
versed its decision to bar Sunday morn-
ing diving contests in the Olympic Pool,
in the heart of the city. Adelaide coun-
cillors are never rude to each other, but
there were some sarcastic remarks about
the ban, movers having only just be-
come aware of something that has long
gone on without, it is claimed, giving
offence to anyone.
* * * •
“Sturt”: S.A. has revived its amateur
athletic championships, which had lapsed
since the war started. The titles were
to be locally held, but the events were
open, and Wienberg, of Victoria, won
both hurdle races, and Suhan, of N.S.W.,
the quarter-mile. A local man in each
case placed second will hold the cham-
pionship title.
* * * *
“Nine Down”: Jim Ferrier now an
American citizen and in uniform, was
sixth among pros, in the just-closed U.S.
golf season. Ferrier came out with the
equivalent of 1426 Australian quids.
Byron Nelson topped the list with
£A7671, and in the Atlanta tourney put
up a new record of 263 for 72 holes: 64,
69, 65, 65 against a par 79. When Ferrier
won the 1935 N.S.W. close champion-
ship at Killara he established a world
record with 266: 67, 65, 70, 64 against
the Killara par 70. That was 14 under
par; Nelson’s record is 13 under par.
“0.T.”: Golf in America isn’t cheap.
An Eastlake (Sydney) member recently
in ’Frisco found that a round cost the
equivalent of £A3. Balls can be bought
fairly easily, but they’re mostly rebuilds.
* * * *
It was a luckless week for tired book-
makers and punters who recruit their flag-
ging powers by going to the Sydney fights.
Bennell v. Elliott at Leichhardt exhibited
such obvious signs of being “one of
those” that after 15 minutes of clumsy
sparring, with Bennell once going through
the motions of being groggy, the
referee, Pearson, walked out of the ring.
The parties to the infliction, who pro-
tested their innocence, were paid, but
each was fined £lO and “suspended” for
three months. At the Stadium Eddie
Miller was prevented by gastric influenza
from boxing Joe Grant, and Ron Heron,
131 b. heavier than Grant (9.8), was substi-
tuted, 600 or so of the customers availing
themselves of the management’s offer to
return their money. The substitute’s extra
weight almost made up for Grant’s better
condition, but Grant won on points.


Woman's Letters
From Melbourne
“Blithe Spirit,” a hilarious farce by
Noel Coward, opened at the Comedy
Theatre last week on a sombre note. A
life-sized portrait of President Roosevelt
was shown on the screen, and the audi-
ence was asked to remain standing for
one minute’s silence. Many overseas
members of the fighting forces attended
this first night. Braw in his kilt, Major
John Allen, of the 8.E.F., was in the
audience. He was with a party which
included Philip Hargrave the pianist.
Molly Sheffield, in a smart blue and
black ensemble and wearing the still
fashionable and attractive floral adorn-
ment on her well-groomed hair, was in a
box with a party of friends and British
airmen. In the opposite box, her mother
and father, Mr. and Mrs. A. Sheffield,
were accompanied by Mrs. Jill Burnett,
attractive in short black dinner frock
with frills of white organdie relieving the
sombre black. Mrs. W. Clark was also
in black, with a fur coat and masses of
gardenias as an extra note of glamor.
In the foyer greeting friends was Mrs.
Olive Thring, tall and stately in a mink
coat over her long gown of floral satin.
With her was son Frank, a recent addi-
tion to the R.A.A.F.
Those inveterate first-nighters Janet
and Bowen Pain brought along a large
which included Strella Wilson.
Janet’s long dinner frock of floral crepe
was worn under a kolinsky bolero, and
there was a posy in her hair. Strella
was in black, with a colorful floral
chapeau. Sylvia Helpman, who has just
finished playing in “Dr. Clitterhouse,”
sported a silver fox cape over her short
black frock. Mrs. Lionel Macßobert-
son’s gown of heavy white crepe was
embroidered in gold sequins, which also
decorated the hem of her gown. Mrs,
D. Fennessy, better known as Alannah
Coleman, was with her mother. Alannah
set off her long golden hair with a black
frock and a flowing cape in red wool.
Inez Lillies chose black and a short grey
baby-lamb cape.
Aileen Britton, who plays Ruth, second
wife of Charles (Edwin Styles), much-
married man in “Blithe Spirit,” appeared
in two very lovely gowns during the per-
formance. The first was of pale lilac
taffeta patterned with bunches of flowers
in a deep-purple tone. The skirt was full
and had all the fullness gathered to the
back of the waistline. Short sleeves were
allied to a bodice which featured a deep
V opening to the waist. The other frock
was of deep royal-blue tulle with a very
full skirt and long bishop sleeves with
narrow cuffs. A wide gold belt encircled
her slim waist. When she joined Elvira,
the first wife, in the spirit world, she
matched Elvira, played by Bettina Welch,
in the same flowing gown of misty grey ;
both of these gowns were full and flow-
ing, with wide surplice sleeves.
Delegates to the U.C.P. conference to
the number of 500 attended a party in
honor of Premier Dunstan and his tenth
year of office in the Myer Mural Hall.
Seated at the official table with the
Premier and Mrs. Dunstan, the latter
black-clad, with a silver-fox wrap, were
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice Camp-
bell, and the Wales lady. Ex-Mayor
Wales deputised for Lud Mayor Nettle-
fold, absent through illness. In the foyer
of the Mural Hall, where guests chatted
with friends before going in to high tea,
were exhibits of products from factories
situated many miles from Melbourne.
Attractive woollen goods, shoes and
corsets were among the wares displayed.
A mannequin parade afforded an
opportunity to display many beautiful
garments fashioned of Australian wool.
A snowstorm group wore colorful slacks
with gay jackets and carried ski-ing sticks.
A notable outfit was a hip-length jacket
in white wool with a yoke of red, white
and blue stripes. These colors were re-
peated in the scarf, slacks of bright bur-
gundy hue adding yet another note of
color. Even the toddler was represented
in the parade. A tiny fair-haired three-
year-old girl appeared in white wool tight-
fitting trousers, belted jacket, white gloves
and high peaked white wool pixie cap.
Eye-taking in its simple elegance was a
beige wool cardigan suit. Allied to a
brief two-piece skirt, the jacket featured
pockets piped in brown. The übiquitous
red coat was also seen, in wool heavily
knitted to take the appearance of woven
material. A frock of bright canary yellow
was highlighted with a tucked yoke and
a matching tucked hip yoke on the skirt.
A dusty pink cardigan suit for more
formal occasions was made dressy by
ruffles of fine wool lace in the same shade,
dimming the hem of the jacket, jacket
opening and the short sleeves. A house
coat in the new Gloucester green with a
glint of gold at the waistline and full skirt
was fairy-like in its softness. Australian
wool is now machine-knitted to look like
tweed —very beautiful and serviceable.
Gay with bright autumn flowers and
warm fires, the reception rooms of San-
dilands, home of the J. H. Playles, made
a comfortable setting for a bridge party
in aid of the Silver Wings Auxiliary
which works doughtily for' the R.A.A.F.
President of the Auxiliary, Mrs. Barry
Thompson, donned a black velvet suit
for the occasion, and was all smiles as
she spoke of the uses to which the money
raised would be put. Among the players
were Sylvia Green, snug in a black coat
trimmed with Persian lamb, and Marian
Rabinov, a mink bolero over her smart
black frock. Mrs. C. A. Cornwall was
a busy helper. Mrs, H. J. Hattam, a
smart frock of blue and cyclamen under
her fur coat, brought along daughter
Eileen. Both were full of the latest news
about Joan Moss, now Mrs. Bunny Lind-
say, and living in the U.S.A. A cable
says a baby girl was born in New Jersey,
and in his cable to folks back home Bunny
says baby is the image of her mother..
That energetic helper of all war-time
efforts Aylee Wyatt was also at the
party. Later she gathered up 50 British
W.R.N.S. and took them along to the
Comedy Theatre for the dress rehearsal
of Coward’s “Blithe Spirit.”
The committee of the A.I.F, Women’s
Association, headed by Chief Justice Her-
ring’s lady as president, gave an after-
noon-tea party at Scott’s Hotel, Guests
invited were stall-holders at the recent
fair and representatives qf friendly and
assisting organisations. Mrs. Walter Car-
negie, organiser of the fair, read the
balance sheet. The amount raised was
£5OOO, an increase of £l4OO on last year’s
effort. In a short speech the president
described the association as a team that
pulled together as one. Mrs. Clive Steele
was an attractive figure in navy blue with
a small cerise felt hat, banded in navy
blue. Mrs. John Mollard, who had con-
ducted the P.O.W. stall, which had the
highest takings, topped a honey beige
ensemble with a flower hat in tones of
beige, green and pink. Mrs. Mary Grant
Bruce wore black. Mrs. Isobel Green
was in grey with a large black velvet hat
trimmed with pink, setting off her attrac-
tive hair. Mrs. Green is full of plans for
her daughter’s wedding. Uncle R. G.
Menzies will give the bride away, and
brother Bob hopes to be home on leave
for the happy day.
Music-lovers are waiting to hear Freda
Franks, pianist, pictured here by Peter
Pan. She hails from Sydney, where she
was born. On leaving Frensham, Freda
went to London, where she studied at the
Royal Academy of Music, where Sir
Henry Wood, a personal friend of the
family, was then trainer of the orchestra.
After graduating as a licentiate, Freda
returned to Sydney and commenced a
teaching career. Freda comes to Mel-
bourne as* accompanist to ’cellist Athos
Martelli, who is to give two recitals. To
welcome Freda to Melbourne, Athos
(pronounced Artos) gave a small
luncheon party at the Florentine. Among
the guests were knight Arthur Robinson’s
lady, whose smart suit was checked in
autumn toning, her curly locks crowned
with a natty brown beret; Mrs. A. L.
Walters, smart in black; Mrs. Ivor
Mclnnes, hatless and wearing a warm
red wool frock, and Barty Mei. The
guest of honor was in brown, with a
brown fur cape in recognition of Mel-
bourne’s chilliness.
From Sydney
The sudden death of Franklin D.
Roosevelt came as a bitter and personal
shock to Sydney. He was the first U.S.
President who had impressed himself on
this nation as a warm and living person-
ality. He was not just America in the
White House. In Britain’s dark hours
he was a splendid ally, and then some-
how, through his broadcasts, he took his
place in Australian hearts and imagina-
tions as a good friend, so that women
would drop their household tasks to go
running to the radio when President
Roosevelt spoke. This warm feeling was
intensified by the visit of Mrs. Roose-
velt last year. At once this clever, capable
woman with the sincere, blue-eyed glance,
was recognised as fit wife for the man
who lived himself so vividly in our con-
sciousness. Sydney mourns for her in
the loss of a husband, and for itself in
the loss of a friend. *
A big job, but a labor of love, was
handed out to Red Cross workers when
war prisoners from Santo (Tomas camp in
Manila arrived in Sydney. The Red
Cross handled arrangements for welcom-
ing them at Central station (the former
internees had come by train from Bris-
bane), and in the hall of the Teachers’
Federation House in Phillip-street. Here
friends and relations embraced the long-
mourned, the now gladly-gazed-upon. It
was a glorious welcome, and Sydney,
after her stormy week-end, greeted the
arrivals with kindly, if not her brightest,
skies. There were children of five and
six in the group, and even a baby a
few months old. One or two of the older
children have harrowing memories that
only continued kindness will help them
to forget.
Lillian Mitchell, shown in this Norton
Trevaire photograph, has been appointed
State secretary of the Girl Guide Asso-
ciation. That’s a big job, since there are
seven thousand members of this fresh-
air and open-sky movement. Of course
the Guide movement is not one grand
encampment. Its training includes such
serious things as home nursing. Of par-
ticular appeal to the public is the work
done for the handicapped child—the little
lame, or blind, or deaf one. This is known
as extension work, and under its kindly
sway such children can take the course
of instruction that qualifies them to be-
come in turn Brownie, Guide and
Ranger. These children experience all the
joys of camp life, just like their more
healthy sisters. Another joy-bringer is
the Lone Company, This is a correspond-
ence instruction course for kiddies on
isolated homesteads.
Just now the Guides are raising £5OOO
without appeal to the general public.
Guides and Brownies may not ask for
money, but they may work for it. So
thousands of work cards have been dis-
tributed. Each is filled with ten squares,
each square representing two shillings.
Soon there should be no lack of small-
girl power in the neighborhood and in
the home. All the grown-ups have to do
is to hand out small jobs at a rate to
be arranged between employer and em-
ployee.
“The Voice of the Turtle” —and it is a
somewhat soiled dove —raised its notes in
its first night at the Minerva last week.
The play, judging by its reception by a
packed house, will have a good run.
Newly returned from New York, Aus-
tralian actress Agnes Doyle plays the part
of the frail Sally, and is so pencil-slim
and airy and slight in her silver tissue
frock that Sally’s week-end with a service-
man seems like some innocent bedtime
story. Somehow it is felt that if Agnes
were, say, a stone heavier the play might
have crashed through the thin ice it now
skims so lightly over.
The play is by Van Druten, so the
craftsmanship is good, but one wonders
how Richardson would have handled a
heroine like Sally—two affairs before the
soldier. Clarissa, it will be remembered.
gave Lovelace quite a run for his money,
but then that old-fashioned heroine had
her virtue to defend. Van Druten’s'play
is so. frank that even the bedroom walls
are down —the set has been cunningly
arranged by Bill Constable. There is only
one room in the apartment the audience
doesn’t see into, and that’s the bathroom
—a pity, for plumbing is always interest-
ing, The blue curtains on the wide win-
dow of the lounge are heavenly, and
made women who haven’t been able to
renew their hangings since 1940 b.c.
(before coupons) gnash their teeth with
envy.
Young violinist Lynddll Hendrickson
and her fluent bow were the lure to the
Conservatorium last Saturday night. Tyn-
dall wears her dark hair cut in a straight
fringe across her forehead, and the page-
boy bob at the back was kept in place by
a narrow blue cord which harmonised
with the sweeping and bouffant-blue net
frock. The house was almost, but not
.quite, full, and there was much applause.
Three sonatas were included in the
programme Vivaldi (arranged by
Respighi), Bach and Beethoven the com-
posers. The Bach Sonata (for violin
alone) was a delight on the ear. The
Beethoven work was the familiar
“Kreutzer.” In this Tyndall and Joyce
Hutchinson at the piano fitted together
as neatly as almond in shell—an artistic
almond.
There are still hosts of music-lovers in
Australia and Maoriland who remember
singer Antonia Dolores. From her war-
time home at More Hall, near Stroud, in
Gloucestershire, she wrote at the end of
February to organist Lilian Frost. Her
letter does not dwell unduly upon war,
except in one typical passage:
We are all living under these immense
war events, more tragic one than another,
and costing so many precious lives. May
their sacrifice restore real peace as we all
pray, guided by holy confidence towards
our Lord.
Her letter recalls happy memories of
“lovely Tasmania,” and in the midst of
her own perils remembers those of Aus-
tralia and hopes the summer is passing
without bushfires and drought. And here
is a line that will make every mother
proud: “How very brave are the boys
from Australasia; everyone is admiring
them.”
Country Women took possession of the
Assembly Hall last week. The C.W.A.
was holding its 23rd annual meeting and
conference, and, as usual, delegates came
from north, south, east and west of this
vast State. The first day, Wednesday,
was mostly given over to reports, and of
these the report of the retiring president,
Mrs. Jack Garry, was a document of
almost overwhelming efficiency. The
C.W.A. has now over 17,000 members —-
an enrolment of over 800 kept branch
- secretaries busy in the year just past. The
association deserves a round of applause,
too, for its gifts, totalling £40,000, to
other organisations. A new plan is one
for establishing hostels in country towns
to give outback children an opportunity
of high school education near home in-
stead of bringing them to the cities.
These conferences are really enjoyed
by the delegates. Here is a work of in-
estimable value to the land they love,
started by women and carried on by
women. Its finances are sound, its aims
are high, it keeps kindly eye on the soldier
(its handicrafts and rehabilitation work
are well known), on the children, on the
mothers of the country districts. No
wonder the delegates wore an air of brisk
happiness. Lady Wakehurst, who opened
the conference, was made a life member
of the association. To keep memory
warm she was given a hand-spun and
hand-woven rug. Nor was Lord Wake-
hurst forgotten. He is now the proud
possessor of a Stuart tartan rug, also spun
and woven by the handicrafts section.
C.W.A. workers had already sent him a
pair of cosy sheep-skin gloves. The one
regret was that this was the last confer-
ence which Lady Wakehurst would open.
There was quite a picnic touch about
the late-afternoon reception given by the
Governor and Lady Wakehurst to C.W.A.
delegates. Women wandered from the tea
tables on the verandah, cup and saucer
in one hand, in the other a plate with a
cake or two on it, and sat on the chairs
about the lawn in pleasant little groups.
Retiring president Mrs, Jack Garry came
to the party. Here, too, were Mrs. Mac
Smith, of Borenore, and Mrs. W. H.
Cullen, of Cassilis, the two nominees for
State president, of whom Mrs. Mac Smith
was elected at the next day’s session.
A trio from Oberon were Mrs. Rupert
Wilson, president of that mountain fast-
ness branch, Mrs. Macleod and Mrs.
Buckley. Attractive Mrs. Basil Foulds,
of sheep-skin-vest fame, told that over
40,000 vests have been sent to soldiers
from that section. Since Christmas over
600 pairs of slippers have been distri-
buted among hospitals. Mrs. E. A, Cogh-
lan, of the Handicrafts branch in The
Bulletin building, was among the many. *


MT 38-16-1
otmastce...
m
v»‘
OF TRUCK TRANSPORTATION
Vis
3f<
's' ■■
- <s^-
BY THREE
INTERNATIONALS
tftftd
STILL ON SERVICE
Here’s a story of. three Inter-
nationals, purchased by Mr. G.
R. Greaves, High St., St. Kilda
in 1936-37. The first, with tank-
trailer, working 34 hours a day
hauling 10 tons of bulk petrol,
covered 133,059 miles by Nov. 1937
and 400,000 by Aug. 1943 . . . .
The second, purchased in 1937
for similar heavy-duty hauling,
had then completed over 300,000.
Since ’43 both have been on
continuous heavy-duty service
with present owners . . . The
third, a semi-trailer 10-ton
tanker purchased in 1937, has
registered 336,000 miles, and
apart from usual service in run-
ning has required little other
attention, and, the owner says
it’s “good for a million”.
Outstanding truck perform-
ances like these will be remem-
bered When the full range of
Internationals from the smart
utilities to the big 6-wheelers
is again available.
INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. (INC. IN VIC.)
BRANCHES IN ALL CAPITAL CITIES
INTERNATIONAL 7ft*
% I
VV
ssesg;
»««
•»AVAV
: :-
fS
Sg=
-^^v\
w
r
CARLSON
INTO THE
PRESENTS
UNKNOWN:—
STROMBERG
ADVENTURES
Livingstone of Africa
Through jungle paths never before trodden by a white
man, Dr. Livingstone relentlessly pressed forward until his
great adventure was achieved the unlocking of Darkest
Africa.
The great explorers of the twentieth century are leaders
in science and industry. Stromberg-Carlson's researches in
radio are exploring new facilities for realism and relaxation
in post-war years.
50 years of Communication Engineering are assurance that
there will be nothing finer than a
A Company entirely owned and controlled in Australasia
INVEST IN THE THIRD VICTORY LOAN.
SMOKE-OH!
“Ladies’ full-fashioned silk hose (damaged)
Faults are difficult to find.”— Advt.
Especially if you can’t see a hole in
a ladder.
“In Queen Elizabeth’s day. vast numbers of
women dyed their hair blonde.” — Weekly paper.
Tudor-age gentlemen must have also
preferred them that way.
4* *b *l* *b
“Owling Notes.”
—Heading in suburban paper sporting section.
Readers will probably not give two
hoots, anyway.
4* + •i 1
T ransp or tation.
“In ancient times it was commonly believed
that magic could turn men into animals.”
— Historian.
I used to deem this ancient view
A fabrication most untrue.
But now, alas, I plainly see
A girl has made a goat of me !
Nat.
•b *b *b *b
“Electric motor, half horse.”
—For Sale advt. in suburban paper.
Only semi-mechanised, apparently.
*b *b *b *b
“Revelling in the going and cutting the
comer, Barnsley won the Coogee Handicap by
six lengths at Coogee.”— Sydney “Sun.”
Starting at Randwick and winning at
Coogee wasn’t a bad effort considering
the state of the going along the tramlines.
“Having swallowed my anger down with a
schooner of cold and much-needed beer I
thought I’d go back to the butcher’s.”
— Woman’s paper.
With a bigger shopping list than ever.
* -j. -i-
Twenty years of married life wrecked by
midnight flea-hunt.” — “Daily Mirror.”
Parties must have been itching for
trouble.
“Hey, that's not in Marquis of Queensberry rules!"
“Suitcase, small, Tues. evening, Coogee tram,
contains house.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Doll’s, of course.
Causes and Effects.
“Mr Curtin said that Canberra was the type
of city that could be the headquarters of the
post-war film industry. It had a splendid
climate, and there were no industries in the
neighborhood. Mr. Curtin also said he con-
sidered Canberra could become the seat of a
great national university such as Oxford or
Cambridge..”— “D.T.”
When the ’varsity gets going and the
fillum stoodios, offshoots of Hollywood,
are firmly established along Molonglo-
side, juxtaposition will bring confusion.
A visitor to the House, for instance,
may hear Sol Rosevear, in mortar-board
and gown, round off a long homily in
Greek by giving Bob Menzies a sixer for
lighting a hunger under Billy Hughes’s
seat or stuffing up Sol’s own inkwell with
chewing-gum.
Also, when the Klieg lights are switched
on as a dramatic scene develops the direc-
tor will yell s ‘Start shooting!” as Eddie
Ward declaims in sepulchral tones “It
is a far, far better thing I do than
I have ever done! ” —after which the
director will tear another fistful of
hair out, mangle his double Corona and
groan “Say, kain’t y’ can this bum ham
stuff and turn on the real woicks to make
this shot a slap-up wow? Retake!”
That Canberra ’varsity life could re-
main untouched by its. environment is
unthinkable. A request, for instance, by
a don for an illustration of the Socratic
method of argument would probably be
followed by two undergrads jumping up
and giving a Parliamentary illustration.
“Who are you callin’ a four-eyed
swine? You haven’t brains enough to
pour water out of a boot with the direc-
tions printed in scare type on the soles.”
“Garn, y’ lily-livered mong! It’d suit
you better if you had a wash.”
“Step outside an’ say that, you leprous
louse, and I’ll tie yer water-wing lugs in
a knot behind yer thick skull! ”
Or perhaps freshman Hillgloom will
interrupt a lecture to have the following
questions answered: (1) Is it a fact that
the Professor of Political History is in
the habit of blacking his invalid aunt’s
both eyes at least twice a week? (2) Has
he ever been dismissed from another uni-
versity for welching while conducting an
s.p. book? (3) Did he get his degree
by bribing a custodian of the examination
papers?
The reaction of an undergrad asked
by his professor what he knows about
the Mutiny of the Bounty will be imme-
diate. In parrot fashion he will reel it
off, commencing with “It was an
M.-G.-M. film, 9000 ft. long, running time
99 minutes. Produced with a big cast
in the pre-technicolor period, with Charles
Laughton starring as Bligh and Clark
Gable and Franchot Tone in the chief
feature roles, it was a colossal, stoopen-
dous, magnificent epic of the South Seas,
with a tremendous, terrific heart-throb-
bing love climax. Set box-office reccuds
all over the woild for a period piece.”
As to the film industry itself, the task
of producers-in-chief will be made im-
measurably easier through having the
country’s chief servants close at hand.
There will be no need for the studio to
build an expensive “set” when they want
to produce a first-rate farce. All they
need do is install a cameraman in the
House and wait for one of the Ministers
to rise up and declare that wharf-looters
and black-marketeers will be ruthlessly
dealt with. Put on the silver screen, with
all the actions, that gem will bring more
laughter than Eddie Cantor or Bob Hope
could ever wring from an audience.
80.
From Reality’s Oven.
O where is a word
For the wings of a bird ?
Symbols of Flight,
Symbols of Height,
Whirring with impulse to quicken.
Speed for the flier
Wings of desire!
Restless as Thought,
Quivering when caught.
To a silence with tragedy stricken.
Ah, Poesy’s thread!
But my stomach, instead,
Persistently sings ♦
A request for the wings
Of a plump and delicious roast chicken.
EVE MERRITT.
Justification.
If all the fishes in the sea
Were eaten up by you and me.
There would be none remaining to
Consume the likes of me and you.
But should we spare them, being kind,
We would be liable to find
That, if they had the chance to do it,
T hey’d swallow us and make us rue it:
So let no fishing expedition
Inspire you with the least contrition.
T. W. NATHAN.


7/6 PAID FOR
ORIGINAL JOKE IDEAS.
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2|d. per line.
Decentralisation
The benefits of decentralisation can be
realised only through local govern-
ment, and not by a concentration of
power, which is a negation of decentral-
isation. If central power is necessary
to lay down a general policy, then dele-
gation of that power is necessary for its
efficient execution. Efficient in this sense
means the greatest benefit in each local
centre, considering the factors in the
environment.
The Wages Board is the best illustration.
In Victoria it is set up in each area to fix
pay and conditions according to the
merits of the local case. The authority
that seeks to control everything from a
remote centre is not likely to do any-
thing Very convincing about decentralisa-
tion —and it isn’t necessary to have very
great powers to convert a country muni-
tions plant to some other kind of manu-
facture.
Incidentally, manufacture in rural
centres is only a small part of the solu-
tion of the problem of loss of rural popu-
lation. The manufacturing percentage of
the population is only 20. The great
metropolitan centres grow on the portion
of the population engaged in tertiary
industries—the service industries. These
are constantly extending their percentage
at the expense of both primary and
secondary industries, and the centralisa-
tion of power for the purpose of decen-
tralisation won’t alter it. —Polit (Vic.).
Houses for Servicemen
As I hope to get married on discharge
from the army, I have been studying the
Government’s housing scheme for re-
turned servicemen. My financial resources
will consist solely of accrued deferred
pay, which I expect to amount to about
£2OO. So far as I can see, this amount
will be inadequate for anything but a
one-roomed home.
A tent-mate of mine, a builder in peace-
time, has compiled an estimate of the cost
of the sort of dwelling I shall be able to
afford; —
£ s.
Land (at reduced rate through housing
scheme) 50 0
Corrugated-iron sheets 35 0
Water tank ~ . -. .. .. 15 0
Timber, nails, etc. .. .. .. 10 10
Two carpenters for seven days .. 14 14
Plumber for one day .. . . .. 11
Hotel board, carpenters, seven days .. 7 0
Hotel board, plumber, two days .. 10
Danger pay for roofing and spouting 1 11
Strike pay, two days 4 4
Workers’ Compensation, insurance fees
and sundries 10 0
Architect’s fee gratis
Total 150 0
You will notice that my friend has
allowed for certain difficulties which seem
almost bound to occur and for probable
high prices of scarce materials. Also, as
estimates are always exceeded in practice,
he has allowed me £5O leeway.—W.O.2
(A.1.F.)
Why Not Caravans ?
A means of temporarily coping with
the housing shortage is suggested by a
letter in a Melbourne daily. The corre-
spondent asks municipalities to drop
their objections to people using caravans
when forced out of their homes and away
from their States on defence work. Her
husband, herself and three children have
had their home in a caravan for the last
five years and have found it a clean,
healthy life. The husband has never
been absent from woeferand the children
have never missed a day’s schooling.
Why should not the Government turn
over one of its numerous factory plants,
many of which are said to be either idle
or working at half-cock, to caravan pro-
duction? Tens of thousands of caravans
could be turned out in a few months.
Municipal councils could be ordered to
proclaim some of their wastelands as
caravan parks and to assume responsi-
bility for their upkeep.
The caravan of today boasts all mod.
cons, compressed into small space, so
all the municipalities need supply is
ground space and water. Popularise and
legitimise caravans and in a very short
time the people who are at present sow-
ing the seeds of t.b. and epidemics in
filthy slums, back rooms, garages, lofts
and stables in the cities could be accom-
modated ip holiday surroundings.
Having temporarily disposed of the
homeless in this pleasant fashion, the
Post-war Reconstructionists would be
able to give leisured consideration to
housing projects. They could experiment
with some of the unconventional ma-
terials like the cobs (pise) with which
the pioneers built houses better suited to
the Australian climate and infinitely
cheaper than anything that is being built
at present. — Bumpkin (Vic.).
Free Medicine Abuses
Maoriland’s free medicine scheme is
somewhat similar to the Commonwealth
Pharmaceutical Benefits Act, and it may
be expected that the abuses brought in
its train will be experienced here.
A relative of mine, on a holiday from
M.L., says that many Maorilanders, when
they visit town, do their shopping and,
when they have time to kill before their
homeward train departs, pop into a
doctor’s waiting-room, turn it into a rest
place and read the papers and magazines.
If their turn to see the doctor arrives
before they have to catch their train
they invent some imaginary ache or ail-
ment, waste the doctor’s time and obtain
a prescription they don’t need and don’t
use.
The larger Queensland hospitals con-
duct very efficient outpatients’ depart-
ments for poor people. A grant to
help finance these departments would be
a much better plan than the provision of
free medicine for all. “Free” doctors and
“free” medicine will inevitably end in
doctors being besieged by cranks hitherto
catered for by the 1001 patent pills
and specifics in bottle, box and tube.
It beats me why Australians fall for the
pretence t that they are to get something
for nothing out of the new legislation.
They pay, indirectly, for everything
labelled “free.” — Wake Up (Q.).
“Nothing is Further from the Truth”
General Blarney is very indignant at
the public statement made that the Aus-
tralian troops under his command in the
northern islands are engaged in “mopp-
ing-up” operations. In an interview with
the Melbourne “Age” on April 2 he said
“Nothing is further from the truth than
to so describe them,” and he characterised
the statement as “a deliberate lie intended
to disparage the Australian forces.”
The general must look to the Minister
of the Army for the origin of the phrase.
Mr. Forde in a 16-page booklet entitled
Target for 1945 has written:
The Philippines was a spectacular job.
The mopping-up of Japanese armies in and
around New Guinea may be less spec-
tacular but just as necessary.
—R. A. (Vic.)
Subsidies
Far from the farmer making a periodi-
cal howl for a subsidy, he asks merely
that he may cease subsidising “Towjiie”
(B. 28/2/’45) and his like by providing
them with food at less than cost.
If prices for his produce were not
fixed the farmer would be satisfied, since
higher returns in times of scarcity
would compensate him for losses at
other times. As prices are fixed, he asks
that they be fixed at a level that will
cover his costs. ,
The milk-zone dairyman asks not for
a subsidy but for an independent in-
quiry, and promises to abide by the re-
sult, confident in the outcome. “Townie”
may learn this winter that even a sub-
sidy is preferable to a milk famine. —
Joanna (N.S.W.).
Snowy River Diversion
In 1938-39 Burrenjuck Dam was
run nearly dry by the Murrumbidgee
Irrigation Areas ; there was not enough
water left to mature a rice crop worth
£400,000. But on the day on which water-
supplies were to have ceased rain came
and the crop was saved.
A near thing; and throughout the valley,
where rice is but one of the products
of irrigation, water-users from Gunda-
gai to Balranald began to urge the Gov-
ernment to investigate the possibility of
diverting the waters of the Snowy by
tunnel through the Divide (about 22 miles)
into the catchment behind Burrenjuck,
thus assuring permanent water supplies
to the Murrumbidgee Valley.
A committee of experts has investi-
gated the scheme and reported favorably
to the N.S.W. Government, which, to its
credit, has adopted the report. All of which
sounds like . . . and they lived happily
ever after! Not a bit of it. From the
moment the scheme was mooted by the
’Bidgee people the narks, who had never
thought of the Snowy’s .potentialities,
began to find all manner of hitherto un-
suspected uses for it—and these folk are
still dragging herrings around.
One school of thought has discovered
that the Snowy is just what is needed to
bolster up the water storage of the City of
Sydney, and proposes that it should be
piped direct at a cost of umpteen mil-
lions. Some Victorian cockies fear they
might haye their crops washed away
by floods if the Snowy were controlled
up-stream. An anonymous section of “in-
dustrialists” wants the waters hurled
down a steep place into the sea to gener-
ate power. Another scheme is afoot to
divert this N.S.W. river direct into the
Murray for the benefit of other States
and to hell with the ’Bidgee. In short,
the opposition comes from dog-in-the-
manger people who are opposed to using
a valuable river, now running to waste,
for its most economic purpose.
Gist of the committee’s report:
(1) The Warragamba scheme can supply
sufficient water to the octopus metropolis
for as many years as anybody wants to
think about; (2) the coal resources of the
Eastern States being plentiful, and the water ,
resources meagre, electric power should be
generated from coal, not water, if that
water has to run to waste in the process;
(3) surveys show that the original proposal
to divert the Snowy into the Murrumbid-
gee Valley and incidentally generate a not
inconsiderable hydro-electric power is quite
practicable, and* at a cost of £ll millions
would be the best use to which the stream
could be put. (4) Farmers on the lower
Snowy in Victoria would not only enjoy
reasonable riparian rights, with elimination
of flood damage, but would also be able to
link their nearest local grid with the power
generated by harnessing the river for the
Murrumbidgee project.
Other expert inquiry has found that
the diversion to the ’Bidgee would, within
a reasonably brief period, permit of the
establishment of an additional 50,000
people in the Valley.
The shade of Alfred Deakin is await-
ing the next move with interest. —7346
(N.S.W.).
Gold mining
It has been stated that the value of Aus-
tralian currency over the last four years
has depreciated 25 p.c. This may be an
underestimate. Principal items of cost in
my district, at any rate, have risen more
than 33| p.c. Price-fixing, banking con-
“Cookhouse for you two hermits if you're
late again!”
trols and- Government intake of surplus
public moneys in war loans operate to
disguise the position.
The price of gold has been fixed, and
with very little fluctuation has remained
at approximately £lO 10s, per ounce.
Limit the price of any product while
production costs are mounting and the
result is obvious. Goldmining is in the
doldrums.
On the gold standard and in normal
times, as depreciation evidences itself in
any currency ; so automatically an appre-
ciation becomes apparent in the price of
gold. As applied to Australia today the
value of our gold would approximate £l4
per oz. The Government is the sole legiti-
mate buyer, and it is netting a profit of
about £3 10s. an ounce.
But even this does not express the true
position. Given permission to export
gold overseas, sales in terms of Australian
currency might be made at £lB per ounce,
perhaps even more. The profit the Gov-
ernment is reaping is therefore difficult
to assess, but quite obviously it is made
at the expense of goldmining interests.
This policy of deliberate discourage-
ment of the industry is unjustified. Events
overseas indicate that gold will be im-
portant in the post-war world. The future
of wool and wheat is much more dubious.
The goldmines of Australia may yet
play a major part in the rehabilitation
of thousands of our servicemen return-
ing from overseas. We must not let this
vital industry drift away from us. — Miner
Once (N.T.).
Why No Australian Singers?
Highlight of the Victory Loan appeal
is a canned version of an American
crooner urging us to buy Victory Bonds.
Why so, in a land of fine singers?
Why can’t we hear the voices of
Madame Austral, Peter Dawson, Gladys
Moncrieff and others of our top-notch
vocalists singing the Victory Bond song ?
—Camsa (S.A.).
Weaker Beer
As a teetotaller, but one who has had
much to do with service canteens, I am
convinced that there would be less
drunkenness were the alcoholic content
of beer reduced. This would do more to
dispel evils inherent in the trade than
curtailment of hours, stringent supervision
or reduction of the number of licenses.
Australian beer contains more alcohol
than that of any other country. Letters
from our servicemen in England bear out
the fact that lighter ales are popular there,
Dickens’s injunction to the National
Temperance Society in 1844 still holds
good:—
The proposition that beer, spirits and
wine are not natural to men is poor and
unfair. Show me any total abstainer at his
dinner and I would show you 50 things
making their way into his digestive organs
which are as foreign to his natural con-
dition as the clothes he wears.
—Plain Australian (Vic.).
Australian Sardines
If the Government should ever decide
to develop fish industries in the north (B.
4/4/’45), the sardine wealth of the north-
eastern waters of Torres Strait should be
investigated.
Patrol duty in these seas opened our
eyes. Every high tide during the daytime
the shallows around most of the islands,
particularly the Murray Islands, were
black with dense shoals of sardines, so
thickly congregated that a member of our
party with his first throw with a native
three-pronged spear cast into the middle
of a shoal speared eight Sin. sardines.
These northern sardines (Barengula
punctata), known to the natives as Tup,
are the same as those that frequent Japa-
nese waters. Millions of pounds worth of
canned fish were exported by Japan to
this country before the war.
Some years ago a small Queensland co.
attempted to can sardines for home con-
sumption, but although samples were
voted by all who tasted them as equal to
any imported fish, the company, lacking
support, was forced out of business.
Patrol Leader (Q.).
Australian Authors’ Handicaps
Let me tell Olive Willey (B. 28/3/'45)
that Australian novelists never get a
chance to become best-sellers. Even in
good times few Australian books are
issued in editions larger than 5000, and
fewer still run into a second edition.
English and UJS. books
are printed here or im-
ported in tens of thou-
sands because importers
and retailers get a bigger
profit on them by bump-
ing up the prices.
A book published at 2s.
6d. in England jumps to
4s. 9d. here. If you wrote
to an English bookseller
you could get it for 3s. 2d.
The position is that while
booksellers can charge
what they like for over-
seas publications, some
Australian books have
prices *fixed by Prices
Commissioner —n o t a b 1 y
the books published under
the aegis of the Common-
wealth Literary Fund.
Selling commission on
Australian books is 33-j-
-p.c.; on overseas books
65 p.c.
An actual example is a
book on shipping pub-
lished for me by Brown
Sons and Ferguson, Glas-
gow. British price was 12s.
6d. (Bs. 4d. to the trade).
In Australia and M.L. it
sells at £l, which works
out like this: Cost to
bookseller, Bs. 4d., plus 2s.
Id. exchange, plus lid
freight. Total, 11s. 4d.
leaving Bs. Bd. profit. I
don’t quibble at this as
long as Australian books
are given an equal chance.
But they aren’t. By the
way, my royalty was based
on the published price
of 12s. 6d., so I suppose the author of a
2s. 6d. book sold in Australia gets only his
3d. a copy—lo p.c. on 2s. 6d
WILL.
LAWSON
(N.S.W.).


/
h/
7£
A
m
m
•/,
V
7.
\
%
m
\
\
r*' /
77
\ “>
3<;
7^:777’
///
m~
A
During THE WAR amazing progress has been
made in every branch of wireless —at sea, on land and
in the air.
In this work the extensive research and manufacturing
organisation of A.W.A. is playing an important part.
It is to-day producing in ever-increasing quantities
high-grade wireless equipment for the Navy, Army,
and Air Forces of the Allied Nations, as well as manu-
facturing stations for vital Wireless Communication
Services.
When Victory is ours, most of these wartime develop-
ments will be applied in giving the public better service
in communications, in broadcast transmission and
reception, and in other phases of wireless.
The post-war Radiola , incorporating many
wartime technical developments, will again take
its place as “Australia’s finest broadcast receiver.”
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A/SIA) LTD.
AUSTRALIA’S
NATIONAL
WIRELESS
ORGANISATION
