

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
• 99 XT 1 t
IIIC 1,11 *
Wednesday, November 14, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
WINDSOR CASTLE—THE LOWER WARD, WITH ST. GEORGE’S CHAPEL.
■yyiNDSOR CASTLE was originally built by William the
Conqueror, but a new erection was substituted by William of
Wykeham to the order of Edward 111, and from time to time the
fortress has been enlarged and restored. The above view shows
the Lower Ward. On the left is St. George’s Chapel, associated
with the Knights of the Garter; it was begun by Edward IV and
finished by Henry VIII, and is a splendid specimen of the Late
Gothic style. On the right were the residences of the Military
Knights, and beyond, on a high mound, is the famous Round
Tower, or Keep, entered from the Upper Ward. Its battlements, to
which the public are allowed to ascend, command a view over
twelve counties.


fd
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE,
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, yow New Frei
Booklet explaining how to j? r . Ue „ ior a
advertised in the Sydney Bulletin.
ily Name *
My Address
S.B. 1« ..AGE
The Re Page
NIGGER IN THE WOODPILE.
The private lives of writers and artists
are public property. The secrets of the
ordinary man are buried with him. And
so, when one is reading how the poet
James Thomson, for instance, drank him-
self to death, it is only fair to keep in
mind the thousands of mute and inglori-
ous Thomsons, in no way connected with
the arts, who have brought themselves to
a similar doom.
Were the lives of greengrocers or
butchers scrutinised down the ages as
ruthlessly as are those of artists, were their
bankruptcies, suicides, lunacies, moral
aberrations, addictions to drink or drugs
recorded remorselessly, one might
easily conclude that these on the whole
estimable tradesmen were monsters
amonj men. True, it is seldom one hears
of a butcher’s taking to opium ; but it is
also true that one seldom hears anything
about butchers.
The warning is a necessary prelude to
an examination of William Gaunt’s The
y Esthetic Adventure (Cape ; Angus and
Robertson) for, dealing with art and let-
ters in France and England from 1880
to 1910 —the “doomed generation” of
the ’nineties —the book reads less like an
excursion into the heaven of the arts than
a descent into hell.
It should also be borne in mind that
Mr. Gaunt is interested specifically in the
self-styled “Decadents” and that such
sane, robust and splendid figures as
Browning (who has probably been dis-
cussed in the author’s The Pre-Raphaelite
Tragedy) do not come into the present
volume. Yeats, who kept his head among
the lunacies of the latter end of the
period, makes only a momentary appear-
ance.
And yet, when the qualifications have
been made and the exceptions listed, and
after it has been admitted that in any
period there are weak or degraded men
in the community of art, the era of
The ALsthetic Adventure remains start-
ling, sinister and appalling. Speaking of
Rimbaud and Verlaine, Mr. Gaunt says:
What strange compulsion was it that
caused a clerk of twenty-seven and a youth
of sixteen to join together in a series of
frantic escapades which caused the elder
to wallow in the gutter, and to continue
throughout his life to hold a balance of
poetry and debauch? Was it simply an
accident of personality?
Against that there is some circumstantial
evidence. There were too many like cases
happening within the same period to be
put down to accident. The mood first
signalised by Baudelaire, with his deliberate
cultivation of vice, was following its
appointed course.
“There were too many like cases” for
the spectacle of decadence to be put down
to accident. “Like cases” there certainly
were. Mr. Gaunt’s list begins with the
drunkard Edgar Allan Poe whose influ-
ence on Baudelaire is, of course, notori-
ous. An oddity of history, surely, that
an American should have set the pattern
for that “European state of mind” which
is undergoing its dying agony in Aus-
tralia at this day.
What caused the phenomenon of de-
cadence, so clearly, even truculently
manifested by Baudelaire in Les Fleurs
du Mai ? Mr. Gaunt has an answer, and
an impressive one:
A long and exhausting war was oyer.
The bloody tide of conquest had flowed
across Europe, ebbed and left behind the
stagnant flats of anti-climax. A ruined
dictator had died, of cancer in the stomach,
in the little island to which he had been
exiled, far out in the Atlantic. A sick conti-
nent, shivering in the rags of ancient finery,
amid the remnants of destroyed institutions,
looked with gloomy surmise on the future.
This was the state of affairs when the
Napoleonic campaigns were ended, and the
Emperor, with dramatic finality, had dis-
appeared from the scene. The following
stages of mental reaction were spread over
many years. First came a mood of depres-
sion, which affected many countries but
was most strongly marked in France. The
cause of that depression was to a large
extent physical. France had been bled
white, by the wholesale slaughter accom-
panying those two events of historical bril-
liance, the Revolution and the First Empire.
When the Terror had killed off the aris-
tocracy and Napoleon had continued the
work of the guillotine by squandering in
battle a very large number of young and
vigorous lives, the cream of the nation was
twice skimmed. The unfit and the dis-
illusioned remained, together with a middle-
class, a bourgeoisie, staid, prudent, small-
minded, tight-fisted, of traders and peasants
who had profited by the catastrophes of
the evolutionary process and become the
backbone of society.
Fifteen years after the battle of Waterloo,
among those who were intelligent enough
to. feel an emotion, despair was widespread.
The splendid era which war seemed to
promise while it was still in progress had
not matured. The idealist found himself
in a world from which ideals were conspicu-
ously absent. The republican, after all his
trouble, was mortified by the spectacle
of a restored monarchy whose unreal forms
and spurious titles parodied the Old Re-
gime ; and as the heads of those who would
have been his patrons were cut off, the
man of genius received neither sympathy
nor support in this grim, post-war exist-
ence.
The names of those who did away with
themselves or sank into an early grave,
in or about the year 1830, make a dis-
tinguished list. Those who did not commit
suicide or give up all hope became de-
fiant. If ag idealistic revolution had come
to a dull end it was still possible to ex-
press contempt for dullness and to flout the
society in which it was enshrined. The
ardent spirits of 1830 thus became romantic
outlaws and outlawry in due course a
fashion. The intellectuals of Paris wore
the steeple-crowned hats and sinister cloaks
of Italian brigands and cultivated disdain
for the law-abiding citizen.
Despair or an hysterical defiance —
these, it appeared, were the only possible
attitude. Possible for whom? For weak
souls and minor artists, Mr, Gaunt is
engaged on a three-volume survey of the
“modern” movement in the arts, and may
have something to say on this point later.
A trifle too jocularly detached in this
second of his series, he states clearly
enough his opinion on the essential little-
ness of the men he is studying, but he
might well have dwelt longer on the point.
For Baudelaire, after all, was a silly
fellow. “Satanism” was a silly creed.
And Baudelaire’s poetry, though tech-
nically accomplished, never had any pre-
tensions to the stature of greatness. His
warmest admirer could hardly submit him
as the equal of a Homer or a Shakspeare.
A silly fellow, and a little fellow, dream-
ing of little sins ; for when the great and
mysterious, most deadly and monstrous
vices were at 'last coldly examined in a
law court at the trial of Oscar Wilde, the
details were as petty as they were squalid.
Satan would hardly have been interested.
It was a shallow cesspool in which the
“doomed generation” drowned itself;
Yeats walked through it unsullied.
A cesspool shallow but evil; a menace
to the weak and a temptation to the cor-
rupt. Baudelaire, says Mr. Gaunt, was
“the complete expression and final result
of thirty decaying years”; and it is certain
that the cult of Satanism did nothing to
check the decay of France. Insofar as
any one man can be, Baudelaire is, as
Mr. Gaunt recognises, the nigger in the
contemporary woodpile.
Mr. Gaunt deals very interestingly with
the relationship between Satanism and
the cult of art for art’s sake, which was
the banner under which marched most of
the English painters and writers who
began to imitate the French in the ’eighties
and ’nineties. A creed harmless in itself,
art for art’s sake ; closer to the real pur-
pose of the arts than the Leftist heresy
of art for politics (which caused Karl
Marx —Mr. Gaunt recalls —to place men
of letters “somewhere between porters
and organ-grinders” in a list of undesir-
able citizens). A simple, delicate, remote,
fastidious creed, favored usually by
simple, delicate, remote fastidious souls
such as Walter Pater; and leading, when
not corrupted, only to something as pretty
and as petty as the worship of Japanese
prints and ginger jars inaugurated by the
aesthete Whistler and the go-getter
Howell;
In these works what appeared to the
Westerner an almost uncanny delicacy, as
strange and detached from everyday life as
if they had dropped from the moon, was a
confirmation, to the men of the Second
Empire, of their theories and longings.
Here was an example of that difficult re-
finement, that aristocratic aloofness in art
which Baudelaire had sought. Here surely
was art for art’s sake, living intensely in
and for itself exactly as Gautier had
imagined it in his poetic enamels and
cameos. There was no subject, or at least
no subject you could understand or need
bother about (which came to much the
same thing). There was no vulgar imita-
tion of nature (how vulgar by comparison
appeared the oil painting of the salon).
But on the contrary a fastidious, deliberate
selection of line, shape and color, made,
beyond question, with the purpose of im-
parting a pure aesthetic satisfaction. The
black-haired dolls, posed inactive and ex-
pressionless in empty box-like rooms, meant
as little in themselves, had the same re-
moteness as the models whose dumb beauty
ornamented the rooms in which Baudelaire
conversed. The wisdom of the Far East
had been conveyed across the sea at the
most opportune moment possible.
“Inactive empty dumb.” Some-
thing more than this vacuous delicacy was
required to satisfy the Japanese soul, as
we have seen in recent years. And some-
thing more than mere aestheticism was
demanded by the aesthetes of France and
England; if not the frenzy of barbarism
and cruelty that was to break out in the
unbalanced east, then at least a yearning
towards it; a hunger for reality that took
the insane form —these were weak, cor-
rupt and little men —of the deliberate pur-
suit of what they admitted to be evil:
In this egoistic vision of ideal beauty
there lurked a poison—the same poison as
in the poems of Baudelaire, from the study
of whom Pater may have imbibed it direct.
It was the sense that something vaguely
evil was to be found at the very centre
of beauty, an evil not to be avoided but to
be embraced and enjoyed (intellectually
and imaginatively) by the writer. An ex-
citement was given to the quest for the per-
fection of the gods by the idea that it
held some corrupt and diabolic secret.
And nature very quickly began to imi-
tate art. Painting and poetry were to
search tor some “core of evil” ; and poets
and painters, because their art was, after
all, an expression of their personalities,
began to practice such evil as they were
capable of. Baudelaire sought his ideal
in opium and his negress ; Verlaine, Rim-
baud, Wilde and the painter Simeon Solo-
mons in perversion; Swinburne in brandy;
Francis Thompson in opium; James
Thomson in drink; Dowson in drink ;
the dwarf Toulouse Lautrec lived his
bizarre, nightmare life in the brothels
of Paris.
Mr. Gaunt carries his pursuit of decad-
ence as far as the “sick-room” world of
the novels of Proust. Doubtless in his
next volume he will have to consider,
among others, Modigliani.
They were in a sense “martyrs,” these
men of the tloomed generation, Mr.
Gaunt maintains. With the old aristo-
cratic order gone, the new civilisation of
the bourgeoisie in France and England
was sunk in a deadly respectability. Re-
jected, despised, the artist flung at the
face of prudery the challenge of Satan-
ism. He sacrificed himself, so that the
arts might be freed and the public
shocked to awareness. The theory has
doubtless its modicum of truth, and the
public that rejected the arts may have
been quite as reprehensible as the artists
who practised their “sins seventy times
seven” —as Swinburne, rather optimisti-
cally, put it. But the “martyrdom” did
the arts —in its immediate effects, at any
rate —more harm than good:
If the trial be considered, apart from all
personal matters, as an aesthetic issue, it
would seem that he [Wilde] had failed
miserably. As a result of it the public
was convinced that Wilde’s books were im-
moral; that if he was a genius he was
an evil genius. They were confirmed in
their belief that a book should inculcate
moral sentiments and that the best authors
were the most respectable.
The movement had the opposite results
from what, interpreting it in the most
favorable light, it intended. Art for art’s
sake (still being practised in poetry
and painting) did nothing to reconcile
the artist to society but rather, in its
latest phase of obscurantism, widened
the gulf. The pursuit of evil, usually dis-
guised these days as “the psycho-
analytical approach” in paint or words, has
only confirmed the wo,wser in his belief
that all freed art (properly a refreshment
of the human spirit) is a menace to
national welfare. The esthetes did not
serve the cause of art: they betrayed it.
They did not infuse into human existence
something gay and gallant, as had Bums
and Byron, but something corrupt,
squalid and miserable. A strong man
can make debauch an adventure ; with
the aesthetes —this was their real sin against
life —it was a surrender. They were, in
a word, effeminate.
Mr. Gaunt does not openly come to
quite so definite a conclusion. After an
interesting discussion of the emergence of
Cezanne, Van Gogh and Gauguin (none of
whom he worships) as latter-day rebels —
surly and solitary fellows, a natural
development from the aesthetes’ pose of
defiance—he sums up;
In some respects it is not a very edify-
ing story There was in total result a
grain of beauty, impossible to weigh and
estimate against the insignificant expenditure
of lives.
It is interesting to see such a survey as
this being written; and having the virtues
as well as the defects of an academic
approach, The Aesthetic Adventure is an
exceptionally good one: comprehensive,
knowledgeable, witty. When surveys are
written a period is ended: there is a little
nigger (with a large negress) in the wood-
pile, and even the academics can see him.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The volume of art and near-art com-
ing off the production belts in Melbourne
almost dwarfs war-time achievements in
munitions mass production, the number
of one-man shows in one recent week in the
modern Athens running into two figures.
One of the most interesting exhibitions
is that of Bernard Lawson (George’s),
who shows the influence of Dobell in his
portraits, but tends to copy the Dobell
technique without having that artist’s
penetration. “Beach Scene” is a lively
study. John P. Morrissey (Kozminsky’s)
and E, Vogel (Leighton’s) exploit the
water-color medium very nicely in un-
pretentious landscapes which, if they owe
something to Harold Herbert, aren’t un-
duly dominated by him. C. Salis Lloyd
(Myer’s) has a quick “Study by Fire-
light” in oils, which suggests that if he
had left off painting his portraits at the
same stage they would have been
fresher and less wooden. L. P. Curtis
(Kozminsky’s Basement) talks in water-
color, but needs to know the language
better. Mrs. Hudson Eastwood (Foy’s)
copies Old Masters, and her results are
amazing, considering she uses water-
colors to do it. She also paints china.
Marguerite Callaway Mahood (Sedon’s)
makes the china, as well as earthernware
figures, filigree and lustre-ware. She
obviously knows a lot about the tech-
nique of firing and glazing but her work,
which is selling like hot cakes, smacks
of the Arts and Crafts school of beauty.
Dick Ovenden at the Velasquez adopts
an original viewpoint. Instead of paint-
ing boats from the shore he paints the
shore from boats and achieves some un
usual effects that way.
“J.F.”: Having lived at Gundaga
.1 was naturally interested in James R
Jackson’s “Country Road, Gundagai,” a
the Blaxland Exhibition in Farmer’s Ga
lery, Sydney. Mr. Jackson painted
bush track and a couple of unpretentiou
red houses with almost embarrassin
fidelity, while the willow-fringed river
the distance placed the locality to within
a mile or two. The hills were disappoint
ing—I had always imagined there wa
something unique about Gundagai’s—
but at least they were recognisable a
hills, which could not be said about the
sky, a bright failure embellished with
strange colors. The Percy Lindsay oils
“Landscape” and “Evening Sky,” seemec
pure Gundagai. It is unlikely such lush
greenness exists • elsewhere, and the hills
were purple with Paterson’s Curse, as wel
as distance. Clouds and cattle in “Even-
ing Sky” were beautifully as they shouk
be. It was the kind of picture I wouk
like to take home and look at often. ]
found only two other pictures which '
would really have liked to hang on
my own walls; Margaret Coen’s “Flowers
in August,” a vivid and harmonious water-
color, and Mary Edwards’s “Alice oi
Bandoeng.” A promising nude by
Garrett Kingsley had an odd combina-
tion of an attractive body and a choco-
late-box face.
At the talkies:
“Northern Pursuit” (Sydney Tatler):
Canadian Mounties rounding up Nazis who
are landed by submarine for a special sabotage
job. Errol Flynn is effective and the Nazis
bite' the snow.
“One Against Seven” (Sydney Lyceum):
Drama in an underground cellar in which are
trapped seven unarmed Germans and two
armed Russians, one a woman. The drama
revolves around the battle of wits between the
leader of the Germans and the Russian soldier.
“Lost in a Harem” (Sydney Capitol): An
Abbott and Costello slapstick, well up to their
usual standard.
“The Brighton Strangler” (Sydney Empire):
Horror stuff echoing “Hangover Square.” A
killer with a split personality spends his time
grasping his forehead to register mental distress
and then diving at windpipes. John Loder does
his best, but it fails to chill.
“Hollywood Canteen” (Sydney Regent): A
bright confection, made up mostly of a variety
of clever turns strung on a thread of romance.
One of the best bits is a farcical exchange be-
tween Jack Benny and violinist Josef Szigeti—
American high-power comedy at its snappiest.
“Son of Lassie” (Sydney Liberty); Eric
Knight’s collie. The story lacks the bite of
“Lassie Come Home,” but is pleasantly filmed
in color. •
“Captain Eddie” (Sydney Plaza): Virtually
the biography of Captain Rickenbacker. The
likeable story is told in flashback technique,
starting from the ’plane crash in raid-Pacific
in 1942. Family scenes ring true, and the
hero appears attractively modest.
“Dear Ruth,” by Norman Krasna,
having its first Australian run at Adel-
aide Royal, is much like the popular
“Kiss and Tell” which started by the
same route. It has a flapper (Gwenda
Wilson), a wisecracking father (Claude
Flemming) and a comic maid (Lily
Moore). The flapper has been corre-
sponding with an unknown soldier, and
has enclosed her big sister’s photo as
her own —whence the usual tangle of mis-
understandings. It amounts to harmless
merriment for the tired businessman; on
the assumption that the businessman likes
topical war comedies that are no longer
topical.
A unique exhibition is the Art of the
Bee at the Velasquez Galleries, Mel-
bourne, sponsored by Tarlton Rayment,
whose A Cluster of Bees was very well
received when it was published by The
Bulletin’s Endeavour Press. The art of
the bee, of course, isn’t art at all, because
art is conscious and a product of thought,
and what the bee does is unconscious and
instinctive, even though its architecture
often looks surprisingly artistic. Included
in the show is a model of the prefabri-
cated dwelling which the Myer Emporium
proposes to sell over its counters. A bee
would like it very well.


•TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
THE SENIOR STORE”
ii
THE
HANDYMANS
COMPLETE SELF
INSTIUCTOa
Australian
Nature HP'-
' Studies 1
Till B> : A. U:ACH, i«,t
ir**" emDS-SFASTS
fishes-plants ,
iWSECTS FOSSILS
,
.
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
USEFUL AND INFORMATIVE BOOKS
ON VARIOUS SUBJECTS
Posted to any address in the British Commonwealth and Empire at the postage rates quoted.
Phone your order to M 2401 any time
day or night, or mail your order on
the couporf attached, quoting the item
numbers of the books you require.
El. THE HANDYMAN’S COMPLETE SELF IN-
STRUCTOR. 13 courses with self-testing ques-
tions and answers on building, house-decorating, wood-
work, electricity, radio, plumbing, etc. 576 pages.
Illustrated. Price 9/6 (Postage, 6|d.)
E 2. DYNAMIC PHYSICS, by Ernest D. Bower and
Edward P. Robinson. A handsome new book
of 854 profusely illustrated pages which makes physics
really interesting. Written by expert American
teachers. Price 20/6 (Postage, 1/0|).
E 3. DYNAMIC BIOLOGY TODAY, by Arthur O.
Baker and Lewis H. Mills. Companion volume to
“Dynamic Physics”—B22 pages. Hundreds of striking
illustrations. Appeals to non-sclentilic readers for its
simplicity, beauty of design and interesting presentation.
Price 20/6 (Postage, l/oi.)
E 4. AUSTRALIAN NATURE STUDIES, by J. A.
Leach, D.Sc. A comprehensive study of birds —
beasts—fishes—plants—insects and fossils. Well illus-
trated in black and white. Price .. 12/6 (Postage,
E 5. THESAURUS OF THE ARTS, by Albert E. Wier.
Drama, music, radio, painting, screen, television,
literature, sculpture, architecture, ballet. Contains more
than 8,500 references. Price .... 42/- (Postage l/0£).
E 6. THE ABC OF BOAT SAILING, by Herbert L.
Stone. Explains concisely the principles that
underlie the art of sailing. Price, 14/- (Postage, 3M.)
E 7. AUDELS NEW AUTOMOBILE GUIDE, by Frank
D. Graham. For mechanics, operators and ser-
vicemen, with questions and answers. Well illustrated.
Price 28/- (Postage, IOJd.)
88. ADVANCED ACCOUNTS, edited R. N. Carter.
M.Com,, F.C.A, Australian and New Zealand
edition. Standard text book. Price, 16/6 (Postage, 1/OJ.)
E 9. ALTERNATING CURRENT ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING, by Philip Kemp. Price, 32/6.
(Postage, lO^d.)
ElO. SOUND PICTURES. MOTION PICTURE PRO-
JECTIONIST’S GUIDE, by James R. Cameron
(U.S.A.). Ninth edition, 1944. Price, 70/3 (Postage, 1/-).
Ell. SERVICING SOUND EQUIPMENT, by James R.
Cameron (U.S.A.). Complete guide to care, opera-
tion and servicing, all sound-reproducing equipment,
sound pictures, public addresses, Radio, Television. Fifth
edition, 1944. Price 70/3 (Postage, 1/-)
El 2. THE AUSTRALIAN LANGUAGE, by Sidney J.
Baker. English language and English speech as
used in Australia from convict days to the present. A
balanced work of scholarship. Price, 21/- (Postage, 81d.)
El 3. AUTOMOTIVE BODY AND FENDER REPAIRS,
by C. E, Packer. Well illustrated. Price, .. 24/-
(Postage, 7£d-)
El 4. THE BRITISH JOURNAL PHOTOGRAPHIC
ALMANAC, 1945, edited by Arthur J. Dalladay,
A.lnst.P. In this volume is incorporated the “Year
Book of Photography,” “Amateur’s Guide” and “The
Photographic Annual.” 32 Gravure Pictures. Price, 6/-
(Postage, 41d.)
El - CIVIL ENGINEERS’ REFERENCE BOOK, by
John ,C. Trautwine ((Civil Engineer). Thumb
indexed. Price 77/- (Postage, B^d.)
El 6. CARPENTRY, by Gilbert Townsend, S.B. ' A
practical treatise on simple building construction,
including framing, roof construction, general carpentry
work, etc. Illustrated. Price .... 25/9 (Postage 74d.)
El 7. CLASSING THE CLIP, by Clarence E. Cowley.
A handbook on wool-classing. Price .... 12/6
(Postage, sid.)
ElB. ELECTRIC LIGHTING, by Alfred H. Avery,
A.M.I.E.E. A practical guide to the wiring of
houses and the Installing of electric-light plants. Fully
illustrated by line drawings. Price .. 2/9 (Postage, 2M.)
El 9. ELEMENTS OF YACHT DESIGN, by Norman L.
Skene. A handbook for both amateur and profes-
sional, which presents clearly the operations involved
in the designing of yachts of all types. Price .... 36/-
(Postage, 9Jd.)
820. ELEMENTARY QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
FOR MARINE ENGINEERS AND NAVIGATING
OFFICERS, by Tod and Mac Gibbon. Fully illustrated.
Price 23/9 (Postage, 6id.)
E2l. ENGLISH IDIOMS, by James M. Dixon, M.A. An
alphabetical dictionary of idioms with examples
of their use culled from works of famous writers.
Invaluable to writers. Price 4/9 (Postage, 3^d.)
E 22. EVERYBODY’S FAMILY DOCTOR. Subjects
arranged alphabetically for quick reference. 16
plates and many informative diagrams. 576 pages.
Price 10/- (Postage, 7^d.)
E 23. FARM MACHINERY, by C. Culpin, M.A.,
Dip.Agric. An informative book for both the
farmer and the student of agriculture. This edition
has been revised and greatly extended to take all war-
time developments into consideration. Price .... 33/3
(Postage, 10M-)
E 24. SANDERS’ ENCYCLOPAEDIA OF GARDENING.
A comprehensive guide to the culture and propa-
gation of plants, trees, shrubs, orchids, fruit, vegetables
and hot-house plants, etc. Illustrated with plant por-
traits from Ato Z. Price 23/9 (Postage, Bid.)
E 25. GENERAL HISTORY, by P. Van Ness Myers.
Ancient, mediaeval and modern history. Pro-
fusely Illustrated. Price 21/6 (Postage, 6Jd.)
E 26. the HIGHROADS DICTIONARY. a reliable
English Dictionary for school use. Price .. 3/5
(Postage, 41d.)
E 27. HIGHLIGHTS OF ASTRONOMY, by Walker
Bartky. A first-class, ’well-illustrated, easy to
-read book for general readers. Contains a number of
notable celestial photographs. Price, 22/6 (Postage, 7Jd.).
E2B. A HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT, by
Erich Roll. Revised and enlarged edition. In-
valuable to students of economics. Price 28/6
(Postage, sld-)
E 29. INTRODUCTION TO NAVAL ARCHITECTURE,
by John P. Comstock. Explaining the funda-
mentals of theoretical naval architecture. Well illus-
trated with designs and diagrams. Price- 38/-
Postage, C4d.)
E3O. MAN AND THE VERTEBRATES, by Alfred S.
Romer. A scientific story of the hack-boned
animals, dealing *frith the gradual evolution from the
origins of life in marine water, down to the physiology
of the human body. Striking illustrations. Price .. 35/6
(Postage, 1/0 J.)
E3l. A MANUAL OF CARPENTRY AND JOINERY,
by J. W. Riley. Featuring tools and woodwork-
ing, also numerous pictorial diagrams of details of
construction. Price 14/3 (Postage, 63d.)
E 32. GREGORY’S MODERN BUILDING PRACTICE,
by G. F. G. Mackey. A manual for students and
others. Price ’. 7/6 (Postage, 34d.)
E 33. MODERN CLOCKS, by T. R. Robinson. Their
repair and maintenance. Price, 12/6 (Postage, Did.)
ES4. MODERN SHOPFITTERS’ HANDBOOK, by
W. E. Swanson. Covering blueprint reading, mold
loft and structural shop work, anglesmithing, assembly
of sections, welding, riveting, etc. Profusely illustrated
Price 17/6 (Postage, 53d.)
E 35. MODERN RADIO SERVICING, by Alfred A.
Ghirardi. A practical text on the theory, con-
struction and use of modern radio servicing equipment.
706 illustrations. Price 40/- (Postage, 1/23)
E 36. RADIO TROUBLESHOOTERS’ HANDBOOK, by
Alfred A. Ghirardi. Companion book to “Modern
Radio Servicing.” Covers 75 essential subjects. 741
pages. Price 40/- (Postage, l/43d.).
E 37. NON-FERROUS PRODUCTION METALLURGY,
by John L. Bray. Price 44/3 (Postage, 103 d.)
E3B. CAMERON’S ENCYCLOPAEDIA SOUND
MOTION PICTURES. 2000 words, phrases, terms,
etc., defined and explained. Paper covers. 1945 edition.
Price 33/- (Postage, 33d.)
E 39. CAMERON’S SOUND MOTION PICTURES.
Recording and Reproducing. Fifth edition, 1945.
Price 70/3 (Postage, 73d.)
E4O. FIG RAISING ILLUSTRATED, by L. A. Downey,
H.D.A., Pig Expert. Designed to illustrate eco-
nomic pig raising. Price 2/6 (Postage, 23d.)
E4l. THE PRACTICAL BUILDER, edited by R.
Greenhalgh. A comprehensive and authoritative
guide to all the latest methods of building practice.
With over 500 drawings, diagrams and photographs.
Price 15/3 (Postage, 93d.)
E 42. PROSPERITY AND DEPRESSION, by Gottfried
Haberler. A theoretical analysis of cyclical
movements. Price 18/4 (Postage, 93d.)
843. PSYCHOLOGY, by William McDougall. The
study of behaviour. (Home University Library.)
Price 4/3 (Postage, 33d.)
E 44. RADIO PHYSICS COURSE, by Alfred A.
Ghirardi, E.E. A complete up-to-date, authorita-
tive course which explains concisely, everything about
sound, electricity, radio, public address, phototubes,
television and sound motion pictures. Price .... 40/-
(Postage, 1/44.)
E 45. RADIOTRON DESIGNER’S HANDBOOK, edited
F. Langford Smith. Prepared expressly for the
radio set designer, but invaluable to radio engineers,
experimenters and service mechanics. Price 5/-
(Postage, 53d.)
E 46. REED’S PRACTICAL MATHEMATICS FOR
MARINE ENGINEERS. First and second class.
By Herbert H. R. Daish. Sixth edition. Price ... 55/-
(Postage, 1/03.)
E 47. RADIO ENGINEERS’ HANDBOOK, by F. E.
Terman, Sc.D. A reference book summarising the
body of engineering knowledge that is the basis of radio
and electronics. Price 46/6 nett (Postage, 1/OJ.)
E4B. VAN NOSTRAND’S SCIENTIFIC ENCYCLO-
PEDIA. A most comprehensive reference book on
science and its practical applications. 1230 pages, 1200
line, half-tone and colour illustrations. Price 70/-
(Freight 'extra.)
E 49. PITMAN’S BUSINESS TYPEWRITING, by
Frederick Heelis. Typewriters are now univer-
sally used by literary and professional workers. This
book provides material for self tuition. Price .... 3/3
(Postage, 43d.)
E5O. THE smallholder encyclopaedia.
Covers poultry, fruits, vegetables, flowers, bees,
livestock, butter and cheese-making, etc. Price 13/9
(Postage, 63d.)
Books, Second Floor.
ORDER COUPON (E)
' ANTHONY HORDERN & SONS LTD.,
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY
Please send me the books whose numbers
I list below:
Name....
Address
Cash, £ enclosed, ] Strike out
Charge to my account. J i One
Signed
HORDERNS’
Low Prices
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


THE PLANK
By “STANDBY.”
DOWN through the coconut palms
and out on to the white, sunny
beach came Old Alf, two alert
little fox terriers trotting at his
heels. At the edge of the line of shells
marking the limit of high water he
paused, his shirt tails flapping in the
breeze and his sturdy, well-rounded figure
looking as much a part of the landscape
as the graceful swaying palms or the boats
moored in the creek.
The first thing you noticed about Old
Alf was his long, flowing white mous-
tache. Even in the distance it drew
your attention ; a fine, full-bodied mous-
tache that any man could be proud of,
it swept in a smiling curve from his nose
right to his ears, and curled so far down
over his mouth that it blew in and out
as he talked. After his moustache you
noticed that his ancient, patched, grey
flannel shirt, instead of being tucked into
his khaki trousers, hung flapping almost
to his knees. “It’s a lot cooler that way,”
he would explain.
His wife must have liked color and
variety, for she never put a grey patch
on a grey garment. It might be khaki or
it might be blue or even a gaily-sprigged
piece of material from one of her own
cast-off dresses. Never, by any chance,
would it be grey. Old Alf could easily
have afforded new clothes, but he saw
no reason why he should throw away his
old ones. He was completely unselfcon-
scious about his looks, and his wife would
have been shocked at the idea of throw-
ing away a shirt that could still be
patched even if it were now more patches
than original garment.
But you didn’t look at the flapping shirt
or even the multi-colored patches for
long. Your attention would be drawn
back to his face. In spite of his age,
and he must have been in his seventies,
his eyes were young and bright. Blue,
smiling eyes that appraised you from
under his shaggy white eyebrows. He
didn’t miss much.
For a few minutes he stood watching
the boats swinging to their moorings as
the flood tide swirled up the creek, and
then, caressing his flowing moustache
thoughtfully, he came over to where I
was seated on the bottom of an upturned
dinghy. Something was worrying him, I
realised, for he was not smiling as he
approached, nor was he shouting greet-
ings. Usually he got in his “Good-day”
as soon as he hove in sight and began
talking when he was half a cable off,
“What’s on your mind, Alf?” I asked.
“Are you afraid she might break away
from her moorings?”
“No, Skipper,” he answered, looking
out to where his own little motor-boat
tugged gently at her heavy mooring chain.
“That chain’ll hold her. But she’s leakin’
a bit, and I was wonderin’ if you’d have
a look at her for me, an’ all.”
Because I was a professional seaman
Old Alf valued my opinion in all things
nautical. It was useless for me to point
out that the local fishermen knew far
more about wooden boats than I did. Alf
wouldn’t listen to me. “Them blokes!”
he snorted, “They don’t know no more
nor I do, an’ all. If I ever got sick, which
I don’t. I’d go to a bloke as had studied
doctorin’, and when I want advice about
me boat I ask a bloke as had studied
sailorin’.”
AT high water we got the boat up on
to the beach and, with the help of a
couple of others, turned her right over.
It was not a difficult job, for she was
only an open sixteen-footer with a small
marine motor. The average man would
not have spared her a second glance, and,
whilst I admired her staunch timbers, to
me she was just an ordinary sturdy, well-
built little craft. To Old Alf, however,
she was a thing of beauty, something to
be handled and looked after with loving
care, something that represented the very
best «f this new and happy life he was
living. For Alf had only recently retired.
He had made money out of cane farm-
ing and sheer hard work, and now he’d
retired. He loved the sea, and he bought
a block of land right on the foreshore
and built a house on it. It was the best
house and the best situation in that little
seaside resprt. He could lie on his bed
on the verandah and watch the boats
swinging to their moorings in the creek.
By turning his head he could look out
through the waving palms to the wide
dancing ocean with its islands lying blue
in the distance. He could watch the long
rollers turning from blue to pale green, then
to white as they lifted and broke across
the bar. Not that Old Alf spent many
of his days lying on his bed. Life to him
was far too full of interest for that.. No
day was long enough to do all the things
he wanted to do and see all the things
that were waiting to be seen.
He had the little boat built for fishing.
He didn’t want anything big and luxuri-
ous, he explained to the boatbuilder. Just
something in which he could putter out
to the near-by reefs and fish on fine days;
something that wouldn’t take too much
looking after. “An’ build her strong,”
he added. “I’m an old man, but I got a
few years in me yet, and I want her to
last me out.”
When the tide went out I went over
the boat with a hammer and pricker,
sounding and testing her from stem to
stern, and all the time Old Alf looked
on anxiously. “You don’t think the
cobra’s got in to ’er, do you. Skipper?”
he asked.
“As far as I can see,” I said, when
I’d finished, “there’s only one bad spot in
her. It’s in this plank.” I marked a sec-
tion about fifteen inches long. “I don’t
think it’s cobra ; I’d say it was borer.
The rest of the plank is quite sound.”
“What’s the best thing to do about it?”
he asked.
“Get a boatbuilder down from town
and have a new plank put in,” I answered.
Old Alf sucked thoughtfully at his mous-
tache and ran his hand lovingly along
the plank. “I wouldn’t like to do that,”
he said. “Ain’t there no other way we
could fix her? You reckon all the rest of
the plank is sound.”
“So it is,” I looked at his sturdy figure
and youthful blue eyes. “It’ll see you
out, Alf, my lad. If you don’t let any
more worms get into it it will be sound
when you’re dead.”
Alf laughed, and a great load seemed
to have been lifted from his mind. “A
man couldn’t wish for better nor that,”
he said. “I won’t have no use for a boat
where I’m going. Ain’t there no way of
patchin’ her up temporary like?”
I couldn’t understand his attitude, for
he could easily have afforded the fitting
of a new plank or a whole new bottom
for that matter, but I was quite willing
to do anything 1 could to please him. “We
could patch her up,” I answered. “But
we’d have to poison this patch of borer
first.”
Alf had plenty of arsenic up at the
house, so we set to work. We mixed up
a strong solution of arsenic, and when
the sun had dried out the planking we
saturated the wor.m-eaten spot with the
poison. We found a piece of light pine,
cut it down to the right size, bevelled
the edges and gave it a coat of red lead.
The following morning we put it on.
Using plenty of red lead as a filler, we
nailed the patch securely into position.
“Hardly a shipwright’s job,” I said as
we wiped the red lead off our hands. I
used a lump of cotton waste I’d brought
along for the purpose, and was about to
offer it to Alf when I saw that he was
using the front flap of his shirt. “You
may have to renew that patch in a year
or so, but in the meantime I don’t think
she’ll leak.”
“That’s a good bit of work. Skipper,”
Old Alf declared.
FROM that day a slight change came
over Old Alf. It was so slight and
came so gradually that for a long time
no one noticed it. He still lived the same
happy life. On fine days he would putter
out to the fishing grounds. Whether he
caught fish or not didn’t greatly matter
to him.
“Never, got a bite,” he would some-
times say, his blue eyes dancing with
pleasure/ “But it was bonzer out there
You got no idea how blue them islands
looked from where I was. An’ I seen
that old' turtle again, the one with all
the barnacles on him. I ain’t seen him
for weeks now. Thought he must of
cleared out an’ all.”
Nor was he selfish in his pleasures.
There was always room for someone in
the boat, and even if you didn’t have a
line Alf would always have some spares.
It was Alf’s bait net that supplied most
of the bait for the amateur fishermen
who came down for the week-ends. On
Saturday mornings he would rope in a
couple of lads and “drag the creek.” The
lads, of course, wore bathing togs, but
Alf’s sole alteration of dress before enter-
ing the water was to tuck his shirt in.
Once a startled mullet had got up under
his shirt, and, to Alf’s way of thinking,
had acted with all the force of a thresher
shark entangled in a net before Old Alf
finally pinned it under his left armpit.
Days when it was too rough to fish and
no bait was needed would be the dogs’
days. With the fox terriers scampering
ahead and his shirt tails flapping merrily
in the breeze he would roam for miles
along the beaches or over the scrub-
covered hills. The foxies seemed to know
as soon as he walked down the steps that
this was to be their day. Whether it was
to be the beaches or the hills the day
would be just as exciting for them as it
was interesting for Alf. While he col-
lected sea shells they chased seagulls or
sand-pipers. In the hills there was always
a wallaby or a kangaroo-rat to chase
after, or sometimes only a mouldy-look-
ing old swamp pheasant slinking through
the undergrowth. But whatever it was
the result was always the same. The sea
birds would take to wing at the critical
moment, the wallaby or the rat would
vanish mysteriously, and even the pheas-
ant would flap clumsily up into the
nearest tree. Pahting heavily, pink tongues
slobbering and pleasure showing all over
their wriggling bodies, the foxies would
come bouncing back for Alf’s never-fail-
ing congratulations. “By cripes,” he
would say as he patted the heaving chests,
“you nearly got him that time. You gave
him a hell of a fright an’ all.” He knew
every bird in the bush and every shell on
the shore, yet each day held fresh pleasure
for him.
AFTER the discovery of the wormeaten
plank he still did all these things,
getting just as much enjoyment out of
them as ever, but he spent more and more
time with his boat. It wasn’t that he
fished more —he’d always fished when the
weather was favorable —but he just pot-
tered about her. Where he’d formerly
been content to leave her in the water
for months at a time he now got her up
on the beach and turned her over every
five or six weeks. He’d do this on Sun-
day when there were plenty of helpers
around, but he’d seldom start work on
her till the following morning. At day-
light on Monday when the beach was de-
serted he would start scraping and scrub-
bing, and then as the sun dried the plank-
ing out he’d apply the anti-fouling paint.
He’d scrape away at the tiny half-formed
barnacles and weed and sit breathing in
the strong stale smell of them, that sour
smell of rotting marine growths that
comes wafting off the reefs when the
tide has uncovered them. He’d sit there,
scraper in hand, until the foxies would
become impatient and spring up beside
him. “All right, all right,” he would say,
patting them lovingly. “Can’t you see I’m
busy, an’ all? Why don’t you go and
chase them seagulls? Hop down now
and let me get on with me work.”
He’d finish the scraping and examine
the patch carefully, tapping it with the
back of the scraper until satisfied that it
was sound. He seemed to find something
comforting in the strong, bitter smell of
the anti-fouling paint. Perhaps it sym-
bolised something that could stay the
hand of time and decay.
Sometimes when the strong sou’-easter
would be blowing outside he’d return
early from his walk with the dogs and
stand at the edge of the creek gazing out
at his boat. “Come on,” he’d say after
a few minutes. “Well go for a row.”
He’d drag the dinghy down to the
water, whistle the foxies aboard and row
out to his boat. As soon as the dinghy
bumped alongside the dogs would spring
aboard the bigger boat and scramble up
to the bows. Three feet back from the
stem the boat was decked in and here
they’d lie, noses on paws that just hung
over the sides, and watch the silvery
flicker of the herring moving up the
creek. Right amidships was the tiny
boxed-in motor, and just aft of it was a
plain thwart that could seat two fisher-
men. Old Alf would sit on the sugar-
bag stuffed with kapok in the stern caress-
ing his flowing white moustache, look-
ing over his boat and living over again
the happy days he’d spent in her.
There was the time he’d caught his
first schnapper; a beauty that weighed
eleven pound cleaned. And did he put up
a fight? And then there was the time
he’d hooked the twelve-foot shark and
that doctor fellow had begged him to cut
the line and let the brute go. Sitting up
there where the dogs were now, the
doc. had urged him to cut before the brute
turned the boat over. But he hadn’t cut
him loose. He’d played the shark to a
standstill and towed him home behind
the boat for everyone to see. Man, he’d
had some great times in this little boat,
and if he lasted a few years longer he’d
have a lot more. And, by crikey, they
would last, too, both he and the boat.
Not even to himself would he admit that
the faulty plank had begun to have a
very real meaning to him. It was a
measure of his life, and as long as he
could preserve the plank he would live to
enjoy himself. Put a new plank in?
Nonsense. The old one was as sound as
he was.
BUT even with constant care and paint-
ing a light pine patch will not last
very long in tropical waters, and the
day came when the boat began to leak
again. -
It was a Saturday morning when Old
Alf discovered it —a fine calm morning
just made for fishing. He dragged for
bait, put most of it aside for the week-
end visitors and took a small tin of it
out to the boat. He saw the water at
once, and when he mopped it up a little
more oozed in. It wasn’t much of a
leak, probably not a billy-full in twenty-
four hours, but somehow Alf didn’t feel
like fishing after he discovered it. “Not
feelin’ too good today,” he told his wife.
“Don’t think I’ll go fishin’. Must be get-
tin’ a touch of the ’flu.”
On Sunday he got the boat up on the
beach and rang the man who had built
her. He was standing on the sand by
his upturned boat when the builder
arrived. The two fox terriers were sitting
at his feet and the fresh sea breeze draw-
ing up the creek was billowing up under
his patched shirt till it increased his girth
to enormous proportions. His greeting
was subdued, a mere nod instead of his
usual boisterous “Good day,” and he
came straight to the point.
“I want you to take that patch off,”
he said, “and test that there plank.”
And then like a man screwing up his
courage to ask a doctor for a verdict he
fears, “Test her all over and let me know
how sound she is.”
‘ The boatbuilder made a thorough ex-
amination and all the while Old Alf
watched him anxiously.
“Well?” he asked quietly when the
inspection was completed. “What’s the
verdict, an’ all?”
“Sound as the day I built her,” the boat-
builder announced, “except for that one
small spot. I’ll have her as good as new
for you by tomorrow night. I’ll rip that
plank out now and go home and cut a
new one.” _ .
“Oh, no, you won’t!” This was no
feeble, half-fearful old man, but a sturdy,
vigorous man in the prime of life. ou
leave that there plank be. I don’t care
what it costs but all I want you to do is
to put a new patch on. I’ve got no time
to wait for a new plank to be cut. I
want to go fishin’ tomorrow, an all.
Sea-madness.
The rocks’ black sheep grazing beside
the sea
In eternal green pastures which at certain
seasons
Are snowed with the white daisy foam,
The sheep-dog headland relieving me
Of the need to watch rocks grazing, are
reasons
For one more glimpse of the sea; then
to go home.
For I was born never to live by the sea,
But to sail in a rumbling dray through
brown paddocks, toSsed
On the crest of a ridge, or a petrified
wave.
And a voyage with stars in the rigging
of a tree.
Racing before a gust of sunset, then lost
In the night’s sargasso, for me would
have
More spirit of adventure than to sail an
island of palms
Through immobile seas. For, beyond
the harbors of stars, •
On a moonless night, I have known
More loneliness in the West; and then
my qualms,
Detached as air, put off no bobbing,,spars
From shipwrecks, loosed to rescue me;
but from the blood alone
I grasped that line, that memory of old
moorings.
That magpie call from 1 the past, which
drew me back
Out of deepest despair, out of darkness,
into desire again.
And if I have hated the sea, and even
abhorring
Its incessant story, have struggled to paint
it black.
With its dumb rocks, its verdigris plain.
It is because of a calling, a longing in
me.
And a faith that walks the land, as One
the sea.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


The Bulletin
Vo!. 6R—No. 3431
Wednesday, November 14, 1945
SOMETHING ROTTEN IN THE STATE....
"It had been announced that Stalin would attend and apeak at the Moscow celebrations of the Revolution anniversary. His unexplained absence and silence caused
so surprise that when Molotov advanced to the tribune the people forgot to applaud.”
"But, comrades, the show must go on. And we are unavoidably obliged to play ‘Hamlet’ without the Prince.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street. Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
"Co-operative" Indonesians.
Nelson’s blind eye was a poor thing beside
the optics of some of those charged with
the task of observing the Indonesian situa-
tion in the process of attending to Aus-
tralia’s international interests.
Those of Mr. Makin, for example. “A
pattern-maker by trade,” and a life-
long pacifist, Mr. Makin was naturally
appointed the local equivalent of a First
Lord of the Admiralty in the Sir Joseph
Porter tradition. To Mr. Makin’s De-
partment of the Navy was assigned the
job of transferring a rowdy mob of Indo-
nesians away from these shores, after it
had been farewelled under a flag of Japa-
nese design by bawling Communists. Mr.
Makin saw the Indonesians as “entirely
co-operative.” He let out the fact that
the travellers went home on their own
initiative, and that they had been
offered the option of being taken from
Australia, at least temporarily, to one of
the Australian territories.
It Is illustrative of the coma into which
the Commonwealth has fallen that this
remarkable disclosure drew no protest
from any quarter. Labor used to be keen
on a White Australia, and it now pro-
fesses that its heart bleeds for the natives
of Mandated New Guinea, but appar-
ently it was all right with Labor that a
gang of colored, knife-wielding Commu-
nist leaders, some of whom had been
detained for security purposes for years
after they helped to stain the soil of Java
with the blood of insurrection," should
go with a private army to Australian ter-
ritories, where they could corrupt the
natives and win them to the sort of antics
in which their compatriots in Java have
been involved —the sticking of persons
who disagree with them, male and female,
against walls to be murdered ; the brutal,
cold-blooded killing of British officers
bent on missions of mercy under a white
flag; the dismemberment of the bodies
of whites whom they had slaughtered.
Then there is Mr. Makin’s colleague,
Mr. Calwell, with his personal assur-
ance that “the attitude of the Indonesians
was co-operative and not menacing”:
At no stage of the voyage of the Esper-
ance Bay was a threatening attitude adopted
by the Indonesians, although certain dis-
content arose when the ship called at Koe-
pang and it was desired that 40 men should
be asked to leave the vessel following rep-
resentations from the South East Asia
command.
“H.M.A.S. Arunta,” Mr. Calwell pro-
ceeded, had “accompanied the Esperance
Bay from Darwin.” And the Indonesians
“had been promised by the Government
before they left Australia that they would
not be handed over to the Dutch, but
taken in a non-Dutch vessel and landed
at ports of their own choosing.”
All this was capped by Mr. Chifley,
who declared that there had never been
any threat of mutiny on the Esperance
Bay; that H.M.A.S. Arunta had never
been called for as an escort by the master
of the Esperance Bay; that at no stage
was there any danger either to the ship
or to Allied personnel, as all necessary
precautions were taken. Mr. Chifley could
find no evidence that arms had been taken
on board by the colored passengers,
though it was reasonable to.suspect that
there might be “small arms of no real
consequence in their baggage.” The bag-
gage had not been searched, be-
cause it had been thought “undesirable to
provoke these men, who were returning
voluntarily and fully co-operating with
the authorities.”
It would likewise have been “undesir-
able” from Mr. Chifley’s point of view
to provoke the Communist leaders who
were busy “organising” the Indonesians,
and of whom he and his crowd are mor-
tally afraid. And, though “the possibility
of mutiny never arose,” it had been
thought necessary to send along as escort
the Arunta, a Tribal-class destroyer, plus
‘TOO military and 50 naval guards who
were embarked at Koepang, not to men-
tion the 40 D.E.M.S. ratings on board.”
The Prime Minister did not say that the
guards went merely for a sea-holiday, but
he seemed to imply it; and he was hurt
that the issue should be obscured by “un-
warranted criticism and irresponsible
statements.”
Some of this came from the master
and officers of the Esperance Bay, as re-
ported by Australian and British corre-
spondents at Batavia. When the ship’s
officers were asked if the Indonesians
were co-operative and not menacing, they
shouted “Co-operative! Good God,
No! ” And they said the Arunta had been
sent at the request of the captain of the
Esperance Bay; that as a result of sus-
picious behavior between ship and shore
at Koepang the Arunta trained her guns
on the deck of the Esperance Bay, to
which an armed Australian guard was
sent; that 19 Communist leaders had been
ordered ashore by S.E.A.C. Command, in
control of areas which still hold hundreds
of thousands of Japanese troops ; and
that the Indonesians threatened that if
force were used they would resist, even
when the Arunta came close alongside
with ratings at action stations, armed with
tommy-guns and rifles.
But Mr. Chifley is “satisfied.” He was
silent about if not satisfied with the
Communist demonstration against the
friendly Dutch soldiers cooped aboard
another British vessel, the Stirling
Castle, in Sydney Harbor, not hav-
ing been “allowed to land” because the
“Australian Communist party” (the “Gov-
ernment” acquiescing) refused the hospi-
tality of these once-hospitable shores to
men who fought the Germans in Holland
when Communists were shouting that the
invasion of Holland was justified because
Russia’s partner had been compelled to
forestall an Allied landing there.
The Sydney demonstration was a typi-
cal Communist larrikin display, which
aroused the indignation of R.A.A.F. men
who had travelled with the objects of it
on the Stirling Castle. One of the
Netherlanders against whom the rabble
booed met on the ship an Australian
whom, as our lad testified, he had per-
sonally saved. He had 28 times risked a
firing squad or worse to secrete Allied
servicemen who had come down in occu-
pied Netherlands territory. And it is on
record that many of the gallant spirits
who came back from Arnhem owed their
lives to the heroism of Dutch people
of both sexes, who helped them across
the river running red with their comrades’
blood —seven-ninths of the men of Arn-
hem became casualties. It would have
gone hard for the larrikin mob had the
Dutch and the R.A.A.F. men got ashore.
As it was, firehoses were turned on the
Communist hoodlums (to the old Light
Horse Colonel Bruxner, “curs, miserable,
noisy, useless curs”), and plates and othei
missiles were thrown at them —bouncing
off their hides.
It is a wonder that the Government
should have the face to discriminate in
favor of these Indonesians and defend
their “co-operative” behavior considering
what it knows or should know about the
origins and nature of the “national move-
ment.” And if Mr. Calwell doesn’t know
he hasn’t troubled to read his own de-
partmental reports.
There is evidence that the “movement”
was developed by the Japanese at the
stage at which the A.I.F. invaded the
Dutch East Indies, and Tokyo became
convinced that the war was lost. There
is evidence even that it provided troops
who killed Australians.
The facts are that in April, 1945,
when it seemed certain that Germany was
beaten, Shigenori Togo, the Japanese
Foreign Minister, called a conference of
“Greater East Asia Ambassadors” at
Tokyo, At that conference it was pro-
posed that there should be organised “the
quickest solid expression of independence
of the countries of Annam, Cambodia
and Luang Prabang.” In effect, this inde-
pendence movement was well on the way
.to organisation when peace came, and
it was armed and trained to resist the
Allies.
These objectives were supported by
resolutions and a joint statement was
issued accusing Britain and the United
State of “interfering in the domestic
affairs of other nations to perpetrate
their hegemony over the whole world,”
whereas the “United Greater East Asia
Nations” pledged themselves “to consoli-
date and fight the war to complete
victory for the construction of a true
world order based on common war aims.
Furthermore, the conference voiced the
“renewed determination of the Greater
East Asia Nations” to “fight against the
Anglo-Americans to the end.”
On April 30 a Batavia broadcast in
English stated that the Japanese Com-
mander-in-Chief in Java, Lieutenant-
General Nagano, had announced the
establishment of “a preparatory com-
mittee of Indonesian independence.” It is
not without interest that the Japanese had
at the moment become convinced that
the Australian invasion was imminent;
and Lieut.-General Nagano is the officer
who claimed last week that in October
he had been forced to give arms to the
Indonesians by their threat to murder
Dutch, British and Eurasian women and
children. Nagano’s announcement of the
formation of the committee of Indonesian
independence was made after a week’s
tour of Java, and a few days after his
appointment to the command. According
to Mr. Calwell’s Department of Infer-
mation, as stated in “a weekly review of
incoming short-wave broadcasts,”
The committee has a chairman and two
vice-chairmen and 60 members. Seven
Japanese Government officials are attached
as extraordinary members. The chairman
and vice-chairmen are comparatively un-
known men. Soekarno and Mahomet Hatta,
who have been much publicised as Indone-
sian leaders in Java, under the Japanese,
are merely members of the committee. Ihe
Japanese members have been appointed in
order to maintain the necessary contact
between the committee and the military
administration.
Earlier, on April 30, it had been an-
nounced from Batavia that Malay
would be the official language, and would
be known as “Indonesian,” that the word
“Indonesians” would be used to describe
the inhabitants, and that the Indonesian
flag would fly beside the Japanese flag--
which, as recorded later, it did.
The Japanese Naval Administration at
Macassar announced regulations for the
formation of advisory councils for
Celebes, Ceram, South Borneo and Lesser
Sunda “as a step towards the realisation
of Indonesian independence in keeping
with Japan’s long-announced aims.” The
councils were to be “entrusted with the
task of making constructive suggestions
in the political and administrative sphere.”
On May 5, 1945, an East Asiatic
Federation was announced to have
been organised in Borneo, with H.Q.
at Pontianac and branches in other parts
of Borneo. “Indonesian, Chinese, Arab
and other groups” were declared to be
“preparing for independence,” and 'they
pledged themselves “to carry on with the
war to its successful consummation.”
Australian soldiers were then fighting on
Tarakan.
There was issued the same day in
Batavia a manifesto urging Eurasians to
feel that Indonesia was their native coun-
try, and to “fight or die for Greater
Japan.” And the Macassar Provincial
Advisory Council concluded its session
on May 2 by “reaffirming its conviction
in victory for the East Asiatic nations,”
and “all Islamic associations were amal-
gamated into a powerful federation with
H.Q. at Macassar.”
Then came a Tokyo broadcast (May
12):- **
Last week a group of Indonesian Volun-
teer Corps soldiers, led by a Japanese war- •
rant officer, launched a shock attack on
the enemy (at Tarakan) and killed 40-odd
Aussies. During the return journey to their
base they met an enemy (Australian) tank.
With hand grenades and their spears they
counter-attacked. One of them jumped
on the tank and thrust the spear The
terrified Aussies who manned the tank sur-
rendered.
Here then are the facts. At the end
of April, when the Japanese were about
to indulge in the most dreadful atrocity
committed in the war, the wholesale
slaughter which wiped out the last of the
2500 Australians in the Sandakan camp,'
who already had been reduced to the con-
dition of living skeletons by torture, star-
vation and every horror that a barbarous
enemy could inflict on captives, Soekarno
and Hatta, leaders who can do no wrong
in the eyes of Communists, were col-
laborating to the full with the Japanese
in Java, in Borneo and elsewhere.
It will be noted that these Indonesians
were Allied subjects. They were under
allegiance to the Government of the
Netherlands. Yet they went hand in
hand, pledged to the defeat of the United
Nations and of Australia, with torturers
and murderers whose acts in Borneo cost
Australian homes, wives, mothers and
sweethearts over 2000 of the flower of
our youth, destroyed like dogs while
the Soekarno-Hatta conspirators accepted
from the murderers their name, their
flag and their “ethics,” and voted enthu-
siastically to support the murderers’
ideals. And the evidence of their com-
plicity exists in the records of Mr. Cal-
well’s department.
There seems little doubt (if the broad-
casts stated fact) that the arming of these
treacherous ruffians began at the time of
the Greater East Asian Ambassadors’
conference and the formation of the Inde-
pendence Committee, and that arms
were given by the Japanese specifically
to resist the A.I.F. and accepted specifi-
cally to kill Australians —some of whom
have been reported killed and wounded
by Indonesians in Macassar within the
past three weeks, though not from official
sources. .
In effect, Soekarno, Hatta and their
associates were traitors to the Allied
cause: at the best, collaborators ; at the
worst, war criminals, approving, aiding
and abetting a brutal conqueror in the
task of murdering and torturing the
saviours of the Netherlands East Indies.
In the circumstances, it was to be ex-
pected that the Commonwealth Govern-
ment would have demanded that every In-
donesian against whom there was prima
facie evidence of collaboration, including
Soekarno and Hatta, would be seized and
held for trial as war criminals.
But the Commonwealth Government
has done nothing of the kind. Instead, it
has been the means of sending reinforce-
ments to Soekarno and Hatta, thus weak-
ening the position of the British holding
force in Java and adding to the peril of
every white prisoner and woman and
child in the Dutch islands. And it has
committed itself to what may be con-
strued as moral support for a Communist
republic at Australia’s front door.
Trains and 'Planes.
Because of the war people in Australia
got used to putting up with all sorts of
inconveniences and discomforts. Prob-
ably feeling that they were lucky to have
nothing worse to suffer, they have stood
up to their comparatively minor tribula-
tions very well. They have taken down-
right rudeness from shopkeepers and
tradespeople. They have accepted the
same, even when it became abuse, from
so-called “public servants.” They have
endured hoglike conditions in pubs,
often with the thought that Bung was
making such untaxed profits in the black
market that he did not care whether
they patronised him or not. And wait-
ing in queues became merely the ex-
pected, normal thing to do.
All this and the rest have generally
been taken patiently, at least by the men
—women, having had a great deal more
to put up with, have been much more
resentful. The male Australian is mostly
so easygoing that he can be relied on to
endure for years even Governments that
do not govern, or that govern only in
the interests of their own supporters.
There will presently be a mighty
change in this state of things. There is
some change for the better noticeable
already—in private-enterprise concerns.
In Government-controlled concerns the
attitude still holds that the public will
put up with what it has been putting up
with indefinitely.
N. S. Wales Government railways
must rank at very high priority among
the worst examples. The travel con-
ditions prevailing today on some of its
lines would be quite incredible to all who
have not sampled them. Those in search
of experience of what Government-run
concerns can become should book a trip
on one of these lines. They will be
astounded, not merely by the rattletrap
carriages and generally poor service
which the war might fairly be debited
with having brought about, but also by
filthiness that has to be experienced to
be believed possible.
To give a specific, experienced example
—the day train to Kempsey, on the North
Coast. When this trip was undertaken
a couple of weeks ago the dogbox com-
partment —labelled on the outside “First
Class” —was littered with the remnants
of food scattered about by some previous
day’s passengers. Chunks of rotting pies,
bread and decaying meat lay about the
floor, on the seats and under them. The
train was not leaving some country ter-
minus for the return trip, but was out-
ward bound from headquarters itself —
“Central.” The seats were so thick
with dust and dirt that passengers bought
newspapers for no other purpose than to
clean places for themselves to sit down.
All this was cleanliness itself to
the compartment’s lavatory conditions.
Though the train stood at the platform
for an hour or more before moving out,
that place was already awash. It had
no towels or anything of the kind in it.
The washbasin was nearly full of dirty
water, which, when the train got going,
splashed over to add to the filth on the
floor. It was the only water there. Any-
one who had to go into the foul place —
the trip is over 300 miles —must have
done so at the risk of picking up heaven
knows what sort of disease. The latch
on its door was broken, and the door
swung open till a passenger, unable to
stand the stench of the place any longer,
tied the knob to the luggage-rack with
string. Anyone who went in undid the
knots in the string, and came out with
boots or shoes stinking from the filth
washing on the floor.
If anything like this filthiness of N. S.
Wales Government Railways, First Class,
were found about any kind of private
enterprise whatever there would most cer-
tainly be a prosecution, and it, with the
heaviest punishment permitted, would be
thoroughly deserved. N. S. Wales Rail-
ways, being a Government-run concern,
stands in no danger of prosecution.
The excuse for the squalor can be
heard in advance: “There has been a
war on.” There has not been so much
of a war on here that authority could
not secure man-power priority sufficient
for the employment of enough oldish
men and women capable of doing a bit
of cleaning.
Having had his trip under Government-
control auspices, the searcher for experi-
ence could next take a private-enterprise
’plane from the address his train started
from to, say, Brisbane. If he took it
after the train trip he would be as aston-
ished by the all-round quality of the
service as he had been by the wretched
general conditions and the filth of the
other journey. By ’plane he would travel
in both comfort and spotless cleanliness-
Instead of the rush to get tea and the like
and bolt it down in a few minutes at


sfation restaurants along the way, he
would have the service of light refresh-
ments brought to him, and would find it
as good as what is served on some of the
trains is bad. Also, instead of its taking
him anything from 20 to 26 hours to get
to the destination specified, he would be
there by ’plane in from two to two and
a half hours.
As passenger transport trains are, of
course, headed for the discard. No doubt
it will be many years in Australia before
they are carrying little but heavy goods,
especially if Government-control can
strangle the air opposition to them, or
bring it down to their own low level as
a service. What is certain is that, kept
to its high standard, ’plane travel will
leave railway travel where the latter left
coach travel. And it was not Govern-
ment-controlled railways which outmoded
the older forms of travel, but the same
sort of private enterprise which built up
’plane transport in Australia and else-
where. It is difficult to believe that
private-enterprise transport of any kind
or in hny circumstances, could ever be-
come as foul as some of Australia’s Gov-
emment-controlled railways have become.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Two Per Cent. Colwell.
According to Mr. Calwell, “if Austra-
lians have learned one lesson from the
Pacific war, it is surely that we cannot
continue to hold our island continent for
ourselves and our descendants unless we
greatly increase our numbers.”
A third world war is not impossible. It
would be prudent for us, therefore, not to
ignore the possibility of a further and for-
midable challenge within the next quarter
of a century to our right to hold 3,000,000
square miles of the earth’s surface.
Thus far the Court is with him; and the
gentleman is Minister for Immigration.
But how does he propose that we shall
“greatly increase our numbers” with
natural increase, he says, only 70,000 a
year? He avers that, with the need so
desperate, Australia can’t accommodate
more than 70,000 immigrants per annum,
and can’t begin taking any for two years.
And our “economy” must be “fully ex-
panded” to admit of “the immigration
ceiling of 70,000 a year” being reached.
It has been proved by past experience
over long periods that the maximum effec-
tive absorption capacity in any expand-
ing country is usually about 2 per cent, of
its numbers. This figure includes the net
increase of population, either by the excess
of births* over deaths or the excess of
arrivals over departures, or a combination
of both.
We sigh, and turn to the U.S. census
figures for 60 years, presented in the
latest edition of the Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica, now a Chicago University publica-
tion. During most of that period a con-
siderable part of continental U.S.A. was
known as the Great American Desert, and
was thought to be useless for any pur-
pose other than a bit of mining. And
at least ten years were given over to civil
war and reconstruction. Area 2,944,337
square miles in 1850 and 2,973,890 in
1910 —that of continental Australia and
Tasmania is 2,974,581 square miles.
Number of
Foreign
Decennial Immigrants
Increase Pop. Per Preceding
Population. Per Cent. Sq. Mile. Decade.
1850, 23,191,876 35.9 7.9 1,427,337
1860, 31,443,321 35.6 10.6 2,814,554
1870, 39,818,449 26.6 13.0 2,081,261
1880, 50,155,783 26.0 16.9 2,742,137
1890, 62,947,714 25.5 21.2 5,248,568
1900, 75,994,575 20.7 25.6 3,694,294
1910, 91,972,266 21.0 30.9 8,202,388
So, chiefly by immigration and natural
increase among immigrants’ families, the
U.S.A. more than doubled its population
in 30 years (four of which were Civil War
years) and nearly quadrupled it in 60
years.
The whole world has felt the effects of
this great movement of peoples, nearly all
from Europe. We in Australia have
special cause to be thankful for it and
for the sequel which brought the popu-
lation to 100,000,000 in 1917 and to
133.000. in 1940 (it is now nearly
140.000. and gave it what the
America of 1850 did not and could not
have—a world outlook. Unlike Mr. Cal-
well and his crowd (from whose present
attitude it is only a step back to the old
ignoble parish-minded party policy, “no
immigration until every Australian is in
a .steady job”) the Americans had no
craven fears of being great.
The British Pacific Effort.
“Ek Dum”: The central command of
the British Pacific Fleet is leaving Aus-
tralia at the end of this month. There is
no evidence that the Commonwealth
“Government” proposes to vouchsafe the
force, which in front-line strength was
already far greater than Australia’s front-
line forces when the war ended, anything
more than a surly acknowledgment of its
leaving.
If the U.S.S.R. had sent to Australia a
barge armed with a loudspeaker the
wharves would have been draped with
bunting on its departure. “Government,”
A.8.C., Labor politicians and “S. M.
Herald” (which last week had no room
to report the annual meeting of St. John
Ambulance Association but plenty to
report a speech by a Soviet journalist)
would have been in laudatory hysterics.
But Sir Bernard Rawlings, the fighting
C.-in-C. of the Royal Navy in operations
off the Sakishimas and the Japanese
coast, was allowed to leave these shores
with less notice than was accorded to the
departure of the Soviet Commissar in
Canberra. And it looks as if Sir Bruce
Fraser will be farewelled in about the
same spirit.
Still, if the “Government” at Canberra
lacks manners or is so much under the
influence of its Communist bosses that
it dare not show too friendly a front to
British forces, the City of Sydney need not
be so influenced, even though the Com-
munist party withdraw its patronage from
the Town Hall.
Mr. Attlee has disclosed that in the
final phase of the war preparations were
being made to deploy in the Japanese
zone British Commonwealth forces which
would have numbered 3,500,000. Britain’s
share of these, along with nearly 600
naval ships and the bulk of the mercan-
tile-marine transport involved, would
have numbered 1,000,000 men all told,
of whom 500,000 would have been ground
troops.
Almost the whole of the naval might
associated with the British Common-
wealth effort would have been British. So
would have been the aircraft and the
armament.
Our “Government” proposed, “if pos-
sible,” to contribute “a token force” to
Lord Louis Mountbatten’s armies which
were to rescue Malaya and the East
NO DECISION.
“When counting ceased on Saturday night the Victorian electors were left guessing who
would be Premier—Cain, Dunstan, Lind or Hollway. The only thing certain was that
Macfarlan was down and out.”
Indies, and units for the invasion of
Japan. Bad as this looked, it would not
have been so bad if the “Government”
had put its back into supporting the effort
of the British Pacific Fleet, which was
based on Australia and under the high
command of which some of its own ships
were serving.
Months elapsed before the Royal Navy
could secure an aerodrome on which to
train aircraft pilots. And its urgent re-
quests for a few pilots to reinforce its
squadrons were treated in a manner which
made every decent person who knew the
facts hang his head in shame.
All this, apart from the fact that, at a
crucial period. Government - tolerated
strikes and disturbances and go-slow con-
tinually hampered naval efforts. On one
occasion Communist ruffianism forced
the C.-irl-C. to send to New Zealand four
destroyers which had been urgently
needed in the interests of fleet safety in
the battle zone —send them across the
Tasman to be docked after a long voyage
from Europe which had cut down their
speed and manoeuvrability.
Wheat for Britain.
The cheerful optimists who, after the June
rains, rushed into print with forecasts of
bumper wheat harvests for Australia
have had to revise them several times.
There was'another outbreak of prophecy
when the October rains came, but again
it wasn’t justified. The plain truth was
that the wheat country—or most of it,
except the Westralian wheatbelt —had
suffered four years’ drought, with heavy
loss of topsoil, and a wound like that
can’t be cured in a single season. In
Westralia farmers were paid over a mil-
lion for not growing wheat.
Early in October a fair enough esti-
mate of the N.S.W. crop was 51,000,000
bushels. A later estimate puts it at
45,000,000 bushels, with a marketable
Australian crop of 100,510,000 bushels.
This is expected to leave an exportable
surplus of about 32,500,000 bushels, home
consumption accounting for the rest.
The Commonwealth Government, with
the examples of Canada, New Zealand
and South Africa before it, could make
a free gift of that surplus to the British,
with leave to those generous people to
send as much to distressed parts of Europe
as they think they can spare. Such a gift
would have the support of every decent
Australian. There is needed only a lead
from the Government. Hitherto, where
help to Britain is concerned, the Govern-
ment has been wanting. Even now there
is a 51b. limit on the weight of private
food parcels for hungry Britons, delivered
at Australian post offices. And people
whose pride in and gratitude to Britain
are strong have had the experience of
parcels being refused because they were
a few ounces overweight, even when they
brought two parcels which together
weighed less than 101 b.
A Message to Moscow.
The Westralian “Sunday Times” has pub-
lished a series of articles on its experi-
ences with war-time censors; and very
lively and amusing they are. Adi news-
papers must have had experiences which
were not amusing, and one very unamus-
ing incident was detailed in an official
publication, “Keeping Information from
the Enemy,” “compiled by Military Intel-
ligence for the Information of Australian
Press and Broadcasting Executives,” and
designed to enlist their aid in preventing
“the publication of authoritative informa-
tion useful to the enemy.” The official
story follows, capital letters and all:
A certain troopship, laden witn Austra-
lian troops, left Sydney at 2.20 p.m. on
the 4th February, 1941, bound for Singa-
pore.
Pursuing a normal or near to normal
course Northabout at her normal speed,
she would reach Singapore at about mid-
night on the 10th February, or in the early
hours of the 11th. «
At 7.18 p.m. Eastern Standard Time
on the 11th February, 1941, Moscow Radio
broadcasted in English the interesting news
that this particular troopship had “arrived
in Singapore laden with Australian troops.”
The authority given by Moscow for this
item of news was, “It was stated by
travellers arriving at Singapore.”
Well, the announcement by Moscow was
made only 18 or 19 hours after the vessel
could reasonably be expected to have tied
up at Singapore, so there is nothing re-
markable in that.
Unfortunately, however, for the correct-
ness of the Moscow broadcast, the troop-
ship with its load of Australian troops
was at Fremantle at the time Moscow
broadcasted the news of her arrival at Singa-
pore, and she did not resume her voyage
• to Singapore until more than a day later.
Shortly after leaving Sydney she altered
course and went Southabout to Fremantle,
instead of direct to Singapore.
Now how did Moscow, or other more
interested people outside Australia, come
to possess information prompting this
broadcast announcement?
The obvious inference is that someone
outside Australia was informed of the hour
and date of this troopship’s departure from
Sydney, her freight, her destination, and
her apparent Northabout course, and that
the informant was someone in or about
Sydney.
All that was then done was to calculate
the possible date and hour of arrival at
Singapore and to publish the news of the
arrival some 18 or 19 hours after that cal-
culated hour.
Flow was the information concerning the
transport’s departure from Australia, and
its destination, transmitted from Australia
to Moscow? It was not broadcast from
any licensed Australian station and, of
course, did not appear in the press. In-
vestigation showed that it could not have
been by air communication.
Possibly it was flashed from a neutral
vessel which had been in port at the time
the transport left Australia. Another possi-
bility is that the information was conveyed
by means of an illicit short-wave trans-
mitter located in this country.
As to that, “eleven illicit sets have been
detected, and their owners punished for
operating them, since the war began. Ten
of these sets were unknown to the authori-
ties at the beginning.”
The point to be remembered is that the
job of getting information out of the
country is a vital 24-hour-a-day job to the
enemy. It is a professional job in which
the initiative remains with the initiator,
and the initiator always is the enemy.
And the initiator is likely to be always a
jump or two ahead.
At that period the enemy was active in
the destruction of shipping in the Pacific.
On December 31, 1940, Mr. Hughes,
then Minister for the Navy, had an-
nounced the sinking of ten vessels: the
British ships Rangitane (15,712 tons),
Komata, Triaster, Triadic, Triona, Holm-
wood, Ringwood and Turakina, the
French ship Notou and the Norwegian
ship Vinni. On January 1, 496 survivors
from seven of the sunken ships landed in
Australia. Of their company they re-
ported seven Europeans and one Fili-
pino killed, four Filipinos “missing, be-
lieved killed,” and 67 Europeans “missing,
believed prisoners-of-war.” Turakina,
Ringwood and Notou men were not
among them. Those who survived from
these ships were held as prisoners ; the
Turakina had lost 35 of a crew of 58 in
a gallapt fight.
“Survivors stated that the masters of
the enemy vessels appeared to have ex-
haustive information regarding the move-
ment of shipping from Australian and
N.Z. ports.” 9
When that troopship set out from Syd-
ney, to become so interesting a subject to
Moscow Radio, the relations of the Eng-
lish-speaking countries and the Nether-
lands with Japan had become “delicate.”
On February 4 Mr. Beasley said “As
a member of the War Council I have no
illusions about the shocking tragedy that
'•may overwhelm us overnight.” Russia
had been negotiating with Japan for com-
mercial and fisheries agreements, and in
April was to sign and ratify their five years’
neutrality and friendship agreement. This
Matsuoka described as “advantageous to
both, sides,” declaring also that “the
Soviet, Germany and Italy are making
full preparations with firm resolution to
combat the unprecedentedly aggravated
world situation.”
The Workers’ Fatherland had for 18
months been in the partnership with
Hitler by virtue of which it invaded
Poland and announced through Molo-
tov that the war with Germany (no
longer. “Nazi Germany” and not yet
“Hitlerite Germany”), “the imperialistic
character of which” was “obvious to
anyone who wants to face realities,” was
“not only senseless but criminal.” This
was repeated a thousand times by Com-
munists in Australia, and in a hundred
ways they tried to sabotage the war effort,
one of them being a general N.S.W. coal
strike, which lasted from March 11 to
May 20, 1940. And one of their union
secretaries shouted “I hope the ‘scabs’ of
Downing-street will be defeated.”
So the political complexion of the
unspeakable ruffian who sent the troop-
ship message to Moscow, which might
have resulted in the loss of all on board
—as H.M.A.S. Sydney was lost with all
on board on that very route the same year
—should be no mystery to any loyal
person of average intelligence.
Land of Opportunity.
“0.T.” dips into irony:
It is to be hoped that none of the more ven-
turesome and brainy servicemen now receiving
their discharges will be deluded by Government
propaganda into taking up land or entering into
trades or professions in rural districts.
Opportunities are far greater in the city—
especially Sydney. There, any young man of
good physique and courage, with the mental
capacity to distinguish between B and a bull’s
foot, can quickly establish himself in a position
that does not entail hard work and will very
soon place him in Easy-street.
He may, for instance, become a s.p. book-
maker. He can be sure of plenty of custom,
since the betting habit begins in the upper
classes of the primary schools, is rife in every
factory, shop and Government department, and
is encouraged by Government lotteries and race-
courses and a Government move to permit mid-
week racing. Sly-grogging is another attractive
profession in which the rewards are great and
the scope ever-widening through the operations
of the Non-Liquor Act. Indeed, a score oi
more of remunerative rackets await the enter-
prising. Of course, there is some sort of a law
about these things, but it is very “yoomanely”
applied. Judges and magistrates are nothing
if not lenient, and the Government won’t even
hang armed murderers who bump off unarmed
policemen.
For those not attracted by. or unsuited by
temperament for the foregoing pursuits, there
is easy money and a good time to be had by
becoming a “militant union leader.” The only
qualifications needed are the gift of the gab,
unlimited cheek, utter indifference to conse-
quences and a determination never to miss a
meeting or give the other bloke a fair go.
These, of course, are merely the main oppor-
tunities. There is abundance of others all more
or less related to them. And, should the law
temporarily lose its patience and become some-
what irritated, there are always the wharves,
where any convicted criminal, whether he pre-
fers violence or common theft, can get and
keep a union ticket.


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
put the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
fj£. 117 PITT ST., SYDNEY
HOW MUCH WILL IT COST
TO HANDLE MY ESTATE?
sS2
Some folk hesitate to appoint a Company as Executor and
Trustee of their Wills, because they imagine that by so doing they will inflict a heavy
burden on the Capital of the Estate. Such a fear is groundless, so when drawing up
your will appoint the Permanent Trustee Co. as your Executor and Trustee.
The Company’s charges are extremely reasonable for an administration backed by over
50 years experience in the management of all types of estates, the investment of funds,
and the knowledge of the technicalities involved in Trusteeship.
The charge on the gross capital value of an estate up to £ 50,000
is 24 per cent., i.e., for every j6TOO of capital,
AND —You are assured of integrity and financial stability. Through its permanence,
the Company’s administration is guaranteed until completion of the Trust.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO
OF N.S.W., LTD.,
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
Do you need a S
JUraM/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Departs
meat.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
Victorian Labor went to the Assembly
election in circumstances more favorable
to its getting a party majority than ever
before. It was 8 to 3 in unopposed
returns ; the redistribution of seats struck
heavily at the Country party, and was more
advantageous to Labor than to the
Liberals ; there were faction fights among
the Liberals and Agrarians, leading to the
formation of a caretaker Government
composed of malcontents from both
groups and Independents professing Labor
sympathies, and there was no city news-
paper opposition worthy of the name. Also
there were Labor Governments in the
Commonwealth and four States, and in a
fifth State a Liberal Government which
recently lost its party majority at a by-
election ; and there was a feeling that the
Victorian Labor party and its leader,
Cain, were a cut above the average, es-
pecially on the Communist issue, and had
been deprived of office too long. Yet Vic-
torian Labor has failed to get a party
majority, and in several electorates its
candidates will just scrape in, thanks ob-
viously to disunity on the other side. It
may be able Jo form a Government, but,
if so, the Government will have a brief
and stormy career.
Apropos of Macfarlan, Victoria’s care-
taker Premier,, and the policy speech
(24/10/’45) in which he said “My Minis-
try will adopt the Federal system of auto-
matic redistribution of seats every ten
years” it was here written (same date)
that “the Macfarlan Ministry will be out
of its misery in twice ten days.” On the
eighteenth day Macfarlan had it in his
power to beat the prophet by a few days
or hours, but this was the position of
himself and Assembly colleagues:
Macfarlan, Premier, Attorney-General
and Solicitor-General, Brighton. (Last of
three, and doomed.)
Gumming, Agriculture, Hampden. (Last
of three and doomed.)
Mackrell, Water Supply, Goulburn.
(Third of four and apparently doomed.)
Haworth, Health and Housing, Albert
Park. (Second of four; 1000-to-l chance
on preferences.)
Hollins, Education and Labor, Hawthorn.
(Second of three, all above 6000; good
chance on preferences.)
Everard, Lands and Forests, Evelyn.
(Second of three, but with only 25 votes
more than the endorsed Liberal, Le Leu.
Can win only if he retains a lead over Le
Leu.)
Macfarlan has brains, but he played his
cards clumsily.
Mrs. Brownbill, re-elected unopposed
for Geelong, remains the only woman
in the Victorian Assembly. Mrs. Weber,
formerly M.L.A. for Nunawading, will
just save her deposit in Box Hill.
With transport strikes added to the tur-
moil in the N.S.W. coalmining and iron
and steel industries, and with Communists
“justifying” the holdup of a troopship in
Brisbane and a fleet of coal ships in New-
castle by the old lie that members of
their Seamen’s Union (still drawing theii
50 p.c. war bonus) are treated ’orribly, it
looks as if half a million or so unem-
ployed will be hanging round cities short
of everything but Communist agitators
by the end of the year. Things are going
badly for the masters of these Commu-
nists in Europe; among other things,
Bevin has told them bluntly that Britain
will have no more of their greed and
chicanery and, despite the presence of
a great Russian army of occupation, the
Hungarian electors have routed the local
Communist party. But orders obviously
are to stir up trouble in every form and
in every quarter; and it seems to be
thought that enough industrial chaos and
discontent can be caused in Australia to
admit of “councils of workers,- soldiers
and peasants” seizing complete control
from the palsied hands of the “ ‘Labor’
Government.”
Though he knew his heart might fail
him at any moment, Weaver, chief of the
N.S.W. Opposition, carried on a strenuous
political life to the end. Replacing
him as Liberal leader won’t be easy.
Mair probably has the right of succes-
sion, but there is an impression that he
will stand for a Federal seat. One of the
three Young Digger members, Murray
Robson, Turner and Bate, would be a
popular choice.
A. A. Hughes, the member for Caul-
field (Vic.), who stood for re-election as
Leader of the Independent “Party” or
something, had a very rough time on the
platform. Two questions fired at him at
one meeting:
Are you in favor of bigamy among
fowls?
Are you a member of the Australia-Soviet
Friendship League?
The candidate ignored the first question,
and answered the second in the affirma-
tive. His friends raised a de-
lighted roar, but they couldn’t save him
from a very bad beating.
J. H. Rasmussen, who was Blarney’s
Public Relations man, was the hope of
the Liberal side in Albert Park. He left
the electors in no doubt as to his feelings
towards Comihunists:
The State of Victoria should reverse com-
pletely the weak-kneed policy of the Federal
Government in its treatment of the Com-
munist party. The State should shoulder
the responsibility of declaring the Com-
munist party illegal.
For this, he was, of course, pursued by
Communists from meeting to meeting.,
Ward bobbed up in Melbourne to
“help” the State Labor party and renewed
his attack on the High Court. He said
•“some of the Judges should have retired
years ago, for only three are under 60.”
Of Ward’s fellow-Ministers, Cameron,
Holloway, Ashley and Frost are over 60
and Codings has turned 80. He never sug-
gests they “should have retired years ago.”
An acute shortage of penicillin has
given doctors and hospital authorities in
Melbourne a bad fright. The manufac-
ture of the life-saving drug is a Govern-
ment monopoly vested in the Government
Serum Laboratories, a thoroughly efficient
institution. Distribution, however, is
subject to bureaucratic approval, so it has
got into the same muddle as fencing wire
and potatoes. Private firms could supply
all that is needed, but they are forbidden
to manufacture. If a Government mono-
poly of the air could be established, there
would soon not be enough to supply a
worm.
The Lord Mayors of Melbourne, Syd-
ney and Adelaide have launched Food for
Britain appeals—in Adelaide a window
display of the actual British food ration
for a family is wringing South Australian
hearts—and doubtless other mayors in
city and country will follow suit. From
Chifley’s Government has come no
worthwhile gesture, though it might have
been expected that Canberra would be
stirring the whole nation in the matter.
Isn’t there a generous thought anywhere
in Federal Labor?
The children of outback N.S.W. will
get no extra trains and no excursion tickets
to the seaside at Christmas holidays, nor
will city children get either to the coun-
try. That* goes for farmers and their
overworked wives in hot and dry districts,
and for wage-earners and their over-
worked wives in sweltering suburbs.
Why? Because there’s no coal. The
fellows who’re supposed to dig the stuff
—36 hours a week at the face on good
wages less 10 per cent, for stoppages—
are taking 10 “working” days off for
themselves.
A person in Britain is allowed 3oz. of
bacon, 2oz. of cheese, 3oz. of butter, 4oz.
of margarine, loz. of fat a week ; one
egg a week in summer, one a month in
winter. Mothers and children get to
14 pints of milk a week, according to age;
all other adults, 1\ pints. Of jam, mar-
malade or honey there is a one-pound tin
a month. Sugar is called “gold dust.”
Thousands of British women stand in
queues for hours on the chance of buying
a small tin of skimmed milk. It is not
in the nature of Australians to stand by
while these conditions exist, yet there s
never a word from Canberra.
Canada’s gifts to Britain, as catalogued
by former N.S.W. Agent-General Heath:
A 700,000,000-dollar loan in 1942 which
bears no interest during the war; a free
gift of 1,000,000,000 dollars in 1943 ; re-
fund of 200,000,000 dollars expended by
Britain on munition plants in Canada ; re-
patriation of British-owned Canadian
securities worth 800,000,000 dollars;
enormous gifts of food. Australia’s gifts
to Britain: ?
Baddeley’s Fish Marketing Bill in
N.S.W. has been washed out. A magis-
trate held that when a trawling firm sold
fish elsewhere than in the Sydney markets
it could not be convicted under a State
Act conflicting with National Security
Regulations. Baddeley fulminated use-
lessly as usual.
Many Australian servicemen met
Fiorello La Guardia when he was Mayor
of New York and voted him a prince of
good fellows. Retiring after 12 years, he
announced his support for Morris, mem-
ber of a very old American family, but
Morris got only a little more than 20 p.c.
of the votes, 22,4 p.c. going to Goldstein,
the Republican, and the rest to O’Dwyer,
the Democrat. O’Dwyer is a lawyer from
Ireland, and Goldstein a Jew from
Canada, so the election may be held to
have restored the old Irish ascendancy in
New York; but that would be rather an
over-simplification, O’Dwyer was sup-
ported also by the so-called American
Labor party, which exists only in New
York State, and by the Communists, When
he stood in 1941 the Communists attacked
him ferociously, linking him with “the
American Firsters, the anti-Semitic
Coughlinites and Bundists, all of whom
are Fifth Columnists for Hitler.” Corns,
are the world’s champion twisters.
Armistice Day had a double signifi-
cance Tor Australians this year, for it
meant they had twice escaped German
domination and once narrowly escaped
being overrun by Japanese hordes, all
within a generation. So they gathered
in their thousands at war memorials and
in churches to pay homage to the
memory of those who gave their lives
for this freedom. Red Fascists celebrated
the day by “demonstrating” against the
Dutch, a white people who almost lost
their country and their islands in the East
Indies in defence of that same freedom.
The six Communist candidates in Vic-
toria chose six thickly-populated elec-
torates, Williamstown, Port Melbourne,
Richmond, Carlton, Clifton Hill and Bal-
larat, all predominantly Labor except the
last. They may get 25,000 votes among
them, most in Williamstown, less than
1000 in Ballarat, where their nominee
will lose his deposit. And these are the
birds who have only to flutter a wing
to make the Commonwealth “Govern-
ment” quake in its shoes.
Considering the number of political
authorities A.B.C. employs in Sydney
(one of them is the extreme Zionist
and disingenuous apologist for Moscow,
Professor Stone), it was strange to
hear it asserting, on the alleged author-
ity of the Scripps-Howard press, that
if Truman didn’t find a remedy for
“industrial strife” he might lose his
job. Until January 20, 1949, he
can only be removed from office by
“death, resignation or inability to dis-
charge the powers and duties of the said
office” or “on impeachment for and con-
viction of treason, bribery or other high
crimes and misdemeanors.” Failure to
prevent or settle strikes does not fall
into the category of “high crimes and
misdemeanors.” In any case, there has
never been a successful impeachment;
even a hostile Senate refused the two-
thirds majority necessary to vote the un-
balanced Andrew Johnson out of the
White House.
While a Mrs. Joseph was “attending a
Cup social at the home of Mrs. Frank
Forde, wife of the Minister for the Army,”
a housebreaker “stole £3OOO in banknotes
and £l5OO in war-savings certificates from
her residence in Auburn.” Odd that the
lady should have such a roll in her pos-
session when Mr, Forde’s Government is
in control of the Commonwealth Bank
and banking in general and when it was
pleading for Victory Loan subscriptions.
Odder still that she should not have been
informed that it is illegal for any one
person to have more than £250 in war-
savings certificates.
When Lionel Oscar Lukin, the Queens-
lander, was a very old man he combined
the duties of Federal Judge in Bankruptcy
and Supreme Court Justice at Canberra
without any sign of over-exertion. After
November, 1943, Clyne J., succeeded the
departed worthy in both posts. Now,
doubtless because of an Evatt minute,
they have been separated, a Sydney bar-
rister who was Director of Security hav-
ing been appointed to the Supreme Court,
which sits in “a tiny room in the Patents
office” for “between 25 and 30 days in
the year.” However, the new man will
be expected to do royal commission work,
and, having been Director-General of
Security, he is “to conduct a judicial
inquiry into the political beliefs of sus-
pected Nazis and Fascists in an intern-
ment camp.” Melbourne “Herald,” from
which the quoted extracts were taken,
very properly objects to the whole busi-
ness, and it is not alone.
From the annual report of Melbourne’s
Colonial Gas Co.:
At June 30, 1939, our stock of coal was
20,000 tons. At June 30, 1944, it was
3700 tons; by June 30, 1945, it was 1660
t’ons. And at times we are compelled to
accept N.S.W. coal of an exceedingly in-
ferior quality, apparently the alternative to
complete cessation of deliveries.
But retribution is in store for the work-
stoppers, though unfortunately the inno-
cent will suffer as well as the guilty. Even
Cain, the State Labor leader, has been
driven to promise full utilisation of Vic-
toria’s brown-coal deposits so as to make
his State independent of N.S.W. black
coal for consumption on its railways as
well as its gasworks.
A London correspondent reports that
“Australia House is ripe for that admin-
istrative genius the new High Commis-
sioner, Mr. Beasley.” And the fumbling
Bruce won’t be present to prevent the
“genius” having full play.
Just before he was taken ill, Dwyer
Gray budgeted for a 1945-46 Tasmanian
deficit of £437,995. This, if realised, will
be the worst in the Speck’s history ; even
in the depression years the losses were
far less—£24s,loo in 1930-31, £271,600
in 1931-32, £55,200 in 1932-33 and £47,800
in 1933-34.
The market for Evatt guff has slumped.
Large supplies began to be exported from
U.S.A. as soon as the wandering Min-
ister cast up in the U.S.A. again to give
unsolicited leadership to the Ten-Power
Advisory Commission on Japan, already
a palpable washout. They have nearly
all been consigned to the w.p.b.
“Poor old Holloway” has been deliv-
ered of another brain-child. Mentioning
that alteration of the Commonwealth
Arbitration Act is to be considered, he
added “there is too much arbitration
and not enough conciliation.” Heavens
above, his Government has done noth-
ing else but “conciliate” strikers, loafers.
Red Fascists and union bosses in general.
Latest on the great N.S.W. booze scan-
dal is that the No. 2 special committee’s
recommendations are not to be tabled in
“Parliament.” Some of Premier McKell’s
bright boys want a referendum on the
question of hours. A referendum on Mc-
,Kell’s bright boys would be more interest-
ing and beneficial.


NEW PROVINCE FOR MOB LAW AND DISORDER.
"On the pretext for the Communist-controlled ironworkers’ strike, which has held up Port Kembla (N.S.W.) production for many weeks, Justice Cantor held that there
was no oppression, injustice, harsh dealing or victimisation.’ Going to Newcastle for a compulsory conference on the extension of the strike to that city—the effects
have been felt throughout Australia—Mr. Cantor was ‘booed and counted out’ by a mob, and ‘several men tried to jostle him.* Premier McKell said his ‘Government’
had 'no sympathy with the demonstration if the facts are as reported.’ ”
“I have no sympathy with these fellows, Chifley. And now about this matter of Christmas holidays”...


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Marija”: Kicking-the-Copper, a tradi-
tional sport in Sydney when larrikinism
gets out of hand, is, because of the Com-
munist conspiracy and weakness in the
administration of the law, raging as never
beforQ. The case in which hoodlums
turned on two detectives arresting an
armed man on a bank robbery charge
was followed by one in which a water-
front mob attacked another pair of detec-
tives in an attempt to rescue a man being
taken for questioning about a matter of
assault and robbery. One is in hospital with
fractured ribs and a shot through his left
hand. The two were walking away with
their suspect when the fellow called to the
crowd “Are you going to let these mugs
take me? Come on, you lot of squibs!”
The detectives were knocked to the
ground and kicked while they lay there.
A man rushed one of them to drive a
wharflaborer’s cargo hook at his face.
When he drew his revolver it was kicked
and went off, shooting him through the
hand. Warning shots fired at the road-
way ricochetted to hit two others in the
crowd in the legs. The mob knows that
if any of its number kicks a policeman
to death, the good, kind, white-livered
“Labor” Government will never hang
him.
* * * *
“Tuart”: The Robert Lowes and
Bronte House (B. 7/11/ ’45) are men-
tioned in Gavan Duffy’s Life in Two
Hemispheres (B. 17/10/’45). Mrs. Lowe
was described by her lord as “ ‘the most
enthusiastic Australian’; and so she
proved”:—
She declared the climate is delightful,
and the trouble from dust not worth men-
tioning. Since they had lived in London
she constantly entreated her husband to
throw up his seat in Parliament and re-
turn to the sunshine. Lowe said their resi-
dence was four or five miles out of town,
and he rode in daily, inhaling the intoxi-
cating air with a pleasure he could never
recall in England. Mrs. Lowe produced
photographs of their Australian home and
of other favorite scenes, bathed in sun-
shine and gemmed with sparkling waters,
which looked like glimpses of Paradise.
Lowe said the comfort of Australian
houses was often marred by the practice
of building after English models, in no
respect suitable to the country. He was
in the habit of having all the doors and
windows of his house open every morning
from five till seven, which kept it cool
till three in the afternoon.
Lowe’s most pregnant saying, uttered
after the extension of the franchise, was
“We must educate our masters.” Could
he have revisited his old stamping ground,
the N.S.W, Parliament, last week he
would have heard members voicing the
opinion that this has not been done.
* * * *
“Jachris”: Shrill-voiced young women
have become a noticeable feature of
Sydney gatherings of Reds. Ravishingly
beautiful to flapper-paper eyes, they were
in the ugly Communist demonstration
against the Dutch soldiers aboard the
Stirling Castle. The Dutchmen, volun-
teers for the Army in Europe, many
of them after they had been re-
leased from German prison camps or
when there was no longer need for them
in the Resistance Movement in Holland,
are en route from England to join
Mountbatten’s forces in S.E.A.C. They
are under Dutch orders not to come
ashore in Australian ports so as “not to
embarrass the Australian Government,”
which is in any event beyond embarrass-
ment. With them on the trip from Eng-
land were nearly 2000 returning Austra-
lian servicemen, most of them R.A.A.F.,
and one of the fliers met among their
number the man who had hidden him
from the Nazis and smuggled him out
when his ’plane was shot down over
Holland (the R.A.A.F. man made the
twenty-eighth Allied serviceman he’d
treated similarly). The Dutchmen stood
the Com. hooligans for a time, and then
turned the ship’s hoses on them. They
were joined in manning the hoses by
members of the British crew, whom the
screechers on the dock had urged to
desert. Soaked to the skin, and with
their skirts in a sad state, the Red girls
looked anything but ravishingly beautiful
when it was all over.
* * * *
“Bo”: Out near Chullora (Sydney) the
N.S.W. Housing Commission is building
fibro homes at a cost, exclusive of land,
of somewhere between £lOOO and £l2OO
—it hopes; at that they’re twice the
cost of the same house, pre-war. The
Commission recently established what is
claimed as a world’s record. Construc-
tion speed? Don’t be silly! In one day
15 officials, each arriving singly by car,
descended on one of the new houses,
thus beating the Commission’s previous
best by two men. What they all did
nobody seems to know. Possibly one of
the early-morning arrivals was inspecting
the tap stand in the front yard for perpen-
dicularity while another official in the
afternoon came to see if thp backyard tap
was perfectly straight.
* * * *
“Petermac”: Touching on the boxing
match between an A.I.F. p.o.w. and a Jap
guard (B. 7/11/’45), the incarcerated
Aussies became so used to beatings by
their diminutive tormentors that they
treated them as all part of the day’s work.
Retaliation, of course, would have been
suicidal. Favorite greeting of one’s mates
after such an incident was “See you de-
fended your title against Alec the Ape.
Didn’t do so hot, either, did you?” It
was a grim humor which kept their
morale high throughout.
* * * *
“Galenus”: The strange and enigmatic
disease which is popularly termed infan-
tile paralysis, in spite of the fact that most
of its victims are well past infancy and
quite a few of them elderly, continues to
baffle scientific research. Neither its
causal agent nor any indication of the
lines on which its prevention, treatment or
specific cure can be effected has yet been
discovered. Treatment, including the
Kenny method, is limited to the allevia-
tion of the paralytic effects and restora-
tion or replacement of function in the
disabled muscle-groups. The general
trend of opinion amongst investigators is
that it is a practically universal communic-
able disease of a mild febrile nature, in
which a small proportion of those infected
develop paralytic complications for some
quite unknown reason. Much of this, of
course, is sheer speculation, but it is the
outcome of an immense amount of in-
vestigational work done on the subject, in
the United States particularly, through
the personal interest of President Roose-
velt, himself a victim to disablement in
middle age by the mysterious ailment.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: Britons are not taking
kindly to prefabricated buildings as a
solution of the housing shortage. They
want to know why the poky things--
glorified shacks despite the glitter—
should cost over £lOOO, not much less
than that of a normal dwelling. They
are able to choose from six brands, but
as they all look as drab and cost about
the same price this isn’t an inestimable
advantage. The aluminium Airoh is a
little better but it costs £1365. The
Housing Ministry with its target of
4,000,000 houses and a houseless multi-
tude of 15,000,000 can’t even get rid of the
consignment which it got from the U.S.,
although the number was reduced from
30,000 to 8000 when Lend-Lease ended.
The housing lag in Australia is estimated
at 400,000 and still increasing. R. S.
Demaine, President of the Royal Vic-
torian Institute of Architects, thinks pre-
fabrication is the answer to the problem.
* * * *
“Scribe”: Statistics don’t take account
of everything by a long chalk, but there
are some stories they tell pretty effect-
ively. Maoriland’s war-effort is one of
them. Defence Minister Jones discloses
that 57 p.c, of all men between 18 and
45 were mobilised during the war, com-
pared with less than 45 p.c. of similar
age-groups during World War I. From
1939 on 205,000 men and women were
called up, of whom 135,000 left for ser-
vice overseas. There were 192 Maori-
landers in the R.F.C. in 1914-18; this
time more than 37,000 joined the
R.N.Z.A.F. The Navy, too, claimed an
incomparably bigger share —9400 against
750. There were nearly 8000 women
serving with the three services at home
and abroad at the end of March, 1944,
the Women’s War Service Auxiliary en-
rolled another 75,000, and the Women’s
Land Service more than 2000. Headed by
Captain C. H. Upham’s V.C. and Bar,
5236 awards for gallantry had been
made up to September last, of which 160
came from 11 Allied nations. The
Second N.Z.E.F. scooped the pool with
3087 awards, R.N.Z.A.F. earned 1778
and R.N.Z.N. 371, including a Croix de
Guerre and 33 American decorations.
Casualties were much lower, in propor-
tion, than they were during the first
stoush —37,497 (28 p.c.), compared with
55,155 (58 p.c.). Only increase was in
the number of prisoners-of-war, which
advanced from 379 (0.37 p.c.) to 8086
(6 p.c.). There were 10,072 killed this
time (7.5 p.c.) against 16,781 (16.7 p.c.)
before, and wounded tallied 19,339
(14.3 p.c.) against 41,315 (41..2 p.c.).
* * * *
“Lao-dah” on the scene of another
crisis:
Sumatra, reported to have gone “Republi-
can” under a gentleman named Tengkoe Hasan
and to be nearing a crisis, is the second-
largest island in the Malay Archipelago, 1000
miles long by 260 broad, larger than Britain.
A mountain chain, the Bukit Barisan, runs
down its centre with 12,000-foot peaks and
numerous large rivers. It was discovered by
Nicolo di Conti in 1449, and the Dutch took
possession in 1666. There was a war with the
Acheenese which was suspended at rice-planting
time every season and renewed after the harvest.
Sumatra is the traditional cradle of the Malay
race where the Malay Adam and Eve planted
the first golden harvest, but its population,
after years of strenuous endeavor by the Dutch
to people it with the surplus from over-
crowded Java, is only about 9,000,000. It is
rich in jungle products, its oil output is over
5,000,000 gallons and it grows rice, pepper,
coffee, rubber and tobacco in the same incred-
ible profusion as its neighbor. Like Java, it is
centrally heated and fertilised by numerous
volcanoes. Among its peoples are the Badaks,
who used to make their aged parents suspend
themselves by their hands from trees; if they
fell off before a fixed time they were killed
and eaten, the whole tribe thus imbibing their
spiritual virtues. The modern Sumatran, it
he can afford it, either goes to Mecca and
comes back a haji with a green turban and
lords it over his village or goes to Holland for
an engineering degree and comes back a
Marxist.
♦ * * ♦
“Patrol Leader”: Mention of the
boom in orchids (B. 31/10/’45) recalls an
old-timer met up with north of Cook-
town, who spent most of his spare time
searching for a white orchid —the only
pure white natural orchid known —that
grows in North Queensland. He had
been offered a minimum of £lOO for
every plant he found, but had had no
luck up to the time of our meeting. The
first specimen was located north of Cook-
town by one of Baron Rothschild’s col-
lectors about 25 years ago. In 1928
another was found in the same area; it
was sent to London and sold at auction
for £l5O. A Brisbane collector has the
only other specimen found to date.
* * * *
“Sig”: When the war ended the
R.N.Z.A.F. stationed in the Solomons
had “bagged” 99 Zeros. The Kiwis
wanted the hundredth. They sent a pilot
and a couple of mechanics to the Buin
area on Bougainville to try to make a
complete Zero from the graveyard of
rotting Jap ’planes. They got one to-
gether and they made it air-worthy, and
flew it to Torokina. It will go to Maori-
land’s National Museum.
* sfc sfe
“Wodgil”: As one who writes himself
down C. of E. on census papers and iden-
tity cards, I regret the absence of con-
troversy among churchmen in these parts.
I am sure many must object to Bishop
Burgmann’s alliance with the Communists
and his affectation of superiority on that
score, and to Bishop Pilcher’s identifica-
tion of himself with the fierce •unreason-
ing Zionists, but never a word 'comes
from any of them in the public prints.
What a difference there is in England!
Rousing arguments between eminent
Anglicans frequently enliven the corre-
spondence columns of the “Times.” Pic-
ture the Bishop of Gloucester rpshing to
the lists:
Sir, the Modem Churchmen have had
their annual meeting, and once more
through the mouth of Sir Cyril Norwood
have told the Church of England what an
inferior and old-fashioned body it is. Will
Sir Cyril Norwood be explicit and tell us
what we are to believe and teach, if we
are to be modern. He is a little more
- explicit on political matters. He wants
us to imitate Russia. We know how
superior the Modern Churchman is and
what poor creatures we members of the
Church of England are.
Sir Cyril Norwood replied twice, but
extracts from one letter will have to suf-
fice: —
Sir, the Bishop of Gloucester cannot escape
so easily. I brought certain specific charges
against him, and to none of these does he
offer any answer. He said of me “He
wants us to imitate Russia; he thinks com-
fort more important than political or re-
ligious freedom,” and I said that these state-
ments were as false as they were un-
scrupulous. I said that he used his pen
recklessly, because I thought that was the
most charitable thing I could have said of
him, but he now apparently claims that all
these false and unscrupulous statements
were made after full deliberation.
Sir Cyril Norwood is an honorary M.A.
of Sydney University; but I don’t think
he was ever in these parts. He would
scarcely have found the clerical atmo-
sphere congenial.
ART IN THE TAVERN.
“A collection of paintings by contemporary artists
is to be exhibited in taverns throughout Greater
London.”
In London nowadays a Bung must cater
For more than thirsty customers, it’s clear,
Must be a knowledgeable conservator
Of other merchandise than gin and beer;
Combine, in short, the job of art curator
With that of serving alcoholic cheer,
A dual role, one readily admits.
Never before assigned to licensed vits.
To find for man and beast accommodation
Has ever been a duty on him placed.
Now there’s a more aesthetic occupation
With which we learn he’s willy-nilly faced:
His task is to provide a stimulation
For other senses than the smell and taste,
And with his foaming tankards to impart
Some knowledge of contemporary hrt.
A man may turn from sinking his specific
Type of refresher, special brand of lush,
To rest his peepers upon some prolific
Production of the modern artist’s brush,
Discuss its meaning—if it’s hieroglyphic—
Praise it as prime or censure it as slush.
Whether he’s pleased or pained by what he sees,
It smartens his artistic faculties.
In erstwhile shrines of Bacchus and Silenus
What pleasant change to switch your tired
eyes
From pints and tots and snifters et hoc genus
Omne to goddesses in modern guise,
Some piquant Psyche or some tinted Venus,
Anadyomene or otherwise!
What need of better witnesses than these
To taverns educative influences?
If music, as some poet has asserted,
Can “soften rocks or bend a knotted oak,”
The lure of art may surely be exerted
To satisfy an elbow-bending bloke,
Add flavor to the pot he’s just inverted
And prove a pleasant adjunct to his smoke.
Even though modern painting some suspect
Likely to have the opposite effect.
N,S.W.
T. the R.
MASTERLY INACTIVITY.
“Industrial agitators, many of them imported, are
being given a ‘wide-open go’ to disrupt the com-
munity Industrial turmoil will not be stopped by
the Government’s policy of masterly inactivity.”
— Spender, MM.R.
When demagogues can wag their jaws
To preach disorder, undisputed,
And Judges for no other cause
Than seeking to uphold the laws
Are bitterly assailed and hooted,
You’d think the land might fairly turn
For something from the powers that be
Beyond affected unconcern
And studied inactivity.
If truly “Blessed are the Meek,”
Then blessings should be here in plenty
For the accommodating clique
Whose guiding slogan, so to speak,
Might well be Dolce far niente.
Yet rulers who refuse to see
Their laws enforced are little less
Than limits in absurdity,
Out-sizes in preposterousness.
Though sleeping dogs are best let lie
All undisturbed, it’s worth remarking
The proverb ceases to apply
When mangy curs, awakened, vie
With others of their breed in barking.
In times like these authority
Has naught but obloquy to earn
By stolid inactivity
And simulated unconcern.
N.S.W.
MIDFOPD.


“It keeps her cool, and it saves me having to listen to a lot of piffle!"
“Quorn”: The atomic bomb has cast
its shadow over Australian legislation.
A South Australian measure declares all
uranium and thorium mined in the State
to be the property of the Crown. Penalty
for possessing, using, selling or otherwise
disposing of these metals contrary to the
provisions of the Act is a fine of £5OO or
six months’ imprisonment. Sounds
almost as heinous a crime as taking a hot
bath during a powerhouse strike.
* * * *
“Surd”: A Sydney curio-dealer who
claims to have won something like
£40,000 in lotteries and “consultations”
told a reporter “I was born lucky and
nothing can take it from me.” Prosperity
of that sort, lasting a lifetime, is, of
course, extremely rare, but the phe-
nomenon of a “run of luck” is familiar to
all who seek to grasp the skirts of happy
chance. When the run is in progress the
laws of probability seem to be set aside;
risks are confidently taken which at other
times would seem insensate folly; the
gambler favored by fortune feels that
“he can’t go wrong.” And there are
persistently lucky and persistently un-
lucky people. But though, seemingly,
the vagaries of luck set aside mathemati-
cal laws, they do not do so even where
an individual is almost unremittingly
disfavored or almost perpetually favored.
As Hall and Knight point out, the law of
probability merely states “the odds in
favor of the event or against the event.”
The odds against head or tail turning up
on the toss of a coin are even. As
Eddington put it, if farthings to the quan-
tity of 100 tons are separately tossed up,
50 tons of them will fall heads, 50 tons
tails. But there is no law against an in-
dividual tosser getting a record of 100
heads (or tails) in 100 throws.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: S.A., which introduced the
Real Property Act that has now spread
about most of the world, thinks it time
that the comparative trifle of land in the
State still not under it should be brought
under it. The compulsion will give a bit
of work to the legal profession, but will
save a lot of trouble in the future. Inci-
dentally, S.A. still ungratefully calls it
just “the Real Property Aet,” not com-
memorating the name of its inventor as
do the States which called it “the Torrens
Act.”
*** * •
“Nswge” on a Sydney enigma;
Among the mysteries of Sydney the railway
works on Circular Quay occupy a high place.
When these were started is wrapped in the
mists of antiquity. At the east end of the
thoroughfare is a railway tunnel without any
rails leading to it, now inscribed “Ah Raid
Shelter,” It used to be labelled “City Rail-
way, 1915,” or some such date, and was used
as a mushroom farm. Careful study by geolo-
gists of the rate of railway construction in the
vicinity has led to a theory that this tunnel
was started in 1865. For 20 years after its com-
pletion its purpose was forgotten, and then, fol-
lowing on the erection of the Harbor Bridge,
to fulfil the function of a quite adequate ferry
service at 100 times the cost, there was an irrup-
tion of stockades and derricks and piles of
timber in the middle of the Quay, and after
some months or years some huge concrete
pillars were constructed. Came World War II
and the stockades and derricks and even the
huge concrete pillars melted away like snow
upon the mountain’s brow. These operations,
it would appear, are being resumed or re-
peated so as to construct a loop which will
enable trains to run from Central by under-
ground and elevated routes to Central, via Town
Hall, Wynyard, Quay and St. James. Why this
peculiar route, for which nobody has asked,
should afford happiness to a railway manage-
ment which is forced to put the suburban rail
services of the Second City of the Empire on
half rations because the people who are sup-
posed to dig coal spend most of their time
preventing people digging coal—well, that’s one
of the mysteries within the main mystery.
* * * *
“Si Anu”: Dr. Soekarno, leader of tlte
Javanese independence movement, is a
product of Dutch education. He imbibed
in the dessa or village schools the rudi-
ments of knowledge, went to high school
and then to a Dutch university, where he
studied engineering in between absorbing
the doctrines of Sun Yat-sen, also a pro-
duct of Western education. Soekarno was
28 when he founded the republican move-
ment in 1927. He was tried for political
activities in 1930 and exiled to New
Guinea, whence he returned after the
Japanese invasion.
sfc ❖ * *
“Hamfat”: Beer on the stage is usually
a decoction of boiled cloves. Playing
Freddie in “The Governor” it was my
care to see that there was the real stuff
in the jug which Nancy brought on the
stage for my comfort; the hearty enjoy-
ment with which I tossed off a pint must
have contributed to the realism of the
part. One night the stuff was well on its
way down my gullet before I realised that
it was not beer but boiled cloves. To add
insult to injury, I saw some of my col-
leagues off-stage mockingly toasting me
in real beer —my beer. And I had a long
scene with Nancy and her dad before I
could get at the throats of the dirty
thieves. To be able to make love with
a pint of clove-water newly poured in
afloat in one’s stomach and searing
hatred in one’s heart is surely the supreme
test of an actor.
* * * *
“S.S.”: A friend of mine bought a
small but heavy replacement part for his
tractor, and had it sent to him By rail,
“freight payable at destination.” Calling
to collect the article he was told freight
and storage amounted to 18s. 6d. The
article itself cost only 11s., so he indig-
nantly refused to pay and forfeited the
article. A month fater he bought it
for two bob at the periodical railway auc-
tion sales.
* * * *
“Derwent”: Tasmania next year cele-
brates the centenaries of Launceston
Grammar School and Hutchins School,
Hobart —two of the oldest schools in Aus-
tralia with a continuous history. In the same
1846 there was also opened at Bishops-
bourne a fine group of brick buildings
(convict-made), known as Christ’s Col-
lege. It was mooted as a Government
foundation in Governor Arthur’s day and
was warmly sponsored by his successor,
Sir John Franklin ; but owing to difficul-
ties and delays it was eventually com-
menced as a church institution through
the energy of Bishop Nixon. Nearly
£6OOO of foundation money came from
England, and the colony itself put in a
couple of thousand. Dr. Arnold, of
Rugby, was keenly interested in its estab-
lishment, and recommended to the Secre-
tary of State the first warden, Rev. J. P.
Gell. Christ College continued at
Bishopsbourne for 11 years, many well-
to-do boys of the period (including the
sons of the then Governor, Sir John Den-
nison) being on its lists. Portion of the
century-old buildings still remains, includ-
ing the stables and coach-house (the Col-
lege -had its own coaches for student
travel), but the river which ran just down
along the front has changed its course.
In later years Christ College was domi-
ciled in Hobart.
* * * *
“Adelaide”; The simple story of an
18-year-old youth who dived from the
City Bridge in Adelaide in the dusk to
save a woman who had jumped in:
“When I went to grab her she struggled.
I thought there was only one thing to do,
so I ducked her, and then gave her a
blow under the chin with my open hand,
then I put one arm under her armpits
and swam side-stroke to the bank.” In
N. S. Wales, I see, there have been cases
in which the rescuer was too gallant and
the lady was drowned.
* * * *
“Bufo”: It is to be trusted that the
Brisbane aborigines will operate their
association for the advancement of Aus-
tralia’s colored folk (B. 31/10/ ’45) with
less talk than the N.S.W. Aborigines Wel-
fare Board seems to find necessary for
the job. It took a year and four ballots
to get Alexander Solomon, its first full-
blooded abo. member, on the board, but
only three to send, him back bush
again. Too much talkie-talkie was his
main reason for resigning, another being
that he could not afford the 750-mile
journey to meetings from Gulargambone
to Sydney and back. A shearer by trade,
Alexander also considered that he could
listen to much better yabber in the sheds
than at the board’s table, and get paid
for it, too, instead of losing money.
. * * * *
“Atrax”: The southern idea of Queens-
land children being all weazened up by
the dreadful heat is not borne out by the
clothes-rationing authorities. In the last
financial year the Banana State, with a
total population less than that of Sydney,
had 38,639 outsized children of under
16, girls outnumbering boys by 11,161.
To qualify for outsize coupons a boy had
to be at least Bst. and sft. 3in., a girl 7st.
71b. and sft. Amongst genuinely outsize
samples were a boy of 16 standing 6ft.
3in.; another of 15, sft. lOin. and 15st.;
a 14st. girl of 15 and a 13st. girl of 12.
Amongst those present in the outsize-
coupon queue were triplet sisters from
Warwick.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: At an auction sale of
antiques at a Toorak mansion two Chip-
pendale mahogany bureau bookcases
were sold for £2OO and £255, eight Hepple-
white dining chairs for £230, a George
II covered tankard for £lOO and an
eighteenth-century teapot for £9O, total
sales for one day exceeding £9OOO, On
a previous day six flower paintings went
for £lOOO. The current worship of the
antique is a distressing symptom. It was
alleged as one of the signs of the decay
of the Roman Empire. At a charitable
affair in one of Toorak’s most expensive
homes a visitor was expatiating to an artist
on the glorious old furniture, knicknacks
and pictures with which the
packed from ground floor to attic. “The
owner must have wonderful taste,” was
his conclusion. “As far as that goes,” said
the artist, looking at an ornament on a
bookshelf, “I agree with Whistler. He
said he judged a person’s taste, not by
the best thing he had in his house, but
the worst. The best may have got there
by accident but the worst couldn’t. If
the owner understood his antiques he
wouldn’t be able to put up with the pro-
“If I was the beach inspector I'd make her take it of!"
cession of green bakelite elephants on that
bookshelf.”
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland already can see the
end of her bituminous coal supplies. They
may last out a couple of decades, perhaps
only one. There is no bituminous coal
in the North Island, only lignite, and
users of this are full of complaints. It
was bituminous coal of the type known
as Westport, glossy, hard and fierce burn-
ing, which drove H.M.S. Calliope against
a hurricand to safety out of Apia harbor
while ships of other nations, using lesser
coal, were driven ashore. Westport coal
is now getting scarce; hence Maoriland’s
increasing interest in hydro-electric de-
velopment. Works Minister Semple told
a recent power boards conference that
the Dominion’s main line railways will
soon have to be motivated by electricity,
as it would not pay to run them on im-
ported coal.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: News moves slowly in Vic-
torian taxation circles. The Melbourne
parents of a soldier who was killed
nearly four years ago at Rabaul are an-
nually distressed by receiving a demand
f or overdue payments. The department
no t on iy go t official notification of the
soldier’s death but confirmation from the
father.
* * * *
“ Lo rd Luvus”: One of the things 1
dorPt understand about this art-judging
bus j ness; An artist who adds a foot
tQ the neck of his victim wins a prize
m a nation . wide competition. Another
who takes a bit off a ]ady Parliamentary
sdter j s deprived of her commission and
j oses a f ee 0 £ £2OO f or making her sub-
ject look a bit lighter than she act ually
l§ It doesn , t sound uke justice>
* * *
| honins that mv
, S g assiduous in aunlvine sales
sure 0 ’ n ‘ behal£ of . ha^nic g 9> does P not
read the sort of magazines that deal
wdb “p o p U i ar science.” If he does so He
i earn that a little group of research
chemjsts in England is investigating the
hair-raising properties of what chemists
ca ll para-aminobenzoic acid. This stuff,
i t i s claimed, not only propagates growth
“ on de place where de wool ought to
g ut ensures that the resultant
be golden> ebon , aub urn or
brown acC ording to the youthful habit of
no £ atter how old he or she
may be Para . etc . acid is found in the
b i oo d and tissues of mammals; also in
y ‘’ # # * *
“Strict Veg.”: Australians who fre-
quent Chinese cafes in Sydney and Mel-
bourne f d
a dish known m China despite Juru-
jniuh (B. 31/10/ 45). Its nearest eqmva-
lent m the Flowery Kingdom is Chao hm
—a mixture of chicken, bamboo shoots
ham, mushrooms and pork balls, which
was the favorite dish of LiHung-chang.
There is a legend that a Chinese cook m
a U.S. mining camp, at his wits e ,
served up the remnants m his Pantry
and accidentally created chop suey Chop
suey is popular with Europeans because,
though almost tasteless, it has the exotic
look which gives the diner the adventurous
feeling that the tourist gets out of §oing
to the opium den m Singapore, not kno
mg that it has a Government licence,
* * .
“Adelaide”: An unusual offensive be-
havior ’ case was squashed by the P.M.
in the court here. The prosecutor ad-
mitted that it was “not obviously often-
sive or annoying in the ordinary sense ot
the word.” Simply the man, driving, once
saw the girl and followed her till she got
home, and again, two months later, fol-
lowed her till she went into a shop. The
police, counsel said, calf this “pirating.
a practice of some motorists who try to
attract the attention of women pedestrians
for the purpose of picking them up.” On
this the P.M. invited counsel into his
room, and on returning said complainant
was a “young and charming girl,” and
it seemed likely that perhaps she uncon-
sciously attracted the defendant. So the
charge was withdrawn. The man’s name,
though he was stated to be of the highest
character, was published.


ABORIGINALITIES
“B. 4”: “Prop.’s” flies (B. 24/10/’45)
are just justers contrasted with their in-
quisitive brethren of the Barcoo. Dwell-
ing there, in time one develops a per-
manent hump from the load of flies col-
lected as you stagger along the track to
sundown. A sudden back slam often
affords a respite, but then it’s difficult to
assume the perpendicular again as they
swamp you for a free ride. Your best
lurk when travelling is to camp and wait
until the grass is bent flat as they park
for the night beside you; then roll on
them. Have often had the pipe knocked
out of my whiskers by the rush to see
what’s doing as I tried to light up. It’s
easy to identify a Barcoo bloke. He
always feeds with one hand whilst wav-
ing off imaginary flies with the other.
V * * *
“Old-timer”: Bilsen, after struggling
for years and barely scratching a living
on a broken-down selection the wrong
side of Barellan, won £12,000 in a
“southern consultation.” “Gripes,” he
muttered, somewhat awed by the fact,
and then went and leaned on the straight-
est post he could find and contemplated
the scene of 20 years’ unremitting toil.
And presently there came to him the gal-
lant helpmeet who had been with him
for 16 of those years. Relief and excite-
ment about the future struggling to break
through the mask of indifference put
there by years of struggle and loneliness
almost made her indomitable face beauti-
ful. Together they stood, memories
crowding their minds of long, long hours
of toil, of short commons, of poverty,
of creditors and dry spells and crop
failures. It had come to them, in these
past years, that they were doomed to the
struggle for ever, their only light in the
gloom the four children they had reared.
“Oh, well,” Bilsen said, “it’s over.” His
wife smiled a little and said “What have
you decided to do, dear?” Bilsen grinned.
“Look,” he said, “how’d it be if we
bought a seaside block at Dee Why or
Narrabeen or somewhere? ’Member that
holiday we had there in ’25? We could
build a house an’ then you and the kids
could grow vegetables an’ flowers an’ run
chooks —there’s good money in them
things—an’ I could spend me days fishin’.
By cripes, missus, I’ve always wanted t’
do a bit o’ fishin’.”
* * * *
“Bill C.”; The ibis is a bit smarter
than the magpie (B. 10/10/’45), for it
buries surplus grub in moist clayey 1 soil
when it is available, thus preserving it
for a few days. One ibis cache I exam-
ined contained 19 good-sized crayfish.
And, of course, the butcher-bird is so
named because of its habit of sticking
small lizards, grubs and other fare on a
thorny bush as a reserve for days of
scanty pickings. But the best larder
arrangement is worked by the kooka-
burra. By gouging a nest out of a big
termite’s nest on a dead tree abundant
tucker —suppled by the termites them-
selves —is right on hand.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: Pardon my smiling,
“Betcha” (B. 31/10/’45), at the avidity
with which you bit in response to that
“awful southern climate” gag. It dates
from “currency” and “sterling” days to
those of Traill and J. F. Archibald in
Bulletin history, but it always works
on the innocent and justly indignant
southerner. The whole climate business,
as affecting Australians, was settled 25
years ago by an Australasian Medical
Congress which met in Brisbane in 1920.
After reviewing the findings of a collec-
tive investigation which had extended
over six previous years, the Congress con-
eluded that the tropic-living and tropic-
born Australian, even after two or more
generations, was no different from any
other Australian in health, physique or
mentality. As for those Barrier Reef
seabirds who can recognise their own
eggs and who caused all this fuss, I will
admit handsomely that the same accom-
plishment is shared by several other
species which breed in cool climates. But
it is amusing to find the good old climatic
kid-bait still getting bites after all these
years.
* * * *
“Sur Cingle”: The S.A. north-line
trains leave Adelaide in a bustle of offi-
cial importance and puff off through the
cocky country with'a fine attention to
dignity and timetables and regulations,
but at Terowie, where passengers and
goods transfer to the narrow gauge, they
become human institutions which have
been accused of stopping for every
reason from boiling the billy to sinking
a schooner on their leisurely way towards
the bush. The amiable train I was on
was approaching Carrieton when the
driver found cause to play a tune on the
whistle that sent the gauge needle whizz-
ing towards zero. A few seconds later
the brakes were applied with that gay
abandon which all north-line drivers have
to learn. While the engine reposed meta-
phorically on three legs and panted con-
tentedly, a few remarks were directed
from the cab at the cause of the obstruc-
tion, which merely flicked an expansive
ear and blinked a lazy eye. Then the
train crew descended, not in anger, to
“Were running late, Alf —the 8.45 will pick you up!”
reason with the stationmaster’s pet kan-
garoo which had found a comfortable
camp in the middle of the track. The
blase marsupial refused to listen to direc-
tions from people without gold braid on
their caps, and not until he had been
lifted from the line was traffic resumed.
After which, presumably, the hopper
went back to his snooze on the sleepers.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Tell “The 0.D.” (B.
24/10/’45) that he won’t have the world’s
seedsmen on his doorstep for blue
geranium seed. But blue pelargonium
would be a different matter. Here on
the Darling Downs we have a wild
geranium with a pretty blue flower, and
its long beak-like fruit is larger than the
carpophore of its English relative the
crane’s-bill. European geraniums are red,
blue and purple, and though there are
no blues among the pelargoniums,
wrongly styled by us geraniums, some
of the white varieties have flowers with
a distinct blue or mauve flush. Consider-
ing all the geraniaceae, the wild geraniums
or their highly-cultivated sisters, pelar-
goniums, are definitely cyanic, it’s a
wonder there is still no pure blue pelar-
gonium.
* * * *
“Lower Tops’l”: For sustained speed
and usefulness in fast-moving waters, few
canoes can rival the sleek, dugout, croco-
dile-carved models of the warlike Sepik
Valley natives. Devoid of outriggers and
ranging from ten to sixty-odd fejet in
length, these gondolas of the river are
the sole means of travel and transport in
that huge network of backwaters that
stretch for hundreds of miles over north-
ern New Guinea. With five paddlers in
a 35-footer I’ve known a man to carry
gear, food and equipment and casually
keep up 40 miles a day. Imagine a row
of 12 upright figures on a long black log,
each with one foot on the gunwale and
one hand raised to the top of an Btt.
paddle, then a slight rhythmical lean tor-
ward, and you have a Sepik canoe as it
glides silently through the water at five
knots. Recently when we were steaming
up-river in a vessel doing seven knots,
these dugouts, by current-dodging and
short-cutting through the barrets, accom-
panied us for miles, and invariably beat
us upstream. The canoes are a little
cranky, though, a factor which is accen-
tuated by the custom that all young
natives often stand up ; and one of our
ship’s crew, a coastal boy used to ocean-
going outriggers, inadvertently over-
balanced out of a six-manner. Can t help
thinking a big war canoe I saw at Mag-
endo—it was 66ft. long, 25 inches beam
and 17in. deep, with its shell Him must
take handling. This veteran, with hei
bows graced by a well-carved 4ft. croco-
dile and a skull mounted on crossed sticks,
goes into action, with 45 warriors aboard,
and if needs be when fighting will carry
three tons deadweight. ,
* * * *
“Munja”: “Horseless Horseman’s” im-
provident N.G. boongs (B. 10/10/’45)
make me smile. Pre-war, native commu-
nity gardens from Hollandia to Salamaua
and Dam Island to Everill Junction
could not be bettered by any race —black,
white or brindled. Boongs grew an
abundance of taro, yam, sugar-cane,
tomatoes, corn, paw-paws, bananas,
tobacco and citrus fruits, far in excess
of immediate needs. The Suki and Kiwai
tribes were never dumb enough to kai-
kai all their fish as soon as the canoes
lobbed in ; they could always be relied
on for sun-dried and salted fish. Both
tribes domesticated the wild pig, no mean
feat considering the foul tempers of the
ugly brutes. The Fuzzy’s “yen” for rice
and bullamakau is a passing phase; will
pass with the troops who introduced
them. If the “Horseman” tried the vil-
lages along the Sepik, Purari and Strick-
land in 1947 I doubt if he would swap a
case of “bully” for*a couple of bananas.
The boongs get back to Mother Nature
very fast.
* * * *
“Tub”: Here in alpine Victoria there’s
a kind of wild holly which yields honey
to bees and profuse pollen supplies which
they fail to gather. Pushing in to reach
the nectaries of the flowers the bees soon
get coated with the greenish-yellow
pollen till almost every field bee in a
hive is marked. The stuff adheres to
them tenaciously and, coming as it does
in a seasonal dearth of nectariferous flora,
gives a fair indication of longevity of
the workers in different strains of bees.
* * * *
“Wippegong”: For hours the train had
rumbled across the plains, with never a
sign of hill or valley as far as you could
see ; then on each side appeared gashes
in the ground, widening as they went, as
though giant claws had ripped the land.
The deepening gulches ran parallel to
the line, and soon they occupied a greater
area than the doomed flats between
them. On they went, gaining in breadth
and depth till no grass grew above, and
jagged ridges of red clay turned the whole
area into a maze of miniature grand
canyons. Now a third stage appeared.
The rain had washed a floor of silt into
the large gullies, and grass appeared
again and at the new low level; but
only a few goats grazed there, for nothing
else could clamber down. By this time
we’d passed about a mile and a half
through this seared belt and the line had
of necessity sunk far below the plain,
then suddenly we shot out on to a long
steel bridge with a wide, silty river swirl-
ing below —then dived again into the
chasms of clay and climbed up through
the same stages of erosion, in reverse
order, and back to the plain. Scene:
Our western rivers, perhaps? Not yet.
Just an average Central Indian stream on
its way to the Ganges. But flying back
home we look down on plenty examples
of the early stages, nibbling at land
far too good to waste. It could happen.
* * * *
“Betcha”: We’d collected the mail and
were riding home across the flat when
the dogs put up a couple of rabbits and
ran them to earth. “Blast!” growled Jim.
“Didn’t know there was a burrer left
round here.” He swung down lazily.
“Better block the cows in, I s’pose, an’
dig ’em out t’morrer.” I looked round
wonderingly. No shovel, no sticks and
not a rock in sight. Jim seemed
in no way concerned. Unrolling the
newspaper, he selected a page that was
mainly advertisements, crushed it lightly
and shoved it in the burrow mouth. Next
days I found the old chap dragging out
the catch. He looked surprised at my
query. “ ’ Course they didn’t get out,” he
replied. “I’ve known ’em die in the burrer
rather than pass a hunk o’ paper. It's
the rustle, 1 reckon, puts the fear of
somethin’ into ’em.”
$ $ $ *
“B. A. Ker”; The discussion, born of
recent Abo. pars., was on crib hands
and their oddities,
when Sid contri-
buted : “What is
the highest score
possible on a tram
ticket number?” It
was a surprising
question coming
from a man who
hadn’t seen a tram
since his last visit
to Sydney —before
the Royal Agricul-
tural Show was
cancelle d—and
always declared his
hatred of that
means of convey-
ance. But the
answer wasn’t as
easy as it sounded.
My prompt “twenty-
nine” was as
promptly rejected—
there being no
Jacks, the “one for
his hat” wasn’t pos-
sible. “Twenty-
eight, then,” some-
body said ; “with
four fives and a
ten.” Sid immedi-
ately squashed that
with “You’d have
to have a one and
a nought to make
ten, and you can’t
get more than a five-
figured number on a tram ticket —I asked
the conductor.” Bill thought 24 would
be the limit: made up of a pair of sevens,
a pair of eights and a nine or six. With
a sly grin on his face Sid went inside
and returned with a book, from the pages
of which a tram ticket protruded as a
place - marker. The ticket bore the
number 55555. After a lot of wrangling
we decided that the score added up to
36 —18 for fifteens and the same number
for pairs. But I’m still open to correc-
tion.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Old Tim used to collect the
Berriborung Creek mail daily and pass it
on to the denizens, who’d drift in at all
hours of day and night for their issue.
One day I called for mine and found
Tim, with a fresh lot of mail spread out
on the table, busily scrutinising an en-
velope he held in his hand. “Look at
this, will y’?” he said, and waved it indig-
nantly. “Another one from the new
schoolie t’ young Harry at the Gap.
Pretty wild, too, by the look of the writin’.
He didn’t take her t’ the ball. Well, I
reckon young Harry’s too busy nursiu
them sick cows t’ be messin’ about at
dances with her ; thirty if she’s a day. I
’member the time I took crook an
Harry’s oF man rode over the Kangaroo
Spur on a stormy night when y’ couldn t
see two inches in front of y’r face fr the
doctor. That’s the sorta bloke his ol
man was. An’ now Harry s taken up
with this hussy who’ll lead him a dance
an’ leave him stranded. Aw, blast!” —
he tossed the offending letter in the blaz-
ing fire —“it’s up to a cove t do a turn
f’r young Harry.” Which was the reason
I got my mail by private bag from then
on ; I couldn’t chance my creditors tum-
ing’nasty through Tim doing me “a turn.”
NORMA DAVIS.
Stockrider Wind, did she gallop away
With you, whom she christened Devil-may-
care?
Was it you who called her at dark of day
To ride with you out where the shadows stay,
And stars in the velvet night are fair?
Bush Water, whisper! She named you well
Who mirror the trees in the summer’s blue.
Oh! in your pity and kindness tell,
When the bushland songs in the morning swell,
Where have you taken our singer to?
Sea Wanton, woman whose heart is cold,
Did you see her pass, as you waited there
For your lover to come in the sunset’s gold?
Did you see her" go to the dark night’s fold
Which covers the wanderers everywhere?
Pastures of Devon and fields of Spain,
Tasmanian paddocks in one sweet rhyme,
How will you blossom in spring again?
The grass in your meadows will grow in vain
Since she has gone where the winds of Time
Sing as they blow, and bush bells chime.
N.S.W.
WILL LAWSON.


“X.E.D.”: They brought the little, dark
cove to the bush hospital; a broken
jaw and a couple of teeth knocked out.
’ How did it happen?” I asked the six-
foot-something heavyweight, who car-
ried the patient from the car. “Aw,
y’ know how it is in the scrub,”
he said. “A bloke has t’ act quick
at times t’ save a haccident.” He
shifted his weight from one foot to the
other bashfully. “I reckon I saved Jerry.
Y’ see, he’s a bit deaf, and he couldn’t
hear me tell him he was standin’ fair on
a bull-ants’ nest, so I clouted him an’
dragged him off. Gripes, if I hadn’t got
on t’ him quick an’ lively he’d ’ave bin
stung.”
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: David Fleay, of the
Mackenzie Sanctuary, Healesville (Vic.),
he man who became world-famous
through breeding platypuses in captivity,
wants to repeat the feat with Thylacinus
cyanocephalus, the Tasmanian “wolf” or
‘tiger,” a beast which embodies almost
as many incongruous features as the
other. It combines the stiff tail of an
armadillo with the stripes of a tiger. It
has jaws that literally stretch from ear
to ear, the pouch of a kangaroo and the
disposition, when reared in captivity, of
a house dog. Dr. Fleay’s expedition,
which includes bushman Roy Alderson
and Major and Mrs. Gavan Growl, of
Broadford, will have to comb some of
the wildest country in the Speck round
Mt. Arrowsmith to obtain living speci-
mens of a creature which is neither a
tiger nor a wolf. Time was when the
“tiger” was plentiful enough to be a
menace to sheepmen, and it was outlawed
and a price put on its ungainly head. The
animal slowly vanished and the outlawry
was abolished. Then it was given partial
and finally complete protection. The last
seen alive died in Hobart Zoo in 1933.
♦ * * *
“Wonk”: It’s several years now since
I first met “Baldy” Forbes. He was
sagged over the boundary fence watching
Martin chuck out hay for his stock. Pres-
ently he turned and waved a hand at his
“Henry, are you SURE that was only a cocktail you gave me ?”
own paddock. “See ’em?” he asked me,
pointing to a couple of carcasses in the
foreground, and to groups of starvers
drooping dejectedly here and there. “Not
a bite o’ feed nowhere, an’ none for sale,
Yair, an’ look at Martin’s, will y’? Won’t
lose a hoof. Gripes, I tell y’ a man’s
flamin’ well mad not t’ grow a bit o’
hay.” A couple of weeks ago I again
ran into “Baldy.” Head down, he was
droning round the edge of a large pad-
dock covered with a 6in. crop of sfiag-
gling, yellowed oats that already had
seeded half-heartedly in patches. “See
that?” he called to me. “Cost me over
a hundred quid t’ put that in. Same last
year. Too short t’ cut, an’ not enough
on it t’ feed a blinkin’ sheep. Not that
the stock needed it,” he added. “The
natural grass held out better. Hardier,
an’ no trouble. I tell y’, a man’s flamin’
well mad tryin’t’ grow hay.”
* * * *
“Blime”: Mooching across country
I commented on the disinterested mong
that followed languidly at Lofty’s
heels while the rest of the pack hunted
or coursed bunnies. “Oh, he’s the fox
dog,” explained Lofty. “Fox got away
with one o’ me traps coupla days ago.
That’s why I’ve brought him.” “Two
days, eh? And do you think he’ll ”
“Too right,” championed the raong’s boss.
“It’s his job.” Arriving at the spot Lofty
whistled off the pack, presented Brindle
with an open invitation and flopped
down to smoke. The fox dog came to
life, and, nose to the ground, began to
circle. Wider and wider he went, till a
long way up the hillside he suddenly
stopped, then began to trail. Soon he
disappeared over the rise, but still Lofty
smoked on placidly. Next thing I knew
Brindle was back, eyes gleaming and body
nearly wagging itself double as he re-
ported success. “Awright, awright, I’m
cornin’,” his boss growled, as the dog
with an urgent shove from the rear
knocked off his hat. “Go on, then.
Where’d y’ kill him?” Half an hour
later, with the fox-skin strung on Lofty’s
belt, the rabbit pack were once more on
the job, while the disinterested Brindle
followed languidly at his boss’s heels.
* * * *
“Zimple Zimon”: “Lower T’psail” (B.
10/10/’45) asks what is the greatest dis-
tance from which one can sight land?
Standing at my back door I can see the
moon —and that’s estimated as being
239,000 miles away. And it unquestion-
ably is land. The whole matter is one
of elevation and clearness of the atmo-
.sphere. Up in a ’plane over Centralia a
200-miles radius is the usual thing.
* * M *
“S.T.S.”: The old Australian spirit,
none the less creditable for being exhi-
bited unnecessarily, came out at Renmark
(S.A.), when a settler went out on one
horse to find another that had strayed.
He covered over 80 miles of little-settled
country, found the horse, and returned
home three days later, to be told that a
detective and black tracker, lots of cars
and horsemen and six R.A.A.F, ’planes
from Mildura across the border were out
searching for him, and he had better go
and find tksrn.
* * * *
“Nagheer”: When those half-dozen
green tree-ants got to work on my neck
today, the resultant language would have
set fire to anything less unburnable than
their mangrove home-site. Luckily the pain
doesn’t last long. But, regarded from a
safe distance and without prejudice, these
ants are really remarkable creatures, both
in their Building performances and their
social habits. The- fist-to-football-sized
nests are constructed by pulling green
leaves together on a tree and sticking
them in place with silk. The quarter-
inch workers convert themselves into
living ropes, one holding the leaf edge in
its jaws, the next holding on to its waist,
and so on till the nest site is reached,
The last of the chain grips it, hauls in the
next, and the process is completed along
the line until the leaf is in place. Then
more workers arrive carrying silk-wrapped
larvas, hold their heads to the join and
walk along it, each paying out a sticky
thread from the infant’s clothing. It is
“ Will someone tell this mug who Detective-Sergeant whatmore is?”
child-sweating in its worst form, but, after
all, the workers are old maids and the
robbed infants will grow up that way too.
For a big nest, hundreds of leaves may
have to be fastened together, the silk
being applied repeatedly until it forms a
strong sheet over each joint. Stables for
aphides and other useful livestock kept
by the community are put together in the
same way, and the layette also serves for
all repairs. There are never any housing
shortages amongst the tree-ant folk, but
neither are there any strikes, shortages of
material or birth-control.
* * * *
“Ripsea”: Viewing Lusby’s cartoon of
the road-gang woman swinging the pick
(B. 10/10/’45) I realised that possibly the
lady won her technique on the family
woodheap, it being considered just a trifle
sissy for the average husband to do any-
thing in the way of mutilating the logs in
the days when such a lady had been
young. Which further suggests what
treasures along such lines many of our
ex-A.W.A.S. may be. During the war I
was privileged every day to visit a large
A.W.A.S camp. There was absolutely no
male support and the wood, mainly
jarrah, didn’t exactly fall apart when an
axe was waved over it. But some of
those lasses could chop. And the cook-
house demands for split wood were meas-
ured in whole barrowloads.
♦ . * * *
“Nor’-west”: Granted all that “Bray
Rock” says about the humpback “finning”
(B. 10/10/’45), life for the big cetaceans
is not quite so eventless as he makes out.
Attack by the swordfish and the
thrasher shark may be dis-
counted, but should a school of
killer whales blow along then
things begin to happen to the
defenceless humpbacks. With
all the cunning of dingoes
operating ,on a mob of sheep the
orchas will cut a selected whale
out. Then they pile in for the
kill. The most savage of all
sea creatures, equipped with
mouth and teeth to match a
crocodile, they make solely for
the whale’s head, tearing at the
thick blubbery lips, seeking to
get hold of the tongue, which is
the only part of the whole car-
cass they want. The humpback
naturally resists, with fins and
flukes, and terrific plunges to get
clear. Oddly, it seems unable
to sound and so throw its tor-
mentors off. Possibly it is aware
that with lips badly torn and
water rushing into its cavernous
mouth it is likely to drown. No
doubt from a large ship the spec-
tator with a grandstand view
might be able to give more
details, but in our small boat
we were glad to keep our dis-
tance. Locality, just north of Exmouth
Gulf, one of the primest whale areas
around Australia. Orchas are not very
common along that coast but occasionally
they pay a visit.
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Given the will
to live, a New Guinea native of the Sepik
River tribe takes killing. A year ago, 150
miles upstream at Timbunke, a boy called
Garclow, for assisting an Australian
patrol, was tied to a post by neigh-
boring pro-Jap natives and Jap soldiers.
The visiting natives then took to the
tied-up captive with axes.' Garclow, how-
ever, under the strain of ten axe-cuts,
broke his ties and ran the gauntlet of
Japanese rifle fire, being knocked down
by bullets three times before escaping
many miles away to an off-the-river vil-
lage. There the inhabitants felt “sorry
too much” for the blood-covered escapee,
so they placed him on a bed frame, and,
lighting fires underneath, they alternatively
smoked and cooked the victim. Medical
science doubtless wouldn’t have approved,
but this tribal custom fixed Garclow. A
week or so ago at Timbunke, when he
proudly showed me his scars and the
position of two slugs still embedded in
his back, I suggested taking him away
to hospital to have the lead removed. But
not on your life! The smiling fellow,
glistening with health in a new blue lap-
lap, is not losing his bullets for the world.
sfc 51! * »
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d clicked for a con-
tract job 70 miles up the line, but since
our sole cash assets were 3s. 4d. and a
bent Egyptian piastre, the job of getting
our gear there was in front of us. We
were still trying to work it out in our
camp on the creek when a goods train
pulled into the siding above us. Mat eyed
the train, remarking “If we didn’t have
the stuff it’d be easy to hop that thing.”
I grunted. Idly we watched the engine
shunting trucks about until the big fellow
suddenly jumped up and said “Here, help
me shove the things in,” and began pack-
ing axes, tucker, etc., into the battered old
tin trunk. We got it tied down, then
sneaked up through the scrub with it,
awaited our chance and heayed it in
among a collection of empty crates and
barrels in a truck near the guard’s van.
About nine o’clock that night, three hours
after that train left, we presented our-
selves to the local trooper and told him
our camp had been raided and a tin trunk
full of goods stolen, apparently by
toughs who had jumped the goods
train. The trooper said he’d ’phone.
An hour later he came down to our
camp. The trunk had been found on
the train at Watchupga, but the thieves
had got away. Did we want the trunk
brought back? “Aw, well,” Mat said,
“p’raps it’d be better for ’em t’ keep it
there. Me an’ me mate was makin’ that
way, anyway.” The trooper eyed us
thoughtfully, then he gave a bit of a grin
and said “I see.” Then he grinned some
more and went back to his station. We
were on our way before he was out of
sight.
* * * *
“Zake”: For the boil victim who likes
his agony in the raw there is nothing like
the old steam-bottle process. The addicts
of this particular bush sport—they don’t
suffer from boils themselves —never fail
to stress the splendid drawing powers of
the steam bottle. When the mug sub-
mits to their pet treatment they always
have a hammer handy to smash the bottle
when, as almost invariably happens, the
suction becomes so great that even after
it has pulled the innards out of the boil
the bottle hangs to that portion of the
anatomy to which it has been stuck like
cocky’s joy to a blanket. But I once
struck an effective variation of the
method: a lampglass heated in water and
clamped on. The user, a Stroud (N.S.W.)
timbergetter, contended that by having
one end open he could regulate the power
of the steam suction —feasible, when you
come to think of it.
UP NORTH.
Oh, Bill and Joe to the north have gone,
A green shirt on their back;
There are not many ewes and lambs
Along Kokoda track.
There are not many ewes and lambs,
But men in single file
Like sheep along a mountain pad
Walk mile on sweating mile;
And each half-hour they change the lead,
Though 1 have never read
Where any fat bell-wether was
Shot, in the mountains, dead.
The only sheep they muster there '
Leap through the mind at night;
T would he as red as marking time
To change green shirt for white.
And though Bill dreams of droving now
On the drought-colored plain,
There’s little need to tap the glass
Or pray for it to rain.
They have no lack of water there
But there is a stringing tail,
For men lie dying in the grass
Along Kokoda trail.
N.S.W.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1868)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
mm i;
/ *
<L A \\«
. \W\
RAlN—when and
where you need it
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and built to fit
your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very attractive, and some pur-
chasers have reported recovering their full
outlay in one season.
MAXIMUM COUPLING HAS FLEXIBILITY
IN ALL DIRECTIONS.
The patented Coupling is the only one on the market that has
positive flexibility for it can be coupled in any direction to an
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight. The patent outlet .
enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions wlthoiit stopping either the
pump or the motor. Quotations given for plants suitable for 2 to 1000 acres.
MANUFACTURERS: MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 DIXON STREET, SYDNEY. MA 7898.
Agents: SMITH & GLUYAB PTY., LTD., 154-156 Clarence Street, Sydney. M 3977.
QUEENSLAND PASTORAL SUPPLIES PTY., LTD., Box 708 K, G.P.0., Brisbane. ’Phone, B3ISI.
WELLING & CROSSLEY PTY., LTD., 143-149 Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. ’Phone, MX4889.
f
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
«*>
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
(Regd.)
k.
SAVES
MANPOWER
A boy can use the 81b.
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
11
I
i
gas
-
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
df
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STANDARDS
OF ACCURACY
ms
MACHINE TOOI
manufacturing co.pty.ltd
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes. Shapers,
Weight (approx.) 2\ tons
Millers, Planers
BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY, BRISBANE
Sole Distrib. Agents: For N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & 8t ”
Sydney; ViaUrlft: Thompson & VVilhams Pty. Wd-j 28. Marhet St., Melbour .
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Branding Sheep.
“Murrawong”: Sheep need some easily-
seen distinguishing mark on them, but
brands cause trouble in the fleece, chiefly
through the use of home-made branding
fluids based on tar. The sheep-owner
demands a branding fluid that will remain
visible from shearing to shearing, the
manufacturer wants one that will scour
out easily, and a brand that will stand
up to weather for twelve months will not
scour out easily, if at all. Careless brand-
ing causes an immense amount of damage
to wool, but it is unlikely that this can
ever be overcome. Scientists have sought
a perfect branding fluid and have got
fairly close to the mark, but cost beats
them.
Although manufacturers and others
have been complaining about losses
through tar brands in wool for many
years they have never taken the obvious
step of offering even £d. per lb. or a bonus
on a clip that did not carry tar brands.
The wool-grower would have responded.
There are instances where station-bred
sheep were not branded, yet their wool
was sold on the same basis, though cata-
logued as free from tar brands, as other
wool from the property which carried tar
brands.
There are alternatives to tar-branding,
but there is nothing so satisfactory as a
means of identification. The number of
combinations which can be used with ear-
marks is limited and insufficient as a
complete means of identification. Some
properties, usually stud breeders, make
use of an indelible tattoo, but this
is only for checking, as it is in-
visible when handling the sheep nor-
mally. Fire-branding on the sheep’s
face, the nose being the usual part, is an
alternative, but a brand in this position
must be invisible to anyone riding behind
the sheep, and could never be as simple as
the brand on the back.
In South Africa it is forbidden to
market wool with the brands in, so all
tar brands are removed at shearing time.
Whether Australian shedhands could be
relied on to do the job is a moot point.
Bush Fire-fighting.
“J.R.D.”: Belting a fire with boughs
or beaters is like fighting a tank with
bow and arrow (B. 7/11/ ’45). The beater
must still form part of the brigade equip-
ment, but water is needed to put the fire
out. Every brigade should get as much
water as it can to the seat of a fire with
the utmost rapidity, keep up a continu-
ous supply and provide itself with a
modern power-driven unit that will enable
it to hit the blaze Accurately and travel
steadily along a fire, stopping it as it goes.
Between beater and power unit are many
intermediaries knapsack spray pumps,
semi-rotary and low-down hand pumps
and stirrup pumps, AH require man-
power and darned hard work. Knapsacks
are useful for following up a lire cart
and putting out burning posts, stumps,
etc., and every brigade should have as
many as possible. They must also be
regarded as secondary equipment, how-
ever. The fire has to be hit hard and
quickly by the big unit.
When fires are likely each brigade
should have its main truck standing ready
for action with the power unit, compris-
ing a reliable engine and pump, hoses
and a tank full of water. Contrary to
general opinion, a good power unit does
not use any more water than a hand-
operated one or even a small pump. With
a suitable nozzle they will throw a 40ft.-
50ft. jet of water and use only 2gal. per
minute. Their advantages are that, thor-
oughly equipped, they have a reserve of
power to deliver larger volumes of water
‘ It's about time We stopped Dais faltering that gangster serial .”
if required, and that two men operating
one unit will do more to a fire in half an
hour than 20 men with beaters in a
month. The whole object of fire-fighting
is to hit it hard and early. The district
that can boast a large number of small
fires can congratulate itself.
Lucerne-Cutting.
“Myrrhee”: Wait till the flowers show
or the next growth is starting from the
crown. Early-cut lucerne is finer and
makes a better-quality fodder. Mature
lucerne is coarser in the stem and when
full bloom is on the leaves are yellowing
and beginning to fall. Cutting too early
effects the vigor of the plants. Cut at
the intermediate stage of early bloom
the hay will be better and the vigor of
the growing plant unaffected.
Curing calls for judgment. The objec-
tive should be to save the leaves, which
contain most of the nutriment. They are
easily shattered by over-exposure to sun
and rain, and loss of the green color
means loss of valuable elements.
In Victoria we cut and allow to lie
in the swathe, usually for a day; but in
hot weather in northern districts the
rake follows the mower. If cocking is
impracticable because of labor shortage
the hay could be gathered into heaps with
a dump rake, or hay-loaders could be
used to gather it direct from the wind-
rows, though there is risk of heating if
it is stacked while too moist. Coarse salt
spread on the hay while it is being
stacked (201 b. to the ton) will reduce the
risk of heating.
Storing Wheat.
“K.Mc.”: The easiest to protect against
vermin and the cheapest drought fodder
to store is wheat. No old tank should be
discarded, most of them when no longer
serviceable for water are fit to hold wheat
or oats. If rustholes are too large stretch
netting round the tank and plaster into it
a 3-in-l mixture of sand and cement.
This will make a good grain silo. If it is
under a shed it won’t need a top, but if
in the open it will, preferably a cone-
shaped one.
Insect pests work in the first foot or
two of stored wheat. They can be con-
trolled by dusting with finely-powdered
magnesite at the rate of 350 z. per square
yard. Carbon bisulphide is very effective
but rather dangerous for novices to
handle. Sprinkle the magnesite evenly
over the surface, work it into the wheat
with a rake, then Cover with a tarpaulin
for a day or two. Every few months
the wheat should be examined for in-
festation.
Provided only dry grain is put into
the tanks and kept dry it will keep for
years.
Culling Fewls.
“Chook”: The general thing is to cull
for age: after a hen has passed her
second laying season she is thrown out.
Mostly they have then passed their peak.
But I always maintained that a good old
animal, be it horse, man or cow, is better
than a bad young one. Instead of culling
for age I culled for production. I had a
series of pens with about 800 first- and
second-year hens. In another set of yards
I had about 600 second-, third- and a few
fourth-year layers. Those latter had been
culled for production irrespective of age.
Both lots were bred alike: they had
the same food ; other conditions were
equal. Those culled for production put
it all over the younger hens which were
selected for age alone. On odd occasions
the older hens almost equalled in numbers
the production from the bigger yard;
their percentage was always higher; at
the end of the season, when the moult
was commencing, the older hens stayed in
long after the youngsters had ceased to
lay at a profit. In my opinion, any other
system than cull-for-production is waste.
Early in the season I threw out “yellow
legs,” the first indication of a non-pro-
ducer fowl of any age.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Many valuable dogs
are lost during the tick season solely be-
cause their owners don’t look after ’em.
Sulphur given internally in small doses—
it can be given in milk or dusted through
the hair —helps keep ’em tick-free, but it
still pays to go over the canines every
three days. Ticks do no harm until the
fourth day of attachment; vulnerable
parts of the dog are the paws, neck and
head. A drop of kerosene on a tick will
cause it to fall off in short time, but if
the dog is already paralysed snip the tick
off at skin-level without delay. Trypan-
blue injections are effective against tick
paralysis,
“Plane Creek”: He who killed a “big
Port Jackson fig” with lib. per gallon
solution of arsenic pentoxide (B.
29/ 8/ ’45) was lucky or perhaps the tree
died of its own accord. I don’t use less
than 21b. to the gallon any time, and I
get good kills with anything except
cluster fig, white fig and sandpaper fig.
I am not acquainted with the Port Jack-
son fig, which appears to me to be a
sadly puny vegetable compared with our
N.Q. varieties, which spread freely and
are plentiful in the gum forests here on
the C.Q. coast.
“P.R.A.N.”; It is rare to find an indi-
genous grass appear spontaneously over
a large area where in previous years it
was so scarce as to pass unnoticed. It
has happened on the Darling Downs (Q.)
with the grass Urochloa panicoides. An
annual listed in Bailey’s Queensland Flora
as endemic on the Darling Downs, it
appeared a few years ago to be confined
to small areas, chiefly on the Swan Creek
watershed. During the last decade it has
made a surprising spread over the greater
part of the Condamine Valley. It has
proved an excellent feed for growth, fat-
tening and milk-production.
“A.G.R.”: Differences re poisonous
properties of cassava roots were explained
by a man who has spent some years in
South America, the home of cassava. He
says that the roots of some varieties are
poisonous until cooked. Probably the
varieties imported from Java (B.
18/7/’45) had been selected for freedom
from poison, whereas “Plane Creek’s”
cassava may have been of the poisonous
type. Cassava is a useful horse vegetable,
but is useless a few days after digging,
and so has no market value.
“Bennie”; A good vegetable for the
heat is summer spinach. All soils suit it,
provided they are well worked and en-
riched with decayed manure, broken
down with equal quantities of wopd ashes
and soot. Plenty of water, too, but not
in the heat of the day; early morning is
best. Sow seeds frequently in small lots
for succeeding crops. Soak the seeds be-
fore sowing, and rub them in dry dirt to
help them to separate.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Bossing Germans and Japs.
(Condensed from the “United States News.”)
Differences in treatment of the two de-
feated nations show up in these points:
Japan is allowed to keep her island
home. Germany loses big chunks of
land that had been hers for centuries.
Japan retains her Emperor. Germany
has no national leader, and no attempt is
being made to raise one up. The rule
of Japan is left in the hands of Japanese.
The rule of Germany is in the hands of
foreigners, with no central Government
permitted. Japan is occupied by U.S.
troops only. Germany is cut up into
four occupation zones. Japan can keep
her Shinto religion. Germany must give
up Nazism. Japan is allowed to keep
the industry that was not devoted to
war purposes. In Germany a definite
programme of deindustrialisation is being
followed. Preparations are being made
to help Japan revive her foreign trade,
and a U.S. advisory economic mission is
going there. There is no evidence of
such preparations for Germany. No
definite limit has been set on the Japan-
ese standard of living. In Germany, the
standard of living is not to rise above
that of the average of European coun-
tries, which is low.
The Japanese Government is allowed
to round up persons wanted by the occu-
pation authorities. In Germany, the
occupation authorities are making the
arrests, which total nearly 70,000 in the
U.S.- zone alone. Large numbers of
Germans are being required to work for
their conquerors. Japanese apparently
ar ® J 1 0! to be forced to work for others.
Those points of difference have
aroused wide comment to the effect that
Japan is being favored over Germany.
Similarities in treatment of the two
countries, however, tell the real story.
The directives governing MacArthur
in Japan and Eisenhower in Germany
both were prepared by the U.S. State,
War and Navy Co-ordinating Committee.
Any differences in method arise from the
differing circumstances under which
Japan and Germany surrendered, and
not from any conflict as to the end results
to be achieved.
If the Japanese Emperor disagrees with
U.S. policies or orders he can be de-
throned, or General MacArthur can by-
pass him. The U.S. policy is to use the
existing form of government in Japan,
not to support it.
All conquered territory is being taken
away from both Japan and Germany.
For Japan, this means the loss of some
areas that had been held for 40 or 50
years. War damage in the two countries
is to be repaired by their people with no
outside help. Reparations in kind are to
be exacted from both Germany and
Japan. Both are to make restitution of
looted property.
Neither Japan nor Germany is allowed
to have an army, a navy, an air force,
secret police, or civil aviation. No uni-
forms are to be permitted in either
country, except for policemen, firemen
and the like. Militaristic leaders and
“ultranationalists” are to be removed
from office or influence.
Peace-minded Governments are an
important objective in both countries.
Political parties and labor unions are to
be permitted, and the right of assembly
is to be safeguarded.
Educational systems of the two coun-
tries no longer will be channels of propa-
ganda for expansion and ultranational-
ism. New textbooks are being prepared,
and teachers who are aggressive in
spreading militaristic doctrines are being
removed.
Administration of affairs in both coun-
tries is to be returned to their own people
as soon as the Allies can be sure that
the authority will not be misused. Japan-
ese officials remain in control of their
domestic fiscal, monetary and credit
policies. In Germany, agencies extend-
ing over the four zones and dealing with
transportation, communications, industry,
foreign trade and finance are being
set up under the administration of Ger-
mans. Other agencies manned by Ger-
mans will deal with health, education,
labor and justice, but on a provincial
basis.
Elections will be held in both Japan
and Germany as soon as the situation
warrants. Local elections soon are to be
held in the American zone in Germany.
In Japan, elections will not be held until
political parties have been reestablished
and conditions have been stabilised. That
may take several months or a year.
Whether the institution of the Emperor
is to be retained in the new democratic
setup eventually will be decided by the
Japanese people.
Peacetime economies that cannot easily
be converted to war are to be built in
both cases. War industries are to be
eliminated as a first step in the rebuilding
process.
Industrial and financial combinations
that have aided in war are to be dis-
solved. The I. G. Farben ? Krupp and
other trusts in Germany are being broken
up. Similar combinations in Japan will
be smashed. Exports and imports of
both Germany and Japan will be strictly
controlled. In both cases imports will
consist mainly of materials needed to
produce the necessities of life. The pro-
ceeds of any exports will be used first to
pay for those necessary imports. Mer-
chant marines will be denied to both
countries.
Production of food and clothing for
home consumption will be expanded.
This does not represent a radical change
for, Japan, already 80 p.c. self-sufficient
in food, but it means a drastic shift for
industrial Germany. Light manufactur-
ing is to be stressed instead of heavy in-
dustry in both countries.
Research for military purposes, such
as making of atomic bombs, is banned.
What it all adds up to is that, if Allied
plans succeed, neither Germany nor
Japan will be in a position to cause
trouble for many years to come. This
is true even more certainly of Japan than
of Germany, because Japan is an island
nation, and so long as her neighbors
choose to keep her weak she cannot re-
gain her old place as one of the leading
military powers of the world.
Britain Remains British.
(From the “Saturday Evening Post.”)
If some of our [U.§.] Left-Wingers had
read more English history and relied less
on the vapor from their own boilings,
there would have been less indignation
among them at the discovery that the
Foreign Minister of England acts like the
Foreign Minister of England, whether his
name be Bevin or Eden.
Instead of studying the realities of
Britain’s post-war international position
and what England must do to keep her
head above water, the American tota-
liberal took his view of English politics
from such improvisers as Harold Laski,
who, at the moment when British prestige
needed steadying, toured Europe promis-
ing that the new Labor Government was
about to become a meddlesome Mattie
everywhere except in areas which were to
be turned over to the uncontested control
of the Russians. Members of the British
Cabinet take turns slapping Laski down,
but to hopeful Left-Wingers the professor
outweighs the politicians.
England remained recognisably English
as anybody familiar with England would
have known it would. Nevertheless, Mr.
Bevin is in a doghouse labelled “as bad as
Churchill,” because he is playing the part
of an English statesman instead of a
Bloomsbury pink.
Prime Minister Attlee, who insisted on
British return to Hong Kong, provided
another shock for the eager beavers who
believed the English people had voted
away a soft touch in the Far East. To
such Romantics the cheers in the House
of Commons which greeted Mr. Attlee’s
announcement must have been puzzling
indeed.
Even on British domestic policy, out-
side observers are likely to go astray.
Socialism as practised in England may
very well turn out to be little more than
glorified disaster relief. The average Eng-
lishman probably agrees with Sir Stafford
Cripps, Labor’s President of the Board of
Trade, that England requires the co-
operation of “all elements of the
economy.”
Lefties, in so far as their criticism was
sincere and not mere reflections of fellow-
traveller spleen, made two mistaks. The
first was the error that Hitler made'—
namely, thinking that England was split
by class war and would promptly fall
apart under pressure. The truth is, Eng-
land, whatever inflationary, screwball,
New Deal policies she may adopt at
home, can be counted on to support a
foreign jolicy in harmony with English
interests. One Leftist newspaper ex-
pressed shocked surprise that Mr. Bevin
is “as strongly opposed as Churchill to
presiding over the liquidation of the
British Empire.” This caused the editor
a “dreadful morning-after feeling.”
Others are relieved. But the point is,
nobody but a political illiterate could pos-
sibly have been surprised.
The other mistake of the Left brethren
is also made by Conservatives. It is the
assumption that a Labor victory neces-
sarily implies surrender to every demand
of Moscow for a free hand to bolshevise
Europe and thrust a new totalitarian
power closer to the Western world. This
misjudgment could have been avoided by
a study of the balance of power, which
is as necessary to British, and perhaps
even American, safety as it ever was in
the days of Lord Salisbury. The error
could also have been avoided by closer
study of the men in the British Labor
movement. These leaders are roughly the
opposite numbers of the Social Democrats
of Continental Europe, the kind of men
whom Stalin detests and who are being
liquidated and exiled in Eastern Europe at
this moment. Such men have no better
opinion of a G.P.U. than of a Gestapo,.
When Mr. Bevin condemned all types of
totalitarianism equally, he was speaking
with a conviction which our bemused Left
has long since abandoned. When he de-
plored the liquidation of Central Euro-
peans who “belong to no particular
party,” he was not defending “Rightists,”
but human rights, with traditional Anglo-
Saxon vigor. One result was an imme-
diate, if perhaps temporary, revival in
Central Europe of interest and confidence
in the Western democracies. Was that so
deplorable?
Anyway, it doesn’t make much sense to
tear your hair when Englishmen act like
Englishmen. They have been acting that
way for centuries, Churchills rising above
Harrow and Bevins rising above the
School of Hard Knocks (no tie), when
called to assume national responsibility.
This simple patriotism is one of the few
ancient landmarks that can still be sighted
through the murk of these confused times.
U.S. Army v. Communists.
C From a N.Y. “Journal-American” article by
Frank Conniff, former International News Ser-
vice war correspondent .)
Europe’s swing to the Left, power-
housed by Communist tacticians who
move implacably toward predetermined
goals while the rest of the Continent
flounders, has brushed against one flinty
fact that must severely nettle Russian
propagandists.
Keenly aware of all political subtleties,
Communist leaders well realise the pro-
duct they are hawking to a lacerated
Europe is meeting competition from an-
other ideology whose agents wear the
uniform of the American Army..
With none of the intrigue that charac-
terises Russian diplomacy, Americans
overseas have impressed upon continental
people the idea that there exists a way
of life vastly superior to the Communism
being so adroitly peddled as the panacea
for all their ills.
In this developing battle of prestige,
the solid strength of America, visible to
every European eye, presents a formid-
able obstacle to Communist dominance
in countries prostrated by the bitter heri-
tage of war.
Europeans have only to look around
them to grasp the innate vitality of
America. Whole portions of the Con-
tinent pulse with American machines and
equipment, Americanism and not Com-
munism must inevitably emerge in their
eyes as the most puissant force in the
world today.
And I strongly suspect the Russians
know it. Their pathological secrecy is-
motivated, I think, by the dread that too
much contact between their own soldiers
and Americans may result in unfavor-
able comparisons.
In those febrile April weeks when the
German Army was disintegrating beyond
the Elbe, I spent many days behind the
Russian lines. And I think I discovered
why the Russian command has always
discouraged visits by Americans, unless
they be dependable party apologists.
It was like stepping into the pages of
War and Peace to follow that mighty
tide formed by thousands of horse-drawn
vehicles. Well-armed women, as rugged
as the men, jounced along in the straw-
matted carts. Cows, sheep and geese,
all lifted from the land, squalled through
the centre of marching columns. The
sight had an untidy, brawling impact, and
the feeling of power and movement was
irresistible. A Napoleonic campaign
bloomed in your mind’s-eye with no con-
scious effort. But after months with the
mechanised American Army, the Rus-
sian dependence upon horses and mules
was startling.
It would be snobbish to disparage the
Red Army’s achievements because of its
motley uniforms or lack of transport. But
my point is this: The Russians grimly
realised their deficiencies and never in-
tended that outside observers —especially
Americans —should become aware of
them.
This Russian complex for smothering
difficulties while simultaneously playing
down the American contribution to final
victory is perhaps the most irritating
aspect of the relationship between the
two nations.
I remember one Russian regimental
mess near Berlin at which the customary
toasts were exchanged. As the toasts
proceeded—and names like Truman,
Stalin, Roosevelt, et al., were tossed about
with gusto —the Americans present be-
came cognisant of a depressing trend in
the Russian salutations.
Every Communist paean in praise of
the United Nations was qualified with
an unwieldy “But .” And then in-
variably would follow an explanation
that, after all, despite American and
British sacrifices, it was the Russians who
had really won the war.
The Russian staff members always
beamed brightly at the mention of Stalin-
grad, Leningrad or Moscow. They
merely looked blank when anybody men-
tioned Bataan or Alamein or the Battle
of Britain.
At length one correspondent, the
usually conservative representative of an
unusually conservative newspaper, wilted
under the studied repetition of how
Russia had won the war. Flushed with
vodka and, perhaps, memories of dead
Americans, he rose unsteadily to his feet.
“We Americans know what we’ve con-
tributed,” he said. “So do the Germans.
So do the British. And it’s about time
somebody in the Kremlin told the Rus-
sians.”
But nobody in the Kremlin will. The
masses might become acquainted with
that strange form of democracy which has
managed to wage a global war and still
preserve individual liberty.
Balfour Declaration: the Facts.
(Condensed from New York “Herald Tribune”
this statement by Professor William Ernest
Hocking concisely gives the facts on a matter
on which there still seems to be a good deal
of misunderstanding.)
There have been serious misstatements
of the meaning of the Balfour Declara-
tion. The matter is one of simple fact;
but it has been obscured by the misrepre-
sentations with which this country has
been flooded for two years past.
The Balfour Declaration does not con-
tain any promise of a Jewish national
State. It was carefully worded to ex-
clude this expectation ; for in the negotia-
tions leading to the declaration in Novem-
ber, 1917, certain Zionist leaders had
urged “the reconstitution of Palestine as
a Jewish State,” and this had been defi-
nitely rejected. The declaration pledges
the British Government to “view with
favor the establishment in Palestine of a
national home for the Jewish people,”
providing carefully that “nothing shall be
done which may prejudice the civil and
religious rights of existing non-Jewish
communities in Palestine.” Neither here
nor in the mandate under the League nor
in the approving act of the U.S. Govern-
ment is there any proposal that Palestine
should become a Jewish State.
This position was restated in 1922 in
two White Papers, one by Churchill and
one by Lord Passfield, in which it is re-
iterated that the special position of the
Zionist executive “does not entitle it to
share in any degree in the government.”
The Zionist community was to be within
Palestine, and the positions and interests
of Moslems and Christians —still there —
were to be an equal charge of the man-
datory power.
It would be natural now for the British
Government to reconsider the limitations
on Jewish immigration into Palestine
established in the White Paper of 1939,
in the light of many new conditions, in-
cluding, among other things, the tremen-
dous growth of Soviet influence in the
Near East. But Britain may well hesitate
to act while subject to pressure from the
United States on the ground of a wholly
non-existent promise, inconsistent with its
own commitments and with the U.S.A.’s.
The American conscience is indeed
concerned. It is moved by the terrible
fate of European Jews, and it seeks a
prompt dourse of action. It is easily
hurried to the irrelevant conclusion:
“Therefore they must have Palestine;
and those who raise questions are persons
of ill will.” But this same conscience
would be revolted if it could see the
U.S. becoming through its sympathies
the tool of what I should consider a
Zionist imperialism, tending to absorb
and subordinate to its own ambitions the
claims of a great people, resident for
thirteen hundred years on Palestinian


advt
A COMPACT, NEW
CIGARETTE LIGHTER
Slide the button and this Upman Cigarette Lighter
opens and lights in one operation. It is compact,
neat and sturdily made, in black crackle lacquer or
nickel finish. It’s Australian-made... a splendid gift.
PRICE, 14/6
(Hn'zJotdS
JI2. MARKET ST.. SYDNEY,
Watchmakers
and
Jewellers
t the Sij&no} jHonmifi fjemlb
£30,000 Grant
for the Encouragement
of AUSTRALIAN LITERATURE
and ART
This grant is designed to bring out the latent
talent in Australian writers and artists'.
A Prize Fund for Novels, Short Stories and Poems
of about £5,000 a year, for five years, will be first
established, with a special prize for a war story
during the first year. The remaining £5,000 will
be allotted to art, and details will be announced
later.
Below are set out the prizes to be offered. Other
details of the competition will be announced later.
The prizes offered during the first year are as
follows: —
NOVEL (70,000 to 100,000 words):—First Prize,
£2,000; 2nd Prize, £1,000; 3rd Prize, £500;
Total, £3,500.
BEST STORY OF THE WAR (given in first year
only):—1st Prize, £1,000; 2nd Prize, £500;
3rd Prize, £250. Total, £1,750.
SHORT STORY:—1st Prize, £100; 2nd Prize,
£50; 10 Prizes, each of £20. Total, £350.
POEM: —1st Prize, £50; 2nd Prize, £25; 3rd
Prize, £10. Total, £85.
The total prize money indicated above is £5,685.
Novels, Short Stories, Verse and Art
5.M.H.2.
BOOKS TECHNICAL
A Guide to the Sky. A book to form an introduction to Astronomy for
First in Astronomy without a Telescope. Dealing with the Earth,
the Constellations, the Moon, the Sim and the Planets, by Burns
How to Use the Microscope. A guide for the Novice, by Hall •• ••
Our Rifles. Guide to Sporting and Military Rifles in America, 1800-1920,
by Winthrop Sawyer. Profusely illustrated .. ... •• ••
How to Make Strong Wooden Toys. How to make attractive toys easily
Tclevision*without'Tear s /'the tale & of Television told for YOU by‘Puttick
Silk Screen Methods ot Reproduction. Eor Sign Painters, Card Writers,
Display Men, Furniture Decorators, Novelty Manufacturers, Glass
Etchers and for Domestic Use, by Zahn .. •• •• ••
Practical For the Professional and the Amateur, by Thomas
Gll ° Cryptanalysis. A study of ciphers ‘and their solution, by Gaines
Elementary
Lists of each subject supplied on
application.
Est. 1860. (The G.P.O. is opposite)
McG ILL'S AGENCY,
183-185, BEIZABETH ST., MEUBOURNE.
Hi
L L U
asaa
a sib
2S
BUSINESS TAKES A HOLIDAY
at the
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON NEW ZEALAND
Where perfect cuisine ... luxurious appointments ... unobtrusive
service... and a warm friendly atmosphere bring ease and relax-
ation from the tension of wartime travel.
RADIO, CABLE AND TELEGRAPHIC ADDRESS s “SANGEORGE”
soil, having an equal concern in the new
national growth opening to all peoples
and equally recipient of Allied promises.
To give ourselves to a plausible but in-
sufficiently examined policy which may
involve the practical expropriation of a
people militarily defenceless endangers a
truly considerate solution of the problem
of Jewish re-settlement, which is a United
Nations problem.
The U.S. Short of Shortages.
( Condensed from an article by Samuel Grafton
in the New York “Post.”)
While the British and American eco-
nomic delegates were conferring in
Washington another meeting was taking
place, also in Washington. The subject
of discussion was curtailment of U.S. food
output. It makes an odd picture, those
two meetings going on, side by side; the
British, at one, urgently asking for
financial aid, so that they may feed their
people; and at the other the Farm
Bureau Federation 'discussing the ques-
tion of curbing vast U.S. production of
eggs, potatoes, vegetable oils, rice, and
perhaps corn.
To the British it must seem that they
are in a strange place, in a city in which
men talk of how to produce less food.
And U.S. is indeed in a strange place, in
the strange and lonely place of the player
who has all the chips in the game. Our
[American] wealth is thrusting a kind of
isolation upon us, separating us from the
world.
We have, for instance, almost ten bil-
lion dollars worth of military goods scat-
tered over the world outside the United
States; and the figure embraces only
portable items, not fixed installations.
Almost six billion dollars’ worth of this
incredible heap of property is in Europe,
and included are not only weapons but
goods of all kinds, trucks, cars, fuel,
food, clothing and medical supplies.
Armed guards stand watch over these
great piles of material in a hungry conti-
nent.
As to why we guard the goods, it is a
little hard to say, for we don’t want the
stuff; most of our business men are
firmly of the opinion that it ought never
to be brought back home, to disrupt our
own markets. The obvious solution is
to sell it where it is, but our prospective
purchasers, in too many cases, lack
dollars, and want easy long-term credits,
and we have a natural reluctance to
supply both the goods and the money.
So we retreat further into that peculiar
loneliness forced upon us by our own
abundance.
The Administration talks of not giving
these surpluses away, of so managing
the disposal -of them, and of our pros-
pective credits to Britain, as to obtain
trade favors for ourselves. But our posi-
tion is already so favorable the game
has stopped on account of it. What we
need are needs, not favors, for the game
to resume; and we are desperately short
of needs.
We must face up to the fact of our
peculiar pre-eminence among the nations;
but we are desperately trying not to
face that fact. We even manage to sound
rather poor sometimes, in discussing
foreign credits; denying our own
supremacy as a way of denying the obli-
gations that go with it.
If we continue along these lines we are
almost certain to end up without friends.
We must decide whether to take the way
of friendship or the way of power. If
we do not use our pre-eminence more
generously it is going to become mere
isolation. And if the day ever arrives
when we can no longer get along with
the other nations, we shall find that we
can’t get along with ourselves, either;
for it is a peculiar fact that those who
favor the U.S. using its power to squeeze
former allies to the limit are also the
intransigeants in home politics; and in
the fullest sense Americans are offered the
choice of whether to live with the world
or to die with the die-hards
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
Ruthless penalties are imposed by the Red
Army for any infraction of the disciplinary
rules laid down in the German territory. The
order issued in June, stipulating the execution
of 50 Nazi prisoners for every Russian soldier
assassinated by German partisans, now covers
assault, theft and damage to Russian equipment
or supplies. That Russia means what she says
no German can doubt. —‘‘Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
Six persons were killed by one of the 225
Japanese balloons which in nine months reached
the U.S. and Canada across the Pacific. The
dead consisted of the wife of the Rev. Archie
Mitchell and five children of his congregation
who were picnicking. Two balloon bombs fell
near the Hanford atomic bomb plant, one fail-
ing to explode and the other cutting an im-
portant power line, and many forest fires were
believed due to the balloons. Twenty balloons
Stme s 6 t Ya ß ma V rrf WaShin The
State, and at Santa Rosa, California. The
bomb from one made a crater_ the size of a
swimming pool. —Chicago “Sun.”
* * * *
Since 1940 the population of the United
States has increased more than 8,000,000 to
bring the total as of July 1 to about
139,682,000, the Census Bureau has stated.
The increase in the war years was almost as
much as the 8,894,000 jump in the preceding
ten years. There were 10,569,000 estimated
births, more than double the 5,137,000 deaths
(excluding war casualties) in the three and one-
half years ended July 1. The excess of births
over deaths in 1942 was 10.6 a KWO popula-
b° a > as 9 on \P ar oed 0 ed with an excess of but seven
a 1000 ,. in 1938, a typical year.— New York
1 im6 *' * * * *
, ,
Some labor spokesmen have proposed reduc-
tion in the standard work week as a means of
providing more jobs to employ war veterans and
discharged war workers. Excessive shortening
of the work week will cut down the volume of
production correspondingly, so that less goods
and services will be available for consumers.
This means a lower standard of living for wage-
earners, regardless of the rates of pay they re-
ceive. If the hours of work are cut down
shamlv and ftikp finmp mv is maintained the
sharply and take-home pay is maintamea, uic
labor cost per unit of output will go up and
selling prices will have to be raised, so that
the take-home wages will buy so much less than
in the past. It is one thing to reduce working
hours with an increase in labor productivity per
man-hour, and it is quite a different thing to
cut down working hours per week merely to
“share the work,” at a time when productivity
per man-hour is probably less than it was be-
fore the war. A national share-the-work policy
is essentially a share-the-unemployment plan,
which places the chief burden of unemployment
on the workers. Wage earners, like all other
groups in the nation, are interested primarily
in a larger output of goods and services, which
alone makes possible higher living standards.—
New York “Journal of Commerce.”
.. * * *
. . . x •
Canada is coming out of the war as an in-
dustrial power ready to compete with the U.S.
in all parts of the world. Orders for manu-
factured goods and equipment are pouring into
Canadian plants. Loans are being granted to
nations short of funds because of the war. And
sales promotion is being extended to countries
like Russia and China, where Canada never
before sold in large quantity. These are symp-
toms of a drastic new approach to the expan-
sion of foreign trade. It is made possible by a
great increase of productive capacity and a
switch from a debtor to a creditor nation during
the war. The goal of Canadian efforts is o
find the basis for 1,000,000 more jobs than in
1939 in exports to the value of
Canadian dollars. The target figure is *
cent, above pre-war in value and 15 per cen•
up in volume. Owing to rigid contmls, prices
Canada have risen less than in almost a y
dX/V vlSed at 10 per cenl below the U.S.
do jj ar As a resu i tj f or the first time a Canadian
autorno bile riianufacturer can compete with U.S.
auto makers in export markets. This favorable
price relationship is expected to apply to other
competing industries. The result is expected to
be a volume of exports sufficient to provide full
employment in Canada. —From the “United
States News.”
* * * *
The small border districts of Eastern Turkey,
w hose return to Russian sovereignty is one
0 f tbe conditions laid down by Moscow for a
new rreaty of friendship, control the highly
. . • nort h-east land gate from the Russian
c auc f S us into the Middle Lst. Drastic revision
arrangements governing the use of the Dar-
danelles % y is inevitable, given Russia’s
power in both the Black Sea and the Balkans.
Large Russian armies in the Eastern Balkans
and Georgia point up that fact. The British
themselves show' their recognition of the shift
j n tbe power setup by their rush to establish
a j r bases in the Greek-owned /Egean islands
flanking the Straits. —“ Atlantic Monthly.”
* * * *
In considering reconversion to civil eco-
nomy 18 months ag0.... Messrs. Baruch ana
Hancock pointed out (1) that industries an
individuals tn he
know what the tax rates are going to be, (z)
re duce Qur natlonal debt (now
g bmions) and that (3) lower taxes “will
. )d ter total tax receipts than would
J. , rateSs wb ich depress business volume,
em pi o y men t and income.” There is more
p OSS i b jlity of jobs for all in a downward re-
vision of our tax structure, coupled with strict
Federal economy, than in a sheaf 0f.... so-
called “Full Employment Bills. —New York
“Daily Mirror .’ *
* . . ... , t , fld
The struggle in China i^ n 1 jnl pl s , '
It will be. between Soviet Russian interests
America s interests and the internal conflict
of Communism versus democracy :
eventually China will be . or .fnXTmerka’s
in a large measure, depend upon A ™ e
policy in the Pacific and the Far hast, and up
the firmness of America s leadership. At the
Bolshevik conference in Baku in 1920 Lenin de-
c j ared tbe victory of Bolshevik-Communism
deperided “ on rallying the human masses of
Gb i na and India to the Soviet Russian stan-
dard.” And Zinoviev said: “Russia holds out
her band t o Asia not because she shares its
social conceptions, but because Russia needs
800,000,000 Asiatics to overcome European un-
perialism and capitalism ’ Stalin knows what
he is doing in Asia and why. It is dev outly
to be hoped that America s objectives are no
less clear in Washington.— From the New York
“Sun.”


Missing Friends.
COLLINS. —IF GEORGE COLLINS husband of ADA
ANN COLLINS late of Parkville will communicate
with THE EQUITY TRUSTEES COMPANY of 472
Bourke Street Melbourne he will hear something to
his advantage.
Personal.
WILL FLORENCE HOFFMAN (formerly Florence
Sneath), who was married at Fortitude Valley, Bris-
bane, on or about the Seventh day of March, 1900
(if living), or any person knowing her whereabouts,
please communicate with W. T. KING, Solicitor,
King House, Queen Street, Brisbane, immediately?
mm
mm?
m
m
m
9
W
sr
*iM
m
V
■
■
mm
WR
m
wwt
'
i
I
H
. raa
natt° 11
a
to
Key
qlibours
ofn® 1
s
lion, irrigation and cultivation
Wherever you find good roads,
commerce and industry thrive.
Where there are bad roads the
fortunes of the whole nation
languish. .•. Isolation and loneli-
ness eat into the hearts of the
people.
The future of Australia depends
first on the development of vast
areas by water and soil conserva-
, then on the development and
maintenance of roads and airports. These will bring our vast
hinterland closer to rail and dock, closer to markets.
Caterpillar Tractors and W. & J. Earth-Moving Equipment, with their
huge working capacity, have proved, over and over again, that they
can perform these tasks at a fraction of the cost and of the time of
older methods.
CATERPILLAR D/esei
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and CATERPILLAR EARTH-MOVING EQUIPMENT
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LIMITED
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney — ’Phone, LA3321; Marquis St., Gunnedah —
’Phone, Gunnedah 326. Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone, 57 Cambridge St.,
South Grafton; Mr. R. Twee die. Port Macquarie — ’Phone, Port Macquarie 81;
Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga—’Phone, 2839; 102 Melbourne St., South
Brisbane — ’Phone, J 1456; Rankin St., Innisfail — ‘’Phone, Innisfail 475.
BUY
WAR
SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
CTB-33-43
fd
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA”
Obtainable In 10*s & 20’s
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
m
B 7 86
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Molesworth’s Pocket Book of Engin-
eering Tables. —3669.
To buy volume of Henry Kendall’s verse.
3670.
To buy latest books on sawmilling, saw-
sharpening and saw-doctoring. —3671.
To buy World’s End and Between Two
Worlds, by Upton Sinclair. —3672.
Information Sought.
Some books on Agricultural subjects?
World Grain Review and Outlook, 1945, by
Farnsworth and Timoshenko, published by Food
Research Institute, Stanford University, Cal.,
U.S.A.; World Wheat Planning and Economic
Planning in General, by De Hevesy, Oxford,
1940; Rice in the Western Hemisphere: War-
time Developments and Post-war Problems, by
W. D. Wickinzer, Food Research Institute,
1945; Competition Among Grains, by N. Jasny,
Food Research Institute, 1940; Crop Manage-
ment and Soil Conservation, by Cox and Jack-
son; The Farmer’s Handbook, N.S.W. Dept,
of Agriculture, 1929 (now out of print, but
available at any good library); Animal Nutri-
tion, by Maynard, McGraw-Hill Book Co., New
York, 1937; Feeds and Feeding, by Morrison,
Morrison Publishing Co., New York; Principles
and Practice of Feeding Farm Animals, Halrnan
and Garner, Longmans Green and Co. Lon-
don; Shipping and Freight Rates in the Over-
seas Grain Trade, by Wickinzer, Food Re-
search Institute.
A method of waterproofing concrete?
First ensure a clean surface by removing all
oil and grease stains and all dust and loose
material. When water is used, ample time
must be allowed to permit thorough drying be-
fore waterproofing is started. Next apply two
coats of linseed oil. The first coat should con-
sist of equal parts of raw linseed oil and tur-
pentine heated to a temperature of 175deg. F.,
applied with an ordinary paintbrush and allowed
24 hours to dry. Better results are obtained
if atmospheric pressure is above 65deg. After
this first coat has set, spots where the con-
crete is more porous will become evident;
these should be spot-treated with the hot mix-
ture and allowed to set before continuing. The
second coat, applied in the same manner as
the first, should consist of undiluted raw lin-
seed oil heated to 175deg. When this coat is
dry, paint the surface with any approved con-
crete paint. If turpentine is unavailable, tur-
pentine substitute can be used as its purpose
is to act as a thinner to assist penetration.
Care should be taken when heating as turpen-
tine and its substitutes are inflammable.
Brief Answers.
R.J.B.: (1) The growth has not been accom-
panied by a similar expansion in the real wealth
of the country, owing to the wastage of war.
To a considerable extent the growth in de-
posits is a. measure of inflation. (2) The same
money can be raised at the same sacrifice, i.e.,
taxation, overseas debt, rationing of certain
goods, reduced living standards, etc. But in
peace-time people prefer to spend their own
money... .G.M.: E. W. Korngold, musical
director at Warner Bros, studios, composed
and directed the musical score in the film
“King’s Row” M.B.; Unable to trace puzzle
answers J.W.J.D.: Try Empire Press Agency,
21 Gray’s Inn-road, London Inquirer: A
receipt would be necessary F.A.C.: (1)
Write to Stott’s Business College, 149 Castie-
reagh-street, Sydney. (2) More information is
necessary before title of poem can be ascer-
tained P.H.: The man made no such pro-
posal in any speech... .A.W.P.: (1) The chain-
ing of a dog is usually looked upon as evidence
of the inability of the owner to train his dog
to obedience; there is a law against it. (2)
Non-couponed meats such as heart, lungs,
paunch, etc., are relished by dogs and are higher
in vitamin content than most other meats....
H.W.R.; The words were spoken by King
George VI E.C.: Apply to the Fair Rents
Court J.F.: The O.B.E. is awarded for ser-
vices rendered to the Empire, whether at home
or abroad, and is open to men and women.
The order was divided into military and civil
divisions in Dec., 1918. The D.S.O. is be-
stowed in recognition of special services in
action of commissioned officers in the Navy.
Army and Air Force and (1942) mercantile
marine... .J.B.: The new Sydney graving dock
has a length of 1177ft., a depth of 40ft. 6in.
and a breadth of 150ft.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
N.C.C. Promising, except for such hackneyed
phrases as “nature’s awe-inspiring might”....
B.B.: “My office girl’s an awful flop.” So,
alas, is the poem R.S.: “Mummie!
Mummie! wailed Geoffrey.” Blow Geoffrey
A.S.: Shows imagination, anyhow E.S.:
When we advise you to use “a natural, lan-
guage” we certainly don’t mean the latest
Americanisms J.R.R.: Pleasant; but that’s
not enough H.M.B. and N.Y.: Try a
woman’s paper D.H.R.: How about de-
scribing, in intimate detail, those scenes you
say you know? G.M.J.: Well, you’ve tried,
G.R.W.: Flat and hackneyed... .F.McN.:
A “little piece” just about describes it
J.K.8.: Lively , thought about the dog;
the rest just words... .F.C.F.: Usual storm
piece C.N.8.: Not quite A.H.P.: Wants
about six months’ steady work on it... .A.A.:
Keep coming J.H.F.: Lightweights
T.G.W.: Better not to borrow that type of
adjective K. 8.: “As I sit in solitude and
ponderously gaze.” You’d better let that pon-
derous gaze fall on a dictionary.


df
Why not Draw
on the Experience
of Others?
To secure the greatest benefit
with the least trouble in the
administration of an estate is an
achievement within the reach of
all, irrespective of the size or
nature of the estate or the
domestic difficulties involved.
With the growing pressure of their own
business affairs, and the added diffi-
culties of war-time conditions, the task
confronting the private executor has
been enormously increased.
Officers of Trustee Companies are
trained and experienced in the adminis-
trative management of all classes of
estates. This specialised knowledge is
reinforced by that of directors who are
all men of mature experience, and who
bring a balanced judgment to bear upon
the problems of estates committed to
their care.
The Trustee Company thus provides
experience, permanency, impartiality
and sound administrative capacity, at
charges that are fixed and reasonable.
The Union Trustee, with sixty years of
service behind it, is the ideal executor
and trustee for appointment under any
Will.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager : J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector ; H. A, Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.h.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager ; J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector ; Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
, QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W, Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d.s.o., v.n. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d.s.o., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec,, f.f.i.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W, Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
The Federal Mutual Insurance Company
of Australia Limited
FIRE, MARINE AND ACCIDENT INSURANCES
EFFECTED AT LOWEST CURRENT RATES
Prompt and liberal settlements of claims.
Directors: THOMAS A. MAGNET, Chairman; F. W. Duesbury; Sydney Sampson.
R. A. MANZIE, Managing Director. S. T. RUTTER, General MaMger.
’Phone (three lines): Branches in All States. 129 Pitt Street, Syt y.
FOR TOMORROW
Stocks laid down long ago,
matured and maturing, pro-
vide the White Horse supplies
regulated for today, and pro-
mise amply to fill your re-
quirements for tomorrow.
Whenever possible, see that
your “Scotch” is . . .
WHITE HORSE
WHISKY
WH.1.45
Equal
to a
mi
Liqueur
\\
■
as
R&i
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Broken Hill South, Ltd.
June, Profit. Dividends. Reserves.
£ £ £
1935 .. 355,302 80 p.c. = 240,000 2,010,787
1936 .. 519,903 62.5„ „ 500,000 2,030,690
1937 .. 803,278 70 „ „ 560,000 2,273,968
1938 . . 437,432 80 „ „ 640,000 2,071,400
1939 . . 383,138 40 ~ ~ 320,000 2,134,538
Shares written up, £201,369 .. 2,335,907
1940 .. 455,244 40 p.c. = 320,000 2,471,151
1941 .. 326,803 40 „ „ 320,000 2,477,954
1942 .. 313,008 30 p.c. = 240,000 2,550,962
1943 .. 269,340 30 „ „ 240,000 2,565,302
1944 .. 287,244 30 „ „ 240,000 2,012,546
1945 . . 384,861 80 „ ~ 240,000 2,757,407
Since war began the big mining cos. at
the Barrier, of which B.H. South is one,
and the smelters at Port Pirie have pro-
duced 1,150,000 tons pig lead, 40,000,000
ounces silver, and zinc concentrates con-
taining 700,000 tons zinc, as well as con-
siderable quantities of antimony, cad-
mium and copper by-products. And from
the sulphur in the zinc concentrates came
sulphuric acid for fertilisers and explo-
sives. Moreover, to Australian users the
lead and zinc have been the cheapest in
the world, which has meant savings of
millions of pounds to Australia in the cost
of munitions.
In addition the South’s shareholdings
in other cos., in the books at £1,482,406
and worth a lot more, give it a proprietary
interest over a wide field of Australian
industry. This field includes production
of lead, silver, etc., at Port Pirie ; zinc
at Risdon ; copper at Port Kembla ; fab-
rication of copper, aluminium and brass
at Sydney, Port Kembla and Melbourne ;
production of paints and lacquers at Syd-
ney, Melbourne and Adelaide ; making
of insulated cable at Liverpool; turning
out of fine writing paper at Burnie, and
of sulphuric acid, superphosphate, etc.,
at various localities.
Chief factors affecting earnings during
the war have been lower tonnage (due to
the manpower problem), slight decline in
grade of ore mined and treated, lifts in
taxation, wages, freight rates, cost of fuel,
timber and other mining requisites, to-
gether with higher smelting and refining
charges, and reduced returns from in-
yestments. Here are production and
assay figures, made available for the first
time since war began:
Assay.
Crudes t ■ A \
Treated.! Lead. Silver. Zinc.
1940 .. 307,030 tons 14.9 p.c. 6.60 z. 12.9 p.c.
1941 . . 395,580 „ 14.5 „ 6-6 „ 12.5 „
1942 . . 882,370 „ 14.9 „ 6.7 „ 12.9 „
1943 . . 344,300 „ 14.3 „ 6.4 „ 12.0 „
1944 .. 341,920 „ 18.4 „ 6.3 „ 11.9 „
1945 .. 809,605 „ 13.7 „ 7.1„ 12.7 „
! Sulphides.
There was no loss of efficiency in either
mine or mill throughout the period.
Indeed, the already high recoveries
further improved. They were 96.2 p.c.
lead, 92.4 p.c. silver and 90.1 p.c. zinc
last term. Working costs (ore extraction,
treatment and development) shot up from
30s. Id. a ton in 1939 to 455. 3d. for the
year to June 3(i*last, when better over-
seas prices for lead and zinc added
£80,843 to the payroll in lead bonuses.
Including these bonuses and war loading
allowances, the wages bill for the year
totalled £448,221, an average of £530
per man for full-time employment.
Gross return from mine products
(£1,500,335) sprang £251,335 ? thanks to
the lift in overseas metal prices. After
setting aside an extra £147,800 for taxa-
tion and royalties (£377,800) and the
usual £33,000 for depreciation, the net
return from raining benefited by
£106,973:
Declared profit— 1941. 1944. 1945.
Mining .. .. £206,867 £157,008 £263,981
Investments .. .. 184,184 97,124 80,507
Total .. ~ £341,051 £254,132 £344,488
The net return from investments was
£16,617 lighter, reducing the net gain
claimed from all sources to £90,356.
The profit claimed is reconciled with
the figure shown in the table in this way:
Profit claimed .. .. .. ... £344,488
Add: Unexplained addition store reserves 7,938
Allowance for depreciation 88,000
Unexplained addition general reserves 5,535
Total £390,961
Less: Unexplained reduction special reserve 1,041
Expenditure on new plant .. .. 5,059
Net profit per table .. .. ..£884,861
The £384,861 is equal to 2s. 4|d. per
share as against Is. 9£d. for the previous
term. The div. was kept at Is. 6d. per
share (= 30 p.c.) for the fourth year in
succession. A further Is. 3d, per share
(same as previous year) is payable
December 19.
Prospects of a better showing for the
current term are encouraging. Demand
for lead and zinc for commercial pur-
poses can be expected to strengthen as
industrial activity, including reconstruc-
tion of devastated areas, gathers momen-
tum. The British Government contract
for purchase of these metals entered into
in September, 1939, ran out on August
9 last, but no difficulty is expected in dis-
posing of production' for the rest of the
term. In June the sterling price of lead
advanced from £25 (= £A3I ss. Od.) to
£3O (= £A37 10s. Od.) per ton. Spelter
has remained steady at £3l ss. Od. ( =
£A39 Is. 3d.) a ton. Expressed in Aus-
tralian currency, current New York prices
—they include import duty —are lead
£44 os. 9d. a ton, zinc £57 4s. 3d. a ton.
The Australian price remains fixed at
£22 a ton for each metal. The recent
lift in the price of silver should be very
helpful to earnings, too.
On the other hand, the South’s work-
ing costs have advanced by over 50 p.c.
since 1939, and look like becoming
heavier before they get lighter. Also, at
present excessive rate of Government
bleeding as much as 85 p.c. of portion
of the co.’s profits pass to the Treasury,
and any divs. paid from the remaining
15 p.c. are further taxed in the hands of
shareholders. One effect of this is to set
an arbitrary limit on profitable produc-
tion, and therefore upon employment.
What the Government needs to realise is
that production is fundamental, and that
employment will expand or contract
according to the volume of production.
At end June ore reserves were “con-
servatively” estimated at 1,930,000 tons
(up 105,000 tons). Altogether there is
reckoned to be about six years’ work
ahead of the mill at full production.
There is a highly-speculative possibility
that the load might develop a counterpart
associated with the main line of shear-
ing at greater depth. And there are the
leases the co. has taken up south of
Bromley’s Summit yet to be tested.
Water continues to be drawn from the
Darling River at Menindie, In anticipa-
tion of the Government building a weir
across the river at this point, Broken Hill
Water Board has decided to connect the
river by pipe line direct with Stephens
Creek pumping station. The cost, includ-
ing auxiliary works, is put at £837,000.
When the books closed, the co.’s in-
vestments and Current assets together
totalled £2,789,602. There was £519,053
coming to outsiders, leaving a surplus of
£2,270,549. Allowing for this, purchasers
of the scrip at 30s. 6d, who look for their
money back, nlus 8 p.c. p.a. over the next
six years, count on divs. averaging 79
p.c., or 3s. lid. per share.
Metropolitan Life
Ordinary Department.
Added to
Dec., Income, Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.!
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 131,213 50,138 25,210 55,865 780,862
Profit sale assets, £8589 . . 823,421
1937.. 140,468 48,753 24,729 66,986 890,407
Reserves drawn upon, £262 . . 890,145
1938.. 149,312 51,214 22,599 75,499 965,644
1939.. 160,077 62,299 21,540 76,238 1,041,882
1940. .152,653 73,520 22,533 1 55 600 i 097,483
To tax reserve, £lOOO )
1941.. 155,876 79,197 22,442 54,237 1,151,719
1942.. 156,221 84,427 22,777 49,017 1,200,736
1943.. 164,760 71,560 22,727 70,473 1,271,209
1944.. 174,547 74,673 26,425 73,449 1,344,658
Profit, sale assets, £3061 .. .. 1,347,719
* Includes divs. to shareholders.
1936 £5500 ; 1937, £5OOO ; 1938-39, £2708;
1940-41, £2917; 1942, £2000; 1943, £1827 ; 1944,
£2066.
Industrial Department.
Added to
Dec., Income. Claims. Expenses.* Funds. Funds.!
£££ £ ' £
1936.. 197,045 57,571 88,841 55,633 745,942
Profit sale assets, £3201 .. .. 749,143
1937.. 212,338 60,719 87,834 63,785 812,928
Reserves drawn upon, £238 . . 812,690
1938.. 227,462 65,096 86,381 75,985 888,67 a
1939.. 238,067 76,590 84,343 77,134 965,809
1940.. 268,750 88,130 86,631 1 409 1 042,293
To tax reserve, £2500 3 ’ ’
1941.. 262,563 94,016 86,161 82,386 1,124,684
1942.. 277,821 98,883 87,953 90,985 1,215,669
1943. . 297,725 113,582 92,211 91,932 1,307,601
1944.. 319,551 111,241 95,715 112,595 1,420,196
* Includes divs. to shareholders.
1936, £7000; 1937-38, £7500 ; 1939-41, £5060;
1942, £3000; 1943, £3229 ; 1944, £3125.
! Apart from capital and tax reserve.
J. A. Henderson, who continues to sit
at the board table, stepped out of the
g.m.’s chair last term, after occupying it
for over 40 years. He piloted the co.
through the last of its early wanderings,
and was largely responsible for the
steady progress made over the last quarter
of a century, and for the healthy condi-
tion of the co. today. E. W. Robinson,
who used to look after the Victorian end
of the business, stepped into the vacant
chair.
During the 12 months covered by
the latest accounts the Metropolitan
gathered strength and made progress,
despite actuarial and managerial prob-
lems that war, financial controls, cheap
money, high taxation, rising costs and
manpower and other difficulties brought
about. Combining the figures ol
both departments, an extra £102,783
of new business (£887,066) was put on
the books. Income stepped up £31,613,
reaching £494,098, of which £389,619 (up
£27,076) was premiums and £104,479 (up
£4537) interest, etc. And there was a
profit of £3061 on realisation of assets.
After paying all legitimate claims and
exes., sending £lOOO to the staff fund and
placing £5191 to shareholders’ account,
£189,104 (up £26,696) was added to assur-
ance funds, raising them to £2,673,624,
which is more than enough to cover
liabilities under policy contracts. In addi-
tion, these funds had the support and
assistance of £100,537 of other reserves,
as well' as £50,000 of share capital. Share-
holders have received 10 p.c. for each
of the last four years. In the O.D. the
co. has to earn £9 for policy-holders
before shareholders are entitled to a
pound.
Excluding taxes, exes, took 17.6 p.c.
of O.D, premiums as against 15.7 p.c. for
the previous year —appearances are that
more ginger is being put into the hunt
for O.D. business, a welcome sign.
Analogous I.D. figures were 34.3 p.c. and
34.8 p.c. respectively.
The mortality experience, including
war strain, was well within expectation.
What has affected the earnings of life
offices, and, therefore, bonuses to policy-
holders, most is the Government’s policy
of cheap money and high taxation. Since
1939 the co. has invested the whole of
the increase in its funds, and more be-
sides, in war loans at rates increasingly
favorable to the Treasury. And since
these loans are medium- and long-term
securities their effect upon the average
yield from the co.’s investments is likely
to be felt for some time yet. Gross in-
trest return on mean assurance funds
stepped down from 4.41 p.c. 1939 to 4.05
p.c. last term, and the net return (after
deducting taxation) from 4.34 p.c. to 3.84
p.c. over the same period. A reduction
of half of one per cent, in the return on
the co.’s total funds (assurance and other
reserves and capital combined) means a
loss of over £14,000 in income. Though
some amelioration of the interest trend
can be expected as more profitable invest-
ments become available, a return to pre-
war rates of bonuses need not be looked
for.
To help protect the co.’s bonus-paying
capacity the basis of valuation in the
O.D. was lowered from 3 p.c. to 2| p.c.
in 1940 and to a stringent 2i p.c. in 1943.
In the I.D. the basis has been reduced
from 3i p.c. to 3 p.c. The conservative
bases now employed, and the consequent
strengthening of actuarial reserves, are
the best assurance policy-holders can
have for maintenance of satisfactory
bonuses. In 1940 rates of O.D. bonuses
ranged from 16s. p.c. on contracts less
than five years in force to 245. p.c. on
those 15 years old or more. On I.D.


d
DUPLICATOR
Bsnlt *niir*ly in Australia by
ha* all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Duplv
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
Owners’ and Householders',
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
new mvcmiuii vuuu uid
RUPTURE
. No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22J), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
ARE YOU GETTING
LEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
Filter
Cylinder
i
m
F I LTE R
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * ♦
DAVIES & COLEISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 860 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
SEWtRACf
%
N-*
jrovr
ir r
CLOSING ON OR BEFORE
DECEMBER 3rd. 1945.
THE
SYDNEY WATER BOARD
AT
PER CENT. PER ANNUM.
GUARANTEED BY THE
GOVERNMENT OF N.S.W.
AUTHORISED TRUSTEE INVESTMENT:
The Loan is an Authorised Trustee Investment in New South
[Wales, Queensland and Tasmania.
INTEREST ACCRUES IMMEDIATELY:
Interest will accrue immediately from date of first payment to
the Bank. Have interest credited to your savings or current
bank account.
INSTALMENT PAYMENTS ACCEPTED:
The minimum subscription is £5O. Subscriptions can be made
by instalments and are free of exchange.
The Board is the largest semi-Government under-
taking in Australia, and serves 74 municipalities and
shires (including the City of Sydney).
£lOOO.OOO
LOAN
AT
SUED
PAR
£3-7-6
CURRENCY
16 YEARS
A READILY MARKETABLE SECURITY:
The Sydney Water Board Loan is a gilt-edged security which
will find a ready sale at any time.
WHERE TO APPLY —
Any Office of the
COMMONWEALTH BANK of AUSTRALIA
or
MEMBERS OF RECOGNISED STOCK EXCHANGES.
Loan Underwritten by lan Potter & Co.
(Members of The Stock Exchange of Melbourne).
contracts which became claims in 1944
increments to sums assured ranged from
5 p.c. for five- to nine-year-old policies
to 10 p.c. for 15-year-old contracts, plus
1 p.c. for each additional year.
Here is the co.’s investment portfolio
in tabloid form:
1943. P.c. 1944. P.c.
Freehold, etc. .. £247,866 9.3 £247,960 8.7
Govt, securities .. 1,877,988 70.5 2,124,917 74.2
Shares other cos... 55,356 2.1 55,356' 1.9
Mortgages . . 272,293 10.2 247,716 8.6
Loans on policies 120,396 4.5 114,223 4.0
Book debts .. 74,659 2.8 57,113 2.0
Cash .. . . 15,625 0.6 16,149 0.6
Last term all available cash continued to
be channelled into Government securities
(up £246,929), which accounted for 74.2
p.c. of total assets as against 59.7 p.c.
five years earlier.
Sydney Metropolitan Water Board is
offering at par £1,000,000 of securities,
carrying interest at £3 7s. 6d. p.c. p.a.,
with a currency of 16 years. The money
is wanted to carry out war-time deferred
essential works. Security is firstly income
of the board from all sources, and
secondly a State Government guarantee
covering both principal and interest.
Applications (minimum £5O) close De-
cember 3 next, and the issue is an
authorised trustee investment in N. S.
Wales, Queensland and Tasmania. Judged
on the basis of current interest rates, the
return is attractive ; and, so far as can
be seen at the moment, we appear to be
in for a period of cheap money.
♦ * * *
Subject to approval of British authori-
ties, London-controlled New Broken Hill
Consolidated, whose mine adjoins that of
Zinc Corp. at the Barrier (N.S.W.), will
presently ask shareholders for more.
Details of the issue are not yet available.
Exploratory drilling has dispelled any
doubt there might have been about con-
tinuation of the main ore-bodies now
being worked by the Corp. into the Con-
solidated Co.’s ground. A big programme
of development, held up by war-time
shortage of labor and materials, lies
ahead. Meanwhile, representatives of
both cos. have gone abroad to study latest
developments of deep mining in North
America and South Africa. The Corp.
owns approx. 30 p.c. of Consolidated’s
£507,884 of capital, and has agreed to act
as g.m. for 20 years from July 8, 1936.
The Corp.’s big Freeman shaft will serve
both mines, and all ore is to be treated
at the Corp.’s mill. At end 1944 Con-
solidated held 368,463 unissued shares of
ss. each,
* * * *
Takuapa Valley Tin Dredging, whose
properties are in Siam, has received infor-
mation, believed to be reliable, that Nos.
1 and 2 dredges, Takuapa section, are
afloat and, with a supply of diesel fuel
and some minor spares, can be operated.
Each is an electrically-driven steel dredge
with a capacity of 200,000 c.y. a month.
In the Ban Pm sector the diesel engines,
together with electrical power units,
switchboard and some motors, have been
removed from No. 3 dredge, which is of
the spud type, with a capacity of 125,000
c.y. a month, and designed to dig to 50ft.
in difficult ground. The diesel engine at
the power station, and some electrical
units, were also removed. The board
expects that the missing equipment, taken
to supply power elsewhere, will be recov-
ered. At beginning November, 1941,
there was still 17,398,000 c.y., averaging
from 6oz. to 12.20 z. t. 0., still to be dug
in the Takuapa and Ban Pru areas. In
addition there was 35,000,000 c.y., averag-
ing Boz. t. 0., in the Northern Area, and
4,300,000 c.y., averaging 7oz. t. 0., in the
s.-e. Extension, waiting to be dredged.
At end 1944 the co. was holding spares in
Sydney valued at £1297, and cash and
readily-realisable securities in Australia
and London totalling £59,430. There was
£2027 coming to sundry creditors, mostly
in Malaya.
* * * *
Surveying requirements of the Westra-
lian goldmining industry. Secretary for
Mines A. H. Telfer told the Common-
wealth Grants Commission that adequate
supplies of stores and spare machinery
parts remained a pressing problem. Re-
habilitation of the mines depends mainly
on labor, machinery, stores and develop-
ment. Labor position generally is yet un-
changed. Dearth of experienced miners
and key technical personnel had a serious
effect on the industry during the war.
Some of the larger mines managed to
keep going on a reduced scale by work-
ing one shift. Selective mining had to be
practised, ore reserves have been de-
pleted and development neglected, be-
cause of the need to divert practically all
available labor to production. Wood,
the fuel used on the mines, has been in
short supply and will remain so until
more manpower is available. Two ways
in which the Federal Government can
assist are: (1) by relieving the pressure
of taxation, the incidence of which now
tends to set a limit to production, and (2)
by making available funds, on reasonable
terms, for the resuscitation of mines forced
to suspend activities on account of war
needs.
9 9 * 9
The days of First Hit goldmine at
Menzies (W.A.) appear to be numbered.
The board says mining operations have
been curtailed, but are likely to continue
on a reduced scale for 12 months or
more. For years the co. has paid midget
dividends out of returns obtained from
a small shoot. Finances are reported
to be in good shape, and hopes
are entertained that the Boomerang
leases at Burtville, near Laverton, now
being worked by the co. under option,
will develop into something worthwhile.
. * * * *
Paringa (W.A.) is testing a recently-
acquired 99-acre block of old ground
adjoining the Mt. Charlotte group, close
to Kalgoorlie township. Three bores
have been put down “with very satisfac-
tory results,” and a fourth has been
commenced. The area is about two
miles north of the Paringa mine, and its
irregular eastern boundary is close to the
abandoned workings of the Hidden Secret
lease, from which telluride ore, containing
a high percentage of silver and a little
gold, was obtained in the early days of
the field.
* * * *
Latest estimate of aggregate ore re-
serves of Kalgoorlie’s Golden Milers is
approximately 1,000,000 tons, of a gross
value of from £25,000,000 to £30,000,000.
Nearly half the tonnage is in the Lake
View group, and about a fourth in Great
Boulder. North Kalgurli has most of the
balance. Average grade ranges from a
little over sdwt. in Lake View to 6.3Bdwt.
in North Kalgurli.


es
—| —:
m>M
X.^MOIWW
;>>^V^
*£
w:
&SS?
®3®
wm.
>,M.
m
Security doesn’t
just happen
PiE thing most desired by people to-day doesn't
just happen! To enjoy security we must work
and plan for it.
As with the nations, so with the individual citizen.
He who really desires security for his home, works
and plans for it.
An A.M.P. policy for £5OO or £lOOO is a great
reservoir of comfort and security to draw upon in time
of trouble.
This is good advice to all wives: See that yout
husband is a member of the A.M.P. and is assured for
enough to give you and your children a chance should
he die. Encourage him to build up several reservoirs
of security. Should he live to retiring age they will
bring sunshine to both of you.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation .
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary and Chief Inspector.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
Head Offices 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
IU Y WAR S A WIHCS CERTIFICATES
Lk
oh
»••• •MU JL
4** « **i
<*•
f
H Eli
mf
INI
yeueyauy
•• « ♦
mSm
s»
Mioa«o NA«»r AND • «M| WMinolir
Thomas Hardy & Sons Ltd., Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne; Makers ot
Tintara Gold Label Port. Amontillado Sherry, Gold Label Muscatel; The
Tintara Sparkling Wines: — Champagne, Hock, Moselle, Burgundy, and
Tintara Old Brandy.
buy was savings certificates
B«MC.
P 29
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Post-war Malaise
The toll of war has been more than a
great loss of life, more than a wounding
and maiming of many thousands, a
wastage of material and a devastation of
living areas. In addition tcf all that the
foregoing embraces, war has taken toll of
living standards, of industrial stability, of
social security, of national productive
capacity, of incentive and of the ordinary,
everyday “confidence” of the individual.
There has been a great stirring-up of emo-
tions over the past six years, great shocks
and losses, while stupendous invention
and monstrous totalitarian systems of
“government” have shaken the fibre of
people who believe in the simple, home-
loving, individual way of life.
The atomic bomb itself has brought a
profoundly unsettling feeling, while the
rise of Soviet Russia in Europe (and its
underground activities in other parts of
the world), combined with obvious eco-
nomic difficulties of post-war Britain, has
had some influence in the political out-
look of nearly all the smaller nations. In
high places there is still no indication that
the world, or even the British Empire, has
set itself a fairly clear course for the next,
say, ten years. Whatever those in a posi-
tion to calculate may foresee for the
peoples of the world during the coming
decade, the position in the eyes of the
average man remains obscure.
The disease that is war, indeed, is not
yet over. Though fighting has ceased on
the main battlefronts, there are minor
outbursts in new areas, notably Indonesia.
But even so far as the German-Japanese
show is concerned, at best the world is
still in early convalescence. The defeated
enemies are still a problem; the victors
have their hands full with their own
troubles, individually and between them-
selves. One of the greatest difficulties to
be contended with is the fact that it is
hard to persuade the people of a country
which has been on the winning side in a
war that the hangover from the war still
means hardship, rationing, taxation and
long working hours, particularly when
sinister elements in the community make
it their business to paint vapory pictures
of the happy land that awaits those who
show only the ability to throw over
Dembcracy and unite with Communism.
Comtnunist factions are at work all over
wor j dj and Australia has a full share
them Spared from most of the sacri-
Corns, are energetic and
In the Commonwealth there are many
forms of war-weariness and kindred ail-
ments. There has been a high marriage
rate during the last six years and a low
home-building rate. Furniture has been
have married and begat more families
iU-fumiS housing com
firing ij ne has brought frustration and bit-
terness to many far removed from the
. Wives separated from their hus-
£|™s g for over i o ng may have suffered
strain f»<ineciallv where thev have
had young children to look after. Vedi-
and dental attent ion has often been
/-nffirmit tn opt Ax/hilp* for essen*-
when grandmother was young;
but when a modern community educated
up to modern standards of living has to
bear strains l*ke those suffered torm*,
this war the readjustment is difficu t
distributed and black-marketing and p
tical favoritism are rife Australia
during the war with Japan the Gove
m, 611 ! a * n ? J’ me T *° S ®i ° ed ?u e Dartv .
administratively. It played P- L
political game hard during a national
crisis. When supreme efforts attaints-
tration were called for it was preoccupied
with a class-conscious party Programme
been f sinack oTunity
. There has been a singular lac Y
m a during the war fashion
was set by the Labor P a rty .
fused to join m a national Go .
In industry, the shooting war has ended
with the strain on higher executives still
severe. Where war-time shortages of
materials and manpower have been over-
come, managements are still confronted
with industrial unrest in numerous cases.
Trade-union secretaries have had reserved
occupations, on the whole, while fighting
has been on, with all facilities for travel,
“organising,” etc. They have been in a
favored position to build up the strength
of militant unions. The head of one of
the biggest unions—Comrade Thornton,
of the Ironworkers —in the past boasted
of having “made strikes our business.”
The technique obviously has not been lost
during the war. At the present time the
major part of the Australian iron-and-
steel industry is tied up by strikes.
Again,. business managements saw
many of their best men join the fighting
services, and as yet the majority of the
men who have returned to their jobs have
not got back fully into their stride. The
result is that many of the men wno have
carried high industrial responsibility dur-
ing the war cannot relinquish it even now
for a decent holiday because their under-
studies are not yet competent to take oyer.
Few who have not had close association
with the average industry realise how
many managerial problems arose during
the war out of shortages of manpower
and materials, out of unfair taxation, out
of bureaucracy run wild, and out of all
manner of political interference. The
one redeeming feature of war-time indus-
trial conditions was that goods, once
manufactured, required a minimum of
selling.
Taxation still takes the incentive out
of most enterprise. There has been no
reduction yet in tax rates in Australia;
there is to be a p.c. cut (or there-
abouts), in personal taxes from January
1, 1946. But industry has had no
concession at all, though in the
U.S.A. there is talk of aboUshing excess-
profits tax as from the beginning of next
year, and in Canada and Britain com-
pany taxation has already been revised.
Excessive taxation, coupled with ill-
advised Government spending, tends to
reduce the productive incentive of the
whole country. And this at a time when
the nation is so urgently in need of essen-
tial goods and services.
Many thousands of taxpayers are sus-
picious, and justifiably so, of Government
spending policy. They feel that there
is much politics and waste behind it all.
Shortage of holiday accommodation
and transport facilities, shortage of decent
liquor and smokes, the near-impossibility
of buying land and building a home, and
the restriction on movement generally
because of transport difficulties (includ-
ing scarcity of coal, petrol, tyres and
hotel accommodation en route ) —these
things, and dozens more like them, are
accountable for much of the malaise now
all too evident in the Commonwealth.
The burden of “civilisation” is bearing on
the people with few of its ordinary com-
pensations. The prospects of family life
are obscure, while the little luxuries that
help so much in physical and mental
recreation are difficult to get. It * s ° ot
easy for a person even to go fishing
reasonably equipped at a reasonable cost,
and golf balls are almost unprocurable,
while tennis balls and many other sport"
ing requisites are scarce. The s.-p. book-
maker flourishes as never before.
Some of these present living and
recreational difficulties would seem trivial
in ordinary times. But, taken together,
they amount to a serious problem m the
lives of most people today. Not all are
affected similarly, of course—there are
many more people satisfactorily housed
than otherwise —but the general incidence
is very much the same, even if some
stand up to it better than others.
Perhaps the most depressing factor of
air in the outlook is the plain incom-
petence of the Federal and some State
Governments in dealing with the all-too-
obvious problems. Professional politicians
seem to resent having to do any of the
nasty, exacting work necessary to restore
stability and hope to the people, however
much they may have contributed to the
difficulties.. Still playing politics, the
Federal Government tolerates the Com-
munist party, an organisation which has
a prime objective of revolution, and
which is finding post-war malaise a great
asset in its work. The majority of Aus-
tralians hate the thought of Communism
or any other “ism.” But they are allow-
ing, through their Federal Government,
this evil force to make post-war prospects
of democratic living, housing and em-
ployment far more uncertain than should
really be the case. A major loss of con-
fidence through this combination of evils
might bring a breakdown from which it
would take years to recover.
Post-war uncertainty and unrest should
be a passing thing. It is quite obviously
within the capacity of the people them-
selves to restore living standards (so far
as they relate to Australian production)
within a reasonable time. But there must
be a clear lead to the people from
its Government. We must work hard.
There must be a reaffirmation of
our adherence to the British way of
life (adjusted, perhaps, as to geography
and as to the times), an upholding of the
rule of law and a disciplining of all in-
dustrial selfishness and political subver-
sion that strikes seriously at the economic
welfare and the credit of the land. Aus-
tralia has never been cursed with so many
destructive and buck-passing humbugs in
high places as it is at present, or with
so much frivolous tinkering with the
sheet-anchors of law, order and our live-
lihood.


THE ALEXANDRA SCHOOL,
ANTHONY STREET, ASCOT, BRISBANE.
BOARDING SCHOOE for Children 3-9 Years.
Under Supervision of Trained Kindergartner.
A School Especially Suited for Small Children
with a Home Environment.
Enrolments Now Being Made for 1946,
Principal: MARION HENRY, B.K.T.C.
Telephone; M 5486.
tit
te
cut
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
heen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
in
S.
r n 7
Thone BW 136 J (10 lines)
C. D. Maclutcan, Managing Director
Hi ill 111
Public Notice.
I, FREDERICK WILHELM NEUMANN, of German
nationality, born at Magdeburg, Saxony, Germany, and
resident 31 years in Australia, now residing at 393
Liverpool Street, Darlinghurst, Sydney, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under-the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
AT HOM£i
FOR. I,
2'6 i
WEEKLY
LEAR
■lt’s quick easier under
MONEY-BACK GUARANTEE
with a Sampson home-study
Course for either:
STEEL GUITAR
• HILL-BILLY GUITAR
• BANJO MANDOLIN
• PIANO ACCORDION
• CLARINET
• SAXOPHONE
• UKULELE
• MOUTH ORGAN
• ACCORDION • PIANO
• DANCING • VIOLIN
C/vrvn have succeeded
01/UU why not you ? Takes
3 Lessons to play first piece-
-10 Lessons a variety, and 20
Lessons any piece—doesn’t
matter where you live.
INSTRUMENTS
Exclusive models available on
small payments to any part of
Australia. Freight paid.
and
rnrr illustrated catalogue and descriptive
r XvtL booklet FREE—Write for yours.
(MENTION INSTRUMENT FAVORED.)
SAMPSON’S, Dept, 3, 481 Kent Street.
Box 4184 X, G.P.0., Sydney,
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
n
m x )
m-i
m
mm-
aas#
£S-Sy--
The art of the worlA 9 s great pianists
has been made imperishable through the medium
of modem recording technique. Soon, we hope,
the marvellous playing of these artists, reproduced
with perfect fidelity and realism, will be an endless
source of enjoyment in the homes of music lovers.
SOME OF THE FAMOUS
PIANISTS WHOSE ART IS PRESERVED ON RECORDS:
Joyce
Backhaus
Paderewski
Rachmaninoff
Rubinstein
Friedman
Cortot
Petri
Schnabel
Brailowsky
Moiseiwitsch
Gieseking
Horowitz
Kraus
COLUMBIA • "HIS MASTER'S VOICE" . PARLOPHONE
3 •
The Gramophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. in England) Columbia Graphophone (Aust.) Pty. Ltd.
The Parlophone Co. Ltd. (Inc. In England) . HOMEBUSH, N.S.W. Al/45
/•r*
arv
m
w
&
mTH’
Si
\rt
IT WON'T BE LONG NOW!
—we hope, before you will be able to plan your
summer tour and see your own country in a big
way. But, meantime, give a thought to that
precious Masse battery. Call on your nearest
dealer for a fortnightly check-up. An occasional
re-charge may mean many extra months of
service.
‘Masse
ABC I I 6 I I I
f
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
3-44
Eddie in the Islands
Koitaki Para Rubber Estates, which
has been developing a fine plantation in
Papua with little or no assistance from
any Government for 20 years, is having
a bit of Eddie Ward trouble. During the
war with Japan it had other trouble, the
military authorities taking over the plan-
tations for a period —the Japs approached
it very closely—and it is now up against
competition from synthetics. Since tap-
ping was resumed after military control
ceased the co. has made some decent
profits, but they were no better than what
is reasonable from tropical plantations,
especially when the profitless initial period
in rubber-growing (seven years at least)
is taken into account, as well as the war-
time break in earnings.
This is a resume of what the co. thinks
about current prospects;
The output of rubber is still being taken
over by the Australian-New Guinea Production
Control Board. Although the price at present
being paid (slightly less than in 1943-44) will
enable the co. to earn satisfactory profits under
conditions that existed during the past year,
such price has been lower than world parity.
Although the use of natural rubber is prefer-
able for many commodities, the competition
from synthetic rubber is a serious threat. Other
natural-rubber-producing countries Malaya,
Netherlands Indies, Indo-China, etc. —will
shortly be exporting large quantities of rubber,
and this will also have a bearing on the price
that will be paid by the consumer.
The Commonwealth Government, which con-
trols Papua and New Guinea, has recently
passed an Act for the administration of those
territories. When introducing the Bill the
Minister stated that the working hours of
natives were to be reduced, the wages were to
be raised and an increased ration scale was to
be granted. The increased minimum wage be-
came effective as from August 1, 1945, and if
all the contemplated changes are brought into
effect there will be a very serious increase in the
cost of production. The native was quite con-
tented and happy under the conditions that
existed on plantations, and the scale of rations,
which is ample, was prescribed by such men as
Sir Raphael Cilento and others, and is well
balanced.
The natives still own about 57,000,000 acres
of the total area of 58,000,000 acres in
Papua, and can exist comfortably in their own
communities and need not work for any Euro-
pean employer if they do not so desire; it is a
fact that the majority of natives prefer plan-
tation life and food to their own village fife and
food.
Under the Act the professional recruiter is
to be eliminated, which will result in additional
cost to the co., as it will probably be necessary
to maintain salaried men to recruit natives, par-
ticularly from the more distant labor centres.
The Act also contemplates that natives will be
employed for one year only, and, if so, the co.
will be continually breaking-in new tappers,
which will result in inefficiency, constant damage
to trees and loss in output. The present Gov-
ernment apparently does not realise that the
maintenance of the Territory and the prosperity
of the natives will not be possible if the planters
cannot carry on successfully and earn reasonable
profits. The present Act may ruin the planters
and the Territories. Further, all stores, rations,
etc., have had to be acquired through the Pro-
duction Control Board, and, in many instances,
the prices charged to the co. are in excess of
what would be payable in the open market.
Production on, the plantation ceased in mid-
October, when practically all native employees
left it. This stoppage was caused by the con-
fusion suddenly introduced into native-labor
employment by the Military Administration.
After the trouble started these authorities en-
deavored to correct it, but without success, and
Australia is now deprived of valuable stocks of
raw rubber. It is now left to the Provisional
Civil Administration to help the plantation inter-
ests overcome the difficulties caused by their
predecessors. In the meantime, the manager on
Koitaki is making every endeavor to obtain
any native labor available, but the plantation
will undoubtedly suffer through deterioration,
and it will be some considerable time before it
resumes production.
Your directors deemed it advisable, in view
of the uncertain outlook, to refrain from any
further development and to conserve the cash
resources of the company.
Eddie and his Government, wittingly
or unwittingly, have done their best to
foul the industrial rigging in the Com-
monwealth during the war. And it is
piain that Eddie is still a calamity when
cast in the role of Minister for External
Territories.
Canada’s Tax Reductions
From the half-year point onward
Canadian taxpayers as a body (exclusive
of companies and the like) will benefit
by a reduction of 16 p.c, in income tax.
As this cut in personal taxes took
place from the beginning of October,
Canada has actually beaten Australia in
speed and size of post-war tax reduc-
tions, The reduction is an interim
measure which will continue until it is
possible to combine further abatement
with a thorough overhaul of the whole
rate structure of personal income tax.
In addition to the relief for individuals,
excess-profits tax on companies is to be
reduced from 100 p.c. to 60 p.c., with
additional concessions for smaller con-
cerns. (Australia has so far made no
concessions to companies.) Any com-
pany the excess profits of which are less
than 116 p.c. greater than the pre-war
standard will pay 40 p.c., whilst over
12,000 businesses are being relieved of
e.-p.t. altogether.
Finance Minister Ilsley has placed
great emphasis on restored business in-
centive and initiative. Demobilisation of
armed forces is going on fast in the
Dominion, and many projects are under
way or in contemplation which will in-
crease employment and output. Capital
is plentiful, and consumers have unpre-
cedented savings. The urgent demand
for housing assures an active building
trade, while deferred maintenance of rail-
ways and public utilities, as well as the
lag in public-works construction, repre-
sents another great source of employ-
ment. During the war, Mr. Ilsley said
in presenting his Budget, special taxation
had begun to blunt incentive. Hence
the proposed relief from excess-profits
tax, from sales tax on machinery used in
the production of goods, and from the
10 p.c. war-time exchange tax on all
imports from non-Empire countries.
Relief from sales tax and exchange tax
would in particular help in the modernis-
ing of industry, said Ilsley, and in the
re-equipment of primary producers. It
would be shortsighted policy not to
assist producers in reaching the lowest
possible cost of expansion, modernisa-
tion and operation. The capitalisation
of taxes in asset costs was undesirable.
Although Canada has undertaken many
post-war tasks in a way that has brought
comments about “another New Deal,”
setting itself certain production and em-
ployment objectives that involve Gov-
ernment controls for some time to come,
the taxation policy and outlook of the
Finance Minister, is the most encourag-
ing to private enterprise yet seen in any
part of the world since the end of the war.
A Canberra official is reported to have
said that “Australia owes the United
States little or nothing if a lend-lease
balance is to be struck,” Valued in the
currency of each country and by each
country, Australia’s reciprocal aid meas-
ures up to about*two-thirds of the lend-
lease total. But, as has been pointed out
here several times, Australian prices and
the exchange rate have made that basis
of comparison most unfair. American
war-time production has been notoriously
costly—and so has Australia’s munitions
output —but Australian food, metals, etc.,
have been taken into lend-lease accounts
at far below a reasonable parity, and it
has been largely in food and services that
Australia has given aid in the Pacific.
It is hard to imagine that there will be
any monetary hangover from lend-lease
in view of President Roosevelt’s an-
nouncements and the terms of the vari-
ous agreements between British countries
and the U.S.A.; but if there is any ques-
tion of returning lend-lease articles still
extant to America, how is America to
reciprocate in the matter of food, etc.,
consumed at Australia’s expense? It hap-
pens that Australia supplied more goods
of a consumable nature than the United
States supplied to us. That should not
mark us out for a special disadvantage.
And this matter is raised without begrudg-
ing a single Doughboy any one of the
half-dozen eggs he may have had for
breakfast on frequent occasions in this
part of the world.


Missing Friends.
WILLIAM FRANK HARSANT. If WiUiam Frank
Harsant, formerly of Johannesburg, South Ajr .
son of the late William Harsant, also of Johannes
burg aforesaid, will communicate with the undersigne ,
he may hear of something to Ins advantage. Any mtor
mation regarding him will be appreciated. In IWO M
was reported to have been engaged in wool man«
facture or in the wool trade. —ALLEN, ALLEh
HEMSLEY, Solicitors, 53 Martin Place, Sydney.
ROWE. —MRS. JANE ROWE (whose maiden name
was COOKLEY), or any member of her family, is re-
to communicate wnth the undersignedwho
has information to their advantage. Mre. Rowe is
thought to have resided near Hamilton Auckland
New Zealand, about 40 years ago. Any person
having any knowledge of Mrs. Rowe or her family
is also asked to write to A. R. BROWN, Solicito ,
P.O. Box 471, Hamilton, New Zealand.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO LEONARD COOPER TALLAIS late of Me^hmds
• c+ofp of New South Wales. —TAKhi
that vouf wife ELSIE LUCY MAY TALLAIS has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3568 of 1945 a S aias ,
on the grounds of desertion for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office, Supreme Court
appearance arw fey First day of March
?946 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from Joseph Walter Kenny, p 8 ® 1 * I *' body,
Castlereagh Street Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K. Boor,
Registrar in Divorce. _________
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
liilletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
re: — . A
12 months £1 12 6
3 ” •• •' •' 10
Concession rates for members of the forces
erving outside Australia:
12 months -®
I :: •• •• •• 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..#!»»
THE SERVICE MAN
Fight in Soerabaya.
“Ek Dum”: Having issued a stern
ultimatum demanding the handing in of
arms by Indonesians in Soerabaya, so
that they might not be further used for
purposes of murder and mutilation and
to endanger the lives of white women
and children, General Christison, the
British G.O.C. in Java, applied the alter-
native when his ultimatum expired at
6 a.m. on November 10.
General Christison explained his
course of action:
This is not an attack on the liberty of
the Indonesian people. It is the extremists
of Soerabaya who are guilty and the guilty
who must suffer. The British have no
quarrel with the Indonesian people. It is
only on those who attack us or prevent us
from carrying \out the tasks set us by the
United Nations conference that we shall
turn the full strength which has defeated
Germany and Japan, Therefore have
nothing to do with the extremists and do
nothing to bring trouble or disaster to your
towns.
The task of cleaning up was made more
urgent by the knowledge that 20,000
Japanese troops in organised formation
had left Soerabaya before the arrival of
the British. The fact that they had sur-
rendered arms to the Indonesian extrem-
ists, while remaining themselves power-
fully armed, suggested complete co-opera-
tion between them and the Javanese.
“Fomented by Radicals”
This was confirmed by the past asso-
ciations of the “nationalist movement”
with the Japanese and by a statement
issued in Tokyo by General Mac Arthur’s
chief counter-intelligence officer, Briga-
dier-General Thorpe. The brigadier-
general said that the trouble in recently
reconquered territories, particularly Java,
was fomented by “radicals” specially
selected by their anti-European leanings
and trained in special schools in Japan,
Malaya and the East Indies. The
Japanese, he said, had been using these
agitators right under Allied noses and
they now were being rounded up and
sent home to be turned over to their
respective “Governments.” These stu-
dents were part and parcel of Dr. Soe-
kamo’s Indonesian “national movement.”
Such are the people on behalf of whom
2000 “Australian” Communists, led by
a comrade who had been head of the
party’s Legal Rights Association in its
illegal period, during part of which it had
carried on a campaign against recruit-
ing and another designed to cause chaos
in Australian war factories, jeered at Dutch
soldiers in a disgraceful demonstration
—the second —on Armistice Day, 1945.
Such are the people whom the “Govern-
ment” that recently accredited a new Min-
ister to the Netherlands Government in
Europe has been reinforcing with insur-
rectionaries trained and encouraged by
a white rabble in Australia.
When the British ultimatum expired
and the highly-civilised friends of the
“Australian” Communist party failed to
turn in the “tanks, armored cars, spears,
blowpipes and poisoned arrows” speci-
fied in the list of weapons to be-surren-
dered, the British attacked, but only
when a howling mob was on the verge
of falling on the lines of the Fifth Indian
Division, veterans of the campaign in
Burma.
A cTOcentrated artillery barrage was
opened on selected points where the-Indo-
nesian armed forces were known to be
gathered. The Indians then advanced, a
small body against 150,000 howling sav-
ages who held captive 3500 Dutch, about
half of them women and children.
Murder and Mutilation
Naval guns and a few Thunderbolts
and Mosquitoes bombed Indonesian posi-
tions when the Indians began to lose men.
After that there was little opposition. The
Indonesians through their radio sent out
the usual Communist rubbish, couched in
Moscow jargon and proclaiming that they
proposed to die to the last man for Java-
nese “Liberty.” Soerabaya .Radio urged
youths and Mohammedans (who have
recently been the objects of a special
campaign from Moscow) to carry out
“the scorched-earth policy” and poison all
food and water which might fall into
British hands.
The fire station and the water supply,
soon in British-Indian hands, were found
to be out of action. And only 2000 of
the 3500 Dutch of all ages and sexes at
the mercy of the Indonesians had been
rescued by November 12.
As the troops advanced into the city
they met little resistance, but aerial recon-
naissance showed only small withdrawals.
Everywhere released captives confirmed
the worst suspicions about the fate
of prisoners. Brigadier-General Mallaby
and his staff had been slaughtered in cold
blood. An Indian was found crucified
to a door, on which he was thrown into
a canal. Mutilated Indians, according to
Ronald Monson, of the Sydney “Daily
Telegraph,” were found with their eyes
gouged out and their limbs hacked off.
One Indian soldier returned to the British
lines with one of his arms cut off.
It was reported that there was little
reaction to events in Soerabaya through
the rest of Java. The population is apa-
thetic. Most of it, in fact, is not asso-
ciated with the “nationalist” movement
which has all the marks of the typical
Communist insurrection upon it—an in-
surrection fomented by a few merciless
leaders.
British-Indian casualties were hot heavy
up till November 12, but Brigadier-
General R. G. Loder-Symonds, in com-
mand of Royal Artillery in Soerabaya,
was killed in a Mosquito which crashed.
Casualties of the Indian Brigade in-
volved in the Soerabaya operations of
October 31, the day on which Brigadier
Mallaby was murdered, were 210 killed
or missing and 112 wounded. Few of
the missing will be seen again, since Indo-
nesian leaders have given orders to kill
all prisoners.
In view of their present choice of
friends the “Australian” Communist party
can never again say a word about
Japanese atrocities.
Mystery in Manchuria.
“Ek Dum”: It now looks certain that
the Chinese Central Government and the
Chinese Communists will resume the hos-
tilities which the Japanese war inter-
rupted. And the Central Government
will be at a great disadvantage.
The Russians, of course, are withdraw-
ing from Manchuria to allow Chiang’s
forces to take over, but their withdrawal
has been nicely timed to allow the Com-
munists to complete their preparations to
fight the Chungking troops for control of
North China and Manchuria.
Communism was founded in China in
1924 by Borodin, who now edits the
“Moscow News.” Its foundation was
accompanied by the usual acts of murder,
terror and barbarism. The fabric of
China was filled with skilled Comintern
organisers, many of them masquerading
under false names. The Comintern found
China too hot to handle by itself and
Red-anted the Kuomintang. Chiang Kai-
shek apparently acquiesced in this policy.
Borodin and General Stern (trading under
the name of ’Galen) were actually
attached to him, but when the Russians
set about exercising control they found
the Kuomintang and Chiang had appar-
ently been pulling their legs.
In 1927 Chiang set up his Kuomintang
Government at Nanking. The Russians
went sadly home. Chiang and the
Communists fought each other intermit-
tently until the Japanese invaded China
in 1937. Then, Communists professed to
be fighting the Japs, but there was little
evidence of it. When they did fight they
seized territory from Chiang as well as
the enemy.
Joe and Mao Turn Over
On August 23, 1939, Moscow an-
nounced its pact with Germany. Till
then Mao Tsz had been able to denounce
Japan, to fight its troops quite freely,
to ' propagate vociferously a policy
exactly in line with that of Stalin, who
was then himself fighting the Japa-
nese, and to write fiercely about the
need for a “united world front against
Fascism” and about the wickedness
of Munich appeasement. But on August
24, 1939, Mao “hailed” the Ger-
man-Russian pact as “a blow in the
interests of peace and liberty” and de-
clared Britain and France imperialist
Powers. And imperialist Powers they
remained till Germany attacked Russia,
when the Germans became “Hitlerite
bandits” and France and Britain the
“allies of the leaders of the democratic
war,” namely Comrade Stalin and his
associates.
Jap Case of Manchukuo
In 1931 Chiang Kai-shek had been at-
tacked with great violence in Chinese Com-
munist propaganda for not going to the
assistance of Manchukuo when invaded
by the Japanese, despite the fact that
Mao well knew that Chiang had not much
more than a few tableknives to fight with.
There were no Chinese Communist attacks.
on Russia, whose borders ran with those of
Manchukuo, and which boasted that there
was a large and invincible Soviet Army in
the Far East armed with the world’s most
modern weapons, for not going to Man-
churia’s rescue. Mao himself showed no
zeal, save as a propagandist.
Ten years later Russia signed the pact
of neutrality and friendship with Japan
(April, 1941), and became the only great
Power prepared to.sell Manchuria to the
Japanese. Even assuming that this was
done to avoid the opening of a second
front in the East, it should have been
indefensible by Communist standards
, one could imagine the dreadful trouncing
that Mr. Chamberlain would have re-
ceived from Communists and fellow-tra-
vellers all over the world if, in the despe-
rate days of early 1940, he had signed a
pact of friendship with Franco’s Spain
and conceded Franco’s right to sove-
reignty over Portugal in war to protect
England’s Atlantic flank. In the Matsuoka
pact Moscow condoned an even worse
territorial steal by a “Fascist” Power and
with less reason. But that raised no
qualms in any Communist quarter, even
in the breast of Mao, whose own race
was being sold into the bondage of people
whom he had described as “bloody
Fascist terrorists.”
Laisser-faire
Later, strong appeals for arms were
made to the United States. They did
not succeed. Then civilisation was ap-
pealed to to secure the “democrati-
sation” of the Chungking Govern-
ment by the recognition of parties other
than the Kuomintang and the establish-
ment of a political council of all parties.
The objective of this was to enable the
Chungking governing agencies to be Red-
anted with a view to replacing them by
a Communist setup, tied to Moscow with
iron bands. To some extent this has
succeeded in theory, though one or two
democratic emissaries from Yenanfu have
been bumped off in the process.
More Parallel Action
When Russia made her decision to
come into the war against Japan in time
to be represented at the surrender,
Chinese Communists apparently were
given instant knowledge of it which
was denied to the rest of the world.
Almost immediately after the Yalta con-
ference they had showed signs of military
activity in the north—every time they
fired a shotgun the Japanese died in droves
and hordes.
Then Chiang’s emissary was sum-
moned to Moscow and friendly relations
were established, so that Chiang could be
depended on not to take aggressive action
against the Communists, or at least would
be reluctant to do so. Next, at the
moment when Japan was beaten, Russia
declared war and raced across the coun-
try against almost no resistance. Her
furthermost seizures were part of the
Kuriles athwart the northern air route
from America.
Moscow entered into an agreement
with the Chiang Kai-shek Government,
that China should occupy Manchuria, but
that the Russians should have the use of
trans-Manchurian railways in the role of
joint owners. Presently, on the very eve
of the Manchurian winter, it was an-
nounced that they were withdrawing to
make way for the Chinese of Chiang,
while in strong force «in Korea. In
keeping with their practice in Europe
they also “withdrew” a heap of machinery
which belonged to the Chinese National-
ists. The Russians appear to be retiring
in favor of the enemies of Chinese Com-
munism, but only after Chinese Com-
munism has armed itself and consolidated
its positions in north China.
Gilbert and Sullivan in China
Furthermore, the Russians appear to
be willing even to allow their colonial
possessions on the Pacific coast to be
isolated in the very maw of Japan itself,
and at the mercy of the western Powers,
with only Chiang’s Chinese as a bul-
wark in between. And the Chinese Com-
munists are at present accusing the “bul-
wark” of co-operating with the “brutal
Japanese Fascists” to destroy Communists.
In effect, Moscow is prepared to admit a
“capitalist” Chinese Government to occupy
her borderlands in the Manchurian
region and to be in a position to control
her communications with the Pacific.
If it were all true the Russians are invit-
ing the Americans to extend their zone
of primary influence right up to the
inland borders of Russian Siberia. Such
a thought provokes loud laughter.
Ominous Prospects
The possibilities are ominous. The
sensible deduction is that Russia’s free
permission to Chiang to proceed into
Manchuria is governed by the qualifica-
tion “if you can.* Moscow either knows
that the Communists will be well enough
provided with arms and support to keep
Chiang out, as Mao is trying to do along
the route from the Yellow Sea to Peking,
with some success in the preliminary
stages. Or Moscow knows that at the
right moment the whole 35,000,000 Man-
churians who are pawns in the game will
suddenly be seized with a burning desire
to embrace Communism and that there
will be somebody from Moscow on the
S p o t_ a -Chinese Tito, Ercoli or Dmitrov
—to crystallise the expression of the
yearning and act as their spokesman.
If anybody asks why this manoeuvre,
the answer is Uncle Sam, who would
certainly not agree to the replacement of
a Japanese dictatorship over China by a
Russian dictatorship. When Soviet rela-
tions with Chiang were framed Stalin
was bent upon securing an American,
loan of six thousand million dollars (of
which his behavior in Europe appears to
have robbed him, at least for the time
being), and matters had to be managed
in such a way as to placate the United
States as far as possible.
Heavy fighting is reported along the
Great Wall of China north of Chm-
wangtao, as well as on the Peking railway
to the south.
Indeed, the position could scarcely
be more ominous. The Communist mili-
tary commanders, Yu Teh (C.-in-C.) and
Yeh Ching-yin, G.0.C., Eighth Route
Army, claim to have inflicted a heavy
defeat on Chiang’s force? and taken
100,000 prisoners. If this is true it means
that they have been fully armed on a
modern scale and that arming must have
been done either V>y the Russians or the
Japanese or both. So must the training
and organisation of their formations in
the use of modern arms.
Towards the Americans the Com-
munists adopt the same arrogant attitude
as Russia has adopted towards her Allies
in Europe. They accused U.S, Marines
of fighting Communists, of pushing
towards areas “liberated” by Com-
munists, of repairing the Chingwangtao
and Shanhaikwan railways destroyed by
Communist troops to impede the advance
of Chiang’s Manchurian armies, of straf-
fing the population of Antseh, south oi
Taiyuan, of landing troops at Cheefoo
and of fighting on the side of the
Japanese. The position was complicated
by an official Chungking newspaper
which, no doubt to frighten the enemy,
boasted that Uncle Sam had handed
over 3000 aircraft to Chiang.
This General Wedemeyer, the U.S.
commander in China, vigorously denied,
though he said some aircraft had been
given the Nationalists. He stated that his
only mission in China was to help re-
patriate Japanese troops, of whom there
still were 1,800,000 on the Asian main-
land. He admitted that U.S. troops had
been involved in minor skirmishes, but
declared that the U.S. policy was not to
take aggressive action against Chinese,
except to protect American lives. He
ignored the insolent suggestion that the
United States Government should apolo-
gise and pay compensation for interfer-
ence in China’s affairs, not even making
the comment that if there had been no
American interference to support
Chiang’s Government, there would be no
China and perhaps no Chinese Com-
munists.


(yOand»
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Plort
PERSONAL ITEMS
In 1914-18 Westralia chalked up a
wonderful fighting record measured by
decorations won; and the latest V.Cs.
for Australians make the State’s 1939-45
performance quite outstanding, on a
population basis. Adding now Pte. Tom
Starcevich, and including highly-deco-
rated Group Captain H. I. Edwards, of
the R.A.F., W.A. can claim five V.Cs.
for the latest war. Cpl. J. B. Mackey,
V.C. (posthumous), brings the N.S.W.
total to six.
When a complete listing of the Aus-
tralian 1939-45 V.Cs. was made here in
September it was noted as rather odd that
all three Westralians who had won the
decoration with Australian units were pri
vates, whereas all five N.S.W. winners
were officers or non-coms.; and, of
course, the latest. awards emphasise this
oddity. Both Mackey, who hailed from
Portland (N.S.W.), and Starcevich, who
comes from north of Esperance (W.A.),
won their V.Cs. by splendid lone-hand
attacks on Jap positions in Borneo. Starce-
vich, who was in the Middle East before
returning to go north, is one of a family
of nine, all members of which eligible to
serve enlisted.
When Salvation Army Chief General
George Carpenter came to Perth he had
a visitor to morning tea who brought
memories. The visitor was Victor Court-
ney, with whose father the General had
learned the printing trade in Raymond
Terrace (N.S.W.) more than 50 years ago,
where both were born. Since those days
the General, who confesses that he was
no different from any other printer’s devil,
has risen to the place sanctified by Wil-
liam Booth, while his visitor is general
managing editor and part-owner of a
group of the profane press: Perth “Sun-
day Times,” “Mirror” and “Call.” Over
the bridge of time and distance, the two
talked of many interesting things, and
both agreed that newspapers, whether reli-
gious or secular, are always fascinating
things. The General has a prodigious
memory, and can quote intimate details
of his youthful days at Raymond Terrace
extending bjeyond half a century.
A fiery Parliamentarian:
Though he had for some time been a very
sick man, and was in hospital when he died
from heart trouble early on Monday morning
this week, R. W. D. Weaver, always a fighter,
had stuck it out to the end. Even while on
his death-bed there were plans for political
meetings he was to figure at. In forcefulness
of character —displayed by, among other signs,
a signature so aggressive that it seemed to shout
defiance from the foot of dbcuments or letters
—the late member for Sydney’s Neutral Bay
(since 1927) stood as high above most occu-
pants of the N.S.W. Assembly as he did physi-
cally. Above 6ft., a vigorous speaker, with a
copious verbal repertoire, he used to give
“Hansard” writer’s cramp, and this page some
time back recorded him as designating a fellow-
member as a “grim, growling gladiator,”
who “roared, raged, railed, raved, reproved,
rebuked, reviled and with raucous voice re-
iterated in sepulchral tones.” A native of
Liverpool Plains and stock and station agent
for many years in the, ‘Wellington district, he
was an alderman at Narrandera back in 1900.
Moving to Sydney, he was soon a striking
figure in election campaigns, and, reaching
the Assembly, his vigor soon got him into the
Ministry. As Minister for Mines he showed
that now extremely rare, if not extinct, quality
courage in the savage Rothbury mine strike
doings, and he was subsequently Minister for
Public Works and Health in the Stevens Minis-
try before a nervous breakdown put him back
for a time with the rank and file. After that
he was successor, with a sound knowledge of
Parliamentary procedure, to Daniel Levy as
Speaker. Altogether, one of the most impres-
sive members the Macquarie-street House has
had, from the day he first entered there in
1917. Though there had been changes of name
on the political banner he figured under, he
himself never really changed. The party-names’
wheel turning full circle, he began as a Liberal
and ended as a Liberal.
Makin and McLeay travelled respec-
tively from Canberra and Adelaide to be
in Grafton (N.S.W.) for the celebrating
of Earle Page’s 25 years as M.H.R. for
Cowper—belated, for the doctor was first
elected on Dec. 13, 1919, taking his seat
for the first time on Feb. 26, 1920. Also,
Fadden, was there from Brisbane, and
other visiting C.P. men .present were An-
thony, Corser and Abbott. Another there
was Spender, who, holding a metropolitan
seat, was able to do what no C.P. man
could be expected to risk doing—Percy
declared Grafton the loveliest town in
Australia.
Return of a V.C.:
The Moreton Bay, which brought Lieut.-
Colonel Charles Grove Wright Anderson and
other prisoners of war back from Asiatic cap-
tivity, called first at Fremantle, and the “West
Australian” described Anderson as “tall, lithe
and quietly spoken, a typical product of the
outback of Australia.” Correct as to appear-
ance and manner; but Anderson was born at
Capetown and won his M.C. in the last war
serving with the King’s African Rifles in the
campaign against the Germans in East Africa.
Afterwards he was a settler in Kenya for
years. He did not reach N. S. Wales till the
mid-thirties. With him came his Australian
wife, whom he had married in Africa, and
he bought a station in the Young district.
Joining the A.I.F. in 1940, Anderson got his
V.C. in Malaya for wonderful work as com-
mander of the 2/Nth Battalion —in the citation,
“a magnificent example of brave leadership,
determination and outstanding courage.” He
saw and endured Jap savagery at its worst on
the construction of the Siam-Burma railway.
“Like the rest of the men on board,” the
modest V.C., M.C., said to the “West Aus-
tralian” reporter, “I am glad to be back and
to see my wife and children again.” There are
four children, two of them twins, and during
her husband’s long absence Mrs. Anderson, a
heroine in her own right,, carried on the station
herself, sometimes quite alone except for her
brood, and at one especially trying period, when
natpre was adding cruelly to the cruel strokes
of war, in ill health.
Angas Parsons, who died at 73, only
three months after retiring from the
Supreme Court bench in S.A., had nearly
25 years on it, and but for already failing
health might have succeeded Murray as
Chief Justice in 1942. Descended from
Fife Angas, one of the State’s founders,
he was son of Langdon Parsons, orator
and “administrator” of the N.T. when it
belonged to S.A. Angas Parsons studied
at Roseworthy Agricultural College
before taking to law and politics;
Attorney-General under Peake in 1915 ;
K.C. in 1916 ; Judge in 1921. He was
Vice-Chancellor of Adelaide Uni. and
Warden of its Senate, and had been presi-
dent of the Empire Society, Navy League
and English-Speaking Union.
Herewith Alan Eddy, as portrayed by
Royal Naval Official Artist Currie. Eddy,
who these days is fulfilling a long-term
ALAN EDDY.
contract with J.C.W. in musical comedy
—“Desert Song” at present —switched to
his present line in 1930 while bass soloist
at St. Paul’s Cathedral, Melbourne. After
touring with John Brownlee and Joseph
Hislop, he provided support for Captain
Adkins during the latter’s band tour for
the A.B.C. before going to Europe to
study with Dinh Gilly, Brownlee’s master,
and pmil Behnke. Sadler’s Wells heard
him in bass roles, and he was a favorite
performer at large London social occa-
sions before he came back to his native
land on tour for A.8.C., after which
he was chief study teacher of singing at
Melbourne Uni.’s Conservatorium.
Andrew William Sneddon, who has
passed on in Sydney at 65, was one of
the big men in the life-assurance world.
G.m. of the A.M.P. since 1934, he had
been with that society since 1897, with
experience in the meantime at its branch
in London, where he became a Fellow
of the Institute of Actuaries. Thereafter
he made a steady climb to the top. A
native of Wallsend, in the Hunter River
coal country, he was one of the many
notable products of Sydney High School.
It was not Sneddon’s fault or that
of the great concern he served so well
that the Fourth- Victory Loan was still
lagging at the end of the extended period;
the A.M.P. found nearly 5 per cent, of
the money subscribed.
Hector Hercules Bell, chairman of Mel-
bourne and Metropolitan Tramways
Board, attaches no undue significance to
the names his parents gave him. He says
he is not half strong enough for his job,
which needs a man made of iron. He keeps
an open door—a trammie with a grievance
can see him at any time —and if he has a
tidy office table free of papers it isn’t be-
cause he isn’t taming the mad bulls of
HECTOR HERCULES BELL.
public opinion, slaying lions, chopping
off the heads of hydras and cleaning out
Augean stables almost daily. It was he
who had the job of applying the death-
knock to the cable trams, for which Mel-
bourne citizens had a romantic affection
but for which he foresaw he presently
could not get cables. Now he has the
arduous'job of referee in the tram v. bus
argument of Melbourne, though he con-
fesses bias in favor of trams. Born in
Richmond and privately educated, he was
a road contractor, bridge-maker and
reservoir builder for 22 years before join-
ing the tramways 30 years ago. Ten years
ago he became chairman. He is 66, and
his recreation is a week-end cottage where
Nature is tramless.
“Shibli”: Peter Fraser, M.L.’s P.M.,
has entered upon his 28th successive
year as member of the House of
Representatives. At 61, he is a young
“Father of the House.” In the war
years he emerged from the confusion of
political prejudice as a man generally
admired. His strength is in his sin-
cerity and shrewd Scottish outlook. The
only change in him of late is a
sudden development as a speaker. He
used to be a quiet, slow man on the plat-
form —now he’s full of fire and declama-
tion. Mavbe he studied some of the
Yankee tub-thumpers at ’Frisco.
“Ek Dum” does some debunking:
All this nonsense about “railway porter be-
comes Governor of Bengal” makes me ill.
Fred Burrows’s railway portering is as far back
in history from his achievement as Lincoln’s
store-keeping and Edison’s newspaper-selling
were from their period of greatness. Actually,
Fred is a big businessman, manager of the
affairs and investments of one of the world’s
greatest unions, the National Uniop of Rail-
waymen, successor of Jimmy Thomas, who
was big enough to be a British Home Secre-
tary, but not big enough to keep his mouth
shut about the contents of a budget, a fact
which proved his ruin. Even in Jimmy’s com-
paratively early days the union was so big that
when its grateful members decided to give
their secretary a testimonial for securing for
them an award or a rise, a subscription of a
penny a head produced the neat little sum of
£lO,OOO. And it would yield much more to-
day—staff employed by railways and London
Transport (mostly railways) is 656,000, from
which 102,000 enlisted for the forces and 90,000
personnel for the London Railway Defence
Volunteer Corps. Burrows himself is a shrewd,
sensible unionist of the old school who long
ago would have been kicked out of any Austra-
lian union job for daring to love his own
country better than Russia and failing to
properly obstruct the boss and inconvenience
the public. He is quite capable of being
Governor of Bengal without turning a hair, just
as Bevin is capable of being Foreign Minister
and Snowden made a good Chancellor of the
Exchequer. And there is nothing new in his
appointment in vice-royal character. Jimmy
Brown, the simple Scottish secretary of the
Ayrshire miners, went three years with all the
trappings of Royalty (1920, 1930 and 1931) as
the king’s deputy to act as Lord High Commis-
sioner of the Church of Scotland, and accepted
the dignity and panoply of his office as a matter
of course. So will R. G. Casey’s successor to
any necessary extent.
Geoffrey Stokes Bridgland, appointed
Second Secretary of the External Affairs
Office in London, is a South Australian
who spent three years as Second Secretary
of the Australian Legation in Ottawa,
subsequently enlisting in Australia with
the R.A.A.F. and completing his train-
ing in Canada. Since then he has been
Australian representative on the War
Crimes Commission.
“Ek D.”: Died suddenly on the way
from London to Wellington (M.L.),
Norris Stephen Falla, C.M.G., D. 5.0.,
V.D., chairman and managing director of
Union Steamships, chairman of Tasman
Empire Airways and Union Airways, and
a director of P. and O. and B.S. Co.
Falla, a Maorilander, rose from the
bottom rung in the Union Steamship ser-
vice, despite a great deal of time devoted
to military matters. He joined the N.Z.
Field Artillery as far back as 1903, won
his commission in 1909, was an original
Anzac, D. 5.0., commanded a Kiwi
howitzer brigade in France, and in the
present war for two years commanded the
N.Z.E.F, overseas base. A companion-
able chap, always ready for a military
argument, he was well-read and well-
informed on most subjects. Latterly he
had become an enthusiast about the
future of the air, .and was in Australia
to welcome Lord Rnollys’s mission last
year, when he seemed in good form and
full of pride in Maoriland’s military
achievements, particularly those of the
R.N.Z.A.F., on the Territorial side of
which he was an honorary group-captain.
He was 62 at the end.
Gone to London to run the Bank of
Adelaide’s branch there, G. L. Messner,
after 30 years with head office in S.A.,
latterly in charge of its overseas depart-
ment. Messner is said to be the first Aus-
tralian to be entrusted with the London
job, which calls for diplomacy as well as
finance.
Into the silence:
In Hobart, at 79, Henry E. Palmer, leading
accountant, and unbeaten Tasmanian profes-
sional champion walker over five miles and
further. His family linked with early Tasmanian
history. An uncle, Archdeacon W. Hutchins,
was founder' of the Hutchins School, Hobart,
and grandfather, Rural Dean Phillip Palmer,
was first minister of Holy Trinity Church from
1835 to 1853.
In Hobart, at 86, Walter Cpmbes, first
licensed surveyor in Tasmania. With his three
sons he ran the tape over the greater part of
the Speck.
At 82, in Melbourne, Charles Clifton Brittle-
bank, artist, scientist and farmer. A planter
in the New Hebrides when cannibalism was a
local custom, he managed to remain on friendly
terms with the natives. Later he farmed near
Ballan (Vic.), where he wrote some important
papers on the glacial geology of the district.
Plant pathologist to the Victorian Department
of Agriculture in 1913 and biologist in 1924,
he did valuable water-color drawings of Aus-
tralian birds and insects.
Harry Orton Townsend, presumed to have
lost his life from the Japanese prison ship
Montevideo Maru, was Treasurer to the Admin-
istration of New Guinea at Rabaul from 1922
until the Japanese invasion. After Wesley
College, Melbourne, he entered the Federal
Civil Service. He was on Gallipoli and in
France with the First A.I.F.
At 57, old Bulletin contributing artist Oswald
Mick Paul (his mother, an artist herself, de-
clared that the actual christening was “Mick”
not Michael). Mick was barely 18 when he
sold his first sketches to The Bulletin.
Herbert Pilkington Knight, member of the
first council of the Melbourne and Suburban
Real Estate and Auctioneers’ Association and
a foundation member of, the Commonwealth
Golf Club. One of his sons, Lieut. Robert
Knox Knight, was killed in action in Borneo.
At 68, in Adelaide, Reginald Nesbit, associate
to Judge Kelly, of the Arbitration Court. A
son of that brilliant and picturesque identity
of Adelaide, the late Paris Nesbit, K.C., he
was president of the S.A. Licensing Court for
12 years. A champion athlete, he won the
Stawell Gift in 1896.


WOLFE’S
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM
UDOLPHO WOLFE'S ORIGINAL FORMULA
AROMATIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
is warranted not only pure from every injur-
ious property and ingredient, but it is also of
the best possible quality.
W - The attention of Agents and Purchasers
is invited to the Signature on this label, and
to the Title of this Aromatic. Alcoholic
Cordial, embossed on the side* of the Bottle
as protection against inferior and pernicious
Imitations.
By its Attorney
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.. SYDNEY
Bottled in Bond under the supervision
of the Commonwealth Custom*
THIS
H£T; 1 PINT S ft. OZS.
WOLFE'S
c zfhrumdbc
SCHNAPPS
GOOD FOR WOMEN FOR
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ill
111
111
111 ill
i mill
m
111
m.
Modem high-ctess accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private ’ Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE," • Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Perhaps as a reward for having a Governor in-
terested enough in the sport to own one or two
gallopers, South Australia had a royal time over
the Melbourne Cup meeting, which wound up
last Saturday. Horses owned or trained across
the border got away with a huge swag of the
£37,500 disbursed in stakes for the three days—
including Rainbird’s £7OOO in the Cup, which
this year ran to £2OOO for second and £lOOO for
.third —and, particularly through the handsome
and extra-smart Caithness filly Minion, they
won the consistency honor and glory in a
common canter. Also, Rainbird’s Adelaide
owner bagged the £2OO gold cup, reintroduced
to replace the Government bonds given during
the war.
Rainbird’s Cup—one of the smoothest run
and easiest won on record —put her sire, The
Buzzard, into the choice, though far from
limited, company of the sires of more than one
winner of Australia’s greatest race. His other
was, of course. Old Rowley; and, oddly, these
are the only two of his progeny to get placings
in the event, though others of them have con-
tributed notably in building his repute as a sire
of stayers, including Tragopan and Lady Buz-
zard, winners of the Queensland Cup (2m.);
Marauder, Australian Cup (2im.) and Caulfield
Cup dim.); L’Aiglon, Sydney Cup (2m.);
Cathartes, A.J.C. St. Leger (l|m.). Also,
Katanga, Auto Buzz and Buzalong, at lim. or
further.
Nothing else in this year’s Cup field was as
stoutly bred for the requirements of the race as
the winner. Through her sire, Rainbird’s line
goes back through Spion Kop and Spearmint
to Carbine; through her dam, Sequoia (by
Heroic, son of Valais), it goes through Desde-
mona to Dame Lybia, daughter of Positano,
who tops the Cup list as the sire of four of
its winners. Moreover, Dame Lybia’s dam,
Lady Lybia, was herself the dam of a Cup
winner, Lord Nolan, and Rainbird made the
13 th direct male-line descendant of Musket to
lead a Cup field home. There are still more
Melbourne and other Cup winners in her breed-
ing. In fact, Cups fairly glitter in the blood.
Including Positano and The Buzzard, 14
sires have produced two or more Melbourne
Cup winners (New Warrior and Gozo being
in the “more” section, with three each), while
William Tell produced. Archer, who won two
Cups, and Pantheon produced Peter Pan, who
did likewise; the only doubles of the kind in
the list. Adding in that pair, the stock of 16
sires have won 38 of the 85 Cups so far run.
Cup winners who have sired Cup winners have
been (going backwards) Marabou, Spearfelt,
Comedy King (two), Malua, Grand Flaneur
(two) and Tim Whiflier (two).
The sixth mare to win the Cup, Rainbird
covered the two miles in 3.24 i, three seconds
better than the previous best for her sex, but
three and a quarter seconds slower than Wotan’s
record. A four-year-old, Rainbird isn’t the
youngest of her sex to win the race, that honor
being shared by Briseis and Auraria; Briseis
is of the select few who have won the Vic-
toria Derby-Cup double. In all, there have been
23 three-year-old winners; Rainbird lifted her
age’s total to 22; there have been 21 five-year-
old winners; 12 six-year-old; seven aged.
Rainbird’s dam, owned, like herself, in S.A.,
but bred in N.S.W., was sent to Queensland to
be mated with The Buzzard, and the foal first
saw light in Victoria; appropriate to a Cup
meeting which recaptured a good deal of the
old pre-war inter-State flavor and interest.
The interest produced an epidemic of two-bob
sweeps wherever in Australia anybody pos-
sessed that approximation of wealth, and the
inter-State flavor was spiced by the S.A. wins
(three others besides the Cup out of the six
events on Cup day, and others during the meet-
ing as well); Magnificent’s upholding of the
N.S.W. end in the Derby; Rubontine doing
ditto for W.A. in the Final Handicap on Satur-
day ; Immediate, gigantic Typhoon and others
trying to do the same for New Zealand; Night
Fighter for Tasmania; and so forth. Also,
N.S.W. provided the riders of the Cup three —
W. Cook (Rainbird); J. Thompson (Silver
Link, second); and J. Duncan (Leonard, third).
South Australia’s other three winners on the
big day were as interesting as the Cup winner.
The full brothers Crown Gem and Royal Gem,
by Dhoti from French Gem, respectively won
the Byron Moore Stakes (five furlongs; two-
year-olds) and the Linlithgow Stakes (one mile;
w.f.a.). It was Crown Gem’s third win in three
starts; and* Royal Gem’s fourth in a row. In
addition to the rest of his fine record. Royal
Gem had also won the mile Cantala Stakes
on Derby Day, the first three-year-old winner
of this race, and obviously one right out of
the ordinary at his pet distance. He’s evi-
dently the best miler now racing in Australia.
But even the performances of these two were
eclipsed, in the commendable matter of con-
sistency, by the other South Australian repre-
sentative, Minion. A bright chestnut filly, with
light mane and tail, Minion brought her record
to four wins in as many starts by defeating Joy
Stream, Fly Beam and others of her age and
sex in the five-furlongs Mimosa Stakes on
Cup Day.
The S.A. flier won the Mimosa only narrowly,
and, because Joy Stream had the wide run-
ning (the race being up the last five furlongs of
the Newmarket “straight six”), and no doubt
also on the strength of the law of averages,
Joy Stream was made favorite against her in
the Flemington Stakes last Saturday. Minion
made her record five in as many starts —three in
Adelaide; two in Melbourne —by very easily
defeating the colts Harvard and Revenach;
Joy Stream, fourth. Minion cost 800 guineas
as a yearling, and has now won £2660.
What crumbs South Australia left of the Cup
Day spread were cleaned up by the Victorian
representatives New Yorker and Bootle, respec-
tive winners of the Railway Highweight (six
furlongs) and Yan Yean Stakes (one mile).
Apart from the helpings taken by Westralia’s
Rubontine (who beat Typhoon and Propontis
in the Final) and Minion, Victorians waded in
for their fill high above the salt on the last
day of the feast. The Oaks (three-year-old
fillies; lim.) was won by Cherie Marie (Con-
stant Son-Urunalong), finely ridden by Breasley
to notch victory by half a length from Early
Love (The Buzzard-Tronada) and Marocain.
South Australia’s Norwich and the N.S.W. filly
Questing, both favored for the race, failed to
see out the distance. Norwich isn’t bred on
stamina lines, and both have had a lot of
racing. A maiden until this win, Cherie Marie
is lanky, and not the best of lookers, but
should prove a solid enough stayer, as should
Early Love.
The other final-day winners were the Law
Maker colt Four Freedoms, who carried top
weight and downed Gay Lad and Morbell, in
the 10-furlongs Batman Stakes for three-year-
olds; Don Pedro, who won the 12-furlongs
w.f.a. Fisher Plate from Tranquil Star and Tea
Cake; and Counsel, who lived up to a fairly
good Cup run and came into something like his
own again by defeating Silver Link and Logical
over the mile and three-quarters of the V.R.C.
Handicap.
If Amana’s run in the Fisher Plate was a true
sign of a return to his past form —he led
most of the way and finished a fair fourth—
he may take some downing if an acceptor in
the Williamstown Cup. Leonard and Punctilia
would also be well in it. All Williamstown
candidates were lightly weighted, but a 51b.
penalty has brought Counsel up to 9.4, a 101 b.
penalty has raised Rainbird to 8.3, and New
Yorker and Arduli have also had penalty rises.
With no penalties incurred by them, Amana
has 8.9, Leonard 7.5 and Punctilia 7.9. Both
the latter pair carried on consistently good
running in the Melbourne Cup.
* * * *
For Sydney Turf Club’s Canterbury meeting
perfect weather attracted a large and evidently
well-heeled crowd. They had to wait till the
last race for a favorite to come home, but three
well-supported second fancies obliged in earlier
events, and the books probably had only an
average day. Certainly they can’t lose with the
murderous odds offered.
R. Donnelly, on Wellesley, rode a perfect
race in the S.T.C. Handicap. With the favo-
rite, Shining Night, he was slowly away, the
pair of them trailing the field as the Brueghel
mare Flying Cloud set the pace, but Donnelly
went to the rails and never shifted from them.
Into the straight the field spread out, hamper-
ing Shining Night, but presenting Wellesley
with a clear run through to a comfortable,
though narrow, win. Flying Cloud was second,
the long-suffefing Boomanulla making no im-
pression in third place. It’s been two years
between wins for Wellesley, though he’s filled
a host of minor placings in the interim.
Like many of the Peter Pan progeny. King
of the Mist bears little resemblance to his sire,
being, among other points, jet black. Ridden
in the Flying (7? furlongs) by the Hughes stable
apprentice G. Weate, he was backed like a
certainty to second favoritism, and, getting the
run on the rails, finished too strongly for the
speedy Beau Pere gelding Oriental. With an
eye to the future, the most promising run in
the race was that of three-year-old Monmouth,
who, after missing the start, and still a bad
second-last at the turn, finished brilliantly on
the extreme outside to beat all but the place-
getters. The only excuse possible for the
favorite, Gay King, who had the run of the
race, was in second place at the Leger, and
finished with only one behind him, is that he’d
have preferred six furlongs.
Apart from those raced by their breeders,
nine of the starters in the Two-year-old Stakes
represented a price outlay of 11,555 guineas.
That’s an average of over £1348 apiece, and
added money for the race was £5OO. Truly
yearling buyers are a race of optimists. As it
was, one of those retained by their breeders —
the Midstream colt Concerto —finished solidly
for a half-length win from Brilen (Royal Step-
Spoon), who had taken charge inside the dis-
tance and appeared then to have the race won.
Bay Rex was third.
Fort Denison’s last success, in April, was a
dead-heat, and ridden by E. Swinton in the
Welter he again dead-heated, this time with
Spear Patrol (J. Thompson). Thompson entered
his first protest in several years and received
the verdict, while Swinton landed a month’s
suspension. The winner was at 10 to 1 with
the books, but paid slightly over twelves on the
win tote.
Three other events —a fixed-weight Maiden
of nine furlongs, and two divisions of a six-
furlongs Trial —produced poor fields, but the
Maiden provided a rattling finish, with Hua-
might and Prince Buzzard going head and head
over the last furlong. Huamight was in front
at the right moment, a head to Prince Buzzard,
with Grapevine closest of the rest. Prince Buz-
zard has filled 16 minor places from 31 starts
and seems destined never to win one.
Kuvera’s Double (A. Ward), Idyllia and
Union Jack finished in that order in the first
division of the trial, the prospective favorite,
Wheatland, being a course withdrawal. Union
Jack is a four-year-old gelding who has been
lightly raced and is well bred, being by Mani-
toba from Lambent, dam of Flight. He re-
turned place toters £6 Bs. for five shillings.
The favorite that finally came home was Town
Gossip. Ridden by E. T. Ross, he finished
ahead of Peter’s Pence and Stormy, and was
still in front after a protest had been dealt with.
* * * *
For Randwick (before acceptances):—
Novice: Dinkum Aussie, 1; The Tiger, 2;
Four Square, 3. Kindergarten Stakes: Super-
fort 1, Prince Standard, 2; Persian Prince, 3.
Horsley Handicap: Gay King, 1; War Effort,
2; Tactician, 3. Three-year-old: Strauss, 1;
Marshal Tito, 2; Melos, 3. Milperra Handi-
cap : Nightbeam, 1; Shining Night, 2; Swan
River, 3. Leumeah Handicap; King Step, 1;
Spear Patrol, 2; Babillard, 3.
* * * *
Australians in India:
In the first “Test” v. India, started last
Saturday, the Australian Services XI had only
10 on the board when the first wicket fell
(Whitington 4), but Carmody (113), Pettiford
(124), Hassett (53), Pepper (95) and Worlanan
(76) got the upper hand, and the innings closed
with 511 up. Hazare’s 5 for 109 was the best
of the bowling. India had 82 up for one wicket
when the second day’s play ended. Gates were
excellent —on the first day 40,000 turned up,
and on the Second day (Sunday) the order »was
“shut gates” before play started.'
Earlier in the week Services, against West
Zone, hit up 362 (Miller 106, Price 55, Carmody
43 and Workman 33), West Zone responding
with 500 for 9 wickets (closed). Pepper got
2. for 166, Ellis 4 for 113 and Pettiford 1 for
61. Services are mounting up a lot of casual-
ties. Cristofani has dropped out for good,
Stanford has been in hospital and the weather
floored others. State Cricket Associations have
arranged a big programme for the team when
it gets back here, but the players may need a
spell instead. They’ve had a strenuous time in
England and India.
The tourists have been encountering some
of the best Indian batsmen seen since Ranjit-
sinhji, Pataudi, Duleepsinhji and Patiali.
Amarnath (163 with Princes XI) is a good all-
rounder who, with the 1937 India team to
England, scored 613 runs (av. 32.26) and took 32
wickets (av. 20.87) in 13 matches before a
rumpus with the team caused him to be sent
home “as a disciplinary measure.” His bat-
ting double v. Essex (130 and 107) was a
record for an Indian batsman playing for his
side in England. On that tour Mustaq Ali
(108 with Princes XI) scored 1078 runs (av.
25.06), including 112 v. England, which had
Allen, Cover, Robins and Verity in the side.
Also, V. Merchant topped the aggregate with
1745 runs, av. 51.32. Other century-makers so
far against Services have been Abdul Hafeez
(173) and Imtiaz Ahmed (138), of North Zone,
and R. Modi (168), of West Zone. English
coach-players have done a lot to build up the
game in the land of cobras and curry.
* * * *
“J.A.R.”; Claims that title of most
accurate first-class fast bowler be awarded
to Tom Richardson (B. 10/10/’45) are
substantiated by examination of records.
Of the regular fast bowlers Richardson
hit the stumps more often than any other,
53 of his 88 victims in Tests being bowled,
plus three l.b.w. decisions. At Lords in
1896 he and Lohmann, bowling un-
changed, dismissed Australia for 53.
Richardson got 6 for 39, all clean bowled.
In the second innings he took 5 for 134,
and followed this with 7 for 168 and 6
for 76 in the next Test. This latter per-
formance almost won a wonderful game
for England. Australia scored 412, to
which England replied with 231 and 305,
leaving Australia 125 to win. Richardson,
bowling like a man inspired f6r over three
hours without a spell, pelted down 42
overs to have Australia 7 for 101, but
a dropped catch frustrated his efforts. In
his last Test at Sydney in 1898 he took
8 for 94 in a first-innings total of 239*
Among the Australian bowlers, Spofforth
hit the stumps on 51 occasions for his 94
wickets, but he a was not a regular fast
bowler all his career. Ernest Tones, of
the regulars, has the best record, 36 of
his 60 wickets being bowled.
* * * *
Scientific boxing was conspicuous by
its absence when light - heavyweights
Tommy Colteaux and Ritchie Sands met
at Leichhardt for the seventh time, but
those who like stoush —which goes for
Leichhardt and all neighboring subbubs
—were not disappointed. Leading with
open-handed rights, Colteaux often
missed and ran info trouble. Less un-
orthodox work gained for Sands 11 out
of the 12 rounds. “A draw” was the
referee’s decision, and the hooting did not
cease until both pugs had disappeared
into their dressing-rooms.
Having seen A 1 Stock lose his first two
contests, people who go to the Sydney
Stadium wondered why he was matched
with Vic Patrick. That young man
knocked him out in the fifth round. As
crude as he was game, Stock for four
rounds took everything Patrick shot at
him, and missed with nearly everything
he shot at Patrick. In the fifth, Patrick
switched his attack from head to body,
and a left to the solar-plexus floored
Stock for eight seconds. Another in the
same region put him down and out.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Friday was Sydney’s Poppy prologue
to the drama of Armistice Day. The
poignant two minutes of silence held the
State in stillness at 11 o’clock on Sunday
morning. There was solemn ceremony
at the Cenotaph. Wreaths were placed
by the Lieut.-Governor, by a represen-
tative of the Prime Minister, by Premier
McKell and many others. Admiral Sir
Philip Vian added a wreath on behalf qf
the R.N.
The Sydney Sports Ground was the
home of Girl Guides, Boy Scouts, Cubs
and Brownies last Saturday. Thousands
and thousands of the grand company had
gathered for the combined Scouts and
Girl Guides’ rally, which was a glittering
event in their lives, the Governor-General
and his Duchess being there to take the
salute during the stirring march past.
Margaret Coleman, of the 2nd Roseville
Girl Guides, made one of the addresses
of welcome, and Scout Patrol Leader
Freeman, of Double Bay, spoke for the
boys. Margaret was later invested with
the Gold Cord, the highest award a Guide
can achieve. The Duchess, who made
the presentation, wore a pale ‘blue suit
and a tiny straw hat decked with berries
and veiling. With the royal couple were
the lately-wed Brigadier Schreiber and
Viscountess Clive. And if all this wasn’t
enough excitement. Girl Guides have just
received word from Lady Baden-Powell,
Chief World Guide, that she plans to visit
Australia next year!
“Eugene Onegin” is the opera now being
presented at the Conservatorium. This
Tschaikowsky work had its first Aus-
tralian presentation last Saturday night,
with Florent Hoogstoel as conductor. The
opera from its peaceful and gay opening
is soon swept into the violence of drama
—young love rejected, jealousy, the fatal
duel, remorse. The singing and ballet are
very good. Mollie Grouse, Florence
Taylor, Nita Maughan, Phyllis Raisbeck
are the girl leads; David Barwell, Reginald
Willoughby and Frank Lisle are im-
portant men in the cast. The season con-
tinues tonight, Thursday, Saturday and
Tuesday nights.
Happiest idea to be broadcast was the
Lord Mayor’s Food for Britain appeal.
Every woman is taking it up and indeed
many say that instead of sending the
usual Christmas greetings of perfume,
powder and sweets to friends they will
spend the corresponding sum on an Aus-
tralian hamper. The appeal launched by
Sydney’s Lord Mayor Harding is State-
wide and all country and suburban muni-
cipalities will be asked to join in. All
perishables will be sent in bulk and
packed by experts and will be bought
from the general fund, but gifts of tinned
foods or of the non-perishable type can
be left at the Town Hall. Voluntary
helpers are needed to help the work
along, and 28 Martin Place is the address
of the administrative offices. Shipping
knight Thomas Gordon has assured the
committee of sufficient shipping space.
Cup Day in Sydney is something of a
feast of the Barmecide, Still the city,
with the stray fragments of humanity left
to it, did its best. Cup parties were held
at most of the clubs, factories and offices
ran sweeps or a sixpenny tote to benefit
their own Comfort Funds, and loud
speakers and radios gave the staffs a de-
scription of the race. In hundreds of
suburban homes tea parties (and dash the
coupons!) raged. Some of these were for
good causes, and lots were just for fun,
for this was the first peace-time Cup in
six years. Market-street was thick with
listeners to the A.B.C. broadcast.
At the Yacht Squadron, Kirribilli, there
was revelry that will benefit the R.A.N.
Relief Fund to the tinkle of £l5O. Of this
£l4 10s. came from the sale of a bul-
lock given by Mr. Milson. About £22
came from the stall run by Mrs. Don
Taylor at one end of the wide verandah
facing the harbor. Here, too, were
games, and in the drawing-room and the
common-room were bridge tables.
Laryngitis made Mrs. Marriott, presi-
dent of the Naval auxiliary which
organised the party, an absentee. Mrs.
Meyer and Mrs. Middleton were kept
busy during the afternoon with the
arrangements for the broadcast, and
the sweeps. The Yacht Squadron’s Naval
Auxiliary is closing down. During the
war years it has raised almost three thou-
sand pounds, and has knitted tons and tons
of wool into garments for men of the
Navy.
One of the brightest Cup parties was
the Women Pioneers’ do in their club
rooms above Market-street. This started
about two o’clock, and by a quarter to
three head-waiter Sam was conjuring
chairs seemingly out of thin air to seat
the members and guests. Mrs. Lingham
and Mrs. Hellicar did the honors. There
were shilling sweeps and half-crown sweeps,
the whole complicated business being
handled in the most competent fashion.
Specialty of the afternoon was a long
cold drink fragrant of lime and lemon,
and the savories and sandwiches had a
grand reception. Much of the talk dur-
ing the afternoon was about the taking-
over of Paris House, centre of Sydney’s
gaieties in the ’nineties, by the men Pion-
eers. The well-liked Cariotta Doyle, the
first hon. secretary of the Women Pion-
eers, was surrounded all the afternoon.
Patricia Merewether and Lieut. Her-
bert Ward, M.C., are among the newly-
engaged, Patricia is pretty and popular,
and her red-gold hair has been the subject
of admiring comment since her school
days at Frensham. She is the only child
of the Tim Merewethers of Cudal, and
she has just qualified as a masseuse.
Lieutenant Ward, who served- with the
A.I.F. in the Middle East and in New
Guinea, has a property at Denman.
Norton Trevaire photograph.
In spite of the war years, and the
taking over of its old-established school
at Darlington by the Air Force, the In-
stitution for the Deaf and Dumb and the
Blind Children has carried on its work
with fine results. The institution held its
annual meeting (the 84th) last week. At
Darlington, in spite of a great deal of
restoration still needed, a day school for
deaf children is being maintained. And
the blind children are happily established
in their new school at Wahroonga; there
are plans for the small ones of kinder-
garten age. The whole report tells the
story of a labor of love by members of
the board. Superintendent Earlam and
the teaching staff.
The Education Department is consider-
ing the taking over of classroom educa-
tion in the schools. Such a scheme
should break dowri still further the barriers
between these children and life. Upkeep
of the establishments and the welfare of
the children would still be the Board’s
concern. David Hunter, M.L.A.,. a one-
time pupil of Darlington, was one
of the speakers. He impressed the
necessity for education to open up hori-
zons beyond the factory and the office
walls. Retiring president Aubrey Hal-
loran, his successor Mr. E. Minnis and
Sydney’s Mayor Neville Harding also
spoke.
A sign of the times —“all gloves coupon
free’’—was the glossy look about the hand-
wear of the women who filled the annexe
to Farmer’s restaurant to hear the report.
Every woman seemed to sport new
gloves, snowy white, long and short,
being much to the fore. Mayoress Nev-
ille Harding wore elbow-length white kid.
Mrs. Maurice Gulson, returned from Mel-
bourne, where she went to welcome
sister Mrs, Alouche back from Egypt,
was also white-gloved.
Debs, at the R.S.L. Victory Ball next
Tuesday night (20th) at the Troc. will
be presented to Lieut.-Governor Fred-
erick Jordan and his lady. Mrs. Fred
Taylor, who is the matron of honor, is
the wife of the ball’s organiser. Mr.
Taylor served with the 2nd Battalion
A.I.F. in 1914-1918. The orchestra of
the Trocadero, under Abe Remain’s direc-
tion, has prepared a special programme
linking the 1914-1918 and 1939-1945
periods.
From Melbourne
With Government House throwing
open its doors for a return to pre-war
hospitality and the Melbourne Cup, this
city came to life. Doubts as to the
weather for the Cup proved a drawback
to the fashions for the day. Many
women turned out in the frocks they had
worn to the Derby, but on the whole it
was a well-dressed Cup, A party in the
Vice-Regal box adds zest to race meet-
ings and during the afternoon many of
this city’s best-known, were invited there.
Lady Dugan chose her favorite blue,
this time a rare shade of bluebell with
the brief coat collared in blue fox fur
and the same lovely shade' repeated in
the ribbon on her felt hat. Miss Eileen
Phipps plumped for a navy-blue coat to
wear over her geranium-red frock with
a small white hat with a cluster of field
flowers in the front. Mrs. Sam Hordern,
of Sydney, sat with their Excellencies for
one race. With her navy blue coat she
wore a small white bobby hat trimmed
with red tassels. Mrs. Everard Baillieu
chose amber-toned wool for her frock with
a matching straw bobby hat. Mrs. Pat
Osborne, also of Sydney, added a small
pink rose-trimmed hat to her black en-
semble. Mrs. John Howse contrasted her
mignonette-green suit with a small brown
velvet beanie hat finished at the back
with a brown kilted ribbon. Mrs. Allan
Walters was decorative in a warm shade
of red jacket trimmed with black fringe.
She carried it with a black skirt and
wide red straw hat. Iris Russell Clarke
chose navy blue angora for her smart
suit contrasted with a red patterned
blouse. Her navy shoes featured large
flat white bows in front and white heels.
With her was Mrs. L. L. Davies, smart in
black. They strolled the lawns with
Major Norfolk, Royal Marines. Lady
Elizabeth Scott wore her W.R.N.S. uni-
form.
Among the many functions on Cup
Eve the dance at Kooyong in the L.T.A.V.
ballroom attracted many of the city's
younger set. It was a return to the pre-
war atmosphere, with decorations of flags
and flowers and festoons of colored lights.
The lights from the tower of the Club
House illuminated the grass courts. Too,
there were many returned servicemen wear-
ing formal tails, the first in six years. Jose-
phine Gregg, pictured here, was secretary
of the ball committee. She and her hus-
band gave a party before going on to the
dance. Proceeds totalled £250, the Child-
ren’s Hospital benefiting. Josephine set
off her fair hair and good looks with a
flowing black georgette gown, studded in
an all-over pattern of silver beads. With
Arthur Wilkes was his wife, her blue
velvet tunic blouse allied to a white
hand-embroidered skirt. Dot Waddell,
former tennis champion Dot Stephenson,
was with husband John. Her black crepe
dinner gown was trimmed with diamente.
Dr. and Mrs. Arthur Fenton were there,
the latter in black lace. Jean Darragh
contrasted her midnight-blue taffeta
gown with pink roses worn in her hair.
Pam Burroughs, charming in a tamarisk-
pink crepe gown, was escorted by Bob
Brownell, recently arrived from Canada.
Lesley Hooper chose an attractive frock
in tomato shading, the long hip line joined
to a full skirt and the bodice featuring the
new cap sleeves. She pinned gardenias
in her hair.
Petra Campbell, wearing a simple frock
of lavender blue, hostessed a late-after-
noon party at Cliveden Mansions on Cup
Day. It was given for the recently-mar-
ried Major the Hon. and Mrs. Christopher
Hankey and many friends of the bride
gathered to say good-bye before the
happy pair flew to Tasmania for the
honeymoon, Jackie Haggard’s frock had
a fine lace yoke, the skirt short and full;
in her hair she pinned lime-green roses.
Veronica Syme girdled the slim waist of
her black frock with an antique silver
belt, and Angela Sturt also chose black
to wear with her silver fox bolero. Major
Keith Knox came along to wish Major
Hankey and his pretty wife good luck;
and Major Ivor Mclnnes was with his
wife, whose ice-blue wool frock was
matched by the long, slim-fitting coat.
Sir Winston and Lady Dugan had 1500
guests at a reception on Cup Eve. In-
cluded were high officials of both Church
and State. Lady Dugan chose an ex-
quisite gown of delphinium blue, the
fitted bodice of blue and silver brocade,
the bouffant skirt of misty blue tulle.
She carried a matching fan and wore
diamond clips on her gown. Miss Eileen
Phipps chose a striking gown of
opal-green crepe. The yoke of the
bodice was sewn with shimmering
beads and moonstones while the skirt
featured the new peg-top effect, with
swathed folds at the hips and a pencil-
slim line from hips to toes. Rosemary
Norrie was in white lace, worn over pale
blue taffeta, and Mary Lisle Johnson
put her fine midnight-blue lace frock
over paler blue. Mrs, A. A. Lord was
also in blue, her unusual necklace of
twisted pearls, turquoise and gold beads.
Many women chose white to make
attractive frocks and many of the gowns,
to their wearers’ pride, had been to G.H.
before the war. Mrs. T. J. Ryan was
attractive in a crepe frock of palest
mauve. In the deep V neckline she
pinned a large bunch of artificial violets.
Mrs. Booth was with her Archbishop Dr.
J. J. Booth, She clad her slim figure
in a graceful black dinner gown. The
Roman Catholic Coadjutor Archbishop
Dr. Simmonds made a dignified and
colorful figure in his scarlet ferriolo and
biretta. Mrs. J. J. Daley wore soft blue
romaine; and present with Brigadier
Arthur Wilson was his wife, her long
graceful gown of pale leaf-green. Mrs.
Jill Burnett was in black with gardenias
in her bodice and hair.
A few tiaras made their appearance,
and dresses trailed. Long'gloves added
a touch of formality to the scene. With
a frock of filmy lace and black net Mrs.
Edric Henty added wide shoulder straps
of mist-blue ribbon, meeting at the back
to form a sash. Marea Lucas, daughter
of the Greek Consul, chose a white wool
dinner frock heavily embroidered in gold
beads; and Chinese Consul’s wife, Mrs.
L. M. Wang, wore heavy white floral
satin made into her national dress. Repre-
senting France were Minister Augue and
Col. Renucci, Military Attache. Besides
the lovely gowns the friendly atmosphere
made the party enjoyable as friends met
and chatted or strolled in the portico and
drawing-rooms.
On the final day of the spring meeting.
Oaks Day, women had to abandon new
and pretty frocks for suits, heavy top-
coats and umbrellas. There was rain
and a bitter cold wind.
Melbourne is very proud of its pianist-
composer, Edith Harrhy, and now Honor
Daly, Edith’s daughter, has made her
stage in the Little Theatre, so ably
conducted by Brett Randall, “Green
Shutters,” which recently had its premiere
at this artistic centre of Melbourne’s life,
is a strong and interesting psychological
play, and Honor played the part of a dis-
contented daughter, brought up in all
the traditions of Victorian life. It showed
how a young man, a disciple of Nietzs-
chean philosophy, insinuated himself into
the household, gradually gaining power
over the family. Jean Campbell played
the lead, the slightly-sinister role being
greatly to her liking. Among the audi-
ence at the premiere were Dr. and Mrs.
Bowen Allen, Mrs. J. Dove and her
daughter Dulcie, and Margaret Saker.
There was a touch of autobiography
in Norma Davis’s. last contribution to
The Bulletin (3/10/’45):
Back in July the creek, a hopeless cripple,
Limped on ice crutches; now it runs on sunny
Bare boyish feet to where the parent river
Flashes a silver bow and shakes a quiver
Of arrow reeds.
For, since a fall from a tree in child-
hood, Norma Davis had herself been
crippled for varying lengths of time. Yet
all her verse ran like that creek on sunny
feet. Though the word “hopeless”
would be very mudh an overstatement,
the quotation serves well enough for a
summary of her art as well as her life:
for, though there were technical faults,
it was continually breaking free to a
strong and shining poetry. The best of
it, which was published in The Bulle-
tin over many years, is in the volume
Earth Cry : which the Red Page believed
was the first creation in literature of the
Tasmanian earth and “the best nature
poetry we have yet had.” Norma Davis
made the earth and ■ its creatures live,
Auer the publication of her book and
before her death (at Perth, Tasmania,
where she lived with her mother and
sister) her talent was beginning to be
recognised in Tasmania, and she was
visited by, among others. Governor Sii;
Hugh Binney.


fOfi]*
IK
reAfii
\
'
i
vAI
mOm»M
yv : -.
v ' i
, v ,:v:..
V
\ \ \ 'i
M|
X N.
X x
X-. -v
>•««
■Xo ‘
ISg^VaMw*
,m%
'T'HE Ronaldson-Tippett high reputation for Engines (Diesel, Petrol and
Kerosene) was not easily won. It followed upon forty years of special-
isation, and it was conferred by users in all parts of the Commonwealth.
Ronaldson-Tippett Marine Diesel Engines, the latest outcome of this
specialisation, are serving important sea units of the armed forces. These
Engines have the traditional quality which stamps them as ideal for the
untroubled waters of peace-time pursuits.
RONALDSON BROS. & TIPPETT PTY. LTD.
Head Office: BALIABAT, Victoria
Showrooms: 628 Bourke Street, MELBOURNE
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Eraser House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
Q’land Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Qid.) Pty. Ltd.
Parbury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
p'-'
f\
w
1m
wsm re
a 9o Insi
MUTER CHILL
SUMMER HEAT
Keep Winter’s chill from your home—with
Cane-ite, the building board that insulates
your home against heat or cold; keeps your
dwellings at an even, comfortable, healthy
temperature.
Easy to erect, too —just put it right over old
stained walls. Cane-ite’s superb matte surface
takes paint, kalsomine, dye or stencilled
patterns beautifully—or you can get smart
effects with Cane-ite’s natural light buff
suede-like texture.
d
O < Z UJ« 1—
i inch of Cane-ite wilt insulate your
home better than 14 inches of concrete
or an 8-inch thick brick wall.
Manufactured by
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. Ltd.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
★
Other C.S.R, Products:
Slagwool, Asbestos, Plastet,
Products
SMOKE-OH!
“The basic salary of a professor is £l2OO
a year, plus £4B for cost-of-licing adjustment.”
—Melbourne “Age.”
Chats as well as lectures evidently.
•b *b *b *b
“Bangle, gold cable, chased. Lost.”
— “S. M. Herald.”
Owner couldn’t beat the band.
•b *b *b *b
“Gold was worked to make jewels before the
use of bronze was known.”— “World’s News”
The brazen still dig it for the same
reason.
“Wanted, domestic help, mornings only, night
duties, £1 and fares.” — Suburban paper.
A job that will need careful timing.
•b »b "b *b
“Accused was released on £3OO mail, con-
ditionally on her reporting at the police station
daily.”— “Sun.” i
Remanded oa a postal charge.
•b *b *b *b
Too Bad.
He raised his hat.
But still she mopes.
She’d rather that
He raised her hopes.
Yair.
PWe feel a surge of disgust for the girls who
have broken off engagements with prisoners of
war, and we sincerely hope that they may get
their desserts.” — “Woman.”
Raspberries for preference.
•b *b *b *b
“Edgar Allan Poe was an American poet of
unique genius.”— Biographical note.
Yes, Poe was unique. As we browsed
through his lays,
With a gasp of amazement we saw
A fulsomely flattering ptean of praise
He’d addressed to his mother-in-law.
Brian Bureau.
•b *b *b *b
These days you have to be sharp to
get a fiat.
What Happened to Joe?
Circles in Moscow close to the Foreign
Commissar are emphatic that all is well
with the dictator-god. They claim that
Stalin, while resting at Yalta, was indulg-
ing in his favorite hobby of chiselling
old samovars. The necessity for an ex-
tended period of relaxation has been
forced on him by the glowing health
from which he is suffering.
For example, before leaving the Krem-
lin for the south it was his custom to leap
blithely out of bed at about three o’clock
every morning and see for himself if his
own private guards were keeping a proper
surveillance of the O.G.P.U. guards who
were keeping an eye on the civil guards.
Then he would throw a 2001 b, hammer
around for an hour, have a light snack
of hamburgers topped off with a dipper-
ful of mangelwurzel brandy, leap back to
bed again and sleep like a top —a spinning
one.
In effect, Stalin is living in his
accustomed simplicity in his modest 78-
roomed villa, and as an example to his
comrade-subjects on economy he is limit-
ing his nightly banquets to 24 courses,
with a choice of only 18 liqueurs, exclud-
ing vodka.
The office of the Commissar for tht
Persuasion of Puppet Premiers (Balkans
Division) is buzzing with rumors that the
Generalissimo’s absence from the 28th
anniversary celebrations of the Revolu-
tion was due to an oversight. He had
wagered General Tumbleoff a new purge
to a saltmine that the Red Army had,
taking into consideration the difference
between Greenwich Mean Time and East
Asian time, got into the war with Japan
not 17 but 27 minutes before Tokyo sur-
rendered, and that eight, and not six,
shots had to be fired into the air before
the Jap Kwangtung army raised the
white flag
Nobody would risk interrupting the
Beloved Leader in his friendly argument
to tel, him .ha, the show in Red Square
was about to commence.
From yet another source, this time
close to the Imperial Dictator’s private
retinue, comes the view that Stalm s
absence was due to the exciting news- he
received on the eve of the celebrations of
a wonderful achievement by Boris Blah-
ski. the famous Soviet aircraft designer,
After eight years of intensive re-
search Boris had evolved a single-
seater biplane fighter carrying two
machine-guns which in its trials had
mpT Exceof for'te eStoe ° which
p h copMm the Junkers, and
licence from American patents, the ’plane
was an all Russian achievement
News of his brilliant teat so'wrought
fnr
suspicions about the Western Demo-
cracies, he rushed off post-haste to Nijni
Novgorod to see the wonder ’plane and
confer on the Soviet’s ace designer the
Order of the Bullet (fifth class).
According to one high Kremlin
authority a hitch in the negotiations in
America between the trustees of the late
“Legs” Diamond and the Soviet Purchas-
ing Commission (Espionage Branch) led
to Stalin’s absence from the big parade.
Some weeks before the Anniversary Cele-
brations tests had shown that Stalin’s own
car could not withstand high-velocity
bullets or a grenade thrown at close quar-
ters, and the Commission was ordered to
obtain the defunct gangster’s car, which
had successfully deflected armor-piercing
bullets from a tommy-gun. When nego-
tians failed the Beloved Leader decided to
forgo this year the pleasure of appearing
before his adoring subjects and instead
spent the day playing Chinese checkers
with one of his doubles in a bomb-proof
dugout below the Kremlin foundations.
An undisclosed source reveals that on
Anniversary morning Stalin was just
waiting for the staff of venom-tasters to
pronounce his breakfast safe to eat when
Molotov came in, and started reading
aloud a translation from an article in an
overseas Communist paper denying that
it was financed from Moscow and re-
asserting that the Comintern was dis-
solved. Joe started laughing and, despite
all efforts of his physicians, couldn’t stop,
and he had to keep to his rooms all day.
But the most likely explanation of his
absence from Red Square is that, while
poring over a map of the world and won-
dering where he could help himself to a
few more million square miles without
treading too heavily on Anglo-Saxon
corns, he was handed the result of the
Hungarian elections, in which, despite the
prodigious efforts of 200,000 under-com-
missars, the Magyars gave the Commun-
ist candidates a thrashing. Stalin deyel.
oped a severe pain in the neck which
prevented him raising the clenched fist.
BO.
Quest.
He sought her near, he sought her far.
He sought her high and low,
From where the crowded cities are
To where the drovers go.
Spurred on with fervor unsuppressed.
Half-mad with hopes and fears;
By day he followed on his quest,
By night he prayed in tears.
And though through all his searching she
Has stayed securely hid.
Yet still the search goes on. You see,
She owes him fifty quid.
T. W. NATHAN.
Fashion Note.
“Men’s ties in Manhattan feature seven new
shades: Lemon Squash, Strawberry Parfait,
Pistachio Freeze, Orange Fizz, Blue Frappe,
Mint Ice and Coral Crush.”
The stuff is guaranteed unshrinkable
(A feature which you’ll understand
Is more or less essential), and
We offer color schemes more drinkable
Than the maroon or formal navy.
And, for your after-dinner mood,
A saucy style, tomato-hued,
With overtones of soup and gravy.
And having thus explored the scope
Of gastronomic garb, we hope
To catch the not-too-virile fancy
By bringing out the cutest lines
In floral motifs and designs —
With emphasis upon the pansy.
P. M. LUSK.
Out of This World.
“Blue Heaven, our other-worldly underwear
set. Dream lingerie of softest blue.”
— Advt., “S. M. Herald.”
I bought a little set for Sue.
(In one respect the ad. was true —
She soared above this earthly level
In dainties of angelic blue.
Like one of Goldwyn’s sylphic ladies .)
But, when the monthly bill came due,
I raged just like the very devil
To find the price was hot as Hades.
TRAYMON.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The Victory Loan Flop
The contributor placed first is paid
4j|d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
The failure of the Fourth Victory
Loan, short £lO million on closing day,
October 31, was not unexpected. What is
remarkable is that it did so well.
The Government has seen fit to grab
control of the people’s banked credits by
means of the Bank Act. It cannot be
expected that those with cash at bank
are going to rush a loan as thanks for
socialisation, which is not likely to stop
at banking. Be that as it may, this loan
was not either on a subscriber total or
a daily money total basis comparable with
previous loans at the hands of this or any
other Government. And there must be
reasons which the Government should
examine and take to heart.
People distrust the Administration.
There is no question of “money being
short’V-it was never so flush. There is
enough loose money to swamp this loan
five times over.
The pleas have been to back the soldier,
to rehabilitate him, to feed him and so
on. But the people think all the five-year
men ought to be home—and they are not.
They are told “no ships,” and they see
their ports lousy with ships—idle. Loans
are to buy food —and soldiers write bitter
letters home complaining of no fresh
meat. The people believe their own sons
before the politicians, and they believe
the evidence of their own eyes. In this
last connection they are heartily fed up
of cow girl's, show girls, bare girls,
crooners and swooners as loan promotion
stunts.
The land men are denied petrol for
food production, and the P.M.’S wife
takes a 15 minutes’ flip round Bathurst
in a Dakota as her first joy-ride at public
expense—enough juice burnt to run a
tractor for a week. This and all other
evidences of waste are resented.
If the loan organisers were oozing
genius at every jfore they would not beat
the bad Government-made background
—even by lifting loan-promotion costs,
which are far too high and further cause
for criticism.
Everywhere are strikes and falling pro-
duction with Labor in office, holding
supreme powers. It just does not make
sense, especially as the given causes of
thd strikes don’t sound reasonable, even
if strikes weren’t illegal.
So the real wonder, a near miracle, is
that loyalty produced so much from
so few. — Eric N. Birks (N.S.W.).
The 5/2 Men
Coming home together from service
overseas are ex-prisoners of war and
long-service personnel, familiarly known
as the 5/2 men. For the ex-p.o.w. there
are brass bands and cars, special accom-
modation, special camps, special rations,
amenities and comforts on a lavish
scale —all no better than it should be.
For the others it is just another move-
ment from base to base, as uncomfort-
able as it is inefficiently controlled. There is
neither welcome nor message of greeting.
If the 5/2 men think about their
sombre homecoming it is not in any
spirit of jealousy. Many of them have
fought §ince 1942 with the liberation of
the Eighth Division as their objective.
One of the qualifications for discharge
under the five-year plan is two years’
overseas service. Most of the 5/2 men
have spent two years in actual contact
with the enemy.. The nature of their
homecoming tempts them to wonder if
the public realises how great the strain
and hardships of their service have been.
The 5/2 men are not seeking honor
or glory. On a ship returning from
Borneo 700 of them were unofficially
sounded by their officers as to what they
wanted in the way of a welcome. Trium-
phant marches and civic receptions did
not receive a single vote. The men
wanted only two things: discharge and
rehabilitation. They have no illusions
about the future, little faith in Govern-
mental promises. They had long hoped
that public opinion would safeguard their
interests, but now they fear that their
lukewarm reception is symptomatic of
public indifference.
By all means let us continue to give our
p.o.w. highest priority in shipping, and in
medical, material and psychological ser-
vices. The 5/2 men would not have it
otherwise. But let the nation show its
pride in those who took up arms at the
beginning of the war and were under
arms when the war ended. The ex-p.o.w.
would not have it otherwise. Most of
them are openly indignant at the way
in which the 5/2 man is being received
at home. If this reception indicates
which way the wind is blowing, it is time
that somebody changed its direction.—
Five-and-Tuppence (A.1.F.)
Sport in War-time
A few front-liners (B. 3/10/’45) are
unduly bitter in their references to the
sporting proclivities of soldiers and
civilians on the mainland. When not
actively engaged in campaigning the
Army does all it can to interest men in
sport, which is considered a big morale
factor. I suggest it is just as important
in civilian life. The attitude which anti-
sporting critics recommend as a suitable
war-time pattern is a defeatist one, and
not in accordance with the spirit of those
who fought that this nation might remain
free. — Sack (A.1.F.).
Surplus Equipment Sales
The attention of the Commonwealth
Disposals Commission has been drawn
to a letter signed “Graz” (B. 26/9/’45)
complaining that the Commission sale at
Alice Springs was a dud and so was a
sale of Army vehicles at Bathurst.
The sale at Alice Springs was far from
being a dud —in fact, nearly £40,000 was
realised. While it is true that wagons
went very cheaply, it is not true that the
reason for the flop was that advertise-
ments appeared in district papers only a
few days before the sale. The sale was
advertised in the Sydney “Morning
Herald” August 22, 25 and 29 ; in the
“National Advocate,” Bathurst, August
“This composer s got a wonderful sense of humor."
25 ; “Western Times,” Bathurst, August
25 ; “Country Life” August 24 ; “Farmer
and Settler” August 24; “Land” August
24 and over station 2GZ, Orange, on
August 23, 25, 28 and 29.
Both metropolitan and country papers
were covered and additional radio publi-
city was given over station 2GZ and also
over station'2FC. The Commission would
point out that the wagons were relics
of the last war and not in good condition.
Their appearance did not warrant the cost
of freighting them to the nearest railway.
— H. I. Sabey, Public Relations Officer,
Commonwealth Disposal Commission
(Vic.).
Decentralisation
“J.F.” (B. 24 /10 / ’45) has overlooked
the main argument for decentralisation
of industries. This is that the extra pro-
duction per man hour by contented work-
men living under healthy conditions and
enjoying fresh milk, eggs and vegetables
and fresh air much more than compen-
sates for transport costs to and from the
seaboard.
Take the case of Thompson’s Engineer-
ing Works, Castlemaine (Vic.). This con-
cern pays high freights to drag its coal,
iron and practically all other materials
80 miles inland. The finished engines,
pumps, condensers, etc., are marketed all
over the Commonwealth, and there was
a good pre-war trade with Malaya and
other overseas places. Thompson’s has
been able to compete with engineering
shops in all capital cities and keep a
strong industry going for well over 50
years.
Why? Simply because Castlemaine em-
ployees do a fair day’s work. They live in
healthy surroundings and are sufficiently
remote from the hayings of “Balance-
sheet” Thornton and other Commos. —
Taurus (Vic.).
\ Mouth for the Murray
Yes, Lacepede Bay (B. 24/10/’45) has
claims far surpassing those of Robe and
Beachport for the position of the pro-
posed port for S.A.’s south-east. Admiral
Creswell imagined “the calm-water port
of Lacepede Bay” (his term for it) as an
ideal sea-mouth for the Murray. He
planned to canalise the Coorong —that
long, shallow, narrow strip of water lying
behind the sandhills between the Murray
lakes and Lacepede Bay—and to cut a
canal from the end of it into Lacepede
Bay, where the river paddle-boats might
be unloaded direct into seagoing ships.
A couple of paddle-steamers attempted
the navigation of the Coorong as an ex-
periment, and struck trouble on sand-
bars, and the idea was dropped.
Had the scheme been pushed forward
the map of Australia today might have
been very differently dotted with towns.
Goods would have come into the Murray
in great amount, and would have gone
out in the same way. The whole of the
Murray basin would have been served
by the river system (which would have
then been properly locked for navigation
instead of the half-hearted attempt we
see today), and industries would have
been scattered all along the river, benefit-
ing from the cheap transport.
Instead, the once-numerous fleet of
Murray steamers has disappeared, town-
ships in the non-irrigation areas along
the Murray are dying or dead, and one
of the greatest water highways in the
world, denied a navigable outlet to the
sea, carries no commercial traffic except
a couple of pleasure stfeamers. Surely, if
the central State can spend so much time
and emotion in debating the site for a
port for its south-east, it might at least
give a thought or two to the problem of
a mouth for the latent Murray trade. —
Stern-wheeler (S.A.).
The Decline of Honesty
Returning to Australia after an absence
of seven years, three of which were spent
in Stanley Internment Camp, Hongkong,
I find dishonesty rampant in many
spheres.
In 1938, signs indicated that socially
and politically we were on the down
grade. Straight thinking and honesty
were being by-passed. Today the tenets
of our forefathers, who believed in a
fair go, are being booted around to a fare
ye well. Gone are the days when honesty
was something taken for granted—as in-
herent in our makeup as pride of race,
independence or love of children or horses.
Perhaps it is the war that has put the
skids under our common virtues, but to
blame it socially for all our weaknesses
and shortcomings seems absurd.
The whole Australian community has a
measure of responsibility, inasmuch as it
tolerates and condones a lax outlook on
life. Bribery and graft, pilfering and
peculation, rooking wherever rooking is
safe and profitable are laughed at.
Collective dishonesty seems to pervade
our national life. Everybody knows about
it; nobody does anything about it.
The black market with its hundreds
of thousands of customers is a com-
mon field of dishonesty. It is here
that the first laughing-off of our
dishonesty usually takes place. Too
many citizens, finding their illicit trading
greeted with a grin instead of being
stopped with a term in the jug, search
for lower and better - paying muck
heaps. This moral degradation has per-
meated the whole fabric of our nation,
and it is time and more than time that we
returned to first principles in all walks of
our national life. What principles?
Honesty, more honesty, and still more
honesty! —W. J. M. (Q.).
Poverty in Soviet Russia
Reading William White’s Report on the
Russians, which tells the doleful story
of how the people of the Great Slave
Empire (beg pardon, Workers’ Paradise),
shabbily dressed, line up in mile-long
queues in the effort to purchase non-
existent goods in practically empty stores,
I fell to wondering just how State offi-
cials, handling such a mass of labor,
working it long hours at piecework rates,
could possibly make such a mess of
things.
I wondered only until I read (B.
10/10/’45) the report of the N.S.W.
Auditor-General on that State’s Govern-
ment charcoal undertaking and its accu-
mulated deficiency of £190,625. I have
known entirely unlettered men, foreigners,
to make fortunes out of charcoal burning
in Australia.
With every industry State-owned, run
in the muddle-headed way that seems in-
separable from such ownership, with no
efficient private industry to bludgeon for
taxation to make good financial losses
and also to make up the deficiency of
consumer goods—well, doesn’t that give
us the key to the state of affairs in
Russia?—W. C. C. (W.A.).
Apt
I disagree with “Fitter” (B. 17/10/’45)
on many of the points he touches upon.
A short history of aero engine production
in Australia should prove that we have
nothing to be ashamed of.
After several desultory attempts at the
production of local designs, such as the
Harkness Hornet, engine construction
was at a standstill until 1936. In that
year C.A.C. had been founded to build
modern machines for the R.A.A.F. Very
wisely, it was decided to build engines at
the same time and thus cut imports to a
minimum. An airframe factory was
built at Fisherman’s Bend to construct
modified North American N.A, 33’s
under licence, and an engine factory was
started at Lidcombe to build Pratt and
Whitney 650-h.p. Wasp seven-cylinder
single-row radials, also under licence.
Both aircraft and engines were never
meant for anything but training. Pro-
duction of the Wasp began in late 1938, the
first engine appearing on January 27,
1939. The first 49 engines were made
partly from imported components and it
was not until March 4, 1940, that the
first all-Australian Wasp was turned out.
In all 680 Wasps were built.
The inability to import Bristol Taurus
engines for Australian-built Beauforts led
to production of the Wasp being aban-
doned in favor of the 1200-h.p. Twin
Wasp 14-cylinder twin-row radials. These
were virtually all-Australian from the be-
ginning, though some of the raw material
was imported. Only 65 engines were
built, however, before even that was
superseded by local material. The first
100 p.c. local engine was tested on June
2, 1942. A total of 847 were built before
the necessity of building Rolls-Royce
Merlins intervened. Incidentally the Twin
Wasp was very definitely a combat engine,
being used by both the R.A.A.F. and U.S.
forces for such purposes. One other
point should be made clear. The Beau-
fighter does not use and never did
use Twin Wasps but imported Bristol
Hercules engines. C.A.C. Twin Wasps
were exclusively for Beauforts and
Boomerangs, just as C.A.C. Wasps were
exclusively for Wirraways.
From the arrival of the U.S. forces
here, a special branch of C.A.C. did
about 1500 major overhauls on American
motors. This was in addition to normal
production and testing.
With regard to the Merlins, production
is definitely under way, deliveries being
expected early next year. Considering
that all three aircraft companies out here
are demanding Merlins —the Beaufort
Division for Tudors, de Haviland for
Mosquitoes and C.A.C. for Mustangs—
quantity production is certain. The idea
seems to be to standardise on one engine,
at present the Merlin. But it should be
remembered that although the Merlin is
a fine engine, it is approaching obso-
lescence even now. The Nazis, who be-
lieved in a rigid system of engine stan-
dardisation, paid heavily for it in lack of
flexibility.
The above figures were given to me by
C.A.C. and the Department of Aircraft
Production as material for an article in
the British technical press, so their accu-
racy is beyond question. C.A.C. has on
file a letter from the officer commanding
U.S.A.A.F. in Australia offering con-
gratulations on splendid repair and over-
haul work—finer than even his own units
turned out. Furthermore the R.A.A.F,
has stated that C.A.C.-built engines gave
better service than their imported equiva-
lents. On the whole Australia has good
reason to be proud of her growing aero
engine industry. —N. B. Wiltshire
(N.S.W.).


rX^
C V
x * 9<° b v
V
\ - *£>> ot<o^ e J
- oS*' *v® "
S\o- ve * ° te 00. ° V V
I \*« A
fcR VttO S rt \0 \
) S^?ce^ e 0 .s A? fi *cf
**w» tfefeS^V>xajfe&>^
HHHffiflHP
Bo |B
lllii
v IB
' : *
.
•». £
*
■>■■»
tVI
. ; y : ; ’ : -
Btiß9 s
p\ous
B>" ! :B
iSBIBB
B*;;■■;■ :>:■'■
'. > .
’ .: cj
s t;
■
IK
■
P'
K
_ .Iff™
Steel being teemed into
ingot moulds at A.I.S.
Kembla Works.
THE news of the day covers many ambitious plans and
* projects... housing schemes, unification of rail gauges,
rehabilitation of servicemen, motor - car manufacture,
and other proposals . . . formulated in the cause of
economic and industrial development.
Steel is the basic material which enables such plans to
become realities . . . and Australia has the required
good quality, low priced steel in assured quantities.
Australian Iron & Steel Ltd. has helped materially in the
attainment of this happy state of affairs, and the com-
pany’s Port Kembla Works (one of the most efficient
steel plants in the world) produces nearly one third of
Australia’s annual steel requirements.
Steel from the A.I.S. Port Kembla Works will be found in
wide variety implementing the plans, big and little,
national and individual, which will in turn contribute
to Australia’s progress.
Australian Iron a Steel Ltd.
IRON a STEEL WORKS, PORT KEMRLA, N.S.W.
Head Office: 422 Little Collins Street, Melbourne
Offices also at 28 O’Connell Street, Sydney (Iron and Steel Department), and Kembla Buildings,
58 Margaret Street, Sydney (Pipe, Fabricated Steel and Coal Department);
Fabricating Works: Alexandria, N.S.W., and-South Melbourne, Vic.
