

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66 —No. 3435
CHRISTMAS
NUMBER
Wednesday, December 12, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
INTERIOR OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS.
'THE English system of Parliament, which has been imitated in
A many parts of the world, comprises the Lower House, the House
of Commons and the Upper, the House of Lords. In the chamber
of this House, the Gilded Chamber, are portraits of the Kings and
Queens of England since the Conquest, statues of King John’s barons
and frescoes which illustrate scenes in English history. In Queen
Victoria’s time, when this photograph was taken, there was a single
throne at the south end of the House of Lords for her Majesty, with
a seat on the right for the Prince of Wales and on the left for the
Monarch’s consort. In front of the throne may be seen the raised
back of the Woolsack, seat of the Lord Chancellor when presiding
over sittings of the House of Lords and technically outside the pre-
cincts of the House. In the foreground of the view above may be
seen the Bar of the House, to which Commons are summoned and
from winch barristers plead in appeals to the Lords. In galleries
above the throne accommodation is reserved for ambassadors .and
distinguished strangers, while the side galleries provide accommoda-
tion for peeresses.


This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street. Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Fru
Booklet explaining how to Write / or Profit, u
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin. u
My Name ..
My Address
S.B. 145
The Red Page
ON PROVINCIALISM.
At the time when Sydney’s “Herald”
and “Telegraph” were, for the sake of
circulation, having their delightful war
over the novels of the detective-
story writer Peter Cheyney, each claim-
ing to have bought for its new serial
the very latest murder-puzzle hot from
that master’s pen, there was obviously a
need for an article on Australian provin-
cialism. Here was a great war finished,
victorious troops and released prisoners
coming home ; here was Australia awak-
ened as never before to the realisation of
its proud and dangerous isolation in the
Pacific; and here were the barons of the
press telling Australia, in effect, “You
are not a nation ; for you have no litera-
ture.”
But, after all, the war of the barons,
if provincial, was too entertaining for
anyone but a born nark to complain at it.
It was said that in order to “scoop” the
“Herald” with a Cheyney later than the
latest, the “Telegraph” had to have its
serial cabled out to this country . . . Mr.
Cheyney, rubbing his hands as the money
rolled in, must have thought Australia
had gone mad. And surely the question
must have occurred to him “Has Aus-
tralia no writers of its own?”
The answer, of course, was no: there
are no tenth-rate writers in Australia as
bright as Peter Cheyney. And if that was
what the readers of the popular press de-
manded —bright, snappy murder-puzzles
written by those hapless lost souls the
thriller-writers (who simply don’t know
what literature is) —then there was little
to complain of in the dailies’ approach
to Mr. Cheyney.
Nevertheless, that awful question was
asked. Indignant readers asked it: “Ha
Australia no writers of its own?” Aus
tralian writers asked it.
And so the “Telegraph” discovered
Australian literature. It found out that
among others, Kylie Tennant, Marjorie
Barnard and Flora Eldershaw had been
brought out by “a competition,” and i
announced a competition of its own, with
generous prize-money. Whereupon the
“Herald” also discovered Australian
literature; and —doubtless teeth were
gnashed in Castlereagh-street that morn-
ing—offered prize-money for a nove
competition that hopelessly outbid the
“Telegraph.”
It would be unkind to dwell on the
suddenness of this discovery; and un-
worthy to make more than a brief, deli-
cate mention, like a single drop of water
of the word “circulation.” Both com-
petitions can do nothing but good to Aus-
tralian literature.
But it is necessary to point out that
“Granny” has still something to learn
about the state of culture in this country.
When the paper announced that it was
spending £30,000 “to stimulate the de-
velopment of Australian art and litera-
ture” it said that it was not out to make
“a charitable gesture towards local
talent”; it required the prize-winning
work to be “good, not just ‘good
enough’ ” ; but along with these admir-
able provisos—nobody should be kind to
Australian literature merely because it is
Australian —there was a most peculiar
remark about two English novelists who,
it appeared, were held up to Australians
as models. This is the complete para-
graph:—
We shall require the work to be good,
not just “good enough.” We shall expect
the “Herald” reader to turn, after the last
instalment of Priestley, or Daphne Du
Maurier, to the prizewinning Australian
novel without any sense of disappointment
or of making a charitable gesture towards
local talent.
The “Herald’s” holding-up of Priestley
and Daphne Du Maurier as guiding
beacons in literature • is, of course, an
example of that magnificent inconsistency
of which only a daily newspaper is cap-
able. For, since its clearly-defined, even
belligerent policy in art criticism is in sup-
port of extreme “modernism” —the in-
comprehensible, the mad, the childish, the
highbrow, the vague and, above all, the
“melancholy”—the “Herald,” to be con-
sistent, should obviously have asked for
novels like those of Gertrude Stein or the
later lames loyce. And, indeed, a Ger-
trude Stein serial in the “Herald” would
be a rare and wonderful sight.
It is too much to ask for a step so logi-
cal. “Herald” policy in its serials and
“Herald” art criticism have been guided by
different principles—except that both have
been destructive of values and, in the
sense that they proclaim that no good thing
has come out of Australia, provincial.
There is a good reason for the
“Herald” to express its admiration for
the two English novelists—both were
on the programme of “Herald” serials—
and “Granny” may be well aware that
these novelists are, at best, capable
second-raters, and that Australian writers
who choose to follow in their footsteps
are not likely (though they may well
attain a place of honor in the pages be-
tween the “Herald’s” fashion notes and
racing supplement) to take a permanent
place in literature. But, even if tie
Herald ’ was not attempting here to sta e
its idea of values in fiction, but wa
merely engaged in a little harmless boost-
ing of its own serials, how much bette
the statement would have been if it hac
read like this;
We shall expect and require the work to
he good, not just “good enough.” We do
not wish merely to make a charitable ges-
ture to . wards local talent, but to find an-
other Australian novel as good as Such Is
Life The Fortunes of Richard Mahoney,
Jonah or The Pea Pickers.
The paragraph from the “Herald,
which may in itself be harmless, is dis
cussed here because it is a convenien
illustration of a very widespread provii -
cialism. It is provincial, as the “Herald
realises, to support Australian wore
merely because it is Australian. But it i
a subtler and perhaps a more dangerou
form of provincialism always to turn
overseas writers and artists for “models
or for “masters.”
The “Herald’s” art criticism, of course
has for some time been wholly provincial.
It is based on a worship of Cezanne, Van
Gogh, Gauguin and a host of other smal
fry of France, on the assumption thai:
these are established “masters”. . . con
veniently forgetting, as their disciples are
won t to do, that Cezanne said of Van
Gogh “He paints like a madman” ; than
Sickert told Gauguin to “stick to the
bank”; and that Whistler said that if
child had painted like Cezanne a mother
should put it across her knee and spank
it . . . And in pursuance of that form o
provincialism it has been necessary for
“Granny” to deride or ignore those Aus
tralian painters—Gruner, Norman Lind
say, Streeton, Heysen—who are obviously
far superior to the “madman,” the
“banker” and the “child.”
Provincialism is a kind of mental fog
a feeling of shame and inferiority from
which nearly all Australians suffer when
“daring,” as they think, to compare the
works of Australian artists or writers with
those of foreigners. It seems monstrous
—to anyone thus blinded by provincial-
ism—to compare, say, Mary Edwards’s
paintings of the South Seas with Gau-
guin’s. Time will clear away the fog
but there is really no need to wait. Simply
put a Mary Edwards painting from Bal:
alongside a Gauguin from Tahiti. . . anc
you will not be ashamed of the Austra-
lian. Hang a Cezanne alongside “Fire’s
On” or any of the important Gruners
and you will make a discovery—Streeton
and Gruner were great painters ; Cezanne
was simply not worthy to compare with
them.
And the same simple test needs to be
made with Australian writing. It is hardly
fair to ask Priestley or Daphne Du
Maurier to stand comparison with Tom
Collins, Henry Handel Richardson or Eve
Langley; Tom Collins (and he will not
be found very much wanting) is to be
compared with Sterne or even Fielding.
But the comparison between these minor
English novelists and such (as yet) minor
Australian novelists as Margaret Trist or
Jane Lindsay— to name a couple who
have recently been published—should
certainly be made.
In the English novels you will find
craftsmanship ; weight; a certain stature:
in the Australian novels you will find
gusto. Minor writing in England, gener-
ally speaking, is capable, and dead ; minor
writing in Australia is faulty but alive.
Now that We’re Laughing or Kurrajong
would have made very much better serials
(better fun and better literature) than any-
thing J. B. Priestley or Daphne Du
Maurier are now capable of. As for poor
Mr. Cheyney, he really does not exist
beside them.
The provincialism that cannot see these
plain and demonstrable truths is the old,
the familiar brand. There is another
form, bom of the same old “inferiority-
complex” (to use the damnable jargon of
the Freudians), which may be examined
on occasion in the little magazines. This
is the provincialism of the professors.
A recent example from “Meanjin
Papers”—a review by Mr. Brian Elliott of
Kenneth Slessor’s One Hundred Poems —
deserves quoting at length:
That [the conclusion of “Five Bells”] is
line ... and yet it is not entirely free, not
scrupulously free, as great poetry should be,
of audible reference. Even if such references
occur accidentally, I feel them to be a blemish,
;udging on severest critical principles, and I
think they ought not to be left in. That
“quills and combs of light,” for instance,
happens (accidentally, I should think) to be pure
Hopkins; and “Harbor-buoys tossing their fire-
balls wearily each to each” associated with
“voice” in the next line, is not merely a
piece of speciously grotesque personification
based upon a pun, but recalls —just enough to
be intrusive—the beautiful lines at the close
of Prufrock about the Mermaids. There are
other such Eliotian echoes—faint ones, but
audible—not only in Five Bells but elsewhere.
Are you shouting at me, dead man, squeez-
ing your face
In agonies of speech on speechless panes?
Cry louder, beat the windows, bawl your
name!
But I hear nothing, nothing ... (Five Bells)
Mentally after that I hear
.. .My nerves are bad tonight.
or
I think we are in rats’ alley . . .
The same image in Slessor also vaguely recalls
the cat-fog image in Prufrock (one of the
most powerfully imaginative of modern per
Bonifications) . .. the “yellow fog that rubs it
back upon the window panes” (the more in
trusive as we have the arched mackerel-backs
also in the passage cited first). But there is
also Robert Fitz Gerald here, with the fusion
of the image of rain, wea'ther, water like time
pressing at the window .. . followed, as i
happens, by some lines of reflection on the
theme of memory. We meet then the phrase
“the talons of the rain” which FitzGeralc
actually uses. Coupled with the phrases “Then
I saw the road, I heard the thunder”.. .
how can one, in the circumstances, avoid
quick mental glance first to the Brennan oj
The Wanderer then back to the Wasteland?
There would be little to trouble the mind in al
this if it did not also happen that the evokec
context so often recalled a more powerfu
poetic force of image or feeling—of feeling
mostly—than Slessor’s own.
Well, all good poets do a bit of borrow-
ing: was not Shakspeare condemned as
“an upstart crow” decked in the feathers
of the other Elizabethans? And nobody
has practised the art more assiduously
than T. S. Eliot, who has openly anc
shamelessly crammed his work with quota-
tions from other writers. Mr. Brian
Elliott, seeing he was engaged on a quest
for Slessor’s; "‘sources,” might well have
submitted (instead of some of his very
far-fetched “echoes”) the fact that “Cap-
tain Dobbin” was a legitimate develop-
ment from—and a vast improvement on —
Osbert Sitwell’s “Mrs. Kumber” ; just as
Mr. Sitwell, in his turn, had been influ-
enced by Browning.
But that is not the point. There is a
double provincialism here.
First, the denial to the Australian poet
of the right to borrow (even accidentally,
and as triflingly as Slessor has) while the
privilege is accorded to an English poet
—-T. E. Eliot—without a murmur. Under-
lying this review there is, surely, the feel-
ing that there must be something wrong
with Slessor’s poetry: because he is an
Australian.
Again, there is a provincialism in the
comparison of the conclusion of “Pru-
frock” and Slessor’s “Five Bells,” for it
seems that Mr. Brian Elliott believes T. S.
Eliot’s poem the better of the two. Cer-
tainly, he portrays Eliot as the master
from whom Slessor has wickedly bor-
rowed ; and certainly he does not state —
as he might well have, and as is certainly
the truth —that “Five Bells” is a very
much better poem than “Prufrock.” It’s
unlikely that Eliot showed Slessor the
way to write about Sydney Harbor ; but,
if he did, Slessor far outdid his mentor.
“Five Bells” is to be compared not with
“Prufrock” but with the great elegies of
Milton and Arnold,
That is not to say that Slessor, as a
poet, can yet take his stand with Milton,
Arnold or even T. S. Eliot. He needs
bulk. But, poem for poem, “Five Bells”
is far superior to “Prufrock” and the
test is to read the poems.
We have here, in Mr. Brian Elliott’s
article, the familiar caution of the aca-
demic, made doubly cautious by the Aus-
tralian inferiority-complex. Mr. Elliott
appreciates some of Slessor’s qualities,
he has read Brennan and Fitz Gerald,
and he has written well on other occa-
sions ; and it is a sign of our approach
to cultural maturity that “Meanjin
Papers” should exist, and that learned
men should write for it. Largely because
of the influence of university men, criti-
cism is at a high level in the little maga-
zines. But, again because of the univer-
sity influence, the criticisms far too often
are niggling or debunking.
The critic has a twofold responsibility:
to affirm as well as to attack. By attempt-
ing to “debunk” Slessor, “Meanjin
Papers” merely encourages readers of the
“Herald” to go on thinking that no good
thing can come out of Australia, and that
Priestley and Daphne Du Maurier are
great masters of fiction.
We need, in short, to fix our Australian
standards. It is no use referring always
to England (or France) for authority.
The English literary world (Dent’s has
recently added to Everyman’s Library an
anthology of Poems of Our Time: 1900-
1942 without including a single Australian,
not even Hugh McCrae) will not recog-
nise Australian work of quality for many
years to come. Culturally, we have to
stand on our own feet: and that is a
very good thing for us. But we will never
know where we stand while good poets,
good novelists and great artists are
ignored by the newspapers and carped at
by the intelligentsia^
SUNDRY SHOWS.
The Harold Herbert memorial exhibi-
tion at the N. S. Wales National Gallery
might serve to remind both the directoi-
ate and the public that there is a tradi-
tion of Australian water-color painting!:,
a fact which, since there are on view no
Norman Lindsay water-colors, no Hans
Heysen water-colors, no Blamire Youngs
and no J, R. Eldershaws —to mentio
only a few of the notable absentees
seems in danger of being forgotten
Harold Herbert is not quite fairly repre-
sented, for a host of his war sketche
from the Middle East has crowded ou ;
much of his more important work, anc
some of his paintings lent by the Felton
Bequest are marred by very dirty mounts
However, there is enough of his best wort
—the blues of mountains, the white ligh
of midday blazing on dusty roads, ok
stone and cool shade in “Shadows
Bacchus Marsh” —to make it clear tha,
he takes an assured if minor place in the
Australian tradition ; and that his use o '
the characteristically Australian broad
rich washes, made his work, essentially
slight though it is, more attractive and
better water-color than the vague, thin
spotty productions of the current English
school, as exemplified by the 17 examples
that occupy so large a space among the
Gallery’s “recent acquisitions.”
Lurid red skies and untidy lumps o;‘
yellow still form Russell Drysdale’s inter-
pretation of Australian scenery, in an
exhibition at Sydney’s Macquarie Gal-
leries. A slight variation of “Banjo”
Paterson’s celebrated reproof to Henry
Lawson seemed called for: “So you’re
back from up the country, Mr. Drysdale,
where you went. And you’re cursing all
the business in a bitter discontent.” Mr.
Drysdale’s discontent seems to extend to
the inhabitants of the country, as well as
the landscape. With one exception they
are all painted with that kind of bleak
parody which masquerades as “stark
realism.” “The Football Match,” for
instance, has a woman who might easily
be mistaken for a rather uncomely kan-
garoo sitting with a child on her lap. The
child bears a remarkable resemblance to
a “joey.” In the background several
goblin-like figures are engaged in some
sort of a game ... In the collection there
are also a dead horse, a dead bullock and
several bad cases of soil erosion. There
is also a good deal of dead painting. A
neatly-typed placard informs the curious
that one of the cadavers has already been
purchased by the N. S. Wales Gallery.
Another was lent by Mr. Warwick Fair-
fax.
At the talkies: —■
“Between Two Worlds” (Sydney Tatler):
Watered version of Sutton Vane’s play “Out-
ward Bound.” There is a dragging air of un-
reality about the ferry voyage to the hereafter.
The most engaging part of the film lies in the
interplay between John Garfield as a cynical
journalist, George Coulouris as a money-
worshipping tycoon and Faye Emerson as a
hard-boiled actress.' The return to the living
world of the near-suicide young couple is tossed
in as a sop to sentiment after the moral has
been piously read.
“Brewster’s Millions” (Sydney Empire):
Umpteenth screen version of the old stage farce,
given a face-lift by United Artists. Our grand-
parents were easily amused.
In the catalogue of Vincent Brown’s
paintings at the Vertu Gallery, Mel-
bourne, there is a testimonial from the
Slade professor in Fine Arts at the Uni-
versity of London, another from Professor
Duhig, president of the Royal Queens-
land Art Society, and various newspaper
excerpts proclaiming the genius of the
youthful artist, Yugoslav by birth and
Australian by adoption. However, dazed
and overawed as he may be by this -intro-
duction, the critic who turns to the work
presented can’t help but be struck by the
discrepancy there is between the artist’s
foundations, shown in a set of strictly
conventional and academic drawings that
are typical of the Slade school, and his
finished pictures which are wildly and
ferociously “modern.” Reflection sug-
gests that the difference is purely one of
form, not of content, and that the quality
of the line is as commonplace in the one
as it is in the other. This is the case, of
course, with a good many “modernist”
artists, though few have yet presented such
a convincing demonstration.


ŵ
ẁ
ẃ
ẅ
FOM THE HOME
Brighten the rooms with
Cushions, made of quality Aus-
tralian wool felt, filled with new
wool. Wadded edge. Colours
are Rust, Green, Burgundy, 32/6
A Parchment Inverted Lamp-
shade gives a finishing touch to
any room. Trimmed with con-
trast colour lacing. Green, Rose,
Blue, Grey and Amber, 4/11 ea.
w
s,' “ - - ..
$
N<> ■
i|liT
. |.|- ? s.|-
s ** » £
Ca n*
.
■ : f^
•*
M
"Ss<
Nw
V H?
*
$
•*§'
# S
©
~n
SN
Si
z*
**?
O
m
&}
X
N
frf
N :
N
5 v’ O
O
*
«
°V|£
v*' *tr
*■?*
&
s.
.*?
rt .
■* >
So
t**
*>*
'ov
Sn
Qs
«l *v
r* .
* £5
•A.
N/*«* utt
& <ti
>
•V
*'^ v
,v «•
l' i
s fcy *
• » ;».
a .
JS
Vfc I* £
C <S Q
> . v - *r Nv
%
&
»
3s
«;
*T
<
vs
£>.
s
65
*•s
■■§■>
:■ S»
, fcf
,•>
Sr
£
■S
£5
&
5| «
L.. . >C
3>.
#
*** §
K< *»
*f
ee %w..
•* y r^s&v
G- v <3
• : .VVV
vH v J
X V:
'3^i
& ■«©
vs<^
tk
ASA
'/ass
■w
v„


Finance for your home
Perhaps this type of home just does not suit your idea of the “ideal home,”
but whatever those ideas of yours entail, The City Mutual Life Assurance
oociety Ltd will discuss the financing of them.
Advances are made for the purpose of constructing new homes .. .
urc asing existing homes . . . Discharging mortgages on homes . . . Altering
existing homes. .
Attractive features of these advances arei—
- 4i% interest
Up to 85% of valuation advanced.
Repayments over periods up to 30 years.
Life Assurance to repay mortgage in event of death.
Applications considered and terms advised free of charge.
You are invited to write or call at the Office of the Society in your State and
full particulars will be given.
THE
W ESffiffllML
LIFE ASSURANCE SOCIETY
LTD.
I
no® 3
IIH «
H !l
K® 3 ® 3 '" 1 !!
mi
uTIS
& HOOD HD 1111 II
ij (memootin nil II
1: CD cm cm HD 1111 II
i; on cm tm on n n n
not
l Wi
HEAD OFFICE:
CNR. HUNTER & BLIGH
STREETS, SYDNEY.
Telephone: 8W2021.
Branch Offices:
VICTORIA: City Mutual
Building, 459 Collins Street,
Melbourne.
Telephone: M 5161.
TASMANIA: City Mutual
Building, 26 Elizabeth Street,
Hobart.
Telephone: 4267.
QUEENSLAND: City Mutual
Building, 307 Queen Street,
Brisbane.
Telephone: 80371.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: City
Mutual Building, 113 King
William Street, Adelaide.
Telephone: Central 527.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA:
City Mutual Building, 62 St.
George’s Terrace, Perth.
Telephone: 88483.
•• • •
CITY MUTUAL
Facts
• A PURELY MUTUAL,
ENTIRELY AUSTRA-
LIAN SOCIETY.
©INCORPORATED IN
NEW SOUTH WALES
IN 1878.
• LIBERAL POLICY CON-
DITIONS.
|i&
9 £
181
Wk
m
*
pig
■I
|pp*
r ; / |Bk
1
ItJ^
Pfl
.
- A
sw
Mill
f X.
m..
ni
XIA
i
s
55f^
gi&Sfei
fi
ft
f '
m
: v:;: : :
: ; SOS^?SiS ; ?SiSs;
SggjSsSK???:®
X;>:v; : ; : .\-^>:<
: :
v ;■:,
sm
■
iiiili
.
iiilii
sss
Sm
■: : St
: :i
'
i®
:■ .
:■
888888
iiilii
:p:pxi
lilt


The Bulletin
Vol, 66—No. 3435
Wednesday, December 12, 1945
CROWS’ CAROL.
“At Caw-hristmias play and make good cheer,
For Caw-hristmas comes but once a year.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
"Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
p h p-;,,,.
P> H * Pr,or
J. E. Webb
rtavM Adams
° aVld Adam#
HEAD °JL IC^i/RR 2 SydMy:
Victoria^ Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, *Brisbane .
Westralia : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan’s Buildings {opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: I Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
"CHIF." AND THE COMS.
There is a remote analogy between Mr.
Chifley’s case and that of Lord Raglan,
who commanded the British Army in the
Crimea.
As a young man (Lord Fitzroy Somer-
set) Raglan had served and suffered in
the Napoleonic wars as Wellington’s aide-
de-camp and military secretary. In the
Crimea, 40 years after he lost his right
arm at Waterloo, he found himself asso-
ciated with French marshals and generals
of another generation and, although
always courteous, he was so old and
troubled in mind that he was not invari-
ably conscious of the change. On one
occasion, his memory failing him, he was
heard by French officers to express the
enthusiastic hope and belief that his sol-
diers would give the French hell. So
last week might Mr. Chifley, in a fit of
absentmindedness and with a flash of
1917-strike feeling, have urged the latest
lot of strikers and their leaders to knock
the Government for a row of pins.
For as an enginedriver on the N.S.W.
Government railways Mr. Chifley took
part in the 1917 strike. In the pass to
which' his Government and his country
have been brought by his Government’s
drivelling ineptitude and weakness and
by the naked selfishness and ferocious
anti-Australianism of strike leaders of
much the same kidney as the 1917 lot —
they were not called Communists then —
he might have preferred to forget the cir-
cumstance, but it was recalled by the
sentimental journalism of the day. One
young gentleman wrote with a series of
snuffles that “Ben Chifley struck with the
rest and with more thoroughness than the
rest.”
Stopping his locomotive on a siding
at George’s Plains, he raked out the fire
and walked home ten miles to Bathurst.
This left the strikebreakers with a dfjad
engine to bring back. His punishment was
to be reduced from enginedriver to cleaner
when the fight was lost.
The same young gentleman recorded
with another snuffle that the strike
brought “adversity” into the home of
“Eddie Ward, a barefooted boy in Syd-
ney,” whose father, “a railway cleaner,
lost his job.” The “barefooted boy,” as
he himself has boasted —yes, boasted—
in argument with Old Digger members,
was then old enough to join the A.1.F., as
many younger fellows did. {He didn’t.)
And another young gentleman referred
to the Commonwealth Government as
“standing for the fact that the democrati-
cally-made arbitration laws of this coun-
try must be upheld against industrial
chaos”; —
A Government headed by Ben Chifley,
the victimised 1917 striker, who has been
and will be criticised by various people (in-
cluding your correspondent) but never on
grounds suggesting that he is anything but
eternally wedded to the Labor party and to
Australian unionism at its most typical.
Oh, this sentimental journalism!
It is itself responsible in no small degree
for bringing about the present direful
state of Australia, in which a struggle for
supremacy is proceeding between two fac-
tions, each of which is trying to rule with-
out moral principle, with the country as
the prize and the rights and happiness,
the comfort and even the health of hun-
dreds of thousands of worthy people-
servicemen, wage-payers, wage-earners,
women and children —so completely dis-
regarded that they are not even mentioned
in the pronunciamentos of either side.
This sort of journalism has dressed up
weak leaders of the assailed faction as
strong men: “the Big Four.” From it
and its presentation of mob leaders (war
slackers in notorious cases) as eminent
public characters and its romantic report-
ing of the Russian war —with frightful
defeats pictured as victories and generals
like Budenny and Timoshenko hailed as
the greatest of all time, even when they
had been broken for incompetency—Com-
munists have drawn their main strength.
That this journalism should persist when
the results of it are dreadfully evident is
less of a reflection on the writers of the
fustian (though their brains obviously
need brushing) than on the editors who
print the stuff, while siding in scared
articles with the larger faction.
Sentimental journalism was not in
fashion 28 years ago, nor had Govern-
ments then become gutless. The 1917
strike was recognised for what it was ;
a crime against the nation, and particu-
larly against the quarter of a million of
its bravest and best who were fighting
for Australia on the fields of France,
Flanders and Palestine ; part and parcel
of a plot to deny them reinforcements by
the only method which could give them
reinforcements in sufficient numbers. The
immediate pretext for the strike was the
introduction of time-cards (soon to be
introduced in Bolshevik Russia, as an
I.W.W. strike leader wrote from Moscow
with cynical mirth) in Government work-
shops overrun with work-dodgers. What
followed is related in Ernest Scott’s
volume of the Official History of Aus-
tralia in the War of 1914-18 :
The [Government] railway workers not
only put the whole of the machinery of
transport out of action but also induced
coalminers, waterside workers and others
to strike. The N.S.W. Government issued
a proclamation whereby it assumed con-
trol of all motor vehicles in private pos-
session, as well as of all hosse-drawn
vehicles and horses; and application was
also made to the Arbitration Court to de-
register over 20 unions.
The N.S.W. Government did more
than that. It successfully appealed to the
loyalty of many transport workers and
issued a call for volunteers which had a
remarkable response. The Victorian
Government, for its part, sent men, with
police to protect them, to work the Rich-
mond and Pelaw Main mines. And the
Fremantle lumpers having been called
out by the bosses of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, though they had no
grievance of their own, their places were
taken by volunteers. In the upshot, the
transport services were maintained, coal
was mined and delivered and ships were
turned round. And “the N.S.W. rail-
waymen gave way. The strike on the
coalfields outlasted by a fortnight that
of the railwaymen, which had occasioned
it,” and which began on August 2, “but
ended on October 3, while the Govern-
ment still had, large coal stocks on hand”
(Ernest Scott). It is the same with 8.H.P.,
the destruction of which has been vowed
by the Red bosses of the Ironworkers, the
Coalminers, the Seamen, the Waterside
Workers and the Clerks, who in aiming
at it have hit their own serfs as well as
the nation that was looking forward to
untroubled enjoyment of the first post-
war Christmas. B.H.P. has “large coal
stocks on hand.”
Now “the whirligig of time brings in
his revenges.”
Mr. Chifley, the “victimised”(!) striker,
is getting a double dose of what he and
the mobs with which he was then asso-
ciated administered to his Government
and his country in 1917, With him is
Mr. McKell, a Labor politician of the
1917 vintage and, since 1941, Premier of
the State which now, as then, and always,
is geographically the fount and origin of
the wicked and senseless strikes,
Mr. McKell has been chiefly occu-
pied in “explaining” that he really can’t
enforce his own arbitration law to the
extent of directing and policing “secret
ballots among trade-union members who
have been ordered out on strike” and
making it hot for those who resist such
lawful requirements—the penalties pre-
scribed are £5OO for a guilty union and
£5O or six months for any party to an
illegal strike “deemed guilty of a default
of public duty,” In effect, no writs run
against industrial lawbreakers in Mr.
McKell’s State, and if a howling Com-
munist mob hustles an Industrial Com-
mission Judge in the street —as has hap-
pened—it is just too bad,
Mr. Chifley, ordered by Red Fascists
to coerce 8.H.P., which, obediently to
industrial law and to its engagements
to its shareholders and its customers
and the nation, is standing firm
against the wreckers, and in the pro-
cess of coercion wrecking what is left of
arbitration and destroying stability and
confidence, passed the buck to the McKell
Government and its Industrial Commis-
sion. In the jargon of sentimental jour-
nalism this is “a firm attitude”; “the Gov-
ernment has taken a stand and the whole
nation must support the Prime Minister.”
Behind the wreckers McPhillips, Wells,
Elliott and their mobs stands the Com-
munist party, an integral part of a foreign
conspiracy which —obviously in obedience
to orders —is causing turmoil and misery
wherever they can be caused. Its project
for Australia, as re-stated by its leader,
Sharkey, is “a revolutionary situation” in
which “the workers” will be “ready to
take power.” Either Sharkey has for-
gotten or he holds in utter contempt the
announcement made by Dr. Evatt, as
Attorney-General, on December 18, 1942:
Having received satisfactory undertakings
guaranteeing assistance to war production
and in preventing stoppages and absentee-
ism, the Government has lifted the general
prohibition imposed in June, 1940, on the
Communist party and its press.... The un-
dertakings which have been entered into by
a committee of certain individuals repre-
senting themselves and the Communist
party bind all concerned —
(1) to do all in their power to assist in
the effectual prosecution of the war;
(2) to do all in their power to increase
the production of war materials and the
provision of services’ for war or industrial
purposes; and
(3) to do their utmost to promote har-
mony in industry, to minimise absenteeism,
stoppages, strikes or other holdups.
There was a great deal more, some of it
very questionable stuff; but only one
paragraph need be quoted:
If the undertakings given are not
observed, the Government will re-impose
the ban.
A million witnesses could testify that “the
undertakings” have not “been observed.”
Were they restricted to the war period?
Possibly, though the point may be dis-
puted. But is the war period over? No,
said Dr. Evatt’s colleague Mr. Holloway
last week, rejoicing—for once —at a High
Court judgment; and Mr. Holloway is
Minister of Labor and National Service,
concerned as such in “the strike settle-
ment moves,” and, in the argot of senti-
mental journalism, “an outstandingly
successful negotiator in industrial disputes
for many years.”
The decision upholding the validity of
recent amendments to National Security
(female minimum wage-rates) Regulations
makes it clear that the prosecution of the
war did not end with the capitulation
of Japan.
It is now evident that the prosecution of
the war comprehends the disarming of
Japanese troops, occupying enemy country
and demobilising the Australian forces.
While these requirements have to be
met the Federal Government will continue
to have many responsibilities both inside
and outride the industrial field.
One of these responsibilities is obvi-
ously to “reimpose the ban” on the Com-
munist party in the terms of the Attorney-
General’s pledge to the nation. But
nobody can imagine that this will be
done by the “Government,” the “Govern-
ment” being what it is, the sorriest col-
lection of political squibs that ever tried
to run a British country.
Free for Diggers.
Ever since its foundation back in 1916
the R.S.L. can be said to have operated
on two main principles that really blend
into one—furthering the interests of Dig-
gers and the interests of Australia, In
general it has sought to influence Gov-
ernments towards establishing adequate
defences for the country, and towards
providing the maximum care and assist-
ance for those who have fought the coun-
try’s battles.
The League’s persistent and authorita-
tive advice on defence was not taken by
Governments between the wars, and for
all its battling it could not bring the current
Commonwealth Government to its way of
thinking on the preference issue. It has
nevertheless had its victories. It was the
League which, for example, originated,
organised and established the voluntary
home-defence forces that played an im-
portant, if indirect, part in the recent
war, and would have been of incalcul-
able value ,had the once closely threatened
invasion come off. And Diggers of the
latest war have the League to thank for
their lot being generally a considerable
improvement on that of the other war’s
returned men.
As well as its more or less known
public activities, the League, through its
State branches and sub-branches every-
where, has also done an enormous amount
of little-publicised work in practical help
for Diggers in need. A great deal of
this has been simply spontaneous good-
fellowship, as cases have cropped up. The
spirit prompting that is now to operate
on a more organised basis in the latest
of League moves to help ex-Diggers in
civil life. The main aim in this is to
assist ex-servicemen who wish to set
themselves up in some sort of enterprise
on their own, or perhaps buy into partner-
ship.
To do the job the League in Sydney has
set up a Business Advisory Panel under
the chairmanship of Col. J. C. Litchfield,
a soldier of two wars who, now in civi-
lian life, is a wholesale warehouseman.
The panel consists of others who are
experts in various lines of business, and
it has the co-operation of specialists in
other lines. Its assistance and advice are
available free to all men and women who
have been in the services anywhere—that
is, the service is not restricted to R.S.L.
members. Mainly the ones the origina-
tors of the scheme had in mind are those
who have accumulated some hundreds of
pounds, ranging up to, say, about £lOOO,
and whose savings represent all they have.
Those with £lOOO and upwards would
probably know their way about the
world, anyhow; and also could afford to
pay for advice, or could put some oJ
their savings into an enterprise, be let
down and still not be broke. The more
likely marks for victimisation are held to
be those who have a normal roll of de-
ferred pay and other money—the average
run of ex-Diggers—and these are mainly
the ones the League panel is intended to
protect and assist.
League members declare that business
sharks have been having “a glorious time
among many ex-servicemen with their
hard-earned deferred pay in their
pockets.” Apparently, quite a number
have already gone broke through failing
to appreciate that, in the League’s words,
“the good-fellowship and trust that existed
between themselves in the forces does not
exist in Civvy-street.” They have bought
businesses that have turned out otherwise
than represented, or become partners in
concerns that have lasted only as long
as the victims’ few hundreds could keep
them going.
The League panel aims to put an end
to that sort of thing. Any ex-serviceman
who is offered a business, a partnership,
a farm or anything of the kind, or who
may propose starting some enterprise of
his own, has only to lay the proposition
before the panel and it will investigate it
for him, free. It will find out whether the
price is all right, the business,
etc., is really sound, and what are the
prospects.
One line of enterprise for which unad-
vised and inexperienced Diggers are very
liable to fall victim is that which can
show an apparently excellent, but actually
false,, turnover. There are many con-
cerns in this position through extra-
ordinary war-time happenings and condi-
tions. Those selling them to ex-Diggers
need not necessarily always be crooks.
Because of all sorts of shortages, for
instance, many small concerns have been
able to show quite a good turnover deal-
ing in lines that people bought only be-
cause there was nothing else. Other con-
cerns —not only in city localities—have
received a false boosting through tem-
porary war-time population shifts.
The League panel of specialists will go
into all these and other aspects of any
concern that an ex-Digger may be in-
terested in and will then advise him. Thus
no ex-Digger appealing to the panel will
ever risk buying into a merely crooked
concern, and whatever he does buy into
on the panel’s advice will be something
in which he will be getting a fair break.
If he then loses in the ordinary way of
business risk, at least he will have started
off with the best possible chance of suc-
cess, which is more than can be said of
countless Diggers of the earlier war and
more than enough already of the latest
one. An idea of what Diggers can be up
against and what the panel can do for
them is indicated by the fact that, of 60
concerns looked into by various specialists
of the panel, only three were found
sound.
With such advisory panels and sub-
panels operating wherever the R.S.L.
organisation stands, both in cities and
country throughout Australia, ex-Diggers
with enough money of their own, or with
Government loan assistance, should be
well on the way towards themselves assist-
ing in the general R.S.L. aim of having
Australia a solid, contented community
instead of the mess of discontent and
turmoil it seems to most of those return-
ing to it. As the League holds, the more
ex-servicemen solidly established as
civilians the better for the near-future of
Australia as a nation.
The best possible advice thus made
available to them, ex-Diggers must still
have an important aspect of the matter to
decide on —whether they are themselves
suitable or how they can make them-
selves suitable for whatever sort of busi-
ness they may intend trying. Not all
Digger failures are to be debited to
crooked deals having been put over them.
An instance can be quoted of a business
which had kept a family for 20 years, but
which in a matter of months had two
different ex-servicemen owners who both
failed in it. They did so despite the good-
will of those who had previously
patronised the business and were even
more willing to patronise it under ex-
service management.
This, no doubt, is a rare instance, but
if it were at all general it would indicate
that part of the R.S.L. panels’ advice to
clients might well be to take stock of
themselves. Despite what might look to
ex-servicemen as pretty strong evidence to
the contrary, the general run of Aus-
tralians are out to give them a bit more
than an even break. There is a vast
amount of goodwill towards them if they
have the nous to profit by it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Free to Actors' Equity.
Actors’ Equity, a union dear to Red
Fascists, was very vocal about an idiotic
theatrical strike in which it struck at the
only concern keeping the “legitimate”
theatre alive and at that fine Australian
woman Gladys Moncrieff; and it
had to say something when it came
out that members of the union dear
to Red Fascists were ordered not
to accept engagements for the read-
ing of Liberal scripts. It has been
noticeably silent about the case in which
two Sydney Tivoli girls were burnt to
death and another was brought to
death’s door in a dressing-room fire,
caused by contact of a “gossamer frock”
with a naked radiator, “about six feet
from the main door.”
“These were young girls,” the coroner
said ; “some of them mere children.” The
one whose dress first caught fire, and who
died in agony, was only 15. But obvi-
ously Actors’ Equity did not object to
“mere children” being employed as
showgirls. It came out in evidence that
there had been previous fires in the
dressing-room from the same cause. And
the mother of one of the victims stated
that a showgirl not concerned in the
horror got “sinus trouble from colds,
and other girls were always com-
plaining of colds and brought the matter
up to the secretary of Actors’ Equity.”
A Tivoli director also mentioned the sec-
retary of Actors’ Equity apropos of a
conversation “three years ago” regarding
“more comfort for the girls.”
“Accidental death” was the verdict,
but the coroner expressed himself as
“astounded that the radiator was per-
mitted to occupy the place it did in the
room, with a large and long cord which
trailed on the floor and might easily have
caused a girl to trip and fall over the
radiator. ’ I do think that the Tivoli
management was to a great degree negli-
gent in not seeing that these girls were
provided with safe means of heating their
rooms. Only a miracle has prevented
other fires at the Tivoli,”
The coroner said nothing about Actors’
Equity, but people interested in the theatre
directly and indirectly and old unionists,
must be thinking hard. It is an obvious
function of theatrical unionism to see that
a child is not employed in an adult’s job,
and that comfort, health and safety are
attended to —for unionism these should
be first considerations of employment,
whether in theatres, factories or work-
shops. Unions dear to Red Fascism don’t
seem to be interested in their enforced
members except as paying and voting
fodder.
Communism in Schools.
The disclosures of Mr. Frith, M.L.A.
for Lismore, about the infiltration of
Communists into the teaching staffs of
Government schools met with the usual
kind of counter.
Mr. Frith said that teachers were not
teaching Communism openly in the
schools, but —
In my own town there are three or
four teachers holding important positions
who almost every day contribute letters to
the press. It is said that they are not
influencing the pupils by teaching Com-
munism in their schools, but their pupils
read these contributions. If a pupil finds
his tutor making statements in the press
advocating Communism, what can the
pupil conclude other than that, as Mr. So-
and-So, his teacher, has written it, it must
be right? A schoolteacher at Lismore is
secretary of the North Coast Council of
the Communist party. Regularly in Lis-
more pamphlets enunciating Communist
policy on various subjects are distributed,
and very often this propaganda is picked up
in homes by the pupils of this teacher.
The Teachers’ Federation rushed to the
rescue with the usual demand that
teachers should be allowed freedom of
thought, and that their political and reli-
gious liberty should not be impaired.
Political and religious liberty is a prin-
ciple accepted by nearly all Australians.
In fact, about die only persons in the
Commonwealth who are dead against it
are Communists.
If it were merely a question of politics
and religion it would not matter. But no
member of the Communist party is merely
a believer. He accepts, with his member-
ship, an obligation to obey the party and
to carry out as paramount the instruc-
tions given by it. He is an active instruc-
tor in and implementer of Communism,
and he agrees to abandon his loyalty to
Australian institutions. This must be con-
templated in the light of the fact that the
body whose mandates he is pledged to
obey had to be suppressed for subversive
activities during the German war, and that
when suppressed it had no hesitation in
breaking and advising other people to
break laws made for the safety of the
country in a period of great peril.
The Communist, whoever he may be,
belongs to a party which has always, and
admittedly, taken its orders from foreign
sources and which its charter at
the hands of a secretary-general of the
Comintern, Kolarov, who was one of
those responsible for the blowing up of
Sofia cathedral in 1925, together with a
whole mourning congregation, as well as
for several other bloody outrages. Kola-
rov’s signature appears on the instruc-
tions which the Australian Communist
party, upon being chartered from Mos-
cow, agreed to carry out.
The fact of active adherents to a body
so constituted being employed on Gov-
ernment teaching bodies is doubly alarm-
ing when it is realised that Communist
policy aims primarily at infecting youth.
When the Bulgarian party was inves-
tigated after the Sofia cathedral episode
most of those arrested were young boys
and girls. A “Times” correspondent
reports that most of the Indonesians
proved guilty of atrocities are members
of the “youth movement.” As described
by the G.O.C. Allied forces in Java, these
atrocities have included “murder, torture,
starvation, beating, eye-gouging and am-
putation,” plus the throwing of the limbs
of a murdered officer “from one person
to another.”
Everywhere the first aim of the Com-
munist party is to corrupt youth in its
loyalties. In Australia, having been frus-
trated in its Japanese-war attempts to
secure the creation of a “People’s Army”
and of V.D.C. units “organised on a fac-
tory basis,” with Communist shop
stewards in control, its main hope now is
“the Eureka Youth League,” which
An Ex-Miner’s Dream of Christmas, and it MAY Come True.
“A bill introduced by Chief Secretary Baddeley provides that N.S.W. Assemblymen who
have served in three or more Parliaments shall, by paying £1 a week out of their salaries, be
guaranteed life pensions of £6 a week, and £3 a week for widows after they have ceased to
be members. All the Assembly Ministers except Mr. Graham-Messrs. McKell, Baddeley,
Heffron, Martin, Dunn, Hamilton Knight, J. J. Cahill, Kelly, McGirr, TuUy, O SuJhvan and
C. Evatt—together with Mr., Carlo Camillo Lazzarmi, who was m the 1941-44 Mimstry,
have served in three Parliaments.”
sprang full fledged from the dead body
of the Young Communist party.
“The Eureka Youth League” is organ-
ised on a territorial basis. Its training
includes marching and formation drill.
It has been described as “the revolution-
ary army of the future.” It wears a shirt
uniform on State occasions, just like the
Communist and Fascist parties. It carries
a flag which consists of the Australian
blue ensign with the Union Jack removed.
Mr. Heffron, the Minister of Educa-
tion, was on hand when Mr. Frith made
his very pertinent remarks. Mr. Heffron
did not reply to them, but offered to have
weather sheds provided at poorly-
equipped Government schools in Mr.
Frith’s electorate “if the hon. member
can obtain the timber locally.”
"To Let—Bs. a Week."
Another rickety “social-security” plan
came to light in Queensland when the
State Government brought in a bill to
ratify an agreement with the Common-
wealth Government “to provide rented
homes for workers not receiving a cost-
of-living wage” whatever that may
mean.
Described as “part of a nation-wide
plan,” which means that other State Gov-
ernments will be inVited to join in, the
thing provides for
Advances from Commonwealth funds to
the State. ,-
Repayment by the State of such advances
with interest.
Calculation of the economic rent of
dwellings.
Granting of rebates of rents to certain
tenants.
Sale of dwellings.
Sharing by Commonwealth and State of
losse's incurred in any year.
All this is for “workers” who don’t get
a “cost-of-living wage” and are assumed
by our yoomanitarians to be unable to
pay an “economic rent,” much less buy
homes, the natural desire of all workers
worthy of the name.
This rent is to be calculated so as to
provide for the repayment of the cost
of the property with interest, maintenance,
rates, insurance and administration. A
rebate of rent may be granted according
to the ratio which the basic wage bears to
the family income of the tenant.
The economic rent chargeable shall be
reduced by the rebate, provided that the
rent payable shall not be reduced to less
than Bs. a week.
Rebates of rent may be granted only
for a period of six months upon the appli-
cation of a tenant, and for successive
periods of six months on further applica-
tions.
Whether the beneficiaries are to have
these eight-bob-a-week houses built for
them from public funds or are to be
allowed to occupy existing houses and
have the difference between the eight bob
and the rent made up to them from
tax-money is not clear. In any case,
there are State and Commonwealth
awards covering pretty well every form
of human endeavor, and all awards are
established on a basic wage' which is
supposed to cover cost of living. And
there are maternity and child-endowment
payments and other benefits.
Queensland’s Labor Government is en-
amored of the scheme, perhaps because it
will be committed to only 40 p.c. of the
losses. Losses there will be, since nobody
can “economically rent” a house for eight
bob a week these days. And a “nation-
wide plan” implying the existence of and
continuation of a class which can’t earn
“cost-of-living wages” and is unable to
pay more than eight bob a week argues a
poor opinion of these “workers” and their
future.
A Unique State Paper.
Out of the Arabian Desert nine months
ago came a letter which would have de-
lighted T. E. Lawrence, Written by the
King of Saudi Arabia (“Abdul Aziz bin
Abdur Rahman al Feizal A 1 Saud”) to
“His Excellency, Mr. Roosevelt, Presi-
dent of the United States of America,” it
was a simple yet powerful statement of
the case for the Arabs in Palestine and
neighboring countries and against the
Zionist claims.
Beginning with the words “This is in-
deed a happy occasion for us to join with
you in rejoicing at the triumph of those
principles in defence of which war was
declared,” the King went on “to remind
those great personalities in whose hands,
after God, the fate of the world order
rests, of a right which has existed un-
questioned since the dawn of history.”
All people have the national right to
live in their homeland. Such is the right of
the Arabs in Palestine, which the spokes-
men of Jewish Zionism wish to scorn and
abolish by the use of various forms of
lying propaganda, invented, concealed and
employed by them throughout the world.
They are preparing to create a form of
Nazi-Fascism within sight and hearing of
the democracies and in the midst of the
Arab countries.
Quoting from Scripture and being very
rough on Joshua, the King stated that
“the earliest recorded history of Pales-
tine begins in the year 3500 8.C., its
first inhabitants being the Canaanites, an
Arab tribe.” Jews did not arrive until
“2000 b.c.,” and “the disjointed reign of
the Jews did not exceed 380 confused and
sporadic years.” Whereas the Arabs
have been continuous inhabitants since
the Canaanites moved in from the Arab
peninsula, “no Jewish rule has existed in
Palestine since 332 b.c.,” so “the histori-
cal claim of the Jews is a fallacy” and
Zionism is a “fictitious problem.”
When the British forces entered Pales-
tine in 1918 the Jews in that country
numbered not more than 80,000. They
had lived comfortably, happily and pros-
perously with the Arabs. But Zionism
arose and with it trouble.
The Zionists have given clear evidence of
their intentions in Palestine and in ail
neighboring countries. They have organ-
ised dangerous, secret military forma-
tions These people began their vile
work by wronging the Government that
had treated them kindly and sheltered them,
namely the British Government. Their
assemblies declared war on Britain. Their
members have carried out various attacks,
of which the most shocking was the attack
on that outstanding figure, so kind and
charitable towards all men and with the
greatest sympathy for persecuted Jewry,
Lord Moyne. The proof that all Jews
aided and abetted their vile deed is to be
seen in the demonstrations and efforts
made by Jews everywhere demanding a light
sentence for the criminals in order to en-
courage others to do the same.
Here his Majesty went much too far.
The ferocious crime was denounced by
Jews in all English-speaking countries,
notably those who strongly object to
being classified as exiles from the Holy
Land. Their position is that they are
Americans, British, Canadians, Austra-
lians, New Zealanders or South Africans
of the Jewish faith, and their leader in
this country is Isaac Isaacs. But our
former Governor-General would not
quarrel with the King’s declaration that
“the formation of a Jewish State in Pales-
tine would be a deadly blow to the Arabs
and a constant threat to peace,” nor
would he cavil at these other royal state-
ments :
To provide homes for the scattered Jews
is something in which the whole world
can co-operate, and here Palestine has
borne much more than its full share. But
to put these scattered people into countries
already occupied and do away with the
original inhabitants would be an act un-
paralleled in human history.
In conclusion the King requested the
President not to place the Arabs in the
position of being “obliged to defend
themselves and future generations” against
Zionist aggression:
The Jews should not be permitted to ex-
ploit the forbearance of the Arabs, or their
desire to avoid any embarrassment to the
Allies, to obtain concessions to which they
are not entitled. All we ask is that the
Allies should fully realise the rights of the
Arabs, and for the present prevent the
Jews going ahead in any new matter which
may be considered a threat to the Arabs
and to the future of any Arab nation in
order that they, the Arabs, may have
justice and equity in their land.
Mr. Roosevelt’s reply was written on
April 5, a week before his death. It
addressed the King as “Great and good
friend,” recalled “the memorable conver-
sation which we had not so long ago” and
repeated “the attitude of the American
Government towards Palestine” then
“communicated”—“that no decision be
taken in respect of the basic situation in
that country without full consultation with
both Arabs and Jews.”
Your Majesty will also dou.btless recall
that I assured you that I would take no
action, in my capacity as Chief of the Execu-
tive Branch of this Government, which might
prove hostile to the Arab people. It' gives
me pleasure to renew to your Majesty the
assurances which you have previously re-
ceived regarding the attitude of my Govern-
ment and my own, as Chief Executive,
with regard to the question of Palestine,
and to inform you that the policy of this
Government is unchanged.
The correspondence was published
while Mr. Roosevelt’s successor, egged on
by Congressmen, State Governments and
public meetings, was asking the British.
Government to tear up the Chamberlain
White Paper and admit 100,000 Jews to
Palestine regardless of consequences. It
brought about an immediate and startling
change. Washington agreed to drop all
demands and take part in an Anglo-
American committee to go into the whole
question of Jewish emigration to Pales-
tine. The Zionist outbreaks in Tel-Aviv
and neighboring places were a useless and
shameful consequence of this agreement.
Most of the Jews in Palestine are from
parts of Europe now controlled by
Russia, and they are looking to Moscow
to, help them out of the mess to which
their black ingratitude to Britain has
involved them. Always ready to be
nasty, Moscow talks of asking for a
“Five-Power Conference to settle the
Palestinian question and other disputed
questions,” but its influence in inter-
national affairs is receding so fast that
this manoeuvre will do the Zionists more
harm than good.


For 67 Years
MERCANTILE mutual
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
Independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
offlce: 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Your WILL ...
A Will that is not correctly and explicitly drafted may
not only inflict serious hardship upon your dependants,
and, in fact, be opposed to your actual intentions, but
may also result in very serious loss to your Estate.
The prudent man, with the welfare of his dependants
at heart, guards against such possibilities by having
his instructions carefully expressed in a Will drawn by
his Solicitor and appointing a qualified Executor and:
Trustee.
By the appointment of the Permanent Trustee Company
as your Executor and Trustee you ensure for your de-
pendants security and safety, combined with expert
administration.
Any enquiries on the subject of your Will or any
information you may desire as to the methods of ad-
ministering your property will be readily furnished on,
application.
Write for a Booklet.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS:
A. E. Bond
(Chairman)
Sir Thomas Buckland
Cecil H. Doyle
F. W. Hixson
John Ewing
F. H. Way
E. V. T. Whittle
(Manager)
N. L. Shaw
(Assistant Manager)
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
5 7/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
J.E.LONG&CO
Wallangarra.
POLITICAL POINTS
The long-threatened industrial up-
heaval was raaladroitly timed to arrive
before Christmas, Christmas being
especially hateful to the anti-God element.
On the one side are a parcel of Red
Fascists who are exploiting the forms
of unionism and the lesser loyalties of
unionists, and on the other side is the
Australian nation, with all its needs and
hopes and possibilities of greatness. A
concern called the A.C.T.U. executive is
doing a lot of shadow-sparring in be-
tween. A Government worthy the name
would make short work of the wreckers ;
and the Chifley Government has 19
Ministers, majorities in both Houses and
powers enough to grab all the Red
Fascists by the heels and „§et the wheels
of industry moving again. But it is with-
out guts ; and, lacking that, it lacks every-
thing.
Adelaide tram and bus men were just
about getting square again after their
fortnight-long strike when the tidal wave
of industrial lawlessness from N. S. Wales
reached their State. Now tram, bus and
train services have practically ceased,
50,000 men are out of work, use of gas
and electricity is severely restricted, there
is neither light nor power for public
entertainment and S.A. will be out of
N.S.W. coal ima day or so. Three Federal
Labor Ministers, Dedman, Ward and
Frost, bobbed up when the avalanche
was about to roll. Nobody outside the
Trades Hall wanted to see or hear them.
It was characteristic of the louts and
imbeciles who are making such a howling
mess of Australia’s affairs to arrange for
40-hour-week demonstrations just when
hundreds of thousands of decent people
had entered upon no-hour weeks without
pay and were being joined by scores of
thousands more every day. In Sydney
Ward was the principal bellower. His
“argument” was that Parliament should
“implement the decision of the Inter-
national Labor Organisation giving effect
to the 40-hour week,” whereupon “the
movement” could begin “demonstrat-
ing” for a still shorter week. “Work-
shy of tne world, unite! ”
All brass in -its dealings with the
public, though all jelly where lawless
strike leaders and strike mobs and go-
slow artists are concerned, the “Labor”
mob with H.Q. in Macquarie-street, Syd-
ney, chose Strike Week for its introduc-
tion of the bill making a gift of life
pensions to Assemblymen after “service”
in three Parliaments: £6 a week on defeat
or retirement and £3 a week to widows.
It is alleged to be “a contributory
scheme,” and “scheme” is right. But, as
for the adjective, the only contribution
expectant beneficiaries are to make is £1
a week from May, 1944. Wholesale
defeats of members such as happened in
1932 would mean that the “scheme”
would be insolvent in the first year of
payments, as was the “scheme” for pen-
sioning coalminers at 60. That “scheme”
took effect in February-March, 1942,
March being the month in which General
Mac Arthur, then 62, arrived in Australia.
Both “schemes” were introduced by
Baddeley.
Indictment presented by ex-Minister
Vincent, for 23 years a member of the
Assembly now “considering” a “Labor”
bill for life pensions to members and
their widows (£6 and £3 a week respec-
tively) ;
History/ will record that the McKell
government might never have existed so
tar as concerns any impact it made on the
course of events or on anything other than
me taxpayer’s purse, and that it reduced
the art of government to the art of doing
nothing. Under its deadening influence the
press does not feel that the proceedings
in this Chamber warrant a reference, while
members themselves demonstrate their abso-
lute boredom with debates by rarely gracing
the Chamber with more than 20 p.c. of
their numbers.
Many other counts could be added by
citizens of-both sexes, particularly the
sex that deserves all consideration and
gets none. There are chronic shortages in
everything but black-marketing, betting,
“scaling,” larrikinism and crimes against,
the person and property. But some-
thing more than words is expected of
the Liberals and Agrarians. Those in
the Assembly should walk out of the
House before the most daring of steals
is put to the vote. Those in the Council
should make a point of being in their
places so that they may stamp it flat.
Even people who have no use for pro-
prietary racing were startled at the
manner in which the Rosehill racecourse
was “acquired.” Without warning, ex-
cept in an unread “Government Gazette,”
to the owners of the land and buildings,
the so-called Sydney Turf Club, one of
the “Labor” Government’s contributions
to its “war effort,” took summary pos-
session of the whole outfit. A very stupid
proceedings at a time when confidence is
a withering plant, and the expropriators
may have involved themselves in an
action for thumping damages. However,
they needn’t worry ; the public will pay.
Baddeley is in dreadful trouble with
devotees of that “good and useful sport
dogracing.” In the innocence of his heart
he said he wasn’t going to let them run
Sydney meetings on the pre-war scale or
have the use of electric lighting on
Saturday nights; and for his pains
he has been hotly accused of favoring
the moving-picture and trotting interests
(McKell breeds trotters). Owners and
trainers immediately “launched a cam-
paign for at least 52 meetings a year in
the metropolitan area,” Saturdays in-
cluded, and Parliament House was in-
vaded by doggy gents, vanguard of 3000
who sent telegrams to rank and file Labor
members expressing confidence (with a
horseshoe in the glove) that they would
not permit dogracing to be cut down. The
latest from the scene of strife was that
“the necessary legislation might be de-
ferred” and Baddeley was understood to
be protesting to the defenceless Scenery
that he had been misunderstood.
After a ferocious farewell to his old
pal Beasley, now “J. A. ‘Mayfair’ Beas-
ley,” Lang announced in his “Century”
that “ ‘Mayfair’s’ assistant secretary Pat
Riley” would “virtually become member
for West Sydney in ‘Mayfair’s’ absence.”
It was gathered that Andy Callaghan
would have been a more appropriate
choice, but Andy Callaghan has another
engagement—he will be “strutting round
Australia House as an executive.” Paddy
McGinty seems to have been forgotten.
Perhaps because it is still a rule in
Australian newspaper offices that “Russia
must be cracked up,” little has been here
published about Marshal Zhukov’s non-
appearance in the U.S.A. Yet it was a
nasty business, for the invitation came
from the President, and acceptance was
cancelled at the eleventh hour when
“elaborate arrangements had been made”
for entertainment of the marshal at New
York and Washington.” “Illness” was
given as the reason for the Zhukov
change of plans. Even the mild New
York “Herald Tribune” was moved to
polite irony—“the revelation, coming on
the heels of the collapse of the Council
of Foreign Ministers in London, led
observers to wonder whether the mar-
shal’s malady was real or whether he was
afflicted with ‘diplomatic illness.’ ”
Taking a weeks-old hint from Adel-
aide, N.S.W. Premier McKell placed an
empty chair at his dinner table on Sun-
day and “put” in for the absent guest, a
Briton. There was no occasion for
McKell to stint himself as every Briton
has done with the meat ration
“a shilling per week per person, plus
two penn’orth of corned beef,” the
Briton had already decided to share with
worse-off peoples in Europe, even his
late enemies, who desolated his land with
bombs and flying-bombs and rockets.
And the Briton’s weekly milk ration is
two pints for an adult; and, if he is lucky,
he will get one (1) egg a month during
the bitter winter which has descended on
his country and the Continent.
Oppressed with cares, and old as Presi-
dents go, Truman is worried about the
succession to his great post. Under a law
passed 92 years ago the Secretary of State
would succeed him if he were gathered
to his fathers before the expiry of his
term, and that was why he complimented
the comparative novice Stettinius into a
United Nations post and appointed
Byrnes, Then he proposed an amend-
ment of the 1853 law to admit
of the President of the Senate going
to an empty White House and, if
he died, the Speaker of the House, with
provision for a Presidential election two
years and three months after the death
of the first incumbent. One thing seems
pretty clear—no successor of the second
Roosevelt will ever be elected for a third
term, much less a fourth term. If the
constitutional aspect doesn’t influence
electors, the superstitious will always re-
member that the first third-term Presi-
dent became involved in two wars and
that in the third month of his fourth term
he was dead.
Sydney and Melbourne continue to
make poor showings in the Food for
Britain appeals. Melbourne began its
appeal late in October and appears to
have about £40,000 in hand, though its
press is as silent as that of Sydney on
the subject. Sydney began on November
1 and reached about £25,000 last week.
Adelaide began seven days later and had
£70,000. Brisbane got off on November
28 with a £12,000 gift from its State Gov-
ernment and had £30,000 in hand inside
a week.
Bulcock, the Labor politician who was
appointed Commonwealth Director-Gen-
eral of Agriculture, is out with the state-
ment that the 1945-46 wheat crop may
run to 130,000,000 bushels, about
50,000,000 bushels short of home and
export requirements. He should tell it
to the bright birds in his department who
blithered to the press about “bumper har-
vests” when the rain fell last spring.
Heffron, McKell’s Minister of Educa-
tion, looks “forward to the time when
we will have a State Opera House in
Macquarie-street.” It should prove a
notable contrast to the Comic Opera
House already established there.
Bureaucrats have produced another
shortage in Melbourne. People wanting
to build houses find that building blocks
are practically unobtainable except in
areas distant from transport, made streets
and other mod. cons. An agent in Cam-
berwell says he has only six lots to offer,
and it is the same in every, other suburb.
The reason is simple. Under National
Security regulations a pack of bureau-
crats fixed the price of land as the value
at February, 1942, when values were de-
pressed, in some cases far below the origi-
nal price paid by the owners. Owners
naturally don’t want to sell now and thus
risk the Treasury’s adverse valuation. The
other day Judge Book reversed a Housing
Commission estimate of £4OO on five
blocks required for prefabricated houses
and awarded the owner £547.
In an “open letter” to “Communist
sympathisers on the Sydney Labor Coun-
cil,” the editor of the “Standard,” the
“official organ,” assures them that “it is
not our intention to criticise you for hav-
ing a leaning towards the ideology of
Communism; most of us have.” Most
of us have not; still the artless admis-
sion is significant. If it means anything,
it means that Communism and Laborism
are friends at heart, though they have
their little fallings-out.
“Nakhoda”: One of the few sensible
Federal A.L.P. conference decisions was
that it should be compulsory for Eng-
lish to be taught in all schools, and that
foreign migrants should be required to
undertake a course in the English lan-
guage. The tendency of migrants of cer-
tain races is to segregate themselves, not
to be segregated, and one of the prin-
cipal factors in this process is their ignor-
ance of the language. The idea could
be extended to night schools for adults
—I have met dozens of adult aliens who,
though up to 30 years in Australia, can’t
speak a coherent word of English.
“Red Army soldiers have a bad repu-
tation for rape.” The reporter is Mr.
lan Bevan, of “S. M. Herald,” who, going
to Berlin, “a macabre setting for robbery,
rape and murder,” Russian soldiers
being “blamed for many of the crimes,”
found Tommies and G. I. Joes “critical
of the Red Army.”
When our soldiers take over billets from
the Russians they generally find them in an
intolerably filthy condition.... British and
American soldiers think the Russian soldier
is unclean, undisciplined and uncivilised
that the Red Army is ill-equipped and that
it conquered the Wehrmacht only by weight
of numbers and with the help of the
British and American air forces. The ex-
planation is that the Russian troops in
Berlin are not the best troops in the Red
Army.
Seeing that the leaders of the Red
Army must have been aware that the
appearance and behavior of their troops
would be compared throughout Europe
and the world with the appearance and
behavior of the British and Americans,
it is a most unconvincing explanation.
-So are accompanying statements thait
“the Russian commanders in Berlin are
as much embarrassed by their. present
troops as anyone else,” and that “senior
Rusisan officers” are full of “intelligence,
education and willingness to co-operate.”
If the commanders are without influence
at headquarters and if the senior officers
can’t put down rape and robbery the
whole outfit stands condemned.
From Labor Ministers, particularly
Evatt and Ward, we hear a lot about
full employment, but nothing about full
production. Yet one without the other
is a hollow sham. A New York “Times”
man, Henry Hazlitt, writes arrestingly on
this subject.
Nothing is easier to achieve than full
employment once it is divorced from the
goal of full production and taken as an
end in itself. Hitler provided full employ-
ment with a huge armament programme.
The war provided full employment for
every nation involved. Prisoners have full
employment. It would be far better if that
were the choice —which is isn’t —to have
maximum production with part of the
population supported in idleness by undis-
guised relief than to provide full employ-
ment by so many forms of disguised make-
work that production is disorganised. The
real question is not whether there will be
so many million jobs but how much will
be produced, and what in consequence will
be our standard of living. The problem
of distribution is, after all, more easily
solved the more there is to distribute.
In conclusion, the writer appeals for
clarification of thinking by “putting our
chief emphasis where it belongs—on poli-
cies that will maximise production.”
At a time when the Victorian Housing
Commission is complaining of shortage
of building material a campaign has
started for condemning old houses. Most
of them are occupied by poor people,
and when investigating officers see 10
persons living in squalor in one room
they think there is something wrong with
the house and haVe it pulled down. Many
of these old houses are more solidly built
than the Commission’s own dwellings.
Artists and people of imagination
often rent or buy them and turn them
into studios or residences which their
neighbors envy. What the housing busi-
ness needs is a few intelligent individuals
to advise conventional officials.


Cloando
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Knight William George loop Good-
man, awarded the Russell Memorial
Medal for 1945, crossed over from Maori-
land 38 years ago to convert Adelaide’s
horse trams to the electric system, and as
chief engineer and general manager he
has watched his trams develop from the
original Kensington line to the wide-
spread network of today. Born in Kent,
Goodman went to Maoriland in 1900 to
design and install the Dominion’s first
electric tramway at Roslyn, and in spare
moments during his Adelaide job he has
acted as consultant on electrical transport
and kindred problems to Governments
in Victoria, N.S.W. and the Speck. Mem-
ber of Adelaide University Council since
1913 he has latterly been chairman of
S.A. Housing Trust, a body whose work
could well be noted in other States.
There will be a general stirring in the
Shades when Edmund Dwyer-Gray,
Treasurer and Deputy-Premier of the
Speck, dead at 75 in Hobart, gets
there. Born in Dublin, he had a first-
class education, was a Latin scholar and
well read in literature, philosophy, theo-
logy and science. And, as a very young
editor of the “Freeman’s Journal,” he
was in the thick of the Parnell contro-
versy. He came to Australia at 25, and
was in turn a farmer, a freelance jour-
nalist, an editor of sundry hot-headed
periodicals and eventually a Labor poli-
tician. He belonged to a distinguished
family. His grandfather, Sir John Gray,
who edited the “Freeman’s Journal,”
became Lord Mayor of Dublin, an Irish
M.P. and a political prisoner—Daniel
O’Connell was once his cell-mate. His
father repeated the old man’s achievement,
editing the “Freeman’s Journal,” sitting
in the House of Commons under Parnell
and attaining to Lord Mayor of Dublin.
His grandmother was Caroline Chisholm,
known as “The Emigrants’ Friend” for
her services to Irish-Australian immigra-
tion.
As a speaker Dwyer-Gray’s voice was
shrill and as a Labor journalist his pen
was shriller still, but he was always faith-
ful to the collection of principles which
made up his contradictory character. An
anti-vivisectionist, he thought the germ
theory was bunkum, and once challenged
the professors of Sydney and Melbourne
universities to join him in swallowing a
bucketful of diphtheria, cholera and
typhoid germs to prove that the serum-
theory was a superstition. Often out of
step with his colleagues, he nevertheless
gained a host of friends, and when he was
seriously ill a few years ago Tasmanian
churches of all denominations called for
prayers of intercession.
A pre-war course in Japanese at Mel-
bourne University made Adrian F.
Knowles, of Mont Albert, one of the
most useful men in a p.-0.-w, camp in
Java, and earned him a letter from the
Air Board praising him for “valuable
and meritorious work.” He is a son of
the journalist, teacher and authoress
Mrs. Marion Miller Knowles, M.8.E.,
who has published half a dozen novels
and whose “Songs from the Hills” has
run into four editions.
Every writer, poet, artist, politician,
axe-grinder, swagman, hawker, agent,
policeman, drunk, and Commo who
visited The Bulletin in the past 20 years
had to get past Jimmy Johnson before
penetrating the inner fastnesses of the
editorial department. James had an un-
erring eye for the bloke likely to be a
nuisance and a short way with him. For
others he was always willing to hear then-
story and guide them to the man most
likely to accommodate them. He was
probably as well known as the front door
to regular callers, many of whom made
him confidant and friend. A Digger of
1914-18 —he enlisted early enough to be
No. 5122 in the old Second Batt. and
left an arm in France —he used effective
Digger language when the need arose,
was full of humorous Digger yarns,
always followed favorites on the race-
course and had as enemies only the kind
of people any man would welcome as
enemies. A quick and discerning judge
of character —some of his witty six-word
portraits of well-known men are gems
that will be quoted in the office for years
—poor Jimmy was killed by peritonitis
at 53, and The Bulletin thereby lost an
institution.
Mcßeath ran Field-Marshal Lord Alan-
brooke to earth at a civic reception in
Melbourne and sketched him against a
background of all the notables the ser-
vices and city could muster for the occa-
sion. Latest and most distinguished of
the “Fighting Brookes” of Ulster,
knighted for his part (as a corps com-
mander) in the evacuation of Dunkirk
and later, as Chief of Imperial General
Staff, one of the main architects of vic-
tory, Alanbrooke was passing through
FIGHTING BIRD-GAZER.
on a whirlwind special mission to Pacific
and Asiatic war zones. During his brief
Melbourne visit he found time for a quick
dash to Healesville to indulge his favorite
hobby of bird-gazing. This restful pas-
time seems to have a fascination for
Britain’s public men —Neville Chamber-
lain and Grey of Falloden were other
notable devotees. So far Australian poli-
ticians have not discovered its charm;
their time is fully occupied watching to
see which way the cat will jump.
Next month Lieut, Arthur J. Williams
becomes assistant director of adult edu-
cation at Perth Uni. 8.A., Dip. Ed., row-
ing “blue” and former football captain
of the Uni., past president of the sports
council and the Guild of Undergrands,
and two years a member of its Senate,
he has been in the A.I.F. since 1942,
joining up from a teaching job at Subiaco.
For the past 18 months he was educa-
tion officer of the Fourth Armored
Brigade.
The Commercial Travellers’ Associa-
tion and Club in W.A. picked T, G.
Heydon from a big field for its secretary-
manager. A 46-year-old public servant,
he spent his youth on the Murchison
goldfields, became secretary of the Civil
Service Association and had a hand in
most of the advances in service condi-
tions since 1932. He has worked, too,
as secretary of the W.A. Regional Group
of the British Institute of Public Admin-
istration, whose aim is to give the civil
service the status of a profession, through
liaison with the Public Administration
course at the University. Between times
he is a J.P., a Nedlands Road Board
member and a bowler.
The S.A. Rhodes scholars for 1946 are
J. L. Gough and H. W. Piper, selected
under the conditions which demanded of
candidates at least a year’s war service
by October 31, 1945. Gough, who comes
from Dunedoo (N.S.W.), is a “Tobruk
Rat” of the 2/43rd Battalion, who was
commissioned in the Middle East and
severely wounded in both legs in Tobruk,
losing one of them. Gough topped the
Leaving honors at St, Peter’s in 1936,
won the Tennyson medal (for English
literature) and a Government bursary,
entered St. Mark’s College in 1937 and
continued a brilliant succession of top
credits in 1937-38-39. He represented the
Uni. at baseball and enlisted in June,
1940, shortly before his final exams. Dis-
charged in 1942, he re-entered the Uni.
in 1944, and graduated B.A. with first-
class honors in classics. He will study
Greats at Christchurch College, Oxford,
H. W. Piper, also of St Peter’s and St.
Mark’s was born at Murray Bridge (S.A.),
won several scholarships, the Tennyson
medal and a Government bursary in
medicine, graduated at Adelaide Uni.
with first-class honors and the John
Howard Clark prize. He went to Mag-
dalen College, Oxford, and from there
enlisted in the A.1.F., serving in the
M.E., and gaining his commission. He
was Intelligence officer with the Seventh
Divvy in New Guinea and a major on
Bougainville when the war ended. At
Adelaide he was an intercollegiate run-
ner, inter-varsity footballer and cham-
pion welterweight boxer of the Uni.
When the Brisbane State and Munici-
pal Choir sang “The Messiah” recently,
one of the strongest voices in the tenor
line belonged to E. Parker, who has been
singing Handel’s famous oratorio for 60
years. His chorister career began in
Halifax (Eng.) when he was 15 and con-
tinued with the Cambrian choir after his
arrival in Australia in 1888.
An adventurous Maorilander, Major
Lindsay S. Rogers, has been appointed
Professor of Anatomy at Bagdad Royal
School of Medicine. An Otago Uni.
graduate, Rogers served with the
R.A.M.C. in the Middle East, then was
in Yugoslavia improvising hospitals and
attending to wounded guerrillas. Lately
he has been exploring in Tibet, padding
the hoof 480 miles and climbing 16,000-
and 17,000 ft. mountains.
There’s usually some reason for a nick-
name, but nobody seems to know why
Henry Mortimer Muirhead, magistrate of
the Adelaide Police Court for the past
20 years and chief magistrate since 1934,
should be known to the legal profession
as “Bonny.” Two things are certain: he
didn’t hail from Argyle, and he doesn’t
bear the remotest resemblance to the one
who did. On the contrary, he was an
infantry sarge in France with the old 10th
GAOLBIRD-GAZER.
Battalion; before that was captain of
Adelaide Rowing Club, and earlier cap-
tained the Adelaide Uni. rowers and
played in the Uni’s first inter-’varsity foot-
ball team. He was born in Adelaide, son
of a solicitor ; his grandfather came from
Glasgow about a century ago to be one
of Adelaide’s first jewellers. H.M., or
“Bonny,” was “admitted” in 1909, but
never practised. His son interrupted law
study to beconle a private in the Second
A.I.F.
Successor to K. S. Patton, U.S. Minis-
ter to Maoriland, A, M. Warren was
born at Ilchester, Maryland, 52 years ago.
A veteran of the 1914-18 war, he has
served Uncle Sam diplomatically in many
parts of the globe, including Haiti,
Karachi, Nairobi, Kenya and New-
foundland. As Consul-General at Buenos
Aires from 1932 to .1935, he was adviser
to the Pan-Commercial Conference there;
in 1945 he was adviser to the U.S.A.
delegation at the American Republics
Conference in Mexico, and he did the
same of job at San Francisco.
The most tragic piece of administrative
history associated with British rule in
the Pacific closed with the death in Meh
bourne last week of Brigadier E. A.
Wisdom, C. 8., C.M.G., D. 5.0., formerly
first civil administrator of the New
Guinea Territory in the “expropriation
days.” A Scot from Inverness, Wisdom
went to W.A. in 1891, was involved in
gold and other ventures for a few years,
sat for Claremont in the Assembly 1911-
17, went to the war as brigade-major.
Fifth Brigade, A.1.F., served on Gallipoli
in its last phases, in the Sinai campaign
and in France, was mentioned in dis-
patches six times and won a C. 8., the
D.S.O. and a C.M.G. In 1921 he became
administrator of New Guinea Mandated
Territory and held the job for 11 years.
It was a tragic experience for him. The
job was fraught with endless difficulties,
tropical illness killed his devoted wife
and broke his own health, and his last
days were made tragic by the news of
the deaths in the Japanese prison ship
Montevideo Maru of nearly the whole
of the more intimate of his senior lieu-
tenants in the New Guinea administra-
tion —H. H. Page (Government Secre-
tary), H, O. Townshend (Treasurer) and
Gerald Hogan, Crown Land officer, all
of whom had helped him to convert the
military administration into a civil one
in 1921.
Lance Pellew, appointed stipendiary
magistrate in S.A., and assigned at present
to the south-eastern (Mount Gambier)
district, has been Master of the Supreme
Court. He is a younger brother of inter-
national cricketer Clarrie Pellew, and was
himself a member of the S.A. XI for
some years.
Retiring after 30 years’ association with
Melbourne University Conservatorium,
Joseph Sutton Crow, A.C.M.M., dates
back to the days of Marshall Hall, whose
fine orchestra he managed. Born at
Numurkah (Vic.) in 1880, Crow was
educated at State schools, learnt crotchets
and quavers under Hall, then taught
music for the State. As manager for
nearly 20 years. Crow saw the Uni. Sym-
phony Orchestra grow into the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra, and orchestral
music become a bigger boom than paint-
ing, architecture or any other art. He
did a lot of concert conducting himself.
Granted leave so that he could join
the British Army early this year, Dr, R.
Yorke Hedges has now resigned as Gar-
rick Professor of Law at Brisbane Uni-
versity. He has been appointed Supreme
Court Judge in the Military Administra-
tion of Sarawak.
Into the silence:
In Sydney, Erriie Higgins, first man in Aus-
tralia to crank a movie camera in a ’plane.
A cinematographer from the time “the flicks”
first flickered, he filmed the Burns-Johnson fight,
“The Silence of Dean Maitland,” “The Kelly
Gang” and “The Waybacks.” He put the
Canadian Rockies on celluloid for C.P.R., and
camera-toured Australia for the Tasmanian
Government. In association with Harry Julius
he made Australia’s and one of the world’s
first animated cartoons, many years before
Disney emptied Noah’s Ark on the screen.
His ’plane pictures were made on Bill Hart’s
early flights.
At Junee (N.S.W.), aged 72, John Thomas
Vivian McCarthy, one of the last links with
the Lambing Flat riots. His father, Timothy
McCarthy, carried the banner on which was
scrawled in miner’s hand “Roll up, Roll up.
No Chinese!” Blood was spilt, but the stan-
dard-bearer escaped to Junee, where his de-
scendants still have the tattered banner with
the five stars and the slogan.
In Adelaide, at 63, Ronald Finlayson, a quiet
but clever literary lawyer and Uni. lecturer.
A junior partner long ago of George Murray,
he later became head of a large firm. He was
a member of the old Public Library Board of
S.A., and on the board of Adelaide’s National
Gallery.
At Hastings, Moariland, aged 93, Allen M.
Williams, owner of Te Aute Station, Pukehou,
renowned for its Shorthorn cattle and Lincoln,
Leicester and Southdown sheep. As a judge of
stock, Williams was well known throughout
Maoriland and Australia.
At Dunedin, M.L., aged 99, Richard Burns,
the last of the old-time whalers. Born at Moer-
aki, Otago, Dick was brought up as a Maori
and could remember the troubles of the ’fifties
when the bloodthirsty Te Rauparaha was on
the warpath. With the flight of time Burns
adopted the more prosaic occupations of
shearer and pilot.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Longshoreman”: Sydneysiders have
ocular evidence that the war with Japan
is over in the reappearance of shipping
news in the “S.M.H.” There has, of course,
been no reason for “hush hush” about
port affairs for several months, and the
heading would have come back long ago
but for the fact that (as their almost
totally non-informative advertisements
demonstrate) shipowners were not in a
position to call their ships or their souls
their own. Order is slowly coming out
of chaos now, however, and on a recent
Monday Granny was able to list six arri-
vals, four departures and 53 overseas
vessels in port.
*** \ *
“Bo”; At least three times a week
some British or American scientist rears
up and tells the world that within three
to five years Russia will have far out-
stripped everybody else in the atomic
bomb race. The assertion is naturally
based on the magnificent tradition of
world-shaking discoveries by scientists
whose names _ have all ended in “ich,”
“ov” and “ski.” Of course, even rabid
Russophiles are prepared to admit that
the discovery or invention of such un-
important things as anaesthetics, elec-
tricity, the steam engine and the internal-
combustion engine ; of the submarine, the
t an k, radio, radar, sulphanilamide and
penicilin; of gunpowder, concrete, the
spinning jenny, the telephone and tele-
graph, the printing press, radium, the
aeroplane, moving pictures, the cardio-
graph, the stethoscope, the iron lung, the
pile-driver, the camera, the thermometer
and a thousand other things were not the
work of men whose names ended with
“ich,” “ov” or “ski.” Yet the Anglo-
Saxon will generously allow that one
world-shaking invention was the work of
a Russian scientist —false teeth for cows.
The tidings of it were splashed over the
world’s cables during the war years, and
the world took time off from a spot of
slaughter to shake with laughter.
* * *
“Colonel Bungstarter”; In my youth-
ful days of seafaring, even cased and
bottled liquid cargo was little safer from
piratical attack than was the barrelled
article (B. 28/11/ ’45). The technique for
it was to bang a case hard on one of its
corners against the bottom of a tub of
suitable size. The contents of one or
more broken bottles would thereupon run
into the tub {less what might be absorbed by
the straw or cardboard packing), the case
would be put back in place and the opera-
tion repeated on one or more of similar
labelling according to the amount re-
quired. If a tub wasn’t available, it
wasted little more to bang the case on
the floor and then hold it over a bucket.
Anyhow, with enough cases available, a
bit of waste didn’t matter.
* * * *
“Katie Keyboard”; My goodness, men
are funny when they try to hold the baby
for you for a minute, and the way Mr.
McGregor has drawn that nurse holding
the twins (B. 28/11/’45) and asking who
it was wanted twin girls is funnier even
than my hubby was the first time he tried
to hold ours. Nurse has her left arm
round their shoulders and her right one
across then in front with nothing at all to
support their poor little bottoms and one
kick or wriggle out of either of the little
dears and they’ll both be on the floor.
And I’d like to hear what Matron would
say to that nurse when she heard about
it. And they’re fine big babies too but I
don’t think Mr. McGregor can have seen
many as young as that or he wouldn't
have made them with such smooth faces
because they’re all crumpled up for the
first few days. Anyhow if he draws any
more of them please ask him to have the
nurse taught how to hold them properly
because it gave me quite a shock to think
of the poor little darlings being let drop
on that dirty floor all over cigarette-ends
and bootmarks.
* * * *
“Cine Ma”; An ancient gag of the
gallery frequenter was recently revived
in a Melbourne picture theatre. The hero
was seeing his girl for the last time pre-
paratory to riding off into the sunrise.
The dawn was slowly breaking on the
screen and every device was being used
to underline the solemnity of the occa-
sion. Suddenly somebody in the audi-
ence crowded like a rooster. But nobody
laughed. When some joker did that in
the flesh-an’-blud theatre in the days of
Bland Holt it brought the house down.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Melba’s interpolation (B.
21/11/ ’45) was a mild one compared with
one made by Bernhardt during her Syd-
ney season, when books of words were
available with the French and English
versions side by side. Turning of a leaf
doesn’t make much sound, but when a
“ Beri-beri?”
"No; chilblains .”
ẃ
acquaintance with what was Reeve’s most
pronounced foible was made when he
could not be found in the office ; I needed
to ask him about some of my “copy.”
“There must be a fire,” said colleague
Theakstone; and there was—the one that
burnt out that village of shops which was
old Anthony Hordern’s. Reeve’s descrip-
tion of the blaze, spread over three
“Herald” columns, throbbed with zealous
appreciation.
“Spokeshave”: The parson who gave
out the hymn “O for the Wings of a
Dove” at a church service at Pentridge
was bettered by Gladys Moncrieff, who
included in the programme of a prison
concert the ditty “Love holds the key to
set me free.” It was a “by request”
number, and the prisoners joined lustily
in the chorus.
* * * *
“Hamer”: The “Australian Woman’s
Mirror’s” 21st anniversary number is a
ẅ
in. After that he never refused a present.
But the enemy went to extremes in both
directions. He imposed frightful punish-
ments for offences that seemed trifling, but
did it impersonally as if it was the correct
thing to do and his own feelings had
no part in it whatever. Moreover, Japs
bashed each other with the same hearti-
ness as they bashed the prisoners ; often
more so. The Victorian saw a corporal
bashing a subordinate at Changi. A few
minutes later they were exchanging cigar-
ettes and laughing and joking together.
He concluded that it was a manifestation
of that mysterious thing they called
Bushido.
» * * •
“Gryllus”: Judging from a couple of
recently reported instances, residence in
W.A. seems to have a demoralising effect
on dogs. A woodcutter reported to the
police that a £35 roll of notes had been
stolen from his camp, 50 miles out of
Kalgoorlie, A week later he was walking
through the bush with his dog when the
hound suddenly stopped and began digging
beside a fallen tree. As he watched, it dug
out the missing roll, and, with much con-
ciliatory tail-wagging, laid it at his feet.
Teeth-marks through the notes indicated
clearly that the mong was the original
thief and concealer of stolen property.
In the other case, a visitor to Belmont
parked his car alongside the house at
which he was staying, trusting to a big
Alsatian which lived on the adjacent
verandah to protect his tyres from thieves.
Next morning the car was found out on
the roadway with two front tyres miss-
ing, and the Alsatian fast asleep on the
verandah. It was unlikely that the Alsa-
tian had taken the tyres off and buried
them, but should his conscience awake
later, as did that of the Kalgoorlie tyke,
he will probably keep the neighborhood
awake every night barking at imaginary
tyre-pinchers.
* * * *
“Chevroford”; Melbourne University
is up against an acute land shortage, and
for future development plans to substi-
tute six-storey buildings for the academic
cloisters. The original State land grant
was 100 acres, but the buildings were
scattered about in a feckless fashion and
most of the natural features, including
the lake in which many Communists had
their political baptism, have been demol-
ished. The area involved is now a mere
40 acres, and as 10 acres apiece have been
allocated to denominational colleges and
20 acres for recreation purposes, the coun-
cil feels cramped for space. Why doesn’t
it use the 20 recreational acres? Univer-
sities are supposed to be devoted to the
acquiring of knowledge, and it is ridi-
culous to see potential wise men and
women running around an oval in shorts.
If they want to do that sort of thing
there are plenty of sports grounds else-
where. ,
•f* H*
“Nakh”; Some good advice to Aus-
tralian vignerons:
I am anxious to caution against the
common practice of applying to these new
descriptions of wine the old and standard
names of the produce of the other hemi-
sphere. The difference in flavor in the
case of the former is ever liable to be
judged as inferiority. N.S.W. port and
Australian sherry will never pass muster at
the festive boards of the Mother Country.
Under a totally distinct nomenclature our
Australian manufacture will stand upon its
own independent merits instead of vainly
struggling for a position under the adopted
titles of European wines.
That was written by William West-
garth in his Australia Felix, published in
1848, Now, nearly a hundred years later,
the wisdom of his counsel is plain for all
to see. What a pity it was not acted
upon!
* * % #
“Melbn”: A portent of the Australian
future is Mrs. James Turley, of Geelong
(Vic.). With nine daughters and six sons,
including one set of twins —she recently
added a 15th child —she draws from a
grateful country an endowment cheque
for £l9 10s. She does all the housework
and faces cheerfully the problem of ac-
commodating 17 persons in one small
dwelling.
* . * * •
“Skxenate”: The old controversy about
the awkwardness and inappropriateness of
N. S. Wales as a State name is being
stirred again. There is little resemblance
in the coastline to South Wales. The chap
who named a racehorse Eastralia struck
a much better name for the State. One
of the objections to the cumbersome title
most of the inhabitants reduce to “New
South” is the awkwardness of “New
South Welshmen.” In the plentiful
Anglo-Indian literature of an earlier
generation, the heroes rode big “walers.”
Walers would have been a far better
name for the inhabitants of the Ma State
than the other title. Strangely nobody
thought of it, though such inadequacies
as “Sydneysiders” were current at one
time.
ON THE MAKE.
“The McKell Government proposes that every
Assemblyman who has served in three N.S.W. Parlia-
ments (at, on the lowest scale, £875 a year), and
has paid £1 a weel* into a superannuation fund
for a very small part, of the time, shall be entitled
on ceasing his legislative activities to a pension of
£312 a year.”
You may question if to Parliamentary portals
They bring conspicuous intelligence
Or are far ahead of ordinary mortals
In wisdom, wit or even commonsense;
You may criticise and frequently decry them
And make their posturings a theme for jests,
But there’s one quality you can’t deny them:
Capacity for feathering their nests.
You may reckon that the talents dedicated
To getting through their legislative biz
Are more than handsomely remunerated
And generously valued as it is.
But ever and anon you’ll find them waiting
For more, while means of grabbing it exist,
Brazen and unashamed in emulating
Young Oliver whose other name was Twist.
You may feel a doubt, whatever be their parties,
If one would find, save in their own conceit,
A glut of genius among the smarties
Who rule the roost in old Macquarie-street.
Still there’s one point where they may claim a
hollow
Win, and a record to be touched by none,
One path in which they lead, let who will follow:
A passionate regard for Number One.
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.
“J.K.”: “Craiser’s” par. (B. 21/11/’45)
regarding a girl’s desire to sell her cadaver
calls to mind that Henry Lawson, in one
of his chronic states of bankruptcy, sold
his skeleton to Donal (Dan) Angus,
brother of the founder of Angus and
Robertson, for five shillings. The trans-
action was suggested to Lawson by the
importation of skulls and skeletons by
A. and R. for sale to budding sawbones
at the University. Lawson records the
incident in “The Auld Shop and the
New”:
Do you mind how I sel’t my ain?
You hot it on the chance—
We drew a firm agreement up,
Five shillings in advance!—
To hae a night wi’ Robbie Burns;
An’, after years o’ fret,
The only harm I wish you, Dan,
You’ll live to claim it yet.


“In reply to yours of the 6th inst, We regret it is impossible to attend to
your fire owing to prior engagements .”
“Ref. Cen.”; Two of us who live in
the same suburban street, a short one
which links two main thoroughfares, got
talking about our country’s population
problems in relation to the upsurge of
nationalism or race hatred or cussedness
or whatever it is in the teeming north,
whereupon we ran the rule over the
houses in our street and listed the children,
old and young, from each. Number of
children to each house: 1,3, 3,3, 2,0,
0,2, 0,1, 2,3, 1,0, 2,2, 0,3, 0,0, 1,
3,1, 4 (now back the opposite side), 3,
7,2, 0,1, 2,2, 1,5, 1,1, 1,1, 2,0, 1,
0,2, 2. A total of 71 children from 43
married couples. The mothers of the
seven and of the five are both widows,
both in poorer circumstances than most
of the other residents. The suburb itself
is high and healthy, its surroundings
attractive, its people on a high-income
standard. There’s a moral in this some-
where, but bio wed if we can find it,
* * * *
“Scribe”; I remember a “bush lawyer”
on Maoriland’s uninhabited West Coast
laying the law down to a Minister of the
Crown. “By his very name a Minister
ought to know he’s a servant of the
people, not a dictator,” declared the forth-
right Coaster with a flourish. Just to
forestall any who might be under the
delusion that the Bench can be similarly
regarded, Blair, J., has given an opinion
on judicial status. “A lot of people think
a Judge is a public servant. He is not,”
’Sonah told the Supreme Court at Palmer-
ston North. “I am not anybody’s servant,
not even the King’s servant. I am the
King’s Judge. The King cannot tell me
what to do ; I can advise him, but he
cannot give me any orders.”. So evidently
there are some citizens who can’t be man-
powered.
I s * * *
“Melbn”; According to a pre-strike
ukase from the Controller of Electricity
Supply, the lights can shine again in Mel-
bourne. It is to be hoped they won’t all
shine. Melbourne never looked more
attractive than it did under the blackout
OT partial blackout. Its architectural
beauties aren’t extensive, but what there
’ i
are weie shown off to the best advantage.
I was present on top of the new Russell-
street police h.q. building when the first
experimental blackout was ordered, and
, T , ~, , ’ .
afterwards I wandered through the streets.
But cutting out all the competitive street
signs which had deluged the city with ex-
pensive itomination Melbourne had been
endowed with all the charm and mystery
of the medieval towns that were an in-
spiration to the art of Rembrandt. Mis-
guided city fa * e f f s u fd floodlight the
Town Hall, and its classic facade looked
like a wedding-cake decoration.
......
~T T , r
Haymarket : The evamshment from
Sydney streets of evidence of a state of
war has been so gradual a process- that
jt has attracted hardly any notice . The
boxed-in sandbags that covered footpath
cellar lights ; the brick baffle walls that
guarded the entrances to big buildings ;
the boarded-off areas of shop windows-
all disappeared quietly at night, and next
morning hardly anybody noticed any
difference. Pubs, whose licensees were en-
, . ’ . . , ... , ~
couraged in war-time to believe that there
is nothing “one-half so precious as the
things they sell,” seem loth to return to
pre-war prodigality. Their front win-
dows, in most cases, are still boarded up,
a » d portals remain closed so deter-
mmed|y ? at a mild , s . ensat,on 15 “ cca J
? 10ned . w * len ° ne of**™ °P ens f° r a
the post war aspect of the streets was
occasioned by the lifting, at long last, of
tlc an h , on i „^ o^'r" d o m ( .n BthelStrike 8 the 1 Strike
rieon-light signs. And then the sink
. . .
“Nakhoda”: Another human story out
3. * Changi (E. Zl/UrdS). Conditions on
the Moulmem-Bangkok railway were
“>•
dad y> ? nd th = ‘ doC „TL“.*!i“'s P k a r
Victorian with a magnificent record for
coura S e and devotion was per ormmg
°P« a tiom with a butcher s knife and
f”? a ] sharpened teaspoon to| scrape out
‘ r °P‘ cal “ lc ( ers w ‘ th ° at amesthhtic. One
da k ha , wen f ovar to . ‘ he J. a P a f ™htary
hos P ital and ° ffered to the Ja P d ° c '
tor any supplies he could spare if the
Japanese would give him anything of
which he had a surplus. The Jap doctor
burst into tears. “I can do nothing,” he
said, throwing up his hands. “My Gov-
ernment hasn’t given me anything either,
and my men are just as badly off as yours
are.”
*’‘ , .
“Kings Pawn : Chess was played m
p.-0.-w. camps throughout Asia with
all sorts of improvised sets, from really
well-carved wooden men (one made by
an Australian major in the Mukden camp
was an a rtistic triumph) to pieces moulded
out of bread. The Chess Association
h as toyed with the idea of holding an
exhibition of such sets, but most of them
were tossed aside when the p.-0.-w. had
a chance of getting orthodox chessmen,
A man who had a chess magazine made
money letting it out at 10 cents for four
days. In many camps the Jap guard
seemed to regard chess-players with
special respect. On one occasion a
peremptory order came for the attendance
of an officer at the camp commandant’s
office. Fed up, and indifferent to what hap-
pened, he said “Oh, tell him I’m finishing
a game of chess.” The message was given,
and apparently the camp commandant
was impressed, for no further summons
came. That officer still wonders what he
had been wanted for.
“Longshoreman”: Whoever
may have a right to kick up a
fuss about Sweden’s war-time
neutrality, Australia has reason
to be grateful to the circum-
stances that brought it about, for
Swedish ships were free to take
a very considerable proportion
of our imports and exports. Un-
armed, and carrying on their
sides and decks huge representa-
tions of the Swedish flag, with
the legend “Sverige,” they were
supposedly immune from attack.
Certainly they got through in
substantial numbers, and were
familiar visitors to Australian
harbors all through the war, A
first-fruit peace-time conveyance
of that amicable intercourse has
been a big order for S.A, apples,
negotiated through Charles Mc-
Cann, the State’s Agent-General
in London. Swedish ships to
carry the cargo will bring, it is
expected, engineering and electri-
cal fittings, dairying machinery,
wood pulp and timber.
“Chevroford”: Melbourne is experi-
encing a boom in horse sales, which were
expected to decline with the increased
petrol ration. At auction at Newmarket
ladies’ hacks brought as much as £125.
Buyers largely belong to that section of
the population which has given the
nearest mountain holiday resort to Mel-
bourne the name of “the jodphur belt.”
One young ladj) who acquired a mount at
a very fancy figure asked a dealer what
he thought of the nag. “Well,” he said
gravely, “there’s a great rage for antiques
these days.”
# * * *
“Ike Hollar”: “Fly” and “Saddle Me
Nag” (B. 21/11/ ’45) were banned from
N.S.W. school playgrounds close on 50
years ago. They caused painful accidents,
which increased as asphalted playgrounds
became the rule. For a time the ban was
defied, the rebels sneaking out of the
playgrounds to play the game in adjacent
paddocks, but that phase passed. Prob-
ably many of the slighter boys, though
they played the game for fear of ridicule,
were glad to get out of it. A hefty nine-
stone schoolboy, coming down full welt
on the back of a five-stoner after a
long “fly,” was liable to make his weight
felt cruelly. Bullies intentionally came
down more heavily than they need have
done.
**• * *
“Senex”: “Jamwood’s” revelation (B.
28/11/’45) that Queensland “Hafisard”
still gives legislators below Cabinet rank
(excluding the Speaker, who is also an
“hon.”) the title “esquire” recalls a day
when the word was something more than
“A few bottles for Christmas? Certainly , sir—how many ?”
a synonym for “mister.” Strictly speak-
ing, the only persons entitled to the handle
are officers of State and armed services,
office-bearers in the royal household, jus-
tices of the peace while in commission,
graduates of universities and owners of
a sufficiently large area of land (the acre-
age is specified). Exceptions are those
who hold higher titles- or are in holy
orders. Eldest sons of knights and their
eldest sons, and the eldest sons of younger
sons of peers and their eldest sons, may
also, if they feel inclined, sign “esquire”
after their names. It comes from the
feudal squire who seconded his boss in
jousts, and was himself an aspirant to
knighthood, and can be traced through a
whole jungle of Middle English and-Old
French etymology. Fountain head was
probably the Greek Skytos, meaning
“hide,” a word which is not inapt when
applied to legislators.
“Frosty”: A cabled reference to the
rediscovery of the “Gottorp Globe” (a
big model of the universe which became
one of the treasures of the Kremlin in the
reign of Peter the Great) set me thinking
of an entertainment popular half a cen-
tury ago—an exhibition of an Orrery,
usually associated with a Tellurian. The
Orrery (named as a compliment to the
astronomically-minded Earl of that ilk)
was a more or less elaborate mechanical
representation of the solar system, actu-
ated by clockwork. Shown in a dim
religious light, with the sun represented
by an illuminated globe and the planets
done in red, blue, yellow and green, it
taught us kids of a bygone age more
about cosmology in ten minutes than we
were liable to learn at school in ten years.
The Tellurian, usually incorporated in the
Orrery, concerned itself solely with the
relationships of sun, earth and moon, and
demonstrated the manner in which night
and day and the seasons are created. One
model I saw even had a device for repre-
senting tidal phenomena. There was a
lecturer, of course, to expatiate on all
these marvels, and we listened to him with
bated breath. Very tame it must sound
to the rising generation, but such ventures
had not to compete with the cinema, the
radio, the gramophone and the juke-
parlor.
* * * *
“Melbn”; Lud Mayor Connelly, who
has incurred much contumely by a mild
attempt to reform Melbourne’s liquor
habits along the lines of open-air drink-
ing, scored a point the other day. As
an example of the advantages of lifting
the repression he cited the County Coun-
cil’s Victory Ball at the Town 1 Hall, when
2500 people had free access to the bars
till 2.30 in the morning. Had the council
decided to close the bars at twelve there
would have been plenty of drunks and
possibly a few brawls ; but the Lud Mayor
didn’t see a single person under the
weather.
* * * *
“Lawnstob”: The residents of Water-
house Island, 10 miles off the north coast
of the Speck, have just heard that the war
is over. Their radio went wrong, and
they sent it to Launceston for repairs.
They were cut off from' the stream of
world events for six months until a motor-
boat owner happened to drop in. Their
informant was entertained at a sumptu-
ous feast and presented with quantities
of butter, which the inhabitants had been
feeding to the pigs.
* * * *
“C. 8.”: Melbourne “Age” gave a pro-
minent position to the mistake made by
a Mr. Wonke, described as Clerk of the
Legislative Assembly, who, when reading
a proclamation signed by the Governor
pertaining to the opening of the new Vic-
torian Parliament, substituted “Winston
Churchill” for “Winston Dugan.” Mr.
Wonke joined in the loud laughter that
greeted bis verbal slip, and “Age” readers
can have another. The name of the
author of the error is Wanke. Possibly
the comp was thinking of “wonky.”
THE NEW LEARNING.
“What are some of the requirements of a good
detective story?” —Question set by the N.S.W, De-
partment of Education for this year’s Leaving Cer-
tificate exam.
How numerous the things our kids must get
Into their heads in these enlightened years
To clear the literary hurdles set
By keenly criticial examiners!
Time was a Shakspeare play was held enough,
Or odes by Tennyson and Wordsworth sung,
To help them do their intellectual stuff
And show their knowledge of our mother
tongue.
Now they’ve a stiffer problem to assail:
What constitutes a good Whodunit tale?
Their erudite preceptors, one presumes,
Know all the answers—or they wouldn’t ask —
But can it be their academic rooms
Hold adequate material for their task?
Do Deadwood Dicks and Sexton Blakes stand
side
By side with classics on their library shelves?
Or wpuld you hazard that they’ve ever tried
To write “A Bloodstained Butterknife” them-’
selves?
What except first-hand knowledge would avail
To pick and choose a slick Whodunit tale?
Well, paste this in your hats, you bright young
things,
You literary-minded girls and lads,
There’s more required in these examinings
Than ever dawned upon your mums and dads.
What though of poetry you’ve read no end,
From Chaucer down to »Masefield, and of
prose
From essays that illustrious Bacon penned
To Dickens, Thackeray and such as those,
All this may count for little should you fail
To diagnose a smart Whodunit tale.
N.S.W.
MIDFORD


ABORIGNALITIES
“B‘Aussie”: “Sunday” (B. 31/10/’45)
isn’t the only new ritual to spring up in
the N.T. in the last few years. My friend
Peter Kiss-Kiss, who worked alongside
me at Mataranka, told me of the charm-
ing of pugarees of men working for the
army. A pugaree was painted with pipe-
clay, marked with a design of spots of
blood from the forearm of the officiating
medicine-man, sung over, then hung
on a bush for the night. AlLthe next day
the owner of the pugaree would carry it
in his pocket, and instead of undressing
that night he would go to bed fully
dressed, the pugaree still in his pocket.
Next morning he would put it on
his hat and go to see the girl of his
choice. Immediately on her seeing the
charmed pugaree (she, of course, didn’t
know it was charmed) she would fall in
love with him. Peter told me of one man
who accidentally allowed another girl to
see it before the eyes of his beloved
lighted on it. Both lasses fell in love
with him and he married both.
* * * *
“Leso”: Referring to “W all zi n g
Matilda” and the backblocks police “at
the beginning of last century,” “Milton”
(B. 30/10/’45) says “Paterson knew very
well that police in the stock country do
not hunt in threes.” During the latter
part of last century they certainly did
hunt in threes; in N.S.W., Victoria and
Queensland. They could be seen on the
goldfields, in the stock country up on the
Gwydir, on the Maclntyre and down
on the Bogan—often two police and a
tracker. Here are a few authenticated
instances: When Frank Gardiner escaped
from N.S.W. to Queensland he was cap-
tured at Apis Creek, near Peak Downs,
by Constables McGlone, Pye and Wells.
John Gilbert was shot dead at a farm in
the Marengo district, N.S.W., when he re-
fused to surrender to Senior-Constable
Hales, Constable King and Constable
John Bright, who fired the fatal shot.
Harry Power, a “gold-escort” expert, was
arrested in The Ovens district, Victoria,
by Superintendent Hare, Superintendent
Nicholson and Sergeant Mountford.
Many other “threes” could be quoted.
When “Banjo” numbered the “policemen!'
one, two, three” in “Waltzing Matilda”
he wrote, as usual, for the ordinary
reader and indicated three men —not
“Policeman 123.” It is questionable
whether backblocks police in those days
were “numbered.” If they were they were
never known or spoken of by their “num-
ber”—a fact that would not be over-
looked by Paterson,
* * * ♦
“Horseless Horseman”: Sepik River
tribes of New Guinea show a cool dis-
regard for crocodiles. At Euwarrima I
watched T 5 village natives shuffle knee-
deep through a mud hole of a drying-up
pit-pit swamp after a nine-foot saurian,
when suddenly one yelled that he had
located the croc’s tail with his toe. By
the same manner others found its neck,
head and body. Then in a body they
began screaming, and it was scream-
ing. They told me later they did
this so that the prey would feign
death, making it ,an easy job to
hand-grab him and haphazardly bind him
with vine rope. Casually carrying the
catch home, the natives placed him beside
another croc, under a pile-high Sepik
village house to be kept alive until they
could be “kai-kaied” at a district “sing-
sing” to be arranged. One of our vessel’s
crew, however, went with a boy to
look the pets over. His guide calmly
marched up to the largest captive and
gave him such a kick that the croc, let
fly with his tail. The boong never moved,
but the white broke the New Guinea
back-jump record.
* * * *
“Benbow”: “Munga” (B. 14/11/’45)
mentions the diminishing regard of the
N.G. native for bully beef. Worse than
that, he’s become finicky. I’ve had
good honest bully, evidently fit for
R.A.N. consumption or we wouldn’t have
had it, declined because it wasn’t “Rex”
brand, the boongs of the Mud Bay dis-
trict, eastern N.G., not being interested in
any other.
* * * *
“X.E.D.”; Old Herman was splitting
posts for a fence on his run of bush
country, and a little carelessness with the
wedges resulted in a log closing suddenly
on two of his fingers. His plight was the
more serious for his being camped alone
on the job and not expected back in the
township for a couple of weeks. By dint
of much manoeuvring Herman at last
succeeded in scraping the axe over close
enough to grasp it, and it was plain
that the razor-sharp edge would slip
through the gnarled digits like butter.
He was about to make the stroke when
a sudden thought halted him. He then
nicked out a chip of wood and released
the fingers. Herman has since been noted
for never making his mind up in a hurry.
“Look, boss, plurry flypaper catch me”
“Lub”: The sewing-machine agent got
out of his car and shuddered at the din
from the trees. “How d’you put up with
’em?” he asked, “Eh?” said Jud; then
as he focused his ears to the cicadas,
“them insecks? Aw, we jist got used t’
them. Y’ see, the kadies sing all day, an’
when they stop the crickets take over.
The frawgs come on f’r the rest of the
night as the crickets knock orf. Gripes,
a man’d be stone deaf if he bothered
listenin’ t’ them.”
* * * *
“Bughouse”; I’d like to believe “Limby”
(B. 7/11/ ’45) that radar was to be em-
ployed detecting whales blowing on the
surface. Why wasn’t it employed to
detect submarines surfacing at night, in
which realm it was likely to have proved
more effective? Actually the yarn is on
all fours with that told by A.S.D.I.G.
enthusiasts that the anti-submarine de-
fence cable could detect the passing
of a shark or a porpoise. Such de-
vices depend on electricity and mag-
netism and must have a metallic
object from which to rebound, ex-
cept in the case of the sub-detector
attached to ships, which depended on
waterborne sound vibrations. Radio is
unable to communicate with a submerged
sub., the electric waves becoming diffused
in that immense massive conductor
water. So, since the composition of
marine animals is approximately 90 p.c.
water, they are much too similar to the
ocean in which they may be wholly or
partly submerged to influence any electro-
magnetic device. *
* * # «
“Fang”: How high can a snake strike
from ground-level? My conclusion is
that anything above the height of a man’s
knee is out of range of the wrigglers
found commonly in southern States. A
six-foot brown snake when molested will
rear up much higher than that, but is un-
able to strike from the position. Joe has
to set himself to strike, tensing like a
spring, and a miss throws him off bal-
ance, when he is at the mercy of the
enemy for a split second. Fastest and
longest strike is that of the brown, in the
manner of a downward swinging lash of
a stockwhip; the copperhead, black and
tiger have a lunging and frequently side-
wise action. It’s easy to recognise the
“telegraphed” pose of a snake in readi-
ness to strike, and some snake-killing
hounds show a nicety of judgment. One
I owned used to bait Joe into having a
swing at his nose held just outside of
range. The wriggler rarely got the chance
of a second try.
* * * *
“Tiki”: Ornithologists all the world
over are interested in a couple of kiwi
chicks, the first in captivity, which
are being cared for at the Hawke Bay
Acclimatisation Society’s game farm in
Maoriland. The chicks, one male, one
female, were disowned by their mother as
soon as she had laid the eggs, and were
hatched out by their father, who watches
over their chickhood with loving care,
supervising their search for worms and
insects and cuddling up with them at
night. Mamma was taken to see her
family one day, but she made a deter-
mined attempt to assassinate the old man
and the children, and was taken away.
How the kiwi species managed to survive
becomes a mystery in the light of obser-
vations on these captive specimens. All
appear to have very poor sight, hunting
food rather by scent than by vision, and
though they can run swiftly they con-
tinually collide with objects in their path.
But they are very energetic feeders, and
in a few weeks completely cleared a large
run of worms, so that fresh quarters had
to be found for them.
* * * #
*“B. A. Ker”: As I came up the road
Charlie’s kelpie bounded to the gate to
meet me. Evidently the kids had been play-
ing pranks on her, for her hind legs pro-
truded through two holes cut in a sugar-
bag, while the top of the bag was tied
tightly around her body—a case of “bag
your head” in reverse. It being a hot
day I was removing the encumbrance
when Charlie arrived and stopped me.
“Listen,” he said, “for two years I’ve been
trying to breed some decent pups from
that bitch —and what happens? No
matter where I shut her up either she
scratches her way out or some mong
scratches his way in. And the pups!
Well, nobody could growl about ’em —
they suit all tastes. But this time I’m
going to select the breed, even if my
methods are a bit, well, different.” I’ve
just been invited to inspect Charlie’s litter
of pure-bred kelpies.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were making down
from Glen Innes to Inverell (N.S.W.)
when a motorist picked us up. He had
a grudge against most things, but mainly
against the people responsible for the
taxation on motorists. All the way down
the New England slopes he poured it into
us about the way the motorist was shot
at, how he had to pay heavily for the
right to run a car on the roads whereas
the owner of a horse and cart paid noth-
ing and so forth. The man had a sound
argument, I suppose, but he ruined it by
overdoing and spouting it at us until we
were dead tired of the subject. We were
grateful for the lift, but it must have
dawned on Mat that the real reason for
his picking us up was mainly to have
someone upon whom he could unload his
bitterness. Anyway, when we asked him
to let us out on the outskirts of Inverell,
Mat opened the door, jumped clear of
the bitumen to the grass, turned to me
and roared “Come on, heave them swags
out. And jump on to the grass when
you come yourself; don’t go trampin’ all
over the gentleman’s road with your
ruddy great feet!” I jumped.
* * =i= *
“Rooster”: Tell “Water of Leith” (B.
21/11/ ’45) that differing species of eels
do intermingle at the spawning grounds.
The Sargasso depths form the breeding
place for two entirely opposite groups.
The American, which is the smaller, pos-
sesses 107 vertebras (in the adult) and
takes one year only to pass from egg
to elver stage; the West European eel,
much larger, has 115 vertebrae and
takes three years to reach the elver stage.
Darwin thought that these differences
were connected with the comparatively
short journeys undertaken by the former
as compared with the latter, the W.E.
elvers having to supply the Baltic Sea
coasts, the Atlantic seaboard, England,
Wales, Scotland and N.-W. Africa. But
Darwin, during his voyage in the Beagle,
also noticed that the tiny Leptocephali
(“glass” eels) were all mixed when
hatched, and that it was not until this
stage that the British eels, “in a marvel-
lous way,” sorted themselves out from
the American before they started the long
three-year trek across the Atlantic.
♦ * ♦ ♦
“Alpine Willie”; My shack is in the
bare two acres of clearing in a gorge be-
tween mountains that rise to over 4000
feet, the slopes and gullies swathed from
waist- to shoulder-high in hopscrub,
bracken and alpine shrubs. Usually
during the year there are dingo bitches
with litters in the small caves of rocky
fastnesses, and, though mostly unseen, it’s
easy to follow the development of the
pups as their powers to yelp and howl
increase. Of late there have been half-
grown dogs hunting close into the camp,
and occasionally a terrified wallaby breaks
from the scrub. One came careering
blindly down the track, bounced off the
fence into the garden and tried to make
an exit through the netting. I effected
a neat capture by grabbing its tail. The
wallabies appear helplessly confused by
the howls of the pack ringing through the
timber.
* * ♦ *
“Munja”: For sagacity the green tree-
ant (B. 14/11/’45) is equalled by the
honey-ant of the grim Lake
Amadeus area (Centralia). To
tide over lean periods the honey-
ants use the bodies of their mates
as storage bins. Workers cram
selected insects with food until
their crops are enormously dis-
tended. When reserve food is
needed the swollen abdomens
are tapped gently by the feet of
the hungry, honeV is passed out of the
mouths of the living honey-pots and a
swell time is had —by the workers. The
abo, well aware of this subterranean
“sugar-bag,” hunts it diligently. Ant
burrows go down five to six feet; when
found the gins gefbusy with digging stick
and wooden bowl. Amazing feature of
this Stone Age excavating is the speed
with which each gin digs herself out of
sight. Binghi, no sentimentalist, spurs on
his heart-throb with vituperation and a
sock with a ready waddy if she pauses
overlong for a breather. When the prized
delicacies are found the abo. epicure
delicately bites off the honey-distended
abdomens and discards the heads; the
vulgar herd gobble the lot. Cast-iron
army stomachs, reared on “bully” and
weaned on m. and v., have turned hand-
springs at the gruesome sight
* * * *
“Stern-Wheeler”: With the recent
rains memories stirred along the Murray,
especially at the one-time great riverports
of Goolwa, Mannum, Morgan and
Echuca. In the days of the paddleboats
the news of rain would find the paddle-
boat captains loading up with stores and
engaging crews. Then, as the water came
down the rivers, the rush would be on.
The first boat up a river that had not
been navigable for some time would be
able to get exceptionally high prices for
cargo and charge stiff freights for carry-
ing wool downstream. Honor and
prestige were also involved. If two boats
were making for the same river a race
would develop. Boats would even be
wrecked, paddle-boxes, sponsons or rud-
ders carried away, through taking bends
at too high a speed or trying a short cut
through too narrow a channel. On one
occasion Randell hit the bank at one bend
of the Murray at so great a speed that he
brought the funnel crashing down through
the wheelhouse, Om another, racing with
another boat, he gained ground by failing
to stop at a woodpile for fuel. Instead
of the usual red-gum logs he had his wife
(who often travelled with him) and the
crew help him drag out the sides of bacon
that he was carrying for sale along the
rivers, and he fed the furnace with them.
THE CRACKER.
Someone—l take it some old bush-whacker —•
Has sent me a birthday gift today;
Tis a simple thing, just a silken cracker
Twisted —you know! —in the old bush way...
I saw the paddock in morning early,
The silver webs where the dew had lain,
The sky in the east grow pink and pearly
And day break over the homestead plain.
And it all came back to me, all the wonder
Of magpie music and dawn-wind’s kiss,
And the ranges rang with a stockwhip’s thunder
And the echoes added their emphasis.
I heard the hoofs on the sandhill ringing,
I heard the chime of a bellbird’s call,
I set from my hand the snake-plait swinging
And felt the pull of the straightened fall.
I rode through the lignum watercourses,
I threaded the sandals decked for Spring;
I raced to the lead of the galloping horses
And rounded them up to the stockyard wing.
The fire dies down and the limbs grow slacker,
The old land fades where I played my part,
But someone has twisted a silken cracker
And sent it seaward, to loop my heart.
SCOTLAND.
WILL H. OGILVIE.


“The 0.D.”: Jim Doddy, a fairly well
set-up humper of bluey who believed in
keeping himself clean and tidy, witn tap
result that a lot of people doubted if he
was a real swagman, was broke in Back.
Dingo one blazing day. He put the acid
on Horrigan, of the solitary pub, but
Horrigan was as adamantine as the guns
that reduced the Danish fleet in Cowper's
poem. Disconsolate, Jim Doddy roosted
under a pepperina and brooded. Pres-
ently, with a somewhat secretive air, he
entered the little post office and dis-
patched a telegram, though he possessed
not a penny. Then Jim Doddy got his
swag and went along the road towards
Bigger Dingo, a mile or so, where he
waited until a car came along and gave
him a lift. An hour later, with his swag
up, Jim Doddy stepped on the verandah
of Norton’s pub at Bigger D, and was
promptly invited by Norton to sink a pint.
“Good eh?” said Norton. Jim
Doddy nodded. “Have another?” Jim
Doddy had two more, then made a
motion towards his pocket. “Aw, never
mind about that,” laughed Norton, and
pulled a fourth. Jim Doddy then with-
drew and went, a trifle wavery, to Tel-
ford’s pub, where the same procedure was
followed. Presently, as Jim Doddy made
his way happily to camp on the creek,
Telford Went to Norton and said “Well,
that’s fixed him. Just as-well Horrigan
sent that wire.” “Yair,” grinned Norton,
fishing a telegram from his pocket and
handing it over. It read “Norton, Bigger
Dingo.—Pure food inspector got up as
swagman been here. Heading your way.
Tip Telford. Horrigan.” But it wasn’t
that which made Jim Doddy grin owlishly
as he composed himself in the shade. He
was imagining what Horrigan would say
when the postmaster slipped across and
demanded payment for the telegram.
* * * *
“Gill Guy”: A traveller passing through
some of the Wilson River country in s.-w.
Queensland pulled up opposite Wally’s
place and remarked: “You blokes are
pretty up to date out here. I see you’ve
got a tiled roof on the house.” “Them
ain’t tiles,” said Wal, “they’re fish scales.
Caught him in the waterhole over there.
Used a mare and foal for bait and when
we pulled him out with four teams of
bullocks the water went down five feet in
the hole!”
* * * »
“Munja”: The Dyaks of Borneo com-
mercialise their latent barbarity profit-
ably. Finding tortoiseshell a paying pro-
position, the Dyak hunts the hawksbilli
turtle diligently. When caught, the un-
lucky reptile is dumped upside down on
the kerosi panas (literally “the hot seat”),
an iron plate covered with sand, under
which a fire is lit. Action of the heat
causes the scales to peel off and the turtle,
more dead than alive, is tossed back into
the sea. Object of this merciless treat-
ment is twofold: the shell sells for good
silver dollars, and the turtle may live to
grow new shell for the next round-up.
* * * *
“Solitude”; I had suggested bringing
a big mob of cattle off the tops the fol-
lowing week as the season threatened
“By Frost , sir. We never did this at Henley!”
early snow. Seventyfiver didn’t agree.
“It means leavin’ the job we’re on,” he
argued. “Besides, it’s too early to get
’em yet.” “Not a year like this,” I
pointed out. “Y’ know the trouble we’ve
had through leaving ’em late, and it’s up
to us to see they hold condition.” “Yair,
but we’ll be short o’ feed before spring.”
I pointed out that there was plenty out
on Brumby Creek. And so the argument
went on. At half past nine neither of us
had got anywhere, and I retired, thinking
up more overwhelming arguments with
which to batter him in the morning.
Must have been about three hours later
that the bunch of Herefords nosed their
way round the hut, and one old girl
separated from her calf parked against
the door and began airing her woes. I
endured it for a few minutes, then looked
towards the opposite bunk. Seventy-
fiver slept on. Determined that I wasn’t
getting up to course the brute without
the old coot even knowing about it, I
rolled a blanket round my ears and
waited. Five minutes of low mooing,
then the bally stuck her nose inside the
open door and sent forth a series of ear-
splitting bellows that seemed to rock the
hut like an earthquake. At last there
was movement from the other bunk.
“Yair, I know all that, Sol,” came a
sleepy voice, “but y’ gotta admit there’s
damn good feed on them tops.” I got up.
* * * *
“Zake”: Sam, taking advantage of the
full moon, was out after possums. Two
seconds after firing his opening shot there
rang through the scrub a man’s scream —
a far more horrifying sound at night than
even a woman’s. Something icy surged
along Sam’s spinal column. The scream
must have come from the old hatter who,
he now remembered someone saying, had
his camp around here. But Sam had fired
at the fork of a tree 30 feet up. Surely
the hatter didn’t doss up a tree! Recover-
ing from his momentary shock, Sam tore
through the scrub, guided by loud groans.
Arriving at the foot of a gum he beheld
a small bearded man getting slowly to his
knees. Around his neck was a thick
knotted rope, and at the other frayed end
which he held in his hand he was goggling
stupidly. Sam realised in a flash what
had happened. The hatter must have been
standing on a near-by stump, the rope
around his neck and over the high limb
of the gum, and just as he jumped off to
hang himself Sam’s bullet had severed
the rope, the would-be suicide falling in
a heap. As the hatter looked across at
Sam he straightened up ; then, white with
rage, he snarled “You an’ yer flamin’ wild
shootin’ at night—cripes, a man mighta
fell an’ broke his blanky neck.! ”
* * * *
“City Lights”: Possibly those New
Guinea fowls that had been denuded of
practically all their plumage (B. 3/10/’45)
were really brought to that condition by
a sense of over-hospitality on the part of
their owners and feast-givers. With all
the poultry plucked ready, merely requir-
ing to be decapitated and drawn to be
jplaced in the oven, half of the caterer’s
anxieties would be eliminated —the spectre
of more guests arriving than had been
expected would be robbed of its terrors.
Of course, it was a bit hard on the birds.
* * * *
“Propalong”: We might have over-
looked Ben’s habit of spitting on the floor
and of keeping a polecat disguised as a
cattledog under his bunk, but his favorite
theme couldn’t be overlooked. For Ben
was a water diviner with a touching faith
in his own powers and a distressing lack
of reticence on the subject. Night after
night we’d hear about the streams he’d
located, the fortunes he’d made for squat-
ters, and, above all, Ben’s analyses of
his own powers. “It’s electricity, that’s
what it is,” he’d confide. “Electricity—
I’m chockful of it. An’ I can prove it.
Y’ know ol’ Watkins, that owns Mun-
derunya? Well, he’s got one o’ them
flamin’ big short-wave wireless sets—
takes about enough electricity to run it
as’d work a ten-stand shearin’ plant.
Well” That was about as far as we
ever let him go until the night Tommy
camped with us. Tommy has a reputation
for squashing nuisances, so we let Ben
reel off the yarn about how he’d stood
for three solid hours holding the wires
for the big set, the batteries being flat
and the Watkins youngsters and their
school cobbers wanting dance music, and
emanating a current that kept the music
at full volume. After that he’d appar-
ently made a habit of cruising round and
acting as a spare power supply for people
with dud batteries. Then Tommy cut in.
“Yair, I can see how y’ musta done it,
Ben,” he said earnestly. “But what I
want t’ know is: how d’ y’ get on when
y’ go all static-y? Does it knock you
or the set about?” If you ever meet
Ben say g’day and ask “How’s the static
t’day, Ben?” But do your asking from
the back of a fast horse.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: In tfie hay paddock Joe
pitches frantically, and the sheaves go up
"Look at it; and not a coupon to my name!"
in an unbroken linfe so fast and close to-
gether that it is impossible to shove a
cigarette paper between them; Harry is
building the load like a robot with seven
pairs of arms. As the last sheaf hits the
wagon Joe whips up the horses and they
dash madly to the stack. It is the last
load, and rain has been threatening all
day. The sheaves whistle through the air
again and the old man, topping the stack,
is kept going at such a pace that he has
no time to perspire or pay his usual
homage to the antecedents of the saffron
thistles he finds in the sheaves. Soon the
stack is completed and the weights are
hung just as the deluge breaks. “Nice
goih’, boys,” the old man smirks, stand-
ing in the open to let the rain soak him.
“I’m glad y’ tore into it like that to beat
the weather.” “Square up, Pop,” growls
Joe. “Me an’ Harry are orf to the dance
t’night. We hadta finish in time to get
cleaned up an’ ready,”
* * * *
“Old Hand”: Tell “Bughouse” (B.
21/11/ ’45) and “Betcha” they appear to
be clear “off centre” on rabbit-control.
“M.U.R.” was on the right track when
recommending the use of cyanide gas in
hollow trees and logs; but holes and
cracks need not be plugged. The truth
is that the only legal form in which hydro-
cyanic acid gas (cyanide gas) can be used
for rabbits in Australia is cyanogas, a
very fine heavier-than-air dust. Blown
into a hollow tree or log it ends the life
of Bunny in a few seconds ; blown into a
warren, it coats all the galleries, includ-
ing the lowest, with dust. Any Bunny that
isn’t immediately knocked crowds into
the dead ends, which always incline up-
wards, and the gas released from the dust,
being lighter than air, rises and diffuses
into dead ends; so exit the last-jammed
survivor. Heavy fumes and gases go to
the bottom and stay there, and are soon
absorbed in the soil, but every particle
of cyanogas is a gas factory that lasts.
* * * *
“Zake”; Most people regard the white
cockatoo as the most likely winner of
the Avian Longevity stakes. Specimens
have been known to top the century —the
featherless ancient that used to be a resi-
dent of the pub at Tom Ugly’s Point
(Sydney) died at 101. Yet the brolga,
that festive, dancing bird of the plains,
sometimes reaches 120 —some claim up
to 150. The native companion is rarely
kept in captivity, and that may give him
the edge on the talker.
♦ * * *
“Ess Ecks”: Sogie natives do tackle
vicious species of sharks (B. 21/11 /’45).
Young Samoans are dabsters at it. A
pair of them took me out in their canoe ;
off the tail of a reef they laid aside the
paddles, and one adjusted his diving
glasses while the other picked up a stick
with a lot of coconut shells tied to it.
Lowering this over the side, he began to
jerk it up and down under the water, ex-
plaining that the vibrations caused by the
shells knocking together approximated
those made by a school of mackerel, an
irresistible lure for the shark. Sure
enough a shadowy torpedo soon began
to weave around in the green depths
below, rising towards the rattle ; when
this happened the second native slipped
silently over the far side of the canoe
with a big sheath-knife in his hand. A
wild swirl followed; then the native
slipped into the canoe again, his right
arm raw and bleeding where the rasp-
like hide of the shark had scraped it.
A second later a 9ft. shark broke the
surface, with entrails hanging from an
18in. gash in its belly. We let it thrash
until it died, then lassoed it and towed
it ashore. The natives offered to teach
me the knack, saying it wasn’t very diffi-
cult, but I declined.
THE BELLS OF WARRNAMBOOL.
I remember how in summer all the briars came
And the hillsides flared in color with the yellow
English broom. ,
There were peaches by the quarry, where
played till day was done, . ■
And the sheoaks in the garden sighed agains
the setting sun. . , . .
I remember boxthorn berries red as paint, ana
Mother there, , , , „
Laughing when we looped them through tier
rich and shining hair. . ,
I remember how we listened, staying out ot
bed by leave, . .
To hear the bells of Warrnambool ring out
on Christmas Eve.
The sea tides crooned their night song from
Killarney to the beach
Where the shy crabs walked in darkness on the
Merri Merri reach,
And high above the sounding sea the great
Cross hung in light— .
We thought its stars looked straight at us
from out the giant night.
We moved to touch our mother’s hand, to teel
its comfort dear,
Against the lonely distance and the moment
of our fear.
And with the touch the first sweet sound came
like a swift reprieve:
We heard the bells of Warrnambool ring out
on Christmas Eve.
Ah, that was time of make-believe, a happy,
happy time .
When a broken cart was a railway tram and a
tree was there to climb;
And we knew of one who’d come to us in
scarlet cloak and hood,
With whiskers white, in the dead of night, if we
were “very good”; .
Who brought us things of the heart’s desire,
on jingling sleigh-team borne —
A sword or doll, a bag of sweets, a trumpet
to thrill the morn.
And there we’d stand by the open door, silent
under the eave,
To hear the bells of Warrnambool ring out on
Christmas Eve.
Now, though the half of a century by time
is borne away
And., far we are from the pleasant things we
knew in childhood’s day,
There are clear young eyes that challenge us
across the gulf of years,
And the laugh of a boy is the finest sound that
still the old world hears.
For this is the day of the child again and we
may recall awhile
The briar bush and the bunyip’s hole and the
long-gone mother-smile;
And wait again as we waited then, while stars
their magic weave,
To hear the bells of Warrnambool ring out on
Christmas Eve.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
A Jap on Jap Mistakes.
(The Japs repeatedly made seemingly incred-
ibly stupid mistakes in their warfare. These
were written off at the time as just another
example of the strange working of the Oriental
mind, but in this “Saturday Evening Post”
article Lieut. S. P. Walker, U.S.N.R., reports
a Japanese officer's explanations .)
Why did Japanese fighter pilots never
learn teamwork tactics? Why did they
allow Task Force 38 to cruise up and
down the shores of Japan without trying
to strike it a major blow? Why did they
fail to pull off big, co-ordinated kami-
kaze attacks? Why did Jap pilots often
indulge in apparently pointless acro-
batics? Why were a few Jap pilots hot
as a pistol, others absurdly inept?
At Mikasa Hall, Yokosuka, I requested
a talk with Captain Yoshito Kobayashi,
commandant of the Naval Air Base there.
The captain, who once served as a fighter
pilot aboard the Akagi—later sunk at
Midway—had also commanded the 253rd
Zero squadron at Rabaul, and had been
in charge of the Japanese pilot-training
programme. As commandant of the
Yokosuka Air Base, he had directed in-
terceptor work against marauding U.S.
’planes. If he didn’t have the answers
nobody would.
I told Kobayashi I had been in the
Yorktown off Okinawa and in the later
Third Fleet strikes against the home
islands. Everybody aboard, from the
task group commander down, had won-
dered why, when the Japs clearly knew
our position day after day, they hadn't
thrown a big kamikaze attack at us, a
co-ordinated attack with perhaps fifty
’planes, instead of dribbling their ’planes
out in twos and threes.
The captain thought a minute. “In
the first place,” he said, “we could not
afford to waste many ’planes. Also, we
were short of fuel. And also, you could
have detected a group of ’planes more
easily with your radar. We believed a
few ’planes, coming low over the water
or through the clouds, would be”—he
groped for a phrase—“more economical.”
I pointed out that these ’planes were
almost always shot down, and that, even
though we could easily have detected a
group of ’planes, they could have fanned
out and attacked simultaneously from all
levels and all directions. The very idea
of such attacks had frankly given the
U.S. Navy gooseflesh. Naturally, we
would have shot down most of the ’planes,
but a few would certainly have slipped
through. And a few could have given the
carriers a pretty severe working over.
Kobayashi blinked rapidly as he con-
sidered this, and took a deep drag on
his cigarette.
“No,” he said; “we had another plan.
We were going to wait until you were
committed to a landing in Japan. Then
we were going to strike —and strike very
hard.”
When the captain said this, he sud-
denly lunged tensely forward and
clenched both his fists. Then, recovering,
he grinned nervously, baring several
gold teeth, and sank back.
“No,” he repeated, “when we found
out exactly where you were going to in-
vade, we had a plan to send out our
entire kamikaze strength—more than
2000 ’planes—in wave after wave.”
What damage did he estimate this
would have inflicted?
“Fifty to 75 per cent, of your force,”
he said. “All the carriers. Many other
ships as well.” He added that they
would have saved some 600 of their best
new fighter-’planes for a last-ditch aerial
defence of the homeland. All the rest of
the Jap navy ’planes would have dived
on our fleet in a single day.
I said from this it was evident that the
peace must have caught the Jap navy
and air force by surprise; otherwise
they’d not have been so careful to save
up their ’planes.
“Yes, yes,” Kobayashi said. “Alto-
gether by surprise.”
Had any of his interceptor ’planes at
Yokosuka been used for kamikaze
attacks?
“At the end of the war,” Kobayashi
said, “all Japanese ’planes were suicide
’planes. That is to say, if they found
units of your fleet, they were to dive on
them.”
Why was it, I said, that the Japs had
such a penchant for hiding their ’planes
under haystacks, trees and farm build-
ings, miles from their airfields, at times
when they critically needed every ’plane
they could muster? They did this in the
later stages of the Philippine fighting,
and again at Kyushu and Honshu. A
’plane five miles from its repair shops and
runways is temporarily the equivalent of
no ’plane at all. Were they saving them
just for the sake of saving them?
“We had reasons,” Kobayashi said.
“In the Philippines, we hoped to be able
to reinforce and make a stand. We were
saving the ’planes for that. But because
of supply difficulties we were never able
to reinforce to any extent. In the home
islands we were holding everything for
the invasion—’planes, fuel, pilots. If you
had invaded the fight would have been
very bitter.”
What was the Jap reaction to Mits-
cher’s first big carrier strike at Tokyo
in February?
“Among our civilians there was great
consternation, he said. “But the navy
and army expected it. In fact, we ex-
pected it much sooner than February.”
I reminded him that Tokyo Rose had
predicted the time of the strike almost
to the day, and told him our Navy had
been mystified as to why the Japs failed
to attack our carriers, particularly when
they continued their strikes on the second
day.
“I must confess,” Kobayashi
must confess we did not locate your force
in time. The weather was unfavorable,
and our radar was very poor. Compared
to your radar ours was very poor.”
I told him we had never been able to
understand why Japanese fighter pilots
didn’t take a leaf from our book and
employ teamwork tactics. They had had
ample opportunity to see how it worked.
Yet they rarely fought as divisions, but
almost always pref erred individual attacks,
Illingworth in London “Daily Mail.”
YOURS, BRITANNIA!
in which they were helpless against our
four-plane weaving manoeuvres.
This was perhaps the most decisive
single factor in keeping (he U.S. Navy’s
ratio of Japanese ’planes shot down at
about six to one.
Kobayashi sighed and nodded slowly.
“There were several reasons. First, our
radio communication between ’planes was
not good. We worked hard to make it
better, but it was never good. Second,
we had manoeuvrable ’planes and tried to
use them to advantage in single fights.
Third —this was most important—we did
not have many able pilots. At the end
of the war, especially, this was true. It
takes much training to develop good—
what did you call it? —teamwork tactics.”
Why did the quality of Jap pilots fall
off so amazingly fast?
“Again, there were several reasons. We
lost many more pilots—at Midway,
Guadalcanal, Rabaul, Truk —than we had
expected to lose. But more than that was
our lack of training ’planes and fuel.”
How many training ’planes did the Japs
have in the last year of the war?
“Only about 3000.”
When did the fuel situation become
acute?
“In June, 1944, we had to stop alto-
gether using gasoline for training. We
used alcohol instead —alcohol made from
potatoes. It was very poor grade. Great
consumption and little power. Even the
alcohol we could not afford to use freely
for training.”
Why did the gasoline situation get so
desperate?,
“The loss of tankers, to ’planes and-
submarines. We had to import gasoline.’
Under these circumstances, how much
actual flying time did the. average
Japanese pilot receive before he went into
combat?
“Only 60 to 80 hours in training
’planes. And only 50 hours in combat
types.”
I told him the average U.S. carrier
flier had a total of about 600 hours in
trainers and combat types before he
entered the war zones.
“I am sure of that,” he said. “They are
very skilful. When the war started and
we had fuel we gave our own carrier
pilots 300 hours of training. But in the
last year” His voice trailed off, and
he made a small gesture of futility with
an upturned palm.
One thing that continually amazed our
carrier pilots, I told him, was the extra-
ordinary unevenness in Jap pilots. One
day they would run into a crowd that
fought reasonably well. Another day
they’d plough into a group that didn’t seem
to know their elbow from an aileron.
. “Well,” he said, almost wistfully, “we
still had a few of our good pilots. Pilots
trained before Midway. Most were in-
structors. Sometimes they flew in com-
bat. But not many were left.”
All during the war one thing that
American fliers found inexplicable was
the Jap pilots’ fondness for needless acro-
batics. Often a Jap ’plane far out on the
horizon would give an exhibition of rolls
and loops and wing-overs that would
have done credit to a stunt-flier at a
county fair. Frequently the acrobatics
enabled our pilots to overtake the Japs
and shoot them down. What the hell,
our pilots wanted to know, were they try-
ing to prove? Were they just showing
off?
“Sometimes perhaps they were being
childish,” Kobayashi said. “But usually
we did acrobatics as signals. You may
not believe this, but our radios were so
bad that often we had to signal by rolls,
dives, wing-overs.” He illustrated the
manoeuvres with his hands and laughed
scornfully.
Why was it that the Japs didn’t use
self-sealing gasoline tanks and more
armor in their ’planes? Without them
they flamed and often exploded after
only a short burst from our .50-calibre
wing-guns.
“It was not because we did not have
self-sealing tanks,” Kobayashi said. “We
had such tanks, and the armor of course
we had. But they would have added too
much weight and would have lessened
manoeuvrability. As you know, you
cannot have everything in a ’plane. Our
engines were not powerful enough to
give us both manoeuvrability and heavy
equipment. Also, .our fuel was not
powerful enough.”
What did the captain consider the
worst tactical or strategic blunders the
Japanese had made in the entire war?
The captain rubbed his cheek slowly
with his thumb. “Midway,” he said at
last, “was our greatest defeat. But it
was not necessarily a blunder. Simply we
were defeated. I believe our greatest
blunder was at Guadalcanal. If at
Guadalcanal we had been one week
earlier with many ’planes, fighters,
bombers we probably could have pre-
vented your landing. The delay was not
excusable. If we had not lost Guadal-
canal I think the course of the war—
certainly the length of the war would
have been much changed.”
When did Japanese naval and military
leaders secretly concede among them-
selves that Japan had lost the war?
“After the Second Battle of the
Philippine Sea. When we lost most of
what remained of our fleet we knew the
eventual outcome of the war would be
—unfavorable. Okinawa was an anti-
climax.”
What did the Japanese dread most —
our battleships or our big Essex-class
carriers? . „
“The carriers. Always the carriers.
“The day of the battleship is finished,”
Kobayashi went on, “except for certain
minor things. With your great new bomb
all ships are less important. But as long
as there is an ocean there must be a
navy. Especially for supply and trans-
port.” .
All things considered, what, in the
captain’s opinion, was the biggest single
cause for the Japanese defeat?
“It was,” the captain replied, “many
things. But most important were your
carriers. Without your carrier victories
we should still be fighting you in the
jungles of the South Pacific. Your
carriers isolated our best bases and gave
you bases from which you could strike
our homeland. They reduced our own
air force. They sank our carriers.”
Bombing Was Decisive.
(From a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” report.)
Allied strategic bombing of Germany
was the decisive factor in the European
war, and “its imprint on the German
nation will be lasting,” a civilian survey
board has reported.
The board was assigned more than a
year ago by the U.S. War Department
to assess the strategic bombing of Ger-
many, which, it reports, cost the Ger-
mans 300,000 civilians dead, 780,000
wounded and. 7,500,000 homeless.
The increasing pressure of the air
assault on the German economy, the
report states, brought the Nazis to a
point where the war would have ended
in a few months without actual invasion
of Germany proper.
During the European war the Allies
loosed nearly 2,700,000 tons of bombs,
flew more than 1,440,000 bomber sorties
and 2,638,000 fighter sorties. A total of
79,265 Americans and 79,281 British were
lost in the air war. The United States
lost more than 18,000 ’planes and the
British 22,000.
The report adds that only 20 per cent,
of bombs aimed at precision targets fell
within the target area.
Poles Look West.
(From a report by a N.Y. “Times” corre-
spondent in Warsaw.)
Although Russia is manifestly trying to
make a political and economic satellite
out of Poland and reverse her traditional
leaning toward the west, ironically it is
toward the west that Poland is looking
for economic assistance for reconstruc-
tion.
Russia is pulling the strings of Poland’s
Red Provisional Government. Even in
Poland’s present dire economic straits a
large amount of her industrial production
is going to Russia. Daily newspapers,
ostensibly Polish but following the propa-
ganda line of Russia, assail the United
States and Britain, and daily Russian
soldiers tell Poles that their friends are
to the east, not the west.
Yet by acknowledgment even of top
members of the Provisional Government
Poland is dependent for reconstruction
on foreign capital (which is hardly com-
ing from Russia), is not even counting on
Russia for the bulk of her industrial sup-
plies in the long run and feels particu-
larly dependent upon the United States
and Britain for the machinery and heavy
equipment with which to get the wheels
of her industry started again. A Polish
delegation will soon go to Washington
and ask for money.
Industry traditionally has constituted
less than one-third of the Polish economy,
but its importance fs now greatly magni-
fied. First, the recovery of the agricul-
tural two-thirds of the country, which is
now desperately short of essentials like


NOW!EC AN BE TOlPf
SHELL TANKERS
converted to
AIRCRAFT CARRIERS
M. V RAPANA
Was the
FIRST CONVERTED
m
ms ■■
&S s<& « . s , » > 2&. < i¥<i
mm
• S *>**;. ;. v - • >s£ ;
jt .OR v - ;
A~"~ ■■
wmtmsmt
iSS
With the introduction of these ships there is no
record of a concentrated U-Boat attack on a
convoy under their protection —A real triumph
of Improvisation.
You can be sure of SHELL
THE SHELL COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Great Britain),
■XL - AJC
OK-VC
These World Famous Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
SAUCES
SOUPS *
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories cmd Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies;— /
SHIPPING INSURANCE
, CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER MERCHANTS
machinery and transport as well as con-
sumer goods, depends greatly on the re-
covery of industry.
Polish industry has been considerably
enlarged by the addition of western terri-
tories. Finally, the Red regime, leaning
more toward the workers, who are better
material for Communism than farmers,
aspires to boost industry to a position
equal to agriculture in the national
economy within a few years.
It is understood that Russia has en-
couraged the Poles to go ahead and get
as much assistance as they can from the
western Powers. This puts the United
States and Britain on the spot between
leaving Poland distressed and a hospit-
able vacuum for Communism or, in
effect, fattening a cow that the Russians
are in a position to milk—and indications
are that the Russians are not particularly
solicitous about any region under their
sway having a higher standard of living
than obtains in Russia.
High-placed observers, however, see,
besides this dilemma, a possibly advan-
tageous alternative for the United States
—a chance to diverge from the Santa
Claus role and in return for aid to Poland
demand a quid pro quo ; namely, adjust-
ment of certain conditions, like the pre-
sent suppression of free speech and free
and real political democracy, to conform
with what the Big Three have already
underwritten at Potsdam.
Some Fallacies Debunked.
(By the noted writer on world affairs and holder
of the Nobel Peace Prize Norman Angell, in
N.Y. “Times:'’)
(1) There is widespread opposition,
particularly in America, to regarding the
western democracies as a bloc, on the
ground that this woulcf intensify the sus-
picions of Russia and split the world into
rival spheres of influence, an obstacle to
“One World.”
(2) Progressives both in the United
States and Britain tend to insist that all
nations now desiring independence should
be granted it, practically without quali-
fication, and promised it immediately,
empires must be liquidated, colonialism
brought to an end.
(3) Progressives everywhere tend also
to insist that future peace depends upon
our victory being used to promote certain
social, political and economic doctrines
and being made the instrument of revolu-
tionary change.
This set of purposes or principles
creates at first sight such an impression
of high-minded idealism as to silence not
merely criticism but any real analysis or
examination. Yet, I suggest, they embody
contradictions and fallacies such that any
policy based upon them as a whole is
bound to fail. Bad economic conditions,
political oppression, imperialism, uncor-
rected injustice, denial by ruling or privi-
leged classes of popular right are such
vast evils that we naturally feel they must
constitute the main cause of war and that
the first step to peace should be their cor-
rection. But this puts the cart before the
horse. The evils are much more the result
than the cause of war, which is rooted
mainly in the international anarchy, the
struggle of nations for preponderant indi-
vidual power which makes the security
of one the insecurity of another. We
must correct the economic and social
evils, but they won’t be corrected unless
we can prevent war, and we cannot pre-
vent war if we disregard plain facts of
human experience in determining its cause
and cure.
Note the outstanding facts of recent
experience. When Germany began the
World War in 1914 it was not because
the German people were suffering greater
poverty than others or were oppressed
by the Serbians, the Russians, the French,
whom they attacked. The German stand-
ard of life was high and German trade
was expanding.
Nor was Germany a colony fighting
to free itself from imperial masters. Nor
was Japan when it began war on China.
Nor was Italy a colony of Ethiopia.
Neither world war was caused by the
revolt of colonial peoples. Whatever the
offences of Britain in India or in Africa,
the unrest of the peoples there played
no part in precipitating either world war
except in so far—and the qualification is
important —as Germany argued, which
she did on both occasions, that the British
Empire was in process of disintegration,
moribund, therefore a relatively easy prey.
Japan may have argued similarly.
Internal unrest did not result in wars
in colonial India, but did in Free China,
which encouraged Japanese aggression.
There is no evidence that the withdrawal
of Britain from India or Africa would
have saved them from invasions like those
which China actually did suffer ; and if
Germany or Japan or both had replaced
Britain—as they probably would have
done if the British Empire had been liqui-
dated—there is little evidence to show
that the Indian or African peoples would
have gained in freedom or welfare by the
change.
The people in Germany and Japan
fought bravely, but it was not against
their own ruling class or to end a colonial
status, or to vindicate popular right.
Nor did unresolved gfievances provoke
the world wars on the Allied side. When
Britain (with France) went to war in 1914
and again in 1939 it was not because
Britain herself was suffering oppression
at Germany’s hands or had been attacked.
Britain declared war upon Germany
because, if by continued aggression Ger-
man power grew, Britain would not have
been able to defend* her elementary rights,
The same motives moved France and
America.
Nor did Germany’s aggressive policy
arise—as we seem to fear Russian aggres-
sion might arise—from the ganging up
of the western democracies against her.
The reverse comes nearer to the truth.
Germany was tempted by her belief that
Europe was so divided that it could not
possibly resist her.
If, after 1914, the chief democracies—
the United States, Britain, France, the
British Dominions—had been able to stand
together unitedly against aggression what-
ever its source, and to form a bloc as the
nucleus of a larger international security
system, neither Germany nor Japan nor
Italy would have adopted policies which
landed us in a second world war.
The isolationism which prompted
Britain and America to reject this policy,
and America to repudiate Wilson, obvi-
ously did not arise from any desire to
gang up against Russia, for there was no
ganging up. Moreover, Britain and
France did not go to war against Russia ;
but did against Germany. We sometimes
forget that.
We are now asking Russia to trust
her future security to a world organisa-
tion based on western principles of demo-
cracy—representation of all States, big
and little, majority decision, public discus-
sion and so forth—about which she is
frankly sceptical and which she does not
apply within her own State.
Our first job, therefore, is to demon-
strate that our principles can work as be-
tween ourselves. Until we do this Russia
has little reason either to trust her security
to our kind of international organisation
or pay much regard to our views, and will
be tempted to adhere to the older security
methods by which a small duchy has
grown into the greatest territorial empire
on earth, able perhaps in its vast spaces
to swallow the atomic bomb as once those
spaces swallowed the armies of Napoleon,
Any western combination of any kind
should always be open to Russia. Its
formation is not an alternative to a uni-
versal system but a road thereto ; an in-
dispensable stage in the formation of an
international society of 60 or 70 nations,
European, American, Asiatic, African, of
widely different cultures, standards,
habits, who obviously cannot suddenly
achieve harmony any more than a Con-
gress or Parliament could, except by the
process of like-minded gathering; into
groups, coalescing into parties which can
adjust differences by give and take,
The policy of American sphere of in-
fluence asserted in the Monroe Doctrine
has not lessened the independence of the
20-odd peoples it has helped to defend.
The Pan-American bloc did not involve
conflict with British power, as it is feared
a democratic bloc of the west would in-
volve conflict with Russia. Indeed, it was
Britain who suggested the doctrine and
supported it.
It is open to Russia, without offence to
the west, to apply, the Monroe principles ;
to say that an attack upon any one of the
nations within her orbit would be re-
garded as an attack upon herself. If
Russia leaves it at that it will be no
obstacle to a larger international organis-
ation.
The Monroe Doctrine would not have
worked, however, if the United States,
insisting upon “friendly Governments” in,
S ay, Mexico, had selected the Govern-
ment from Mexicans gathered in Wash-
ington and then imposed it.
We agree that absolute sovereignty is
incompatible with any international
society or any international Government;
that “sovereignty must go,” Yet those
who repeat this most readily tell us in
the next breath that everybody must be
sovereign—that is, independent: Malaya,
Java, Korea, Indo-China, Burma, India,
Even Scotland has its independence move-
ment; and Wales ; which would bring


Britain back to the Heptarchy utterly un-
able to defend itself against a Hitler, so
that none of the nations of Britain, or of
the Continent would have had any inde-
pendence at all. Incidentally, a British
Dominion has more independence than a
nation could have under any system of
world Federation.
The Union [U.S.A.] is today enlarging
the scope of its dominion and using its
power to govern great populations like
those of Japan and Western Germany,
even against their will, imposing a rule
which may last for many years, even
generations. Which would seem to show
that there can be good and useful im-
perialism as well as bad.
But the war itself has emphasised the
limits of international or supranational
power. We know that nations, founded
on very different social and political
theories, can co-operate and pool their
power in defence of the common right of
each to live under the system its prefers.
We know the nations can do this because
we have been doing it during the war:
Russia’s right to remain Communist was
vindicated with the help of capitalist
America ; America’s right to remain free
enterprise has been vindicated with the
help of Communist Russia.
But this co-operation would have been
impossible if we had assumed that our
common power must promote either the
one doctrine or the other; and will be
impossible in the future if we pledge our
power, not to defence of the right to
national life, the right of each to choose,
but to some special social or economic
theory; if we demand of Russia that she
abandon Communism or of Britain that
she abandon her mild Parliamentary
Socialism or her Commonwealth, or her
Empire, or her Monarchism.
Yet various Rightist and Leftist schools
demand one or other of these things.
Already the Left in England has been
disturbed by statements from the Ameri-
can Right that there can be no financial
aid to promote a British social revolution ;
and the British Right, with much of the
Left also, is disturbed by constant de-
mands from American Leftists for the
liquidation of that Commonwealth and
Empire which alone enabled Britain to
stand up in 1940 against the Hitlerian
thrust, giving time to others to rally their
forces and save their freedom.
’Planes v. Trains.
(From Washington “Post.”)
With the reduction in rates approved
by the Civil Aeronautics Board, Wash-
ingtonians may now obtain airline pas-
senger service with meals at a lower cost
than first-class railway with a lower berth.
According to a # Pennsylvania-Central
Airlines spokesman, the company’s rates,
which have been cut from 20 to 50 per
cent., make a trip to Pittsburgh by air
possible for $8.65. The cost for a first-
class railway ticket, plus a lower berth,
is $12.74.
A flight to Los Angeles, which is
covered in less than 16 hours, now costs
$111.35, in comparison to the train ride
of four days at the cost of $120.55.
Both American and P.C.A. lines an-
announced that with the rates now made
effective passengers can fly to Chicago
for $27.25. The railway fare is $31.70.
Shockingly Old-fashioned.
C From the “Saturday Evening Post.")
In a London dispatch to New York
“Times” appeared this extraordinary
summary of why nobody got together
with anybody at the late London Confer-
ence of Foreign Ministers:
They are using different methods of dip-
lomacy entirely: Russia the new aggressive,
realistic, ruthless, but very clear and obvious
type of diplomacy; and Britain and the
United States and Franc® the
pseudo-chivalric, gentlemanly give-and-take
style, based on a faith in human nature,
promises and treaties, which the other
school feels has been thoroughly discredited
by centuries of human history.
If it is really true that “faith in human
nature, promises and treaties” is old-
fashioned and “discredited by centuries
of human history,” it is not clear to us
how diplomacy, or indeed any sort of
workable relation between nations, can
exist at all. Certainly there is nothing
very modern in the notion that the peace
can be kept only by a constant retaking
of the inventory of power. Hitler had
that idea, and we thought we had beaten
it out of the German skull. Now we are
told that Molotov is up to date when he
uses the same techniques.
It may be a digression, but it is our
guess that one reason for the supposed
discrediting of Anglo-American diplo-
macy at London is not that it was so
old-fashioned, but that it was riot old-
fashioned enough. The old-fashioned
diplomat did, after all, know what he
was talking about in matters of detail.
In recent months, it appears, the re-
formers of the U.S. State Department
have been so concerned with hiring so-
called liberals and persons satisfactory to
the pink columnists and radio pundits
that they haven’t laid much stress on
plain, non-ideological knowledge of the
facts. Bare-knuckled as is Mr. Molotov’s
brand of diplomacy, we may be very sure
that his Under-Secretaries know Istria
from Austria.
Granting the appalling difficulties at
London, it must be said that the emphasis
is not likely to be on technical prepara-
tion when the main concern of diplomats
is to avoid being attacked as “undemo-
cratic” by some windbag with a radio
sponsor.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
According to reports reaching Washington
the _ principal reason for danger of a German
uprising can be found in the behavior of Ameri-
can occupation forces. Some officers are
keeping German mistresses, returning Ameri-
cans report, and apparently are absorbing Ger-
man viewpoints from them, just as fraternising
Gls are being won over to the enemy. Even
more serious are reports of officer conspiracies
with German businessmen to profit from the
occupation. A typical story brought back:
An officer at one occupational headquarters
agreed to permit a German to reopen his retail
business on condition that the German
accepted only American occupation marks
from Gls patronising him. These marks were
to be turned over to the officer in exchange
lor Reichmarks (which he could buy up at
heavy discount). Under Army rules the officer
can send his profits home. Discovery of such
practices in the 3rd Army area may have been
one reason behind the removal of Lt.-Gen.
George Patton. But the damage has been
done, and Germans seem confident Americans
are their partners to such an extent that they
have little to fear.— Scripps-Haward Washing-
ton staff.
• * * *
The Labor Government’s passion for equality
somewhat marred the House of Commons vote
of thanks for victory to the fighting services.
The enormous cost of the atomic
bomb, $2,000,000,000, is given by those
who believe we can ‘‘stay ahead” in the
race as proof that other countries cannot
compete with us. Such a statement is a
half-truth which leads only to confusion.
In the first place, can we assume that
Russia, at least, realising the stakes in-
volved, would be deterred from building
atomic bombs because of their cost? In
the second place, the figure of
$2,000,000,000 is entirely misleading.
Four processes, all of which work, were
used to separate U- 235 and to manufac-
ture plutonium. According to officially
released figures, the plutonium plant at
Hanford cost only $400,000,000. Of this
a fair fraction went into the construction
of the towns of Richland and Hanford.
The $2,000,000,000 therefore represents
not what atomic bombs need to cost, but
rather what they happened to cost us
because we had to try several methods
for fear that some would not work. —
From a N.Y. ‘‘Herald Tribune” letter
signed by a group of leading U.S.
scientists.
No one doubts or deprecates the services and
sacrifices of the “common” man and woman
in this war, but big battalions alone never won a
victory without leadership of the highest
quality, as any fighting man knows. Not one
name was mentioned among the many out-
standing commanders Britain has produced in
this war. Nor was there any mention of
General Eisenhower’s supreme contribution to
victory by his genius for binding the hetero-
geneous Allied force into one victorious army.
The ancient Greeks, Romans and Hebrews
didn’t lack appreciation of genius and even
the modern Communists seem mindful of
their leaders’ part in victory, but Britain’s
chosen few must remain anonymous.— London
correspondent “Wall-street Journal,”
* * * $
Contrary to popular belief and for different
reasons, Russia appears to be as eager as the
United States to reduce the size of her army
of occupation in Germany. The American
pressure to reduce the occupation forces is
compounded of sentiment and the need for
economy and the reduction of taxes. The Rus-
sians, on the other hand, want to hasten de-
mobilisation because of the acute shortage of
man-power for agriculture and industry at
home. The British reluctance to withdraw
springs from the deep conviction that German
reform can be accomplished only by a show of
the Allies’ military force, and the military idea
that as long as large air and land forces must
be maintained, Germany is a better place than
the home island to train them. — Berlin corre-
spondent, N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
“A large number” of west-coast American
industrial workers would be interested in migrat-
ing to Australia, if the Australian Government
would offer a more specific statement of the
assistance it would give them, Norman Martin,
Agent-General to London for Victoria, said on
his way through San Francisco. Mr. Martin
said he was convinced That only quick com-
pletion of Australia’s migration policy is neces-
sary “in order to reap the harvest of people
now living in California who are interested in
moving to the Commonwealth.” Hundreds of
highly-skilled tradesmen, he added, had left
their homes in the Eastern United States to
go to the West Coast war plants, and he
thought it unlikely that permanent work could
be found for all of them where they are.
Thousands, he said, seemed reluctant to return
East, and “there was evidence that many would
like to go to Australia instead.”— N.Y.
“Herald Tribune.”
* * * ♦
A new automobile is to cost more than in
1942; much more than in 1939. At least
12,000,000 new cars are needed to meet pent-up
demands. No more than 4,000,000 will be made
in 1946. — “United States News.”
“The Chinese must have massive assistance
if they are to recover. Gen. Chiang told me
China could not produce enough to support
itself for five • years and that American aid
in addition to U.N.R.R.A. support was neces-
sary.”—Hugh Baillie, president U.S. United
Press.
* * * *
Both on housing and on civil aviation the
Churchill Government had outlined programmes
for quite a large share of State control. Now
the Labor Government has practically elimi-
nated private enterprise in favor of State con-
trol. Regarding tele-communications, anyone
who has experienced the efficiency of Ameri-
can service, compared with the British Govern-
ment telephone services, or who has contrasted
the British Post Office’s telegraph service with
European and American private cable com-
panies’ service to the United States, has no
doubt as to which is more efficient. Nor is it
likely that State-owned and -operated civil
aviation service will be superior to what
would have been provided by railroad and
shipping companies which have been devoted
entirely to transport problems for generations.
Ideologies are no criterion of efficiency, as
England may learn when it comes time for the
taxpayers to foot the bill for all these experi-
ments in State enterprise.— London corre-
spondent “Wall-street Journal.’ 1
* * * *
Canadian officials have been attempting to
estimate the effect which abolition of Empire
preferences would have on Canada’s trade with
Britain. For seven years preceding the war
Britain was Canada’s best customer. She
bought from Canada more than twice as much
as she sold to Canada. With the surpluses
resulting from her British trade, Canada was
able to finance her large imports from the
United States. It was a neat three-way busi-
ness. Basing their studies on the trading ex-
perience of 1938, economists in Canada’s De-
partment of Trade and Commerce estimate that
some 35 per cent, of Canada’s export trade
to Britain would suffer severe consequences if
Empire preference were to be removed.
Roughly 17 per cent, would be affected to a
lesser degree.— Washington “Post.”
• * # *
The war temporarily raised the eating and
wearing standards of a part of the population
—probably less than half—but not their hous-
ing standards; the country’s railway, auto and
motor-truck equipment deteriorated, domiciles
lacked repair and replacement, household
equipment per family declined, all manner of
personal services decreased. Steaks and sport
shirts are not the accurate measures of a
national standard of living.— “ Wall-street
Journal.”
* * * *
The spectre of low-priced American synthetic
rubber has been raised here in Singapore as one
of the many obstacles standing in the way of
improved living standards for the politically
awakening peoples of south-eastern Asia. In
Malaya, where rubber production is the back-
bone of the country’s economy, the cost of
living is more than five times higher than be-
fore the war, yet rubber planters are offering
only a fractional increase in wages to plantation
workers. The inability of rubber operators to
meet wage demands of labor is attributed
mainly to the low selling-price at which
Malayan rubber is pegged. There are several
factors behind this fixed quotation, but mani-
festly the necessity of meeting post-war com-
petition in synthetic rubber is one of the
biggest of them. In the words of a local Eng-
lish newspaper, “cheap rubber and plenty of
it” must be the slogan of the Malayan rubber
industry to cope with the American threat.
Cheap rubber, in turn, means cheap labor, and
cheap labor strikes at the roots of the pro-
gramme of Indonesian nationalists for a
better livelihood. — Singapore correspondent,
N.Y. “Herald Tribune.”
’& * 5 g
Army generals returning to the United States
find 30-day leave trips luxuriously planned for
them by War Department. They’re asked if
they want a home-town celebration, and if they
do it’s arranged. They and their families are
flown wherever they want to go, free. If there’s
no other place they want for a rest, they’re
given quarters for themselves and family at
White Sulphur Springs—also gratis. It’s for
generals only. — Scripps-Howard Washington
staff.
* * * *
About a year ago the British Prime Minister
wrote to Generalissimo Franco: “His Majesty’s
Government’s policy is firmly based on the
Anglo-Soviet treaty of 1942 and considers per-
manent Anglo-Russian collaboration, within the
framework of a future world organisation, as
essential not only to her own interests but also
to future peace and prosperity of Europe as
a whole.” The writer was Winston Churchill,
leader of the British Conservative party.
Recently the British Prime Minister and his
Foreign Secretary have made some very sharp
remarks and embarked on some very definite
actions as regards Soviet Russia. Both men
happen to be leaders of the British Labor party.
Mr. Attlee and Mr. Bevin have commented on
the very unusual meaning which is being given
to the word democracy in the East European
zone of Russian interests. Officially they have
criticised the Soviet methods of political re-
construction as applied to Rumania, Bulgaria
and Yugoslavia. In the parlance of the day,
therefore, Conservative Winston Churchill is a
fellow-traveller, and Laborites Attlee and Bevin
are Red-baiters. — N.Y. “Times.”
* * * *
France reminds me of an elderly lady, sitting
in the seclusion of her home, crying because
she has lost all of her lovers. She wants help
from everybody and is not willing to help her-
self. — Richard E. Berlin, president of Hearst's,
in N.Y. “Sunday Mirror.”
« * * *
At the present level of chaos in Germany it
is at least an even money bet that from 5 to 15
million German men, women and children are
going to freeze or starve to death before this
winter is over. There may be some who are
willing to argue that thi? is a just punishment
upon the German people for the suffering
which Hitler and his gang inflicted on the rest
of the world. If so, they should say so. They
should admit the consequences of the course
of action that is being taken in Germany and
not merely seek to defend it abstractly, on their
present thesis that the Germans cannot be
trusted to take part in an administration which
we [U.S.A.] and our allies are demonstrating
daily we are incapable of carrying on .—Chicago
“Tribune.”
♦ ♦ * *
One reason why there is optimism over the
ability of American industry to shift from war
to peace production rests in a recent survey o
the automobile industry indicating that by the
middle of next year more people will be a
work making cars and trucks than were em
ployed at the peak of the industry’s war-time
production last April. Many experts are hope
ful that after a comparatively brief period o:
dislocation there will be between seven and 10
million more jobs than existed in 1940. — From
a N.Y. “Herald Tribune” article.
* * * *
President Truman is plainly setting his course
toward nomination and election to a full term
as President in 1948. He may make the grade,
too, since the Republicans at present have de-
veloped no intelligible strategy against him and
he is widely popular. If the next Presidential
election were to be held today, it seems 99 p.c.
certain that Truman would win decisively.—
N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
Public officials concerned with unemployment
problems would do well to consider the field of
soil conservation as an area of work in which
the nation will benefit from expenditure of tax
money. The welfare of the nation depends
upon an adequate supply of foods and fibres.
Since the days when the Pilgrim Fathers first
put a codfish beneath each hill of corn it is
estimated that the average depth of top soil has
decreased from nine or 10 inches to somewhere
near six inches. — N.Y. “Times” (advice which
should be taken in Australia, too).
* * * *
Even settlement of the Communist dispute
and control of now semi-independent war
lords would leave many perplexities for the
Chinese. One would be the disposition of
approximately 4,000,000 Japanese, half of them
civilians. General Ho Ying-chin declares that
all will be sent back to Japan, which is under-
standable in view of what China has suffered
at their hands. But this will raise a new prob-
lem in that it will make necessary training
great numbers of skilled workers and foremen
to man factories previously operated by Japan-
ese. Aside from disposing of these enemy sub-
jects the Chinese also must decide what to do
about hundreds of thousands of Chinese soldiers
and officials who were puppets of Tokyo. Also*
it will be months or years before the Chinese
Government has sufficient revenue to maintain
a sound currency. Linked with this need of
sound money is a dreadful shortage of goods.
The Chinese are in dire need of raw materials
not produced in sufficient quantity in their own
country, such as raw cotton, and of manufac-
tured goods of all kinds. The shortage of
cotton cloth is so serious that in many areas
a peasant is fortunate if he can find enough
rags to sew together to cover his body. In
other regions there is a shortage of food,
almost impossible to deal with because of lack
of transportation. Everywhere the disease rate
is high and little or no medicine is available.
To add to the difficulties millions of Chinese —
no one knows how many millions—are refugees
far from their homes and need help in return-
ing to their native provinces. In addition to
these problems there stands China’s need of
agrarian reform and industrialisation. China’s
officials thus have no time to rest upon their
laurels and gossip about the methods they used
to bring their country through the war. They
have tasks of reconversion which make ours
appear easy. They will be struggling with them
for many years to come. — N.Y. “Herald
Tribune.”
=F * * *
A fantastic development of modem times is
the “Shakspeare Industry,” the vast number of
extraneous occupations and businesses that have
been created throughout the world to capitalise
on the works and reputation of the poet and
dramatist since his death in 1616. Before the
war, probably as many as 500,000 persons made
a total of approximately $25,000,000 annually
in such activities. Other than publishers, book-
sellers, actors and lecturers, these individuals
included those who conducted festivals and
operated clubs and societies; and those who
established and maintained Shakspeare libraries,
museums, theatres, gardens, graves and shrines.
In Stratford-on-Avon, which is known as the
Headquarters of Shakspeare Industry because
it is supported by tourists, a reproduction of
the bard’s head is displayed on everything from
bunk buildings to beer bottles. — “Collier's."
* * * *
Eastern Europe’s reaction may modify
Russia’s position. The Russian occupation
armies, unlike those of the U.S. and Britain,
must live off the countryside. Reports are
that, for this and other reasons, the Rus-
sians are encountering widespread hostility in
Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary; Rumania
and Bulgaria. U.S. officials are hopeful that
Russia, recognising this situation, will soften
up in her demands. If so, they are prepared
to go halfway toward agreement that will give
her economic help and security, without violat-
ing the principles of democracy for which the
U.S. fought the war. — “United States News.”
* * * *
In the state of moral dejection and eco-
nomic misery in which the Germans are to-
day, enough technicians should be willing to
accept Russian propositions to settle with their
families in the U.S.S.R. It would not be
the first time that Russia invited large numbers
of technically qualified Germans to make their
home within her boundaries. Experiments made
from the time of Catherine the Great to the be-
ginning of this century show the Germans adapt
themselves easier than most other nations to
Russian surroundings.— N.Y. “Herald Tribune”
writer, commenting on the moving of compli-
cated German industrial plants to Russia and
Russia’s probable need of German technicians
to re-assemble and operate them.
* * * *
Since last summer virtually no fine Australian
wools have been shipped to the U.S. There
is no indication that there will be any de-
parture from this restriction, although it was
believed that the general reductions in prices for
export wool to all countries might indicate that
the British Government was preparing to open
up on its sales. Consequence has been that a
fairly severe shortage of fine combing wools
has developed in the U.S. at a time when pro-
duction of worsteds is again shifting into high
gear, as the industry completes its reconversion
from military to civilian production. Dealers
have been seeking to partially alleviate this
situation by turning to South African and
Argentine wools. However, this has not proven
entirely satisfactory, because of the limited
quantity of these available in fine grades, and
the high asking price, ranging from $1 to $1.05.
Australian wools arriving in .November were
said to be chiefly B grades, containing defec-
tive wools in many bales. — N.Y. “Journal of
Commerce.” *


Hr
ve
l
StD fto °
MO '
»
■
BtD- M
ROOW
MOZ
m
SUN
spooler
We regret it is not possible to answer
personal enquiries relating to individual
home-building problems.
0
Structural Steel Tubing
is a development by
Stewarts and Lloyds
(AUST.) PTY. LTD.
HOUSING DIVISION, 75 PITT ST., SYDNEY
Structural Steel Tubing
a major contribution to better housing
Simply told, Structural Steel Tubing means precis-
ion building, speed in erection, greater strength and
stability, fire safety, no plaster cracks or sagging
floors, no warping or shrinking of framework, free-
dom from attack by white ants and borers. Nor does
it limit architect or builder in the use of exterior or
interior finishing materials.
Steel Tubular Members can also be used as Roof
Framing and Floor Joists with brick or concrete
construction.
K
lk
■’fSJT
- r 1 * v
• •
a
m
m
3=


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL. SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
ENGINES FOR A NATION
■
m
*r
mm
>•**&
X.
v
A CROSS the Owen Stanleys, along the Kokoda Trail and
across the seas to the gateway to Tokio, Ronaldson-Tippett
Engines have served in almost every conceivable way as prime
movers of outstanding dependability. Now, in pursuits of peace,
they will express in long, trouble-free service the “plus values”
we put into them.
Point for point, feature for feature, Ronaldson-Tippett
Engines are better than others. We back them with our convic-
tion that they are the best in the world.
Defence orders are terminating. Lodge your order now.
As we swing back to normal deliveries, we shall supply all
orders in rotation.
RONALDSON BROS., & TIPPETT PTY. LTD
Head Office: BALLARAT, Victoria.
Showrooms: 628 Bonrlce Street, MELBOURNE.
N.S.W. Distributors: Ronaldson Bros. & Tippett Pty. Ltd.
Frazer House, 42 Bridge Street, SYDNEY
QTand Distributors: Ronaldson, Tippett (Old.) Pty. Ltd,
Parhury House, 127 Eagle Street, BRISBANE
mm
ew tort
EYE LOTION
sor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H.Rose&Co..Pty.Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
n
X
PROTECT
YOUR FAMILY'S HEALTH
Protect your children by eliminating the
numberless germs that breed in closet
pans—germs of typhoid, dysentery, hook-
worm and other intestinal diseases.
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR is a
completely self-contained sanitary system.
Sewerage material is chemically trans-
formed into a sterile solution that drains
away into the soil. NO WATER SUPPLY
IS REQUIRED. Unhealthy odours, em-
barrassments of emptying, germs, flies—are
all banished Approved by Board of
Health. Thousands in use throughout
Australia.
FULLY GUARANTEED —the cost is
only £l9/2/6 (includes sales tax and
surcharge), plus 10/9 crating if by rail.
HYGEIA
DISSOLVENATOR
interstate agencies—
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR BIST. CO., N.S.W.,
82 Goulburn St., SYDNEY.
HYGEIA DISSOLVENATORS, QLD., Wool-
worth Building, BRISBANE.
HARRIS, SCARFE, LTD.. ADELAIDE.
VICTORIAN PRODUCERS* CO-OP., LTD.,
MELBOURNE.
W. CROSBY & CO., PTY. LTD., TASMANIA.
And from all Leading Stores, Pastoral
Firms, etc.
FILL IN AND MAIL THIS COUPON.
Kindly forward me FREE illustrated pamphlet
on the HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR.
NAME
ADDRESS 8N.5.44
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
THE LAND AND THE NATION.
“C.S.”: In the midst of the clamor of
parties and planners about the Australian
future, the hard fact sticks out like a
sore thumb that the ingredients of sur-
vival are the family, hard work, honesty
and thrift. These four virtues are be-
coming as rare as hen’s teeth in the big
cities, but they still rule on the land and
by the health of its land Australia will
live or die. This has been true of nations
ever since man learned to walk upright.
History is cluttered with the ruins of
those nations who forgot it.
Reform of land ownership and man-
agement is a pressing need. Few appre-
ciate how important it is to our national
life. The land makes the city, not only
by providing population for it in the
first place but by feeding and clothing its
population afterwards. It has been shown
again and again that, whereas the popu-
lation of a modern city is kept barely
static by the birth-rate of the city, the
quick increase in city populations comes
from the rural areas. In other words,
trade, commerce and industry draw their
workers from the land, though they give
little back. The bigger the city the lower
the birth-rate and the greater the with-
drawal to that city of people from the
country. »
B. A. Santamafia, in a very good book
entitled The Earth —Our Mother, holds
that “the great industrial cities are the
tombs of the people.” True enough, since
the cities do mot increase the nation’s
population and continually draw unto
themselves the population of rural dis-
tricts. While this condition exists, immi-
gration offers no solution, for the average
immigrant, even should he settle on the
land and produce children, simply con-
tributes those children to the stream
flowing to the city. The position today
is that of the 7,200,000 people on this
continent almost half live in six cities,
roughly a third in two. The birth-rate in
the cities is so low as to cause alarm, so
low that the higher country birth-rate
cannot overcome the city lag and the
nation suffers from want of children.
Whether this state of affairs can be
remedied is a problem. It seems impos-
sible to reverse the drift to the cities, but
it should not be impossible to stop it.
Decentralisation of industry is a correc-
tive, but that won’t stop the actual drift
from the land nor will it save the land
itself from ruin.
Australia must alter the prevalent atti-
tude to farming. It must give up looking
upon farming as a purely commercial
enterprise, its sucess or failure measured
by the amount of exportable produce and
the price thereof. Those who advocate
reform of land values are on the right
track ; when they realise that the land is
invaluable, that there is no cash assess-
ment of its worth to the nation, they will
begin to approach the ideal. Along with
this will come the realisation that farm-
ing is not purely a thing of cash profit
and loss, but a way of life, a living that
makes of the farmer not only a provider
'of food and clothing, but a trustee both
of the land he farms and of the way of
life he follows. The war has shown that
in the nation’s direst need it is the land
men who spring the quicker and more de-
terminedly to her aid. The country dis-
tricts had a far better record of enlist-
ments than the cities, in proportion to
population, and it was the country that
fed and clothed the fighting men -and
the vast numbers of workers in war in-
dustries. This the country did without
demanding rewards in cash or privileges,
but simply as a duty and because it was
determined to hold the land.
But the sons and daughters of far too
many Australian farms face from their
birth a conspiracy to get them off the
land and into the city. They become at
six years of age the victims of State edu-
cational systems which are based mainly
on fitting them for a commercial, pro-
fessional or career. Only
in very rare instances are they taught
anything of the wonder and the mystery
of the soil, of their own affihity with it,
of the very great superiority of country
“Think Well tell Ma Wot Santa brought 'ex and save er messing with
that old handle, eh ?”
life to city life. Never is theft* education
designed to guide them to that point in
adult life where a man can stand on his
own soil and thrill with the pride of it
and feel the driving conviction that this
soil shall be his and his sons’ and their
sons after them. No, rather are they
prepared for a town career and, by in-
ference, to regard life on the land as a
sort of last resort. To point the lesson
they see their father struggling against
the commercialism that makes of his soil
a chattel to be wrangled over by finan-
ciers and politicians.
They see, for the most part, a father
desperately trying to force his soil to
yield heavy crops of wheat or wool or
meat or milk or sugar or something else,
so that he might meet his “commit-
ments.” They see around them large
tracts of soil owned by some distant com-
pany or other interested, not in preser-
vation of the soil for succeeding genera-
tions, but purely in making a profit so
that dividends may be paid to equally-
distant and disinterested shareholders.
When a bit of grass does appear on these
tractSj stock come mysteriously from
somewhere or other on “agistment” or
for fattening, the grass is flogged to its
roots and when the summer comes the
dust devils dance along the ridges and
flats, and the children, knowing some-
thing of the land, know that these
properties are falling into ruin. The curse
of the absentee-owner is bitter on the
Australian soil.
So is the curse of the commercialised
occupier-owner who is out to make as
much money as he can from his land. He
is the fellow who flogs it to death with
crops or stock, having already cleared it
of every tree and shrub, and he is the
fellow responsible, in the main, for the
terrible losses of soil, and he is, gener-
ally, encouraged in his fell work by the
false economy of Government bounties
for his produce.
Quite plainly, as the Rural Reconstruc-
tion Commission recently discovered (the
fact was known long before), a very great
proportion of Australian agriculture is
bankrupt, living on Government doles
and promises. This is the grave aspect
that returned servicemen of this war must
consider ere they rush to take up blocks.
It has been shown that 20 p.c. of the
Australian population grow all the prim-
ary produce for both home and export
consumption. Our surpluses range from
22 p.c. of our pig meats to 90 p.c. of our
wool. These surpluses have to be sold
on world markets sadly depleted and im-
poverished by war, and their producers
depend on artificial monetary aids for
their returns. There, again, is the purely
commercial aspect, and that the Rural
Reconstruction Commission was blinded
by it is suggested in the statement that its
whole - settlement policy is based on the
theory that the extent of settlement must
be limited by the market opportunities.
When the Americans found their
national life threatened by soil erosion,
they lost no time in creating a national
authority to set about saving their soil.
Among other things, this authority dis-
covered that American farms were
planned to produce more than they could
sell profitably ; that part of the evil lay
in single-crop farming and that agricul-
ture had to provide a living for more
people than mere commercial production
needed. The American answer was the
self-contained farm—“a family supplying
its own food from its own acres” —and
that seems to be the Australian answer.
But the self-contained farm must be a
rarity under the present system of land
tenures orThe present debt burden. Nor
is it possible while commercialism con-
tinues to ravage the soil unto its ulti-
mate ruin. It will be possible only when
land values are reformed,''when there is
a Federal conservation authority with
power and money to protect the nation's
soil, water and forests, when Australians
valise that land ownership is national
trusteesh.p and when the education sys-
tern begins to make the Australian child
aware £ afflnity wi(h (he soil


sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course<
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Oive him BAKRO
Condition Powders and apply BAKKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
RAKRO lodine Dog Soap.
CONDITION POWDERS 1/*=
SKIN LOTION 8/b
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/!)
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
ẃ
BARKO
SOLD
KILL the RABBITS with
CYANOGAS
ẅ
Obtainable
from all
Storekeepers through-
out Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
w
ŵ
ẁ
LIFE BLOOD
V #
Arteries of water! These are the pressing
need of Australia if it is to achieve its right-
ful place among the peoples of the world.
It must conserve its water supply for its
people and provide bountiful irrigation for
millions of thirsty acres. With modern Cater-
pillar Diesel Tractors and Caterpillar Earth-
Moving Equipment, building a large dam or
a pipeline across country or providing an
irrigation scheme . . . once the work of years
.. .is now possible in months.
In constructing vital water supply schemes
Caterpillar Tractors, wielding big, brutish
bulldozers, clear away trees, stumps and rocks
and remove millions of yards of earth to build
the dams. Multi-scooped ditchers powered by
Caterpillar Diesel Engines, cut the trench for
the pipeline. Then the tractors, with winches
and sidebooms, swing the pipe into position
for welding, cradle it for doping and wrap-
ping, lower it, cover it . . . backfill the trench.
CSSCIIUcU LdSK-S tlldt gU LUWdIUS UUlUdlllg tliv- auu
perky of a nation, Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Caterpillar
Earth-Moving Equipment have cut costs to a fraction of
what could be achieved by rh °^ er met hods .. . and
without wasting time or I manpower.
: ;
■■■PH
ill
mm
mm
liiiiliiii
lIP
'if'/- §M || - m b |lblitl;
M
v/\ . '
mmmm
m
. ■
CT.S-33-42
In water conservation and irrigation, as in a hundred other
essential tasks that go towards building the pride and pros-
perity of a nation, Caterpillar Diesel Tractors and Caterpillar
Earth-Moving Equipment have cut costs to a fraction of
what could be achieved by , older methods . . . and
without wasting time or manpower.
REG. O.S. PAT. OFF.
TRACK-TYPE TRACTORS and
CATERPILLAR EARTH-
MOVING EQUIPMENT
veset
Distributors for New South Wales and Queensland:
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney — Phone, L 332 1; Marquis St.,
Gunnedah — ’Phone, Qunnedah 326. Service Engineers; Mr. J. A. Rathbone,
57 Cambridge St., South Grafton; Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie — ’Phone,
Port Macquarie 81; Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga — ’Phone,
2839; 102 Melbourne St., South Brisbane — ’Phone, Rankin St,,
Innisjail — ’Phone, Innisfail Iflo.
A Sensible Christmas.
Father, who was a bit of a rebel in
some things, talked Mother into it, though
she seemed a trifle doubtful.
“It’s silly,” he maintained, “to stuff
ourselves with a lot of hot tucker on
a blazing hot day and then take a coup/e
of days to get over it. The proper thing
is to have a cold Christmas dinner, with
salads an’ things. Just because the Eng-
lish have hot dinners in the snow is no
reason why we should have ’em in the
heat. We” ——
“But surely we’d have a hot pudding,”
said Mother in a startled way, as
though she thought Father was fiddling
with the keystone of her universe. “It
wouldn’t be Christmas without a hot pud-
ding and brandy sauce and”
“What’s wrong with cold pudding?”
he demanded. “It’s just blinded habit,
that’s all. Can’t you see, woman, I’m
trying t’ save you toiling an’ sweatin’ in
that hot kitchen? Can’t you see”
“I don’t know what the children will
say',” Mother declared, looking at us
mournfully.
We know Father* so we didn’t say any-
thing.
So, when Christmas morning came to
our place the Cool gar die safe on the back
verandah contained a cold roast turkey,
salad mixtures in bowls, jellies, drinks and
other things, and a big plum pudding
hung in its cloth to the rafters of the
skillion. Father was mighty pleased
about it.
“There you are,” he said to Mother,
“you’ve got nothing to do until dinner-
time. If we’d stuck to that silly old idea
of hot dinner you’d be up to your eyes
in it now, cooking and basting and mix-
ing and be worn out when dinner-time
came ”
Mother gave a little snort. “That’ll be
the day,” she said, “when I have nothing
to do.”
Somehow our place didn’t seem the
same. We’d looked at our presents and
were hanging about the house as though
we’d had bad news. We remembered
other Christmas mornings, with Mother
bustling about and calling for someone
to cut a bit of wood, with the smells
of cooking on the hot air and us dodging
in and out of the kitchen seeing Mother
and our sister busy there mixing things
and opening and closing the stove. We
had the house decorated, and we tried
to feel excited, but everything seemed
dead. Even the dogs, which used to hang
round the kitchen door waiting for tit-
bits, had given it up and gone off to lie
in the shade.
We stirred a little when Father ap-
peared and backed the car out. We
stirred some more when he called “Come
on, we’ll go for a run down to the river
and have a dip. Give us an appetite for
dinner.” As we got into the car with
our costumes and towels. Mother came
out and joined us. We stole looks at
her face and it cheered us up a lot when
we saw that she was smiling and looking
upon Father with a kindly light in her
eyes.
When we came back from the swim,
hungry and looking forward to a good
feed, there was a first-class dogfight on
behind the house. Ruff and Rowdy were
tangled up with Spieler, our brother’s big
kangaroo dog, fighting over what was left
of the cold roast turkey. The Coolgardie
safe was torn to bits, and there were
salads and jellies and things all over the
verandah. We rushed at the dogs and
yelled at them and they yelled back
at us, and we grabbed at bits of turkey
and looked at them and threw them at
the dogs. Father ran across the verandah
for his whip, but slithered in a spilt jelly
and sat down swearing; He leaped up
and swore some more when Molly, our
old yard mare, suddenly backed out of
the skillion and cavorted round the house,
the remains of the cold plum pudding
on her whiskers. Suddenly Father stopped
swearing and looked at Mother. Mother
sat in the car and looked back at him.
She didn’t cry. She got calmly from the
car, with a set look on her face, marched
into the kitchen, banged a tin of meat,
a loaf of bread and a tin-opener on the
table, then said “There. There’s nothing
like a cold dinner on a hot Christmas
day!” Then her face broke up and she
fled to her room. Our brother went and
sat on the verandah edge and stared at
the ground. Our sister went inside. Father
turned to me arid, very civilly, he said
“Better tie the dogs up, young ’un, and
we’ll have a cup of tea.” Then he put
a box of matches in his mouth and tried
to light them with his pipe. I tied the
dogs up. Then I caught old Molly and
put her in the stall. Mother had boiled
about 7s. 6d. worth of small change to
put in that pudding, and I thought Molly
would be worth watching for a while.
Hints for the Farm.
“Plane Creek”: Farmers at Sarina
(N.Q.) who have cassava growing are
always careful' to boil or roast the
tuberous roots before feeding them to
poultry (B. 14/11/’45). I’ve found ’em
good pig feed, but I would not risk
putting ’em before Dennis in a raw state.
I don’t doubt the word of my neighbor
that they poisoned the bandicoots on his
cane-farm. My encyclopaedia lists two
species of cassava, one of which (Manioc
utilissima or bitter cassava) is poisonous.
It can be rendered edible by treatment.
“Bill C.”: When felling trees to dry
for firewood (B. 14/11/’45) go further
and cut or saw and split ’em into stove
lengths on the spot. Green wood is softer
cutting than dry ; in addition, short billets
of wood dry out and become inflammable
much more rapidly than whole trees.
“E. 2”; Some dairy-farmers in n.-e.
Victoria are turning to maize in place
of millet as a follow-on to clovers and
grasses which dry off in early summer.
Sown thickly, maize provides a lot of
green fodder, and there's no douM of its
high qualities for milk production It
does best here in deeply-worked rich and
friable soil, and in dry areas shows up
well under irrigation. It’s best to cut
maize for feeding, as stock trample it
severely when grazing.
“Tub”: Best cucumber for home-grow-
ing is the apple variety and some strains
that leave Si other kinds behind have
been developed. Sow three or four seeds
in hills, well and deeply enriched, 4ft.
apart. Plenty of water in hot weather is
necessary, but leave overhead watering
till evening to avoid Scorched leaves. Pick
all fruit as soon as ready to ensure a
long succession.
“Chookie” : Egg-eating fowls soon
teach the trick ‘ t 0 ot h e rs. The habit gener-
£ broken in the
J Elim inate old birds likely to lay
" , \
thm-shelled eggs. Next, pp y P V
shell grit, calcium hunger o en g
predisposing cause. Finally, construe
nests so that the hens sit and lay in
practical darkness. For this I built a set
of four nests, all enclosed, n
along the front and just on.. entrance On
top a lid for egg-collecting con •
Hens naturally like a secret P »
too much light leads to their attack g
the eggs.


Portrait of a Zealot: —
THIS IS MIKE
By
JOHN FOUNTAIN
I.
“ I WONDER what the Wog who
I owns that makes out of it?”
I Sammy said, jerking his head to-
wards the glorified bag humpy
which served as a cinema for the
Amiriya camp area.
Mike and I were silent. It defied specu-
lation, and, besides, we weren’t in-
terested ; for that matter neither was
Sammy. It was just something to say
while we waited for a lift into Alex,, and
standing where we were we couldn’t help
seeing the patched cinema, squatting un-
abashed in a sandy hollow, with General
Blarney’s tall, brown villa frowning down
on it from the knoll opposite. There was
little else to see except the road, smoothly
sprinkled with encroaching sand and the
mushroom multitude of tents.
Neither Sammy nor I was too keen
on going on leave with Mike, but we had
all missed the early train from Ikingi, so
we found ourselves thrown together, try-
ing to thumb a ride. Plenty of army
trucks and sleek staff cars sped by, but
they all seemed full or going the wrong
way, so we just stood there and waited,
more or less patiently; but we all felt a
joyous little thrill of excitement as though
we were children going to a Christmas
party.
Mike was our sergeant, a burly man
with blue eyes and a sense of duty. His
eyes were so blue that they almost lost
their color sometimes and became
bleached, and his sense of duty was keen
and dangerous, like the cutting edge of a
razor. Brown hair tightening into little
curls as it climbed away from greying
temples, a massive head and a trick
Mike had of butting the air when he was
annoyed always reminded me of an in-
dignant Shorthorn bull; but there was
something equine about Mike, too —his
snort, for instance, and the way he reared
his head on parade, like a mettlesome
stallion. And there was something of the
stocky stance of a Welsh pony stallion
about Mike immobile —feet straddled and
nostrils twitching for the faintest scent of
challenge.
At last a green truck laden with vege-
tables pulled up, a smoking, grumpy
monster with paint peeling from its dented
carcass, but a truck, and we hailed it with
joy. Mike got in front with the driver
after we had agreed to a suitably exorbi-
tant fee, Sammy and I perched pre-
cariously on top of heaped pumpkins and
bulging bags of melons, and we lurched
away with a rattle and a bang and a
of maltreated gears.
As we bounced gaily past the salt lakes
and the Polish camp and all the other
camps I pondered the characters of the
two men with me. I liked Sammy—
Bombardier Sammy Simpson, a slim,
dafk, young man with merry eyes
and an amorous nature. When I
tried to analyse why I didn’t like Mike
I found myself coming back again and
again to his smile. Sammy said Mike had
a smile like a shark, a simile probably
suggested by his other zoological attri-
butes and the undeniable fact that Mike
could drink like a fisb. There was cer-
tainly something faintly repulsive about
his smile, at least after you had seen it
two or three times. At first it seemed
charming, but later you could see a kind
of soulless joviality in it as though he
were hungrily anxious to sell you some-
thing.
Of course, Mike had been a salesman
in civvy life, in quite a big way, and we
tried to make allowances. Even when
he tried to sell us the army in a naive,
schoolboyish way we still made allowances,
regarding it as an occupational disease.
Also, Mike was regimental, with an in-
tensity of fanaticism which would have
been unseemly in a Field-Marshal, much
less a lance-sergeant. With Mike disci-
pline was a religion, and he had a terrible
reverence for tradition, be it never so
sterile. As Sammy said, if Mike had had
his way our troops would have fought the
first Libyan campaign in red coats and
bearskins just for their pictorial value.
Sammy was hazy about discipline, and
he had very little reverence. Mike spent
most of his time on our gun, “Farida,”
leaving the other gun to Sammy, and
Sammy seemed to spend most of his time
just lounging around and smoking and
bewailing the unkind fate which had torn
him away from the beauties of England
and Scotland: but every now and again
he fiddled with the shiny innards of the
breech mechanism or peered up the
ridged maw of the gun, and occasionally
he squatted on his heels and traced a dia-
gram in the sand ; and while he squatted
he talked, driving home some lesson of
training or explaining something odd and
intricate about the science of gunnery,
and when he talked the crew listened with
respect, because Sammy had a casual
genius for nuts and bolts and all things
that twist in grooves or spin on wheels.
A few yards away Mike would be
harrying us, trying to attain an impossible
perfection of polish on some unimportant
portion of “Farida’s” anatomy; and
when the musketry of orders died down
and the sand settled Mike would prob-
ably discover he had lost some small,
delicate part of her which was vital.
I looked down from the truck and
found we had reached the “Mad Mile”
just outside Alex., crammed and teeming
with the usual market crowd: carts,
trucks, camels, donkeys, • dark-robed
women and hordes of small, shrieking
boys, all surging and jostling across our
path in a seeming conspiracy to accomp-
lish our destruction, with their own.
They filled the narrow road to bursting
with the clamor and merriment, evil stink
and fierce ill-nature of an Egyptian
crowd. Our driver’s technique when iq
difficulties was to ram the accelerator
down to the boards, shut his eyes and
put his trust in Allah; and Allah must
have been in an indulgent mood that day,
because we won through to the markets
unscathed. Soon we were jogging be-
hind a somnambulistic horse, on our way
to the Australia Club, the hot sun roast-
ing us through the cracked black canvas
of the gharry, and the gharry driver
flicking his whip in a lordly way at the
pack of children running beside us, hold-
ing up dirty little cupped palms and
chirruping beseechingly “Sayeeda, George,
backsheesh?”
AFTER our fourth drink Sammy and I
lost all desire to shake Mike off, for,
apart from the bqnd which binds men
of the same race in a strange city, we
discovered that Mike was good company,
and for the day he seemed willing to
forget his absurd dignity.
We did a pub crawl, or, more
correctly, a cafe crawl, wandering
from small, dim cafes where we stood up
and drank and munched peanuts to the
boulevard cafes where we sat at little
tables in the street,
shaded by gay canvas,
drinking leisurely and
watching the vivid life
of the city bustling and
sauntering by. Then on
again.
Wherever we went
Mike seemed to be
the centre of things:
even the unsuscept-
ible women of Rue des Soeurs turned
their sleek heads twice to look at him,
striding down the narrow street, as care-
free as a god on furlough, and perhaps
they wondered at his sky-blue eyes and
the clash of their blueness with his tan.
I often puzzled over the contrast of
Mike’s eyes with his fair, false smile ;
they were candid and clear, and they had
that rare vivid lightness I have sometimes
seen in a cloudless Monaro sky towards
noon of a drowsy day. They seemed
to mirror every emotion of the man, flash-
ing hot anger or chilling with obstinacy
as swiftly as the dart qf a swallow’s
shadow across running water which
sparkles and changes and is gone.
“George, George, clean boots,
George?”
A boot-boy seized one of Mike’s boots
and placed it boldly on his little stool.
Then he squatted on his haunches, gazing
up at Mike with wide, imploring eyes.
“All right,” Mike said goodhumoredly,
“go ahead.”
He made a brave figure standing there
in the street, I thought, webbing belt and
puggaree scrubbed and white. His boots
glared red and shiny already from the
ministrations of many other Wog boot-
boys, but he seemed powerless before
their blandishments. The hot sun
glinted from the “Australias” on his
shoulders and gleamed dully on the “Ris-
ing Sun” of bayonets on his jaunty slouch
hat. A passing street photographer must
have been impressed, too, for he took a
photograph and Mike pocketed the ticket,
smiling, a sunny gleam in his sky-blue
eyes.
< 1 j ’VE got a good mind to go round to
* the Yacht Club,” Sammy said later,
when we were sitting in a cafe in Maho-
met Aly Square.
“Why?” I asked; and then I re-
membered that Sammy had been an
ardent yachtsman once.
“Damn good idea,” Mike said, drain-
ing the last of his ‘Spitfire’.” “Let’s go.”
The secretary was out, we were told,
but Mr. Cummins might see us. While
we waited the virtue of the Spitfires faded
before the hauteur of the furnishings, and
Sammy had time to remember that Alex,
was not the friendly city of Brisbane:
time, too, to ponder on the gulf which
yawned between a bombardier and the
rest of yachting humanity in the Middle
East.
Mr. Cummins was mostly forehead
and gold-rimmed spectacles, and, if any-
thing, he was more awe-inspiring than his
surroundings. Obviously, he had never
heard of Sammy’s club, so, after an in-
glorious few minutes, we supposed we’d
better be going, and Mr. Cummins made
no attempt to detain us,
“Who owns that?” Mike asked
abruptly, pointing to a slim craft iat
anchor in the bay.
Mr, Cummins told him someone emi-
nent.
“Too short in the jib,” Mike pro-
nounced curtly—or something like That.
“Perhaps she is,” Mr. Cummins ad-
mitted, “but look at her lines.”
I looked, and to my untutored eye she
was lovely, cleanly cut, with gently swell-
ing lines and dazzling white against a
dark-blue sea and light-blue sky; and
she was dancing on the little waves and
gently tugging her anchor chain as though
she were poised and impatient for flight.
Mike didn’t spare her a second glance.
“Native workmanship,” he said, and
there was a world of scorn in his voice.
, Something very like respect glimmered
behind the gold-rimmed spectacles.
“Would you like to look round?” Mr.
Cummins asked.
We inspected the yachts and Mike criti-
cised them all, deprecated their good
points, and, to my mind, behaved with
insufferable rudeness: but the more he
found fault the more Mr. Cummins
'thawed. Before we left he and Mike
cemented their friendship in good Scotch
whisky.
“I didn’t know you were keen on
yachting, Mike,” Sammy said a trifle
jealously, as we drove back.
“I’m not,” Mike said, “I get seasick.”
Then, as we gaped at him. “Oh, that
was just sales talk back there.” He
beamed reminiscently. “Bloody good
whisky, wasn’t it?”
Then something trifling but significant
happened, “Look!” Mike hissed dig-
ging me in the ribs. “Subdivision of
labor.”
Two Wogs were crossing the road, a
spindly, serious-looking one in a greasy
red fez and a tattered European coat and
a puffing, fat little man with a face like
wet chocolate, in grubby white garments
which billowed down to a pair of enor-
mous pantaloons, like twin parachutes.
They carried a stout wooden pole be-
tween them, shoulder high, and from its
centre dangled a tin, hardly bigger than
a billycan. Suddenly they stopped dead,
dropped their burden on the cobbled road
and swore and screamed at each other
in Arabic, on a rising wail of recrimina-
tion, with many menacing throat-clicks.
“Aha! ” Mike said. “An industrial dis-
pute,” He wagged his head wisely.
“Always happens, y’ know.”
He chuckled mellowly, his bleached
eyes sparkled and a real smile spread the
laughter lines right across his rugged face.
It may have been the Scotch, or it may
have been a moment’s fleeting insight, but
I felt then that I had penetrated to the
essence of the man, past the surface of
the fair, false smile which was unimpor-
tant, incidental, just part of his civilian
equipment, like a clean collar and a tie
and a telephone in the office ; something
he had somehow forgotten to slough off
with the rest. For that moment I liked
him, and then something else caught my
eye and the mood passed.
NEXT day we sent the guns away, and
after they had gone the battery went
on bivouac, more to keep us out of mis-
chief than anything else I suppose. After
the bivouac I decided it must have been
the whisky which had caused my brief,
kindly feeling for Mike, because I came
very close to hating him before we went
to Greece.
Two of the crew spread their blankets
in the truck that night, and the rest of
us bedded down beside it, listening to
Barry Murphy singing “The Rose of
Tralee.” Even the jackals were silent
when Barry sang. Perhaps it was nothing
more than the combination of the cold
white light of the stars and the darkness
of distant hummocks of sand, and the
whole wide listening desert, with a
fine tenor voice, but, whatever it was,
Barry wove a spell that night. I lay
there, staring up at the stars, thinking
the foolish thoughts a man thinks some-
times wfien he is a long way from home
and he hears a familiar song, listening to
the last golden notes sinking softly into
nothing until the hush of the desert was
deeper than before.
“Bombardier Simpson!” came Mike’s
hardy bellow.
“Sir! ” Sammy shouted back with re-
sentful emphasis.
“Ah, there you are,” Mike said, “don’t
forget to post a guard on the guns
tonight.”
“The guns?” Sammy echoe"d blankly.
“Pull your head in, Mike,” Jack Hart
advised him. “The guns are halfway to
Greece now. What do you want us to
do —swim after them?”
“You’ll mount guard just the same,”
Mike said distinctly. “A man for each
gun. They’re the regulations—whether
the guns are here or not. Understand,
bombardier?”
“Yes,” Sammy said sulkily,
“Good!” Mike said and stalked away,
his rigid back a vanishing patch of white.
I felt I had witnessed the triumph of a
principle.
“The cow’s mad —mad as a meat-axe!”
Jack said with conviction. He thrust his
{Continued on page 22.)
Two Portraits.
(1)
He suffered from a hurt that never hap-
pened,
A dream that lived at waking, died at
sleep;
Remembering the depths of his despairing.
The rendezvous with life he couldn’t keep.
He saw young Time, fag-drooping lamp-
post lounger,
With easy sneer erase the labored page
Of little triumphs entered in contentment,
Amended and deleted in doubt’s rage.
And so he half was here and half else-
where,
A shadow and a substance turn about;
Black-marketeering in the near perfec-
tions
That came his way, and selling wisdom
out.
(2)
He leans on bars, and in his noisy
laughter
There is a fear for something that is
missed;
He speaks of conquests, and in proud
confession
There is a sigh for those he’s never kissed.
‘‘All men are mates, there’s joy in life
and drinking ;
Each has his faults, each by the code is
bound.
Some of us slip, some profit by deception;
It’s love,” he says, ‘‘that makes the world
go round.”
He loves his fellow-men, and so he hastens
To move with men he feels to be his
kind.
In fellowship there is a consummation,
In solitude a clue he cannot find.
A.I.F.
ERIC IRVIN.


DOGS WILL BE DOGS.


grizzled head from its nest of grey
blanket and light-grey groundsheet and
slowly unwound his stringy length. “Oh,
well”. . .
He took the rifle and paced up and
down resignedly and someone did the
same on the patch of shadows which was
theoretically Sammy’s gun. After a
decent interval they returned to their
hollows in the sand and went to sleep.
I woke to the blinding light of a torch
in my eyes,
“Who’s guarding the gun?” Mike de-
manded.
I was stunned with sleep, so I just
mumbled something and closed my eyes,
but Mike shook me roughly.
“Who’s guarding the gun?” he re-
peated grimly.
“Dunf o,” I said. “Did someone pinch
the bloody thing?”
“You’ll hear more of this,” Mike
promised and strode off into the night.
When we got back to camp we found
that Mike had charged us with everything
bar rape and arson.
“Will you take my punishment?” the
battery commander said. The battery
sergeant-major stared at us with profes-
sional severity, and Mike stood rigidly
at attention, tight curls thrown back and
his rugged face frozen, like a self-
conscious Avenging Angel.
“Yes, sir,” we said. There was nothing
else we could do.
We got a brief lecture on discipline,
C.B. and a fine.
THAT night we had a conference in
our tent.
“It’s no good turning the other cheek,”
Sammy said viciously, juggling our supper
of scrambled eggs and tomatoes over the
communal primus. “You only get it
smacked harder. We’ll have to do some-
thing.”
“What can we do?” I asked sceptically.
Jack Hart stopped unlacing his boots
and stared thoughtfully at the flickering
flame of our smoky lantern.
“We’ve got to fight Mike with his own
weapons,” Jack said slowly. “Be regi-
mental.”
Someone snorted scornfully.
Jack rolled himself a cigarette, his
hatchet-face serious, his eyes two slits of
concentration.
“It’s like this,” he said. “The Army’s
a tangle of rules—if a man obeyed ’em
all he’d be a nervous wreck. Normally,
though, you don’t have to —they’re just
sort of reserve thunder. But it means
everyone has to have a bit of nous.”
He was right, I thought. It was Mike’s
pedantry which annoyed us, not his
severity. The B.S.M. was regimental,
otherwise he would have hardly held
down his job, and that the R.S.M. was
regimental went without saying. They
were disciplinarians, and respected for it,
but they were practical men who tem-
pered discipline with commonsense and
they were respected for that, too.
“Mike hasn’t any more commonsense
than a rabbit,” Sammy said glumly, echo-
ing my thoughts.
“Right,” Jack agreed. “But he can be
taught. And the only way is to put him
on a charge himself. Don’t you see?
Even Mike is bound to slip some time.”
There was an awkward silence. We
could see the logic and the justice of it,
but our minds shied a little from the
idea.
“Of course, he’s not really a bad
bloke,” someone said uneasily.
“All the more reason he should be
taught different,” Jack said.
“It’s the only way,” Sammy said at last.
“Hang it all, he’s asked for it.”
That tipped the scales.
KA IKE slipped next morning. There
IVI were no guns to “maintenance,” so
Mike gave us a gas lecture in our tent;
and Mike was drunk.
Not obviously drunk but garrulous,
and when he went away for half an hour
he came back with drowsy eyes and a
silly smile. He got through the lecture
somehow, and then he told us a story.
Drunk as he was, he told it well, and we
heard him out in stony silence. Halfway
through another his curly head nodded
and nodded, and he sank softly to sleep
between the neat pyramids of my gear
and Sammy’s, one outflung arm knock-
ing my tin hat on to his chest, where it
remained, gently rising with each intake
of breath. The crook of the other arm
was folded across his eyes.
We caught the B.S.M. as he was flying
into the orderly-room, busy and harassed-
looking, a fluttering sheaf of papers in
his hand.
“We’ve got a charge to make,” Sammy
said gruffly.
The B.S.M, looked at him curiously.
Sammy had never put anyone on a
charge before.
“Yes, Sammy?” he said ; and then he
saw the rest of us, standing by like a band
of Vigilantes.
“We?”
“Yes, we want to put Sergeant Malone
on a charge.”
“What’s Mike been up to?”
“Drunk and asleep on duty,” Sammy
said virtuously.
“Oh.” He looked at us keenly. “Come
inside—all of you.”
The next afternoon the B.C. sent for us.
“All right, Sar-major,” he said, and
the B.S.M, vanished like a well-trained
genie.
“About Sergeant Malone,” the B.C.
said. “I think I know why you made the
charge, and if it is any satisfaction to
you it has taught him a lesson. If you
want to carry on with it you’re at liberty
to do so —but”—he paused and scanned
us narrowly, drumming his fingers on
the leaves of the K.R.Rs., open on the
table before him —“we sail tomorrow.”
He let that sink in. Then he picked
up a fountain pen and waited. “What
will I do —wipe it?”
“Wipe it,” we said with one voice. We
agreed later that it would have left a
nasty taste in our mouths on the eve of
sailing.
11.
MIKE had told the plain truth when
he said he was a poor sailor, so we
didn’t see much of him going over; and
later, when we were on leave in Athens,
we were much too pleasantly busy to
worry about him.
Once we passed Larissa white moun-
tains loomed over and around us, decep-
tively close-looking in the crystal air, but
there seemed something unreal about
their bigness and whiteness and the deep
bright blue of the sky, so soon after
Egypt, Our outside wheels trembled
most of the way on the brink of a sheer
drop of thousands of feet, and far below
us was a quiltwork pattern of green,
brown, white and vivid green again,
woven from fields and thawing snow.
The flat silver of water was splashed
dully here and there, and the dotted
darkness of trees; and melting away in
the purple distance wound the white
ribbon of road by which we had come,
turning *and twisting down to Athens.
No one talked much going up, for each
man had some problem to solve in his
own mind, and many things seemed un-
important then.
“Gosh, I've put on weight!”
I didn’t really become aware of Mike
until we were near the Yugoslav border,
holding a kind of watching brief in a
little snow-choked valley, beautiful as a
vision of Paradise and cold as death.
Sammy was just around the corner, with
his gun hidden behind a glittering moun-
tain with its head in the fleecy clouds,
but we felt isolated for all that, small
dark specks on a waste of whiteness.'
I could see the Germans plainly from
our ack-ack post: long streams of them
pouring down from Fiorina like black
columns of ants; but they stopped at a
little tree-screened village, and I could
see their overflow through the trees,
swarming and mustering. An odd gout
of smoke showed where some of our
twenty-fives were landing amongst them.
and soon they began firing back ; but
then our artillery switched over to the
right of the Germans’ main density, to a
stretch of level whiteness with faint lines
etched on it, lines which wavered and
wriggled slowly towards a dark finger of
woodland.
We heard the far-away sound of
Vickehs firing rapidly, and we knew that
the Kiwis were hidden in the woods, and
that the mediums were putting a barrage
between them and the advancing Ger-
man infantry.
I could see Mike in the distance, mov-
ing slowly like a small fly on a gigantic
mound of sugar, coming back from a
patrol.
“Here’s Mike!” I called down to Jack,
digging at the slit trench. He looked up,
his grey eyes weary. “What’s the mad
cow been doing now? Playing cowboys
and Indians?”
MIKE’S patrols were becoming some-
thing more than a joke. He had read
somewhere that the correct thing for a
leader to do was to reconnoitre. So he
reconnoitred tirelessly, while the rest of
us worked frantically, manhandling the
gun from one rocky site to another and
digging at the slit-trench.
Actually, Mike’s patrols were super-
fluous —it made little difference to us if
the German tanks came in ten minutes
or ten hours. Our job was to stop them
if we could—and, in any case, to stay
put. Once they came within the limited
range of our gun we would see them
from the ack-ack post, and, of course,
B.H.Q. had its own reconnaissance.
A Flying Pencil swooped down, scout-
ing, so low that I felt I only had to
stretch out my gloved hand to touch the
plain black crosses on its wings, and the
pilot’s goggles seemed to be staring
straight at me as I crouched beside my
mounted Bren, self-conscious as a rabbit
in the shadow of a hawk.
Then more and more ’planes came
over till the whole air vibrated with their
brr-brr-brr, but we had strict orders not
to provoke them, which was probably
just as well; there are more formidable
ack-ack weapons than a Bren. Some-
times, though, when they throbbed back-
wards and forwards, to and fro, as im-
pudently as taxis at King’s Cross on a
busy night, it was a temptation. Not so
much from an excess of the combative
spirit as from sheer tautness of nerves.
I looked back at the ant-hill and saw
dots spreading on either flank. It
wouldn’t be long now, I thought. Once
those giant forces on the other side of
our gleaming no-man’s land knew what
I knew they would abandon cautious
sorties and come in an overwhelming
flood.
I was relieved from my post and went
down to the camouflaged gun, and took
my turn at the half-completed slit-trench.
The flinty soil and my numbed hands
made it harder, but I had become in-
creasingly keen on slit-trenches since the
last bombing.
Just then Mike trudged in.
“Campbell!” he shouted, and 1
up sourly. All the exasperation
months was simmering in me then as i
thought of his cursed patrols,
“Go over to Sammy and get those the
field-glasses,” Mike said crossly. -tie
looked tired.
“What about the trench?” I said.
“It can wait. Hurry up, I want to go
on another patrol.”
“The trouble with you, Mike,” I said*
speaking slowly so that my voice wouldn’t
tremble with my sudden unreasonable
anger, “is that you go on too many
patrols.”
“What do you mean?” Mike said, and
I should have been warned by the whisper
in his voice. f
I felt too angry to explain to him the
futility of his scouting expeditions, so I
contented myself with sarcasm.
“What are you going to do if you run
into Jerry infantry on these little
manoeuvres of yours, Mike?” I asked.
“Throw sticks at them? The Bren’s
wanted here. And so are you for that
matter,” I added severely, looking at my
darling, the slit trench.
That final touch of self-righteousness
must have really got under Mike’s skin.
• “Do you mean,” he whispered, staring
at me with blazing blue eyes, “that I’m —
bludging?”
“Yes,” I said.
Then Mike hit me. I didn’t see it com-
ing and I hardly felt the dull shock of it.
T'HE next thing I remember is seeing
* blood on Mike’s face and feeling a
warm trickle of blood running down my
own as I stumbled over a heap of frozen
earth at the edge of the gunpit.
Then the cold watchful part of the
brain which is man’s fighting intelligence
asserted itself, and I smothered against
Mike’s vicious rips and uppercuts and
brought a couple of my own thudding up
into his middle.
The Germans massing behind the tree-
screened village were thousands of miles
away, and the world was a red mist.
I came out of it to hear Jack Hart’s
furious voice yelling in my ear. Two of
the crew were holding me in a grip I
couldn’t break- I felt weak and foolish,
and as I relaxed Mike shook himself free
and hit me again, full on the mouth.
“Hell!” Jack snarled, and leapt
between us, seizing Mike’s collar in a
cruel cross-hand grip, and in a twinkling
Mike’s arms were pinned again and his
angry flush was a deeper red.
“You bloody fool!” Jack said, glaring
into Mike’s bulging blue eyes. “You
bloody, childish fool,” Then he relaxed
his grip, reluctantly and turned to me.
“You, too,” he said coldly.
“All right,” Mike' gasped, when he
could breathe again, “You can let me
go now.”
They let us go and we glared at each
other.
The Cardinals Shadow.
The light lived saint-like • in the window
And never came down by day, but, staid
and slow,
Nightly descended a ladder of the ivy;
A shadow bent above her; their whole
life privy
Behind red curtains —the cardinal and
his mistress.
Perhaps her bosom’s snow bewitched
him, listless,
So that he never returned from thraldom
of those nights.
But lived to our day, ignorant of her
rights,
When she peeped at the newsprint in the
gutters —
Sly suffragette who of her freedonijitters
No word to him to this day, or tomorrow
Intends release for him from sin and
sorrow.
Poor cardinal! Each night discloses this
was his hell,
That ever behind red curtains shadows
would tell
Of the cardinal and his mistress; when
he, brave man,
Her chastity would guard ; and she, loose
woman,
Flame-like would choose to cast her hair
at ease,
Vain with those lights that varied lovers
please.
So blindly doting he lived ever, where
Upon the curtains loons would blankly
stare.
Saying: “Hist! It is the cardinal
methinks.”
And glozing falsehoods with a hundred
winks ... "
“It is the cardinal!”. . . would not a
single word
Against his wicked mistress hear pre-
ferred.
QUEENSLAND.
F. JOHN BLIGHT.


“The hide of you, Campbell,” Mike
panted, “saying I was bludging.” He ges-
tured mutely towards all the snowy wastes
he had patrolled. “Bludging! ”
“You hit me first,” I said defensively.
“When I couldn’t hit you back you hit
me again.” The thought rankled. “You
hit me while they were holding me.”
“Very unsporting,” Jack commented
acidly. “Like bombing civilians.”
Mike’s chest swelled like the proverbial
frog’s. “Joe,” he said slowly, “I think you
know me well enough to know I wouldn’t
do that deliberately.”
“Well, you' did it!” I Said hotly; and
then I met his clear, blue eye.
“No, Mike, I don’t think you would,”
I surprised myself by saying.
Before I quite realised what was hap-
pening Mike and I were shaking hands.
“Snap out of it, you two,” Jack said
harshly, “there’s still a war on.”
I looked at the unfriendly faces of the
crew and felt ashamed. I climbed up to
the top of the rise and took the Bren
over to be out of the way.
j WAS staring dismally down at the little
I trees in front of Sammy’s hideout,
sparkling with icicles like the flowers of
some fairyland forest, when I heard a
noise behind me, and there was Mike.
“Joe,” he said. “I apologised down
there and I want to apologise again. I
was just browned off I suppose.”
“So was I,” I said awkwardly. “Any-
way, it was my fault.”
“No, it wasn’t,” Mike said with a flash
of the old obstinacy. He frowned a* the
Bren. “Of course, I realise you could have
put it all over me: it was lucky for me
they stopped it.”
Lucky for me, too, I thought, feeling
my face tenderly; but I only said “Oh,
I’m not so sure of that, Mike,” with be-
coming modesty.
“Yes, yes, I know you could have,”
Mike snapped, and I looked at his grey-
ing temples and felt more ashamed than
before.
“I wouldn’t have lasted a minute with
you when you were my age,” I said, and
Mike brightened,
“How old are you? Well, perhaps . . .
I did a lot of sport when I was a young
fellow ... I remember” . . .
I remembered Mike giving us P.T. at
Amiriya. “Hands-touching-sides-jump! ”
he would bellow, and we would hop and
flap like bored but willing emus being
taught to fly. Mike had been terribly
keen, I could well imagine him as a young
man. Mike always hauled us out early,
while the rest of the camp was sleeping.
Mud-streaked tents far apart in a de-
liberately unsymmetrical pattern, with a
slit-trench half-full of sand and a black-
and-grey-mottled truck outside each ; and,
a little distance away, the guns, canvas-
gagged muzzles pointing harmlessly at the
greying sky. It all seemed a long way
away. Mike forgot us when he did
ground exercises, formidable jaw hard-
ened and face slowly crimsoning as he
forced his trembling arms to bend and
unbend another half-dozen or so times in
some mad secret wager with himself.
“I played breakaway for Manly,” Mike
was saying. “Fastest forward in the
game, they said, once”. . .
Mike always used to take us for a run
before we finished P.T. Past the mess
tents we went, and past the cookhouse
where the cooks were drinking tea by the
heartening blaze of a fire, and perhaps
outside one inferior cook would be
raking over the cold embers in the field
oven; past the orderly-room tent and the
fluttering hessian of the latrines and the
deserted watercart, and away past the
first ack-ack post, with skylined figures in
greatcoats and tin hats pacing up and
down and a lone Lewis poking up darkly
behind them as a warning to hostile
bombers. When we toiled back to camp
the sun would be hot and high, staining
the bare hills red, Sammy would be pant-
ing and distressed, and breakfast would
be cold. I remembered these things in
a flash.
“I’m glad we understand each other,”
Mike said, bringing me back to the
present, where the blue sky was blacken-
ing with ’planes. “Just a question of
subdivision of labor, eh?”
“Yes, Mike,” I said, and grinned.
I kept watching the bombers slipping
away from their tight formation, one
by one, the sun flashing back from their
wings. I couldn’t hear their screaming
dive, but I could remember it, and I felt
a swift tightening of the belly.
“We’re small game,” Mike said.
“They’re doing the mediums over. Poor
cows, no ack-ack.”
111.
ONCE we went into action we knew
beyond a shadow of doubt that Mike
was brave, with that electric type of
bravery which makes you blink your
eyes. Charge of the Light Brigade sort
of thing; and, generally speaking, just
as useful, for the ironical part of it was
not one of Mike’s deeds of gallantry did
anyone much good until after we were
captured.
The business of our capture was a little
too swift and confused for me to get a
clear picture. It wasr mainly a rapid
series of impressions, shots and shouts
and cries of pain, and muffled little explo-
sions and tracer bullets streaking and
dazzling everywhere.
It happened on the night we got the
order to retreat, after we found the roads
were mined between brigade and us and
only a couple of hours after we destroyed
the guns. Perhaps the most spectacular
part of it was Mike’s capture of the
machine-gun post, for he had to run a
murderous gauntlet of fire to get to it,
but it made little difference to the ulti-
mate issue.
I saw him jump out of the back of the
truck, silhouetted for a long moment
against a flare, looking immense and
heroic. Mike told us later how he was
sitting on the machine-gunner’s chest (the
No. 2 was dead) feeling pleased with
himself when he looked round and saw
the rest of us with our hands in the air
and tommy-guns trained on us. He
looked the other way, and the night was
thick with Germans, so he got off his
captive’s chest and helped him politely
to his feet, and as soon as he was up-
right the German picked up a tommy-
gun and said “Oop!” and shepherded him
back to the trucks, looking bold and
fierce and pleased with himself in his
turn.
First we heard a shout of “Halt!” and
a few guttural words, then muffled ex-
plosions and the stammer of machine-
guns, and then our truck was bucking
and plunging like a mad thing before we
crashed to a stop. Tracer was flashing
before our eyes, and the man next to
me said “Bluey,” almost conversation-
ally, and then, “Bluey, they got me,
mate,” in a voice that was sharp with
pain, and I had the absurd thought “This
is melodramatic,” as I searched in the
darkness for the Breda. Another man
was hit and slumped wetly across me,
and another who gurgled, and then I
found the Breda and was firing at dim
shapes looming out of the darkness with
tommy-guns and stick bombs, and at
spurts of flame from the darkness beside
the road ; but all the time 1 was aware
of the first man in the blackness at my
feet, moaning and mumbling over and
over again. “Bluey, they-got-me, the
bastards-got-me, Sluey.”
It was soon over. We had one Bren
gun and one rifle to each crowded truck,
not counting a few Bredas we had
scrounged. What ammunition we had
didn’t last long, or the men who fired it
didn’t; but there were bodies in green
and brown camouflage jackets and
helmet-covers keeping our dead company
on the muddy road next morning. The
B.C. gave us the order to cease fire, but
by that time there wasn’t much firing on
our side. A young Bavarian captain
whom we had captured stormed and
raved at the Germans, and finally, reluct-
antly, they held their fire, too.
I saw Barry Murphy hanging over the
wheel of his truck as we were being
marched up the road, and while I looked
a German pushed him with a rifle so that
he tottered. The German said “Sacra-
ment!” half good-humoredly, as a boy
might swear when he misses a kerosene-
tin with an idly-thrown stone, and shoved
again lustily; and Barry lurched for-
ward and fell on his face with a horrible
limp sound. Then, for the first time, I
felt sick. It only seemed the night before
when Barry was singing “The Rose of
Tralee.” He couldn’t feel anything, of
course, lying there with his fade on the
road and a small neat hole in his head,
but the casual brutality of the action
seemed to summarise the finality of death
and the cheapness of human life, and I
felt it would have been all the same if
Rnrrv had still been alive
Barry had still been alive.
IT was cold on the plain beside the
1 road. The snow had thawed, leaving
an icv dampness, but a wicked Wind
from the pass and through
us, and we had no covering.
The Germans due in beside the road
and sentries paced between our prone
rows all night, muffled and shivering. 1
resigned myself to death that night, be-
“Fast, aren't they ?”
cause I didn’t think it possible to endure
such cold and live. Sammy lay between
Mike and me, riddled from the hips
down: Mike had got him away some-
how when they started shooting the
wounded back at the trucks. We gave
him our greatcoats, and we lay close to
him and gave him some of the warmth
of our bodies, and although he must
have been in agony he only moaned
softly but rarely. Sometimes he was de-
lirious and kept calling for someone
called Janice, and I remember thinking
that perhaps he wasn’t such a Casanova
after all, really; but worst of all was
when he kept calling for water.
We asked the sentry for water, but he
said “Es ist verboten” and walked away
shaking his head. Each time he passed
us he said “ verboten” again, with an in-
creasingly loud, full-throated lift to the
word, as though he were shouting or
asking a question; but when he was
relieved he motioned me, stealthily, and
I followed him to another dim figure
waiting in the outer rim of darkness.
The three of us crawled on hands and
knees down to the still bodies on the
road and the trucks, where I found two
full water-bottles. I forgot about our
slaughtered wounded then, and was
simply grateful for the lonely ray of
humanity which had prompted these two
to relieve a dying man’s thirst.
Sammy was still alive next morning,
but before we had time to rejoice over-
much the Vickers opened up on us, and
I knew then why we had been spared.
We were cover. If anyone tried to reach
the shelter of the ditch there was a brief
roll of fire from the fretted barrel of the
nearest German machine-gun, and he
was dead —or dying. The Germans kept
up a brisk fire, and soon fragments of
our infantry took an active interest in
the duel.
“Hey, Joe!” Jack Hart sang out.
“When was the Greek Easter?”
The irrelevance of the question stag-
gered me.
“Dunno,” X said at last, shifting my
head a little from the clean pattern the
bullets were cutting in the damp soil;
then I heard a new twittering on my right
and moved back again.
“Could be today,” Mike said. “Look
at all the Easter eggs.”
Someone laughed grimly, and the laugh
rippled, hesitated and finally swelled til 1
we were all gurgling while the mortars
underlined the jest by flinging over more
and more eggs, while the twittering in my
ears grew louder and steadier.
“Honest, though, when was the Greek
Easter?” Jack asked, but no one answered
him, for the tanks were coming, pouring
armor-piercing shells at us as they came.
A piece of lead no bigger than a man’s
thumbnail can kill as surely as the most
ponderousprojcclile but Aerewassome-
thing ghastly about the sight of that A.P.
flam 6 in S g at us , skidding and bounding as
it scraped the earth and leaping an
bouncing over mens bodies in a mon-
strous game of leapfrog. For a crazy
hour we thought the tank * C £™ y
close enough to keep the Germans busy
while we made a break for it, but Oer
man ams" a‘nd our tank‘d
long-barrelled A.T. guns, and our tames
withdrew.
I looked across at Mike and he was
sound asleep, lying on his back with the
crook of his arm over his eyes.
The Vickers fire slackened, its first
fury spent, but it continued, like steady
rain, with now and then a little spiteful
burst. A green and brown helmet popped
up from the ditch, and a green and brown
canvas sleeve flashed up, once, in a swift
circular gesture.
“Come on,” Mike said. “Help me with
Sammy.”
We staggered, half crouching, with
Sammy a dead weight between us, and
after an age we reached the haven of
the weed-choked ditch. I looked back
over the ground we had covered and
broke into a cold sweat. I gave Sammy
a drink of water, but my hands trembled
so that I spilt some down the neck of his
tunic. Sammy smiled faintly, and then I
saw that Mike had disappeared.
He came back carrying a fair-haired
infantryman in his arms as though he
were a child.
We were taken up the ditch towards the
German lines.
“Don’t look!” Mike said sharply,
stepping carefully over something on the
ground. It was a German with his back
shorn away, as though for dissection,
with some of the internal organs clearly
visible. The blood had dried already, yet
the shell had hit him only a minute or
so before, flinging him high in the air
like a toy, and he had screamed once. I
felt no revulsion, only a dull curiosity
now.
Sammy died before we reached the
dressing-station, and then Mike told me
Jack Hart had been killed at the last
moment as he was crawling to the shelter
of the ditch. 9
T HAD been tired and hungry before,
1 but I decided I hadn’t known what
fatigue and hunger were until that march.
I had frostbite and the leather of my
boots became dry and cracked, but the
pain faded as my feet became numb and
I sank into a fog of weariness, plodding
along automatically, conscious of little
beside a gnawing pain in my stomach
and a nagging thirst.
We drank any green scum we came to,
but if we tarried our guards sent the
green water spurting and scudding with
a burst from their tommy-guns. I looked
at the shiny black compactness of the
weapons sometimes, and thought what a
few of them would have meant to us a
few nights before —or a few weeks, I
wasn’t sure sometimes. We felt the pangs
of hunger more then than we did later
when our stomachs had shrunk; but on
the whole, we came out of the march
fairly well, because we had years of good
{Continued 'on page 26.)
Soldier s Song.
Though I march until I drop
And my bed is sand,
I have filled the desert’s cup;
Harvested its land.
This is the song of the desert wind,
From the sphinx it blows:
The Murray’s source is in the mind
And at a word it flows.
Though I climb the bitter rock,
Jungle for a bed ,
I can muster such a flock
As never Falkiner bred,
This is the song of the tropic wind
Where the giant storm grows:
The Murray’s source is in the mind
And at a word it flows.
N.S.W.
DAVID CAMPBELL.


TECHNICAL...
Consult us for your needs on : —
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Engineering'
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
Selected lists supplied free on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
ẃ
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
GERRARD SERVICE
vVire Tying Machines and Strapping - Flat Band Strapping Systems -
Corrugated Fasteners - Fountain Stencil Brushes - Fount-Pencil Markers -
Stencil Inks - Label Tackers and Tacks - Bag Ties -
BBHhBHBHh Packing Room Supplies.
Melbourne Sydney. Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide. Hobart
IfGERRAHtfI
[\7V
STRONGER • LIGHTER • LONGER-LASTING
I
GIOBITE
SCHOOL CASES
Increased quantities will be
manufactured as manpower
and materials become avail-
able. So, ask first for a
Made bq FORD SHERINGTON LTD.
13
AFTER SICKNESS
If you take
a course of
Phyllosan 9
tablets
the results
will
astonish you
as
&
//si
S
2
%
£2
V.
m
Start taking
PHYLLOSAN
tablets
three times a day
* Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark ‘Phpllotan’ is the property of Natural Chemicals Ltd., London
SMOKE-OH! !
“Lost, teeth, bottom set, Randwick race-
course, Leger, Saturday.— “S. M. Herald.”
He’s saving the top set for a cert in
the Flying.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“An occasional ball whipped through quickly
to keep the batsmen on their ties.”
—Adelaide “Mail.”
They were in knots,
4* 4* 4* 4*
“If the earth’s crust moved one-sixteenth
of an inch it could be felt - .”— ‘‘World’s News.”
If it moved another it could be a hard-
hitter,
“For sale 26in. boy’s bike, good condition.”
—Suburban paper.
But how is he going to reach the
pedals?
“Tobacco Firms Gasping for Girls.”
—“ Courier-Mail
So, fewer gaspers.
+ 4* 4*
It’s when a man’s at a loose end that
he’s in greatest danger of getting tight.
Motor car, suitable boy, 4 years.”
—Wanted advt.
Another of those unlicensed drivers.
(i *1"
“Though Paul had been engaged to two girls
within two years, he was still a bachelor when
Fay met him.”— Short story.
To promise marriage was his plan.
Then jilt the girl, refuse to splice her:
He thus remained a single man
Simply because he was a twicer.
F. M.
Bridesmaid or evening frock, never been
worn, £6.” —Suburban paper.
But isn’t she making herself a bit
cheap?
“Winking an eyelid is the fastest human
action.” — “World’s News.”
And only the fastest humans perform it.
4*
The Barnacle.
At sixty WE must snatch our time.
Even if in our mental prime
And fit as fit can be.
The governing director, though,
Still holds his job and draws his dough,
Exempt from this decree ;
For in his case there’s none above
To give the customary shove,
Though he is eighty-three.
Brian Bureau.
•F *!• *t* 4*
Perfect Respect.
“Official circles in London contest Russia’s
argument that if Persia sends reinforcements
into its northern province Russia will have to
follow suit. The Russians already have 36,000
troops there while the Persians have 6000....
Russia’s reply to the British Note emphasises
Russia’s respect for Persia’s independence.”
The straggling array of bullock-drawn
guns and miscellany of vehicles, some
drawn by camels and full of soldiers,
wound slowly and endlessly through
the little north Persian village, ever
making south. Time was when the
Red Army had rolled along in grand
new vehicles, but that was before
the cursed Americans stopped lend-
lease. When they had run until they
had been worn right out, because there
were no Americans or British about who
could repair them, the trucks had been
pushed off the roadside and the Red
Army had gone back to its trusted and
traditional means of locomotion.
General Omar Pehlevi had been trying
for hours to get across the road to inter-
view the Russian commander at his head-
quarters, but every time he essayed it the
Soviet soldier on traffic duty put a
bayonet at his throat.
Impatiently now the general made to
glance at his watch; then he remembered
he didn’t have one. In fact, nobody in
Persia, so far as he knew, had a time-
piece left. But every Russian soldier now
wore a watch—some wore several. Most
of them had never seen a watch before ;
many had never even heard of watches.
Commissars sported them, of course, but
they were beings of a higher world.
At last there came a temporary halt in
the cavalcade. A woman who was pulling
along an iron-wheeled bullock wagon
piled high with American ammunition for
the British field-guns with which the Red
Army was equipped had fainted. As the
traffic man left his post to get a bucket
of water to throw over her the Persian
general and his aide slipped across. The
guards outside the entrance to the Soviet
commander’s headquarters waved a
couple of vodka bottles and laughed as
the Persians entered the building.
General Ivan Itchipalmski frowned as
the Persians entered the room. “Well,
what the hellski do you want?” he
growled. Only that morning he had received
notice from the Kremlin that for certain
good services rendered recently he would
be granted on his return to Russia 40,000
acres and given a tax-free annual pension
of 150,000 roubles, with a full staff of
servants supplied by the Government.
“General,” began the Persian com-
mander. “It has come to the knowledge
of my Government that every bit of
machinery and every head of stock have
been removed from this province and
practically every private house looted and
our women carried away. Our industry
will be ruined, our”
The military representative of the
Workers’ Paradise held up his hand im-
periously, then reached for a box of ex-
pensive Persian cigars, lit one and said
indulgently “You may remain standing.”
Then he went on: “It’s bad luck for your
country, General, but you know what
devils of robbers the hated Germans
were.”
“But the German Army was never in
Persia,” protested General Pehlevi.
The Soviet commander puffed lazily.
“Wasn’t it?” he asked in surprise.
“Well,” he went on, “it was probably
the white-ants tljat ate them. I’ve noticed
they’re very bad in these parts. Even
this chair I’m sitting on has them in it.”
The Persian looked hard at the man
seated. “I’ve noticed thaf, too, especially
lately,” he said, rather grimly. “I also
noticed some of the same termites knock
off eating things to hand out rifles and
tommy-guns to some of our rebels who
have been sneaking back across one of
our frontiers after having got the benefit
of free post-graduate courses in murder,
treachery and anarchy!”
General Itchipalmski got up from his
chair. “Too keen a sight, general,” he
said, “is sometimes less advantageous to
the eyes’ owner than a poor one. Yours
obviously need attention. I insist on your
accepting the hospitality of the Red Army.
Treatment will be given freely and gener-
ously. You and your aide are completely
at liberty to move about wherever you
will, though if you happen to wander be-
yond the confines of the barbed wire
some, of our trigger-happy guards might
start shooting. And your army, general,
is free to perform any duties your Gov-
ernment orders, so long, of course, as it
performs them in those parts of your
country which we are not occupying—
yet. I make this generous gesture to
cement the ties of friendship linking our
countries, and because it is my Govern-
ment’s unalterable intention to respect
your country’s territorial integrity.”
Then, turning towards the north-west
in the general direction of the Kremlin
where the Tin-God Dictator dwelt, the
general, in a gesture picked up from his
erstwhile Oriental friends, bowed low.
Then, straightening up, he clicked his
heels, raised a clenched fist,, and in a
gesture picked up from his former Occi-
dental allies, barked “Heil, Stalin!”
Bo.
The Direct Approach.
“ ‘Beau Bail’’ is the name of the latest brand
of lipstick on the British market.”
A girl by homeliness frustrated
In her attempts to snare a sap
Will find an unattractive map
Can sometimes be extenuated;
And with the dial redecorated.
Even the coarse, unfeeling chap
Who tells his girl to “shut her trap”
Would notice that the thing was baited.
I’m thinking, though, some waggish
squire, •
Seeing his girl friend’s lips afire
With “Beau Bait,” lurid and inviting.
Would rouse the lass to righteous ire
If he should happen to inquire
With kindly interest “How’re they
biting ?”
P. M. LUSK.
Sad.
The fact that you have pawned your shoes
To satisfy your thirst for booze.
Oh, hapless friend, depresses me
And leaves me sunk in misery.
However, let it be confessed.
That I’d be even more depressed
If you employed the base design
Of pawning, not your own, but mine.
T. W. NATHAN.


MANSEASE
the perfect comfort male
■upporr for everyman’e
everyday wear.
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne,
FRYS
CHOCOLATE CREAM
TABLETS
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
T^e'^tdleix/n.
sThe limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are: — x
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 13 6
3 TO
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia: —
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£lO 0
-4
For Speed or for Comfort Travel by Air
On business trips, passengers
usually want all possible speed,
both to cover more points and to
save time lost to business work by
travel. On personal trips, the same
passengers are usually more con-
cerned with comfort. Of all forms
of transportation, the plane best
combines the two travel require-
ments of speed and comfort.
Passengers who go by air can
forget the trouble of travel. The
earth slides by far below. Engines
run with a quietness that masks
their real power. Counties, nations,
continents or oceans can be crossed
with an ease that wipes out distance
before the usual travel fatigue can
make its appearance.
Over much of the world, a per-
son traveling by air will be flying
with Wright Cyclone engines, for
they power the leading transports
of the world just as they power
the leading military planes. The
smooth, tremendous power of these
engines has helped the steady
growth of air travel. They pio-
neered not only the overland routes
of many nations but also supplied
power for air service on both the
Atlantic and Pacific. Whatever the
route, passengers get there faster
and fresher with Cyclones.
THE SHAPE OF PLANES TO COME
This Is the Boeing C-97, a Cyclone-
powered plane which averaged 383
miles per hour on its first public
flight. Double-decked, long-range, it is
built for either passengers or cargo.
Its power: four Cyclone 18's of 2,200
horsepower each.
w
CYCLONE ENGINES PAY THEIR WAY
WRIGHT
AIRCRAFT ENGINES
WRIGHT AERONAUTICAL CORPORATION
Paterson, New Jersey, U. S. A., A Division of Curtiss-Wright Corporation
REPRESENTATIVES: AUSTRALIA, NEW GUINEA, AND PAPUA: E. L. HEYMANSON & COMPANY, MELBOURNE
m
Obtainable in 10’s and 20'
»
For greater
smoking enjoyment
CRAVENA
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS
%
5774
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Fowler’s Modern English Usage.
3679.
To buy The Middle Watch, by Ian Hay-
3680.
Information Sought.
(1) Has a parent a claim on money willed
to an offspring ? (2) Is there a time limit f or
applications to the Equity Court for varia-
tions of wills ?
If the Court were satisfied that the parent
is in need of assistance and that the testator
was under legal and moral duty to provide it
the parent would be entitled to an order (2)
Yes, six months from date of grant of probate,
unless the Court otherwise orders.
* » * *
What weight was Sam Langford when Jack
Johnson outpointed him at Chelsea, Mass.,
U.S.A., in 1906 ? How old was Johnson when
he lost the heavyweight title to Jess. Willard ?
(1) Langford weighed lOst. 111b. and John-
son 13st. 51b. (2) Johnson was 37 when he
lost the championship at Havana on April 15,
1915.
* * * •
Correct diet and treatment for ducklings?
If raised with the mother they should be con-
fined to a small run so that they do not ex-
haust themselves following the mother over
a large area. Feed should be mixed in the pro-
portions of 61b. finely-ground wheatmeal (pol-
lard could be substituted if available), 31b. bran
or coconut meal and lib. meatmeal; dissolve
2oz. fine salt to 101b. mash. Drinking water
should be available at all times, as heavy mor-
tality may occur through lack of water for
even a short time.
Brief Answers.
R.Z.: Maoriland’s emblem is the fern leaf;
Canada’s the maple leaf J.C.: De Valera
was bom in New York on October 14, 1882.
... .C.B.S.: Send name and address... .J.C.M.:
Cannot make reconimendations; any medical
man should be able to advise ... .R.O’C.:
Tim Whiffler sired Briseis and Darriwell; Grand
Flaneur sired Bravo and Patron ; Comedy King
sired Artilleryman and King Ingoda; Marabou
sired Skipton; Spearfelt sired Dark Felt
C.C.G.: When the battery poles are connected
with the terminals and the lights switched on,
the ampere meter should register a discharge.
If it shows a charge the positive and negative
terminals are wrongly connected to their
opposites S.T.N.: In the South Australian
superphosphate rationing scheme percentages
of their normal usage that farmers received
were 60 p.c. in 1941-42, 30 p.c. in 1942-43, 35
p.c. in 1943-44, 56 p.c. in 1944-45, and 78.4 p.c.
in 1945-46... .E. 8.: Following disturbances on
the flat at the Flemington racecourse in 1910,
permission was sought from the Government to
make a small charge for admision. The author-
ity was given in 1913, and the charge was fixed
at one shilling. The V.R.C. holds a 99 years’
lease of the land under a special Act J.M.:
On the information given you have no grounds
for divorce and it would not be safe foi you
to re-marry... .L.E.8.: (1) If fh® conducting
of a business through a p.o. box is in compliance
with city by-laws, there is no other law against
it. (2) The Prices Commission would have to
be interviewed.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
J.G.: “This is my first attempt.” What at?
Suicide? J.O’K.: “Wake up, Australia P
best received in a profound slumber... . M.O C.:
Stop telling tormenting phantoms to begone and
start using the language of your own time
MJ.W.: “I am an introvert!” “Gripes, wh‘at a
line of English poetry Y. 8.: Might suit ?
woman’s paper... .M.P.T.: You’d do better if
you didn’t lapse so easily into lines such as “As
if inside of me” 5.8.: No improvement on
the “Ode to Darwin” G.C.S.: Weak and
wordy, but there’s promise in them.... J.L.:
The letter’s better than the poem: being livelier,
more natural and giving a much clearer pic-
ture A.E.S.: All the rhymes are so obvious.
You might at least spare us “trees” and
“breeze” P. 0.; That old-timer drops in twice
a day M.C.C.: “Will the acorn of the oak
Give a little painful choke?” If it reads that
poem it will probably burst into tears
Juniper: The ghost walks F.1.P.: Don’t set
it to music; lose it. *


RETIREMENT
BENEFITS
- - - - a vital service
provided by the
are very few employers who need to be
convinced of the advantages of a systematic plan of
retirement benefits for
their staff.
The plan must,
however, be designed
to meet the require-
ments of the indi-
vidual organisation.
The A.M.P. has ar-
ranged many hundreds of
retirement plans for firms
engaged in all kinds of
industries throughout Aus-
tralia. It has a staff
specially trained in de-
signing the kind of plan
that best suits the needs
of individual employers,
and the benefit of its
practical experience in
such matters is freely
available.
Take advantage of this
specialised service by en-
quiring at any office of
the Society.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation,
S. Osmond, Acting General Manager.
M. ,C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wales.
HEAD OFFICE: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
$k
A man needs money on his
retirement to enable him to
enjoy the evening of his life.
HILLMAN
MINX
w.
THE WORLD'S MOST
SUCCESSfUL LIGHT CAR
Af ELL WORTH WAITING FOR
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
JOHN McGRATH LTD., Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(temporary address).
Resident Representatives
C. H. HORDERN, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
A PRODUCT OF TUB
GET THE BEST FROM YOUR CLIP. READ “WOOL-CLASSING AND
SHED MANAGEMENT.” 3s. 6d.. POST FREE, “BULLETIN" OFFICE.
health and food behind us and we were
buoyed by a queer, unreasonable opti-
mism : and as yet none of us had
dysentery, nor were we dragged down by
the apathy which follows months of semi-
starvation.
During the march Mike was every-
where, helping the straggling and weak
and running up and down the line like
a tireless kelpie. But his face was tired
and he looked years older with a stubby
beard, and his smile was a hollow ghost.
We marched on the right side of the
road, and down the left poured tanks and
armored cars and crowded trucks, nose
to tail and streaming endlessly till the
mind rocked in the contemplation of
them,
“Get a load of their ack-ack,” some-
one said, and I thought of our poor little
Bren.
An armored car lay on the rocky beak
of a sharp bend, two wheels and cater-
pillar tracks whirring helplessly in the air
like the legs of an inverted beetle. Be-
hind it was a silence of dim forest, soar-
ing to a piebald mountain crowned with
a cone of snow. On the other side two
crumpled ’planes and the charred
corpses of trucks littered the tus-
socked plateau and black smoke
filmed the bright, blue sky.
An Australian major and a
German lay on either side of the
road. At least the major lay, head
drooping and one rigid hand still
pointing an empty revolver at his
silent enemy. The German reared
out of the mud like a nightmare
creature, mud on his face and
sticky mud clinging to his waist,
balanced half upright by some
weird trick of rigor mortis, an out-
stretched hand frozen to a claw
and his teeth bared in a stricken
snarl.
WE halted and someone ran
over to take the major’s
boots. When I looked up I
saw the house and the woman
standing quite close to the road.
As we moved on I saw that the
house was square and white, and
the woman stood with her back
to the low, stone wall which
fringed it, staring at us half fear-
fully. Her face was chalky white
except for two vivid dashes of color
in the cheeks, her lips were parted
and there was a strange eager light
in her splendid black eyes. She wasn’t
young or beautiful; middle-aged, rather,
and plumpish; but she was dainty
and feminine and she seemed so ter-
ribly out of place in that unlovely
spot that I turned my head after I passed
her and looked back.
1 was in time to see her throw a piece
of bread to Mike, the last man in the
line, and a guard glanced back at the
same time ; he must have seen it, too,
but he turned his head away quickly and
marched on, his freckled face stolid.
Mike stuffed the bread into his pocket
and half raised his hand in a fleeting
salute, and I suppose he smiled his
famous smile, because the woman walked
down to the road and smiled after him.
She was still smiling when she turned
and saw three black-uniformed men
walking towards her from a low-slung
rakish car with a red and black flag
drooping from its bonnet. She opened
her mouth to scream, but she couldn’t,
and before she could run the tallest
Blaclc Guard officer had seized her and
was dragging her towards the waiting
car; she screamed then and fought
frantically and fell.
It all happened swiftly, yet the seconds
seemed to drag, and it was indescribably
horrible. I saw Mike running, and even
in that fraction of time I wondered why
the guards didn’t shoot him or why the
other two Black Guards didn’t. The tall
one was bending over, getting a new grip
on the woman’s blue-black hair, when
Mike hit him, and I was grateful Mike
hadn’t hit me like that, because if he had
my neck would have snapped. The blow
had the full momentum of a fifty-yard
sprint behind it and Mike aimed it, as it
were, as he ran, and, what was more, it
had the passionate indignation of all the
Galahads and Quixotes in history behind
it.
The woman scrambled to her feet, her
white dress with the gay, red and blue
floral work browned with mucl, and fled,
sobbing. I looked around and saw why
Mike was still alive and I ran, too, and
after a moment’s hesitation so did Mike,
leaving the Black Guard officer a
crumpled black heap on the road.
Everyone else had been staring at the
sky or running. Ack-ack fire was crack-
ling all along the convoy, and I thought
how strange it was to set Germans
running away from aircraft, and the
thought was so pleasing I forgot my
danger. I heard crump-crump-crumph
coming nearer and louder and a succes-
sion of sharp noises like slamming doors,
and the din of ack-ack was deafening. I
glanced over my shoulder as I ran and
saw ’planes skimihing through lazy puffs
of white smoke, and then a wind hit me
and blew dirt into my eyes, and when 1
could see again I was sitting in a bomb
crater with Mike.
WHEN the ’planes went the Germans
came out of their holes and gullies
like rabbits. As we were marching up
the road again I looked back, but the
Black Guard officer was only a red smear
surrounded by flapping black rags, and
the convoys were moving again, end-
lessly.
I often wondered about that incident.
What Mike had in his mind when he
rushed to the woman’s rescue. He couldn’t
have known the ’planes were coming, and
if they hadn’t he would have died before
he had gone four yards ; and the woman
would have been no better off. In a way
it would have been fitting if Mike had
died like that, violently, futilely and mag-
nificently, Sometimes, too, I wondered
if I would have done the same. My mind
always sidled away from that, preferring
not to think of it, just as I preferred not
to think of what I might do if questioned
under torture.
Thinking it all over on our way to the
prison camp in Yugoslavia, there had
been an oddly dramatic quality about my
relations with Mike ; a kind of misshapen
comedy, woven from a point-counter-
point of liking and violent dislike.
We were trucked away from Fiorina,
forty to a cattle-truck, and the least said
about the trip the better. Fouled straw
still lay on the boards, and men ate what
few grains of wheat showed through the
rotting muck. Mike consummated the
drama —or comedy—by breaking the
dried piece of bread the woman had given
him and silently handing me half, and I
silently took it and ate. More than any-
thing else, that raised Mike’s stature in
my eyes. He did it because he thought
it was the right thing to do, just as he
thought he was doing the right thing
when he put us on a charge back at
Amiriya. ?
We had often laughed at, and some-
times cursed, Mike’s rigidity of mind, but
I was grateful for that divine rigidity
then ; not for the food alone, although
my whole body cried out for it, but be-
cause it brought back that unreal world
where people had plenty to eat and
washed and observed all the foolish,
beautiful little conventions of life.
The Mooring Buoy.
Neither old age nor winter snowed your
head.
Florid-faced politician of the sea.
Now left, now right inclined, with ebb
and flow.
Demanding ships to seek your ministry.
Puffed up with self-esteem until you float
A swollen toad, secure in safer seas
Than those of ships the tides are proud
to bear,
You dole to bird and hull your charities.
Vain, no doubt, of your essential service.
And all the attention to your coat of red.
Have you wondered what the gulls are
really thinking
As they pile their blushing honors on your
head ?
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS


Vj
5
a
vara
In spite of all wartime difficulties—restrictions on style-
lack of leather —coupons —labour shortage—purchase tax-
blackout—bombs— ‘ doodle bugs’—we have produced over
a million pairs of shoes every war year for the heme market.
The number of pairs we have been allowed to send to
Australia have been a mere drop in the ocean. Soon
we hope you will see more Clarks shoes in Australian
shops—shoes like the sample illustrated—made without
restriction in a world where craftsmanship and style will
come into their own again.
ẁ
C & J. Clark Limited, makers of Ladies and Childrens shoes for more than a
centurv at Street, Somerset, England.
OF THE FUTURE!
Your 3 Days Air Trip from
*
Sydney to London
To-day, the Empire's immediate post-
war needs have priority on Australia's
overseas air routes.
But, in “to-morrow's" Age of Flight,
thousands of air-minded travellers will
fly in comfort by speedy, modern
Qantas airliners from Sydney to
England in less than seventy hours!
II
i :-s
9
Qanfao StHfuW-t/tiuvMP
Australia’s INTERNATIONAL Airline
The Economic Question: —
a spot of Bastes
By J.B.Blais
< <**T“HIS barter business is all right in
I its way,” said Spoggie Barnes, “but
I it can get you into a hell of a mess
at times.”
Conversation in the tent had rambled
over a wide field that evening, and had
at last come to the subject of international
trade and finance, the wiseacres agreeing
that the simple cause of the world’s wor-
ries was that “the banks’ got everything.”
This led Jazzer Jones to suggest that
everyone would be better off if there were
no banks, no international money market.
“Why can’t we swap our wheat and
wool straight out for cotton and oil?”
he asked. “Why do we have to use the
banks at all? Barter! That’s all we
need. Goods for goods. Same as the
Nazis started to do before the war.”
It was at this stage that Spoggie spoke
up. Spoggie comes from Back o’ Beyond
and could not be suspected of knowing
anything of international finance.
“Pull yT head in,” he was told. “What
do you know about barter?”
“We tried it up at Goolawong once,”
said Spoggie.
The others According to its
patriot son, everything had been tried at
Goolawong at some time or other.
“It was the time the district
off by washaways,” he went on. “No
trains for weeks, and some things were
pretty scarce,”
“Where’d the barter come in? There
was plenty of money, wasn’t there?”
“Yes, there was plenty of dough about,
but you see after a while it got that way
money didn’t seem to matter much. No
one knew how long we’d be cut off, so
if anyone had anything he valued he’d
just hang on to it no matter what price
was offered. The only way to get it off
him was to offer something he wanted
more. A , man with plenty of eggs
wouldn’t sell ’em at any price, but he
might be willing to swap a few dozen
tor a side of bacon qraome sugar. Sugar
was pretty scarce after a while and any-
one with a stock of it could ask whatever
he liked, and get it. Same with butter.
Our district didn’t go much for dairying.
A few blokes kept cows for their own
use and supplied a bit of butter to their
neighbors, but most of us depended on
the store for our supply and, of course,
now the trains weren’t running the store
just didn’t get any.
“Of course, the folk on their own
farms wasn’t so bad off. They nearly all
had something they could swap, but the
people who lived in the town and de-
pended on the store for everything was
pretty hard hit —people like the school-
teacher and the bank manager.”
“Serve the blood-sucking cow right,”
interposed Harry, the tent Commo.
“Well, actually he wasn’t as bad off
as some of the others,” said Spoggie.
“Y’ see, in spite of what I said about
money not having any value, there was
a lot of folks had overdrafts on their
farms, and they knew that, although they
was cut off from the world like, their
interest was still going on just the same,
so it was just as well to keep in sweet
with the bank manager. With one thing
and another he was pretty well set. Mind
you, they made him pay through the
nose”
“Serve the blood-sucking cow right.”
....“But what with bacon from one
and eggs from another, and so on, he
got most things he needed. One thing
he couldn’t get though, and that was
butter.”
“How was that?”
“Well, I s’pose it was just that none
of the blokes that kept cows were in the
red with his bank. Just his bad luck,
like.”
“Serve the blood”— —
“Shut up, Harry!”
SPOGGIE continued his tale. “Natu-
rally, being a city bloke he didn’t
like going without his butter. And,
naturally, his wife being city, too, liked
it even less than he did.
“She sent him all found the country-
side looking for butter. And, as I said,
he couldn’t take a trick.
“Last he came to old Alick Campbell’s
place, Alick had half a dozen cows, so
he could easy spare a bit of butter, but
the bank manager couldn’t get him to
part with any. Not even as much as’d
butter a scone.
“Being Scotch, y’ see, he didn’t have
an overdraft. Not that he hadn’t had
his bad times, but he’d always managed
to keep his nose above water. Some
people reckoned he was too careful to
get into debt, others that he was too
mean. Whichever way it was he didn’t
owe the bank any favors and he wouldn’t
sell any butter,
“The manager asked couldn’t he spare
just a pound. No, he couldn’t. The
manager said he could name his own
price, but he just said he wasn’t selling.
You’d ’a thought it was his favorite horse
he was being asked for instead of a
measly pound of butter, the way he stuck
out, but no amount of arguing would
shift him. Then the manager thought
he’d try a spot of barter.”
“That must’ve hurt him,” observed
Harry.
“Well, he was getting desperate, you
see. So he offers some eggs he’d got from
another farm. Old Campbell just laughs
and shoos away a few hens that’s scratch-
ing around near his feet.
“Then the manager says ‘Well, p’raps
there’s something you need that I can
get in town for you, or something I’ve
got at home. Surely there must be some-
thing you want more than a pound of
butter! ’
“This kind of sets old Alick back on
his heels, so the manager follows it up
with ‘Or p’raps something your wife
wants.’
“Old Mrs. Campbell had come out by
this time, so Alick turns to her and says
‘What about it, Ma?’
“Ma thinks awhile, then says well
there’s only one thing. If Mr. Banker
could get her a pair of knitted socks
p’rap# he could have a pound of butter.
“This sounds easy enough, so he jumps
at it. Sure he can get ’em, he says. Old
Alick is all for waiting till he sees the
socks, but Mrs. Campbell says things’d
be coming to a pretty pass if they
couldn’t trust a bank manager”
“Can’t trust the blood-sucking cows an
inch,” came from Harry’s corner.
.... “So she goes inside and brings out
a pound of butter. The bank bloke
thanks her and promises to bring her
the socks as soon as he can.
“ ‘They must be knitted,’ she tells him,
and he says O.K.
“He knows he hasn’t got any knitted
socks, but he thinks it’ll be easy enough
to buy a pair in Goolawong, and if the
worst comes to the worst he can always
buy the wool and get Mrs. Banker to
knit a pair.
<*\WHEN he goes into the store in
VV Goolawong he gets his first
knockback. No knitted socks! He can
have cashmere socks, silk socks, silk and
wool, wool and cotton, socks with clocks
and socks with elastic round the top ; but
no knitted socks.
“ ‘Oh, well,’ he says, ‘l’d better take
some knitting wool instead. How much
will I need for a pair of socks?’
“Mrs. Waggis, that looks after that
sort of thing in the shop, shakes her


m
They’re AMPHIBIOUS
Here’s a watch you can take swimming, fish-
ing, golfing in the rain or for a care-free bath
without the slightest danger to its perfectly-
timed movement. Movado Waterproof Swiss
Watches are expected soon. Order now for
Christmas delivery.
MOVADO
Hiu’zf&ttls
ill Market st. Sydney
SWISS
WATCHES
Open 9 to 5
Mon. to Fri•,
9.15 to 12 Sat.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills' for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similal
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU FEEL BRIGHTER
POPULAR BOOKS
wm rm
SHtNDfV
v XMAS
GIFTS
PLEASE THE CHILDREN
MAKE GOOD TOYS IN YOUR
SPARE TIME.
m
m
i
2. CONCRETE HANDBOOK. (Popu-1
lar Mechanics.) Practical informa-
tion on using concrete around the
home, garden, farm, workshop or
business. 96 pages, hundreds of
illustrations. 8/6, post 4d.
3. PAINTING, FURNITURE FINISH-
ING AND REPAIRING. (Popular
Mechanics.) Here is a new book
on modern methods of finishing and repairing
furniture, painting, etc. 96 pages, hundreds
of illustrations. 8/6, post 4d.
4. MAKE YOUR OWN TOYS. Wooden Toys
—Mechanical —Woollen Toys—Aeroplanes—
Tanks, etc. 48 pages, illustrated. 2/-, post 2d.
5. AUTO OWNER’S HOME SERVICE
MANUAL. A ready reference manual of money-
saving ideas for the man who wants to get the
most out of his car. 247 pages, illustrated.
17/6, post 9d.
6. PRACTICAL BUILDER. By Richard
Greenhaigh. A comprehensive and authoritative
guide to the latest methods and modern
building practice. 448 pages, illustrated. 15/3,
post lOd.
7. CARPENTRY FOR BEGINNERS. 216
pages, many illustrations. 6/-, post 4d.
8. THE MOST USEFUL BOOK YOU’LL
EVER OWN! Gives simple in-
structions for mending and making
in any part of the home—from
the kitchen to the cistern in
the roof. See how to make
a corner table, sectional book-
case, paper a room, re-glaze
a window and do hundreds
of other first-rate jobs.
512 pages ; over 600 How-
to-do-it Diagrams. “THE
HANDYMAN AND
HOME MECHANIC.’*
10/-. Dost 1/-.
w
9. THE PRACTICAL CARPENTER AND
JOINER. A complete guide to every branch
of the trade. 448 pages, over 400 specially
% prepared illustrations. Covers Hand and
\ Machine Tools—Timber—Drawing—
\ Joint Construction—Wood Panell-
\ ing and Doors—Windows and Sky-
lights—Stair Building—Floors
and Partitions—Roof Con-
struction—Shaped Work—
Setting Out Rods —Bevels
—Calculations—Centres
and Shoring, and many
other allied subjects.
\IS/3, post 9d.
3a,
s o^.
% v^iv>r<&!
■fc
<r,
IT
P * fv> ■% vT K
V%^<X
v ''V^?
1. A wide selection of toys for
either the large nursery or the
individual child is included.
They range from climbing
frames, large locomotives, doll’s
houses and furniture to puppet
theatres and sense-training ap-
paratus. Briefly, the book is
indispensable to anyone inter-
ested in toy-making. TOYS —
THEIR DESIGN AND CON-
STRUCTION. By J. Kay and O.
T. White. 125 pages, with illus-
tratlons in line and half-tone. 15/3, post 4d.
10. FORMULAS FOR PROFIT. A collection
of "valuable, timely, practical commercial
formulas and recipes for making thousands of
products in many fields of industry. Compiled
by H. Bennett and a board of 63 Expert
Editors. 632 pages. 10/-, post 9d.
1
11. HUNDREDS OP THINOS ANY BOY
CAN MAKE ! Thrilling.. .instructive enter-
taining. Covers sailboats, motor scooters,
model aeroplanes, canoes, kites, games,
tricks and magic, home
“movies”, photography, wind-
mills, toys, and lots of other
things you can make as
well as interesting things
to do. 224 pages; with
diagrams and photo-
graphs. “THE BOY
MECHANIC” 14/-,
post 9d.
12. GENERAL LEATHERCRAFT. By
Raymond Cherry. 80 pages containing a brief
history of leather, its development as a
commercial product and information on how
it is prepared and obtained. 9/-, post 4d.
13. THE HANDYMAN’S COMPLETE SELF
INSTRUCTOR. This is a new idea in books
for every practical man. 576 pages, nearly
600 Illustrations. Covers Building—House
Decorating—W oodwork—Electricity—Radio—
Metalwork and Simple Engineering—Motor
Engineering—Plumbing —Heating—Boot and
Shoe Repairing—Watch and Clock Repairing
—Hints and Wrinkles for the Handyman. 9/6,
post 6d.
14. ENCYCLOPEDIA OF KNOTS AND
FANCY ROPE WORK.- By Raoul Graumont
and John Hensel. If you are interested in any
phase-of rope work... from simple knots to
fascinating deco-
rative work... this
is YOUR book. This
monumental work
is truly an encyclo-
pedia for it is a
large book, copi-
ously illustrated,
describing almost
countless knots.
Several useful
tables, a glossary and voluminous
index. 663 pages, 332 full page plates,
3524 examples, 36/-, post 1/6.
ŵ
ANGUS & ROBERTSON Ltd
89 CASTLEREA6H ST„ SYDNEY
head and says she’s sorry but they haven’t
got any wool. Won’t have any till the
trains start again.
“This is a bit of a shock to the man-
ager, so he takes the butter home and
tells his wife. She’s glad to get the butter,
but doesn’t seem very worried over the
sock part of it. .
“ ‘That’s all right,’ she says. ‘Mrs.
Campbell will understand. As soon as
the trains are running we’ll get some sent
up from th& city.’
“ ‘That’s no good to me,’ he tells her.
‘Think of my position. I’ve promised to
get the socks for her and I’ll have to keep
my word. Besides, one pound of butter
won’t last us long.’ ”
Harry grunted. “Thought as much,
That’s all he was worrying about, the
blood-sucking cow.”’
“Mrs. Manager thinks it over for a
while, then she gets an idea. T know,’
she says. ‘Aunt Annie’s rug.’
‘“What about it?’ he asks.
“She explains. Aunt Annie’s rug is
a woollen crocheted rug, one of her aunts
had given her. They’d used it as a kind
of bedspread. Her idea is to unravel
some of it and use the wool to knit a
pair of socks.
“‘Jolly good idea,’ says her husband.
‘Knit two pair while you’re about it. I
might be able to talk the old girl into
giving us another pound.’
Ti/r * a i a
So Mrs. Manager gets to work and
*”“«•. m , a cou P' a ° f
y the old bloke s able lo go out to
the farm and talk turkey with Mrs. Camp-
.
“The old girl’s pleased as Punch with
the socks, gives him a second pound of
butter and says she’s willing to do further
business on the same terms. Old Alick
scowls a bit but doesn’t interfere.
“Home goes the manager, well pleased
with himself as he fancies his butter prob-
lem is fixed—as long as Aunt Annie’s
rue lasts anvwav Mrs Manager isn’t
rug lasts anyway. Mrs Manager isnt
so pleased, as she doesn t fancy knitting
a pair of socks every time she wants a
pound of butter. So she skimps a bit and
tries to make the supply spin out, hoping
the trains’ll start running again soon.
<< D UT the floods continue, and barter’s
- 1-2 the only way of getting butter, so
after a few days she pulls out the rug
again, unravels a few more skeins, gets
the needles to work and off goes the man-
ager to Campbells’ farm to swap another
pair of hand-knitted socks for a pound of
farm-made butter.
“The rug’s beginning to look a bit sick
by this time, and there doesn’t seem to
be much future for it as a rug, so Mrs.
Manager’s beginning to hope the demand
will last long enough for it all to be con-
verted into socks, and for the jocks to
be swapped for butter. That is, of course,
provided the Campbells keep on wanting
spcks, and don’t switch over to scarves
or Balaclavas. This don’t seem likely, as
the manager makes visit after visit to the
farm and there’s no sign of the demand
slackening.
“As the mg gets smaller and smaller
Mrs. Manager gets a bit sentimental about
it, because, you see, Aunt Annie’s her
favorite aunt, and she doesn’t quite" like
the idea of old man Campbell tramping
around his paddocks with Aunt Annie s
rug on his feet. It doesn’t seem decent.
“Still, butter’s butter, and there doesn t
seem to be any other way of getting it,
so she keeps on with the good work. But
the rug can’t last for ever, and at last
Mrs. Manager finds herself stumped,
There’s only enough wool left to knit one
sock. She knits it and tells her husband
to take it out to Campbells’, ‘A spare
sock’s always handy in case one wears
out > s^e te^s ra P s U lP ve
us a pound for it, seeing that we re
re B ular customers.
The manager goes scone hot at her.
He s not § oin g after any half-pounds. A
man ’ s 8 0t , his P ositio " ~t 0 cons ‘*=r, he
says and a lot more of that sort of thing.
„ Fiddlesticks, says his missus She s
P ut th = work into the sock and dies no
f in 8 to waste it. If the last sock from
Aun ‘ A ?" Ie * ru 8 ,!?» 1 wo . r * a ha 'f;
pound of butter she’ll give old Campbell
a P^ ce her mind.
. ?°’ atter lh f manager goes off to his
ba " k - sneaks out to the farm herself
an . L : > : p a ' ns l jj m B s -
Old Mrs. Campbell s as nice as pie.
Q( course shel , ta £ [he sock and wl £ t - s
more she’ll give a full pound for it, be-
cause ske sa y s ske rca ||y on ly wants one
sock this time anyway
“Mrs. Manager doesn’t tumble to what
she’s driving at till she takes her inside
and shows her a crocheted rug. ‘That
sock’ll just finish it,’ she says.
“ ‘Aunt Annie’s rug,’ gasps Mrs. Man-
ager, but the old lady don’t tumble to
what she meßns.
* t^ n 1 r£ r iy w ant the socks,’ she
s ? yS- . 1 was , th® wool I was after. You
can t buy it now. I unravelled the
socks and mad this for the Jumble
g a j e > b
t < \RS. MANAGER has a cup of tea
IVI anc j goes off home with her butter,
and she’s very hostile to her husband
when she thinks of all the work she put
into those socks.
“He thinks it’s a good joke, and tells
the doctor and a few others, so the story
gets around. But he doesn’t think it’s so
funny when Jumble Sale time comes and
they run the bidding up to ten quid be-
fore the rug’s knocked down to Mrs.
Manager.
“And she’s not satisfied even then,
’cause although it’s the same wool and
the same pattern she reckons it really
isn’t Aunt Annie’s rug any longer,
“That’s barter for you,” concluded
Spoggie. “Ten quid it cost him for a few
pounds of butter, not to mention the
petrol he used running backwards and
forwards to Campbells’ farm.”
“Serve the blood-sucking cow right,”
said Harry.
TRAVELLERS TALE .
It was confusing, sir —
All those damned cherubs hanging in
the air
Tangling their wings against the mizzen-
mast ;
And then the mermaids —trouble enough
we had,
Such crowds of creatures tumbling
through the waves,
The crew agape in round astonishment.
And Triton always blowing up some-
where
Sounding his conch-shell trumpet-like
at us;
And whales that stretched the length of
continents
And took us twenty days to sail around.
And all the scrolls, Sir, mixed up with
the clouds
They made the voyage very trouble-
some —
The same again, Sir, thank you very
much.
You know the pictures then, the maps
and prints?
Those were the crowded days for
voyaging.
The things I’ve seen I doubt if you’d
believe,
But this here jack-knife proves I’ve been
around —
It’s slit near thirty heathen at the throat.
You’ll know, to feel the edge, Sir.
That there’s Columbus at the Isle of
Pearls,
N.S.W.
1 and Columbus, Sir, we stride the deck.
His name in letters written round his
head.
The waves like that, all fixed and ribbed
with light,
The naked Indians in the foreground
here
Are just as I remember.
Thank you. Sir.
And not a space unfilled. Three masters
those,
I just forget
How they got mixed up with the Isle
of Pearls,
Boarding and gunning with their sails
square-rigged
And puffs of smoke that, staying in the
air,
Blot out a toppling Spaniard but his leg.
Aye, that’s the “Gold Lion.” too,
With ten dead Indians swinging at the
mast.
De Bry’s the fellow, Sir, that done the
prints
And got it very accurate.
I said to him
“Put in a cherub. Will, to blow the wind,”
And showed him how to draw the mer-
maids so,
And very lifelike, too.
Well, thank you, Sir.
Yes, the first turning, thirty paces down,
That’s the best way. You’ll not mistake
it. Sir.
One for the road? Your health, then.
Down the hatch.
ROSEMARY DOBSON


THE GENERAL ELECTRIC CO. LTD. OF ENGLAND
in Peace as in War
at the service of the Empire
m a
All around the world there are constantly in service installations of G.E.C.
generating plant, outdoor transformers, substations and other equipment
for the production, distribution and application of electricity.
During the war the vast technical and manufacturing resources of the
G.E.C.—the largest British electrical manufac-
turing organisation in the Empire were concen-
trated on the war effort. The company’s plant
and apparatus faithfully served the United
Nations on all fronts, including the home front,
where British industry developed and maintained
the greatest production in history.
Prominent among the various G.E.C, activities
throughout the British Empire is its associated
company—The Electrical Plant Manufacturers
Pty., Limited, of Sydney, N.S.W.—which com-
pany manufactures Power and Distribution Trans-
formers of all classes up to 20,000 KVA and 1 1 0
KV, with on-load tap changing equipment if 1
required.
(,Sole Australian Representatives of the O.E.Q. of England).
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE; A. G. Healing, Ltd.
&&e.
ELECTRIFICATION
SCHEMES include
all industries: Air-
craft; Chemicals;
Collieries; Food;
Mining; Smelting;
Locomotive and
Wagon Works;
Motor Car Works;
Ships and Shipyards;
Textile and other
Mills; Oil Fields;
Refineries, etc. etc.
WOLFES
DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM
UDOLPHO WOLFE’S ORIGINAL FORMUU
THIS
AROMATIC ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE
i* warranted not only pur* from every injur-
ious property nod ingredient, but it is also of
is invited to the Signature on this label, and
to the Title of this Aromatic Alcoholic
Cordial, embossed on the sides of the Bottle
as protection against inferior and pernicious
M. MOSS it CO. PTY. LTD.. SYDNEY
Bottled in Bond under the supervision
NET; I PINT 6 ft. OZS
WOLFES
<zzAromdtic
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
WSI7S
THE GREAT INDOORS
By LES ROBINSON.
“Of COURSE e was a gentleman—he asked did I mind him smoking!”
WE are always being urged to live
in the open spaces. Ceaselessly
they are extolled. The sensible,
however, I notice, still live in
houses. If they didn’t there would not, as
at present, be a dearth of them. There
would, instead, be any amount of empty
ones to let at next-to-nothing a week.
“Come out of that musty, fusty, dusty
interior! Let ocean and bushland breezes
blow the cobwebs out of you! The open
road is calling! Pack up your troubles
in your rucksack! The great outdoors
will make a new man or a new woman
of you!” these believers in leading an
existence rugged, windswept and fraught
as it so often is with inconvenience, shout
in print at the top of their voices. But
who takes any notice of them? I don’t.
Do they really believe in open roads,
sleeping on the hard, damp ground; think
it advantageous to have their meals, in
all weathers, sitting under trees or
perched on rocks, like seabirds —seabirds
don’t seem to know what comfort means
—to live, in short, like blackfellows? Or
are they, as I have long suspected, merely
druggists, estate agents, undertakers, pro-
prietors of private hospitals and rest-
homes who have found that it pays to
lure and, if possible, keep people, who
would be far better off inside, out of
doors?
The great indoor life is rarely, if ever,
commended. Instead it is, for the most
part, disparaged and reviled. That it
should be is difficult to understand.
Where have I, or for that matter you,
put up with the most discomfort? In-
doors? Why, of course not. And of
what did we think when drenched to the
skin perhaps we plootched drearily across
a swamp or a flooded paddock some-
where? Was it of further exteriors? No,
it certainly was not. We thought, instead,
of dry and windless interiors, of fires
glowing in hearths, of hot food, hot
drinks and our beds.
I ONCE knew a man who eagerly
' assimilated all the literature devoted
to the simple life and the open spaces
and put into practice the theories that
therein were expounded and a lot be-
sides that he had formulated himself. He
went about bare-headed, bare-legged and
bare-footed, wearing only shorts and a
cotton shirt even in the depth of winter.
He slept out always no matter what the
weather was like. He never wore an
overcoat, a mackintosh, rubber boots or
carried an umbrella, no matter how
heavily it rained. He let his hair and
whiskers grow wild until he looked like
a patriarch.
It was a wonder, onlookers thought,
that the amount of discomfort he inflicted
upon himself didn’t kill him. But even an
iron constitution will rust if left out in
the open too long. You have already sur-
mised, perhaps, that he ended up in an
asylum, for which, there is no doubt
whatever, he seemed heading, and he may
have ended up in one, too, eventually,
but, contrary to all expectations at that
time, he suddenly reformed instead, and,
as so often happens, went to the other
extreme. He shut himself up in a dingy
room in a slum. But his decision
to reform was made too late. Rheuma-
tism and other ailments he had accumu-
lated prevented him from deriving any
benefit from it.
MANY birds, animals and insects
noted for intelligence would much
rather be inside than outside. Take, for
example, the flea, the fly, the mosquito,
the mouse, the rat, the opossum, the
sparrow and the starling, merely to men-
tion a few. What a nuisance to the house-
holder they are on that account, for, once
inside, it is so difficult to get rid of them.
White-ants become furious, such is their
fondness for houses (wooden ones) if,
thwarted in their attempts to enter them,
they are thrust out into the open. Spiders,
and we all know how sapient they are,
prefer dark, draught-proof and dusty in-
teriors to being anywhere else. Always
when swept out of them and flung out-
side, I have noticed, they become de-
pressed.
The mouse that shares a shack with me
gets enormous enjoyment out of scam-
pering about in it all night long.
I can tell, by the sounds he makes,
just where he is and what he is doing,
whether he is gnawing holes in my boots,
has found the dripping, is searching for
crumbs about the floor or for specks of
grease among the pots and pans. Although
he came from the open spaces, it has long
been evident to me that he has no inten-
tion of ever returning to them. In the
hope of luring him outside, 1 have even
placed a piece of cheese on jthe doorstep
and left the door slightly ajar. He is,
however, far too shrewd to jeopardise a
dry, if dusty, future indoors for a
moment’s delectation of appetite.
MY boots and socks are drying in front
of the radiator. Wearing a spare
pair and slippers that I always keep in
the drawer of my desk, I am at the
moment, having finished my lunch, lean-
ing back in my comfortable chair enjoy-
ing a smoke. A southerly gale is blowing
and rain is pelting down. But not on
me. There are no holes in the roof, I
am thankful to say. On the opposite side
of the Street men in oilskins and gum
boots are trying to mend a water-main
that has burst. The main and the rain
have converted the street into a foaming
torrent.
Although I realise that in making this
confession I am bound to be regarded as
effete and retrogressive by all who write
in eulogy of the open spaces, and that,
most likely, I shall incur their enmity as
well, I must nevertheless state frankly
that I do not envy in the least the men-
ders, so sturdy and amphibious, of that
main. I admire their patience and forti-
tude, and I sympathise with their gestures
denoting desperation and exasperation,
but I do not long to be plunging and
squelching about in the torrent with them.
I would rather remain where I am.
The great indoor„life makes one feel fit.


Humor of Character:—
Send-off
by MYRA MORRIS
WE lived up north at Barley Hill
where my father had a farm: a
few sheep, a couple of cows,
sometimes wheat waving on the
slope down to the creek and a handful
of hens.
The house, with its kitchen separated
by a passageway walled in with bird-
nesty asparagus fern, was like two out-
size piano-cases one in front of the other,-
and it stood bare as bones on top of a
rise, exposed to whatever winds came
lolloping over the plain.
. There seemed to be a lot of us there
running wild all over the place, and m>
father would not always recognise us at
once if he met us in the town or away
from home. “Hullo, my little man,” he’d
say pleasantly, squatting there on the sale-
yard fence with his heels tucked under a
rail. “Hullo, my little man!” And then
he’d see it was me or Joey in Perce’s cut-
down pants, and a look of embarrassment
would spread over his face. “Ho, it’s
you, my little vermin, is it?” he’d mutter.
“Well, go on —get away back to your
Ma.”
He was something to look at, my father,
tall and broad, with hair like a red bull’s
poll, and small, very bright blue eyes that
were pinkish at the corners. He had a
quick way of talking, and his voice was
thin and high, with a queer tinny note
in it, like water dropping into an empty
tank. He could sing a comic song with
anybody, and he had a high squealing
laugh that made things seem lively when
he was about.
I was getting on to my fourteenth birth-
day when he started to talk seriously of
leaving Barley Hill. This time he meant it.
It was my little sister Ellen got on to
it first. I was home from school digging
out rabbits near the sandpit at the back
of the house, and she was playing in the
capeweed, making yellow flower-chains
for her head. She had a grubby piece of
flannel round her neck, and with her
grasshopper knees and pointed ears and
full brown eyes looked more than ever
like a frightened hare as she sidled along
to where I stood having a rest. She told
me with a sly look that we were going
away from Barley Hill, that Dad had
offered to exchange the farm for Uncle
Carter’s suburban milk-round .and nice
brick house in Melbourne, Auntie Lily’s
chest was delicate, and she had to come
north, and in town there would be jobs
for the lot of us. It would suit all round.
I spat on my hands and frowned at
Ellen.
“How.do you know?” I asked distrust-
fully, because Ellen always told lies, and
no one really believed that she had mumps
until we saw the lumps on her neck big
as eggs. “How do you know, Nosey?”
“Because I heard them talking in the
kitchen—Mum and Dad. Henny, will
they be giving us a send-off?”
“Aw, yes, they’ll give us a send-off,”
I said.
And all at once it seemed to me fine
and grand to be going away from Barley
Hill. The Wallers, the Joneses, the Pear-
sons had all gone away one after the
other, and we had collected money for
them and wished them luck. This time it
would be us, the Gleesons, sitting dolled
up in the front row at the Mechanics’
Hall, getting presents of silver sugar-
basins and trays on wheels, and every-
body saying how sorry they were. It
would be nice, I thought, having a send-
off and feeling important, like someone
with a death in the family.
“Come on,” I said, and I left the rab-
bity ridge and walked with Ellen skipping
beside me back to the house.
WHEN we arrived there Dad and Mum
were still talking in the kitchen. My
mother was a little dried-up woman, the
color of a brown-skinned onion, and I
don’t think I ever saw her in the daytime
without an apron. She had a thin face,
with a long, pointed nose and a way of
peering closely that made you think she
saw things with the tip of her nose, like
a snail with its horns.
She smiled at me, then nodded towards
my father, who had taken off his boots
and was warming his feet in the oven
below a shelf of toasting fairy-bread.
“Dad wants to speak to you,” she said
in her gentle voice.
My father swung round on me in a
hurry. He never merely turned his head
but always twisted his huge body from
the waist. He was in a good mood, his
cheeks red, his eyes sparkling like ice on
a frosty morning. He had taken his feet
out of the stove, and there were holes in
the two big toes of his socks. * ■
“I want you to go down to the store
after dinner, Henny,” he said, “and when
you’ve given your order I want you to
tell old Anderson that we’re leaving
Barley Hill. I want you to make it
known aq,d to tell everybody. To sort
of set things moving right off now.”
My father could have done it in a
grand way himself, laughing down his nose
like a horse squealing, and standing with
his thumbs in his buttonholes while
everybody ran about smart as fleas carry-
ing the stuff out to the gig. But it was
always me sent to the store or to borrow
spare parts and pots and pans from the
neighbors. They said I had the cheek.
Everybody said it. \
“You’re a smart lad, aren’t you, Henny
Gleeson? Smart as paint and the dead
spit of your Dad!.., .A bit of a limb,
aren’t you, Henny?”
I listened to my father now as he made
a list of groceries, ticking them off with
patience on his big red fingers that had
hairs growing along the top like the
brownish stuff on a lobster’s claws. Oat-
meal and raisins (not heavy to carry) and
salmon (“Good brands mind, none of
their cheap pink stuff like a dog being
sick”) and flake-cut tobacco, the best....”
“All right,” I said at last. “Where’s
the money?”
“Listen to the boy,” said my father,
raising his eyes to the ceiling that was
freckled black and brown with smoke and
fly-spots. “Listen to the boy! Money is
it? Ho, the Gleesons don’t pay' cash,
Henny, and well you know it. Old
Anderson’ll get his due in the Lord’s
"good time.” He winked broadly, slapped
his powerful thighs and laughed as if
once started he couldn’t stop. “You
tell ’em the news, boy—the sad news —
and there’ll be sorrow in every heart be-
fore the sundown. A tear in every eye! ”
He was winking again, and I wanted
to wink back because I knew he was only
poking fun, like the day he went to bed
groaning with a terrible pain, too sick
in the stomach to see the schoolmaster
who had come about Joey and me.
“Bad luck to
them,” my father
shouted suddenly;
“they’ll be ready to
cut their throats they
didn’t make me pre-
sident of the football
club last year, sorry
they done mean
things to me time
and again when I
only-had the good of
the town at heart!
Jack Gleeson gone,
is it? Well that’s a
bad day for Bartley
Hill and no mis-
take ! Who’ll be sing-
ing them ‘Finne-
gan’s Wake’ and ‘The
Sick Stockrider’ at the Temperance hop
now, I’m asking? Ho, who indeed! It’s a
good kick-off they’ll give us. I’m think-
ing, a whale of a good kick-off!”
“Can I have that new pea-shooter down
at Anderson’s, Dad,” I asked, smitten
suddenly by a memory of the coveted toy
lying on the ledge at the back of the
grocery counter.
“You can not” said my father blink-
ing his little red-rimmed eyes very fast.
“Well, can I have some peppermints,
then?”
My father looked at me thoughtfully.
“My son,” he said, “you are not old
enough. for peppermints—yet.”
WALKING to the town past the ring-
barked trees I kept thinking of my
father, fifle and grand, t and taking no
notice of anybody: walking down the
slope with a gun in his hand to meet
Morgan, the herdsman, who had im-
pounded our wandering cows; roaring
With laughter, picking up Mum like a
bag of peas and carrying her across the
shallow bit of the creek when she was
too frightened to walk over the log
bridge.
And I thought of him all dressed up
with his red tie flying out, cracking his
whip in the ring at the local show and
always managing to get me or Perce a
prize if we had borrowed a horse. He’d
pretend he didn’t know us then, “What
ho,” he’d say in a thin, high voice of
surprise, “if it isn’t one of my own little
vermin nulling off the prize and me never
recognising.”
I was whistling when I reached the
store. There were a lot of people there,
shuffling their feet on the floor, and Mrs.
Anderson helping the old man tie up
sugar, beaming all round. She looked at
me sharply.
“Home again from school, Henny?”
she said, shaking her head. “Oh, Ellen’s
mumps, is it? Well, you’ll never get your
Merit.”
“That’s all right, Mrs. Anderson,” I
said grinning, “My Dad never got his.
And, anyhow, I’m the best at composi-
tion.”
Mrs. Anderson let that go by, and I
stood close up against the counter pick-
ing currants out of the boxes and stuffing
them in my pockets as I had seen my
father do a hundred times, until old man
Anderson saw me.
“Here, lay off them currants, boy!”
“I thought it was flies, Mr. Anderson,
I said innocently, and I gave my grocery
order, never batting an eye when I asked
grandly to have it charged. It was then
I spilled my news. We were going away
from Barley Hill, I said, and my father
had everything fixed up with Uncle
Carter.
“God bless us, that’ll be a great loss
to the district,” said old Mr. Anderson
in a funny voice, and he looked hard over
the tops of his glasses as if he were count-
ing figures in his head.
Everybody crowded round and started
saying what a shame it would be to have
the Gleesons gone. “He’s a terrible grand
man, Jack Gleeson,” they said. “Terrible
grand! ”
They all followed me to the door, nudg-
ing each other and making faces, and
saying again what a grand man my
father was, and I went out proudly with
my sack of goods over my shoulder, and
I didn’t give a damn for any of them.
BY night all the people in the town had
the news, and my father took a long
time digging the post-holes by the road
because of the people who pulled up in
their gigs and carts to talk to him. By
the end of the week the whole district
knew, and Mrs. Casey came oyer from
Fyan’s Creek to get back the night-lamp
Mum had borrowed the time little Joey
had the croup; and Joe Waddle looked
in for his shears; and Mr. Barker for
his saddle, though my father said that
was damned inconsiderate of him as we
had already had it for two years, and
how were we to ride the horse now —
bareback?
Everywhere—l could hear it in the air
when I went over the paddocks warm
and bright with capeweed and into the
town —the talk was all of our going and
what a shame it was. But it didn’t seem
real somehow, not even when they tried
to pin my father down to a definite date
for the send-off, not even when Uncle
Carter, a thin man with a dark, narrow,
frost-bitten face came up from Mel-
bourne and poked about the farm, talk-
ing of sheep and cOws and Aunt Lily’s
delicate chest.
When Uncle Carter went back my
father seemed to relax.
“Everything’s all right,” he told us in
a pleased voice as we sat in the kitchen,
“and I can give them the date now for
the send-off. That’ll be the twenty-eighth,
and they’d better get going if they want
to do the thing in style. There’ll be
presents,” he went on, his manner sud-
denly sharp and alert, “and they better
get it clear we don’t want trumperies like
black marble clocks and plated sugar-
bowls.”
There was no answer to this, and my
mother went on reading placidly, her nose
close to the printed page of the news-
I paper. She was always reading fancy
recipes for things like whitebait sauce and
Bombay Duck and meringue puddings.
“If I had a spot of loose cash on my
hands,” muttered father after a long,
thoughtful pause, “I could get that old
truck made over and cart wood from
Hankey’s. There’s money in wood.”
Suddenly he sighed, clicked his white,
shiny teeth together and kicked me gently
on the shin. “If they ask you, Henny,”
he said, “you better tell them the Glee-
sons won’t be needing any clocks or
.sugar-basins or any of that paltry fare-
r well junk.”
THEY asked me all right; before the
week was out —the parson’s wife (who
had been funny ever since my father had
won three raffles running at the church
bazaar), and Mr. Anderson and Chas.
Tupper, who was head of the local Enter-
tainment Committee.
“Would your dad like a real handsome
clock now, Henry, a black marble
one?”, , .
“Come on, boy, you tell us! How about
a nice coffee service or an auto-tray?”
I could only grin and tell them regret-
fully that we already had everything they
mentioned, and, anyhow, there wasn’t
much room for packing anything at all.
When the night of the,twenty-eighth
arrived we still had no inkling of what
we were to get by way of a present, and
I could tell that my father, depressed
and hearty by turn, was thinking about
it a great deal.
It was a clear, cold night and we
dressed for the send-off in some excite-
ment, Mum wearing her best pink-
flowered black, with a bit of fur at the
throat, and Dad his new tan leggings
with his grey suit. When we were ready
Chas. Tupper hooted his horn outside
and we all piled into the car —all but
Perce, who went off on his bicycle, swear-
ing under his breath.
At the Mechanics’ Hall the ladies had
been busy with gum boughs and pear-
blossom and trails of crinkled paper.
(Continued on page 41.)


“PEACE HATH ITS VICTORIES....”


*
m
L
;
m
*.
■
fJWAT EXTRA ROOM that
has a high priority in your
post-war plans can soon be-
come a practical and comfort-
able reality ... in Plywood!
Additions to your home can be
quickly and easily carried out
with Plywood, and its con-
struction will stand wear and
weather for a lifetime.
No matter what decorative or
constructional scheme you
have in mind, Plywood is the
answer. So versatile in use,
Plywood will take any wood
finish, and can be moulded to
any shape. Plywood can be
waterproofed, and comes in
varying sizes and thicknesses
in large, flat sheets.
• Light with great strength.
• Large surfaces stay flat.
• Con be waterproofed.
•Takes any wood finish.
• Varied sises and thicknesses.
• Cat or moulded to any shape.
ini
The
of twaitwited ***
THE PRODUCT OF THE AUSTRALIA*} PLYWOOD BOARD
p.w.ai
LIMITED, ENGLAND
RAYONS
for loveliness
that lasts . . .
N
ew clothes are an event
these days and it is wise to
buy for quality. You will there-
fore find it advantageous to
purchase dresses and lingerie
made from Courtaulds rayons.
If you prefer to make your own
things at home, the lovely rayon
fabrics made from Courtaulds
yarns provide quality and
service as well as beauty.
Courtaulds Rayons are
still available, although
the quantity is
restricted.
World distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics:
Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London, England.
SALES AGENT :
SYDNEY: Samuel Courtauld Co. (Aust.) Pty Ltd.
18 x Clarence Street.
ŵ
Of an Abo.: —
SHQRON
by e.a.qollschewsky
THERE was mystery in his velvet eyes,
laughter in the full curves of his
thick mouth.
His hair was streaked with white,
and it waved unrestrainedly above his
black, shiny forehead like a banner. His
hands felt to the touch as if they were
encased in gloves of finest ebony silk, so
smooth was the skin. And the inner cups
of his curled fingers were the pale, un-
blemished pink of a young mushroom.
When he rode up to the house he used
to toss the bridle reins over his horse’s
head and leave them there when he went
inside. I never saw him tie a horse up
in all the years he worked at the station.
One day he went straight to where the
boss was working on the old model T
used around the place. We gathered
around, as we always did when Sharon
rode in.
“The mares are starting to foal up
in the top run,” he said, squatting on his
haunches and patting Blue’s head when
she slid it on* to his knee. “Watercress
dropped hers, still-born.”
“Watercress, eh?” The boss rubbed
his jaw reflectively. “That’s bad. You
could let her go. She’ll find Torch in
the mountains.” Torcll was the chestnut
stallion.
“She’ll find him all right, boss,” said
the black stockman. White teeth flashed
in a face polished as if with the best
shoeshine. “Wherever he is.” -
“What about that grey mare I got from
Charming? I want you to watch out for
her foal. It’s going to be damned valu-
able. Dop’t let the dingoes get to her.”
“They’ve been around the last few
nights. You can’t fool them —they know
when the youngsters are due.”
“I’ll get you some poison to take back
for baits.”
-‘They pulled down four of the Illa-
warras. I had to shoot ’em.”
The boss nodded slowly, understand-
ingly. “Get the baits out,” he said again,
Cunning against cunning. Something
in the thought of Sharon’s bending over
a carcass, laying his poison baits, was a
reminder that his people had this country,
had hunted and explored it, long before
we grew to love it. A reminder, too, that
in Sharon’s veins flowed that same wild,
untameable blood.
r\ NLY one thing ever beat Sharon, and
that was Jenny. Or, rather, the loss
of Jenny. For although he aimed kicks
at her and snarled whenever he was
forced to answer her endless chatter, he
loved her.
“The little black she-cat! ” the boss said
angrily when he found out. He was
frightened of losing the best stockman
he’d ever had. And Sharon certainly
seemed a goner for a while. He got beau-
tifully drunk, and stayed that way for
nearly a week.
Jenny was a pretty, small-boned abori-
ginal, It was easy to understand why
Sharon adored her, even though she was
lazy and her hut the dirtiest on the place.
When Sharon sobered up he burnt the
few belongings she left behind, and put
his horse into the vegetable plot she had.
spasmodically coaxed along. But the hut
seemed deadly quiet without her shrilly,
scolding voice, and the patter of her small
bare feet. Even the dogs seemed to miss
her,
Sharon came back to work the same,
but with a stoop to his great powerful
shoulders. Only when his face was in
repose did the mask slip. Then there was
bewilderment in the eyes he turned
to the west where quiet, misty hills
lolled on the horizon.
Sometimes it seemed as if his
thoughts were miles away, but
gradually he came back to himself,
and soon it was as if he’d forgotten.
His horse ate the melon and sweet
potato vines, and the posts of the rickety
fence sagged and rotted out in time.
We never spoke of Jenny again.
\lU r HEN the evenings grew longer he
v * took us fishing on the river. He
liked to sit up in the bow, and it seemed
to us that he was like a figurehead, sit-
ting immobile, his battered felt hat well
down over the thick bush of crisp curls,
the thin green line between
his fingers.
He could tell tales about
that river—how they swam
the first cattle over Paling’s
Crossing, and brought the
first trading steamer through
the treacherous Heads.
The hours never dragged.
There was hot sun on our backs, and
the water turned to a sheet of transparent
golden glass; then slowly the ball of lire
sank in the west and the sky was red,
turning the now restless river tq flaming
reflection. The tide turned, and a V of
wild ducks flew low over the water head-
ing for home. Then no more sun, only
lavender-shaded dusk and wild black
swans swimming close to the boat.
Clouds of flying foxes leaving the man-
grove and filling the air with musky odor.
Night and brilliant stars; a few fish
lying like silver shafts in the bottom of
the boat; everything still but for the
friendly plop of a cast line ; the far-away
splash of a leaping fish or the lament of
a mourning curlew.
In the morning Sharon cooked the fish,
and we all sat around the breakfast table,
praising and eating.
Sharon held the baby, and fed it on
small, snowy flakes of fish; thrusting a
black finger in its mouth when it looked
like choking.
There was nobody like Sharon!
Days when we rode with him into
forest country looking for the yearlings
the spring muster had failed to account
for. Then a whirring of quail wings in
the long grass was a signal for his long
Portrait of a Novelist.
Loud roar the trains
With a sound like the surf’s ;
Hobbs is sitting late
With his ten red dwarfs ;
And they skip and they hop
And they bend their bony knees.
The red dwarfs dancing
In the thunder of the seas.
Left thumb’s a fat dwarf,
Right thumb’s the same ;
Long and lean is middle dwarf
And little dwarf is lame ;
And they click and they clack
And the fat dwarfs wheeze,
Tapping with their heels
On the typewriter keys.
Fair lies the city
He would lie beside of nights,
Like a white girl sleeping
In her glittering bed of lights ;
But the red dwarfs are working
And they keep what hours they
please,
Hammering and stamping
On the typewriter keys.
Fifty russet summers
Are rich on his hands,
Rolling in his mind
Like the sea along the sands ;
But little dwarf is spindly
And fat dwarf is bald
And long and lank and bearded
dwarf
Stands up and looks appalled.
Ah, but mighty ships are loaded
By midgets at the wharfs.
And Hobbs looks smiling
A t the labors of his dwarfs;
For they thump and they bump
And they jump about like fleas
And they load his ship with
summer
For the thunder of the seas.
N.S.W.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Correct these ailments
strengthen
WEAK
KIDNEYS
with
mm
Backache, Rheumatism, and pains in the Joints should
be recognised as early symptoms of Kidney Weakness
and no time should be lost in taking a course of Dr.
Sheldon’s GIN PILLS.
GIN PILLS assist the Kidneys in their action . . . help
them to become stronger . . . more active . . . and
free from inflammation. Then with your Kidneys work-
ing normally again, Backache and other Kidney
Ailments are soon relieved. Give your Kidneys the
assistance they need by taking a course of Dr. Sheldon’s Gm Pills NOW.
DR. SHELDON'S
27 pills, 1/9 ; 60 pills, 2/9.
©asi mm
ẁ
ẃ
Have a Coca-Cola
= Let’s go places
%
Ss#s
a6F
. or refreshment joins the family picnic
When the feast is spread,
picnic guests are sure to
gather ’round the spot
where ice-cold Coca-Cola
is served. And how good
“Coke” tastes with the
simplest food! Keep a
supply on hand. Then
you can always offer your
friends and guests the
pause that refreshes, a
symbol of welcome from
Palm Beach, Australia,
to Palm Beach, U.S.A.
ms jm
—the global
high-sign
[t’s natural for popular names tc
icquire friendly abbreviations
Fhat’s why you hear Coca-Cok
railed “Coke”.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY, ILS.A;
(Liability Limited)
SYDNEY
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH VICTORY LOANS.
stockwhip to snake out and catch the
birds a few feet from the ground. He
could follow cattle tracks when we saw
only dirt and grass and a few pebbles,
And he never made a mistake. The strays
were where he said they would be. And
they never got away from him.
There was poetry in the way he rode
his almost-human stock-horse. They
moved as one, perfectly attuned. Down
sheer cliff drops, over stony, shallow
creeks, up densely-wooded ridges, where
the cattle ahead were jusf madly veering
shadows amongst the timber. And ever
Sharon was just behind, or swerving away
at right-angles to head them off, little
flecks of foam drifting indifferently from
the horse’s flanks, -
There was often bulldogging to do, and
swift, sure roping to enable Sharon’s
knife to do its work with lightning effi-
ciency. And afterwards there were no
more scrubber bulls to leap the fences
and get among the blood herds.
WHEN we talk about him now he’s
there, as if he moved and spoke
beside us. Sharon lighting a fire, and set-
ting a billy over it; tossing a damper into
glowing coals; throwing a crust of bread
to faithful Blue, with the fat from his
meat; rolling a thick cigarette and look-
“ That’s all for the present, Miss Hasit —I find your er-er-nail lacquer very
disturbing this morning.”
ing up at the sky with its veil of feathery
white clouds; his low voice—“ Rain
tonight, I bet.”
Always Sharon was in our lives.
He went into the rodeOs that came to
town, and we used to push him forward
when the challenge contests came on,
and then cheer our heads off when he
never failed to ride the horses. Some-
times the greasy, overdressed showmen
were contemptuous of him, but Sharon
always carried off their purses and broke
their “outlaws’ ” records.
His shirt of white silk bellied out
behind him with every jerk, and we could
see a thread of white where his lips drew
back from his teeth. There was one
horse in particular, supposedly unbeaten
in Queensland, which Sharon rode one
night at a famous show in town.
The horse was a fiend. It lashed all
over the ring, its small hooves throwing
plumes of dust into the air; and horrible
wheezing grunts coming from its curved
neck. Its nostrils flared red., its eyes
rolled in white, viciously glaring sockets.
“Get off!” yelled the showman fran-
tically. “Get off, you fool! D’ y’ want
to spoil the horse for life?”
Sharon slid lightly to his feet, over
the sides of the still bucking horse. The
fat-bellied, curly-haired proprietor ran
in with surprising agility and grasped the
loosely-flying rope. The horse was done,
and after a few more tired pigroots it
came to a standstill in the ring centre.
Sharon’s big, gentle hand slid over the
horse’s sweat-dark flanks, affection in his
touch. He loved guts, in animal or man.
BUT Sharon wasn’t always noble and
inspiring. He loved knives, and
couldn’t resist* a good steel when he saw
one.
We took a pride in keeping our knives
sharp and clean, but no matter how
closely we watched them he always man-
aged to get them away from us. After
the boss’s own sheath-knife—relic of his
war days—had gone into Sharon’s pack
and reappeared quite openly at branding
time, the boss tried a bit of psychology
on him. Every week or so he brought
home a knife for Sharon, and the black
naan took it with pleasure, thanked the
boss profusely, and hid it away some-
where in his hut.
But the knives from the house con-
tinued to disappear. We just resigned
ourselves to seeing favorite pocket-
knives sticking out of Sharon’s pockets,
Somehow they didn’t seem altogether
lost.
No, Sharon wasn’t a paragon. His
temper could flare out without warning,
and then—evCn the leaves on the trees
seemed to curl up in retreat from the
torrent of profanity that flowed from his
lips.
But there was nobody like him. He
knew where the bees’ hive was in the
spotted-gum paddock ; he was a wizard
with a .22. There were nights when we
went after ’possums with him ; days when
we followed kangaroo pads behind him ;
and we never came back with empty
hands. He knew where the platypus had
her nest in the creek bank, which of the
turkey mounds held eggs.
He taught us to ride around sleeping
cattle, to shoot from horseback, to live
on nothing—or thereabouts —for days in
the bush. Sharon was our idol.
HE packed up one day and left the
untidy sprawling hut to which he
brought Jenny as a bride. He didn’t say
why, and nothing we said could change
his mind. He had to go.
Perhaps some day he’d come back.
Though Jenny didn’t.
“But where will you go?”
The boss’s wife was inclined to tears.
Sharon always praised her cooking, and
he was wonderful with the children.
“Out west.” His restless eyes avoided
hers.
“But you don’t know anyone!”
“My father’s people are out there. I’ll
find them.”
“Blacks?” Her voice betrayed startled
wonder. Sharon seemed so civilised —
he’d been with us a long time. Was his
State-school education to be tossed aside
like that? He’d seemed so fond of the
boss, too. And proud of his reputation
as a stockman.
“Yes. My people,” he said, and
smiled.
We wondered if he was going to look
for Jenny, and the half-caste with whom
she’d run away.
He tightened his girth. Then mounted.
Blue went on through the gate, keeping
close to the packhorse. Sharon leaned
from his horse and shook hands all
around.
“Well, so long,” he said.
His back sloped slightly as it always
did when he rode. The sun caught the
little pointless discs on the mock spurs
he wore.
“He’ll come back,” said the boss,
coughing to hide his emotion. “You’ll
see—he’ll come back.” Perhaps some
day he will.


In the Snow Country:-
THE ROAD TO OMEO
By BRIAN TAMES
(THINK the name was as much an
attraction as anything else. There
it was on the map, in the centre of
a broad section of n.-e. Victoria —
Omeo.
It may be foolish to claim such fas-
cination for a name, especially when it
has no association at all, but Omeo to
us had that elusive romance that belongs
to Silken Samarkand. At least, that is
what Jim said. To the west and north of
Omeo, suitably heavy to mark their im-
portance on the p map, were the Austra-
lian Alps. We knew nothing about the
Alps and Omeo, but we agreed that we
must find out. Jim and I had been mates
for years, and when we had holidays
spent them in some absurdly long bike
trip or tramping tour. We “saw the
country” that way.
The Victorian Tourist Bureau sent us
a fine Broadbent map, and a long per-
sonal letter —perhaps because we lived in
Sydney, and extra explanation was
deemed necessary. It very strongly ad-
vised against attempting the crossing from
Bright to Omeo in winter ; snow made the
road quite impassable ; and as to bikes —
it just couldn’t be done as things were
thirty years ago.
Our knowledge of snow was strictly
limit.ed. Jim had never seen it, but he
had been reading a deal about the Swiss
Alps and the Andes. He had gathered
that glaciers were much more dangerous
than snow. I had seen one fall of snow
when I was very young, I thought it
rarely beautiful with no great risks
attached to it. So we thanked the
bureau for its courtesies, but determined
the more to give that Bright-Omeo road
“a flutter,” and then make down to
Bruthen or Bairnsdale.
We arrived at Wangaratta, and had to
spend the day there waiting for the Bright
train. The Ovens was in flood, and we
spent much of the day watching the swirl-
ing, eddying, yellow and brown water.
What one did with a day in Wangaratta
when there was no flood in the Ovens
we found hard to imagine. Years after-
wards I was stranded in the town, and
spent the day quite well —I went and
looked at the Hume and Hovell tree, and
then looked at the park. After that I
went back to the tree, and after that
again to the park. And so on.
Now we walked along a flat road till
it came to a recent shallow lake. The
road went on, for the fence posts, black
in their wetness, stood above the water
and converged towards eternity. A
Chinaman in a cart caught up.
“Gop!” said the Chinaman to his fat
bay horse, “Gop!”
Evidently the word itself satisfied some
vague longing for speed. The horse, a
stolid, worthy beast, but with no false
pride about him, stepped on as though
he hadn’t been “gopped.”
The Chinaman had a wheat-bag
fastened over his shoulders, his sodden
hat drooped like a rooster’s tail in the
rain. He had a thin drooping black
moustache, and eyes that looked on the
flood as they would have looked on fire
or anything else: We told him it was
wet, and he said “welly” something or
other. Then “Gop” to his horse, and em-
barked on the shallow lake. The water
was halfway to the hub, and the horse
splashed through it.
• In a way it was antithesis to our adven-
ture —snow, high mountains and gushing
streams were no part of this soaked plain
and* a Chinese market gardener. Still,
he fitted into this flat world where the
Ovens was already an old man river.
BEYOND Everton that evening dark-
ness closed in on the narrowing
valley. Buffalo, Eurobin Falls and the
noisy galloping Buckland River would
have to wait till years later. In the car-
riage was a very old lady, remarkably
bright and sprightly. She was not a little
vain that she had achieved all those years
—nearly a hundred of Jhfem.
She said she had met her husband at
Braidwood in the palmy days, and had
eloped with him to Araluen, where a
parson fixed them up. Her husband was
a wonderful fighter, and fought just after
they were married, the biggest, best and
bloodiest fight that Braidwood ever saw.
They tried to keep the fight secret from
her, but she heard of it, and watched it
from behind a bush. She was always
very proud that she did watch that fight.
It was for a big purse, and against a very
flash and arrogant fellow, who had been
a holy terror up to that time. He was
never the same afterwards, and her hus-
band was almost undamaged.
She said one of the boys would be sure
to meet her at Porepunkah. “You see
if one of them doesn’t!” And, sure
enough, one of them did* a dried-up,
stooped old man came to the window at
Porepunkah, and said “Hullo, Mother!”
and she said “Oh, it’s you, Tom, is it;
you don’t seem to get any younger,”
That pleased Tom. He didn’t seem
to wish himself any younger. In fact,
he was qualifying to be an oldest inhabi-
tant, and wanted no impediment put in
his way.
We wheeled our bikes from the station
at Bright through dark, wet streets to the
Star Hotel. It was very cold. We con-
cluded the wind was blowing straight off
the snow.
Next morning at breakfast the publi-
can was horrified to hear of our ambition
to get to Omeo. “You’ll have to see
Mick,” he said.
“Who?”
“Mick! Everyone knows Mick. Don’t
go till you see Mick.” The landlord left
it at that.
A lady who strikingly resembled Queen
Victoria at the time of the Diamond
Jubilee spoke in regal severity,
"/ heard what you said to Mr. Lewis! ”
We gaped, almost wondering in what
we had incriminated ourselves.
“And you mustn’t do it!”
Ah, so that was it. Not attempt get-
ting to. Omeo!
“There is no need,” the good queen
went on, “to see Mick Donovan: / can
tell you. First, do you know what hap-
pened to Webster?”
We didn’t know.
* “Three fingers and four toes!”
We looked mystified.
“He wouldn’t be told. Knew better.
Nearly dead when they found him. Every-
one out for days looking for him. His
bicycle found in a tree the next summer.
He had enough of going to Omeo in
winter! ”
Jim asked what happened. Royalty
said “He was a fool.” Then she softened
a little —“You just go to Feathertop, have
a play round in the«snow, and then come
back.”
She left it at that,
IN the yard we met Mick. He was
* well on in his fifties, .but lean, powerful
and active. He had curious brown eyes
that lit lip with excitement at every third
or fourth sentence. At such intervals
Mick nearly always reached some moving
climax. He was, he said, the best coach-
man in Australia—just about. We thought
he was exaggerating and boasting, but
he wasn’t really.
“Omeo!” said Mick. “Omeo!” Do I
know Omeo? Do I? Look at me and
say if I should know Omeo or not.”
That sounded vain, but Mick went on
to explain that he had driven the coach
for years and years
from Bright to
Omeo. Only in the
summer, of course,
he added. “Highest
coach road in Aus-
tralia — from St.
Bernard to the
Horsehair Plain.
Do I know Omeo!”
We told Mick
we were going to
Omeo.
“You can’t,” said
Mick, “not for
months yet.”
We said we were
starting today.
“How?”
“On bikes.”
Mick became very excited, and his eyes
danced round. Then he laughed and spat
in a sidelong fashion. “Bikes to Omeo
in June!” He thought it a joke, and even
if it wasn’t a joke it was still funny.
He became very serious at last and
painted a grim picture of the dangers of
the road —its steepness and the depth of
the snow; the danger of sudden snow-
storms and the ease with which one
could get lost. He gave the story of
Webster—that young fool—who was lost
for nearly a week, and would have died
for certain if he hadn’t stumbled on a
stockman’s hut. He verified the loss of
fingers and toes from frost bite, Mick
nearly wept in his strong feeling against
our folly. We took him in and bought
him several whiskies to cheer him, but he
was not to be comforted. Had we any
sense we would have hearkened to him
and accepted his gracious offer of going
“Send a bag o’ chaff out to me oV man, will y, Dinny?”
up to Buffalo with him—he was driving
up to the Chalet during the winter.
Mick shook hands solemnly with us —
he had done his best —he could do no
more.
WE procured forked sticks from the
river bank for carriers. These fit
along the crossbar and the forked ends
project about two feet beyond the saddle.
They make excellent carriers, and on
them we tied our tucker and utensils
and gear. A triangular bag, in the frame,
carried change of clothes and spares.
Then the road to Harrietville, follow-
ing the Ovens all the way. The river was
brawling and swollen but fairly clear here.
It is a grand valley, that of the Upper
Ovens, with a proper mountain stream,
almost Alpine. The hills rise steeply out
of the valley floor, densely wooded, and
they go up and up, with wonder asking
what is beyond them. The river flats are
narrow and fertile, hop fields here and
there, but often the flats are ruined by
dredging, and deserts of boulders and
gravel replace the rich soil. Feathery
sheoaks, scrubs of them in places, line
the river.
At a bend in the road near Smoko
comes the first sight of snow. You look
straight up the valley and there stands
Feathertop, massive and glittering in the
winter sunlight. Of all the mountains I
have seen in Australia Feathertop re-
mains at once the grandest and most
beautiful. And not in winter only: I
have seen it in summer, purpled and with
the dark shadows of gorge and gully upon
it, and it was just as impressive.
We stopped to look at the mountain.
Somewhere behind it—and higher even —
was Mick’s dangerous road to Omeo —
almost over the top of Hotham and about
6000 feet above sea level. We savored the
glory of such a journey in advance. High
peaks, endless seas and everlasting plains
strike, 1 think, much the same note deep
down within us.
We passed a big dredge soon after, in
its big, dirty pond, eating remorsely into
the rich, deep earth for a few scant grains
of gold. A few miles more and there was
Harrietville —the 500th (or more) decay-
ing Australian gold-mining town. Its
glory may have departed—some of it —
but Harrietville was a dream among the
dying towns.
We went to the pub—and our arrival
had been expected. We were already
known. The publican took it upon him-
self to dissuade us from going further.
He gave gloomier details of the fingers
and toes that had belonged to the un-
fortunate Webster. He himself had
spoken to that Webster in that very bar,
just as he was speaking to us. But
Webster wouldn’t be told —and there you
are. He was in the party that found
Webster in that hut—and Webster wasn’t
pleasant to look at.
At last he gave up warnings and
proffered advice. It was good advice, too.
Make for the St. Bernard Hospice the first
night. Snow so far had not been very
heavy, and we shouldn’t strike any before
the Hospice. There was no one at the Hos-
pice at this time of year, but it was a
licensed hotel, and therefore bound to
accommodate. Open or break a back
window. Inside we’d find everything
we wanted in the way of lighting,
fuel and bedding. Then, if next morning
was perfectly clear, set out early and get
over Hotham. After that it would be all
down hill, and the snow poles would
guide us.
He was a decent old chap, with a fierce
moustache and reddish heard.. He looked
more like an old-time digger than a pub-
lican, He gave us a small flask of whisky
and insisted that it was a present. And
he asked us to send him a wire as soon as
we reached Omeo, Like Mick, he shook
hands solemnly and wished us luck and
told us to be sure to wire.
Up the hill a little was the butcher.
He’d heard of us, too, and was annoyed.
We thought we’d take some extra meat
with us. The butcher cut off loin chops
as though the poor sheep was to blame
for us. He had no patience with us at all,
and muttered something to himself about
that fool of a Webster and others like
him. He didn’t shake hands.
THE road from Harrietville to the
Hospice is about fifteen miles and
rises the whole long way of it—3oo, 400
feet to the mile. Sometimes less and often
more.
The overloaded bikes had to be pushed
the whole way—riding was out of the
question. It was the longest hill we had
ever climbed, something like a hill, as Jim
said. We were only half-way up when he
said that. Later, as strength began to
vanish, the description was not so com-
plimentary. And now that we were really
in the mountains we couldn’t see them,
only an upward road, endlessly winding
up the long spur that led to the top of the
range. On the crest of every rise we
expected to come upon the Hospice, and
it wouldn’t be there.
At last, as dusk was beginning to close
in, we saw the iron roof of the Hospice.
It was across an enormous valley, and we
reckoned it must be three miles away at
least. We had no strength left —there had
been no training for work of this kind
in our softening jobs. The stiffening went
(Continued on page 36.)
The Pelicans.
Are you assembled as a solemn jury
To try me —guilty in my gasping boat
Of fumes and thunder and a cancerous
scar
Across the texture of the tide’s smooth
face ;
And all these crimes to gain five knots
an hour?
I fear your verdict, jury, that has known
The incantation of a wavering fin
Bewitch a salmon to a shooting star.
Or have you donned your academic dress.
Old senators, with white descending
beards
And paunches well fish-lined, merely to
grumble ?
You answer with a blur of chattering
wings.
White-quivering darkness as a shore-borne
wave
Some lurking reef has mauled; and then,
spume-high,
Span out in idle flight, gliding to rise
With beauty Youth has only met in
dreams.
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS


FIRE VERSUS WATER
W r ater 9 Captained by “Grinnell" always wins
mw
m
X
-
m
: m
*msm&
m
W
:
Hi
ifw«!
S£
S
■
i
HU
m
■'■■ ■■ : si
V
iii
im
■H:
-■
i
SSs,
' -j
Brat
I
\
I
y.v >:<■-
111111*®
;;
|»
s ,
:...
M
m
m
.
*
i
..
■;
11
Hgggg#
«WBpk
H
4
I
■ ■
f
■
S
i
•>. ’
U I
m
Grinnells
Record over 59 Years!
From the first 'save 5 in 1886 to 31st December,
1944, 1,212 fires have been controlled by
"Grinned” in Australia and New Zealand.
The average loss per fire
originating within "Grinnell"
protected buildings is just
over £144
This remarkably low loss figure includes all
claims paid for fire, smoke and water damage.
In many "Grinnell” saves, damage was so
slight that no claim was made on Insurance
Companies. Concrete proof of "Grinnell’s”
ability to strike and kill at the very heart of
a fire.
Behind every "Grinned” Automatic
Sprinkler Installation in Australia and New
Zealand is, the Wormald service ... a service
that carries with it the accumulated knowledge
of more than half a century’s experience in Fire
Protection. It is a guarantee that "Grinned”
is on duty twenty-four hours every day of the
year.
GRINNELL
AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
WORMALD BROTHERS PTY. LTD.
(Incorp. in N.S.W.)
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889
BRANCHES IN ALL AUSTRALIAN STATES AND NEW ZEALAND


Your home against
WINTER
CHILL
SUMMER
HEAT
Keep Winter’s chill from your home—with
Cane-ite, the building board that insulates
your home against he&t or cold; keeps your
dwellings at an even, comfortable, healthy
temperature.
Easy to erect, too—just put it right over old
stained walls. Cane-ite’s superb matte surface
takes paint, kalsomine, dye or stencilled
patterns beautifully—or you can get smart
effects with Cane-ite’s natural light buff
suede-like texture.
ẅ
0
S'
i inch of Cane-ite will insulate your
home better than 16 inches of concrete
or an 8-inch thick brick wall.
Manufactured by
The Colonial Sugar Refining
Co. Ltd.
(Building Materials Division)
Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane,
Adelaide, Perth
★
Other C.S.R. Products:
Slagwool, Asbestos, Plaster,
Products
.... M
•.\>Lu
•ANJ> £
m
' |
> i
i
>
I*l
■
JA
ue
n
BOOKS
VIORIB
J^aoh
dew
M
Keit
Wo*
%
u
ca.c
dt
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
June MEMOIRS OF A MOUNTAINEER _F. Spencer Chapman
July CLOUDLESS MAY _____ Storm Jamieson
Aug. BEING MET TOGETHER _ _ _ _ Vaughn Wilkins
Sept. CRICKET COUNTRY _ _ _ _ Edmund Blunden
Oct. THE SMALL BACK ROOM _ _ „ Nigel Balchin
Nov. CLUNY BROWN ______ Margery Sharp
Dec. SO MANY LOVES _____ Leo Walmsley
Jan. THE RAZOR’S EDGE _ _ _ Somerset Maughan
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MTHS £l-17-6 12 MTHS—£3-15-0 (inc.)
WORLD
BOOKS”
is a book club
which releases a
selected modern
book in a special
De-Luxe Edition
to members each
month. These
books cost only
5/9 each, ir-
respective of the
regular selling
price of the
book, and are
members' own
property.
w
out of arms and legs, a not unpleasant
sensation in itself, but fatal to further
effort. We sat down and got a half-loaf
of bread and a half-pound of butter. We
ate the lot and felt better. It was dark
almost, but we had the heart.to push on.
When we did reach the Hospice we nearly
went by in the pitch darkness. We were
glad we didn’t.
There was much striking of matches till
we got the layout of the place and found
a back window. After that it was easy,
There was a big swing lamp, and we soon
had cheerful light and a cheerful fire. It
was a real fireplace—you could put trunks
of trees into it. There was a ladder up the
chimney so that one could enter and de-
part when the whole place was completely
snowbound. We ate some pounds of the
Harrietville chops, and they were good,
There was ample food stored inside, but
we used our own, except for tea, sugar
and condensed milk.
There was a Visitors’ Book on a desk
in the corner. Everyone, it appeared, had
had a splendid time and met a splendid
lot of people and was splendidly looked
after. One always feels splendid when
signing a Visitors’ Book.
It was cloudless next morning, so we
started early, leaving what we thought a
fair thing for our entertainment on the
dining-room table. We did not intend
returning that way, but by trhin through
Melbourne via the Gippsland line.
We found it clear and freezing outside,
and were glad to trot with the bikes. A
half-mile on we came to the first snow,
It made us quite excited. We even
played with it, and snowballed each other,
It was only in patches and drifts, but .we
knew that before long we should come
upon the continuous stretch of it—miles
of it. We came to the Feathertop turn-
off, and thought rather indignantly of the
ancient majesty at Bright. We went on,
and the patches and drifts became con-
tinuous. The road was easy to follow.
for it ran on a sharp ridge, the watershed
of two deep valleys. We passed Blow-
hard, but the gales were quiet that day.
And then Hotham was before us. It
looked high and steep, and the snow was
evidently deep upon it.
The snow on the comparative level
of the saddle ridge was crisp and
crusty on the surface. It made a crunchy
sound underfoot, like silky mud that has
caked |nd dried, a sound by no means
unpleasant to the ear. This surface splin-
tered and broke, but one didn’t sink into
the coarsely granular snow beneath. Jim
said he’d “try it out,” and mounted his
bicycle. The wheels broke the crust and
sank into the softer snow beneath. They
were hard to turn there—it was like riding
through yielding sand. The front wheel
wouldn’t be guided, and Jim came off, to
our great amusement,
The road, of course, was quite oblit-
crated, but its course could be deter-
mined by the saddle ridge, and on the first
shoulder of Hotham the road clearly ran
on a cut or shelf with a high, steep wall
on the summit side. This had not been
entirely drifted in, so the line of the road
and its direction could be determined.
We considered this fortunate, for we
knew so little of the details of the country
that the road might just as easily have
swung round to the right of the summit
instead of to the left.
AT the end of the ridge the main steep
slopes of Hotham commenced, and
we passed the last of the snow-gums, a
broad-leafed gum, clean-stemmed and
dwarfish, in some ways reminding us of
mallee, though the points of resemblance
are not many. Now every branch had its
array of icicles three, six and nine inches
long. They glinted and sparkled, and
made a fairy show.
On the slope the snow was quite dif-
ferent. It was as solid as ice, its surface
windswept and glassy. And the going
was like the steep roof of a house. We
couldn’t stand on the surface with the
type of boots we were wearing.
Still, we considered this difficulty a
good omen —we’d be able to ride on the
other side.
We went back and broke some hard
sticks from the snow-gums, sharpened
them and found that they were adequate
for the making of toe-holes. Then we
started up the slope in long zigzags.
It was very slow and laborious, and
we took turns with going in front to dig
the holes. We found, too, that the heels
were more reliable than the toes. But the
snow, or ice, quickly accumulated on the
heels into a rounded solid as big as a
half cricket ball. We could remove these
with the blade of a pocket-knife. It was
very necessary to remove them.
Progress was much impeded by the
presence of the bikes. We soon dis-
covered that. Early in the ascent Jim
laid his bike beside him to give him
greater freedom with his hands. The
bike just slid down the slope at very fair
and increasing speed. Luckily we were
not far above the snow-gums. One of
these caught and held the bike. But it
went to show, as Jim wisely remarked.
After that we clung to the bikes with
one hand. An hour later we took a rest.
We were a few yards from each other,
and my heels were badly coned. Jim said
“Catch!” and tossed his knife to me.
I missed clumsily and the knife went
down the slope. It developed a most
amazing speed. It disappeared among the
snow-gums a few hundred yards below.
Jim and I watched its. flight with con-
siderable interest.
“’Struth!” exclaimed Jim. “Did you
see that?”
I had seen. We decided to leave the
knife down there.
We were hungry and thirsty. There
was no water, of course, and we were
afraid to suck ice—we had heard it was
bad in some way or other. We promised
ourselves tea as soon as we reached
timber on Lhe other side. But we ate
some cold chops and bread and butter,
and felt ready once more.
There was no sign now of cutting or
shelf (it had been drifted level with the
slope), but the line of road seemed fairly
obvious —it rounded the huge, smooth
shoulder and crossed the mountain not
so far from the summit.
“It won’t be long now,” said Jim, who
was always full of a sharp and acid
sort of optimism. He was in the lead and
digging holds at a great rate.
“I was wondering,” said I, somewhat
reflectively, “just where Webster started
to get lost.” . ■ ,
“Blast Webster!” grunted Jim. But tie
must have been thinking of Webster, too,
for he went on, “Don’t you remember
they all said it was snowing right down
at Harrietville when he left?”
“That’s so,” I agreed, with no great
enthusiasm. Jim must have looked in
my direction. “What are you gaping at ?
he asked.
“Oh, nothing. Only that funny-looking
bit of cloud over there towards Feather-
top.” , , , .
It was a flimsy bit of cloud —no body in
it at all, and it seemed to come out of
the tops of the mountains.
“Oh, that!” Jim was contemptuous of
it, and wentlton digging.
WE were sweating freely under our
altogether too great weight of cloth-
ing. It was hot work, but we froze
when we stopped. At last we came
to the top bulge of the shoulder.
The crest was no great distance to our
right, and our way led down the gentlest
of the slopes before us —following a ridge
similar to that we had used to approach
Hotham. We felt elated and said
“Hurrah!” or something similar. I went
in front, and soon announced that the
snow was easier—no need to use the
sticks, a sharp jab with the heel made
sufficient impress. That was good—down
a bit, and we’d be able to ride.
On a very little further it wasn’t neces-
sary to jab the heels at all. And after
that the feet started to sink to the ankles.
We thought it queer, but Jim said the
wind and frost would possibly be quite
different in their incidence on the oppo-
site sides of the mountain. That sounded
learned and scientific. It didn’t help us
much, however. The snow became more
loose and powdery, and we went down to
the knees in it —even to the hips. Fifty
yards of that and we were done. Even
without the encumbrance of the bikes
we couldn’t have gone much farther —
every yard the snow was more soft and
yielding.
“This is where snowshoes or skis
would come in,” said Jim, I said nothing
to this airing of knowledge. But I re-
membered what Mick had said about one
of his experiences when a bad storm
caught him, and the horses reefed and
leapt through the* drifts, the coach jerk-
ing along behind them. And they had
reached the Hospice just in time.
We made another effort, but it was
hopeless. It was well into the afternoon
now, and timber —even snow-gums —was
a long way ahead. No hope at this pace
of being anywhere near them by night-
fall.
Clouds were forming below us, and
on a level with us, just growing out of
the clear air, and massing and piling in
a way I didn’t like. A low vanguard of


- THE SYMBOL
OF SERVICE
All the refinements of a Great
Hotel will make your next
visit a really pleasurable one
... if you “guest” at the
»om«t •Ksrrt^ol
r n%r7-
9
rJU »i
\
L *- U l. c c
Hwm 1 aaa bob t «s|
S Hail iii ml
mmz-
Radio, Cable and
Telegraphic Address:
“SANGEORGE”
HOTEL
,S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON NEW ZEALAND
SG.2
SEE HOW
THEY RUN
• •
WHEN WA Y
TAKES OVER YOUR
LIFT MAINTENANCE
Time, Wear and Tear never let up. Your lifts need not surrender
to the combined operations of this terrible trio, however. The
way to put them to rout in your building is to mount an offensive
... an intelligently planned and systematically executed offensive
of "lift maintenance under Waygood-Otis orders.
Preventive engineering would be a more descriptive term for
maintenance as carried out by Waygood-Otis. Minor faults are
sought and caught before they can develop into major overhauls
involving dislocation of service. Defects are anticipated and
remedied before they happen. Parts are replaced before they can
cause a breakdown.
It will pay you to place your lifts under Waygood-Otis care —'
and if your installation is a Waygood-Otis, who but the manu-
facturer is better qualified to do the job?
Use your telephone now to ask for tacts you won’t, of course,
be obligated in any way.
m
WAYGOOD-OTIS (AUST.) PTY. LTD . ~ INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE • BRISBANE • ADELAIDE • PERTH • HOBART • NEWCASTLE
saoivivosa
a n v sun
HEADQUARTERS FOR VERTICAL TRANSPORTATI
a cloud, grey and * ominous-looking,
passed over the sun. The world at once
darkened, the snow lost its gleam and
sparkle. We didn’t like it. We couldn’t
go forward, and we realised that a sudden
storm would prevent our going back as
we ll
“Come on, Jim!” I said. “Nothing for
it but back—while there is time.”
We followed our deep tracks back to
the hard snow. By now the clouds hid
the sky entirely, and we were right in
their midst—a silent grey little world and
two wraiths in it. We were thankful the
cloud was no denser, and that it hadn’t
started to snow. We followed the heel
marks down the long steep slope, and at
last came to the saddle ridge. We were
exhausted. .
In a break of a drift Jim saw a tiny
stream. Only a yard of it was visible, but
it was water. He got out the mugs and
half-filled them with water, then laced
them freely with Harrietville whisky. It
“The C.O. lent Snowman rue this hut — he's getting spliced today, too!”
was a bright thought. There were only a
few miles left, but a very early night
was closing in. We were glad to see the
Hospice once more looming in the thick
cloud -or fog. The place spelt defeat,
of course, but it was refuge, too.
We entered in the same way as we had
done the previous night. We were soon
snug. More snug that a wind had blown
up, a groaning and shrieking sort of wind
that is a comfort to listen to—when
snugly inside.
We peeped out, and the blackness was
solid —heaving against the thick timbers
of the house —and out of the blackness
came the sting of ricy snow. We closed
the door, and retired to our easy chairs
before the sort of fire that most people
have only dreamt of, leaping up a
chimney they have never heard of.
We looked silently at the ladder up the
side of the chimney. It didn’t seem fan-
tastic any more, but something useful and
necessary.
I said “I won’t grill the steak—l’ll
use this big pan. About a pound and a
half should do us, don’t you think?”
“Quite,” said Jim, “and a pound of
bacon with it.”
I went to the door again. It was wilder
than ever outside; a shower of sago and
rice pelted in—almost horizontally. But
it was good to gloat over the storm —it
was a triumph,over a beaten monster. 1
closed the door, Pity poor Webster hadn’t
struck something like this!
NEXT morning the wind had blown
itself out. It was still very cloudy,
but the clouds were high again. The
ground was many inches deep in coarse-
grained snow.
There was no question of going on to
Omeo. We had to resign ourselves to
that. It was now an ignominious matter
of leaving the Hospice before we were
snowed in to find our way to Harrietville
blocked.
We left after breakfast, and walked the
first mile or two. After that the snow
thinned and dwindled at last into mud
and slush. But we sailed down that hill,
mile after mile of it, and never a turn
of the pedals. In less than an hour Har-
rietville lay beneath us.
The butcher was standing in the door-
way of his slab and bark shop, picking
his teeth in a day-dreaming sort of way.
We were on him almost before he saw
us. He was quite affable. “Hullo!” he
called. “I am glad to see you.” Then
he added with a slight spice of malice
“So you had to come back! ”
We bought some meat, though we were
hardly likely to need it now, and yarned
awhile. He was a decent chap, that
butcher, but rather given to nursing griev-
ances. He had several at the moment
against certain neighbors, and he held
Webster in abhorrence. We realised then
that we ourselves had just been develop-
ing into a new grievance, and our re-
appearance had saved us.
“You see,” he said, “we spent days and
days looking for that Webster. No joke
either in that weather. We were giving
you chaps three days to get to Omeo—
and then we’d have been out again if
you hadn’t turned up. There’s a lot of
country between here and Omeo.”
So that was it. We felt a bit ashamed
of ourselves. It hadn’t been our own
risk entirely. Just as, the interest in us
hadn’t been entirely disinterested.
We shook hands with the butcher and
thanked him—without saying what for,
but he’d understand that,
The publican was glad to see us;
thought we’d be back today; had said to
the wife that morning he was sure we
would be. We had to have several on
the house.
At Smoko we turned to look up the
valley of the Ovens. There was no
Feathertop now, only dense grey cloud
that hung low down the mountain —far
lower than the line of snow. We could
imagine the snow falling in smothers of
soft flakes, perhaps, or driving aslant like
sago or rice, cutting and stinging.
DOWN the winding road of the Ovens
to Bright with its rows of leafless
English trees. Lewis, at the Star, was
pleased to see us.
Mick Donovan wheeled into the yard
with his coach and four big bays. One
look at Mick' was enough to show that
as a coachman he could have few equals
—and that he knew a lot more about
horses than horses knew about them-
selves.
Mick shook hands. There was a twinkle
in his brown eyes. “And how’s things
in Omeo?”
We had a long yarn that night with
Mick, He was a grand fellow —in fact,
he told us so. And he was a rich mine
of good stories, though he was rather
inclined to over-decoration.. He told us
a lot about unprint-
able —and tales of the Ovens and the
Buckland, of Omeo and Harrietville. All
personal experiences—which would make
Mick somewhere round about two hun-
dred, and frequently endowed with the
power of being in two or three places
at once.
At last he spat sideways into the fire
and said “Did you hear about how a
chap called Webster got lost in the
mountains?”
“Yes,” said Jim very firmly. “Yes, we
have heard.”
We didn’t see. Queen Victoria again.
We didn’t want to see her. We even took
pains to keep away from places where
she was likely to be.
Next day we went with Mick on the
twenty-three mile run to Buffalo. It was
a dangerous,road then —from the Eurobin
Falls to the’ top —but Mick said “Aw,
that’s nothing.” He spat sideways; and
then we realised why he did so —out of
respect for the horses.
sFrom the top of the Seventeen-
Hundred we looked across the Buckland
to the snowy tops in the clear, thin air,
and half a world away. Beyond them
somewhere was Omeo. Still a magic
name only.


OUT OF THE
PAST
J.H.M. ABBOTT
“Name of Charlie” \
OLD Mr. Company lived in George-
street, Parramatta, at the begin-
ning of the present century, and
at the end of the year 1900 he
was ninety years of age. A little, alert
old fellow he was, and when he was killed
in an accident early in the following year
the “Cumberland Argus” surprised a good
many people by recording that he’d been
down the Murray River with Captain
Sturt in 1830. I’d heard the story from
himself oh one of the many Sunday after-
noons I spent with him.
There was one feller in them days,”
he told me, “was head and shoulders
above all other men in this country. Name
of Charlie he was—Charlie Sturt. Cap’n
Charles Sturt, of his Majesty’s 39th Regi-
ment of Foot. A proper cove! Men like
Charlie Sturt ain’t often bred, I tell ye,”
And, indeed, the memory of the brave
and chivalrous gentleman who piloted
the singular inland voyage old Timothy
took part in is one of the most fragrant
things that have come down to us from
the Australia of a hundred years ago.
There are none of his contemporaries in the
pioneering of our country for whom we
can feel more personal affection than for
this lovable soldier. There was something
in him of James Cook, of Arthur Phillip
and Lachlan Macquarie, and of all the
best of the men who made Australia.
(CHARLES STURT was the son of a
Judge in the East India Company
service, and was born in India on April
28, 1795. He was sent to England to be
educated at Harrow, and in 1813 joined
the army as an ensign in the 39th Foot.
He saw service in the Peninsular War in
1814, and served with his regiment for a
short time in Canada. Between 1815 and
1816 the 39th was part of the army of
occupatipn in Northern France, and from
1819 to 1826 was stationed in Ireland. In
the following year it was sent to New
South Wales as part of the garrison, and
Captain Sturt arrived in Sydney with it
in May, 1827.
The regiment had not been long in
Sydney before the Governor, Lieutenant-
General Darling, selected Captain Sturt
as his aide de camp and acting military
secretary, and in 1828 appointed him to
lead an expedition into the western coun-
try to find out what might become of
the Macquarie and Lachlan Rivers. There
was a big drought at the time, and there
were hopes that the impregnable swamps
which had turned Oxley back might have
dried up sufficiently to permit of penetra-
tion to the country beyond.
Towards *the end of the year Sturt and
Hamilton Hume, with a party of eleven,
entered the unexplored country, and were
able to follow the .main channel of the
river Macquarie in a boat through the
partly dried-up marshes. But before long
they were compelled to abandon the boat,
and went on for over 200 miles across
scrub-covered plains that had evidently
been swamps not long before. They came
to the bank of a broad and muddy stream,
which, to their disappointment and dis-
gust, turned out to be salt.
They traced the river, which Sturt
named the Darling, down past the mouth
of the Bogan, and following the dry bed
of the latter watercourse, struggled round
the marshes again until they came across
the Castlereagh—in its usual dry condi-
tion —traced it down to the Darling, and
found the main stream as salt as it had
been lower down. The whole country
was parched with drought. Apparently,
Oxley’s rivers were hardly worth the
trouble of investigation. So they re-
turned to Sydney unsuccessful, so far as
the discovery of land for settlement might
be concerned.
It was hoped that the rivers discovered
some little time before by young Hume
might be better worth exploring, and at
the end of 1829 Sturt set out southward
with the intention of following the course
of the Murrumbidgee. Hume not being
available, he took with him, as second-
in-command, a son or the Colonial
Secretary, Alexander Macleay, who was
to become Sir George Macleay.
'"PHE expedition started from Sydney
• on November 3, 1829, and reached
the Murrumbidgee, near the present posi-
tion of Jugiong, on the 25th. The party
passed the mouth of the Tumut River,
and crossed a large area of plain country,
Sturt endeavoring to make a connection
with the farthest point Oxley had
achieved on the Lachlan. He reached
the latter river, but was unaware that he
had done so. By the end of the year he
had made up his mind to take to the
water and continue his explorations in
a whaleboat which had been brought
from Sydney in sections on the drays.
“Then,” said old Tim, “we all set to for
to put the whalin’-boat together. A bark
shed was built, and we done all we could
to get the job finished. Clayton, the car-
penter, had already got the keel of a
small boat laid down, and some of the
planks cut, but we let her be for the time
bein’, and in a few days had the whalin'-
boat painted and in the water.
“The Cap’n took six of us to go with
him and Mr. Macleay down the river in
the whalin’-boat, with the smaller one a-
towin’ behind her. The names of this party
were Clayton, Mulholland, Fraser, Harris,
Hopkinson and Macnamee. This last was
meself —’twas the name I’d been trans-
ported under, and ’twas a few years’ time
before I took to usin’ me own rightful
one. The rest of the party was to go
back to Goulburn Plains with the drays.
We began in the first week of January,
1830.”
On the second day they nearly suffered
hopeless disaster when the skiff hit a
sunken log and sank, taking many of their
most necessary items of equipment with
it. Two days were occupied in trying to
recover the cargo, but much of it was
spoilt by being submerged for so long a
time. They went on, and before long
the Murrumbidgee narrowed and became
almost impassably full of snags. Their
difficulties multiplied.
“In some places enormous big trees lay
right across the stream, and we were
obliged to pass under their branches ; but,
speakin’ general, they’d been carried be
the current, roots foremost, and lay like
men with bayonets waitin’ for us, so that,
at the rate we,were goin’, if struck
upon any one of them, the boat would
have been skewered through and
through.”
IN about a week they came to the
* Murray.
“We were,,-carried hell-for-leather down
between them deep, closed-in banks—the
river had got narrower as we came to its
mouth —and we hadn’t much time to take
notice of the country we were passin’
through. About three o’clock in the
afternoon, Harry Hopkinson, who was
lookout man in the bows, sung out that
we were gettin’ near the junction of an-
other stream, and in less than a minute
afterwards we shot out on to the bosom
of a fine big river. It all seemed to
happen so quick we hardly knew where
we were.
“I dunno how to tell you how such a
sudden change affected us. We just sat
still and let the drift. We’d been
shot out of the Murrumbidgee with such
force we were carried nearly over to the
other side of the new stream, whilst we
stared in wonder at the fine big river we’d
entered. When we looked back at the
one w'e’d just left we could hardly be-
lieve that the narrow gap in the bank
was the end of the fine stream We’d been
followin’ down for days.
“And Cap’n Sturt was pleased. He’d
told us before he’d thought the Mur-
rumbidgee was bound to run into a main
stream, and he was not only proved to
be right, but saw the end of his journey
plain before him. We’d got on to a high
road, he reckoned, either to the south
coast or to some important outlet, and
the look of the river itself was confir-
mation of such expectations.
“The big river kept on like it was, and
there wasn’t a limit to what we hoped
for. Its breadth varied from one hundred
and fifty yards to two hundred yards ;
and only in one place, where a reef of
ironstone stretched nearly right across
from the left bank, was there any sort
of obstruction. Every mile the river got
better and better. Its reaches were wide
as you’d like, and looked magnificent.”
January 19 Sturt had his first en-
counter with natives of the Murray
basin, and by his coolness and humanity
was able to establish relations with them
that stood him in good stead later on.
The blacks had appeared in large num-
bers, and with obviously hostile inten-
tions as the boats drew into the bank to
make their camp ashore for the night.
“ ’Twas then we seen what -sort of a
man was our Charlie. He wasn’t a-goin’
for to knock us all .up by makin’ us to
pull further than we generally did, so we
landed at our usual time on the left bank,
and while the people were a-pitchin’ the
tents he took a stroll down the bank with
Mr. Macleay, to treat with them despera-
does the best way he could, across the
water. They took their guns with them,
not meanin’ for to use them until the very
last extremity. Charlie never was one
for bloodshed.
“The Cap’n held a long pow-wow with
them by means of signs which showed we
wasn’t out for a scrap, and at last they
laid aside their spears and held a long
argument among themselves, which ended
in two or three of them wading into the
river, much against the wishes of their
mates. But when they saw their leaders
wasn’t to be put off a-comin’ closer to us
they followed them up with a determina-
tion, I’m sure, of takin’ whatever might
be cornin’ to them from the white men.
“As soon as they came out of the water
our Charlie and Mr. Macleay went back
a little way from the bank and sat down,
That was their own style, we’d noticed
before, when they wanted to hold a
barney with us. When they saw the bosses
do this they came closer and sat down
near them, shy-like, with their eyes cast
down. But as their confidence grew they
showed a lot of curiosity, and stared at
us as if they couldn’t see enough. Charlie
led them to the camp and gave them a
few small presents^—a tomahawk and a
few old iron hoops. There was betwixt
thirty and forty came across the river,
When the jsun set most of them went
away, but three old fellies remained at
the fireside all night.”
For some days this party of natives
followed them down the river, the friend-
liest relations having been established,
even though communication other than
by pantomimic signs was almost impos-
sible.
“Faith, they had the Cap’n bothered,”
old Tim said, “and puzzled us all more
and more. It looked as though they
wanted to explain something when they
placed a number of sticks across one
another as a sort of map of the country.
But we couldn’t make out what they
might be drivin’ at. They pointed to the
sou’-west, as the course the river took —
but there was something more they
wanted to explain which we couldn’t for
the life of us make out. Early one morn-
ing they all took their hook and cleared
out.”
THE morning the escort disappeared,
the wind being fair, Sturt and his
party went on under sail down a stream
that had greatly increased in width.
“We’d only gone a bit under ten miles
when we were surprised by the appear-
ance, at the end of a long reach, of a line
of big trees of green and dense foliage.
As we sailed down the reach we saw a
big crowd of natives underneath these
trees, and as we got closer to them we
heard ’em a-singin’ a sort of war song,
and observed that they were painted and
armed, as they generally are before a
scrap. In spite of this appearance of hos-
tility, thinkin’ that our four friends were
with them, the Cap’n continued to steer
in for the bank on which they were
assembled. We found, though, when it
was almost too late to turn into the next
reach to .our left, that any attempt to
land would most likely mean a fight.
They seemed bent on resistin’ us. We
got so near them that they held their
spears quiverin’ in their black fists, ready
to thow them at us. There was dead
silence in the front ranks, but those
behind yelled and shouted like billy-oh.”
Sturt turned the boat’s head into mid-
stream, and the natives ran along the
bank threatening the little party with their
spears. To his dismay, Sturt then saw a
huge sandbank stretching across the river
ahead almost halfway to the other bank.
The natives ran to it with exultant yells,
and covered it in a dense mass of black
and angry humapity, their savage hos-
tility being unmistakably obvious.
“He wanted for to be peaceful,” Tim
went on, “and to avoid bloodshed, but
he saw that it’d be impossible any longer
to dodge a shindy—though the odds was
awful against us. He spoke to us in the
boat, explaining that our only chance lay
in making a bold front. He told us that
after the first volley had been fired,
Macleay and three of the crew would
look after the defence of the boat with
bayonets only, while him and Hopkinson
and Harris would keep up a fire on the
crowd. But he warned us that no shot
was to be fired until after he himself had
let go with both barrels of his gun.
“ As we go t closer to the sandbank,
the cap’n stood up and made signs to the
blackfellies to give over, but they took
no heed to him. So he picked up his gun,
cocked the hammers and levelled it at the
mob. A few seconds more, and the near-
est of them would have got it—and they’d
TO M.A.N., SIX MONTHS OLD.
Your tiny hand adventures at my mouth
To feel the words come forth, not know-
ing their worth
Or foolishness; for you the first word’s
unspoken;
Speech, that thundering steed, is a colt
unbroken
You are the great Potential: the pint-
size Newton,
Inglorious Wordsworth and as-yet-mute
Milton,
A dumb Demosthenes. Words of burn-
ing geld
May linger latent here, perhaps the bold
Unvoiced ideas of the rebel or the
dreamer
The brilliant criminal or the time’s
redeemer
Some would compare your life to a virgin
p a g e
Waiting unsullied and white for Fate to
wnte
The future’s story; a snowbank unim-
printed
By foot of man or beast; new gold
unminted,
s.a.
Or a sweep of sand smoothed by the
sea, no longer
Inviolate before Time’s moving finger.
Hut I see d He like a dark country, lost
Beyond the known world, beyond the
present or past,
mystery, set in a vast unvoyaged ocean
must sail to find the last
It is the unknown Australia, waiting the
time
When all shall be uncovered, all dis-
covered;
Hs area fixed , its character established;
heignts and depths all formed,
although unpublished;
The plains ™ d rivers ma fP ed in n 0
. geography.
The perilous coasts awaiting your carto-
graphy.
And though I can fit your ship, and see
Lik / 0 c u Jk"in the right direction, yours
alone
j s the voyage from now to when, the
last cape rounding,
You enter that Sea too deep for human
sounding.
NANCY CATO.


ŵ
To
Engineers
who are
planning
the
“Battle
of Peace”
Australia will need your plans. The job of reconstruction is a
big one... the absorption into peacetime employment of thou-
sands upon thousands of fighting men and war workers is an
essential factor in making a new and different world now Victory
has been won.
■' /YV k / ■ ■
You’ll be considering many new projects that will improve roads
and beautify the Australian scene... projects which will provide
employment for those who will be needing it.
Plan now for the reconstruction period... and include in your
plans the use of Armco Multi-plate Pipes ... for beauty, per-
manence and economy.
Write to your nearest Armco office for Free Booklet giving full
particulars of all Armco Drainage Products.
ARMCO
MULTI- PLATE
ẁ
ARMCO (AUSTRALIA) PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY ... MELBOURNE... BRISBANE ... ADELAIDE


£?
/
m
m
SI
H
»R
ii
m
m
. •:
CF3
Be careful—there’s a nerve down there. If molars were as big
as they look in this micro-photograph, drilling would be easier.
But because a tooth is abotft 20 diameters smaller than this, the art
of fine dentistry becomes a seeing task. Industry meets this problem, too.
Many manufacturing processes, research work and engineering machining
demand the same kind of concentration operatives want their work more
get-at-able— dearer — nearer.
Condor “new vision” Fluorescent Lighting brings things clearer— nearer. The remark-
able characteristics of this shadow-free, high-intensity, low-brightness lighting render objects
with greater definition, hence they appear nearer, and eliminate eye strain.
Whether you’re interested in Wisdom Teeth or Gear Teeth
it pays to bring things nearer ...
dearer!
In addition, Condor "new vision" Fluorescent Lighting has these advantages:
(1) Low heat level, which-enables reflectors to be
placed close to work.
(2) Economical, as you get times the intensity of
ordinary incandescent lighting.
(3) Easy to install, as existing wiring is usually adequate.
(4) Cheap in operation and maintenance because
Condor Fluorescent lamps and accessories are
manufactured on highest lighting principles.
w
FLUORESCENT AND FILAMENT LIGHTING
DISTRIBUTORS
SYDNEY: George Brown & Co. Pty. Ltd., National Theatre Supply Co. (A'sia) Pty. Ltd.,
Reg. Rose & Co. Pty. Ltd.. T. F. Stewart & Co. Pty. Ltd., Sun Electric Co. Pty. Ltd!
MELBOURNE: Howard Electrical & Radio Pty. Ltd., Sun Electrical Co. Pty. Ltd.,
A. J. Veall Pty. Ltd. BRISBANE: trackson Bros. Pty. Ltd. ADELAIDE: R. C. Woollard.
CONDOR LAMPS (A/ASIA) PT Y. LTD.. 35 CLARENCE ST.,
SYDNEY
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
owners’ and Householders’,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
have got it proper, for they was too close
to dodge. But just as he seemed about to
pull the trigger, Mr. Macleay calls out
that another lot of blacks had turned
up on the left bank of the river, Sure
enough, we saw four men a-runnin’ for
the lick of their lives
“The one in the lead, as soon as he got
ahead of the boat, jumped down into the
water. He struggled across the cnanr.t
to the sandbank, and in no time at all
was up against the blackfellie Charlie
Sturt was a-coverin’ with his gun. Grab-
bin’ him be the throat, he pushed him
backwards, and driving all of them who
were in the water up on to the bank, he
harangued them like a mad fellie. At one
moment he was a-pointin’ to the boat,
and the next he was a-shakin’ his clinched
fist in the ugly faces of them in front,
stampin’ his feet angrily on the little
beach. His voice was hoarse with pas-
sion. Two of the four with him stayed
on the left bank, but the other fellie had
come with the leader, and was a-yellin’
holy murder in support of him.
“The cap’n and all of us was so intent
on what was goin’ on, we let the boat
drift as it would. But we were saved from
a fight be what them, four black cham-
pions had done. There wasn’t a one of
us knew whether he was on his head or
his heels.”
THE ehcounter took place almost at
the junction of the Murray and the
Darling, where the town of Wentworth
now stands. The party continued down-
stream to come out in Lake Alexandrina
and Encounter Bay, into which the great
river dribbles through sandhills into the
Southern Ocean.
But there was worse to
come. A ship had been
sent round to meet them
at St. Vincent’s Gulf, but
they were too done up to
cross to the Gulf overland,
and the tremendous seas
rolling in from the south
were *too much for the
travel - worn whaleboat.
There was nothing for it
but to go back the way
they had come.
For a thousand miles
they pulled wearily back
upstream. When they came
to the first depot they
found it abandoned. Ex-
hausted, they struggled on
against the current men
falling asleep at the oars,
sometimes fainting, and
one of them going mad
from fatigue and priva-
tion. But so devoted was
his little command to their
great leader that there was
never a murmur or com-
plaint. At length they could go
no further, and the two strongest
men were sent ahead overland to
a second depot. They were away for
a week, and hope had almost deserted
the starving little encampment on the
bank of the Lower Murray when they
turned up again, dreadfully exhausted,
but with a supply of provisions.
When Sturt at last got back to Syd-
ney, he went blind, and did not recover
his sight for many months. But men
like Charles Sturt are not easily knocked
out. Fourteen years later he was mak-
“That off leader always gives a bit of trouble !”
ing another great journey into Central
Australia.
“Oh, a grand man, he was, that one,”
said old Tim Company. “A hell of a fellie
that one be the name of Charlie Sturt.
Sydney 3 s Currency
SYDNEY 120 years ago had a be-
wildering variety of currency. The
guinea, predecessor of the sovereign.
circulated with a silver exchange
value of 12 shillings. The biggest
gold coin was the Johanna, worth
£4. Half-Joh&nnas were worth £2 and
gold mohurs £1 17s. 6d. The Johanna
got its name from an island, a
great resort of pirates, who gathered
in coins of all currencies ; sugar ships
from Madagascar brought these coins to
Sydney. Ducats, which were not very
numerous, came from the same source.
They were worth 9s. 6d. each. Spanish
dollars, worth 55., were for long the
mainstay of our silver currency. Rupees,
worth 2s. 6d., and guilders from Java,
worth 25., were here, too, and a few
English shillings, worth Is. Id. Copper
coins were the ounce, worth 2d.; the
half-ounce, worth Id.; and the quarter-
ounce, worth id. After the Spanish dollar
came the Mexican dollar, which flooded
the towns of Australia and the Far East.
Some of the scrip of the English loans
to Emperor Maximilian of Mexico was
held in these countries, and up till the
late ’forties a brig sailed from Sydney
every quarter to collect the interest, which
was paid in silver dollars worth 2s. 2d,
Automatically these went into the Aus-
tralian currency. They became, too, the
foundation of the dollar currencies of
the Far East, where today trade is
measured in “dollar Mex.”
Ben Boyd
BEN BOYD’S ROAD, at Neutral
Bay, Sydney, and the ruins of
Boyd Town, on the south side of
Twofold Bay, are the only traces
that are left in Australia of Benjamin
Boyd.
At Guadalcanal, where he met his
death, he left no mementoes at all—only
a mystery.
Boyd reached Sydney in his yacht Wan-
derer on July 18, 1842, accompanied by
his brother James, Oswald Brierly, the
artist, and three other friends. He set
about the establishment of a settlement
at Twofold Bay and the acquisition of
station properties in the hinterland of
the Monaro. He was all Big Business.
He obtained large areas of land on the
Monaro —they used to call it “Maneroo”
in Boyd’s time —which were mostly held
under the old “squatters’ license” system.
By the middle of 1843 he had control of
Maffra, Cudja, Inchbyra and Myallin
Downs, and next year he secured
Genong, Cambalong, Queenburgh, Snowy
River, Wog Wog, Bocco Creek, Bendock
and Kerkinong stations. His total hold-
ings on the tableland amounted to
240,380 acres.
At Boyd Town he built the Sea Horse
Inn, a general store, a church, houses for


I
<-ns
tit ati
H FINE HOTEL
A Kotel, certainly one of Sydney s
leading hotel*, hut different to
every other in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
been noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too,
while away from the noise and
hustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
<Sc
T n 7
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C, D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
HARD HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Wally Wiltshire—record-break-
ing Australian axeman. Broke
the wprld record for a 13-inch
underhand woodchop on June
18, 1945, at Richmond, Victoria.
Time: 21 1/5 seconds—a clear
3 seconds below the previous
record. A tribute to a hard-
hitting Australian.
Despite restrictions, limited
supplies of 1.C.1. SHOTGUN
and .22 RIMFIRE CART-
RIDGES are available to
primary producers for essen-
tial pest destruction subject
to police permits» ALL
AUSTRALIAN ,
ICI
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
St
S:
It
Jlcccuwt Cjf s
Ou/v(JtewttsuUiuh
This is a brief report to the Australian
people, of the war effort of General Motors-
Holden’s Limited. In it there is no wish to
emphasise unduly any merit in the Company s
performance. Rather, it typifies the com-
mendable efforts of many Australian con-
cerns which did a war job under great
difficulties.
After Dunkirk, Australia was thrown on her
own resources. In her isolation she had few
established munitions plants and arsenals
upon which to draw for technical experience
in arms manufacture. Most of the equip-
ment suddenly required had never been
previously made in Australia. With this
condition as a background General Motors-
Holden’s Ltd., throughout nearly six years
of war, undertook and carried out success-
fully over 500 projects, most of them involv-
ing detailed planning and tooling for volume
production. Some idea of their magnitude,
may be gauged from the fact that their value
exceeded £35,000,000, and at the peak of war
production approximated £1,000,000 a month.
Highlights of achievement include Gypsy
Major Aero Engines, 25-pdr. Gun Howitzers,
2-pdr. and 6-pdr. Tank Attack Guns, Engines
and Major Components for Naval Torpedoes,
225 H.P. Marine Diesels, work boats and
many other types of small craft, and some
contribution to practically every aircraft
made in Australia, including Wings, Fuse-
lages, and vast quantities of aluminium and
duralumin pressings.
In conclusion, General Motors-Holden’s pay
tribute to the enthusiasm and all-in-'
effort of the men and women in the
Company’s plants in all States. The
** numbers so engaged aggregated 12,000
in the peak period. Without their willing
work this record would never have been
achieved. Grateful acknowledgment is also
made to the splendid co-operation of the
hundreds of Sub-Contractors, as well as of
the Australian and Allied Services and
Government Departments.
is
GENERAL BOTORS-HOLDErS LTD.
BEDFORD BUICK GADILLA? CHEVROLET G-M-C OLDSMOBiLE PONTIAC VAUXHALL
MS.
ufOKl
fit*
125
We were all blushing as they led us down
to the front row, for the hall was full
and everybody stared. Mum sat with us
kids in the front row, but my father sat
in the middle of the stage with his legs
crossed and the light shining on his curly
red head and his lovely yellow leggings.
He listened to the speeches with his head
cocked a little on one side.
Chas. Tupper spoke last. He was
always a sad-looking man away' from
Reilly’s pub, where he worked in the bar,
and there were tears in his voice now as
he spoke of the sorrow of parting, and
this coming parting that was the saddest
the district had ever known. My father’s
loss, he said, would be an irreplacable
one. It was impossible to put into mere
words the high esteem in which the Glee-
son family had been held. He would go
so far as to say that my father had he
stayed on would have been elected as
president of the football club for the
following year ... t
“And now,” he said (still in his solemn
tones), “I have to present you, Mr. Glee-
son, on behalf of the district and your
friends, I say on behalf of the district
and your friends, with this wallet of
notes, with this fine wallet of twenty
pounds, as a small token of the appre-
ciation in which”
And like a conjuror in a circus Chas,
Tupper whipped out a flat little fawn
purse, and, bowing low, delivered it over
to my father.
There was a great dignity about my
father as he stood up in his yellow leg-
gings.
“Ladies and gentlemen, friends all,”
said my father in his voice so unex-
pectedly small, “ladies and gentlemen,
friends all, I thank you. You have done
me a great honor, I say, and at the same
time you have made my duty plain. You
have shown me the way and I shall
follow it,
“I am needed here in Barley Hill,” said
my father, “and in Barley Hill I’ll stay.
Jack Gleeson is no quitter! With re-
newed faith in myself I shall re-shoulder
the old responsibilities and take on the
new. I shall have great pleasure in ac-
cepting the honorable office of president
of the football club for the following
year . . . And now, ladies and gentle-
men, I thank you once again.”
My father stood still, swaying on his
feet a little. There was a silence; and
then suddenly everybody started to clap
and jump about, holding each other’s
hands and singing “For He’s a Jolly Good
Fellow,” My father sang loudest of all.
his superintendents and overseers and
barracks for his workmen, as well as a
big wool store, with a loading jetty close
beside it. On the southern headland at
Twofold Bay he erected a lighthouse —
still a conspicuous landmark —but was
never permitted by the N.S.W. Govern-
ment to light it, probably for the reason
that it was assumed it would only be lit
when Boyd’s own ships were off the port.
But the crash came in 1849. In that
year the Royal Bank of Australia, with
whose funds the whole business had been
financed, got into difficulties and eventu-
ally had to close down. Boyd was re-
moved from the control of all his under-
takings, but was permitted to retain his
yacht.
He sailed away in the Wanderer for the
gold diggings in California, There he had
no luck, so on June 4, 1851, he started ,
off from San Francisco for a cruise in
the South Sea Islands. It was rumored
that he had some idea of establishing a
“Papuan republic or confederation,” but
if he did Fate was again unkind.
In the middle of October the Wan-
derer anchored in a bay on the west
coast of Gaudalcanal, and on the morn-
ing after he arrived there Boyd, accom-
panied by one of his native crew, went
ashore on a shooting expedition.
That was the last that was ever heard
of him.
Natives attacked the yacht, and were
beaten off only after a stiff fight. A
search for the missing man had no results,
beyond the finding of his belt and some
wadding from his cartridges. After a
few days of fruitless waiting the Wan-
derer sailed for Australia, and became
a wreck on the coast of N. S. Wales,
near Port Macquarie.
So ended all the hopes and aspirations
of a remarkable man, and Guadalcanal
holds the mystery of his death.


f *cr*
How to Simplify
Property Management
New and ever-varying forms of
taxation ; changes in the values
of investments ; war-time restric-
tions and amendments in legis-
lation—
All these throw greatly added responsi-
bilities upon people having the handling
of estates.
For the well-informed man of affairs
property-management is difficult
enough, but for those without know-
ledge or experience the problem is
frightening.
Your own observation teaches you that
relatively few women possess this
managerial experience. Their training
is naturally in other spheres—and you,
as a good provider, have relieved them
of the worry and responsibility.
But when in due course you are no
longer there to manage—what then?
Don’t let your love for those dependent
on you blind you to the realities of life.'
Safeguard your dependents by drawing
on the knowledge and experience of
those trained over many years for this
very work, and arrange for the Union
Trustee Company to take over your
responsibilities.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS:
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman);
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advror; Samuel Cooke. General Manager; John Larritt.
Manager ; J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector; H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Hemy Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c. ; A. E. Heath, c.h.g.; Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager :J.G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager: L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector; Frank Laird,
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD ;
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., vjo. (Chairman):
J. W. Fletcher, o.b.e. (Vice-Chairnjan); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.i.c.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.La., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager),
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager),
Pastoral Inspectors ; C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
Smart Idea —'tise
'the Original and Only
Brylcreem
THE
PERFECT.HAIR DRESSING
AH day long Brylcreem s will
keep your hair looking smart
and well-groomed. And all the
time Brylcreem. is also keeping
your hair healthy. Use
Brylcreem daily, and see how
quickly your hair benefits in
health and appearance.
Wide-neck Jars . . 1/5 and 1/11
In Tubes
Ud. and 1/11
ẁ
NO GUM*NO SOAP*NO SPIRIT• NO STARCH
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
National Bank of Australasia
Dividends. Writ- To
Mar., Profit. 6 p.c. ten Off. Reserves. Reserves,
1935.. 275,591 250,000 20.000 5,591 3,457,510
5f p.c.
1936.. 294,403 202,500 30,000 1,903 3,459,413
5J p.c.
1937. . 325,627 287,500 40.000 3,457,540
6 p.c.
1938.. 347,401 300,000 50,000 3,454,941
1939.. 351,245 300.000 50,000 1,245 3,456,180
1940. . 356,096 300,000 50,000 6,096 3,462,282
1941.. 301,296 300,000 20,000 3,443,578
5i p.c.
1942.. 289,759 275,000 20,000 3,438,337
Sept., 2J p.c.
1942*. 137,290 125,000 10,000 2,290 3,440,627
5 p.c.
1943.. 282,479 250,000 25,000 7,479 3,448 106
5J p.c.
1944.. 290,926 262,500 25,000 3,426 3,451,532
5f p.c.
1945.. 342,362 287,500 50,000 4,862 3,456,394
* Six months.
The danger in the whole field of bank-
ing and currency lies not in the privately-
owned trading banks, but in political
control of the central bank and the bank-
ing system. Under the new banking legis-
lation, proclaimed August 20 last, the
future of the trading banks rests more
in the hands of the Federal Treasurer
than in those of their directors. How-
ever, if the banks are permitted to com-
pete with the newly-embellished Com-
monwealth Bank on equitable terms they
can continue to share in the fortunes of
Australia. But if the Commonwealth
Bank’s powers and privileges are to be
used against the trading banks, it could
make their business unprofitable, and by
stealth bring about complete nationalisa-
tion of banking and influence in a social-
istic direction every branch of the eco-
nomic system.
The ideal of socialism is a will-o’-the-
wisp, which recently gained fresh cre-
dence under artificial conditions created
by a war economy, in which the role of
finance was subordinated to the task of
maximum production of whatever was
required for successful prosecution of the
campaign. In the peace-time sense of
the term competition practically ceased
to exist, which meant that costs were no
longer the determining factor in sales,
and therefore in production and employ-
ment. Out of this and other conceptions
concerning the future role of the State
have grown a conflict of ideas, which the
National’s chairman, H. D. Giddy, sums
up in this way;
On the one hand, the virtues of severe
individual discipline and restraint on spend-
ing by the public, coupled with vast Govern-
ment expenditure, are extolled. “Full em-
ployment,” with little regard for the form
of employment or. for what it produces,
is considered a prime objective.
In contrast to this outlook is the one
which requires greater courage and a bolder
approach to difficulties. It sees the cure for
current shortages in increased production.
It looks for lower costs as a check to in-
flatory price movements. It believes that a
revival of confidence on the part of private
enterprise and a determined general effort
would get in full motion the great produc-
tive forces of the nation. It holds it a clear
duty to hasten a revival of the venture-
some spirit and the willingnes to take risks
which are the hallmarks of a virile society.
Even Hitler could provide “full” em-
ployment. The real solution lies not in
employment as such, but in the proper
co-relation of production and consuming
power, in which costs have now become a
vital factor.
Profit in business is both a measure of
efficiency and a condition of survival. No
business can be successfully run at a
loss. If there is no prospect of a positive
return on investment, neither cheap
money nor easily-obtained credit will
offer an inducement to invest. Yet in
the “new” economics of “full” employ-
ment and social security it is upon profit-
able investment, which means profitable
trading, that the Government and every-
body else will have to rely chiefly for
such benefits as may be looked for. The
danger at the moment is that the public
as a whole will be deprived of more pur-
chasing power in meeting the demands
of the State than it will receive back in
benefits from the State.
The whole problem calls for a new and
positive approach, based upon a high and
increasing standard of efficiency in indus-
try, and upon realisation that good and
efficient service ministers not only to
profits but to wages and the benefits of
society generally. The banks and other
traders are able and willing to play their
part. It remains for the Government and
organised labor to cease doing those
things that are already producing creep-
ing paralysis in trade and industry, and
to assist by contributing their quota to
real progress. Opportunity is knocking
at Australia’s door; it will pass on if we
fail to recognise and welcome it.
Over the last half-dozen years bank-
ing figures, which used to mirror the
cross-current of trade, mainly reflect the
impact of the Government’s war-finance
policy;
r-M ARCH.-v— i——September.
_ .. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital . . £5,01iu,000 £5,009,000 £5,000,000
Notes .. .. 47,531 47,507 47,507
Bills, etc. . 1 80S 04Q 1
Deposits . . 49,750,915 / 75,391,594 82,368,383
Liquid assets.. 22,712,848 56,218,637 64,412,688
Advances .. 36,045,088 26,212,111 24,994,578
Premises, etc. . 1,437,136 1,597,412 1,615,019
Last term a contraction of £1,217,533 in
advances was accompanied by an expan-
sion of £6,976,789 in deposits and a
growth of £8,194,051 in low-interest-bear-
ing liquids. The last-mentioned include
£31,136,000 (roughly the increase in
deposits since war began) which remains
frozen in a special account with the Com-
monwealth Bank, where the money earns
at the rate of only 15s. p.c. p.a. This
deposit is now by far the largest single
item among the co.’s assets. The co. is
excellently equipped to assist in financ-
ing the work of rehabilitation and de-
velopment so soon as the Government
and organised labor will allow such work
to go ahead.
The improvement of £51,436 in last
term’s net earnings was mainly due to a
reduction of £93,749 in the allowance for
taxation (£220,145). The £342,362 of
'profit shown was 6.8 p.c. on the
£5,000,Q00 of capital, or approximately
4 p.c. on shareholders’ funds (capital and
reserves combined). The div. crept up
* r °m 5| p.c. to 5J p.c., the final being
at the rate of 6 p.c. p.a., which was the
rate paid for the four years to the close
of accounts in 1941.
J. Fielding and Co. (Sydney)
Net r 0 jjg. j{ e .
Sept., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£ £ £
1933 -’ f?’ 425 15 p.c. = 30,000 19,425 148,349
1906 48,269 15 „ „ 30,000 18,269 166,618
.Reserves disappear, £lOOO .. .. 165 618
1937 52,980 18J p.c, = 37,968 15,012 180*630
Assets revalued, £75,000 .. 255 630
£29 - 214 .. " 226^416
?qqo" 5 4 ’!? 1 15 P- c -= 35,057 19,644 246,060
1040 = 15 » ” 35,222 20,914 266,974
194 ?-- 69,527 15 „ „ 35,387 24,140 291,114
1942" ei’foa ” ” 47,182 16,193 307,307
1942.. 61,194 17} „ „ 41,285 19,909 327,216
T 94, XC To t^ I reS ®T disclosed - £ 76,000 .. 402,216
1944" tAVi , 1 «l p - C - = 44,233 49 ,!88 421,404
iqlk” 18 t ” » 44,233 25,318 446,722
1945., 67,878 18J „ „ 44,233 23,645 470,367
In a manufacturing business chief earn-
ing asset is plant, and upon its efficiency
largely depends unit costs and, therefore,
competitive power. Other factors in
success include imagination and quick
enterprise on the part of management. It
was on these foundations, plus the hus-
banding of financial resources, that James
Fielding, who died a year or so ago, built
this highly successful business, which
turns out cardboard boxes, cartons and
corrugated fibre containers, etc.
To keep the co. abreast of latest de-
velopments in its own lines executives
have been regularly sent abroad, and
plant not measuring up to the world’s
best has been scrapped, though it may
have been bought only a few years be-
fore. Thus obsolescence has proved a
more expensive item than ordinary wear
and tear.
By maintaining co. taxation at its
high war-time peak, and by an inade-
quate allowance for depreciation and
obsolescence in computing tax liability,
the Government is retarding maintenance
of plant efficiency, hobbling competitive
power and checking enterprise and the
development of new processes by drying
up the most important sources of capital
for these purposes, namely, adequate re-
serves. An excessively high level of taxa-
tion on income and profits exerts a de-
cisive influence on decisions to invest,
hoard or disinvest. The rate on an addi-
tion to an income these days is so much
higher than the rate on the whole income
that extra effort is penalised, production
deterred and extravagance encouraged.
And the sorry part of it all is that those
who are hit hardest by this heavy-footed
Government approach to progress are the
younger concerns, which haven’t had an
opportunity to accumulate much fat.
War strengthened demand for the co.’s
products, and sales kept on expanding
until last term, when there was a slight
recession, owing to the tapering of de-
fence orders. Civilian requirements can
be expected to fill the gap as demobilisa-
tion proceeds and production gets under
way, subject, of course, to industrial
paralysis brought about by an insane
application of force through the anti-
social strike weapon. After providing
for taxation, depreciation, etc., the board
figured net earnings £1673 short of the
previous year’s at a juicy 28.7 p.c. on
capital, compared with 29.4, 26.8, 25.9,
26.8 and 25.2 p.c. back to 1940. On share-
holder’s funds (capital and reserves com-
bined) the net return was 9.6 p.c. The
div. was kept at 18* p.c.
Only once in the last 17 years has the
co. paid less than 15 p.c.; that was in
1931, when 10 p.c. was handed out. The
average div, for this period was 15.8 p.c.
And bonus scrip accounts for nearly
half paid capital, the fast gift being in
1937, Also, those on the register can now
see more than half their funds invested
outside the business in well-selected share-
holdings, including the Melbourne sub-
sidiary, and in Government securities
(£101,846) and a number of well-let Syd-
ney freeholds, snapped up when the
market was at its lowest, or thereabouts,
in the 1930’5.
Here is as much of the financial struc-
ture as the published figures disclose:
1939. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital £235,913 £235,913 £235,913 £235,913
Creditors .. *53,648 *115,320 *169,762 *130,726
Freeholds . . 153,639 137,782 158,496 174,067
Plant, etc. .. 25,532 24,900 22,375 21,849
Stocks . . 33,575 40,028 34,294 32,987
Book debts, cash
and investin’ts 352,635 476,473 654,924 625,794
* Including provision for taxation.
No harm would be done if the items in
the omnibus entry (down £29,130) in the
last line in the table were shaken out. The
amount coming to trade creditors (down
£39,036) includes an unspecified provision
for taxation. Despite a net addition of
£15,571 to freeholds the more or less
liquid surplus (£528,055) was £8599
stronger than at the previous balance.
Hoffman Brick (Melbourne)
To Re-
Sept., Profit, Dividend. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 9,944 5 p.c. = 9,626 818 51,411
1936. . 9,18 S 5 „ „ 9,626 50,973
1937.. 13,690 6i „ „ 12,033 1657 52.630
1938.. 11,887 6i „ „ 12,033 52,484
1939.. 15,669 7* ~ „ 14,440 1229 53,713
1940.. 14,479 71 „ „ 14,439 40 63,753
1941.. 11,819 „ „ 12,033 53,540
Loss.
1942.. 628 Nil 52,912
1943.. 6,519 Nil 46,393
Profit.
1944.. 8,032 21 p.c. = 4,813 3220 49,612
1945.. 8,205 3f „ „ 7,220 985 50,597
There was no very marked change in
conditions governing the building and
ancillary trades last term. But the out-
look has altered. With war out of the
way, demobilisation proceeding, and an
acute housing shortage to be overtaken,
the demand for bricks and other building
materials should be heavy and sustained
for the next few years, at any rate.
After World War I divs. averaged 10.8
p.c., sweetened with a 20 p.c. bonus-scrip
issue in 1923, for the boom decade to the
close of accounts in 1930. It seems un-
likely, however, that this patch of history
will repeat itself. This time taxation and


INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
JACKSON
QUEEN STREET I
CHARTS
Circular Charts ior all types oi
Recording Instruments for any class
\ of Machinery or Equipment
]I) METER CHARTS a specialty.
'/ Accuracy guaranteed. Got our quotation-
I & O’SULLIVAN
PTV. LTD. BRISBANE. Q 10.
New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22L), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
THE
SOUTH BRITISH
INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
INCORPORATED IN NEW ZEALAND.
Established 1872.
Assets Exceed £5,000,000.
FIRE... MARINE...
ACCIDENT
WORKERS’ COMPENSATION
Sydney Branch:
Cnr. Hunter & O’Connell Sts.
F. W. WALTON. Manager.
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
aus7ralian AB
/7//er
Cylinder
F I
w
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Legal Notice.
RE ESTATE OF FLORENCE LOUISA BURDEN
and re ESTATE OF FLORENCE LOUISA LAMER-
TON late of Saratoga and Naremburn in the State of
New South Wales Married Woman deceased Letters
of Administration granted by Supreme Court of New
South Wales on Fourteenth day of March 1944 Pur-
suant to the Wills Probate and- Administration Act
1898-1940 Testator’s Family Maintenance and
Guardianship of Infants Act 1916-1938 and Trustee
Act 1925-1940 JAMES McGRATH (the legal repre-
sentative of ROBERT HENRY CAMPBELL UAMER-
TON the widower of the said deceased) the Adminis-
trator of the Estate of the said Florence Louisa
Lamerton or Burden who died on 29th March 1943
HEREBY GIVES NOTICE that creditors and others
having any claim against or to the estate of the
said deceased are required to send particulars of their
claims to the said Administrator at care of the
undersigned on or before the first day of March 1946
at the expiration of which time the said Adminis-
trator will distribute the assets of the /said deceased
to the persons entitled having regard only .to the
claims of which he then has notice.
DATED this sth day of December, 1945.
T. Q. D. MARSHALL, LANDERS & CO., Proctors,
Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney.
Hi
% Mi
a
:s£-
m
Bi
wm.
m
s
ŵ
Up and down tbe world
and all around Australia you will
find Babcock boilersburning a
fuel as fine as face powder.
Pulverising coal to face
powder fineness bas advantages of
tbe kind that show up in tbe books
of steam users as direct savings of
pounds, shillings and pence . . .
savings that ultimately are passed
on to tbe community.
Tbe Babcock pulverised
coal-firing system is closely tied to
an intimate 60-year knowledge of
Australian coals . . . and, in part, is
tbe reason wby, in contrast with
older installations, tbe modern steam
generating unit burns less coal to
produce an equivalent amount of
steaim—is tolerant of wide variations
BABCOCK & WILCOX
unm
STEAM ENGINEERS - INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND
AUSTRALIAN HEAD OFFICE & WORKS-REGENTS PARK. N.S.W.
Branch Office* and Agencies in all State*.
in fuel properties and is as flexible
in following load changes as if the
fuel were liquid.
In no two instances are the
boiler requirements of users identi-
cal. and to tbe problem of making
tbe one right installation there is a
decisive solution >—> Babcock world-
wide design experience and con-
struction resources.
★ ★ ★
Looking to to-morrow, we at Babcock &
Wilcox are planning to put to use the
newly-acquired industrial and technical
abilities of Australia.
This planning gives recognition to the
unexcelled facilities of our British organ-
isation for designing, testing and re-
search, and envisages a close co-operation
to ensure that boiler plant built in Aus-
tralia will embody latest design practices
and production techniques.
Within this Empire framework we aim
to expand our Australian activities . . .
work to common purpose with our
British organisation . . . maintain to
Babcock users our world standards of
workmanship with moderate first cost.
T I*l E HAS PRO IK I) VII K S K Kj; IC E OF BA II COCK HOI LER PLATT
FREE TOUR of U.SA.
for a progressive
N.S.W. FARMER!
EVERY FARMER IN THE STATE can compete in the
Agricultural Bureau’s “Progressive Farmer” Com-
petition. Through the co-operation of the United States
Department of Agriculture, the winner will make a six
months’ tour among the farmlands and the farm homes
'of America, There he will observe American farming
methods at first hand and meet American farming people
on their own ground. Expenses are to be met by the
Rural Bank and Broadcasting Station 2GZ. Competitors
will be judged not merely on soundness of farming
practice, but on experience, maturity of judgment, public
spirit, leadership, and ability to learn, observe and report.
Entry forms and full particulars of the Competition are available
from any branch of either the Agricultural Bureau or the Rural
Bank, or from the State Organiser of the Agricultural Bureau
in Sydney.
RURAL RANK
OF NEW SOUTH WALES
HEAD OFF I C E:-M AR TI K PLACE, SYDNEY
Commissioners:
C. R. McKERIHAN [President) —H. ROGERS —P. KEARNS
INVEST IN COMMONWEALTH VICTORY LOANS.
other costs are higher, materials and
prices are controlled, and competition is
much keener, which means that the co.
with the lowest costs is going to fare
best.
The next table illustrates what has hap-
pened over the last decade —it shows
average monthly value of private build-
ing permits issued by local-government
bodies in the Victorian metropolis:
1935-36 .. £597,000 1941-42 .. £343,000
1938- .. 702,000 1942-43 .. 77,000
1939- .. 774,000 1943-44 .. 86,000
1940- .. 865,000 1944-45 .. 132,000
This co. has to compete with some 13
other Melbourne brickmakers for the
business available.
Apart from brickmaking, the co. also
produces stoneware, sanitary-ware and
other pottery, and its shareholdings in
brick-and-tile concerns at Auburn, Oak-
leigh and Blackburn give it a leg in on
the trade south of the Yarra. Owing to
erection of buildings under the Govern-
ment housing scheme, conditions have
improved over the last two years. Last
term net earnings crept up £173, reaching
£8205, equal to 4.2 p.c. on capital.
Shareholders received an extra H P- c -»
making the div. 3| p.c., compared with
nothing in 1942 and 1943, and an aver-
age 6,75 p.c. for the five years before
that.
The co. will not regain its full earning
power until improvement in the man-
power position enables production in this
and other sections of the building trade
to gather momentum. It has been esti-
mated that around £19,000,000 of new
building per annum will be needed in
Victoria to catch up the war-time lag ;
that is about double the pre-war peak,
end excludes public works. Profits will
depend largely on the behavior of costs
and Government interference. Recog-
nising this the board is “giving considera-
tion to greater mechanisation and to the
installation of more modern plant with
a view to greater output and efficiency.”
The finances are comfortable enough:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £192,528 £192,528 £192,528 £192,528
Liabilities .. 11,222 7,199 3,585 4,341
Freeholds .. 77,721 78,014 73,280 73,327
Plant, etc. .. 61,272 55,162 55,359 55,072
Stock.. .. 26,412 27,194 25,453 25,472
Shares other cos. 44,321 44,946 44,946 44,946
Book debts .. 21,834 16,114 7,942 9,278
Cash, etc. . . 35,974 31,613 44,050 46,483
After writing off £459 (up £4l) for de-
preciation, fixed assets rose £360 last term,
and debtors and cash benefited to the
extent of £1336 and £2433 respectively.
There was an improvement of £3772 in
the more or less liquid surplus (£121,838)
over the twelvemonth.
To finance its big programme of de-
velopment, London - controlled New
Broken Hill Consolidated, whose mine
adjoins that of Zinc Corp. at the Barriei
(N.S.W.) will offering those on the register
at Dec. 11 1,354,357 new ss. shares, two for
three, at a premium of 10s. each. When
f.-p, the issue will bring in £1,015.768, of
which £677,179 will be premium money,
and the balance (£338,589) will lift paid
capital to £846,473. Zinc. Corp. owns
approx, 30 p.c. of Consolidated’s issued
scrip, and is g.m. of the undertaking.
The Corp.’s big Freeman shaft will
serve both mines, and all ore is to be
treated at the Corp’s mill. After exercise
of rights, average price of Consolidated’s
scrip at the present market ceiling of
21s. would be approx. 18s. 7d,
Jp 3»C JjC *
Enterprise of New Guined Gold and
Petroleum, N.L. has given Somebody a
month’s option, with the right to a
month’s extension, over its Edie Creek
(N.G.) mine. Terms are £125,000 cash or
£75,000 cash, plus £50,000 in f.-p. shares in
any co. formed to work the property. In
Sept, 1940, proved ore was put at 125,000
tons, averaging 6.7dwt. gold and 4.20 z.
silver. In addition there was reckoned
to be 418,000 tons possible ore of milling
grade (sdwt. or better) between the sur-
face and No. 3 level in the main lode.
War terminated negotiations for sale of
the mine to New Guinea Gold Fields,
Ltd. Enterprise has a paid capital of
£80,264 in £5 shares paid to 765, each.
* * * *
From London; Chairman P. E.
Marmion told Gold Exploration share-
holders that, despite difficulties during the
last six years, the co. had redeemed in
sterling more than £400,000 worth ot
notes at a total premium of over £62,000.
It had converted a p. and 1. debit of
£310,000 into a credit of £11,000; and,
after deducting provision for taxation, the
holding of Government securities and
chsh had increased by §lmost £170,000,
reaching £334,000. Also the financial
position of some of the co.’s Australian
subsidiaries and associates has been
strengthened. Last year’s net revenue was
£31,023. After chipping off £15,036 for
taxation and £4729 to eliminate the debit
brought forward a credit of £11,258 re-
mained. Div. received from Gold Mines
of Kalgoorlie, Ltjl., was unchanged at
6d. a share. Central Norseman Gold
Corp. reduced its div. from Is. 6d. to 9d.
a share. Western Mining Corp’s profit
was lower, but it maintained its div. at
6d. a share. Victoria Gold Dredging’s
contribution of Is. a share was the
smallest since dredging began. This was
due to reduced yardage, mechanical
breakdowns and lower-grade wash.
* * * *
Dundas G.M. Co., with a credit bal-
ance of over £lO,OOO, will start mining
on its Empress lease, Norseman (W.A.),
at an early date. A crosscut to intersect
the lode at a point where the diamond
drill disclosed values is to be the first
job. A geological report is to be obtained
as a guide for future development work.
* * * *
Westralian State batteries continue to
do their bit to help gold-production. Dur-
ing October they crushed 402 tons of
ore, including 162 from the Local Lady
mine. Linden, East Mt. Margaret field,
which yielded 2980 z.


w
PROTECTION during Peace and war is
given by
ZERCHEAT LOW PRESSURE
REFRIGERATION SERVICE.
throughout Australia.
ECKERSLEV a SONS PTV. LTD.
95-103
CLARENDON
m
SIR. MELBOURNE SC.S
Agents: HENRY BERRY & CO. (A’ASIA), LTD.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office; GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS; TTia
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS.
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager. T. 0. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
\\\ | Ik/ ,\u|/A
m
sSf* v
* If / .*%>/ //
r nk. *i4
;
--3
wp
PORTABLE—FLEXIBLE
JOINTED SPRAY PIPES ON
s STANDS.
The patented Maximum SPRAY IRRIGATION
system is extremely adaptable and each instal-
lation is individually designed and
built to tit your particular needs.
Cost per acre is very
attractive and some pur-
chasers have reported re-
covering their full outlay
in one season.
THE MAXIMUM PATENTED OUTLET.
This enables continuous spraying and changing of the pipe positions
without stopping either the pump or the motor.
The patented Coupling is the only one on the that has
positive flexibility, for it can be coupled in any direction to ( an
inclination of 13 degrees and remain watertight.
Quotations given for plants suitable for 2 to 1000 acres.
| MANUFACTURERS:
MAXIMUM SPRAY IRRIGATION CO..
39-41 Dixon Street, Sydney. MA 7858.
Agents: SMITH & GDUYAB PTY., DTD., 154-156 Clarence St., Sydney.
Telephone; M 2977. .
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY., DTD., 102-124 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. Box
Brisbane. ’Phone, J 1456.
WEDDING & CKOSSDEY Pty., Dtd., 143-149 Clarendon St., Sth. Melbourne. Phone,
MSI 953
&
21 South
MX 4889.
Business, Rollery, Etc.
The Dollar Deal
Britain,, subject to ratification, is to
get a loan from the United States
amounting to $4400 million, about
and
el ™ mb
iS ca’rt 2
a first payment live years after the loan
agreement goes into effect, and liability
for interest will be waived in any year in
which Britain’s dollar balances are
deemed insufficient to meet them (pro-
vided liability on present “blocked srter-
lirig balances” is treated similarly). The
currency of the loan is set down at 50
years (from Dec. 31, 1951).
As loans go, the terms of the transaction
are not severe. The money may be drawn
at Sny time after conclusion of the agree-
ment up to Dec. 31, 1951, after which
annual interest-and principal payments
will be made. Covering both the lend-
lease liability and the cash loan, these
will average about $l4O million a
year if the loan is taken in full,
equal to approximately £35 million ster-
ling. , (Australia’s overseas interest com-
mitments, mentioned for the sake of com-
parison, are about £2l million sterling a
year.) Britain may discharge the loan
in a period shorter than 50 years; other-
wise the final payment will be made in
that year of fantasy, a.d. 2001.
The objectives of the loan are defined
as, generally, to assist British purchases
from the U.S.A., to bridge post-war
foreign-trade deficits, to build up U.K.
gold and dollar reserves, and to assist
Britain to buy and sell freely with the
world. The money is not to be used to
pay off old sterling debts. •
Many people believe that the United
States had war-time economic obligations
to Britain extending beyond the end of
the war—Britain having fought the early
stages of the war on her own—and that
a great contribution to world-trade re-
covery would have been America’s taking
an immediate lead in a reduction of pro-
hibitive tariffs, of which the United States
has many.
Whatever benefit Britain will really get
out of the deal, it has been after hard and
lengthy bargaining. In a post-war reaction
from war-time feelings of comradeship—
the reaction accentuated by the death
of President Roosevelt and the political
defeat of Mr. Churchill—some strong poll-
tical sections in the United States have
adopted a stiff-necked attitude toward
Britain in her difficulties, and Britain’s
greater war-time sacrifices per head have
perhaps only been a source of irritation
to th e feelings of these sections. Not that
? hard deal to Britain has been the ob-
jective of the majority of Americans; but
there is a strong body of prejudiced, so-
in the Commonwealth. In addition, there
are Americans who dislike the idea of
nurturing the socialistic cuckoo, brood
which they feel has found Us way into the
B ‘h* s h political nest,
There is no indication as yet or an
exemplary, reduction in American tariffs
th a t might help to restore worldrtrade
equilibrium, but there is a suggestion of
an international conference for the pur-
pose of promoting world trade about the
middle of 1946. Perhaps wider issues will
come up for discussion in Washington,
too, when some attempt it made to put
the Bretton Woods monetary plan into
operation (the present Washington agree-
ment ties up with the Bretton Woods plan),
But America, the wealthiest country in the
world that had the greatest depression m
the world, seems to move very awkwardly
when called upon to give the world a
clear-cut lead in any financial matter. It
does not seem to be politically built that
way, there being no plain issue of self-
interest visible in an analysis of world
leadership. Possibly America is not alone
m -this short view of things. Few coun-
tries, for example, have ever shown the
political ability to restrain an economic
boom in order to lessen the subsequent
slump. At present employment prospects
in the Republic may make any immediate
lead in a long-term policy of tariff, etc.,
reform politically impracticable.
Britain, in return for the loan of dollars,
is to dissolve the London “dollar pool,”
which controls allotment of dollars among
Empire countries, to seek a reduction in
its sterling indebtedness to other countries,
and to relax exchange controls that still
prevent American goods from competing
in British markets. Negotiations are to
proceed for a revision of tariffs, imperial
preference, etc.
On the face of it, there is much
that is humiliating as well as risky
for Britain in the United States pro-
posals. To go cap in hand asking
Egypt, India, South America, Eire and
other countries for a reduction in its
war-time commitments is something that
Britain had no idea of doing Voluntarily,
The United States fears that blocked ster-
ling balances will tie trade to Britain to
the exclusion of U.S. goods; hence
present demands. Yet in the long run there
may be little benefit to the United States
employment position from revisions, while
Britain may suffer loss of financial prestige,
The amount being lent by the United
States to Britain closely approximates the
debt incurred by Britain, partly on
account of her Allies, during World War 1.
At the outbreak of World War II that
debt totalled $4368 million, and no in-
terest had been paid on it for many years.
While World War II was on it was the
expressed intention of both the United
States and Canada that there should be
as little as possible post-war hangover
in the way of war debts. Appar-
ently the United States has had to
compromise on the question of an in-
creased indebtedness by Britain, in spite
of the world financial disequilibrium
that increased indebtedness by a debtor
nation always seems to bring. Though
liability for interest on the loan is
deferred for five years, and is then
payable only when Britain’s dollar
resources are sufficient to meet the
charge, the long-term effect of the
debt may not be such as to promote
the purchase of U.S. goods by Britain,
as interest and repayments must reduce
U.K. imports. However, for the present,
it should tie a good deal 'hf British pur-
chasing to the United States, and may
thus help to stabilise U.S. post-war em-
ployment. Looked at frorti the eastern
side of the Atlantic, it is not unlikely that
Britain will have to take U.S. goods at
present inflated prices and with the dollar
at $4.03 to the £. This may double or
treble the eventual burden of the debt to
Britain, especially if, later on, the pound
slips to around $3 or lower.
Australia will be consulted separately
as to the loan terms, and America has
reserved the right to make a separate tei-
mination to its lend-lease agreement with
this country. Speaking in general terms
on Britain’s difficulty, H. D. Giddy, chair-
man of the National Bank of Australasia,
said at the annual meeting:
The importance to Australia of a free flow
of international trade compels our vital interest
ixx a step of great moment toward this end
the financial discussions in Washington between
British and American authorities. The tremen-
dous reconversion problems confronting Great
Britain call for the gravest consideration by
the trading world at large and in particular by
the British Dominions. The physical aspects
of Britain’s return to peace production are ap-
pallingly extensive, and the transformation ot
her old-established position as a creditor nation
to that of a debtor gives rise to great anxiety,
not only to Britain herself, but to those coun-
tries dependent upon her capacity to purchase
their exports. There will be no free flow ot
international trade, nor will living standards in
many countries be restored until Britain s capa-
city to import food and raW materials is
revived.
Britain’s mighty war effort has led to a deter-
ioration in her external financial position, com-
pared with pre-war, of upwards of six thousand
million pounds sterling. It is understandable,
and I think in every way reasonable, that
Britain looks for credits to enable her to restore
her old business of manufacturing and trad-
ing •
Australian thoU|hts should be turned
toward rendering practical help. With the
exception of Britain herself, no country can
be more interested in her recovery than Aus-
tralia. She is our best customer.
There is urgent need for a positive lead to
our people, a lead that will encourage us to
make some active contribution to the re-estab-
lishment of world trade. We must not be de-
terred by the prospect of a temporary sacrifice
of some of our economic privileges and the
postponement of some of our social ideals.
Let us be realistic and face the fact that we
cannot hope to escape paying our share of the
cost of retrieving world trade from its present
chaos.
The one real contribution Australia can
make is to set about, in all seriousness, to pro-
duce for export as she has never produced be-
fore. Never has the world been in such need
of the essential raw materials and other g
Australia can provide. Our problem
conversion to peace activities is minor
pared with that in many other countries,
door is indeed wide open for Austarha to
a practical contribution to the revival °* w
trade, with great advantage to herselt.
It is true that Australia’s comparatively
limited opportunities for export to America
preclude her from playing any large part in me
direct earning of dollars so badly needed by the
Empire. Nevertheless, a substantial increase in
the export of our raw materials to any coun ry
would be of appreciable indirect help in tms
important direction. We might also give some
energetic thought to ways and means o
encouraging direct American expenditure
Austraila. I suggest one most effective method
would be to encourage the ovexsea, particui-
larly American, tourist traffic.
The industrial breakdowns that have
been common in Australia during the past
few months will neither attract tourists
here with dollars in their pockets nor help
increase our income from exports. The
big job ahead of Australia is the restora-
tion of industrial efficiency and morale.
In Britain Mr. Churchill has been ex-
pressing fears about Britain’s economy
under the Labor Government. He said
recently: »
Four months have passed since the
country first became hag-ridden by socialist
doctrinaires. Instead of being liberated
from the thraldom of war-time, the people
are being harried, harassed and stifled with
vaguely-thought-out, physically unobtain-
able plans for a socialist future. .
Private enterprise is to be sacrificed in
the heavyfooted State with an overspreading
bureaucracy.
Last week he added that the American
loan, at best, will provide only two years
in which Britain might put its house in
order, after which it would be unfortu-
nate to be dependent on kindness which
might or might not be forthcoming from a
foreign Power.
At the end of July, 1945, employment
in Australia was still not as high as in
November, 1941, when the total of men
and women in jobs was 1,952,000. The
figure for July this year was 1,917,000,
and employment was then showing a
decline, in spite of releases from the ser-
vices on a considerable scale. Private
employment exhibited a slight fall in July
this year. With many materials in short
supply it has not been easy to reabsorb
returning fighting men in all cases. Coal
is one essential commodity a shortage of
which is hampering all industry, and the
'building trade could employ thousands
more men profitably if it had all the
materials necessary for building construc-
tion". Recently the Sydney printers’ strike
delayed the packing of many types of
commodities. The taxation position, too,
is clogging channels of re-employment, and
so is the over-unionisation of most trades.
Many employers or potential employers
at present feel that they are working prin-
cipally for the Taxation Department, the
other bureaucracies and trade-union secre-
taries.
* * * *
Dominion and South African Trading
Co., Ltd., Johannesburg, a subsidiary of
Kopersbond, Ltd., is seeking Australian
supplies of building materials, household
appliances, office equipment, textiles,
chemicals and foodstuffs. Various mer-
chants in the Commonwealth have been
circularised by the Dominion and South
African Co., the management of which
apparently hasn’t heard that Com.-ridden
trade-unionists in Australia are managing
to produce even less of most of the things
the co. wants than are necessary to meet
our own civil requirements.


I ...
FROM THE COMMONWEALTH LOANS DIRECTOR
TO
ALL VOLUNTARY WORKERS ON WAR LOAN COMMITTEES
AND SECRETARIES OF WAR SAVINGS GROUPS
To the scores of thousands of voluntary workers throughout
Australia who formed our war loan committees, or acted as
secretaries of our war savings groups, I say that Australia needs
your services now as much as at any time in the war years. Our
organization which you helped to build, and which functioned
most successfully in encouraging National Savings during the
war, must continue for the nation’s welfare.
Public willingness, fostered by your efforts, to limit spending
and to save money during the war, was one of Australia’s
strongest weapons. If we are to keep prices down in the
change-over from war to peace, the same restraint in spending
our accumulated purchasing power is just as necessary, until
goods available to us once more equal our spending power.
At the same time, Australia still needs money for war commit-
ments, for the repatriation and rehabilitation of service men
and women.
In brief, apart from our national obligations, we have very
serious personal responsibilities. To spend too much now is
to buy too soon. If we buy only what we need until goods
become more plentiful we shall get value for our money in a
wider choice of better goods at reasonable prices. Until that
time, to keep prices stable, our surplus money is still needed
in the savings reservoir of Commonwealth securities.
It is to YOU the Commonwealth’s Loan Committee workers
and savings group secretaries that we look to perform the
very responsible task of telling your fellow Australians why
this must be so to complete our victory.
You have done a magnificent job for Australia during the war.
I urge you to stay on the job to finish the job! I urge you to
make your objective the maintenance of your loan committees
and savings groups at their peak strength, and to develop sales
of War Savings Certificates and stamps to the fullest possible
extent.
o'A
COMMONWEALTH
LOANS DIRECTOR
5C1.13i3.125
Requisites of Recovery
Australia is now in the period of transi-
tion from war to peace. Living is a con-
fusing business, and it will become more
puzzling as more men leave the fighting
services and seek industrial rehabilitation.
Reclothing ex-servicemen as civilians and
housing them is obviously a great prob-
lem ; there are many more problems per-
haps not so obvious but just as serious.
The whole productive capacity of the
nation is at present in a state of unbalance
—there is difficulty in getting necessary
raw materials, in placing the right men
in the right jobs, in getting labor engaged
in key industries to produce vital raw
materials on a reasonable scale and in
establishing confidence and incentive in
many sections of the industrial and finan-
cial scene. Inflation and its companion,
the black market, are also causing delay
in the desired emergence from the dis-
equilibrium in our economy caused by
war and by the diseased forms of politics
which have been so prominent in the
country because of war-time opportuni-
ties presented to undemocratic bacteria.
Before very long there will be angry
questions asked as to why the people can't
do this and why they can’t have that. A
recovery in our living standards to pre-
war levels, and, eventually, a rise in living
standards to above pre-war levels, will
depend upon a number of things, chiefly:
(1) The availability of raw materials, im-
ported (such as petroleum) or Australian (such
as coal).
(2) Availability of labor, and the ability or
desire of labor supplies available to do the
work required to build up living standards at
a reasonable cost. Hours worked ami output
per hour are vital considerations.
(3) The speed at which production can be
accelerated in order to absorb the more dan-
gerous portion of the surplus spending-power
accumulated during the war. Inflating costs
and prices retard production.
(4) Industrial harmony.
(5) The mechanical efficiency of industrial
equipment after years of war-time overwork.
(6) The incentive allowed by Governments,
in taxation, financial and general economic
policy, to both Capital and Labor.
(7) How far the Commonwealth banking
legislation will interfere with confidence and
with the facilities normally offered by the
banking system to industry.
(8) Seasonal conditions in the Commonwealth.
(9) Markets available overseas for our ex-
port surplus and the prices obtainable; also,
exchange rates and world tariff policy.
(10) Foreign and sterling exchange available
to us from proceeds of our exports.
(11) Availability of overseas goods reasonably
judged to be necessary to our wellbeing—availa-
bility on the score of both our overseas buying
power and overseas producers’ desire to sell.
(12) Commitments, moral and otherwise, to
send goods in short supply here to overseas
countries in even shorter supply.
(13) The financial policies of the Common-
wealth and State Governments, particularly as
regards how much of the national income is to
be taken from the people by the Government
and the manner in which it is to be spent.
(14) The removal of artificial economic con-
trols no longer serving a useful purpose but
tending rather to create artificial obstructions to
post-war recovery.
(15) The success of efforts to re-establish the
borrowing capacity of the Commonwealth Gov-
ernment and the stabilising of interest rates at
a free but reasonable level,
(16) Revival of thrifty incentives.
(17) The extent to which the Commonwealth
Government invades the industrial and financial
fields, by an open or disguised policy of sociali-
sation. Efficiency is one of the essentials in
restoration of living standards and maximum
production, and Government enterprises have
rarely been examples of efficiency.
(18) The extent to which expenditure on
Government “works” competes with private
industry in the market for money, materials
and labor, especially where Government
“works” are of*no early assistance to national
production.
If there is to be a period of large expen-
diture on “capital” goods—that is, on
railways, roads, factories, water-supply
systems, land-development schemes, etc.
—it may be that the production of “con-
sumption” goods and the construction of
new dwellings will be restricted, A limited
supply of labor and materials can only
cover a limited amount of work. It will
be a problem to decide what capital ex-
penditure is necessary for a full and
speedy return to civilian production and
what can be deferred conveniently to a
later date.
A quick return to prosperity in the
Commonwealth will depend upon condi-
tions which, summed up, amount to mak-
ing the best of man-power and materials
available, a fair day’s work for a fair
day’s pay, administration by Govern-
ments helpful to private industry, and the
taking of a wide and generous view by
the world’s big Powers in matters of trade
and finance. It should be possible for
us to put our house in order internally,
however great a mess we may appear to
be in at present. We can only hope that
the rest of the world will do the same, and
that countries will endeavor to trade with
each other on a generally reciprocal basis.
The Fall in Production
The fall in the amount of work done
per hour by many unionists during the
war was in the nature of a national
scandal. It has been glaringly apparent
on the wharves ; the unloading of timber,
with all mechanical facilities available,
has sometimes fallen to a small fraction
of the 1939 rate. In other industries
there have been similar cases. A factory,
asked to repeat a job done several years
ago, quoted the old price to the cus-
tomer, and when the work was completed
found that there was a loss of nearly
£lOO. A breakdown of the costs involved
revealed that raw materials were no
dearer, but labor costs were over 150 p.c.
greater.
The cost of labor in our industrial
output is a tremendous factor. Wagef
represent nearly 60 p.c. of the costs added
to raw materials in all processes of manu-
facturing in the Commonwealth. Raw
materials, in turn, are represented, as to
cost, almost entirely by wages and the
like. Coal mined costs mostly wages in
its extraction, and that applies even where
transport charges are heavy, transport ex-
penses being made up substantially of
wage costs and fuel costs, fuel being
generally coal. Bank interest largely
represents the cost of bank officials’
salaries, A sheep gets no pay for pro-
ducing wool; human beings pile up the
cost of wool, including a big loading
merely for shearing. Where labor costs
are high by comparison with other things
it means that Labor is not doing a fair
thing. A shearer who loafs on his job
and does only half the work for the
same money is striking at the living
standard of all his fellow-Australians.
Lowered production per head con-
tributed to chaos in France before World
War II began. Blum brought in a 40-
hour week, and it was soon found that
those working it were not doing anything
like forty forty-fourths of what they had
done previously. In the Commonwealth
now the position is very similar. Though
the 40-hour week is not general, higher
wages, special loadings, social-security
benefits and the like have been granted
to many sections of trade-unionism, but
the reponse, instead of being an output
at least maintained, has been in the
nature of a heavy fall in production
among militant and Communist-con-
trolled unions. In some industries and
in certain factories output has been well
maintained during the war. But on the
wharves, in coastal shipping, on the coal-
fields and in many sections of the iron-
founding industry the story is disgraceful.
The Australian distillery business
should be assured of another good year.
It was revealed not so long ago that
sales of Australian whisky had more
than doubled during the war; Australian
spirit taken from bond during 1944-45
was greater in quantity than all the
whisky consumed in the Commonwealth
during 1938-39. The demand for the
spirit is still such that it is available to
the public in very limited quantities.
But all quota restrictions have been re-
moved from gin, and this looks like
being a “ginny” Christmas. Most
whisky distilleries will cash in on the
relaxation, as gin spirit can be turned
out by them with comparative ease, and
it requires little or no time to mature.
Peer, wine and other liquors are still ex-
tremely scarce. Some good types of gin
are now being made in Australia under
licence from British distilleries. The big-
gest whisky-and-gin concern in the Com-
monwealth. is United Distilleries Pty.,
which controls Federal Distilleries Pty.
and Distillers Corporation Pty., and
which itself is owned jointly by Aus-
tralian Distillery Co., other Melbourne
holding cos., and Scotch distilling inter-
ests, which hold the greater part of the
stock.
* * * *
In considering schemes of full employ-
ment, social security, etc., it is well to
remember that there are people in the
land who deserve neither full-time em-
ployment nor social security. Some
people continually offend against the
economic laws governing employment
and social security, and unless they can
see some form of punishment awaiting
them for so doing they will continue to
offend; and so menace the employment
and security of others.


THE SERVICE MAN
General Blarney.
“Ek Dum”: The retirement of General
Blarney from command-in-chief of the
Australian war-time army has been man-
aged in the same surly manner in which
all such matters are managed in this coun-
try, where officialdom is concerned.
General Blarney may not have been an
Alexander the Great or a Wellington. He
may have had very human faults —some
of those imputed to him were very much
like those imputed to Pompey and to Nel-
son —but he gave Australia equable mili-
tary leadership, and he did it without the
unfaltering support of Ministers, press or
public. On the contrary, strong influences
were at work all the time to divide him
from his troops, to undermine his
authority over them, even to incite their
derision of him. After nearly six years
he retired with his reputation among his
senior commanders high and the feeling
among his men towards him improving,
instead of deteriorating as might have
been expected from the continuous cam-
paign against him.
His worst faults as a commander were
not in the main military faults. He could
be ruthless in a quarrel, and he had the
reputation in some quarters of being arbi-
trary and of centring the limelight upon
himself to the extinction of the reputa-
tions of corps and divisional commanders.
Whether the blame for the failure to men-
tion fighting commanders until nearly the
end of the South-west Pacific war rests
with him only history will tell. If he
was to blame, his commanders do not hold
it against him. The other matters are
merely incidentals in the life of a harassed
man, watched continually by an un-
friendly press bent upon commanding his
army for him and upon assuring that he
should not be accorded any of the privi-
leges which commanders normally are
accorded by common consent in process
of keeping their health and comfort.
Probably nowhere else in the world
could it have happened that, at a time
when invasion seemed imminent and the
commander-in-chief was travelling on a
scale making for extreme fatigue, leading
newspapers could have made a heroine
of an “air hostess” who forced him from
a window seat in a commercial aircraft in
which, through lack of resources, he was
compelled to travel. And nowhere else
would the campaign have been carried
on to prevent his wife accompanying him
to bases where she engaged in war work.
The Prophet in Action
General Blarney was the first and only
commander of the A.I.F. and of the Aus-
tralian war-time defence forces, except
for a brief period, in which responsibility
was divided, with poor success, during
the time he was returning from the
Middle East after Japan entered the war.
He had no share in the tragedies of
Rabaul and Ambon, the dreadful facts
of which are only beginning to come out.
He began in command of the first
Australian Corps, the only contribution
which the Commonwealth was then pre-
pared to offer. He was picked for the
job by Brudenell White, who regarded
him as a pugnacious organiser. It was
fully recognised that he was not a front-
line general of the heroic school; but
White’s theory was that a man would
be needed who would know what was
wanted and who would be determined in
getting it, whether from the British
Supreme Command or from a Govern-
ment of novices.
Determined the commander-in-chief
has always shown himself. He has never
hesitated to offend either political opinion
or public opinion when he thought that
something needed to be done.
He never wavered from the first in
estimating the nature of the war and the
scale of horror and destruction on which
it would develop, and this in spite of the
fact that in every crisis he could count on
the jeers of papers like the Sydney “D.T.”
—which now has surrendered to him
completely and wants him made a field-
marshal —and the Sydney “Sun.”
When, for instance, the doctrine of the
“phony war” was being preached in
January, 1940, his was almost a lone Aus-
tralian voice:
This war is not going to be a walkover.
It is going to be the most terrible thing the
world has ever seen. New methods of
waging warfare have created a terrific mass
of fire. It is my prayer that we can stave
®ff the full horror till next summer, when
the forces of the Empire may have been
built up to a higher level. Germany has
had its practice in this method of warfare,
and its terrible efficiency has been shown
by the swift and horrible destruction of
Poland.
This statement was accompanied by
strong urgings to develop Australian war
industry, in which he receiyed little back-
ing before his prophecies began to come
true with awful suddenness three months
after he spoke.
When, in October, 1941, the Japanese
war was in the offing and the Curtin
Government, new to office, was so oblivious
to what was coming that its “War” Min-
ister, Mr. Forde, and its “External Affairs
Minister,” Dr. Evatt, were —“in the in-
terests of industrial peace”—absorbed in
the momentous task of rescuing two
Communists from internment. Com-
munists who had been engaged in a plot
for the sabotage of war industry in
preparation for “something bigger,” he
gave tongue again (Oct. 16, 1941),
prophesying “a greater trial for us than
anything we have faced.... .We must fight
or perish.”
“The Gazelles m the Dell* 1
A few weeks later, being in Australia
on a visit to advise the Government, he
made what seemed a cryptic utterance to
those who did not know the facts: “We
have not pulled all our weight yet. That
depends on the American attitude.” And
soon he had the press raging as he com-
pared Australians (Nov. 17, 1941) to “a
lot of gazelles in a dell on the edge of a
jungle,” inveighed against “too much
sport,” roundly declared that “Rugby
League players” should be engaged in “a
harder game,” blamed Australians for not
realising the greatness of their danger and
attacked the “carnival spirit” shown in
this country at a time when the blackout
was already in operation in Manila.
As if all this wasn’t enough, he dared
to cross swords with little Mr. Heffron,
who had surrendered to a .campaign
for air-raid shelters on a large and costly
scale. Mr. Heffron’s experience in the
matter, judging by his phraseology, con-
sisted almost entirely of the reading of
Communist pamphlets, the contents of
which he retailed in a panic-stricken
voice. “S. M. Herald” reported that
General Blarney had aroused the “re-
sentment” of Messrs. Curtin and Hef-
fron when, out of an experience
which consisted merely of personal re-
sponsibility for the air defence of the
Alexandria and other crucial Middle
Eastern ports and cities during a very
vigorous German blitz, he dared to say
that a squadron of Spitfires would be
worth all the so-called precautions of
Mr. Heffron and his friends and that “the
sums spent in Australia on A.R.P. were
all out of proportion to the risk.”
His views were justified by time. There
was not a civil shelter built in Aus-
tralia which could have withstood the
blast of a 5001 b. bomb. Most were sheer
waste of money and brick and concrete.
Many are now haunts of loafers and
criminals.
December 7, 1941
When war broke out in the Pacific
Blarney was G.O.C. of the A.1.F., a posi-
tion which he had held since February
20, 1941. He also, since April 23, 1941,
had been Deputy Commander-in-Chief
of all British forces in the Middle East,
a title which he had received under Lord
Wavell during the evacuation of Greece.
He was on his way back to Cairo from
Australia when the Japanese attacked
Pearl Harbor. It did not throw him off
his balance. While Australian newspapers
were shopting that the Jap battle fleet
and its bombing aircraft might arrive any
day, and Canberra politicians were
for somebody to rise up and
do something, he calmly discounted the
chances of serious invasion, saying that
“large-scale operations against Australia
would be extremely risky.”
On his return to Australia (March 28,
1942), he was appointed C.-in-C. of the
Allied Land Forces under General Mac-
Arthur, There has been misconception
about the nature of this appointment. It
was taken for granted at the time that
it involved the command of all Allied
forces American, Australian, N.Z.,
Netherlands, etc. The Government,
which never looks for trouble, has
allowed the public to believe this down
to the present day. The actual fact was
that Allied land forces in practice meant
only forces allied to the Americans, who
chose to consider themselves the main
army. The result of the misunderstand-
ing of the position has at times saddled
General Blarney with blame for actions
in which he had no part, and for which
he had no responsibility.
His Confidence
His stand from the first showed the
same assurance as in earlier years. On
assuming his new position he said that
“we must gird up our loins and stand
up to anything that comes” and “be ready
to meet the Jap offensive, whether it
comes or not.” He was never anything
but “confident that we can beat the
lap,” and his occasional displays of iras-
cibility towards those who opposed him
,and his appearance of stubbornness in
minor matters were probably bred of the
fact that resistance to main projects and
the need to fight public opinion had
gradually reduced his general attitude to
a formula.
In his contacts with the Americans, he
could always be depended on to fight for
Australian rights. He was adroit in hand-
ling a Ministry completely inexperienced
in war and with an inferiority complex
bred of the records of its members. And
on the whole he was a very good servant
of the country, loyal to its interests and
submissive to a sometimes distasteful type
of discipline.
In any case, he was the head and front
of the forces of the Commonwealth
throughout a long war, and it will reflect
on the gratitude of the country if appre-
ciation of his work for it does not take a
more concrete and ceremonious form
than it at present seems likely to take.
He should receive the formal thanks
of Parliament. And his services of more
than 40 years in the military forces, in-
cluding six years of high command and
11 years in two wars, should be rewarded
with a sufficient pension to enable him to
live the rest of his years in circumstances
fitting to his rank and reputation, while
assuring that he will be available a« an
adviser during the important reorganisa-
tions of Australian defence which must
soon be in progress.
After the last war Australia treated its
fighting generals very badly, in contrast
to its treatment of the war-time Prime
Minister. This time it appears likely to
treat some of them even worse.
The Bennett Inquiry.
After taking evidence from Colonel J.
H. Thyer and Major-General C. A. Cal-
laghan at Yaralla Military Hospital, Syd-
ney, the Commission returned to Mel-
bourne, where Lieut.-General Bennett was
the principal witness.
He said he had been officer commanding the
Eighth Division and leader of the force known
as A.I.E. Malaya. On February 12, 1942, he
took up headquarters in Singapore barracks.
On February 13, the commanders met in con-
ference at Malaya Command. They were
unanimous that the military situation was com-
pletely hopeless. Lieut.-General Percival de-
cided to ask General Wavell for permission to
surrender. The reply was “No; you will fight
to the last man.”
Another conference was held on the morning
of February 15. Only three days’ supply of
ammunition then remained. The worst news
had come from the civilian front: the air-
raid precautions system had broken down and
there had been heavy losses among the wardens;
the hospitals had been without water for 24
hours; casualties among civilians were grow-
ing, and there was no one to rescue those
trapped beneath bombed buildings. “The posi-
tion was very urgent and very desperate. It
was decided that we should surrender uncon-
ditionally. We tried to arrange that hostilities
would cease at 3.30 that afternoon.”
Witness called a conference at his own
headquarters. Brigade commanders and the
heads of the services, A.A.C. and the like,
attended. He told them that if was anticipated
that hostilities would cease at 3.30, but not to
pass it on to the men at that stage: “I was
afraid the Japanese might demand terms or con-
ditions which we could not possibly accept.”
He was definite on the point that final word
came through as to the hour of surrender —
“about a quarter to eight or ten to eight” that
night. “It said that all firing would cease at
8.30;' troops would be assembled in areas
selected by me; arms and equipment would be
concentrated in unit areas. I told Col. Thyer
to send a warning order to cease fire at 8.30
and stand fast for further instructions.
“I then told Gordon Walker to go ahead
and get ready in case we were to leave. I sat
down with a map in front of me, and selected
assembly points for units and locations of equip-
ment and arms. Col. Thyer sat there with
me and made a note of it. That task was
finished about 8.20 p.m. I have absolutely no
doubt whatever that I handed it to Col. Thyer.
“I then sat down and wrote a eulogy, a fare-
well order to the troops. I intended to put a
little more cheer into them when they marched
out as prisoners. I wrote and composed the
message myself and handed it to Col. Thyer
about 25 past eight. I afterwards went into my
room and tore up some documents. I burnt
some of them. It was then that I finally crys-
talised my decision to escape. I had been giv-
ing a lot of thought to it. When things became
worse and worse and the Japanese were winning
more battles I decided I must get back to Aus-
tralia. The Japanese, I knew, would turn their
attack on Australia as soon as they had taken
Singapore. I had learned a lot, and what I had
learned had proved that we had an answer
to the Japanese tactics. The safest thing. I
could have done was to stay there.”
Justice Ligertwood: “In escaping, were you
thinking of your country, not yourself?”—“We
estimated on the trip out it was a hundred
chances to one we would not get through.”
The Lieut.-General continued: “The form
of tactics we had to face were novel and new,
and not one of our men had learned even the
alphabet of fighting under those conditions. I
was certain, too, that nobody in Australia had
had any experience of the conditions under
which we were fighting. I was the only one
that could help.” . . v, ft
After the “cease fire” came into effect he
spoke to Walker and Moses, saying Ineena
is here; go ahead and get ready to make a
break.” It was 10 o’clock or later when he
left headquarters, not before. . t
He had spoken with Brigadier Maxwell about
the troops escaping. He decided not P 3
word around urging the men to escape, bu
leave it to their own discretion. Never,
any time, did I order people not escape.
After he got the orders for the cease fire
he went to see Brigadier Callaghan. 1 went
in and sat on his bed, and fold him I was joy-
ing. I told him he would be in charge and there
was nothing more to be done. I s P®nt about a
quarter of an hour with him. _ I told hirn that
any other details could be carried out by Ihyer,
Kent Hughes and himself. There was very
little more to be done. The war was over.
Mr. Dovey, K.C., read extracts from
the diary of the 22nd Brigade, which in-
cluded an entry, signed by the late Briga-
dier A. L. Varley, “19507-Division in-
formed brigade that an armistice had been
ordered for 20.30 hours. At this time all
firing would cease. No man would leave
his post.” A war diary signed by Briga-
dier Maxwell said, in part, “Officers ; will
be warned of their responsibilities to their
men, and no organised attempt at escape
will be countenanced.”
In answer to his counsel, Mr. Glkncy,
K.C., Lieut.-General Bennett said he had
never issued any order which contained
the words “Officers will remain with their
men.” “Never in my life have I issued
an order that men shall not try to escape.
(To Mr. Dovey). His intention to escape
had gradually crystallised in his mind begin-
ning from the end of January. He had no in-
tention of escaping until after all hostilities
ceased.
Mr. Dovey then referred to the book Lieut.-
General Bennett published after his return to
Australia. Under the date of January 28, 1942,
it contained the passage “I called on the Sultan
of Johore He entertained me at lunch, and
he presented me with gifts.” Did the general
remember writing also “I told him that it was
quite possible I may have to effect an escape
to avoid becoming a prisoner-of-war, and may
be calling on him for his help, especially in
obtaining a boat to assist in the escape”?
Mr. Dovey: “It was left out of the book.
Is there any reason?”
Bennett: “The censor considered it inad-
visable. It might get back to the Japs and
the Sultan would be treated very badly.”
Among his own staff it was common know-
ledge that he was going to try to escape.
He would have been a deserter if he had
attempted to escape before becoming a p.-0.-w.
or before hostilities ceased.
Witness agreed with Mr. Dovey that the
terms of a capitulation must be strictly adhered
to. Reprisals might be expected if such terms
were not fulfilled. At Singapore he said it
was an unconditional surrender, not a capitula-
tion.
Mr. Dovey: “If an agreement was reached
between General Percival and the Japanese that
all troops should stand-by, the Japanese com-
mander might well regard it as a most serious
breach of faith on General Percival’s part if his
most important divisional commander was not
delivered into his hands.”
Lieut.-General Bennett: “He might have
taken it that way.” He did not ask General
Percival’s permission to leave, nor tell that
general of his intention. His plans had been
too vague and it had never crossed his mind
to do so. “When hostilities ceased I was no
longer under General Percival, I was not
bound to tell him.”
Witness said that he had omitted, from his
evidence and from his book, the part of the
“cease-fire” message from Malaya Command
which said “troops would stand by for further
instructions” because he “regarded it as unim-
portant.”
Mr. Dovey: “When do you say you were
captured and made a p.-0.-w.?”
Witness: “At 8.30 p.m. on February 15, by
General Yamashita and his army.”
Major-General Charles Edward Maurice
Lloydj Adjutant-General, A.M.F., said “I
am regarded as the keeper of the morals
of the Army. At no time was General
Bennett a prisoner-of-war. Under the
terms of the capitulation it was his duty
to surrender himself. He had no duty to
escape.”
“A soldier becomes a p.-0.-w. when he is
placed in the physical control of his captors,
said Major-General Llpyd. • Field-service Regu-
lations showed that “up to the hour of capitula-
tion it was open to General Bennett, and was
his duty if he felt it was in the national interest
to leave Malaya, to convey to General Percival
the reasons for his withdrawal and to seek per-
mission. If permission had been granted it
was open to him to leave. However, if that
permission had arrived after the capitulation he
would have been obliged to stay. Assuming the
enemy was not aware he had received permis-
sion to leave before the capitulation was signed,
he was still bound to stay unless the enemy had
been informed of the fact and had agreed to
it at the signing of the capitulation.”
Major-General Lloyd further said that if
Bennett had applied to Percival for per-
mission to leave after the time of the
“cease fire” Percival was in duty bound
to refuse permission. The order from
Malaya Command in regard to the “cease fire
. was an operational order. Under the terms of
the capitulation it was Bennett’s duty to sur-
render his body to the enemy, and his failure
to do so had endangered the lives of the men
of the A.I.F. and the whole of the British
troops in Malaya. Failure to observe the terms
of capitulation would result in the voiding of
the terms, and if the absence of General
Bennett on the morning of February 16 was
held by the Japanese to be a serious breach of
the capitulation it would have been open to
them at law to throw down the capitulation
and resume hostilities.
John Bowie Wilson, Judge-Advocate-
General of the A.M.F., told the Commis-
sion that he was supreme legal adviser
on military law. A member of the forces
did not become a p.-0.-w. upon the sign-
ing of an agreement that he would be sur-
rendered, but only upon his actual sur-
render and by being'“in the power of
the hostile Government.”
The signing of a capitulation was not a sur-
render, but an agreement to surrender which
had to be carried out after signing. It was


Partially Blinded Soldiers’ Associa-
tion of Australia.
The above Organisation is endeavoring to
raise £lO,OOO for the purpose of arranging a
meeting place for their members, and also to
help the repatriation of the Partially Blinded
Soldiers in New South Wales, both those men
returned from the last war and this war.
Buttons and badges are being sold in con-
nection with a State-wide appeal.
Would those interested kindly send their
donations to 22 Hunter Street', Sydney, and in-
quiries may be made through telephone No.
8W4375.
L. W. WALLER, Hon Secretary.
THE SERVICE PARTY OF
AUSTRALIA.
Applications are herewith called from
persons desirous of seeking endorsement,
by the Service Party of Australia, for the
Party’s nomination to contest at the
forthcoming Federal Elections
1. THE SENATE
2. THE FEDERAL ELECTORATES OF
Brisbane Capricorma
Darling Downs Griffith
Herbert Lilley
Kennedy Maranoa
Moreton Wide Bay
Applications, stating age, war service,
with full particulars of qualifications,
together with testimonials, must be in the
hands of the Secretary, Service Party of
Australia, 175 Eagle Street, Brisbane, not
later than FRIDAY, 28th DECEMBER,
1945.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ALFRED AMOS CHANDLER formerly
of 26 Sturt Street Kingsford N.S.W.. —TAKE NOTICE
that ENID EDNA IRIS CHANDLER has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 4255 of 1945 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three years
and upwards If you wish to defend you may enter
an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court
King Street Sydney by the 28th January 1946 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
HAROLD NELSON JULIAN Solicitor 28 Martin
Place Sydney.— (l.s.) 0. K .BODY, Registrar in
Divorce.
ITS YOUR J 0
i 't?
famcr/te
i/ieirAfore
secure
sow
A sure way
to provide
security for
your depend-
ants is by
taking out a
suitable life assurance
policy—do so to-day and
fulfil yet another of your
family responsibilities.
See the
&
EQUITABLE PROBATE
6 GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD.
//fad tfff/ceJ7/-373/pi/eenft, Sr/stone
WIHGtUO HOUSE, ANCEL PLACE, SYDNEY
COLLINS HOUSE, COLLINS ST, MELBOURNE
R. V. PERKINS, General Manager'
dear that General Bennett was at no time a
p.o.w. General Perdval signed an agreement
aTd mb wTs tS
and honorably bound to carry out this agree-
ment. Witness considered that if subtprdmate
officers knew that their G.O.C. had signed a
saars isssf’S- 1
mitted a breach of military law for which they
could be tried by a military court.
Wider Action in Java.
“Ek Dum”: British policy in Indonesia
has been crystallised as the result of a
conference between British and Dutch
and French leaders concerned with insur-
rectionary conditions in “the East” —to
Australians the North.
British policy was already fixed, but its
military effects were the concern of the
conference at which the British represen-
tatives were F.-M. Lord Alanbrooke
(Chief of the Imperial General .Staff),
Lord Louis Mountbatten (Supreme Com-
mander in South-east Asia) and the
British commanders in N.E.I. and French
Indo-China. It heeds to be emphasised
that British expressed policy is also Allied
policy, since the Indonesian zone is an
agreed British-control zone.
The objective primarily in going into
Java was to disarm the Japanese and im-
plement the terms of surrender. It in-
volved and still involves the securing of
all Japanese arms, in whatever hands,
and the peaceful reoccupation of the
Indies by the rightful owners, for whom
the British are the agreed Allied agents.
The rightful owners, as recognised by the
Allies, were those who administered the
Indies and who came to Allied aid when
Japan attacked Pearl Harbor in 1941.
Thus Britain is committed by agreeing
to go to Java to the re-establishment of
Netherland sovereignty. So is Australia.
The bulk of the Indonesian people
seem to be in accord with this viewpoint,
or at least passive. Like most majorities
in such troubles they are prepared to
go to any length to avoid trouble and
bloodshed. In Indonesia most people
have reason to think of their stomachs
before politics. The Indonesian “Govern-
ment,” representing the “moderate” sec-
tion, has been forced to co-operate for
fear that the Communist extremists,
proteges of Australian union leaders, may
subject its members to the savagery in-
flicted on the British officers who have
been slaughtered and mutilated, the
British Red Cross girl and officer friend
who were murdered while bathing last
week, and the hundreds of innocent men
and women who are being spirited away
and butchered for the crime of having
Dutch blood.
General Christison has been dowered
with wider powers, and will now no doubt
be also given larger forces. The pacifi-
cation of the whole of Java is about to
begin.
Meanwhile, the position is dangerous
and critical in most centres held by
slender British forces. At Bandoeng, the
mountain capital of Java, normally one
of the most beautiful and civilised spots
in the tropics, 62,000. refugees, rescued
from internment, have been concentrated
inside a British perimeter with some over-
flow which is at the mercy of the bar-
barous friends of Australian Red Fascists
and fellow-travellers. They have killed
many helpless people in cold blood. The
plight and peril of the survivors
have touched the hearts of the Maori-
landers, whose Labor Government has
agreed to admit thousands of them,
commencing in January. No word comes
from the Australian “Government,”
though something was said in the cables
about an exchange of communications be-
tween Minister Calwell and “the Austra-
lian political representative in Batavia.”
British aircraft, as well as troops, are
fired on. During the week a Mosquito
was shot down and its crew, killed.
Amid all the shooting and disorder,
however, the greatest killer in the next
few months will be famine. Even if
co-operation is secured to harvest the rice
crops, this will only mitigate the general
starvation. Meanwhile, 14 Dutch ships,
laden with supplies, remain held up in
Australian ports by Communists and their
mobs, the “Government” acquiescing.
Casualties.
Mr. Attlee, speaking in the House of
Commons, gave the casualties of the
British Commonwealth and Empire
Forces, excluding losses from natural
causes and those of civilians and mer-
chant seamen —among the latter 30,189
were killed and 5264 missing. The list
brought the estimates up to August 14,
the day before final Japanese capitula-
tion :
Killed,
including War
Died of Prisoners,
Wounds Including
or Service
Injuries. Missing. Wounded. Internees. Total.
U. King-
dom ..244,723 53,039 277,090 180,405 755,257
Canada .. 37,476 1,843 53,174 9,046 101,538
Australia 23,365 6,030 89,803 26,363 95,561
N. Z’land 10,033 2,129 19,314 8,453 39,929
S. Africa 6,840 1,841 14,363 14,589 37,633
India .. 24,338 11,754 64,354 79,489 f 179,935
Colonies 6,877 14,208 6,972 8,115 36,172
Total ~853,652 90,844 475,070 326,459 1,246,025
It is a sad document, but not nearly so
bad as had been expected when the war
began, on the basis of last war’s experi-
ence. Between 1914-18 the British Com-
monwealth had 929,912 men killed or
dead from war causes, and if the World
War I rate had been perpetuated for the
six years of World War II the dead alone
would have exceeded in numbers the
whole of the actual casualties.
Improved medical and surgical methods
have had a great deal to do with the
improved figures.
The total British Empire casualties in
World War I’s four years were going on
for three times those of World War IPs
six years. And this left out the sick and
injured, who mounted to 6,074,552,
making the total for battle and non-battle
figures 9,130,692.
Australia’s losses for 1915 (Gallipoli
and Egypt) alone totalled 91,827 —killed,
5833 ; died of wounds, 1985; died of
disease or injury, 529 ; p.-0.-w. 70;
wounded, 19,441 ; sick or injured, 63,969.
On the Western Front alone A.I.F. battle
casualties in 1916-18 were nearly double
the battle losses of all Commonwealth
forces —air, sea and land in 1939-45. The
figures were: Killed in action, 33,407 ;
died of wounds, 11,034; died of gas, 323;
wounded, 112,729; shell-shocked, 1624;
gassed, 16,496; p.-o-.-w., 3842. Total,
179,455.
To these, of course, the figures for sea
and air and for Gallipoli and the Darda-
nelles and elsewhere needed to be added,
NATIONAL BANK
ANNUAL MEETING
PLEA FOR COURAGE AND ENTERPRISE.
Speaking at the Annual Meeting of the National Bank of Australasia,
Limited, the Chairman, Mr. M. H. D. Giddy, said: “I can record a certain
renewal of peace-time activity, but the movement is disappointingly small.
Evidence gathered from our widespread organisation shows, in fact,
that so far we have made little headway in re-commencing in earnest
the production of goods and services our own people and others so
direly need. We have not yet found the solution of our most immediate
domestic problem, which expresses itself in a shortage of many essential
requirements, with, at the same time, almost an obstinate unwillingness
to seriously and determinedly set about producing them.”
The problem is accentuated by the general
monetary position to which the war has given
rise. Since 1939 there has been an unprece-
dented growth in monetary incomes and savings.
According to estimates of the Governor of the
Commonwealth Bank in his last annual report,
public purchasing power increased
£613,000,000 in* June, 1939, to about
£1,360,000,000 in June last, but the mere pos-
session of money does not mean that individuals
can satisfy their tastes for clothing, their fancies
for a holiday or their desire for a home. It
must be apparent that money does not go nearly
so far as before the war. Costs of basic essen-
tials have risen considerably, and the prices
of many items that are inseparable from a
reasonable standard of copafort are at present
very high indeed.
CONFLICTING REMEDIES (
Mr. Giddy stated that there exist two schools
of thought on how best to cope with the prob-
lems of shortages and high costs. Both have
come to exert important but contrary influences,
and the public mind is seriously confused. One
school propounds the theory that the public
should continue a severe discipline of its eco-
nomic habits by restraining its spending and
continuing to go without, much along the lines
that were necessary during the war years. This
school stresses the virtues of vast campaigns of
Government' spending, and a continuous exten-
sion of legislative measures to re-distribute the
existing national income. This is the section
of the community to whom “full employment”
is the prime economic objective, with little con-
sideration as to what form employment takes
or what it produces.
The other school, which is steadily gaining
ground, envisages a more courageous and bolder
approach to the difficulties and disillusionments
of the present transition period. In this school’s
view, full employment alone is inadequate as an
objective for Australia. “Full production’ is,
perhaps, the nearest definition that can be
offered in explanation of this alternative
approach. From this point of view, the real,
indeed the only, cure for the present shortages,
and a serious risk of further inflationary price
rises, is to speedily increase the output of the
ordinary necessities of life, so that their costs
can be reduced to reasonable levels and the
urgent wants of the people can be met.
A CARDINAL DIFFERENCE
Mr. Giddy stated that the cardinal difference
between the two schools was this: The advo-
cates of full employment stress the provision
of money incomes for everybody, regardles,
seemingly, of whether or not these incomes are
related to the production of commodities and
services wanted by the public. They evince little
interest in the problems of re-starting produc-
tion and of high costs, apparently assuming that
these matters will care for themselves. The
full production school believes that in present
circumstances the first aim of Governments and
enterprise should be to satisfy the common
wants of the people by encouraging in every
possible way production of the necessary goods
and services at reasonable prices. They argue
that, if peace-time production and commerce
were thus re-established, it would be practicable,
in due course, to determine the extent and
nature of Government action, if any, necessary
to avoid unemployment. ,
Though war produced so-called full employ-
ment —with, it is to be remembered, hundreds
of thousands in the armed forces —the ordinary
wants of the people remained unsatisfied, and
costs were largely disregarded. These criteria
cannot be applied to an economy in peace-
time. The judgment of a peace-time economy
must be made on its capacity to achieve, at
the lowest possible prices, an ample production
and equitable distribution of the necessities and
amenities of life wanted by its people. Mr.
Giddy expressed his view that at the moment
we are not heading in this direction because a
substantial section of the community seems
almost to have succumbed to the idea that re-
striction of the individual’s productive ability
will not detract from economic progress. Wholly
unnecessary and quite unwarranted shortages
of goods and services are the inevitable conse-
quence, and the resulting inconveniences and
hardships are accepted with a strange and most
unfortunate complacency.
Mr. Giddy said that the transition difficulties
constitute a challenge to our democratic way
of life. The answer depends on our willingness
to discard the repressions of the war years, and
on our insistence on the right of individual
effort to re-assert itself. Production of the
goods and services which our people and their
children can rightly expect demands a revival
of confidence on the part of private enterprise
itself, and a determined effort by all those
responsible to set in full motion its great pro-
ductive force. The community is entitled to
insist that this be supplemented by a genuine
concentration on a more adequate and cheaper
supply of services and products in those specific
areas served by Government enterprise.
It is your duty and mine to urge an early
return to that virile way of life on which
this country and its great industries have been
built. Particularly is it our duty to dispel
the current vague fears of the future held by
both employer and employee, and to hasten a
revival of that venturesome spirit and willing-
ness to take risks which characterise a virile
economy where all have an opportunity to
prosper.
HELP FOR BRITAIN
Turning to our overseas prospects, Mr. Giddy
emphasised that Britain’s mighty war effort had
l£ad to a deterioration in her external financial
1 position, compared with pre-war, of upwards of
£6,000,000,000 sterling. He stressed the vital
importance to Britain and to the Empire as a
whole of the present financial talks in Wash-
ington between Great Britain and U.S.A., and
he called for a positive lead to our people, a
lead that will encourage Australia to make some
active contribution to the re-establishment of
world trade. Many aspects of Britain’s return
to peace production are appallingly extensive,
and as a country highly dependent upon
Britain’s capacity to purchase our exports, we
must do all we can to assist the restoration of
Britain’s qbility to manufacture and trade.
ATTRACT AMERICAN TOURISTS.
It is true that Australia’s comparatively
limited opportunities for export to America
preclude her from playing any large part in
the direct earning of dollars so badly needed
by the Empire. Nevertheless, a substantial in-
crease in the export of our raw materials to
any country would be of appreciable indirect
help in this important direction. We might also
give some energetic thought to ways and
means of encouraging direct American ex-
penditure in Australia. I suggest one most
effective method would be to encourage
the oversea, particularly American, tourist
traffic. Herein lies a great opportunity for
what could develop—l do not exaggerate —
into one of Australia’s major export industries.
As yet we have not learnt to appreciate the
enormous sums tourists from the older and
wealthier countries are willing, and indeed
anxious, to spend. Nature has richly endowed
certain parts of Australia with ’ climatic and
other conditions admirably suited to recrea-
tion and rest, a fact fully recognised by hun-
dreds of thousands of visitors to our shores in
recent years. In the coming days of rapid trans-
port the only major pre-requisite to the attrac-
tion of large numbers of Americans is to
afford entrepreneurs the necessary oppor-
tunities to raise the standards and con-
ditions of hotel and restaurant service to those
customary overseas. This course could be fol-
lowed easily enough without trespassing on
the economic or social ideals of the vast
majority of our people, and could be relied
on to attract a large and regular tourist traffic
which would not merely be of great benefit
financially but would contribute materially to
our cultural progress.
CONTROL OF BANKING
Referring to the recent banking legislation
introduced by the Federal Government, Mr.
Giddy pointed out that the Bank’s criticism was
directed against the form of the control over
the banking system introduced by the legis-
lation. The Bank believed that it was not in
the interests of Australia to pass legislation
which did not safeguard our banking system
from becoming an instrument of party politics.
The legislation should be amended, so that
major decisions relating to national monetary
policy are made by the Federal Parliament in-
stead of the Government of the day, without
reference to Parliament.
AMPLE FUNDS FOR LENDING
In commenting on the Balance Sheet figures,
Mr. Giddy drew attention to the fact that the
Bank’s liabilities to the public had expanded
by £6,895,567 during the last year, which repre-
sented a full share of the aggregate growth in
Australian bank deposits. Most of this increase
in the funds of the Bank went into Special
Account with the Commonwealth Bank, which
now constitutes the Bank’s largest single asset.
The Bank is in an exceptionally high liquid
position and has ample funds available to satisfy
the demands for advances likely to be made
by customers within, of course, the terms of the
lending policy permitted by the Commonwealth
Bank. ’ , , ,
Mr. Giddy sympathetically referred to the
loss sustained by the Bank in the death of Sir
Harry Chauvel, who had been a Director for
15 years.


■
D
m
Q
PS
111
■
in
:
m
■-mm
W
mm
jV ■>:.
wm
.*~rsU
\
J
m
i§tr
ŵ
TOP DOG
CLOTHES
for MEN and BOYS
at XMAS
Whether it’s for harbour,
beach, river or deep-sea
fishing, Craig and Aitken
gladly offer expert advice
about the best tackle avail-
able. Good value is guar-
anteed and your in-
spection invited.
CRAIG&AITKEN
654 GEORGE ST. SYDNEY
( Hear Anthony- Horderns)
SPORTING NOTIONS
Time and again when connections have
objected to weights allotted to their horses the
ungrateful animals have gone and proved the
handicapper right by successfully lumping the
questioned burdens. For this and other reasons
present writer has a high regard for handicap-
pers as knowing and capable gentlemen best
left severely alone, even when it comes to the
making of a Queensland provincial performer
topweight in the Villiers; giving, as Bern-.,
borough has been asked to do, poundage to
Cold Shower (w.f.a. winner over the Randwick
mile), Abbeville (Doncaster), Craigie (big
treble winner at the last A.J.C. autumn meet-
ing, and son of that great Randwick miler
Chatham), Victory Lad (Randwick winner up
to seven furlongs), Barnsley (Randwick mile
winner), the smart and game Bravo, and others,
, • • • • • •
Bernborough, too, may perhaps prove the
handicapper right by successfully carrying his
9.2 in the Villiers, or his Summer Cup impost
of 9st. (only 31b. less than Sydney Cup
winner Craigie, and from half a stone upwards
more than Kiaree, Royal Peer, Swan River,
War Eagle, Nightbeam, etc.). The Queensland
horse ran a stout race in his first Sydney appear-
ance at Canterbury on Saturday, sharing top
weight (9.3) with Cragsman and finishing a
good fourth to Bravo (Moore), King of the
Mist’ and Young Veilmond over furlongs.
But, however Bernborough may shape under
his big weights in Villiers and Cup, there’s
one Sydney horse, Prince Buzzard, who most
pointedly and persistently refuses to uphold
either the handicapper’s or the public’s appar-
ently unshakeable confidence in him. His
case would appear to merit a mention in any
compilation of turf curiosities.
The “Australasian” Turf Register (1945) lists
the six-year-old gelding among The Buzzard’s
winners for last season, but he was still elig-
ible to compete in the Maiden Stakes at
Canterbury on November 10. Weighting con-
ditions made it look as If that race had been
specially designed to enable him to win at last,
The weighting was on a fixed scale, with Prince
Buzzard among those allotted 8.8.—0 n usual
handicapping of him an apparently luxury
burden. However, he failed, as usual,
being beaten a head by Huamight, one of those
on the Bst. mark. Other points of interest in
the Prince’s story: (1) The distance was nine
furlongs; (2) the Queensland rider G. Moore,
who’s at the top of his form, had the mount;
(3) Prince Buzzard was a hot favorite.
......
The next appearance of P.B. was in a nine-
furlongs Novice at Canterbury Park on
December 1. No set scale operating,
p r ince Buzzard was, as usual in such com-
pany, made topweight at 9sf. Huamight was
given 8.7, and - so was meeting the hapless
Prince B. only 11b. worse for having beaten
him. Moreover, the field of 17 in the book—
one or two of them did not start—included no
fewer than eight winners of one or more
races, every one of them conceded by the
maiden Prince B. half a stone or more. Hua-
might won from two others with previous wins
to their credit, Kingsford and Chatster. Prince
Buzzard was this time ridden by the very cap-
able A. Mulley, and once again he was a hot
favorite, the moral of which would seem to be
that if handicappers can give it punters can
take it.
......
Without going too exhaustively into our
hero’s interesting past, it can be said from
memory that, in addition to Mulley and Moore,
his riders have included D. Munro, E. Bartle,
J. Duncan, B. Robards and K. Lovatt. He has
been tried at practically every distance from six
furlongs to a mile and a half, and with every
sort of weight from the bottom limit (in open
company) up to the topweight burdens he is
invariably given in restricted races, handicapping
flattery of him soaring as high as 9.2 in novice
company.
With that latter burden, and ridden by Munro,
Prince Buzzard was a 3-to-l favorite in a
Rosehill field of 22 starters and finished
seventh. In fact, he has been favorite or near
it at just about all his many starts in restricted
company, and was even backed from tens to
sixes by some incredible optimists in a Rand-
wick open-company field, the quality of which
is indicated by the placegetters, Royal Peer,
Falcon Knight and Veiled Threat. Indeed on
only about one occasion has Prince Buzzard
appeared utterly friendless. That was when he
was given a run in a Flying Handicap, and
started at 100 to 1. For that once his host of
admirers showed judgment by transferring their
affections elsewhere. There were 18 starters
and the Prince B. finished seventeenth.
Despite all this Prince Buzzard was allotted
8.10 for last Saturday’s nine-furlongs En-
courage, the same as Huamight, who had twice
beaten him. P.B. was not an acceptor; Hua-
might (W. Fellows) winning again, from Adept
and Mentone. Instead P.B. (with N. Mc-
Growdie on top by way of a change) contested
the main 11-furlongs open event, in which,
naturally, he had bottom weight, and in which
the placegetters were Lady Marie (G. Pod-
more), King’s Glen and Easter Time, with P.B.
an also ran. And once again they backed the
Prince 8., from sixes to 9 to 2, while Lady
Marie, a good winner of two such races at
Randwick in recent starts, was at 7 to 1.
And now, no doubt, Prince Buzzed will
come out one of these days and win, just
to show that handicappers and public have
been right all along in assessing him as a
reincarnation of Phar Lap.
In the other Canterbury events on Saturday
the Hua colt Decorate (A. Ward), hitherto
slow on the jump, got away well from the
outside and easily accounted for the heavier-
weighted Te Tana and Tamasha in the five-
furlongs Nursery; the Marconigram gelding
Castlereagh (R. Parsons), finishing very fast,
just got up to defeat King Lear and Sonmng
in the six-furlongs Three-year-old Maiden, first
division; the Brueghel filly Sweet Brue (G.
Moore) and the Marconigram gelding Marcon
Saga (N. McGrowdie) dead-heated in the
second division, with Hi Silva third; and Spear
Patrol (E. Cracknell) defeated Kitalurgy and
Thanks America in the nine-furlongs Welter.
* * * *
There was no repetition of Temple Chief’s
tearaway Mentone win in the Benevolent Fund
Handicap at Flemington on Saturday, but the
race provided another sort of upset. The dis-
tance (Um.) and his reasonable weight (8.6)
seemed to give Peter an extra-good chance of
being first to pass the judge. So it turned out;
but Cooper, rider of Stenelaus, protested
against the winner, and McCloud, rider of
Various, protested against both. McCloud’s
protest was dismissed, and his mount left with
third money, but first place was transferred to
Stenelaus. A New Zealand-bred four-year-old
Foxlight gelding, Stenelaus is owned by O. R.
Porter, who has had some extraordinary bursts
of luck in buying, racing and betting over the
past twelve months.
Temple Chief apparently gallops best with a
lot of daylight between him and the rest, and
theje was close on a furlong of it between them
in one stage of the Mentone race, which Temple
Chief won almost in an amble, the beaten
including Stenelaus, who on that occasion was
ridden by A. Breasley. Kept back with the
others on Saturday, Temple Chief lost all inter-
est when they turned for home and finished
second-last. A protracted inquiry into the
Mentone running was still going on when this
page went to the printer.
Easily the best Flemington performance was
Oxford Street’s win in the six-furlongs Kings-
ville Handicap. Ridden by Breasley, and, des-
Eite being drawn near the extreme outside of a
ig field, favorite at twos, the four-year-old
Piccadilly horse finished at a terrific bat over
the last couple of furlongs to get there by half
a length from League and Unfurl, who both
also ran sterling races from wide out at the
start. Breasley’s riding was the deciding factor;
he’s right at the top form he showed through
last season and in the one splendid race he rode
against D. Munro on his brief visit to Sydney.
Breasley landed another hot favorite in the
10-furlongs Lowan Handicap for three-year-olds
■ —the Constant Son-Urunalong filly Cherie
Marie, who downed Rimfire and El Banco,
making a double also for owner Porter.
Another of the day’s doubles were chalked up
to Enfield, as sire of the first two winners—the
chestnut colt Red Fury, who, at fifties, won the
five-furlongs Maroondah Handicap (two-year-
olds) from Native Bell and Purple Star; and
the four-year-old gelding Flash of Fire, who
won the mile Catani Welter from Private Chat
and Grand Gift. Prating, a four-year-old bay
horse by Talking, ridden by S. Henry, defeated
Antares and Peter Lalor in the mile Buxton
Handicap, apprentice riders.
* * * *
In winning the Welcome Stakes at Riccar-
ton (N.Z.) on November 24', Blue Trout set a
new Australian record of 57|sec. for five fur-
longs. The best Australia has seen was, of course,
All Love’s 58isec. at Randwick in October,
1940, and again the following month at Flem-
ington. Riccarton has long been noted for
fast times, a planting of pine-trees being credited
with funnelling the wind to help the gallopers
along. Of the 19 records which appear in the
N.Z. book 10 were established at that course.
As far back as 1904 Machine Gun, carrying
11.5, covered five furlongs at Riccarton in
58sec. In the same year in Australia Murillo
won the Maribyrnong Plate at Flemington
taking 1.3 E and the minute was not broken in
that race till Rampion clocked 59£sec. 21 years
later. Machine Gun’s record stood till the two-
year-old Amigo equalled it at Wellington, carry-
ing 9.1, in 1937, and in November, 1939, it
was again recorded at Riccarton by another
two-year old, Enrich. Blpe Trout’s latest time
is still a fair way off the staggering 54fsec. set
by Devineress at Epsom (Eng.) in 1933.
Monastery Garden did five in 55sec., also at
Epsom, in 1927, but the Riccarton four-fur-
longs record of 45|sec., set by the two-year-
old Surveyor in 1918, is still in world-record
class.
* * * *
Australian tote figures—to which, of course,
must always be added the unknown amounts
handled by the books —seem sometimes mon-
strous, but the American figures grow astro-
nomical. With no books operating there, it
was estimated towards the end of this year’s
154 days of racing in New York that


Serious Chances
Are Taken in Neglecting a Simple
Case of Piles
Any person takes serious chances
in neglecting an attack of Piles.
This ailment has a tendency to be-
come chronic and there is also
danger of ulceration, and forming
of Fistula, both very difficult to
cure. The safest remedy for any
form of Piles, whether itching or
protruding, is DOAN’S OINTMENT.
In using it there is no detention
from daily occupation, and the
many cures made by it have made
it famous in every corner of the
■world. It enjoys a greater demand
and more enthusiastic popularity
than any other Pile remedy ever
placed on the market.
Let DOAN’S OINTMENT give
you the relief you so sorely need.
Refuse all substitutes., Remember
the name DOAN’S,
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“METROPOLE ” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
..
m
I Sitt
in
Ml i
filli
ii ii
mu
Hull ii
i
Nfilll
nf
iP
P
i
iop
h-
m
:
It
30»
S
t*
W////
&
A.T.L offers you —without obli-
gation-constructive advice in
connection with any post-war
production problem involving
tools, gauges, instruments or com-
ponents which must be engineered
to limits of super-accuracy.
Automatic Totalisators Limited
PRECISION ENGINEERS, TOOL AND GAUGE MAKERS, TOTALIZATOR ENGINEERS
SYDNEY , * , . MELBOURNE * s , , PERTH » . . i BRISBANE
ATL4-E
' '
oe
$450,000,000 would go into the tote, beating
last year’s 189-days’ total by something like
$40,000,000. In one day at Belmont Park a
crowd of 49,640 bet on the tote $j,016,74j.
The practice-now jettisoned in Australia—-
of diddling tote bettors out of fractional
amounts in dividends is still considered 0.K..
in America, where the rake-off is called
“breakage.” With some 10 days of New
York racing season still to go, “breakage had
already totalled $3,149,225 —round about one
million pounds Australian .that rightly
to the punters! Still, who’d waste tears on
punters who, in the same, period, failed to col-
lect on $542,535 worth of dividend-paying tote
tickets?
* * * *
Among the 34 horses banned by the V.R.C.,
old Winterset has the distinction of being the
only one named for “kicking at starting post.
Of the others, 22 went along for “fractious be-
havior at starting post,” distinguishing diem
from the eight banned for “unruly” ditto, dhe
other three got their marching orders 101
“unruly behavior” in the running.
*’* ♦ * .
For Canterbury (before acceptances):
Nursery (colts and geldings): Persian Prince,
1; Justinian, 2; Tamasha, 3. Juvenile (fillies):
Sleigh Bells, 1; Sweet Chime, 2; Talkless, 3.
Ashfield Maiden: Sonning, 1; Royal Duke, 2;
Fast Flash, 3. Flying: Hall Stand, 1; Civic
Pride, 2; Silverelda, 3. S.T.C. Handicap: War
Eagle, 1; Easter Time, 2; Wellesley, 3.
* * * *
Services in India:
The Services notched their first win in India
by defeating South Zone at Madras by six
wickets. It was the only time the bowlers on
both sides made a definite impression. Ghula
Ahmed, who got 4 for 56 and 4 for 59, is
held to be the best break bowler encountered
on the Indian tour.
In the third “Test” at Madras the Services
rattled up 339 (Hassett 143, Pepper 87). Fast
bowler Bannerjee took 4 for 86. India’s reply
was 525 (Modi 203, Armanath 113 and Mayudu
64); the wickets fell to Miller 2 for 60,
Pepper 4 for 118, Ellis 2 for 59, Price 2 for 60.
At the end of the third day Services had 148
runs up for one wicket (Carmody 72, Whiting-
ton 67), and were still 38 runs to the bad.
The match then looked like ending, as the other
“Tests” had done, in a draw.
As expected here, the Services are protesting
against the heavy programme marked out' for
them in Australia. Already they have played
48 matches in England and Scotland and nine
in the heat of India.
* * * #
Of the Victorians selected to tackle Queens-
land at Carlton (Melb.) this week;, P. Beames,
Ben Barnett, D. Fothergill, lan Johnson and
G. Tamblyn have had Sheffield Shield experi-
ence; W. Meulman (Essendon), the batting find
of this season, has piled up 443 runs, averaging
147.6; G. Tribe (N. Melb.), W. Cockburn
(Richmond) and F. Freer (Carlton), all have
good bowling to their credit; and W. Johnson
(Richmond), K. Stackpole and R. Walker (Col-
lingwood) complete a solid-looking team. Up
to date Victoria has had something of a mono-
poly with 28 wins against Queensland’s eight,
one drawn, and one abandoned.
S.A., meeting N.S.W. at Adelaide this week,
has a couple of bad smudges to wipe off the
slate. The worst was in 1901, when N.S.W.
made 918 at Sydney, Iredale (118), Noble (153),
Syd Gregory (168), Duff (119) and Poidevin
(140) putting up a record of centuries
in an innings in first-class cricket. N.S.W. won
by an innings and 605 runs. The other severe
pasting was by an innings and 527 runs at
Adelaide in 1938. Of 89 matches, N.S.W. has
won 63, S.A. 25, and a match in 1920 was
abandoned.
* * * *
Colin McCool followed on his success
against N.S.W. by taking 8 for 30 and 6
for 28 in the one week-end in Brisbane.
The R.A.A.F. man also aggregated 150
runs for once out. C. (“Chilla”) Christ,
a State selector, is unavailable for inter-
state games, but such figures as 6 for 2
and 8 for 48 in Brisbane fixtures indicate
his form.
* * * •
“Rex”: Sundry explanations of Clarrie
Grimmett’s wonderful accuracy have
been given. Actually he achieved it
mainly by assiduous practice with a teflnis
ball —extremely difficult to spin and con-
trol. This also gave him his mastery in
flighting the ball.
* * * *
Victoria avenged the N.S.W. win in
Sydney by taking the inter-State tennis
matches at Melbourne by 12 rubbers to 7.
Pails was a non-starter —indisposed. Quist,
with a bandaged arm, outed Bromwich
in the most important match, 6-4, 1-6, 6-3.
The fine form by young Brown was the
only bright spot in the N.S.W. play. It
was the first success by Victorians since
1927, when they won at Sydney by 11
rubber to 10. In the women’s matches
Victoria won 12 rubbers to nil.
*****
Dwight F. Davis, donator of the tennis
cup, has died in Washington. The
first match for the trophy was at
Longwood, Boston, on August 8,
1900, America defeating England by
3' rubbers to 0. Serving the open-
ing ball, which Black missed, Davis
notched the first points. Davis, partnered
with H. Ward (they with M. Whiteman
comprised the first American team), won
the U.S.A, doubles championships in
1899, 1900 and 1901.
* * * *
George Campbell, who clocked 4min.
for a mile in Sydney on a dead
track, thereby created an inter-club
record. In 1943, before he went to
New Guinea with the R.A.A.F., he was
timed to run a mile in 4min. 3sec,, beat-
ing Englishman Sid Wooderson’s world
record by 3fsec, The run, however, was
not recognised. Only two timekeepers,
instead of three, had clocked it, and the
distance had been measured with a cloth
tape instead of steel.
* * * •
N.S.W. has lost an outstanding rowing
coach with the passing of Ossie Wood.
The brilliant Mosman Eight of the ’twen-
ties was a product of his skill, and he
coached also State and, earlier, Leich-
hardt and Balmain rowers.
* * * *
“Nuff”: Sport booms on Bougainville,
even a “Sheffield Shield” series. In the
first round Queensland licked N.S.W., and
Victoria walloped S.A. Wendell Bill,
former N.S.W. rep., arranged the compe-
tition and captains his State’s team. More-
over, despite the weather at this time of the
year being pretty sticky, they’re still play-
ing football in four codes, and some
tennis, volley ball and baseball as well.
* * * *
With height, re*ach and weight advan-
tages, Jack Brander gave Ritchie Sands
a parlous time in the first two rounds of
their bout at Leichhardt. Sands came
out for the third with blood in his eye,
and they were exchanging weighty
punches when Sands shot a left to the
point that made Brander hang on. As
Sands struggled to free himself, he forced
his opponent to the floor, and Brander’s
head hit the boards with a bang. He
was counted out.
The fact that Alec Buxton is nearly a
stone heavier than Vic Caltaux, who can
fight welterweight, did not worry the
Sydney Stadium matchmakers. Caltaux,
who has taken a dreadful amount of
punishment, which is beginning to have
palpable effects, was floored six times by
Buxton and then knocked out. All in
fiveTounds. Only in the fourth round did
he look to have the ghost of a chance.
Eddie Miller clinched his claim to a
match with Patrick, now out of the
army, by outpointing Kid Young in
Melbourne.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
The workers for the “Forecasts of
Forty-Six” fashion show at the Trocadero
last Wednesday afternoon beat the strike
by a day. This benefited the Y.W. “The
Parade of Today and Yesterday” dated
for Thursday at the same address had to
be cancelled because of power restric-
tions. However, the party, strikes permit-
ting, will be held on the last Thursday in
February. The Lady Mayoress’s War
Veterans’ Auxiliary has the affair in
hand. Another strike casualty was the
Alfred Hill concert in the Town Hall.
There has been a run on candles
and tinned goods. Whitebait seems to
have arrived in shoals judging by the
numbers of cityites who carried cargoes
of it home to help keep the wolf from
the door. Women did their week-end
shopping by hurricane lamp, and girls at
cash registers complained of the gloom,
muttering they couldn’t see the figures.
Women moaned about doing the washing
in cold water. Only the announcement
that they would be allowed enough gas
on Sunday to cook the family roast saved
the country from turmoil. One four-
year-old Miss Kirribilli got the crux of
it though. “Daddy,” she said, smack-
ing one small palm against the other:
“it’ll be the knock-out if Santa Claus goes
on strike!”
A friend of The Bulletin who spent
her girlhood on a wayback station rang
up last Friday morning to give ‘the recipe
for cold water washing which her family
had used for years. Here it is; —
Take a piece of laundry soap weighing
about seyen ounces and boil it down in a
small quantity of water. After it has been
boiled down, but while the mixture is still
hot, add a dessertspoonful of turpentine
and a teaspoonful of pure ammonia. Put
in a washtub adding just enough cold water
to cover the soiled clothes. Over the top
of these place a towel or fairly thick
cloth —the idea being to keep the clothes
damp so that there will be no water marks.
Leave in tub over the week-end, and on
Monday morning the clothes will be snowy
white and ready for rinsing.
It’s worth trying if the strike continues
and electrically- and gas-heated coppers
remain taboo.
There was a true “the-war-is-over”
feeling about the Harold Botts party in
their Killara home. The guests of
honor were the Norman Mighells,
who go off early in the New Year
to London, Mr, Mighell as Assistant High
Commissioner, which is an office having
nothing to do with coal. The hostess wore
a black afternoon frock and gardenias.
Christmas bells, hydrangeas and gardenias
of super color and perfume made notable
flower compositions. Among the hundred
or more guests were many ex-p.-0.-w.
Mrs. Bott’s bachelor brother Pat Brown
and brother-in-law Dr. lan Duncan among
them. Other p.-0.-w. were Keith Arnott,
Major John Shaw and Marcus Edwards.
Mrs. Duncan, Mrs. Shaw, Mrs. Arnott
and Mrs. Edwards (who is composer
Miriam Hyde) looked the happiest women
in Sydney. The party was still going
strong at ten O’clock, with Raymond
Beatty at the piano playing nursery
rhymes for the small daughters of the
family.
Away back to the days when the world
was on the gold standard went the A. B.
Triggs collection. The Girl in the Flat
Opposite said she had never seen so much
gold in her life. Some Celtic soldier from
the wars returning may have brought back
the set of five gold rings graduated and
interlaced. It might have been a bit of
deferred pay for his aid to Hannibal or
the Romans. Interesting, too, was the
old Celtic gold bangle from County Clare,
Ireland, Tales of buccaneers on the high
seas- were recalled by such coinage as
nobles, rose-nobles, Angels, Broads. Up
in his old home Linton, in Yass, Mr.
Triggs had surrounded himself with
manuscripts, historical documents and the
letters of great men and women. Now
the collection is scattered, or, in 1945
jargon, staggered.
The letter of George Washington
written in the year of his becoming first
President did not go back to American
kinsfolk, though one American voice per-
sisted for a long time in the bidding in
the Lawson salerooms. A letter from
Captain Cook brought 140 guineas.
Laces from the treasure chests of
the Empresses Eugenie and Josephine
and other royalties went at good
prices, the Empress Eugenie piece being
bought in by a member of the
Triggs family for 180 guineas. The
National Gallery is the richer by the pur-
chase of nine Masters —Lancret, Watteau,
Hogarth, Tiepolo, Constable, Goya, Phil
May, Sam Ceilings, Rowlandson. The
Gallery missed out on a Da Vinci group
of six heads, which went for the low sum
of 65 guineas.
Having spent a short holiday in Sydney,
mostly on our famed beaches, Mrs. John
Cain, wife of Victoria’s new Premier, and
her friend Mrs. Joan Rosanove, a Mel-
bourne barrister, leave on the homeward
trek tomorrow. They break their journey
at Albury.
Today, tomorrow and Friday No. 2
jetty, Circular Quay, will bloom with
plants, ferns, ornamental shrubs and trees.
This three-day . horticultural Christmas
gift sale has been arranged to benefit the
Merchant Navy War Memorial appeal.
The Duchess of Gloucester and the
Mayors of Sydney, Melbourne and Bris-
bane are among the donors of plants. The
objective of the appeal is a permanent
club for men of the Merchant Navy. The
wife of Lieutenant-Governor Jordan
opens the sale today at three o’clock.
Clare McManus, who as a member of
the A.W.A.A.S. was a driver in the
Second Australian Ambulance Car Corn-
pany, is among the newly engaged. Her
affianced is Eric Nock, of Mosman, for
two years W/0.2 in Darwin. Eric is the
only son of the G. S. Nocks, of Mos-
man, and Clare’s home address is Narra-
win, Nyngan.
Welcome to a strike-ridden city
given to almost 1400 Diggers who came
back from Tarakan to their own land in
H.M.S. Formidable. This good ship has
been the means of the happy return of
4000 of Australia’s fighting men. On
this trip the Australians gave almost £lOO
to the ship’s company to provide per-
manent ship’s trophies as a souvenir. In
the Formidable arrived a mother and her
son. She is Mrs. A. Robinson, of Mos-
man, who was in charge of Australian
V.A.Ds. Son is Private H. J. Thomas, of
Ryde. The Vindex, too, brought just as
happy though a much smaller comple-
ment of returning soldiers.
When the traveller leaves the Manly
ferry and crosses the bridge to the left
she comes to the JPool Pavilion. This
year it has been the scene of many Christ-
mas parties, for the long room overlook-
ing the harbor swimming pool with its
small stretch of golden sand, the tops of
tall pines in the distance and to the right
the wider reaches of the harbor is a
pleasant place. Mrs. Harry Twigden gave
a great afternoon tea and coffee party
there last week. Every woman of the 84
represented music, literature, drama or
painting. Organist Alice Bryant was a
notable.
Lots of English-Speaking Union mem-
bers were there, and the Parker lady and
Mrs. Arthur Scrivener seconded a speech
of appreciation aptiy put by Mrs. Wal-
lace Turner. Singer Edna Bowden, poised
for flight to America, and Persia Porter,
in her V.A.D. Commandant uniform,
were among the many who lifted their
voices in the Christmas carols “Adeste
Fideles” and “Hark! The Herald Angels
Sing,” and this seemed the right note on
which to end the little festivity.
Last Monday the president and coun-
cil of the Royal Empire Society enter-
tained 100 members of the Women War
Workers’ unit at a lunch in the Troca-
dero. The lunch was an appreciation of
the untiring efforts during six years of
war Jfor the women and children of
Britain. Thousands of garments and
£4BlO in cash were donated. The workers
made up 18,000 yards of material and
22581 b. of knitting wool. The result was
68,845 garments, valued at £21,000, sent
to our bombed kinsfolk in London.
From Melbourne
Melbourne’s theme song nowadays is
“Hey Ho, Come to the Fair,” for not a
week passes but one makes its appear-
ance. The great attraction of these
bazaars is that most of the goods are
coupon free, the donors having already
paid out coupons for the material. To
Mrs. Norman Harris and Mrs. M.
Flintoft and their band of valiant helpers
must go praise not only for the success-
ful Silver Door Fair, but for the work
they have done the year round for the
Kindergarten Union of Victoria. For
children of pre-school age, these free kin-
dergartens are a blessing, especially in the
industrial areas. The youngsters are
always given morning milk and later a
little luncheon. To provide teachers,
equipment and the necessities a lot of
money is needed, and Mrs. H. Creswick,
officer-in-charge of women’s personnel in
the Australian Red Cross and also an
executive member of the Kindergarten
Union, has been emphasising the need for
financial aid. Though a Government
grant is received every year, there is still
much to be done by private effort.
Last week the Duchess of Gloucester
appeared at another Government House
garden party—this time for members of
the Red Cross and Comforts Fund
organisations. After tea had been served
in the ballroom to over 1000 guests the
Duchess, attended by Miss Eileen Phipps
and accompanied by Lady Dugan and
Captain Murray Fairbairn, met many
women who have done service during the
war years. The Duchess, in one of the
prettiest ensembles she has worn in Mel-
bourne, made a most attractive figure.
The frock, simply cut, was fashioned of
pale beige crepe. The yoke and sleeves
were banded with a rouleaux of braid
and a wood-brown wide-brimmed straw
hat completed the picture. Lady Dugan
chose a smoke-grey frock and matching
coat, the latter finished each side with
bows. Her small chapeau was encircled
with pastel-blue flowers and swathed with
matching veiling. Miss Phipps looked
charming in a slim-fitting frock of
red, and with it wore white ac-
cessories. _ ,
Many of the guests wore the uniform
of the Red Cross. With Mrs. A
Dunstan was Mrs. Clarence Weber,
whose floral frock was covered with a
long coat in lime-green crepe. Her small
hat was trimmed with flowers in match-
ing shades. The Angliss lady chose an
embroidered coat in soft tones of beige,
worn over a frock in brown-and-white
tonings. Her small hat was in leaf-brown
straw. Mrs. A. A. Lord’s wide-brimmed
navy straw hat was worn with a well-cut
suit in the same shade. Dr. Betty
McComas stole a few moments out of
her busy life to frivol at the party. Her
wool suit, in Chinese red, had white ac-
cessories. Prince William delighted the
onlookers by picking pansies from the
garden and handing them to his mother
and Lady Dugan. Crowds don’t seem
to fash him a scrap. The weather was
delightful.
Pictured here by Broothorn is a lass
who has done a good job of war work
as a member of Mrs. Wallace Mitchell’s
party. She is Shirley, daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. W. Ray, and she came second
in the “pin-up girl” competition won by
Pam Forster, now Mrs. Ned Holland.
Shirley, a tall attractive brunette, as a
hobby plays the violin. She has obtained
her A.L.C.M., but does not intend to
make music her career.
A Toorak wedding of last week was
that of Kathleen Patricia (Billie), younger
daughter of Mr. and Wesley Ince, of
Glenferrie-road, and John, only child of
the W. J. Baragwanaths, of Orrong-road.
Billie, who was given away by her father,
came to her wedding at St, John’s in a
gown of pearl-tinted satin. Made with a
full skirt, dipping at th# back to form a
train, it had a long-sleeved bodice em-
broidered with pearls which matched the
pearl-embroidered collar. Her long veil of
filmy tulle was caught to her hair with a
single strand of pearls, and she carried a
bouquet of creamy-toned orchids. Sister
Betty and Mary Cunningham were
bridesmaids, frocked alike in dusty-pink
crepe, the long skirts drawn into fulness
at the back and ending in a short train.
Siim-fitting jackets, buttoned up the
front, sported pearl-embroidered collars.
Pearls, centred with a ruby-colored stone,
also embroidered the fronts of the jackets.
Their tiny sailor hats of crinoline straw
were in matching pink and were swathec
in pink veiling. They carried bouquets
of matching orchids.
The bridegroom (ex-R.A.A.F.) was
abetted by Roy Russell (ex-R.A.A.F.) anc
David Wood (ex-R.A.N.R.). The recep-
tion was held at the home of the bride’s
parents, where guests strolled about in
the lovely garden. The large reception
rooms were filled with bowls of lovely
white flowers, including tall spikes of
Christmas lilies. The three-tier wedding
cake stood on a table covered with a very
fine lace cloth and was flanked by vases
of white flowers. The cake itself was
topped by a small cluster of gardenias.
At the back of the cake was a white
mantelpiece banked high with bowls of
white flowers and backed by a large mirror
Mrs. Wesley Ince was delightfully frocked
in black crSpe, the yoke of turquoise
crepe outlined in small pearls and her
black hat was of tulle and flowers. Bride-
groom’s mother also chose black for her
attractive frock.
The Robinson lady’s pearl-grey crepe
frock was topped with a very smart hat in
white panama, pale-green roses its only
trimming. Very young matrons included
Joan Rodd, whose pale-blue frock had
a yoke of pink crepe outlined with pearls.
Her large natural straw hat was worn
well off the face. Sue Hurley was attrac-
tively frocked in black crepe, and her
small hat of velvet was crowned with
white gardenias. Recently returned from
New York was Harold Rabling, formerly
director of the Anzac Relief Fund in that
city. With him was his attractive Ameri-
can wife, her frock a very colorful floral
crepe. With it she wore a large black
hat and her gloves were the latest fashion.
Of very fine black silk they covered the
arms and ended almost at the shoulder.
She says gloves being worn in America
now are very long, but the portion which
covers the hand may be removed reveal-
ing a fine mitten. Both the bride and her
sister Betty were educated at Frensham,
and later Billie went to the Melbourne
Uni., where she completed the course in
physio-therapy and worked iif one of
Melbourne’s large hospitals. Her latest
study has been a course in things domes-
tic at Invergowrie.
Some time ago former Lud Mayor
Nettlefold suggested at a meeting that the
women journalists and radio women
should do something to assist the funds
of the Florence Nightingale Victorian
War Nurses’ Trust Fund. His suggestion
was considered by a small band of women
in these professions, and after a spell of
very hard work “Radio Riot” was pre-
sented by topliners in the radio world to
a most appreciative audience. These per-
formers gave their services free for the
whole evening, and all stations in Mel-
bourne were represented. Douglas Elliott,
producer-compere, earned the gratitude
of fhe committee for the thought he put
into arranging the programme. At the
end of the night’s performance the organ-
isers, Margaret Saker and Helen Mc-
Dougall, announced that £lOOO had been
raised. A woman doctor crocheted a lace
supper-cioth, and by raffling it gathered in
£243 for the fund. Other donations were
received and were added to the final
count.
Lud Mayor Connelly was patron and
Lady Mayoress Heinz patroness of the
performance, and it was given in her pres-
ence. For this occasion Mrs. Heinz chose
a full skirt of chiffon in burgundy tonings
with a grosgrain jacket of Paisley design
to match on an ivory background. With
her was Mrs. J. *A. O’Donnell, her house
guest, and also in the official party were
Mrs. A. A. Lord, private sec. to Lady
Dugan ; Miss A. Horsey, private sec. to
the Duchess of Gloucester; Winston
Turner, press liaison officer to the Duke
of Gloucester ; his brother, Flying-Officer
H. Turner, R.N.Z.A.F,; Matron I.
Laidlaw, R.A.N.N.S.; Lieut.-Colonel
L. Shaw, A.A.N.S., and Matron M. I.
Laing, R.A.A.F.N.S. Seated with the offi-
cial party were two members of the
“Radio Riot” committee, Mrs Grace Mac-
Donald, whose black crepe frock was
covered by a short summer ermine cape,
and Cecilia Senior, whose black gown was
embroidered in a design of colorful beads.
Cecilia was in charge of publicity and did
a magnificent job.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Tne contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others 2Jd. per line.
The New Borneo
Several officers and men of the armed
forces have already decided to return to
Borneo at the first opportunity. Busi-
ness possibilities and climatic conditions
are quoted as reasons prompting this
decision.
After all that has been written of the
discomforts which the troops have under-
gone in Borneo, it is perhaps surprising
that climatic conditions should influence
any to return to this land. What were
the greatest menaces confronting the
troops? Malaria, dengue and dermatitis.
After the spraying of D.D.T. over much
of the country, the mosquito should be
under control for some time, and it should
not be too much to expect the civil admin-
istration to carry on the good malarial
control work begun by the Army. Skin
diseases will not be so common under
civil conditions. Natives do all the labor-
ing, housework and laundry; baths are
easily constructed; clean, cool clothes
every day will solve the perspiration
problem.
An officer I know suffered from asthma
in Australia, but has had no trace of his
complaint in Borneo. He is determined
to take a Government position —vacancies
exist. Enough has been written (or has
it been?) of the natural products of
Borneo, products which only await the
organisation of the white man to become
the basis of a sound commercial proposi-
tion.
The island’s abundant and varied
timber resources have not been tapped,
largely on account of transport difficul-
ties. Borneo is nearer to us than Russia
or Canada, so surely the shipping could
be arranged. Rich minerals are in plenty,
but, like the timber, need labor and trans-
port to be an economic success.
Look how the U.S.A. is making inroads
into Japan! Already businessmen (in
uniform) are exploring the possibilities of
post-war trade and buying concessions.
Australians should be alive to the great
Opportunities for exports and imports to
and from Borneo, this great virgin land
of untapped resources. How bitter and
how futile our wails if our astute ally
seizes the chances before we waken from
our trance! —R. P. (A.1.F.).
P.-0.-W. Pensions
Apropos making Japan pay for the cost
of p.-0.-w. pensions (B. 28/11/’45), a
soldier’s pay on leave is three shillings a
day. In Changi the Japs reckoned that it
cost them the equivalent of twopence
halfpenny a day to keep prisoners alive
on their starvation rations. Why shouldn’t
the difference be paid to the ex-p.-0.-w.
as a war bonus? —Q. Q. (Vic.).
Reinstatement Problems
The job of reinstating service personnel
in civil employment is not going to be an
easy one even for those employers who
are solidly in favor of the principle of
preference for returned men. In Queens-
land regard must be had to two enact-
ments —State and Federal. The State law
seems clear enough. It is to the effect
that whenever an appointment is to be
made an employer must give preference to
servicemen or -women unless reason-
able and substantial cause exists for not
doing so. The Federal Act, however,
requires the former employer to make
employment available on application or
at the first opportunity (if any) at which
it is practicable and reasonable to do so
thereafter. The question of fact as to
whether a practicable and reasonable
opportunity exists ifiay have to be decided
by a committee set up under the Act.
During the past three years or so some
of our larger trading concerns, through
enlistments, call-ups and lack of regular
supplies of stocks, have been forced to
close down branch stores and other sub-
sidiary concerns; in many instances they
have sold the stores and abandoned all
thought of re-opening them. It seems
that under the Federal law the former
employer must, *at the first reasonable
and practicable opportunity, make em-
ployment available for former employees
in those closed businesses, and this he can
only do by employing them in those con-
cerns which he has still operating (which
are already fully staffed) or use what in-
fluence he might have to place them else-
where.
In one large wholesale business I know
of the burden of earning profits for the
company under extremely adverse con-
ditions from 1941 to 1945 has been borne
by a staff consisting mainly of old men
and young girls, and the time is rapidly
approaching when the management will
be faced with the problem of keeping
them, plus its quota of returned men, in
gainful employment. They can all be
absorbed if there is a quick return to full
trading conditions, but that seems too
much to hope for. It may well happen
that in such cases employers will find
themselves having to decide whether to
unload some of the old-young team who
did so well for them under bad condi-
tions or to keep them on and so overload
the business with employees.—“X-Lex”
(Q-).
Food for Britain
When flag-waggers speak of “our
glorious Empire” on occasions when they
need the help of Britain they make a
boast that 98 p.c. of Australians are of
British stock ; but the Commonwealth’s
attitude towards the sending of necessities
to the hungry millions who have bled
themselves white in blood and treasure
does not bear out that boast of kinship.
Instead of individuals posting little
parcels at a cost in postage in many cases
greater than the value of the food, depots
should be established throughout Britain
where bulk quantities of supplies for-
warded by the Federal Government could
be received. The money spent on Food
for Britain could thus be used to much
better advantage.
When I suggested this to the Federal
Government the idea was turned down,
and I was told that if I or any other per-
“Carry on, Jim, I'll brin§ it bach in a few minutes."
son wished to help, the post office would
forward any parcels offering.
As the charges for postage amount to a
big total, the Commonwealth stands to
make money out of the business in con-
trast with the bountiful help Canadians,
South Africans and other mixed peoples
have given as a token of gratitude to the
stricken people of Britain. —B. Horton
(Tas.).
Teachers and Commos.
Much preparation is going forward for
the annual conference of the Teachers’
Federation of N.S.W., beginning on De-
cember 17. It should be of unusual in-
terest this year, as the moderates have
at last awakened to the fact that their
Federation is under Red control, leading
positions being in the hands of men
whose sympathies are with Moscow.
A flutter has been occasioned by the
issue of a “Teachers’ Information
Bulletin” published by J. H. Stubbs (ad-
mittedly a nom-de-plume). This “Bulle-
tin” vigorously attacks the present set-up
of the Federation, and particularly stresses
the undesirability of affiliation with the
Communist-ridden A.C.T.U. He also
attacks the method of electing the presi-
dent of the Federation, and suggests elec-
tion by a vote of all members instead of
by a council which is only partly elected.
Stubbs has been counter-attacked in a
pamphlet issued by the Federation. The
bitterness of the attack made on him and
the amount of money spent in printing
thousands of these pamphlets are indica-
tions that at long last the bosses are
uneasy over the future. In a blatant
trumpeting of the strength of the Federa-
tion, figures' of membership are quoted.
In 1933 there were 5400 members. In
1944 there were 10,800. Conclusion—
everything’s lovely in the garden.
Actually, the only conclusion from that
is that the Education Department, at the
instigation of the Federation, delivered
an ultimatum to the effect that names of
non-unionists would be sent to the de-
partment for consideration, and, one can-
not help thinking, for reprisal— Observer
(N.S.W.).
Adult Education
Amid all the social and economic up-
heavals and scientific advances of our
age there stands out urgent need for a
more thorough system of education for
the ordinary man and woman those
who control States and their Govern-
ments and, ultimately, the fate of the
human race.
During five years’ service with the
A.I.F. I have been impressed with the
low standard of education generally ob-
taining in the ranks. In some of my
units many men never developed- the
reading habit when idle, and a propor-
tion of those who did read were satisfied
with women’s papers and “Western”
novels. A discussion on current affairs
was often impossible, or if it took place
was childishly limited in scope.
Who and what are responsible for this
deplorable state? Surely our educators ,
most certainly our educational system,
which persists with subjects which most
pupils never have occasion to use. How
can we expect people to vote intelli-
gently at elections, to distinguish the able
man from the smart propagandist or to
curb Parliament by an informed opinion
if they don’t know what it’s all about?
Similarly in external affairs. Wars
will never be outlawed by conferences of
Foreign Ministers but only by an enlight-
ened public in every country; — Plain
Australian (Vic.).
The Victorian Elections
In the latest Victorian State elections
Labor and anti-Labor votes were almost
exactly equal at 403,000, with Indepen-
dents polling 65,000. Labor holds 31
seats, Lib.-C.P. have 31 andj there are three
Independents, one Independent Labor.
Despite inter-Liberal strife, redistri-
bution, “Dunstan trouble,” European
Leftist swings and aid for Labor from
Canberra, non-Labor parties gained
60,000 votes over 1943 figures while
Labor gained only 23,300 votes. The
Proportional Representation people say
that the Liberals should have had more
seats, 17 instead of 13, “Alby’s boys”
14 instead of 18, Labor 30 instead of 31.
At the declaration of the Allendale
(Kyneton-Daylesford district) poll, where
White (U.C.P.) won from Labor’s Deni-
gan by 82 votes after distribution of a
Liberal’s preferences, Mr. Denigan ex-
pressed disapproval of the preferential
system, saying that first-past-the-post
would have elected him. This archaic
system would have elected six extra
Labor members and it tremendously
aided the British Labor party.
With the split Liberal vote, prefer-
ences were of great importance. In Bar-
won, Evelyn and St. Kilda, where en-
dorsed and Macfarlan Liberals were
opposed by Labor, preferences gave all
seats to the ex-Premier’s colleagues. The
other three Macfarlan Liberals, including
the chief himself, were eliminated at the
start of preference allocations.
McLaren and Gardner (Independents),
who won from Liberals because of Labor
aid, can decide the fate of Victorian
politics until the next elections. Unless
Victorian Labor proves itself different
from Commonwealth and N.S.W. Labor,
it will find less support at the next elec-
tions, which may be soon. —Nedrium
(Vic.).
The Next Referendum
Though it is planning to dive back into
the stormy referendum seas from which
it emerged battered and breathless last
August twelvemonth, the Labor party
has so far given no sign of taking any
notice of the one chance of success —
R. G. Menzies’s proposal that all con-
cerned should get together and look at
the problem calmly and dispassionately.
About the one certain thing which
emerges from the history of the referen-
dum in Australia is that it will never suc-
ceed while the questions are made a party
issue. If the Opposition in the national
Parliament opposes referendum proposals
sponsored by the Government (putting
aside which part is Opposition and which
is Government) the chances of a “Yes'”
majority are less than zero.
Going back to 1926 we find the Bruce-
Page’s referendum failed when the Labor
Opposition attacked it; but in 1928 the
Financial Agreement referendum suc-
ceeded because, for once, a broad
national outlook supplanted the party
view and all parties advocated a “Yes”
vote ; the people went to the polls con-
vinced that the request was sincere and
worth while. By 1937, though, the ex
ample of 1928 had been forgotten ; the
Labor party opposed the Lyons Gov
ernment’s marketing and aviation pro
posals, with the result that a “No” vote
gained the day. In 1944 the same thing
happened in reverse; the non-Laboi
Opposition parties opposed Evatt’s “all-
in” referendum, and it went down the
drain.
The meaning of all this is that until the
national legislators can make up their
minds bn what new power the national
Parliament needs and can jointly urge it
upon the people it is hopeless asking the
people to form a unanimous opinion.
The case for an elected convention to
review the Constitution from first line to
last full stop is strong; but the need for
unanimity in Canberra is even stronger.
If the Federal Government really desires
to gain wider powers it may as well save
the time and money unless it can persuade
Menzies, Fadden and Co. to agree on a
common formula. —D. (N.S.W.).
Dilly-dally and Delay
The war is over, but industry, if allowed
to move at all, must do so in low gear
with the brakes on. This is preventing
businessmen from giving employment
to the many thousands who are begin-
ning to look round for jobs ; and I am
leaving strikes out of the argument.
Bureaucracy is stifling industry in other
ways. I waited six months for a permit
to build a shop and now have been wait-
ing three months for the transfer of a
piece of land. lam still engaged in
correspondence with the Rationing Com-
mission seeking permission to buy
rationed stocks. Stocks are hard to pro-
cure, anyhow, because manufacturers are
similarly retarded by bureaucratic tactics.
Businessmen cannot create employment
while their hands are tied in this fashion.
And, in spite of the rantings of Com-
munists, they want to provicfe jobs just
as servicemen want to get them. It would
almost seem that the desires of bureau-
crats run in a contrary direction. —Blue
(Q-).
The Bachelor Soldier
Very patiently unmarried members of
the A.I.F. are looking forward to the
day when the married men will slide
gently off their shoulders and take their
place with the crowd. When the war
was young the banners urged enlistment
on married and single alike. The single
were expected to (and did) enlist before
the man with a wife. All right! We did
it, although there is no sound principle in
asking the man with the least to fight
for to be the first to fight.
Through the war we suffered, willingly
enough, the certainty that, as men “with-
out responsibilities,” we would be chosen
for the sticky jobs, be first choice for
paratroops or commandos, be paid less
and take a backward priority in matters
like home leave. In addition, we endured
the Benedict’s moodiness and absence (on
compassionate grounds), suffered with
him through all the phases of his wife s
neuroses and disabilities. And now, when
our knees are tottering from the pro-
longed strain of carrying him, we find
that a wife and eight months’ service in
Australia are as good for discharge points
as a year in the front line. The unmar-
ried step aside gladly for the man with
children, but fail to understand why the
unproductive husband should be hastened
home, Nice for him, of course, but why
the priority?— Capt. Spike (A.1.F.).


"3
>1
in trao®'
-* -nrjsi? tt~zsz
. It «*• >»°8 eßt a “ eC
ice in n .’ . a, e world. service be-
jraph Serv.ee '■' * kBB Tdephone Se"
The, Tra ß «-°ee»«“ Brilain , t he 193 0.
JU
“ “ do^Ne wß^ ^ 4 ”aB ^ dw”»<’“
South Amor inaugurated the stores
- »>**,",» -*
rrr— 4 ,^„.
>rt Through tlTforeJnt of Over^
elped l° J )UI n icatioUB- . an d Beam
tireless Consul Research continually
The A.W.A- technicians ar ie n C c
in rr:Tthe u
exploring » evr Beam Service as
to maintain tireless Service
in *e «” rW - tion of the 8'“” «Uh the
'I.Z provided the ft- coromu oica.ion
tl effieient and — —’
BUM
Peacetime Facilities
Now Available
T
r
The Beam Wireless Service now operating on a full
Peacetime basis offers the public fast and accurate world-
wide communication services.
Messages are accepted for transmission to the
United Kingdom, the Continent of Europe, the Middle
East, Canada, United States, South America, India and
the Philippines.
Commercial Wireless Services have recently been
reopened for messages between Australia and Lae, Port
Moresby, Java and Nauru.
Codes are again permissible and you can use your
registered code name as address and signature.
Specially trained telephonistes are available for the
acceptance and delivery of Beam Wireless messages.
We will he pleased to open a Credit Account for you .
Complete information available regarding codes,
classes of messages, rates, routes, etc .
Beam Wireless messages may be lodged at:
BEAM WIRELESS OFFICES,
47 YORK ST., SYDNEY 167 QUEEN ST., MELBOURNE
Telephone: 80522 Telephone; MU9161
OR AT ANY TELEGRAPH OFFICE
_ _
ffieam Wheiea^
*
» ■ ;
During the War the Beam Wireless Service efficiently
handled enormous traffic, eliciting praise from both the
Government and the Press.
From twelve million words handled in the first year of
war, traffic increased to fifty million words in the year 1944.
New Beam services were inaugurated with the Philippines
and San Francisco in 1941 and with Java, China and India
in the following year.
When G.H.Q. of the South-west Pacific moved to Brisbane
in 1942, A.W.A. opened a Beam Wireless office there for public
and press messages. As the war moved north so did members
of the A.W.A. Wireless Telegraph staff first to Port Moresby
in 1943, then to Hollandia and later Leyte, transmitting
millions of words to Governments and newspapers throughout
the world.
The news of the Continental invasion by the Allies
made enormous demands on the Beam services from England
and North America to Australia. The first news flash on
June 6, 1944 brought into being a co-ordinated plan for
handling an enormously increased volume of press messages.
Over 61,000 words in 500 press messages were received
during the first 24 hours.
AMALGAMATED WIRELESS (A’SIA) LID.
AUSTRALIA’S NATIONAL WIRELESS ORGANISATION
