

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3432
Wednesday, November 21, 1945
Price 6cL
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
LONDON AS QUEEN VICTORIA KNEW THE HEART OF EMPIRE.
THE FOREIGN AND INDIA OFFICES, FROM ST. JAMES’S PARK.
'T'HE stately pile of public buildings which comprised the Foreign,
India, Colonial and Home Offices, with those of the Local
Government Board, is seen to much better advantage from St.
Scott! in P te hX n 's”k! h cost hl half “ million' of money‘and w
erected during the five years ended 1873. None of the many “lungs ’
that London can boast is superior in beauty to St. James’s Park,
a nd that part of the lake which is shown in our foreground is
particularly interesting, for it is reserved as an asylum for the
Ornithological Society's collection of water birds. The trees to the
right are on Duck Island, where the birds have their nests.


UMi
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write lor Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “ Bulletin.
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 AGE
The Red Page
WRITERS AND ARTISTS.
One of the pleasing things about Wil-
liam Gaunt’s The Aesthetic Adventure
(R.P. 13/11/ ’45) was that it was well-
written. If a writer is going to be cour-
ageous enough to declare old Cezanne
an “oaf,” it is as well that his own prose
proves that he knows something about
style.
Gaunt recognises that values in art and
literature are fundamentally the same;
and among art critics he is something of
a rarity in trying to establish in painting
those same values of intelligence, style,
form, wit and taste that are to be found in
his own prose. He is a sound prose stylist
who searches for sound values in art. And
it is more usual these days to find quite
competent writers praising incompetent
painting.
I refer to such men as Osbert Sitwell
and Somerset. Maugham. After reading
Osbert’s appreciation of Picasso and
Modigliani and his depreciation of Sar-
gent in the first volume of his autobio-
graphy, recently reviewed on the Red
Page— Left Hand, Right Hand —it seems
about time some artist raised a protest
at the dirty work done to the sound
tradition of painting these late years by
prose-writers very concerned to protect
the sound tradition of prose.
That writers practising experimentalism
in prose should praise experimental-
ists in paint is excusable, but there is
something suspect in literary men whose
work is based on a classic tradition when
they go out of their way to acclaim
painters who are attacking all classic
stability in plastic art.
Sound criticism will have a good deal
of pick-and-shovel work to do before the
mass of nonsense scribbled about plastic
values these last twenty years has been
cleared away. And its first job wifi be
to discard the irresponsible opinions of
literary men and refer values once again
to the only authority that can have value,
and that is in the work and outlook of
artists working in a sound plastic tradi-
tion . It ■ added that a sound
■plastic tradition .is that which can be
. eferred to values already established in
The reason that primitivism cannot
establish its own values is that it has no
authority but itself for reference, and
that is a trifle too prejudiced an opinion
to be taken seriously.
The significant thing is that no artist
of reputation, whose work could be re-
ferred to a classic tradition in paint, has
endorsed primitive art. Orpen, for in-
stance, the first painter of his generation,
would have nothing to do with the dis-
articulated fooleries of a Picasso or a
Modigliani; and Orpen, at his best, is
a better stylist in paint than Osbert Sit-
well is in prose, good as Sitwell’s prose
is. And, therefore, it is by the authority
of Orpen and John and Nicholson and
the other sound painters of their genera-
tion that we reject primitive splodging in
paint and reject Osbert Sitwell’s affirma-
tion of it.
We reject lps affirmation of primitive
art because we affirm his quality as a
writer. He is unquestionably one of the
best prose stylists of his generation. He
writes with that clarity which visualises
the thing seen, and with that sense for
cadence which satisfies the mental ear as
fine modulation does in music. It is prose
based on the best English tradition as
defined by Sterne, Fielding and Boswell.
Without hesitation, we accept him as a
writer who has built his style by classic
precedent and authority.
Very well, then, what would Osbert’s
emotions be if, say, Orpen had informed
him that his prose was inferior to Ger-
trude Stein’s? There is no differance what-
ever between Picasso’s infantile splodg-
ings and Gertrude Stein’s baby babblings.
By such an affront to his aesthetic stomach
it is possible that Osbert might realise
how offensive his affirmation of primitive
art is to us who revere the great tradition
both in prose and painting.
I am not at all concerned here to attack
painters who have fallen for modernistic
slogans and are muddling about with
them in paint. They have a perfect right
to do what they like with their medium.
By the results to be seen on the walls of
our local exhibitions I think they should
be encouraged to persevere, on the John-
sonian dictum that if you see a fool /oil-
ing down hill, give him a kick to send
him faster. Let them acclaim Picasso and
Matisse and Modigliani and Gauguin as
great masters, and no harm done, except
to the mentality of those who really be-
lieve it. But it is quite another thing
when writers of quality join in the studio
chant of praise for them.
At the height of the modernist uproar
Somerset Maugham wrote The Moon
and Sixpence, a novel affirming modern
crudity in paint. He took his material from
Gauguin’s life, replacing Gauguin for
a middle-aged English banker who sud-
denly cuts all his respectable connections
and goes out to the South Seas to be-
come a great modernist master at a
stroke . . . Really, Maugham should have
known that it requires a never-ceasing
exercise of hand and eye from early youth
to middle age to make even an average
competent painter,
I read Maugham’s novel when it first
came out and I hope Maugham squirms
when he recalls having written it. For
I must do him the justice to add that he
has since modified his opinion of Gauguin.
If he had stated the flat truth, it would
have been that from the outset he loathed
Gauguin’s work. He had studied paint-
ing himself, he has a sound judgment on
plastic art, as many of his criticisms of
it affirm, and he has a fastidious sense
for stylism in all the arts. Why the devil,
then, did he write a novel boosting the
work of a very crude painter?
The answer is apparent, and Maugham
supplied it himself. And in that very
novel. The Moon and Sixpence, which
was a strange thing for such a cautious
sophisticate to do. I haven’t the book
to quote from, but I recall the passage
with which the book opens, which was
to the effect that Maugham, a mature*
writer in an established prose tradition,
was too old to catch up with modern
iconoclasm in prose, and likened himself
to the poet Crabbe, I think, who went on
writing his jog-trot verses when those
dangerous fellows Keats and Byron and
Shelley were upsetting conventions in
poetry.
Announcing in those apologetic terms
that he could not really have anything
to do with the Joyces and Hemingways
and Gertrude Steins and all the other
attackers of his own prose tradition,
Maugham straightway affirms the attack
on the sound tradition of paint. In short,
he was in a deuce of a funk at seeing his
own generation being pushed aside by a
roai mg mob of literary sansculottes and
sorted to shout “Don’t hit me, I’m on
your side. Just look at the brave way
I’m shouting for modernism in paint.”
I’ve always enjoyed Somerset
Maugham’s prose for its fine mastery
over lucidity, directness of statement and
the balanced cadence of a phrase, and
still think Cakes and Ale one of the best
novels of its period, but I have to sup-
press a grimace of annoyance when I
think of his treacherous Moon and Six-
pence, for he had the ear of his genera-
tion and he did his best to corrupt its
eye by that novel, which set every studio
nitwit applauding him.
Yet another novelist who joined in the
attack on values in painting was Martin
Armstrong. ..Armstrong never reached
Maugham’s quality as a novelist, but he
wrote a well-balanced prose stylp, and
started off with an excellent first novel,
The Goat and Compasses. I remember
on reading it deciding that this was a
writer well worth following up, but his
later novels never reached the vitality of
his first.
There was a painter in The Goat and
Compasses who defined Armstrong’s
genuine taste for plastic art, which was
clearly derived from that rather stodgy
but otherwise praiseworthy realism in-
augurated by Manet, which insisted
that the painter must submit subject
matter to factualism for all standard of
achievement. So Armstrong’s painter
chose for the subject of his picture the,
barmaid and the bar of the Goat and
Compasses, just as Manet chose to paint
the bar and barmaid of the Folies Ber-
geres. In short, his painter affirmed in
paint the quality that Armstrong sought
for in prose.
Why, then, did Armstrong turn round
and write a textbook affirming the primi-
tive attack on sound painting? Partly,
no doubt, to escape rejection by the
studio mob as a stodgy realist, but mainly
because a deeper exasperation was at
work on him. I had forgotten about him
as a novelist till I picked up by chance
in a bookshop his textbook on modern
art, and lighted on a statement to the
effect that of all the modernist masters,
Picasso at least was sure of immortality.
Having got the measure of Armstrong’s
failure as a novelist by that statement,
I read no more of his textbook.
It does not much matter, I suppose,
that a novelist who .has failed to get any-
where with his novels affirms that very
thing in plastic art which his own art
detests. But it does matter, not to plastic
art, but to the art of prose, that the
writers should be on the side of all that
is destructive to sound painting. Whether
they submit to a personal fear of attack
by modernist violence, whether they
allow themselves to be submerged by an
uprush of mob mentality, whether they
merely parrot the popular aesthetic of
their decade, the fact remains that not
one prose writer of any quality has had
the courage to deride what he knows to
be crude splodging in paint, or to affirm
what he knows to be painting of high
quality.
For make no doubt of this: Osbert
Sitwell knows that Sargent is a fine
painter, and that the “art” of Picasso
and Modigliani can be admired only by
the infantile, the malevolent or the blind.
There was a time when it 'was excus-
able for the Sitwells to affirm blindly
anything labelled Modern, for they came
into vogue at the top of the modernist
revolt with certain poems of which
Edith’s are ths best and Sacheverell’s the
worst. But Osbert’s quality as a writer
rests <on his prose, and his Before the
Bombardment will remain a unique work
for the charm of its style alone, though
its finely finished character portraits are
also admirable. It is the best of all
those semi-autobiographical novels deal-
ing with the dead end of Victorianism —
of which we have had rather too many.
It is a work in the classic prose tradi-
tion, and utterly ignores the staccato
violences of modernist writing. And with
the modernist revolt over and its slogans
outdated and its works, wherever taste
is asserting itself, being hurriedly con-
signed to the lumber-room, there is no
excuse for the Sitwells to keep up the
stale old conspiracy that obscurantism
and infantilism and crude splodging were
something new and vital and “interest-
ing,” to use the desperation valuation
chanted by modernists when mentally
bereft of speech in the presence of some
preposterous piece of experimentalism.
The Sitwells are now middle-aged and
old literary inhabitants, and by a whole
series of industrious works have pro-
claimed in precise terms that their taste
in art is for that queer sort of virtuosity
which finds the commonplaces of a dead
generation the rarities of a generation
four times removed from it. It takes
about a century to establish such values,
which time and survival have made sacro-
sanct. The Sitwells admire the rococo
in art, its “conversation pieces,” the once
denounced vulgarities of the Brighton
Pavilion. In the modern literary world,
they admire only the Sitwells.
To be sure, Osbert Sitwell’s deprecia-
tion of Sargent is an automatic rejection
of the taste of his father’s generation,
and that is a mass urge in each generation
which appears to debilitate the critical
faculty in its individual members. Any-
body with a balanced judgment in art
must know that Sargent will take his
place as a society portrait painter with
Romney and Gainsborough, and of the
three, he is the most brilliant technician
With the brush. But Osbert Sitwell does
not see that in deriding the taste of his
father’s generation and affirming the taste
of his own he is dumping himself into a
popular aesthetic that will be derided by
the next generation. For in rejecting Sar-
gent and affirming Picasso and Modi-
gliani he is not expressing an exclusive
and .refined taste, but is ranging himself
along with the crudest studio mob that
this world has ever seen. With even
Australian newspapers today tub-thump-
ing the outmoded slogans of modernist
art, surely Osbert Sitwell should discover
that his refined nose is snuffing the fusty
air of a suburban back parlor.
Once again, if critical opinion in plastic
art is to regain its sanity it must refer
for authority to a stabilised plastic tradi-
tion. And until the present mess is
cleared up, and the poor devils of students
are given some sort of stabilised aesthetic
on which to exercise a plastic faculty, we,
as artists working in an established tradi-
tion, must ask those writers who have
taken on themselves the status of art
critic to attend to their own affairs, which
are just as badly in need of stabilising as
those of the studio world. By affirming
all that is rotten in plastic art they have
only accentuated disruption in their own
metier of prose.
NORMAN LINDSAY
SUNDRY SHOWS.
National Gallery Director Daryl Lind-
say had some very downright things to
say in opening the annual exhibition of
the Melbourne Contemporaries at the
Athenaeum. He observed that Melbourne
had more art exhibitions per head of
population than any other city; that
many of the people who exhibited had
no right to do so as they were only in
swaddling clothes, artistically speaking;
that both one-man shows and mixed
exhibitions were of fourth-rate standard;
that, in consequence, it was unpleasant
opening exhibitions these days because
it was expected that something nice would
be said about the work presented; and
that, although he continually hoped to
see something new, interesting and vital,
nine times out of ten he was bitterly
disappointed. However, he concluded, he
was glad to say that the present exhibition
was an exception. Mr. Lindsay is known
to be a very polite man.
Sea-water of a relentless blue hits the eyes
hard at an exhibition of Howard Ashton’s oils
at the Royal Art Society’s gallery, Sydney, but
smaller paintings, dull-toned and restrained,
have a genuine charm: notably “Misty Morn-
ing,” “Passing Storm” and “Athol Bight.
“Pea Souper,” showing Cremorae Point light-
house and a dim ship looming up out of
fog, is attractive in itself but misses its full
value because the ship seems to loom up out of
grey paint rather than out of atmosphere.
Mr. Ashton —though he really might t have
refrained from calling his exhibition “Our
Beautiful Harbor” —is on the whole a credit to
orthodoxy. Unorthodoxy, as exemplified at the
Contemporary Art Society’s show at the Edu-
cation Department galleries, continues stolidly
to repeat itself. This year’s monsters are for
all the world like last year’s; and everybody’s
paintings are very much like everybody else’s.
A lively exception is Ray Lindsay’s “Darling-
hurst Landscape,” which shows the life of a
block of flats as glimpsed through the windows,
including a domestic brawl and a charming
view of a female posterior, clad in scarifies.
By no means a great painting, it is a bright
spot in a very dreary landscape. *
Paintings by Helen Stewart showing at the
Macquarie Galleries dolefully repeated the con-
ventions of Cezanne. With unerring accuracy
the artist had picked out all that old muddler’s
worst mannerisms and made them her own.
One or two glimpses of old stone or pise
houses showed traces of genuine feeling.
“The Voice of the Turtle” —the John
van Druten comedy about the love life
of a serviceman on leave, which Agnes
Doyle and Ron Randall played in Sydney
—is having a long run at Melbourne
Comedy: a creditable feat for a play in
which there are only three characters.
What sustains it is the pleasant natural-
ness of the writing and the polished
naturalness of the three Americans —Ann
Lincoln, Gladis Griswold and Everett Ball
—who replaced the (equally capable)
Sydney cast.
At the talkies:
“Within These Walls” (Hoyt’s Theatres):
Thomas Mitchell as the warden of a jail. His
own son comes in as a convict, and when the
repentant son gets shot trying to stop a jail-
break at which he connived Thomas orders
aside the battery of tear-gas bombs and sub-
machine guns at hand, grabs a coupler forty-
fives and goes right in after the guy what done
it. Tire supporting film labelled “Across the
Sierras” introduces Bill Elliott, the nearest
approach in horse-face and slow gait to old
William S. Hart ever seen. Bill, advancing
slowly to meet his man, makes Mr. Mitchell
look like a worried husband searching for a
match.
“Our Hearts Were Young and Gay” (Sydney
Victory): Comedy of two young American
girls who persuade their parents to let them
travel to Europe. There has been excellent
casting, Diana Lynn’s pretence of shrewdness
contrasting amusingly with Gail Russell’s wide-
eyed innocence at shipboard life and foreign
ways. Charles Ruggles and Lilian Gish—the
old-time heroine of “Birth of a Nation”—are
the bewildered parents.
“Nob Hill” (Sydney Plaza): Slick songan-
dance, in color, with ’Frisco’s Barbary Coast
quarter at the turn of the century as the set-
ting.
“Back to Bataan” (Sydney Civic); Routine
melodrama, with routine sermons on democracy.
“The Affairs of Susan” (Sydney Prince
Edward): Domestic comedy, impinging on the
theatre, concerning the efforts made by four
men, all friends, to land a girl in matrimony.
Joan Fontaine is delightful as the girl.
Ferenc Molnar’s comedy “The Guards-
man,” produced by Adrian Borzell
at Bryants’ Playhouse, Sydney, isn’t
a plausible play, but both John Carlson
(who impersonates , a dashing Russian
prince of the Imperial Guard and woos
his own wife to test her fidelity) and Car-
lotta Kalmar (the spouse) did well with
the brisk repartee which carries the story
along. F. Stewart Jarbo was faintly self-
conscious as a critic ; Jane Holland pleas-
ing as a servant.
With the blazing originality which has
become almost habitual with it, the Firm
put on “The Merry Widow” at His
Majesty’s, Melbourne, for Cup week and
thereafter. Since Gladys Moncrieff still
has her voice, and the Cup had been re-
vived in all its pre-war splendor, and a
battleship, a cruiser and two submarines
had found it absolutely necessary to
replenish their stores in Port Phillip that
week, it was like old times in Melbourne ;
and the State election and the gloomy pre-
dictions of a scientist that the next war will
last only five minutes (and will end with
the elimination of the world’s largest cities
and the obliteration of all the population
less than 100 feet underground) were the
only jarring notes of the festive season.
The scientist may be right or he may be
wrong, but one thing is certain to survive
the wreckage —the Firm’s undaunted
affection for “The Merry Widow.”


TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
122 Years of Service
‘THE SENIOR STORE’
m * n
C W
3
» l r.
m
m
SANTA'S
CASTLE
lx
/
* Jf < V
A.
:~3
MO'**' <-,
tn^ D Or t
cn- 4
'*• 2o A
#
\\edt
'5
a
an
19A 1
Skives
price
set
»
■V
9 n
~„U1 1'' o'"’ 0 '"’
\otvg
e&c
Price
Oc
•ilite
g \ y «v^ ea ” d to^* e :is/ 6
o'TS s lt ° P cat is - .. • •
■■■-o-
D oU V
The V
price
to\^ s
\itt\e
e^°
l\frX^ B .l e W eV
vjeVV
->e CO^’ T \\^-
VogT * ...••
e *<& *
pri° e ’
i S x,i'- F * -i a c
tL^ a
ieoS“,
a A e ’ fro**
Jm
t
20tti
--7
A-
*
M
H
r o?£ KE Kifon
p„*. er -
e 9c/j
° Ver ‘>U° n c S a *d
CA A?
°
. °^oc£«**/„ .
■••••.. S3 °l ? nted -
Gl sht
SOq rj
Se af o
Pi
26
>•■ -
u.
cTTN
4
P
pi
r /•
Pt ‘ Ce - 'atf de £ A %*fl t ake "
7^f C V °
**-... </. Sn >*ll’ pli
a Pe-
’ °Pe.
Ppj
6/7
Y,
&
B 1
\-x-y-
-a^an
th
field
T a &Le
pitch
°nt
CRr Cl<
a Pls
af SpJ
e/of/j
/v ■•••••••...
c i&A: h> 7/2
co r i/f
P/
P
FAMOUS
Phone; M 2401, day and night.
LOW PRICES
Box 2 712 C, G.P.0., Sydney.


THE GREENHIDE WHIP
By JAMES HACKSTON.
RED NOLAN and his team used
to strike our place just about dusk
and I’d give him a hand watering
his bullocks or, while he was put-
ting the bells on them, light his fire for
him. Sometimes I’d watch him cooking
his tea and then stay a while talking, and
so it got that way in the end that I used
to look forward to seeing Nolan and his
team come lumbering down from the
north. Besjdes, I’d heard a lot about
the clever things he could do with his
whip.
His feats with the whip had been per-
formed mostly at the Black Swan Hotel,
which was in the main street in the town,
and next to the police station. The big
store was higher up, and so was the
bank and, on the other side, the fire
brigade, shops, several houses that had
escaped being turned into business prem-
ises and the big wool, hides and tallow
store. The end of the street gave entrance
to the town gardens, and just inside the
gates was the oval, bordered with white
stones, and in the centre of it the town
monument.
At the back of the Black Swan and
the police station was a paddock I always
cut across as a short cut to and from the
town. People’s goats and fowls ran there,
and between the back entrance of the
hotel and the back gate of the police
station there was a path that had not
been made by the goats or by the fowls,
but by Sergeant Gaughwin.
Here in the hotel of a snug afternoon,
when the main street was quiet and the
distant whistle of the express going
through, the only sound ; here where the
ale cascaded with bubbles leaping and
froth flying, the entertainers of the town
met the highest kick or the double
somersault. Here Red Nolan used to
take his beer, and in the process of drink-
ing Had become friendly with the ser-
geant. Quite apart from the fact that
their names were not against them having
a brotherly feeling for each other, Gaugh-
win admired Nolan for what he could
do with his whip, and Nolan admired the
artist in Gaughwin for, if it would be
drawing the long-bow too much to say
that Gaughwin could lift the trapdoor
in the bar ceiling with his toe, it can be
more truthfully said that he had high-
kicked the boss at the wool, hides and
tallow store’for a fiver and had won by
an ankle.
After he’d delivered his wool and
settled his bullocks in the hotel paddock
Nolan used to give exhibitions with his
lon£ greenhide whip between drinks.
Hence the yarns about him. One of them
was that a man at the Black Swan swore
that his hat had raised itself most politely
to the proprietress and then put itself
back on his head again and, not knowing
that Nolan had done it with his whip,
he gave up drink and joined the Salvation
Army. And then, later on, I discovered
how clever he was with his whip for
myself.
ONE night when he was cooking his tea
at the campfire he placed a slab of
meat on a piece of newspaper and put
it on the coals to grill, and when I asked
him if meat would cook, that way he
offered to bet me that, not only would
it cook, but that after he’d taken the
meat off the paper I’d be able to read
the print. I told him that I wouldn’t
have any money to bet with until I grew
up and went to work, and he told me that
I did not have to wait until I had grown
up to earn money ; that I should be snar-
ing possums the coming winter and selling
the skins at the wool, hides and tallow
store. He told me that good furs should
bring a good price next season, and that
it would be easy for me. He wondered
why I’d not been on to it before.
When a boy has a red-bearded, six-
foot bullocky, known everywhere for his
cleverness with his whip and expert at
grilling meat on newspaper, as his adviser
—well, that was enough. It was not long
before I’d got the twine, copper wire and
beeswax and was busy making snares, to
the exclusion of everything else. This
done, I set off and picked my trees, cut
my poles and built financial castles in
the air, too.
When winter came I set my snares —
miles apart—and went round them in the
early morning; tramped the hills and the
flats before the dawn. Then there was
the skinning and the tacking out. After
a turmoil of endeavor, I got together three
dozen good skins (apart from those I’d
ruined while skinning), at that time worth
twelve and sixpence a dozen —one pound
seventeen shillings and sixpence! Then
I set off for the store, and when I got
there, pushed in through the big doors
that were slightly ajar and that led into
the big, dark, cavernous store or shed. I
didn’t see anybody about to sell the skinS
to, and was groping round (I was in the
wrong place—l should have gone to the
office) when a sallow-faced man came
from the back of the store and asked
me who I was looking for. I told him
that I yvanted to sell my possum skins.
He must have seen then that I was a bit
nervous and an easy mark to bamboozle.
“Not much of a sale for possum skins
with us just now,” he said. “But where
are they?”
“Here,” I said, and I handed him the
brown-paper parcel.
He opened it and began to inspect
them, tossing them aside as if they were
of poor quality, “They are not much
good,” he said ; “very poor quality and
not worth buying at all —even if we were
buying.”
My jaw dropped.
“When we buy skins,” he said, “we
only buy the best.”
“They’re gbod skins,” I said weakly.
“Aren’t they?”
“No,” he said. “Hardly worth any-
thing at all.”
“Oh,” I said crestfallen. “How much
are they worth?”
“Nothing, really,” he said ; “but”—he
put his hand in his pocket and pulled out
what I thought was the only coin he
had—“here’s half a crown for you and
I’ll take them off you so you won’t be
disappointed.”
“Half a crown!” I said blankly.
“Yes,” he said. “And' you’re lucky to
get it. “They’re not worth anything.”
“They’re worth one pound seven-
teen”. ...
“Now, then, scoot off,” he said
abruptly. “You’ve got your money,” and
as I stood there limply he put his hand
on my shoulder and bundled me along to
the door. For a moment I stood like a
mute, and was then about to try to say
something for myself when he shoved me
through the doors and pulled them shut
on me.
I’d been robbed hollowly, and instead
of going to the firm’s office and com-
plaining, as I should have done, I set off
home crestfallen and with tears in my
eyes. I snared no more possums, and
when the summer came and I saw Nolan
again I told him all about it, and he said
I should have stuck up for myself more
and gone back to the office and seen the
boss ; that the man who had robbed me
probably had no right to buy skins for
the firm ; that he must have bought them
for himself then sold them to the firm.
“Never mind,” he said. “You come into
the town with me in the morning—l have
a job for you and you’ll make something
out of it.”
EARLY next morning I went with
Nolan and his team and, sitting up
high on one of the bales, I had a good
view of his long-handled whip curling out
every now and then as if whipping up
the slow, white clouds that teamed across
the sky. Down below I saw the straining
bullocks swaying from side to side with
a slow rhythm ; watched the long whip
split the air, roll, curl, double, hang, un-
wind, curve, circle and writhe like a sinu-
ous living thing. And yet he was not
flaying his bullocks, and looked as if he
were flogging some imaginary, invisible
team.
After he had got rid of his wool he
settled his bullocks in the hotel paddock
and, telling me to wait, went into the
hotel for a drink, or several drinks, for
when he came out he told me, with a
wink, that he could now drive a team of
angels from Cape York to Hobart with-
out losing a feather. We set off for the
town then and I could not help noticing
that he still had his whip with him, and
as we went along the roadside he was
making fancy slashes, cuts and feints
with it at nothing, as if practising tp
keep his hand in.
When we drew level with the wool,
hides and tallow store he told me that
he had some important business to tran-
sact there, and that, as he was a bit of a
student of human nature and would like
to see what a real, lousy rogue looked
like, he wanted me to point out to him
the man who had robbed me.
Quite innocently I trooped into the
big barn-like shed with him and, sure
enough, there was the man who had
cheated me. He was stripped to the waist
this time, and was sorting a lot of hides.
As soon as 1 saw him I looked at Nolan
and nodded. “That’s the man,” I said,
expecting Nolan to no more than take
a look at him, but in the twinkling of
an eye there he was ringing the man
with his whip, and I knew then why he
had brought me into the town, and I
knew, too, that the imaginary team I had
thought he had been driving on the way
in was this man, who was looking startled
and scared as he backed away from the
spitting greenhide whip.
I MIGHT not have existed now for all
1 the notice Nolan took of me. But
the man was conscious of my presence,
I saw that, and that he remembered. The
throbbing whip licked dangerously near
him and he backed, foot by foot, towards
the open doors, out into the street and
then on to the open road. And before I
knew where I was I also was out in the
street. It had all been done so quickly
and so quietly, with not a foul in the
firm’s office hearing or knowing what had
happened.
Out on the road Nolan began to weave
his whip about the man. One moment
it was a skipping-rope at his feet, the
next a lassoo about his head. Nolan
played him down the middle of the street,
driving him as he vrould have driven one
of his bullocks, with the man half-run-
ning before him to escape the whining
thrusts that seethed about him. Every
time the man endeavored to escape a
wall of writhing greenhide baulked him :
every time he hung back the threatening
whip hung nearer; if he tried to rush
ahead it curled in front of him,
Nolan might have been in a trance so
completely did he ignore his surround-
ings. Half fearful of what was going to
happen, and nervous because I was the
cause of it all, I followed them, listening
to the whip’s spinning echoes, its cutting
whine, its thin sharp hiss; watched it
rolling round the man.
Past the police station we went, past
the fire station, the big store, the bank;
up the street to the gardens, in the main
gates, over to the oval and round and
round it. Children playing in the gardens
came running over to see the fun, and
with shrill cries and whoops joined the
procession. People wondering what it
was all about and unable to find out,
fell in with us, and wonderingly, auto-
matically and hardly knowing why,
marched with us round the oval as if in
a circus ring.
Then with a twist of the whip Nolan
turned the man and, leaving the gardens,
we were back in the street again. Busi-
ness places emptied their people into the
street. Some marched along the footpath
in line with us; others joined us openly.
From the far distance, as if to add its
bit to the excitement, the whistle of
the express seemed to blow louder than
it had ever blown before.
We were marching three and four
abreast now and I was thinking of the
Pied Piper and wondering if we looked
like the picture I’d seen. But Nolan
was not making sweet music. The whine
of his greenhide whip was threateningly
cruel. Then suddenly, down a side street,
the sergeant of police came rushing, and
I noticed that, as soon as he saw that it
was Nolan who was causing all the ex-
citement, he seemed to hesitate for a
moment as if wondering if he could pre-
tend that he had not seen what was going
on ; but evidently having made up his
mind that, in case the chief magistrate or
some other person of importance in the
town had seen him in full view of what
was happening, he would have to do his
duty, he swung in, too, and marched on
the outside of us.
He made an ostentatious display of
doing his duty by taking out his note-
book, and, pencil poised, was making
preparations to take down the name or
names of the offending person or persons
when, all of a sudden, the tongue of
Nolan’s whip playfully licked the pencil
out of his hand and cast it into the dis-
tance.
And now like the Pied Piper we came
to the end of our journey ; came back
to the wool, hides and tallow store and
the strange procession ended almost as
quickly as it had begun. The writhing
wall of menacing greenhide fell away
from the man, the boss of the firm came
on the scene and took command, the
man admitted what he had done, I got
my money, and Sergeant Gaughwin,
showing just enough authority to suit
the occasion and answering no questions
whatever, dispersed the crowd, inform-
ing the people in a few well-chosen words
that but for the grace of God “fhire”
might have raged in the town unchecked
and wandering “thaves” made hay while
people of the town were not attending to
their business.
A ND so, like the mystery of the Pied
** Piper and the lost children, the mys-
tery of why Nolan, the bullock-driver,
drove a half-naked man up and down the
main street and five times round the
gardens oval, remained unsolved. Some
said that it was one of Nolan’s pranks,
others that he had done it for a bet.
Only one person, an old lady, made
any complaint, and she demanded that
justice be done, that the sergeant arrest
the bullock-driver who had so cruelly
thrashed a poor man in public with a
bullock whip. In reply to this the ser-
geant made fitting and authoritative reply
and stated that, as not one hair of the
man’s head had so much as been ruffled,
and as his body did not show the faintest
mark of a whip, therefore he could lay
no charge against the bullock-driver for
assault, but, as an officer of the law, he
knew his duty and would arrest him on
another charge.
“Nholan!” he roared, “I arrest you
on a charge of larceny of Government
property, to wit, one lead pencil, the
property of the Sthate.” He put his hand
out. “And hand over your whip, Nholan.”
. Nolan kand f d tb ® wbl F over and, turn-
mg to me, told me to skip off home with
my fortune and not to spend it on horse-
racing and women on the way. Then
be wen . t Wltb tbe sergeant,
A bit later on, after I had bought
some small things I had long wanted, 1
was taking the short cut across the
hotel paddock when I saw Nolan again;
saw Nclan being driven with his own
whip into the back entrance of the Black
Swan Hotel, and by no less a person (han
the sergeant of police himself.
Dragon's Egg.
Dragon is my famed, my terrible name.
Can you discover in all my ugly frame
The faintest charm, the smallest grace ?
In my blunt-lipped, saurian face.
My dull malevolent eye,
My clumsy limbs —all elbows, all awry —
My bristling spine, my squamous skin,
My crooked teeth set in a surly grin ?
Incredibly, you think, I sprang.
With no blood shed, no sharp maternal
pang.
Out of an innocent egg, stainless, pure,
Where beneath kindly sands I slept
secure ;
Now I, the monster hideous and obscene,
Shall in due time, untroubled and serene,
Out of my darkling entrails surely bring
The same immaculate and lovely thing.
M.L.
ARNOLD WALL.
Mud Crab.
These are your kingdom ; not the animal
scream
Of wind and wave on bacchanalian
beaches,
The growl of sullen rocks loitering near,
Cat-tails of spray upon the trembling
wreck
Poised below the cliffs on the oceans
stocks;
But where some mangrove creek has
crooned a spell,
Where floats the moon on sleeping back-
waters
And veteran rocks display their
barnacles;
These are your haunts, where the dogfish
leaps
And boasts of kinsmen, long ago, who
trod
Forests asunder, breathed an earthquake’s
fear.
Are you in life or death, outside the cave,
Storm-green lubra, waiting your neap
lover
In the star-blazed hour of ebb-tide;
waiting.
Drowsy with memories, and the low wash
singing
The strange song of the first waters of the
world ?
A.I.F.
VAL VALLIS.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3432
Wednesday, November 21, 1945
“EVERYBODY DANCE, AND DANCE, AND DANCE!”
“The Sydney Waterside Workers’ Male Ballet has challenged the Port Kembla Steel works Strikers’ Male Ballet to a competition appearance in a boxing hall.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Wehb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE; 252 George Street, Sydney ;
Box 2521 BB; *Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan’s Buildings iopp.
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street>
London, E.C.4.
LEADERSHIP.
On June 18, 1940, Charles Andrd
Joseph Marie de Gaulle, till then un-
known outside France and not widely
known inside it, having been a mere
general of brigade, was recognised by his
Majesty’s Government as “Leader of all
Free Frenchmen, wherever they may be,
who rally to him in support of the Allied
cause.”
On September 25, 1941, De Gaulle was
named head of a French National Com-
mittee. On June 3, 1943, in Algiers, he
became co-President with General Giraud
of the French Committee for National
Liberation.
In Algiers Mr. Roosevelt met the tall,
severe, uncompromising soldier, for whom
he formed an immediate dislike, throw-
ing his support to thd amiable and accom-
modating General Giraud. Mr. Churchill
himself had found it hard to get on with
a man so stiff in opinions that he could
never admit to being wrong, and would
have preferred to deal with the other
general. Their opposition merely strength-
ened De Gaulle’s hold on the French sol-
diers and civilians in Africa and the men
and women of the Resistance Movement
in France. Having complimented Giraud
out of the Committee for National
Liberation, and presently out of his com-
mand, De Gaulle entered Paris on August
25, 1944, universally hailed as The Man,
le Grand Charlie. Sixteen days later he
had formed a Provisional Government,
with himself as President of the Council.
Although he had never been trained
as a politician, he entered upon his task
with strong political convictions. The
root conviction was that the French
needed “a new republic, a fourth repub-
lic,” returned to “the principles of liberty,
equality and fraternity.”* In the working
of the Constitution adopted after the first
of the German wars and (though the
general did not say so) framed in the ex-
pectation that an Orleanist king would
come back, there had developed “an
Upper Chamber elected by indirect suf-
frage, with an indirect veto which pre-
vented urgent reforms, especially in the
social field,” and a Chamber of Deputies
with “an atmosphere of rivalry 7 between
political parties, Parliamentary groups
and personalities, in which, in the end, the
country’s vital interests were altogether
ignored.”
In the 21 years between the end of the last
war and the German invasion of 1940 there
were 20 men as heads of Governments who
among them had formed 45 Cabinets, not
counting minor reshuffles. When war broke
out the exhaustion of the regime and the
necessity of reforming it were evident to all.
The De Gaulle proposals for the estab-
lishing of “a new system which will make
the spirit of justice, efficiency and repub-
licanism live again” were, in the first
place, the election of a Constituent Assem-
bly by universal suffrage (an innovation
in France), for the shaping of a new Con-
stitution, the electors to decide by refer-
endum whether a single Assembly should
do the job or whether its powers should
be divided with the Government. He
asked the electors to vote yes in each case.
The Communists advised or ordered them
to negative the second question.
The general did not find the going easy.
He could have formed a De Gaulle party,
but he elected to stand above all parties,
though, as devout as Foch and De Castel-
nau, the formation of the Popular Repub-
lican Movement composed of so-called
Catholic Leftists must have been con-
genial. The Socialists were, on the
whole, favorable to him, and so were
some of the other groups, though the
event was to prove that these had lost
most of their pre-war support. The Com-
munists were sullenly hostile, their object
being to seize power for themselves and
replace De Gaulle with Jacques Duclos —
whom Moscow employed to snuff out the
American Communist “leader’* Browder
with an article —• or the 1939 army
deserter'and traitor Thorez.
The arrogance of the Communists was
exhibited when the Government an-
nounced that a modified form of P.R.
would obtain at the election, any surplus
of votes to go into a pool confined to the
province or department concerned. Duclos
demanded that this electoral method
should be altered, threatening that unless
De Gaulle gave way “the Left Wing
parties will be obliged to tell the people
that this reactionary form of ballot is the
work of the head of the Government.”
The head of the Government stuck to his
guns. A delegation representative of
Communists, Socialists, Radical Social-
ists, the League of the Rights of Man and
the Unified Movement of Reborn France,
and headed by the secretary-general of
the C.G.T. (which corresponds to our
A.C.T.U.), sent word that it was calling
on the general with a protest. The gen-
eral refused to see it. He afterwards ex-
plained that he could not accept the
C.G.T. as a political organisation or
receive its secretary-general or any other
official in that capacity, since the law
from which it derived its authority
expressly limited its activities ’to the
“study and defence of industrial interests.’
During the election campaign the Com-
munists had high hopes of sweeping the
country and carrying the referendum
limiting the Assembly’s powers. Unfortu-
nately for them Molotov began throwing
his weight about in London, proposing to
the other Foreign Ministers that France
should be excluded from the arrange-
ments for the countries with which they
were dealing, save only Italy. This wound
to French pride was deepened by the elec-
tion propaganda of the Thorez-Duclos
gang: servile to Moscow even when the
party liiie changed, as it did in London,
and impudently anti-national when the
call came from that quarter though
even the Italian Communists joined
or affected to join in objecting to the
Moscow offer of Trieste to its Croat
agent Tito. In the result the Communists
fared very little better than the Socialists
or the new Catholic party, winning only
25 per cent, of the seats. And on the
referendum questions the people fol-
lowed De Gaulle, polling 38,887,0,72 to
554,750 for a single Assembly and
9,582,210 to 4,481,249 for limiting its
powers.
Election and referendum over, the vic-
torious De Gaulle relinquished his powers
as head of the Provisional Government.
The defeated Communists were asked
whether they would share in a unani-
mous Assembly vote for him as head of
the new Government, and in their dis-
tracted state of mind they promised to
do so. But it occurred to them presently
that they might dish De Gaulle and get
round the referendum result (a similar
project has captivated trade-union bosses,
so-called “moderates” as well as Com-
munists, in Australia)’ by refusing him a
unanimous vote —without which, being
the man he is, he would conceivably not
accept office —or coupling its support with
humiliating conditions. Receiving aid
for this plot from fellow-travellers in
other groups, they presented an ulti-
matum to the general. He ignored it,
and the Communists scurried back to
their dens in the Paris Red Belt, from
which came Marat’s butchers and the
murderers and incendiaries of the Com-
mune.
When the Constituent Assembly met it
“unanimously elected De Gaulle Presi-
dent of the Government.” This was not
the end of the matter, for the general
replied that he would take the position
only on express conditions: his Govern-
ment must have an Assembly guarantee
of “cohesion, independence and authority
equal to the tasks facing it,” and it must
be assured of “the co-operation of all
parties.” To him thereupon came the
ruffian Thorez with a demand that the
Ministries of War, Foreign Affairs and
the Interior, or at .least one of them,
should be handed over to Communists.
Being no Slav crawler, De Gaulle bluntly
rejected it, with an appropriate reference
to the Thorez mob’s placing Russian
interests above those of France and shap-
ing their foreign policy “in accordance
with Moscow’s requirements.” To the
Assembly he offered his resignation,
in effect calling upon it to choose between
him and Thorez. This was written before
the Assembly’s attitude was known, but
whatever it may be there can be no
doubt that the patriot so obscure before
the events of May-June, 1940, will take
control of French affairs by the free
choice of three-fourths of the people and
with no string tied to his leadership.
What an object-lesson in moral cour-
age and persistence in the right, as this
Frenchman sees it! What a reproach
to Australia, where, because the Admin-
istration has shown the white feather,
mobs, contemptible in numbers, rage un-
checked, holding up shipping, coal pro-
duction and steel production, proclaim-
ing their contempt for the industrial laws
by hooting and jostling a Judge in the
street, issuing ultimatums to the “Gov-
ernment” to which the “Government”
replies by proposing conferences (that
last resort of the feeble in heart and pur-
pose), even seizing control of foreign
policy to the extent of associating Aus-
tralia with an insurrection of Jap col-
laborators whose hands are stained with
the blood of Australian soldiers. .All
this with hundreds of thousands of ser-
vicemen being discharged, all needing to
be employed, fed, clothed and housed,
Through sheer cowardice in high places
the rights and needs of these men and
their families are being sacrificed to the
lawless proceedings of Communist mobs,
not only unwhipped but unpohced.
The internal situation of the French
j s still bad, and the outlook for their
empire is clouded. Yet because they have
found a Man they may fairly hope to
regain their old eminence among the
nations. In what should be incompar-
ably better circumstances, at home and
abroad, the Australian position is bad,
and it threatens to grow much worse,
because the crowd in office is not show-
ing the faintest sign of courage or energy,
Yet this crowd won an election giving it
control of both Houses on the cry that
the policy of its predecessors was “de-
featist” and that it Saved the Country,
With the Rabaul, Ambon, Java and
1 imor campaigns to answer for, and
with the exhibition they are giving of
being scared stiff in the presence of Com-
™JJ ls * s f Lrce^o^ffieme^who for
three £ aye 1 d the troopship
K atoo mba f rom going to the islands to
bring back war . w s rn Diggers, the alleged
Saviors of the Country will encounter
universal ridicule if they repeat their
boast at the next election,
Winter Conies to Europe.
Anyone questioning that Australia was
during the war and still is a land of
comfortable, approaching luxurious, liv-
ing should have been present in the
House of Commons on October 26, when
the state of Europe facing up to winter
was debated. In the debate Australia
was let off more lightly in direct refer-
ence than a reasonable visitor, acquainted
with some of its “Government’s” home-
front doings and undoings and flon-
doings, might have thought it deserved.
Australia was directly named, but only to
be excused; responsibility for its not doing
more towards helping with urgently needed
food was wholly debited to drought. The
ability of this country to make a hand-
some contribution to the coal required
for warmth and for producing bare
necessities of existence in the cold and
stricken lands was not referred to,
Australians know different —including
those of them responsible for ordering
the limiting of wheatgrowing, for disas-
trous interference in other primary pro-
duction, and for the strikes that prevented
shipments of available food and that
have reduced coal stocks to much less
than this country itself needs, let alone
having any for Europe: it had millions
of tons for export before Communist
larrikinism prevailed. Other Austra-
lians, who would like to see their country
helping to its utmost exporting capacity
to relieve a situation that could have
more dreadful results for civilisation and
take a more horrible toll of human life
than the war itself, are well aware that
Australia was certainly not out of Mr.
Bevin’s mind when he nailed responsi-
bility for what can happen ih Europe
this winter to the “failure of exporting
countries to make a maximum contri-
bution to the needs of the world.”
“Unless more food is provided on an
international basis, particularly by the
exporting countries,” Mr. Bevin said,
“there is danger of a terrible epidemic
in Europe this winter.” An epidemic in
Europe will not remain there. Even
more thoroughly and disastrously than
the war, it will spread to the ends of the
earth; from the lands of cold, devastation,
starvation and mounting disease to the
lands of comfort and plenty. There is
no bridle with this horseman, and he
knows his way about the world. It is
in the ordinary self-interest, apart alto-
gether from humanitarianism, for all the
favored lands, like Australia, to help in
checking him before he sets out, if it
can be done. Many Australians are help-
ing in a private way ; but no lead comes
from the “Government.”
As in the war, Britain itself has con-
tributed high above its share.' Still on
rations and with all manner of short-
ages that Australians would regard as a
starvation level if forced down to it,
Britain has exported all that it could
spare—more than it could spare —and
goes on living under war-time conditions
to try to stave off the threat. There they
are closer to the menace, and so are
able to realise —as, at this distance,
people lacking imagination may be ex-
cused for not grasping—what it could
mean to them and to the world.
Facing up to the possibility of the
“terrible epidemic,” Mr. Bevin pointed
out that the 1918-1919 influenza “killed
more people than we lost in that war,”
and that “hunger and privation might
bring human loss in Europe more devas-
tating than the gun or even the atomic
bomb.”
What Britain itself was doing for
Europe, Mr. Bevin designated as “build-
ing a defence.” Britain, he said, was
doing the best it could for the victims, try-
ing to build a cordon sanitaire by feed-
ing them as much as it could; but “the
resistance in Britain itself, with a few
ounces of fat a week a head, is pretty
low.” That is, Britain, through no fault
of its own, and while doing as great a
job in this respect as in others towards
ensuring not losing the peace as it did
towards winning the war, stands wide
open to a possible invasion more horrible
than the Germans threatened or could
ever have accomplished, and which no
amount of fighting on the beaches and in
the streets could hold out.
An Australia in a generous and co-
operative mood, as eager to win the
peace as its fighting men, at least, were
to win the war, could now be making as
notable a contribution in this field as its
fighting men did in the other. “We must
look to the exporting countries,” Mr.
Bevin insisted, “to make a much bigger
contribution.” Australia was only one
of those he had in mind.
By-passing this country, he instanced
the wheat being fed to livestock in North
America and the maize being burned for
fuel by Argentina, Here, the Foreign
Secretary implied, was yet another of
those triumphs of politics over common-
sense which had led the world to war and
other disaster in the past. “There are
great political differences in regard to
Argentina.” Hence, that country cannot
get the oil it needs for fuel; therefore, it
burns maize, which, if made available
to the United States, Canada and Britain,
would permit the diverting of the extra-
needed wheat to Europe —a “perfectly
commonsense” procedure, but “politics
intervened.” Yet “the demands that have
been made by Field-Marshal Mont-
gomery, General Eisenhower and others
for wheat must be supplied if we are to
avoid a disaster this winter; but it must
come from the countries where the wheat
is,”
Even if the wheat and the coal
and other essential supplies for carrying
Europe without a “terrible epidemic”
through this current winter should reach
there, the problem still might not be
solved ; and the core of the problem
would again be that brand of politics
which runs counter to commonsense,
ordinary humanitarianism and every
other consideration in the interest of a
greedy, and in the long run stupid,
Leftism. The supplies would still
have to be speedily distributed. In refer-
ence to this Mr. Bevin spoke to a point
which has evidently troubled his mind
more than any other since he became
Foreign Secretary, and his views on which
have made his name anathema in Mos-
cow and elsewhere among those who
take their orders from that quarter; at
the moment, for Australia and other
countries, to disrupt and confuse* and to
prevent export of anything that might be
available.
Mr. Bevin listed among the vital means
of distribution the waterways of Europe;
brought up for discussion by America at
the Council of' Foreign Ministers, with
Britain’s concurrence, and, like the rest,
wrecked by Russian refusal to co-operate.
If “strategy and spheres of influence”
could be got out of the picture, Mr.
Bevin declared, nothing could do so much
to rehabilitate Europe as to set up com-
missions for the Oder, the Rhine, the Elbe
and the Danube. If that had been agreed
on America was quite willing to “bring
in the great machinery she possesses to
to try at once to clear those rivers.” “If
that were done,” Mr. Bevin said, “it would
not endanger Russia one iota —or any
other country.” As it is, parts of the
rivers are cleared and parts are not, and
supplies of all sorts, from immediate
needs to fertilisers, without which “the
harvest will be bad next year,” are thereby
held up. “Whatever we [the Allied nations
and all others eager to win the peace]
have to settle in our future relations,”
Mr. Bevin pleaded, “let us use every eco-
nomic resource we have to stop the ordi-
nary man and woman, who is not a
party to this quarrel, suffering and starv-
ing.”
Instead, what is sometimes flattered with
the name of “high politics” steps into the
fields stained with the blood of the fight-
ing men, doing its best, or worst, to help
make the peace harder to win than it
should be; almost certainly sowing the
seed of future war, and probably the seed
of that which could shadow the two big
wars combined in the toll of human life
and the causing of human misery. And
not only, of course, so-called “high
politics,” but also national politics,
like the brand prevailing in Australia,
so low in calibre, craven in action and
narrow and provincial in outlook that the
one aim would seem to be to uphold the
country’s claim to whatever fame attaches
to being the Fools’ Paradise of the earth,
and be hanged to any needs of Europe or
to what the spectre of winter may be
preparing in that quarter for a grim
visitation!


PLAIN ENGLISH
Canada Beats Us.
Reports on two loans, given to news-
papers about the same time, and here
published in parallel columns:
AUSTRALIA.
When the Fourth
Victory Loan closed
after a 10-day exten-
sion, subscriptions
were still £1,500,000
below the £85,000,000
sought and subscribers
numbered only 225,000.
Announcing the re-
sult, Chifley said
“For a community
which undoubtedly
controls a volume of
spending power tre-
mendously in excess
°f its immediate
needs— to which Sav-
ings Bank deposits
and betting statistics
bear eloquent testi-
mony—this is a poor
result .... disquieting
in the extreme.”
CANADA.
Canada’s Ninth
Victory Loan has
closed with the objec-
tive of $1,500,000,000
(£A425,000,000) well
surpassed. The total
received to November
10 already exceeds the
objective by more
than $300,000,000
(£A85,000,000), and it
is expected that when
the final count is
made the total will
reach between
$1,900,000,000 and
$2,000,000,000 (be-
tween £A538,000,000
and £A567,000,000).
An average of
slightly more than
one in five persons in
the country bought
bonds in the loan,
subscribers totalling
2,546,000.
The 2,546,000 Canadians subscribed
their $1,800,000,000 in 19 days, their loan
having been launched on October 22. To
reach the Australian total of 225,000
persons who subscribed £83,500,000 it
took 46 days, September 25 having been
the opening date. The difference would
be humiliating to this country if it were
an isolated occurrence, but much the
same thing happened in the case of war
loans put on the market contemporane-
ously (or near it) by the Canadian Liberal
Government and the Australian Labor
Government.
Are Canadians more patriotic than
Australians? Are they prouder of their
country and its war effort, more mindful
of what they owe to their servicemen and
more determined to protect them (and
themselves) against inflation? So it would
seem, though these are not questions
which should be hastily answered.
Some things with a bearing on both
financial operations are certain. Unlike
Australians, Canadians have not been
taught by Labor politicians and trade-
union bosses (they haven’t many of either)
to hate and despise investors as robbers
and grinders of the faces of the poor.
They value free enterprise, and do pot
plague it with continual strikes or con-
stantly threaten it with “nationalisation,”
nor are they encouraged by their Govern-
ments and their newspapers and their
radio stations to gamble. There are no
Government-controlled lotteries in Canada
as there are in four Australian States—
in N. S. Wales, while Mr. Chifley was
trying to beat up loan subscriptions, there
were 20 State Government lotteries “of
100,000 at ss. 3d.” in Sydney alone, and
many more of varying amounts in Bris-
bane, Hobart and Perth. Nor in Canada
did the national Government or any of
the nine provincial Governments devote
part of the war period to establishing a
racing club with the backing of the
Treasury, as was done in Sydney by
“Labor.”
In Canada, not the gambling spirit but
the investing spirit is encouraged, and
very obviously the national Government
has the confidence of investors. Just as
obviously our national Government —to
give it a title which it has forfeited—has
lost the confidence of investors, and no
Chifley railing will restore it.
With the steady support of the nation
the Canadian Government has made gen-
erosity a national policy. Its gifts to all
its allies, Australia among them, have
been magnificent. Begun early in the
German war, this policy has been con-
tinued since the German war ended, being
expressed in a long list of loans and
credits to distressed countries. None of
these countries ever seeks accommodation
in Australia, nor is any Australian food
ship bringing gifts from the Government
in the nation’s name ever seen in a
British or European port. From the
Piraeus round to Oslo Canadian food
ships, the nation bearing the whole cost
of purchase, loading and sea carriage, are
familiar sights.
In short, Canada really seems *to be-
lieve that “righteousness exalteth a
nation.” In Australia the grand old Scrip-
tural truth has ceased to be a maxim
of Governments, naked selfishness and
propagation of naked selfishness being the
rule.
.
Another Bennett Inquiry.
The whisper along the Molonglo is
that the Cabinet was badly divided over
the General Bennett business, one sec-
tion holding that it was almost tanta-
mount to lese majeste for the Com-
mander-in-Chief to bring into question
the “decision” which Cabinet arrived at
early in 1942, without a tittle of inde-
pendent evidence to support it, that the
general’s escape was fully justified. In
the end, a public inquiry was agreed to
mainly for the perennial reason which
actuates the “Government” in such
matters —that it would take the respon-
sibility off the “Government’s” droop-
ing shoulders.
There should rather be a general in-
quiry into the campaigns in Malaya, New
Britain, Ambon, Timor and Java, and
into the horrible Sandakan affair on
the point whether the victims could not
have been helped to escape. In the
Malaya part of the inquiry Britain should
be asked to take part, as Australia was
asked to take part in the Gallipoli inquiry,
and did, being represented by Andrew
Fisher. Those who lost sons, brothers
and husbands in New Britain, Ambon,
Timor and Java have received only scraps
of information from Canberra. They,
and those who lost sons, brothers and
husbands in Malaya and in the terrible
prison-camp aftermath, have every right
to demand that the full facts should be
brought out and published and the re-
sponsibility placed on the right shoulders
.by independent and war-wise men.
"’Labor's* Foreign Policy."
It was announced last week that Dr.
Evatt had been “elected chairman of the
Far Eastern Advisory Council Policy
Committee.” This earth-shaking intelli-
gence followed a newspaper dispatch
drearily familiar in tone, and might as
well have preceded the thing, the inspira-
tion being evident:
General MacArthur’s administration of
Japan is being called into serious question
by delegates to the Far Eastern Advisory
Council. The fear has been expressed
round the Commission table —where Russia
is notably absent—that General Mac-
Arthur’s natural leanings favor a restora-
tion of powerful conservative civilians and
against any rise in democracy fostered by
farmer-worker A proposal has
been advanced in secret session that an
Allied investigatory group should visit
Japan to check the extent to which the
general directives by President Truman and
the State Department are being carried
out. Although some suggestions may be
submitted to the President for changes in
these directives—one, favored by China
and Australia, would be to remove the
Emperor from the throne —the chief con-
cern of the other Powers is to make the
directives effective.
So, having tried to fasten a quarrel on
the British which was not accepted, our
wandering Minister is now going to
meddle in General MacArthur’s business,
and, among other things, try to induce
him to “remove the Emperor from the
throne.” So far the general has done a
very good job—a far better job than the
Four-Power military governors have
done in Germany, where famine and pes-
tilence are threatened on an immense
scale, largely because myriads of starv-
ing wretches, expelled, with Russia’s per-
mission, from Communist-controlled
Czechoslovakia and Poland, are crowd-
ing into the ill-supplied British zone. It
would be an unspeakably shabby return
for General MacArthur’s services to Aus-
tralia to interfere in his work, in Japan
and perhaps make it impossible for him
to carry on.
And what’s this about Australia being
in favor of removing the Emperor from
the throne? The matter has not been
discussed in Australia, except by members
of the Evatt newspaper claque—it has
certainly not been debated in Parliament.
There is never any Parliamentary debate
on foreign policy if Dr. Evatt can help it.
Dragging the Emperor off the throne
when Dr. Evatt first wanted it done would
have meant that many Australians, fight-
ing men and prisoners-of-war, would
now be dead, and that many more would
have died.
Dr. Evatt should come home and attend
to the Communists whom he, as Attorney-
General, whitewashed —they have nearly
wrecked industrial arbitration in the pro-
cess of sabotaging reconstruction, and
are carrying out an anti-Dutch policy in
the interests of colored Communists,
headed by Jap “collaborationists,” whom
the British have had to fight in Java.
And he has yet to answer for his part
in the Australia First cases. The report
of the Bankruptcy Judge within the
limited terms of the commission handed
to him and the apology of Mr. Forde
to the eight men vindicated and “com-
pensated,” after a fashion, are so unsatis-
factory that they are certain to be fol-
lowed up in Parliament. Dr. Evatt’s
yoomanitarianism is here involved as
well as his responsibility as Attorney-
General. He is yoomanitarianism incar-
nate —didn’t he get terribly worked up
about the British treatment of the Tol-
puddle martyrs?
Another reason why Dr. Evatt should
return immediately, if not sooner, has
been furnished by two young gentlemen
employed by Mr. Calwell’s Department
of Information to broadcast “informa-
tion” to America and Asia on short-
wave. One, a Mr. Michael Keon, in-
dulged in an impassioned defence of the
“Government’s” return of the “1400
Indonesians” to their homeland per the
Esperance Bay—armed guard aboard and
an Australian destroyer handy. Young
Mr. Keon incautiously admitted that “the
Australian authorities gave the Indo-
nesians' the alternative of being deported
to some Australian territory,” but main-
tained that they “acted with patience,
commonsense and justice.”
The other young gentleman, a Mr.
Sawer, allowed that “the Indonesians, in
a thoroughly irresponsible fashion, tried
to establish control of the ship.” As for
the policy of “the Australian authori-
ties,” it would have been “very easy for
Australia to follow the letter of inter-
national law and allow the Dutch authori-
ties to take such disciplinary steps as they
thought fit in respect of these 1400 strik-
ing Indonesians.”
However, Australia cannot be blind to
the fact that 40,000,000 Indonesians in the
near north may well, in the long run, be
more important to our security, not to
mention our trade and commerce, than the
few thousand Dutch who have hitherto con-
trolled that area, and whose control is now
being disputed. Moreover, a Labor Gov-
ernment in Australia is necessarily in-
fluenced by conceptions of emancipation
and advance to self-government of subject
peoples.
Young Mr. Sawer went on to criticise
the attitude of the U.S.A, and Britain: —•
The U.S. has attempted, like Pontius
Pilate, to wash its hands of the matter.
However, it is impossible for the U.S.A. to
do this Incidentally a large number of
American oil experts are now actually in
Singapore and Batavia. Many of them
are married to Dutch women and have a
thoroughly pro-Dutch outlook of the
present dispute.
The U.S. Government is in practice
underwriting the policy being currently pur-
sued by Lord Louis Mountbatten The
element of hypocrisy here is that these
British activities must inevitably have the
effect of gaining ports to which the Dutch
have access, introducing some Dutch forces
and establishing the general condition under
which the Dutch can reassert their authority.
Mr. Chifley, when acquainted with the
substance of the Keon-Sawer essays in
foreign policy, said he was “unaware
that these broadcasts were being made,”
“and they do not represent Government
policy.” Mr. Calwell said he would “call
for transcripts.”
Not only Mr, Keon and Mr. Sawer
and the Communists are presuming to
speak for Australia on its foreign policy.
Other little Evatts are imitating the Boss.
They and the Boss and his associated
Ministers have forgotten two clauses of
“the Anzac agreement,” on which the
Boss was so voluble not long ago; •
. No change in the sovereignty of any of
the islands of the Pacific should be effected
except as the result of an agreement to
which they [Australia and New Zealand]
are parties.
Security can best be ensured by a system
of defences based on the island screen
to the north, involving co-operation with
Britain, with the United States and with
Holland.
The Menzies view is that “It is idle
for anyone to pretend that the views
expressed over the short-wave station will
not be accepted abroad as those of the
Australian Government,” and also that
“many of us are heartily sick of the con-
stantly aggressive, anti-British, crude and
ill-balanced foreign policy.” This man
seems to have forgotten nothing.
A Tale of Three Cities.
They are Melbourne, Sydney and Adel-
aide, placed in the order of their Lord
Mayors’ Food for Britain appeals. Mel-
bourne has about 1,000,000 people, Syd-
ney about 1,250,000, Adelaide about
350,000.
The Melbourne appeal was launched
late in * October. On November 8 the
cash donations totalled £l7,ooo—includ-
ing £3OOO from the schools and £2OOO
from the V.A.T.C. Sydney’s appeal dates
from November 1, when £3408 was sub-
scribed —£2750 by one family. On
November 14 “the only cash donation
was 10s. . . . Lord Mayor Harding said
the fund had £BOOO in hand.” Adelaide
began on November 7 ; on November 10
“subscriptions received during the day
from over 200 donors amounted to £9195,
bringing the total to £30,609,”
The Adelaide appeal is receiving great
press publicity, and people are advancing
many ideas to help it along, including a
“guest-from-Britain” Sunday, when fami-
lies will set a vacant place at the table
to remind them of Britain’s need and
place money in the empty plate. Press
references to the appeals in Sydney and
Melbourne are casual and fragmentary.
Melbourne “Herald” ran a story telling
how British servicemen throughout the
world are sending * home 80,000 food
parcels a month, presumably because it
had nothing to report from its Lord
Mayor’s appeal.
Adelaide, £30,000.; Melbourne, £17,000;
Sydney, £8000! The two Big Cities had
better wake up before Woomelang and
Wee Waa swing into competition.
Transport Strangulation.
If the recent war and the recent immi-
nence of an Asiatic invader taught Aus-
tralia anything it taught it the value of
good road communications and the
criminal folly of depending upon out-
moded and broken-gauged railways as a
means of transporting men and materials
to various points. When the war arrived
it caught this country with its motor-
transport industry hobbled and ham-
strung by stupid State Transport Acts,
deliberately designed to drive motor-
lorries and passenger buses off country
roads. Thus the new Diggers went into
a mechanised war per train, and had to
wait upon Britain and America before
being fully equipped with necessary
motor vehicles.
Well, the lesson has been learnt —but
not by State Governments. Two inci-
dents this month show pretty clearly that
the transport-strangulation policies are
to go on.
The Queensland Minister of Trans-
port has said no new heavy-vehicle
licences will be issued until there has
been “a complete examination of the
whole transport problem of the State
and a policy publicly announced.”
In Victoria, when Commonwealth Food
Control attempted the carriage by road
of cabbages from the Orbost district, the
State Transport Board insisted on their
carriage by rail. In the result many
arrived in the city unfit for use and, since
Food Control had contracted for their
purchase from the growers, the loss may
amount to £lO,OOO. Transport officials
have acted thus in the face of food con-
trol and dehydration experts.
These State transport laws were an out-
rage to the nation in 1939. Their continu-
ance into the post-war years will cripple
a great work-providing industry, in the
process depriving people of fresh food
and fast and comfortable travel.
Mudslinger's Reply.
From Thomas Aikens, Parliament House,
Brisbane:
My attention has been drawn to an article
written by a person under the nom-de-plume
“Norther” in your issue of October 31.
As I am a representative of the decent', hard-
working section of the Australian community,
it can be readily understood that I do not pur-
chase a Bulletin of my own volition. There
was a time when your paper was recognised as
the working-man’s Bible and you, yourself,
know just in what light it is regarded by every
Australian working-man today.
The article was typical of the journalism for
which The Bulletin has become notorious. It
merely takes short extracts here and there from
speeches that lasted well over an hour and
occupied several pages of “Hansard.” Naturally,
it was to be expected that “Norther’s” fine-
toothcomb would only be responsible for the
publication of extracts that could be distorted
to suit his own particular purpose. Let me re-
mind you of some of the statements in my
speeches that “Norther” did not include in his
article.
That won’t do. The Bulletin is con-
cerned only with the Aikens “charges,”
made under cover of privilege, referred
to in its article: the “charges” that the
distinguished Australian Dr. Cilento, born
at Jamestown (S.A.) in 1893, is “a liar, a
thief, a perjurer, a. blackmailer, a false
witness, a traitor,” is “in Europe serving
Fascist interests” (he has an important
position on U.N.R.R.A., and when
appointed to it he was hailed by
the Manchester “Guardian” as one of
Australia’s greatest health authori-
ties) ; is himself “a trusted Fascist agent,”
•though so vile that “he volunteered to act
as a pimp and spy on other Italians in
order to save his measly hide,” and was so
false to his medical oath that “he ordered
the Townsville doctors that if Sister
Kenny ever became ill she was to be
allowed to die like a dog.”
In no part of the Aikens “reply” (more
than half of it consists of extracts from
the speeches of a Mr. Pie which have
nothing tfc do with' the case) is there a
shred of evidence in support of any of
these foul “charges.” Since the Labor
Government, very properly defending an
eminent public servant in his absence,
in effect gave this M.L.A. the lie,
there rests upon him the duty of re-
peating the “charges” in public, failing
which he will convict himself of being a
common slanderer, and yellow.


YOU WILL NEVER BE YOUNGER
Premiums will never be lower
Take out an “A.C.A.” Policy.
• Could your dependants carry on without your salary in the event of your death ?
Can you look forward with certainty to a nest-egg in your old age? If the answer
is “No,” just consider how a whole-life or endowment policy will protect you and your
family, and for what little half-yearly cost I
• In its tenth year the Australasian Catholic Assurance Co., Ltd., com-
menced paying Bonuses out of Profits, and has continued to do so since. Few
offices in the world can beat that performance.
Australasian. Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, .LTD.
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney,
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Branch Offices;
Victoria : A.C.A. Building, 118—126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen S'treet, Brisbane.
South Australia : Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia; Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States ,
BOOKS FOR ALL TASTES
Years of Victory. 1802-1812. An outstanding
book by Arthur Bryant, author of “The
Years of Endurance,” “English Saga.” 15/-
(post. 6d.).
Australian Poetry, 1944. Selected by R. G.
Howarth. An excellent gift book. 4/6
(post. 2d.).
Coast to Coast. Australian Stories, 1944.
Selected by Vance Palmer. 7/6 (post. 3d.).
Gardens in Australia, Their design and care,
by Edna Walling, with 150 beautiful illus-
trations. 21/- (post. Bd.).
Waltzing Matilda. A background to Australia
by Arnold L.-Haskell, with 35 illustrations.
16/- (post. 6d.).
Matilda Waltzes with the Tommies. By Mary
Kent Hughes. 7/6 (post. 3d.).
The Price of Admiralty. By Paul McGuire.
This book tells a vivid story of H.MjA.S.
“Parramatta” from her launching at Sydney
to her loss in action off Tobruk. 15/-
(post. 6d.).
Place, Taste and Tradition. A study of Aus-
tralian art since 1788, by Bernard Smith.
This book is lavishly Illustrated and no
other book gives such a complete survey of
Australian art. 21/- (post. 6d.).
Physical Education. By E. H. de Maistre,
Director of Physical Education at the Uni-
versity of Sydney. With Preface by Pro-
fessor Harvey Sutton, an Introduction by
Professor F. S. Cotton, with 67 diagrams.
This is the most comprehensive book on
Physical Education that has so far been pub-
lished. 11/6 (post. 6d.).
Tobruk. Capture—Siege—Relief. By Chester
Wilmot, A.B.C. War Correspondent with the
A.I.F. in the Middle East. 15/- (post. 6d.).
The Fall of Paris. An epic story of the French
Debacle of 1940 by Ilya Bhrenburg, the
famous Soviet author. A Stalin Prize novel.
10/6 (post. 4d.).
Caesar and Christ. A history of Roman Civili- “
sation and of Christianity from their begin-
nings to A.D. 325, by Will Durant, author of
“The Story of Philosophy.” 38/- (post. 1/-).
Digest of World Reading. Tenth Anniversary.
With an introduction by Professor Walter A.
Murdoch. 12/6 (post. 1/-).
The Island World. An anthology of the
Pacific. Edited by Charles Barrett. 8/6
(post. 3d.).
Berlin Hotel. A new novel by' Yicki Baum. A
most exciting realistic story. 8/6 (post. 3d.).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON. LTD., 89 Castlereagh St.. Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
As if determined in a serio-comic mood
on the fulfilment of a Bulletin prophecy,
published on October 24, that “the Mac-
farlan Ministry” would “be out of its
misery in twice ten days,” Macfarlan
called at Government House on Novem-
ber 13 with the resignation of all hands
and the advice that Sir Winston Dugan
should send for Cain. Cain asked for
time, hoping that he would get a party
majority. He didn’t, and there is an
A.L.P. executive rule against Labor tak-
ing office without a party majority. How-
ever, there is to be a Labor Government
for a time; and there will be another
Assembly election long before the due
date.
When Truman and Churchill, with the
secret of the atomic bomb in their keep-
ing, issued the Potsdam ultimatum to
Japan, Dr. Evatt was in a terrible state
because he had not been consulted. Last
week Truman, Attlee and Mackenzie
King met at Washington to consider
atomic-bomb policy, Dr. Evatt being ex-
cluded again. A Sydney “Sun” corre-
spondent noted with mild astonishment
(his paper is or was a member of
the Evatt claque) that “the headline-hunt-
ing Dr. Evatt” had “brought no pressure
on London and Ottawa” ; but the en-
forced abstinence must have hurt.
To the indignation of Leftist writers
and “scientific workers,” the atomic-bomb
secret is not to be communicated to Mos-
cow. Truman, Attlee and Mackenzie
King “are prepared to share, on a recip-
rocal basis, with others of the United
Nations detailed information concerning
the practical industrial application of
atomic energy,” but only if “effective and
enforceable safeguards against its use for
destructive purposes can be devised.”
“Safeguards” are to be made effective “by
way of inspection and other means to
protect complying States against the
hazards of violations and evasions.” And
they should obviously require the aban-
donment of civil war as an instrument of
Communist-imperialism. One of these
civil wars, designed to transfer border
provinces to the customary address, as a
preliminary to “absorption” of the whole
country, was raging in Persia while the
Washington discussions were in progress.
In flagrant contempt of the represen-
tations of Clunies Ross (the vet.-profes-
sor). Bishop Pilcher, Professor Stone and
other Sydney worthies whose hearts bleed
for the Jews in Palestine and Europe but
whose persons remain stationary objects,
Britain and U.S.A. are referring the im-
migration question to a committee of
inquiry which is expected to report in
1947. The gaining of American consent
was a considerable victory for Bevin and
Attlee, who seems to have made a hit
in the U.S.A. There followed a strike in
Tel-Aviv, with senseless destruction and
some bloodshed ; but after a few days the
claims of bithneth prevailed.
Things must be going badly with the
Communist strikes in the iron and steel
industries at Port Kembla and New-
castle. Anyway, Hamilton Knight, the
Sydney Minister of Labor and Industry,
has been moved to say something which
is interpreted to mean that he considers
them hopeless. Previously he had been
heard in a whine that B.H.P. refused to
meet the bosses of the Ironworkers’
Federation, which has been deregistered
by his own Industrial Commission and
prevented by a Commonwealth Arbitra-
tion Judge from wiping out its anti-Com-
munist Balmain branch. The whine was
in keeping with H. Knight’s reputation
fer being the most wormlike member of
a wormlike Ministry,
The N.S.W, Parliamentary Liberals re-
elected Alec Mair leader of the Opposi-
tion. Nobody opposed him; Treatt was
content to take the deputy’s position,
which at least puts a younger man in
line of succession. These Libs, have yet
to realise that their best political bets lie
in the direction of picking young men
and taking chances on them.
When Commonwealth Ministers Street,
Fairbairn and Gullett were killed in the
crash of an aircraft near Canberra in
1941, a rule was laid down that Ministers
were not to travel by air in groups. It
was never strictly observed, and recently
Chifley and his deputy arranged to fly
to Melbourne together. The ’plane de-
veloped engine trouble before they left,
and another was brought from Melbourne
to take them south. Had the engine
trouble developed a few minutes after
starting instead of a few minutes before,
somebody by now might have laid down
another rule about Ministers not travel-
ling in the same ’plane.
Evatt is the only Foreign Minister or
the like who has attached himself to
WRONG MAN AND ADDRESS.
“Refusing a Communist demand for at least one of the key portfolios. War, Foreign Affairs
and Interior, General de Gaulle returned his ‘mandate’ to the Constituent Assembly, which
had unanimously elected him President.”
“Is it that I am Chifley? Is it that this is Canberra? Non!”
the washout Far Eastern Advisory
Commission. The American delegation
is headed by an Assistant Secre-
tary of State, one of a number, and in-
cludes the venerable and amiable but not
now important Mr. Nelson Johnson. Aus-
tralia’s interests could be sufficiently pro-
tected by its representative at Washing-
ton, who has a sinecure when the wander-
ing Minister is within 2000 miles.
A nine weeks’ strike of printers in
N.S.W. commercial offices was ended by
a ballot which should have been taken
beforehand: 2713 for work; 1274 for
strike. Effects were to hold up the pro-
duction of cartons in which food is packed
for Britain and to spoil the Christmas
market for writers and artists with publi-
cations on the way. Printers are good
fellows, and they wouldn’t have brought
about either result of set purpose. Reck-
less union leadership and lack of imagi-
nation are among our national weak-
nesses.
A Melbourne widow and seven chil-
dren live in a house with four rooms, a
sleep-out and a small kitchen. Living
with them are three daughters, two sons-
in-law just discharged from the fighting
services, two babies and another daughter
and her infant, with a soldier-husband
awaiting discharge in the offing. To cap
this the widow learned by a wire that
another daughter with three babies and
a husband awaiting discharge were com-
ing “to home and mother.” It is nearly
time Canberra appointed another hous-
ing department.
Opposition-leader Nicklin has revived
the old, uncomfortable question of why
Queensland’s Government railways charge
much higher fares from Brisbane to sea-
side resorts on the north coast than to
those on the south coast. An instance
in point is that an excursion return to
Southport (50 miles) costs 10s. first and
6s. 9d. second; ope to Landsborough (51
miles) 16s. and 13s. 6d. respectively. A
feeble Ministerial reply was that, the
north coast had “only lately come into
prominence,” and that “it is a matter
which can be looked into,” Same ques-
tion was asked and same reply given ten
years ago.
By a “dispensation,” the Common-
wealth Bank has allowed the trading
banks to buy Government bonds in
“recent weeks.” A Nat. Sec. Reg. pre-
vented them from doing se without Com-
monwealth Bank approval and the reg.
was made permanent in the new Banking '
Act. One reason for the “dispensation”:
Buying demand needs to be sustained so
that industry may turn into cash reconstruc-
don reserves held in bonds during the war.
ciere'S taL^ S sh?S[d ?hes fi r£
serves by taking up bonds relinquished by
industry: At the same time, their support
is a valuable factor, helping to maintain
market prices so as to safeguard small war-
loan investors from possible loss on realisa-
tion.
c „ .i* , , , ~ , . ...
So the dashed things can t be done With-
out after all.
“Pnr»r rdd
Boor old Holloway has been
bumbling round Canberra and other
places mumbling about another powers
referendum Perham hernnco be i* r»n*t
reierenoum. Ferna p s orcause ne is past
Ward S age-limit for Judges (not Mims-
ters) he can’t hear the Australia-wide
snnrt nf derision at the snaaestinn •
,° r . aension at me suggestion.
Who d give more power to a mob that
isn’t game to use what power it has!”
It has been asserted that ill-health is
forcing the political retirement of Wil-
son, of Wimmera, one of the two Inde-
pendents who put the Curtin Govern-
ment into office. Medical opinion in poli-
tical circles admits that the patient may
have suffered a severe shock after view-
ing his future prospects in his electorate
but even pessimists are prepared to bet
Spanish onion to a pine cone that he may
make a swift recovery in the New Yea
upon the administration of a suitabl
Golden Pill by Dr. Chifley.
Dick Casey, of the unique record —
First Fleet A.I.F. in 1914, Cabinet Min
ister, diplomatic Minister, first Australian
to hold British Ministerial office (with
seat in Churchill’s War Cabinet) while
citizen of his own country, first Austra
lian Governor of Bengal—is coming
home in March, and naturally he i
already the prey of narks and prophets
One of the narks is the noisy Calwell
who, during the Victorian election cam-
paign, accused Casey of having deserter
his country in the time of dire peril, II;
there was any service to which an Aus-
tralian could have devoted himself more
vital to its safety than the organisation
of supplies for Middle East defence anc
the North African campaigns at the time
of dire peril Calwell is asked to name
it. His own performance at that period
was ignoble—and useless. It is taken
for granted that Casey will return to poli-
tics, and the chances are that he will
come out again for his old electorate of
Corio, in which he was never defeated.
The Y.M.C.A., the Boy Scouts, the
Church Lads’ Brigade and the Girls’
Friendly Society were wise in refusing to
send delegates to the alleged Youth Con-
ference in London. It resolved itself into
a Leftist show, the U.S.S.R. being
“represented by 50 delegates nominated
by the Government.” “Nobody chal-
lenged” their assertion that “the greatest
contribution to the victory of the United
Nations was made by the Red Army.”
Australia was “represented” by a Mr.
Herbert Williams, aged 26, a member of
the Eureka Youth League, and a Mr.
Macbryan, an Oxford undergraduate.
Neither paid “any tribute to the heroism
of the imperial forces,” the “British and
Dominion delegates” reserving “compli-
ments for the Russians and criticism for
the British forces now keeping law and
order in the Far East,” Australia House
professes ignorance of Mr. Herbert Wil-
liams and Mr. Macbryan, but presumably
Dr. Evatt knows all about them.
Stalin is reported to be sick, to be in
the U.S.A., to be resting and to be on a
holiday—usually euphemisms for assas-
sination in Oriental countries —and the
marshals are said to be fighting one an-
other for the succession to the Kremlin
throne. The political leaders don’t seem
to be playing any part in this Soviet
drama, and it always goes that way. All
the politicians have done is to create a
power that was bound to destroy them.
The people who have all the prestige in
Russia today are not the so-called spokes-
men of the workers but the successful
generals, and they are as likely volun-
tarily to give up their power as that pigs
might fly.
From Canberra:
When Beasley leaves for London one of the
things he’ll have to make up his mind finally
about is whether he’ll stay there as Resident
Minister and remain M.H.R. for West' Sydney
(the electors permitting in each case), or whether
he will take the High Commissionership, in-
volving a five-years appointment, and let West
Sydney go. A great deal will depend on his
estimate of political chances in the waterside
electorate; the Lang group is increasingly for-
midable there. If he does become High Com-
missioner he will push along an already-
nibbled-at proposal that Dominion representa-
tives in each other’s capitals should have dip-
lomatic status higher than that of a High Com-
sioner. Here the H.Cs. of Canada, New Zea-
land and India rank below the diplomats from
U.S., Russia and the Netherlands.


MELODY FOR THE MAROONED.
"This is Bing Forde crooning one of the songs all you soldiers love—‘You’ll be Home for Christmas, but Only in Your Dreams."


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Tuart”: Melbourne “Herald” pub-
lished a disparaging account, written by
one of its young men in London, of the
Lord Mayor’s procession, the first for
seven years:
A meagre, shoddy cavalcade in which the
military contingents .look bored, and a
handful of Beefeaters and Pikemen fail to
recapture the glow of pre-war pageantry.
However, it closed with a poetic touch:
But the Wren church belfries are pealing
their message to the London skies with the
voice that Milton knew.
Pleasing, but, I fear, unhistorical. Milton
died on November 8, 1674, and the first
stone of Wren’s St. Paul’s wasn’t laid till
June 21, 1675, nor was the choir open
for use till December 2, 1697. As for
Wren’s other churches, my encyclopaedia
states that though “construction of ten
began four years after the Great Fire”
(September, 1666), “the 51 churches re-
built were not completed when the cen-
tury ended.” And the belfries, I should
say, would be rather late.
*** - *
“Over-proof”: Old-time actor-managers
really staged their plays. When Bland
Holt was producing “A Life of Pleasure”
at Sydney Royal, he had a part in which
he was to ride for reinforcements. From
the front of the stage a series of little
platforms, camouflaged as rocks, led to
the flies. Up this the horse went in
springing jumps and, after being out of
sight some time, came down again lead-
ing the reinforcements. Holt had a super,
dressed exactly as himself, who was to
change places and ride the nag off while
Holt went up to lead it back again. On
the opening night the horse missed the
first jump and fell over backwards. The
super, promptly got it up, remounted,
turned and went at the jumps again.
Holt took the many curtain calls and
applause for his “horsemanship” with the
calmness and aplomb of one who rode
the jumps every day.
* * * ♦
“Strict Veg.”: It is gratifying to learn
that the scientists, who seem to be able to
do almost anything these days, from
making atomic bombs to canning cab-
bages, have had a major setback. An
attempt was made by Britain’s Ministry
of Food to dehydrate beer but the ex-
periments were a failure. The leading
beer expert, Professor Hopkins, of Bir-
mingham University, announces that if
you dehydrate beer you have first to re-
move the water and then the alcohol-
result, no beer.
* * * *
“Pookie” on humbug and art:
There is a curious hypnosis related to the
study of works of art, provided the study is
intense enough. I saw a few prints of New
Masters recently, among them one by Gauguin.
Two weak-kneed native women stared blankly
into space; behind them, a greasy strip of
beach and a pallid sea. A drooping black
dog, apparently in the final stages of some
deadly canine malady, completed the ensemble.
Everything about the picture seemed wrong.
No sea, certainly no Pacific sea, was ever that
sickly hue. And if these were Polynesian
belles I found it hard to comprehend why
Gauguin had ever left Paris. Yet, after a
time, I imagined I could see something more
in the picture—all sorts of subtleties of thought.
I went away deeply impressed, and almost con-
verted, until I happened to glance at some of
my small nephew’s scribblings. Odd expressions
in eyes which were slightly askew, exotic
combinations of faces with no noses and giraffe-
necked women who had no mouths gave me
precisely the same impression after I had
stared at them long enough. Like seeing figures
in clouds, or in trees at night. So I reached
the conclusion that with a little ballyhoo more
than beauty can lie in the eye of the beholder.
Or, for that matter, the ear. A. E. McDonald
has a story of a woman in a play who delivered
a lengthy oration in Italian. It was greeted
with exclamations of delight by a highly in-
tellectual audience as a masterpiece of irony and
daring originality of thought. Then someone
said audibly, “Beastly peasant dialect! ” and the
audience, as one person, checked their approba-
tian and composed their faces into expressions
of the deepest contempt. Most of us are hum-
bugs at heart; and there is a kind of blackmail
which makes it uncommonly hard for the average
person to say outright that he thinks such-and-
such a thing is pure rubbish, if it is labelled
as Great Art.
* * * •
“Spoke”: Not always does opposi-
tion to changes in fashion come
from the old. An elderly lady, ob-
viously dating 'ffom the neck-to-knee
era, and a lass who might have been
her grand-daughter were surveying a
window in Bourke-street given to
the display of new styles in bathing
“I’ve Waited four years for you, John.”
“What, not right here?”
costumes which haven’t yet gone to the
lengths (not the right word but an acci-
dent of language) in Melbourne that they
have in Sydney. “I wouldn’t be in a
hurry to buy, dear, if I were you,” said
the old lady. “You never know —those
French things they’ve got in Sydney might
catch on.”
* * * *
• “Visitor”: Governor Nome of S.A.
has commissioned a “shooting brake”
with a chassis such as he used lately in
the Western Desert. It’s of 27-h.p., can
carry nine passengers and lots of luggage,
with various unusual gadgets and com-
forts. It was put together by three S.A.
firms, prominent in the job being Roy
Hill, brother of Clem Hill, and himself
once 12th man in a Test match.
* * * afe
“Nakh”: Hank, a specimen of Chelydra
serpentina, or snapping turtle, from
the U.S.A., disappeared from his en-
closure at the Melbourne Zoo in 1927,
and was finally written off by the officials.
The other day the head keeper saw him
having a sun bath at the edge of a lake
a couple of hundred yards away, and
Hank was recaptured. He neither looks
nor is an amiable individual and can bite
like a rabbit-trap.
* « * *
“Hackshaw”: There were a few comic
incidents in the dullest Victorian election
on record. One candidate, in making
out his recommendations for preferences,
placed Dogsbody, of the same political
color, sfecond. Then he repented of this
gesture and issued a new lot of tickets
with his opponent’s name at the bottom.
On polling day Dogsbody’s car drew
up at a booth and a gentleman got out
and accosted the elderly bloke who was
distributing the tickets. “Our candidate
wan& all you’ve got,” he said. “There’s
been a mistake. Here are the proper
tickets.” The old chap handed over
several thousand tickets, the gentleman
stuffed them in his pocket, jumped into
the car and vanished. “Do you know
who that was?” asked an observant by-
stander. “No,” said the old man. “Who
was he?” “Dogsbody,” said the observer.
* * * *
“Friday Island”: “Pookie’s” examples
of the terminal preposition (B. 7/11/ ’45)
were good. An exception which made us
laughingly remember the rule was an old
teacher’s warning, “a preposition is a bad
word to end a sentence up with!”
* * * *
“Craiser”; Philately, is it? A Mel-
bourne businessman, now well on in
years, made it pay for a trip to England.
Lacking the wherewithal for berths
for himself and his wife, he found in his
son’s stamp album two early Van Die-
men’s Land stamps. After a struggle
with his conscience, he abstracted the
stamps, replaced them with commoner
ones and took them to a dealer, who gave
him a price that was sufficient not only
to pay for his tickets but for most of his
expenses as well. He forgot all about
the deception, and the child was perfectly
satisfied with the substitution. \VTien the
child grew up and heard the story he
never forgave his father. The value of
the stamps by that time had almost
doubled.
“Sans Changer”; The Bible enjoined
it: “Consider the lilies.” British scientists
made a detailed study of the leaves of
the water-lily and evolved a metal carpet
which can be laid on the surface of the
sea from almost any ship and is sufficient
to support an ordinary land ’plane in
“landing” and take-off. It has been tested
in the Bristol Channel with ’planes touch-
ing down and taking off on a heaving
surface.
* * * *
“Clooter”: General “Blood-and-Guts”
Patton has been photographed with Mar-
shal Zhukov. Zhukov’s array of medals
and insignia make Patton look like a
cook’s batman or something, and even
Goring in all his glory was arrayed in
no more splendor. It tickles me, for the
reason that from 1920 to 1942, when
“commissions” faded out of the military
scene. Communists everywhere decried
military show. I don’t blame Zhukov for
sporting the trinkets —but they do appear
strange against the simple and even drab
get-up in which we have become accus-
tomed to see pictures of Monty.
* * * *
“Longshoreman”; When (in wartime)
Captain McCall of the battleship Howe
declined to bring his ship into Welling-
ton Harbor (M.L.) the port authorities
showed a disposition to argue the matter.
On the tonnage and draught quoted in
Brassey’s Naval Annual Admiral Fraser’s
flagship should be as safe as a bank in
the sheltered waters of Port Nicholson.
Captain McCall since VP-day has ex-
plained the matter. Admiralty charts
show a ridge in the harbor between the
Heads and Somes Island which would
give the Howe insufficient clearance in
case of a heavy swell—insufficient be-
cause the Howe is a much bigger and
heavier ship than was projected by the
original plans for he*- class. When sh
was completed in 1942 her displacemen
was 35,000 tons. Additions (presumably
in the way of added armor protection
and more a.-a. guns) have been mad
since then, and the Howe’s standard dis
placement is 38,000 tons, exceeded
British naval history only by the Hood’
42,100 tons. But that is not all. Ready
for a long cruise, with heavy fuel anc
ammunition reserves and other supplies
she displaces 45,500 tons. This develop-
ment, possibly affecting other ships o
the Howe’s class, perhaps explains the
abandonment of the projected Lion clas
battleships of 40,000 tons displacement.
* * * ♦
“C.Q.”: A Melbourne psychologist in
vestigates the complexes of his patient
by means of automatic writing. An
artist friend was sceptical about th
method and the psychologist invited him
to try it. The sceptic sat down with
piece of paper, took up a pencil and afte
getting into the required mental condition
began to move his hand across the blanl
space. After a few minutes he pointer
triumphantly to the paper and the psy
chologist had to admit that there wa
nothing intelligible written on it. Walking
along the street a few hours later the
artist put his hand in his pocket and
pulled out something which he immedi
ately identified as the piece of paper
which had figured in the demonstration
Idly turning it round he found that he
had drawn upside down a recognisable
self-portrait.
* * * *
“Clooter”: When Jirnsen came to live
in our street he found himself next door
to a garden pest —a crank on his own
garden and always interfering with the
gardening activities of others. Jirnsen,
no gardener —he preferred golf, s.p.
betting, fishing and other forms of out-
door sport left the cozening of
flowers to Mrs. J., who, for her part, was
quite willing that it should be so. But it
wasn’t long before the next-door pest
was on the job. When he discovered
that Mrs. J. mowed the small patch of
lawn he regarded J. ominously and
adopted the tactic of first mowing his
own lawn, then going over the Jirnsens’.
This failed to move the unco-operative
one, rather it seemed to please him, so
the pest took to leaving his mo\ver sug-
gestively at J.’s gate. J. was stirred to
anger about the same time as he won a
£lOO prize in a lottery. Three days later
a motor-truck pulled up in front of the
pest’s place and 11 ancient and battered
and very much second-hand mowers
were deposited on the pest’s lawn. Jirnsen
called him out. “There,” he said, “now
y’ can decorate your flamin’ place with
the things an’ leave other people alone.”
A state of armed truce now exists.
* * * ♦
“Morotai”: Laboratory demonstra-
tions are not needed (B. 31/10/’45) to
show that hot climates cause the body to
run in low gear. Troops will tell you
that the Way to live long and comfortably
anywhere in the islands is to keep all
movements to a slow tempo. The ner-
vously energetic type quickly breaks out
in terrific sweatings. If you can avoid
this overstimulation of the sweat glands
you have gone far towards avoiding
tropical skin troubles. The old hands
are nearly all firm believers in no under-
clothes, a daily change of shirt and slacks
and a plentiful use of powder. Baby-
powder is thought better than the special
anti-tinea powders, which sometimes irri-
tate an otherwise healthy skin.
♦ * * *
“Curtain Raiser”: Melba was never at
a loss in any artistic crisis (B. 17/10/’45).
Singing at Covent Garden under the
baton of one of Europe’s most distin-
guished conductors, she showed signs of
irritation in the middle of a number whicn
may not have been observable to the Audi-
ence but was to the conductor. Then
suddenly he heard in the stream of Italian
verbiage coming from the diva’s throat
a sentence sung in English: “That Man
is Playing Flat.”
* * * *
“E. & 0.E.”: To continue “Mac-
Ropus’s” list of early “controls” (B.
19/9/’45), the Tudors were specially
strong on one man one job. In large
houses the cook was assisted by a baster
and turnspit; the napier looked after
the linen and no one else could touch
it. The ewer managed water supplies.
Provisioning the household was the job
of a lardner. The pantler was respon-
sible for bread alone. The cator did the
buying. Best of all, I like the rocker (or
rokker) of the cradle, who ran in double
harness with the nurse and was paid the
same wages. What a splendid rallying
cry, “Rockers of the World, Unite!” was
lost when the job went out of fashion
as a specialised vocation.
GONE WITH THE WIND.
The songs of poets, too well we know,
Are packed with plaints for the things held
dear,
The valued treasures of long ago
Gone with some wind that would rudely blow,
Fled with the snows of yesteryear.
Muse, should you chance to be somewhere
round,
Pause, more conventional themes amid.
To Jilt a lay for the minted pound,
To shape a stave for the vanished quid.
Never, since old Pactolus bore
Aureate sands at King Midas’ touch
From source to mouth and from shore to shore,
Was gold so plenty, and never hefoi'e
Was the yellow metal worth near as much.
Why must it dodge us, hoarded, hid,
Stacked and storehoused in sterile ground?
Drone me a dirge for the shining quid,
A fond farewell to the jingling pound.
What though a flimsy paper piece
Of currency when you buy or sell,
Fresh from the bank without stain or crease,
Or soiled with service and rank with grease,
Is every bit as negotiable?
What shoddy substitute here is found
For the coin that erst on the counter slid,
The power pent in the ringing pound,
The lure that lay in the sterling quid?
Where are the purchases found so fair
In far-off days that of old we knew,
The treasures seeming so rich and rare
Across the gulf of the years? And where
Are the jimmy o’goblins that bought them,
too?
Gone wheresoever the wind might bid.
And few, I fancy, will sight and sound
Again the gleam of the golden quid,
The mellow ring of,the minted pound.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“Emsor”: The committee - rooms
in Maoriland’s Parliament buildings ate
old-fashioned and large. It is difficult
to hear anyone speak across. Recently
a member of a Select Committee that
was hearing evidence from a female wit-
ness courteously requested her to come
nearer the table “because the accouche-
ment properties of the room are very
bad.”
* Hi * *
“Feng-Shui” on Kerensky and a fore-
runner ;
Alexander Kerensky turned up surprisingly
in Melbourne just after Cup week, staggering the
reporters, who didn’t seem to know much about
him except that he married a Brisbane press
girl in 1939 and had been wandering the world
as a political exile for 27 years. Kerensky
was one of those political halfways who arrive
on the stage- in a period of revolution and are
doomed to be swept off if by more desperate
forces. . The enormous, dirty, unshaven monk
Rasputin had really ruled the roost in Russia,
holding the hands of neurotic court ladies in
darkened parlors, putting them into hypnotic
trances and convincing them that physical union
with him was spiritual union with God. Ras.
had also convinced the distracted Czarina that
he held a ghostly key to the health of the heir
apparent, who was a “bleeder.” His influence
was so enormous in Russia that he was able
io sack the Grand Duke Nicholas, then Supreme
Commander, and to pack the Czar off to the
front. And, allying himself with the German
faction at Tsarskoeselo, he gave full information
to the German High Command.
In 1916 a young prince named Youssoupoff
got it into his head that if Rasputin were liqui-
dated the millennium would dawn in Russia.
Ras. took a lot of liquidating. He was in-
veigled into the prince’s apartments for an orgy,
and his grog was poisoned—without the poison
having the slightest effect. Youssoupoff began
to wonder whether the gigantic monk was
what he was said to be —the devil incarnate.
Finally he shot Ras. through the heart, but the
corpse revived and tried to strangle its assailant.
A chase through the palace grounds followed,
with pursuers pumping the flying body full
of lead until it was dumped into the Neva.
The Bolshevik revolution was on its way.
“The young lady you speak of is in the office now ,
Appleby. Leave everything in my hands!”
The Germans passed Lenin over the frontier in
a special train. Machine-guns rattled in the
Nevsky Prospekt. Kerensky’s attempts to con-
trol these passionate forces and continue the
war lasted from September 15, 1917, until
November 8, when the Lenin-Trotsky coup
d’etat upset him and he fled the country. Born
V £T e L la & a Sg
a first-hand study of social and political con-
ditions in Australia and M.L., which countries,
he says, used to be regarded in pre-revolutionary
Russm as advanced m thmk.ng.
“Bernard Hackshaw”: Times have
changed. When Dr. Dalton, Chancellor
of the Exchequer, revealed in the House
of Commons the other day that the
nation had paid out £700,000 to the de-
scendants of Lord Nelson, and suggested
that it was time the arrangement was re-
considered, he was asked if he were aware
that the hero of Trafalgar “commended
to the generosity of his country someone
quite other than his brother, who received
the annuity.” The reference waS to Nel-
son’s statement that he left Lady Hamil-
ton and their daughter Horatia as a legacy
to his country. Emma Hart was born
of very humble parents. She became the
most beautiful model in England, was the
subject of many portraits by distinguished
artists, especially Romney, became the
mistress of the Hon. Charles Greville and
later of his uncle Sir William Hamilton,
whom she married and accompanied to
Naples, where h.e was the British envoy.
There she became intimate with Nelson.
After Sir William died in 1803 she went
to live with Nelson. Horatia was born
in 1801. Lady Hamilton died in debt at
Calais, and Nelson’s wish.was disregarded
by the Government of 1806. In Australia
in these days she would have been a de
facto widow and been entitled to at least
a pension.
* * * *
“Freedom”: A deal of cpre goes
into the choosing of recorded music for
A.B.C. broadcasts. A women’s “ses-
sion” the other day featured an interview
with a lady who described how attractive
life is for women in the Soviets. The
announcer thanked her, then told the
listeners “Now, X thought the most ap-
propriate music we could have with this
programme would be Liadov’s Russian
Fairy Tales.”
* * * *
“Quilp N.”: Relics of the Huddart,
Parker steamer Riverina, lost below Gabo
in the late 1920’5, have been gathered
together in the Cann River Hotel, 28
miles from the wreck by road. The hotel
stairway is the ship’s saloon companion,
steep and brass-plated, and in the bed-
rooms are the cedar wash-basin sets such
as were used in the old-time steamers. A
picture of the ship hangs in the hall
Strangely enough, there were two River-
inas lost just south of Gabo, only a few
miles apart. The first was in 1892 ; it
belonged to Lund’s Blue Anchor Line,
which also owned the ill-fated Waratah.
When the Waratah disappeared off Cape
town in 1909, Lund’s sold out and the
firm became the P. and O. branch line,
* * * •
“Jurumudi”; The stories that come
from p.-0.-w. camps aren’t all inhuman.
A Victorian p.-0.-w., who worked nine
months on the Moulmein-Bangkok rail-
way, happened to be passing the Japanese
officers' mess and spied six chickens
plucked and ready on a table outside.
Nobody was about. A Jap private caught
him making off with one of the six, and
prescribed the regulation punishment —-
standing at attention with the chicken
held at arms’ length above his head. That
was in the early afternoon. At six another
p _ o _ W- came up and said “Give us the
1 Ri n A n j f enmethine to
c hicken, rStll. Go a na get somei ng l
eat.’ The white man finds.it difficult to
distinguish between one Jap and another,
and tfae j finds the §ame d iffi cu l ty j n
distinguishing between white men when
they are about the same size. Altogether
Bill was relieved three times. At one in
t h e morning the Jap released the prisoner
_ wi(h; j(n » ress - ed ith his endurance, a
tin of fish and a packet of cigarettes,
*’’ * % '
“S. E. & O.”: In one Jap prison camp
p.-0.-w. were given a requisition form
each month on which to state their most
urgent requirements. At the end of the
list of medicines, dressings and so forth
they always added “wirelesses ; batteries.”
On one occasion the camp commandant
displayed his sense of humor by writing
alongside this item “These are very scarce
and hard to procure ; you must manage
with the ones you already have.” There
was one which was carried on every move
in the unsuspecting camp commandant’s
own luggage.
“Hey! Not so rough on it — that’s my Amati !”
“Craiser”: The anatomy school at
Melbourne University gets some queer
requests, A girl’s voice asked over the
’phone how much it would give for her
cadaver, as she intended to commit sui-
cide. Informed that the university does
not make advance payments on speci-
mens for instructional purposes, she
sounded disappointed. It is not known
whether her determination was weakened,
* * * *
“B, A. Ket”: In my early ’teens jam-
tin hockey was a favorite game (B.
7/11/ ’45) It was played with a knobby
ti-tree root for club and a tin for ball;
even when available a real ball was
seldom used, possibly because the destruc-
tion wrought on the tin appealed to latent
instincts. “Tip-cat” or “Tip-an’-a-tap”
cost nothing. The object of the game was
to tap the point of the double-pointed
“tipany” with a stick and swing at it as it
flew upwards. The rest was similar to
golf, with a circle drawn instead of a
hole. Then there were the robust old
“Saddle-me-nag” or “Cockalorum” and
“Fly.” The expression “I’ll see Fly”
(meaning “it’s up to you to prove your
words”) has become part of our national
slang. Many of the younger generation
use the expression, but don’t realise that
it is derived from the old game when the
boy who was “Fly” gave the number of
jumps that the other competitors should
need to travel from “scratch” to the final
leap-frog over a boy’s back. If some-
body demanded to “See Fly,” Fly had to
be able to perform the feat or become the
human vaulting horse.
* * * *
“Ogula”: The issue of 7000 Japanese
swords to Australian troops occupying
Rabaul is bound to cause a fall in the
market value of these souvenirs. The
most attractive prices have always been
reserved for those most highly decorated
with cherry blossoms and lacquered scab-
bards and tassels. But the most ornate
swords, particularly some of those on
issue to the one-time Jap Navy, are actu-
ally worth little, as swords go. Many
Japanese officers carry books with infor-
mation concerning the various historic
makers of samurai blades. They treat the
ornate variety with thinly-veiled con-
tempt, classifying them as “Number ten.
Very bad. Five years old.” What he
considers a good sword will draw un-
stinted praise from the Jap. He’ll gently
caress the blade with his thumb in order
to determine its color, carefully note the
temper of the steel, its thickness, the
angle at which it curves towards the
point; and the plainest of swords may
bring the comment: “Number one. Very
few. Two thousand yen.”
* * * *
“Zake”: Out of the world’s spotlight
—temporarily, anyway—Fiorello (“Little
Flower”) La Guardia, for 12 years Mayor
of N’York. About 15 stone of bubbles,
chins and creases, the stumpy Fiorello
(also known affectionately in Manhattan
as “The Hat” and “Butch”) was prob-
ably the greatest showman in the city’s
municipal history. Under his encourage-
ment ticker-tape storms for Fifth-avenue
hero parades became so thick that sky-
scraper denizens from the first floor up
could almost walk across on them to the
building opposite. At every worth-while
fire “The Hat” would be there, resplen-
dent in his shiny helmet, to direct the
municipal fire brigade, though what the
chief thought of the arrangement hasn't
been disclosed. He made history by turn-
ing a big annual deficit into a thumping
surplus. La Guardia almost became post-
war boss of his native Italy, but some
political twist robbed him of the job. It
is indicative of the polyglot nature of
the big city and the peculiarity of its poli-
tics that when “Butch” stepped down the
triangular contest should be between Wil-
liam O’Dwyer, Irish ex-policeman and
Tammany nominee, Judge Goldstein (who
no doubt wears his hat when worship-
ping) and the La Guardia-backed New-
bold Morris. O’Dwyer won, hands down.
One of these days a fellow with a name
like Williams or Fletcher, a fourth-genera-
tion American, will become Mayor of
New York, and the heavens will fall.
* H: * *
“V. Cluse”: At dusk the other evening
word was passed round our suburb that
a young girl in one of the new French
swim-suits had been seen walking along
the street, accompanied by a couple of
youths. Telephone muttered scandalised
comment to telephone, there were calls
over back fences, groups appeared watch-
fully at front gates. Then the word went
that the lass was even then standing with
her companions at a ’bus stop and there
was a concerted movement in that direc-
tion, headed by sundry middle-aged
gentlemen. Sure enough, there stood the
brazen piece in her near nudity. The
indignant fathers closed in upon her, only
to find that she was a 13-year-old school
boy off in fancy dress to his school dance.
« * * *
“Hist”: The occupation forces in Ger-
many have found great stores of six pfen-
hige postage stamps, overprinted with a
surcharge of 24 pfennige “for the
Fiihrer.” According to Heinrich Hoff-
man, ex-personal photographer to Hitler,
Adolf was running a .postage-stamp
racket. The six pfennige paid postage ;
the 400 p.c. surcharge went into the
Fiihreral pocket,
* * * *,
“C. Coral” on an island in the news:
Talk about acquiring Timor from the Portu-
guese reminds me that the island has figured
conspicuously in Australian maritime history,
particularly as affording refuge to shipwrecked
mariners whose craft came to grief along the
Great Barrier Reef towards the end of the
eighteenth century. One notable boat journey
was that of the Bounty launch after the mutiny,
3600 miles to Coupang (as if was then spelt)
on June 14, 1789. Bligh wrote of the kindness
shown him by the Dutch Governor and the
Governor’s son-in-law, who accepted personal
financial responsibility for supplies which were
needed; but he was critical of the Dutch man-
agement of Timor and the little advance made
in more than 150 years. Two years later the
survivors from the Pandora, the gunboat sent
to apprehend the Bounty mutineers and wrecked
on the Barrier, landed at Coupang, where
Captain Edwards immediately had his prisoners
put into stocks at the castle. At Coupang
Edwards met the survivors of another boat
voyage, William Bryant and his wife and
several other convicts who had stolen a boat
and escaped from Port Jackson, doing the trip
along the coast of N. S. Wales and Queensland
and passing through Endeavour Strait in 10
weeks. From Coupang a few weeks later the
Pandora company, mutineers and convicts were
embarked for Batavia. Others who found
refuge at Coupang were five survivors from
the Charles Eaton, wrecked in 1834. All the
others, passengers and crew, with the exception
of four young boys, were killed by Torres Strait
Islanders.
ARM-IN-ARM.
“Mt. Attlee and Mr. Truman entered the White
House arm-in-arm.”
So Roosevelt and Churchill stood
Time and again by sea and shore
To mark unshaken brotherhood
Though all the stormy years of war.
The figures change, but in the grip
Of arm on arm again we see
The sign of faithful fellowship,
The symbol of fraternity.
One call in war was theirs to heed,
One road to take, one path to tread;
Not less insistent now the need,
With dark and devious days ahead,
To guide a stricken world anew,
To shield and screen the weak from harm
With all that firm resolve can do,
Shoulder to shoulder, arm-in-arm.
Bound by the ties of race and speech,
Stamped with the seal of blood and sweat,
Firm in the trust of each to each
What lies beyond their compass yet?
What better augury for good
Than that two nations, trained and tried,
Who side-by-side in battle stood
Should sit in council side-by-side?
N.S.W.
PIPARDS.


ABORIGNALITIES
“O’Jones”: Sam lived in an old hut
by the river and in a world of his
own which began and ended with fish.
The ancient pensioner would discuss
prospects with each worm as if the
wriggler shared his enthusiasm ; he would
scold or coax aloud any timid nibbling
fish, and would roundly abuse any hook
that failed to co-operate. For years the
townsfolk had tridd vainly to get Sara
into a conversation that didn’t have scales
and gills. One day a party of girl hikers
off the beaten track fell to the tempta-
tion of a scorching day, the cool
look of sparkling water and a mis-
taken idea that they had the river
to themselves. They disrobed, and
with not a coupon of swjim-suit
among them were disporting in the
water when Sam rounded the bend.
The old river had never before be-
held such a scene; and neither had
Sam, for all his 80 years. But he
didn’t raise an eyebrow. “Good
day!” he said gruffly to an alabaster
sprite sitting on a log; then, staring
at a line of startled and petrified
nudes on a sandbank in midstream,
he said “How they biting?”
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We’d been having a
bit of a night out in Murray Bridge
(S.A.) and left about 11 p.m. for our
camp across the river, where we had a
fencing contract. When we got into the
street we found ourselves in one of those
thick, white river fogs which reduce visi-
bility to a few feet. After blundering
about for a while, Mat pulled up and
said “Look, it’s no good tootlin’ round
like this or we’ll meet ourselves cornin’
back. Listen.” I listened. From the
right came the hoot of a railway engine
and a rattle of buffers and couplings.
“That’ll do us,” Mat said. “We’ll find
the station, get on td the rails an’ follow
’em across the bridge.” This we did, feel-
ing our way with our feet from sleeper
to sleeper. Mat was slightly in front of
me and suddenly he vanished. I heard a
splash and gasping, accompanied by more
splashing. On hands and knees I crept
forward. We had followed the railway
on to the wharf and Mat was in the
river. I made noises and he swam to me
and hauled himself out. “That’s the
worst of these S.A. railways,” he snorted,
wringing Murray water out of himself;
“y’ never know when y’re cornin’ to a
break of gauge.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: Back in the days of free-
dom, Marney made a crust by buying in
season for a city firm. This time it was
maize. The crops had turned out well,
and, commencing at 4s. 6d. pert bushel,
Marney continued to rake in on a rising
market till the price touched 9s. 6d. Then,
hearing of a thousand bags in Toby’s
shed, he dropped in and the battle started.
Marney toed the line at 9s. 6d., while
the old bloke stuck on ten bob, but after
an hour’s hard going he decided to part
with 500 bags at the lower price. The
dealer arranged to collect, and had just
turned away when a kid on a bike dashed
up with an urgent telegram. He read it,
stared at the sky, admired the scenery,
scratched his head, then returned to the
grower. “About those other 500 bags,
Toby,” he began, “cripes, you might’s
well” “No,” snapped Toby, staring
suspiciously at the telegram. “They
gone up, see? I want eleven bob.”
“Eleven?” gasped Marney. “Now, look
here, it’s no good y’ bein’ so flamin’ lousy.
Y’ always was a tight-fisted, money-
grabbin’ old miser, an’ ” There was
a bellow from Toby, “Yak? An’ what
about y’rself? Get a wire from y’r firm,
then try t’ put one over me at the old
price, eh? Well, y’ can’t. An’ what’s
more, them other 500 bags is cancelled.”
“Cancelled?” piped Marney. “Y’ sure?”
“Too right,” yelled Toby. “An’ here’s
Dan. He’s witness I ain’t sold y’ nuthin’,
y’ smart Alec. Now get orf me place.”
Marney chuckled gleefully and turned to
leave; and as he climbed through the
fence a slip of paper fluttered ground-
ward. A few seconds and Toby had
pounced on it. “Stop buying immedi-
ately,” he read. “Maize slumped to
4s. 6d.” ■
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”; “Winter and matrimony
tame man and beast”; the pair of
swallows that built a nest on the front
verandah have proved the old adage cor-
rect —from the domestic angle, anyway.
When the first daubs of mud were being
placed the mere sound of the door being
opened was enough to send the birds
darting away, to watch apprehensively
as they flitted about at a safe distance.
Gradually the retreat became less marked,
until the sudden intrusion of a human
only caused the startled “swog” to leave
the nest, hover several feet distant, then
return to the job in hand. A slight mis-
adventure with a stepladder when I
sought to “sticky” into the neat little
mud home resulted in the side being
cracked and broken, revealing the lining.
My aviary-bred zebra finches have often
deserted their eggs or babies under less
provocation ; but the pair of swallows
weren’t at all disturbed. Now, far from
“Well, I'd better he getting back to the engine. So long!”
becoming alarmed at the opening of the
door, Pop swallow has several times
chased insects into the house, while a
human face staring at her from a range
of two feet doesn’t worry Mum as she
literally sits pretty, returning the stare
with her bright beady eyes. Incidentally,
the pair have proved the truth of another
old saw: “Nesting swallows bring good
luck to a house.” They did—my elec-
tricity bill has never been so low as this
month’s reading. The nest is built on
the meter.
* * *
“Nonton Iki”: “Scribe” (B. 31/10/’45)
doesn’t get around his country much if
it is only now that he is hearing of a
weedkiller on wheels; they’ve been in
use here in Queensland for over 30 years,
especially in the sugar districts, where a
tropical rainfall over the four or five
months’ slack season gives the weeds a
growth of two to four feet on the sugar-
mill trainlines. Different types of killers
have been used with varying degrees of
deadliness to weeds, straying stock or
the steel rails until at last the ideal killer
was arrived at: steam from the loco’s
boiler. The driver and fireman, with an
extra truck of water, are all that are
needed to do a first-class job.
* * * *
“Widgi”; “Naturala’s” observation on
the way in which salt extracts the fluid
from fish (B. 15/8/’45) recalls a similar
application of the principle to the season-
ing of timber. With the war-time loss of
shipping bringing wooden vessels again
into demand it was found that the stocks
of even moderately-seasoned hardwoods
were insufficient. Then one old-timer
recalled how his shipbuilding fathers had
employed salt. So, as the slabs came
dripping with sap from the saws, they
were stacked, sandwich-like, with a thick
layer of coarse salt between, Within a
couple of weeks the salt had dissolved in
sap extracted from the wood. The timber
then was quite suitable for hulls, it being
rather an advantage not to be bone-dry.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Bird migration must in-
volve some remarkable feats in accurate
navigation. This is the third successive
year in which those handsome summer
visitors the dollar birds reached this
S.Q. cliff-edge on November 8. They
even allowed for last leap year. Strong
fliers —dollar birds visit Lord Howe
Island and Maoriland —they have come
from far-northern latitudes to nest. Their
chosen haunt is 1 a tall dead gum, from
which they delight in taking off alter-
nately in the queer aerobatic antics which
have earned them their other popular
name of rollers. Their conspicuous blue
and green plumage, with the silver-blue
“dollar” wing-marks, bright red bills and
feet, and their harsh “treek-treek” voices
advertise their arrival at once and un-
mistakably. Soon they will be forming
the nursery in the same high-up hollow
on the old dead tree, and thereafter pity
any strange bird that dares to approach
it! By Christmas they will be teaching
the youngsters to take toll of insect
swarms in flight, and in February, the
family education completed, they will all
take off on the long return journey to
their tropic winter home.
“C.V.S.”: Tasmanian birdland has re-
ceived many accidental visitors, none of
which have adopted the island State.
Storm-battered wanderers from the main-
land include the willie wagtail, Murray
magpie (mudlark or pee-wit), ibis, magpie
goose and dollar bird. The red- and
purple-crowned and top-knot pigeons
have also been recorded ; but the channel-
billed cuckoo or storm bird, Australia’s
largest cuckoo, has been seen once only.
although it is a migrant. Mainland birds
successfully introduced to the Speck in-
elude the lyre-bird—first liberated in 1934
—and the galah, a number of which
escaped from a ship about 20 years ago ;
but they are still confined to the Huon
district. Tasmanian bird-fanciers are not
0 +1 , , , „
pleased With the kookaburra, now
doing well in the north. They say Jacky
is playing havoc with small native birds.
* * % *
~„t ’ , ,
Old-timer ; Little Curl came back
from the town leading a handsome brown
gelding. It had a most docile disposition,
and stood quietly while we gathered
round enviously and admired it. Little
Curl was the epitome of proud owner-
shin All that dav ho talkod' ahrmt tho
snip All mat day ne talked about the
grand horse, and Spent his spare time
grooming and caressing it. By the end
of the week we were fed up with Little
Gnrl his horse and his talk On 9nndav
vjuri, nis norse and nis talk. Un Sunday
morning Pocket Knife saw Little Curl
lead the brown to the hitching-post in
the shade just beside the woolshed load-
• „ An™. u.-o
m to door and begin his never-ending
grooming. Presently men could be seen
dodging quietly into the big horseyard
and catching their hacks, after which they
£ it t j ,1 ■ , ’ , . , j \
carefully led them into the woolshed at
the pen-filling entrance and there waited,
Little Curl, having groomed both sides,
laid bid brush nn the bitrhinp-nnst and
laid ms nrusn on tne mtcmng-post ana
departed for the hut to get his tobacco.
When he came back he gaped open-
mouthed at the scrawny brown thing
ctandinor tboro mil nod and hnltpd for the
standing mere, gulped ana noitea lor me
homestead, demanding that the boss ring
up the police. The boss demurred, but
finally consented to come and see for him-
in tt7iT l t u u
self. When he saw Little Curl s beautiful
horse at the post he rounded on its owner,
and in most un-Sabbath terms demanded
to know what sort of a joke he was play-
ing. Curl was too astounded to reply.
The boss left him. Nelson’s brindle grey-
hound appeared and the brown showed
nervousness, so Curl caught the dog and
led it off to tie it up at the kennels. When
he came back he stopped dead, peered
at the chestnut mare at the post, rubbed
his eyes, shook his head, covered his eyes
and looked again. Then he approached
warily, examined the bridle, pondered,
and then, pale and shaken, made for the
boss again. The boss, having come the
second time and seen Curl’s splendid
animal still there, concluded that Curl
was making him the victim of his pride,
using any excuse to get him to look at
the horse, and roared “You take your
flamin’ nag an’ get your time! I’ll have
none” but then the woolshed audi-
ence decided it had gone far enough.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Old Jim’s place is mostly
hill country, with a hundred or so acres
in one comer that he sowed down with
clover, and top-dressed as a fattening
paddock. With the clover growing
strongly and his mob in good forward
condition, Jim got home each day in
time for the market report. “There was
a keen demand today for fat cows,”
came the voice of the woman announcer,
“with prices fully £1 per head higher.”
Jim swallowed his dinner at top speed,
and spent the next few hours sorting the
best of his Herefords into the fattening
paddock. The following week found
him again at the wireless. “Cripes, down
thirty bob,” he snorted. “Well, a man
ain’t goin’ to fatten ’em at that price.
Feed’s too valuable.” And off he went
to return the half-fats to the hill run.
After the report of a rising market at
the next sale, they were once more
drafted into the good pasture, and dur-
ing the next month spent a varied exist-
ence in and out of the clover according
to market conditions. Despite their shifts
they gained steadily, and were being
topped off as the result of a ten-bob rise
when Jim twirled the dials once more to
learn of a£2 drop. “Blime,” he growled,
tripping over a chair and aiming a kick
at the cat, “they’ll ruin this flamin’
country yet, the way they change their
minds. Anyway, with the war over now,
why the devil can’t they go back to men
announcers?”
* * * *
“Munja”: Abo. respect for the dead
(B. 10/10/’45) can never be judged by
white standards. Herbert River (Q.)
tribes, for example, make a great show of
placing food and water on a dead man’s
grave; will even light a near-by fire at
night, so that the spirit may warm itself.
This spirit solicitude is at utter variance
with the treatment accorded the body
before burial. If deceased is a man,
father or brother hammers the body
from head to toe with a club. Deceased
woman is treated in similar manner by
her husband, Incisions are then made in
abdomen and chest and filled with
stones. Object of this “respectful” treat-
ment is twofold. The body is beaten to
cow the spirit and stop it haunting the
camp. The stones are to weigh down
the ghost and prevent it wandering about.
From profane to sacred is but a step.
Spirit remains in ground “little bit long
time,” then goes to Ruling, the River of
the Sky (the Milky Way).
* * * *
“Rookie” says his piece on a sym-
posium : —■
There seems to be some confusion regarding
the functions of the medicine man and the
dyed-in-the-wool sorcerer. The sorcerer is rare.
Whole tribal areas may lack a single specimen,
or even a belief in his powers; others, be-
lievers, are certain he lives in the tribe across
the way. The alleged exploits of the sorcerer
—heart-piercing, kidney-fat removal, invisible-
mending and the like —are often preceded by
dragging the victim from his camp by a halter,
unobserved. Despite his grisly prestige, the lot
of the average sorcerer is not particularly en-
viable. He leads a fairly normal family and
social life, but once he is known as a success-
ful “operator” he is a marked .man: sooner
or later he will be accused of an unethical
killing—since it is the abo.’s habit to see pre-
ternatural motives in anything unusual. Then
magic powers may be levelled at him —or cruder
methods resorted to. So it behoves him to
be watchful and diplomatic. A likely belief
that he is making use of powers over which
he has incomplete control may be partly allayed
by strict attention to ritual, chants, etc., but
there is always some danger. All of which
tends to discourage aspiring practitioners.
The medicine man is a bird of rather different
plumage. Although he may also hold a dip-
loma of sorcery, his duties are mainly diag-
nosing and curing sickness, holding seances and
conducting inquests. For illness he sometimes
uses actual medicines, sometimes magic powers;
freqtiently he combines both methods. In his
spiritualistic capacity he acts as a link between
living and dead, as well as being in touch
with animistic magical forces. Perhaps the
most formidable of his powers is the holding
of inquests. If magic is suspected it is the
medicine man’s job to find out who was re-
sponsible. He is able to see the spirit of the
“murderer,” thus setting the revenge party on
the loose. His estimate of the social value or
worthlessness of likely murderers is naturally
important. Sometimes the dying man assists
by dreaming of the totem of his murderer.
But if the medicine man announces no decision
cause of death is given as the breaking of a
taboo.
KOPI DRUMS.
Dust hangs low in the heat of morning,
Swinging out where the plover cry;
Fine white dust of the kopi country.
Dry with longing for floods gone by.
Sheep' and stockmen, breathing the mingled
Tang of wool and of hoof-ground weed,
Had no place in that fruitful Dreamtime
When wild duck built where the grey mobs
feed.
As the sheep feed over, beneath the scuffle
Of eager hoofs is a deeper sound:
The surging roll of a muffled thunder
Mocking them from the kopi ground.
And, on the wing, the grey horse striding,
Hazed in dust like a wraith of morn,
Hears to his bold hoof-strokes the answer
Filing in the drummer’s mighty scorn.
Hid he lies while his plover call him,
But from the earth his answer comes;
Bunyip mourning the lost gay waters,
Magicking rain with the kopi drums.
N.S.W.
AINSLIE ANDERSON.


“E. 2”; Came a time when Mick
Bogan’s accounts at the store, the bakery
and the meat palace got away from him,
and the owners waited on him to see what
could be done about it. Mick lived and
loafed in a rented shack on a couple of
acres of land, and his assets were com-
posed chiefly of a few old rabbit traps.
The creditors had no intention of cutting
off sustenance to the hard-up family;
still, they asked Mick what he could do
towards settling the debts. '“Nothin’
much till the trappin’ starts,” he said.
“But that’s months off,” protested the
butcher. “What about doin’ somethin’ in
the meantime?” “Well,” said Mick, “I’ve
bin worried a fair deal over them
accounts. But I could start worryin’ a
bit harder, if that’d suit y’.”
* * * #
“Nigel D.”: Throughout Australia
bush timber finds vast use as telegraph
posts and bridge piles. The telegraph
post goes in butt end down, the way the
sapling grew; the bridge pile goes in
the reverse, small end down. The pile
has to contend with two elements, water
and earth; the telegraph post with only
one. Yet it may be readily observed that
piles, especially in fresh water, last far
longer than telegraph posts.
“Bo”; Hawkins, of Peewee Crossing,
was the township’s storekeeper, post-
master, hairdresser, savings-bank agent,
tobacconist, undertaker, harness-maker,
blacksmith, motor mechanic, watch-
maker, cartage contractor, estate agent,
boot repairer, plumber and special corre-
spondent. He also ran a printery and oc-
casionally took on well-sinking and fenc-
ing jobs. One day Carstairs the butcher
strolled into the store when he judged
that the mail left by the bi-weekly train
would be sorted out. Hawkins was sit-
ting behind the counter admiring a book
he had just unwrapped. He held it up.
“Decent sort of a book, eh, Alf?” he
said. “Just got it up from Melbourne.
It’s all about Diesel engines. I reckon
every cove ought to have a trade behind
him. It’s no load to carry, and this
Diesel’s a coming thing. Anyway, learn-
ing about it’ll fill in a man’s spare time.”
# * * *
“Bughouse”: Tell “B etc h a” (B.
17/10/’45) cyanide gas spared rabbits
in the lower burrows because of
its lightness. Such gas is really
hydrocyanic or prussic acid. Most
lethal of all gases (a mere sniff from a
bottle of prussic will kill a man), it has
remained unused as a war weapon just
because of the aforementioned lightness.
It is practically impossible to get it to
displace air in lower rabbit burrows.
Carbon dioxide or carbonic acid gas,
being one‘and a half times heavier than
air, will find its way to the lower levels,
though being merely a suffocating agent
it needs to be present in liberal quanti-
ties to be positively lethal.
* * * *
“Hamfat”: Pictures, even the ones
that move, mean nothing to the aver-
age cat and dog. Experiments have been
carried out (I have shared in some) to
try to get a reaction from canines and
felines to the sort of films that should ex-
cite them most: in vain. And there have
been others. A Sydney man had a life-
size portrait painted from a photograph
of his dead wife. It was a lively bit of
work, and it was expected that the por-
trait would excite the dead lady’s pet dog,
yvhich had been so upset by the passing
“That deaf and dumb parrot's always asking for crackers."
of its mistress that it had nearly starved
to death. There was not a flicker of
recognition from the dog.
* * * *
“Munja”: The spectacular belly-rip-
ping of sharks with a long knife may be
right enough for the comic-strip heroes,
but not for the coastal Kimberley tribes
(B. 24/10/’45). Their centuries-old
method of handling such finny dynamite
is the unheroic but effective fish-trap.
From their cumbersome rafts they will
spear almost anything from bonita to
squid ; but not sharks. When a few cruis-
ing big fellows are spotted, the Kimber-
ley boong promptly calls it a day and
high-tails it for home and Mary, and
wisely so. Everything that swims has
already left for parts unknown. For
tobacco, the Hollandia (N.G.) boong will
stage a pretentious belly-slashing onslaught
on the shark, but when the shouting and
the tumult dies you find he’s picked a
“gummy” or a “fiddle-back,” both as
harmless as a kid’s pet mice.
* * * *
“Water of Leith”: With the eye run a
perpendicular line from the vent to the
backbone of an eel. Some eels have the
dorsal fin running from the tail along
the back several inches beyond that line.
In other eels the dorsal fin stops short
of it. The bloke who knows says that it
is one of the more noticeable differences
of two species of eels here in Maoriland ;
that there is a ridge on the sea bottom of
the Coral Sea where these M.L. eels
spawn ; that the lengthier-finned species
spawn on the sea floor on one slope of
it and the other species on th'e opposite
slope, and that the elvers of these M.L.
eels do not intermingle at the spawning
grounds. Perhaps they are just as aloof
“Be satisfied with beer — y ’ ain't old enough for whisky!"
with the Aussie east-coast eels, whose
elvers are supposed to travel from the
Sargasso Sea.
* * * ♦
“E. 2”: Fred’s yarn: “I got a steady
job with Charlie Kelley, an’ he had a fine,
strappin’ daughter who I notice eyein’
me orf pretty close from time t’ time.
After a year or so I get a bit struck on
Martha, but I’m too bashful t’ make
up t’ her. Charlie is pleased with
me work an’ sorta hints that I could have
the place on shares if I was married
an’ settled down. Then one night, when
I’ve bin there about nine years, Martha
comes inter the stable an’ stands watchin’
me an’ torkin’ softlike t’ the horses. Sud-
denly, as I make t’ go past, she grabs
the light an’ blows it out, then throws
her arms round me neck an’ lets out p
squeal as her father comes in the door
with the lantern. Charlie, bein’ a pretty
religious sort o’ cove, bails me up in the
corner with the shotgun while he sends
Martha ridin’ full pelt f’r the parson. We
was spliced that night. After the serri-
moany I sneak outside, grab me nag an’
head orf inter the bush, where I spend
the nex’ six munce before goin’ back.
Gripes, a man hadta have a bit o’ time t’
think things over!”
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: Sam and I. were working
for a long, lean, casual cove on a mixed
farm a fair distance from the township,
and, finding things quiet in his spare time,
Sam bought a cornet and set out to teach
himself to play. After a few weeks of
discordant toots and dismal noises I was
almost as excited as Sam when he was
able to render —or rend —the first bar of
“Annie Laurie.” One evening the instru-
ment was missing, and after a fruitless
search Sam asked the boss if he’d seen
it. “Aw, y’r cornet?” drawled the trump.
“I got an idea I seen it at the cow-bails.
Yairs, now I come t’ think of it, I had
a loan of it this mornin’ —had t’ use a
few parts orf it t’ fix a milkin’-machine.
But y’ needn’t worry,” he added when he
saw the look on Sam’s face. “There s
bound t’ be a few notes left that’d play
a chune.”
“Kwinana”; To those who think the
spirit of adventure died with their
pioneering grandfathers many Australian
lads who served in sea-battered junks
can give the lie. Speaking meaningless
gibberish which to Jap ears sounded like
one of the obscure dialects of the re-
cently-acquired empire of Nippon, their
stained bodies clad only in a loin-cloth,
the adventurers used to put out from
their secret base at Garden Island, just
off Fremantle, With a cargo of bananas
the junk would sail into enemy-occupied
waters, even as far as Singapore, The
technique was to pull up alongside an
anchored Jap transport and trade bananas
to the grinning sons of the gods. After
much wrangling and bartering the junk
would sail on. Many hours later a time-
bomb attached to a vulnerable part of
the transport would explode. But by
that time the junk would be safe up some
unfrequented creek, while angry Nip-
ponese flew overhead. Making home-
wards for fresh bombs and bananas it
was customary to drop in at one of the
Dutch islands and pick up a Jap sentry,
who never knew what hit him until he
awoke in the hold of the junk, bound for
Western Command headquarters and in-
terrogation, After a while the Japs woke
up to the doings of these junks and put
out a destroyer patrol with instructions
to hold up all native vessels for exami-
nation, So the junks took to sailing with
a submarine as More than one
Nipponese destroyer was caught like a
sitting duck when it foolishly drew up to
question what was possibly the fiftieth
native vessel that it had recently encoun-
tered. -x
* * * *
“Pigskin Bagman”: Have carrion
eaters a permanent peace agreement
among themselves? ’Roo-shooting, I
tallied up 1 the early-morning gathering at
a couple of carcasses: three wedge-tailed
eagles (one so dark in color as to be
almost black), four large, fat and sloth-
ful goannas and over 20 crows. The three
varieties of gourmands were brushing
against one another, yet during several
minutes’ watching I saw no sign of hos-
tility.
* * * *
“Whangpu” pays a social call:
“Two miles up the river, then a mile on
foot,” a guide told us. Under our amateur
paddling effort's the borrowed lakatoi moved
slowly upstream. On either side the outriggers
barely cleared the banks of the narrow water-
way, and often became tangled in the under-
growth. The mosquitoes feasted on our sweat-
ing backs as we toiled in the still, humid air.
Finally we arrived at a narrow strip of sand,
where a path led off into the jungle. A young
native boy, clad in a crimson wrap, gave us a
lusty greeting and we stepped ashore to look
him over. Around his broad chest stretched a
neat row of ugly welts. But we were dis-
appointed in the hope that this was the tribal
mark of savages —he shyly admitted his
“Number One Mary” put them there. She gets
her man and brands him! Then began the trek
to the village. Tall kunai grass on either side
of the track obstructed the view, and the climb
was steep. At intervals the track broke into a
banana plot. Suddenly we topped a rise, and
before us, across a small valley, lay the village
clearing on the summit of a .hill. We passed
through the neat rows of thatched huts and
entered the inner clearing. Immediately we
were set upon joyfully by scores of piccaninnies,
the boys in colored wraps, the girls in their
diminutive grass skirts. The elders sat at the
hut entrances and studied us thoughtfully,
smoking their home-made cigarettes or chewing
the inevitable betel-nut. The more industrious
whittled away at wood, shaping miniature laka-
tois for trading. Inside every hut was a
smouldering fire, adding to the intense heat of
the midday sun. Along the rear wall stretched
a large bamboo shelf, about six feet wide and
as high from the ground. This was the com-
munal bedroom suite. “Mary” sat crosslegged
in her grass skirt, nursing the latest arrival and
beating some coconut in a rough dish —evi-
dently the family’s supper. The young eligible
maidens squatted shyly in the background.
Despite their hard features, these lasses pos-
sessed fine figures, shown off to advantage by
their skirts. “Dad” supervised the trading
with an occasional word to his spouse. Even
though he appeared head of the household, his
tactful diplomacy with her was amusing when
he wished to trade a grass skirt for tobacco.
Grass skirts fake a long time to make, and
“Mary” was reluctant, but finally nodded her
head in approval of the deal. Cigarettes and
tobacco are the universal favorites —the whole
family like their “draw.” The chief, as amiable
as his fictional counterpart is fierce, was treated
with great respect by the villagers. But what
struck us most was the easy, happy-go-lucky
life of the family man.
* * * sf:
“Esk D.”: For years there’s been a
couple of fossickers camped on Wild
Goat Creek, one at each of the clearings
left by early miners. The two old chaps
were partners originally, but a difference
in prospecting methods threw them apart,
and now they avoid each other like
poison. “Cranky” Jack does all his work
at the lower end of the creek; “Jump-
ing” Joe combs the upper reaches. Talk-
ing to Joe one day I asked how he was
going. “Aw, well,” said he, “I got on to
a promisin’ bit of stuff the other evenin’.
Shows a bit of color, too. Trouble is it’s
right where I cut across cornin’ orf the
big spur. Now, I s’pose it’ll have t’ wait
till Jack clears out or shuffles orf.” “But
why not work it together?” I asked.
“Gripes, I found the thing,” Joe said.
“An’ he hasn’t got the ground pegged.
He ain’t ’titled t’ a share.” “Well, if that’s
the case,” I said, “why not peg it and go
ahead with the working?” “Wot!” Joe
stared at me incredulously. “An’ start
another argyment? No bloomin’ fear;
it’s on his territory!”
CORRIEDALES.
“The Border Leicester’s legs are long,
He has a well-sprung frame,
He’ll make for grass when he is strong
And more so when he’s lame.
And crosses from the Border blood
Are always sought at sales.”
“But not by me,” the farmer said.
“I’ll stick to Corriedales.”
“Merinos cut you lots of wool,
They’re blue-bloods, proud of horn ;
They’re handsome when the fleece is full,
Though scarecrows when it’s shorn.
Yet Peppin rams or Murgha ewes —
Lord, how they fill the bales!”
“Well, that may be,” the farmer said.
“I’ll stick to Corriedales.”
“The R6mney now —a noble beast,
With handsome, golden eyes,
Whose popularity’s increased
Because he’s fat and wise.
The Romney leads a quiet life—•
No vice is in the males.”
“You make me laugh,” the farmer said.
“I’ll stick to Corriedales.”
“And Southdowns, they’d appeal to you;
The whole world wants their lambs;
Their simple, sheepish wants are few,
They have no tricks or shams.
And Southdown blood is highly praised—
I wouldn’t pitch you tales!”
“Dicken to that,” the farmer said.
“I’ll stick to Corriedales.”
“The Corriedale,” the farmer said,
To close the vain debate,
“Has all the virtues that you plead;
His conduct’s most sedate.
Beside the which I’ve tried ’em all
And, not to press details,
To hell with you,” the farmer said.
“I’ll stick to Corriedales.”
S.A.
TAILEM BEND.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager (or Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Dairy Stock
/ "7e
Sterilised
To Remedy BON
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
FLOUR
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from .* —
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes —4058 Melbourne, 758 K Brisbane, 712 F Adelaide, 588 Perth.
KILL the RABBITS with
(Regd.)
—but it’s the Buzacott FOOT-PUMP
BLOWER that makes it so cheap and
easy.
A small quantity of
Cyanogas blown in will
give off a poison gas which diffuses throughout the warren and within 24 hours
every rabbit in the warren will be dead —even those in dead ends.
Get a Foot Pump Blower and a tin of Cyanogas at once and rid yourself of the
rabbit pest.
Prices, f.0.r., Sydney—Cyanogas, 51b. tin, 13/9; 251 b. tin, 58/3;
Blowers, Galvanised, 59/10. Now available.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
f
JAMES MURPHY BURSARIES
for
AGRICULTURAL STUDENTS
for
(a) THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY:
Providing all fees payable to the University of Sydney, the cost of residence at St. John s College and
an allowance of up to £lO per annum, payable at the discretion of the Trustees.
or
(b) HAWKESBURY AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE:
Providing all fees and textbooks not exceeding £5O per annum.
Applications are invited for the above Bursaries, made available under the W ill of the late James Murphy*
Applicants must be the sons of Catholic parents whose means are insufficient to enable their sons
to study Agricultural Science and must satisfy the requirements for Matriculation at the Uni
of Sydney, or of Entrance to the Hawkesbury Agricultural College, as the case may be. .
Forms of Application (which must be returned duly completed not later than the 7th January, 0 ’ .
the case of Bursaries tenable at the Hawkesbury Agricultural College and net later thani the Uth
February, 1646, in the case of those tenable at the University of Sydney) and further particulars mi.
be obtained from:—
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE COMPANY (LIMITED),
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
The Wool Plan.
“Agric”: “Jumbuck” (B. 17/10/’45)
says it is time an authoritative statement
was issued on the new wool plan ; but
who can say how it will go until it has
been given a practical trial? Despite all
the talk about growers being protected,
the plan is a gamble. Hutchinson
(Deakin) said of it in the House of Repre-
sentatives; “The greatest experiment ever
carried out with an important primary
product of this country or, for that
matter, any country.”
A danger seen by Queensland wool-
growers is that wool can be sold to private
buyefs, speculators and manufacturers,
and the price they pay will place a ceil-
ing price on sales at auction. And there
is danger of fixing the reserve price at
a lower figure the following season to
encourage the sale of wool which the
Joint Organisation had to buy in the
previous season. It sounds very plausible
for the Australian subsidiary of J.O. to
say it will buy in all wools which do not
reach the reserve price at auction, but it
cannot follow that policy indefinitely.
Success of the scheme will depend upon
the business acumen and wool-trade
knowledge of the personnel appointed to
the commission, also on the attitude
adopted by the Government towards the
wool industry. In this connection a dis-
quieting feature was the refusal of the
Government to alter Clause 8 of the Bill
(3), which provides that “if the chairman
dissents from any decision of the com-
mission and signifies at the meeting to the
other members present his intention to
bring his dissent to the notice of the Min-
ister .... effect shall not be given to the
decision unless the Minister approves of
the decision....”
Although the Minister in charge of
the bill’ (F. M, Forde) said there was
no ground for any suspicion, neither in
the Reps, nor the Senate would the Gov-
ernment accept an amendment making it
mandatory for the Minister to confer with
the commission before approving or
otherwise of any decision of the commis-
sion from which the chairman had dis-
sented. Majority of the commission will
represent the growing and marketing side
of the industry, but the Bill as passed
gives the chairman—a public servant —
practically dictatorial powers.
Another difficulty foreseen is provision
of the necessary appraisers for the clips
on behalf of J.O. Brokers’ appraisers
will, as heretofore, be available to ap-
praise clips on behalf of the growers, but
appraisers who have been working for
the Central Wool Committee will want
to get back to their pre-war jobs as wool-
buyers for Australian and overseas clients.
The necessity for orderly marketing of
wool, in view of the heavy stocks on
hand and the size of current clips, is
recognised by all woolgrowers, but they
are not prepared to accept the scheme
w same enthusiasm as has been
shown by Government supporters.
Tobacco Bulking,
“Dis.-Moonya”: The leaf should be
placed in heaps of “bulk” on the farm for
“You pick the awkwardest times to have a smoke!”
about six weeks after it is cured so as
to improve its quality and general appear-
ance. The leaf must be in correct condi-
tion before it is bulked. If leaves are
too dry they will break readily, and if
too moist they will darken and more than
likely develop mould. Leaves with badly
cured midribs should not be bulked, be-
cause this is where mould usually origi-
nates. Leaves fit for bulking have brittle
midribs, their tips can be squeezed with-
out breaking and with a gentle touch will
readily spread out again. The shed used
for bulking must be sound against weather
and strong light should be excluded; it
will bleach the leaves,
Leaves can either be temporarily bulked
while still on the sticks or separately. In
the temporary bulk place hessian on the
floor* and stack the sticks of leaves one
above the other. The butts of tobacco
leaves are very brittle ; be careful to avoid
breaking them by not having one row ot
butts directly above the row beneath. To
bind the stacks together reverse the sticks
at frequent intervals.
When leaves are bulked separately,
stack several sticks together and remove
the string from the stacks with a gentle
pull so as not to damage the butts. Plat-
form for the bulk is made of boards
about an inch apart and about six inches
from the floor to allow even distribution
of air. It should be only wide enough
for two rows of leaves. Ends also con-
sist of boards, erected to a height of six
feet. Arrange the leaves in rows so that
their butts point to the outside and their
tips overlap in the middle. In the second
row place the butts a little further in
towards the centre. In tne third row
make the butts level with the first row.
Continue in this manner to ensure good
binding. When bulk is completed place
weights on the top to press the leaves
firmly together, but make certain the
weights aren’t too forcing.
Cauliflowers.
“Plane Creek”: Cauliflower seed sown
during December should produce vigor-
ous, stocky seedlings for February trans-
planting. The earlier they’re got out the
better chance they have of encountering
cold weather at heading time in mild and
warm districts. Know your coldest month
or months, and determine that your cauli-
flowers’ll be ready to head during that
month. Writer has grown ’em success-
fully on the N.Q. coast, but the heavy
summer rains and mild winters made
their cultivation arduous. They’ll grow
well in inland N.Q.
Handle the plants as cabbages. New
scrub land or green manured forest land
or creek flat is suitable. No further fer-
tiliser is required after a handful of blood
and bone is given each plant at trans-
planting in some cases, but if they lag
give fortnightly doses of blood and bone
and sulphate of ammonia, and hoe or
water them in. Drop the sulphate in
favor of horse manure if weather’s dry
and you can’t water plentifully. The dis-
tance between rows should be sufficient to
permit of effective scuffler cultivation and
hoeing. Cultivate only varieties that will
reach the heading stage during suitable
cool weather. Some varieties take four
months, others six, others eight. Any
good seedsman will sort out, suitable
varieties.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrrhee”: Take the calf off the
bucket at between five and six months
old and turn it on to good pasture,
supplemented with good meadow or
lucerne hay. Don’t bother with concen-
trates ; they tend to fatten rather than
grow the animal. Aim at growing heifers
big as, other things being equal, the
largest animals are the best producers and
are fit to be mated before they are 15
months old to calve at two years. During
pregnancy feed heifers well to keep them
growing. Steer calves reared on the
bucket to six months and fed well after-
wards will fatten into prime baby beef
at two to 2i years.
“Rooster”: While heifer calves are
growing, the habit of “bailing up” can
be taught them in the open paddock.
Feed boxes with bails are easily con-
structed. By the time they are ready to
come into the milking-shed the habit be-
comes second nature and no time is
wasted.
“Nuff”: A Richmond River (N.S.W.)
farmer has invented a self-feeder which
should raise the pig to the category of a
skilled worker. Grain is fed from a
hopper down to the' feeder, and when
the pig roots for his feed he makes an
automatic grinder operate. He gets only
what he works for —when he has had
enough the supply stops.
“Bennie”: When sowing lettuce seeds
in summer put them about deep and
give them a good soaking. Then cover
the seed patch with yin. of fresh sawdust.
This keeps the heat off the seeds and
does not allow the water to dry out until
they have germinated. Sawdust also acts
as a manure and goes into the soil with
the watering.
“Sari”: Grasshoppers avoid patches of
larkspur because the blue-flowered
annuals are poisonous to them (B.
31/10/’45). Packets of larkspur seed
bear the information “These plants are
useful for poisoning grasshoppers.” In
the United States larkspur is a known
cattle-poisoner, so graziers- and farmers
here should keep it out of their pastures.
“Lub”: Wouldn’t advise fowls in the
garden to scratch up and eat the pests
(B. 10/10/’45), and their droppings are
not suitable manure for all plants. Better
to apply it evenly to those that need nitro-
gen, A regular practice of allowing fowls
to fossick over the garden would reduce
the valuable worm population to a mini-
mum. Worm tunnels aerate the soil and
allow water to penetrate deeply, and the
creatures do an enormous job of enrich-
ment by breaking up soil and humus into
readily accessible plant food.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Mind Your Watch!
{From a British observer’s report on Poland
under Russian control, published in Manchester
“Guardian.”)
What seems to have been a silly mis-
take in Poland has been the ordering from
every artist, sculptor or architect by the
Warsaw Government of designs for
monuments of gratitude to the Russian
soldier-liberator—orders which can only
be refused if the artist is prepared to
starve in future or abandon his art.
No liberated country in the west has
taken such a step, and the idea behind it
corresponds to the attitude of the Soviet
authorities in internment camps in the
years 1939-1941, who would only give
painting materials to the Polish prisoners
on condition that they produced pictures
of Soviet leaders or illustrations to Soviet
slogans.
The monument already erected in one
city has been the subject of numerous
jokes. One morning it was found with
an immense cardboard watch and an old
bicycle strongly attached to it with
wire and the inscription: “Take the
watches and bicycles and go home.”
In the cinemas films showing leading
Russians shaking hands with their
Western allies have been greeted with
cries of “Mind your watch!”
U.S. Policy: Sharp Questions.
{From the N.Y. “Times” column written by
Arthur Krock, generally acknowledged the best
informed of all Washington correspondents.)
Influential persons in Congress and the
Administration have been hearing from
an eminent citizen, whose counsels have
been in demand in Washington for years,
unusually vigorous comments on the
foreign economic policy of the United
States. These comments largely take the
form of questions, and because the
author’s views carry great weight in
Washington, and because he has always
been a foe of isolationism in any area
of foreign policy, his memorandum is
likely to have important effects. The
bulk of it follows: —
What are our [U.S.] resources? What are our
obligations to ourselves? What promises are
we undertaking to carry out, and can we do so
from our already heavily depleted economy?
If we let Britain have X billions we will
have to let Russia, China, France, Norway,
Denmark, Belgium, Holland, Italy and the
Balkans have some too. What will this .total
be? And where shall we get it?
We have engaged to give our veterans about
$2,000,000,000 dismissal pay —less than what
some of the countries who want to borrow from
us are doing for their service men. We have
engaged to lend the veterans up to $4000 each,
which is $40,000,000,000, in two years. There
are enormous shortages in America and in the
rest of the world. The place where over half
of these .things can be obtained is the United
States. Who will get things first and why?
The United States? Or the countries which
want aid? Or those, like South American
countries, which can pay? Shall we skimp in
our economy in order to help others who do
not sufficiently help themselves?
What conditions shall we impose upon loans
or help? Will Britain be permitted to lend to
Czechoslovakia and France while borrowing
from us? Shall we lend large sums of money
to countries without asking them what they are
going to do with it and seeing what their bud-
gets are? Shall we help Russia to build up a
large army and navy?
With Germany and Japan out, there will be
plenty of room for exports for the whole world,
but Britain cannot survive if she does not
modernise her industries. She can never keep
her population at 45,000,000 unless she revamps
her production and distribution, money and
engineering for the whole Empire, which has a
vast untouched source of wealth.
Great Britain with her sterling areas and
Empire preferences and acts of discrimination
against foreigners has established an isolation-
ism much worse than U.S. has done with its
tariff system. We must in no way interfere with
Britain’s own method in carrying out her
nationalisation, economic or political life, but
she must not ask us to expend ourselves in
helping her to hurt us.
It is claimed that our U.S. capitalism inter-
feres with her. There is no thought of British
nationalism interfering with our free enterprise
system. Some Britons say capitalism is
finished. Yet it saved the world twice. Now
they want it to save the world again. But
capitalism will fail if it lets nationalism load
it down with iridescent dreams.
The British will claim they do not propose
to go beyond the nationalisation of certain
things like finances, railroads and public utilties.
But they surely will go beyond those, and
every industry they nationalise will have to be
subsidised, because it will become less efficient.
There is recognition, as evidenced by Cripps
and Churchill, that Britain must work and save
in order to get back her place in the sun. A
nation which has carried on so well through
the war can certainly do so in peace with her
greatest enemy destroyed and the markets for-
merly employed by Japan and Germany open
to her.
If Governments will get out of the way
private individuals will soon commence to trade.
Private consortiums of sellers in U.S. can sell
to private consortiums in Britain and other
countries. The more we fix Government hands
upon enterprise the shorter will be the life
of the U.S. Republic. We should co-operate,
but we should not appease. We have to be
prepared for oceans of tears and wringing of
hands and beating of breasts for what is de-
manded of us and what we certainly should
not give.
What would Britain do with the money?
Should she pay the 3,000,000,000 sterling she
owes to Egypt and her colonies? Her claim is
that she owes to others and not to her own
people. We like to pay our own people as well
as others.
What Britain apparently wants are two things:
1. A loan —or what could be called a gift.
2. Things—raw and manufactured materials,
food, etc. The resources of the British Empire,
agriculturally and minerally, have not been
affected as those of the United States have been
and there is an unlimited demand for these
things by our people also. There can be no
reason why money should be given to other
countries to take care of their civilian popula-
tions if ours have not had an opportunity to
get the things to which their work entitles them.
It should be added that the writer of
this document has studied the British
economic situation at first hand, aided
by intimate acquaintance with the pub-
lic leaders in that country.
Trade with Japan.
(From an article by the “Wall-street Journal”
Washington correspondent.)
Wares branded “Made in Japan” will
be landing on American docks —possibly
about as soon as the Nipponese can get
their production reorganised and ships
become available. ,
A State Department advisory economic
mission, headed by Woodbury Wil-
loughby, of the Division of Commercial
Policy, will be in Japan. Unpublicised,
this group will have as one of its
prime tasks the problem of controlling
and reviving the defeated empire’s foreign
trade.
The U.S. Government policy-makers
who talk of an early Japanese-American
trade revival know that many a U.S.
manufacturer will wince at the return of
cheap Jap light bulbs, toys, silk kimonos
and the thousand and one geegaws sent
before the war. U.S. consumers may
display hostility, too.
The Administration’s experts view such
imports as an inevitable, though ob-
noxious, detail of a fundamental policy
for conquered Japan. Under this policy
Japan’s stricken economy is to be revived,
by Japanese efforts but with Allied en-
couragement, The alternative would be
to hold its population to a level of mini-
mum subsistence. Since it is believed this
would mean eventual revolt, it would
require perpetual occupation for enforce-
ment.
In Soviet-ruled Rumania.
(Condensed from a report by the N.Y. ’‘Herald
Tribune’s''’ Rome correspondent, written after
his return from Bucharest.)
Rumania, once bountiful in agricul-
tural products, will face famine this
winter and need outside help for the first
time in its history. Rumania’s crop yield
will be 30 to 40 per cent, of normal, ac-
cording to Allied figures, and 50 per
cent, according to Government statistics.
A drought resulted in little or no rain
for three months, but, besides such
natural vicissitudes, an agrarian reform,
instituted at the time of spring planting,
reduced all estates to 50 hectares (124
acres). Allied contentions are that such
a move dealt a serious setback to crop
yield because of poor timing and lack of
planning.
Much farm machinery was assembled
by the Government at central depots for
collective use, but distribution was hap-
hazard.
Under the terms of the armistice Russia
was granted, in addition to $300,000,000
indemnity over a period of six years, the
right to recover machinery and livestock
removed by the Rumanian Army in
Russia. Another stipulation provided that
Russian troops in Rumania or in transit
through the country shall be supplied.
Estimates on the number of Russian
troops in Rumania vary from 500,000 to
1,000,000.
Red Army troops get the first call on
supplies and transport. For crops taken
from the peasants the Government must
pay, and the printing presses are rolling
so fast that the leu has reached almost
11,000 to the dollar. (Pre-war rate, 180 to
the dollar.)
The peasants have little livestock and
few draft animals remaining. Living up
to the letter of the armistice agreement,
the Russians removed livestock they con-
tended was appropriated by Rumanian
forces in Russia. Removal of livestock
has become a somewhat grim joke. On
Premier Petru Groza’s train Rumanian
Cabinet members are said to have placed
their hands over a Russian censor’s eyes
when the car whizzed by a field in which
cattle grazed.
In river and air transport, petroleum
and banking, the Russians have worked
out economic agreements that will tie
Rumania’s economy completely to the
Soviet Union. Studies made by the Allies
show that companies give Russia vir-
tual monopoly over all of Rumania’s
economy. In each company, the general
manager is a Russian and the president is
a Rumanian. The studies maintainthat the
Russian officer in these companies has
sweeping powers, including “the virtual
right to sign away the company’s prop-
erty to any interested group that might be
formed.”
No Jewish State in Palestine.
{Morris S. Lazaron, a director of the American-
Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, warns of
the dangers connected with the Zionist demand
for a Jewish National State in Palestine in a
letter condensed from the New York “Times.”)
London Zionist leaders determined to
exert the utmost pressure on the Govern-
ment for unlimited Jewish immigration
into Palestine under Jewish control and
the establishment of a Jewish State, to
exert similar pressure in Washington and
to enter upon a vigorous and aggressive
campaign to organise public opinion be-
hind these Zionist demands to force the
U.S. Government to support them.
Jews are divided on this issue. The
request that Palestine be opened to home-
less and Stateless Jews, is humani-
tarian, is not the same thing as the pro-
gramme of the Zionist Organisation, the
Jewish Congress and the Jewish Agency,
which is political.
Such pressures are ill-advised, will in-
crease tension in Palestine and may pre-
cipitate violence and bloodshed there.
They complicate delicate negotiations
being conducted with Britain, and might
When the commissioner of public
property at Springfield, 111. {U.S. A.),
was unable, because of the war man-
power shortage, to hire enough men to
keep the grass mowed on the shores of
Lake Springfield he purchased 400 sheep
to do the job. The sheep replaced 20
men at 75 cents an hour. Since then 150
sheep have been sold for $750. In 1944
the sale of wool brought in $573. This
year it is estimated that the sale of wool
will amount to S3OOO. There remain 600
sheep to keep the grass and weeds
mowed.
This accomplishment demonstrates how
an initial handicap can be turned into
an asset. We wonder whether the sheep
solution is capable of a larger applica-
tion. We now have more than 3)- mil-
lion bureaucrats on the Federal pay roll.
Even at the most acute stage of the man-
power shortage the New Deal found no
difficulty pulling in newcomers — l26,l3o
in the month of June, for instance. The
Federal pay roll soon will be at the rate
of eight billion dollars a year, more than
twice greater than the interest on the
public debt as of June 30.
Applying the Springfield formula, we
would put the bureaucrats out to grass
and acquire 34 million sheep in their
place. In less than a year, instead of
eating up billions in tax money, the
sheep would be paying their own way.
Wouldn’t that be something ?
We’d keep Harold Ickes, though. For
the Judas goat.
[To which comment from the Chicago
“Tribune” might be added: Australia
should copy.]
indeed destroy magnificent achievements
in Palestine, deprive thousands of their
one hope for a home and precipitate reli-
gious and racial warfare in the Near East.
The British and U.S. Governments ap-
preciate the tragic conditions, and are
inclined to use their best endeavors to
find a practical solution. Propaganda
pressure will not better things.
More than two-thirds of the Jews of
the world now live in lands of freedom.
The citizenship enjoyed by them should
not be endangered by setting up a Jewish
State, which at best could offer a home
to several millions, which would always
be surrounded by Arab peoples, which
would be too small to protect even its
own nationals and which would always
be the football of international politics.
Let us determine how many Jews wish
to go to Palestine, and let us unite behind
the appeal to open the doors of Palestine
to as wide an extent as conditions permit.
Let us have done with making irrespon-
sible public demands which can end only
in disillusionment. Palestine the refuge,
the cultural centre —yes! But not Pales-
tine the Jewish State. More can be done
in Washington, London, Moscow, Paris
and with the Arab League and leaders
through quiet conversations, pointing out
the desperate need, than resolutions, mass
meetings and persistent irritating public
pressure.
With international guarantee of the in-
tegrity of their position, with the threat
of Jewish dominance removed, the Arabs
should agree to open the country to
reasonable Jewish immigration and to
extensive economic development. The
various communities working together to
build up the country may, under states-
manlike guidance and restrained leader-
ship, develop habits of co-operation which
can only come through living and labor-
ing together. Until they do, a continu-
ance of the British mandate under the
new international authority seems the only
practical possibility.
Britain, Russia, the United States and
other countries and peoples have vital
and important interests there. Christian,
Moslem and Jew draw inspiration from
what is to all of them the Holy Land.
The political future of Palestine must be
built through peaceful compromise of all
these national, racial, religious and inter-
national factors. Meanwhile, inter-
national authority must repress the ex-
tremist, encourage the moderate and give
the land a chance.
The Atom Bomb’s Crater.
(From an eyewitness account in the “Christian
Science Monitor.”)
The test atomic bomb crater in New
Mexico is a saucer-shaped depression 25
feet deep and a half-mile across, where
the top quarter-inch of red-grey soil
boiled and bubbled and then cooled into
a carpet of jade and turquoise-colored
glass. Inspection, however, has shown
that the facts do not bear out Japanese
propaganda that tried to lay the founda-
tion for claims that Americans won the
war by unfair means.
This New Mexico bomb was big, its
effects comparable to the bombs dropped
on Japah. What happened was used
purposely to avoid the chances that the
actual bombings would inflict bizzare
and non-military sufferings.
The great jade saucer lies in the centre
of a square of tall mountain ranges. It
is smooth except at the centre, where
there is a small, shallow, bowl-shaped de-
pression of red-grey earth where the boil-
ing soil was blown completely away.
The central bowl is 300 feet across.
•Out beyond the rim of the great jade
saucer is a ring where the earth was
wiped bare of vegetation. This mile-
wide ring was the complete annihilation
area. But beyond that signal wires five
feet above the ground vaporised, their
stubby poles were knocked down and the
low desert bushes still lean outward as if
the great atomic wind were blowing them.
The atomic heat that boiled the earth’s
face is still a military secret. The British
official report stated that it was millions
of degrees at the centre of the explosion.
This great crater is different from any-
thing ever before observed. It was not
made by gouging out and blowing away
earth, except right at the base, where a
few score barrels of dirt were blasted
out. This depression was made simply
by pressure which pushed the solid earth
straight down. The pressure is also a
secret, except for a British official estimate
that it was many million times the 144-1 b.
per square inch pressure of the atmo-
sphere.
The great bomb exploded only 100 feet
above the earth here. The result was to
make the crater soil temporarily radio-
active. It was still emitting X-rays when
an official inspection was made about
mid-September. To read the strength of
these rays, natural scientists carried in-
struments which gave readings showing
the rays would not harm anyone remain-
ing for perhaps Tours. But they indi-
cated that more than a month after the
July 16 explosion the rays were still
strong enough to make spending a day
and a night right in the crater a possibly
risky business. The cameramen in the
party were warned that the mild rays
were strong enough to fog plates and
films if pictures were not taken rapidly.
Before he entered, every man donned
white canvas foot-bags shaped like shoes.
This was to ensure that no grain of radio-
active sand might cling to his shoes to
remain for weeks after the expedition.
The members scattered over the crater
picking up souvenirs of atomic glass.
Often there were small clods of earth
completely encased in glass not much
thicker than an egg shell. The enclosed
dirt was unchanged, showing that the
atomic heat spent itself mostly in a
fraction of an inch of earth.
Just in the outer rim of complete de-
struction sits Jumbo, so named because
he is a huge, stubby bottle of steel, with
walls about six inches thick. He was
neither harmed nor blown over, although
the tower above him was seared and laid
flat. Jumbo is 800 yards from the centre
of the explosion, and a good marker for
the fact that even the blow of an atomic
bomb loses its punch rapidly with dis-
tance.
A subsequent ’plane view indicated that
the crater, the country about which is
closed by military guards 25 miles out,


m
SC?
ItAeQdte/
C.S.B. 13*82
SAVE
T O
BUY
WAR SAVINGS
CERTIFICATES
AND
VICTORY
BONDS
Through the wide Australian
farmlands there is one inflex-
ible law the gates must be
closed. The children khow it
from their earliest days ; and
as they grow older they apply
that lesson of caution to other
everyday actions. They
remember to keep the gates of
their savings carefully closed
by means of a Savings Bank
account. They know that
spare cash is less apt to stray
if it is held for them in the
Bank ; and although the gates
may be opened readily if
required, it is always wise to
be sure of safety.
BE SURE NOW !
OPEN A SAVINGS ACCOUNT WITH THE
commonuTH stums
OF nUSTBHLIA
IXL - AJC
OK-VC
These World FaiUOUS Brands are
Manufactured and Distributed by
the Components of
HENRY JONES
Co-operative Limited
Manufacturers and Packers of: —
JAMS
CANNED FRUITS
, SAUCES
SOUPS
FRUIT JUICES
ASPARAGUS
HOPS
EVAPORATED APPLES
AND
ASSOCIATED
COMMODITIES
Factories and Branches in: —
AUSTRALIA
NEW ZEALAND •
SOUTH AFRICA
ENGLAND
Agencies:—
SHIPPING INSURANCE
CARBIDE
SAW MILLERS TIMBER / MERCHANTS
is disintegrating rapidly in the occasional
rains. Already the dried beds of rivulets
run down to the centre and cut crooked
swathes in the carpet. They are destroy-
ing the amazing outer contours, which
from above look like a bursting spot of
blue-green flame, frozen right at its peak,
with long, slender fingers, reaching out
hundreds of yards.
To avoid this searing of the earth with
X-ray radioactivity the Hiroshima and
Nagasaki bombs were exploded far
higher above the ground. Dr. J. R.
Oppenheimer, head of the secret labora-
tory in northern New Mexico, said the
Japan heights of explosion—still secret —
were picked so that there would be no
indirect chemical warfare due to poisoning
the earth with radioactive elements, and
no horrors other than the familiar ones
due to any great explosion.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
MacArthur’s point of view on the Far East
is extremely interesting. Almost everyone
who has talked with him during his long so-
journ in the Pacific has come back with the
same report. It is MacArthur’s belief that if
the U.S. has a future as a nation, it lies in the
Pacific. It lies in raising the sub-standards of
millions of Asiatics who have lived near or
even below the subsistence level. He believes
that Europe is finished. In talking with his
visitors he often expressed this in a fierce re-
sentment of the fact that a preponderance of
material was going to the European war theatre.
Partly, of course, this could be put down to
the understandable resentment of a theatre
commander jealous of the advancement of his
own forces, but it went deeper than that. —
Marquis Childs; Washington “Post.”
* * * *
In about 50 words, instead of 150,000, the
real story behind Pearl Harbor is that every-
body knew on December 7, 1941, that the
United States and Japan were about to go to
war, but everybody in the White House, at
the U.S. State Department and in the U.S.
Army and Navy expected that Japan would
strike southward toward French Indo-China,
and nobody had the faintest idea that Japan
would hit the United States directly in Hawaii.
—“United States News.”
* * * *
It is astonishing to read so-called experts and
to listen to that curious breed of retailers called
radio commentators speak of the Russians
taking back their own Port Arthur, Darien,.
the Chinese Eastern Railway, etc. Actually,
none of this was Russian. They stole most
of it from China and held it for a little while,
when the Japanese stole it from them. But it
was Chinese, not Russian. —George E. Sokol-
sky; N.Y. “Sun.”
TT No country, with the exception of the Soviet
Union, undertook mobilisation on so complete
a sca le as Great Britain. Few people realise
that the war effort of Germany, for example,
was in no sense comparable, and did not, at
least until the final stage of disintegration, call
into service so large a measure of the people’s
energy or cut so heavily into their normal way
of life. — Former U.S. Secretary of the Treasury
Henry Morgenthau.
* * * *
In reference to a post-war military estab-
lishment, it would seem to us that no man
ought to be commissioned,' save for special
duties, without experience in the ranks. And
all men in the ranks should have opportunitiy
on the basis of merit to become officers. Be-
yond this, we are convinced, the rigid bar-
riers between officers and men—meanly snobbish
in most respects—must be broken down. There
is- no good reason to forbid social intercourse
between a corporal and a captain while per-
mitting it between the captain and a colonel.
There is no good reason for giving officers
better food and quarters save as the higher pay
afforded by advancement permits individual pur-
chase of luxuries. Reform is especially needed
in the Navy. The living quarters of seamen
on most ships seem contrived to accentuate
their subordination to the officer class. In
military and naval services alike, educational
opportunities ought to be made available to the
enterprising. It should be possible, we imagine,
to offer courses leading to regular college de-
grees in the arts, sciences and humanities for
men who aspire to become officers. We would
have better and more informed officers as a
result, and men retiring from the Army and
Navy would be better equipped for citizenship.
Most important of all, the services would be
rendered more attractive to alert and progressive
young men. That this is not the case at
present is proof, surely, that reform is needed.
—Washington “Post•”
* * * *
A wonderfully smart people are the Ger-
mans. Specialists appraising what is left of the
industry of the Third Reich have to exclaim
in admiration at the strides our late enemies
made through the years after 1939. Fresh
evidence of the accomplishments of German
scientists and inventors turns up daily. For-
mulas for making butter and beverage alcohol
from the country’s inexhaustible coal are the
least of their triumphs. Along with appalling
new weapons, new processes in all depart-
ments of manufacturing and potential wealth-
creating methods worth untold millions are
found in the laboratories, ready to go into pro-
duction and use. Even before the war, the Ger-
mans, by dint of the smartness of their super-
technicians, had the world’s purse almost at
their fingertips. Bloodless conquest of huge
world markets was fairly within their grasp.
Their “New Order” might today be sitting
pretty astride most trade routes, with both hemi-
spheres for its customers. But their smartness
didn’t extend to the field of human relations.
They took a false prophet’s word for it that
the consuming public was spineless and a push-
over, and so their selling methods were stupid.
A smart salesman who wants to establish a
lasting connection with his patrons doesn’t
begin by massacring them. — N.Y. “Times
Molotov discovered at Potsdam that Britain,
France and the United States had no views on
the German settlement which they were prepared
to insist upon, and so he fixed the eastern fron-
tier of Germany while they neglected to fix
the western frontier. He then discovered that
they were more interested in arguing about de-
mocracy behind the lines of the Red Army
than in reinforcing democracy within their own
lines. So the Balkan settlement was given
precedence over the European settlement. Yet
there can be no Balkan settlement except a
Russian settlement until there is a European
settlement. A European settlement is one which
determines the position of the principal Euro-
pean Powers and their relationship—namely
Britain, France, Germany, Italy, as well as
Poland and Russia. As things stand now only
the position of Russia and Poland in relation
to eastern Germany is fixed. The position of
the western countries as regards Germany, and
their relations among themselves, are entirely
unfixed. Until this vacuum is filled it is a
cardinal error of judgment to focus our atten-
tion on the Balkans and eastern Europe, and
to chase such red herrings as the disposition
of Italian colonies in Africa. — Walter Lipp-
mann; Washington "Post.”
* * * *
Earl Browder, the deposed former head of
U.S. Communists, refused repeatedly to discuss
with the House Committee Investigating Un-
American Activities the ideological differences
which led to his loss of leadership. At one
point during hours of examination of Browder
by committeemen, Representative J. Parnell
Ihomas, Republican of New Jersey, commented
angrily to the room: “He is going to go on
evading, or he would be in the position of
Tiotsky and he knows it.” — Washington corre-
spondent N.Y. "Times.”
* * * *
In Germany today there is a readiness to
admit it was a “bad war.” But it was a “good
war ” while Germany was winning. There is
no abhorrence of war, such as one finds in
France or England. There is still a reluctance
to accept war as the dirty, stupid horror, de-
stroying both the soul and body, which free
men know it to be. To bring these things home
to the German people, the whole people, and
not merely the children and the prisoners, is
a more important task than the dismantling of
factories and the arrest of Nazis.— N.Y.
Times.”
* * * *
One phase of the American programme for
Germany has been revealed in the story of
the indoctrination of a carefully selected group
of German prisoners of war. They have been
chosen, and are being trained, to act as civil
servants in Germany and they are being ex-
posed to democracy in the hope that they will
carry it with them. It is something of a para-
dox, this selection of a democratic elite, whose
members are being schooled in the idea that
they are not elite, that they are the little men
of whom democracy is composed and through
whom it functions.— N.Y. "Herald Tribune.”
***:;;
A national monument to the atomic bomb
will be erected in the New Mexico desert,
according to plans disclosed by U.S. Secretary
of the Interior Harold L. Ickes. Japan already
has two monuments to the atomic tne
former cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, there
is no reason why we shouldn’t have one of our
own, preferably in the desert. —Chicago bun.
♦ * * *
Out of the reduced store of tulips left to
them the people of Holland have set aside
110,000 tulip bulbs to honor American soldier
dead and to make more beautiful American
national cemeteries. It is a generous gift, tor
the tulip was no less a casualty of war than
the dead it now will honor. Many were lost
when the fields were flooded, although reports
from Holland now say the damage was not so
extensive as at first believed. Many were eaten,
for the people were reduced to that, as a sub-
stitute for potatoes, or ground and mixed with
the little flour available to make bread. The
bulbs will bloom in all their loveliness next
spring in the Arlington, Baltimore and Long
Island cemeteries. There they will lift their
chaliced flowers in all the colors of the rain-
bow and bring a touch of beauty to the rigid
pattern of military graves set rank on rank
and file on file, so many paces right and left,
so many paces front and rear. They will do
more than words can say and will be a
deeply treasured gift by which the .American
heart will be touched and for which the Ameri-
can nation will be grateful.— N.Y. “Times:”
* * * *
The overwhelming role which the United
States played in the Japanese defeat entitles it
to a primary role'in all Far Eastern settlements,
and most particularly in all matters affecting
American security from new Japanese aggres-
sion. That primary role need not and will not
be surrendered, and General MacArthur will re-
main the Supreme Commander of all Allied
occupation forces and the executor of what-
ever policy is decided upon. But, subject to
this proviso, the United States will be only too
glad to share both control of and responsibility
for Japan with other Allied nations. — N.Y-
“Times” editorial comment.
* * * *
The war in the Pacific ended in a white man’s
victory because the Japs weren’t smart. They
failed to exploit the inherent antipathy of the
Chinese to the white man, and the basic eco-
nomic and sociological differences in theii
respective ways of life. The Japs made the fatal
mistake of trying to. achieve their “Co-pros-
perity Sphere” by brute force instead of by
propaganda. You always get more flies with
honey. If they had used the right psychological
approach they could have lined up against us
not only the Chinese but the other millions of
Asiatics. We are in for another war out there.
We have disturbed the equilibrium and blocked
natural human forces and tendencies. We must
remember also that we antagonised both the
Japs and the Chinese decades ago when we
barred their immigration.— N.Y. “Daily News.”
* * * *
It turns out that President Truman was as
surprised as the man in the street, if not more
so, when Russia declared war on Japan. Mr.
Truman had expected that the atomic bomb
would produce a surrender before the Russians
had had time to get into the war, and thereby
to complicate the problem of peace settlements.
—“United States News.”


Missing Friend.
TO ROBERT BRAY formerly of Luxton Road Hawks-
burn in the State of Victoria Accountant but now
of parts unknown.—TAKE NOTICE that your wife
BETTE MAE BRAY has instituted proceedings for
a divorce on the ground of desertion UNLESS you
enter an appearance in the Office of the Prothono-
tary of the Supreme Court of Victoria at Mel-
bourne on or before the Twenty-first day of Decem-
ber 1945 the case may proceed in your absence IF
you intend to defend the suit you must also file an
answer in the said office on or before the Thirty-first
day of December 1945 AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy petition and copy
citation in the suit may be inspected at the office
of the Petitioner’s Solicitor—JOAN ROSANOVE, 415
Bourke Street, Melbourne, Solicitor for Hie Petitioner.
MANSEASE
the perfect comfort mala
support for everymau’i
everyday wear.
All men’s-wear shop*
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease 00., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
3
a
5
And promote new growth . . . with
McMahon's Hair Restorer; easy to
apply, pleasant and economical to use.
Obtainable from chemists, hairdressers
and stores.
d
fd
EARNING
£lO A WEEK
WRITING
An Interesting Occupation
A Paying Hobby
These days £lO a week is still
good money for anyone to earn in
business, but isn’t it marvellous
TO BE ABLE TO EARN THAT
MUCH OVER AND ABOVE
YOUR REGULAR SALARY OR
WAGES?
You can, if you can write a
good everyday letter; in fact, it
is rather simple, but you must
learn THE RIGHT WAY TO GO
ABOUT IT. You must be trained
to know exactly what to write
about, how to write it, and, what
is just as important, where to
sell it.
Grasp the key to success now.
The British School of Authorship
makes all the difference between
just fanciful dreams and real
hard cash earned by good con-
vincing writing.
Sit down and write for a copy of
mv free booklet, “Making Money
With the Pen.” BRITISH
SCHOOL OF AUTHORSHIP, Ist
Floor, Dymock’s Building, 426
George Street, SYDNEY. Phone;
M 3696. 85.
CAVEAT EMPTOR
In early law this Latin phrase had a
significant bearing on commercial trans-
actions. "Let the buyer beware”
expressed the spirit in which business
was commonly carried on.
But today the burden is on the should-
ers of the seller and in striking contrast
to "Caveat Emptor,” Gerrard Wire
Tying Machines Co. readily and gladly
assumes full responsibility for the quality
and dependability of all of its products.
Customer satisfaction is the keynote
of our business policy .
Good Australian packing supplies backed by dependable
GERRARD SERVICE
Wire Tying Machines and Strapping - Flat Band Strapping Systems -
Corrugated Fasteners - Fountain Stencil Brushes - Fount-Pencil Markers -
Stencil Inks - Label lackers and Tacks - Bag Ties -
Packing Room Supplies.
elielhtßmk
Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Townsville, Perth, Adelaide, Hobart
EVERY NATION
HAS ITS SHRINES
Historical documents are part of the fabric of the
nation.
That is why The Mitchell Library has become
Australia’s paramount repository of records of signifi-
cance.
The Library provides facilities for the complete safety
of all documents, and with jealous care preserves them
for the nation.
Persons possessing rec'ords of any kind re-
lating to early Australia—letters, diaries,
log-books or other papers— sure asked to
offer them to the Trustees, either by way of
gift or purchase.
Communications to —The Principal Librarian,
MITCHELL LIBRARY
SYDNEY
f
Listen to
A
“Treasures of the Mitchell
V
Australian History dramatised,
2UW every Wednesday, 9.15 p.m.
J
s
CRAVENA
titafte always,
smcdb * fash!
Obtainable In 10’s & 20’s
M A
fd
f
df
d
fd
fd
5767
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy booklet on how to operate a “Fireless
Cookstove.”—3673.
To buy latest textbooks on tyre retreading.
3674.
To buy My Love Must Wait, by Ernestine
Hill, and gramophone discs of Bob Dyer sing-
ing “The Martins and the Coys” and “Tire
Newtons are Feudin’ Again.”—367s.
To buy The Technique of Water-color, by
Richmond.—3676.
To buy Married Love, by Dr. Marie Stopes.
—3677.
Information Sought.
A method of treating canvas verandah blinds
so as to protect them from the weather ?
Soak the material in a hot soap solution (3oz.
soap to each gallon of water). Drain off ex-
cess liquid and immerse, before dry, in a
copper sulphate solution (Boz. copper sulphate
to each gallon water) for several hours. Iron
or galvanised vessels must not be used as con-
tainers. The process both rot-proofs and water-
proofs canvas. It will turn the material a very
pale green.
A cure for windgalls in horses’ fetlocks ?
Give the horse complete rest for several
months. Bandage fetlocks with elastic bandages
and hose with cold water several times a day.
It is advisable to remove the bandages for
several hours every second day. In cases which
are of a long-standing nature and treatment
is not satisfactory, try blistering or firing of
the affected parts.
In what years did Jack Crawford and John
Bromwich win the Australian junior singles
tennis championships, and where?
Crawford: 1926, Adelaide; 1927, Melbourne;
1928, Sydney; 1929, Adelaide. Bromwich: 1935,
Melbourne; 1936, Adelaide; 1937, Sydney.
(1) Results of Sheffield Shield cricket in
1939-40 ? (2) How are points awarded for the
title ?
Out- Won Lost
right on Ist on Ist
Win. Inn. Inn. Lost. Drawn. Points.
N.S.W. 4 0 0 2 0 20
S.A. 3 1 0 2 0 18
Vic. 3 0 1 2 0 16
Q’land 1 0 0 5 0 5
(2) Points are awarded: Outright win, 5; win
on first innings, 3; loss on first innings, 1;
draw, 2.
Brief Answers.
J.C.: (1) The author should tell the publisher
about prior publication in another country, but
the publisher does not' have to acknowledge the
earlier publication in his edition. (2) Not cer-
tain, but it seems to suggest that once a pub-
lisher has exercised the first right, to publish as
a serial, a right of republication may be sold to
someone else J.T.: (1) Contact Angus and
Robertson, G.P.O. Box 1516 DD, Sydney. (2)
Patents, Trade Marks, Designs and Copyright
Department, 341 Pitt Street, Sydney M.M.:
Only bibles dated 1550-1650 are of collectors’
value—.M.K.: Walther and Stevenson,
George-street, Sydney, have the lamination
measuring lin. by 3 pole and l|in. by
2 pole, while R. E. Sly, 106 Pacific-highway,
Greenwich, Sydney, have Hin. by 3 pole with
3-32 in. h01e... .G.W.: As the wattle is in the
coat-of-arms it has some official sanction as
the national emblem, but there are no official
flower emblems for each State A.H.: Con-
tact Sydney Technical College, Harris-street,
Ultimo R.A.P.; French polishing is not a
job to be attempted by a novice; it would be
advisable to consult a tradesman M. 8.:
There was a J. Humphries, Derbyshire wicket-
keeper, who came to Australia in the Jones team
in 1907-08. W. A. Humphreys, Sussex under-
arm bowler, bad come in 1894-95 M.M.D.:
We know of no such society in Sydney....
N.S.: (1) A divorcee can again be married
in a church. (2) Most denominations,
Catholics excepted, have no objection... .S.A.F.:
Boondoonga, “where birds shelter”; Boonoo
Boonoo, “poor country for game”; Bungalla,
“where black bream is caught”; Wallangarra,
“long water” (“long lagoon”); Wandinanga,
“native companions in the sun”... .F.H.: The
instrument should be submitted to a violin
specialist as it is impossible to make any defi-
nite statement with only a description to follow.
M.E.C.: Ban is not absolute and an annuity
could probably be obtained from one of the
reputable life offices. The rate is approx.
£5 15s. p.c P.H.: Boxers lodge tax returns at
the end of the year like any other wage-earner.
Only in cases where previous tax was long over-
due have department representatives arranged to
collect what was owing before the boxer was
paid his percentage. Tax is assessed on the
income for the year. No deductions are allowed
for training expenses, but the manager’s percen-
tage is deducted.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submittedj and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany, MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
K.N.: Nearly 8.M.: Last stanza fails to
make clear its point E.S.: None stand a
chance J.W.8.: Gets too far away from the
fox; make a picture of him and herd all the
other beast's into a line or two P.C.: Baffling
indeed P.K.: Just a bee on a blossom
W.S.F,: Alas that such noble thoughts should
make such lamentable verse... .T.J.8.: Metre
mechanical E.G.W.: Write about the present
time H. 5.8.: “My poems take about 15
minutes to compose, and ballads about an
hour.” It fakes only ten seconds to see that.
F.M.M.: You’ve a long way to go
H.J.R.: Too personal.,..R.M.: Indistinguish-
able from others on the same theme W.S.:
Promising; describe the things you’ve seen....
P.E.T.: “I’ve written a lot of jingle.” Try
writing verse L.D.: Both lightweights
W.E.M.: “Why honor thou I by the gracious-
ness of thy presence?” Do you really talk
like that to her? .... J.Q.: How do you think
Browning would like it?....G.D.; It has the
merit of being the first poem on the new French
bathing costumes; but, like them, it is elemen-
tary A.8.C.: If everybody who has cried in
verse “Arise, Australia!” cried aloud at the
one time, the nation would fall stunned to the
ground D.M.: “To Flies” should be
swatted,


df
How Will My Estate
be Administered?
This is a problem which every thinking man
or woman must face. By appointing The
Trustees Executors and Agency Company
Limited you obtain the benefit of an im-
partial Executor with over 67 years’ special-
ised experience in the administration of
estates, and the assurance that the interests
of your legatees will be safeguarded until all
trusts are completed.
No individual Executor can offer such per-
manence, security or efficiency. Charges arc
fixed and moderate. Consult your solicitor
or write or call for Free Booklet detailing
the advantages of the Company’s service.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £962,437.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman); D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Raws, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C. 8.8.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S. Mclb., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS:
Sir Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R. T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager: J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Do you need a /
i
Jhm?
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss if with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
Hi
MOLASSES!
In 45-gallon drums, in truck
loads for stock food—so/-
per drum. Single drums
5 7/6. Drums free and
freight paid free to any rail-
way station in N.S.W. Send
cash with order to —
J.E.LONG&CO.
Wallangarra.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Bank of New Zealand
Mortgage
f— Shares,
Govt.’s Ord. 6 and
Mar., Profit. Divs. 10 p.c. 74 p.c. Reserves.
£ £ £ £ £
1936.. 565,181 150,000 875,006 49,219 3,914,100
1937.. 600,008 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,939,889
1938.. 583,209 150,000 375,000 49,219 8,948,880
1939.. 585,941 150,000 375,000 49,219 8,960,602
1940.. 580,926 150,000 375,000 49,219 3,967,309
8 p.c.
1941.. 461,909 112,500 300,000 49,219 8,967,499
74 P-c.
1942.. 426,746 98,125 281,250 43,681* 3,971,189
7 p.c.
1943.. 380,435 87,500 262,500 43,066* 8,958,558
1944.. 383,410 87,500 262,500 43,086* 3,948,902
1945.. 378,886 87,500 262,500 43,066* 3,934,722
* After deducting N.Z. Social and National Security
Tax (Id. for every Bd. or part thereof).
The Government in Maoriland has de-
cided to uproot the Dominion’s oldest
and largest trading bank —the 84-year-
old B.N.Z,—and replant it alongside
other State institutions. Precisely what
the Government hopes to achieve by this
it has not yet fully explained. Imme-
diate reason for its action appears to be
primarily political. The Labor party
conference of November 8 last passed a
resolution urging the Government to pro-
mote a State trading bank by immediate
acquisition of shares in the B.N.Z. held
privately. Despite sound, strong and
vigorous protests from all other sections
of the community, including the Gov-
ernment-nominated members of the bank
board and ord. shareholders, Cabinet
decided to act on the recommendation.
In his address at the annual meeting
chairman A. T. Donnelly (Government
nominee) said:
The proposal to buy the private shares in
the bank has not come about because of
any delinquency on the part of the bank,
or by its failure to do its national or com-
munity duty, or by any selfish, stubborn
opposition to the peace- or war-time policy
of the Government From my knowledge
and experience, from the relationship be-
tween the bank and the Government
during the last nine years, and from the
best consideration. I can give to the
opposing discussions, there is no national
need, necessity or benefit, so far as I can
see, for the proposed change, especially
when considered in the light of the state-
ment of the Minister of Finance of March
31, 1945.
The statement by the Minister (Mr.
Nash) just referred to was as follows;
The Government gives an unqualified
assurance that all rights and immunities now
enjoyed by customers in the Bank of New
Zealand will remain exactly as at present.
This means, needless to say, that clients’
accounts and records in the bank’s books
will remain inviolable and secret. Deposits
in the Bank of New Zealand will thus con-
tinue to be governed by the same terms as
govern the deposits in the other trading
banks.
In all administrative matters the bank
will remain under its present management"
and day-to-day conduct of its business will,
as hitherto, be governed by the principles
of sound banking practice. While the
general policy of the bank will be deter-
mined by the Minister of Finance on be-
half of the Government in accord with like
powers provided in the Reserve Bank of
New Zealand and State Advances Corpora-
tion Acts, the existing directors will remain
in office in accord with the Bank of New
Zealand Act and will be responsible for the
general administration of the bank.
In London in May, 1937, the same Mr.
Nash told an English audience that
Maoriland’s Labor Government did not
propose to interfere with or take over
the banks. Only hint of purpose or in-
tention behind the present move comes
from Prime Minister Fraser, who recently
said “he did not want to say anything
against the trading banks as they had
operated during the war period—they
had been most helpful—but it was in the
post-war period that the Government
desired to be able to exercise control.”
As regards the B.N.Z. the Government
appoints four of the six directors, in-
cluding the chairman ; and the board de-
termines the bank’s policy and controls
its administration. Local and London
auditors of the bank are also appointed
by the Government, which holds one-
third of the share capital, that does not
carry voting rights at Shareholders’ meet-
ings. Moreover, very wide and effective
control over the trading banks is con-
ferred by statute upon the Reserve Bank,
which is owned by the Government,
lock, stock and barrel. The question
arises, therefore, whether the post-war
control of which the Prime Minister
spoke does not involve objectives which
the Government feels it would be im-
proper to use the capital of private share-
holders in attaining.
As for such objectives, the British
socialist, G. D. H. Cole, commenting on
the supersession of capitalism, said, as
far back as 1932:
It is in the machinery of banking and
finance that the power to keep the eco-
nomic system working or to bring about
its dislocation at any moment resides.
Just as it would be fatal to leave this
machinery in capitalist hands while attempt-
ing the institution of a measure of socialism
elsewhere, it would be indispensable to
have it in socialist hands as the means of
influencing in a socialistic direction every
branch of the economic system from the
very outset of the socialistic regime.
For political reasons Maoriland’s Gov-
ernment dare not be so frank as this at
the moment.
Structure of the bank’s capital account
is as follows:
Owned by
t — * \
Government. Public. Total.
A Prefe., 10 p.c.
non-cum.. .. £500,000 £500,000
C 6 p.c. long-term
mortgage .. 234,375 - 284,375
D 74 p.c. long-term
mortgage .. £468,750 468,750
B prefs 1,875,000 1,375,000
Ords 3,750,000 3,760,000
Totals .. .. £2,109,375 £4,218,750 £6,828,126
The scrip, all in £1 units, ranks in the
order stated for capital; only the ords.
carry voting rights. At end March last
each ord. was covered by net tangibles
with a book value of £2 ss. That
includes a tax reserve of £760,000, but
leaves out of the reckoning such inner
reserves as may exist in the written down
book value of premises, advances and
other securities. In 1924, 1926 and 1929
inner reserves of £184,465, £lOO,OOO and
£212,000 respectively were disclosed. And
-considerable profit has been made on
sale of securities from time to time. It
is reasonable to assume that the direc-
tors, being prudent men, did not dis-
close every penny of inner strength, and
that they have since taken advantage of
opportunity as it offered to further
strengthen the co.’s shock-absorbers.
The bill empowering the Government
to buy privately-held shares in the bank
provides for acquisition of the ords. at
(a) £2 ss. each cash, or ( b ) £2 6s, Bd.
each in 3 p.c. tax-free non-transferable
Government stock, or (c) £2 13s. 4d. each
in 3 p.c. ordinary taxable Government
stock. Obviously these offers take no
account of inner reserves, the exact
amount of which can only be guessed at
by outsiders. The Government’s action,
therefore, amounts to a partial confisca-
tion of assets. There is, of course, much
to be said for the contention that earn-
ing power largely determines capital
value in the long run. But there is also
much to be said against this method of
assessing capital value, when earning
power has been deliberately repressed
by controls imposed to meet the excep-
tional circumstances of total war.
Net earnings for the 12 months to end
March were £378,886. Average net profit
for the last half-dozen years was £435,387,
compared with an average of £581,020
for the six peace years to the close of
accounts in 1939. Shortly before an-
nouncement of the Government’s offer
the market priced the ords. at £2 10s. as
against £2 4s. 6d. a year earlier.
Shareholders who exercise the first
(cash) option will need to invest their
money at 3.11 p.c. to get a gross return
equal to the present rate of div. (7 p.c.)
on the shares. The gross return from
exercise of the second option would be
7.16 p.c. and from the third option 8
p.c. The option most favorable to a
shareholder will depend, among other
things, upon his taxable income from
all sources.
After purchase of the shares, and on
the basis of average net earnings over
the last six war years, the net return to
the Government would be between 3| p.c.
and 4 p.c., or between 4.5 p.c. and 5.1
p.c. on the basis of average net earning
for the six years to 1939, according to
options exercised.
Here are the B.N.Z.’s balance-sheet
figures:
Liabilities.
Notes. Bills. Deposits.
1934.. £4,259,149 £8,437,612 £34,328,004
1939.. 627 5,275,957 33,328,479
1941.. 627 4,895,985 39,590,874
1942.. 627 5,530,729 42,534,133
1943.. 5,088,446 50,742,752
1944.. 5,052,470 54,634,345
1945.. 5,809,780 57,747,070
Assets.
Liquid. Advances. Premises.
1934.. £29,971,471 £22,870,341 £667,490
1939.. 21,415,461 27,202,740 738,023
1941.. 29,464,659 24,495,719 791,285
1942.. 34,196,623 23,503,269 817,118
1943.. 43,394,127 22,202,134 818,577
1944.. 47,492,969 21,999,192 811,287
1945 49,422,194 28,494,936 791,668
It is a strong position. Movements
reflect the general trend under war-time
conditions.
What will ultimately happen to the
other five trading banks operating in the
Dominion remains to be seen. They are
the National of N.Z., Bank of N.S.W.,
Union, Bank of Australasia and Com-
mercial of Australia. At end July last
their aggregate assets in the Dominion
amounted to £85,915,890 (book value).
Beard, Watson and Co. (Sydney)
, Dividends ,
Ist 2nd
Prefs. Prefs. Ord. To Re- De-
July. Profit. 5.4 p.c. 6.2 p.c.* 4 p.c. serves, flcit.
£ £, £< £ £> £
1935.. 27,944 1627 3255 15,268 7,794 7,964
5 p.c.
1936.. 31,713 1627 3265 19,084 7,747 217
6 p.c. 6 p.c. Reserves.
1937.. 39,030 1800 3256 22,901 11,074 10,857
6.4 p.c. 6 p.c.
1938.. 26.850 1627 8265 19,084 2,884 18,741
1939.. 31,969 1627 8255 19,084 8,003 21,744
1940.. 29,195 1627 8255 19,084 5,229 26,973
1941.. 32,439 1627 3255 19,084 8,473 35,446
1942.. 81,593 1627 8255 19,084 7,627 48,073
1943.. 23,972 1627 3255 19,084 6 43,079
24 p.c.
1944.. 11,697 1627 3255 9,542 40,352
1945.. 18,567 1627 3255 9,542 4,143 44,495
* Including arrears.
The poor showing during the last couple
of years is due to collapse of demand
for furniture, etc., on Government ac-
count, including demand from Allied
forces, and maintenance of restrictions
and continuance of price control and
rationing of furnishing drapery and
household linen. Rapid expansion of the
services, and the expensive bureaucracy
set up to man our war-time controlled
economy, created a new and strong
demand for office furniture, furnishings
and other equipment which the co. was
able to make. This largely filled (he
vacuum created by cessation of home and
other building and .the furnishing that
goes with it, and the limiting of expendi-
ture on replacements and renewals, and
the rationing already referred to. Also,
steady depletion of stocks —many of the
co.’s lines are imported—further restricted
the limited amount of civilian business
available.
During the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts a few more goods became
available. So, after setting aside £14,427
(up £6081) for the taxgatherer and allow-
ing £3944 (down £295) for depreciation,
the board figured net earnings £6870 better
at £18,567. That covered the reduced
pref, divs, and 3.5 p.c. on the £381,687
of ord, capital, compared with 1.7, 5,7,
7.2, 6.3 and 7.1 p.c. back to 1939, The
div. was kept at 2\ p.c.; it was cut in
halves the previous term, after remaining
steady at 5 p.c. for half a dozen years. The
£4143 that remained lifted the lay-by
£44,495 in excess of goodwill (£67,660),
not treated as an asset herein. The prefs.
—30,000 first 7 p.c. and 52,500 second
8 p.c. —have been rationed since the early
1930’5, when the long-since outmoded
N.S.W. Interest Reduction Act imposed
a cut of 22\ p.c., lowering the rates to
5.4 p.c. and 6.2 p.c. respectively. They
are entitled to advance with the ords.
beyond these points to their full contract
rates.
Prospects of further improvement in
net earnings during the Current term are
encouraging. Despite official bungling
and delays, the big home and other con-
struction programme now taking shape,
and the deferred renewals and replace-


Rupture
Worries/
Mark ® location
at VQUW RUPTURE.
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE ROUSSEL APPLIANCE CO..
(Dent. 27), 9 Murtin Place. Sym.ev‘.
is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
d
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/li
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/V
BY ALL CHEMISTS.
BRAN DALI ERS
fffV
'PENS
Every point
guaranteed—
do not experiment with imitations
C. BRANDAUER & CO. LTD, BIRMINGHAM. ENG.
Public Notice.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE COMPANY OF
NEW SOUTH WALES LIMITED.
NOTICE OF MEETING.
THE FIFTY-EIGHTH
ORDINARY GENERAE MEETING
of Shareholders will be held at the Company’s Office,
23-25 O’Connell Street, Sydney,
on TUESDAY, 27th NOVEMBER, 1945, at the ter-
mination of the Extraordinary General Meeting to be
held at 2.15 p.m. on the same date.
BUSINESS.
To receive the Directors’ Report and Balance Sheet
to 30th September, 1945.
To elect two Directors. Messrs. Alfred' Edward
Bond and Francis William Hixson retire in accord-
ance with the Articles of Association, but are eligible
and offer themselves for re-election.
To appoint Auditors and fix their remuneration.
Messrs. R. W. Nelson, Wheeler and Barton (for-
merly Robert W. Nelson and Co.), Chartered Account-
ants (Aust.), the retiring Auditors, are eligible
for re-appointment, and offer themselves accordingly.
To consider any other business of which due notice
shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
14th November, 1945.
E. WHITTLE,
Manager.
INVENTORS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Auvt,
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, G-l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
®!)c Swbnfjj firrato
£30,000 Grant
for the Encouragement of Australian
LITERATURE and ART
By this grant “The Sydney Morning
Herald” shows a practical appreciation
of the talent that is Com-
petitions will be held for writers of
novels, war stories, short stories and
verse. Later, a competition for artists
will be announced.
There are in the “Herald’s” competition, no restrictions
on the type of novel submitted, or the setting. Prizes
for novels will be awarded irrespective of their
suitability for serial publication.
Novels must not be less than 70,000 words or more
than 100,000 words in length. Short stories should
preferably be from 2,000 to 3,000 words, and must
not exceed 4,000 words.
An entry form, duly signed, must accompany each
manuscript, and all entries must reach the “Herald”
office not later than October 1, 1946.
If you are interested as a writer, send for
leaflet and entry form setting out the
prizes and conditions of the competitions.
Address:
JOHN FAIRFAX & SONS PTY. LTD.,
“Sydney Morning Herald” Office,
BOX 506, G.P.0., SYDNEY, N.S.W.
Novels, Short Stories, Verse and Art
5.M.H.3.
THE NATIONAL BANK
OF AUSTRALASIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria )
Head Office and Registered Office:
271*279 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE, C.l
BOARD OP DIRECTORS :
H. D. GIDDY, Chairman. The Hon. Sir F. G, CLARKE, K.8.E., M.T..C.,
Vice-Chairman. T. C. ALSTON. Sir CLIVE McPHERSON, C. 8.8.
H. G. DARLING. Sir JAMES A. M. ELDER, k.b.e. D. YORK SYME.
Chief Manager-. L. J. McCONNAN. Chief Inspector-. S. M. WREFORD.
BALANCE SHEET AT 30th SEPTEMBER, 1945
LIABILITIES.
Authorised Capital—
-300.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each ~ ..
875.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each .. ..
Issued Capital—
-200.000 Ordinary Shares of £lO each, fully paid
600.000 Ordinary Shares of £8 each, £5 paid ..
Final Dividend Proposed
Balance of Profit and Loss Account
Deposits, Bills Payable, and Other Liabilities,
including Provisions for Contingencies .. .
Notes in Circulation
Balances due to Other Banks
Contingent Liabilities (under Letters of Credit,
ASSETS.
Coin, Bullion, Notes and Cash at Bankers ....
Cheques and Bills of Other Banks
Balances with and Due from Other Banks .. ..
Treasury Bills Australian Government .. ..
Public Securities (excluding Treasury Bills),
at or under market value—
i. Australian Government Securities ..
ii. Other Government Securities .'.
lii. Local and Semi-Governmental Authorities
Securities
Special Account with Commonwealth Bank of
Australia
Bills Receivable and Remittances in Transit ..
Loans, Advances and Bills Discounted (after deducting
provision for debts considered bad or doubtful) ..
Bank Premises, Furniture and Sites (at cost, less
All Other Assets *.
(The Balance Sheet and Profit and Loss figures
are stated in Australian Currency)
Contingent Assets (as per contra) £1,921,714
To the Shareholders of THE NATIONAL BANK OF AUSTRALASIA |
LIMITED.
We have compared the above Balance Sheet with the balances on
the books at the Head Office and with the certified returns from the!
branches. We have obtained all the information and explanations wej
have required and we are of the opinion that the Balance Sheet and;
Profit and Loss Account are drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
correct view of the state of the Company's affairs and of the results
of the business of the Company for the year according to the best ofi
our information and the explanations given to us and as shown byi
the books of the Company.
Melbourne, S. J. WARNOCK. F.C.A.(Aust-) 7 „
Ist November, 1945. J. R. BISHOP, F.C.A.(Aust.) f Audltors <
Dividend for the year is at the rate of 5%#
ments requirements for hotels, flats, etc.,
augur well for demand as manpower ana
materials become available. Imported
floor coverings and furnishing drapery
lines are likely to be in short supply for
some time, and local manufacturers are
hastening to take advantage of the oppor-.
tunity. Meanwhile, price control con-
tinues, and costs threaten to become aim" 6
troublesome. Lighter Government bleed-
ing of co. earnings would give a little
much needed relief.
Inability to secure suitable stock re-
placements is reflected in a further reduc-
tion (£17,130) in this item last term:
1939. 1943. 1944. 1945 '
Capital .. £464,187 £464,187 £464,187 £464,187
Liabilities* .. 99,981 93,456 19,288 31,902
Freeholds, etc. 272,252 272,252 272,252 272,252
Machinery, plant, „
etc. .. 26,586 15,185 11,275 7,590
Stocks . . 181,718 193,357 163,466 146,336
Book debts, etc. 117,088 131,658 82,563 120,185
Cash .. .. 250 250 6,250 6,250
* Including provision for taxation.
Book debts, etc. —the etcetera is an un-
specified bank balance moved up
£37,572. The more or less liquid surplus
(£240,819) was £7828 stronger than at
the previous balance.
For year to June 30 last Eldorado
(paid capital £31,006), at Tennant Creek
(N.T.), netted £41,517 (up £33,488), or
2s. Bd, per share, and paid divs. aggregat-
ing Is. 6d. (£23,254) as against 6d. for
the preceding term. The 5121 tons ore
crushed yielded by amalgamation 7172.45
fine ounces gold, an average of 28.01dwt.
per ton, with 11.76dwt. in the tailings,
total 39,77dwt. Comparable figures for
the previous year were 5385 tons ore
3497.24 fine ounce gold, 12.99dwt. and
B.3odwt. respectively. It was a rich sweet-
ener of 158 tons, averaging over 10oz.,
from the east stope on the 300 ft. level
that bumped up average value and earn-
ings last term. The 5121 tons was worth
£76,041 (up £39,496), or £l4 16s. lid. per
ton, of which Federal gold tax took £5744,
equal to 225. sd. per ton, Recovery was
70.43 p.c. as against 61.01 p.c., 1944.
Mining, development and treatment costs
together stepped up 10s. 6d., reaching £4
12s. Bd. per ton. Positive ore reserves are
put at 10,500 tons, averaging 32dwt., of
which 2000 tons, averaging 20dwt., is in
the central shoot on the 200 ft. level, and
the balance, averaging 35dwt, in the east
shoot between the 307 ft. and 200 ft. levels.
At the 307 ft. level the central shoot is
expected to show 25 tons of ll.Sdwt. ore
for every foot of lift. Hopes are that
further development will prove continua-
tion of pay ore below this level. And
there is some partly-proved ore and pil-
lars, assaying from 6dwt. to 15€ wt., in
working above the 200 ft. level. Labor
turnover was 96 p.c, last term. The
cyaniding plant to handle the sands can
be put into operation within a few weeks,
subject to suitable labor becoming avail-
able. A start is expected to be made
early in 1946.
* ♦ * *
Ex-Westralian Agent - General Hal
Colebatch, now a member of the Legis-
lative Council and chairman of De Ber-
nales local operating goldmining cos.,
wants the transfer to Australia of the
registered cos. now domiciled in London.
One of the strongest reasons for such a
transfer, he says, is the difference it would
make in the amount of money available
for the restoration of the industry. Under
British law, to which cos. registered in
London are subject, shaft-sinking and
certain exploratory work are regarded as
capital expenditure, and consequently
cannot be deducted from earnings in
ascertaining the amount subject to taxa-
tion. In Australia those items are de-
ducted from earnings before arriving at
the amount of taxable profits. Most S.
African cos., though operating on Lon-
don-subscribed money, have their regis-
tered offices in S. Africa, and earnings
are taxed according to S. African la\V.
The unjust severity of the excess-profits
tax was also experienced by certain
London - controlled Westralian gold-
mining cos. for a while. But short-
age of man-power soon made this tax
inoperative. In future, cos. registered in
London may have to pay heavy excess
profits taxation, while in the case of cos.
registered in Australia such profits would
be available, after meeting Australian
taxation, for the work of rehabilitation
and payment of divs. to shareholders,
who have had a bleak time during the
six years of war. It would be possible,
adds Colebatch, for legislation to com-
pel the suggested transfer, but it might be
better for the shareholders themselves to
decide the matter.
* * * *
Accounts relating to period Jan.-Sept.,
1940, hitherto shrouded in mist, have
been brought to light by the Gt. Boulder
board. They cover a period in which the
old board, of which Claude de Bemales
and ex-Westralian Governor Campion
were members, made an unsuccessful en-
deavor to change the domicile of the co.
from London to Australia. They show
that £13,965 stg. was expended, details
not given, in connection with the
attempted change of domicile, and £1394,
details again not given, in connection
with the agitation of the opposing Grundt
Committee. Earlier this year the new
board, replying to complaining share-
holders, said that as it took office on
July I, 1943, it could not accept respon-
sibility for the publication of the Jan.-
Sept., 1940, accounts. The uproar that
followed this refusal apparently induced
it to change its mind.
* * * *
Accounts of Sons of Gwalia (W.A.) for
1944 show a net profit of £41,333 against
£51,953 for 1943. Ore reserves are esti-
mated at 731,000 tons, averaging 5.7dwt.,
or about five years’ supply to the mill at
full production. 'At the beginning of the
year they stood at 760,200 tons, averaging
s.Bdwt. Ore milled approximated average
mine value, and extraction was 93.4 p.c.
Chairman A. H. Moreing is confident that
the ore deposit will continue to greater
depths, but warns shareholders not to
‘expect an early lift in the div., which is
maintained at 10 p.c. despite the fall
(£10,620) in profit. The return of old
employees from the forces and other
forms of national service to the mine is
not likely to be rapid. There are big
arrears of development to be over-
taken which should substantially increase
present reserves of pay ore.
* * * *
Chairman of South Kalgurli, Thomas
Pryor, has returned to London after pay-
ing his first visit to Australia and to the
mine. He thinks the co.’s Kalgoorlie
Golden Mile producer has not yet been
fully explored. Present arrangement for
treating South Kalgurli ore at the Kal-
gurli Treatment Co.’s plant on the ad-
joining Boulder Perseverance mine has,
owing to shortage of labor and reduced
tonnages, proved economical during the
war. But now that a substantial increase
in tpnnage from each property is ex-
pected, this arrangernent will have to be
reviewed before long. As a parting obser-
vation Prior added “No one has yet found
a substitute from gold, and, as the metal
is of such importance to the development
and economy of Australia, particularly
Westralia, its production should receive
every encouragement and assistance.”
Figures given by Minister of Railways
Marshall in the Westralian Assembly
show that the average price paid by the
Government for large Collie coal in rail-
way wagons at the pit mouth for year
to end July, 1945, was 21s. Bd. a ton, and
for small coal, 19s. Bd. Newcastle coal
in railway wagons at wharf Fremantle
for the same period was worth 565. a
ton large and 535, small.


YOUR FAMILY’S WELFARE
IS NOT A
SECONDARY MATTER
man with full time interests of his own
who is named as an Executor and
Trustee must make that responsibility a
side line. Your family’s welfare is too
vital to be a secondary matter.
By choosing Perpetual Trustee Com-
pany as your Executor you will confer on
you^family the benefit of the judgment of
a group of men of wide experience.
A booklet, “Your Executor and
Trustee”, which we shall be pleased to
send you, upon request, will provide you
with particulars of the Company’s service.
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
Company Limited
DIRECTORS :
T. H. KELLY (Chairman) ;* Hon. T. A. J. Playfair,
M.L.C.; B. R. Knox; H. Norman Pope; Allen C.
Lewis; Hon. J. P. Abbott, M.H.R.
H V. DOUGLASS, Managing Director. A. G.
ARMYTAGE, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power ot
Attorney for absentees and others. Administrator,
etc.
TRUST FUNDS UNDER ADMINISTRATION
EXCEED £64,000,000.
The average Estate being less than £lO,OOO
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery,
Gurwood Street, Wagga Wagga.
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw, 140 Lord’s
Place, Orange.
£1,000,000 REFINERY
FOR THE PRODUCTION OF
«€ALTEX
In this great refinery, the most modem in the world,
Caltex perfected the motor oil that gives a new lease of
life to tired engines ... and NOW with the strain on its
resources relieved by Victory this refinery provides for
Australia the finest motor* oil ever imported. Try it in
your car or truck. It will definitely improve the per-
formance of your engine, minimize carbon and reduce
running costs.
<^AaMaeMef'7ioiV'
MOTOR OIL
TOMORROW'S OIL
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Bitter Fruits of Humbug
The wholly unsatisfactory response to
the Fourth Victory Loan symbolises
'several things prominent in Australian
life today. These are an indifference to
national affairs, a refusal to accept demo-
cratic responsibilities, a growing indivi-
dual self-concern, little confidence in the
administrative capacity of the Govern-
ment (even if there has been an unhealthy
willingness .to accept its economically
treacherous “bounty”), and the falsity of
many present-day standards and values —
in this case arbitrarily-set interest rates
particularly. It is true that there are
many contradictions to these rough and
rocky outcrops in the public life of the
country; also, that the getting of the best
out of many Australian citizens is frus-
trated by odd circumstances. But, accept-
ing the position at its surface value, the
prospect around gives little promise of
smopth, steady going in the next couple
of years.
The repeated failure of Government
borrowing operations during the war has
been something peculiar to Australia.
Neither Britain, the United States nor
Canada has had anything like the diffi-
culty in getting war-loan support from
the mass of the population that has been
the experience in the Commonwealth.
Even New Zealand has made a better
showing. It should by now be apparent to
Mr. Chifley (hat Australia, the country
which Labor has taught socialism for
more than a generation, is now viewing
a head-on collision between Labor “prin-
ciples” and hard economic fact. The irre-
sponsible, thriftless, “live-easy” dope
which “the movement” has preached for
so long has been taken to heart by many,
and the exhortation to invest in these
days contrasts queerly with the black-
guarding of “investors” by sections of
Labor in other times.
Even when Labor-cultivated political
selfishness does not stop wage-earners
from investing in war loans, a slowly
awakening sense of economic realities has
scared many “Labor” people from putting
up money to assist “their own Govern-
ment” in its programme. Some of these
people feel instinctively that there has
been something “phony” about what
Labor has preached in the past, and that
the results of its phony teachings are
about to crack the nation hard.
Few people will escape the results of
phony Labor policy by not investing in
loans raised for legitimate public spend-
ing. In fact, nothing is more certain than
that the refusal of tens of thousands of
wage-earners to put up (in loan form) an
amount they can well afford will create
economic difficulties for everyone before
*9 n f‘ ® ut l esso ® to
l ean h 1S by the P res^ nt .^ eciera Govern-
ment itself. Within its Ministry there are
undoubtedly some men who h ' ve enough
intel iig e nce to see that this country’s in-
ternal difficulties are largely the result of
a jack G f political co-operation and in-
dustrial cohesion between the people—
that there has been a calculated. splitting-
up into sections by interested parties, a
deliberate creation of class-friction and
animosity, and that leadership of the
“working-class” has been along lines
which, if put fully into effect, must bring
the nation to the point of economic
breakdown. Many of Labor’s teachings
have been partially put into operation
during the past war, when Government
controls and spending were so vast that
any tainting of the administrative effort
with costly and fallacious “politics” was
bound to have far-reaching effects on the
life of the nation.
The inevitable is now happening., The
excessive debt imposed by the “war
effort,” the high taxation, the waste of
public money, the spending of war funds
for political purposes, the unnecessary in-
flation, the concessions to offenders against
industry, the law and the national effort,
the conveniences afforded Communists
and other disruptionists, the selfishness
and sectionalism cultivated by Labor
politics, the blanketing of the proprietary
side of industry with “controls” and eco-
nomic oppression, and the refusal or ina-
bility of the Government to work to a
practicable economic plan for the whole
nation are slowing down the country‘s
production, undermining its credit, re-
ducing its standard of living, restricting
the expansion of Australia that is so
obviously its natural right,
Politiciaps of small calibre rose to high
office during the Federal Labor Govern-
ment’s period of war-time administration.
In the main they were men with little or
no administrative background; rather
were they windy propagandists tied to a
self-interested trade-union machine. This
Government has had control, direct or in-
direct, of all the nation’s manpower, fac-
tories, raw materials and most of its
money for a period of nearly four years,
It has had the spending of the greater
part of £2OOO million in that time, and it
has more than doubled the national debt,
On every major aspect of policy having
to do with manpower or money it has
gone to Caucus for instructions,
The country now finds itself politically,
economically and industrially in a strait-
jacket imposed by Labor “planning.”
The present Government has governed
for the Labor party, not for the nation.
The Labor party’s policy has been one of
economic exploitation for itself rather
than one of constructive advancement for
all classes, including Labor.
HoW, then, can we possibly expect to
escape the results of misshapen Govern-
ment policy carried out on such a vast
scale? No Government can be carried
on primarily for one vested interest, how-
ever big that interest may be. “Spoils to
the victors” may be a policy that can
be tolerated in municipal politics; but
where a nation, fighting for its existence,
hands over the liberty of the subject to
the State, and confers upon the unlimited
power over all kinds of property, there is
expected from the Government a form
of administration that has scrupulous
regard for the individual rights of all,
and the chief rights of the individual are
that the general welfare of the country
shall never be lost to sight, and that the
law of the land shall be upheld.
In Australia at the present time we
have no national plan that hangs to-
gether. In the first year or two of war
it was understandable that there should
be much improvisation, many mistakes.
But, though the Commonwealth now has
a colossal civil service and an ever-grow-
ing volume of former munition workers,
etc., with little to do, planning for condi-
tions such as prevail at present seems
to be almost non-existent. There are very
few blueprints available for necessary
public works ; anything .done in connec-
tion with the vital question of homebuild-
ing is mostly represented by loose ends
that refuse to tie up.
The Government continues to levy ex-
tortionate taxation rates without any pros-
pect of relief for industry, and to spend
much of the proceeds in a political
fashion. The poor public response to
war loans means that bank credit is being
used to excess to finance spending, thus
increasing the menace of inflation. A
hastily-conceived and haphazardly-imple-
mented “social security” scheme is likely
to turn into a nightmarish joke unless
our industrial resources can be got work-
ing at a rate high enough to support it.
There has been too much concentration
on the abstract and the politico-economic;
not enough on the concrete and indus-
trial. A country’s affairs have to be run
in a businesslike way even under social-
ism. The present Federal Government
does not possess the necessary business
capacity.
Ahead of us assuredly lies the task of
political re-education, restoration of busi-
ness confidence, a rebuilding of the coun-
try’s credit, a revival of the desire to work
in addition to demands for the “right to
work,” the planning of national projects
in a national way, the replacing of
national interest before sectional interest
and the restoration of reasonable har-
mony in industry. There will never, of
course, be complete harmony in industry
or anywhere else, but in industry at the
present time synthetic friction, usually the
product of non-Australians whose own
countries were the better for being rid
of them, has become an obstruction to
national objectives to an extent that denes
all reason.
Talk is cheap, and the talk of the gutter
politician particularly cheap. Yet a big
body of Australians has lapped up this
sort of talk in past years, with the result
that other aspirants for political office
have felt that they must make conces-
sions to the voter who falls for political
humbug. The result of this kind of thing
is now only too evident all around us in
the breakdown of Government, the illegal
strikes, the fall in national production, the
strain imposed in administering the law,
the growing inflation and the loss of finan-
cial confidence.
To those who have a memory there
will be little sympathy for the Labor Gov-
ernment in its present difficulties. But
with whatever Government to which falls
the task of clearing away the mess there
must be full co-operation, so long as its
efforts are practical and reasonably just.
It is impossible to do every individual
justice when a wholesale national stock-
taking is in process, but minor anomalies
will not be resented if these are necessary
in order to get Australia in a position to
develop its resources to the best advant-
ages of a vigorous and growing popula-
tion. In all rehabilitation processes it
will be essential for wage-earners to learn
that a fair day’s pay depends upon a fair
day’s work, and that their standard of
living will pan out very much in accord
with the quality and volume of their own
efforts.
Mr. Chifley’s last Budget, embracing
income and expenditure for the current
year, was a piece of gross deception. In
it he claimed a war expenditure of £360
million, whereas, on any fair basis of
comparison, the figure was more like
£4OB million, there being deducted (in
arriving at Mr. Chifley’s estimate) £2B
million expected to come in from dis-
posal of assets and equipment charged
up in previous years and recoveries from
the United Kingdom and other Coverm
ments amounting to £2O million more
than this year’s recoverable expenditure.
As was pointed out on this page at the
time, “if it were not for the fall from £B9
million to £2O million in estimated reverse
lend-lease, this year’s true ‘war’ cost
would be about £l5 million higher than
last year’s. And t the total tax burden on
citizens is still at the rate of £45 ss. a
head, compared with £46 in 1944-45, £4l
15s. in 1943-44.” Mr. Chifley, though
a cut above most of his confreres, must
still be held as being a party to much
of the “Labor” humbug that is withering
the credit and Confidence of Australia to-
day. Imposed upon the inevitable defi-
ciencies of the early post-war years, the
load of Labor trickery and ineptitude is
weighing down the souls of Australians
who think along straightforward, indus
trious lines.


ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
FW-er
Cylinder
f
df
d
I
u.
LBi a :]
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Qualities developed by
Pelmanism
Observation
Self-confidence
Concentration
Will-power
Judgment
Initiative
Decision
Organisation
Social Ease
And a thoroughly de-
pendable memory for
faces, figures, names,
appointments, prices
and useful data of
every kind.
Headquarters:
London
750,000 Pelmanists
of whom over
60,000 are
enrolled in
Melbourne.
Telephone
MU2355
Telephone or
personal calls are
welcomed.
EYE LOTION
tor Inflamed Eyes and Eyelids ... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co.. Pty„ Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind, Memory and Personality
Duty, Interest, Service
One reason why Pelman students proceed happily and,
allowing for war-time delays, regularly through the
Course, completing it in normal time, is the promptness
of the Pelman Institute in dealing with all correspondence
from its pupils. This is not only the exercise of Will in
the performance of a duty, it is also interest in the work
and in the pupil as an individual. The staff of the Pelman
Institute sets out with each pupil to get as quickly as pos-
sible to the core and substance of his requirements and
then to communicate with him at once.
THE SERVICES: Whenever it is an advantage all
communications, including Text Books, are sent by Air
to members of the Services. The pupil thus gets comment
and advice whilst the relative matters are still fresh in his
mind. The Pelman Course is approved under the Com-
monwealth Reconstruction Training Scheme. It was
approved by the War Office, London, in 1939.
CIVILIANS: The same prompt attention is given to
civilians. Now that the pressure of war-time conditions
is lessening, the number of civilians taking the Pelman
Course is progressively increasing.
Copies of “The Efficient Mind” describing the Pelman Course are
posted free. Write the Pelman Institute, S Gloucester House, SOS
Flinders Lane (corner Market Street), Melbourne,
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with the
approval of the Reserve Bank,
has made arrangements to meet
the financial restrictions and
enable residents of New Zealand
to enrol for the Pelman Course
of Training without delay. Write
in the first instance to the Pelman
Institute, Melbourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE
EFFICIENT MIND.”
Name
Address
173
HARTS
Circular Charts ior all types ol
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Get our quotation.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEM STREET PTV. I_TU. BRISBANE. O'lo.
THE
UNITED INSURANCE COMPANY
LIMITED.
An Australian Institution. Established 1862.
Head Office: GEORGE AND HUNTER STREETS, SYDNEY.
DIRECTORS:
E. R. KNOX (Chairman), SIR THOMAS BUCKLAND, F. W. HIXSON, ORWELL PHILLIPS,
G. F. HUGHES, ROBERT VICARS.
Fire, Marine and Accident Insurances of every Description.
A. C. DAWSON, General Manager. T. C. REYNOLDS, Asst. Gen. Manager.
_ Discover a new and enthralling Australia!
Good companionship, complete yet unobtrusive
service, make any Pioneer traveltouf a mem-!
arable avent. Information on projected Inter- 1
state routes available soon.
pioneer tours
| Head Office: 465 Swanston Street MELBOURNE, Cl.
Will the United States Lead?
The world at present is looking to
America for a lead in many directions.
Some European countries recently tested
by the Gallup method recorded the
opinion that the United States and Russia
would carry more weight in world affairs
now than Britain. The wealth of the
United States, its production potential
and present military strength have been
looked to by many people for economic
and other protection during the difficult
years ahead. In a rather large, offhand
way many Americans have not been
opposed to the idea of bearing the torch
of world leadership. But such leadership
carries with it big responsibilities, and
sometimes the responsibilities are not poli-
tically palatable in the United States.
In Washington for some time British
and American representatives have been
discussing a post-war sequel to lend-
lease. To get anywhere worth while in
these discussions it has been necessary
for the United States to take a long view,
to concede something for Britain’s hffiher
per capita contribution to the war effort,
and not merely to strike a hard bargain
with a country in straitened circum-
stances. There are Americans prepared
to meet Britain generously in the matter.
But the overall political outlook in the
United States is too confused to let clear-
mindedness have a straight run. The
wealthy country that had the world’s
greatest depression is even now, in spite
of its obvious basic strength—especially
by comparison with so many other coun*
tries —rather jittery about post-war eco-
nomic prospects. The long view may be
sound, but the new President has many
complex problems immediately confront-
ing him.
Strikes are occurring in vital U.S. in-
dustries, and the general feeling is that
the industrial position will get worse
before it gets better. Permission to lift
wages has just been granted by the Presi-
dent, with a general rise of about 15 p.c.
tipped in the near future. This will push
some prices up and increase inflationary
pressure ; in the meantime huge war-time
savings will be exerting a similar influ-
ence on prices. Demands for tax reduc-
tions will, if granted, also add to spend-
ing power. It is. estimated that the
Federal debt will stand at $273,000 mil-
lion at June 30, 1946, compared with
$49,000 million before Pearl Harbor.
Demobilisation is going ahead rapidly
in the United States ; the country, ac-
cording to “United States News,” is
“revealing an immense urge to get its
forces back home, to forget about the
troubles of the rest of the world.” This
is driving Britain and other countries,
according to the same authority, to seek
new friends, to adopt policies of economic
nationalism. “Trends are working very
strongly in the direction of a worm
divided into blocs, into spheres, into
groupings around the big Powers —U.S.-
Britain-Russia. That’s a far cry from
what the U.S. once wanted, a far cry
from, a world system of collective security
in which Atlantic Charter principles
would prevail.”
Heavy unemployment by Christmas is
tipped in Labor and some other circles
in the United States. A million men a
month are expected to be demobilised
during the early part of 1946. The
National City Bank of New York is not
quite so pessimistic about jobs, but stresses
the costs factor:
It is generally agreed that the present
cost of living and the inevitable decline
in take-home pay forbid general cuts in
wage rates, but cost of industrial produc-
tion should come down nevertheless, for
many people are due to suffer a loss of
money income, and the situation will be
out of balance unless the goods they want
are priced at what they can pay. Construc-
tion costs are of vital importance, for much
construction can be postponed, and will be
if costs are excessive.
The way to reduce costs without reducing
wage rates is to improve productivity.
Every obstacle to an increase in produc-
tivity is a menace to prosperity.
Physically, America has come out of
the war stronger than any other nation
engaged in it. It has suffered no bomb-
ing or similar destruction of its produc-
tion potential. But America, like most
countries, is suffering from post-war
malaise, and it is not an entirely stable
figure in the international scene. Presi-
dent Truman so far has not exhibited a
capacity for meeting trouble in advance.
It may be that a boiiover of political and
industrial feeling, however irresponsible,
is past due, anyway, and is necessary
before hopes of stability can be sustained.
What is plain is that the United States
can hardly give a clear lead to the rest
of the world until its own domestic
arrangements are in better order. Nor
is isolationism yet dead in the Republic.
At the week-end news from Washing-
ton and Ottawa was to the effect that
Prime Ministers Attlee and Mackenzie
King and President Truman had con-
cluded their financial talks; also, U.S,
Secretary of State Byrnes addressed
Americans as to United States policy in
respect of post-war trade generally. He
said America could not oppose exclusive
trade blocs unless it helped other nations
to remove the conditions which impelled
their creation. This seemed to indicate
an attempt to prepare the American
public for a revision of American tariff
and similar policy, although nothing sub-
stantial has been proffered to Britain in
this connection so far as is publicly
known. Byrnes said the U.S.A. would
shortly submit its views on world trade
to a United Nations conference, and in
preparation for that conference America
would advance actual negotiations with
several nations for the reduction of trade
barriers. American proposals will include
a restriction of commercial quotas and
embargoes, reduction of tariffs, elimination
of preferences, export subsidies to be
confined to exceptional cases, monopolies
and cartels to be prevented from restrict-
ing world commerce, primary products
and their problems to be considered by
both producing and consuming countries,
and that countries “refrain from export-
ing their unemployment to their neigh-
bors.” From what has been put forward
there is little suggestion of a liberal
American view of the British situation.
And there is an opinion from Winnipeg
that Britain’s shortage of dollars, com-
pelling a restriction qf trade with the
Dominion, is driving Canada into the
American political orbit. United States
tariffs constitute the basic problem.
The E., S. and A. Bank is to repay its
4 p.c. stock at £lO5 sterling and its 3 p.c.
stock at £lO2 sterling, both on July 1,
1946. Thus will end a controversial issue
of many years’ standing. In days of
higher interest rates these issues were
generally below par, and there was inter-
mittent agitation for their repayment.
They date back to the reconstruction
period of the ’nineties.


Public Notice.
LAKE VIEW AND STAR, LIMITED.
(Dividend No. 57.)
NOTICE is hereby given that the Board of
Directors has decided to recommend at the
Annual Meeting of the Company, to be held
on the 13th December, 1945, payment of a final
dividend of 25 p.c. (1/- per share) in respect
of the year ended 30th June, 1945, less
United Kingdom income tax at 10/- in the £
(6d. per share), the net amount of dividend
being 6d. per share sterling. This dividend
makes a total distribution of 37£ p.c. for the
year ended 30t'h June, 1945. Subject to confir-
mation by the shareholders, the dividend will
be payable on the 29th December, 1945, to all
persons registered as holders of shares on the
Australian register on 24th November, 1945.
The transfer books will be closed from 26th to
28th November (both days inclusive).
For Lake View and Star, Limited,
WM. THOMAS, Local Secretary.
Kalgoorlie, 17th November, 1945.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO ALEXANDER ADAMS, NX7BBS.—TAKE NOTICE
that ELIZABETH ADAMS has filed a Petition for
Divorce No. 3241 of 1945 on the ground of desertion
without just cause or excuse for three years and
upwards If you wish to defend you may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Registry Supreme Court
King Street Sydney on or before the 17th day of
December 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from C. JOLLIE SMITH & CO. Solici-
tors 185 Elizabeth Street Sydney.—(l.s.) C. it.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007/8
and at all branches
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitations on Subscriptions to lan
jlletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage,
e:—
12 months .. .. •• £1 j 4 ®
3 ” !! ” 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
rving outside Australia:
12 months ”
3 *.*. ’• 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces In the
Islands —3 months ..
THE SERVICE MAN
Labor Councils and the Eighth.
There follows the full text of a state-
ment by Sergeant A. M. Blain, M.H.R.,
issued from hospital last week. Readers
may not recognise it, Sydney newspapers,
the “Daily Mirror” excepted, haying
so mutilated and distorted the original,
changing its sequences and altering
its values and purpose, that what
they published had only the vaguest like-
ness in text and tone to what Sergeant
Blain wrote.
I and other thoughtful members of the
Eighth Division Who have returned from prison
camps are reading with alarm the continuing
evidence that our supposed grievances and
loyalties are being made use of in the interest
of class partisans and sometimes of subversive
elements.
A manifestation of this tendency is the cam-
paign eagerly initiated by members of the Com-
munist-ruled Trades and Labor Councils of
N. S. Wales and Queensland to excite public
rancour against officers of the Eighth Division
by the promulgation of men’s grievances against
them. Had these charges been published by
the Prisoners of War Relatives Association or
the Red Cross or some other body of like
status and impartiality the move might have
been accepted at its face value. But, coming
from a source which has been polluted to its
roots by a Communism of which the avowed
aim is the disruption of the people and the
setting of class against class to produce a
condition in which insurrection has a chance of
success, it's motives becomes worse than suspect.
I would remind the soldiers involved that
right to the last these same Trades and Labor
Councils were opposed to compulsory service
against the Japanese in Singapore who were
holding us under torture in cruel captivity.
The N. S. Wales Trades and Labor Council
executive includes men who aided and abetted
the 1942 stoppages on the wharves which ham-
pered the sending of supplies to Western Aus-
tralia when the invasion of the Commonwealth
seemed immediately likely and when the need
in the West was desperate.
Troops, X believe, had to be used on that
occasion to do the work which Australian
workers should have done willingly and, if
necessary, without pay at all, seeing that their
women and children were immediately threat-
ened at that time with the same hideous fate
that befell the Filipinos and the inhabitants of
Malaya and parts of Burma.
I suggest that the N. S. Wales Trades and
Labor Council executive ask the Red Cross
why the boat carrying Red Cross parcels,
mobile canteens, etc., did not arrive in time to
succour the sick in Singapore before they left
for home. If the Red Cross answer does not
shame them, then there is no shame in them.
Some of the complaints made against officers
in Malaya and elsewhere are, at least in some
degree, true. But it is also true that there
were equally grave misdoings by rank and file.
Where there are 20,000 men, whether they be
soldiers or civilians, some are outstanding,
some are good, some are medium, some are
bad, and a few are ruffians. The law of aver-
ages runs true, and it is not governed by any
class consideration.
In the same units in which I was stripped of
my kit when I first went into captivity, I was
treated with tender and self-sacrificing care
when I came out of Outram jail, everybody
vicing with his neighbor to deplete his meagre
rations and resources to restore a living skeleton
to life, in a manner which could not have been
more solicitous if I had been the brother of
each one of them. This kindness was not
shown by any one class or section, but by all
with whom I came into contact —officers and
men
The complaints voiced by the Trades and
Labor Council —whose Sydney spokesman is so
eager to personally parade the fact that he is
a soldier of two wars, as if he were a marked
exception in the company he keeps—are after
all against only a few individuals and concern
only unorganised act's by a few individuals.
If the Trades and Labor , and Communist
movements really want a grievance I refer to
them the hideous organised black market in
money which was promoted in Sandakan
among men hundreds of whom will never see
their homes again. This was certainly not or-
ganised by officers. The ghouls who imple-
mented it picked on men whose cheques could
be expected to be met and who were mostly
ill and in actual peril of death from starvation.
In exchange for a dollar or two with which to
Buy a handful of extra food, they blackmailed
them into signing cheques for large amounts.
In other words they forced them to buy their
lives at any rate the people cared to nominate.
I myself signed cheques in this way to buy
enough rations to make the difference between
life and certain death, at a crucial period, for
well over £lOO in exchange for a few dollars
which normally were worth a matter of
shillings.
So unprincipled were the people who imple-
mented this market that they exacted from me,
as they exacted from others involved, docu-
ments which would assure that if we perished,
our dependents would find the money. Even
before I am out of hospital the go-between
of the racket has served a demand upon me.
My own course of action will not be dictated
by personal interest. I think it cheap to have
saved my life at such a cost. But I have no
intention of allowing the perpetrators of this
traffic to benefit from documents signed under
the duress of hunger, especially at the expense
of widows and other dependents of soldiers
involved—dead soldiers, I believe, in many
cases.
And I urge all other persons in my position
to communicate with me or to refer the matter
to their members of Parliament or to the
R.S.S.A.I.L.A.
1 snouru emphasise that this business of the
black market excnange appeared io be an
organised racket, but even prat mignt be for-
gotten if it had not continuing effects upon
sick prisoners, on their dependents or upon
bereaved relatives.
So far as individual misbehaviour is con-
cerned, whether by officers or men, it is better
that it should be forgiven and forgotten at
this stage and that we should remember the
good things and the comradeship of the past
rather than the bad ones, and work for unity
rather than for savage sectionalism, which
already seems to have been created in civil
life through the efforts mainly of subversive
elements, and which will bring this country to
civil war if it is not curbed quickly.
Indonesian Events.
“Ek Dum”: Like all armed mobs, the
Japanese-named and Japanese-organised
Indonesian “army” of Soerabaya proved
to have little cohesion within three or
four days of General Mansergh’s attack
on Soerabaya, Though no great force was
employed or exerted and everything pos-
sible was done to spare non-combatants,
the city was in British hands save for
“fortified positions”—in other words,
points at \yhich forlorn-hope groups of
Indos. were locked up and given the
choice of annihilation or surrender.
Their defeat was signalised by two
events. A “new” and (of course) “mode-
rate” Indonesian Government took over,
apparently without any protest from the
Soekarno crowd, whom they denounced
as collaborators —incidentally sealing the
charges of working with Japanese col-
laborationists, which ought to condemn
the “Australian” Communist party to
universal execration among the peoples of
the British Commonwealth and the
United States —but they did not seem to
have much influence on the fighting pend-
ing the peace conference which they pro-
posed to hold, and which took place later
in the week with Dr. Van Mook and
General Christison.
Indeed, sections of the armed mob
seemed to be excited to a greater fury.
Certainly resistance and terrorism became
more fanatical after the first change. A
British spokesman said that they had been
“whipped into religious fury and were
giving no quarter.” Which was peculiar
in the light of the fact that the heart of
the new peace party, which purported to
control a “peace preservation corps,”
seems to consist largely of Mohammedan
elements, some of whose names are
merely titles when reduced from Dutch
spelling to ordinary English forms. For
example, the “Information Minister”
Sjariffoeddin becomes by this process
Sheriff-ud-Din, which is as warlike as
any Mohammedan title could be —“Din”
means “conqueror” or “victory.”
The second event which seemed more
important was the arrest of the Japanese
commander, General Nagano, and his
C. 0.5., Major-General Moichiro Yama-
moto. They were taken into custody
personally by Major-General D. C, Haw-
thorn, who performed a ceremony almost
unique for a modern general—he made
the actual arrest, by touching the
generals on the arm. He charged the
pair with having failed to maintain law
and order in Java in accordance with
British orders, with having surrendered
their forces to unauthorised persons and
with having deliberately handed over
arms and equipment to unruly elements
in Java and thus enabled them to cause
bloodshed and loss of life to Allied
troops.
There is ample reason to believe that
Nagano and his officers were the organ-
isers of the whole affair, as were Japanese
in Indo-China of .the troubles in that
area.
Atrocities Continue
Meanwhile, the most horrible tales
continue to come in of the atrocities
committed by proteges of Australian
Communists and union leaders. On
October 28 they massacred 150 women
and children who were being evacuated
from Soerabaya, after stopping the
motor-lorries which were carrying them
to safety. They threw hand-grenades at
the trucks and set them on fire with the
women and children inside. The inno-
cents died screaming.
An Australian Associated Press corre-
spondent related several other horrible
instances. Indonesians stretched a
slightly-wounded British officer on the
ground and hacked off his limbs. They
beat an Indian insensible when he re-
fused a commission in their army. A
British officer, forced to surrender, was
shot through the head, his head cut off
and his body mutilated in a typically
horrible Oriental manner.
‘‘Australian” Communists Rampant
In Sydney, Communists, who had
planted an “Indonesian sub-committee”
on the semi-Communist N.S.W. Labor
Council, continued their larrikin pranks.
The Dutch troops who had come to Aus-
tralia on the Stirling Castle and had been
refused the hospitality of a landing in
Sydney, “Labor” being afraid of the mob,
were transferred to the Moreton Bay,
which is operating as a troopship under
orders from Mountbatten’s S.E.A. Com-
mand. Heelers of the “Indonesian sub-
committee” led a mob down to hoot them
again and talked the ship’s British crew
into coming ashore —for a time.
The “Tribune” was ecstatic (prema-
turely). It held that the crew’s “dramatic
refusal” to sail “gave to Anglo-Dutch
policies of intervention and bloodshed a
blow that resounded throughout the
world”:
They declared their solidarity with the
Australians, Indonesians, Chinese, Indians,
Singapore Malays and others who have
imposed a ban on Dutch troops and arms
for Indonesia.
A cabled request for instructions from
the British National Union of Seamen,
in which the Havelock Wilson spirit is ob-
viously not extinct, brought a curt order
to get on with the jobs. But even before the
order arrived the Moreton Bay had begun
its voyage, the great majority of her crew
having thought things over and decided
to absent themselves from the delights
of association with “Indonesian, Chinese,
Indian and Singapore Malay” com-
panions in “solidarity.”
Ten remained behind. They were all
young fellows beguiled by Communist
offers of jobs for all in a land in which
there were already 20,000 victims of crazy
Communist strikes, and by the fact that
when they walked off their ship there
were cars to meet them and shrill-voiced
Commo. girls (all, of course, ravishingly
beautiful) to cheer them. At the week-
end six of the ten had been arrested
under National Security Regulations. The
ten will have to go back to Britain as
“distressed seamen,” no very attractive
prospect at any time, though it won’t
worry the loud-mouthed agitators respons-
ible for the poor devils’ plight.
And by the week-end, too, “moderate”
union leaders and majorities, concerned
at effects of the Communist strikes and
at the Communist, threat to the White
Australia policy, were showing signs of
opposition. Even the Labor Council
ordered the “Indonesian sub-committee”
to pipe down.
Blarney, Sturdee, Lavarack.
General Blarney is resigning his posi-
tion as Commander - in - Chief on
November 30, and the Government
intends to return to the system of
control of the Army by a Military
Board —Chief-of-Staff, Adjutant-General,
Quartermaster-General, Finance Member
and Secretary. While that’s being talked
over and “arranged” and “rearranged,” as
these things have to be, Lieut.-General
V. A. H. Sturdee is to take over with a
temporary appointment as C.-in-C.
Sturdee has been G.-0.-C. First Aus-
tralian Army, which ended the war in
over-all command of the operations in
Bougainville and New Britain and at
Wewak and Aitape. The new appoint-
ment places him above Lieut.-General
Lavarack, who is the senior Australian
staff officer, and Lavarack has complained
that he was not consulted by the Govern-
ment before it was made.
Lavarack has been out of favor for a
long time. His banishment to Washing-
ton as head of the Australian Military
Mission has never been explained. It is
known that on his return from Syria,
where he covered himself with glory, he
reported against the defence of the Dutch
East Indies by Australian troops as hope-
less. And hopeless it proved to be, though
it ran counter to Sydney “Daily Tele-
graph” “strategy,” “Fight for Australia
in Java.” The “Daily Telegraph” and
“Labor” were then on most intimate
terms.
In announcing the Blarney retirement
and the Sturdee appointment, Mr.
Forde spoke of his own part during “the
critical stage of the war,” and expressed
his “appreciation of the outstanding ser-
vices” of the C.-in-C.
“Ek Dum”: Digger Junior, who
sojourned with the Japanese in Malaya
and Thailand, showed himself no less re-
sourceful in invention than Digger Senior
in World War I. Of this there is evidence
in the Tale of the Bombed Australian
Cities. At an early stage of the cap-
tivity the Nipponese, through their camp
bulletin, announced that since destruc-
tion was proceeding at bushfire rate in
Australia it was no longer possible to
publish regularly the list of towns and
cities wiped out, but if individual Aussies
felt anxiety about the fate of their own
home towns or any particular feature of
it, inquiries would be made by Imperial
H.Q. and results announced. Curiosity
proved to be all that could be desired,
even by the most unscrupulous enemy.
But the scheme was soon discontinued.
The puzzled hosts of the South East Asia
Co-prosperity Sphere early discovered
that the news that the city of Phar Lap
had been razed to the ground by an un-
precedented heavy-bomber raid, and that
the chivalrous Japanese air force had
been compelled to reduce to rubble the
town hall at Horse Creek, which was
discovered to have masked a heavy ack-
ack battery under the Red Cross flag,
caused the strange Australians nothing
but satisfaction. Indeed, so great was
their satisfaction that some of them had
a habit of falling to the ground and
howling With laughter every time news
of a fresh disaster in their homeland
arrived.
Slighting references to the Arabs are
common at Zionist meetings. Their
leaders have, in fact, brought off one of
the cleverest coups of modern times.
When Zionist abuse of Britain was at its
height, and when the President was bend-
ing to the storm, these Arabs produced
a letter from Franklin Roosevelt to the
King of Saudi Arabia undertaking that
he would on no account do anything
detrimental to the Arab cause in Pales-
tine (“no decision will be taken without
full consultation with Arabs and Jews
no action which might prove hos-
tile to the Arab people”). A Roose-
velt undertaking is, as it were, sacred
to his successor, and Truman at
once sought a friendly arrangement
with Attlee. Announced last week, it has
deposited fleas in the ears of a lot of
interfering people.
* * * »
“Corin’’: Britain’s latest 17ft. parachute
lifeboat designed for dropping from air-
craft to save Fleet Air Arm men forced
down over the sea is a more than usually
thoughtful device. The dinghy, which
rights itself in the roughest sea, aided by
buoyancy chambers, is equipped with
mast and sails, a 4-h.p. auxiliary engine
giving a speed of knots over a range
of 120 miles, a water-purifying unit and
a radio transmitter. When the lifeboat
is parachuted three rockets are fired elec-
trically. One carries a sea anchor and
the other two 150 yd. lengths of buoyant
line for the men to seize.


Every day in some way, you use an
EXIDE BATTERY..
WHtN it's
UloJ
start
4.45
From telephoning to transportation, from light-
ing systems to mining, Exide Batteries serve
you daily in a hundred ways. In your choice
of a car battery you can depend upon Exide.
They still keep going when the rest have
stopped.
m
i
:
PERSONAL ITEMS
The war ended last Friday. There were
no button-sellers in Sydney streets, and
also that day it was announced that Tom
Blarney had handed in his resignation.
John Cain had to wait 28 years to be-
come Premier of Victoria, if the four-
day interregnum in September, 1943, is
excepted. Born at Blackwood (Vic.) in
1887, he spent his boyhood in the Goul-
burn Valley, went into the greengrocery
trade in Melbourne as a young man,
became Clothing Trades’ Union organiser
and landed in the Spring-street institution
in 1917. Hon. Minister in the Prender-
gast and first Hogan Governments in
1924 and 1927, Cain was Minister for
Railways in the second Hogan Govern-
ment, after which he stared for long
years across the House at the imperturb-
able Dunstan. Cain is himself an equable
man, slow of temper, and a fair debater.
The 40 years spent by C, E. Wheeler
in M.L.’s Parliamentary press gallery, is
claimed to be unique in the Empire.
Those who collected to congratulate the
veteran on his record included Frank
Doidge, a former colleague, now member
for Tauranga, and H. Oakley Browne,
another old associate.
After more than five years of it —Dar-
win, Middle East, Greece, Crete, Eritrea
and New Guinea medico Lieut.-
Col. Innes Brodziak is back in civvies
again. While he was caring for the sick
and wounded on the way from Tobruk
to Alexandria the ship he was on was
bombed at night and went down in 3-2-
minutes. He was picked up by a de-
stroyer. Before enlisting Dr. Brodziak
practised in Macquarie-street, and was
medical adviser to Sydney County Coun-
cil ; he now returns to both. An old
Scots boy, he represented in G.P.S. row-
ing and also for St. Andrew’s ih Sydney
University inter-college races*
“H.W.”: Features of this year’s annual
pilgrimage to Adam Lindsay Gordon's
grave in Brighton (Vic.) were a fine ad-
dress by fellow-poet Bernard O’Dowd and
the reading of Gordon poems by I.
Howlett-Ross. Now 89, Howlett-Ross
promoted the first pilgrimage to Gordon’s
tomb way back on June 25, 1892. His
Laureate of the Centaurs, published in
1888, is still regarded as the best biog-
raphy of Gordon.
Two of the latest British V.C. : winners
—Lieut. Edward Fraser and Leading Sea-
man James Joseph Magennis—were in
Sydney when word of the awards to them
came through last week. They won tfye
top decoration in a midget submarine
attack which destroyed the Jap cruiser
Takao in the Straits of Johore last July.
With very little water under the cruiser
for them to operate in, they were below
there for over 16 hours, Magennis put-
ting in nearly an hour scraping years of
barnacle growth off the cruiser’s hull
before the charges could be fixed on.
Both men are themselves in the midget
class —under s^ft. —and have had some
years in the sub. business, Magennis hav-
ing been in' the crack at the Von Tirpitz.
By way of a change, they are being taken
back home by air for the investiture.
Though he won his V.C. with Frey-
berg’s Kiwis, Lieut. Jack Flood is a
Queenslander, born at Boulia. He left Mt.
Carmel School at Charters Towers to be-
come a clerk in Townsville, then got the
wanderlust and was in Maoriland when
war broke out. Enlisting with the Enzeds,
he fought in Libya and Greece, was with
his unit at El Alamein, landed at Salerno
and saw out the Italy campaign. Flood,
who spent part of his leave at Boulia
about June last, is now going through the
process of discharge, with the fixed notion
of getting back to Boulia to start busi-
ness there and paddock “a couple of
good things I’ve got by Pentheus, which
might win me a race or two at the Boulia
Diggers’ meeting next Christmas.” He
adds the V.C. to M.C. and 0.8. E.
“Colbun”: Miss Una Gailey Bick, of
Brisbane, and Private Anthony Graham
Prentice, A.1.F., recently returned after
three and a half p.-0.-w. years, who have
become engaged in Brisbane, are both
members of the Queensland Bar and
practising barristers. There should be
no differences over laying down the law
in that household.
Now 36, Charles Landers Ryan moved
up from the town clerkship at The-
barton,(S.A.) to chair the Whyalla Town
Commission, which consists of three reps,
of 8.H.P., three elected by the people of
the town and an independent chairman
appointed by the Government. If dis-
cussion waxes hot at any of the meetings
ahead Ryan should be right in his
element. In 1938 he led the State’s debat-
ing team, and a couple of years before
that was a foundation member of Adel-
aide’s/ Rostrum Club, in which he held
every office going. He holds an Adelaide
Uni. diploma in public administration,
and his practical experience has included
WHY ALLA CHAIRMAN.
a variety of jobs with Adelaide City
Council. Literary societies, the Y.M.C.A.
and cricket and bowls havp taken most
of his spare time, but his real hobby is
his job.
Aboard the ship Islander, which loaded
in Melbourne stores and equipment for
rehabilitating the lump of phosphate
called Christmas Island, is a seafaring
identity well known to Australia —Cap-
tain Max Stanton, chief officer of Maw-
son’s Discovery in the 1930-31 Antafctic
expedition. Captain Stanton has an even
more romantic interest than Polar ex-
ploration. He possesses a map, drawn in
blood, which originally belonged to the
picturesque pirate Captain Morgan. The
stained and tattered parchment purports
to reveal the whereabouts of £20,000,000
of treasure deposited on Cocos Island by
Spanish authorities to escape buccaneers.
When Captain Stanton retires he intends
to devote the rest of his life to searching
for the treasure. The Cocos Island men-
tioned, of course, isn’t the one in the
Indian Ocean.
Retired from the post of chief engineer
and consultant of Queensland Harbors
and Marine Board, after 61 years in the
public service, D. Fison designed the Mac-
kay Harbor works and supervised their
construction. The Pile Lighthouse, Hamil-
ton Cold Stores and South Brisbane Fish
Markets are other jobs he did. Also, he
surveyed nearly all Queensland ports, and
many of his charts have been published
by the British Admiralty.
Back from a long stretch up North as
a squadron-leader in the R.A.A.F., Phil
Ashton, one of the Ashton polo team
which made two world tours, playing all-
comers. Its bag of trophies included the
Dudley Cup in 1928 and 1-929 and the
Indian Empire Challenge Shield, and the
tourers were also runners-up for the Hurl-
ington Champion Cup, the top English
trophy. In 1934 the team collected the
Australian Gold Cup. Another English
win was the Whitney Cup. Phil, who’ll
be in the pastoral line henceforth, has
seen service at Port Moresby, Horn
Island, Milne Bay and the Solomons. Of
the other members of the team (which is
to be revived) Bob was a squadron-leader
in the R.A.A.F. and Geoff a major in the
A.I.F.
“Deir Suneid”: When the Montevideo
Maru was torpedoed and sunk out
from Rabaul, there went down with
it Wilfrid Ledlie (“Birdie”) Heron, one
of the finest front-line soldiers Aus-
tralia ever produced. An original mem-
ber of the Fifth Battalion, he was severely
wounded on Gallipoli, losing an eye.
Invalided home and discharged, he imme-
diately re-enlisted and served with the
59th Battalion, acquiring a couple more
wounds and becoming a major. Although
he never received a decoration, he was
an inspiration to all the troops in his
brigade. Word going around before a
show that “Birdie” was in it was much
the same as having twice the strength in
the first wave. No one tried harder than
he to get into the recent war, but his old
wounds were against it. Ever since he
was at Melbourne Grammar tales and
legends of which “Birdie” was the
hero have been in circulation. Some
of these were true and some other-
wise, but they were all colorful and
exciting. A son of a late g.m. of the Com-
mercial Bank, he lost a brother in the
1914-18 war. A younger brother, Leon,
at one time contributed black-and-white
drawings to The Bulletin. “Birdie” had
a plantation at Tovakundum near Rabaul,
and was in Namamula Hospital when the
Nips took possession.
Versus Bung:
No beer sparrer or black marketeer from
Bombala to Barringum is more interested in
the Sydney Government’s promised new booze
legislation than Oscar A. McDonald Piggott,
here depicted by Scorfield with the fighting ex-
pression known all over Australia and Maori-
land. Now secretary of the N.S.W. Temper-
ance Alliance, “Mac” has been expounding his
cause for 45 years. On his Vaucluse home
there is a nameplate which declares he’s an
optician, but that profession has had to yield
to his evangel. Hailing, like General Blarney
and the Tichbome Claimant, from Wagga, Pig-
gott tried the stage as a lad with Bland Holt
companies, was in the old Redfern Volunteers,
and threw his hat into the ring against Booze at
an early age. Since then he’s addressed all sorts
of meetings at all sorts of places, led deputations,
broadcast, written and appeared in court against
“the enemy.” Of all States he gives Queens-
land the palm for a fair go at meetings and,
strangely enough, S.A. the booby prize for the
rowdiest' and most dangerous. His experiences
range widely. At Maylands (W.A.) he was
being introduced when a drunk appeared, drew
a razor and pretended to cut his throat, mean-
ing to indicate that he’d sooner commit suicide
than listen. The caretaker, a dour Scot,
promptly dragged the drunk out backwards and
appeared disappointed that the throat was still
intact. At Magill (S.A.), where pretty rough
mobs of grape-pickers congregate, Piggott left
a noisy meeting in a car under a hail of
missiles and saw a small, neat hole suddenly
appear in the wind-screen. Piggott’s father, a
TEMPERANCE “MAC.”
journalist, lost his sight. J. F. Archibald pre-
sented the blind man with one of the first
Remington typewriters and Dr. Storie-Dixon,'
using heated gelatine lollies to stick letters made
from wire on the keys, put him back at work
again with a sort of Braille keyboard. The
son is also a journalist, contributing articles to
the world press on the sins of “Al.” —not
Capone but Cohol. Such spare time as he has
he spends with easel, brush and oil paints.
Wing-Commander Colin Gordon, here
pictured by Mcßeath heading out of the
R.A.A.F., can be fairly summed up as
over six feet of academic energy. Other
R.A.A.F. personnel, finding their way
back to civvy life through Rehabilitation,
owe Gordon a lot of thanks for the
battles he’s been fighting on their behalf
over the past four years. Before under-
taking that huge job Gordon had been
senior classical master at The King’s
COLIN GORDON.
School, Parramatta, and housemaster at
Manifold House, Geelong Grammar.
Born in British Guiana and educated at
Charter House and Oxford (where he ■
was president of the Athletic Club), he
represented for Great Britain at the
Amsterdam Olympic Games (1928) and
at the British Empire Games in Canada
(1930). He will now take over the head-
mastership of St. Peter’s, Adelaide.
Lieut.-Col J. F. Fardell, successor to
H. E. Jarman as Christchurch’s tram-
ways manager, comes to Maoriland with
something unusual in the way of testi-
monials —recommendations by five gen-
erals of the B.E.F. To all of them, at
one time and another, Fardell was tech-
nical adviser.
Into the silence:
Died of injuries accidentally received, after
a fine military career in the recent war, Lieut.-
Col. J. G. Hendry. A Sydney Uni. Arts gradu-
ate, he left law study to enlist in the A.I.F. in
1939, was an infantry officer throughout the
first Libyan campaign, won the M.C. at Bardia,
and saw other Middle East fighting before re-
turning to go north as a Ninth Division major
for the fighting in Borneo, where he gained his
higher rank. He’ lived to see the fighting end,
and was present at the surrender ceremony.
The elder son of Rev. J. Hendry, of Strathfield,
Sydney, his brother, Capt. Peter Hendry, is
back from p.o.w. captivity in Malaya,
In Sydney, at 79, C. H. Utting, director of
Australian United Press when ill-health caused
his retirement a few years back. Maonland-
born, he came to Australia as a boy, and
later founded a press agency which gave an
excellent service to N.S.W. country newspapers.
In England, at 52, William Everard Dick- .
son, the first Australian appointed a metropoli-
tan magistrate in London. Hailing originally
from Geelong (Vic.), he won the M.C. and par
as a major in 1914-18.
In Brisbane, at 63, William Bernard Geraghty,
secretary of the Queensland Teachers’ Union
from 1918 to 1934, and thereafter instructor at
the Primary Correspondence School and
Teachers’ Training College.
In Brisbane, at 89, knight David Hardie, one
of Queensland’s best-known physicians. Taking
his degrees of M. 8., C.M. and M.D. at Mans-
chall College, Aberdeen, he came to Brisbane
in 1887, was on the Queensland Uni. Senate in
its early days and took a hand in starting
the Medical School. In the 1914-18 war he
was in France as lieut.-colonel in the R.A.M.C.
In Melbourne, at 80, Dr. R. Tate> Sutherland,
Collins-street specialist and an authority on
anesthetics. His father 'was a former Victorian
Crown Solicitor.
In Sydney, journalist George James Reeve,
for years the “S. M. Herald’s” chief-of-staff,
and a good one, too.
At Latrobe (Tas.), at 77, Llewellyn Atkinson,
M.H.R. for Wilmot for 23 years to 1929, when
Lyons went in. Atkinson had been practically
in retirement since, except for a short term in
the State House representing the same locality.
At 83, in Melbourne, Arthur Whybrow, "who
founded the shoe manufacturing firm of that
name and helped to establish the training
school in Collingwood for repatriated soldiers
after the last war.


t
/
VO SSL
The“ATLAS”
8-inch Lathe
■ i
With
Gap
Bed
f
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
Manufacturers of PRECISION LATHES,
MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS
BRIDGE ST., VALLEY, BRISBANE
Built to
RECOGNISED
STANDARDS OF
ACCURACY
The Dr. Schlesinger standards v.
accuracy are rigidly observed in the
building of all “MARS” loathes. In
addition, all necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED and
Gear Teeth are Generated. Hence the
smooth vibrationless running of “MAKS”
Lathes.
The Leadscrew in all “Mars” Lathes is
cut from a certified and tested Master
Lead Screw.
Distributing Agents for N.S.W.:
Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd.,
139 Clarence Street, Sydney.
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Dastur horse Dhoti, at Underwood’s
stud, is a striking example of the part chance
can play in breeding and racing. Brought
to Victoria in advance to carry the colors of
the Duke of Kent when that ill-fated Prince
was designated next Governor-General, Dhoti
ran fairly well in a few races without doing
anything spectacular. But whatever he may
have failed to do on the tracks he is cer-
tainly doing in great style as a sire. He is
right out on his own in the sires’ list of stake-
winnings in the Melbourne spring racing, due
to wind up with Eclipse Stakes Day this coming
week-end. Prior to the Williamstown Cup
meeting at Flemington last Saturday Dhoti’s
stock had bagged no less than £11,330 (one-
seventh) of the spring prize-money—a breed per-
formance emphasised by the fact that the £9390
won by progeny of the next sire in the list,
The Buzzard, included Rainbird’s £7OOO Mel-
bourne Cup.
Carrying on the good work which already
had Dhoti not only at the head of the Mel-
bourne spring racing list but' Australia’s leading
sire of the season so far, two more of them
led the fields home in the first couple of races
on Saturday, The Sirdar (from Wynunda, and
raced by his breeder) narrowly defeating Stan-
dard Time and the favorite, Fine Fettle, in the
stirring finish of the seven-furlongs Williams-
town Stakes for three-year-olds, and Crown
Gem doing honor not only to her sire but to
her dam, French Gem (Oaks winner, and dam
also of the outstanding miler Royal Gem), by
fairly strolling away from Tudor Prince and
Purple Star in the five-furlongs Rawdon Stakes
(two-year-olds). Standard Time is by Green-
wich, the other horse brought out to race for
the Duke of Kent.
Tire race of the day, the Williamstown Cup
—like the Melbourne Cup, this year carrying a
£2OO gold trophy—saw the Law Maker gelding
Counsel put up one of his very best perform-
ances. Despite his 9.4, he went out favorite,
and, a long way back in a'strung-out field, he
looked an utter no-hoper when nine of the
13 fulongs had been covered. Then Hartney
set him after them, and with a sustained run
over nearly half a mile he got to the front and
at the finish held off the lightly-weighted Gay
Lad (7.7) to defeat that evidently pretty good
youngster by half a length, with Peter showing
his best form this season in third place.
Innovations were tried out with the Cup prize-
money. The owner of Stenelaus collected £lOO
for his horse’s fourth placing, and one-fifth of
the sweepstakes went to the second horse and
a tenth to the third.
The Enfield-Little Sister four-year-old horse
Three O Three won the six-furlongs Strand
Handicap from David’s Last and Delina as
easily as Crown Gem had won in the previous
event. Now tubed, the winner took a good lead
soon after the start, and nothing thereafter
looked like getting within coo-ee of him.
Though Three O Three’s naming, through his
sire, is obvious enough, Sydney papers—daily,
afternoon and sporting—with one single ex-
ception named him in weights or results as
Three O’Three. So some justice has been done
to the sufferin’ land at last.
Westralian Rubontine, on the strength of his
good win the previous week, was sent out a
strong favorite for the 10-furlongs Seddon
Handicap, but let his backers down badly, fail-
ing to get a place. Huntingdale won it by a
head from Propontis, with Tea Cake, evidently
improving, next. However, it might be as well
not to discard Rubontine on this run. He did
not go as kindly as he’s capable of doing, and
he struck some trouble. In the day’s other
event, the mile Ozone Highweight, Minanalaes,
another who appears to run as the mood takes
him, held off a strong challenge by Comedy Call
to just beat that mare and Keplerian.
* * * *
For an “off” meeting the A.J.C. (Warwick
Farm) had a good roll-up at Randwick: 30,000,
apart from around 7000 in uniform. They put
£138,733 through the tote, compared with
£121,691 on the same day last year, and probably
the majority had a good day, two favorites,
one equal favorite and two second fancies
being among the winners.
Punters installed Prince Standard (who has
yet to win) favorite for the Kindergarten
Stakes, a half-point shorter in the betting
than Persian Prince, who was at 5 to 2. Ridden
by J. Thompson, Persian Prince was a little
slow to begin, but quickly settled down in front,
remained there and at the finish was comfort-
ably holding Prince Standard, to whom he was
conceding 71b. A furlong from the judge
Tamasha was finishing well enough to seem a
danger, but over the last half-furlong threw his
head about, galloped brokenly, and only
managed third money.
Though the most experienced of them have
only had three or four rups, Sydney’s two-year-
old colts are gradually sorting themselves out
(the fillies won’t be seen till December). With
the exception of Prince Standard, who has
bumped a good ’un every start and been the
next-best in three races, the best of them
have had races well picked for them, and thus
far have avoided meeting each other. Havoc,
Vigaro, Persian Prince and Superfort seem the
pick of them, and there will be some spirited
punting when they clash.
Trimmer, who could probably, lead any field
in the country over four furlongs, looked for
a moment as if he would last out the six fur-
longs of the Horsley Handicap, Many lengths
in front most of the way, he was still bowling
along well clear of Cragsman at the Leger, but
didn’t last much longer. Cragsman gathered
him in at the furlong pole, but was in turn
beaten, losing a hard-fought finish to Bravo
(5 to 2 favorite), who came from well back.
Nobleman was third, and the time, 1.12 J, indi-
cated that the track was somewhat holding after
a couple of days’ intermittent rain.
It was a good effort on the part of Crags-
man, having his first run this season and, with
9.5 up, conceding the field 91b. and more.
Vermeil followed the placegetters, finishing well,
but - he’s too cranky to be followed with any
confidence.
The Three-year-old Handicap was an open
betting race, with Field Captain, Warspite and
Melos all at 4 to 1, Marshal Tito at fives and
Strauss Bto 1; good picking, as they finished
Field Captain first, Warspite second, Strauss
a distant third, and Marshal Tito next. Melos
was near the tail most of the way, but finished
on well enough to be given another chance.
Bravo and Field Captain were ridden by G.
Moore, in great form, and he made it a treble
by taking the mile Leumeah Handicap on
Laudus, winning in a fine finish by a head
from King’s Glen and King of the Mist, who
dead-heated for second. A four-year-old entire
by Midstream from Applause, Laudus has been
more than once an unlucky loser and deserved
a win as reward for model consistency. In six
starts he has been only once unplaced, and
was then fourth.
One front-runner who did see the trip out was
the Air Balloon-Whimsey mare Lady Marie
(G. Podmore). It’s been more than 18 months
since the judge last noticed her, but for the
10-furlongs Milperra Handicap she was well
backed at 6 to 1, only Shining Night and
Prince being preferred. These two finished third
and fourth, while Right Royal was closest to
the mare at the finish.
Another long-overdue win was that of The
Tiger (W. Hogg), hitherto a maiden but a
consistently good galloper. Badly away at the
start of the Novice first division, he was no-
where in the picture at the distance, when the
favorite, Asset, seemed all over a winner, but
what he put in between that point and the
finish is what wins good mile events. He fairly
flew over the last 50 yards, to beat Asset by
two lengths, with Survivor third. A three-year-
old by Merry Matthew from Joan of Arc, The
Tiger should win more and better races than
most who finished behind him. The Novice
second Division, won by Pennicuik (A. Pod-
more), had a weaker field than the first, but as
there are likely to be a fair number of
similar class events in coming weeks, Sonning,
Chatster and Union Jack, who followed the
winner in that order, may be worth keeping an
eye on. >
* * « •
For Rand wick (before acceptances):—
Hoxton Park Juvenile: Tamasha, 1; Con-
certo, 2; Driffield, 3. Farm Encourage: Sweet
Brue, 1; Chatster, 2; Pennicuik, 3. Kirkham
Stakes: Superfort, 1; Persian Prince, 2; Prince
Standard, 3. Camden Handicap: Gay King,
1; Vermeil, 2; Nobleman, 3. Warwick Novem-
ber Handicap: Swan River, 1; Prince Buzzard,
2; Right Royal, 3. Welter; Haripur, 1;
King’s Glen, 2; Castle Frontenac, 3.
* * * ♦
J. H. McEvoy, who passed on last week at
Cobbitty (N.S.W.), was one of those figures
who bring some color to the racing game.
A high bidder for yearling thoroughbreds, he
paid 4500 guineas for the Golden Sovereign
filly Anne-Tien-Et, and 5250 guineas for the
Ajax colt Tengur. So far, the filly—a beauty
to look at —has won only one small race; very
narrowly, at Rosehill. The colt is yet to fill a
place. The odd name of the filly is a play
upon names of feminine members of the
family; as, no doubt, the Ajax colt John
Andrew was named after the owner’s two
sons, John and Andrew, who came back from
Jap p.o.w. captivity last month. On the day
they arrived Fostars Shoes, of which McEvoy
was governing director, shut up shop, and all
hands had a ferry chartered for them to meet
the two Diggers. McEvoy himself was then in
hospital; so it’s further in character that by his
request the horses he owned are to go on
racing in his colors.
* * * ♦
Appropriately, First Aid led the field home
in the Doctors’ Hurdle at the recent Port Adel-
aide meeting at Cheltenham. An appropriate
bit of naming, too, First Aid being by Enfield
from Plaster.
Also at that Port Adelaide meeting, all
profits of which go to Adelaide Children’s
Hospital, A. J. Lee, chairman of the building-
appeal committee, had a race named after him.
Then, getting a lease of Sam Slick for the day,
he won the race from the much-better fancied
Selesto. Incidentally, jockey Silburn weighed
out without the bridle, in spite of a warning
by clerk-of-scales Muir, who said that in 25
years’ experience at the job he could remember
only James Scobie taking that risk.
Yet another oddity of the Port Adelaide meet-
ing. In the Auraria Stakes Detves had on
the 50-year-old bridle that was on the three-
year-old filly Auraria when she won the Mel-
bourne Cup. Herself a promising filly, Detves
looked a sure winner when she fell and so
injured herself that she had to be destroyed.
* * V
In the first “Test” against India, at
Bombay, Services hit up 551 ; India,
339, and, in the follow on, 304. That left
93 for a win, with only 20 minutes of
play. Services knocked up 31 for one
wicket; game drawn. Price took 5 for
82, Pepper 5 for 186, Williams 3 for 83,
Ellis 3 for 161, Miller 2 for 77 and Petti-
ford 1 for 33. The Indians’ batting was
very consistent, eight getting double
figures in the first innings and seven in
the second, Amamath (64 and 50),
Hazare (75 and 23) and Merchant (27
and 69) having the best doubles. Sismey
caught two and stumped one, and there
were only 16 sundries in an aggregate of
643.
* * * *
Hawthorn-East Melbourne C.C. paid
the right sort of tribute to former p.-0.-w,
Ben Barnett. It elected him captain
before he had been repatriated to his
home State. Turning out for his first
game since being liberated, Barnett on
Saturday caught two and stumped one of
the first half-dozen Collingwood players
dismissed, but failed to get going with
the bat.
• * * *
N.S.W. selectors included nine new
men in the team for Queensland. Only
Barnes (capt.), Crossan and Saggers
played in Sheffield Shield matches before
the war. Moroney (who scored 203 on
Saturday for Marrickville), Barnes, Don-
aldson, Alley, Crossan and Walmsley
have been big scorers in grade cricket
this year, all with centuries. The bowlers
are Lindwall (fast), Crossan, Woolmer,
Alley (medium) and young left-hander
Toshack, whose figures this season are 20
wickets, averaging 11.8. K. Grieves and
O’Brien (both young batsmen) make up
the side. The selecting seems good policy,
no Sheffield Shield being at stake, and the
fixtures have been arranged to help
players make good.
Queensland selectors worked on oppo-
site lines. Of the dozen chosen. Brown,
Tallon, Rogers, Cook, Watt and Dixon,
were pre-war reps. McCool and Morris,
ex-Sydney players, were also included.
V. Raymer (a good left-hander) and A.
Carrigan (a rattling good bat, who made
a record of 943 runs in Q.C.A. district
matches last year), both from Toombul,
and H. Pegg (12th man) make up the
team.
* * * ♦
“N.”: Queensland ’keeper Don
Tallon is in great form. He has bagged
14 behind the stumps and has knocked
up two dashing centuries —his second,
104 n. 0., from a chanceless display in
66 minutes. In this match he shed the
gloves at 3 for 150 (he had caught one
and stumped one) and got six wickets
for 27. He took one catch off his own
bowling and held another sizzler. Tallon’s
substitute behind the sticks stumped three
and caught one off Don’s slows.
* * * *
N.S.W. had an easy victory over Vic-
toria in the inter-State lawn tennis tourna-
ment at .Sydney last week, winning by 13
rubbers 26 sets 206 games to 5 rubbers
12 sets 15(f games. The Victorians were
weakened through Quist dropping out
with “tennis elbow.” N.S.W. cleaned up
the doubles, five to one. The excellent
form of the young players—Pails, Barnes,
Brown (N.S.W.), Brodie (who had a
great win over Crawford) and Holland
(Vic.) —indicated that Australia has the
players from whom a good team can be
sorted to defend the Davis Cup. In the
ladies’ matches Victoria won by 10
rubbers to 2,
.* * ■ * *
The Australian Rugby Union Board of
Control —N.S.W. three delegates, Q. two
and Vic., W.A., S.A., Tas. and A.C.T. one
each —has approved for 1946 an Aus-
tralian visit to M.L. and a Combined XV
from the other States to play N.S.W. at
Sydney ; for 1947, M.L. to visit Australia,
arid Australia to go to England; and in
1948 an All-States tourney in Sydney and
a visit to Australia by a French team.
* * * *
Two N.S.W. “champions,” Eric Mac-
ready (bantam) and Danny Simmons
(featherweight), made their third contest
at Leichhardt fairly interesting, but Mac-
ready again proved too fast for Simmons
—he had trimmed that youth in the two
earlier clashes. A left to the chin had
Macready a bit dazed in the seventh
round, and Simmons did rather well in
the next three rounds, but Macready was
his master thenceforward. There could
be no arguing against the verdict for
Macready.
These Maoriland welterweights are
tough. The Victorian Jackie Daniels is
no mean puncher, and he hit Vic Cal-
taux scores of times in their bout at
the Sydney Stadium. Solid lefts and
rights all found parking space on some
part of Caltaux. They had no noticeable
effect on the iron man, who wore Daniels
down, knocking him out with a right to
the heart and a left to the chin in the
tenth round.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
The four thousand guests who went to
Government House for the reception held
in honor of the Governor-General and
the Duchess of Gloucester strolled around
the lawns in perfect garden-party weather.
There was no formality about the recep-
tion. The Duke and Duchess, accom-,
panied by Sir Winston and Lady Dugan,
mingled with the guests, many of whom
were presented to them. The Duchess
chose a short frock of carnation-red chif-
fon, over which she wore a three-quarter
length matching coat. Her large natural
straw hat was trimmed with field flowers.
Lady Dugan chose her favorite blue,
matching her frock with a flower-
trimmed hat in shades of blue and pink.
Her parasol was also blue. Viscountess
Clive was another charming figure in mist-
blue crepe, and Mary Lisle Johnson
decided on a red and white patterned
frock with which she wore white acces-
sories. Mrs. A. A. Lord, secretary to
Lady Dugan, looked cool in a grey crepe
jacket suit offset by a large navy-blue hat
with touches of cerise in the ribbon band-
ing. Valerie Purves topped her lime
patterned crepe frock with a flower-laden
straw hat. Mrs. T. J. Ryan was decora-
tive in a dusty-pink tailored frock, her
small pink hat having touches of green in
the ostrich feather tips which adorned it.
Miss R. Green, who came with Mrs. Ryan,
chose a green frock and long cape ; a
curled ostrich feather encircled the brim
of her small hat. Mrs. Leigh Falkiner
wore a navy-blue georgette frock, and her
small cyclamen hat was massed with
ostrich feathers in variegated colors.
Paddy Wilkinson’s outfit was of a soft
shade of grey, her small hat a colorful
contrast with its swathings of cyclamen-
toned silk tulle.
With Mrs. A. Dunstan, wife of •Vic-
toria’s former Premier, was her daughter
Mrs. J. H. Chinner, who was in grey and
made a charming contrast to her mother's
patterned silk frock in lime tonings. Mrs.
Chinner will go soon to England to join
her husband, who is at Oxford. Mrs.
Wrigley, wife of Air Vice-Marshal
Wrigley, at present in England, chose a
gay floral frock. She was with Mrs.
Allan Walters, wife of Air-Commodore
Walters, whose 'frock was of dusty-pink
crepe, topped by a shady black hat. Briga-
dier Arthur Wilson’s wife chose a white
silk patterned in brown for her frock,
with brown hat and accessories. With
Maoriland’s Trade Commissioner J. H.
Malcolm was his wife, smart in a jacket
suit of blue and white spotted crepe. Her
hat and accessories were navy blue. Lind-
say Biggins was with his wife, whose frock
was of dusty-pink crepe.
The guests were completely captivated
by the two young princes. In fact, they
almost stole the show from their parents.
Three nurses in spotless white escorted
the youngsters. Prince William, walking
proudly by himself and wearing a white
shirt, cream knickers and white sunhat,
appeared greatly interested in all that went
on, and could not be persuaded to come
away from the band which played on the
lawn. His small silky terrier, Piper, also
came in for his shard of interest, but he
soon sought the cool shadows.
Many functions have been planned for
the next few weeks. With the Brookes
lady absent in America, Mrs. Louis
Nelken has taken her place as president
of a fete being held at “Myoora,” Too-
rak. Proceeds will help the Animal Wel-
fare League Hospital which was started
by Mrs. Lort Smith 15 years ago. Now
the hospital supports two ambulances, a
powerful X-ray plant and a surgeon and
qualified dispenser. The Animal Welfare
Hospital is one of the most up to date in
the Commonwealth.
Lord Mayor Connelly entertained at
receptions the inter-State delegates to
the W.C.T.U. and General and Mrs. Cai-
penter. General Carpenter is international
leader of the Salvation Army, an Aus-
tralian and proud of it. At the reception
given in his honor; leading citizens
gathered at the Town Hall to pay tribute
to him and to his wife and also to the
work done by the Salvation Army during
the war years. Sitting next to Mrs. Car-
penter on the platform was Mrs. Ber-
nard Heinze, Lady Mayoress of this city,
and her smart navy-blue suit was relieved
by a frilly white blouse. Her small navy-
blue boater hat had large white ribbon
bows in front, centred with a smaller
bow of red ribbon. Another guest was
Mrs. J. Fitzgerald, who has done a good
job of war work with the Red Shield.
She chose an all-white frock and hat, the
only touch of color being a yellow iris
pinned in her frock. Also noticed among
the guests was Col. Sybil Irving, Con-
troller of the A.W.A.S. Brigadier Tovell,
recently elected to the Victorian Parlia-
ment, was also present, and Judge Stret-
ton and the Knox knight were other
guests who listened to the amusing stories
told by the General and joined in the
laughter as he spoke of his early ambition
to become a jockey. Mrs,.Beatrice Camp-
bell, former Lady Mayoress, was in navy
blue, and topped her frock with a gay
floral hat Accompanying her was son
Edward, recently a p.-0.-w. in Malaya.
Mrs. Maie - Hoban, pictured here by
Athol Shmith, is a very happy person
these days. One reason is the return of
her daughter Virginia on the Moreton
Bay from England. Virginia is a senior
superintendent of the Red Cross, and
while in England was in charge of Somers
House, Sussex. She was in England for
17 months attached to the field force of
the Red Cross. Another cause of Maie
Hoban’s pleasure is the success of her
verse-speaking class, it being the first
choir to pass verse-speaking examinations
in Victoria. At the end of the month
she will produce “Alcestes,” a verse-
speaking choral work. At Pilgrim Cot-
tage, headquarters of the Australian
Repertory Players, Australian plays and
players are eagerly given a hearing. Mrs.
Hoban is greatly interested in the Austra-
lian drama, and she has made many dis-
coveries, both in playwrights and players.
After they were married at Toorak
Presbyterian Church Lieut.-Col. E. E.
Dunlop, A.A.M.C., ex-p.-0.-w., and his
bride, the former Helen Ferguson, were
piped by Pipe-Major MacLennan to the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Mephan Fergu-
son, which adjoins the church and where
the reception was held. Helen chose a
very beautiful gown of ivory silk in full
flowing lines. The material was brought
from Bangkok by the bridegroom. A
Brussels-lace veil, lent by Mrs. A.
Southey, was held by a coronet of
orange-blossoms, and the bride carried
a bouquet of white waterlilies and lily-
of-the-valley. Matron of honor Mrs.
Ernest Stevens and bridesmaid Beatrice
Blair were frocked alike in pale-blue
crepe, and both carried pink waterlilies,
sweet-peas and delphiniums. Helen is
the only daughter of the Mephan Fer-
gusons. The ’groom had Lieut.-Colonel
James Yeats as best man, with Captain
Ernest Stevens as groomsman.
Navy House is still caring for men of
the sea. The recent dance in aid of the
Lady Colvin Auxiliary for Navy House
was highly successful, and over 300
dancers gladly paid the two guineas
charged for admission. Lovely setting
for the dance was the home of Mr. and
Mrs. I. M. * Moffatt-Pender in South
Yarra. Great bowls of spring flowers,
in which blue delphiniums took pride of
.place, were reflected in the rich tonings of
the paintings which hung in the reception
rooms. The flowers, so tastefully
arranged, were the work of the Murdoch
lady. The Sir Walter Scott Room was
a suitable background for the many
lovely gowns, and guests admired
the glowing Streeton canvas of the Scots
Borderland country between the River
Tweed and the Eildon Hills. All the ter-
races were floodlit and lights in the large
rambling garden provided a romantic
scene. The turquoise blue of the tiled
swimming-pool, upon which all the
reception rooms open, was also floodlit
and this, too, added to the beauty of the
setting. With Lady Colvin was president
of the auxiliary Mrs. W. Russell Clarke,
secretary v Mrs. Humphrey Clegg and
treasurer Mrs. Louis Neilken. Many
officers of the R.N. and the R.A.N. were
present, including Admiral Sir Louis
Hamilton, Vice-Admiral Rivett-Carnac
and Mrs. Carnac and Commodore and
Mrs. H. A. Showers. The U.S. Navy
was represented by Commander M. Mac-
Kenzie and Mrs. MacKenzie,
From Sydney
There is a mental impression these days
of Government House being under dust
covers—it is months since the old stone
pile has had permanent tenants. People
interested in such things swap the names
of probable State Governors to come, but
such chat is guesswork at the best, and,
anyway, a public worried over strikes,
transport, sugar, etc., is satisfied to wait
till the numbers go up. Last Friday night
Government House went mildly gala. The
Victoria League was presenting a concert
to help the Hospitality Fund for the
British Centre’s Officers’ Club.
Women guests having been told that
long frocks would be worn there was the
rustle of silk and lace skirts as the audi-
ence got itself seated in the ballroom.
Harold Williams added a touch of matu-
rity to a programme, the pianist and
violinist of which were the youthful
Michel Mann and Perry Hart. Harold
sang 14 songs and arias. The first group
was classic—Purcell, Handel, Mozart; his
second group was Russian and Hun-
garian, and the third was made up of
English works.
Lieutenant-Governor Frederick Jordan
and his wife were in the audience. Rear-
Admiral Moore and Mrs. Moore, with
pretty Barbara, Commodore G. H. Faulk-
ner, first Naval Member of Maoriland’s
Naval Board, Mrs. Harold Nicholas, the
Keith Morris couple (her black laces and
silver fox furs were among things ad-
mired), the Walter Burfitts, listening very
attentively to young kinsman Michel
Mann, Mrs. Fyvie Watt, Mrs. Philip Ash-
ton, Mrs. Hope Gibson, Captain Ben-
stead, the W. R. Doveys were among the
applaiiders. The Frederick Jordan lady's
frock was a soft shimmer of blue.
Accompanist Kathleen Fitz Gerald was
graceful in yellow filmed in black lace.
For die past seven years the Sydney
group of ex-students of Our Lady of
Mercy’s Convent, Goulbum, has organ-
ised a yearly dance to help provide
Christmas cheer for the children of the
Mercy orphanages in Goulburn. This
year friends are reminded that the dance
is dated for November 28. The place
will be Federation House in Macquarie-
street. The girl in this picture is Mary
Woodbridge, a very active young mem-
ber of the dance committee.
If there were any lingering doubts as
to the success of an opera season in Syd-
ney, the crowds surging to the Con-
servatorium to hear Eugen Ondgin would
dissipate such ideas. Consider the posi-
tion of the Conservatorium alone. It
isn’t easy to get to unless to the car-
owner. It is far enough from a tram for
the music-seeker to get thoroughly
drenched on a wet night, and except for
the rich velvet curtain across the stage
the hall itself is somewhat stark. Still,
when opera is advertised there Sydney
rushes it. There is nothing but good to
be said for the Tschaikowsky work. The
singing was good; there was nothing ama-
teurish about it or the acting. The figures
of girl and men principals were pleasing.
There was elegance in the two ball-
room scenes where the greens and blues
and soft reds of the frocks melted into
one another. Nita Maughan as Larina
and Mollie Grouse as the temperamental
Tatiana used arm and wrist gracefully as
they slowly waved silken fans. Just as
graceful and charmful was the French
song in this scene by EreaCh Riley,
Phyllis Raisbeck’s resonant tones came
quaintly from the aged nurse, who was
on hand just like Juliet’s to be a love-
letter carrier for her young mistress. The
stage effects were capital and the misty
morning look at the duel scene was due
to the ingenious use of yards and yards
of tnosquito-net. The old-established
firm of Florent Hoogstoel, Hilda Mulli-
gan and Roland Foster has scored
another win.
Persian, Siamese and ordinary pet cats
are polishing their whiskers and gener-
ally acquiring a sleek and super look in
preparation for the show in the Lindfield
Masonic Hall on November 24. The
Federal Cat Club of Australasia is staging
this cat show and kitten parade, and Mrs.
Messmer is organising it as an effort
for the Legacy appeal. Dame Mary
Hughes will make the opening sp*eech.
A party of bright W.R.N.S. and about
30 youthful wives and fiancees of U.S. ser-
vicemen were guests of the women’s
group of the Australian American Move-
ment last week. The wives and fiancees
had a special interest in this lunch party,
as the speaker was Mrs. Frances Mizell,
who has been appointed to Australia on
a welfare programme for U.S. service-
men and their Australian dependants. The
lunch was at History House, and Mrs,
Mizell, a slim, soft-spoken Southerner,
told her listeners how they could obtain
advice from the welfare and home-serviqe
branch, of which she is supervisor. The
branch is represented in Melbourne, Bris-
bane and Perth as well as in Sydney, so
Australian girls can arm themselves with
much information that will be of use to
them in their new surroundings. Elva
Collins, president of the First U.S. Ser-
vicemen’s Wives and Fiancees’ Club,
made a neat little speech of thanks.
Isador Goodman brought a crowded
Town Hall into his own enchanted world
last Saturday night. If the listener was
a lover of Mozart and Chopin Mr. Good-
man proved how right this was, and re-
vealed even new beauties in these com-
posers. Prokofieff’s Seventh Sonata had
its first performance in Australia by Mr.
Goodman’s clever and subtle hands. An-
other Goodman concert next Saturday.
David Maddison and Olga Krasnik,
both pupils of Miss Shadforth-Hooper,
will play at a concert in History House
on November 29. This concert is the
first step towards building up a scholar-
ship for prospective teachers of the piano,
and it will be named the Shadforth-
Hooper Teachers’ Scholarship. The well-
known Sydney pianist perfected her
studies abroad under the World-renowned
Teresa Carreno, and former pupils and
admirers are working with enthusiasm
for the success of the concert.
More and more one suspects that
women are the real business experts. The
success of the Peter Pan kindergarten
opportunity shop in the past two years
or so stresses this point. The shop dur-
ing its short life has handled thousands
of pounds, it has maintained the Peter
Pan kindergarten, and last week the com-
mittee had the joy of handing over a
cheque for £lOOO to Dr. Wilfred Vickers
towards the establishment of a spastic
centre in the grounds of the Children’s
Hospital, and one for £5OO to knight
Samuel Cohen for the kindergarten
named after him, the special care of
which is deaf children. There was an
air of justified exuberance at the tea-
drinking at Hie Pickwick Club, where
the generous ceremony took place. Mrs.
Ellis Fielding Jones succeeds Mrs. R.
Mueller as president of Peter Pan.
The curtain went up for Howard
Ashton’s show of. Sydney Harbor paint-
ings last- week at the bidding of Lord
Mayor Neville Harding. The exhibition
brought crowds of artists and their wives
to the well-lighted R.A.S.’s own little
gallery in Hunter-street. If you weren’t
already an admirer of the Harbor’s bays
and ways these paintings would have cap-
tured you. The feeling of breeze-ruffled
blue in “Sea Power” and “Cruise Begins”
sends the mind winging straight to the
Heads and the open sea. Flower-painter
Sherman was at the show. So was the
National Gallery’s new director Hal Mis-
singham, Erik Langker arid his wife and
Howard Veal were among those who lin-
gered on for another look after the crowd
had departed.
“Petticoat Fever” is promised another
large audience at Mosman Town Hall
tomorrow night. James Pratt, who is the
producer, is well known for his work with
the A.8.C., and the Hobart Repertory
Theatre. Two other ex-servicemen in the
production are Jack Horner and Robert
Gray. Mrs. Leo Marks, John Dease and
Irene Harper take active part in keeping
the comedy sparkling along. Jean Cow-
tan and, Jack Horner designed the clever
stage sets.
Mrs. Roy stone Davey is rejoicing over
the return of her nephew Henry Hordern
from Changi p.-0.-w. camp. Henry, who
was ill nearly all the time he was in
Changi, is now staying at the Roystone
Davey s’ home at Collaroy. He \and a
friend (also ex.-p.0.w.) are practically fill-
ing in their day surfing, loafing and
eating. What they like best of all is
eggs.


KIDNEYS
MUST REMOVE
EXCESS ACIDS
Help 15 MILES of Kidney Tubes
Flush Out Poisonous Waste
If kidneys don’t pass 3 pints a day and get rid of
3 pounds of waste matter, the 14 miles of kidney tubes
and filters become clogged with poisonous waste and
the danger of acid poisoning is greatly increased,
This acid condition is a danger signal and may
be the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, pufflness under the eyes,
rheumatic pains apd dizziness. Frequent or scanty
passages, with smarting and burning, show there is
something wrong with your kidneys or bladder.
Most people watch their bowels, which contain
only 27 feet of intestines, but neglect the kidneys,
which contain 15 miles of tiny tubes and filters.
Don’t delay I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used
successfully the world over by milliohs of people.
!They give quick relief and will help to flush out the
16 MILES of kidney tubes. GET DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PJLLS at your chemist or store.
NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
AND
SATURDAY EVENING
POST
AGAIN AVAILABLE
BY SUBSCRIPTION.
Rates —
National Geographic .. .. £l/11/3 p.a.
Saturday Evening Post .. .. £2/10/-p.a.
Send for list of all magazines now avail-
able by subscription.
MORGAN-HINTON
MAGAZINE AGENCIES.
Te!., 8W5170
26 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY,
or
MORGAN’S BOOK SHOP.
9 CASTLEREAGH STREET,
SYDNEY.
MH.3.A
STRONGER... LIGHTER ... LONCER-LA STING
(3ioMe
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manufacture is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
fdfd
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY (DEFENCE DIVISION),
VICTORIA BARRACKS, MELBOURNE.
WAR GRATUITY ACT, 1945
Applications for War Gratuity are invited from persons entitled under the War Gratuity
Act, 1945.
HOW TO OBTAIN APPLICATION FORMS.
Application forms are obtainable as under :-r
Navy, Army and Air, Force personnel now being discharged—At the discharge depftt.
Army and Air Force personnel discharged prior to application forms being made available —
At any official Post Office, District Accounts Office or Area Finance Office.
Navy personnel already discharged—Residents of New South Wales, from the Commanding
Officer, H.M.A.S. Rushcutter, Edgecliff, N.S.W.
Residents of Victoria, from the Naval Offlcer-in-Charge, Port Melbourne.
Residents of States other than New South Wales and Victoria, from the Naval Officer-m-
Charge in the capital city of the State in which the applicant is residing.
DECEASED MEMBERS.
The War Gratuity Act provides that where a member who would be eligible for a gratuity
has died before the date of his entitlement the war gratuity shall not form part of his
estate and shall not be payable to the executor or administrator of the estate. It may be
credited to or for the benefit of one or more of the following persons and in such proportions
as the regulations prescribe or a prescribed authority directs, namely, any person who
(a) is beneficially entitled under the will of the deceased to any part of his estate, or
(b) is entitled to a share of his intestate estate,
and who is either the widow or widower, or a child, parent, step-parent, foster-parent or
dependent of the deceased. .
In special circumstances a prescribed authority may approve of the crediting of the
war gratuity to persons other than those specified.
Persons desiring to lodge an application in respect of the service of a deceased member
must not use the form now available at Post Offices but should write to the Service in which
the deceased member last served for a special form. These requests should be made to the
appropriate address shown hereunder: —
NAVY: The Director of Navy Accounts, Navy Office, Melbourne.
ARMY: The War Gratuity Officer, District Accounts Office, Army Headquarters, in the
capital city of the State in which the member enlisted. Northern Territory
enlistments should be addressed to Adelaide, and New Guinea-Papua enlistments to
Brisbane.
AIR FORCE: The War Gratuity Officer, Area Finance Office, Air Headquarters, in the capital
city of the State in which the member’s basic pay records were maintained.
Applications for War Gratuity must not be lodged until after discharge, except that where
the discharge is deferred for more than 12 months after the cessation of hostilities, the application
should be lodged 12 months after cessation of hostilities.
Cessation oe hostilities.
The date of cessation of hostilities will be such date as is proclaimed. No entitlement
to have gratuity credited in the Register exists until six months after the proclaimed date.
Members then still serving will have an entitlement at date of discharge or 12 months after the
cessation of hostilities, which ever is the earlier.
RATES OF GRATUITY.
For overseas service £3 15s. per month.
For certain other continuous service 15/- per month.
Interest on gratuity will be paid at the rate of 3J p.c. per annum, as from the date of
entitlement.
QUALIFYING SERVICE.
Briefly, “Overseas Service’’ means service performed outside Australia and its Territories
(e.g.. New Guinea) prior to 7th December, 1941, and service outside Australia on and from that
date,’ and includes service rendered as a member of the air crew of a squadron if the r6le of the
squadron was operational involving flights out of Australia and service rendered by Navy personnel
serving in seagoing ships, other than depot ships or ships principally employed on or in
connection with harbour defence.
To qualify for payment at the “overseas” rate, a member must have served overseas
continuously for not less than 90 days, or for periods aggregating not less than 180 days in
any period of 18 months. If the period of service overseas was terminated by injury or illness
other than self-inflicted injury or injury or illness arising out of the commission of a breach
of discipline or default the member may qualify without serving for the full periods stated.
The rate of 15/- per month applicable to certain other continuous full*-time duty is payable
(provided the member has already completed six months’ continuous full-time service as at
7th December, 1941) in respect of service from 7th December, 1941, which is not being paid for
at the overseas rate. Where six months’ continuous full-time service has not been completed
as at 7th December, 1941, eligibility for payment operates on and from the date that the
qualifying period of six months is completed.
4 ' REGISTER OF GRATUITIES.
When an applicant’s entitlement to a gratuity has been established, the amount will be
recorded to the member’s credit in the Register of War Gratuities at the date of entitlement, and
the member will be notified in writing. ~ ,
Payment will be made 6 years and 6 months after the proclaimed date of cessation of
hostilities. The prescribed authority, however, may approve of payment in whole or in part
before the due date in the following cases: —
(a) Where the amount payable is less than £lO.
(b) Where the person entitled is:—
(i) The widow of a deceased member.
(ii) The widowed mother of an unmarried deceased member. . ,
(iii) The mother of, or an older sister who acted in loco parentis to, the deceased
member, if she was totally dependent at the date of the deceased member’s
death, or is in necessitous circumstances.
(c) Where a member is blind or totally and permanently incapacitated.
Requests for payment before due date should not be made until the application for War
Gratuity has been dealt with and the applicant notified that an amount has been credited to him
in whole or portion of a member’s credit in the War Gratuity Register may, in approved
cases, be transferred to the War Service Homes Commissioner or other Approved Authority for the
purpose of erecting or acquiring a dwelling house for the member. .... , ~ ,
Requests for transfer of credit should not be made until the applicant for war gratuity
has been notified that an amount has been credited to him in the Register.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS IN DEATH CASES. ,
In the event of the death of a member, due to war service, an additional seven months
gratuity at the rate applicable at date of death may be added to the gratuity that would
otherwise e wl J ere a me mber’s death, due to full-time continuous war service, occurs
on or after 3rd September, 1939, and prior to the expiration of the period of 12 months
immediately following the cessation of hostilities and there were members of the family totally
dependent on the member, a minimum of three years’ gratuity at the overseas rate may be
credited irrespective of whether or not the member had otherwise qualified by either period or
l° oa l^fmy f anTAir Force applications are to be lodged at the addresses shown on
It does not purport to be a detailed statement of the of the\. ar Gratuity Act, 1945.
ADDRESS FOR APPLICATIONS AND ENQUIRIES.
ARMY and Air Force applications are to be lodged at the addresses shown on the application
form, and Navy applications with the Director of Navy Accounts, Navy Office, Melbourne.
All enquiries re entitlements should be similarly addressed.
SMOKE-OH!
♦“Ladies, new, limited number, good quality,
28s. 6d. each.”
— “Clarion,” Willoughby ( N.S.W. ).
The initial cost is satisfactory, but think
of the upkeep!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Experts in Britain are testing a new type
of fire that would never go out, use only half
the amount of coal, burn night and day with-
out relighting, and could, in addition, provide
hot air.” — “World’s News.”
This should be installed in the Cabinet-
room at Canberra without delay.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“For sale, two Bicycles, ladies.”
—Suburban paper.
A personal guarantee with each
machine.
“The fine old U.S. custom of women wearing
the pants.”— Woman’s paper.
Has only been established in Australia
for about 150 years.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Carol always came home for Christmas.”
— Woman’s paper.
Naturally.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Nurse’s maternity case for sale.”
■ —Suburban paper.
Bonus for buyer?
Diary of a Healer.
Monday: Five new patients, all sick.
Prescribed pills.
Tuesday: The five patients again, all
worse. Prescribed something to neutralise
effect of the pills.
Wednesday: Prescribed pills for self
to help forget the five patients I pre-
scribed pills for.
Thursday: The five patients again,
better from effects of pill-neutralisers, but
still sick from what I originally prescribed
the pills for. Prescribed rest in bed.
Friday: Starting from scratch. The
five patients still sick. Prescribed medi-
cine.
Saturday: The five patients returned
this morning ; no improvement. Advised
them to keep off fatty foods until 1 see
them Monday. 'Went to races this after-
noon and put tenner on Pillbox. Came
home feeling very sick.
Sunday; Have decided to send patients
to see specialist. Must get back some
of the cash I lost on Pillbox.
Eve.
•J* + +
A man can be having a lean time and
yet be perfectly upright.
4* 4* 4*
“Cedar bed, three seat, cabriol legs, good
condition, £l6.” — “S.M.H.”
A case where figures cannot lie.
4* 4 1 + 4*
“Shortly after these revelations Mr. Forde
imposed an amended censor hip order.”
— “Smith’s Weekly.”
Those French swim suits are a bit hot!
4* 4* 4* 4*
“When the horse appeared the people
laughed.— “ Sun.”
It must have been a chestnut.
Overdoing It.
“The manners of Sydney’s travelling public,
especially among the men, are shocking. What
is badly needed is a campaign to hammer
home the point that politeness always pays.”
—Correspondent in daily.
I, too, believed this latter contention,
right up till the other day, when I met
a very polite traveller.
Even at times such as that when I
yielded my hard-won seat to a fat woman
who had probably been guzzling after-
noon tea until the commencement of peak-
hour traffic, and had then hurried home
to get her Pekinese tea and, if there was
anything over, her husband’s, and after
she had acknowledged my chivalrous
action with a grunt and a scowl because
it wasn’t a window seat, I had always
been the perfect gentleman.
But this fellow I speak of was so
well-mannered, so exquisitely polite, that
I was sure he couldn’t have been for
long a resident of Sydney.
I was standing waiting for the 5.15 at
Wynyard. Just as the train pulled in
there came the usual routine. The men,
who had elbowed the old ladies out of the
way, were fighting it out with the girls
on the platform’s edge. As the train
stopped they surged to the entrances,
hurling back those who had optimistically
expected to alight.
In the crush I had been lifted off my
feet and, in the momentum caused by
the hardheads who stand back so as to
judge better where the train entrances will
stop and then go “through the pack” in
true half-back fashion, I was carried
bodily in. As we milled about the aisle
and the scrum began to break up in the
wild scramble for seats, I was inconti-
nently dropped,
I came down heavily fair on the feet
of a man near by who was trying desper-
ately to keep out of his eye the point of
a women’s extinguisher-shaped straw hat.
As he was protecting himself another
woman with a ripped blouse and only one
shoe, who was grimly gripping her waist
with one hand—obviously the irreplace-
able elastic had gone in the battle —
leaped frantically for a vacant twelve-
irtches of seat space, cannoning the man
on to me and knocking my attache case
to the floor.
“I’m very sorry, old man—it was all
my fault,” he said urbanely.
“Not at all,” I replied. “It wastdue
to my coming down on your feet like
that.”
“No, I assure you, I was solely to
blame,” he went on suavely. “It was
gross carelessness on my part.”
“It was my fault entirely,” I protested.
“I insist on begging your pardon.”
“It is I,” my fellow-passenger pursued
smoothly, “who beg yours. My conduct
was inexcusable.”
“No, no ; I assure you it wasn’t.”
He looked at me, a faint line of annoy-
ance creasing his brow. “Are you by any
chance calling me a liar?” he asked in
polished tones.
I bridled, though politely, “Certainly
not,” I said. “But this is a free country
and a man can think what he likes, can't
he?”
“Why, you impudent pup,” the fellow
snarled, albeit his tone had in it still the
essence of amiability and bienseance. “If
I thought you had enough backbone to
stand erect without support I’d soon make
the thing you flatter by the name of face
look worse than it is.”
“Listen, wart,” I gritted with cultivated
gentility, “the things I stamp on in the
garden after a shower of rain are in-
tellectual giants compared with you.”
With suave good humor he swung one.
Perhaps what hurt me more than the
polychromatic eye shanty I collected was
his subsequent action in raising his hat.
80.
Thrifty Undertaking.
“A Tampa (U.S.A.) man won a divorce be-
cause his wife threatened to cremate him, mix
his ashes with fertiliser and spread him on the
lawn.”
The husbandry she threatened raises
A point that touches every man.
Although throughout his mortal span
A fellow has to work like blazes.
It seems the custom nowadays is,
After the creature’s dead and gone.
To make his ashes labor on
And ( literally ) push up daisies.
Well, partly on financial grounds
(/ understand they pay five pounds).
My corpse to Science I’ve assigned ;
And though I die without a stiver
My heirs will be relieved to find
I’ll cut up for at least a fiver.
P. M. LUSK.
Vindication.
My radiant blonde ! My darling Mae,
I beg that you’ll desist
From chiding me for loving Fay,
That sweet brunette I kissed.
Consider, please! A diamond placed
On sable velvet foil
Shows lustre other settings waste.
And seems a richer spoil.
So you, by Fay's contrasting touch.
Acquire a greater spell:
I could not love you, dear, so much,
Loved I not Fay as well.
T. W. Nathan.
Noblesse Oblige.
“Though some Labor members, when
sounded on the subject, resolutely declined the
tentative offer of a peerage, others are said to
be coyly flirting with the idea.”
-—Overseas commentator.
Shrewd Laborites, scenting disaster,
Are prudently pondering yet
If they’ll stick to a common old castor
Or exchange for a new coronet;
Mindful, too, that the comrades may sever
Old links and denounce them as “rats”
If. instead of their bowyangs, they ever
Should flaunt round in lavender spats.
BRIAN BUREAU.
Of Course.
He'd heard men speak of the Better Land
And regarded the prospects there as
grand —
A land where the prads held pride of
place.
While on every week day they used to
4 race,*
With a modest wad in a far-back year,
He came to that country —he settled here,
And today the means test’s no prevention
To bar him from drawing an old-age
pension.
F.M.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
Xhe contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2id. per line.
“Indemesians,” Japs and Corns.
In years of war in the Pacific we have
seen in blood and sweat an Asiatic race
very nearly succeed in overthrowing all
we hold dear. We now have the amazing
spectacle of a bunch of knaves and fools
supporting a band of Jap collaborators
who aim at “independence” for a people
racially akin to the Japs —at least, on one
side of the house—and rather like them
facially and physically.
In Borneo and Tarakan many of us
have been captivated by the amiability
of natives of all classes, but we have
found that these same people revert to
type at little provocation. We don’t
permit them to handle p.-0.-w. for the
simple reason that we don’t countenance
individual reprisals. Getting their own
back? Perhaps, but some of us remember
a parallel case in Syria, where the
natives, when A.I.F. p.-0.-w. were being
escorted to Damascus by the Vichy
French, stood on the roadside and spat
at and stoned them. A month later they
were thronging about us crying “Saieda,
George! ”
The East “bowed down before the
blast.” Once, perhaps ; but the East has
always been contemptuous of the man
who is down, — Tarakan (A.1.F.).
The Loan
Fm neither a Red Fascist (which is a
better name for a Communist), a black-
marketer nor a s.p. bookmaker. What
money I have has been made clean. I
was a farmer. I supported previous loans
till, in the language of the slogan, “it
hurt.”
I was hampered, hamstrung, hindered,
and I was called on to produce. I did.
Though other investments would have
returned me about 33 p.c. with compara-
tive safety I accepted the less than 3 p.c.
because my country needed it. I could
have put in labor-saving devices which
would have returned similar interest, and
eased my work when the lords of labor
refused me help, though they called on
me to produce. I continued to support
the loans, though the way my hard-earned
money was squandered in vote-catching
snares was obvious. In spite of the fact
that the people in power showed their
incapacity to handle money, I gave them
mine in the hope that an odd penny in
the £ might find its proper purpose.
The time came when, badgered beyond
endurance, I sold my property. I put a
lot more in war loans. Companies with
which I had invested heavily—mutual-
assurance companies also supported
them heavily.
The Fourth Victory Loan came. I
Studied the position. X knew how I was
going to be slugged with income tax. I also
knew, if I asked for time to pay, the
interest charged me would be about twice
what the loan gave me. I was still con-
sidering the matter when the Prime Min-
ister came for a trip to Queensland.
He had at least two secretaries, two
typists and a full ’plane crew. In the
course of an interview he stated his trip
was half politics and half holiday. That
statement made me think more deeply.
I know the Prime Minister gets a couple
of pounds a day extra as a travelling
allowance. I don’t know what the daily
costs of the ’plane were, but I do know
the whole was a scandalous waste. As
usual, it seemed to me money was being
splashed about regardless.
The bit I could put into the loan
wouldn’t pay one day’s expenses for
Mr. Chifley. I love my country. I have
proved it. I put in again. I am prepared
to continue to do what I can; but Ido
ask that our leaders show us an example.
—Dad (Q.). .
Strikes and Demob.
In spite of union-boss denials, in-
dustrial lawlessness is now so widespread
that the return of servicemen from the
islands is directly threatened.'
My unit is stationed at Rabaul. We
have been in the islands so long that
the majority have not had leave for
18 months. Many of us are now in line
for demobilisation. Recently some 30-odd
men with over 200 points were advised
that they would be moving to Australia
On the Katoomba on a certain date. The
Ivatoomba did not appear. Now we find
that the crew are on strike and the ship
is held up in Brisbane because when five
firemen went sick they were replaced by
three, and the crew would have to sail two
tiien short.
I remember a certain morning in Wide
liay (New Britain) when, just before a
Section was due to go on patrol, an acci-
dent caused the death of one man and
the disablement of two others. That sec-
tion did not refuse to go because there
were only seven of them instead of ten.
They had to go and they knew it.
Because the crew of the Katoomba
were two men short, they refused to sail
to bring back long-service personnel.
Such an attitude is unconscionable, and
is just one more reason why servicemen
want to get back to Australia and do
their bit towards putting matters right.
It is noteworthy that, although two more
men were added to the ship’s crew, they
still refused to sail until fines imposed
for striking were remitted. Meantime
they have their strike, and we wait.
K. N. W. (A.I.FT
Wharfies and Nationhood
As a soldier overseas I am becoming
more and more disgusted and ashamed
at the attitude of the Australian public.
Take, for instance, wharfies. Too
often have we been without fresh
rations, ammunition and reinforcements.
Now they strike rather than load cargoes
to which Indonesian sailors object. It
would be interesting to know if the
wharfies have any clear idea where N.E.I.
is. The fact that their obstructionist tac-
tics are delaying the occupation apd con-
sequent relief of our forces does not ir.
tcrcst them.
The Indonesians in many of the islands
are pro-Iapanese and violently oppose our
occupation forces. By their attitude the
“ I think it could do with a Washer."
wharfies are materially assisting Japan in
laying the foundation for trouble in
future years.
It is only because of the efforts of the
Australian armed forces that Australia
is tolerated by the rest of the world. Even
so, the attitude of other nations implies
that Australia isn’t yet out of rompers.
They look on us with indulgent contempt.
This state of affairs cannot last indefi-
nitely. The time must come, and come
soon, when we will have to choose be-
tween being ruled by a handful of union
secretaries and trying to be a nation.
1940 Sucker (A.1.F.).
Dehydration of Food Exports
Britain during the war stripped herself
bare to keep back the tide of Nazism.
She now faces the greatest economic
problem of her long history. Australia
and the other Dominions must, of neces-
sity, see to it that foodstuffs are supplied
her at a figure that will help her recover
all that she has sacrificed during the war.
Application of dehydration wherever
possible should reduce freights. By such
methods vast quantities of food can be
reduced to a fraction of their original
bulk. As an example, 7001 b. of
lean beef will dehydrate to approximately
1701 b., 2001 b. of carrots to a little more
than 171 b., 1001 b. of tomatoes to a mere
51b., whilst 25 cases of citrus juice can be
packed away in one case of concentrate.
In terms of shipping (cargo) space 20001 b.
of canned beet will take up 66.6 cubic
feet; in dehydrated form it shrinks to 7.8
cubic feet, and yet when soaked in water
these beets will return to approximately
the original bulk.
The advance in dehydration has kept
pace with the war’s tempo, and experts
have stated that methods used today will
be obsolete once war priority for raw
materials has been removed. In 1943
110,000,0001 b. of meat was treated. An
overall picture gives the stupendous
figure of 10,000,000,000,0001 b. of raw
food being converted to 1,239,000,0001 b. of
dehydrated food— Sans Changer (S.A.).
Communism and the Labor Party
When I was a Com. (in days when the
party was not cluttered up with bishops
and professors), we were always taught
—by we I mean the poor mugs that
thought we’d found salvation —that the
first duty of the Cotnmunist party was to
destroy the Labor party, and, especially,
a Labor Government, as the Labor party
was “the last bulwark of the capitalist
system and the bourgeoisie.”
In Australia today there is a Labor
Government, and in Australia today there
is a great number of Communist-
fomented strikes. Labor leaders pander
to the strikers, and Labor rank-and-file
members support them. But I remember
the instructions in England when Ram-
say MacDonald was in power: “Do
everything you can to harm the Labor
<jfovernment; they are the greatest
enemies of a revolutionary movement.”
—Ex-Comrade (S.A.).
Using the Snowy River
Instead of the violent parochial reac-
tion usually produced whenever the ques-
tion of controlling the Snowy River is
debated, why not a wider, national out-
look?
The claim of the Victorian Govern-
ment that the head-waters must be re-
served for the generating of electricity in
its State is not very convincing, as
abundant supplies of brown coal are
available for that purpose, and even if
chemical research should show that the
coal is too valuable to be used in this
way then other rivers could be harnessed,
A proposition recently advanced by the
N.S.W. Snowy River Investigation Com-
mittee has much to recommend it, since
it permits future expansion, and could be
made to benefit N. S. Wales, Victoria
and, to some extent, S,A. It is that a dam
should be constructed high in the Alps
and that from there the water—about
700,000,000 gallons daily—should be
diverted, by means of a tunnel, to the
Murrumbidgee, which, at the selected
point, is only a few miles away.
If the diversion scheme were adopted
it is estimated that almost double the pre-
sent amount of water would be available
for irrigation in the Murrumbidgee
valley, and there should be very little
difficulty in meeting Federal requirements
of electricity for Canberra. Victorians
would no longer suffer from the disas-
trous floods which have occurred periodi-
cally for many years, and small-scale elec-
trical undertakings could be established at
sites on the lower part of the river.
An augmented Murrumbidgee and
lower Murray would provide irrigation
in areas which previously had to rely on
rainfall only, and much marginal country
imwestern N. S. Wales could be rendered
productive. Pipelines and surface chan-
nels could give portions of the Mallee
and Wimmera a constant water supply,
so that further deterioration of these
profitable lands might be avoided.
As far as the irrigation of north-west
Victoria is concerned, the same result
could, of course, be secured if the water
were simply passed to the Murray, either
directly or by the Mitta Mitta into the
Hume reservoir. However, such a plan
would not serve the best interests of Aus-
tralia as a whole, because no provision
would be made for the reclamation of
those parts of N. S. Wales between the
Murrumbidgee and the Darling. A
cultivated band in this region should con-
stitute an effective barrier (in one direc-
tion, at least) to the erosive changes
spreading from the “dust bowl.”
These considerations should influence
even the most enthusiastic supporters of
the “inalienable rights” of the southern
State. —R. S. (Vic.).
Teachers’ Superannuation
Superannuated Commonwealth em-
ployees have every reason to protest
about the raw deal served out to them,
but what about Queensland State-school
teachers? These are compelled to sub-
scribe to a fund which makes no pro-
vision for wives. The Government does
not subsidise the fund but pays admini-
strative expenses. These are more than
offset by interest earned on the premiums
deducted, consequently the fund is self-
supporting and does not cost the tax-
payer a penny.
Members have to live frugally to rear
their families, and their paltry incomes
are now taxed to help support the thrift-
less. Moreover, their pensions have
shrunk 25 p.c. with the decreased pur-
chasing value of the pound, whereas their
contributions were conscripted when the
purchasing value was at the higher rate.
The Queensland Government at the
time of the initiation of the superannua-
tion scheme explicitly stated that pensions
would be free of taxation. When the
Commonwealth took over income tax
the Queensland Government failed to
safeguard its pledge. —Q. X, (Q.).
Old-age Pensions
As I’m reaching that stage now the old-
age pension rather interests me. I’ve seen
those old people line up at the counter
while some cock-sparrow civil servant
hands them their stuff as if it were evil-
smelling garbage. The idea doesn’t appeal
to me —either the drawing of it or kow-
towing to some supercilious young rooster
who is economically secure. Still,
thoughts will intrude.
All my working life of over 40 years
I’ve been engaged in a “primary” industry
—worker, manager, owner. I’ve pro-
duced. I’ve added to the wealth of the
country. I’ve brought in money. I com-
pare my lot with those of many who draw
the pension. They don’t look on it as
a charity; many place the proper value
on it—the sale price of their votes.
Many of those on the pension—most
of them, perhaps—have never produced
a thing in their lives but trouble. Many
of them, and I could name a score, have
battened on their fellow-man from the
time they were old enough to understand
they only had to lie down and squeal like
a whipped pup and someone would throw
them a crust. They’ve spent their money
as they got it, squandered it foolishly,
denied themselves nothing, had as good
a time as their limited mentalities would
encompass.
I don’t expect to line up for the pen-
sion—thank goodness! I may have been
lucky; but Ido know I denied myself
many things others spent money on. Why
shouldn’t I get a pension? I’ve produced;
I’ve added to the wealth of the country ;
I’ve never sponged on my community for
a bob or a feed. Because I’ve played the
game by my country I’m debarred so
sharks and wasters may thrive. There's
something wrong.— Cocky (Q.).
R.A.A.F. Reserve
Air Board is terminating the appoint-
ments of the great majority of officers
of air crew, equipment, accounting and
A. and S.D. branches instead of trans-
ferring them to the reserve.
All these men have had invaluable train-
ing in the R.A.A.F. To discard them like
an old glove is bad policy. Perhaps i is
done in the belief that by the tun • .m
next war come these officers will be too
old to be of any use, but there’s a lot of
doubt about that. The transfer to the
reserve costs the R.A.A.F. nothing except
for printing the Air Force List once a
yean And if officers are being dis-
carded what about the n.c.0., air crew
and trained ground staff men?
A definite statement of Air Board
policy on the reserve question is over-
due. — Recco (N.S.W.).
Find the Money
Finance is now demanded for this
scheme, or that on the ground that ‘ if it
had been wanted for war the money
vfauld have been found all right.” The
argument overlooks the fact that peace
restores the democratic right of free dis-'
posal of one’s income.
In war the over-riding national need
must have unconditional priority. First,
we are taxed to the limit. Then, as any
equitable system of taxation still leaves
some surplus, loans are issued. If loans
fail to yield the full amount required,
Governments resort to credit expansion,
which is a disguised, inequitable but quite
real form of universal taxation.
Ultimately, however, all these methods
of war finance rest on the consent of the
people. They will stand for compulsory
devices if voluntary ones fail, and will not
throw the Government out merely be-
cause it had to find a lot of mdney. But
in peace the need for lavish expenditure
is not so clear. High taxation is resented
and loans are neglected. If the “easy’
way of credit expansion is tried the Gov-
ernment will be blamed, quite rightly, for
the resulting high prices and scarcities.
Those who advocate costly schemes
must realise that the money required can
come only from the pockets of the people.
It will not and cannot be found unless the
people can be persuaded that the pro-
jects are more worthy than their own
personal desires. It is simply because of
this fact that persuasion must replace
compulsion that money is harder to get
in peace than in war. — Arc (N.S.W.).


Back in Civvies soon
with a First-class war record
.
wmmm
mmmm
m ■
U ' >. ' ' * '
1 & : t ," .
/*'&>*>■ \
'V £ . * , ,
' 4> ‘
{'• •
f
'
R‘><Oj>,V w V V*
;V - * >„ „ -
' '
lili
S|l| '' *
J- < "■ % V A > AV <• > n
s
5f *
The first Radioplayer
from the production
line Philips brilliant
3052A, 5-valve dual
wave.
' %><^y'' v *
% - /gflSTW/ h"y,S<
wm
v .
mm
m
msm
mm
;
Hi IS
WSWM
mm
:
Kfier five years of untiring service in sweating jungles and dust-
choked deserts; after five years of bomb-pitted trails, spine-bashing
ank travel, of monsoons, mud, of every kind of climate and weather
jver devised by Nature, the Philips Radioplayer is coming back to
civilian life... with a thousand honorable mentions “on its war record.”
rhe same qualities, features and engineering designs which enabled
Philips Radioplayers to stand up to the gruelling ordeals of war service
ire being built into the peace-time models now starting to come off the
Philips Production Line. Soon, very soon, they will be released
n limited quantities to accredited Philips retailers.
PHILIPS
advt
I
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PROPRIETARY LIMITED
SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH BRISBANE
Incandescent and Fluorescent Lamps, Lighting Equipment and
Radio Transmitters, Sound Systems, Medical and Industrial
Infra-Red Apparatus, Electronic Devices, Radio Accessories,
Fittings, Radio Receiving and Transmitting Valves, Radioplayers,
X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment, Industrial and Medical
Electrical Measuring Instruments, Metal Pressings and Stampings.
