

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
The Bulletin
“The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3425
Wednesday, October 3, 1945
Price 6d«
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
CHESTER CASTLE.
anci CMster town have p ayed an important
l ! y < England s dealings with Wales. We naturally
reco ™V° f kl ?£ s and P. rm f. es visiting Chester during their
K fll! n nd frC S the P / ) ? c, P a i lty - first Edward stayed
SS fuu n .ut?u ! d o here on A e J r , way t 0 Camarvon
iaSrtw • birth °! *5l fi y st Prn ? ce of Wales * Sixteen years
w i w at p , n^ e cam £. to Chester and received the bomage of the
Welsh freeholders. King Richard II was twice at Chester—once
!JL| h ° f J IS P ros P er hy was royally' entertained in the
castle when on his way to Ireland, and after his reign had ended
brokerorisoLrand'Tnd^V" 0111 F mt f m C + heSter Castle a heart ’
« pnsoner and lodged in one of the towers over the great
J nov ® d _ on hi s way to Pomfret, where
he found, his death. The Duke of Lancaster had seized the town
and fortress not long before, and had beheaded the King’s faithful
followers, Sir Piers Legh of Lyme, and caused his head to be fixed
on one of the turrets of the castle. One year before he lost his
crown King James II was at Chester Castle, and tried in vain to
gam over the gentlemen of Cheshire and the burgesses of the city
to support his policy. But his persuasions remained without effect,
The original Chester Castle was probably built at an angle of the
city walls during the Norman era, and was the seat of the earls of
that name. At that time the castle, it is thought, occupied only
what is now called the Upper Ward—a slight eminence protected
° n one side b Y natur al rocks and on the other by artificial means.
On it one square tower still remains. The castle was enlarged when
the place became strategically important, and the ancient earldom
of Chester was merged in the Crown.


Mtmce JoujriS? 1
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
My Name
My Address
SB. 145 . ~,.AOE
The Red Page
CECIL MANN'S STORIES.
Cecil Mann’s short stories, handsomely
printed by Dymock’s under the title The
River, open with “The Pelican,” an en-
chanting piece of humor in which a
pelican seduces an earnest-minded keeper
of the Sabbath into fishing on a Sunday.
It establishes the theme underlying
the collection as a whole, and it sets the
“place” of the book—somewhere about
the Northern Rivers of N. S. Wales. But
the theme is not always treated so
lightly; and the range of the stories is
wide: from Randwick racecourse to the
delectable satire on the ritual adornings
of small esoteric social gatherings in “A
Sword for the Master.” And in “Stiff
Luck for the Colonel,” “The Gun” and
“La Belle Dame Sans Merci” Cecil
Mann gives us the Digger of the first
World War, speaks for him, and pre-
sents him as the great fighting man he
was, and is.
It is high time this was done, and
done as Mann has done it, in a fine and
living prose. It might be difficult to get
some of our other short story writers
recognised for literary merit outside Aus-
tralia, but even the average literary
muddle overseas would recognise the
craftsmanship of these stories.
“Stiff Luck for the Colonel” I take to
be a unique story, not only told in a
strikingly ingenious way, but succeed-
ing in two of the most difficult literary
problems: one, the merging of past and
present time factors in a present moment
narrative; and the other, to present in
precise portraiture a man who has gone
to pieces as a boozer and borrower,
show the disruption that has overtaken
his fine past performance as a soldier,
and in the end establish him as an admir-
able character, and all that without once
resorting to sentiment as a means of
engaging the reader’s sympathy.
This is ironic, sardonic tolerance at its
best, and no writer who takes writing
seriously can afford to miss the artistic
achievement of this story. Its end is
inimitable, but the whole story needs to
be read to estimate the perfect good taste
of that finality.
We can best assess the spirit of
these Digger stories by knowing what
the depressed, disgruntled, debunking
outlook of recent years would have done
with them.
For we can thank cataclysm at least
for one thing: it has given us a final and
authoritative standard by which to judge
a work of art. After thirty years of the
worst madhouse this earth has ever been
subjected to, the only alternative before
us is to establish that standard or col-
lapse into chaos.
All established values have been re-
versed or degraded. A lunatic experi-
mentalism has replaced the trained
faculty in art. The moron and the schizo-
phrenic have been prdclaimed great
masters. Pacts between peoples have
been ostentatiously dishonored. In short,
stigma values have been accepted as the
only values.
That sort of thing is not a selected
procedure, but the effect of moral dis-
integration, due to a scepticism of the
stability or continuance of life. The
normal threat and suspense of existence
reached such an intensity that faith in it
as a rational procedure was demoralised.
The 1914 war came to assure an already
depressed state of mind that life was an
irresponsible and malignant process, im-
posed on man as a penalty vastly in
excess of its possible rewards.
And all art which followed the war
expressed that concept. It would seem,
strangely, that it was soldiers who set the
depressed tone of the post-war novels
and spat derision at the image of the
hero; but it would be more correct to
say that writers in uniform were respon-
sible. /
There is no need,, to call over the long
list of depressed war novels written by
such writers to instance this collapse
of spirit. Of course, all minor expres-
sion in art rushed to acclaim the
great new discovery that life was a
vast fraud perpetrated on man without
his own consent. Bored young sophisti-
cates, fresh from the University, treated
it as a bad joke hardly worth laughing
at. The great army of leftists found at
last that life itself justified their own
private incompetence to do anything
with it. And the megalomaniac power
politicians rubbed their hands exultantly.
The earth was in fine trim for a few
gangster dictators to put a pistol at its
head...
So cataclysm was inevitable. And
cataclysm almost reached its objective,
which is to destroy the earth. We are
not sure yet whether its express symbol,
the atomic bomb, may not achieve its
logical finality. Only one thing can avert
it, and that is by reaffirming values dis-
placed by three decades of attack on
them. This is the function of art, which
must animate man to an enlivened interest
in life, and thereby restore his faith in it.
The principle forced starkly on us is
that art must affirm life. It must re-
animate the spirit which accepts life as
a test of courage and endurance. It
must assure man that delight is deeper
than despair, and that beauty and lyric-
ism and laughter are the great realities.
It must stigmatise depressed and uglified
art as the coward’s attack on a system
he has not the courage to face. It must
take as final estimation of value in a
work of art that it either delights or
depresses, affirms or rejects life.
The affirmation of life has nothing
to do with wilful optimism over
divine benevolence or altruistic outcries
of love for man. Life is affirmed by
delight in it as a spectacle, by fascina-
tion with it as an adventure, and by
accepting it as a system by which one
may increase the content of the ego.
Moreover, all courageous minds know
that it is a self-elected adventure fulfill-
ing a self-chosen destiny.
Cecil Mann’s stories shirk nothing of
life’s attack on the spirit to endure.
Though they propagand no theory of art
as an affirmation of life, they affirm it.
They take life at its starkest, from the
mutilation of the body and the disinteg-
ration of .the mind to the demoralisa-
tion of human dignity by booze, and yet,
all through them, we draw healthful
breaths, warmed by the conviction that
the worst of life is worth facing for its
reward of an enduring courage. A brief
synopsis of the title story, “The River,”
will best vindicate the outlook of all the
rest, for that river is a subtle symbolisa-
tion of Life itself.
A young Pole, who has been through
a middle Europe inferno, arrives in Aus-
tralia a nerve-shattered neurotic. Horror
of life has made him a helpless isolate,
unable to make contact with the simple
realities of daily existence. He goes to
stay with some relatives who have been
long settled in Australia, and, by the
doctor’s advice, is given a boat in which
to drift about the placid upper reaches
of the river.
One day he is seen furiously slashing
at the water with his oar —an arresting
image of the horror that still obsesses
his mind. Apparently his case is hope-
less; he cannot regain his place in normal
human relations.
But he is taken to the mouth of the
river, and in its swirling, broken water,
where the fishermen prey on the fero-
cious life of the ocean, he is given a
vision of the eternal conflict of kill or be
killed under which , all life exists. It
takes into itself his own private conflict:
absorbs it, cleanses him of horror. He
becomes a sturdy, simple fisherman.
These stories come with an authorita-
tive force quite apart from their fine
prose qualities, for Cecil Mann is a sol-
dier who fought through the last World
War and joined up for the present one,
until his old wounds invalidated him for
active service. Therefore he is a writer
who has attested his integrity as a man
of action also. He has faced life under
its most severe test of courage and en-
durance, and his stories have the validity
of a vital contact with the conflict of life
of which war itself is only the extreme
evidence.
NORMAN LINDSAY.
A Woman of Action.
It is not unusual to find that men who
live magnificently can also write mag-
nificently. Lawrence of Arabia is an
example; Maning, New Zealand’s
“pakeha-Maori” ; Shackleton ; Cunning-
hame-Grahame; and, in contemporary
writing, the French aviator Exupery.
These men of action, generally speak-
ing, are not fully creative writers. They
offer to literature what Conrad might
have done if he hadn’t retired from the
sea to the more toilsome adventure of
fiction —one superb book of reminis-
cences. But, while their art is limited,
their lives are not; they live creatively,
making a legend that, as an inspiration
to humanity, seems to have almost the
same value as a work of art.
Elyne Mitchell’s Australia’s Alps, pub-
lished a year or two ago, showed her
obviously attracted to this kind of living
and this kind of writing. Without sacri-
ficing any of her femininity, she was of
the company of the men of action.
Her Speak to the Earth (Angus and
Robertson) lacks the excitement of high
adventure that illuminated her first
book; but as an effort in literature
it, is more impressive in that, dis-
pensing with the romantic appeal of
mountain ( backgrounds and danger
among the snow, she has attempted
to show a woman’s life on the land
as a drama of body and spirit, and
has handled this theme as well as one
could ask, so that mustering becomes
almost as exhilarating as mountaineering.
Elyne Mitchell has obviously been
helped in this task by the fact that the
upper Murray cattle station of Speak to
the Earth runs into mountain country: —
The next day we went by Round Moun-
tain to the Fifteen-mile Spur and spent all
day long seeking a track that had been
overgrown, and playing hide-and-seek with
elusive musterers who could have shown *
us the way. They were lighting snow-
grass fires as they went and always it
seemed that we must meet them when
another smoke went up along the ridge.
But there never was anyone near, only
the gang-gangs quarrelling in the trees. So
we rode on all day, across and along, and
up and down the ridges of the Fifteen-
mile Spur, with its snow-grass top and tim-
bered flanks, seeing far below us the river
we had to cross, but never finding the con-
tinuation of a track that had died. At last
we stopped amongst the scrub and timber
of a steep, stony ridge, and looked down
at the gleaming river with its promise of a
crossing and a track. We knew it was time
to ride back to Round Mountain hut for
the night and to get information about the
lost track.
It seemed to me, as we rode back along
the now familiar Fifteen-mile, that we rode
through a host of dreams, dreams of all
the mountain men who have ridden
through these same sunset hills, perhaps
overdue at their destination, and riding, as
we rode, along the snow-grass highways
between the twisted trees of snow-gum
forests, so building up the framework of
the tradition to which we were bom. Was
Charles Huon, a relative of Tom’s, the
first while man ever to wander these hills?
The writing here, being at once a
record of adventure and a commentary
upon it, is closer to Exupery’s than to
Shackleton’s ; a direct and autobiographi-
cal narrative, but very much controlled
and moulded by self-conscious literary
effort. Deliberately, constructed like a
novel with the emphasis on the author’s
thoughts and emotions rather than on her
life of action.
And herein Elyne Mitchell is taking a
risk. Somewhat to her disadvantage, she
has read the philosopher Keyserling and
occasionally, under his influence, soars
unnecessarily high above the land and
the mountains where she is most at home.
She should beware of too much talk
about “spiritual progress.”
But this is a minor blemish and rare.
The book’s only other fault —some repe-
tition —arises from its greatest attrac-
tion: the completeness of its picture of
life on the land.
Mrs. Mitchell has attempted some-
thing very difficult. The life of a cattle
station on the Murray, taking in every
detail from clipping the shrubs in the
garden or chasing rabbits on islets when
all the world is floodwater to the dramas
of mustering and branding, offers fasci-
nating material for a “documentary”
work, but there must be some central
theme to hold the book together and to
carry on the interest from one chapter
to the next.
Writing at a time when her husband
was a prisoner-of-war in Malaya, his fate
unknown, Elyne Mitchell has made that
her theme —how she tended the station
for him during his absence—and, skilfully
and movingly relating the particular to
the universal, offers what will be accepted
as a picture of all rural Australia in the
war years. And this, in turn, is related
to the efforts of the pioneers, so that
Speak to the Earth might appropriately
have been entitled “Speech from the
Australian Earth.” And out of pain and
struggle it speaks in this book resolutely,
proudly and beautifully.
An annual award for prose is to be
made by the New Zealand Centre of the
P.E.N., which is already running the Jessie
Mackay Memorial competition for poetry.
The new award —a bequest from Mrs.
Catherine Church, widow of the poet
Hubert Church —will be called the Hubert
Church Memorial Award, and will not be
decided by competition but by the recom-
mendation of a committee of three. The
idea is to give recognition to the most
distinguished prose work of the year,
and any form of prose literature will be
eligible.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Just as the few good pictures—Dobell’s
and Eric Wilson’s —at the Society of
Artists’ show in Sydney were almost lost
amongst the gesticulations of the extrem-
ists, so the paintings of real quality at
the Royal Art Society’s exhibition at the
Education Department galleries have to
struggle for air among too much work
that ranges from the commonplace to
the incredible. If the Royal Art makes
a stronger showing, it is not because
landscapes without vision are much im-
provement on nightmares, but because
there is a greater number of outstanding
works. An unexpected feature is a re-
emergence of Percy Lindsay, whose
“Morning,” with its. striking coral-tree
hung with a mass of green convolvulus,
its rich earth and its magical blue dis-
tance, shows that the great movement of
Australian landscape painting still con-
tinues, though Gruner and Streeton are
gone, Lance Solomon, the likeliest of
the younger landscapists, hasn’t painted
the light into “Mountains of Merriwa,”
but is full of vigor and beauty in “Canley
Vale.” Rubery Bennett’s “Cloud Shadows,
Windsor,” among some works of a curious
meticulousness (as if he had studied the
landscape under a botanist’s magnifying-
glass), is painted both suavely and feel-
ingly. Norman Lindsay’s “Appraisal” is
one of the finest of the head-studies that
were reproduced in his recent book of
oils. Though G. K. Townshend and Mar-
garet Coen are satisfactorily represented,
the water-color section is weak. Some
slight, rather sketchy landscapes by Rufus
Morris receive an undue emphasis in con-
sequence, but are nevertheless worth
noticing for their genuine freshness.
A retrospective show of Rupert Bunny’s
“second period” (Cezanne-influenced)
paintings at Sydney Macquarie Galleries
consisted entirely of French landscapes and
flower-pieces, in all of which the contour
is uncertain, the impression very broad
and simplified and the coloring mostly
confined to a limited scale of pastel
shades, with emphasis on pink and light
green. This is being followed by a show
of earlier work.
Jane Cudmore shows some attractive
landscapes at the spring show of S.A.
Society of Arts. Hans Heysen awarded
the annual portrait prize to Jeff Smart;
landscape to F. A. Wendt and seascape
to Geoff Shedley. Both landscape and
seascape prizes in water-color went to
T. H. Bone; the flower-piece award to
May Grigg.
Current art shows in Melbourne in-
clude one by S. Antonini at Kozminsky’s,
another by Harley Griffiths at George's
and a third by John S. Loxton at the
Velasquez. Antonini and Griffiths are
both solid craftsmen. J. S. Loxton paints
his water-colors (and sells them) much in
the Harold Herbert tradition.
At the talkies: —-
“Sudan” (Sydney State): Sun, sand, the
seraglio, swashbuckling and swordsmanship.
“Madonna of the Seven Moons” (Sydney
Embassy): Tire Margery Lawrence study of
schizophrenia. The story of a wealthy Roman’s
English wife who leads a double life—
the other half being as the “kept” woman of
a tough underworld character —makes a lively
drama, and Phyllis Calvert and Stewart Grainger
handle the leading roles capably.
“Salty O’Rourke” (Sydney Prince Edward):
Best turf film seen for years. The story by
Milton Holmes is unusual, and there is subtle
character-drawing in a tough young jockey.
“Action in the North Atlantic” (Sydney
Tatler): Stereotyped story of a convoy straggler
and its efforts to foil a U-boat.
“Flame of Barbary Coast” (Sydney Capitol):
’Frisco in the palmy days of 1906, when gentle-
men shot each other over the card table with
grace and nonchalance. Earthquake and fire
help things along.
“Cauboy”: A wild rush of virtuosi to
these shores is projected as soon as war-
time barriers are lifted. Among those
scheduled by the A.B.C. are pianist Solo-
mon, who starts in April; violinists
Heifetz, Milstein and Huberman and
singers Joan Hammond, Helen Traubei,
John Charles Thomas and Marian Ander-
son. It’s to be hoped that Australian
artists who kept music going during the
war years will not have to .go into retire-
ment.
The modern morality play staged in
Sydney (B. 19/9/’45) had its musical
counterpart in Fritz Hart’s nativity opera
“Even Unto Bethlehem,” given by the
Melbourne Conservatorium at His
Majesty’s Theatre under Joseph Posts
baton in the absence of the composer
owing to illness. Into the telling of the
simple and ingenuous story Fritz Halt
weaved some very attractive music, and
if there was a shade of monotony about
William Howard’s declamations as Joseph
there was variety in the Anne of Lilian
Stott and a solemn agitation about the
shepherd of Walter Speedy. Beryl Batten
made a lovely Madonna. The final scene
was musically most impressive.


'TRUTH IN ADVERTISING'
THE SENIOR STORE'
ike Utdeiooi. M a/ *-
004
V • •
1
JP
\
I :
* *r*\
'/L
mr a
jr'
K
■:■■■' •' ■ ••
I
■
>
*»
H
■
.> ’
0
}dm
m
2
y
\
'-sT
#1
; -v
m
111
sm
.
\
mm
..
U .:
■
1
f
mm
wmmmm
■
HH
aaaa
■
W
A
ISh
■
m
mb’
b
U
fim
■
m *
ssH
V
■‘S
ENGLISH COTTON TWEED TROUSERS,
for hard wear, 3 pockets, belt loops,
adequately cut, soft inside finish. Neat
dark patterns. 30" to 50" waist. Price, 20/1
4 coupons.
• Men’s Wear—Ground Floor > George Street.
BUY MOW FOB A RAINY DAY
No coupons.
MEN'S LIGHTWEIGHT WATERPROOF JACKETS 100%
waterproof, full cut for ease, storm fronts. Reinforced rustless
buttons, special armhole ventilators. In a serviceable Grey,
the Coat weighs 200z5. ( and will give long service. Suitable for
Golfers, Fishermen, Hikers, Farmers and all outdoor wear.
Sizes: 36 in., 38 in., 40 in. and 42 in. chests. Price 257-
No coupons.
NOTE.—We are holding stocks for our country Clients—to
save disappointment order NOW.
\ \ \ i ////////////// I////////////////////ssss,
\ i
\ ?
I .303 RIFLE AMMUNITION .303 Rifle |
N
Cartridges are now available from us
■—
A ... at the price of 25/- per hundred. |
A district Police Permit must be obtained when ordering.
Permits are free.
• Lower Ground Floor —Pitt Street.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES
PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0.. SYDNEY


AUNTIE EMILY STANDS GUARD
BY BRIAN JAMES.
THERE was a week’s mission at
Summerlea, and the family was
“doing the mission.” That meant
as many of the family as would fit
into the buggy,
Toby pulled the buggy, and hated
missions: he simply didn’t understand
the spiritual needs of man. It was a long
and hilly haul into Summerlea, and a long
and cold wait in Reardon’s yard, and a
long and hilly haul home again. To
Toby it was eternity.
That younger part of the family which
couldn’t fit into the buggy had for that
reason, at least, to stay at home. Auntie
Emily stayed with them, to mind them
and guard them. Auntie Emily had lived
with the family as far back as anyone
could remember.
When the buggy rolled and rattled, out-
ward bound in the gathering winter dusk,
Auntie Emily looked to the defences.
She knew she was not a brave woman,
and had but small share of unthinking
physical courage, but she had no inten-
tion of being caught unawares. She
gathered the four children in the big
dining-room, where a great log fire was
leaping cleanly up the chimney. She put
Birdie in charge of the juniors while she
made a round of the doors and windows.
, Every lock was tested, every window-
catch tried, every blind drawn down.
From the spare room she brought the
gun from its straps on the wall, and put
it, with breech opened, on the sofa.
Beside it she placed a fairly big dump of
cartridges. Against the front door she
stood the axe, thoughtfully brought in
before it grew dark ; and by the back
door she placed a length of inch piping
—“just in case.”
The old auger that served as a poker
was put into the fire under the big box
log: that was Birdie’s idea. Birdie was
a great improver of plans, and to Birdie
the poker represented the “last resort.”
THE lights of day had vanished from
the sky, and a bright winter moon
swam above Baker’s Hill, There was no
§tir in the frosty air as Auntie Emily
peeped out from an inch of window.
She saw a world filled with moonlight,
shadow and silence. She shivered slightly
—there was no telling what might lurk
in that big mysterious space about her.
She closed the blind and turned to the
warm knowable world of the dining-
room. The children mustn’t see that she
was afraid: there were hours of fear to
be lived through before the buggy would
rattle up the lane.
The children crowded round her. They
were very fond of her, and she craved
their affection more than anything in the
world. They were her sister’s children,
but she claimed them as her own. They
were the only children she could ever
have now.
She made them kneel on the rug before
her as she sat in thp big chair, and
“heard” their prayers. She loved that—
the lisping petitions, the avowed inten-
tions to forsake all their sinful ways,
their love and fear of the Lord, and their
hopes of eternal bliss. Tim and Moy
supported themselves against her knees ;
and, having exhausted the supply of
knees, Polly and Birdie had to kneel
upright and with hands in proper sup-
plication. Auntie Emily had taught them
all their prayers, and she firmly believed
that children’s prayers had greater power
than those of grown-ups, and greater
chance of being answered.
When the devotions were over at long
last Tim claimed the privilege of least
of age and climbed on to Auntie Emily’s
knees, where there was only comfortable
room for one, so Moy sat against Auntie
Emily’s feet, and the other two took each
a side. Then the children got their share
of the mission they were too young to
attend.
It was a solemn time. Auntie Emily
felt, and the very young must come under
its influence. In fact, she believed, in her
complete theory of rearing children, that
you could not start too early. So she
preached them a homely little sermon in
which she exhorted them to be good—
and “Heaven will love you.” She told
them how Heaven was always watching
them and protecting them, and when
they did wrong it was noted. Birdie and
Polly felt very guilty here over the tin of
salmon they had stolen the day before
from the pantry shelf, and had opened
with great difficulty. They had eaten
the salmon without bread, and had suf-
fered pangs therefrom that they couldn’t
complain of.
Aunt Emily told them of the Devil —
a Person with nothing much to recom-
mend him, but who was remarkably suc-
cessful for all that. And of Hell, where
all bad children went when they died,
and no one could pity them, for they
brought it on themselves entirely. The
children listened very seriously, and
hoped they might escape Hell, and Birdie
wondered quakingly if she died that very
night whether she would go straight to
Hell over the salmon—there were other
things, too, but the salmon was the worst
and most recent.
Tim snuggled in close, and although
there was no salmon on his soul, there
were vague stirrings of guilt within him ;
and the warm body to which he pressed
was comforting and protective against
the wrath to come.
Stories next. Auntie Emily told stories
well and with great vividness. Two old
favorites whiled away the minutes; “Jack
and the Beanstalk,” with its compara-
tively remote dangers, and “Red Riding
Hood,” where the terror was more real
and near. And so on to bed-time.
The three girls slept in one bed in the
“big bedroom,” and Tim in an iron cot
near his mother’s bed. Tim’s flannelette
nightgown was already warming on a
chair by the fire. Tim stretched straight
his chubby legs and wriggled his pink
toes in the pleasing warmth. Auntie
Emily loved the sight of those legs and
toes, and the sight of his shapely plump
body with only a short singlet oh it. She
smiled at a memory of Tim a few nights
before: he stood, in his singlet, facing
the fire. She told him it was rude to
stand so, and Tim reversed. Again he
was told it was rude. Much perplexed,
Tim wanted to know which was the really
rudest part —the back or the front. Auntie
Emily was very strict, and didn’t think
it was very nice—but she had to laugh.
Now that the girls were present, Tim
couldn’t, of course, be disrobed so pub-
licly. She stripped him down by degrees,
and the nightgown followed the falling
away of the other garments. Then Tim,
always the gentleman, thanked her for
“the lovely stories —and the lovely prayers
—and the lovely talk all about Hell.” She
hugged him hard, almost fiercely, and
Tim liked it. She carried him to his cot,
tickled each foot and caught the “piggy
under the arm,” and left him to sleep.
BIRDIE was now sent to the “big
room” for nightgowns. The room
was nearly dark, and filled with terrible
shapes—when you went in alone.
Birdie begged Polly to come, too, but
Polly hadn’t been specially commissioned
to go, and so she sat tight. Birdie hovered
about the door almost enjoying her per-
fect ecstasies of terror.
“At once!” Auntie Emily commanded
sternly.
Birdie galloped to the bed and grabbed
up a pile of nightgowns, turned without
pause and galloped back. The bed mat
caught in her foot, and nearly brought
her down ; but, white and shaking, she
got back to the fire. In a hoarse whisper
she announced that there was a "Man
under the bed.” The other girls shook so
much that they couldn’t cry, and like
little frightened animals-crouched behind
the farther side of Auntie Emily’s big chair.
Although Auntie Emily knew that
Birdie had a vivid and thoroughly unre-
liable imagination, her own fears were
easily enough aroused. That these were
seldom, if ever, realised, made no differ-
ence. Her commonsense now told her
coldly that it was extremely unlikely that
a man was hidden under the bed, but
commonsense was pushed aside by a big
nameless fear that dominated her mind.
“Are you sure?” Her voice was husky,
almost inarticulate.
Birdie was shiveringly very sure.
Auntie Emily nerved herself, and the
effort was nothing short of heroic. A
Man! Not the harmless necessary male
of the species, not the decent men she
knew, nor that into which Tim must in-
evitably grow in the fulness of time. But
a Man —a Monster, an incarnation of
cruelty, cunning, horror and murder!
There he was —waiting! Only a thin
board wall betwen this light and com-
fort and —Him!
She nerved herself still further and
noiselessly stepped to the sofa. She took
the twelve-gauge and slipped a cartridge
into the barrel. The breech clicked
sharply as she snapped it shut, and the
hammer clicked sharply as she pulled it
back. The sounds were shattering in her
head ; but a comfort, too. The Monster
must hear these sounds, and interpret
them aright.
She was now desperately armed, and
she pointed the muzzle towards the big
room. The barrel loomed large before
her—like that of a sixteen-inch naval gun.
Her fingers crooked round the trigger.
Moy and Polly watched every move—
fascinated, but with a world of confi-
dence, for they knew that Auntie Emily
was a wonderful woman and equal to
anything.
Birdie had taken the auger from under
the log. Twelve inches of it glowed
evilly and dully. What she would do with
the poker she was not too sure, but she
was prepared to do the worst.
. “Come out! ” Auntie Emily could
hardly recognise her own voice.
There was no sound, no stir from the
big room; but a sleepy voice from
Mother’s room broke the unbearable
“Auntie Emily! Auntie Emily!”
Auntie Emily didn’t answer, and the
girls were shocked at what they vaguely
felt was a blunder on Tim’s part: Tim
was in some way putting them all into
extreme danger.
But Tim was insistent: “Auntie Emily!
Could I go to Hell for eating green
quinces—a long time ago? Could I?”
Tim subconsciously had lighted at last
upon his major crime. Birdie, in spite
of herself, turned over in her mind the
comparative values of quinces and salmon
—fof the purposes of damnation. She
decided that quinces were not in it, and
she grasped more firmly the now
blackened auger.
TxM subsided again. The silence in
the big room was more terrifying
than any sound could have been.
Auntie Emily lit the candle that stood
on the dining-table. It was no easy thing
to do, but the struggling flame at last
seized on the wick and leapt up inches
high. The girls watched the progress of
the flame and wondered. With candle-
stick in one hand and the gun in the
other, Auntie Emily forced herself to-
wards the bedroom. Birdie crouched with
the poker at the ready. She thought of
heating it again, but there mightn’t be
time for that.
Auntie Emily put the candle on the
floor just beyond the entrance to the big
room and pushed it forward with the
muzzle of the gun. Shadows danced
through the room in the flickering light,
and she diagnosed them all in the frac-
tion of a second as harmless shadows.
Anyway, there was nothing to be ex-
pected above bed-level.
She crouched down and looked be-
neath the bed. Her eye took in every
detail in the instant, though her mind
was slower in translating them into sig-
nificance : boots and shoes, three
crumpled stockings, a butter-box of odds
and ends, light masses of fluff (the older
girls had slummed the sweeping), a hair
brush with mats of hair on it, a school-
reader, a forgotten garment of some sort.
But no Man!
Auntie Emily could hardly breathe her
relief. She was limp, her fingers could
hardly grasp the candle ; but she dragged
herself back and put the gun on the sofa
—she couldn’t trust herself to release the
hammer. She sank into the big chair and
was minded to scold Birdie, but her re-
lief was too great to bring herself to do
it. Birdie was still presenting the auger
—she was convinced that you never could
tell.
There was a long period of reaction.
Auntie Emily turned over in her mind a
very real cause of alarm: only a few
weeks before an old miner had been
shot —murdered in his sleep. That was
in a hut in Noonan’s Gully, not two
miles away. The slayer was still at large
—gone to Queensland it wss said. The
murder hadn’t been quite meaningless,
but Auntie Emily reasoned that no one
could be safe while such a man was un-
caught. And he mightn’t have gone to
Queensland, either. And, in any case,
even if he had —there were others.
Still, it was like a crisis past —limply
past. Moy and Polly came out of hiding
and barricade. Birdie put the auger back
into the coals.
Auntie Emily, deciding against putting
the girls to bed, swung the big kettle over
the fire in preparation for a cup of tea
when the rest of the family returned.
Birdie began to talk—garrulously and
endlessly, but she was almost as near to
shrieking as talking.
Suddenly she stopped. Her eyes
widened, and again her hoarse whisper:
“I heard Someone whistle!”
No one else heard it, though they
strained ears to do so. But Birdie heard
it again.
“Down the lane—near the big briar
bushes!”
THERE was warrant enough to dis-
count Birdie by this time. Auntie
Emily was shaping her lips to utter an un-
convinced “Nonsense!” when Blue began
to bark, in savage rushing barks that
bravely rang of offence and defence.
He gave his attention to the gully*
however, and not to the lane. There was
somebody, something, among the thick
bushes in the gully.
Auntie Emily went to the window on
the gully side. It was as bright as day
almost —cold, clear light—with, black
patches of shadow in the thick bushes.
Not a movement in them, and no sound
anywhere but Blue’s fierce barking.
She “hissed” Blue, and, thus en-
couraged, he advanced thirty or forty
yards. There was someone there, and for
no good purpose.
She got the gun from the sofa and
returned to the window. She raised the
window two inches and poked the muzzle
through. The marauder must be made
realise that the house was ’ware and
wake. Birdie saw that real business was
meant and forsook the poker. She put
her fingers in her ears —against the explo-
sion and, the squeals that she was very
sure would follow —just as she did on
“pig-killing” day, when she went about
with fingers in her ears all day long.
Auntie Emily fired in the general direc-
tion of the gully. The still night was
shattered and Auntie Emily nearly col-
lapsed.
The hills gave back the sound again
and again, fainter and fainter, but end-
lessly. Blue stopped barking. A whiff
of black-powder smoke drifted in and
pungently assailed the nose.
Auntie Emily managed to close the
window, but was afraid to look towards
the gully again. She came back to the
fire, but she couldn’t sit down now —she
was on active service.
Birdie took her fingers from her ears.
“Did you kill him?”
Her tones blended Tragedy and
Triumph. Moy and Polly could only
watch out of eyes that should have been
shut long ago in sleep.
Then Blue started again—down the lane
towards those briar bushes. Auntie Emily
crept to a front window. She hardly
looked now —and fired. Again that acrid
wisp of smoke and the shattering of the
night. Again Birdie released her ears
and almost gloated over two slain,
A long, racking silence, then Blue
rushed past the woodheap, up the hill to
the billet-fence. He seemed now on the
point of desperate attack.
A third shot—and it sounded just like
a cannon.
Birdie counted three and rejoiced in the
fact that they were selling their lives
dearly. The house was surrounded, of
course, but as long as Auntie Emily could
keep it up they were reasonably safe.
Auntie Emily marched now from
window to window. She was past fear,
and she almost welcomed the last grim
struggle when the axe and inch piping
would play their part. Nature had not
designed her for such conflict, but she
felt ready for it now —if needs must.
BUT nothing more happened. The
fierce barking ceased, and Blue, with
some low woofs, retired to his bag on
the back verandah. He refused to be
“hissed” any more.
There was complete silence outside
again, a sort of keyed-up ominous silence.
By the fire it was tense, waiting for the
next move. It was worse than the excite-
ment of the barking and gun shots. Moy
and Polly dropped off to sleep on the
mat. Birdie was still counting the dead
and in terror that there might be sur-
vivors. She wondered what had become
of the souls of such wicked men —and
imagined the very worst for them.
She was just on the point of making a
clean confession of the salmon-stealing
when Blue gave a bark —friendly and
welcoming. He ran down the lane and
repeated it again and again, and one
knew his bushy tail swept to and fro to
the broken rhythm of his barking. Then
came the creak and rattle of the buggy
along the rutty track.
The mission was over at last.
Auntie Emily fainted in the big chair,
and there the alarmed family found her.
Birdie’s was the first version they heard
of the night’s happenings. And these
lost nothing from Birdie’s telling.
Next day a half-starved man was cap-
tured by the police in the tangled hills a
few miles away. He was the suspect in
the Noonan’s Gully affair, and he hadn t
gone to Queensland at all. He swore
earnestly he hadn’t gone near any house
the night before.
But Auntie Emily fainted again when
she heard of the arrest.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3425
Wednesday, October 3, 1945
A FATE WORSE THAN DEATH.
“The Government has made a great feature of its Investigations into war crimes. But no war criminal has been arrested, and the chances are that very few will be.
Menzies.
“We’re going to do terrible things to you fellows; but we’ve got to make a few more speeches before we start.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney;
, r Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand ; Nathan's Buildings C opp .
G.P.0.), Wellington,
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London. E.C.4.
FOREIGN "POLICIES."
In London on September 26, as in Syd-
ney on August 24, Dr. Evatt was a prey
to bitter thoughts.
In Sydney he bewailed the “deplorable
tendency, now that the fighting is over,
to relegate Australia to a subordinate
status, and either not to consult it at all
or to consult it in a perfunctory way and
not on a footing of equality.” This in
spite of the fact, “fully recognised in
many speeches,” that, “apart from the
U.S.A., the main contribution, particu-
larly in the Pacific, was that of Aus-
tralia ; for years the U.S.A. and Aus-
tralia fought alone in the South-west
Pacific.”
In the catalogue of Evatt complaints
there was, “first, the Potsdam declaration,
issued without any reference to Aus-
tralia”; “next, the Japanese Government’s
request that the privileges and preroga-
tives of the Emperor should not be
prejudiced,” answered with “little con-
sideration given to our very strong sub-
missions” ; then the foul British plot to
exclude Australia from direct represen-
tation at the Japanese-surrender ceremony.
The doctor left the exposure of this foul
British plot to Mr. Beasley and the
sympathetic Sydney dailies, one of
which, apropos of the express statement
of the Labor Dominions Secretary that
“the British Government took the initia-
tive in pressing for Australia’s representa-
tion,” descended to the argot of the
gutter. Thereupon he asserted .that “the
so-called United Kingdom initiative
was quite unsatisfactory” and that “the
Australian Government took up the
matter direct with General MacArthur
and with the United States Acting
Minister at Canberra,” the result being
that “the United States Government
acceded To Australia’s claim to be repre-
sented directly.” It must also have acceded
to other “claims,” since Canada, New
Zealand, France and the Netherlands, as
well as Britain and Russia, “were repre-
sented directly”; but on this point com-
plainant did not choose to be “direct.”
And there was “the matter of the
Council of Foreign Ministers”:
From that Council, at present, Australia
is excluded, even in relation to the Japanese
settlement, whilst China is included without
having been a belligerent in Europe. In
our view this is unsatisfactory, and we
know that our opinion is shared by New
Zealand. Once again we will be in danger
of being presented with cut-and-dried de-
cisions in which we will have had no real
participation and no effective voice.
Mr. Peter Fraser at once made it annoy-
ingly plain that “our opinion” was not
“shared by New Zealand,” He said, in
effect, that his Government would not
quarrel with Britain on any subject, being
concerned above all things with the main-
tenance of British Commonwealth unity.
He had in mind the cancellation of lend-
lease, so cruel a blow to Britain, tragi-
cally short of food, clothing and shelter,
and with other difficulties, all manner of
them, accumulating, that Dr. Evatt and
his grievances must have seemed of very
small consequence at No. 10 Downing-
street and in Whitehall. But they were
all-important to Canberra, and for the
harassed British Government there was
no escape.
Presently Mr. Chifley announced that
“Australia” had “claimed the right
to participate in the proceedings” of
the Council of Foreign Ministers, and
that his Government had “received an
assurance from the British Govern-
ment that it supported Australia’s
claim to take an active part in the Coun-
cil’s work.” Regarding this as “satisfac-
tory,” he, Mr. Chifley, had nominated
Dr. Evatt as a “special representative
able to speak with authority on behalf
of the Government,” holding that the
doctor’s mission would be “of even
greater importance than the very success-
ful war-time missions he has undertaken
abroad.”
In London, as in Sydney and San
Francisco, Dr. Evatt soon made the ac-
quaintance of or renewed intimacies with
newspapermen willing to boom him "and
his “mission.” Not in every quarter, for
the leading journals, though polite, were
cold, and a young man from th 6 foreign
city of Melbourne had the effrontery to
refer to him as a “gate-crasher”; but
representatives of picture-papers and
Sunday papers and Sydney correspon-
dents and Mr, Laski were there with
the goods. One of the Sydney corre-
spondents found occasion to report
that the missionary, with one of his
“masterstrokes,” had gained another
Victory for Australia, having, with
a band of gentlemen from • other
Dominions and other countries, been
invited to give the Council of Foreign
Ministers his views about Trieste and
the neighboring region, claimed by
semi-Communist Italy and Communist
Yugoslavia. He was without instructions
or guidance from the Commonwealth
Parliament as to Trieste or indeed any
other subject likely to crop up during
his “mission,” it being his invariable
practice to ignore Parliament in these
matters except when he presents it with
an accomplished fact.
The Council of Foreign Ministers
failed to arrive at a decision on Trieste
or anything else. This unpleasant fact,
ominous for the future, is attributable not
to the exclusion of Dr. Evatt and the
representatives of other Dominions and
other countries as deliberative and voting
members, but to the immovable and pro-
vocative imperialism of Soviet Russia,
That insatiable and incessantly intriguing
Power, already greatly expanded from “the
Socialist Sixth of the World,” presented
what amounted to demands for key
areas in three continents and seas be-
tween: control of the Dardanelles and the
Dodecanese, and “trusteeships” in Africa,
specifically, Tripolitania and Eritrea, to-
gether with Trieste and the hinterland for
its agent Tito and complete political,
military and economic absorption of
Hungary, Rumania and Bulgaria as well
as Yugoslavia. For Greece it had only
an abrupt refusal to join with the British,
Americans and French in supervising the
Greek elections, and the deadly threat
to Greek sovereignty and territorial in-
tegrity implied in full militarisation of
Yugoslavia, Rumania and Bulgaria,
those allies of Nazi Germany which,
without the consent of the people ex-
pressed at unrigged elections, have be-
come Russian puppets.
To this monstrous assertion of Mos-
cow arrogance and greed there could be
only one answer from the British and
American Governments. It was given,
and the meetings, which were often
marked by angry shouts and table-bang-
ings, ended with nothing accomplished
and with a parting exchange of empty
compliments and pious hopes that the
Council of Foreign Ministers would,
somewhere and at some time, assemble
again. All Molotov got for his perform-
ance was the unpalatable knowledge that
it had contributed to the conclusion of
the long-delayed Anglo-American oil
agreement, signed contemporaneously for
the United States by Mr. Truman’s con-
fidant Mr. Ickes. For Dr. Evatt there
was a liberal helping of cold-shoulder.
To relieve his feelings the doctor sum-
moned a press conference, at which he
mentioned sourly that “Australia, with
other countries,” had made only one
appearance before the Council of Foreign
Ministers. He objected ndt only to this
chilling concession—consequence of his
own importunities, which enabled Molo-
tov to bring in alleged representatives of
the two “independent” Soviet republics of
Ukrainia and White Russia—but to the
whole set-up:
In our opinion active belligerents must be
given the right of participating on a foot-
ing of equality at the Council table with
representatives of the Five Powers, or it
must be clearly understood that the con-
clusions reached by the Council regarding
the terms of the peace settlements shall be
submitted to a conference in which all
active belligerents will take part.
Then, according to the admirer of his
“masterstrokes” and his Victory for Aus-
tralia, “Dr, Evatt objected to what he
called ‘the unilateral orders’ which Presi-
dent Truman gave for the occupation of
Japan.” Expanding this theme and con-
descending to acknowledge the “leader-
ship of the United States,” he asked for
United States recognition of Australia’s
right to co-operate with that country, and
to participate equally with Russia and
France, *‘in everything relating to the armis-
tice and peace settlement with Japan.”
Another admirer, Mr. F. Ehrenfried
Baume, saw our wandering Minister
“glare” at “M. Rogoff, chief of the
Soviet Tass Newsagency,” and hear him
say that “Australia and Britain” had
“fought the devilish Japanese for more
years than the Russians fought them for
weeks.” “Glare” and departure from the
invidious outbreak of August 24 were
prompted by a Molotov manoeuvre
(“Daily Herald” report):
Molotov surprised the Council of Foreign
Ministers by criticising the American hand-
ling of the situation in Japan and urging
that control of Japan should be in the
hands of a Commission of the Powers
which, in the Russians’ view, contributed
mostly to the Far East victory: Britain,
America, Russia and China. There was no
suggestion that Australia, New Zealand and
India had played any part' or should have
any share in control.
And this is Dr. Evatt’s reward for set-
ting up a very expensive legation in Mos-
cow, with young Communists from Aus-
tralia on the staff, when Russia had its
fisheries agreements and its treaty of
neutrality and friendship with Japan! Not
a shred of consideration for the fact that
he, as well as establishing that legation,
released the Communist conspirators
Ratliff and Thomas, removed the Men-
zies ban on Communist organisations and
publications and “concilated” Com-
munist union bosses as a matter of
policy while being so mixed up with the
Australia First cases (he, moved to literary
tears by the fate of the Tolpuddle
Martyrs) that Mr. Menzies has called
upon him to apologise publicly to the
eight fellow-citizens —two Old Diggers
and one of the Old Diggers dead, a
broken man —vindicated and recom-
mended for compensation by Justice
Clyne. No wonder he became indignant
with the Government whose leader is
the god of Communist idolatry, as he did
with the British and American Govern-
ments when they came between the wind
and his dignity or vanity.
And there was something more in store
for the wandering Minister in that bad
week.
While his indignation with the Russian
Government was at its height he received
a cabled instruction from the semi-Com-
munist Sydney Labor Council ordering
him to champion the case of “the Indo-
nesian republicans,” headed by a gentle-
man who not only collaborated with the
Japanese in Java but went to Tokyo to
soak himself in Shintoism. He was to
“raise the question at the Council of
Foreign Ministers,” collaboration with
Molotov being implied if not expressly
required. Meanwhile Dutch mercy ships
packed with Australian prisoners-of-war
rescued from Japanese hell-camps were
nosing into Australian ports, passing
other Dutch mercy ships loaded with
medical and food supplies for white in-
ternees and prisoners-of-war (many of
them Australians) in Java, where the
Japs were still in control or in a position
to regain it —all tied up by the Com-
munist-controlled Waterside Workers’
Federation and other waterfront unions.
Protests to Canberra drew agitated
utterances from t the Minister of Supply
and Shipping and the Prime Minister, but
no action. It was dimly recognised that
the position was very serious, but with
unionism. Communism, the White Aus-
tralia policy, foreign policy and the
safety of pockets of whites surrounded
by hordes of Asiatics all in the picture.
Ministers were reduced to feeble attempts
to “concilate” all parties. Mr. Chifley’s
head was in such a whirl that, asked
whether he thought Australia “should
have an additional say in the arrange-
ments for the occupation of Japan,” he
“replied* with an expression of complete
faith in General Mac Arthur”:
If this country hasn’t confidence in
General MacArthur it is guilty of base
ingratitude. No man has carried out his
job or kept his word better; he has done
a great job for this country. This country
has never had a better friend, and I have
great faith in his judgment.
Another facer for Dr. Evatt, though in
Mr. Chifley’s tumultuous state of mind
this may not have been intended.
Two Senators, Mr. Nash (Labor) and
Mr. McLeay (Liberal), both members of
the mission to San Francisco, have the
right idea: an all-party committee on
foreign affairs. And in a situation which
Mr. Menzies, never an alarmist, has
fairly described as “precarious” there is
a supreme need for British Common-
wealth unity, all members standing to-
gether and with the United States. Aus-
tralia is in no position to tolerate a coat-
trailing one-man foreign policy, a despot-
ism of a careerist tempered by Com-
munist ruffianism.
MacArthur in Japan.
On August 15 the Japanese Emperor
put out a broadcast accepting the terms
for surrender offered at Potsdam. It
brought what looked like being a long
and bitter war to an end. It meant that
untold numbers of young men, chiefly
Americans, Britons, Australians, New
Zealanders, Russians and Indians, would be
able to live out their ordinary lives instead
of being buried on Pacific islands or
the continent of Asia or blasted to
death in the skies or on the deep. As
well it meant the releasing of prisoners-
of-war from the hell-camps, where every
day was bringing death to the unfortu-
nate brave.
All that and more was the result of
the American decision to keep Hirohito
nominally at the head of things, as the
only man in Japan who could bring about
such results. The machinery necessary
to complete the deal then began to move.
American troops, without any blood-
shed, landed in Japan on August 28.
There were only 150 of them ; an advance
party to get an airfield ready. Two days
later General MacArthur himself was
there, taking with him 6000 men. Even
after a week or two the total landed was
fewer than 50,000. That was in a country
whose population has been put as high—
by General Blarney—as 100,000,000. At
the lowest it is probably round about
80,000,000. There was still more of it
under arms than the total American,
British, Australian and New Zealand forces
carrying the main burden of the attack.
Throughout the war Japanese troops
had behaved with a fanaticism that held
life worthless and, in a multitude of cases,
with devilish cruelty to prisoners-of-war.
There was no saying how they would be-
have with the war over. It was expected
that they would accept their Emperor’s I
orders; but nobody could be really sure
about that. People who claimed to know
the Japs well, from long years of resi-
dence among them, differed on the point.
Others merely guessed.
General MacArthur, facing up to that
position, acted with wonderful courage.
For all anyone could know to the con-
trary, he took his life in his hands when
he landed with less than half a division
of men in Japan, 13 days after the Em-
peror’s broadcast. He himself has de-
scribed it as “the greatest gamble in his-
tory”—and he knows the Japs as few
men know them. He has pointed out that
the occupation forces were outnumbered
by 1000 to one by armed Japanese. The
supposedly unarmed would probably most
of them have had some sort of arms in
their homes. By numbers alone they
could have wiped out that mere body-
guard of men with sticks.
Pondering all this with its customary
depth of thinking, a parcel of newspapers,
Left-Wing for the most part, got busy.
Less than a fortnight after General Mac-
Arthur had set foot in Japan he was the
target for angry attacks in New York and
Sydney, Communists joining in every-
where. It was not surprising, “ S. M.
Herald” declared, that people were “evinc-
ing bewilderment at what seems to be a
disposition in the Allied High Command
to treat the surrendering enemy with a
leniency wholly out of keeping with the
retribution” which that enemy’s crimes
demanded.
Not only have no forceful steps yet been
taken to bring the individual perpetrators
of atrocities to justice, but little attention
seems to have been given thus far to im-
pressing on the Japanese people the nature
and consequences of their defeat... .There
has been no explanation of why the adver-
tised triumphant march of General Mac-
Anhur’s troops into Tokyo was turned
into a drab entry by a token force without
any display of armed might—an event
marked mainly by a homily from the
Allied Commander-in-Chief upon the avoid-
ance of “unnecessary violence and undue
oppression.” With all due deference to
General MacArthur, it is to be doubted
whether he and his forces will exact even
“respect as visitors” while he seeks it with
the lofty air of “practising the principle on
which we fought”—whatever that may mean.
The “Daily Telegraph” on the same day
was just as angry:
MacArthur said that Hirohito and the
Government would be given every oppor-
tunity to carry out instructions without
compulsion. This statement ignores the
fact that the Japanese Government contains
men who are responsible for the blackest
crimes on the calendar of the war.... Au-
stralia says “To hell with any compromise
which delays the punishment of every in-
dividual —politician, soldier or civilian —
who took any part in the torture of our
prisoners.”
A day earlier the “Sun” had performed
in much the same fashion, though without
naming General MacArthur. It took the
line of highly praising General Blarney
in terms it usually reserves for General
Bennett, a member of its staff to whom
General Blarney has referred in frigid terms.
Some of the foolishness teaching him.
General MacArthur took time off from
his big job to explain what should have
been obvious all along. After referring
to the huge numbers of Japanese still
armed when he was being bombarded
with distant ink, the prisoners-of-war still
held and in deadly danger if things went
wrong, he explained that another unknown
quantity at the outset was whether an
Allied military government would have to
be established. That, he pointed out, would
have involved millions of troops, of whom
Australia would have had to provide far
more than the 15,000 or so offered for the
force in Japan by Mr. Beasley. The
great majority would have been Ameri-
cans, most of them no doubt reluctantly
away from their country and reluctantly
banished by their country and more so
by their people.
As against that. General MacArthur
patiently pointed out, by working with
the existing Japanese Government the
purposes of the surrender terms would
be accomplished with only a fraction of
men, time and money. Probably, he said,
the force needed would be no more than
200,000 men once Japan was disarmed:
This force will be sufficiently strong
to ensure our will. Questions involved are
entirely independent of the future of the
Japanese politico-governmental structure
on a national or an international plane.
The problem is one of which the ultimate
solution necessarily awaits completion of
the military phases of the surrender.
He must have been badly hurt by these
hasty people. He had helped greatly to
win a war while they sat back in their
offices. He had made himself one of the
people who go on down in history while
they will stay what they are, and were.
Everything that has been done in Japan
since the surrender ceremony in Tokyo
Bay has been done in conformity with
the terms of the Potsdam ultimatum and,
it transpires, with those of the directive
issued to General MacArthur by Presi-


dent Truman. Britain, with its hands
full in Europe, Asia and Africa, was
obviously content to let the Americans
have the ordering of affairs in what is
left of the Japanese empire, and so should
Australians have been, with their heavy
commitments in the northern islands,
where quarter of a million Japanese have
surrendered to Australian commanders,
Occupation by a single Power, using a
native Government held under firm con-
trol, has so far been a vast improvement
on the four-Power military government
Germany, which must recall to
Americans what contemporaries wrote
and historians have written of military
government of the defeated South after
the civil war. However, the squealers
ha VP had their way, and there is to be a
nave uau y p, p “rvm-
sort-of-a-kind of El- -
trol” Commission, witn, perhaps, another
Mr Maloney “representing” Australia.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Anti-Social Socialists.
On a day when 17,000 unionists in essen-
tial trades and industries were on strike
in Sydney and neighboring parts, bring-
ing compulsory idleness to many, domestic
“blackouts” to more and continued
suffering (with death a grim probability)
to victims of Japanese barbarity in Java,
dependent on Dutch mercy ships held
up by Communist-controlled wharf-
laborers, Mr. Holt, M.H.R., asked a per-
tinent question in Parliament;
Eighty to 90 p.c. of these industrial dis-
putes occur in New South Wales. Why do
you find such a concentration in that space
when in other States you have decent hard-
working patriotic men and women? The
blame for the position in New South Wales
rests on the Government and on trade-
union leadership.
By the “Government” he meant the
Labor Government at Canberra. Its
offence is rank and unquestionable, since
in the presence of industrial anarchy,
which threatens its own demobilisation
and rehabilitation policies, it is too craven
to apply its own laws and regulations.
Equally guilty is trade-union leadership of
the Communist variety, since it is palp-
ably placing at the service of Sovietism,
even in the domain of foreign policy,
powers equivalent to but far more dan-
gerous than those exercised by the leaders
of larrikin pushes. But there are other
culpable parties.
One is the Sydney Labor Government,
which is responsible for a bad schooling
system that turns out masses of ill-in-
formed and ill-mannered youngsters, and
which encourages them and their elders
to gamble. Another is the Sydney press,
which makes horseracing its principal
topic, in the process glorifying book-
makers who in New Zealand and New
York are sent to jail; and radio stations
are almost as bad. Between the reckless
gambling spirit and the reckless industrial
spirit there is a clear connection. One
leads to the other.
On that day of strikes and the Holt
speech, the Sydney Labor Government
published the Auditor-General’s report
for the year to June 30 which, among
other things, revealed the extent to which
gambling has become a part of N.S.W.
life and public finance. Revenue from
racing was “the highest on record,”
£621,640, exceeding by £131,060 the previ
ous year’s total and by £74,063 the previ-
ous “record” in 1921-22, when £155,620
came in from an admission tax no longer
imposed. The number of Government
lotteries (135) was also a “record” ; and
so were the amount of subscriptions
(£3,543,750) and the Government’s profit
(£1,275,871), which was paid into consoli-
dated revenue. All these lotteries were
run in competition with war loans, and,
as was only to be expected, individual
subscriptions to war loans were poor.
In New Zealand, U.S.A., Canada,
Britain, and also in Victoria and South
Australia, which have relatively few
strikes, there are no lotteries. In English-
speaking countries they exist in only the
four Australian States with Labor Gov-
ernments and in Eire.
During that crucial twelvemonth of the
wars in Europe and in the Pacific, and of
gambling and strikes in N. S. Wales, a
new Sydney racing club, set up by
Labor legislation, entered upon its career.
It already controls two or three race-
courses, and hopes to acquire more. By
all accounts, it is the apple of the returned
Labor Premier’s eye, and so that it may
rise to the height of affluence he is credited
with the intention of reviving Wednesday
“meetings” which were struck out by
Commonwealth regulation during the war.
To this Labor Premier and his Minis-
ters the fact that their city is never free
from larrikin strikes is merely an occa-
sion for feeble language, and, when the
feeble language has no effect, for scurrying
into hollow logs. It never seems to occur
to any of the gentlemen to ask himself
whether the industrial larrikinism they
deplore is not an effect of the insen-
sate gambling to which they minister in
a spirit of materialism assuredly not less
detestable for being complacent. Nor
do they ever, at least publicly, try to
square their professed opposition to capi-
talism with their exploitation of the anti-
social vice which transmutes earned into
unearned wealth, enriching the few at the
expense of the many.
In a Yokohama Camp.
From Pilot-Officer G. R. Lempriere,
R.A. A.F,:
Amongst the excitements and joys of our re-
turn to civilisation, high on the list was to get
The Bulletin again. It was like a breath of
fresh air to see the fearless debunking of ’isms
and some individual thinking in a world which
seems to us regimented, wallowing in “controls”
of evefy sort.
Late in 1942 three Aussies were languishing
(for want of a better word) in the now in-
famous Ofuna intimidation and “quiz” camp
near Yokohama. Inmates were, under pain of
severe bashing, forbidden to talk or read.
In came some new prisoners with plenty of
clothing and baggage: the captain and some
officers of N.Z. ship Haraki, captured by the
Nips in the Indian Ocean. By the underground
they soon heard of us and round came two
Bulletins the Nips would have given fortunes
to see. At night we devoured every word and
learnt each article by heart, including some
“bum dope” re bombing of Rabaul during the
time we had been prisoners there.
Later when we were being grilled and every
means being employed to force us to do pro-
Japanese propaganda I thought of these Bulle-
tins. We were permitted to write letters men-
tioning goodwill in some form. I remembered a
leading article regarding the stupidity and impos-
sibility of any co-operation between Australia
and Japan, entitled Tojo and Togo. This is
what 1 wrote, to get past the Japanese censor,
to a Melbourne “link”: “The conversation
which we had with the Sydney B. Priors late
in May just before they' left to go to join you
in Dubbo” (in the following number was a
Lindsay cartoon on a Dubbo by-election)
“still remains firm in my mind and holds
VICTORIAN POLITICAL MYSTERY—THE MAN THEY COULDN’T HANG.
(He is since reported to have hanged himself, but his admirers insist that it is merely a case
of suspended animation.)
good.” This odd code may mean nothing to
you and may have been double Dutch to my
friend, as I have only heard once from Aus-
tralia since then. But it greatly relieved our
minds, as at that time we feared the Nips may
have been putting out anything, using oui
names.
I hope to find all back numbers of The
Bulletin waiting for me at home. If not, I
will have to come to you for them.
Actually, the Tojo-and-Togo article and
the Dubbo cartoon appeared on June 3,
1942. The “bum dope” was “official.”
War issues of The Bulletin are pretty
scarce, but the office is trying to make a
collection of those from June 10, 1942,
to the end of the war with Japan for pre-
sentation to Pilot-Officer Lampriere—one
of the many thousands of Australians
whose bearing in captivity has added
cubits to the moral stature of the nation.
"Information."
In 1944-45 the Department of Informa-
tion mopped up £297,802 of public
money, £44,157 being for an alleged
“post-war education campaign”—a cheeky
euphemism for unauthorised expenditure
on Dr, Evatt’s busted referendum. The
appropriation for the current year is
£326,000. Mr. Menzies very properly
objects. To Mr. Calwell “the estimate is
the minimum” that could be “spent on
national publicity,” As one of the super-
fluous Ministers (there are 19 Ministers)
he is naturally anxious for the preser-
vation of his superfluous department.
Under United States law, foreign agen-
cies distributing news and propaganda
have to be registered and to render annual
statements of expenditure. On the
1944 list the Australian News and
Information Bureau is down for $115,000
—it spent £40,701 Australian in 1944-45,
Mr. Calwell says.
This excessive Minister and newspapers
also in favor of maintaining droves of
Government press-agents abroad are
given to asserting that Australian News
and Information Bureau expenditure is
only a fraction of what other countries
spend in the same way. According to the
U.S. report, the $115,000 was little less
than what was considered sufficient by
Canada ($138,000) and India ($125,000)
and more than the amounts laid out by
Greece ($61,000) and South Africa
($40,000).
A bit about Russia in the American
report is interesting:
The Soviet Union does not maintain an
official information agency but conducts
parallel activities by other means, in large
part not subject to the Foreign Agents
Registration Act. The Soviet Information
Bureau in Moscow transmits articles and
news releases by cable and radio to the
American press. The All-Union Society for
Cultural Relations with Foreign Countries
sends publications and exhibit materials to
individuals and organisations in the U.S.A.
Soviet films, photographs, books and other
printed materials are distributed, mainly
through agencies operating along commer-
cial lines.
No doubt the same procedure is fol-
lowed in respect of Australia, which has
no Foreign Agents Registration Act, and
in which an astonishing amount of Soviet
stuff is administered to the public sugar-
coated, without disclosure of its origin.
"Engineers Wanted."
The Westralian University Senate is
somewhat alarmed at the number of
students anxious to take engineering
courses. It is a tendency not confined to
Westralia, and it is related to the feat
of another “depression,” a fear cultivated
by politicians of the worst type.
The late wars were in large measure
wars of engineers. Mechanical apparatus
and engineering science were supreme on
fighting fronts and in back areas. The
cry was for more and more machines, and
for more and more engineers to design
and construct them. Anyone who tra-
velled about Australia in file past couple
of years must have been struck by the
quantities of engineers on the move. On
trains, ’planes, ships, in hotels, cities,
hamlets, one heard little but engineering
topics, and found oneself hobnobbing with
engineers* from all over the place. This
had its effect on the father anxious for
his boy’s future and on the boy himself.
Both saw the immediate future, at least,
as a mechanistic one, and both naturally
sought to prepare for it.
With the sudden cessation of strife
came a revulsion of feeling. Now, doubts
as to the future vex students and parents
and members of University Senates, as
well as Governments,
Yet this country is going to need engi-
neers greatly. It stands on the verge of
a new era, and beyond that verge are
tremendous developments in aviation,
radio science, refrigeration, town-plan-
ning, reafforestation, shipbuilding, trans-
port, plastics, water conservation, irriga-
tion and so forth. In all of this the engi-
neer will be necessary, and along with
him will be needed the industrial and
research chemist, the soil analyst, the
architect and many more. All the settled
south-east is crying for development and
expansion; all the empty north awaits
them. It is not rash optimism to say that
universities need have no fear of over-
doing it, or that there is more work await-
ing Australians than twice the presen
population could do.
But it is rash optimism to believe that
the throttling of the spirit of adventure
and free enterprise can develop a country
and prevent “depressions. Ihey a
much more likely to have; the t opposite
effect. The current craze for security
recalls that in the past many dark peoples
of the Southern Hemisphere had it. Prom
Timor to Peru they never, any of them,
amounted to a row of pins, and t e
favorite pursuits of those with the greales
measure of “security” were war and
cannibalism. _
South Australia Astir.
“Pitt Street,” ruminating from some-
where on North Terrace:
Adelaide is seething with ideas. You walk its
streets or talk to its inhabitants without being
aware of it. Representatives of a score and
more companies are' running about the city, tne
State, the Commonwealth and the world look-
ing for men, material and markets.
The place got munitions and food factories
out of the war, and it isn’t going to see them
idle. Thousands of square feet of space have
been, are and will be added to the manufactui-
ing units and there is a growing local demand
for electrical equipment, enamel goods, farm
implements, stoves, railway rolling stock,
copper, brass and steel tubing, tools, household
goods, refrigerators and fittings, light and heavy
engineering products, washing machines, chemi-
cal products, textiles, plastics, motor-cars, boxes,
boots, cordials, canned foods, paint, glass and
so on. About every second man you bump in
Adelaide is an engineer or a designer or a fore-
man of some sort, going somewhere in a hurry.
And their eyes are on markets beyond then-
borders, even as far as India and New Zealand
and South Africa.
Several factors contribute to all this excite-
ment of doing and planning. South Australia
has comparatively few industrial disputes.
Though it has to pay more for coal, and is
never free from worry as to whether it will
have enough, costs of production are lower than
in Victoria and N. S. Wales, and there is very
definitely a flair for getting things done, from
the biggest Government department down to
the smallest one-man factory. In housing alone
S.A. has a record of built and building homes
far ahead of any other State, and a brick house
with three bedrooms is built there for about
£5OO cheaper than it would cost in N. S. Wales.
There is a State Government, of course, with
a Mr. Playford as Premier. A very close by-
election has lost him his party majority; but he
is unlikely to worry. Occasionally South Aus-
tralians hear of their Premier arguing with Can-
berra about something—and generally getting
his way—and frequently they read in their press
of a new water scheme established, more houses
and schools built, a coalfield opened and work-
ing, and so forth, but they hear only of these
things mainly after the job is done. There is
no fanfare of trumpets about what will be
done in 1955 or ’65 provided somebody else
will supply the cash, and it’s safe to move
about a S.A. district without running into an
entire Parliamentary party on a jaunt to examine
whether a river should be turn«l about or
bottled up and sold as spa water.
All this liveliness isn’t confined to Adelaide.
The advent of the Morgan-Whyalla pipeline
through the northern districts for 230 miles has
started activity in a half-dozen towns, and Pirie
and Port Augusta and Whyalla are humming
with industry. Down in the south-east they’re
planning to make sleepy old Robe into a deep-
sea port. The point about this expansion ,is
that decentralisation has a big part in it. To a
Sydneyite there is something strange about a
people who don’t and don’t want to go in for
preferential freight rates and other things cal-
culated to draw people, industry and money
into one already bloated spot.
An Old Bolshevist's Book.
Alexander Barmine, one of the few
survivors among the Old Bolshevists, has
written a book.
A Red Army general and a diplomat
under Lenin and Stalin, Barmine bolted
for his life during the 1937 purge, eventu-
ally becoming an American citizen and a
private in the U.S. Army. In the purge, he
says in his book, Russia’s best military
leaders were shot; “three of the five mar-
shals, 90 per cent, of the generals, 80 per
cent, of the colonels and approximately
30,000 lesser officers.” That was “the first
and most obvious cause of the large-scale
disaster in 1941-42.”
In the First World War, with an ill-
equipped army, and no Allied help with
munitions till 1917, the Russian soldiers
stopped the great modern armies of Hinden-
burg and Mackensen in the Pripef marshes;
the Germans never broke beyond Poland,
Latvia and Lithuania.
In one year Hitler’s newly-created army
—a seven years’ creation, whereas the Red
Army began to be organised in 1921
overran more than half of European Russia
and in three months more went to the
Volga.
Stalin’s totalitarian regime owes its sur-
vival, first, to the great Russian people,
who hated it so much that even through
the hour of greatest danger Stalin had to
keep 12,000,000 of them in concentration
camps, and, second, to the help of the
democracies.
Even so, “Stalin must answer to history
for the death of more than 15,000,000
soldiers and civilians. At least 6,000,000
soldiers were killed, more than half of
the Red Army ; and much more than half
of its equipment was destroyed,”


The Mutual Life and Citizens’
Assurance Company, Limited
Martin Place and Castlereagh Street,
SYDNEY.
Founded 1886.
There is no better way of providing
cash for your family, or for yourself
when you retire, than by taking out
a policy with The M.L.C.
ASSETS EXCEED £43,000,000
ANNUAL INCOME EXCEEDS
£6,500,000.
M. O. Alder. A.1.A.,
General Manager.
mm
;:■■ HMH| '■■■' ' ■- •
,
ť
The “MARS” Heavy-Duty
RADIAL DRILL
Ideal for use in the average Australian
machine shop. Gives performance equal
to imported Radial Drills costing THREE
TIMES AS MUCH. 8 speeds forward,
8 speeds reverse. 4ft. 6in. arm.
Built to
SCHLESINGER STAJXDARDS
OF ACCURACY
MACHINE TOOL
MANUFACTURING CO.PTY.ITDj
Manufacturers of Precision Lathes, Shapers,
Millers, Planers
B . . BRIDGE STREET. VALLEY, BRISBANE
° le n * s - w * ! Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Sfc,
Sydney, Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd.. 28 Market St.. Melbourne.
Stockists. Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent St., Sydney.
Weight (approx.) 2| tons
For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
n o *f ce: 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
On a supply-reduction vote the Dun-
stan Government was defeated by 29 to
26. Only in Victoria, where State politics
have been, as it were, mixed for many
years, could there have been such a divi-
sion—l 9 Laborites, one Labor Indepen-
dent, two C.P. Independents, two plain
Independents and five Liberals for; 21
C.Ps. and five Liberals against—or such
a confusion of occurrences as sequel.
Hollway, leader of the equally divided
Libs., straightway turned in the leader-
ship, remaining a Minister. Dunstan
asked the Governor for a dissolution and
got it, “as from Wednesday, October 3” ;
but, returning to the House, he was again
refused supply. The week-end brought
his resignation as Premier. But when
this page had to go to the printer Vic-
torians didn’t know who was Premier or
whether they had a Premier —all they
knew was that they had had a comedy
for their money and were to have a
general election.
When Dunstan was a young and aspir-
ing politician he led a C.P. independent
group which made things unpleasant for
a succession of Victorian Governments,
Ironic that two instruments of the slow-
motion downfall of his Government
should have been Allnutt (Mildura) and
Mackrell (Upper Goulburn), who were
consigned to independence by a vote of
the Agrarians’ Central Council.
Macaulayflowers of debate in the Vic-
torian Assembly when Dunstan came
back with a dissolution in his pocket and
another motion for supply, “voluntarily
reduced by £13.”
Field (Lab.): This Parliament has been a
Parliament of intrigue from the beginning,
the centre of political trickery and treachery.
Minister McDonald: When the Labor
party fails it is intrigue; when it is suc-
cessful, statesmanship.
Lemmon (Labor): The Premier has, for
the second time, used the name of the
King’s representative. Totally out of order!
May says....
Mutton (Ind. Labor): It is a remarkable
fact that Hitler, Mussolini and Dunstan
all came into power in 1935.
Cain (Opposition-leader): I hope Mr.
Dunstan will not suffer the fate of Musso-
lini.
Barry (Labor); This week the Premier
has worn out St. Kilda-road, worn out
the passages, worn out his Government and
now he is wearing out the House.
Galvin (Labor): He wants an atomic
bomb.
Mutton: Albert the Great must abdicate.
Albert the Sedate would have been more
appropriate to the occasion. He seemed
quite undisturbed.
There was surcease of party strife at
Canberra when Blain returned after his
long and cruel captivity. The three party
leaders welcomed him in speeches and all
stood while he was sworn in. He and
Falstein were the only serving members.
From the Parliament at Wellington (M.L.)
ten members went, five not to return.
Though Major Cowan polled well, he
could not hold the S.A. Assembly
seat for the Liberal and Country League,
and Premier Playford is now without a
party majority. He won’t lose a wink
of sleep over it, being a philosophical
character and having been that way
before.
The dull wrangle between Calwell the
politician and Penton the pressman has
had a curious sequel in Molong (N.S.W.).
An alderman brought a slander suit
against a former alderman. The defence
quoted the Calwell-Penton affair, and the
magistrate allowed that ttye Penton plea
of “qualified privilege” had a bearing on
the case, which he dismissed. It opens up
some interesting prospects to anybody
who knows small-town politics.
Though the proceedings of the Council
of Foreign Ministers brought only dis-
appointment and anxiety to the British
they got a lot of fun out of one of the
sideshows:
Molotov’s armed bodyguard of 12
brawny Muscovites is the joke of London.
One feels a little sorry for them. They
do not nt into the London scene, but they
follow Molotov everywhere in high-
powered cars, shepherding him across
every pavement, up staircases and along
corridors. They stand gloomily, often
hungrily, m the passage outside plutocratic
banquet halls and cocktail parties. It
cannot comfort them to know that almost
any adroit gate-crasher could gain access
to lots of these parties and get within sand-
wich breadth of their temporarily unguarded
master.
The description was penned by a Mel-
bourne “Herald” young man, so irreverent
that he applied the horrid term “gate-
crasher” to Dr. Evatt.
Purchase of the Portuguese part of
Timor was suggested by Anthony in the
House last week. Except that purchase
is inconsistent with Communist practice,
the idea has its points. It would enable
the natives to demand “liberation,” the
Waterside Workers’ Federation to start
another “liberation” strike and Ward to
issue a grant of independence. Thus Aus-
tralia would have the satisfaction of see-
ing another Utopia set up.
The Commonwealth Government in-
tends to call a conference on coal —the
fiftieth, or perhaps it is only the forty-
ninth—when the session peters out. A
laudable enough intention provided some-
body can be found who ( a ) knows what
coal is or ( b ) has actually seen a bit of it.
There must be some about—under Com-
munist direction the N-S.W. output is
down 1,250,000 tons this year.
Maoriland took a census last week, the
first since 1936—in normal times there
was one every five years. The Common-
wealth went in for a decennial census till
1931 ; in the unwanted craze for economy
that prevailed that year—a year of idiotic
expenditure on sand-shifting and foot-
path-chipping—it was postponed till 1933.
There hasn’t been one since, though there
have been two national registers, which
are not the same thing. There should be
one in 1946 and at least in every succeed-
ing decade, come what may.
“S. M. Herald’s” Mr. Jack Percival,
now in Tokyo, complains that there are
scarcely any British or Australians, ex-
cept correspondents, to be seen there,
although “American advisers, economic
experts and State department officials” are
arriving in droves. Strange, for Mr. Per-
cival’s paper, in common with the other
Sydney dailies, asserted over a month ago
that Beasley and Evatt, by their “resolute
persistence” and “determined stand” in
the teeth of British opposition, had
arranged not only for “Australian dele-
gates to sign the instrument of surrender”
but for 10,000 Diggers to be included in
“the occupation force.” Something must
have gone wrong, and since the British
are “conspicuous by their absence,” they
can’t be held responsible this time.
Sydney Government trams and buses
were run at a loss of £96,800 in 1944-45.
They didn’t get any easy Commonwealth
money. In income-tax receipts, of which
N. S. Wales and Queensland each had a
prodigal distribution, and in grossly ex-
cessive charges for transport and feeding
of servicemen (staple meal, a meat pie
or a sausage with a slice of bread), the
Sydney Government and its Railway De-
partment got loads.
It is alleged that General MacArthur
has “suddenly ceased to be America’s No.
1 hero.” Since he aims at doing his job
in Japan with a relatively small occupy-
ing force, which should be right into the
hands of uniformed men who want to go
home (has anyone ever met bne that
didn’t?) and the people who want them
home, this would be very hard to believe,
even if the press “authorities” quoted
didn’t spoil the story. These “authorities
consist of the N.Y. “Herald Tribune,
which has been anti-MacArthur ever since
he seemed likely to wrest the Republican
nomination for the Presidency from the
“Herald Tribune’s” idol Willkie ; of two
Left Wing newspapers, “P.M.” and the
“Post,” and a Communist magazine, the
“New Masses.” The N.Y. “Daily News,
which is backing MacArthur, has about
three times the circulation of all these
“authorities.”
Hopes that Sydney would remain a base
for Britain’s Pacific Fleet have been
dashed by Admiral Fraser, who said at
Chungking that the “main elements” will
be based at Singapore and “some units”
at Hong Kong. Quite possibly Sydney
would have got a look-in had waterfront
unionism behaved, but, being mainly
Communist-controlled, it couldn’t be-
have. And the leader of the “Labor”
Government “will not join in any crusade
to crucify the workers,” meaning that he
won’t do more than beg them to carry
out their contracts to work short hours
for high wages, action being invoked only
against the cursed capitalist.
Answering Chifley’s pretended fears
that they were too aged to travel, three
members of the High Court Bench, the
eldest not much older and much more
intellectually vigorous than the Minis-
try’s ancient inhabitant, and the others
younger than at least four Ministers,
journeyed to Perth for a series of appeal
cases. In one they upheld a tannery con-
cern’s objection to a tax assessment. In
another they dismissed an appeal against a
direction of State Chief Justice Northmore
that the widow of R. S. Sampson, who
left her £9 a week, should be paid £5OOO
in a lump and £2O a week out of the
residuary estate. R. S. Sampson was a
Westralian M.L.A. for many years,
Minister part of the time,
McKell returned from his travels to
find that the Queensland Government had
beaten him to “liquor reform,” as Labor
understands it, with a measure on which
the minimum of consideration and
second-reading debate was allowed. It
has some pretty good clauses, aimed at
slygroggers, black marketeers and other
undesirables, with or without licences
(cost of licences is to be increased), but
it strikes at tied houses with a feather-
duster. As Attorney-General Gledson put
it, “they are still to be tied in respect of
the beer but not in respect of any other
liquor sold by the brewer as agent for
it.” If anyone imagines that this will
seriously incommode the brewers or
moderate their enthusiasm for buying
pubs it is not Opposition-leader Nicidin,
who drily pointed out that in ten years
Queensland Brewery’s investments in pubs
had grown from £286,400 to £1,641,500
and Castlemaine-Perkins’s from £426,600
to £1,525,800.
A “West Australian” dispatch from
Singapore:
Reports from Java classify the rival
parties into anti-Japanese, pro-Japanese
and pro-Republic. Where the Dutch fit
into this picture is not clear yet.
Still, nobody need be in any doubt as to
where Australia stands. Its policy has
been laid down by the Communist bosses
of wharf-laborers, seamen and the rest,
and, according to Chifley, his Govern-
ment is not going to “scab” on them.
Franco is fortunate in his foes of other
nationalities. At “a Spanish refugee
rally” in New York one of the speakers
was “the acting head of the Soviet
Embassy at Washington,” who “de-
manded that Franco be tried as a war
criminal.” A rather stupid departure from
the Soviet practice of directing opera-
tions from behind the scenes. Another
feature of the proceedings was a speech,
broadcast from London, in which Laski,
after railing at the “dishonest British and
American policy of non-intervention,”
“appealed to the United Nations to aid
the Republicans to overthrow Franco.”
And, with a fling at “an unedifying
mythology like that of a Vatican-spon-
sored king,” the prof, asked “whether
Britain and America are waiting because
they fear the hostility of the Vatican or
because they hope to build up an un-
democratic monarchy symbolised by
King George of Greece.” And all this in
a city where there are more Catholics
than there are in any other city in the
world.
When there is so much real evidence
of German and Jap war crimes, it is a
pity atrocity stories should be overdone
A Jewess, giving evidence at the Belsen
trial, asserted that “more than 4,000,000”
Jews had been done to death at another
concentration camp, Auschwitz. Though
something may be allowed for the feel-
ings and state of mind of the poor thing —
she said five members of her family had
been murdered —“more than 4,000,000”
is “more than” the population of N, S.
Wales and Queensland, and the alleged
destruction of such a number in one
camp outrages probability. And Maori-
land servicemen who figured in atrocity
stories published in Australia were
prompt with denials on arriving in Auck-
land :
Sergeant Peers stated that he was not
unconscious when he had cholera and that
it was not true that he had said he was
being lowered into a grave when he rallied.
Private Brennan was absolutely astounded
at a report that the Japanese Had broken
bis wrists and set them with the hands
facing the wrong way. He denied that he
had made such a statement to any news-
paperman in Australia.
Some of our writing boys are no mean
colorists.
In a comment on Australia, touched
with the irony of which he is a master,
Dean Inge notes that “the Japanese have
given the Australians such a nasty fright
that they may begin to think of filling
their half-empty continent.”
They are preparing to admit about
70,000 a year, and are very sensibly asking
for children who can be trained as good
Australians.
Writing boys are fond of referring to the
critic, who is 85, as “the Gloomy Dean.”
To Bernard Shaw, who differs from him
on many subjects, he is the greatest mind
in the Church of England. As a thinker
and a writer he is certainly streets ahead
of the Communist Dean of Canterbury,
whose prescription for Australians was
the abandonment of North Australia to
the Japanese.
Musings of Beverley Baxter, the Cana-
dian journalist who became a British
M.P.:
The defeat of the Conservative and
the triumph of the Labor party were
largely due to propaganda. Even when
there was an acute paper shortage,
Churchill’s Government gave (Leftist) pub-
lisher Gollancz thousands of tons of news-
print on which to belch his campaign of
slander against the Tories. I wonder if
I were to go now to Sir Stafford Cripps
and ask for huge paper supplies in order
to expose the Socialists whether he would
order the lorries to begin delivery at once.
In Australia, ail Mr. Baxter would have
to do would be to say that he needed
extra supplies for “form guides.”
The American Federation of Labor,
which has 7,000,000 members, has no
part in the “World Trade-union Con-
gress” at which Australia is “repre-
sented” by the Communist Thorn-
ton. This was announced by an
A.F.L. delegate to the T.U.C. con-
ference at Blackpool, the main reason
being that the Congress is dominated
by alleged Russian trade-unions which
are “merely instruments of the State,
actively supporting the Soviet system of
labor blacklists and deportations to com-
pulsory labor camps, with virtual enslave-
ment for millions of workers.” Warm-
ing to his work, the A.F.L. delegate said
“We insist on recognising the so-called
Russian trade-union movement for what
it is—a Government-controlled, Govern-
ment-dominated labor front denying to
Russian workers the basic human free-
dom that we hold to be requisites of free
trade-unionism.”


LOGICAL CONSEQUENCE.
“Supporting the holdups of Dutch mercy ships by Communist-controlled unions, a Sydney Domain meeting, organised by the Labor Council, ‘demanded’ that the United
Nations should recognise ‘the Indonesian Provisional Republic.’ ”
“Me head Arunta P’ visional ’Public. Gibbit bacca, gibbit Gubment, gibbit Australia!”


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Falcon”; There was sometimes a
to be got even in a Jap p.-0.-w.
camp. The prison warder of one
particular hell smashed a barrack-room
chair and a Jap officer went nosing round
to find the culprit. Failing, he gave the
sergeant a thrashing with a horsewhip. The
sergeant turned on a corporal and gave,
that unfortunate a thorough trouncing.
The passing-the-buck process continued
until the most abject of private soldiers
had received a beating. The private,
looking for something on which to work
off his spite, spied a dejected-looking
cart-horse, and walloped the animal with
a huge stick. The horse kicked to pieces
the cart it was pulling. But the incident
was not to end there, for the officer, com-
ing upon the wrecked cart, inquired into
the cause of this new destruction. Un-
able to find the culprit he again turned
savagely on the sergeant, who in turned
severely punished the corporal. It was
at that stage that surrender supervened
and an order came through to release
the prisoners. Otherwise the affair might
still be viciously circling.
“Dixon”: The Australian reputation
for resourcefulness wasn’t dimmed in
prison camps. Australian dental officers
at Changi had no anaesthetics and the
extractions were very painful. Then a
medical officer devised a scheme whereby
the toughest molar could be painlessly
removed. The patient was hypnotised,
and when he came to remembered
nothing of the operation. Dental surgery
was not solely confined to extractions in
the Changi gaol. One ex-inmate dis-
plays a set of dentures improvised out
of raw rubber, sulphur and other stuff.
The owner swears they’re a perfect fit
and says he has no intention of discard-
ing them.
* * * *
“King J.”: Fuzzy-wuzzy has a sense
of humor. When Rabaul fell natives who
worked at the posh hangout, the New
Guinea Club, went bush, following the
south coast to Wide Bay and thence into
the wild hills behind. Thinking they would
be safe from the Japs there (they weren't,
but that’s another story) they set about
making themselves a village which they
christened after the name of their Rabaul
employer. That’s how it comes that on
maps of New Britain today you will find
Nuginiklub. In the middle of last year
Australian Fifth Division forces had
several brisk combats in that vicinity.
HC
“Clootep”: Mcßootle, who lives at the
top of our street, has been making in-
quiries about those electric fences that
keep stock from breaking in or out.
Mcßootle’s missus went off to her sister
in Canberra or Canbelego or some such
place for a fortnight’s holiday and Mac
remained alone in the house, taking his
meals at a near-by suburban restaurant.
On the fifth night after his wife’s depar-
ture Mcßootle was awakened in the early
hours by noises at the side door. Fully
awake, he decided someone was trying
to break in and was about to sneak to the
telephone when the noises ceased.
Mcßootle sank back, relieved, but the
noises began at the back door. Now en-
raged, he armed himself with a half-
brick used as a door-stop, crept through
the house, snatched open the back door
and “crowned” his missus. Yes, she’d got
the chance of a free lift home and taken
it, intending to spend a day and return to
her sister. She spent the day in bed with
a contused scalp. But Mcßootle’s dark
mind still dwells on electric fences, for
he can’t help imagining what would have
happened had he not been alone in the
house,
* * * *
“T. McN.”: The flapper press had
quite a time when a Sydney rqg store
paraded a young woman in the “new
French swim suit.” The minx was assidu-
ously photographed, and sundry citi-
zens were invited to express their
opinions. A couple of days later' two
young females were persuaded to put the
things on and be photographed on a
beach, with accompanying excitement.
Followed, of course, the usual mutterings
from pulpits and council chambers, and
the passing of resolutions by women’s
organisations. It remained for the staid
Melbourne “Age” to cap the lot:
A shop assistant said her grandfather was
looking through a newspaper while in bed
having a cup of tea. When he came across
a picture of the “swim suits” the tea went
all over the bed.
And now a Victorian gentleman in the
censorship line has banned export of the
close-to-the-knuckle photographs.
* * * *
“Pip” on Army moving-days:
The average sqldier’s army career is made
up of periods of frenzied activity followed by
“Come along , miss — that's parachute silk."
long stretches of doing nothing. Typical is a
warning order to vacate a camp. The order
ordinarily produces three days’ panic, followed
by a week in which nothing happens. Just
as things are returning to normal, instructions
come out that everybody must be 500 miles
distant by morning. The task is an obvious
impossibility but somehow it is achieved and
dawn finds the assembly drawn up on parade
in the new location. They all sit tight, then,
for the next three weeks while the local com-
mander decides what is to be done with them.
Staging camps provide the most amazing
organised loaf, with hundreds of fellows doing
nothing for weeks except attend two parades a
day and take an occasional turn in the kitchen.
Then at ten o’clock one night movement comes
out of the blue. Laundry must be whisked off
the line, gambling debts settled, clothing and
equipment packed away. A hot meal is eaten
in five minutes, washed down by a scalding cup
of tea. Blankets are raced back to the “Q”
store, paybooks recovered from the cash office
(movement always happens the night before
pay-day), and documents of various descriptions
obtained from the orderly-room. At midnight
the hot perspiring soldier finds himself on the
high seas, too exhausted to wonder how it all
happened. For the next week he is free, with
the exception of a parade now and then, or
boat drill. Inoculation and pay parades and
all military activities follow the same pattern.
The fighting man is eternally flat to the boards
or flat on his back.
* * * *
“Bray Rock”: Brisbane’s four tugboats,
none of them over 300 tons or under
25 years old, achieved a fine war record.
A fifth, Coringa, with three years of
sub-chasing in the North Sea already to
her credit, 1915-18, went to help Britain
once more in the dark days of 1940, and
was shattered by a bomb which fell down
her funnel at a Liverpool berth. Of the
others. Forceful was away on R.A.N.
duty for 20 months in 1941-43, leaving
only Carlock, Beaver and Fearless to
handle the huge volume of naval and civil
vessels using the Port of Brisbane. The
biggest job was when in October, 1941,
Carlock and Beaver towed a floating dock,
200 ft. long with 40ft. walls, from Bris-
bane to Darwin, 2335 miles, and berthed
it a month later. The biggest ship handled
was the Stirling Castle, 700 ft. and 25,550
tons. For the last three years daily jobs
ran to anything up to 12 vessels, Sundays
and holidays included.
* * V *
“Tiki”: One of those cases where facts
outdo the fantasy of fiction has cropped
up in Auckland, M.L. About three years
ago a woman disappeared in circum-
stances suggesting murder. There was a
prolonged search for her body,'-the police
digging up considerable areas of ground
in various districts, but without result.
Then, just recently, the police received in-
formation that a resident in a lonely part
on the upper reach of the harbor had a
body concealed in a shed. The shed was
visited and in it was found a coffin con-
taining the embalmed body of an elderly
woman. But there had been no murder
and no breach of the law. The husband
of the dead woman desired to erect a
mausoleum to accommodate the remains.
This he was unable to do in war-time,
and the health authorities had given him
permission to retain custody of the body
until such time as he could put his plans
into effect,
“Katie Keyboard”: The name isn’t
really that now any more, but when a
girl’s got a clever hubby you can’t help
asking him to explain things to you out
of the paper like what Mr. Hanlon really
meant when he said in our Parliament in
Brisbane that if the workers are let sit
down while they’re having a drink instead
of standing up at the bar they’ll get titi-
vated by a blonde and their wives
wouldn’t like it. I wouldn’t either, but
Reggie said to look up what titivate really
means, so I looked it up in the dictionary,
and it says “Make smart, smarten one-
self.” It seemed all right to me that
workers should come home smart, but
Reggie says to look up what the Bible
says about smart. I’ve just looked it up,
and it says in The Proverbs: “He that is
surety for a stranger shall smart for it,”
so what Mr. Hanlon meant by titivate
must have been that she’d take him down.
Though why only blondes I don’t know,
because all the worst take-down girls I’ve
come across have been brunettes or red-
heads. When I asked Reggie he only
laughed and said Mr. Hanlon had been
a soldier himself last war, and he’d know
what he was talking about.
* * * *
“Jachris”: As a gesture in celebration
of victory or some such thing Sydney’s
“Herald” announced that it intended to
“bring to its readers regularly new novels
by some of the world’s most famous
authors.” A “spy story,” Sinister Errand,
by the eminent author of Dames Don’t
Care and It Can’t Matter Less, Peter
Cheyney, was slated as first on the list.
Two days later, overcome with the urge
to do some real service for Australian
literature, the other morning sheet, the
“D.T.,” announced that it, too, would
open a series beginning with a novel by
the very famous Mr. Cheyney. It re-
marked a trifle tartly that I’ll Say She
Does is his very latest novel and, unlike
the “Herald’s” Sinister Errand, could not
be familiar to readers “through well-
thumbed} copies in the circulating
libraries.” The jibe stung the “Herald”
into prodding Cheyney’s publishers to
defend Sinister Errand as one of that
very famous gentleman’s “latest and best”
novels. At all events the “D.T,” got its
Cheyney on the streets first. It began
Life can be goddam wonderful. And
how! It can be so beautiful that every
time somethin’ swell happens you don’t
believe it. Some guys call this cynicism,
an’ other bozos describe it as wishful
thinkin’, like the guy who made himself
up like Santa Claus so’s he could put a
ladder in some babe’s stockin’ at Christ-
mas.
Melbourne “Argus” has other, and better,
ideas. It is ottering £5OO for the best
serial written by an Australian, and will
buy all others suitable for publi-
cation at £2 2s. per 1000 words. I’ll
take a shade of odds that “S.M.H.” and
the “D.T,” are not paying their famous
Mr. Cheyney one-fifth of £5OO between
them.
* * * *
“Cix”; Just to bring “G’pa’s” chatty
chronicle of Foy and Gibson (B. 19/9/’45)
up to date, let me add that in June, 1944,
F. and G. acquired a controlling interest
in the Gilpin chain stores, buying the
ords. held by Oliver Gilpin, the founder.
Ninety-four country stores were involved,
29 of them in N.S.W.
* * * *
“Oxmead”: The Army has a rare
facility for mangling the pronunciation
of words. I have a very old dictionary,
with Johnsonian influences strong upon
it, which lays it down that the proper
sounding of “rations” is as if it rhymed
with “quotations” (with which, by the
way, Lewis Carroll does rhyme it), but
that military usage has corrupted it into
“rash’ns.” Then, of course, there is
“colonel,” originally a three-syllabled
word (vide Milton), now converted into
a quite different word. Also “sergeant,”
I imagine, was once sounded as it is
spelled. About “lieutenant” my eighteenth-
century authority is particularly interest-
ing. It says:—
The word is frequently pronounced, even
by good speakers, as if it were written
“livtenanf” or “levtenant.” The proper
sound, as if written “lewtenant,” seems not
so remote from the corruption as to make
us hope that it will in time be revived.
Certainly 1 was brought up, like most
boys of my age, to say “levtenant” or
“leftenant.” But the allusions 1 hear to-
day about “the loot” or “the looey” make
me suspect that my venerable dictionary’s
hope is being realised and a deep-seated
corruption remedied —a rare thing in our
language,
* * * ♦
“Avon”: Rotorua, that interesting but
odoriferous district in M.L., to which
A. P. Herbert gave a rude name that has
stuck ever since, is to be taken in hand
seriously by scientific investigators. Vol-
canologists of international repute have
recommended that an observatory be set
up there to keep watch on thermal and
volcanic activity, and this has been done.
The Director of Geological Surveys, in
whose department this sort of thing finds
a place, says “the harnessing of heat is
contemplated on a scale not hitherto
attempted in this country.” Apparently
Maoriland’s appetite for industrial power,
whetted by hydro-electric development,
requires new worlds to conquer.
WORDS,WORDS, WORDS.
“The only tact that emerges from a multitude of
tyords about the punishment ot Japanese war criminals
is that so tar not one has been arrested. They will
never be punished by eloquence.”— Memies.
“Words are like leaves; and where they most
abound
Much fruit of sense beneath is rarely found.”
A thought that rings as true today as when
It fell from caustic Pope’s prolific pen.
If Ministerial talents we could gauge
By mere capacity for verbiage
Unbacked by action, say, wfiat long and loud
Tributes we’d pay to Chitley and his crowd,
Whose remedy tor all complaints and girds
Begins and mostly finishes with words.
Patter —you’d hardly call it eloquence—
Employed to cloak deficiency of sense
May doubtless have its uses to delay,
But never to avert, the evil day
When people will be asking if it’s true
There’s nothing that authority can do
In answer to imperative demands
Except to wag it's chin and wring its hands,
And disappear, like hunted ships at sea,
Beneath a smoke-screen of verbosity.
It’s much the same whichever way you look,
Whether it’s bringing crime-stained Japs to
book,
Or squelching strikes from day to day that
mount
By calling the promoters to account,
Or letting laws themselves have helped to frame
Be opemy defied —it’s much the same.
Coaxing or threats are all their creed enacts;
But both are futile when they jib at acts.
How can their term endure, their rule impress,
Whose main accomplishment is wordiness?
N-S.W.
MIDFORD.
A DISILLUSIONING PROCESS.
“It cannot be claimed that the broadcasting of
Parliamentary debates has done anything to enhance
the regard of electorates for their members.”
— M.L, report.
When Parliament goes on the air
The land at large is like to get
A view thereof more full and fair
Than any that’s been glimpsed at yet.
This doctored stuff grows out of date;
Twill be a change to have, instead
Of what a speaker sought to state,
That which he actually said.
We’ll know what really happens there
When Parliament goes on the air.
When Parliament comes on the air
Debates will be a diff’rent thing,
Straight from the horse’s mouth, as ’twere,
From those we’ve been considering.
The “hems” and “haws,” the “ers” and “aws,
The gibes that finer feelings shock.
The snorts and snarls, the loud guffaws
That indicate the empty block,
There’ll be in plenty and to spare
When Parliament comes on the air.
When Parliament goes on the' air,
What of the pressmen. quick to seize
On grammar that requires repair
And deftly mend its broken knees?
What of the watchful “Hansard” birds
Who cross the t's and dot the i’s,
Converting chunks of whirling words
Into intelligible guise? .
At least ’twill lighten half their care
When Parliament goes on the air.
When Parliament is on the air
And Tweedledum and Tweedledee
Have every careless word laid bare
With merciless fidelity,
I’ll hazard that the sudden shock
Disclosures such as these produce
May boost a legislator’s stock
But just as often cook his goose.
Yet clearly that’s its own affair
When Parliament is on the air.
n.s.w.
T. THE R.


“Hibiscus”: I was giving a scripture
lesson at a public school in a mining
community and endeavoring to instil into
juvenile minds the need for respect. I
showed why the doctor, the banker, the
schoolmaster and others to the fore in
public life should be respected. Then I
asked “What am 1?” expecting the answer
“clergyman,” “minister” or “rector.” An
eight-year-old lass shot up her hand.
“Well?” said I. Her response was a facer.
“Please, sir, Daddy says you’re a bloody
parasite.” I couldn’t blame the child, who
intended no discourtesy. The adjective
was common in her daily life, and
she didn’t know what parasite meant. But
worse was to come. I told my bishop the
story at a clerical gathering. He wasn’t
a bit shocked. “Perhaps she was right,
Rector, perhaps she was right,” was his
only comment.
• * ♦ *
“Nakhoda”; If I were dictator in any
country suffering from a food shortage
I would give the job of food-controller to
a Chinese cook—one from Little Bourke
would do. The Chinese are the most
scientific cooks in the world. They fry
and cook very quickly, use very little
water and every bit of a vegetable, em-
ploying in salads things we would
hesitate to give to cows but often
more nutritious and more tasty than the
forced products of commercial market-
gardens. The meat in a Chinese kitchen
is cut into small pieces so that it cooks
quickly, and every part of it is permeated
by the sauce or oil it is cooked in. Various
parts of a chicken are cooked in different
ways so that nothing is wasted and more
dishes are provided. A Chinese cook
will tell you that some of the parts of a
joint we throw away contain the best
flavor. The Chinese meal is better
balanced than the European, and the pro-
portion of meat to other ingredients is
smaller. Englishmen normally consume
1401 b. of meat annually against the 401 b.
the average Chinese gets round; yet
Chinese, in their own country, look just
as healthy and well - nourished as
Europeans.
* * ♦ *
“Horseless Horseman”: Saw an awe-
inspiring sight on August 22 when
Manam, that picturesque mountain-top
island and active volcano off the n.e.
coast of New Guinea, put on a turn. As
we approached the Fujiyama-like peak,
instead of the usual bluish wisp of smoke
curling from its top there belched forth
increasing columns of thick black smoke,
as though the fires below were being
flashed up. By dusk, when we were five
miles off, the crater was exerting full
boiler pressure, with a continuous crim-
son red flame, rising intermittently to
1500 ft.; the mountain top, for that dis-
tance down, glowed a dull red ; and three
rivers of pink molten lava streamed down
the slopes, setting fire to the bush before
entering the sea in clouds of steam. To
leeward a terrific pall of smoke was being
carried away by the sou-’east trade. Then
huge “bricks” began to be hurled out with
“I TOLD you not to use blood and bone .”
the flame; molten red, some of these
hit the sea and went off like a flash
of lightning. We altered course. Next
morning the vessel was coated with fine
pumice, and that soot followed us for
150 miles north. All was quiet when a
week later we returned and anchored at
Manam. The five thousand dusky in-
habitants on the 24-mile-circumference
isle were little perturbed by the ordeal.
The volcano goes up every few years or
so, they explained. Moreover “this fella
time” it didn’t destroy many gardens, or
envelop by night a complete village and
its 400 dwellers with molten lava, as it
did on one occasion during the old Ger-
man regime.
“Petermac”: I hadn’t seen Harry, a
five-year veteran, for years, so after much
chiacking and handshaking our course
veered towards a pub. We ran into some
more of Harry’s battalion and they joined
us. When we reached the pub I made for
the public bar, but Harry’s lean, brown
hand arrested me. “Not in there,” he said.
I eyed him questioning!y. “Look,” he said
vehemently, “in every other country I’ve
been to a man’s been able to sit down
and enjoy a drink in comfort and if you
think we’re going to stand and push like
pigs at a trough” His mates growled
approval, so we went up to the lounge.
Further discussion elicited the fact that
he and his mates and a lot of other re-
turned servicemen were determined never
to do any more vertical drinking. That’s
what war’s done to them —given them
delusions of grandeur. Next they’ll be
expecting to drink at unearthly hours like
7 or 8 p.m.!
* * * *
“R.A.J.”; This is the time to substitute
the 24-hour clock for the clumsy method
that necessitates a.m. and p.m. qualifica-
tions. In war-time servicemen and ser-
vicewomen and thousands of civilians
have become familiar with the method of
indicating time by four figures only—
-0845, 1400 and so on—and it wouldn’t
take long for the rest of the community to
get accustomed to it. New time-tables
will soon be needed for all forms of
transport. Why not make them clearer
and less bulky by adopting this system
of notation? Watches and clocks have
been virtually off the market in war-time.
There will never be a better time to
change them to the 24-hour system, if
any change is necessary beyond a double
row of figures. We tell the time by a
glance at the position of the hands, not
by perusing the figures, and anyone with
an old-style watch would soon learn to
read 5 p.m. as 1700 hours.
* * * *
“Sans Changer”: It’s a wonder that
lottery-addicted Australia hasn’t yet had
something on the lines of the football
betting pools that operate in England.
They were started during 1922 by J. J.
Barnard, a Midlands businessman. For
weeks they failed to interest, and Barnard
was advised to cut his losses. But gradu-
ally the number of mailbags dumped in
his office increased, and within 15 years
his original staff of three had increased
to many thousands. It was estimated that
the 60 similar concerns that followed his
lead employed among them more than
30,000 people. In the early days a jobbing
printer ran off Barnard’s slips within an
hour. When he sold out rotary printing
presses were working 24 hours a day to
produce between eight and ten million
coupons per week. The public was in-
duced to “invest” £40,000,000 in a 36-
week soccer season. This increased to
£50,000,000 just prior to the war, more
than 200 sorters, drivers and postmen hav-
ing to be maintained to deal with the
letters. It was estimated that 2.9 p.c. of the
total post-office revenue was derived from
the football pool transactions. All classes
were caught in the net. A peer won
£lOOO. An East End Londoner “invested”
sixpence and won £30,780 —a record. A
North London laundress won <£27,000,
ironed out a handkerchief and left the
laundry for ever.
* * * *
“Listening Insect”: I can’t share the
enthusiasm of A.B.C.’s Mr. Boyer for the
amazing industry of the M.L. National
Broadcasting Service in collecting tens of
thousands of discs of every type of broad-
cast from all parts of the world, including
a speech by an Egyptian Premier, for
the benefit of posterity. This precious
library is said to contain 30,000 discs
already, and it only started with the war.
Of what use is it? How many people'
will care a hundred years hence what an
Egyptian Premier said in 1942 or what
Mr. Attlee said in 1945? Nobody is
interested in what the politicians and
generals said during the Graeco-Persian
wars, the Punic wars, the War of the
Spanish Succession or even the Boer War.
“I'm thinking of buying him. Give him the once-over, will you?”
But everybody would be interested in
hearing Cicero speak or in listening to
music made by Franz Schubert. Uhfor-
tunately, the Schuberts and the Ciceros,
if there are any nowadays, don’t get put
on the air.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: The report that a p.-0.-w.
who escaped from Penang has been living
amongst the Sakai interests me. These
• people inhabit the mountainous spine of
the Peninsula and are pagans, though they
practise circumcision they acquired
that habit when they were the slaves
of a Malay rajah. Their currency
is spears, and they have a compli-
cated system of rewards and punish-
ments. A fine of 66 spears is imposed
for murder, 160 for incest and six for
feminine infidelity. Their houses are
lean-tos, and this is just as well, because
if a member of the tribe dies the village
is vacated and another erected elsewhere
to avoid his evil spirit. Another thing
that makes the Sakai semi-nomadic is
that their diet is mainly wild animals and
wild tubers, and when these are exhausted
they move on to another district. They
are stocky, powerful, gentle creatures who
have painful memories of the Malays and
hate them, but have no reason to hate Ihe
white man. When I was in the hilly
island an Englishman used to exchange
the amenities of the Penang Club for the
company of the Sakai when he became
bored with civilised existence.
* * * ♦
“Lord Luvus”: The Rev. J. Arthur
Lewis, a Melbourne parson, has incurred
obloquy by denouncing “Rule Britannia”
on the ground that the phraseology of the
patriotic ditty is absurd in the light of
modern conditions. He contends that
Britannia cannot logically claim to rule
the waves when she is a party, to a world
security organisation, and that “pride of
race” is in dangerous competition with
scientific achievement in the shape of the
atomic bomb. The words of the song
ceased to impress me just as soon as I
was taught (in my schooldays) a parody
which ended:
Britons never, never, never shall be
Marri-ed to a merma-id
At the bottom of the deep blue sea.
The ending was sometimes changed to “No
more Chinamen Allowed in New South
Wales.”
* ♦ * *
“Bo”: The two city girls holidaying
at the guesthouse had hired a sulky. The
lass who, after a long session of giggling
preliminaries, essayed to drive, handled
the reins much as a bishop might a
couple of sticks of gelignite. When
it became evident that Biddy was
content to jog along sleepily they
began to laugh at their early fears
and, greatly daring, decided to go
into the township. As they were
approaching the main street by a side
road a circus cavalcade, on its way to
the common to set up its stand for a
one-night show, hove in sight. It was
led by a huge caparisoned elephant, and
at sight of the apparition the sulky mare
went down in a heap. The girls scrambled
to earth and regarded their fallen motive
power in utter bewilderment. Then one
of them took off her cardigan, nervously
approached Biddy’s head and began to
fan her. After about a minute of this
unsuccessful treatment one of the circus
hands, who had seen the recumbent
moke, came along. “That won’t do any
good, miss,” he said, as he approached.
“I didn’t think it would,” broke in the
other girl agitatedly. “I should say the
thing to do,” she went on, pointing to
the mare’s harness, “would be to give
her more air by undoing those corset
things!”
* * * *
“E.R.S.”: It does not need the words
of a fortune-teller to start a sub-conscious
struggle in the mind, “Pawang” (B.
12/9/ ’45). We do it ourselves. How
often do we say “ I must do this or I
mustn’t do that,” and how often do we
fail to carry out our own conscious direc-
tions? In the small things, when the
conscious desire is not strong enough to
prevail, it happens to most of us almost
every day. The most obvious case I ever
saw occurred on Summerland Jetty,
Phillip Island (Vic.), which was in a bad
state of repair. A visitor, pointing to a
gaping hole in the decking, said to a
friend “A man will have to be careful
not to put his foot in that.” Thirty
seconds later he put his foot in it and
scratched the skin off his leg from ankle
to thigh. As “Pawang” says, psycholo-
gists can explain how these things happen,
but they t cannot tell us why the result is
so often contrary to our conscious desires.
If they could we might be able to reduce
the number of delinquents in the com-
munity.
» * * *
“Hackshaw”: “Arter” asks (B.
12/9 / ’45) whether the Modernists
shouldn’t call themselves Ancientists. In
a sense they should, since a lot of their
inspiration came from the Congo, ancient
Egypt and early Italian masters like
Uccello. Japanese art was a potent influ-
ence in Europe in the 19th century. It
is the way modernists interpret the work
of these old artists, however, which is
important. Most of them have misunder-
stood it. Uccello was a fashionable old
master in Paris 25 years ago, so the Mel-
bourne National Gallery’s recent purchase
is quite logical, since Australian modes
in art are generally 25 years behind
Europe. It can be confidently expected
that the arrival of the £15,000 picture
will be followed in Australia by an out-
break of profile portraits all looking the
same way. After a while it will occur to
some bright young genius to paint a pro-
file portrait showing both eyes, ears and
nostrils which wiU win the Archibald
Prize for 1960. In 1961 a group of tra-
ditional artists headed by William Dobell
will issue a writ challenging the trustees’
judgment, the young artist will become
jfamous, and in 1962 will get a commis-
sion to paint the Governor-General,
♦ * ♦ *
“Barty”: “Macedonian’s” reference
(B. 4/7/’45) to three men of H.M.S.
Euryalus winning the V.C. in Japan re-
calls that one of them. Midshipman
Duncan Gordon Boyes, lies buried in
Dunedin (M.L.). He retired from the
Navy shortly after his exploit, went to
Maoriland in search of health and joined
his brother, C. C. Boyes, in partnership
in a sheep station at Kawarau Falls, Cen-
tral Otago, but did not long survive.
Years later attention was called to
neglect of his grave. Dunedin City Coun-
cil put the grave in order and placed it
upon the perpetual-upkeep list.
• * * *
“Craiser”: The latest scientific marvel
from U.S. is the discovery by the Illinois
University College of Dentistry, made by
X-ray study, that the facial characteristics
of a four-days’ old baby will have when
it grows up can be predicted, the skeletal
framework of a baby’s head at birth re-
maining virtually unchanged throughout
life. Possibly true, but not very im-
portant. It is what is built on the bony
structure that denotes character, and that
varies in individuals as much as the
architecture of a Doric temple does from
the Woolworth building. The nobility of
the face of a Rembrandt or a Beethoven
could no more be predicted from the evi-
dence of its skeletal framework as a baby
than could the bestiality of a Deeming,
Difference in facial characteristics can
only be accounted for by difference in
mental habits.


ABORIGNALITIES
' “Old-timer”: After they’d been a fort-
night in their scrub-cutting camp at You-
youl, Henderson and Irish felt the call of
the town, harnessed up Sandy in the sulky
and departed therefor. After they’d been
several hours in the town, the hour being
near midnight, their » spending money
exhausted and themselves somewhat
mellow, they reharnessed Sandy for the
return journey. But a white river fog
had come and obliterated everything.
Irish was for waiting until morning, since
they weren’t familiar with the road,
but Henderson beerily asserted that once
along a road was good enough for him
and he’d been twice along this one.
“ ’Sides,” he added, “there’sh only the
road, no turn-olfs, ’rennythin’, an’ there’sh
nine bridges. All we gorrer do is count
the bridges an’ turn in the firsh gate on
the left past ’the larsh one.” He won.
“One,” announced Henderson, trium-
phantly, as the sulky wheels rattled across
bridge planks. “Two,” “Three,” he
added at intervals. About then drowsi-
ness took command. Sandy plodded on,
crossing bridges, ever heading north-east
through the blanketing fog. Irish and
Henderson dozed. Later, as the wheels
rattled again on planking, Henderson
started, fully awake. “Four,” he cried.
Irish stirred. “Four, me foot,” he growled;
“you went t’ sleep before me an’ I’d got
t’ eleven before I dropped off.” Grey
light filtered through the fog ; the tired
horse dropped to a walk. Henderson,
sour with the dawn and the beer of the
night before, stopped him. “Look,” he
said, “this flamin’ neddy come from Nor-
rong. I bet he’s bin makin’ back there
all night, an’ it’s forty-three miles the
other side of the town!” And cold,
hungry and miserable, they sat there and
looked at each other, realising that Sandy
was done and they were probably fifty
miles from home. “By cripes,” said Irish
bitterly, “it’s just as well for the Jews
Moses was leadin’ ’em instead of you.’'
* * *
“Naturala”: Those snakes of “Fang’s”
(B. 29/8/’45) that held on to their in-
tended meals even to the death did so
from sheer inability to let go. The snake
is able to swallow an animal or an object
quite three times the size of its own head
because of the peculiar structure of its
jaw-hinges. In the human and all other
bony-jawed creatures the jaws work on
hinges, bone against bone; but with the
serpent the butts of the jaws are loosely
connected by a set of elastic muscles,
which permit disclocation and the passage
of an oversize meal, yet return the jaws
to normal position immediately after.
Also the teeth of the serpent, poisonous
or otherwise, are inclined inward to a
more or less slight degree. So between
this inward grip of the teeth and the dis-
location of the jaws the meal can only
travel the one way, downwards. And
not even a convulsion can enable a snake
to “spit” an oversize frog out.
& * * ±
“Zake”: The drowsy midday stillness
of Swingletree’s only street was suddenly
broken by a brace of angry voices. Jim
Barton’s dog had been insulted, so
James had pushed his nose to within an
inch of the bugle of the insulter, Tim
Leighton, and wanted to know what the
so-and-so he meant by talking about his
dorg like that. Several times in the next
ten minutes it seemed that they were on
the point of coming to blows, and their
collective blood-pressure count must have
been close on 500. The contestants
drifted into the bar of Ryan’s Commer-
cial, where the argument alternately
flared up and died away, and later it
reached new heights of violence under
the peppercorn on the footpath. Still
later two women became engaged in an
all-in eye-gouging, shin-kicking and hair-
pulling contest in the middle of the
street. It was Mrs. Jim and Mrs. Tim,
and their spouses were dancing around
on the outskirts of the joyous crowd of
onlookers, urging their helpmeets on.
“What’s the stoush over?” someone
asked Jim. He looked scornfully at the
questioner and said: “Dorgs, o’ course.
She can’t stand seein’ a job that ain’t
finished!”
* * * *
“Blime”; It was blowing a gale, and,
on his way to pick up a bunch of steers
at a one-horse town, Paddy stopped at
a roadside camp to check his bearings.
“Hey!” he bellowed to a bloke outside a
camp across a small swamp, “where’s
Muddy Dell? This the right way?” The
cove took a squint at his watch. “Three
o’clock,” he bawled back. “No ; Muddy
Dell,” repeated Paddy, cupping a fist
round his north-and-south and bellowing
into the wind. “This the right way?”
“I Tell y’ it’s three o’clock,” came the
answer once more. Paddy heaved a sigh,
shook his head vigorously, then pointed
“There goes that damned bull again just when I Was dozing off.”
his whip-handle at the road ahead.
“Muddy Dell ” he yelled in a supreme
effort. “Ain’t it Muddy Dell ?” The cove
gave a sickly grin. “Too bloomin’ right
it is,” he agreed emphatically. “An’ it
ain’t let up for a solid week neither.”
Paddy flapped a mitt, leaned over in the
saddle and tried again for the right way.
The- camper began to lose patience, but
presently, getting a brain-wave, he held
up three fingers and pointed to each in
turn. Then, as Paddy shrugged help-
lessly, the camper turned towards the tent.
“Y’ there. Bill?” he called irritably.
“Come an’ tell this flamin’ nuisance the
time o’ day, will y’? The cow’s stone-
deaf.”
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Northern New
Guinea has no, indigenous quinine bark,
but the natives have a medicine of their
own for treating malaria. It’s simply a
slatey-grey dirt, known as siwua, obtained
from a steamy hot creek bank, two days’
walk-in from Cape Gourdon. A bite
or two of it—so an old planter of 27
years’ local residence assures me —cures
fever in an hour or so, and proof of its
worth is that the local tribe live by dry-
ing the medicine ground in bamboos and
trading the cubes of it to district natives.
Moreover, unless a Kanaka has more
than one cube, he won’t part with any.
It tastes like carbide, and, I suspect, has
an aspirin content. However, except for
this planter, who once tried to buy the
land to commercialise the “ground,” no
one has examined the stuff. But what gets
me is how those coons centuries ago first
go the idea of “kai-kaiing” that soil.
* * * *
“Lower Top’sl”: New Guinea coastal
boongs still retain some cruel customs.
Landing at a village north of Madang
recently I noticed several comical-looking
domestic fowls prowling about. They
had no feathers at all except for two
sticking out of their tails, two from each
wing and a white collar around their
necks; the rest of their bodies was sun-
reddened skin. Pointing to one,
a boong “What name something?” He
explained that all the village fowls had
been plucked so in accordance with the
ritual of a “big fella sing-sing” held a
few days back.
*** * i
“B. A. Ker”: An efficient housing pro-
ject just completed in this locality has
earned my deepest admiration. With-
out the help—or hindrance —of union
reps., white-collar men, no-collar men,
loafers, politicians, deadheads or red-
tape worms, the two artisans worked
to no plan and specifications, held no
permits and made no applications to com-
missions. Using the most primitive of
methods, they performed miracles of
transportation in bringing the building
material to the site, as well as fixing it in
its position. Despite the fact that the first
two days’ work had to be forfeited —
apparently because the initial site was
found to be unsatisfactory —the completed
job, neat, solidly-constructed and fault-
less in workmanship, was ready for occu-
pation within ten days. The builders have
finished the toughest part of their job ;
but mine is just beginning. I’ve got to
convince a sceptical wife that this pair of
swallows will not “make an unholy mess
on the verandah, walls and floor,” and,
anyway, it is courting bad luck to pull
down a swallow’s nest.
* * * *
“G.W.T.”: The “powerful dye” re-
ferred to by “B. A. Ker” (B. 22/8 / ’45)
does not exist in Australian hardwoods.
The blue color produced by throwing the
branch into a waterhole is the character-
istic reaction between tannin and iron
salts to any particular wood. Appar-
ently iron was present in the water. The
iron-tannin reaction is well known to
tanners, which is the reason why all
metal objects which come into contact
with tan liquors or wet leather are made
of brass. Before coal-tar dyes were avail-
able the reaction between a dyewood
tannin and iron sulphate was used to pro-
duce a blue-black stain on leather. It is
also the basis of blue-black inks. Hard-
wood stain will yield to this recipe. Place
a few Condy’s crystals in the palm of
the hand, moisten with water and rub
well in stained parts. A final treatment
with sodium bisulphite moistened with
water will finish the job.
* * * *
“Bad- Australian”: When I was a
nipper manna gums were not regarded
as essential food for koalas (B, 12/9/’45),
the bears finding redgum and swamp-
gum equally palatable. I have seen
bears on box country, but never on iron-
bark, stringybark or the big timber of
the southern ranges and tablelands, which
mostly runs to large peppermint, black-
butt, mountain ash and messmate. Small
grassy patches, timbered with a stunted
eucalypt resembling swamp-gum, occurred 11
at intervals throughout these great
forests, and although not a single bear
could be found in the surrounding forest
there was no lack of them on the small
gums.
» * * *
“Wonk”: Jerry and Ted batched
within half a mile of each other, and took
turn about making the weekly trip in
for mail and supplies. It was Ted’s turn,
and Jerry called over to collect his be-
longings. “Gripes,” he exclaimed, sur-
veying them, “it’s a wonder there ain’t
been a bundle o’ new traps f’r me before
this.” “Traps?” Ted broke in. “Oh, I
remember now —they come coupla weeks
back, an’ I set ’em round me crop. Knew
y’ wouldn’t mind. I’ve lorst a couple, but
y’ can have the rest back soon’s I catch
them stray rabbits.” Jerry said nothing.
Passing on his way to town the follow-
ing week, he was hailed by his neighbor.
“Hey, Jerry, ask old George for a parcel
f’r me, will y’? It’s some med’cine ’e’s
gettin’ me ; been a bit crook lately. An’,
if y’ don’t mind, shove it in on me table
in case I don’t get home t’night.”
“Right.” Returning from his job about
midday the following day, Ted stopped
to stare in wonder at the very small
parcel on the table of his hut. With a
puzzled scowl he tore open the paper.
There were three bottle tops, a cork and
an empty aspro bottle.
* * * *
“Edjudina”: The dead cow in a corner
of Noonan’s paddock had been there a
couple of days, so when I came on the
owner driving four long stakes in a
rectangle around the cadaver I wondered
for a while whether the heat hadn’t had
some effect on him. But there was
method in his madness ; across the top of
the stakes and well out around the corpse
he stretched an 18ft. square of the thin-
nest of canvas scrim. The edges he then
pegged down carefully with long wire
staples, covering the selvage with earth. So
he explained, the trap was set. Already the
air had been humming with the buzziness
of several thousand blowflies, but they
were only the vanguard of the millions
that began to arrive. The flies could
see the carcass through the perforations
in the scrim, but were unable to get close
enough to deposit the potential families
with which every one was crammed.
And once arrived, they were unable to
depart; the evil odor held them slaves to
instinct. So they were held in the
vicinity until they died, countless mil-
lions of them, in places a foot deep. As
a finale Noonan one day arrived with a
drayload of scrub ; removed the canvas,
raked everything into one charnel heap,
tossed on the scrub and applied a match.
Blowies were notably less around his
holding for the rest of the season.
* *
“Billy See”: Having read for 50 years
of the toilworn hopeless cocky, racked
by drought, fire, flood and every possible
misfortune, and his equally worn wife,
prematurely grey, all traces of early
beauty lost —which couple form the
theme for at least three-fifths of Austra-
lian fiction —I contemplate writing (in
revolt) of a fine fat farmer. Arriving
back from war No. 1, he invested his de-
ferred pay and gratuity in a block of
land. He cleared it in between doing con-
tracts for neighbors, planted a few hun-
dred acres and took off a good crop which
sold at a high price, enabling him tc
clear and plant further acres until all his
machinery was debt-free. Thereupon he
married a charming girl, who became the
secretary of the Shire Women’s Club; he
bought a fine car and built a six-room
bungalow, with lawns and garden, all
watered with sprinklers attached to pipes
of a Government water supply which
served him and neighbors for miles
around. Electric light he had and the
’phone, and pigs, cows, sheep, hens,
turkeys and many horses. And when
January arrived and the heat became
severe for women and children on the
wheat country it was his custom to put
wife and four offspring into the sedan
and drive them 140 miles to the seaside,
where Mum and the kids enjoyed them-
selves until the worst of the summer was
over, Now, won’t that be nice fiction?
But it just happens to be true. For years
I rented him the cottage; now he has
bought a seaside place for himself.
* * * *
“C.E.”: Mick hitched his nag and
wandered into the pub dining-room. “Got
t’ have dinner in town t’day,” he greeted
Mrs. Bung. “Can y’ fix us up with some-
thin’? Anything’ll do.” “All right;
what about hot roast mutton,” she sug-
gested ; then, at Mick’s frown, “or would
you rather a fried chop?” “Not mutton,
if y’ don’t mind,” explained Mick. “I’m
sick o’ the stuff.” “Well, there’s tripe and
onions,” she went on, “or I could give
you -pork sausages.” Mick made a
grimace of distaste, and Mrs. Bung grew
thoughtful. “Let’s see now. What about
fried eggs and bacon, or —why, yes,” she
remembered, “there’s half a rabbit pie.
Would you like that?” “Rabbit? D’you
say rabbit? Cripes, break it down,
missus ; a man ain’t come t’ that, surely.
Now, haye y’ got a bit o’ ham an’ a hunk
o’ turkey? That is, if the turkey’s cooked
right, mind y’. I wouldn’t say thankyer
for the way most wimmin cook poultry.”
Mrs. B. shook her head. “Cripes, well,
ain’t y’ got a decent bit o’ rump?” Mick
went on. “’Bout a inch thick, with a
wide fringe, an’ grilled slow. Tell y’
what, you send down to old ‘Greasy’
f’r a bit, an’ I’ll wait. Tell him t’ make
it undercut, and he can take it off what
beast he likes. I don’t care, I ain’t one
o’ them fussy blokes. Fact, I’m alwus
tellin’ me missus she don’t know she’s
alive, me bein’ about the easiest bloke
in the world to cook for.”
SPRIN GSCAPE.
Bearded as rye comes dark deceiver cuckoo
To haunt the lovely theatres of September
With notes like dead Caruso's shower of gold
That thaw the stubborn snows, and warm with
ember
Of opal every stone. Released from cold.
The leaves of wild geraniums stir, and grant
The earth such fragrance that a roving ant
Seeks there for sugar-bag; his dark feet ripple
The furry stems; his dreams are locked in
honey.
Back in July the creek, a hopeless cripple,
Limped on ice crutches; now it runs on sunny
Bare boyish feet to where the parent river
Flashes a silver bow and shakes a quiver
Of arrow reeds. The blue-vine builds its heaven
Of arching sapphire on the shifting brittle
Quicksands of bracken. Now the clustered
seven
Green hut's of hills are clamorous with little
Stringed instruments of insects —cricket fiddle,
Bee banjo, guitar of dragonfly;
Dark beetle ’cello muttering from the middle
Of thorny snakebush; and, thin and high,
The mandolins of gnats. And now the rearing
Ridge like a b'rumby rises, bridled, saddled
With wattle blossom; mist from the nostrils
flaring
Curls out and dims the flame-fleshed rider
straddled.
White on the russet heatli the young lambs
tinkle
Their little anxious bells, and ewes reply
With deeper chiming where the grasses crinkle
To light and shadow as the wind rocks by.
TASMANIA.
NORMA L. DAVIS.


“It’s this Wet Weather, doc. —Tin getting barnacles .”
“Sol”: Simon had been to a good deal
of trouble getting together his bunch of
Herefords, and the stock agent, seeing
them for the first time, stopped to ad-
mire. “Gripes, they’re good stuff,” he
said. “Look at that for size! Want to
sell ’em?” The old bloke was sure he
didn’t, and the bullocks continued on
the river flats throughout the summer.
Autumn came in badly, and while other
stock lost condition the big Herefords, on
their irrigated pastures, grew fatter than
ever. “You’d better sell that bunch,” the
agent advised Simon. “I can get you 25
quid a head.” Again the old chap de-
clined. Followed another three months
of drought and soaring prices ; then once
more the agent returned. “Look here,
Simon,” he pointed out, “those bullocks
can’t get any better, and the price is a
record. Why don’t you sell?” The old
cove slowly removed his pipe. “Bill,” he
replied solemnly, “when things go sort o’
flat the parson goes off to his church,
don’t he? The music-lover hops out to
a recital, the reader buys a new book,
blokes like Sandy go on a bender, an’
them city workers all go an’ look at a
show or somethin’. They got to, some-
how, An’ me? Well, Igo out an’ look
at them there cattle!”
* * * *
“Wippegong”: Have always associated
larks with grasslands, and Asian
wanderings only confirm the habit.
Among the paddy-fields of Bengal we
hardly ever saw them, but once into the
Irriwaddy Valley their song greeted the
sun in the old familiar way. Crested
larks these were, and not unlike our
Horsefield bush lark ; they had the same
trick of repeating set cadences, of singing
in short circles, of the sudden, stonelike
drop to earth. These birds were with us
right down the Arakan, but there they
were joined by another, smaller still and
darker; with a pleasant trill and jerky
movements that recalled rather the little
grass-warbler than the larks at home—
yet he was a lark all right. But it was
in the tablelands of the northern Shan
Hills and Yunnan that these cheery fowl
were at their best. Both the smaller ones
were there in greater numbers and were
joined by a large fellow which, if he
wasn’t identical with the English skylark,
was so close that it didn’t matter. To-
gether they brightened the day consider-
ably, and the little chaps even had our
bush lark’s trick of going up on clear,
moonlit nights ; but as a choir the brown.
rufous and Horsefield larks, all aloft to-
. . . vr c u;
8 ~ sr in a spring morning on the N..b.W.
Southern Tablelands, could give them
many points’ start and a beating.
» * * *
“Esk D.”: A good deal of my summer
~.: ? . f
leisure is spent in separating trout from
their pools in mo’untain streams, and
“Naturala” (B. 12/9/’45) may be inter-
-651311 >° kal ™ lhe y S P°! an intr “ de ,;
a P to 50 yards from the water, or about
the same distance from which they can
be seen in open, crystal-clear pools. The
angler’s advantage lies in the fish always
, ■ ... . , ° . „„„
lying with heads upstream, though a care-
ful approach from down-current is neces-
sary at times to get within casting dis-
*ance
". . . . . . ,
“rVppl” • Hnp ficb Hmt isn’t dofirient
. • Ul } e 1 de j) c . ienl
i n eyesight under atmospheric conditions
(B. -15/9/’45) is Periophthalmus argentni-
neatus, the weird mangrove-fish of N.Q.
Tt , h , k . bulbous and
118 e y es » lar B e ’, DlacK ana D jr° OUS . an .
set close together on top or the head,
can be retracted or protruded at will, and
w hile they give the freak a ludicrous
ormparnnoo thp rwkrnnir oranns enable
appearance, the penscopic organs ena
the fish to see in all directions. Ihe
creature is always on the alert when
ashore, with its eyes stuck out. to the
fullest extent, and it is virtually impossible
to g e t c j o se enough to catch a fish by
hand. At the approach of danger it pops
out of s i g ht in a flash, either back into
the sea or down the nearest crab burrow,
p argentilineatus, which grows up to ten
inches, spends most of its time out of the
W ater. The fish breathes through its tail,
while the cavity containing the gills is
exceptionally large, the extra space being
fi n ed with a ir, so that the gill-chamber is
really a primitive kind of lung,
* * * *
“X.E.D.”: A much-played yodelling
number has a doleful story of a cowboy
who parts with his faithful old dog by
shooting him. The hound had at one time
saved the ear-punisher’s life—why is not
stated—and was put beyond the misery
and uselessness of old age. I’ve seen
the stricken look of more than one man,
prevailed on by sympathy and common-
sense to go forth to perform this last
office for a suffering mate, but in all my
wanderings I’ve yet to meet the sort of
cove who’d make a song about it.
* * * *
“Munja”: Binghi can draw the human
form (B. 15/8/’45). In two galleries of
rock paintings in the nor’-west Kimberleys
are drawings of the human figure depicted
with startling realism, particularly the
f ema l e figures. All are mouthless; noth-
j n g e j se [ s i e ft to the imagination. Called
“wondjina” by the natives, the figures
are a ssociated with rain. To ensure a
normal wet season Binghi will sometimes
re touch them with ochre and charcoal,
-po secure an increase of babies and a
plentiful supply of wild plums the same
method is used. Walcott Inlet natives
de ny painting the “wondjina,” and say
th e y “made themselves,” Asked why the
figures have no mouths the reply was “It
can ’t be done.” However, Spencer and
Gillen in 1912 published reproductions of
charcoal drawings discovered by them in
a shallow cave at Ayer’s Rock (Central
Australia). Among drawings of lizards,
human hands, etc., were a series of human
heads. The mouths were clearly depicted.
* * * *
“Notaden”: The Willy Wagtail who
owns this particular mountain area has
been having a troublesome time driving
off trespassing eagles. Every fine morn-
ing a pair of sea-eagles float effortlessly
past, soaring like great butterflies high
above the forested slopes which fall away
from the cliff-base to the sea, two miles
away. Undeterred by the fact that he is
only about eight inches across the wings
and they are near to six feet. Willy steams
furio. s.y up to deal with them. It needs
good glasses to follow
the ferocious sprite’s
headlong attacks, but he
presses them home until
one of the giants does a
lazy swerve or roll to
avoid the little pest.
Honor is then satisfied ;
Willy has scored another
victory and successfully
proved his territorial
rights, so down he comes
again U. tell his wife all
abou. it as she sits in the
nursery in the old mango
tree. Afterwards he does
stunts on the wire
fence and trills his
triumphs to the listening
world. For all his self-
conceit, Willy is a good
husband, takes his share
in keeping the eggs
warm, serenades his lass
sweetly in the night, and
will soon be working hard at collecting
insects to stuff down the ever-gaping
throats of the family,*
* * * *
“Galenus”: Yesterday’s fresh morn-
ing breeze brought down a big dead
limb from the ancient bloodwood near
the creek, and the ruler of the household
decided that we were getting short of
firewood. Such is the explanation of the
new pet which has been adopted so
enthusiastically by the female child. In
the sawn-off hollow branch-butt was a
tiny grey-brown furred creature, sleeping
calmly through the noise of axe and saw,
its three-inch length and feathery tail
coiled cosily against each other, and the
curious membranous side-folds covering
them like a blanket. A pygmy glider it
was, Acrobates pygmceus to scientists,
flying mouse to bush folk —smallest of all
marsupials capable of gliding flight.
Picked up, it stirred only slightly in one’s
band, slept in a coat pocket all the way
home, slept too through all the whispered
adoration of its new owner, and wouldn’t
wake even to the attraction of a little
saucer of condensed milk and thin honey
placed near its nose. But as the sun
dropped below the horizon Piggies woke
up. After a long pull at the saucer he
explored the old aviary in coruscations of
gliding aerobatics, side-folds stretched out
as plane-wings and long tail acting as
rudder. The deft capture in mid-air of a
couple of small moths showed that he
likes a bit of something solid in his diet.
Tomorrow evening we will have a supper
of bottle-brush blossom ready before
opening the aviary door to let him glide
“Go easy—you touched the nerve that time!”
away. The female child fears that his
wife will be missing him. From closer
observation I suspect that Piggies a she.
* * * *
“Golden Mile”: If “Esk D’s” Old
George (B. 29/8/’45) was lucky enough
to buy a discarded battery plate that had
been so neglected that it carried over an
ounce of gold he struck a very exceptional
chance. My experience is that battery
plates are never neglected; there’s always
someone ready to scrape the amalgam
off, even illegally. And even when worn
so thin by years of scraping that they
go into the discard, they are seldom then
free from attention: then they pass
through a process known as scaling. The
idea is to roast them over a wide wood
fire so that the heated copper becomes
covered with a film of oxide. This oxide
unseats the final film of ussue-fine gold
that had practically formed an alloy with
the surface of the copper and so had de-
fied all previous scraping. But even after
scaling the discarded plate is still gold-
bearing, though it now requires bulk
handling. Charging a cupola furnace, of
the ordinary iron foundry type, I have
melted down tons of such copper plate
into handy-sized ingots. Handled by ex-
perts in the art of copper refining this
copper yields up nearly all its gold: often
a surprising amount. One five-ton lot
that I melted returned the owner more
than £lOO clear profit, after paying for
treatment, which included transport, rail
and sea,, of over 2000 miles.
* * * *
“City Lights”: Anyway, what was
wrong about “Sour” S. offering the sun-
downer a shilling, a cup of tea and a
scone for the killing and plucking of a
fowl? (B. 22/8/’45). The other day in a
metropolitan market I watched a man
dry-pluck a fowl for a shilling and the
giblets as perks. He could do three per
hour and so reckoned that £1 4s. per day
of eight hours wasn’t too bad for a sit-
down job. Probably “Sour’s” missus
would have provided hot water for scald-
ing the fowl, which should have brought
the time occupied to not more than fif-
teen minutes. Given a shilling a time for
wet-plucked fowls I’d knock out thirty
bob a day easily.
“Gumsucker”: “Lub” (B. 29/8/’45)
must be of a younger generation in that
he finds it odd that a large new building
should be fitted with outside props. Back
in the Victorian goldfields days practically
every large hall or church built of wood
was given a half-dozen or more outside
props. And even today a well-designed
brick or stone building with a long, high
wall, unsupported on the inside by parti-
tions, will have its outside buttresses.
Such buttresses may appear merely orna-
mental, but they serve to give additional
support to the wall.
* * *
“Mat’s Mate”: There’s a decent sort
of a homestead on the rise behind the
old chap straining up the wires and we
asked him about the chances for a bit of
tucker. “Go up t’ the house,” he said,
affably. “Me little girl’s there. Tell her
I sent y’.” “Thanks,” we said, and de-
parted. He sang out after us, “Me little
girl’s name is Jenny. She won’t be
frightened of y’.” We waved an acknow-
ledgment. At the house we were con-
fronted by a lady of some 40 summers,
with greying hair and pince-nez. “How
do y’ do?” she said. Mat, with an in-
gratiating grin, replied “How’s Jennie?”
She looked slightly puzzled ; then smiled
and said “Oh, I’m all right. But I don’t
remember you.” The light slowly
dawned on me, but it must have flashed
on Mat, for he responded without hesi-
tation “No, you’ve grown a lot since
1 last heard of y’.”
DRAGON-FLY.
Oh, thing of beauty hanging there
On the window-ledge in the chilly air—•
Hanging, numbed by untimely cold —
You were made for the sunshine’s gold.
Come in, come in, with your jewelled wings;
No flower blooms and no bird sings
In the empty scene below the pane
Where dusty and harsh lies the city lane.
There, warm yourself and dream a dream
Of lilies afloat on a gentle stream.
And the sun’s caress with its touch of fire
And wattles brave in their spring attire.
The gauze of your wings is an opal’s skin,
Transparent and fine, such as fairies spin
When they work at their wheels in the lucerne
bloom
To clothe Titania’s sitting-room.
The calendar’s right and the season wrong.
You should have waited the magpie’s song
And stayed in your windproof, warm cocoon
Till the heath-stars blazed in the afternoon.
You shouldn’t have come for a fortnight yet
With your delicate wings and your eyes of jet;
Like you I am questioning with dismay
The lingering cold and the spring’s delay.
How did you come to this high, cold ledge?
You, who belong to the water’s edge
Where the beetles skate in their happy games
And kingfishers dart like flying flames.
You should be there, like a lovely thought,
Elusive and hovering, ne’er to be caught;
Alighting aquiver, then gone like a shade
Ere mind can encompass the beauty it made.
N.S.W.
OLD-TIMER.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Comoany, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK. AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES. TALLOW. ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 HUGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAOOA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE.
TOWNSVILLE, CHAKLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CYANOGAS
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Pal’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from ill
Storekeeper* throughout Auntralia. 7-11 MARKET STRc.ET. SYDNEY.
■dt
SAVES
MANPOWER
m
PROOf
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting .
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
vim*™* rr
' / ».« <f f ♦
mm
- *- t '
**r"-
' .* •
mx
m ■'■
mm
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED.
Obtainable from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street, Sydney.
SPECIFY "irSASHT'S" WIRE, WIRE WETTING, ETC.
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY, I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
On New England.
“Red Earth”: The N.S.W. New Eng-
land (B. 19/9/’45) mostly has had one
of the best winters for many years ; mild
weather, plenty of rain, few frosts, spring
growth early. The country is now a pic-
ture and sheep are doing well. Large
stock always require watching closely at
this time of year on the Tablelands be-
cause they chase the short green feed, and,
of course, do not obtain sufficient nour-
ishment to tide them over until the grasses
have a chance to grow to a good height.
Nevertheless, most cattle I have seen
lately on central New England are con-
siderably better off this year than last.
Winter feeding on New England is a
big problem. The district generally can
safely carry a sheep to the acre from
November to April, but once the frosts
come in earnest the carrying capacity
drops sharply, so that, on the lighter soils,
one sheep to two acres is as much as can
be held with safety. By carrying 1-H
most can avoid hand-feeding in winter if
understocking is practised all year round.
Full- or over-stocking seems to make
natural pastures “sick” in time, and un-
doubtedly causes more severe worm and
fluke infestation than would otherwise be
the case. There are plenty who, by judi-
cious stocking and spelling of paddocks
periodically, can go through a winter with-
out hand-feeding, and need dose only
twice a year—about January and June.
Hand-feeding is very expensive and
should be avoided unless absolutely neces-
sary, because constant feeding for a
period of four or five months with its
unavoidable factor of constantly dis-
turbed sheep takes nearly as much out of
them as it puts back. Self-feeders largely
overcome the difficulty of disturbed sheep
but remain expensive.
The best method of supplementary
feeding during winter is green crops —one
in each paddock if possible. Dun oats is
hard to beat for winter feed as it stools
out well and is very hardy. But under-
stocking is best of all—particularly with
crossbreds and English breeds.
Boron.
“Nuffin”: Recent Queensland Depart-
ment of Agriculture experiments have
shown that boron plays an important
part in regulating growth processes in
plants and that this element is of par-
ticular importance to the reproductive
organs. It is also claimed that boron
controls the use of nitrates, phosphates
and calcium, e.g., boron-deficient sugar-
beet plants accumulate large quantities of
nitrates, and the boron deficiency in this
case is really an expression of nitrate
poisoning. Tests showed that boron exer-
cises a very complex and important in-
fluence in plant nutrition and that it must
be included among the elements made
available to plants through the soil.
Instances of boron deficiency have
appeared on several of the vegetable-
growing soils of s,-e. Queensland, but
effective correction of the unsatisfactory
forms of growth associated with this de-
ficiency has been accomplished by the
addition to the soil of boron in the form
of borax. The trouble has been experi-
enced mostly in crops of beetroot, but
there have also been instances of the
disease in white turnips, swedes and cauli-
flowers.
The only means of controlling boron
deficiency disorders is by applying a suit-
“Stand clear , Spike!”
able boron compound to the soil. Com-
mercial borax is most suitable and is
readily available. Boric acid, equally
suitable, is also a common material —it
must be noted that 7.7 parts of boric acid
equals 12 parts of borax. The following
table, proved in tests, gives maximum
quantities. Satisfactory control can be
obtained usually from smaller applica-
tions :
Very Sensitive: —(Maximum, 51b. borax per
acre). Bean, Cowpea, Cucumber, Strawberry.
Sensitive: —(Maximum, 101 b. per acre).
Celery, Pea, Potato, Rockmelon, Squash, Water-
melon.
Tolerant: —(Maximum, 201 b. per acre). Cab-
bage, Carrot, Lettuce, Onion, Radish, Sweet
potato, Tomato.
Very Tolerant: —(Maximum, 40lb. per acre).
Beetroot, Cauliflower, White Turnip, Swede.
Early Vegetables.
“Lub”: Some heat is necessary to grow
frost-tender seedlings and a heap of stable
manure makes a good hotbed. It should
be past the hottest stage and cooling
before the seeds are sown in a 6in. layer
of soil well supplied with* organic matter.
A glass frame should be used and on
warm, sunny days this may be raised to
allow air to circulate freely.
Don’t to grow the plants too thickly.
It’s thin out or prick off any
excess of seedlings, and care should be
taken to prevent them becoming too
spindly. Stocky, well-grown seedlings are
best for transplanting, done during a
favorable spell of weather, and protection
against cold winds and possible frosts is
necessary. They will be better if no check
in growth is experienced.
Pumpkins and other plants, which don't
take kindly to root disturbance, may be
grown in tins; if the bottom of the tin
is removed and the side cut open—a piece
of wire is used to hold it together—they
may be transplanted without check. I
get extra-early potatoes by snrouting the
tubers in a warm place before sowing.
and a covering of bracken keeps the
frosts from inflicting severe damage to
the plants as they come through. With
all kinds of early plants selection of
varieties suitable to the locality is of first
importance.
Salt Control.
“C.M.N.”: Tell “H. Early” (B.
29/8/’45) that in Mildura and the
adjacent settlements of Red Cliffs and
Merbein the problem of salt has been
overcome by underground drainage. Done
at a cost of £547,000, the work gave
employment to some 7500 men for five
years. The charge to settlers was £5 an
acre and the balance was met from un-
employment relief funds.
Drainage removed injurious concentra-
tions of salt, and it has been found that
not only has the effluent water become
free from salt in a few years, but it has
acquired fertilising properties, and in
some cases is being repumped and used
again for irrigation. Estimated that the
yearly production of dried fruits from
Mildura, Red Cliffs and Merbein in-
creased by 9000 tons after drainage, the
gain to the district being .reckoned at
£450,000 annually; capital value of
planted land which was going out of pro-
duction as the result of seepage and salt
concentration has been enhanced by about
50 p.c.
Reclamation of salty soil was studied
long ago in Egypt, where Wilcocks re-
commended abundant flooding of a winter
crop of clover in conjunction with estab-
lishment of proper underdrainage as an
efficient means of washing out the salts
as often as they showed a tendency to
accumulate near the surface. Rice is
grown in Egypt and a reed called Samar,
used for handcrafts. Barley is one of the
best crops to sow on salted areas with
the object of getting the salt content down
to such a state that lucerne can be grown.
After barley, maize can be grown after
draining in the preceding summer. Since
the locking of the Murray at Mildura, the
river has normally been maintained at
such a level that inflow of salt does not
occur as was the case in the 1914-15
drought. Ip the Mildura district the salt
problem is well under control, and when
the writer returned recently after an
absence of many years he was impressed
with the visible improvement in horticul-
tural holdings.
Hints for the Farm.
“Myrr”: Careless use of the drenching-
gun wounds the sheep, usually beside and
at the base of the tongue. Some of the
drench is forced through the wound into
the submucous tissues at the back of the
mouth, causing “bottle throat.” The blue-
stone-nicotine mixture irritates the tissues,
resulting in a marked swelling and fatali-
ties. Carefully introduce the nozzle into
the mouth and don’t rush the job,
especially with fractious sheep. As a safe-
guard place a piece of rubber tubing on
the nozzle or use a nozzle with a ball-
shaped knob on the tip.
“Plane Creek”: Calves will sicken if
given other than clean, sweet milk.
Separated milk should have some consti-
tuent added to it to replace the nourish-
ment taken away with the cream. Lime-
water is very good for growing calves. A
small quantity added to each bucket of
milk will increase food value greatly and
aid the calf fully to digest the milk.
Buckets should be washed twice daily in
clean, warm rainwater containing a pinch
of washing soda, then scalded and
drained.
“Nuffin”: Simmering of wattle seeds
on a quiet fire (B, 22/8/’45) was tried
with fair results on the s.-w. range fringes
of the Darling Downs (Q.). I found much
surer and quicker results were obtained
by actually firing the seeds. Place the
seeds in grass that is to be bumt-off —
they will be ready for sowing as soon as
they can be recovered from the fired
patch, and a successful strike is assured.
1 have tried different recommended
courses to get carob-bean tree seeds
brought from the ridges of White Rocks
beyond Muswellbrook (N.S.W.) to grow,
but all were of no avail. Seeds on which
I eventually “put the heat” sprouted up
like wild fire and are now shady adorn-
ments.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
War Looming in China?
(From an article by a N.Y. "World-Telegram”
Washington correspondent.)
Civil war in China is almost certain.
Native Communists have been fever-
ishly arming with weapons taken from
the capitulating Japanese, Barring a
miracle, it is only a question of time
before these Weapons are turned against
the Government.
Thus the great Chinese tragedy seems
about to repeat. Once more, as a result
of foreign intervention, China is being
divided against herself, Japan made use
of this identical device to weaken China
preparatory to swallowing her whole.
For years Japan subsidised various pro-
vincial war lords in China and egged
, them on to fight each other. It was com-
mon practice to provide weapons and
funds for both sides. At other times
Japan backed attacks against the Central
Government.
For a decade following World War I
the Japs subsidised Marshal Chang Tso-
lin, the Manchurian war lord. That is
the way they got their foothold in that
country.
In the late ’twenties, in line with the
Tanaka plan to dominate East Asia, the
Japanese encouraged Marshal Chang to
attack North China, south of the Great
Wall. He established his headquarters at
Peking,
This move coincided with Generalis-
simo Chiang Kai-shek’s march northward
from Canton. Fearing Chiang was about
to inflict a defeat on Marshal Chang, the
Japs intervened to help him by slowing
down Chiang.
Then a curious thing happened. The
Jap move made the Marshal mad.
Although designed to help him, he was
shrewd enough to see what was behind
it. The Japs were out to dominate China.
And, while the Marshal had been willing
to play Japan’s game up to a certain point,
he refused to help subjugate his country.
The Marshal sent word to the General-
issimo suggesting that they drop their
family quarrel and unite against the Japs.
This, in turn, made the Japsjurious. They
withdrew their support from the Man-
churian. Chiang Kai-shek continued to
advance. Marshal Chang fell back on his
own capital, at Mukden. But just as his
special train pulled into the suburbs there
was a terrific explosion which blew his
car to splinters. The Japs had murdered
him.
Today Chiang Kai-shek —who refused
either to dicker with any tool of the Japs
or to allow the Japs themselves to stop
him—is generalissimo of the armies
which, since September, 1931, have been
fighting Japan without cease. At the
same time he has had to withstand attack,
often from within, especially on the part
of the Communists.
This faction has rejected every plan to
collaborate yet put forward by Chung-
king. It insists upon maintaining its own
standing army, Chiang has offered to
give Cabinet posts to Communists, and
to incorporate the Red Army, officers and
all, into the national army, provided it
would obey orders like the rest. This the
Communists have refused to do.
There is reason to believe that the new
efforts of the Generalissimo to reach an
understanding will not succeed any more
than those of the past. The Japanese, of
course, have been equipped with the most
modern weapons. And, as it would be
to Japan’s everlasting advantage to have
the Far East in turmoil, Jap officers may
be only too willing to yield their equip-
ment to the Chinese Reds. And the Reds,
by using them, would play into Japan s
hands.
Trade in New Europe.
(From "United States News”)
There is to be a difficult administra-
tive problem in running the lives of
65,000,000 normally intelligent and indus-
trious people in Germany, who may be
devoting thought to the problem of how
to‘evade controls, to stir up trouble.
It is the economic difficulty that may
prove greatest, however, that may lead
to most trouble. What has to be faced
is simply this:
In the past Germany, as the world’s
No. 2 industrial nation, took the raw
materials of eastern Europe, principally,
and in return supplied that area with its
manufactured goods. Germany was the
manufacturing and trading centre of all
of Europe. Its living standards were
highest, its efficiency greatest.
In the future, nations that looked to
Germany as a market will need now to
look to Russia. Russia, however, is not
able to supply in return the types of
manufactured goods that Germany once
supplied. With the big market removed.
a trade slump, a lowering of living
standards seems inevitable.
The U.S. is expected to jump to the
rescue. Europe is promised that dollar
loans from the U.S. will be forthcoming,
that these loaned dollars then can be used
to buy in the U.S. the things that Ger-
many once supplied.
Maybe so. There’s just the question
of how loans will be repaid.
Britain’s Recovery Job.
(From the "United States News.”)
Britain’s official goal is to boost exports
to a level half again as high as pre-war.
That means annual sales of British
goods in world markets amounting to
more than three times the volume of ex-
ports maintained in war. Steps already
are being taken to reach this goal. Half
of the 200,000 automobiles to be pro-
duced in England over the next 12
months are ticketed for the export market.
Frozen sterling accounts are to be
funded. Different settlements will be
made with different countries. Some
members of the Empire are expected to
write off their sterling balances as part of
their war contributions. Other countries
may accept airfields and British surplus
war materials as payment. India and
Egypt, which have the largest balances,
are expected to accept a long-term debt
—may be for 100 years—at low rates of
interest.
Imports are to be controlled. In order
to boost the export trade British policy is
expected to favor buying of materials that
can be processed for resale, such as
metals, cotton, wool and lumber. Essen-
tials, like food and building materials,
will get preference over luxuries such as
U.S. motion pictures or automobiles.
Official policy, however, is to keep im-
ports at a level high enough to permit a
slightly higher standard of living in
Britain than in pre-war, especially where
diet is concerned.
Overseas demand for British is
expected to offer no problem. World
shortages of products of all types are
expected to bring forth ready buyers.
The British Commonwealth.
(Condensed from a U.S. "Foreign Affairs”
article .)
What is this Great Power? Is it Britain
or the British Commonwealth? If it is
Britain can she survive as a Great Power
with all her industries at point-blank
rocket and robot range? If she takes all
the insurance, including duplicate under-
ground installations, necessary in a world
of secret rockets, mass-produced, can she
achieve the 50 per cent, increase of her
pre-war export level necessary to pay hei
debts and enable her people to live at no!
lower than the pre-war standards? And
can she consummate that full partnership
with the dependent Empire, with the ad-
vancement of self-government, which is
the goal of British policy?
Or if the Great Power is not Britain but
the British Commonwealth of Nations,
just what is this Commonwealth? There
will always be those who approach the
facts from a purely legal angle. They
begin with an examination of “Dominion
status” and attempt to explain it in terms
of the traditional categories and assump-
tions of international law. They natur
ally find little but negations; while those
who approach the Commonwealth as a
problem of politics and of the interplay
of human forces find instead one of the
greatest and most fascinating institutions
of world history.
Estimates vary. Professor Shotwell said
in The Great Decision that the legal and
political changes since 1919 have made
the British Commonwealth of Nations
“little more than a mystical expression
of spiritual affinities.” Wendell Willkie’s
view was that it is “the most exciting
experiment in international democracy
the world has ever known.” In saying
this he can hardly have thought that he
was referring only to a mystical entity.
Lord Halifax put forward the thesis
that “Not Great Britain only, but the
British Commonwealth and Empire must
be the Fourth Power in that group upon
which, under Providence, the peace of the
world will henceforth depend.” Field-
Marshal Smuts has spoken of the “three
Great Powers” as “the United States,
Russia and the British Commonwealth.”
He did not mean that the Commonwealth
was one State under one direction, but
rather a family group of free, indepen-
dent, sovereign States with such a spirit
of unity and identity of purpose that it
functioned as a Great Power.
The fact that Canada is the most secure
of the Dominions did not prevent her
from springing to arms in 1939 without
waiting on the United States. When it
comes to an appreciation of the part
played in the past by the British Com-
monwealth, and still to be played, the
views and feelings of the Canadian Prime
Minister do not differ much from those
of all the Dominion Prime Ministers. Mr.
Mackenzie King told the Canadian Par-
liament that his Administration had done
everything in its power “to make the
Commonwealth a permanent institution
in the world. So far as the British Com-
monwealth is concerned, I believe it to
be the greatest agency for peace through-
out the world that this world has evei
known.” He then went on: “In the
course of this whole war where has there
been a ,single difference between Britain
and Canada, Australia and Canada, South
Africa and Canada? What finer co-
operation could there be?” His state-
ment is the clearest proof that through-
out the war there was a common policy
secured by the unison of many voices and
expressed frequently by a single voice.
The British Commonwealth has cer-
tainly acted like a “Great Power” whethei
the term is the right technical description
or not. Ever since its Governments first
began to meet in family council in 1887
it has commanded a fervent patriotism
from its leaders and peoples that is one
of the most remarkable things in modern
history'. TTie feeling wells up, as warm
and strong as ever in the past, in many
speeches of the Commonwealth’s Prime
Ministers. Witness the words of General
Smuts; “This great human experiment in
political organisation, this proudest poli-
tical structure of time, this precedent and
anticipation of what one hopes may be
in store for human society in the years
to come.” The same theme struck fire
even in the reserved Scotsman, Mr. Peter
Fraser, New Zealand’s Prime Minister,
when he addressed the Canadian Parlia
rnent: “The British peoples—and when I
say the British peoples I mean all the
races under the British flag—have raised
with their sons, around the Mother Coun-
try, a wall of fire, and have forged bonds
as light as air, though as strong as steel,
bonds that are stronger now than ever
before.” The language of events speaks
not less decisively, as witness the continu-
ous pursuit of common policies for more
than two generations, the close co-ordi-
nation of defence arrangements and the
fighting of two great wars with the utmost
solidarity.
The Commonwealth cannot be ex-
plained by negations, such as theories
about the divisibility of the Crown or the
so-called “right" of a member to secede,
or the “right” to be neutral when the
other members of the family are fighting
for their existence. Neutrality is theo-
retically possible for other members of
the Commonwealth besides Eire. But
who can predict the cost to those mem-
bers in terms of moral integrity, disrup-
tion of national unity to the point of
civil war, loss of face and loss of place
in the family group and in the wider
society of States? A neutrality that began
with a denial of any direct political and
moral responsibility in the common
struggle for the maintenance in the world
of the freedom of nations and of man’s
free mind and the free conscience, and
which ended in an expression of official
condolence to the defeated Reich on the
death of Adolf Hitler, is not one to which
any member of the Commonwealth would
care to appeal in the future. The appeal
will be rather to the example of the hun-
dreds of thousands of individual Irish
men and women who repudiated that
policy and joined the common cause. The
neutrality of Eire is thus not a Common-
wealth precedent, but an Irish problem.
Dominion status is indeed a thing of
the past. New Zealand Prime Min-
ister Fraser, addressing the Canadian
Parliament, referred to “the paradox that
the freer we become the closer we are
together; the more our constitutional
bonds are relaxed the more closely we are
held in the bonds of friendship; the
greater the extent to which government
sovereignty is extended to the various
part of the British Commonwealth and
Empire the more truly one we are in
sentiment, in heart and spirit one in
peace as well as in war.”
Through the common symbol of the
Crown, and the person of the King, the
peoples of the different parts of the Com-
monwealth are identified and united with
one another. When the King addresses
his peoples it is in the language of the
family. When their Ministers or their
Parliamentary representatives are gathered
together, in what they have called on in-
numerable occasions since 1887 a “family
council,” they, too, use the language of
the family—as in the loyal toast moved
in the great Empire Parliamentary Con-
ference of 1937 to “The Head of the
Family—His Majesty the King.” Sucri
Parliamentary Conferences and innumer-
able individual personal contacts, built up
since 1911 through the work of the
Empire Parliamentary Association, have
created a living community of Parliamen-
tarians of a unique kind, which, though it
is almost unknown to writers on the con-
stitution, is one of the principal central
institutions of the Commonwealth. By
the community thus established between
its 34 Parliaments the British Common-
wealth has become a union of Parlia-
mentary democracies. Only this can ex-
plain the extraordinary fact of September,
1939: that in four Parliaments in the
four corners of the world —Great Britain,
Canada, Australia and New Zealand
every vote of all but one single member
was cast in favor of war against Ger-
many. A further link between the Par-
liaments may well be the next step in
closer constitutional relations within the
Commonwealth.
The “genius of the air” turned to peace-
ful usages has made possible an extra-
ordinary fluidity of movement whereby
Ministers and officials from the most
distant parts of the Commonwealth can
have personal consultations in Washing-
ton or London and be back at their
desks within little more than a week.
Daily consultation by telephone, cable
and airmail and a perpetually flowing
stream of information on foreign affairs
and all other matters of importance have
been developed to a point which, as Mr.
Eden said last March, is “unparalleled in
history,”
The problem of foreign policy for the
Dominions is to reconcile “status” with
“stature,” They have to avoid at all costs
becoming small, ungrouped Powers with-
out dependable friends, existing merely
by the uncertain grace of Great Powers
that owe them nothing because they offer
nothing. Gone is the fool’s paradise of
the inter-war period where sovereign
status could be played up in the Common-
wealth and League because the Powers,
great and small, were playing down re-
sponsibilities. An equivocal Common-
wealth has gone with an equivocal
League. In the global wars of the future
the enemy will strike simultaneously at
the Pearl Harbors of the Commonwealth
—its capitals and bases. He must subju-
gate all the kindred States, because he
knows that being kindred they can never
forgive the destruction of any member of
the family. Necessity thus imposes on
the Dominions a steady line of policy in
relation to the Commonwealth.
A group cannot act effectively without
a recognised leader who can act for all in
vital matters of common concern. At
present Britai# alone can fill this role.
She may be, as Lord Cranborne has
said, “the Metropolitan Dominion of his
Majesty, the King”; but she is more
powerful than all his Majesty’s other
self-governing Dominions put together.
In this war Britain's role of leadership of
the Commonwealth, in the great Two-
Power, Three-Power and Four-Power
policy and strategy conferences of the
war, as well as in the Combined Chiefs of
Staff and the Combined Boards, has been
unquestioned, though Canada has played
an important and increasing part in some
of these affairs.
As General Smuts put it in November,
1943, the guiding principles for the
British Commonwealth of Nations and
for the new world as a whole must be
“not only freedom and democracy” but
also “leadership and power.” “There are
times,” Mr. Curtin said in London on
May 18, 1944, “when it is inevitable that
somebody must be the spokesman for the
whole, and we cannot have half a dozen
people saying ‘this is the voice of the
British Commonwealth.’ ” The historian,
looking back over the history of the
British Commonwealth for the past 40
years, he pointed out, must conclude that
“while each of these peoples and their
Governments are completely self-govern-
ing and autonomous ... the degree of
their unanimity is always approximately
complete in matters of the greatest
moment”; the points which divide them,
he continued, are subordinate and local.
In the League Council, Britain, and
not the British Commonwealth of Nations
as such, will be a member of the Security
Council. Mr. Mackenzie King noted in
the Canadian Parliament the difficulties
which would follow if any formal attempt
were made to tie the hands of the repre-
sentative of Great Britain in such a way
that he might have to withhold action
until he had received instructions from
half a dozen Governments. The instruc-
tions might conflict and the Common-
wealth be rendered impotent by a liberum
veto of one of its members. But, as he


r//i? WORLD FOLLOWS RRLTA/JVS LEAD ..
$0
W.
as^js
*3?
'>>
525
»r
w
j.^
,>*
? 5W#?
jjHi'W l
1
MW
**HUJ
M
vv.,U
U4jJ
?*few
isHtiS.
&*MfU
ser
w.
■ ■
JOSEPH
ASPDIN
of Leeds. Invented and
patented Portland Cement
in 1824. The perfected
cement in use to-day was
developed from this Brit-
ish invention. Past quan-
tities of cement were used
in the construction of the
Assouan Dam in Egypt,
a part of which is illus-
trated above.
PORTLAND CEMENT
A MONGST all the discoveries in history, Portland
** Cement has probably had more “ monuments” erected
to it than any other. Buildings and bridges, roads and
reservoirs, do permanent honour to the British discoverer
of this magic powder, this indispensable ingredient for
all concrete structures.
There is, however, a discovery of parallel importance in
the textile trade. Less than fifty years ago Courtaulds
initiated the rayon industry in England, Through their
enterprise Courtaulds have been instrumental in estab-
lishing a rayon industry of vast proportions, not in
England alone, but also in the United States, Canada
and other countries.
Courtaulds rayon yarns and the lovely fabrics made from
them, have done much to foster the love of beautiful
things and raise general standards of taste and comfort
everywhere. Unfortunately Courtaulds rayons are
scarce in war time, but peace will restore them, made
even more beautiful and serviceable through the research
and development which continue with unabated vigour.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England.
World Distributors for Courtaulds Fabrics; Samuel Courtauld & Co. Ltd., London England
World Distributors for Courtaulds Rayon Yarns: Lustre Fibres, Ltd., Coventry. England
HILLMAN
MINX
m
THE WORLD'S MOST
SUCCESSFUL LIGHT CAR
del write TO 1 |
ANcT WELL WORTH WAITING FOR
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS:
JOHN McGRATH LTD., Catheart House, lie Castlereagh Street, Sydney
(temporary address).
Resident Representatives
C. H. HORDERN 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
A PRODUCT DP THR RO
pointed out, while the United Kingdom
would sit on the council in its own right
as a great Power, “its influence would be
enhanced by its special relationship with
the countries of the Commonwealth,”
How the British Commonwealth will
fit into the proposed regional security
arrangements is not yet clear. It has long
been a cardinal principle of the members
of the British Commonwealth that it
forms a true regional security organisa-
tion. Its States were built by seaward
expansion, its roads are the sea, and now
also the far more direct ways of the air.
It has been built up historically by an
expansion of peoples covering exactly
the same span of time and fully compar-
able to that of the two great land federa-
tions, the United States and the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics. The land-
ward expansion of these last two peoples
produced great federal States; whereas
the seaward expansion of Britain pro-
duced a unique international family sys-
tem which in the great recurring crises
of history has shown no less solidarity
and an equal patriotism.
The new pact of the United Nations is
not likely to alter in any sense the main
lines of the Commonwealth. There may
be, it is true, a certain danger that under
this new legal settlement the Common-
wealth, which appeared as a group in the
Annex to the League Covenant, will be
dispersed alphabetically. But this diffi-
culty would be overcome if the inter-
national treaty which implements the
Charter used the traditional Heads of
States formula, so that the plenipotenti-
aries of the various Governments of his
Majesty would sign in his name.
But whatever the formula used the
Commonwealth will continue as a close
kindred group, linked intimately with the
United States. It is, in Mr. Eden’s words,
“the one really successful experiment in
international co-operation.” It forms a
living bridge between the national past
and the international future.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
This writer’s opinion is that once the re-
conversion of industry is completed there will
be three to five years of high general business
and industrial activity. After that a depres-
sion probably a little deeper and longer than
that of 1920. —Financial editor N.Y. “Journal -
American.'”
* * * *
Harvest of the 1946 wheat crop will begin
with Canada’s grain bins practically empty, say
grain men here in the Dominion’s wheat capi-
tal, Winnipeg. The 1945 'crop will be down
to between 300 and 325 million bushels from
last year’s 435 million. Hungry Europe wants
800 million bushels of wheat this crop year,
and Canada is in a position to ship 400 million
of that. Carryover as the current crop year
began was 258 million bushels. This working
oti ot what looked like a permanent burden of
wheat back in 1943, when the crop year began
with a carryover of 600 million bushels, has
started debate on resumption of free trading
in wheat. Wheat prices have been fixed by
the Dominion Wheat Board since September,
1943. Now dealers say free trading should
begin again on August 1, 1946, when the next
crop comes to market. But the wheat pools,
the co-operative organisations that market
40 p.c. of the prairie provinces’ wheat' each
year, prefer permanent Government control.—
“Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Reports from Chungking make it clear that
U.S. equipment, influence and advice are being
placed squarely behind Chiang. This policy,
presumably designed by Lt.-Gen. Wedemeyer,
the U.S. Army commander in China, and
Ambassador Hurley, represents a sharp rever-
sal of the course once pursued by Gen. Stilwell
and Ambassador Gauss, both of whom sought
to keep the United States out of Chinese in-
ternecine troubles. It remains to be seen how
much backing Russia will give China’s Reds.
Within the War and State departments in
Washington there are known to be large
factions deeply concerned over the trend toward
a Russo-American clash in China. —Chicago
“Surf” staff correspondent.
* * * *
Communism or democracy? That is the
question in Japan after her crushing defeat.
It is to be the question in Manchuria. If is
the question in Korea. It will be the question
in India. Upon the answer to that question
in Japan will depend the answer in China, and
the answer in China will go far to shape the
answer in India. The answer in Japan depends
mainly on America. Europe is a wrecked
continent. One might say that for some time
Europe will be not much more than a dead
continent. Asia is an awakening continent.
One billion, two hundred million people —60
p.c. of the inhabitants on this earth —live there.
Communism or democracy is the question in
Asia, beginning with Japan. Communism
already is the greatest politcial problem facing
Chiang Kai-shek in China. It threatens to
bring another civil war in China if Moscow
openly or secretly supports Ma Tso Tung,
president of the Chinese Communist Republic
in the north China provinces, and Gen. Chu
Teh, commanding the 18th Route Communist
Army, estimated at close to half a million men.
N.Y. “Journal-American" staff correspondent
ahroad.
’ * *
One of the basic fallacies of much contem-
porary economic thinking is the easy assump-
tion that a job carries with it a comfortable
.Up pvnpripnce of col-
standard of living. But fte-expaien.x o cm
lectmst economies shows that th
phaticaUy not necessarily the case. 1 P ,
which the wage-earner pays for his supposed
economic security in a collectivist society is a
much heavier one than is generally realised,
He not only loses his rights of free citizenship
(the association of economic collectivism with
political dictatorship in countries of very varied
historical, political and economic backgrounds
is too general to be accidental), but he is alio-
, 6 ; *v . - ■ , . o t „.» .wrpp
cated a standard of living _ bxed .. £ further
more than by his own edort . invariably
considers that tist f labor ranging
leads to some kind of forcedl labor* ranging
from the harsh bru talff.e.of the concentration
woX“ hi, job on pain ot fine, imprisonment
ss^rssx
major, evil associated with the modem in-
dustrial system. One need not for a moment
underestimate the tragedy of involuntary job-
lessness in order to recognise that it is decidedly
preferable to compulsory labor with a Com-
munist or Fascist secret police as the boss.
William Henry Chamberlin; “Wall-street Jour-
nal.”
• * * *
There is this to be kept in mind in the period
ahead: It is highly improbable that the Big
Three agreement to make Germany over into a
farm State, supporting a bigger population, will
work in practice. U.S. gamble on its ability to
turn China into a big indusirial Power is just
ahruit ac uncertain in it's outcome * is another
try at the nearly impossible. ‘ The idea that
U.S. is to police Germany and Japan for de-
cades is unrealistic. So the peace that now is
dawning may not be the stable peace that is so
much sought. —“ United States News.”
# ~
.. .. . . , , . •„
ad tbe stunned and bleeding natio
Western Europe, Holland took the worst beat-
mg. She served as a battleground longer than
any of her neighboring allies. Her people were
starved more ruthlessly Chan any of Germany’s
victims, except perhaps the Poles. Much of her
precious farm land, reclaimed from the sea by
generations of toil, was flooded. Both her
scanty resources at home and her colonies in
the Pacific were systematically scorched and
looted by hostile armies. At one time the
Nazis even proclaimed that the nation had been
rubbed out, and that “Holland as a State is a
concept that will be preserved only in history
books.” Yet the Dutch have managed to pre-
serve not only their Statehood but a good deal
more besides. From the outbreak of war they
worked shrewdly and persistently to salvage the
two economic cornerstones—their colonial
empire and their own peculiar kind of
national trade on which they hope to reb
much of their former wealth, power and pres-
tige. This salvage operation has been one of
Holland’s primary war aims; and it has received
from time to time, at least the tacit approval
of both Great Britain and America. However,
the Dutch plans for reconstruction are likely
to come into sharp conflict with aims of the
y s Qne source of conllict h the
traditional American sentiment for the libera-
tion of colonial peoples, as expressed in a State
Oepartment suggestion that colonial empires—
sucb as t he Netherlands Indies, East and West —
rnigiat eventually be placed under some sort of
“international trusteeship.” Such proposals
are sure to run into the most stubborn kind of
opposition from the Dutch, because their empire
furnishes a large share of both the raw materials
and the markets which are indispensable to
Hollands economic recovery. Another sore
point almost certainly will be the cartel ques-
tion. If America really makes a serious effort
to wipe out cartels and similar restrictions on
j/ t d will strike a hea blow at Hol .
reconstruction . | Qr cartels and
OuS
Association Washington Bureau; in Harpers.
* * * *
China and the dollar is a story* that U.S.
o fH c i a ls hesitate to discuss. U.S. troops as well
as Chinese speculators have played the black
market in currency to the hilt, principally be-
cause the official exchange rate between U.S.
an d Chinese dollars is fictitious. The official
rate is 40 Chinese dollars to one U.S. dollar,
bu t Chinese dollars cannot be freely exchanged
for U.S. dollars at legal banks. Some Chinese,
therefore, are willing to buy $lO and $2O U.S.
bills at the rate ol 1800 Chinese dollars to one
U.S. dollar. A rate of 500 Chinese dollars to
one U.S. dollar can be obtained almost any-
where. This opens the way tor U.S. citizens
in China, and any Chinese with access to dollars,
to buy Chinese currency on the black marke ,
e * cbaa 8 e 11 a * tbe ° d jf ia L rate a ilnilftntprpffrhe
of 1000 per cent, and more. Gold entered th
Chinese picture a few months ago to produce
another scandal, and some of that gold came
from the United States, shipped as part of a
$500,000,000 stabilisation loan. Chinese officials
dedded to raise the official gold price £rom
25>000 t 0 35 000 Chinese dollars an ounce. The
information leaked out. Speculators made a
yning by buying gold at the old rate and selling
at the new rate. Now the official gold price
in China is 50,000 Chinese dollars an ounce,
which is an admission that the actual worth of
the Chinese dollar is closer to 1400 to one U.b.
dollar than 40 to 1, since it takes $35 U.S. to
buy an ounce of gold. Such a situation pro-
vides a lush field for speculators, who can turn
an ounce of gold into 50,000 Chinese dollars or
more, and then perhaps get more than 1000
U.S. dollars at the official rate. G°l d "; as
shipped into China to sop up some of the m-
flated currency, but inflation continues, and U.S.
troops there have paid as much as $2O Chinese
for a shoe-shine. —“ United States News.”


Legal Notice.
GEORGE FRANCIS PROCTOR deceased. Son of
George Proctor and Sarah Proctor (nee Egan or
Hagon) Pursuant to a Decretal Order of the Supreme
Court of New South Wales in its Equitable Jurisdic-
tion dated Ist December 1944 as amended and made
in suit No. 421 of 1944 intituled “In the Matter of
the Estate of GEORGE FRANCIS PROCTOR late of
Mount Druitt in the State of New South Wales
Retired Farmer deceased Between THE PUBLIC
TRUSTEE Plaintiff and ELSIE MURIEL MATILDA
NICHOLSON Defendant” whereby the following en-
quiry by the Master in Equity was directed viz: to
enquire as to what persons living at the date of the
death of the said George Francis Proctor were en-
titled according to the Statutes for the distribution
of intestate estates to his estate and whether any of
them are since dead and if so who are their legal
personal representatives Notice is hereby given that
all persons claiming to be entitled under the said
enquiry are to send by post prepaid to THE
PUBLIC TRUSTEE 19 O’Connell Street Sydney
N.S.W. so as to reach him on or before the Kith
March 1946 their full names addresses and descrip-
tions and full particulars of their claims or in default
thereof they will be excluded from the benefit of the said
Order unless the Court or the Master in Equity upon
application otherwise orders Claimants are to attend
personally or by their Solicitor before the Master in
Equity at the Supreme Court Elizabeth Street Sydney
N.S.W. on Tuesday the 2nd April 1946 at 11 a.m.
being the time appointed for adjudicating upon the
claims A claimant not residing in New South Wales
must send with particulars of his claim the name and
address of a person in New South Wales to whom
notices to the claimant can be sent DATED 18th
September 1945.—F. A. FINN & CO., Solicitors for
the Plaintiff, 92 Pitt Street, Sydney.
II
m
u
■ W&
As one Australian
to another •• « M Let us pause in our
exultation to consider what comes after victory in the
field. It will not have been a victory worth fighting for
unless we, as a nation, resolve to make it complete.
“The war will not be over until we have won the peace as
well as the actual conflict. As a nation, we still have great
tasks before us. Until we have completed them we will
not have deserved our deliverance.
“For six years we have suffered hardships and family
separations, and paid in money and materials for the
result that the fighting services have achieved. It is now
our obligation to see that we perform our duty to the
fighting services as faithfully as they have performed
their duty to the country from which they spring.”
TOU» MONEY IS NEEDED IN THE
Prime Minister
and Treasurer.
fourth \ m/ ictory Loan
/
4V3.113
m
9B8
11
.
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENS'
Obtainable in 10’s & 20 9 s
m
5786
S 0 R E
TH R 0 AT S
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
Poems by Harry Morant. —3657.
To buy Cayley’s Australian Parrots and Aus-
tralian Finches and Aviaries, Birdrooms and
Cages, by Luke and Silver. —3658.
Information Sought.
Has the organising secretary of a trade union
or a manpower committee the right to suspend
a union member and thus prohibit the member
from obtaining employment for two weeks?
Such a power is' usually vested in the com-
mittee and not in a single officer, but validity
of such action would depend on the rules of
the union. A manpower committee has no
such authority; even the Director-General may
confirm the suspension of an employee by an
employer only if serious misconduct is proved.
What were the two prices paid to Queens-
land raw-sugar growers over the last four years ?
They were, home consumption price and ex-
port price xespectively, 1941-42, £22 135.,
£lO 18s. 9d.; 1942-43, £22 14s. 6d., £lO 16s. 3d.;
1943-44, £22 10s. 6d., £l3 2s. 6d.; 1944-45,
£22 25., £l5 Os. 6d.
Hbw to make mudbricks?
A bottomless mould 9in. by 15in. by 6in.
made of not less than 14-gauge iron, is neces-
sary, also an iron-covered board to fit into
the top. Any clay or subsoil that is not very
sandy will do but a mixture of the two is
more suitable. Puddle up earth, adding an
armful of straw to each cubic yard; thoroughly
wet the heap and leave to soak for a lew
days. Shovel info mould, stamp down well
with feet, press down top and smooth with
board; lift mould carefully and leave the
brick to dry in the sun. It will be ready for
use in a few days. To make the mortar, screen
some of the earth through a one-inch wire
mesh and wet. Rodents and moisture are the
chief enemies of the mudbrick, so foundations
of stone, concrete, or brick are advisable. To
make a whitewash that is completely water-
proof add one pint of starch and a quarter-
cup of soft soap dissolved in boiling water to
three-quarters of a kero.-tin of Limil, stand
for six hours and then break down to a
creamy consistency.
A method of restoring glazed paper pages
that have been stuck together as a result of
wetting ?
Wet the pages again thoroughly and separate
them carefully with a paper knife. Soak up
excess moisture with blotting paper, and com-
plete drying by running a hot iron over the
'pages. Care should be taken (by placing
greaseproof paper over the wet paper) to ensure
that the iron does not come in direct contact
with the glazed paper.
Brief Answers.
G.L.: An unmarried pensioner can possess
property, including money in bank, to the value
of £59, and a married pensioner £ll9, without
causing reduction in pension R.H.8.: (1)
Duty would have to be paid at the other end.
(2) All parcels are limited to a weight of 51b., !
and only one parcel per month can be sent
R.J.M.: Write to Government Printer, Bris-
bane, or contact local member C.H.D.:
Books on the subject are The Problem of
Lemuria, by Spence, and The Lost Continent
of Mu, by Churchwood M. 1.: Kingaroora
is the aboriginal word for sparkling spring....
J.H.T.: (1) Kiawarra is the abo. equivalent of
rainbow. (2) Millumbawa, sparkling water;
Aboonah, slowly-running stream; Karthina,
w a c . q^et water; Warriparri, near river....
ri , matter is now under discussion with
thv. Department of Interior, and committees are
being formed under the auspices of the Darwin
Chamber of Commerce to meet the Minister.
It you are in touch with others in your district
get them to write to A. G. Cameron, M.P.,
Parliament House, Canberra, putting their
cases Maxcen: Tickets in the Calcutta
Sweep are obtainable only through a member
the Royal Calcutta Turf Club, India
r D y mocks have published a book of
Lex McLennan’s bush ballads.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaKen re contributions voluntarily
submitted ; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
“E.D.P.: “Sabina smiled sweetly and bravely,
but the blonde’s saccharine shaft penetrated
her armor of indifference and turned her fair
skin a lolly pink.” It’s all too sweet
T.S.: Thin 8.W.: Let your characters speak
j°N.w h ? ms lo^
Swaggie has been hanging round that Bush
Shanty these 20 years L.M.S.: “Rupert the
Ruthless” should tfe dealt with ruthlessly....
J.E.: Might make a par U.R.: Too many
characters and too little incident.... H.P.: Use
everyday English... .R.K.D.: Be sparing with
the iadjecfives J. 8.: A line of visualisation
is worth a paragraph of introspection
A.McC.: Make up your mind about the tenses.
8.T.: Try a daily V. 0.: Dialect of
purely etymological interest.


One Executor
with the Knowledge
of many
When you take the serious step
of appointing someone to act as
manager, executor or trustee of
your estate you are entitled to
be fully satisfied as to capacity
to do what is required.
The future of others who mean much
to you depends upon your choice.
The Union Trustee Company of
Australia meets all requirements. For
sixty years if has rendered service
precisely similar to what you require.
It has built up a fund of knowledge
and experience which, through trained
executives, is readily available to you.
Its directors are men of substance and
standing, themselves well accustomed
to the discharge of very responsible
duties. Their accumulated experience
is also at your disposal.
Estates worth in the aggregate many
millions of pounds have been handled
by the Union Trustee, over two
generations. That is the basis of the
confidence which has led so many
prudent people with responsibilities to
choose the Union Trustee.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
(Incorporated in Victoria) Established 18S5
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS;
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman): E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman):
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norman J. Carson.
Advisor : Samuel Cooke. General Manager : John Larritt.
Manager ; J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector : H. A. Hay.
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon. Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman);
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e., m.l.c, ; A. E. Heath, c.m.o.j Robert C. Wilson;
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, K.C., m.l.c.
Manager : J. G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L. K. Stephens.
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD :
Maior-General Sir T. W. Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., D. 5.0., v.n. (Chairman);
J. W. Fletcher, O.b.e. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart,
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.c.e.; Cecil Brenan.
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., A.I.C.A.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, A.F.1.A., a.a.i.S.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street—E. N. Jobst, a.i.c.a. (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager).
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb.
t
THE EVERLASTING VALVE.
This valve is made in the flanged
and screwed type of gunmetal
throughout. The ideal valve fo r
Boiler Blowoff, as it is leakproof,
simple, easily operated, quick
acting, straight blow through
and no Stuffing Box. Made in all sizes from one inch. No atten-
tion required after being installed, as it is self-grinding in action.
All valves tested to 6001 b. hydraulic pressure. Send for our
Bulletin and let us quote you.
Sole Manufacturers:
GUTHRfDGE PTY. LIMITED
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown, N.S.W.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Dunlop Rubber Aust., Ltd.
Parent's Figures.
Net I Dividends -v To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Pref. Ord. Total, serves, serves.i
£ £ £ £
1935.. 120.016 10 p.c. Nil 93,000 27,016 134,24»
1936.. 183 10 „ 5 p.c. s 281,283 25,900 160,145
1937.. 410.409 10 „ 7 „ ~ 356,595 53,814 213,9.i9
1938.. 414.702 10 „ 7 „ ~356.596 58,106 272,065
1939.. 650 10 „ 7 „ ~ 856,596 61,064 333,119
1940- 10 „ 7 „ ~ 856,596 03,909 427,028
1941- 10 „ 7 „ „ 356.096 24,773 451,801
1942- 10 5 „ ~281,282 94,486 546.287
1943- 10 6 „ ~ 281.282 105,011 651,298
1944- 10 „ 5 „ ~ 281,282 99,034 750,332
1945- 10 „ 6 „ ~281,282 110,830 861,168
f Goodwill ( £354,377 In parent’s books) not treated
as an asset herein.
There was little change in basic con-
ditions for rubber manufacturers during
the 12 months to June 30 last. Federal
control of production, distribution and
consumption continued, and so did
rationalisation and price fixing. The co.’s
half-dozen factories —three each at Mel-
bourne and Sydney—were “wholly en-
gaged in production of goods for defence
services and essential users.” And the
orders came not only from the Com-
monwealth Government but from Maori-
land and U.S. forces in the South-west
Pacific as well, and there were more of
them.
So despite shortages of labor and
materials and increased use of synthetic
rubber —it is more expensive to handle
than plantation crude —the board was
able to show a trading profit of £303,124
(up £6393). Subsidiary and other share-
holdings turned in £68,917 (up £6058),
and £20,077 (down £649) was gathered in
interest from Government securities, fixed
deposits, etc. That was after allowing
£210,425 for taxation and £139,942 (up
£4707) for depreciation, equal to 7.8 p.c.
book value fixed assets at June 30, 1944.
The £392,118 (up £11,802) of profit from
all sources was enough to give the prefs.
their 10 p.c. (= £93,000) and show 7.9
p.c. on the £3,765,655 of ord. capital
compared with 7.6, 7.8, 7.5, 7.6 and 9.5
p.c, back to 1940. The div. remained at
5 p.c.
Aggregate profit of the parent and sub-
sidiaries was figured at £394,483 (up
£13,351), or £2365 more than the parent
alone claimed. So the subsidiaries aren’t
holding on to much in the way of sur-
plus earnings.
With war out of the way service re-
quirements will largely evaporate. Still,
over the next few years demand promises
to run ahead of production for rubber
goods. At June 30 last the number of
cars and commercial vehicles in Aus-
tralia was reckoned in the region of
900,000, of which only 795,880 were
registered—loo,ooo-odd had been put on
the blocks. During the war high-priority
users of registered vehicles received only
limited supplies of tyres and tubes. The
balance of these vehicles, which was
most of them, continued in restricted use
with retreaded and patched tyres and
tubes. In addition to the big replacement
thus foreshadowed, there will be heavy
initial shoeing of thousands of new cars
and trucks required to take the place of
worn-out and obsolete ones. There will
also be a strong deferred demand in other
sections of the Dunlop business, which
pre-war accounted for about 50 p.c. of
turnover.
Two main factors involved in recon-
version of production to post-war needs
are; (1) an adequate supply of suitable
labor, and (2) a sufficiency of raw
materials and freedom to employ them
to the best advantage. Solution of the
first problem depends largely upon the
speed with which members of the staff
now in the services are demobilised. The
board has made arrangements for bring-
ing them up-to-date in technical and other
knowledge by providing post-war training
facilities. As for raw materials, Ameri-
can production of synthetic rubber, now
at the rate of approximately 900,000 tons
p.a,, is approaching the pre-war output
of the natural article, 1,000,000-odd tons
p.a. And the U.S. isn’t likely to let its
new industry go lightly into the discard.
However, lower cost of production places
plantation rubber in a very strong com-
petitive position. Still, it looks like being
three years or thereabouts before planta-
tions get into full production again.
Meanwhile synthetic will continue to be
largely used. It now amounts to nearly
50 p.c. of all rubber mixed in Australia,
and, provided costs can be restrained, it
may ultimately replace natural rubber in
manufacture of tyre tubes, because it
holds air under pressure for a greater
period. For most of the co.’s products,
however, natural rubber possesses tech-
nical and other advantages.
Plans for transfer of the Montague fac-
tory (Melbourne) to Beaumaris, some
20 miles down the bay, are complete, and
the move, which would take some time,
will be made as soon as opportunity
offers. Some of the plant and equipment
is already on order from local and over-
seas manufacturers.
Consolidated balance-sheet figures dis-
close a healthy financial position;
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Paid capital— 1939. J?? 4 ,:,..- p a <Uri
Dunlop interest £4,695,666 £4,690,655 £4,695,
Outside interest* 222,379 26.617 27,132
Reserves! .. .. 692.281 1,110.190 1.223,084
Liabilities.. .. 290,564 382,428 811.&10
Tax reserve . . 112,270 232,627 237,402
Freeholds, etc. .. 1,216,009 1,009,546 978,261
Plant, etc 1,054,565 764,671 648,667
Stocks .. .. 2,116,460 1,776,275 1.<80,497
Debtors .. .. 916,925 1.115.020 822,532
Investments, etc.. . 6,265 222,866 2^2,846
Cash, etc... .. 217,977 960,587 1,444,656
Rationalisation ace. 46,137
Goodwill ~ . . 630,830 739,699 739,571
* Includes share undistributed profits, t Subject to
goodwill and rationalisation account.
Stock (up £4222) was well maintained last
term. The contraction of £292,488 in
debtors’ balances reflects the tapering of
service requirements. Cash, etc. (up
£484,069) includes £942,853 (up £374,188)
of Government securities. The year’s
improvement in the more or less liquid
surplus (£3,721,269) was £261,576, thanics
partly to the liberal allowance for depre-
ciation.
The pound ords., which fetch 28s. on
’Change in Maoriland, were recently
jammed at the ceiling price of 235. 9d.
in Australia. Still, they we<re not included
in the list of shares for which the
Treasury granted a 10 p.c. lift in the ceil-
ing on September 25. At prices mentioned
the return is 3.6 p.c. and 4.2 p.c. respec-
tively on a 5 p.c. div. basis. The prefs.
at 435. return 4.6 p.c.
Trustees, Executors & Agency Co. (Melb.)
To Re- Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935. 12/1? « p.c.= 8,400 1 2no 139 231
To provident fund, £2OOO )
1936.. 13,844 7 p.c, = 9,800 4044 143,275
1937.. 15,131 8 „ ~ 11.200 3931 147.206
1938.. 15,204 10* „,, 14.000 1204 148,410
1939.. 15.305 8 „ ~ 11,200 ) _ 147 - 115
Written off, £5OOO .. )
1940.. 14,005 8 p.c. = 11,200 2805 150,320
1941.. 14,039 8 „ „ 11,200 2839 153,159
1942.. 11,363 7i „ ~ 10,5 )0 863 154,022
1943.. 11,522 7 „ „ 9,800 ) 722 154744
To provident fund, £10o0( ‘ ’
1944.. 11,601 7 p.c.= 9,800 ) 801 755,545
Written off, £lOOO .. \ ’
1945.. 11,791 7 p.c. = 9,800 ) __ ir.s 536
Written off, £2JOO .. )
* Including 2 p.c. diamond jubilee bonus.
This is the co. which was recently
appointed trustee for debenture holders
in Australian Paper Manufacturer’s
£2,250,000 debenture issue at 3g p.c. It
is Australia’s oldest and second-largest
trustee co., having been set on its feet
at Melbourne in 1878 by William Temple-
ton, and is now established in N. S. Wales
as well. With the advent of our so-called
managed economy, the advantages of the
corporate over the private trustee have
become more apparent than ever. For
this and other reasons it can be expected
that the volume of business entrusted to
the expert care of the cos. will now ex-
pand more rapidly than in the past.
In common with others in this class of
business, the co.’s corpus and other com-
mission charges are anchored by legis-
lation, as they always have been, while
costs, especially taxation, have advanced
at accelerated pace during the war years.
Thus growth in exes, has outstripped
growth in earnings, which have continued
to expand with the volume of trusts.
The following table shows what has
happened; —
Gross Exes. p.e. of
June, Trusts. Income.* Exes. Income.
1920.. £13.533,081 £41,924 £25,538 60.9 p.c.
1930.. 23,574.354 76,260 54.373 71.3 „
1939.. 30,283,146 94,375 79,070 83.8 „
1940.. 31,379,997 93,550 79,545 85.0 „
1941.. 31,952,948 97,453 83,414 85.6 „
1942.. 33,019.984 99,892 88,529 88.6 „
1943.. 34,443,143 95,523 84,001 87.9 „
1944.. 85,908,1 10 94,777 83,176 86.7 „
1945.. 85,774,036 96,263 84,472 87.7 „
* After providing for contingencies.
Last term value of estates wound up ex-
ceeded value of those placed on the books
by £194,104. Controls have retarded
realisations, repressed capital values and
affected corpus and other commission
earnings. At the same time interest rates
have been forced down and rents kept
low, leaving very moderate returns from
investment of the co.’s own funds.
After providing for taxation and con-
tingencies, commission earnings last term
totalled £79,672 (up £1829), or 4s. sd.
p.c., and interest and rents turned m
£16,591 (down £343). Exes. toSk all but
£l9O of the gain. The net result (£11,791)
was 8.4 p.c. on the £140,000 of capital as
against 8.2, 8.8, 8.1, 10, 10 and 10.9 p.c.
back to 1939. The div. was kept at 7
p.c., and £2OOO was struck off the book
value of freehold, leaving reserves prac-
tically unchanged. On capital and re-
serves combined the year’s net result was
only 3.9 p.c., which suggests that there
is very little profit in the trustee section
of the business these days. '
Controls hampering trustee and other
business which call for early relaxation
are the ceiling on share prices and re-
strictions on dealings in real estate. Both
impose capital loss on beneficiaries and
others in cases of forced realisation,
without having any steadying effect worth
mentioning upon commodity prices
generally. Properties have been repeatedly
withdrawn from sale because their true
market value has been obviously so much
greater than the arbitrary official figure
placed upon them as at February 10,
1942. Some relief from the heavy burden
of company taxation has also become an
economic necessity.
At end June last the co.’s own funds
(capital and reserves combined), together
with £459 coming to sundry creditors,
were represented by freehold, etc.,
£136,000, Government securities and cash
£164,251, book debts £2645.
William Adams and Co.
t Dividends «—\
Pref. To-Ue*
April, Profit. 7 p.c. Ordinary. serves. Deficit.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 8,287 Nil Nil 8,287 10,973
Reserves.
Capital written off, £22,500 .. .. 11,627
Apparent adjustment book values,
£11,176 331
1936.. 22,031 78201 3 p.c. = 4,687 9,523 9,874
6.56 p.c.
1937.. 28,344 1637 6.56„ „ 10,313 16,394 26,268
7 p.c.
1938.. 34,389 1750 10.1 „ „ 15,938 16,701 42,969
1939.. 34.068 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,389 7,929 50,898
1940.. 34,270 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,791 7,729 58,627
1941.. 21,767 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 53,852
1942.. 40,195 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,653 67,505
1943.. 40,094 1760 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,552 81,057
1944.. 40,449 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 13,907 94,964
1945.. 37,960 1750 10.1 „ „ 24,792 11,418106,382
isi years.
War and mechanisation of the forces
gave the co.’s stock-in-trade —engineering
and electrical supplies, lubricants and
various hardware lines —and its overseas
connections a new importance. The busi-
ness, spread throughout the Common-
wealth, was declared a protected under-
taking, and civilian trade shrank
severely. Supplies continued to come
forward from U.K. and U.S. sources,
owing to priority of lines handled, and
our own and Allied service demands sent
turnover to new high levels. So despite
the impact of rising costs, especially
taxation, net earnings got a nice lift.
Indeed, profits over the last half-dozen
years have been the best in the co.’s his-
tory.
Turnover appears to have reached its
peak during the 1944 term. There was a
contraction of £2489 in net earnings for
the 12 months covered by the latest ac-
counts. That was after allowing for taxa-
tion and contingencies and striking off
£4286 (down £1397) for depreciation. The
£37,960 of profit covered the pref. div.
and 14.7 p.c. on the £245,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 15.7, 15.6, 15.6,
8.1, 13.1 and 13.2 p.c. back to 1939. For
the eighth year in succession shareholders
were handed 10.1 p.c., and £11,418 was
added to reserves, making them £106,382,
equal to 6s. Id. per f.-p. 14s. share.
Exactly what the future holds for the
business it is difficult to say at the
moment. Demand from the services dur-
ing the current term will diminish sharply,
but not entirely disappear. The big post-
war building and public works pro-
grammes cannot get into full swing until
an adequate volume of labor and
/.materials become available. Meanwhile,
much depends upon what happens in con-
nection with imports, prices and costs,
and upon suitability of the co.’s stocks
in relation to approaching civilian de-
mand. Prices for most of the lines


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All meris-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
Do you need a /
(WgMetm
£cm/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medical and dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
Mukalsmtk
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
LET
CAREY THE
BURDEN
>\>
Established 1808 in Reign of George 111.
STABILITY
The “Atlas’* has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS. 8 SPUING ST., SYDNEY.
GUY U. HEATH, Manager, N.S.VV.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONAUU PETIT TT,
Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and genera) engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
r)r~s&.
jfnnfc
~ir i
I 3C
: P« W
di:lj
nrsr'Cß:
li
ii
1,,-:
orl
nr
T
hi:
r=
i
ii
wii
mg
THIS PAINT
13 YEARS
HAS LASTED
- SO FAR?
The Grandstand Pavilion at the Sydney
Showground was last painted in 1932 with
three coats of Taylor’s Prepared Paint. The,
paint is still serviceable!
The Royal Agricultural Society of N.S.W., who own the
Pavilion, have used Taylor’s Paint for all their Showground
buildings for the last 20 years.
For your house—Taylor’s Paint!
TWW
PREPARED
isuit
Three coats of first-grade paint
give 5 years' full protection.
BEST BY THE FIVE YEAR TESTI
GOVT. RESTRICTIONS LIFTED!
Restrictions on manufacture have been lifted and .your pre-war favourites
are now available again at your local Taylor’s agent: MIRAGLOSS
QUICK-DRYING ENAMEL —TAYLOR’S PAVING ENAMEL TAYLOR’S
ENAMEL FLOOR STAINS SILVAR ALUMINIUM ENAMEL —TAYLOR’S
ROOF PAINTS —TAYLOR’S KALSOMINE MATTE WATER PAINTS
TAYLOR’S SPIRIT STAINS.
Paint Suppliers to Army, Navy and Air Force.
Made' at Suthenana Avenue, Paddington, N.S.IV. ( Tel . FA 2125') by
TAYLOR’S PAINTS PTY. LTD. ■OHHB
15.5
AVIORj
paint
sleeping beauty
5
Since 1939 style and femininity have
been put to sleep by restrictions, regulations, lack of materials and enemy
action, but craftsmanship, ingenuity and resource have been very wide awake at
Clarks and over a million pairs of shoes have been made each wartime year.
Soon, we hope, style and high fashion will be awakened by peace and in
Australian shoe shops Clarks shoes will be seen again, refreshed by
nearly six years of beauty sleep.
C. & J. Clark Limited, makers of Ladies and Childrens shoes for more than a
century at Street, Somerset, England.
handled are controlled, and likely to con-
tinue so for some time yet. One thing
certain is that competition in the engi-
neering trade will grow progressively
keener.
Financially the co. is now better
equipped to meet competition than it was
pre-war. Consider these figures:
1938. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £182,500 £270,000 £270,000 £270,000
Liabilities .. 270,287 167,614 224,457 220,886
Freeholds . . 109,085 109,085 116,999 116,999
Plant, etc. .. 21,506 22,789 14,052 12,184
Stocks . . 196,508 171,004 246,765 269,343
Book debts . . 168,859 195,890 204,554 193,592
Cash, shares, etc. 10,245 19,166 20,519 18,618
When the books last closed there was
11s. 9d. of outside money at risk in the
business for every pound belonging to
shareholders, compared with 235. lid.
seven years back. Liabilities consist of
£146,925 (down £20,005) coming to trade
creditors and an overdraft of £73,961 (up
£16,434). Surplus earnings and a reduc-
tion of £10,962 in debtors’ balances en-
abled £22,578 to be added to stocks,
now higher than at any time in the co.’s
history. The year’s improvement in the
more or less liquid surplus (£247,381)
was £13,828.
Development of the large iron-ore
deposits held by Australian Iron and Steel
at Cockatoo Island (Yampi Sound) is an-
other example of the value of the iron
and steel industry in national develop-
ment. Preparations for opening up the
deposit were under way when war began.
Then, at the end of 1941, the island had
to be evacuated owing to the Jap threat
of invasion. Work was resumed at the
end of 1944, and there are now 120 or
more men employed. Transport of the
ore to the furnaces at Kembla and New-
castle (N.S.W.), where it will be blended
with ore from Iron Knob (S. Aus.), is
expected to begin before the end of 1946.
Nearly all the plant and equipment neces-
sary, including four 12,500-ton vessels,
will be Australian-made. The ore is to
be mined by open-cut in 50ft. benches,
using 4 c.y. caterpillar-mounted electric
shovels, and conveyed to a 84in. x 60in.
primary jaw crusher in 28-ton diesel side-
dumping motor-trucks, thence to second-
ary crushers and by belt conveyors to bins
for loading direct into ships’ holds. Power
plant is to include three 750-h.p. diesel
engines, each driving a 400-k.w. alter-
nator, generating at 3000 volts. Approxi-
mately 100 operatives are to be perma-
nently employed, and special attention
is being given to housing and amenities,
including medical service, refrigeration
and food supply.
* * * *
According to cable advice, directors of
Great Boulder consider the. move by a
group of shareholders to secure election
of Lieut.-Colonel Shand-Kydd in place
of the retiring director, J. C. Gardiner,
to be the first step in an attempt by
Claude de Bernales to acquire control of
the co., and bring about transfer of its
domicile from London to Westralia,
Shareholders must, the board says, de-
cide whether they wish the co. to con-
tinue to be managed in London by an
independent board. There is talk about
the old board having spent a considerable
sum (£14,000 or thereabouts has been
mentioned) in connection with transfer
of the co.’s domicile, which the British
Treasury refused to sanction during the
war. Accounts for the nine months to
September 20, 1940, the date when the
old board went out and the liquidators
came in, had not been presented to share-
holders up to July 4 last, when the annual
meeting was adjourned to October 3.
•Jf * * Hs
War and its accompanying difficulties
brought the div. of London-controlled
Boulder Perseverance (paid capital
£224,820 in 4s. stock units), operating at
Kalgoorlie (W.A.), tumbling from 40 p.c.
p.a. for the four years to end 1940 to 30
p.c. 1941, 25 p.c. 1942, 15 p.c. 1943 and
10 p.c. 1944. For the 12 months of 1944
the co. netted £15,019 (down £3841). The
div., less tax, took £11,241, and £722
(down £2292) was passed to directors as
“extra remuneration” in accordance with
the articles. Profit, which included
£11,433 (down £11,433) in divs. from
Kalgoorlie Enterprise, was written after
allowing £16,554 (down £19,342) for
taxation and £3569 (down £483) for de-
preciation. Ore treated last term was
76,328 tons (down 5728 tons), averaging
5.817dwt. (down 0.195dwt.). The drop
in tonnage, due to a 41-day hold-up on
account of the wood-cutters’ strike, to-
gether with the increased price of stores
and shortage of labor and materials added
3s. a ton to average cost of mining and
treatment, making the figure 445. 2d. For
similar reasons Kalgoorlie Enterprise had
to cut its div. from 16 p.c. to 8 p.c. Ore
from both mines was treated by Kal-
goorlie Ore Treatment Co. at a cost of
14s. 5.3 d. (down 1.4 d.) per ton. Recovery
was a trifle lower at 92.9 p.c. Persever-
ance’s ore reserves, broken, proved and
probable, were put at 417,000 tons, aver-
aging 5.35dwt., an increase of 2300 tons
with scarcely any change in grade. In
the Enterprise there were 346,000 tons
(down 12,500 tons) of 6.2ldwt, ore.
Champion Mines, Southern Rhodesia, in
which Perseverance holds an interest,
will begin operations as soon as condi-
tions permit. Here the line of strike runs
for about five miles through the co.’s
leases, and is said to possess “attractive
possibilities.”
* sfc * *
On Oct. 18 London-controlled Golden
Horse Shoe, operating at Kalgoorlie
(W.A.), will ask shareholders to sanction
return of Is. per share (£55,000), and to
adjust the face value of the scrip accord-
ingly. Paid capital will thus be reduced
from £165,000 in 3s. shares to £llO,OOO
in 2s. shares. A like arpount of capital
was returned in 1932. At end of 1944
investments (market value £72,715), cash
(£89,720), debtors’ balances (£2124) and
stores (£7135) totalled £171,694. Includ-
ing a 3d. div., liabilities amounted to
£20,736. Cyaniding of Great Boulders
No. 2 dump is complete. Next job is
re-treatment of Lake View’s No. 3 dump,
estimated to contain half a million tons
of material, which it is expected to put
through in about a year. Negotiations for
treatment of other dumps are in progress.


Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne. •
QUEENSLAND BRANCH: Woolwortk’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Towns.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
ţ
They're AMPHIBIOUS
Here’s a watch you can take swimming, fish-
ing, golfing in the rain or for a care-free bath
without the slightest danger to its perfectly-
timed movement. Movado Waterproof Swiss
Watches are now available.
MOVADO
Bu/tiouli, • = i-„’
IIIMARIUT ST.SYDNEY ,9,/J to U Sat.
SWISS _
WATCHES
The JUqht
ofJbadeuhip
DIESEL FUEL INJECTION EQUIPMENT, mass produced to microscopic
precision standards, is another Pyrox "Beacon” of progress in the
pioneering and development of a great Australian Industry.
Australian production of Diesel Fuel Injection Equipment is a manu-
facturing achievement that further strengthens famous nation-wide
PYROX DIESEL SERVICE.
In all Australian Capitals Diesel Service Depots, under the management
of Pyrox-trained experts, are fully equipped for testing, overhaul,
repair, general maintenance and the supply of Injection Spare Parts
for all makes of Diesel Engines.
Pyrox DIESEL SERVICE
IN SYDNEY PYROX PTY., LTD.
X
HARD
HITTING AUSTRALIANS
Bill Ponsford, long prominent in Aus-
tralian and international cricket as a
consistent run getter. His aggregate
in first-class games was 13,659 {.aver-
age 65j. A very fine player.
Despite restrictions, limited sup-
plies of IX J. SHOTGUN and .22
RIMFIRE CARTRIDGES are
available to primary producers
for essential pest destruction sub-
ject to police permits • ALE
AUSTRALIAN .
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES
OF AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND LTD.
ICI
'AMIS
Business,Rollery,Etc.
The Industrial Picture
The businessman has an uncertain out-
look in Australia no less than anyone
else. Foreign affairs are still a problem,
while witfiin the Commonwealth the pro-
cess of gearing-down from a war-time to
a peace-time economy has many obvious
difficulties —difficulties that are not made
any easier by trade-union anarchy or
by a Government presenting deceit-
ful public accounts and reluctant to let go
its war-time taxing and spending powers.
War-time taxation policy has always
been lopsided, favoring the spender at
the expense of the employer and investor,
notwithstanding that such a state of un-
balance accentuates the inflation danger.
And it is the inflation problem that re-
quires the continuance of price and other
controls for an indefinite period even now
that the war is over from the fighting
point of view.
Outside the Commonwealth, apart
from the menace which Soviet interfer-
ence in world affairs represents, the eco-
nomic policy which the United States is
likely to adopt is of great importance to
most Australian land-men, manufac-
facturers and businessmen. It is equally
important to their employees. The prin-
ciples laid down in the Atlantic Charter
implied a greater freedom of trade
among Allied countries, with the right
of vanquished enemies coming into the
plan. The Bretton Woods monetary con-
ference also aimed at widening the
channels of international trade, with sym-
pathetic regard to the state of all co-
operating nations’ solvency. Now the
United States has broken off lend-lease
arrangements with the rest of the world
before the international banking and cur-
rency plans have had time to be put into
operation. Had the United States waited
until the plans were put into operation
it might have been up for colossal lend-
lease expenses. All the same, there is a
suggestion of strictly domestic politics
influencing United States economic
action, without full weight being given
to previous “international” plans and pre-
tensions.
It is not clear, for instance, whether, in
seeking the abolition of Imperial prefer-
ence, the United States is willing to make
a similar hole fo{ the British Empire in
its own tariff wall. There are reports
that, provided Imperial preference is abol-
ished and inter-Empire debts “scaled
down,” the United States will reduce its
own tariff and make Britain and the
Empire a large interest-free loan. The
political ability of the U.S.A. to reduce
its tariffs has yet to be demonstrated,
however.
It is plainly ridiculous for America
to expect to increase its exports to
the Empire without taking a pro-
portionately greater amount of im-
ports from Britain and its Dominions.
One of the causes of the economic fric-
tion that preceded the war that has just
closed was America’s inadequate imports
compared with its exports. America
pressed its trade on other nations with-
out encouraging them to pay in kind. In
spite of the chronically adverse balance
of Australian trade with the U.S.A. there
was a tariff of 45 cents a pound (clean
scoured basis) on Australian wool enter-
ing America! The U.S. political set-up
apparently has much to do with the seem-
ing irresponsibility of the American atti-
tude towards external trading relations.
When Britain was the predominant
Power in world trade it was a Freetrade
country. Even Australian lead cannot
enter the U.S. duty-free.
Australians still haven’t “got the
strength” of Empire tariff policy in rela-
tion to the United States. It may be
found that, even though a British-
American agreement is arrived at that will
be beneficial generally, there may be
adverse consequences for individual Aus-
tralian manufacturers or land-men.
Another uncertainty is the Australian
exchange rate on the United States. This
ties up with the London rate at present,
and is likely to do so later on. The Aus-
tralian pound is worth, roughly, 20 p.c.
less than the pound sterling when con-
verted into dollars, and the pegged sterl-
ing rate has been 4.03 dollars to the £.
During the war the value of the Austra-
lian pound was generally taken as being
3.29 dollars, with a dollar the equivalent
of 6s. Id, in our money. With the trade
balance between this country and
America certain to be heavily against us
if import restrictions were removed at this
end, without a lowering of United States
tariffs on wool, woollen manufactures,
metals, etc., the supply-and-demand rate
would most likely be much worse than
3.29 dollars to our pound. This not-
withstanding the fact that the cost of
food and clothing generally in this coun-
try is cheaper than in the U.S.A.
While we are in need of essential im-
ports from America an adverse exchange
rate might retard post-war recovery, in
particular adding to re-equipment and
transport costs. For a couple of years
at least world prices of most essential
raw materials, including wool, wheat,
butter, cheese, metals, etc., should be pro-
fitable to this country without any arti-
ficial exchange boost. In any case a
depreciating currency is a thing not to
be desired from the internal or from the
international point of view in the long
run. Stable internal costs and improved
productive efficiency are much sounder
aids to export trades than currency mani-
pulation. In addition, there are the rights
of holders of Australian currency and
bonds to be considered.
Very plainly, Australian businessmen
await the final outcome of economic dis-
cussions in the United States with con-
siderable concern. The question seems t 6
boil down to one of either greater Empire
self-sufficiency or freer world trade gener-
ally. If the United States comes to the
financial aid of Britain the latter course
would seem to be implied. But freer
world trade must include freer United
States trade; it is impossible for the
United States to benefit for long by one-
way concessions from other countries
already embarrassed by lack of an export
market in America. And this is so re-
gardless of what temporary financial help
is granted by Uncle Sam to the economi-
cally embarrassed countries.
Government controls still affect most
industrial activity in the Commonwealth.
Price control looks like continuing for
three years at least, but in a gradual pro-
cess of liquidation. Major capital issues
are still under Government supervision.
There is no doubt that there exists a con-
tinuous clash of interests between indi-
vidual enterprise and what is considered
to be the “national need.” This is partly
because of the economic strain im-
posed by war, partly because of adminis-
trative incapacity. Price control will
hamper the establishment of many new
enterprises which need to “Cash in” early
in their career to meet later competition.
But the general price level will have to
be considered for some time after the
war to restrain the obviously inflationary
forces that are at work. And so the con-
flict will go on in many other aspects of
industry and national economics.
These internal problems will be less-
ened if there is a reasonable attitude taken
on all sides. But the Government has
often been very unreasonable in its atti-
tude towards controls, these sometimes
being enforced in order to assist trade-
unionists not doing a fair thing and to
bolster-up the results of previous Gov-
ernment mistakes, weakness and ineffi-
ciency. Private enterprise is not always
beyond reproach, but where it goes
wrong it needs to be corrected, not blud-
geoned. It still represents the backbone
of our economy.
Overseas trading and financial condi-
tions that are now being shaped, Austra-
lian Government financial and produc-
tion “controls,” availability of essential
raw materials, our taxation and “social-
welfare” policy, and the attitude of Labor
towards doing a fair day’s work for a
fair day’s pay —these are the headings
under which most industrial problems
fall at the present time. Until a reason-
ably clear picture can be got with regard
to all there will be little confidence or
stability in our productive outlook, and
the full weight of our resources will not
be mobilised.
During the war Australian individuals
and business concerns have built up a
reserve of about £9OO million additional
spending power. It overshadows pre-war
spending reserves. The £9OO million is
in addition to personal and company in-
vestments in war loans and in industry.
The excess was primarily created by the
fact that defence production was mostly
unavailable for civilian purchase, though
a large volume of civilian wages was paid
out in the process of defence production.
Only 35 p.c. of the cost of war was paid
for in taxation ; thus wages, after deduct-
ing taxes, were much in excess of the
value of civilian goods available. Aggra-
vating the position further has been the
fact that wage-earners have invested only
a very small proportion of their unspent
earnings in war loans. .The Government
has been forced to resort to excessive use
of bank credit. The people of Australia
have not yet really paid for their share
in the war; with the £9OO million of
unspent war-time “savings” overhanging
the economy it looks as though all will
be paying, through inflating costs and
prices, for years to come. That is in addi-
tion to payment of interest on the war
debt.
♦ ♦ ♦ ♦
Knight Edmund Herring, C.J., in Mel-
bourne last week awarded Edmund H.
Hunter, a retired merchant, £36,915 dam-
ages against the Commercial Bank of
Australia and Maurice John Kelly,
manager of its Bpurke-street East branch.
A stay of proceedings was granted. The
C.J. said he was satisfied that Hunter
had been induced to discount promissory
notes brought to him by the late Alex-
ander George Barlow, a well-known Mel-
bourne identity, and that the vast majority
of these were forgeries. Kelly, at the
bank, had throughout shown a disregard
for the rules of the bank, and had been
prepared to go to inordinate lengths to
provide Barlow with the accommodation
he needed to carry out his scheme for
defrauding Hunter. On the evidence,
said the C.J., he was satisfied that Kelly
had known from at least as early as May,
1936, what the true nature of the transac-
tions had been, and found that Kelly
had been in league with Barlow, The
conspiracy depended for its success upon
Barlow playing one part and Kelly an-
other. Kelly’s part could only have been
played by a bank manager. The bank
itself became responsible in. law for
Kelly’s actions. Total dealings were said
by the plaintiff to have totalled £164,034,
and he sued for £50,000.
* * * 9
The approximate average cost of the
9000-ton “standard ships” built in Aus-
tralia is put by Auditor-General Aber-
crombie at £620,000 each. They are
freighters, known as the “River” class.
* * * *
Australian savings-bank deposits have
now touched £584.7 million (August 31),
having risen £lO.l million during the
month. Since war began the rise has
been £340 million.


ť
DUPLICATOR
I boa all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction cl
ONLY their coBt * The "National" Rotary DupB-
JC 17/ 4 A / WANTED cator will reproduce Typing. Writing,
ft. I//Iu / • AU STATES Plans, Music, etc.
But It entirely in Australia by SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE T~ n, .ii —S
Queensland
Insurance Co.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
lolder*’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
HELP
KIDNEYS PASS
3 LBS. A DAY
Doctors say your kidneys contain 15 fiiilei
cf tiny tubes or filters ■which help to purify
the blood and keep you healthy. Most people
pass about 3 pints a day or about 3 pounds
of waste.
An excess of acids or poisons lii your blood
lire the cause of frequent or scanty passages
With smarting and burning, nagging back-*
iache, rheumatic pains, leg pains, loss of pep
and energy, getting up nights, swollen feet
and ankles, puClncss under the eyes, head-t
fc.ch.es and dizziness. _ ,
If kidneys don’t empty 3 pints a day and
feet rid of more than 3 pounds of waste mat-
ter, your body will taka up the" a
causing serious trouble. Don’t waitl Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS . . . used successfully
the world over by millions of people. They
give quick relief and will help to flush out the
35 MILES of kidney tuiws. Get DOAN’S
BACKACHE KIDNEY FILLS fit you? g&emlsS
pr ptore.
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts A.s
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.),
Sydney.
M. C. Nolt, Public Trustee.
ŧ
Clc/oic/
USE
t
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
AS AN AID TO
DAILY REGULARITY
AND GOOD HEALTH
TRY
Dr. Morse’s Indian Root Pills for Constipation,
Indigestion, Biliousness, Sluggish Liver and similar
little ills of life.
DR. MORSE’S
INDIAN ROOT PILLS
THEY MAKE YOU FEEL BRIGHTER
I /Juet
f)m*y nt }
y
800 KS
b
&
lew
oo
M
Bert
Wot
%
u
etc
at
BOOKS TO BE RELEASED
June MEMOIRS OF A MOUNTAINEER _F. Spencer Chapman
July CLOUDLESS MAY _____ Storm Jamieson
Aug. BEING MET TOGETHER _ _ _ _ Vaughn Wilkins
Sept. CRICKET COUNTRY _ _ _ Edmund Blunden
Oct. THE SMALL BACK ROOM— _ _ Nigel Balchin
Not. CLUNY BROWN ______ Margery Sharp
Dec. SO MANY LOVES _____ Leo Walmsley
Jan. THE RAZOR'S EDGE _ Somerset Maughan
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6 MTHS £l-17-6 12 MTHS—£3-15-0 Cine.)
WORLD
BOOKS'*
is a book club
which releases a
selected modern
book In a special
De-Luxe Edition
to members each
month. These
books cost only
5/9 ei#ch, ir-
respective of the
regular selling
price of the
book, and are
members' own
property.
MORGAN'S SHOP, 9 Castlereagh Street, Sydney. N.S.W.
Please enrol me as a member of "World Books." I enclose £ / /
My Name Is -
Address
Messages from Washington suggest that
Britain has been asked to abolish imperial
tariff preference and to reduce inter-
Empire debts in return for a 10-year, in-
terest-free loan of “up to $6OOO million
and tariff concessions by the United
States. Another U.S. condition is the
acceptance by the Empire of the Bretton
Woods financial agreement, which must
be accompanied by an ending of the sterl-
ing-area dollar pool. (This would mean
the end of London as custodian of Em-
pire dollars, for which Australia’s require-
ments are always greater than its contri-
butions). The loan by America would
have to be used by Britain and the Em-
pire to stimulate productive machinery
and export trade and not reloaned.
Obstacles to acceptance of the offer by
Britain are the difficulty of reducing debts
owed to individuals, including, say,
Indians, the objection by some members
of the British Commonwealth to an in-
crease in the dollar debt, and British
doubts as to whether Congress could carry
out its policy of tariff reduction. The
middle-west States, for instance, have
placed a false political value on the
United States wool industry, which is pro-
tected by a terrific tariff. Just returned
by air from Ottawa, Judge Davis,
Canadian High Commissioner, says,
apropos of the Washington economic
negotiations; “The Governments of the
United States and Canada have the
highest appreciation of the importance of
world security and prosperity of a stable
British economy, and they can be relied
upon to provide that Britain will not
suffer economic disorders as a result of
her war sacrifices.”
* * * *
Following a slight strengthening in the
Bombay market over a period, there were
intriguing developments in the price of
silver last week. The United States
jumped the price for foreign silver from
45 cents per fine ounce to the domestic-
silver level of 71.11 cents. Next day
London lifted quotes from 2s. Hd. an
ounce to 3s. Bd. This increased figure com-
pares with 3s. 6id. for the higher U.S.
price converted at 4.03 dollars to the £
sterling. The rise in the London price
represents a jump of 70 p.c. in one act.
Cabled explanations so far have been
meagre. Washington says the Office of
Price Administration explains the U.S.
action as being to encourage silver im-
ports, which had recently fallen. Not so
long ago the United States was having
silver nightmares as a result of purchases
during the depression and recovery years.
In the early part of the war with Japan
the United States minted a large amount
of silver coinage for the countries to
which American troops were being sent.
The countries concerned (Australia in-
cluded) undertook to return an equiva-
lent amount of silver after the war. Chief
questions arising out of last week’s de-
velopment is whether the higher price has
been prompted by currency or com-
modity demand, and, whatever the
answer, why?
* * * *
Professor Copland, Prices Commis-
sioner, is resigning. He has had a most
difficult task during the war, and that he
has mainly kept his mouth shut about the
amount of Government-created inflation
that it has been his job to control is an
indication of the adaptability of the man
as an administrator. Having had a hand
in the Premiers’ Plan, Copland, it may be
thought, did amazingly well to last nearly
four years with a Labor Government. But
most of Menzies’s appointments to senior
posts were not disturbed when Labor took
office.
* * * *
The Canadian Government has placed
a ceiling of $1.55 (approximately Bs. 6d.)
a bushel (at wharf) on top-grade Canadian
wheat. The limit on price-rises is de-
signed to prevent undue profiteering by
exporters at the expense of wheat-hungry
Allies. Canada has a large surplus of
wheat for export. As compensation for
the brake on rising selling prices the Gov-
ernment has guaranteed Canadian farmers
a minimum of $1 (about ss. 6d.) a bushel
for wheat for a five-year period to July
31, 1950. In Australia the wheat industry
has been mucked up as only the present
Federal Government and its satellite
bureaucracy can muck things up. Growers
are getting nothing like Bs. 6d. a bushel.
About half that, in fact.
* * * *
There were some relaxations of Stock
Exchange price controls last week.
Among the ceilings revised were those
for Australian Consolidated Industries
shares, Carlton Brewery, Hudc’art Parker,
Morris Hedstrom and G. J. Coles. Some
of these represent obvious cases of pre-
vious undervaluation. But many more
obvious cases have not been attended to.
Among the shares neglected by the
Treasury (but not by investors able to
buy) are Burns Philp. Bank of N. S.
Wales, Bradford Cotton, Broken Hill
Prop., Tooth, Castlemaine Perkins,
British Tobacco, Yarra Falls and W. R.
Carpenter. In some of these cases the
undervaluation on Australian Stock
Exchanges, when New Zealand prices
are compared, is marked. Bank of
N. S. Wales £2O shares are £6 higher in
Maoriland, Henry Jones ss. 6d., Colonial
Sugar (£2O shares) £8 and Tooth 10s.
Morris Hedstrom ords. represent the most
outstanding anomaly. For a long time in
the Commonwealth they were less than
half the N.Z. price.
* * & *
The fact that the Federal Government
does not show greater alarm about the
prevalence of black - marketing and
breaches of the rationing laws is
puzzling to many observers. The Gov-
ernment has been only too ready to
introduce regulations restricting pro-
duction and sale, as well as “con-
trolling” prices, but disobedience of
regulations is so prevalent that there is
good reason to wonder why the regula-
tions were ever introduced if the Gov-
ernment wasn’t sure that it was going to
enforce them effectively. Regulation of
prices and sales drives goods into the
black market, and the nefarious princi-
pals in this market are filling their purses
in a way that enables them to escape
taxation, the whole thing being an under-
the-lap matter. The established business
of fixed address and conducting a proper
book-keeping system is compelled to
observe the law in the most trifling aspect,
and even where prices are strictly con-
trolled the Prices Commissioner will often
take action to make a company pass over
a portion of its profits to the Govern-
ment, as in the case of the British To-
bacco Company. The Prices Branch has
often denied that it ever does such a thing,
but the position has been made quite
plain in this case. Meanwhile, rogues of
many varieties are racketeering with ap-
parent impunity in a business class of
their own. There are indeed some very
odd aspects of the manner in which the
war-time economic regulations are en-
forced in Australia. When some action
was taken to catch black-marketeers and
tax-dodgers by calling in the larger notes
so much advance information was given
by the Treasury that the bigger fish had
ample time to get away. In five months
the tenners held by the public fell by
40 p.c., and higher denominations dropped
by an almost similar proportion.
* * * *
Telford Simpson, addressing share-
holders in Mort’s Dock, Sydney, has said
that it might be worth while to have Gov-
ernment enterprise pitted against private
enterprise in certain industries. This
would give supporters of socialism an
opportunity of deciding which gave the
best results at the lowest cost. The idea
is not without merit, the chief drawback
being that Governments, when they find
that they cannot compete with private
enterprise, often place obstacles in the
wa y 0 f private concerns, thus making
Government costs the lowest costs,
s ome thing of this nature has happened
w j ra jj anc j mo tor transport in most
parts the Commonwealth; transport
authorities, by legislative action, deliber-
ate|y obstructed private motor carriers
f rom giving better competitive service
t j ian t he railways. But a State or Corn-
monwealth brickworks or pipeworks is
not a G a d idea, nor is a Government in-
surance or assurance office, provided all
are Qn a s t r i c tly competitive basis—that
j Sj a jj pay rates anc j taxes and similar
charges. A. G. L. Shaw in his book,
jhe Economic Development of Australia,
says “j n past t he Labor party advo-
catec} control of capitalism through Gov-
ernment competition. If this is denied,
they, and others, may demand direct
control in the public interest.” In all
probability the best that would be
achieved by Government competition
would be insurance against really exces-
sive charges in a seryice or an industry,
The insurance would cost the taxpayer
money, but it might be worth while from
a political if not from an economic point
of view.


Missing Friend.
BAILEY. —Anyone knowing the whereabouts of Alex-
ander Bailey or Bayley or his descendants, kin ah
communicate with T. J. B UKCELL, of (>h King
Street, Sydney, Solicitor.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—IK Divorce.
TO WILLIAM ROY BUCKMAN late of Cobar.—
TAKE NOTICE that KATHLEEN LUCY BUCKMAN
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 533 of 1945 on
the ground of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards You may enter an
appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King
Street Svdney before the sth November 194 a and
obtain a'copy of the petition without charge from
DENSLEY & DOWNING Solicitors 39-49 Martin Place
Sydney.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES—In Divorce.
TO JOHN HENRY HASLAM formerly of Coonabara-
bran.—TAKE NOTICE that CAROLINE LOUISA
HASLAM has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 3554
of 1945 on the ground of desertion without jusr
cause or excuse during three years and upwards If
you wish to defend you may enter an
at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney by the First day of November 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
BOWMAN & MACKENZIE Solicitors 133 Pitt Street
Sydney.—(l.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Pride and Loss.
“Ek Dum”; More information has be-
come available about the dreadful losses
of Australians in the South-west Pacific
and Malayan campaigns, and it is almost
unbelievable that, with the certainty that
an inquiry must be held into certain
phases of these campaigns and the respon-
sibility fixed for them, Parliament should
be going into recess for nearly half a
year. It will be interpreted overseas in
certain military quarters as an ignomini-
ous act of retreat by the Government.
However, for what the assurance is
worth, it appears that 19,968 Australians
were captured by the Japanese. Of these
2549, the Army Minister states, are
“known to have died in captivity.” Ninety-
nine others escaped or were recovered be-
fore fighting ceased. The whereabouts ol
4926 Australians taken prisoner by the
Japanese were not known on September
28, though most people unfortunately had
a pretty fair idea of the sad fate of most
of them, the Minister in his information
being usually several jumps behind the
press.
Into the fate of about 2550 missing in
Borneo, a general officer is inquiring, and
until he makes his report there is still a
shred of hope, though only a slender one.
The authorities know of 3625 prisoners
who are in Japanese hands or not yet in
Allied hands. A very large proportion
of these are in Java, where the British
occupying force at the end of last week
was merely at token standard, and while
rebellion against the Dutch, implemented
by a puppet Government placed in office
by the Japanese, was in progress.
Until the Seaforth and the Royal
Marines arrived these Australians were
at the mercy of the puppet Government
and the Japanese, but the Australian
Waterside Workers’ Federation, whose
general secretary is a member of the
Communist party’s Central Committee,
refuses to load arms for the Dutch
arms which would, of course, be
at the disposal of the British in case
of trouble or the need to protect om
p.-0.-w.—or even food, food being “a
munition of war.” The assistant secretary
of the wharfies, one Moran, engaged in
an illegal Sydney procession with large
numbers of rebellious Indonesian seamen,
who have as much conception of “democ-
racy,” which they are alleged to profess,
as the Akhoond of Swat. In the early
part of the war against Japan this Moran,
having apparently a first travel priority,
was commissioned to carry on a cam-
paign for the internment of the Australia
First men, eight of whom have since been
vindicated by a Supreme Court Justice
and granted compensation, one of their
“offences” being that they wanted the
A.I.F. back from the Middle East in that
period of dire danger. Communist
“policy” at that time, the party line having
changed, was that the Australian troops
should be kept where they were to “de-
fend the Soviet Union by opening a
Second Front in Europe.”
That the Indonesian rebels against
whom arms might have to be used are
colored Haunters of the kris, capable of
the most horrible atrocities and a large
proportion of them only half-civilised,
means nothing to Communists, since to
them every rebellion which threatens to
overthrow any Western Power and in-
creases the relative dominance in world
affairs of the U.S.S.R. is to be en-
couraged. Nor is association with the
Japanese any bad thing to them, since the
U.S.S.R., whose Foreign Office has ab-
sorbed all the leading officials of the
Comintern, from which the Australian
Communist party avowedly received its
orders till June, 1942, not merely had an
ambassador in Tokyo till a few weeks
ago but actually did much to feed and
fuel Japan, while Japanese were commit-
ting the most dreadful atrocities against
Australians in their hands.
The Government at Canberra is yield-
ing to the Communist-ruled union policy,
as it always has done, “in the interests of
industrial peace.” It knows that it is
firmly in the grip of union leaders.
Singapore’s Tragedy and Story
The total of Australians who were
lost—wounded not specified—up to the
time of the fall of Singapore has now
been made available and confirmed by
the other figures issued —2242 were killed
in action, died of wounds or were missing
out °f a strength of two brigade groups.
The 22nd Brigade lost 1133; the 27th
Brigade, 503 ; artillery, R.A.E. and medi-
ca P ers ° nne ’
The significance of these figures can
° nly b f e estimated by comparison with
* e ataan . cani P ai S n - In the whole of
heup '° A the invasion of
° in
battle were reported at 1101, less than
the i osses Q f two brigades of Aus-
trafians, apart from other fighting troops
j n Malaya
Muster ‘ rolls for the actual front . line
fighting in Malaya are, of course, not
available, but it is doubtful if more than
90 00 or at most 10,000 Eighth Division
troops could have participated. Many of
these were Old Diggers of the last war,
approaching their fifties, who were flung
straight off the ship into the front line,
Some of them were physically unfit and
untrained in the use of modem arms, but
part in the fight was epic and their
ex P eri ence saved many jives
Ser geant Blam, M.H.R., who,
after 1 6 cunous Army custom,
“ Atlen—wait for it. Wait for it —SHUN!”
surrendered at base the sergeant’s stripes
with which he left Australia —he had
been repromoted sergeant under fire in the
front line —declares that the Japanese
barrage at the Canal on February 7, 1945,
was as heavy as any he experienced in
France and he fought through
Pozieres. All the troops he encountered
or heard about fought with great gallantry
and—where they had experienced leader-
ship—with great steadiness, though novices
with novice officers in the late-coming
units suffered from the usual faults and
minor failures to be expected in such
cases.
Pride and Leadership
In a national network broadcast on
September 30 Sergeant Blain said (script
as issued follows):
I have been told that, at the period when
Singapore was surrendered, there was a great
outcry here against the fighting quality of
British Commonwealth men, and particularly
against the leadership and men of the United
Kingdom, who have been accused in certain
high places of being without the aggressive
spirit and of failing us. I wish to make it
clear that there was no section of those who
fought in Malaya on our side —British, Aus-
tralian, Indian —of whom we cannot be proud,
whatever mistakes were made amid the urgency
and hurrying demands of war.
The thing that struck me throughout my
experience of all personnel, men and officers
alike, was their sort of indestructible quality
which the enemy could not obliterate short
of annihilation.
We were faced there —our little force, lightly
armed indeed and much of it inexperienced—
with overwhelming Japanese power from a
reservoir in Thailand, well prepared and with-
out the distractions which beset Britain and
her Commonwealth which stood alone at the
time the Singapore defence had to be pre-
pared. In numbers, the enemy could draw at
least ten men to our one; in equipment, there
was an equal sort of superiority. Our men
—and by our men I again mean British, Aus-
tralians, Indians and whatever other native
troops were available —knew from the beginning
that they had no immediate chance. But,
beaten back and overrun, they never for one
moment —none of them—seemed to counten-
ance the thought that they were not bound
for ultimate victory. The pipes played the
remnant of 80 men and two officers of the
brave Scotties, spearhead of one of the Indian
divisions, across the Causeway at the end of
400 miles of retreat —as gaily as if they were
marching into Edinburgh Castle to lay the
laurels of victory in the national war memorial.
And that was really what they, and all of us,
believed they were doing, though the road might
be long. Their voice was the voice of all of us.
I am told that it was held up to the shame
of our leaders who remained in Singapore
that they were forced to wait humbly on the
enemy with white flags, and pictures of
those ugly scenes have been paraded by the
miserable Communists who sit like a canker
in our midst —the only kind of people who
were recreant and traitorous in Malaya as else-
where —as evidence of shame and decadence.
Let me tell that it was nothing of the kind.
I saw white flags carried. I saw men made
to kneel. I have myself been slapped across
the face and have had to take it. I have been
confined like a wild beast in a cage. I have
been compelled to march at the order of a
small, yellow Asiatic thing whose neck I could
have wrung with one hand. I have seen others,
proud Australians and British alike, go through
the same experience.
No'man could endure these experiences un-
less he had in his heart and mind an iron
conviction that, in the end, he was destined
to be the victor, and that he himself was the
better man who could afford to feel contempt
and pity for his torturers.
As I have said, I have seen white flags
carried and men submitted to inhuman indig-
nities. But, in any incident organised by the
enemy, and intended to symbolise our sur-
render and humiliation, of which I was a
witness, it was not the flag-bearer or the tor-
tured who came off worst. In each case, even
though he died, he seemed to have the upper
hand. The Japs always seemed to lose, and
it made them scream with rage. I really be-
lieve that in the end they were glad to be
beaten, because they had come to a stage
when they did not know what to do next with
us, short of wiping us out altogether, to bend
us to their wills.
’lt baffled them completely that when we
were captured we did not seek a wailing wall.
It baffled them that, when they put us behind
the barbed wire and drove us with sticks like
animals, we still so far had faith in our future
that we used to talk among ourselves, not of
despair and pains, and of the greatness of our
conquerors, but of our certainty that we should
be released; of what we would do when Japan
was crushed; of where we would live; of
whether we would have a flat at Manly and
whether would prefer to surf at Bondi or
shoot buffalo in my own country of the North.
It infuriated them when we Old Diggers of
the last war celebrated our first incarceration
by forming an Old Diggers’ Association. It
completely nonplussed them that nothing they
could do could prevent us keeping in being a
military organisation over which our own
officers maintained a better discipline than
they, binding us together and enabling us to
endure by the united will of all, so that we
were never without the strength of our com-
rades united to buoy us up in moments of
weakness or doubt.
It is beyond doubt that many hundreds
of Australians could have escaped if
they had been prepared to leave their
comrades late in the campaign.
Inquiry Imperative
It is not clear whether Mr. Forde’s
figures for Japanese-held prisoners known
to exist include civilians. But many
civilians still are in Japanese hands, and
many are missing. Among the missing
are the secretary to the New Guinea
Mandated Government, Mr. H. H. Page
—a brother of the man who was Prime
Minister and, before that, Mr. Bruce’s
equal-in-all-things—and one of Dr. Page’s
sons, who played a very gallant part
behind the enemy lines in New Guinea.
The loss of these men and the loss of
soldiers in Borneo the Government and
the Army Command will be called on to
explain in detail when the proper time
comes. It is to be hoped that their
answer is all it should be.
If there is not an inquiry into proceed-
ings in regard to Singapore, Rabaul,
Timor, Java, Ambon, Nauru and the
Owen Stanley campaign and the bomb-
ings in the north, it will be a crying
scandal. Never have troops so inexperi-
enced and little armed been thrown into
distant, exposed positions without hope
of rescue in case of disaster. Never have
prisoners been held so loosely by an
enemy without there being an attempt at
rescue, if all the stories which are bruited
abroad have a grain of truth. This
writer does not say that they have. But
no real Australian can fail to admit the
urgent need for investigation and the
publication of the truth, harm whom it
may.
Homeward Bound.
“Ek Dum”: Throughout the week there
was joy in many a home as the prisoners
of Malaya and of other parts of Japanese-
held Asia returned. It seemed as if all
the world had combined to help A.I.F.
men to preference in return to their home-
land.
Lord Louis Mountbatten had switched
aircraft from the Ceylon run to help carry
our men. Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser,
C.-in-C. British Pacific Fleet, arrived at
Manila to find 1000 anxious Australians
waiting, there. He promptly diverted
Formidable from her task of taking
British prisoners home via America to
that of taking the Diggers to Australia.
The British aircraft-carrier Ruler came in
with a large batch of civilian and other
evacuees from Tokyo. The great Nether-
lands hospital ship Oranje, which has
carried and saved the lives of thousands
of Australians since the war began,
arrived with over 600 p.-0.-w. at the very
moment when caterwauling Communists
were holding up Dutch ships in the in-
terests of “the revolution” of natives
collaborating with the Japs in Java, where
“the Dutch were absolutely marvellous to
our men” (Brigadier-General Blackburn,
V.C., commander of the Diggers assigned
to a hopeless mission in February, 1942,
when “Labor saved the country”).
And one of the last batches of men
from Germany arrived by R.M.S,
Otranto.
The work of getting the men out from
Asia, so far as it affected the services,
was a grand job. Pilots, Royal Navy and
R.A.N., nurses and medical units worked
tirelessly and self-sacrificingly in the pro-
cess of staging them through.
General Callaghan Returns
Lieut-General Gordon Bennett was at
the Mascot aerodrome, Sydney, with Mr.
Forde to meet Major-General Callaghan
at the week-end. The circumstances in
which the generals had last met had been
told by Lt.-General Gordon Bennett in
his published diary;
February 15, 1942 Brigadier Callaghan
was my next officer. He was weak from
.a recent attack of malaria. I went to his
shelter and told him of my resolve (i.e., to
escape), asking him to let the Japanese think
I had escaped some days earlier, should
they ask any questions as to my where-
abouts. When I called I found him seated
in a room, badly lighted by a kerosene
lamp. He seemed dazed. He was an old
friend and a good soldier. Our farewell
was short but full of deep feeling.
General Percival had promoted Briga-
dier Callaghan to his present rank, and
upon fiim had fallen the duty of surrender
of the Eighth Division.
He made no statement to the press, but
Colonel Thyer, formerly C.O.S. to the
Eighth Division, who returned also, de-
clared that “if regulations permitted he
should like to say how much he revered
General Callaghan”:
The task he performed as officer-in-
charge in the first six months of captivity,
in spite of severe illness, set the division
on its feet. It is not customary, nor is it
permitted, for a staff officer to express him-
self regarding his superior officer, but this
is a unique occasion, and Major-General
Callaghan is an outsize in superior officers.
Returning Eighth Division men echo
these sentiments. With them theii
general-of-captivity seems to be regarded
as the man whose organisation made them
capable of survival and of keeping
cohesion as a force during their term of
internment.


ţ
ť
ŧ
t
ţ
ť
ŧ
t
ţ
ť
ŧ
Special Old
SHERRY
PERSONAL ITEMS
Having completed the supervision of
the Japanese surrender on Bougainville,
Lieutenant-General S. G. Savige goes to
the job of Director-General of Demobi-
lisation. Born at Morwell (Vic.) and edu-
cated at State schools, he went to World
War I as a private, served on Gallipoli,
in Sinai and France and with the Dunster-
force in Persia, emerging as a captain
with a host of decorations. In the recent
war he served in Libya, Greece, Syria,
New Guinea and the Solomons. He
founded the Legacy Club in Melbourne.
Another fighting family:
William Walker, formerly of Mildura (Vic.),
now of the same State’s Sandringham, and six
children served in the recent war. Four of the
sons received commissions, two being decorated
and two killed in action.
VXIB3 Major George McC. Walker served
for years, including the Middle East.
VX4740 Major Keith Reid Walker, 2/7th
Battalion, enlisted as a private in October, 1939,
was commissioned in December that year, men-
tioned in dispatches in the Middle East and
awarded the D.S.O. in New Guinea. He has
been seconded with his rank to the British
Army.
VX4674 Lieut. lan William Walker, 2/7th
Battalion, enlisted in the ranks in 1939, served
in the Middle East and was killed in action at
Buna (New Guinea) in December, 1942. He
was posthumously awarded the American
Distinguished Service Cross.
418610 Pilot-Officer Gordon Murray Walker,
R.A.A.F., after service in the ranks in Aus-
tralia and England, was commissioned in June,
1944, and was killed in air operations over
Yugoslavia in 1945.
126909 L.A.C. Robert Walker enlisted in the
R.A.A.F. on his 18th birthday in February,
1943, and has served as a member of an Air
Support Unit in New Guinea and Borneo.
VF399604 Gnr. Joan Walker, A.W.A.S., has
been nearly three years with the Army and has
had operational experience.
VX 1018 Sgf. Clive Speight, 6th Div. Sigs.,
husband of another daughter of the family,,
has completed nearly six years with the A.I.F.
V 82152 Cpl. William Walker (father), 4th
Army Troop Co., enlisted in 1939 and served
for 17 months, although far past the prescribed
military age.
In the reorganisation of the Queens-
land Department of Agriculture Arthur
Frank Bell- becomes both Assistant
Under-Secretary (Technical) and Direc-
tor of the Bureau of Sugar Experiment
Stations. He polished his Ipswich
Grammar training with service in the
first A.1.F., returned to do a Queensland
University course, then studied in Cali-
fornia and London. After a tour of
practically every cane-growing country
in the world he took over the adminis-
tration of the pathological research sec-
tion of the bureau and rose to Assistant
Director. In Brisbane these days there’s
no scientific or educational committee
complete without him.
When Col. J. Scanlan comes back with
the p.-0.-w. contingent from Japan he
will, if he cares to accept the'appoint-
ment, hang up his coat as Hobart jail’s
governor. Deputy-governor there when
he joined up, he was in charge of the
Rabaul garrison when the Japs came.
Closing of Bradfield Park, Sydney,
means, among other things, that Group-
Captain A. W. L. Ellis, M.C., will
shortly end his career in the service. En-
listing in the old 14th Battalion, he saw
service on Gallipoli, then changed to the
R.N.A.S., learned to fly and transferred
to No. 1 Squadron, A.F.C., when it
arrived in Egypt. In 1917 he went to
England and formed the 3rd, 4th and sth
Squadrons as a training wing at Gost-
wyck. Later he commanded four
squadrons in France, where he collected
his Military Cross. President of the Aus-
tralian Flying Corps Association when
called up for the R.A.A.F. in 1939, Ellis
then commanded the first flying training
school under the Empire scheme at
Mascot, Sydney! Subsequently Brad-
field Park’s first C. 0., he commanded it
to the end.
Met in Wellington (M.L.) Robert Gib-
bings, author and artist; tall, bearded
and dressed like old-world artists, with
blue, twinkling, observant eyes. He said
he was on his way to Samoa, where he
may write another travel book. Also, he
planned returning to M.L., where he may
write about and draw wood engravings
of the Wanganui.
Liberal candidate for Prahxan (Vic.)
will be Flight-Lieutenant Peter S. Isaac-
son, D.F.C., A.F.C., D.F.M., the 25-year-
old Melbourne airman who flew the first
Lancaster to Australia from England in
1943. Canberra subsequently used him
and his ’plane for war-loan tours.
With 88 years behind him, Thomas
Hogg, here pictured by Mcßeath, is one
of Melbourne’s active and enthusiastic
bowlers. Born in Scotland, he started
with Miller and Co. at 13, eventually be-
coming managing director, the position
he still holds. He visits the office and
factory regularly to see things are O.K.
President of the Chamber of Manufac-
tures for many years, he’s often referred
to as the Father of Melbourne Industry.
Five sons went to the 1914-18 war, three
returning, and those three served in this
one. All Thomas Hogg’s sons are promi-
nent sportsmen: Norman is an ex-V.F.L.
THOMAS HOGG.
footballer and golfer and the others are
well known in the sporting world gener-
ally. A deep reader, it would be hard
to find anyone possessing a higher appre-
ciation of the classics or a kindlier stu-
dent of human nature.
“J.E.S.”: Deserving of a place among
Australian historians, Charles Dickson
Gregory. A lifelong interest in shipping
began in Melbourne when his father
was engineer of an early coaster, and
has resulted in innumerable newspaper
articles, an unrivalled collection of
shipping photographs, and Australian
Steamships Past and Present, a standard
reference book throughout the world.
Gregory’s watercolor illustrations are a
feature of this massive vol., which notices
every steamer of Australian interest from
the Sophia Jane to the latest liners. Never
professionally associated with the sea,
although widely travelled in most parts of
the globe, Gregory was for a long time
secretary to Alfred Felton, of the Bequest.
There’s a most definite bit of Aus-
tralia in America, as the McKells on
their travels and members of the
R.A.A.F. passing through have discov-
ered. It’s personified by “Snowy” Baker,
at the Riviera Country Club, Los
Angeles. When the McKells, along with
the Charles Lloyd Joneses, cast up there
they were greatly taken with the similarity
of the Californian and Australian land-
scapes, emphasised by 7000-odd eucalypts
growing round about the club property.
Moreover, they had afternoon-tea with
“Snowy” at the Gunyah, and that’s typi-
cal of the Australian flavor “Snowy”
has imported there. Still playing polo,
though upwards of 60, “Snowy” is eques-
trian manager. The junior riders under
his instructions are the “Geebungs”;
“Snowy” puts on the bill from time to
time an “Australian bushland ride and
complimentary Aussie lunch”; and a
roneo sheet of the club doings is
sprinkled with “Hoof Beats” and other
suchlike Australian-sounding headings.
“Uramao”: When W. Downie Stewart,
who was. Minister of Finance in the
Forbes-Coates Government in M.L., met
Ernest Bevin at the British Common-
wealth Relations Conference at Lapstone
(N.S.W.) in 1938 Bevin said:
Shortly before I left England I was sent' for
by Mr. Chamberlain. As you know, we are
on opposite sides in politics, but I admire
his deep concern for the welfare of Britain,
and his fine character. The P.M. said
to me: “Mr. Bevin, I am in great diffi-
culty and 1 will place all my cards on the
table. The rearmament and national de-
fence of France is in a desperate state.
Industrial anjl political strife in that country
have created hopeless chaos and confusion.
If war breaks out their position will be
terrible. This renders it imperative that we
in Britain rearm without delay. Can you
persuade your trade-unions to suspend such
of their rules and privileges as will cause
delay in getting on with the job?”
Bevin asked that some Labor colleagues
might go to France to observe the state
of the country for themselves, to which
Chamberlain agreed. Bevin and his
friends returned and advised Labor heads
of the crisis. The result was that work on
national rearmament was speeded up. “I
am wondering,” said Bevin, “whether in
Australia and New Zealand such ready
conference and frank co-operation would
occur as between political opponents.”
Jack Burton and his wife, who were
internees at Weihsien, North China, and
have been reported “both well,” are Aus-
tralians who have been resident in North
China for 35 years. Their son, Captain
Russell Burton, a member of the 2/3
Pioneer Battalion, A.1.F., is now attached
to Army Inventions Directorate, Mel-
bourne, and daughter Mrs. G. A, Smith,
of Potts Point, Sydney, was recently repat-
riated from Manila after three years’ in-
ternment. Jack Burton, who was with
the Chinese Government Railways, was
one time 100 yards amateur champion of
Queensland. ,
Harry Watts, on loan from Ealing
Studios (Eng.) to direct the Australian
film “The Overlanders,” soon to be on
view, is a blue-eyed Scot whose
father was Liberal M.P. for Glas-
gow from 1906 till 1918. Born in
Edinburgh 38 years ago and educated
there. Watts in 1930 pioneered, with
John Grierson, the documentary film and
has specialised in it ever since. When
war came he was commissioned by the
British Government to do propaganda
films and turned out such fine ones as
“Target for Tonight,” “London Can Take
It,” “Christmas Under Fire” and “Nine
Men,” all made under extremely difficult
and hazardous conditions. He spent five
months in Centralia doing “The Over-
HARRY WATTS.
landers,” but, though he felt the heat,
confesses he has added a stone to his
avoirdupois “owing to the wonderful
food in Australia.”
Had Professor John Innes Mackintosh
Stewart not accepted the chair of Litera-
ture at Adelaide University 10 years ago
he might never have become the success-
ful novelist “Michael Innes.” On the
boat out from Scotland to Adelaide he
wrote his first novel to relieve the
monotony of the trip. Since then he has
written nine other “Who done it?” novels.
Stewart leaves S.A. at the end cf the year
PROF. J. I. MACKINTOSH STEWART.
to take over as senior lecturer in English
at Belfast University. His father was a
director of education at Edinburgh Uni.
Lieut.-Col. Frederick Royden Chalmers,
C.M.G., D. 5.0., one of the five officers
butchered at Nauru after an air raid on
that island, had been Administrator since
1938. He could have escaped before the
Japanese occupation, but elected to stay.
A Boer War veteran, he also served in
the 1914-18 war, gaining a D.S.O. He
was with Electrolytic Zinc before he got
his Pacific appointment. Dr. Bernard
Haselden Quin, another Victorian, was
M.O. of the island. Grounded at Xavier
College, Melbourne, he graduated from
Melbourne University, practised privately
at one time at Echuca (Vic.), was assistant
M.O. at Nauru from 1920 to 1921 and
returned there in 1940. W. H. Shugg was
his assistant.
Into the silence:
At Hobart, at 68, William Fisher, holder of
an auctioneer’s licence for over half a century
and a judge of stock of all descriptions.
At Ballarat (Vic.), at 57, Colonel William
Brazenor, D.S.O. and bar, secretary of Ballarat
Water Commission. A captain on Gallipoli,
he later became c.o. of the 23rd Battalion in
France. A son, Acting Squadron-leader
Robert Brazenor, has been serving in the Pacific.
Claude Beresford, always proud of his old
Irish family, named in Debrett, was at Port
Adelaide for the Melbourne Steamship Co. be-
fore, about 20 years ago, he found his true
calling in journalism. Ships and S.A. history
were his strong points, with also a remark-
able bent for rhyming.
At 88, in Wellington (M.L.), William Har-
rington Atack, one of the Dominion’s best-
known journalists. From 1886 till 1930 he
was manager of the United Press Association
(now N.Z. Press Association). Born in South
ampton (Eng.), he had been in M.L. 86 years.
From his knickerbocker period he was a Rugby
Union enthusiast.
At 74, in Christchurch (M.L.), John Stuart
Kelly, who, born in Airdrie (Scotland), was
with the Christchurch “Press” over 35 years.
There was a two-year break when he edited the
“Grey River Argus,” Greymouth. He held the
gold badge of life membership of the N.Z.J.A.
In Brisbane, Miss Elizabeth Agnes Her-
bert, member of a famous Queensland
teaching family; headmistress for 30 years at
Rockhampton Central Girls’ School, and later
at Petrie Terrace Girls’ and Infants School,
Brisbane. An aunt was headmistress of the
Brisbane Normal School for Girls when Queens-
land was separated from N. S. Wales.
In Melbourne, the widow of David Orme
Masson, K.8.E., F.R.S., herself a C.B.E.
A daughter of Professor Sir John Struthers,
M D., of Edinburgh University, she was engaged
in Red Cross and Melbourne University activi-
ties most of her life, and read Braille daily to
blind people up to a few days before her death.
A son is Vice-Chancellor of Sheffield University.
At Auckland (M.L.), at 69, Colonel D. N. W.
Murray, C.M.G., D. 5.0., M.D., who served in
the Boer War and World War No. 1, and m
the latest war was senior medical officer on the
hospital ship Maunganui.


“Has done me
immense good”
rtfP
ri^
en sc
Uosan
pity
ine
ar» 10 , , int enC
to JZ ;i and
<0)1
n4 ,l ‘
rnc
"net
i zoeii zy cr *
m
In these strenuous times the revitalising effect of these wonderful
little tablets is more than ever valuable. Just two tablets three
times a day before meals. But if you take the tablets regularly
the results will astonish you.
Start taking
PHYLLOSAN
helps to keep you fit after forty
* Phyllosan ’ tablets are obtainable of all Chemists and Stores
The read, trade mark ‘Phyllosan’ is the property of Natural Chemicals Ltd., London
t
RUPTURE
t
k NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
1 The latest invention of Dr.
L, Barrere is the result of 40
Tears’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The KEO-BARRERE acts
like tue hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine In its cavitv.
RCTS Write To-duy t° r
LIKE THE HAIIII FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 220), 343 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
or Is out ol
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
dim on a course"
of BARKO Condition I'owaers. uonstam Bcraicu-
ins is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BA m CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/«
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/»
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
u
BARKO
SPORTING NOTIONS
A.J.C. Derby Day at Randwick, bringing out
the once-a-year racegoers in addition to regulars
and throngs of servicemen, attracted the big-
gest crowd since pre-war days—7B,ooo, only a
few thousand short of the Randwick record.
Bulging with war-time cash, they put an Aus-
tralian record amount of £226,591 through the
tote alone, that figure being only limited by the
tote facilities, which were unable to cope with
the rush. In the betting ring it was a matter
of survival of the fittest; it was possible to be
carried from one end of the ring to the other
without getting near a bookie.
The term Derby Day is a valiant attempt
to maintain what should be the real spirit of the
thing, but from the point of view of money-
minded public-interest it’s actually Epsom Day.
There is of course, no Australian Derby to be
the race of the year, as the three-year-old
tester is in England and even in the land of
the dollar; but even if there were it is doubtful
if it would attract anything like the public
interest held by the Melbourne Cup and other
big spring handicaps.
Certainly this year’s AJ.C. Derby was no-
thing to encourage interest. Apart from the
fact that the Ajax coll Magnificent stood out
as a class apart, the ntanner of running the
race —a snail-pace for the first mile or so, con-
serving energy to make a sprint of the last
few furlongs—made a dreary spectacle, sug-
gesting that the jockeys had a lack of confi-
dence in their mounts as stayers. It made the
race certainly not a 12-furlongs test of stamina.
Restrained to a near-canter a good deal of
.the way, the horses weren’t caring for it, most
of them fighting for their heads, Magnificent,
'particularly, throwing his around very irritably.
At the mile the Le Grand Duc-Grumeti colt
Cavalero was leading from Guiding Light
(Genetout-Providence) and Magnificent was well
placed behind the leaders. At the half-mile
Guiding Light had moved to the front and led
them down the straight. Magnificent then
moved up, collared the leader at the furlong
post, and stretched out for a comfortable two-
lengths win from Guiding Light and Cavalero.
Magnificent was favorite at 3 to 1, the other
two at very long odds.
From the Bonnement mare Complete, Mag-
nificent, who has in eight starts been three
times defeated but never out of a place, gives
his sire, Ajax, who was himself beaten in both
Derbies, a Derby winner from his first crop.
The minor place-getters. Guiding Light and
Cavalero, were a good advertisement for
French stock, the sires and dams of both being
from that country.
Having in the Derby his first run at anything
further than seven furlongs, Guiding Light’s
run was a good pointer to a potential slayer.
He was one of the few in the field who did
much work in the first few furlongs, moving up
fast from almost last to a handy position be-
hind the leader, took charge for three of the
last four furlongs, and when joined by the
winner inside the distance made some show of
sticking it out with the Ajax colt, though he
was clearly beaten at the post. Previously, in
much poorer company, he was three times con-
secutively beaten into second place, twice by
narrow margins. He seems unlucky to be still
a maiden.
The time for the Derby running, 2.365, was,
as could be expected, poor, especially since
smart times for other events indicated a fast
track. In the Colin Stephen Stakes over the
same distance, Russia beat Flight and Craigie
in 4* seconds better time. R. Heather, up
from Melbourne to replace Magnificent’s
regular rider, F. Delaney, had the pleasure of
riding the winner rather dampened when the
stewards handed him a two-months suspension
for carelessness.
The Epsom gladdened the hearts of the
multitude with whom Shannon had been a
street-corner tip for weeks. Right from the
jump the mile was run at a rattling' pace,
which gave no opportunity for the “tactical
horsemanship” that characterised the Derby.
Bragger took up the running, with the light-
weights Glen Crag and Puliham behind him,
and the second favorite, Immediate, next, while
Shannon was in a rather bad position hack in
the middle of the field. Bragger still led at the
home turn, but had done his dash, and Puff-
ham went to the front. Then Melhero came
through brilliantly on the rails to go to the
front, Silent was battling into the picture,
and Immediate looked like having a hand in a
finish confined to those three horses. But right
on the post the favorite appeared out of the
blue, shot past the leaders and won it in the
last stride by a half-neck; Melhero second,
and Silent half a neck further back. An out-
standing good win, it was a credit both to the
four-year-old Midstream-Idle Words horse and
to the jockey, D. Munro. Melhero is by Mel-
fort from Heresme, Silent by Talking from
Morning Gift, and both, like the winner, are of
last season’s particularly good three-year-olds.
The New Zealander, Immediate, was close be-
hind the placegetters, and at the finish lopked
as though he could have done with some of
the energy he wasted on a buck-jumping exhi-
bition before the race.
The time for the Epsom, 1.365, has in the
history of the race been only four times bet-
tered, once equalled by Amounis, and is only
a half-second outside High Caste’s race record,
1.355.
The Hua-Peal o’ Bells horse Turn Again, a
front-runner of the first water, followed his
usual tactics in the ten-furlongs Squatters’
Handicap and at the finish still had enough
left to hold off the New Zealander High Play
with Culnooy third. They had raced practi-
cally in that order all the way. The Kensing-
ton Handicap, at welter weights, was run |n
two divisions, the Buzzard gelding St. Quentin
beating Laudus (a surprisingly short favorite
at even money) and Last Bowl in the first, and
Melissa downing King of the Mist and Soho in
the next.
The first race of the day, a Novice, went
to the previously unlucky maiden performer
Right Royal, who beat Crusader and The
Gaekwar. Right Royal is by Le Grand Due
from Kirrang and it was his thirtieth start
without a previous win.
Havoc, a splendid-looking chestnut colt by
Ajax from Only Us, played his name with the
Breeders’ Plate field on Monday, and, despite
the very heavy overnight rain, cut out the five
furlongs in 60$ seconds. He led almost from
start to finish. Prince Standard (Mr. Stand-
fast-Golden S.) went with him for a while,
and stayed on well enough to collect second
money, running a bit greenly. Mohbuzz
can-Lady Buzz), somewhat back early, came
along promisingly to take third place. Havoc,
not marketed as a yearling, is raced by Mes-
dames A. W. and F. W. Thompson, of the
family that bred him. He had been regarded
as the best of good things ever since he won
a barrier trial by many lengths last month.
Though carrying the tidy prizemoney of
£l5OO, the mile George Main Stakes had only
five starters, Modulation dealing the New
Zealander, Sleepy Fox, his second recent de-
feat at w.f.a. Modulation won by four lengths;
Cold Shower third. The six-furlongs Shorts
provided a much different finish, A. Breaslcy,
on Warlock, and D. Munro, on Tahmoor,
staging a stirring struggle up the straight. With
some weight on his side, Breasley just won the
duel.
The Metropolitan 13 furlongs endeci in a
grand finish between Murray Stream and Beau
Monde, with Russia next best —all three of
them consistent performers recently. Turn
Again tried, as usual, to lead all the way, but
this time Loyal March kept with him, and after
over a mile had been covered they were together
from Silver Link, Lady Marie and Russia, with
Royal Peer also well up. Making the turn
Lady Marie hit the front in what looked a
possible winning burst, but shortly Murray
Stream went after her, with Beau Monde next,
and Russia plugging along like the solid stayer
he is. Breasley had Beau Monde coming on
like the winner as they neared the post, but
McGrowdie got the necessary effort out of
Murray Stream to just land the money.
m • • *
His usual rider, R. Heather, being absent in
Sydney, Don Pedro was withdrawn on Satur-
day from the eight-furlongs Mooney Valley
Slakes, which had promised to be a dress re-
hearsal for the Victoria Derby. Still, those
left in included Royal Gem, Attley and
Leonard, making it a top-notch three-year-old
field, and they were sent out in that order of
favoritism, with Royal Gem at odds on, and
33-to-l anything bar those three. They were
duly the placed horses, but the order was a bit
awry.
Attley went to the front early and proceeded
to set a pace promising to make the race a
thorough tester. Royal Gem was held close
in behind him, apparently under restraint, and,
barely a length away with three furlongs to go,
he seemed to have a winning position. Coming
iqto the straight Royal Gem moved up, but it
then became very obvious that Attley had been
the one under restraint. Dewhursl gave the
Portotino-Coveshaw colt his head, and with-
out much urging he ran away to win by lengths
from Royal Gem, with Leonard a close third.
Attley did the mile in 1.375. Later in the day
the aged Manitoba horse Spearrnain took 1.38$
to beat Rainbird and Beris over the distance.
Winning the 10-furlongs Quality Handicap
from Counsel and Tea Cake, the five-year-old
Lawmaker horse Lawrence moved himself to
the head of the belling list for the Melbourne
Cup. Over the same distance in the Pascoe
Handicap for three-year-olds the Kinderscout-
Ottermoa colt Kinderson was too good for Gay
Lad and Euxine.
♦ • ♦ ♦
At this year’s racing at Santa Anita Park
Johnny Longden set up a North American riding
record. Since he started riding in Canada
in 1927 he has brought home 4325 winners.
Louis B. Mayer, who has raced horses in Aus-
tralia, also set up a record by garnering $188,140
in the first seven weeks of the Santa Anita
racing, the most ever made at any single North
American “meeting”—most tracks over there,
of course, do their racing in extended bursts
(you might say benders) which they term meet-
ings.
* ♦ ♦ ♦
Claimed to be Australia’s oldest registered
racehorse trainer, Tom Ross, of Brisbane, now
84, has held his licence for 54 years without
a break, and he’s still landing winners, his latest
Speed Lad at Albion Park on September 1.
Ross was born at Casino (N.S.W.), where 60
years back he rode a horse bareback over a jump
sft. 9in., which also is claimed to be a record.
* * * *
Port Adelaide Racing Club, which has several
times offered a lead to the two city clubs,
claims that its Christmas meeting is to be a
record in several respects —the total stakes for
the three days, the prize for the sprint race
and the prize for weight-for-age all being
claimed as local records. The Port Adelaide
Cup has got up again to £4OOO, but the club
itself has topped this before.
* * ♦ *
Such racing as they have there apparently went
on in Japan to the end, or near it. An Ameri-
can submarine crew, looking through the peri-
scope shortly before the wind-up, watched the
Jap ponies galloping at Kamakura. They re-
ported that they couldn’t do any punting among
themselves because Jap jockeys wear starters’
numbers in small figures on their sleeves. This
annoyed the sub. crew so much that they sank
a ship and left.
* # * *
A record crowd of 62,000 jammed itself
into the Carlton ground to see the Old
Blues play South Melbourne for the
Y.F.L. premiership, and many more
were locked out. Making use of a strong
but varying wind, Carlton nipped away
to an early lead, notching two goals to
none in the first quarter. Sowth shrewdly
used long punts to good purpose in the
next spasm, and at half-time was only
two points behind the Blues, 7.5 to
6.9. Rain fell in the third quarter,
and Carlton lost half-forward Collins (in-
jured), who was replaced by Mclnnes.
Undismayed the Blues, cleverly handling
the greasy ball, forged ahead, having a
lead of 23 points for the final quarter.
It was a hard and heated finale, with both
sides striving mightily, but superb mark-
ing by Baxter and cool, indefatigable rov-
ing by Price made the task too much for
Sowth: Carlton 15.13, South Melbourne
10.15. Police entered the arena twice
during the game to caution players. One,
who apparently had an ostrich complex,
tried to disguise his identity by rolling
up his jersey to hide his number.
♦ * * *
Newtown’s easy win over R.A.A.F. in
the N.S.W. Australian-Rules premiership
“grand” final, 20-18 to 13-14, gave the
club the title for the 11th time. The
Services team went to shreds in the third
quarter when Newtown booted ten goals
to two.
* * * *
The brightest spot in the opening
round of Sydney premiership cricket on
Saturday was Arthur Clues’s hurricane
119 runs for Cumberland v. Petersham
(100 came up in the hdur). Other
good efforts were Walmsley’s 7 wickets
for 32, and Topham’s stumping of five
batsmen and allowing no byes for
Western Suburbs v. University. Wickets
in many places hadn’t recovered from
what football had been doing to them.
* * * ♦
“C.Q.”: I heard Clem Hill bat before
I ever saw him. One of South Australia’s
duststorms hit the Adelaide oval in the
middle of a Test match. The wind was
so terrific that the nearby Englishmen in
the deep field were lying down to it, and
visibility was limited to about ten yards.
Yet, until the air became so murky that
the match had to be suspended, the steady
thud of the lefthander’s bat continued to
come out of the blackness. You didn’t
need to be told he was a good or a bad
batsman any more than you need to be
told it is a good or a bad axeman when
you hear the stroke of an axe coming
out of the bush. When he was at Prince
Alfred College he scored 360 runs for
the? school XI in one match. On his 18th
birthday he made 180 not out in an inter-
state match. His father and three brothers
were inter-State players.
* * * *
“P.McM,”: One of Grimmett’s ex-
periments was to construct a pitch in his
own backyard and train a dog to fetch
the ball. Hence, perhaps, the evolution
of the top-spin floater with which he got
so many wickets. For a bowler of the slow,
googly type he was amazingly accurate:
Vic. Richardson held that he would get
more wickets if he bowled more loose
balls and induced the batsmen to slog.
Once Grimmett was reaping such a har-
vest of English victims that someone
wrote to the M.C.C. suggesting that the
ball should be marked before it was
handed to him, as the bowler must have
used another with holes for finger grips
to obtain such spin.
* * * *
John F. Treloar, 17 years and 6ft. 3in,,
proved himself at the N.S.W. Combined
High School championships one of the
smartest athletes the schools have pro-
duced for many years and a definite
Olympic Games “hope.” He won the
100 yards (lOsec. —9.9 in the heat) and
220 yards (22.35ec. —22.1 in the heat).
The heat times are High School records.
W. Kerr timed the meeting for the 33rd
time.
* * * *
Featherweights Joe Bissaker and Danny
Simmons furnished a hard fight at Leich-
hardt. Better balanced than Simmons and
boxing more intelligently, Bissaker won a
well-received points decision, but he had
no easy time. Simmons attacked from
end to end of every round, and in the
fifth, shooting a solid right to the Bis-
saker chin, he looked like scoring a knock-
out. Bissaker recovered, and with lefts
to head and body (body in particular) he
piled up the lead that earned him the
verdict.
Joe Hall, turned 30 and out of the
game for years, outclassed a press-
boomed lightweight, Joe Grant, at Syd-
ney Stadium. He anticipated many of
Grant’s leads and pasted the younger
man severely. Grant was handicapped
by an inch-long gash on his left eyebrow,
sported in the fifth round, but Hall was
always too good a ring general for him.
Johns v. Marsden was a one-punch fight.
Johns landed the punch. Marsden
dropped and was counted out.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Hats were mainly flowers, feathers and
tufts of veiling at Randwick last Satur-
day. They might not have been what
the carping call smart, but they carolled
of spring. There’s one thing about a new
hat; all the world knows it costs only
three coupons, and nobody lifts the eye-
brow asking “How does she do it, even
if she does grab all her husband’s?”
Well, to get away from the hats at the
opening of the A.J.C. meeting at Rand-
wick, say they were gay, gaudy and occa-
sionally gracious, and leave it at that.
Among the teeming millions who tried to
squeeze into the official and the mem-
bers’ stands wearers of the so-called
“Laura” hat (remember the sou’-wester
worn by that career woman in the big
money who gives that mystery film its
name?) were winners when the profile
was as attractive as Mrs, Robert Noss’s.
Her hat was of fine white straw, her suit
of geranium-red boucle.
There were linen suits at every turning,
and they really stood the test of time.
Frocks were as flower-patterned as the
Botanic Gardens, and many of them had
long coats of fine wool in pastel tones
as a finish. Then there were the weather-
wary who had turned out in winter suits,
and a few even (Heaven help them!) in
fur coats. The crowds were immense,
the excitement intense. The dust was
thick and powdered beauty and book-
maker with impartiality, the totes worked
at fever heat, and Shannon (“he’s a horse
and a half,” cried a neighbor in the stand,
smacking his hat down over one eye) won
the Epsom!
As red as Red Riding Hood’s cloak
was the coat worn by Mrs. E. J. Watt.
She wore it flung over the shoulders of
her off-white gabardine suit. Her little
cloche hat was of the same material —
very smart. Phyllis Malcolm Reid, from
Adelaide, was in red and white. With
her were Mrs. Bishop and Mrs. Bill
Adams, Mrs. Adams’s frock was dove-
grey and she was one of the few whq
wore her veil trigly over the face and
under the chin.
Mrs. Winter Irving, from Melbourne,
brought turquoise blues to the riot of
color. Her skirt was pleated all around.
Mrs. S. E. Parsons wore the pastel shade
that is called Arctic green in her suit.
Mrs. Frank Rogers was graceful in a
floral frock and a small white curvette.
Mrs. Wallace Anderson’s hat of deep
blue wore small clusters of pearls about
its crown, a spangled butterfly in front
and a film of veiling. Pale blue was
Betty Considine’s suit, and lulee Helpn
McGrath’s silk dress and coat held
petunia notes. The vice-regal seats were
tenanted. The wife of Lieutenant-
Governor Frederick Jordan brought a
party, and hostessed a lunch. The
blue Breton sailor worn by Mrs. D. R.
Tweedie was enviable. Orchids were
pinned in Mrs. Garvan’s blue linen suit.
Mrs. H. O’Connell, fair Pat Coen, Mrs,
Sam Hordern, Mrs. E. Salenger and
daughter Margaret were among the
bright-faced and the well-dressed.
One of the bright nights last week was
that of Dominion Day. Maorilanders
in Sydney went in hundreds to the Town
Hall, and Enzed’s Trade Commissioner
Taylor was there to receive the debs. The
ball was arranged by the New Zealand
Club, whose president is Mrs. E. Hemp-
ton. The debutantes made a pretty pic-
ture in their white frocks, their partners
being young men of the Navy and the
Air Force. The club, which has done
great service in entertaining Maoriland
service lads, had been building up a fund
to open and furnish a little centre. Now
with the arrival of peace it has been de-
cided, Mrs. Hempton announced, to en-
dow a bed in the men’s ward in Sydney
Hospital with the money. The endow-
ment will be in memory of the Dominion
lads who fought and died in the war.
Martin-place, blazing with light and
pageantry, looked like some gargantuan
stage set when the Fourth Victory Loan
was launched last week. That the night
was chill was no drawback to the attend-
ance. Literally thousands, old women
and young children among them, packed
themselves hopefully into the Place to
glimpse the pageant that gilded the
speeches of important citizens, Gracie
Fields, fresh from her tour of the
islands formerly occupied by the
Japanese, and with the vision of
convalescing p.-0.-w. in her mind, ap-
pealed for a special effort towards
making the loan a grand success. She
was the hit of the night in an artistic
sense. In actual fact, there were other
hits when the barriers broke and the
crowd surged through. Two men were
taken to Sydney Hospital for treatment.
Women screamed, men shouted, Gracie
went off singing “Wish me luck as you
wave me good-bye.” The loan is doing
well.
Lilian Frost was not at her organ in
the Pitt-street Congregational Church
last Wednesday; she was being lunched
by the Society of Women Writers.
Lilian, wearing a spray of orchids on her
neat suit, was in great form at speech-
time, and although suffering from a cold
told stories of Dolores, Melba and the
great Solomon in London. She looked
as though she had enjoyed every minute
of her 50 years of musicianship in this
land. The Snowden lady, who made the
speech of thanks, claimed that Lilian’s
joy of life was a heritage from the Apple
Island, where she was born. The society's
president, the Countess de Vilme-Haut-
mont, presided.
Good looking Mrs. Persia Porter has a
heart-warming smile. Thousands of lads
returning to their homeland have been
welcomed by it, for Mrs. Porter’s duties
for a long time have included the meet-
ing of hospital ships and more recently
of ships and ’planes bearing back our
prisoners-of-war. As joint assistant State
Controller of V.A.Ds. (her partner is Mrs.
Gough) she is on hand to see that th
Red Cross comforts are administered to
the home-comers. Mrs. Porter joined up
with the Scottish V.A.D. at the beginning
of the war, and has worked at the 113th
G.H. Balmoral Navy hospital and the
blood bank. Recent big job was the inter-
viewing of over 200 V.As, shared by her
and Mrs. Gough, 20 of whom were
chosen to go off in the Formidable and
the Glory.
The proud Cymbidium and coolly aloof
Cattleya kept their own company, though
gathered together to aid the A.C.F. last
week in Anthony Hordern’s fine art gal-
lery. Almost the full length of the gallery
ran a table on which the beauties were
ranged, and they gazed with a grand
air across at other members of the
orchid family similarly grouped on tables
down each side of the room. It was a
Carrington H. Deane show, and Judge
Marked made opening speech to a great
throng last Wednesday. Pretty Mrs.
Betty Osborne was the expert who judged
the shoulder-spray section. Lyall Trin-
dall’s paintings of the blooms attracted
the gaze.
The black-and-white artists of Sydney,
with Jim Russell and Stan Cross leading
the way, are giving their blessing and
booking their tables in fine style for the
Artists and Models’ Revel being orga-
nised by the Smilin’ Thru’ Club. The party
is dated for Sunday night, the fourteenth
of this month, and the address will be
the Roosevelt. President of the Smilin’
Thru’ Club, Myra Dempsey, with two
staunch allies, Jean Cullen and the wife
of “Chips” Rafferty, are working hard
organising the party, which promises to
be a really good one. Fancy dress is
optional.
Sales at the R.A.S. exhibition are get-'
ting towards the £2OOO mark, so there
was a jolly feeling abroad at the artists’
party last week. What the nudes on the
wall and the fully-dressed ladies and
gentlemen of the portraits thought of the
floor show can’t be recorded, but they
appeared to register a certain amount of
approval. The painters and their wives
and friends applauded Cedric Ashton’s
’cello, Daphne Harper’s piano-playing
and Gladys Verona’s singing of Mozart.
F. A. L. Butler’s lightning sketches were,
as usual, a feature of the party. Knight
Henry Braddon and his wife, who is
president of the women’s auxiliary, were
guests. Dora Toovey’s memory portrait
of Prince William has been sold.
From Melbourne
Presentations are in the air. At a meet-
ing of the Lady Mayoress’s Entertain-
ment Committee the Angliss lady, the
committee’s secretary since its inception,
received from the ex-Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, a travelling
clock and silver rose-bowl. A few days
later it was the turn of the ex-Lady
Mayoress, Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, to re-
ceive gifts, this time from the women of
the Town Hall group. The presentation was
made at an afternoon-tea party given by
the Lady Mayoress, Mrs. Bernard Heinz,
who recently feturned from Sydney,
arranged so that the wives of city coun-
cillors could show their appreciation of
the work done by Mrs. Campbell during
her term of office. Mrs. Heinz presented
the gifts, a pair of pearl earrings set in
platinum, a travelling case and a wallet
of notes.
In the course of her reply Mrs.
Campbell said the day was an especially
happy one for her, as news had been re-
ceived that her p.-0.-w. son, Edward, had
arrived in Australia. Mrs. Heinz was
decorative in a tailored frock of black
matt crepe trimmed with kilted black
grosgrain ribbon, and her small black
hat was swathed in primula-toned net.
Mrs. Campbell topped a black suit with
a small floral hat. Mrs. Burns Campbell’s
brown ensemble was lightened by touches
of olive green and her small hat repeated
the same tonings. Mrs. Mayer, sister of
Cr. Baron Marks, who, by the way, must
hold the long-distance record for muni-
cipal service, thanked the Mayoress for
giving the party. The wife of Cr. Lyall
donned a grey tailored coat trimmed with
Persian lamb and small red hat. Mrs.
Bolton, wife of another councillor,
favored powder blue, over which she
wore a navy-blue coat Matched with a
navy felt hat.
Contributing to the success of the
afternoon were Peggy Knibb, Valmai
Lewis and June Lindsay. Pink and
white blossom, giant primulae, tree
orchids and poppies made bright the
small reception-room and the teatables
were centred with bowls of cherry and
crab-apple blossoms. Bowls of roses,
ranunculuses and sweetpeas were set on
other small tables.
Sybil Stroud, the lass pictured here by
Ronald Esler, is one of Melbourne’s
career girls. Possessor of a charming
voice, she has broadcast over the A.B.C.
and has been on tour with one of the
Firm’s Gilsullivan cos. It tvas on this
tour that she met her husband, Captain
Reg Hood, A.I.F. For some time Sybil
was in the W.A.A.A.F. and while in
Queensland was attached to the U.S.
Army. She had opera training at the
National Theatre, where she has appeared
in many operatic roles. In October she
will Sing the title role in Gluck’s “Iphi-
genia in Aulis.” Her husband will take
the role of the high priest.
Early in the days of war the Spowers
family handed over its home in St.
Georges-road, Toorak, and this later
became W.A.A.A.F. House. When Lady
Dugan arrived there for the final meet-
ing of the Air Force Auxiliaries she was
met by Air-Commodore Cobby and
Group-Officer Clare Stevenson and then
inspected a guard of honor composed of
W.A.A.A.F. members. Later Lady
Dugan was an interested listener to re-
ports and speeches. A tale of splendid
achievement was told. NeVer at any time
have members of the Air Force
Auxiliaries numbered more than 200, yet
in five years of action £45,556 was raised.
There are 98 beds at W.A.A.A.F. House
and between April, 1942, and July,
1945, they were slept in 81,833 times.
W.A.A.A.F. House will not close imme-
diately ; there is still need for it and pro-
vision has been made for it to carry on.
Interesting to housewives is the fact
that one auxiliary, “Sister Susie’s,”
darned 1370 pairs of socks, turned the
collars of 150 shirts and lengthened the
trousers and sleeves of 468 suits. Air
Force auxiliaries also bought and
equipped two welfare entertainment vans.
The latter are miniature stages on wheels
with complete wireless equipment, piano
and public-address systems. In thanking
the members present for the work they
had done. President of Auxiliaries, Mrs.
Eric Harrison, smartly attired in a black
suit with a wide straw picture hat, paid
tribute to auditor J. J. Woodward for
help and co-operation. At the close of
the meeting those attending were pre-
sented to Lady Dugan and then had tea.
Among them was'Mrs. J. Aitchison, first
hon. secretary of the Air Force
Auxiliaries. Her. small straw boater was
laden with field flowers and set off her
charming black ensemble. Mrs, George
Jones, wife of Air Marshal Jones, who
represented the Locker Fund, covered her
red frock with a beige coat. Her small
hat reflected the glowing red of her frock.
The wife of Air Vice-Marshal Wrigiey
chose an outfit in mulberry tonings. Mrs.
Knox Knight highlighted black with lots
of white frilling. Star speech of the after-
noon was made by Lady Dugan—a
clarion call to women to play their part
in the days ahead.
Lady Dugan, clad in a spring suit of
leafy green tweed, matching hat and gay
primroses in her lapel, opened the Village
Fair in aid of the Y.W.C.A., held in the
Lower Town Hall. Lady Dugan was re-
ceived by Y.W.C.A. president Mrs.
Essington Lewis and inspected the
various stalls. American women residents
sold cakes, doughnuts and fudge, all
wrapped in Stars and Stripes paper. The
organisers of the fair, Mrs. J. Fitzgerald
and Mrs. K. S. Cuttle, also managed the
lucky dip. Gwen Greig did a brisk trade
at her flower stall which was stocked with
spring blooms of all sorts. Students of
a Y.W.C.A. class conducted a millinery
stall and sold hats which they had re-
modelled. Greatly in demand were hand-
made gloves, lingerie and children’s cloth-
ing. Centre of attraction was a doll’s
house complete in every detail. Mrs.
Karl Kumm, past president of Y.W., was
one of the visitors. At night a dance was
held.
Mr. and Mrs. Moffat-Pender lent their
South Yarra home to the ladies of the
Harbor Lights Guild for a garden party
and fete. Unfortunately rain sent visitors
to cover during the afternoon. Commo-
dore Showers, who declared the fair open,
was accompanied by Mrs. Showers, whose
inky-blue tweed suit was worn with a
cocoa fox fur and blue hat. She carried
a presentation basket of pink roses. Mrs.
H. Simpson sat in the cold taking tickets,
while Mrs. H. Calder, as organiser, flitted
about, keeping an eye on proceedings.
The Harbor Lights Guild is an auxiliary
which cares for the merchant navy under
the guidance of the Missions to Seamen.
Padre Oliver, of the Port Melbourne Mis-
sion, was present and enjoyed the music
of the pipers. Money raised will help
to send Christmas hampers to ships of
the merchant navy. Mrs. Douglas
Stewart, in cyclamen and blue, assisted
Mrs. Leo Quick at the fancy-goods stall.
Miss Turnbull had the flower stall.
Sydney duo-pianists Frank Hutchens
and Lindley Evans received an ovation
when they appeared with the Melbourne
Symphony Orchestra, conducted by Prof.
Bernard Heinz. They were heard in their
own compositions, performed for the first
time in this city. The Melbourne Phil-
harmonic Society sang “Rio Grande”
with the orchestra, also the “Polovtsian
Dances” from Borodin’s “Prince Igor.”
Among those who enjoyed the music was
Mrs, Russell Clarke, whose short dyed
squirrel cape was worn with a black dress
and dressy hat of ice-blue ostrich feathers.
With her was Captain Jean Hardham,
A.A.N.S., trim in the grey uniform of
that service. Dorothy O’Neill’s hat was
one large glowing green satin rose, nest-
ling in a mass of black lace. Although
the floral hats, composed of real flowers,
which attract so much attention when dis-
played in Collins-street, are very beauti-
ful, not one was worn at this con-
cert. Many women thought they would
not stand the atmosphere of such a large
gathering.
A recent arrival in Melbourne, with
her four children, is Mrs. Ye Tung
Cheng, wife of the new Chinese Minister
to Australia. Interviewed when she was
staying at a hotel she was dressed in the
traditional costume of her country, a long
gown of deep wine tonings ornamented
by colorful embroidery, her fingernails
lacquered the exact color of her gown,
Mrs. Cheng has travelled extensively in
England and France with her husband,
but still has some difficulty with her Eng-
lish. Her eldest son, Willie, speaks it
fluently, as it was a compulsory subject
in his school in China. Th'ere are two
other children back home with their
grand-parents. Mrs. Cheng will prob-
ably go back next year and bring them
here to live with the rest of the family in
Canberra,


BOOKS TECHNICAL. ..
Consult us for your needs on
Aeronautics
Air Conditioning
Automobiles
Boat Building
Building
Business Principles
Carpentry
Chemistry
Diesel
Electrical Engineering
Selected lists supplied free
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite.
Engineering
Farming
Gardening
Gliding
Mathematics
Models
Motor Cycles
Nautical
Photography
Physics
on
Plastics
Radio
Refrigeration
Sound Projection
Slide Rules
Sports
Textiles
Welding
Woodwork
Yachting
McGILL’S AGENCY
183-185 Elizabeth Street, MELBOURNE.
T,
&1E
HAVE TOD
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become Incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DJ ItECTOBS —James Burns - K. J. Nosworthv - Lewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
P, T. VV. Black. Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901. Box 543 5.P.0., Sydney.
Can your property
face up to To-day’s
demands?
c
r?:.
O
/ >
-It—,
6»1 —JLm>
Cv
| J/ARTIME conditions have
• forced a policy of makeshift
upon you. Your buildings, /or
instance, are probably showing
chronic signs of “anno domini .
If you are to cope success-
fully with the exacting con-
ditions ahead, something
will have to he done about
modernising those build-
ings.
A mere patching-up is not
sufficient. You’ll need to
do the job in such a way
that it will be off your
mind for many long years
to come. You’ll be wise to
do it with MASONITE,
The large 12ft.x4ft. sheets
are readily worked with
ordinary carpenters’ tools
by any handyman. Another
advantage of Masonite for
the country man is that
used externally it not only
provides shelter but insu*
lation as well.
Manufactured by:
MASONITE CORPORATION
(AUST.) LTD.
Northern Sales Division:
369 Pitt St., Sydney.
Southern Sales Division:
529 Collins St., Melbourne.
PRESDWOOO, TEMPERED PRESDWOOD
■
TEMPRTIIE
m
L. .
MA 21-45
SMOKE-OH!
T T V 4
“Lost —purse, blue Silk, containing money,
clean, ticket, cemetery, shops. Village Lower
Road.” — “S. M. Herald.”
Pity there wasn’t room for Parliament
House, too.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Paper bag, containing 2 odd stockings,
lost.” — “Sr M. Herald.”
Both left, evidently.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Wanted, part-time married woman, over
45, for laundry work.” — Suburban paper.
Only de facto wives need apply.
4* 4" 4* 4*
“Waitresses (2), love in or out.” — “Argus.”
Nothing like being broadminded.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mr. Billsborow began running after the
horse, but was losing ground, when suddenly
the wind caught him, and, half lifting him,
shot him past the bolting horse and vehicle.
He was buffeted into the gutter, but got up
in time to stop the bolting horse as it was
passing him.” — Adelaide “Advertiser.”
Local superman makes good.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Mabel had imagined herself m love with
a succession of movie stars whom she had
never seen in the flesh, but her love for this
young sailor was the real thing.”
—Short story.
Girls, don’t languish and grow paler
When you fail to fetch a star;
Be like Mabel, catch a sailor —
Hitch your wagon to a tar.
Brian Bureau.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Tenancy Dispute.
“The home of a former New York tanner
has been kept warm and spotless in case he
ever returns from the grave.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
We had a great deal of trouble during
the housing shortage with the ghost of
an undertaker’s assistant called Josephus
O’Smith, who used to haunt us every
Wednesday and Saturday night, claiming
that the house had been reserved for his
return from a rather amateurish effort
in the way of graves.
Josephus annoyed us in many ways, the
most persistent being an attempt to cur-
tail my, father’s reading. He tried to
hinder Dad by sitting in his lap, but was
handicapped by his transparency, which
was sufficient for print to be read through
him with very little distortion, all except
the footnotes, which Dad would leave
until he had finished the book.
Another of Josephus’s tricks was to
materialise in the middle of dinner, gener-
ally in Japonica’s soup. As Josephus
was not a very tidy materialiser, this
caused some splashing, and earned
Japonica many undeserved spankings.
Josephus used to annoy my grandfather
by standing behind his chair when he
was playing poker. He would make a
whistling noise of incredulous joy every
time Granddad picked up better than
three of a kind, which occurred every
time Granddad dealt. This used to cut
down his winnings, and mother had to
go out and work.
My father eventually decided to exor-
cise Josephus, which he did by reading
aloud from the National Security
(Tenancy) Regulations (1942), using the
expurgated edition. After eight readings,
Josephus flickered a little and vanished
gloomily downwards.
All we need now is something to exor-
cise the National Security (Tenancy)
Regulations out of Dad.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Advanced Mathematics.
They thought of “twice”
And then coined “thrice”;
They hit on “once”
So why not “nunce” ?
Eve the Orpington.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“ ‘My, dear, that young man of yours is too
smart to let you pin anything on him.’”
— Novel.
In fact, he has been resisting it since he
wore nappies,
4* .J. .J. .J.
“Engagement ring, Lcwt., 6 shoulder stones,
insur. £95. Sell £B5.” —
“S. M. Herald” for sale ad .
As worn by the goddess Athena?
4* 4* 4* 4*
A person who is always getting three
sheets in the wind is liable to become a
wet blanket.
4* 4* 4*
The Acid Test.
The big stop-strike meeting of the
Landside Loafers’ Union was in full
swing.
“You all know,” bellowed the comrade
who was addressing the members, “that
this move is jist another in ttye world-
wide capit-alistic conspicery to beat down
the livin’ conditions o’ the masses. Yes-
tiddy it was the poor downtrodden
Chinese, slavin’ an’ starvin’ so that big
money could go into the pockets o’ the
bloated British exploiters in ’Ong Kong.
Today it’s the Dutch money-masters ’oo
are determined to keep the shackles on
our fellow-toilers the Inder-somethink —
yes, Indernesians»
■Tomorrow the screw’ll be put on
agin. W’y, on’y larst week sections o’
the capit-alistic press were goin’ crook
because some of our comrades got their
jobs back after doin’ a stretch. They’d
crucify yer, that’s wot they’d do, an’ jist
because y’ 'elped yerselves to a few
measly cases o’ comforts that the
mugs put in for the six-an-six-a-day tour-
ists ’oo’ve bin ’avin’ a good time up north
while the likes o’ you an’ me ’ave ’ad to
slave away ’ere, sometimes as much as
two days a a lousy eight-an’-six
an hour, an’ more orften than not without
bein’ able to git more than eight pints
o’ beer d day! ”
“’Ear ’ear!”
“The press minions of the big industrial
magnets tell yer that the gallant leader of
the Inder-somethink Pervisional Guvver-
ment worked in with the Japs right
through the occupation. Well, wot if ’e
did? Proba’ly it was on’y a blind, any-
way, so ’e could contact the Jap masses
an’ work for the overthrow of the Jap
Fashists. They wouldn’t be clever enough
to think o’ that themselves. It be’oves
every Australian wage-plug to support
any bloke ’oo’s tryin’ to do the worker —
I mean ’oo’s tryin’ to do somethink for
the worker—wotever ’is color!”
“’Ear ’ear!”*
“Don’t forgit all workers are brothers
—brothers in misery an’ chains—w’ethei
they’re black, brown, yeller or white. Out
union’s proud to be associated with the
toilin’ masses of Injer, China, Inder
some-nesians an’Japan. We want’em all
to ’ave workin’ conditions like they enjoy
in Russia, the Workers’ Paradise. They
useter ’ave toilin’ masses there once, but
Stalin altered all that. We on’y gotter
keep fightin’ for our rights, an’ we can
all enjoy conditions like they got in the
U.S.S.R. —except, p’raps, their 54-hour
week, piecework an’ the industrial spy
system. In the Toilers’ Fatherland y’ on’y
git a bullet from a gun if y’ backchat the
fact’ry boss. ’Ere the cows give yer the
bullet, an’ y’ gotter go an’ scrounge round
for another job!”
“Shame! ”
“Y’ll ail be pleased to know that the
union, as a mark o’ sympathy an’ prac-
tice ’elp for our Inderwhatyoucallem
feller-workers ’oo are now bearin’ the
brunt o’ the fight against the bosses, ’as
decided to strike a levy of a month’s pay,
and as it’s in the great cause o’ solidarity
I know you’ll be be’ind it unanimous.
This is our answer to the ’ated White
Australia policy. We’ll show ’em we
don’t make no distinction about color.
“An’ finally, the union, actin’ on in-
structions from Moscow, an’ with a view
to a greater understandin’ between the
wage-slaves of all countries, ’as decided
also to demand from the Guvverment
that the imm’gration laws be repealed to
allow some thousands o’ Javanese coolies
to work ’ere an’ so give ’em a well-
deserved burl among ’igh wages, while at
the same time the union’s callin’ for
volunteers to take their place in Java an',
while workin’ there, to agitate for bettei
conditions. It’s in a noble cause, an’—
er, Bert, wot’s the mob gittin’ so snaky
about? Hey, y’ better whistle up that
copper just outside the gates an’ git ’im
to escort us back to the union office. I
dunno wot’s got into these ungrateful
swine! ”
80.
Why?
While hunting merry tadpoles in the even-
ing calm and cool.
Beyond the little valley where the jolwahs
cast their shade.
If I collected fifty from a frog-infested
pool,
And placed them in
An ancient tin
That once held marmalade;
And if, while dropping each inside, I
counted carefully.
Then put a cover on the tin and held it
firmly so;
What earthly use would such an action
be
To you or me,
Or Auntie Mae, or anyone? Well,
frankly, / don’t know.
T. W. NATHAN.


SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
TTw'^xxlZeix/Ji-
The limitations on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
RateS) payable in advance (including postage)
are; — , a
13 months 4 0
6 „ 12 6
3” 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
13 months .. .. . • 15 0
G„ 8 0
3 4 0
By airmail to members of the forces in the
Islands —3 months .. ..£l9O
THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Afforestation and Water Flow
In March, 1920, while engaged on sur-
vey work for the N.S.W. Lands Depart-
ment on the western fall of the range past
Murrurundi I was able to make some ob-
servations as to the rate of the precipita-
tion of water from the atmosphere. For
some miles the boundary of the portion
on which I was working followed the
division between the eastern and western
watersheds. I have seen a wet day on one
side of the range and a fine one with sun-
shine on the western plains on the other.
Our work took us to the summit of the
range.
One day when waiting for clouds to
clear I noticed water running down the
trunk of a white gum-tree. As the
foggy weather persisted and prevented me
going on with the work I contrived to
divert this water into a three-quart billy-
can, and, timing it with my watch, found
that the trunk of this tree was shedding
water at the rate of 16 gallons an hour.
It was not raining, and a stringy-bark
tree alongside was shedding no water.
Ringbarked trees in the vicinity were not
even wet. The water from the tree I was
interested in would flow down the western
side of the mountain and eventually reach
Warah Creek. I had found out why
Goran Lake, in the Curlewis, which used
to be a magnificent body of water, had
dried up in recent years. The drying-up
of the Mother of Ducks lagoon at Guyra,
in New England, could be attributed to
the same cause —the killing out of the
white-limbed trees on the mountain tops.
I have since calculated the added run-
off of an acre of country on high ground
timbered with white-limbed gum from
this precipitation, which is not rain but
a condensation of water from the
atmosphere. These observations impel
me to advocate the re-establishment of
white-limbed trees along mountain tops.
Reafforestation on these lines should be
quite apart from the ordinary work of the
Forestry Department, and these trees
along mountain tops should have legisla-
tive protection. Apart from the yearly
increasing amount of water produced
from these trees no doubt there would be
a marked effect in the prevention of soil
erosion.—R. H. Dowe (N.S.W.).
Care of Returned P.-0.-W.
Jap p.-0.-w. camps have yielded up
their victims, and a goodly company of
liberated Aussies are on their way home.
These men have suffered frightful hard-
ships during their three years and more
of captivity. They must have the treat-
ment best calculated to remove the
physical and mental effects of their long
imprisonment.
They have come out of a soul-destroy-
ing environment where, for three years,
they enjoyed no sport, no reading, no
leisure, but existed on poor-quality food
of insufficient quantity and had to do
hard, exhausting work. When a man is
thrown back on the resources of his own
mind for that length of time, without any
outside interests to alleviate the monotony
and hardship, some very unpleasant
things can happen to his mentality.
There will be cases of neurosis, and
they won’t be helped back on to their
feet if pushed into hospitals. Convalescent
depots should be established. They
should be situated in a healthy environ-
ment and they should be under the con-
trol of men who themsfilves have been
prisoners-of-war and are therefore able
to understand the special problems of
their charges.— Blue (Q.).
From Borneo
We have received a bundle of papers
containing reports of a Rugby League
game between N. S. Wales and “Services.”
The remark of one scribe that “Services”
proved themselves as capable of dishing
it out to the N.S.W. team as they were at
dishing it out to the Japs’and Huns leaves
us guessing.
As most of “Services” were on hand to
play regularly for their clubs season after
season, we fail to see where they got their
reputation on the battlefield. Churchill
(“We will fight them on the beaches” and
in other specified places) must have for-
gotten the Sydney Cricket Ground as a
possible battleground.
Another paper gave a brief report of
the loss of a promising young cricketer
in an air operation over Germany. It
took headlines to announce the theft of
a sportsman’s cricket-bag. The state-
ments of football coaches and horse
trainers have always been of far greater
importance than those of MacArthur.
A very prominent Federal Minister
once remarked that “our Sporting
Division” was doing a job just as im-
portant as the task of the frontline troops,
namely, helping to keep up public morale.
No doubt he will see that a suitable
monument is erected to those gallant few
who made their thousand runs for the
season or who introduced Rugby League
in Central Australia. *
Through the years to come the thoughts
of men of the forces will dwell on such
names as Tom Derrick, Bert Chowne,
Bill Newton and a host of other heroes
who made the supreme sacrifice that Aus-
tralia might remain free. To them we
say “we will not forget.”
We wonder, though, if a grateful nation
will pause to honor them while drinking
a toast to the lads who unselfishly sacri-
ficed their Saturday-afternoon “spine-
bash” and hurried from their “dooyers”
at their “Far Northern battle stations”
that they might bring a ray of sunshine
to the dreary existence of the war-weary
sporting fraternity of Australia—A Few
Front-liners (nine Ninth Division men,
with signatures and numbers).
Living Memorials
There will be many empty homes when
the final clearing-up of the war is done;
“Beats me, Jim, why they ever fought for the rotten country !”
many mothers childless, many wives
widowed. There will be many children
orphaned.
Instead of raising up monuments of
stone or marble, would it not be a good
thing for lonely mothers and widows to
adopt some orphan child to fill the place
of the lost one? Children in institutions
miss all the comforting that they could
and should receive in childhood. No
matter how well intentioned the attend-
ants are, they cannot give the little ones
the mothering they need. If homeless
children, especially those who were
orphaned as a direct result of this war,
were adopted by childless widows and
by mothers bereft of their sons and
daughters, they would help to fill empty
arms and hearts, and would be living
memorials of those who have passed on
to higher lives.— Marula (N.S.W.).
War Criminals
Our Pacific news-sheet, compiled from
Australian news broadcasts, informs us
that the A.C.T.U. demands the immediate
trial and execution of the Japanese
Emperor.
I’ve seen enough of the Nip to be any-
thing but pro-Japanese; but if the
A.C.T.U. has decided on execution, why
worry about a trial?
Most servicemen will be very pleased
to see all war criminals rounded up and
placed on fair trial. At the risk of dis-
pleasing the A.C.T.U. I would go so far
as to include in the list of war criminals
striking miners and pillaging wharfies, to-
gether with union bosses who encouraged
and protected them in their war-time
orgy of sabotage and selfishness. — Stands
(R.A.A.F.).
Cry of the Meatless
After more than two months at Balik
Papan we are still without fresh meat.
We have been told officially that the
Army is in no way to blame for this,
wharf-laborers in Australian capital
cities having refused to load ships which
have been in dock since July 18 and
August 15. We were also told that we
are unlikely to have fresh meat for some
weeks. Army food here is poor enough
and monotonous even when we have fresh
meat. Without it life seems dreary in-
deed.
Whatever hardships the waterside-
workers consider themselves to be ex-
periencing they can still go home to a
decent meal and a comfortable bed. If
they had to eat bully beef and M. and V.
meal after meal until they were nauseated
at the sight of it they might realise that
any sacrifice they can make is small com-
pared with that of the men at the front.
It is time the Government took a firm
stand with strikers who hold up supplies
to the troops. —J. W. N. (A.1.F.).
Loyalty to Wool
“Toroba” (B. 5/9/’45) asks “What is
the average grazier doing for wool?”
Very little, I’d say. I have seen tennis
parties on stations attended by scions of
our great wool families and hardly an
ounce of wool was evident in the cloth-
ing of those present, either male or
female. Cotton, rayon and silk were
general wear, although no material more
suitable than a fine wool for such a game
as tennis can be found.
If these people whose fortunes are
bound up in wool do not wear it what is
the use of publicity among others who
have no such interest? — Long ’Un (Vic.).
Gauge Standardisation
As a firm believer in the necessity for
standardisation I would suggest that the
first link should be Broken Hill-Port
Pirie, so that Westralia could be brought
in direct contact with N. S. Wales. The
next section should be Perth-Kalgoorlie
and, following these two, new standard-
gauge lines front Bourke to Darwin via
W.Q.
With these lines completed the main
disadvantages of the break of gauge
would be eliminated, from the defence
point of view, and millions of acres of
first-class country would be immediately
available for settlement.
The Queensland Government would
not be long before it would want the
standard gauge completed along the coast,
and Victoria, finding itself isolated, would
have to follow suit. The alteration of the
feeder lines could then be handled as
emergency works at times when it is
necessary to increase avenues of employ-
ment.
In view of the way the Japs used our
Bth Division boys to build the railway
between Thailand and Burma, it might
not be a bad idea to use Jap p.o.w. now,
whilst employment is plentiful, to build
the first link, Broken Hill-Port Pirie. —
Recco (N.S.W.).
America and Australia
Why all this surprise about the sudden
ending of lend-lease? The people of the
U.S.A. never professed any love for
Britain either before or during the war.
Lend-lease was stated, in a world broad-
cast, to be in the nature of the loan of
firehose to a neighbor whose house was
ablaze to prevent the spread of the fire
till the brigade arrived.
Now, instead of grizzling about the
cessation of the supply of fire-fighting
equipment when the fire is out, wouldn’t
it be better to consider why Americans
don’t like us? For the life of me 1 can t
see why Australia should be included in
anti-British sentiment.
When I was a kid a visitor from Mars
might have thought America was one cl
Australia’s parents. American.- type
buggies ruled the bush roads as American
cars do now. Longfellow was probably
the most popular poet. We boys read
stories about fur-trapping. Red Indians
and cowboys, while the girls revelled in
such pictures of American life as Little
Women and Uncle Tom’s Cabin. Our
favorite children’s magazine was St.
Nicholas.” In our School of Arts library
“Scientific American,” “Puck” and
“Judge” were on file. I knew far more
about William Jennings Bryan and his
“16-to-l” silver fever than about current
British politics. We grew to love and
respect the best in the American outlook.
Can’t we form a league to foster the
reading of each other s books and
papers? If Americans were to read our
books in the same way that we used to
read theirs wouldn’t they grow up loving
and respecting the best in our corner?
But we must produce the right kind
of books and we must stop being snobs.
Yes, we are. In Five Red Herrings
Dorothy Sayers says:
He listened with that tolerant petrified
smile, which the foreigner takes, and, in-
deed, quite rightly takes, to indicate a satis-
faction so impervious that it will not even
trouble to justify itself.
That’s snobbery. We’re prone to it in
contact with foreigners, and the Yanks
don’t like it. I don't like it. Nobody
likes it. To hell with it. Let us get nd
of it and make friends. — Geo. Graham
(Tas.).
A Way to Save Dollars
Obviously, far-reaching restrictions of
British imports from U.S.A. and Canada
will have to be made if there should be
no satisfactory alternative to lend-lease.
Commodities to be cut down will in-
clude tobacco, cotton, machinery (one
of the biggest imports from U.S.A and
Canada), petrol and, last of all, Holly-
wood films. . .
Surely Australia should help Britain by
joining an Empire dollar pool, and
restricting American imports as far as
possible. A great saving of dollar
exchange, which could be used to better
purpose, could be made by altogether
shutting out American films. The intel-
lectual and ethical value of these isn t
worth discussing. .
More than 50 p.c. of costs in the in-
dustry” is accounted for by film hire from
big Melbourne and Sydney agencies.
Ultimately payment is made in dollars,
to the serious depletion of Australian
funds in that currency, and, further along
the chain, to the detriment of Britain s
dollar pool.—T. C. A. (Canberra).
Hotel Hours
Like many other Australians who had
never observed any other licensing system
in operation I assumed before going over-
seas that the most unpleasant aspects of
the drink trade —drunkenness, brawling
and rowdiness —could only be controlled
by shorter hours of trade. Experience
abroad has proved this assumption to be
wrong. , . ,
The English system is designed to en-
sure that people shall drink in comfort,
at leisure in healthy surroundings and at
the most convenient times. Hotel bars
are open over the luncheon period and
again from 6 p.m. until about 10 P- m -
In England it is very seldom that one
sees anyone the worse for drink in the
streets. Certainly people going home from
work at 6 p.m. are not pestered by a
prevalence of drunks. . .
Why shut the hotel bars during the
hours of leisure? Shorten the forenoon
hours of trade by all means, but adjust
the hours of trading so as to do away
with the unpleasantness arising from en-
forced rush drinking and the evil§ con-
nected with sly grog.
There is much to be said in favor of
community hotels which can be modelled
on the lines of the English inn, where the
bar with its darts, games and pally
atmosphere is really the working man s
club. —K. H. W. (R.A.N.V.R.).


Hi;
3*
He sank a submarine by RADIO
m
m
m
1
Jib
I
"■s:
1$
ii
888®
Si
-.M
m
#®p
: gl
v?:#;
.70
r
mm
■
ipii
o
HM
nn
m*
<3 *
m
m
c %ei°'" a
ii
ill
\7O
1
ii
Philips Transmitter
on lonely Aneityumlsland aids war against Japan
The story of how a Logging Company on a lonely
island in the New Hebrides helped in the <i kill ,? of
Japanese submarines can now be revealed.
Unknown to the enemy, a Philips Transmitter with a
range of 1500 to 2000 miles was left on the island of
Aneityum,. close to which Japanese submarines fre-
quently surfaced to re-charge batteries. Executives
of the Aneityum Logging Company promptly flashed
the intelligence to Allied Headquarters—with disas-
trous results to the sons of Nippon.
During the invasion of Munda, the same Philips Trans-
mitter was used continuously to report progress of
hostilities and was on the air 24 hours a day.
Operators everywhere praised the efficiency of the
equipment, and Philips are indeed proud of this fur-
their evidence of faithful service to the Allied cause.
In peace, the resources of the Philips organisation will
be devoted, wholeheartedly, and unreservedly, to the
welfare, and security, of the nations so loyally served
in time of war.
PHILIPS
t
Incandescent and Fluorescent Lamps, Lighting Equipment and Fittings, Radio Receiving and Transmitting Valves, Radioplayers, Radio Trans-
mitters, Sound Systems, Medical and Industrial X-Ray and Electro-Medical Equipment, Industrial and Medical Infra-Red Apparatus, Electronic
Devices, Radio Accessories, Electrical Measuring Instruments, Metal Pressings and Stampings.
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LTD. Sydney ... Melbourne ... Adelaide ... Perth .. . Brisbane
