

g
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3411
Wednesday, June 27, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
PENSHURST PLACE.
pENSHURST PLACE, by Edenbridge, near the boundary of
Kent and Sussex, in the district known as the Weald of Kent,
has but few rivals in the wealth of its historical associations, and
is a fitting abode for heroes and poets. The chivalrous Sir Philip
nf “T a,, am ° n< i of the Court of Q ueen Elizabeth,” the poet
or Arcadia, and the no less chivalrous Algernon Sidney, had
ttieir home at Penshurst; and here, too, lived the great Bohuns.
In Norman 4imes the lords of the soil were the Penchesters, a
knightly family. From them it passed successively to John de
Foultney, who-married one of the co-heiresses of Sir Stephen de
Fenchester; Jtnd to Sir John de Poultney, who was four times
Lord Mayor of London, and Edward II received license “to
embattle his mansion houses at Penshurst and elsewhere.” In the
fitteenth century it was granted to the Staffords ; and when Edward,
Duke of Buckingham, was attainted it reverted to the Crown.
It subsequently came to the Sidneys, and is now the seat of the
Earls de Lisle and Dudley, one of whom, about forty years ago,
undertook what appeared the hopeless task of restoration, and
carried it out with great skill and success. Penshurst now presents
almost the same appearance as it did in the days of its greatest
splendor, with its mixture of styles in which the Tudor predomi-
nates. These Tudor buildings are mainly to the right of the chief
entrance from the noble park, while the Great Hall is behind it. In
the grounds are still shown “Sacharissa’s Walk,” a double row of
beech-trees; and Sidney’s Oak, the veritable tree planted on the
day Sir Philip was bom, and to which Waller makes reference as
“the sacred mark of noble Sidney’s birth,” and on which Southey
has also some lines.


f
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin.”
My Name
My Address
S.B. 14S AGE
The Red Page
HISTORICAL DRAMAS .
Compared with Maurice Collis’s White
of Mergen (Faber), four of the six one-
acters in Lajos Biro’s Gods and Kings
(Allen and Unwin) would best be de-
scribed not as historical dramas, but as
evasions of historical drama. Mr. Collis
attempts a full-scale play about an ad-
venturer of the seventeenth century;
Biro offers a sidelight on Napoleon, a
sidelight on Queen Elizabeth, a bit of
nonsense about the Greek gods and a bit
of nonsense about Adam and Eve.
It might be argued in Biro’s defence
that the one-acter has severe limitations ;
also that he is striving for comedy. But
it seems too easy a way of cashing-in oh
great events and great characters to take
one little scene out of their lives and
expect that to stand for the whole, the
play receiving its modicum of weight
and majesty from the audience’s know-
ledge of history: Bernard Shaw did this
with Napoleon—gave a snapshot of the
Emperor in his youth; and, admitting
that what is said is interesting, one can-
not help regretting all that is unsaid. It
is as if a portrait painter offered a
glimpse of Napoleon’s nose or Queen
Elizabeth’s big toe —interesting enough,
but hardly the full, rich canvas.
A Hungarian refugee in England who
wrote in Patricia’s Seven Houses one of
the richest and most satisfying comedies
of modern times, Biro can fill a big can-
vas when hp wants to ; but he has also
something of the reformer in him, and
it is this which has led him astray in
the Greek and Adam and Eve pieces.
He is not concerned with the creation
of character —which is the dramatist’s
first and most important task —but simply
sets out to make some little point or other
about the reformation of the world. As
in Eric Linklater’s dialogues, which also
depend for their comedy on the “daring”
of dealing in a familiar way with histori-
cal or mythological personages, it seems
a pretty tepid sort of fun at best. It is
not, after .all, so very daring to be imp-
ishly blasphemous about Ares or Aphro-
dite.
Biro is much happier when he is not
dealing with historical themes. A satire
in which all the actors are chessmen
would make an amusing experiment
for little theatres ; and a simple triangle
drama set, in the playwright’s native
Hungary, dealing with the sort of people
he knows and allowing his sardonic
humor a free rein, is by far the best
thing in the book,
Mr. Collis says in the introduction to
White of Mergen that “an historical
drama will become plain drama if it
departs too far from history,” and one
might apply that stricture to all Biro’s
historical pieces: dealing flippantly, arbi-
trarily or too slightly with history, they
become plain drama ; and as plain drama
they are feeble.
Mr. Collis’s admirable summing-up on
the extent to which truth may legiti-
mately be distorted in historical drama
is worth quoting in full:
Coming from a writer who has thus
(within those necessary limits which Biro
fails to observe) set himself free to do
what he pleases, White of Mergen is a
curiously restricted sort of play. Mr.
Collis’s historical writings, such as The
Land of the Great Image, were notable
for their barbaric color, their opulence
of style, their wit and the amused interest
with which the author regarded the rela-
tions and the aberrations of men and
women : White of Mergen is remarkable
for the absence of all these.
A trader who became right-hand man
to the Greek named Phaulkon who was
right-hand man to the King of Siam,
White was as colorful an adventurer as
English history has known. He stole the
bride-to-be of one of his associates on his
arrival in Siam and, after her death,
allied himself more or less openly with
the wife of one of his ship’s captains.
He made a fortune by what today we
would call piracy, he came into conflict
with the East India company, stood in
some danger of a charge of treason
and —though he escaped at the last
minute and departed for England with
his loot—he nearly lost his life at the
hands of Siamese natives who feared (and
with reason) that Phaulkon was deliver-
ing them to the domination of the French.
Mr. Collis says in his introduction
that to judge White by modern standards
is to take him out of his epoch: “He
was an adventurer among adventurers
of the sevententh century.” That is a per-
fectly correct statement, and the play-
wright deserves credit for having re-
sisted the temptation to fall into the
usual roaring, rumbustious melodrama of
fake seventeenth-century period pieces.
But, so anxious is he to demonstrate that
piracy was regarded more or less as legi-
timate business, he very nearly forgets
to show that it was an exciting business.
In so far as any clear portrait of him
is drawn in the first two acts, White
appears as a sober, honest merchant;
and his development into a more vigor-
ous character in the last act, when he
defies the East India company, seems in-
consistent and arbitrary—dictated by the
facts of history but not the natural de-
velopment of the personality as pre-
sented in the play.
In short, seeking to avoid rumbustious
over-writing, Mr. Collis has made too
quiet a man of one who must surely
have been full of color and fire, too
noble a gentleman of a truly magnificent
scoundrel. It is noticeable that he depicts
White and his first consort simply as inno-
cent victims of circumstances and that
he evades altogether any real dramatisa-
tion of the second triangle in the adven-
turer’s career.
The play remains interesting as history
and, with its barbaric settings to give the
color that is missing in the dialogue,
might stage well enough. The comic
relief—various scenes with an inefficient
clerk —would certainly play better than
it reads. The publishers, incidentally,
believe that the English stage “for a long
time almost wholly occupied with the
comedy of manners, with its variation, the
thriller,” is due for a return of historical
drama. Most Australians interested in
the theatre are saying the same thing ;
and it will help the movement in this
country to have English writers of Collis’s
standing ranging for their themes —as
Conrad did in his novels of Malaya—
into those tropic territories with which
is linked so much of our own history.
Historical drama begins where history
leaves off. It is true that an historical
drama will become plain drama if it departs
too far from history, blit it is also true
that history with its dates, its sequences and
it's evidential hesitations cannot be squeezed
whole into the dramatic formula. As I con-
ceive it, an historical drama, if it is to re-
tain a right to the name, must seize the
essential sense of the history it relates, but
wherever historical .facts cannot be fitted
into the dramatic mould without cracking
it they must be omitted or modified.
A man reads a history to ascertain pre-
cisely what is known to have happened
at a given moment, but he reads (and
watches) an historical drama because it
delights him to behold men of past days
doing and saying things which are
prompted by their known character, and
of which there might be record were the
documents fuller. Nor by doing so is he
allowing himself to be deceived. If a
drama deserves the title of a work of art
he will learn truths therefrom which bare
history can hardly tell him, truths allied
to synthesis rather than to matters of
fact
In short, an historical play has its own
implications which partake both of his-
tory and the super-historical. One may, in-
deed, hazard the reflection that no event
in the past can be fully understood until
it is seen through the free imagination of
some kind of artist. That is the final jus-
tification of the historical play.
Forgotten Novelist
Since he is writing about Charles
Whitehead, who was wounded by the
world and felt wounded about it and
who wrote a powerfully wounded sort of
novel about Richard Savage (who had
led such a wounded existence that even
Dr. Johnson pitied him), it is hardly sur-
prising that Clive Turnbull in Mulberry
Leaves: The Story of Charles Whitehead
(Hawthorn Press, Melbourne) adopts
himself something of a wounded air.
And, Mr. Turnbull having a per-
suasive style, one is almost led into be-
lieving that it is not simply necessary
and sensible that “a madhouse and a
gaol are almost always the first blessings
conferred upon the inhabitants of any
newly-discovered country,” but that this
is, as Mr. Turnbull appears to suggest,
a dire injustice to the community. Almost
one accepts the proposition that when a
writer takes to drink it is the world’s
fault.
Again, when Mr. Turnbull recalls that
Whitehead had the first offer from
Chapman and Hall to write the serial
around Seymour’s sporting drawings
which, on his refusal, Dickens accepted
and developed into The Pickwick
Papers; and when the comment is made
that “Then as now the world liked a
happy ending and probably many offi-
cious morons had pointed out to White-
head his folly in writing about Richard
Savage when he might have written about
Mr. Pickwick,” one is tempted to believe
that Dickens was a very bad man indeed
to write his masterpiece and that White-
head, not being rewarded with fame and
fortune for turning the job down, was
very much misused. Almost one accepts
the contention that Whitehead could have
written Pickwick if he had chosen to
stoop so low ; almost one forgets that,
in his later days in Melbourne when he
wrote Emma Latham, Whitehead himself
wrote a cheerful story with a happy end-
ing. ,
Almost Mr. Turnbull persuades one ;
and the more so because the misery of
Whitehead’s life and its strange and
squalid and tragic ending in dipsomania
cannot help evoking wonder and pity ;
almost, but not quite. For Savage and
Whitehead were both pugnacious men
amidst their sufferings and, catching
something of this quality from his con-
tact with them, just as he caught his
slightly wounded air, Mr. Turnbull is top
obviously trailing his coat when he slays
two such giants as Dickens and
Thackeray in fourteen deadly words:
“But personally I am not so great an
admirer of those authors as some.”
The first of a series of monographs to
be called “The Australian Heritage
Books” intended to “throw a new light
on a variety of men, each significant in
his way, who have lived and worked in
Australia and whose achievements are
part of our national achievement,” Mul-
berry Leaves fulfils its purpose admir-
ably. It is well written, extremely inter-
esting and, if Mr. Turnbull appears as
advocate rather than as judge, vigorous
championship is always stimulating.
Queensland Authors and Artists’ Asso-
ciation is offering a prize of £lO 10s. for
a “lyric poem,” the competition closing
on September 30. The competition is in
memory of James Picot, who died in a
Japanese p.o.w. camp in March, 1944.
Details from R. S. Byrnes, Clairvaux,
Power-street, Norman Park, S.E.I, Bris-
bane.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Gracie Fields in Sydney;
On the arrival of Gracie Fields Sydney
audiences were able to do something which a
dismal Government had forbidden on VE-day:
to express their admiration for the common
people of England. Both the press and the
public had obviously decided to make her a
symbolic figure, and she served the purpose very
well. She came on to the stage with the most
charmingly feminine golden hair, but also with
a tomboyish stride; she wore the regal dress of
a prima donna, but turned a cartwheel in it;
her jokes were naughty enough to entrance
respectable elderly ladies, but hardly worth re-
telling in the public bar; if she pretended to
feel sentimental about A. A. Milne’s Christopher
Robin saying his prayers she promptly gave
the most delightful imitation of a small Scot-
tish boy who had eaten himself sick at a party;
if she trumpeted pretty often in the barbarous
dialect of Lancashire she also spoke American,
Cape Dutch and English; if she ventured a
gag or two about the London blitz she then
sang a seriously patriotic item about a convoy;
if she started to sing anything even moderately
“highbrow” she broke into burlesque halfway
through: the whole making a programme typi-
cally English in its balance, its high spirits
and its humanity. Audiences might have been
mildly surprised to discover that the National
symbol was just Gracie —neither as uproar-
iously of this earth as Wirth’s three Continental
Clowns or the Tivoli’s “Mo,” nor as un-
deniably of the heavens as Marjorie Lawrence —
but the world she symbolises also lives com-
fortably and pleasantly between those extremes
of art. The visitor was ably accompanied by
Eric Fox and assisted by that capable and forth-
right pianist Beatrice Tange and the Bradfield
Park R.A.A.F. Band —which made some ex-
tremely ingenious noises.
Catherine Duncan’s “Sons of the Morn-
ing,” a prize-winning verse-play about
Australian soldiers in Crete, was staged
very capably indeed by May Hollin-
worth’s players at Killara, Sydney. Kevin
Brennan, Jane Holland, David Saxby,
Alfred Race, Jack Needham and Deryck
Barnes made a cast remarkable for solid
merit. Nevertheless, it was noticeable
that the piece warmed up only during
the brief entry of Phil Hosking, playing
the sort of “typical” Digger who prob-
ably doesn’t exist, but whom audiences
have learned to accept, and who, at least,
symbolises something real in the Aus-
tralian people, an earthy humor. The
other characters, even the old Cretan
peasant played by Kevin Brennan, lived
on a plane too exalted to convince one
that they were anything more than mouth-
pieces for the author’s ideas. The poetry,
in consequence, though there are well-
written decorative passages, does not
seem to arise naturally from the play
itself, but is imposed on it from without.
The drumming of heavy rain made it
hard to follow the early part of S. N.
Behrman’s play “End of Summer” during
its first night at Sydney Independent
Theatre. Later the play itself became
about as clear as heavy rain. . It seemed
to concern the problems of an impecuni-
ous young man who loved the daughter
of a wealthy family but was addicted to
wrestling with his conscience. Radical
ideals and a spot of moralising about tech-
nological unemployment were thrown in
for good measure, Leonard Bullen and
Jessica Noad played their parts com-
petently, but the depression background
was about as stimulating as last year’s
news flash. Then the spotlight shifted to
Doris Fitton as the giddy mother, eventu-
ally rescued from the wiles of a fortune-
hunting psychiatrist. Ross Buchanan gave
a sound interpretation of the cynical
psychiatrist, but Doris Fitton changed
character like a chameleon, and was even
uncertain .of her lines. A minor char-
acter, a Russian count, was acted well by
Grenville Spencer.
A less austere Pnina Salzman has been
entertaining packed houses at the Town
Hall, Melbourne. At her third concer
she played very carefully the Nationa
Anthem, having been taught it for the
first time by that eminent performer Mai
colm Sargent the same afternoon. Near-
by listeners were surprised to hear a sub
dued humming during a couple of her
items. It came from Miss Salzman, who
had obviously lost herself in some Spanish
music. More serious material were the
32 Variations of Beethoven and the
Chopin Sonata in B flat minor with the
funeral march embedded in it. “Pictures
of an Exhibition,” in which Moussorg-
sky indulges his associations without tell-
ing us anything about the pictures, was
a skilful piece of playing.
At the talkies:
“Mrs, Parkington” (Sydney St. James): Louis
Bromfield’s story of a penniless girl who marries
a financial colossus. She is seen fighting to hole
him when he strays and is portrayed in the end
as one of those dominating old females to be
found in all popular American novels. Well
acted by Greer Garson and Walter Pidgeon,
with a nice piece of characterisation by Edward
Arnold as a defaulting grandson.
“And Now Tomorrow” (Sydney Capitol):
Screen version of the Rachel Field novel about
the radical young ear-specialist who gradually
becomes, as it were, an eye-specialist —after
being exposed for a few months to a wealthy
young lady’s undoubtedly beautiful orbs. Alan
Ladd and Loretta Young’s eyes fill the bill
admirably.
“Winged Victory” (Sydney Empire): Another
of the many films about the young men who
come from all walks of life and go dying in all
walks of the air. Moss Hart, who wrote the
script in co-operation with the U.S. Army Air
Corps, offers a quietly authoritative human
document. Lon McAllister enhances the good
impression he made in “Home in Indiana.”
“The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp”
(Sydney Embassy): Based on Low’s familiar
Aunt Sally. Blimp served Low’s purpose well
enough in the balmy days before the war —a
good cartoonist peg on which to hang, draw
and quarter militarism represented by the pro-
fessional soldier. Five years of war in which
the leaders of the winning team have all been
professional soldiers—Blimps—have made most
people modify their ideas on the subject, and
the film suffers accordingly. However, the
filmsmiths have made Blimp into a likeable
character in an entertaining fantasy.
“Frenchman’s Creek” (Melbourne State): In
the days of Charles One. Joan Fontaine, an
aristocratic English lady clad in shorts, does
some fifth column work by assisting Arturo de
Cordova, a gentlemanly French pirate, to loot
the stately homes of England and murder their
owners. The Frenchmen are as incredibly
clever as the Englishmen are stupid, and the
swashbuckler gets away with an English ship
and the lady from under the nose of her
husband. Technicolor rubbish which suggests
that Hollywood should take a course in
Marryat and other English writers who knew
something about their sea-girt island.
Kate Allan and Alfred Wallis share a
show of Kozminsky’s Galleries, Mel-
bourne. There is evidence of hard work
and technical skill in the etchings of Mr.
Wallis. Anybody will like them who
likes the old stones of Melbourne —which
would have all gone to the crushing mills
long since if it hadn’t been for W. 0.1.;
though that isn’t to credit Mr. Dedman
with any passionate interest in aesthetics;
they will vanish as soon as the post-war
reconstructionists get going. Kate Allan’s
water-colors are slight in texture, and her
portraits are interesting mainly because
they are concerned with nice-looking
children.
“F.S.”: John A. Gardner who, with
Rex Battarbee, the teacher of Albert
Namatjira, was the first Victorian artist
to bring the Centre artistically to Mel-
bourne, is back at the Athenaeum with
another set of landscapes. As he is farm-
ing in the Western District, with a studio
made out of an bid mill, his subject-
matter is different, and in the absence ot
the ghost gums, the blood-red ranges, the
naked shapes and weird colors of the
“Never-Never,” his work can be judged
more easily on its merits. It can be said
that he is painting with more freedom,
and when he rejoins his old companion,
now managing the Hermannsburg Mis-
sion, as he says he will do, he should be
able to see things more clearly. He will
find one of the most art
movements in history active in his old
stamping-ground, since Namatjira took
to the white man’s aesthetics. There are
said to be dozens of incipient Velas-
quezes, Rembrandts and Gruners up there
among the aboriginals.


'CW,
1 M
ScAScafuL
do€euh*df i 'Cot*cv >
3 c.rujp'-
tOVUi .
i
/6 If J <°ar*^<rH4
J*4aC&i
» ><y
JT\
?4zZ£-~
S&f
4®,
. &&X r^x'i
.n
: ■ % '
Wm
SLif-
T J^>
\fU
■fxjti
fOo-cf 't\iCj>urC
trw-
(jCuA
'c4 yoACss &yicd ? >
s sxl f
f £>s hJ ~to
<Jcr%
7 <th<S
V.:. .
tfPVI
<C3*£*-
gX
#
■
SO
c.
'#/
h ■
%-
,:^T
7/
ANTHONY
HORDERNS'
clever
vo.
Accesso* ieS different • * „ . .
. fctscinettivig 7 rfStindd) 1 eS
, ..-ccories f° r . _ t<)< trkle- * wesson*
. f C f ff r s n Best” • ‘ ‘ ° '
*~t »■■"'■• Tt
**?:£*■ ** *
ytfeve cr
lir selection.
for ?° wr
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


■
I ■
I MB ■
i
■ ’
3 \
VRjK
m
' *’
m
m
m
wm
•r-V
m
%
V
: ■ : ■ •>• §•
t' * y -y
si
»
m
■ ■
¥
MUiS
m H
&SS
r ' Vr
M mm , \m
7 *r \v
fW f s, MJ - illV< &
u.
V>-
j SBgvV n
. iiK
SI
m
■ mm
. -%j&L
s 1 1 •.,.
• h .. '. '-'fefcr
- %Cm ..
®ii
. ■ „• , ;■. >:
“
s-'-,
! >J*SW
s■«/■
■ V -;: ; :M*
aa^^ 3
III;. ::i-HMg g|f.f
MT'; NWHHMNBI
1
■[
* , Wmmm
HJMjPjgal** •’
■P
■
si»
/ I ■ "■ : :. = '■ "
A # /# <' . Hi ' 111 X. mA%
■> J/lii- fill® m
m
- /- I.# li^Ml
IV
I* ' '
■ : '■“ ■ > ..■. ■ -.■ - ■■.
hK*: y
y&x&f' sg' : ' 5 '■
f&Q y v
PiH
/
ids
5S
■
■\ jJy ,
■H
/isa
mm
m ,s< j-
»~ , -' i
. s 1 |
■ ■
*
a> x 1
'€ I
i wSmm
■;'ip
: >f .;
Hi
,# f
To[ -4,$
W SOM
§ ' ,|: r
.■:- »
' JK
»:
■Hi
W% r ::
mm' '*s„
ws,
■*:jm& ff.m Jam?** ,Jm
r ■;'i^^::/'.:iv :; ''. A |ni*BHl^Hli , •.
|g«| tm
PyrnkM^W:
■
\
■
■ ■
My
|l.m
■
iaalifl*
B
'^H
Hi
s
■
: .
■■■■'■■■ : -1
f '
: : ■
' Al
I
\m\Vlo
1 “
HH
Sl't ; ulliiiSk
■
For nearly 60 years we have co-operated with Industry
and Insurance, successfully reducing fire risk to its
minimum.
From the first “Grinnell” save in 1886, 1212 fires have
been controlled in Australia and New Zealand by the
“Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and Fire Alarm System.
The average loss per fire was £143. This unbelievably
low figure covered all claims for fire, water and smoke
damage.
This wonderful record of “saves” in “Grinnell” protected
buildings over the years represents the sum of
materials of outstanding quality, accumulated knowledge,
backed by painstaking service rendered by a substantial
organisation.
The name “Grinnell” is a registered trade mark and
applies only to the “Grinnell” Automatic Sprinkler and
Fire Alarm System.
Wormald Bros. Pty. Ltd.
{lnc. in N.S.W. ).
Fire Protection Engineers since 1889 .
Sydney: Melbourne: Brisbane: Adelaide: Perth: Newcastle: Hobart: Wellington: Auckland: Christchurch.
Note: A complete Fire Protection Engineering Service operates at all branches.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3411
Wednesday, June 27, 1945
AT THE COURT OF KING COAL.
"A cost crais has been reached in three States , and drastic rationing was to have gone into force in N.S. Wales on Monday until postponed by urgent representations
from [?]."
“With my humble duty to your Majesty, isn’t your Majesty going a little TOO far?”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Wbstraha : 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London ; Hare Place, 47 Fleet Streets
London. E.C.4.
WAR LEGACIES.
Whatever other food shortages people
anywhere may be finding reason to com-
plain about, there can be no complaint
about shortage of one variety. There is
enough food for hate to go round.
In Europe much of it is a direct product
of war’s brutalities and sufferings actually
experienced. Many there cannot help but
have individual personal reasons for har-
boring bitter hatred toward others. Their
own lives have been wrecked —by others,
or by the general onslaught of war strik-
ing home. The ones nearest and dearest
to them have been ruthlessly wrenched
away—killed On the battlefields or in the
bombings, or, ~ worse, butchered before
their eyes ; in any case, taken, leaving
behind a heritage of sorrow and bitter-
ness. The health of unknown numbers
has been broken by privation, starvation
and disease.
There were national and tribal hatreds
in Europe before the war, and it looks
as if they survive it —hatred of Russians
for Poles, of Czechs for Slovaks, of
Serbs for Croats, of Rumanians for
Hungarians, of Greeks for Bulgars, of
Italians for southern Slavs, in every case
reciprocated ; and the hatred of all of
them for Germans.
Where all this will lead in the long
run it would be rash to guess. Perhaps it
alone fully justifies for the time being
the firmest military rule the Anglo-Ameri-
cans can sustain. General de Gaulle’s per-
formances may be necessary to his role
of the lone-hand saviour of hiscountry and
a useful diversion from his people’s own
personal and national troubles, but the
stand could be symptomatic of more than
the state of France ; it could apply to
most countries in Europe, and hence it
could be ominous if the brakes were all
suddenly released.
That, at least, is the general view of
the Mad Continent as presented in the
news that comes from there. Taking this
news at face values, the Mad Continent
was never in a madder or more danger-
ous mood. It is projected as a hideous
cauldron of wretched and furious
humanity, ripe, if the lid were taken off,
for any violence. Concurrently with the
great meeting of nations at San Francisco,
bent on securing peace for the world on
an international basis by international
agreement, the picture given of Europe is
one of seething nationalism, waiting only
on an easing of the military controls to
burst into a fury of mutual slaughtering.
If that picture is truly representative
there is nothing to expect but frightful
civil and other wars, for nothing could
be surer than that the iron-handed con-
trols at present imposed will eventually
be eased. But is the picture actually
true? It is projected here through the
daily servings of cables and broadcasts,
and through the horror films and photo-
graphs. No doubt taken separately any
of these representations may be true
enough, though in some propaganda
sticks out a mile. The question is are they
collectively true? They may be serving
the purpose here of feeding the war
neurosis that hungers for hate ; synthetic
filling to make up for the absence of the
real thing; providing a vicarious satis-
faction by pandering to the cruellest of
human feelings. Another question may
occur here —whether the ladling out for
the orgy of emotional sadism may not
already have been overdone ; may not
be producing revulsion, not, against the
perpetrators of the horrors and bestiali-
ties —which would appear to be the inten-
tion —but against those responsible for
keeping up the sickening flow of it.
And perhaps even against others, as
never intended. What was the reaction
to the mongrel slaughtering and mutilat-
ing of Italy’s wretched imitation of a
Caesar and his woman? How do people
here —normal human people anywhere,
for that matter —react to the details of a
Russian ex-prisoner allegedly taking ven-
geance out by raping a defenceless girl?
What is the average feeling about the
American soldier allegedly making a
boast of having personally shorn off the
hair of a Dutch girl accused of having
i been too friendly to the enemy? The
pictures of apparently able-bodied men
putting the boot into prisoners who can-
not hit back—do these make people swell
with pride and pleasure, and if so what
sort of people? The frequent paradings of
the pictures of dead bodies —do they serve
whatever purpose it may be presumed
they are intended to serve? Or is the
true result of it all merely nausea?
After all, there must be some limit to
the capacity for vicarious hate. Are the
horror propagandists not in some danger
of producing the very opposite result
from that apparently sought—of un-
seasonably awakening the very human
feeling of pity? The great revulsion
against all the hate and horror stuff of
the last war seems to have been forgotten.
In any case, is the picture that all this
builds up into really true? Does it com-
prehend a whole continent of hundreds
of millions of people? Is it typical and
generally representative? If it is, then
the iron military controls now imposed
in Europe will need to last longer than
they are at all likely to last. Or is it, per-
haps, true that the picture is not as uni-
versal as may be supposed. The worst
of the horror films must have made rela-
tives of Australian prisoners of war in
Germany tremble for their fate, but
nearly all of them (“5300 out of 5400
A.1.F.”) were taken back to Britain in
pretty good shape; one went straight
from his p.-0.-w. camp to the cricket field.
Perhaps the thing can be subjected
to a local testing. Is it ever the
normal humdrum of existence that
makes up news, or is not the great
bulk of all news simply whatever strikes
the mind and eye as most extraordinary?
Who would take his daily newspaper as
fairly reflecting the whole of the life
going on about him? Actually, all he can
hope to get from it is a general idea of
some of the more happen-
ings ; as often as not the very seediest —
wrangles and squabbles in the clash of
this interest and that.
Without any question Europe must be
in a sorry condition ; but to believe—as
might well be believed from the current
picturing of it —that it is in an utterly
hopeless state of warring hates between
individuals and between nations is to give
up at once all hope in civilised humanity
and peace. One very dubious aspect of
the general “news” that comes out of it
is that so much of this “news” is obvi-
ously political. It may be telling with
more or less accuracy what is going on
on the political surface, but it never gets
down to the ordinary level of humanity
underneath. What of the hundreds of
millions down there on that level —have
they become through war and its effects
a restless mass of lunatic furies, or are
they perhaps, instead, a generally war-
weary people?
There are two possible pictures of them
—the one conjured up by the hate-
through-horror propaganda, in which
they appear to figure as waiting only for
the controls to lift to get savagely at each
other’s throats in a reversion to
humanity’s darkest and ugliest times ; or
one in which they may seem to appear as
looking in desperate hope to San Fran-
cisco and whatever peace it may bring
them, whatever opportunity it may afford
them to rise from the shambles and give
a new and greater meaning to western
civilisation. It is a question of whether
they may not by now have had enough
of war ; whether it may not have imbued
their great majorities—not their vicious
and bloodthirsty minorities —with such
a desire for peace that they will
become the strongest influence anywhere
in making it secure. It will be a shaky
edifice otherwise, whether buttressed by
the scrolls of a hundred San Francisco
decisions or a million bayonets.
How the Ninth Fights.
Men of the Ninth Division died on
Labuan Island. Others were wounded.
Heroes came to light.
As contact was made with the enemy,
and as reports from the natives were
sifted, it was estimated that there were
300 to 400, possibly 500, re-
maining on the island. And 300 to 500
Japs will exact a price for their killing
wherever they may be.
On Labuan they were hidden away in
thick and almost impenetrable jungle
undergrowth; in a maze of tiny gullies
and ridges and swamps. As was not the
case on Tarakan, the features were small
and broken and ill-defined, and only a
ceaseless probing could determine which
of the numberless little ridges the enemy
had chosen for his defence.
But, all in all, the fight for the island
was only another and greater training
exercise. “This is the kind of war we
like,” the troops said. But they said
also “A man ought to be getting a quid a
day. He’d make more than that working
a hell of a lot less down south.”
It was hot and dry and dusty. For
the infanteer it meant constant plodding
marches. The advance moved quickly
forward and there was no chance of a
hot meal catching up with him in the
first few days. Sometimes he almost
wished that the enemy would stay in
strength so that he could settle down to
fight and not have to lump his gear in
the blistering sun.
The Westralian battalion which went
into Victoria town on the morning of
the landing found the stiffest fighting and
the hardest going.
Victoria itself was abandoned. It had
been badly damaged by the aerial and
naval bombardment, and there was no
sign of preparations for defence against
an approach from the harbor. The
advance drove inland with the battalion
on the left flank. About 1500 yards
beyond the town a wide canal parallels
the beach. Beyond it the ground rises
to the park where were Government
House and Flagstaff Hill. The bridge
across the canal had been blown up by
the enemy, and here the forward com-
peny was met with machine-gun fire.
One platoon waded across the canal
with the water up to the men’s necks
and established a “bridgehead.” It suf-
fered the first casualties. Tanks were
brought up to cover the crossing of the
other two platoons, and the company
attacked through the tangled underbrush
round Government House. It counted
20 Jap dead before it cleared the area.
There were machine-gun nests and
dugouts, but the greatest check to the ad-
vance was from carefully-hidden snipers.
One such was concealed at the tip of a
narrow tongue pf jungle which jutted out
into a stretch of open ground. He
covered the approach with a light
machine-gun and allowed the forward
scout to come within six feet of his posi-
tion before he fired. As the scout fell
two stretcher-bearers ran forward. They
were killed. Another man was wounded
before the sniper’s position was located.
Then the company commander, Cap-
tain A. H. G. Lushington, who was fol-
lowing the forward patrol, decided to get
the sniper himself. He worked around
the flank, made a dash across the open
ground and came up on the target from
behind. The Jap’s head was just above
the level of his hole and his attention
was concentrated forward, Lushington
grabbed him by the neck, dragged him
out and killed him with the bayonet.
That night the forward companies of
the battalion were in position along the
western edge of Labuan airfield. They
added four dead Japs to their list when
the enemy tried to infiltrate their lines.
The airfield sits upon a low plateau.
To the west there are two roads, run-
ning north and almost parallel, about
1000 yards apart. The country between
is wild and broken, crisscrossed with
tracks through the dense jungle, all of
which must needs be cleared.
Here the Jap was in strength. It
seemed that he had a headquarters estab-
lishment in the area, and he probably
hoped to make a stand there. He had
strong posts and bunkers along all the
trails, and his positions were well-hidden
and guarded with wire and booby-traps.
It was slow going to clean them out, and
it meant hard work for tank crews and
engineers to get the tanks up into posi-
tion where they could help in the attack.
Up ahead of the tanks the artillery
and the R.A.A.F. Beaufighters, which
were providing close support for the
troops, swept the area. The troops were
loud in praise of the Beaufighters. They
came in across the tops of the trees, their
cannon spitting fire into the jungle, and
in country that is featureless they pin-
pointed their targets with delayed-action
bombs which would allow them time to
climb again before the explosion.
The Japs mostly kept to their holes,
and were killed there. Fire from a tank
drove two screaming from a tunnel. One
died at the tunnel mouth. The other
ran towards the tank carrying a satchel
containing a small bomb. He was cut
down with a burst from a Bren gun.
By nightfall of the second day Labuan
was cleared to a depth of 4000 yards
from the landing beaches. The airfield
had been captured, and R.A.A.F. con-
struction units were already moving their
heavy equipment along the roads. A
Cavalry Commando unit which landed
on Hamilton Point, west of Victoria
town, found it empty of the enemy.
Natives, Chinese, Javanese, Malayans
and Indians began to crowd in to the
beachhead area in large numbers. Many
of them spoke English. “Everybody,
everywhere, has smiling face today,” said
one. It seemed that they had not suf-
ferred any great ill-treatment. They
reported that a large part of the garrison
had left the island for the Borneo main-
land about five weeks previously.
The battalion which had been on the
right flank in the initial assault had had
a comparatively easy time. It was origi-
nally South Australian ; but all battalions
now, no matter where formed, have a
large percentage of reinforcements from
all States. This battalion was on the
eastern edge of the airstrip at the end
of the first day, and had quickly ac-
counted for the JapS, grouped in twos
and threes, who lay hidden in the thick
grass which had overgrown the deep
drains beside the roadways, and who
tried to hold up its advance. Now «
swung westward to cut across .behind tne
enemy bothering the Westralians..
Here for the first time it met serious
opposition. “Charlie” Company became
involved with a large body of Japs set
up in tunnels and pillboxes underneath
a group of huts which had evidently
been a large headquarters area. It found
a roadway, unmarked on the map, and
screened from aerial observation by the
overhanging jungle. Hidden along its
length were a dozen or so Jap trucks,
which had evidently been parked there
for some time. They were all booby-
trapped, and the road was mined with
aerial bombs. It was annoying, but they
were in nothing like the wild profusion
with which bombs and shells, depth
charges and naval mines had been scat-
tered about the roads and fields of
Tarakan, and the engineers soon cleared!
them away.
While the Westralians still had their
own war south of the road “Charlie”
attacked north. One platoon, under Lieut.
A. E. Everitt, of Albury (N.S.W.),
pushed out on one flank about 300 yards.
Attacking a group of tunnels with
grenades, it killed five Japs and stayed
out in the positions for nearly 24 hours.
The other two platoons pushed through
to where their new-found road joined
the main “highway” along which the
Westralians were working. They got 18
Japs, their own losses being light.
“Charlie” pulled back to occupy the
ground it had taken for the night, and
quickly found it was going to get little
sleep. One of the platoon commanders,
Lieut. Lisle Newell, of Goolwa (S.A.),
was arranging a defensive position just on
dusk when a Jap came jabbering out of
the jungle. He was armed and looked
ferocious. Newell jumped at him, got
his arm around the Jap’s neck and swung
him to the ground. While they struggled
there one of the tank crew men picked
up a bayonet and ended it.
The tank commander, Lieut. John
Hall, of Sydney, saw another Jap brood-
ing over a machine-gun, only a few yards
away, and shot him with a pistol. Cap-
tain W. R. Bray, of South Perth (W.A.),
the company commander, got another.
During the night the enemy fired some
of the huts and tried without success to
push through the perimeter. That night
the battalion suffered its first man killed
—a corporal. Next morning the enemy
was gone.
The Westralians were still keeping
pretty much ahead on the tally of Japs
killed, and still finding the same tough,
blank jungle, the same dugouts and
tunnels in front of them. The South Aus-
tralians got out on the road and followed
it where it swung west to Timbali air-
field. They pushed on quickly, five miles
in one day, without meeting a Jap.
They came on the airfield —a pitiful
thing. It was no more than a grassy
clearing in the jungle, cratered from the
bombing it had received, and covered
for all its length with branches of trees
which had been driven into its surface
and stood about nine feet high every few
feet apart. The Westralians found that
the road had been blown up by the Japs
every few hundred yards. And they
found the sea —and went swimming in it.
Four days after the landing at Vic-
toria Harbor Labuan Island had been cut
clear across the middle.
Following the drive to the west coast,
another column pushed due north along
the road to the northern tip of the island.
It found no organised resistance of any
kind. By the fifth day of the campaign it
seemed clear that the only serious oppo-
sition to be expected was from the small
enemy pocket which had been contained
to the west of the Labuan airfield. There
patrols were met with a withering fire
from concealed positions in wild jungle
surrounded by mangrove swamps. \
company attack designed to occupy the
position was beaten off, and the company
withdrew without casualties when the
enemy counter-attacked under a covering
fire from mortars.
But there was no need for hurry.- The
enemy could not escape. He was killed
in ones or twos when he tried to break
from the position at night, and for the
rest artillery could hammer at him so
long as he chose to remain.
Native reports that British and Aus-
tralian prisoners of war had been in labor
gangs on Labuan Island persisted. Many
of them, it was said, had died; the rest
had been transferred to the mainland
some weeks before the invasion. They
had been seen working on the roads and
or. the airfield from early morning until
midnight. They were ill-fed on soup
made from the bones and scraps left
after the Japanese had eaten. They
suffered from beri-beri, dysentery and
malaria. When they died they were
buried in loin-cloths without identification
of any kind.
The cemeteries were located and inves-
tigation begun. There was some veri-
fication of the story in die fact that
British and Australian equipment of old
pattern was found.
JOHN BRENNAN.


PLAIN ENGLISH
"The Rains Came."
A weather disturbance which ran down
the east coast of the continent to Bass
Strait last week was of far more import-
ance to the nation than anything except
the war against Japan. Rain in the
Riverina, the Wimmera and the Mallee
ended a drought that had lasted for
upwards of five years, working up to a
climax over the last two years, during
which cereal and other crops failed, mil-
lions of sheep were lost, horses and cattle
disappeared, bushfires caused untold
damage and many farmers, their living
gone, were transferred to other industries.
There will be no lambing this year in
many sheep districts and many more
sheep must die. The wool clip will be
down thousands of bales. Rivers had
ceased to flow —the great Hume Dam,
which contained a body of water the size
of Sydney Harbor, fell away to a shallow
pool. The drought was accompanied by
wind erosion on a scale so vast that top-
soil from the stricken country was blown
to New Zealand and Fiji. Water
channels, dams, roads, railways, fences
and homes were buried under mountains
of drifting sand. What was worse, when the
wind took the top-soil it took the most
fertile elements and much grass with it.
Grass is the most necessary single
factor in Australia’s welfare. It is also
the most persistent, determined and
übiquitous form of vegetable life. But
there will be huge areas on which no
grass will grow this year or next, simply
because there is nothing but dead clay
and barren stone left. As for the wheat
crops, those hardy souls who sowed seed
in the dry ground had to do it without
adequate super., and though the rain will
germinate the seed and more rain can
now be expected to keep the wheat grow-
ing, the harvest cannot be substantial.
Indeed, it is folly to talk of “bumper
harvests” and “millions of pounds for
producers” as some people are doing.
The country cannot recover overnight
from the doing it has had. For much of
it there will be no recovery, because the
top-soil is gone. All the same the rain
is the best thing that has happened to
Australia since VE-day. It ends the long
months of travail on the land, puts new
heart into those who managed to hang
on and will restore to some extent the
ravaged soil. And if, like the drought
and the great duststorras of last summer,
the rain can by contrast make the people
conscious of how closely their well-being
is linked with the soil it will be a good
thing. In recent years many things have
conspired to divorce Australians from
their soil, and though the fault is not
with the soil, the soil will take its re-
venge unless there is a reconciliation
pretty soon. As it is, though rain has
come at last, Australia will feel the effects
of the drought for a long time to come.
The Larrikin Spirit.
“You tell me what great things you are
doing in Australia,” said Robert L6we
to Charles Gavan Duffy in London 80
years ago; “but wait till the larrikin
comes on the stage.”
In N. S. Wales, where larrikinism as
we know it was born, the larrikin has a
way of coming on the stage every 14
years or so.
He came on the stage in 1917, the year
of the great strikes against “the introduc-
tion of the Taylor card system into the
Government Railway Department,” in
the course of which coal production,
transport and waterside work were para-
lysed and hospital ships were held up.
He was back in 1931, when the cry
was that those who had lent hundreds
of millions for railways and other Gov-
ernment “enterprises” which did not
turn out as expected were rascals and
that interest-default was merely a bit of
retributive justice.
He is back again in 1945, armed with
great powers and active in exploiting the
results of a generation of hate propa-
ganda—hate the “Tories,” hate wage-
payers, hate Britain, the home of the'
nefarious bondholder; hate “brasshats,”
Judges, police •; hate every personification
of order and discipline except the union
boss; hate everyone who disputes the
proposition that “the workers” produce
all the wealth and that it is theirs to
“take and hold by revolutionary political
and industrial action.”
We have larrikinism in politics, larri-
kinism in unionism and are threatened
with larrikinism in the control of money
and credit.
As a result of the latest of a long
series of larrikin coal strikes and long-
continued larrikin loafing (the strike
was pronounced lawless by a Supreme
Court Justice, though the punishment has
been reserved for their employers, whose
mine has been “taken over”), N. S. Wales is
under sentence of drastic restrictions on
the use of electricity, with extension to war
industries and consequent unemployment
and a further impairment of Australia’s
obligations to the men, Australians and
Britons, if not Americans, who are fight-
ing to preserve it. Sentence has been sus-
pended for the sake of votes in the hope
tary-general of the Peasant party and one of the
executive members, the chairman of the Chris-
tian Democrats and General Okulicki, who com-
manded a Polish division of the Eighth Army
in Italy and had been wounded four times.
They were, of course, tried as a “bloc” on
charges of espionage, “diversionary and terror-
ist acts” causing the death of Russians,
proposed collaboration with the enemy and
sending out with a secret radio from behind
the Russian lines “false and tendentious infcpr-
mation to enable the London Poles to misin-
form the British Government.”
The story begins with the invasion of Poland
by Germany in September, 1939. The Russian
Government had claimed for many years to
have no illusions about the nature of the Ger-
mans. It had frequently referred to them in
terms of which “blooddrunk fascists” is only
a mild example. It had accused them of tor-
turing prisoners in concentration camps and of
all descriptions of inhuman brutality and
oppression.
When, however, Germany overran Poland
Moscow uttered no word of protest. On the
contrary, by agreement with the “blooddrunk
fascists,” it seized half of Poland. It was con-
tent to allow the other half to remain in the
hands of the “blooddrunk fascists” or Nazi
butchers, its people, as it seemed, for ever sub-
ject to their tortures, their Belsens and ‘their
Buchenwalds. Its attitude then was that, Poland
having been divided up, there was nothing left
to fight about in Europe.
The British blockade of Germany was charac-
terised by Moscow as an act of brutality par-
ticularly directed against innocent women and
children. The exiled Poles behind General
Sikorski were denounced as “imperialist-
lackeys” for continuing to fight the Germans,
as they did in France, in Africa and wherever
they could find a Hun. Vast masses of Poles
were deported to Russia. The bodies of 10,000
Polish officers were found in Russian graves—
murdered, Moscow said, by the Germans.
When Russia was attacked communists alleged
that the exiled Poles, whose divisions were still
fighting fiercely and proudly wherever they
could find a German to fight—in Tobruk, at
Cassino, on the Adriatic coast, at' Caen and in
the bloody battles of Belgium and Holland and
across the Rhine —were doing the work of
Hitler and were German collaborationists.
Attempts to arrange a friendly settlement
strained the conciliatory resources of Mr.
Churchill and Mr. Roosevelt. At Yalta, how-
ever, an agreement wa§ made for a meeting on
Russian territory at which the Polish Under-
ground Army, which had been fighting Ger-
mans with a sullen lack of co-operation that
had cost it an awful loss of life in the heroic
Warsaw battle, was to be represented.
The Russians apparently guaranteed a safe
conduct in a letter to General Okulicki, who
had replaced General Bor as C.-in-C. of the
Polish Underground Army, and M. Janowski,
Deputy Premier, from an officer of the High
Command of the Red Army on / the White
Ukrainian front.
On my part, as an officer of the Red
Army I guarantee you upon my word
as an officer that after your arrival at
our headquarters you will be absolutely
safe.' I reckon on our early meeting and
send you my regards.
The 16 Poles thereupon went to Russian
H.Q. They disappeared for weeks until M.
Molot'ov casually announced at San Francisco
that a bit more coal will turn up. Mean-
while, Victoria is short of refined sugar
because a parcel of unskilled laborers
refuse to handle bags unless they get
another £2 Bs. 2d. a week, refused by the
Full Arbitration Court and the Wages
Board. Their strike—one of four in
seven months—has been marked by a
Ministerial threat to “nationalise” the
company unless it yields to the law of
the push.
Larrikinism has many ugly manifes-
tations. A rowdy exponent of the com-
munist form, notorious for his advocacy
of war-time strikes and a Hitler peace, is
to go abroad for the third time as an
accredited representative of Australia.
And the larrikin spirit has so corrupted
manners that senseless destruction of
public property is rife, and horrible little
yahoos shout their insolence in public
places.
When larrikinism takes a criminal turn
it blots Australia’s name. Larrikinism
is at the root of the epidemic of theft
from ships’ holds and railway vans and
goodsheds, and of the plague of black
markets. It is not uncommon for inoffen-
sive citizens going about their lawful oc-
casions to be slugged out by hoodlums in
uniform, generally a.w.1.; and not only
inoffensive citizens. In a ghastly case
heard at Parramatta Quarter Sessions a
pack of these hoodlums delivered an un-
provoked attack on half the number of
American servicemen from the islands,
all hospital cases, and one with “an eye
dead in its socket and the sight of the
other threatened.” Another victim, a
malaria-stricken airman who had “made
24 operational flights in the Philippines
and shot down two Japanese aircraft,”
was left on the road with a fractured
skull and a mind which was “blank”
weeks afterwards and may so remain.
Australians are in the main a friendly,
tolerant and decent people. There is the
promise of greatness in a nation that can
produce such splendid men as Tom Der-
rick, V.C., and his companions in all the
fighting services. It may come to worse
than dust unless the larrikin spirit is
placed under permanent restraint.
"Trial" and "Settlement."
Another stage in the tragic history of
Poland, the first country to fight Nazi
Germany:
The Moscow “trial” of anti-communist Polish
leaders had the usual Soviet features, except' as
to the sentences. The news which came out of
Russia about it was only what Russia’s iron
censorship wished the world to know.
Among the accused were the secretary-
general of the Polish Socialist party, the secre-
' (Continued on page 8 .)
GATHERING OF THE CLANS.
"Mr. Thornton and every other Scotsman in Australia should be deported.” -G. W. Martens, Labor M.H.R. for Herbert ( Q .).
“What’s that you wer-re sayin’, Mar-r-rlens?”


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
m
m
m
AU
MY THROAT
WAS RAW
my eyes were red,
My nostrils sore, my limbs like lead;
I could not sleep, I dare not smoke.
And when I ate I seemed to choke.
’Twas influenza at its worst,
"The dogs’ disease!" a thing accurst;
My chemist sold me something sure—
Hurrah! for Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure*
First-aid for Coughs, Colds and Influenza:
Woods’ Great Peppermint Cure.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis for the
purpose of paying such items as
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate is 5% p.a.
and the following table indicates instal*
ments which will fully repay a loan (or
amounts mentioned within 12 months-
Monthly
Instal.
16 8
1 13
2 10
3 6
4 3
8 6
may
grantees aLtorumg tw . .
with a corresponding reduction in tno
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office, Martin Place, Sydney
that they had been arrested and charged with
the “crimes” which have been the sub-
ject of the peculiar hearing in Moscow.
Chief Judge Ulrich said that though the
accused deserved death “we are living in days of
victory” and “these men are no longer dan-
gerous to the Soviet Union, which is now
mightier than ever.” So General Okulicki, the
gallant leader of fighting Poles in Western
Europe, will have “ten years’ deprivation or
liberty”; M. Janowski was sentenced to eight
years’ imprisonment; the others, with three
exceptions who were acquitted and a fourth
“too ill to be tried,” received sentences of four
months to five years.
Immediately the “trial” was over it was an-
nounced at Warsaw that the accused must still
answer to a Polish “people’s court” for , “crimes
committed against their own country.” An-
nounced also at Moscow that an agreement tor
a “Polish Provisional Government of National
Unity” had been reached and that a repre-
sentative of the “Government” would sign
the charter at San Francisco. Meanwhile a
communist - controlled Polish army seized
Teschen, which was given to Czechoslovakia at
Versailles. Another drawback to the “settlement
is that the Poles serving in the British forces
and many thousands of other Poles in the
Anglo-American zone of occupied Germany
refuse to return to their country until it ceases
to be under communist control.
POLITICAL POINTS
Obviously scared at R.S.L. reactions
to the Re-establishment Bill, “Labor”
allowed alterations proposed by the Oppo-
sition in the House, and there refused by
the surly Dedman, to be made in the
Senate. When this was pointed out there
were only seven Ministerialists in the
House. Another alteration which, as in-
terpreted by Spender, K.C., gives the
Government power to repeal, alter dr add
to by regulation any provision in the Act
is receiving the earnest attention of the
R.S.L., which is showing what may be
fairly called a religious zeal for the pro-
tection of the five-year serviceman.
Menzies to the State Council of the
Victorian Liberals:
There is really no Parliament at Canberra.
When the Rehabilitation Bill and the Com-
monwealth Bank Bill were before the House
the Opposition sought discussion and sug-
gested amendments but always the Govern-
said no. The average Government attend-
ance was five out of a membership of 49.
The rebuke had no effect on the prac-
titioners of “absenteeism.” Holt, rising
on Friday afternoon to speak on the
sugar famine in Victoria, caused by
larrikinism in the guise of unionism,
called attention to the state of the House.
Though the gag was applied, the confu-
sion was such that N.S.W. members nearly
missed the 4.15 to Sydney. A sugar
famine in Victoria is of no consequence
except to manufacturers, brewers, house-
wives and,, of course, the hated C.S.R.
and the Queensland Sugar Board, but
missing the 4.15 would have been a
Calamity.
The silence which enveloped the pro-
ceedings, if any, of the two Opposition
members of the delegation to ’Frisco was
broken last week by McLeay in a most
unexpected way. He came out with a
eulogy on Forde in terms which Forde’s
warmest supporter in Caucus would be
hard put to rival. The McLeay tribute to
Dr. Evatt, if any, has not been cabled.
Commonwealth Arbitration Judge
Kelly has granted pastoral-award in-
creases which give shearers 455. a 100 ;
shed-hands £6 a week and found ; youths
18-21 £3 17s. and youths under 18
£3 6s. 3d., both with tucker; pressers
2s. 6d. a bale or £6 ss. a week and
tucker; cooks' 11s. a man or £7 3s. a
week and tucker. Shearing is nearly two
months behind ip N.S.W. because of
communist strikes. The award is a facer
for sheepmen in drought regions, but it
will strengthen the A.W.U.’s hands in its
struggle with the communists.
Electricity rationing in N. S. Wales was
staved off for at least a few days after
Senator Ashley had rushed from Can-
berra wringing his hands at the conse-
quences in the pre-election winter. The
“crisis” was handled in the usual
muddling way by State and Federal Labor
“Governments.” A dead silence came
from the miners, the supreme authority,
on whose caprices the whole thing rests,
neither “Government” having the guts
to take any action against the lawbreak-
ing element, though the lesser Govern-
ment was all there to warn any house-
wife who might use an electric iron or
sewing machine that there was a £5OO fine
attached to it.
Wimmera Wilson has been driven to
admit that “the Mortgage Bank depart-
ment of the Commonwealth Bank,” set
up to oblige Wilson, “has not functioned
in the way in which many people hoped
it would.” The same is true, very expen-
sively so, of the power-alcohol factories
set up in selected wheat-growing districts,
another Wilson whim to which “Labor”
ministered when “Labor” wanted his vote.
But the dead failure of Wilson’s fancies
has not made Wilson any less cocksure.
He is positive that the Commonwealth
Bank (Caucus Control) Bill “will usher
in a new era of prosperity and progress.”
Nowadays no tirade against “the money
masters” is considered complete unless
some high-sounding rubbish attributed
to Abraham Lincoln is dragged in. Wim-
mera Wilson repeated the offence in the
debate on the Commonwealth Bank
(Caucus Control) Bill, giving this fustian
as “the words of Abraham Lincoln”:
Government, possessing the power to
create and issue currency and credit as
money and enjoying the right to with-
draw both from circulation by taxation
and otherwise, need not and should not
borrow capital at interest as the means of
financing Governmental works and public
enterprise. The Government should create,
issue and circulate all the currency and
credit needed to satisfy the spending power
of the Government and the buying power
of consumers... .if is the Government’s
greatest opportunity.
“One of the noblest and truest statements
ever made,” blithered Wilson ; but he
did not say when Lincoln made it, if Lin-
coln ever did. Yet the date is important.
Lincoln the young rail-splitter, struggling
to get a bit of book-“larnin’,” might con-
ceivably have uttered puerilities at which
Lincoln the great President would have
laughed. Certainly the great President
DEPOSED.
“It is learned ‘authoritatively’ that the Australian delegation at San Francisco has taken up the
position that Australia and New Zealand are now the chief spokesmen for the Empire,
since Britain’s voice must in future be tempered by the demands of the Big Five. This view
is reported to have originated with Dr. Eatt, who expressed anger over the statement by
Lord Halifax that Britain had taken the leading role in writing the trusteeship chapter in
the charter.”
“Excuse me — I'm doing the talking in future.”
never tried to put the dangerous non-
sense that enchants Wilson into effect.
Fadden sorely embarrassed the “Gov-
ernment” by moving for the denial of
finance and other “facilities” to Thornton,
chosen by the A.C.T.U. to speak for
Australia at Paris. Morgan tried to come
to the rescue:
Mr. Fadden has raised the old Red
bogey. Is Russia to be told that anybody
in Australia holding communist views is
treated as a pariah and has no democratic
right's at all?
Morgan, no ignoramus in other matters,
should know that anybody in Russia who
expresses anti-communist views is treated
as a pariah and has no democratic rights
at all.
Lazzarini —not Carlo Camillo ; tlje one
with the Christian names Englished—
was heard from in the debate on the
matter of the communist Thornton going
abroad for the third time as “a represen-
tative of Australia”:
I am not associating myself, or the G(pv-
ernment, with Mr Thornton or anything
he stands for. I have been fighting com-
munists for 20 years.
He never fought anyone or anything,
though he has done a heap of gabbling
against the “Tories” and “the banks” and
“cheque-pounds.”
After seven years the U.S. Govern-
ment has finally failed to deport Harry
Bridges to Australia ; the Supreme Court
has declared the Attorney-General’s de-
portation order invalid. It would have
been dreadful for the A.L.P. had Bridges
been added to Thornton and the other
problem children it is belatedly trying to
disown now that disowning has become
expedient.
The roaring Beaverbrook is no asset
to the Conservatives, but he is not such
a liability to them as Laski is to Labor.
In one of his alleged books Laski wrote
that the loss of Tobruk (soon regained
with compound interest) showed the
bankruptcy of British capitalism, whereas
the defence of Stalingrad—still in the
balance months after El Alamein had pre-
cipitated a German retreat in Russia as
well as North Africa —revealed the
supreme merits of Russian socialism. In
spite of these impertinences and others,
Laski somehow became chairman of the
British Labor party, in which capacity he
tried first to bring Attlee down and then
to prevent his going to the meeting of
Churchill, Truman and Stalin, at
Churchill’s invitation and as a guarantee
to the U.S.A. and Russia that British
foreign policy would be maintained in-
dependently of election results. Attlee
snubbed the professor, and so did Bevin.
Laski to the world which he confidently
expected to go Left—Canada won’t and
neither will Britain, and Australia is
obviously swinging the other way:
I do not believe in the doctrine of con-
tinuity of foreign policy. I do not believe
in taking foreign policy out of politics.
When we win this election we want to be
free in socialist terms to make our policy
for our own socialist purposes.
Meaning, no doubt, that I want
Britain to crawl in behind Moscow. Laski
overestimates the influence and authority
of the Left-wing Jew.
Cruel was the fate that struck down
General Buckner in the hour of victory
on Okinawa. He had many newspaper
critics, but they were not so numerous or
so venomous as those who assailed his
father, the Confederate General. The
first Simon Bolivar Buckner tried to keep
Kentucky out of the Civil War, going
over to the Confederates when Union
troops invaded his native State. There-
upon the Louisville “Journal” made him
the subject of an article, the choicest
passages of which have been preserved:
Away with your pledges and assurances,
with your protestations, apologies and pro-
clamations, at once and altogether! Away,
parricide! Away, and do penance for ever;
be shriven or he slain —away! You
have less palliation than Attila, less boldness,
magnanimity and nobleness than Corio-
13nus. You are the Benedict Arnold of
the day! You are the Catiline of Ken-
tucky! Go, then, miscreant!
The compliments were renewed when
Buckner surrendered to Grant at Fort
Donnelson. After the war he had a
chequered career in politics, ending as
Democratic candidate for the Vice-
presidency in 1896, opposed to Bryan
and “free silver.”
There are no flies on Artie Fadden
where income tax is concerned. Ordered
to pay £902 as tax pn transfers of shares
to his four children, he appealed against
the assessment, and the Full High Court
unanimously set it aside with costs against
the Commissioner. Had Fadden had his
way post-war credits would have been
tacked on to income tax, and this would
have prevented a great deal of “industrial
unrest,” besides allaying discontent among
other taxpayers, servicemen and civilians.
But “Labor” knew—-or thought it knew
—too much- for that.
According to F. O. Barnett, of the
Victorian Housing Commission, 80,000
families—more than 320,000 persons —
are in urgent need of homes in his State.
He quotes the case of a young married
woman, with one infant and another com-
ing and a husband on active service, who
shares a five-roomed dwelling with her
mother-in-law and the families of her
husband’s two brothers and two other
daughters-in-law. The Brotherhood of
St. Laurence goes one worse with the case
of a family of 12 occupying three rooms,
with shanties for bath and wash-house in
the backyard. On receipt of this infor-
mation Canberra will no doubt appoint
another committee.
The Canadian service vote, while more
favorable to the Mackenzie King Gov-
ernment than to any Opposition group,
unseated the P.M., though he will be at
no loss for an electorate. Another curio-
sity of the polls is that the big provinces
elected only Liberals and Conservatives.
The C.C.Fs. (Labor-socialists) and Social
Crediters won seats only in the small,
mostly rural, provinces, the Social Credi-
ters exclusively in Alberta, The big-city
unionist, mainstay of our A.1.F., has no
use for its Canadian counterpart.


(ydajnd»
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
Brisbane’s former Archbishop Wand,
who went from that post to be Bishop of
Bath and Wells, has been nominated by
the King to become Bishop of London,
from which place the present Archbishop
of Canterbury stepped up. Archbishop of
Brisbane and Metropolitan of Queens-
land from 19.34 to 1943, London’s pros-
pective Bishop gives reading and writing
as his recreations in Who’s Who, and
there’s a long string of religious publica-
tions to his name, the latest of them a
rendering into modern language of the
Epistles of St. Paul, which was reviewed
on the Red Page some months back. The
book was evidently done while he was in
Brisbane.
Cecil Charles Shinkfield, M.A., new
head of King’s College; Adelaide, is a
sailor by personal choice and tradition
and a teacher by accident. Bom in South-
ampton (Eng.) 53 years ago, he was
trained for the Royal Navy in accord
with a 100-years-old family tradition,
but was forced to leave the service by
injuries received in action while an
engineer officer in the last war. Collect-
ing his M.A. at Oxford in 1927, he came
to Australia, was for some time a lecturer
in maths, and science at the Victorian
Teachers’ Training College and next was
maths, master at the Carey Grammar
School (Melbourne). He recently left the
R.A.N., after nearly five years’ service,
with the rank of engineer lieut.-com-
C. C. SHINKFIELD.
mander, holding the important job of
senior staff officer in charge of degaussing
ships. In all his travels Shinkfield carries
a pair of fencing foils, a kit of engineer-
ing tools and a box of watercolors. He
has four sons in the services—a lieut.
and sub.-lieut. in the R.A.N. and a flight-
lieut. and flight-sergeant (pilot) in the
R.A.A.F. The sub.-lieut. and flight-
sergeant are twins.
“Father of the Queensland Legislative
Assembly” H. F. Walker has announced
his intention of retiring from politics at
the end of his present term. At present
member for Cooroora* he was first elected
in 1907, and has served continuously
since, in Country party interests since the
Country party was formed. On four
occasions elected unopposed, he was the
Moore Government’s Minister for Agri-
culture and Stock. By the time of his
retirement he will have beaten W. H.
Groom’s record of 38 years and 10
months of continuous service.
Exceptional, even for these times, was
the flight of a Maorilander, Squadron-
Leader K. G. Newman, D.F.C. and bar,
of Broadwood, Auckland, who early this
month (with a British W. 0., R. E. Smith,
D.F.M.) covered the 4700 miles from
London to Karachi in 12 hours 25
minutes overall in a Mosquito, an aver-
age of 378 miles an hour. This de-
spite the fact that they had to climb
35,000 ft. at the outset to escape storms,
landed on Crete and lost valuable minutes
at Cairo, where they refuelled, because
each engine caught fire in succession.
From John Brennan:
Lieut.-Commander R. T. Salmon, executive
officer of H.M.A.S. Kanimbla, had his first look
at the Japanese Navy in action back in 1937,
when he served in a ship called the Li Wo, run-
ning the Jap blockade of the mouth of the
Yangtse-kiang. There were other ships in it
for a start, and at one time British gunboats
were doing a semi-official convoying job, but
for months the Li Wo kept the river open alone.
The Jap gunboats weren’t willing to fire upon
the merchant ships, but banked on scaring them
out of the area. They were carrying on some
sort of a war against Chinese guerrilla forces
holding either shore of the river’s lower reaches,
and the drill was that as soon as a merchant-
man hove in sight the Japs would signal
“Dangerous to proceed owing to operations.”
The procedure was to stop, set out deck chairs
for the officers that they might watch the show,
and wait for it to end. The Japs threw their
bombardment everywhere, making sure that
some of the shells passed over the Li Wo.
When it ceased the chairs were taken in and
the Li Wo went on its way again. On the
Upper River, where Salmon spent the years
from 1934 to 1937, not Japanese but Chinese
pirates were the chief trouble. Carrying tung
oil mainly, general cargo and passengers, the
ships, anything up to 1000 tons, were plying
between Ichang and Chungking, 1350 miles from
the coast. On an average there were four or
five attacks a year. The pirates came aboard
as passengers, waited their opportunity, pro-
duced their guns, shot a few people, and, if they
were lucky, seized the ship. Along the river
they waited for ships which got stuck up on
the rapids. Salmon was fired on at times, but
never lost a ship. An Australian, born at
Cottesloe (W.A.), he went to sea and to China
after schooling at North Sydney High. Off
and on from 1927 he was connected with the
R. When in 1940 he got the idea the
Japs were coming into the war he went back
to Australia, not wanting to spend the next few
years “in Siberia in a kimono.” Before coming
to the Kanimbla he did duty in the corvette
Rockhampton and in Swan, sweeping mines
around Australian waters, and doing convoy
work. His transfer to a larger ship probably
came as an act of mercy. On a corvette he must
have needed to turn sideways to move along
the alleyways and given her an alarming list
every time he wanted to spit over the side.
The Ridley Scholarship in S.A. has
been awarded to F. M. Hilton, now dis-
charged from the A.1.F., where he has
been since he gained his diploma at Rose-
worthy Agricultural College. He’s the
son of A. R. Hilton, head of Urrbrae
Agricultural High School.
Captain J. T. Rolls, commodore of the
Union Co. while in charge of the Niagara,
died in Sydney last year where he had
lived since his retirement in 1924. Re-
cently his ashes were taken on a small
steamer to where the Niagara went down
and there scattered over the approximate
spot.
H. E. Evans, who has been chasing
costs in Wellington (M.L.) for 40 years,
has been selected as Solicitor-General
in succession to H. H. Cornish, appointed
to the Supreme Court Bench. The new
S. is a native of Suffolk (Eng.), born
61 years ago, and arrived in M.L. in 1902.
He has been a member of Bell, Gully
and Myers, the firm which has given
'M.L. its present Chief Justice and the
late Francis Bell, leader of Massey’s
party in the Leg. Council for many years.
Retiring at 70, much “farewelled”
from the Elder Smith Co.’s head office
in Adelaide, T. E. Field, latterly a general
manager. He started so young that he
has had over 54 years in the co.’s service.
“X.S.”: The late Henry Stokes (B.
20/6/’45) was a master of his art, or
whatever you like to call it. It is related
of him that he established one of his
“clubs” within a stone’s-throw of police
h.q. in Russell-street, Melbourne. A band
was engaged to play on the sidewalk, thus
deadening the glad shouts of the winners
and the groans of the losers within, and
when a police patrol burst into the pre-
cincts it found a ring cleared, a crowd
of spectators madly cheering, no signs of
the gambling spirit and two Chinese
boxers pounding one another in the centre
of the arena.
Lieut.-General Simon Bolivar Buckner,
killed in action while commanding the
American field army fighting on
Okinawa, had been more than 37 years
in Uncle Sam’s Army -since graduating
from West Point, Described in an
American account as “of the type that
goes plunging into an Alaska blizzard in
his undershirt and regards his subordi-
nates as sissies if they aren’t prepared to
follow suit,” Lieut.-General Buckner was
a son of the Confederate leader of the
same name. He was the fifteenth Ameri-
can of general’s rank killed on service in
this war.
Now in Australia testing “Mossies” as
a change from flying them on operation
jobs over Europe, Squadron-Leader
Charles Scherf, here pictured by fellow-
airman Lusby, certainly got into it in
lively style over there. All in the space
of three months he destroyed enemy
aircraft in the air and 23 on the ground
and collected the D.F.C., a bar to it, and
SQUADRON-LEADER SCHERF,
D.S.O., D.F.C. AND BAR.
then the D.S.O. Scherf’s idea of a rest
from operations when put on to one was
to get into a ’plane in England and go
over Europe and destroy five enemy air-
craft on an entirely unauthorised, un-
official visit. Whether to court-martial
or decorate him was in the balance when
he returned, and by a nice corfipromise
he got, on the one hand, an issue of
strife, and, on the other, his D.S.O. Like
many another of the airmen, he’s a
farmer, hailing from Emmaville on the
N.S.W. New England ranges. He’s 27.
The victim of Ted Scorfield’s accom-
panying sketch, L. M. Macßride, was on
speaking terms with Australia before com-
ing here a month or two back to be Public
Relations Adviser to the British High
Commissioner at Canberra. At the be-
ginning of the 1930’5, when he was with
the reorganised London “Daily Herald”
as news editor, he got wind of the
pending ’phone hook-up between Eng-
land and these parts, and sent a cable
to then Prime Minister Scullin to the
effect that a confab between the Aus-
L.M. MACBRIDE.
tralian Labor P.M. and the London
Labor paper as soon as the ’phone was
available would be a good notion. A list
of questions to be fired at the P.M. was
prepared in the London office, but Mac-
Bride, who’d heard nothing meanwhile
from this end, was at home in bed when
the ring came. Scullin: “Good evening.”
Macßride: “Good morning.” Then the
impromptu interview, which gave Mac-
Bride the distinction of being the first
London newspaperman to talk to Aus-
tralia by ’phone. In 1932 Macßride
changed from news editor’s to foreign
editor’s chair, and was there till the be-
ginning of the war, when he was asked
to take charge of the British Ministry
of Information’s overseas feature articles
department, supplying news, pictures and
suchlike to the British Army, R.A.F. and
Navy in all parts of the world.
The P.M.G.’s Department in S.A.
loses by retirement Arthur J. Fay, its
State Accountant and Hugh Conlon,
assistant superintendent of mails, who
joined the staff as messenger over 50
years ago. Fay, one of the earliest
members of the central administrative
staff, is succeeded by J. J. Hughes.
Into the silence:
At Heidelberg (Vic.), William Dunn Knox,
who combined the unusual occupations of art
and business. Manager since 1934 of Eagle
and Globe Steel, he was a foundation member
of the Australian Academy of Art, and is
represented in the National Galleries of Mel-
bourne, Adelaide, Perth and Canberra.
In Adelaide, at 65, William Dinwoodie Ack-
land-Horrnan, for the past 18 years engineer
and surveyor in S.A. for Lloyd’s Register of
Shipping. A Scot, he spent many years at sea
before settling in S.A. in 1920. He was a promi-
nent golfer.
In Adelaide, at 70, Peter Kennedy, former
Deputy-Director of Posts and Telegraphs in
S.A. From a P.O. junior in Victoria he became
superintending engineer in Westralia during the
gold rush in the ’nineties, and later held a
similar post in N.S.W. before his appointment
in S.A.
In Melbourne, Dr. Gwynneth Vaughan
Buchanan, one of Melbourne University’s most
distinguished woman savants. She was Senior
lecturer in Zoology since 1920 and taught
biology at the Presbyterian Ladies’ College.
In Adelaide, at close on 86, Frank Clark,
son of an old-time “Register” editor, and secre-
tary in Adelaide for half a century of the
British B.H. Co. He played tennis regularly
till over 80.
Another of Victoria’s octogenarian solicitors,
Frederick Fitzwalter Read, has passed on at 82.
He was a member of the firm of Read and
Read, started by his father in 1851, one of
the oldest in Melbourne.
In Brisbane, at 84, Charles Richard Pick-
worth, vice-president and deputy chief ring-
steward of the Royal National Agricultural
Association and a council member for more
than 30 years. Born at Toolburra station, near
Warwick, he managed the Singer sewing
machine concern until 18 months ago, when he
retired after 60 years’ service. In the ’nineties
he owned and raced trotting horses.
At 58, at Nudgee (Q.), Rev. Brother O. P.
Tierney, noted educationist. Melbourne-born,
he was educated at Christian Brothers’ College,
St. Kilda, where he was an outstanding athlete
and scholar. Moving to Queensland in 1915,
he was successively science master, vice-principal
and principal of St. Joseph’s.
At Wellington (M.L.), at 76, Alfred Linley,
theatre and cinema pioneer in the Dominion.
He was advance agent at 18 for Thomson’s
Panorama of the Zulu War and later for the
Pollards. In conjunction with T. Donovan, he
erected. the first cinema house in M.L., the
King’s Theatre at Wellington.
At Dunedin (M.L.), Rev. V. G. Bryan King,
philanthropist and worker for good causes.
Born at Greenough (W.A.), where his father
was rector, Bryan King, as recognition of his
Red Cross and suchlike services, received from
the French Government in 1921 the Recon-
naissance Francis medal. Also, in the fierce
influenza epidemic in 1918-19 he did such fine
work that the citizens of Dunediivpresented him
with a motor-car and £lOOO.
Journalist, barrister, author, magis-
trate :
Thomas B. Clegg, who has passed on in
Sydney at 88, was all those things in turn, and
then a journalist once more. Born at Ballarat
(Vic.) and educated at Ballarat College, he
subsequently passed a civil-service exam., but
went, instead, into a Melbourne warehouse.
That, however, wasn’t his line, and soon he was
a reporter on the Ballarat “Star,” next on the
Hobart “Mercury,” then Parliamentary reporter
for the “S. M. Herald.” In 1884 the “S.M.H.”
appointed him a special commissioner to in-
quire into the penal settlement in New Cale-
donia, and the same year sent him to inquire
into the Queensland sugar industry and its
kanaka labor. From 1885 to 1887 he edited
the “Echo,” the “S.M.H.” evening paper, after-
wards going t'o England to study at Gray s Inn,
where in 1890 and 1891 he was Holt Scholar
and Lee Prize essayist, being called to the
English Bar in the latter year and to the N.S.W.
Bar a year later. He practised in Sydney for
a while; compiled the index to the Statutes,
and also prepared the first Trades Disputes
Conciliation and Arbi>'ation Act, the State’s
first attempt at arbitration. He then turned
author and wrote five novels before being
appointed Police Magistrate in 1909, retiring in
1923, and soon afterwards returning to journal-
ism with The Bulletin. He was one of the
panel of five judges for the first Bulletin novel
competition. Two sons survive him, Clifford
and Eric, the latter a Sydney barrister.


/
I
cr
fa
a***-
-*vT
j/r
Sfiftrt.
i i
“Elizahdhan”
Probably the most adaptable of
“period” styles for modern Domestic
Housing, but one that calls for skilled
and harmonious architecture to retain
the correct atmosphere and charm.
Suitable for any setting, locality or
climate under correct conditions of
architecture and materials.
WHATEVER THE STYLE, cost or location of the home you
build, one thing is essential to its comfort, long life and
appearance "Sisalkraft."
"Sisalkraft" protects against drip, damp and dust when used
as sarking Atinder roofs and sheathing for walls, etc.; safe-
guards ceilings and interiors for the life of the building. So
moderate in cost, so gratifying in results, it is unwise to build
without "Sisalkraft" protection. . . . Defence requirements
absorb our output at the moment, but make sure your
architect specifies "Sisalkraft," because there will be ample
supplies available for post-war building.
S[Sb4LKR4FT
N.S.W.: F. W. Williams & Co. Pty., Limited, 16 Loftug Street, Sydney.
VICTORIA: Sisalkraft Distributors Co. Pty., Ltd., 24 Bond Street, Melbourne, C.l.
SOUTH AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., op. G.P.0., Adelaide.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 625 Wellington Street, Perth.
QUEENSLAND: Henry Berry & Co. Aust., Ltd., 385-391 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
TASMANIA; William 'Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., 32 Charles Street, Launceston.
William Crosby & Co. Pty. Ltd., 119 Collins Street, Hobart.
NEW ZEALAND: W. H. Huthnance & Co., Nathan’s Buildings, Grey Street, Wellington.
W. 11. Huthnance & Co., Savoy Buildings, Moray Place, Dunedin.
P. Heath-Preest & Co., Palmerston Building, 47 Queen Street,
Auckland.
WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES
€
vt *o« u *
3?
£t
/
/
buy DAK S ftY IH OS CERTIFICATES
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Where To From Here ?
The sixth financial vear of the war is
he sixth financial year ot the war
now ending. It has been a year of record
taxation impositions, principally by vir-
tue of the 25 p.c. surcharge that was levied
at the time the alleged lag year was abol-
ished. It has been a period of rapidly-
falling war expenditure, although the fall
has not hppn as stppn as the reduction in
real defence commitocnts A great
real defence commitments. A gca
deal of spending now going on in the
name of defence is of a political charac-
ter—much money is being pa ; d out in
keeping men in munitions jobs that are
worked out, the object of this being to
save the Government’s face so far as em-
ployment and industrial “prosperity’’ are
concerned. But it is not saving the tax-
payer anything, and it high time he was
saved something. War-time taxation has
been unavoidably severe, but any lessen-
ing in the demand for war expenditure
should be the signal for relief from tax-
ation and for reduced bonowing, not for
greater political waste. The Treasurer
promises no tax rebates until 1946-47.
July 1 was set down as the date on
which “free” medicine would start to
flow to the people at a cost to all in tax-
ation. But it has been held up, and will
now begin “as soon as the machinery can
be put into operation.” Other ambitious
schemes of “social security” are in the
course of preparation, and severe taxation
is being levied for them. They have been
hastily and inexpertly conceived, clumsy
political hands being the chief designers.
In the new financial year the maximum
old-age pension rate will rise to 325. 6d.
a week, up p.c. since war began,
Child endowment goes up from ss. to
7s. 6d. a week, an immediate rise of 50
p.c. The increased cost of all these social
services by comparison with pre-war
figures will be huge. It looks as though
the expansion of the national income of
the country will actually be hindered by
their operation, increased costs and decreas-
ing incentive becoming a major danger to
living standards and stable employment.
The most threatening year of the war
for Australia was 1942. The next year
was the “peak” period of production and
expenditure. From then onwards there
has been a strong political atmosphere
about the Australian war effoi t, empha-
sised durin 8 the middle of 1944, when Dr.
h Commonwealth Powers
*r . , c ; nw ,u*t He-
rcferendiim to e . Government
there has been
P lannin S t 0 nnenW in the
and was uaa Pvitt’s foreicn nolicv
* r ° nt S a rd en - * £ fnmmonweallKs
wlll influence the Commonwealth s
domestic powers, and the nationalisation
banking will help the Government to
in its
obtain political en s PP
a PP eal to the peop .
The management side of mans ry
waiting for an indication ot what its a i-
tude as regards investment and enterpi ise
is going to be after the war. Ihe Gov-
eminent has put out a White 1 aper tna
deals with the subject in a vague way, u
with the well-defined policy of sociahsa-
tion being enforced at every opportum y,
as witnessed by the second reading o
the Banking Bill in the Representativ s
last week, there is distrust of any pio s-
sions of concern for private en erpnse
that come from this Caucus-ridden o -
eminent. There has been talk o
nationalising Colonial Sugar simp y -
cause it has stood up against industrial
anarchy. If the Government is going to
make it a condition that free enterpn ,
to remain free, must give in to every ou -
rageous demand of mi it
then before long every m du stry m
Commonwealth will be nationalised
and/or bankrupt.
In Britain and the United States there
is already a great effort being made to
revive the commercial production of
motor-cars and similar basic commodi-
ties, and encouragement is being given
to the swiftest possible re-establishment
of export, connections in many kinds of
goods. In the Commonwealth National
Security Regulations continue to hinder
the best use of initiative, raw materials
and man-power, the Government being
more concerned about introducing anew
political and social order than in mak-
ing sure of sound employment and living
conditions. The whole spirit of vigorous
and varied production as we knew it
before the war is threatened by the
known and unknown policy of our dog-
matic Labor Government.
The credit and investment policy of
the Government remains obscure. The
Stock Exchanges are under primitive
legislative control. The Government is
going ahead with its banking legislation,
under which Caucus will dominate the
Commonwealth Bank and the central
bank will control the trading banks, with
power to take their business away and
to make whatever business they retain
unprofitable. The credit of the country
is on a downward trend, as indicated by
the poor response to war loans. The suc-
cess of our London conversions is not all
it seems, interest and principal in those
cases being payable in sterling, not Aus-
tralian currency, and, thanks to the efforts
of non-Labor Governments in the past,
Australia has never defaulted in the case
of an external loan.
At May 31 the Australian national debt
was approximately £2615 million, com-
pared with £2367 million at June 30, 1944.
There has been a slowing-down in the
growth by comparison with previous
years; the reason has been the smaller
defence expenditure and the higher taxa-
tion collections. The use of bank credit
to finance war spending has fortunately
been reduced, but savings banks are still
being called upon for an excessive amount
of help at the time of each public loan
flotation.
The time has come for a tightening-up
on all Government departmental expen-
diture in view of the large spending that
will be necessary as a matter of expedi-
ency during the period of rehabilitating
the fighting forces. It is also time that
the right of free action and enterprise,
within the scope of arbitration and
other laws, was returned to private in-
dustry in order to combat the degenera-
tion that has occurred in the conduct of
oiganised labor during the war years.
It is foolish of the Government to tax
the willing horse to provide for the un-
willing brumby when only privation will
make the brumby toe the line and behave.
If only economic hardship will end sense-
less strikes then let real hardship be the
lot of the irresponsible strikers.
Australia’s economic future depends
principally upon its production and upon
the distribution and reinvestment of that
production. The present Administration
gives too little regard altogether for the
problems of production and its hand-
maiden —finance. Unless the Government
is prepared to give attention to these real,
natural problems and to abandon its
policy of creating artificial obstructions
to production through legislation and
“control's” then Australia may be faced
with economic collapse soon after the end
of the war. The value of the Govern-
ment’s knowledge of the realities of pro-
duction is well illustrated by the failure
of nearly every land industry that has
been cursed with Government “control.”
The petrol situation in Australia is
typical of the Government’s inability to
tell a plain tale. Spokesmen for the
Ministry have said that the present petrol
is equal to pre-war standard spirit, though
of a quality admittedly lower than that
available two months ago. If present
petrol is standard quality, then what
grade was on sale in, say, 1944? It is
absurd to contend that it was super
grade, like the Super-Shell of high-octane
rating that was available before the war.
For a considerable period during this war
motorists in N.S.W. were supplied with
petrol that was “doctored” with power
alcohol, but at no time have they had so
much motoring difficulty with their fuel
as at present. It was not in mileage so
much that pre-war “super” spirits had an
advantage over ordinary petrols ; it was
in other aspects of engine performance.
Motorists are now complaining about re-
duced mileage and “pinking” on steep
grades, even where they have had their
ignition adjusted to suit standard fuels.
But a fluid-drive Ministerial Chrysler
seen sailing along the Hume Highway at
a speed estimated at far above the regu-
lation 30 miles an hour seemed to be
having no difficulty whatever so far as
either fuel or tyres were concerned. Both
it and occupants appeared to be doing
all right.
% * * *
In discussing incentives to work, par-
ticularly in relation to war-time taxation, ~
it is not only the question of what re-
muneration a person has left out of each
£1 of income after paying taxes that
applies ; there is also the matter of how
much net income a worker has now in
comparison with what he had before the
war. Among wage-earners especially there
is comparative affluence by pre-war
standards even after payment of taxes,
and it certainly is not attractive to many
of them to work overtime and pay an
increasing rate of tax on an increasing
rate of income when they are already
better off monetarily than before the war..
Incentive in cases such as this would be
increased by lower wages, not by higher
rewards. On the other hand, plenty of
businessmen and investors with big
fixed commitments have an income
no higher than before the war, and
after paying taxation are far worse off.
Many such men are working hard in
order to augment their incomes, but find
themselves, if employers, frustrated by
hungry union demands, strangling official
red-tape and by increasing obligations
of many kinds. Taxation does need to be
reduced considerably, but in the right
wav.


*
Tml *
HAVE YOU
CONSIDERED
THIS CODICIL?
By adding a simple codicil to your Will you can guard against difficulties
and loss which might arise should your Executor die or become incapacitated.
By means of such a codicil you can name Bums Philp Trust Co. Ltd. as joint
Executor with your present appointee or, if you. wish, as sole Executor.
In this way you gain positive assurance of continuous and sound administration
and are relieved of a serious anxiety. The Company will willingly forward
full particulars.
DIRECTORS —James Burns - R. J. Nosworthy - Eewis Armstrong - Joseph Mitchel
Manager—L. S. Parker.
BURNS PHILP TRUST
COMPANY LIMITED
7 {BRIDGE STREET, SYDNEY
PHONE: B 7901.
Box 543 G.P.0., Sydney
UP 5-44.
Announcement
The Manufacturers of
* FELTEX
wish to advise the public that although
Feltex floor coverings are now being
manufactured, it is regretted that factory
production is not sufficient to meet all
demands, and intending purchasers may
have to wait for delivery of orders placed
with their furnishing store.
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
FELTEX HOUSE, 261 GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY
invest in war bonds
"Cleaning fuel tanks, inside and out, may not
appear to be a particularly important task—but
the airmen who fly the machines could tell you
how necessary it is to keep fuel free from the least
trace of dirt or metal filings." This job is one of
those details on which the reputation "Body by
Richards" depends. In war, as in peace, the name
Richards is synonymous with thoroughness.
“It takes a
woman’s
touch..”
says Oot Thomas
Aircraft Employee
RICHARDS INDUSTRIE
S LIMITED
f
R B Me
R 25
Australian industry is champing at the
bit awaiting the all-clear signal to get
back into vigorous, uninhibited produc-
tion again. But the heavy hand of Gov-
ernmeht regulation still lies upon it, and,
worse still, the Government’s own con-
fusion about post-war planning does not
permit any clear hope of an expeditious
beginning to peace-time production even
when the war is over. There is a tangle
of political doctrine and dogma prevent-
ing the Government from giving private
industry encouragement in the making of
plans, investment and ventures for post-
war expansion. And the enormous cost
of “social security,” free medicine, etc.,
threatens to impose a heavy taxation
burden on industry anyway. Meanwhile
our textile companies, which were making
such great technical progress prior to
the war, are tied down to “regulated”
grades and patterns that offend both taste
and the sense of economy; and almost
every other type of manufacturing con-
cern is restricted in the same way. Where
there is a real shortage of basic materials
or man-power some kind of emergency
modification of variety or quality may
be quite in order. But so dead is the
dead hand of Government control that it
is unlikely to lift itself voluntarily even
when .there are no shortages of anything.
Industry of its own accord must buck
against Government suppression of in-
itiative and quality as soon as it feels the
justification,
* ♦ * *
In the Representatives R. G. Menzies,
criticising the Government’s taxation legis-
lation, urged that plans should be made for
a progressive reduction in taxation after
the war. In the course of a speech he said ;
It seems clear that if our taxation rates
remain at their present level when the war
is over and when there is—as there must be
—a great drive for re-employment in private
industry, the incidence of the tax rates will
hinder re-employment by sharply reducing
the normal human incentive to enterprise.
In the business and industrial world it
will remain true, in spite of theorists, that
men will be willing to accept substantial
risks for substantial rewards and will be
prepared to work extra hard for extra-good
pay- , ...
But if, in time of peace, the position is
that the great bulk of the extra earnings,
whether of the entrepreneur or of the wage-
earner, is absorbed in taxation, there will
either be wholesale evasion of taxation or
there will arise a general attitude that the
game is not worth the candle.
Taxation can, and should be, reduced
when our war commitments run out.
Only political considerations and waste
can be put forward as excuses for con-
tinued high taxation on the productive
side of industry. Political considerations,
in the long run, haven’t a chance against
financial realities.
* * * *
There was a drop of 3 p.c. in factory
employment in the Commonwealth dur-
ing 1944, with a fall of 18 p.c. in build-
ing and construction jobs, including
those under control of the A.W.C. Fac-
tories and the building trades together
lost 38,100 employees. Transport and
communication services got a further
10,000 of staff, an increase of 4.1 p.c.
These industries have had an increasing
payroll for several years. The retail
trades were allowed to restore their de-
pleted staffs by 5500 (3.1 p.c.)—mostly
men, too. Employees in “other com-
merce and finance” increased 4600 (3.2
p.c.), while those engaged in “profes-
sional and personal services” (including
hotels and restaurants) went up by 15,200
(nearly 6 p.c.), In this category there are
also included white-collar Government
workers. One would have expected that
with the falling-away in the need for men
in Government activities having to do
with construction there would have been
an attack on the housing problem—a
grave problem in the lives of many young
families as well as older people. But,
although the number of building per-
mits granted has increased a good deal
over the past year, new houses actually
built and made ready for occupation
have been pitiably small in number. In
view of the great fall in men employed
in factories and the construction trades
as recently as during the past 12 months
and the large releases from the fighting
services, the persistent shortages of food,
clothing, housing and household articles
arrestingly serves to indicate a bad misman-
agement and waste of vital man-power.
* * * *
At December, 1943, there were
1,204,863 registered trade-unionists
throughout the Commonwealth. In 1932
there were 740,831, though in 1928, be-
fore the depression, the number was
911,541. The total of unions in 1943
was 375, as against 379 in 1928. War-
time increase in the number of Australian
trade-unionists has been about 200 000
* * * * '
.The Federal Labor Ministry speaks
with a variety of voices. While Mr
Beasley disowns the Communists there
are other Ministers all for socialism in
uncertain degrees. One of the most
plausible gentlemen is"* Reconstruction
Minister Dedman—an M.P. by chance
whose previous fortunes have obviously
left him with a grudge against “the
present system”—who seems incapable
of telling a plain tale. Announcing that
“there will be no direction of labor after
the war,” Mr. Dedman told the A.L.P.
conference that “every man will have a
choice of occupation, but his choice must
be beneficial to the nation.” There is
only one significant word in all that, and
it is the auxiliary verb “must.” Where
any Government Minister or official is in
a position to say “must” in the case of
man-power direction there is no free
choice of occupation. The whole state-
ment of Mr. Dedman, when analysed,
appears to offer about as much “choice”
as one finds upon t a boarding-house aus-
terity menu. Mr. Dedman’s war-time
administration —he has been in charge of
rationing and W. 0.1. —has been clumsy
and inefficient. But he is wholly un-
shaken in his confidence that Dedman is
the True Prophet of the New Order.
* ¥ * $
Politicians love spending money, and
Labor politicians in particular. The
present Federal Labor Government was
slow to tax wage-earners adequately
earlier in this war, but since it was
forced to it by financial stress it is equally
reluctant to contemplate tax reductions.
It is finding that its expenditure of tons
of money gives it political pull. That is
the real danger that faces us in post-war
taxation policy. The increase in the in-
terest bill on the national debt is not
lightly to be contemplated, but neither
is it a very large item by comparison
with our total present “war” expendi-
ture. At December 31 last the interest
on the total national debt was £73 mil-
lion, compared with about £45 million
at the beginning of the war. The in-
crease there is £2B million. Assuming
that, eventually, allowing for funding of
the floating debt and some more borrow-
ing, the war-time increase is £4O million,
it will represent only a fraction of the
£217 million by which Commonwealth
taxation has increased since war began.
If |he Canberra Administration insists
that it will be difficult to reduce taxation
rates after the war it is obviously plan-
ning expenditure that has nothing to do
with the commitments incurred during
the war. In fact, the Labor Government
has already pledged the nation to a far
greater expenditure than the increase in
the national debt by way of social-service
charges. It has planned these services
in a shameless political fashion, without
decent regard to a proper economic
foundation. So it goes on through the
nation. Australians already are sweating
blood to provide taxation to pay for
political adventures. The Government
is bent on bigger and brighter political
adventures after the war. It is asking the
right to take the citizen’s money from
him in taxation to provide for all sorts
of services, including “cheap housing”
and free medicine. If housing arrange-
ments are no better than the Govern-
ment’s war production effort the citizen
will indeed require a lot of free medicine
to keep out the cold and damp,
a a«. »,
In Britain the Chancellor of the Ex-
chequer has granted further taxation re-
lief to new small businesses by extend-
ing the limits of exemption. The cost to
the Treasury is reckoned at £l2 million.
This is the second concession to small
British enterprises since the beginning of
1944. Sir John Anderson is negotiating
with the United States in order to arrange
relief from double taxation in respect of
overseas income. In Australia there is
double taxation of dividend income with-
in the boundaries of the Commonwealth.
So far there has been no sign that Mr.
Chifley will conduct negotiations with
himself in order to overcome this injus-
tice and economic disability. Both he
and his Prime Minister seem to possess
a blind spot in matters of economic jus-
tice and industrial incentive. It is doubt-
ful indeed whether Mr. Curtin realises
that finance is a far more essential func-
tion in a country than party politics.
* * * *
Economic issues are raised by recently-
released “vital statistics.” Marriages
reached a peak in 1942, when there were
86,060 marital unions; apparently the
housing shortage contributed to a de-
cline to 67,673 in 1943 and 68,201 in
1944, though these figures are about
normal for a peace-time year. The
acceleration in marriages in 1942 was
probably partly due to pre-embarkation
nuptials. The births in 1944
was a record for Australia, 153,346 being
recorded, compared with 149,295 in the
preceding year. These births are not
entirely the result of war-time marriages ;
there has been an improved ratio of
births among couples married between
1934 and 1938. In view of the increase
in families the * Commonwealth Govern-
ment, with the co-operation of State
Governments, should be on its toes try-
ing to ease the housing shortage and the
many other problems besetting mothers
especially. Instead, we find Canberra so
saturated with doctrine, dogma and pres-
sure politics that it seems incapable of
doing a really useful hand’s turn. The
Government that cannot govern like-
wise cannot administer.


Society
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLES INKS"
“Hamfat”: The queue-ing up for
Grade Fields recalls other rushes of the
sort. The greatest of all was for a Melba
season in Sydney, when every ticket for
each night was sold long before the house
opened. For that people assembled in
the laneway beside Palings, which had
the bookings, directly that place closed,
many bringing rugs, besides their food,
and waited all night in order to be
amongst the first in the morning. One
old gentleman, taken ill in the queue,
died before he could be got to hospital.
Amongst one night’s vigil-keepers was a
party from Bathurst. The joke about
that was that not many years before
Melba, on a concert tour, had had such
a poor house at the Bathurst School of
Arts (only three people who actually paid
attended) that she had to close down.
But that, of course, was before she went
to Europe and established a reputation
as one of the greatest singers of all time.
* * ¥ ♦
“Spare Corp”; A son tells me that
“Chasing the Bugle” is an unheard phrase
in the camps he has been in. It used to
be a bugbear of defaulters in camps of
former days. The soldier given c.b.
(“confined to barracks”) had to appear
before the orderly-room after each bugle-
call, changing his get-up on each occa-
sion. To some he went with full
pack and equipment; to others in battle
order and to yet others with just belt and
sidearms. It meant tearing his equip-
ment apart and putting it together again
several times. That was an annoying job,
evidently intended to make the defaulter
wake up to himself. There are not
enough bugles to go round in the multi-,
tude of camps today, and instead the
whistle is used in many.
* * * »
“Si Anu”: The discovery by a corre-
spondent of a letterbox marked “V.R.,”
indicating that Labuan hadn’t yet learnt
that Queen Victoria had had four suc-
cessors, is typical of . that sleepy island.
There used to be an old, one-legged native
pensioner on the island. It was his job
to fire the salutes for visiting foreign war-
ships. One day, in honor of a French
gunboat, he was discharging the old
Crimea cannon which served this pur-
pose when the rusty weapon exploded and
blew his other leg off. The Governor-
in-Council in Singapore thereupon in-
structed Labuan that it was absolved
from the traditional ceremonial, and sub-
sequent naval visitors were greeted with
silence.
“Nakhoda,” with some personal his-
tory :
The Sultan of Brunei (B. 20/6/’45) is Ahmed
Tajudin Akhazul Khairi Wad-din; his father
handed over the administration of his estate
to a British Resident for an annuity of £l2OO.
Sir Charles Vyner Brooke was recently in Syd-
ney; his great-great-uncle obtained Sarawak
from a former Bruneian sultan by sheer force of
character in 1842. He describes the transaction in
his journal. The solitary white man squatted alone
and unarmed on the floor of the royal palace
looking at the sultan while the sultan looked
at him, and drank coffee which for all he knew
might be poisoned. He was surrounded by
400 panigrans armed with parangs and lances
who only needed tne royal nod to impale the
man from Devon and shove him through a hole
into the river which flowed beneath the palace
floor. The sultan’s gaze became unfocused
first and a document was signed which be-
queathed to Brooke, his heirs and assigns, nine-
tenths of the sultan’s territory. Having drunk
the sultan’s coffee and sampled his 18in. cigar-
ettes, which in accordance with Bruneian eti-
quette must be smoked to the end, I have always
admired the white rajah for his courage—
Bruneian coffee is awful at its best.
* * * *
“Hamer”: Once the most unkempt,
frowsy bit of park land in Sydney, the
strip between the wall of Victoria Bar-
racks and Oxford-street has been re-
grassed and tidied up and has quite a
pleasing appearance, which will be better
still when the Virginia and other creepers
that have been planted against the walls
take full possession. The growth of the
creepers is interesting. The stone of the
walls was probably taken from the same
quarry as that put into St. Matthias
Church, Paddington, which is the garri-
son church. Over decades multitudes
of efforts have been made to induce
creepers to grow against the walls of the
church, but until recently all failed; the
growth would go on slowly for a time,
but directly a little height was gained
and the suckers were digging into the
wall it faded. Now after over 60 years
of trying there is at last such a good
growth that it looks as if the tabernacle
may shortly resemble the English church
“ Perhaps , sir , you’ll like it better on madame.”
on which it is modelled. A theory is
that the stone was impregnated with salt
from a prehistoric contact with the ocean,
and that its presence meant death to the
plants ; now the salt has been washed
away by the weather and the plants have
a chance.
* * * ♦
“Hackshaw”: A Melbourne University
student took four years to do his finals.
One year he failed in anatomy and passed
in surgery, and the next year he passed
in anatomy but failed in surgery. He had
to pass in all subjects in the one year to
get his degree, and it was only in the
fourth year he accomplished the feat. He
became one of Australia’s most famous
surgeons.
* * $ *
“Zake”: Of the crazes which periodi-
cally grip humanity the chain-letter is the
craziest —and it has broken out again in
Sydney. Playing on superstition, its
sponsors threaten the recipient that if the
chain is broken some unnamed evil will
befall him or her. The latest essay of the
sort has a title, “The Good Luck of Lon-
don,” and the recipient is informed that
he will “within 24 hours make four copies
and send them to those you wish well
and see what happens.” Follows the
threat of bad luck for disobedience, which
in turn is chased by the inducement that
“Grade Fields won £5OOO from it,” while
“Sir Stafford Cripps won £lO,OOO, but lost
it again because he broke the chain.” Just
how the comedienne and the politician
got among the dough is not disclosed.
Moreover, the letter itself makes no men-
tion of filthy lucre; which is strange, for
the superstitious are the world’s champion
suckers. I’m still wondering if the woman
who stood on a Sydney suburban railway
station in the teeming rain one morning
handing the silly things out finished up
with pneumonia. She was asking for it.
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: It always cheers me
to know that other countries suffer from
the academic pests that affect my own,
and it positively delights me to hear that
one of them has been hoist by its own
petard. The Farm Credit Bureau of
Omaha, Neb., U.S., submits candidates
to an intelligence test, and included two
queries to which it believed there were
no answers. One was “How long is a
piece of string?” the other “How fair can
a dog run into the woods?” One day it
was staggered to get both questions
answered, a bright lad gravely setting
down that a piece of string was twice as
long as the distance between its centre
and either end, and that a dog can run
halfway into a wood, as for the remainder
of the journey it is running Out of it. The
questions were then removed from the
paper.
* * * *
“Pip” .on ego-culture in the ranks:
Though rules and regulations set strict limits
on the eccentricity of the individual, the soldier
has ways of attracting attention if he so de-
sires. The imaginary dog, born in the Middle
East, started a tradition fhat swept right
through the army, together with imaginary
birds, cats, mice and even elephants. Men put
on some amazing acts with these hypothetical
pets, but the movement became too popular
and soon everybody was qualifying as an eccen-
tric and the business blew itself out. A five-
mile run every morning at dawn or a passion
for mountain climbing by moonlight focuses the
spotlight on the performer. Writing to film
stars is now in vogue. A “rave” letter about an
actress appearing in the paddock pictures pro-
duces an expression of thanks from the Film
Corporation and a picture of the glamor gal
for display in the mess hut. Another gag is
answering every advertisement offering a free
booklet, or asking for copies of testimonials.
These, too, find their way to the mess or recrea-
tion hut, to the glory of the individual who
thought up the scheme. Spare-time tattoo
artists have made quite a few shillings on the
side from fellows anxious to display an arm
with a malformed female across it, and makers
of huge gaudy rings find a ready market for
their bizarre goods. And even the retiring
individual is forced into public gaze occasion-
ally—at the hands of an army barber.
* * * *
“Spokeshave”: I see that Theo Har-
deen, Houdini’s brother, has died in New
York, carrying to the grave the secrets of
his brother’s tricks, bequeathed to
him in 1926 on the stipulation that the
secrets must not be passed on. I was
under the impression that all the Houdini
dodges were made public in a book after
the great escapist’s death, but if that is
not so nobody will be more relieved by
the latest announcement than professional
spiritualistic mediums. Houdini caused
a sensation in the highest circles by
exposing the charlatanism of some of the
fashionable mediums by performing iden-
tical feats and then explaining to his audi-
ences how he did them. His claim that
no supernatural agency was involved was,
however, indignantly denied by believers,
who asserted that the American magician
had been assisted by astral powers but
didn’t know it.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Dr. Malcolm Sargent, back
in Melbourne for another concert season,
is resourceful. Queen’s Hall, London,’
one evening a year or two ago he found
bombed to pieces and the orchestra
standing amongst the rubble in despair.
In half an hour he had rigged up accom-
modation elsewhere and the concert was
given. On another occasion an air raid
synchronised with the start of a perform-
ance of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony,
which begins with the three notes appro-
priated by the Victory V propagandists.
Some of the audience looked alarmed, but
Sargent reminded them that Beet-
hoven completed this symphony under
the battlements of Vienna when the city
was being bombarded by Napoleon, and
set an example of fortitude that should
appeal to Britons, It was Sargent who
incurred the wrath of English liquor re-
formers by advocating good music in
pubs and taverns. The movement caught
on, and quartets and quintets now play
Mozart and Schumann in hotel bars.
They get rapt attention, according to the
conductor. He is not likely to try the
experiment in Melbourne,
* * * ♦
“Uramao”: Maoriland military authori-
ties have been puzzling over a case which
stands outside all precedents. A soldier
who had been divorced and given the
custody of his two children arrived in
camp with the youngsters, aged seven
and nine respectively. He declared he
was unable to obtain a housekeeper or
anyone to take charge of his children, so
had to bring them with him. The best
thing to do seemed to be to send the
man back into private life with the ad-
monition to seek the guidance of a Mili-
tary Appeal Board. At latest advices
the Board was struggling with the matter
and not making much headway.
* * * 4c
“Kalen”; Though the memorial to
Hinkler in the Apennines, Italy, is re-
ported to have been destroyed, an Aus-
tralian memorial still stands. This is
situated in Bundaberg, Hinkler’s birth-
place. It is a column of granite blocks
surmounted by a miniature model of
Hinkler s Moth ’plane, and may be seen
in Buss Park on “The Hummock.” An
inscription reads: “A tribute to the
memory of Squadron-Leader H. J. L.
(Bert) Hinkler. Erected by the citizens
of Australia. Born at Bundaberg, De-
cember 8, 1892. Accidentally killed in
the Prato Magno Alps, Tuscany, Italy,
January 8, 1,933, while flying to Aus-
tralia,” At Katoomba, in the Blue Moun-
tains, a beautiful park reserve has been
dedicated to Hinkler’s memory. In addi-
tion, Katoomba has a Kingsford Smith
Memorial Park.
* He * *
“Kay”: Australia has many disconse-
crated church buildings. One, in the
heart of Sydney, serves as factory and
store-room for an engineering firm. It
became too small to house its congrega-
tion and was replaced by a larger edifice
on a more spacious site. Another city
church now stands in a timberyard and
serves as the office. An old church hall
near Central railway station houses the
radio section of the Technological
College. Some ten miles out of Sydney
stands a large weatherboard church build-
ing, with spire, which is used as a garage
and repair station for “run-down” motor-
cars. In another Sydney suburb a very
small, squat brick church building serves
as office for an estate agent. In East
Malvern (Vic.) is an erstwhile church
which has been turned into a dwelling-
place and a studio at a cost of £l5OO.
The pulpit end of the church was made
into a living-room. The lofty ceilings
were retained, powerful lights being in-
stalled in them. One of the Brisbane
churches bordering on a railway line,
taken over when the land was needed for
alterations and tunnelling, has been re-
tained and converted into a gymnasium
for members of the railway staff.
* * * *
“Philatelist”: Australia was the first
unit of the Empire to issue stamps to
mark its participation in World War 11,
three stamps appearing in July, 1940. The
common design showed representatives of
the Navy, Army and Air Force, with a
Red Cross nurse in the background. The
design was adopted from a painting by
Sydney artist Virgil O’Reilly. In April,
1935, the Commonwealth produced
stamps to coincide with the 20th anni-
versary of the Gallipoli landing. Two
stamps were printed depicting the White-
hall cenotaph enclosed within a laurel
wreath. The cenotaph, memorial to the
Empire’s dead, was designed by Sir
Edward Lutyens and dedicated by George
V on Armistice Day, 1920. The Aus-
tralian “Anzac” series was suggested by
R.S.L. The Boer War was also com-
memorated by various Australian issues,
made at a time when each State had its
own separate postal systems, and these
helped to finance the war. In 1900
Queensland issued two stamps, one show-
ing two soldiers standing on either side
of a sailor between two Australian flags
and a portrait of Queen Victoria ; the
second stamp featured warships in battle
line, a glimpse of a mounted trooper and
a portrait of the Queen. Victoria’s con-
tribution was a stamp featuring the Vic-
toria Cross and another on which
appeared a sentry on guard and two
sturdy troooers.
A DISMAL PROSPECT.
“The president of the Victorian Trainers said that
if racing were stopped over 2000 persons would be
thrown out of employment, including 1321 book-
makers and their clerks.”
Sing, Muse, and set your listeners’ tears a-
falling,
In sympathy profound and unconcealed,
For perils that beset the bookie’s calling,
in these war-time years revealed
For those who fill a public need by bawling
Their constant readiness to lay the field
Yet live in fear lest they should find anon
Their occupation, like Othello’s, gone.
Artists may feel the absence of commissions
To means of livelihood a frequent block,
And unappreciated politicians
Often inevitably take the knock;
But that such fate should threaten metallicians
Comes surely as an unexpected shock
To those in such activities who sense
A sure and certain road to affluence.
Think, if such sheer calamity should hit them.
What humbler craft could they essay to learn?
What other means of living would permit them
Their special talents to account to turn?
In short, into what niche could man-power fit
them
Their recompense so easily to earn
As that which ever hinges in the ring
On leather lungs and rapid reckoning?
What though officialdom, it’s bruited, judges
That shrinking stores of fodder, oats and
/ beans
And hay should be reserved for equine drudges,
Toilers in less exhilarating scenes
Than crowded racecourses provide, and grudges
Their quantum stiff, to galloping machines;
If this be so, how long may books avoid
Abrupt transition to the unemployed?.
One pictures them disconsolate and raging
(If this embittermCnt should come their way),
They who with eager punters erst were waging
Their bloodless fights in boisterous mood and
' gay.
Seeing themselves as butchered, I’m engaging,
To make an economic holiday,
And cursing from the bottom of their heart's
The meddlers who’ye upset their apple-carts.
N.SW.
T. THE R.


"Just a few daubs, your ladyship—I've got to match that lovely tint."
“Reo Gunner”: It happened in the
Aitape area. Communications were
“out” and none of the routine tests had
raised anything from the ’phone. It
looked like a maintenance trip along the
line—not a pleasing prospect with the
distinct possibility of an ambush laid
about the area of the break. The sig,
sergeant was making a final check when
the well-known beat of native drums was
heard. Interest quickened when some
near-by boongs produced their own
tom-tom to reply. With interchange of
message completed, Snowy asked of one
boong “What him fella say?” “Him talk
this a fella father die Lae longa yester-
day,” replied that worthy. “Talk about
modern equipment,” bitterly commented
the beaten sig. sergeant—“we could do
with a lesson from those blokes.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: Honors conferred on
members of the Maori Battalion fighting
in the Middle East include practically
every decoration the King can bestow,
Topping the list is a Victoria Cross ; then
follow five Distinguished Service Orders,
nine Military Crosses and two Bars, nine
Distinguished Conduct Medals and 36
Military Medals. No fewer than 27
dusky warriors have been mentioned in
dispatches.
* * * *
“Ceg” wants a grand tour for old
soldiers:
Most of the Diggers of the first A.I.F. would
give their boots for a chance to revisit Egypt,
Gallipoli and France, to say nothing of Blighty,
Fancy being able to stroll round the Ezbekiah
Gardens in Cairo once again, puffiing a Gyppo
cigarette and listening to a band playing while
the Cairenes promenade. Afterwards we might
visit Grop pis for afternoon tea (if. that de-
lightful place is still on the map). Being civvies
now there would be nothing to prevent us
having a drink on the terrace at Shepherd’s,
What a thrill to revisit Gallipoli, approaching
n To lk l i ip Sh t ra P" el
Gully and follow the old trench line to the
right and left as far as one could go without
the need of keeping the old topknot well down
off the skyline! 1 would dearly like to climb
TSJrnJ* OI L of tH Sar H- B f air and r? olc on the
Narrows in the distance. One could go on
enumerating places all the way between Fre-
mantle and Amiens which would strike a re-
sponsive chord, but the purpose of this is to
suggest that after this war is over the R.S.L.
should arrange with the Government for the
chartering at cost price of one of the many
hospital ships or invalid transports (a troop-
ship might prove too Spartan) which will then
adapted to The o)
desirous of making once again “the Grand
Tour.” The ship would be run under the
auspices of the league with some mild form of
military discipline (which would ba neces-
sary), and the catering and accommodation
need not be elaborate. The cost should be
Vithin the means of many of the old boys,
What about it, R.S.L.?
* * * *
Ike Hollar”: The rapidity with which
some European refugees in Australia
learn English is remarkable. One,
an educated man approaching middle-
age, has passed one by one a number of
exams, necessary to enable him to
qualify to resume a profession, and, hav-
ing recently to give an oral demonstra-
tion of a subject, he was congratulated
by his examiners on his choice of lan-
guage and his delivery. He told me that
he had only a few words of English when
he landed in Australia five years ago.
Actor Maurice Moscovitch (he died last
year) was another remarkable example
of this talent. Moscovitch used to play
Shakspeare in Yiddish in East European
countries, and he was brought to Lon-
don to give performances there —still in
Yiddish. An English manager who saw
his performance made him an offer to
play “The Merchant of Venice” in Eng-
lish. The actor had to learn the English
words. He did that in three weeks and
made a hit. Nobody who met Mosco-
vitch in Australia would have guessed
that his first lessons in English were of
that character,
* * * *
“X.S.”: Melbourne’s Weather Bureau
at - the corner of Drummond and Victoria
streets, Carlton, was originally the home
of a once well-known medico who played
a philological joke with a better point in
it than he imagined. He called the house
Frosteley, and the name is still over the
door. His name was Snowball,
* * * *
“Cauboy”; “Footscray” thinks (B.
6/6/’45) that Australians could be taught
to speak “correct English,” whatever that
is, if children at school were trained in
phonetics, proper use of the appropriate
muscles, correct breathing and the art of
expression i.e., elocution. Possibly
changes could be wrought by those
means, but that does not invalidate my
contention that ways of speaking are
purely accidents of environment and
example. A brother of mine, studying to
be a lawyer, spent hours with a teacher
and more midnight hours before his bed-
room mirror doing those things. He
attained to an amazing proficiency in
manipulating tongue-twisting exercises, like
saying 100 times “Theophilus Thistle, the
thistle sifter, sifted three thousand thistles
in thirty-three seconds,” and he learnt
convey shades of meaning by the
, ° *
correct and effective use of accent, em-
phasis, pausation, inflection and modula-
tion” while reciting “Casabianca” and
« The Man from Snowy River.” But
, , ~. , ■ J ■ ■ , ,
when he delivered an impassioned appeal
to a jury I’ll guarantee any observant
person could have said almost to a suburb
what Australian capital he had been
~ , v
orougnt up in.
......
“Wodgil”; “X.S.” (B. 13/6 / ’45), who
went to a meeting of dissatisfied Vic-
, . , ~ , ° , ~, „ .
torian schoolteachers and claims on that
account to have traced the Australian
accent to its source, will have to extend
r ~ CP o rr v,,, c tHp frniiipct Australian
hIS reaches. _ The truitiest Australian
a ccent I know is the proud possession of
Frank Chine, and it was never grounded
or ripened in Victoria. Dr. Evatt has
another and so had A. B Piddington,
who wrot e extensively in English and was
a linguist of parts. Both were graduates
of Sydney University. I don’t suggest
thpv o rmi i re fl tho accent at their
Al at tn 5 J ac fiU ir< -a me accent at (Beir
Alma Mater, but they certainly dldn t
lose it there.
* * * *
“Tuart”; R. S. Sampson, for many
years M.L.A, for Swan (W.A.) and a
Minister for a period, left estate valued
at £223,000, proceeds of savings as printer
and publisher and shrewd land invest-
ments ; he issued a flock of little papers
with job printeries attached. A childless
man, he willed £30,000 to “charities, re-
ligious bodies and persons employed by
him,” legacies to his surviving brothers
and sisters, £9 a week to his widow and
the residuary estate to the surviving
brothers and sisters. Probate duties were
reckoned at between £90,000 and
£lOO,OOO. The will has led to extensive
litigation. In one case it was ruled that
employees who had become servicemen
were not thereby debarred from their full
rights as legatees; in another, the widow,
suing under the Testator’s Family Main-
tenance Act, was successful in obtaining
a Supreme Court order that her annuity
should be raised to £2O a week and that
she should receive a lump sum of £5OOO
out of the residuary estate. Against this
judgment the residuary beneficiaries are
appealing to the High Court. Sampson
was an unusual character; frugal from
boyhood and watchful of every penny
spent op his papers—a standing grievance
with editors —but a good mixer in social
life. He rather fancied himself as a
writer, specialising in travel-notes. This
was not the case with fellow-member and
-newspaperman MacCallum Smith, who
also cut up for a fortune and left a will
with clauses which had to be taken to the
courts. They were the two wealthiest
Westralian politicians of their time, but
Smith’s land transactions were not nearly
as successful as those of Sampson.
*9 j|c sfc
“Bo”: According to a B.U.P. repre-
sentative in Germany, the Germans dur ;
ing the last months of the war “invented
and put into production a rifle with a
curved barrel for firing around corners.”
Also, they were experimenting with* “fly-
ing submarines.” It is patent that the
two were complementary. The general
idea was that should the Nazi commander
of a flying submarine, having blown his
tanks only to find that he was submerg-
ing instead of soaring through the strato-
sphere, or Were he forgetfully to loop the
loop with his U-boat while the crew were
still at gun practice on deck, he could,
when he landed (or watered or whatever
an aerial sub does), repair to the armory,
grab the rifle, poke the curved barrel
around the comer of the superstructure,
fire and shoot himself in the stern.
Thus he would be practising hari-kiri in
deference to the Nazis’ Oriental Axis
partner while at the same time retaining
the appearance of having been shot in
honorable combat. When it comes to
thinking of everything you can’t beat the
Squareheads.
* * * *
“Notaden”: Welcoming the Little
Stranger is a much more expensive busi-
ness in the U.S. than it is here —that is,
if a recent N.Y. cable doesn’t turn out to
be the spiteful work of some misogynistic
bachelor. According to it, the average
cost of landing young Hiram or Mamie in
Mom’s welcoming arms is around £l5O.
“So THAT’S why he carries the little carpet !”
The doctor collects up to £46 10s., hos-
pital fees run to another £37 10s., and the
rest goes in layette (especially for a first
baby), household help and other inciden-
tals, including, one hopes, a modicum
of liquid refreshment for the suffering
father. In Australian cities doctor-fees
range from £5 ss. for a g.p. to around
15 guineas for a specialist, and at public
maternity wards are included in the 9s.
or so a day charged to those who can
afford it. Intermediate hospital fees run
to 12s. a day, plus doctor, but nursing
included; private hospital fees from 18s,
a day. A fair average for introducing
young Aussie Bill or Susan to this eccen-
tric world would be about a quarter of
the U.S. rates, and against this can be set
£l5 bonus for the first, £l6 for the sec-
ond, and £l7 10s. for any more. That’s
something that the U.S, parents don’t get.
=h * * *
“Tiki”: Nothing in recent years seems
to have so stirred the insular imagination
of Maorilanders as the arrival of a band
of some hundreds of Polish refugee
children. Not only have the Government,
the churches and the war-time patriotic
organisations vied in mothering these
youngsters, but public interest has been
extended to the land from which they
hail. A Polish Friendship Group formed
in Wellington has now several thousand
members, a great many of whom are in
active correspondence with Polish pen-
friends. The Group regularly sends par-
cels to Poland, and Polish gratitude, as
expressed in many letters of thanks, is
very touching.
* * * *
“T.W.N.”; Though the idea persists in
some quarters that Australian willow is
no good for cricket bats, E. P. Kumnick,
of Lobethal (S.A.), has for over 50 years
been making bats of outstanding quality.
The Onkaparinga River Valley, upon one
of the branches of which Lobethal lies,
grows willow of the right sort, and Kum-
nick has, from the earliest stages of his
industry, demonstrated that to the satis-
faction of English cricketers here with
Test elevens. Over the years he has made
thousands upon thousands of bats for
the Australian market. At first he im-
ported handles from England, next made
them himself from cane obtained in India;
now, having run out of the Indian sup-
plies, he uses lawyer-cane from Queens-
land. His bats are now all-Australian,
with the exception of the rubber seams in
the handles and the twine for binding.
Kumnick has just fulfilled a contract for
about 2500 bats for use by the Australian
forces.
* * * *
“Nakhoda”: In my distant childhood
I used to listen at school break-ups year
after year to headmasters inveighing
against the examination system. But
examinations went from strength to
strength, and recently Prof. G. S. Browne,
of the School of Education, told a
convocation at Melbourne University
that between the Merit Certificate and
University Matriculation there are three
examinations to be hurdled —the profi-
ciency, intermediate and leaving. He
quoted an honors graduate who had com-
puted that the actual time she had spent
sitting scratching her head in front of
questions during her school and university
career totalled between 80 and 90 24-liour
days. Prof. Browne added that this surfeit
of examinations was all the more curious
in that for years efforts had been made
to eliminate them. There is nothing very
curious about it. Students are rewarded
with bursaries, degrees, Rhodes scholar-
ships and exhibitions for their ability to
remember long enough to win an exam,
test, and schools and colleges go up in
public estimation in direct ratio to the
production of good rememberers.
ON WITH THE DANCE.
“A Richmond (Virginia) professional dancing
teacher has sued her 15 th husband for divorce,
claiming he beat her over the head with his artificial
leg.”— “Time.”
I am told, when to marital wrath you succumb
That it’s legally proper
To take her and whop her
With a waddy no thicker, at most, than your
thumb;
But there’s no reason why the ukase should
apply
In similar mode
To a belting bestowed
With a bludgeon precisely the size of your thigh.,
Ah, well, while the lass pirouetted and bounded,
Though her terpsichorean proficiency sounded
No answering chord in the rest of them,
'With her fifteenth stab at the nuptial yoke
You’d reckon at last she located a bloke
Who could shake a leg with the best of them.
N.S.W.
P. M. LUSK.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Dusty Gully”: Harry, a fairly regu-
lar churchgoer, had been missing out
for a few weeks and the parson, an
understanding soul, remarked on it casu-
ally when they met. “It’s the drought,”
Harry said. “Oh, of course,” said the
parson. “Carting water and feeding the
poor stock, I presume?” “Well, not
exackly,” replied Harry. “But the way
the drought’s bin draggin’ on I’d feel sich
a flamin’ hypocrite goin’t’ church!
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The more distant pad-
docks are as green as a cricket pitch, but
those closer to the railway line show
many bare patches, especially where soil
erosion has left outcrops of clay and
shale, on which not even the recent
copious rains could induce grass to
grow. The stunted trees still carry mute
evidence of drought: no human, how-
ever expert with hedge-shears, could cut
that foliage straighter or more neatly
than hungry sheep with craning necks
have done. Here and there a little bundle
of huddled wool tells its own grim tale,
while a colony of crows scarcely look up
from their grisly feast as the train puffs
slowly past. We pass a paddock in
which a few Angus beefers graze, as
beautifully black as ebony statues.
Farther on another pair of crows are
perched in a tree—obviously keeping an
eye on a sheep that stands alone and
aloof in a washaway (a strong indication
that it is fly-blown). A galah sidles <ilong
the post-and-rail fence, calling to several
more that waddle about the ground. On
the flat down near the river a bare sits
up to watch the engine puffing around
the bend ; then, suddenly, taking fright, it
races away, its back legs vigorously kick-
ing it along. And so we go rolling on
to our. destination. What is our destina-
tion? The State Abattoirs. Believe it or
not, the scene we have passed through is
within ten miles of the Sydney G.P.0.!
*
“Mat’s Mate”: I was to meet Mat in
Bogan Gate one summer, he coming m
from a fencing job beyond Ootha and
me from some emu-bobbing up on the
Dandaloo plains. Not sighting him the
morning I arrived, I made inquiries. “Big
bloke,” I said. “Hefty, voice like a bull
when he’s excited, big hands, tough-look-
in’.” Nobody had seen or heard of him,
so I waited. As the day wore on a few
locals drifted into the pub, and we
swapped drinks and talk. About mid-
afternoon we saw a car pull up in front
of the store and a big cove got out, >
plucked a swag from the back and turned
towards us. “It’s me mate,” I said. Mat
reached the pub corner, and a black dog
darted between his feet, bringing him
down in a heap. He got up. All Bogan
Gate and myself waited for the burst.
Mat caught my eye. “How very discon-
certing ! ” he burbled in a high-pitched
voice. Everybody in Bogan Gate spoke
in whispers for the next two days, so great
was the shock.
=i= * * *
“Wippegong”: Tea! Back home it
primed you first thing in the morning ;
the billy went over the fire as the first
step in the ritual of making camp ; at
bush cricket matches and dances a couple
of kero.-tins brewed by the open fire ;
we took billies of it, cool and sweet, to
keep up the pace when stocking ; the wife
sought the pot whenever her load grew
heavier ; and I’m told that in offices they
couldn’t work without it. Now in the
land of tea, living in sweat and the
faintest breeze a godsend, it is indispen-
sable. In streets and bazaars, cities and
villages, roads and sampans, at ajl hours
and in all stages of freshness or filth, it
is being brewed and drunk. At railway
stations tea is provided appropriately toi
all classes, from the fan-cooled dining-
"I keep telling you it's the tap in the kitchen that needs a Washer!"
car to the semi-naked, gleaming Indian
pedlar, who rushes yelling along the
track, complete with cups, sugar, milk,
kettle and fire. It is never so good as at
home—the milk is wretched and the water
often heavily chlorinated ; still it is tea,
and necessary. But where it is most
needed it’s best prepared in the services.
All rations contain it, from 14oz. tins
of ready-mixed tea, sugar and milk-
enough to make; 15 pints of good brew—
to one-cup tablets of the same mixture
of pure fresh leaf that you just powder
and toss into the boiling water. And
when we reached Rangoon it was to be
invited into Chinese homes and given
bowls of weak, unsweetened tea, of deli-
cate color and elusive fragrance;
evidence of an institution the Jap occu-
pation never changed, and which will
endure after our term is forgotten.
jfc % *
/ “D.R.H.”: As horse-tailer in a muster-
ing camp, I’ve often cursed the opening
rains of the season and the consequent
green pickings, which always entice
hobbled horses to wander for miles each
night. Now, in the cocky country, I’ve
struck the same trouble with my potential
dinners. After the first rains the hare
population of the district simply scat-
tered. Paddocks that formerly were occu-
pied by a dozen or so hares were vacant.
Squats were plentiful, arid Showed signs
of recent tenacy, but the owners were
rarely at home. Everything pointed to a
mass indulgence in the wanderlust.
* * * *
'‘Chuck” : Tommy had been after the
wombat on the back fence of the home
paddock for quite a bit. I told him the
best way was to rig up a gun with a string
on the trigger and leave it there; but
he went on messing round with traps,
getting nowhere. So I decided to get the
thing myself. Pinched a loan of Sam’s
shotgun for the job and fixed it over the
big hole near the corner. Didn’t say
anything to the mob either: I d give em
a beaut, surprise in the morning. Sure
enough, just before bedtime the thing
went off. Tommy reckoned it’d be some-
body snooping after ducks, and Sam
wanted to go and see, but I told ’em they
could hold their horses till morning and
I’d show ’em something. They were
curious, right enough, and 1 certainly
had ’em guessing. But I wasn’t giving
anything away. Next morning I could
see something by the hole, and knew the
plan had worked, so I invited the mob
up. Reckoned Sam wouldn’t say any-
thing about his gun when he saw the
catch. Yair, she’d been set right. Pep-
pered good and plenty, and dead m his
tracks. Gripes, Sam’s best sheep-dog.
Wouldn’t it?
* * * *
“Narrin”: “Locksley” (B. 30/5/’45)
may be interested to know that the record
flight shot for a woman archer is 1190 ft.
9in., according to a “Saturday Evening
Post” ad. The type of bow is not men-
tioned. Which reminds me that I’d be
grateful if “Locksley” or anyone else
could tell me where I can get hold of a
decent bow. Mine, a most useful weapon
for rabbits, was unable to stand the strain
of shooting with 28in, arrows.
* * * *
“Blime”: Ted met “Careful” Carew
coming out of the store. “Been
some seed-oats,” greeted Careful.
•“Coin’ to put in a crop o’ me own next
month. New line for me, ain’t it? But
I’m tired o’ this try in’ t’ buy feed. Me
nag ain’t tasted chaff for six munce. Just
then young Morrison stepped on to the
verandah. “The very bloke I m lookup
for,” boomed “Careful.” “Want y t
,come out an’ build a rat-proof shed for
me new crop.” “Awright,” Morrison
nodded, “but I can’t come right away.
I’ve promised half a dozen others first.
“Careful” screwed up his dial. “Aw,
cripes, Morrie,” he whined, “the rats 11
be in that hay o’ mine somethin’ awtul.
Soon there’ll be none left, an’ y’ know
how it is, with feed so scarce. Can t y
make it an urgent job?” ‘ Orright, Mor-
rison considered, “I’ll come soon’s I shove
some o’ the squealin’ ones through. That
do?” “Careful” sighed, supposed it would
have to, and again bewailed the rats.
“Look here,” challenged Ted when Mor-
rison had gone, “y’ won’t have no hay
till next year. And the rats am t gom
t’ eat y’r seed-oats out in the paddick. 1
know, rats.” “Y’ might,” grinned “Care-
ful,” “but y’ don’t know' how long it
takes t’ get a man these days.”
* * * *
“Notaden”: One quaint Australian clan
of most ancient lineage has undoubtedly
benefited by war conditions. So much so,
that it is quite possible that goannas will
eventually have to be put on the Public
Enemy list, particularly in poultry-raising
areas. Accomplished tree-climbers and
nest-robbers, they are also the worst and
most persistent destroyers of native birds,
particularly the more useful species, by
devouring their eggs and young. They
also kill young possums and other small
animals of the bush. To their credit goes
a substantial consumption of young rab-
bits in infested areas ; also the virtues of
a never-ending war on the eggs and
young of snakes, and the consumption of
decaying carcases which would otherwise
serve as breeding grounds for blowflies.
But the go’s omnivorous and insatiable
appetite, its freedom from natural
enemies and its remarkable powers of
running, climbing, swimming and conceal-
ing itself for the furtherance of its nefari-
ous designs outweigh its virtues. Jacky
Abo. is no longer here to kill it for its
succulent tail-meat, and the manufacture
and use of goanna-oil seems to be a lost
art amongst bushfolk today.
* * * *
“Betcha”: Anyone who doubts they
breed ’em tough in the East Gippsland
(Vic.) ranges should meet the 70-year-
old who as a sideline makes good money
out of wild nags. Beginning with the pure
brumby, he turned a good stallion
outback in the hope of improving the
breed a little, and later added several
batches of better-class (mares. His pro-
cedure, too, has altered, for instead of
running the nags down he now possesses
a winged yard for mustering. His
daughter shares with him the fun of
breaking in the catch. After capture,
he tells me, the mokes fret and become
poor, so it is necessary to hold them till
they have become accustomed to their
new environment and learn to queue up
for their feed ration like civilised animals.
The length of this settling-in period de-
pends on the particular animal’s adapta-
bility, Last batch that he sent down to
the sales returned him over £4OO. Though
reputedly lacking the stamina of the
blood horse, these brumbies respond well
to the hard feed and training, and I’ve
ridden at least one that can stand bigger
jobs than any more civilised nag I’ve
come across.
* * * * .
“ Puffinus ”: Commiserations with
“Betcha” (B. 6/6/’45) on the absence of
witnesses, and/or a camera when he saw
a wedgetail eagle pick up a lamb and fly
off with it. It is a tribute to the diabolical
cunning of this fowl that, although the
argument about its ability to achieve
such a feat has been going on for more
than a century, the performance has
never yet been enacted in the presence
of more than one observer game to put
even his pen-name to a statement that
it was actually witnessed. Nor, despite
a half-century and more of strenuous
efforts by hundreds of trained bird-obser-
vers, is there any photographic record of
it. Moreover, hundreds of searched
nests have recorded only a very few
instances of the remains of lambs in
eagle-nests, and in all such cases they
have consisted of fragments only. The
only species of eagle which surpasses our
own wedgetail ( Euroaetus audcex) in
bulk and wingspread is a Philippines
specie which lives mainly on monkeys. It
naturally has been accused off carrying
off children, as has the European Golden
Eagle, but, here again, there is no trust-
worthy evidence.
s£ * *
“Billy See”: Having been much ex-
posed to the depredations of rats, I dis-
agree most heartily with “B. A. Ker
(B. 23/5/’45) when he tries to find some
virtue in the brutes standing up for a bit
of a fight when finally cornered. The
female rat won’t stand by her young
should a nest become uncovered, her one
concern being for her own safety. She
will leave them even when they are in the
blind stage. There is no virtue whatever
in the rat; it is the vilest thing in the
whole of Nature’s handiwork. Given the
chance it is even more bloodthirsty than
the fox or the dingo. When brooding
day-old chicks I have had a rat get into
the brooder and kill up to fifty, merely
biting through the top of the head and
taking the brain. So cunning do such
brutes become that they refuse all poison
baits and traps, taking only such* food as
has life in it. Debarred from chickens
they will creep under a sitting duck or
hen and take the eggs one by one .as they
develop the embryo.
* * * *
“Nor-west”: In hunting the humpback
up round the West Australian coast the
whalers used to take' advantage of
the cetaceans’ almost human affections.
Often a family group would be sighted,
bull, cow and calf. The calf would be
the first target, easily approached in its
innocence, and invariably yielding a much
larger ratio of oil in proportion to its
size. The mother might be cruising miles
away, but directly her calf was struck
she seemed to know of it and would
come hurrying along. Solicitously she
would hover round her stricken young
until a harpoon from the chaser pinned
her too. Then after the first terrific
plunge she would become vocal. Scream-
ing like a hundred women in torture she
would sound her cry miles across the
sea. Nowhere would the bull be visible,
but he would hear and soon he would be
sighted tearing up to the rescue. So the
harpoon gun would get him too. It is
curious to reflect that possibly this chival-
rous speeding to the rescue on the par
of the bull may be a relic of the days
when the whale’s only enemies were the
swordfish and the grampus. Attacked
by a school of either, the female
screamed her pain and terror and the
reinforcement of another pair of flukes
may have gone some distance towards
beating such killers off. But the bull,
courageous though he was, had no
chance against the chaser ship and t
dynamite harpoon.
IT SPRINGS ETERNAL.
“Even the crows have had to leave some Mallee
homesteads.” — Melbourne, “II erald,”
The managers of all the banks, from Boorf to
Woomelang, , , , ,
Have rolled their swags and locked their sates
and left without a pang.
And, hot upon their fleeing feet, the broken
store-keeps fly, .
While parakeets and emu birds stream south
along the sky.
The publicans in Ouyen town are down to
lemonade . .
And cockies out at Millewa are weeping in the
But we will never turn it up, though direful be
our case, x ... . . ,
While there’s a flamin’ crow or two a-stickin
round the place.
Last month the rabbits called their young and
caught the Stawell train,
And headed for the Grampians, whence came
report's ,of rain. ... „
We never see machinery men or agents selling
Though still the Guvmint sends us tracts on
how to save the soil.
We got the family ration books last Sunday
at the hall — , , , . ,
We had to dig through yards of sand to hnd
But still P linin’’ good and tight, with this
to give us grace: . , . ,
There’s still a bloomin’ crow or two a-stickin
round the place.
They say the roads are sanded up from Car-
warp down to Lah,
And travellers on the Euston line can t fathom
where they are. . ...... .
We’re makin’ soup from jewies tails ana
The“Sfwin& S got so dry it’s
We buried Fatter Friday week, and Mum is
The and the store account lie
shrivelled in the sun, . f
But we’re not beaten yet, by cnpes, of hope
we’ve still a trace . . , j
So long as we’ve a crow or two a-stickm round
the place.
Epilogue.
We’d dug our graves and sadly looked our last
To Limbo wUled™ r hopes and fears, to Science
Them m'ustT soSTng quite unique inside a
Whose owner picks on cockyin’ to earn his daily
Whe^from the north the rain came down; a
rare and wondrous sight;
It scared the kids and bogged the ducks and
gave our dog a fright.
And. staring through the falling ram, we saw
the leering face
And heard the lovely carking of the last crow
on the place.
VICTORIA.
ALDACUTYA.


"HIM! I've had more time A.W.L. than he's had service !”
“Old-timsr”: It was a warm Sunday
morning, and 14 men and seven dogs
hung arouqd the blank and silent pub
moodily eyeing the sergeant who stood
grimly on the opposite corner. He was
a new man, that sergeant, and the publi-
can wasn’t taking any risks. Idly the
thirsty speculated on this and that, what
time the dogs held a desultory argument
or two and a stray Leghorn went singing
monotonously across the yard of some
distant house. There was a momentary
break for the hounds when a car streaked
through the town, but having thoroughly
chased both it and its dust into the next
shire the dogs returned, flopped down
and sleepily watched their masters. An
hour passed and still the new sergeant
stood on the corner. Then the pub door
opened, the loungers stirred, two dogs sat
up, the sergeant turned his head and the
door shut hurriedly. , Low curses mur-
mured drowsily in the sun, and the
sergeant straightened up and walked
briskly across the road. He thundered
on the pub door. Dogs and men waited.
The law thundered again. The door
opened slowly. “Hey,” said the sergeant,
“don’t you ever get out of bed? Me an’
these fellers here are waitin’ for a drink,”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Dan was caught with more
stock than his place would run through
a dry winter, so he turned the yearling
heifers and steers out on the old black-
berry selection behind the back fence.
They worked around further up to
Charlie Pike’s, where they kept breaking
through the fences to Charlie’s straggling
crop of oats. Tired of putting them
out and complaining to Dan, Charlie
threatened to pound ’em. A couple
of days later Dan saw, the mob
coming down the road. He quickly
opened the gate to his bottom paddock
and, as the cattle came opposite, released
the dogs with a yell. In the dust-up and
milling that ensued the cattle ran rough
the gate; whereupon Dan sh , i it md
thumbed his nose at Chari. ■ ,g
mad on the road and wa- t< ught
him,
“The 0.D.”: So black swans “to the
estimated number of 5000” have des-
cended upon the Werribee (Vic.) pastures
and are “eating up the seeds of nut-,
grass” (B. 20/6/’45), and thus denuding
Melbourne of its meat supplies. There
are pastoralists in many parts of this
country who would cheerfully pay any
black swan a couple of quid a week to
live on the place, provided it did eat nut-
grass seeds,
* * * *
“Bogan Gate”: Having provided graz-
ing for millions of grasshoppers in my
time, I was naturally most interested in
“Naturala’s” description of the egg-laying
habits of the beasts (B. 20/6/’45), and
will never be in doubt again about the
tiny holes in the dry claypans each
summer. But the three-stomach statement
floors me, though it doubtless explains
why when a fat locust hits the utility
windscreen it bursts like a bomb. I don't
believe the cud-chewing part of it, simply
because no ’hopper I have ever met could
have spared the time for it. No ; sleepless
and ceaseless, the ’hopper chews steadily
from the time it is born until the final
obsequies, and it’s my belief that what
“Naturala” thought was cud-chewing was
simply the working of the thing’s jaws,
which don’t stop between feeds.
* * * *
“Kelpinya”: That old dog of Jim’s (B.
20/6/’45) that stands by and exhibits
varying emotions as Jim shingles the jum-
buck isn’t unique, except in making a
day of it. Any intelligent dog gets into
a shiver of anticipation every time his
master grabs a sheep, chook, rabbit or
any other fowl, for he confidently expects
the captive to fight back and wants to
lend a hand in subduing it. Also, the dog
can never understand the futility of cap-
turing anything, making a few passes at
it and letting it go. Plainly, the thing
ought to be killed. He’d kill it himself,
but, being well trained and obedient, re-
frains and awaits the deed by the master.
Next time you see old Jim’s dog, “Blime,” ,
watch for the expression of disgusted
bewilderment when Jim lets the jummy
go.
“Sarina”: A dog will rarely trust his
eyes when he is close enough to some-
thing to get its scent. Your average dog
won’t bat an eyelid when shown his mug
in a looking-glass. That is because his
nose tells him there isn’t another mong
in front of him, although his eyes seem
to see one.
“Zake”; The dog’s ability to distin-
guish a car or propelled water craft as
belonging to its owner even among hun-
dreds of cars or craft of similar vintage
and color is seemingly shared by no other
animal. My dog will snooze on the
verandah wall in complete indifference
while cars of exactly the same model and
color as mine pass the door. Yet he
will immediately cock an ear and wag
an anticipatory rudder when the engine’s
beat of my car, even before it turns the
corner and therefore is still beyond his
sight, is heard. Heard a fellow express
scepticism when told of a dog who after
its absence from its usual riverside moor-
ing for 18 months leaped into its master’s
old motor-boat with joyous recognition.
Yet that effort was once easily beaten,
and it has been vouched for by Judge-
Advocate Collins. In 1788 one Marshall,
master of the transport Scarborough, left
behind him in Sydney a Newfoundland
hound. Two years later when he re-
turned the dog swam out to the ship
immediately the anchor was dropped and
climbed on board to register its happi-
ness at the reunion.
“B. A. Ker”; My long-haired mate, get-
ting all artistic, made some of those pretty
little posies which ingenious feminine
hands fashion from new bread that has
been dyed £nd kneaded to plasticine con-
sistency. A week later one suddenly van-
ished, The only clues were a few twisted
wire stalks on the verandah, something
that could have been a “slobber” mark,
and a happy expression on old Paddy's
chops. As counsel for the defence, and
knowing the mong’s contempt for bread,
I dropped a piece of stale dodger under
his nose. His rebuff was most pointed.
But the prosecutor was not satisfied. She
produced a fragment of bright red dough
that had been left over and was now as
hard as a marble. The accused could not
incriminate himself quickly enough ; and
if he didn’t really think that he’d been
given something out of the box, then he
is a darn good actor. As the dye was
absolutely tasteless and without odor of
any kind, I’m reluctantly forced to the
conclusion that the otherwise reasonably
intelligent tyke is governed by sight, and
takes the attitude that a thing resembling
a lolly must necessarily be one.
* * * *
“Tub”: Struck a cocky out Whitfield
(Vic.) way who had other ideas about
fenceposts (B. 6/6/’45). Previously I’d
known a few fastidious fencers taper the
strainers at the top and cap them with,,
galvanised-iron to keep rain from pene-
trating the wood, but this one had all
the posts sharply pointed, though not
capped. When asked if the method was an
improvement he nodded enthusiastically.
“Haven’t seen young Charlie wastin’ his
time perched on any of ’em since,” he
said.
* * * * .
“Propalong”: In about 20 years’ time
“8.4” is going to blush like blazes when
he remembers his par. (B. 6/6/’45). For
instance, the man who needs a proposi-
tion in geometry to shoot at when sight-
ing a rifle certainly has a few years of
practice to put in. And, as for “the
correct amount of foresight to use,” the
first necessity in practical rifle shooting
is the ability instantly to bring the sights
into line, with the foresight always in
the same position in the notch of the
hind-sight. Shoot high or shoot low^—
and if you sight your .22 permanently
for 100 yards it’ll be mostly shoot low,
allowing a clear view of the target—but
don’t fool around with “coarse” and
“fine” beads if you want to be a good
game shot. For the same reason “BA’s”
advice about “lowering foresight with
file” is ridiculous: in doing so you alter
the shape of the bead, which is not con-
ducive to good shooting. And as for not
“Had any experience in handling stock ?”
“Too right—I once killed a pig.”
pulling the trigger, you’ll never do any
good at moving targets or snap shots
if you have to lie on your belly and
squeeze. Get a gunsmith (don’t do it
yourself unless you’re an expert at case-
hardening steel) to adjust the trigger to
the lightest pull consistent with safety.
Finally, in his eagerness to show off his
musketry-school knowledge, “8.4” en-
tirely misread my par. (B. 16/ 5 / ’45). I was
not giving instructions on how to shoot
but merely pointing out (take notice,
“O.D.!”) how absolute concentration on
avoidance of lateral error induces dis-
regard of vertical error.
* * * *
“Patrol Leader’’: During our stay at
Prince of Wales Island (Torres Strait)
our vessel was anchored in the small cove
where some 75 years before H.M.S.
Rattlesnake, an Admiralty surveying ship,
had rescued a white woman held captive
by the islanders for five years. Her hus-
band’s cutter, the America, while shelter-
ing in the cove from bad weather, was
attacked by the islanders., The skipper
and his crew of five were killed. Only the
woman, Barbara Thompson, was spared ;
she was claimed by the chief, Boroto, who
made her one of his wives. When rescued
the woman was in a bad state; one of
her eyes was missing, the result of an
attack by jealous native women, A native
serving as a pilot in the Strait, who
claimed to be one of Boroto’s grandsons,
told us that the cutter was not the only
vessel looted and burnt by the islanders,
and gave us stories passed down by his
parents of other larger ships that had met
a similar fate. Several old Spanish gold
coins and other relics have beep picked
up on the island at different times, and
later at Thursday Island we were told of
a crumbling skeleton, alongside which
was a lusted sword of ancient design, that
had been found in a cave on the island
some 20 years ago by a trepanger. The
skeleton is believed to have been that of
a Spaniard who escaped from the natives
after his ship had been attacked.
V « * *
“Biridja”: - The needle-pointed bone
which is used as a sequel to the “point-
ing” business (B. 9/5/’45) is known as the
werpoo, but, as distinct from the method
of inserting between the victim’s ribs and
pressing upwards until it reaches the
heart, as claimed by “Anthropo,” most
operators favored the neck insertion, the
point eventually finding the heart with
surgical skill. Finger pressure was inserted
at the puncture point. This was im-
portant, for, if the blood was not allowed
to escape, the spirit of the victim could,
not pursue the murderer. Sometimes the
abos, would use a “strangling cord,”
looped at one end and attached to the
sharpened bone, which was passed under
the neck of the sleeping victim through
the loop, A strong pull upon the cord
means a sudden death without escape of
blood or spirit.
* * * *
“Hanko”: Big Joe was never a hard
drinker, but once when he contracted the
’flu he tried Red Heart rum. The big
fellow took a good swig, placed the bottle
within reach and tumbled into bunk.
During the night it was discovered that
Jackie Snowflake was drunk and the
bottle of Red Heart empty. The
abo. took a deal of handling while the
rum held sway, but eventually he took
a nose-dive into a corner and stayed
there. Came morning, and Snowflake
was in a bad way. His mud-colored eyes
were inflamed, his jaw sagged, and he
shook like a thin blancmange.. “By
cripe,” he moaned, “I feel flamin’ crook,
somehow.” The cook took pity on
him ; broke a couple of eggs into a bowl,
added a good dash of Worcestershire
sauce, and invited him to down it.
“That’s a prairie oyster,” he told the
sufferer. Jackie gulped the mess ; sat un-
decided for a minute, and then made a
dash for the door. When he came back
the cook eyed him interrogatively.
Snowflake waved glumly toward the
wide out-of-doors. “I jus’ did a record
spit with your, er, um, with your fairy
noysterer,” he gasped.
RIVER TOWN.
Sleeping the river town lies below the moon
That whitely glows, through pepperina trees,
On shining silver house-tops, long-legged wharf,
And slow, black water, wrinkling to the seas.
Darkly the town lies, but the shore-lights gleam,
Where glassy channels weave, silk-smooth down-
stream.
Now churns the old paddle-wheel, strongly
towing
The long and lighted barge, all black with tar.
She labors sugar-laden to the mill
By eerie light of moon and evening star,
Like a huge monster snuffling, snorting, blowing,
Small motor launches, high-packed with the
haul
Of tarry net and line,
Chug fussily to the swirling water’s edge,
Where tangled stalks of hyacinth twist and
twine.
Rocking at anchor sways the smoke-dark
dredge;
From boat to boat the lusty fishermen call
And salty stench of fishing blankets all.
Red light ... green light... the ferry plies
Ffom bank to reedy bank, bringing late-comers
home.
N.S.W.
JOAN MCEWEN.


Just like 9 f
and
Flashlight Batteries
must always be
rtom
on
now
LOOK FOK me
Flashlight batteries last much longer when they’re fresh!
Now—on every Eveready No. 950 flashlight battery you
will see a dateline guaranteeing its freshness telling
you the exact period in which it should be used. You’ve
seen datelines like this on other things. But it’s far more
important to see it on your flashlight battery, because
your safety and your comfort and your peace of
mind can depend on the battery in your flashlight
eveßEady
TRADE-MARK
DATED FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
They last longer because you always get them fresh.
AG
COOKERS
On Service /or
A. us trail a
AGA, the original heat-storage Cooker, made in Britain,
has enlisted in five vital services. AGA Cookers have
been supplied to the Navy, Army, and Air Force for
service in unit kitchens or military hospitals, to the American
Army and to the Ministry of Munitions. So if delivery of
your AGA Cooker should be delayed, please bear in mind
the urgent needs of the fighting forces and essential
services, which naturally receive war-time priority.
Wherever AGA Cookers are installed, whether for military
or civilian use, the proven AGA advantages are enjoyed
. . . almost unbelievable economy in fuel, continuous service
day or night, conservation
of food values and ease of
operation. Call for demon-
stration or write for ASA
Catalogue R 6.
LEVIN & CO. LTD.
Bst. 1852 (In c. In N.Z.)
45 King Street, Sydney, and
432 Boorke Street, Melbourne.
S.A. Agent*: Colton Palmer & Preston
Ltd., Adelaida.
Tasmanian Agents; A. S. Webster S
Sons, Hobart.
W.A. Agents: Malloch Bros. Ltd.,
Perth.
Qld. Agents: Queensland Primary
Producers' Co-op. Assn. Ltd., Brisbane.
@>
.00l of
her
nc-v
UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Fraternisation (1918).
(From Washington “Post.”)
When American troops entered the
Rhineland after the 1918 armistice a
general order against fraternisation, simi-
lar in intention if not in spirit to Field-
Marshal Montgomery’s, was issued by
General Pershing.
According to the subsequent U.S.
official report, the anti-fraternisation
order broke down quickly among the en-
listed ranks, largely as a result of the
billeting system, whereby the soldiers
were forced to live on terms of some
intimacy with the German peasant
families with whom they were quartered.
The soldiers could now perceive “that
a great deal of what they had read about
the innate viciousness of all Germans
was not true.” It was presently realised
at headquarters that the non-fraternisa-
tion order was for all practicable pur-
poses unenforceable, that its only effect
on the average soldier “was to prevent
him from appearing in public with his
German acquaintances.”
Nine months after its promulgation,
and after the transfer of the American
troops from billets to barracks, the non-
fraternisation order was rescinded,
largely, it would seem, because of a sharp
rise in the venereal disease rate. By then
“German women of* the better families
would not associate with soldiers on ac-
count of the Army order, and feminine
companionship... .had to be found
among such types of prostitutes—usually
the lowest ones —as would risk arrest for
the chance of a few marks.”
War Costs—So Far.
(As assessed by “United States News”)
In the war in Europe the U.S. spent
$170,000,000,000, as compared with
$41,000,000,000 in World War I. She
poured out oil, coal, steel, lumber and
food, and ’planes, tanks, ships, guns and
trucks. She will have a war debt, by the
time Japan is beaten, of more than
$275,000,000,000. She sent to Europe
3,500,000 men, as compared with
2,000,000 in World War I. She suffered
650,000 casualties in fighting Germany,
including 135,000 killed, or nearly three
times the losses in the first World War.
Britain’s contribution has been a great
exertion by a population one third that of
the United States. Britain’s total war
expense, directed mostly against the Ger-
mans, is about $125,000,000,000. She
alone has taken half of the losses of
more than 22,000,000 gross tons of Allied
and neutral merchant shipping. Total
casualties of United Kingdom forces on
all fronts are 685,000, including 216,000
killed. One home in three and ‘ 5500
factories have been destroyed or dam-
aged and 60,000 civilians have been
killed by German bombs.
In numbers of casualties suffered in
fighting the Germans Russia far out-
ranks all other Allied countries. Her
losses in killed, captured and missing
probably total 6,000,000, though German
estimates were two or three times that
high. Estimates the number of Rus-
sian civilians who were killed or taken
to Germany as slave workers range up-
ward from 15,000,000,
The casualties on both sides probably
total at least 40,000,000 soldiers and
civilians, half of them dead. The man-
power of parts of Europe will be de-
pleted for a generation. Much of the
Continent is a shambles. The peoples
are weakened by hunger, cold, disease,
by lack of clothing, medicines and
* homes.
Jap Suicide ’Planes.
(Described in a report by a N.Y. “World-
Telegram” correspondent in China.)
The Japs have begun large-scale pro-
duction of a new type suicide ’plane which
may prove more damaging in some re-
spects than Germany’s vaunted V-bombs,
The ’planes will replace the more expen-
sive regular combat ’planes, which Jap
suicide pilots have been loading with
explosives and crashing into American
warships.
The new ’planes under construction in
Manchuria carry a long ton of explosives
—224olb. —built into the noss, like a
torpedo warhead.
The pilot sits in the centre of the ’plane,
which is a pusher type, with propeller in
the rear. It was designed to have a maxi-
mum speed of 400 miles an hour and a
diving speed of 600 miles an hour. The
’plane explodes when either the nose or
a wing touches a solid object.
The suicide pilots normally are Japs,
though a few Chinese puppets also are
being trained. The pilots are locked in
the cockpit from the outside before the
take-off, and carry no parachute. The
wheels automatically drop away after the
’plane leaves the ground.
Unable either to bail out or land the
’plane without exploding it, the pilot is
doomed even before he dives on his
assigned objective.
After the take-off a suicide pilot circles
the field three times while the entire per-
sonnel of the base stands at attention and
salutes. *
Though the suicide fliers normally are
volunteers, the Jap air force is said to
have earmarked certain pilots as a re-
serve to be locked in the torpedo ’planes
in the event of a shortage.
European War in Retrospect.
(As summed up by the N.Y. “Times” war
commentator Hanson W. Baldwin.)
The war against Germany has ended “accord-
ing to plan”; that is, it has ended in victory.
But in scarcely any other way did the European
war follow that old saw of the communiques
—“according to plan.” No war has ever gone
that way and no war ever will; the enemy alters
blueprints effectively on the battlefield and in-
tangibles often distort our preconceived plans
to unrecognisable dimensions. For instance, if
the war had gone “according to plan”:
(1) No Tunisian campaign would have been
fought. We had hoped to beat the Germans to
Cape Bon, Tunis and Bizerte and to have
those places in our possession by Christmas,
1942, but the German reaction was too swift.
Originally, amphibious landings near Tunis and
Bizerte had been planned, but President Roose-
velt and others believed that the Allies’ flank
must be protected from a possible German
attack from Spanish Morocco, so that landings
in Morocco were substituted for those in
Tunisia. There was not enough shipping for
both.
(2) There would have been no Darlan agree-
ment and the struggle against the French in
North Africa might have been protracted to
our great disadvantage. Admiral Jean-Franfois
Darlan’s appearance in Algiers was unexpected
and fortuitous, for the French troops in North
Africa outnumbered our original invading force,
and Gen. Henri-Honore Gbaud had a very
limited influence with the French forces.
(3) The invasion of western Europe would
have occurred (under original American plans)
in 1943, instead of 1944. These plans, to which
the British objected—and rightly, in retrospect—-
were never finally approved, chiefly because or
the invasion of Italy, the shortage of shipping,
the insufficient number of troops and amounts
of equipment, disagreements about strategy, etc.
(4) After the Allies’ landing on the Nor-
mandy coast on June 6, 1944, a second land-
ing by the American Third Army would have
been made on D plus 41 near St. Nazaire in
Brittany. This landing was a major part of the
pre-D-day plan, when it was believed that we
would have to have the Breton ports t° de-
velop our French offensive and to fight the de-
cisive battle of France” between Brittany and
Paris. But the slow progress of the Allies’ first
forces in the Normandy hedgerows, supply
difficulties, an ammunition fire, lack of ship-
ping, and the fact that the Germans—expecting
another landing, but in the Pas-de-Calais rather
than the Brittany area—stripped Brittany to
reinforce Normandy, altered the plan.
The “Battle of France” was fought, unex-
pectedly, in Normandy. The Third Army was
therefore brought into Normandy and went
into action from there.
(5) The invasion of south-east France was
originally scheduled to be simultaneous with the
June landing in Normandy, but it was post-
poned, first to because of the lack of ship-
ping, then to August because of various factors,
among them a last-minute attempt to change the
scene of invasion from southern France to the
Balkans, or to the reinforcement of our armies
in western France.
(6) Rome would have been captured by Christ-
mas, 1943, instead of six months later. The
Salerno plans called for cutting across the
Italian peninsula, trapping German troops to
the south and reaching Naples and then Rome
in quick bounds. After the original delays
the Supreme Command was still confident, as
late as October or November, 1943, that Rome
could be taken by Christmas.
(7) The war would have ended in October,
1944, which was the date originally set by the
War Department for its termination.
When this did not occur —and after the Ger-
man Ardennes breakthrough, which was equally
unexpected—some high-ranking officers thought
that the war might well last until the autumn
of this year. But again the unexpected hap-
pened. The Germans did not blow up a bridge
at Remagen; the Rhine crossings were made
with remarkable ease; the Ruhr trap was forged,
and the western front caved in. Even so, the
final collapse and surrender of the “pockets”


FOR FIFTY YEARS THE WORLDS QUALITY OIL
%
mm
94
M kSHJo«cTS
qUMW
A LIFETIME OF LEADERSHIP
IN LUBRICATION
This year Vacuum celebrates its 50th Anniversary in Australia. Since
1895, with faith in the future of this country, it has kept step with the
pioneers, frequently anticipating their needs and providing facilities which
promoted, rather than followed, development. Year in and year out, in
good times and bad, in profitable communities and unprofitable communities,
Vacuum has steadfastly lived up to its ideal of complete Nation-wide Service
—and its products have earned a reputation for highest quality and suitability
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
Incorporated in Australia)HV^BßaaMßlHaaaH
SEE HOW
THEY RUN...
rjK
T -ft
MWfIV W 4 Y
TAKES OVER YOUR
LIFT MAINTENANCE
Time,* Wear and Tear never let up. Your lifts need not surrender
to the combined operations of tbis terrible trio, however. The
way to put them to rout in your building is to mount an offensive
... an intelligently planned and systematically e?ffecuted offensive
of "lift maintenance” under Waygood-Otis orders.
Preventive engineering would be a more descriptive term for
maintenance as carried out by Waygood-Otis. Minor faults are
sought and caught before they can develop into major overhauls
involving dislocation of service. Defects are anticipated and
remedied before they happen. Parts are replaced before they can
cause a breakdown.
0
It will pay you to place your lifts under Waygood-Otis care >-•
and if your installation is a Waygood-Otis, who but the manu-
facturer is better qualified to do the job?.
Use your telephone now to ask for facts
be obligated in any way.
* you won’t, of course.
LIFTS AND
ESCALATORS
VV AYGOOD - O T 1 S (AUST.) PTY, LTD. INCORPORATED IN VICTORIA
SYDNEY • MELBOURNE . BRISBANE . ADELAIDE . PERTH . HOBART . NEWCASTLE
WE A PQU ARTERS*FO REVERT 1C Al« TRANSPORTATION
was quite unexpected. Only two to three weeks
before Hitler’s death and the German sur-
render attempts high officers at Shaef had
estimated that the “battle of the pockets” would
continue throughout the summer. Even the
collapse did not go “according to plan.”
Nothing does in war. The only rule is to
expect the unexpected.
In retrospect, some of the greatest German
strategical mistakes of the war now appear to
have been: —
(1) The omission in 1941-42 to reinforce the
Africa Corps sufficiently to enable a decisive
German victory in Africa. Five to ten more
German divisions —perhaps fewer—could have
changed the whole course of the war by enabling
the enemy to overrun Egypt, Suez and the vital
strategical cornerstone of the British Empire
position, of the Middle East, for in many of the
months of 1941-42 complete British defeat in
Africa hung by a thread. Corollary to this mis-
take were the German omissions to capture
Malta; to occupy (perhaps under the terms of
the armistice with France) the Tunis-Bizert'e-
Cape Bon area in 1940-41 (long before our in-
vasion) and to exploit to the full the Iraqi
revolt in the spring of 1941.
(2) The declaration of war on the United
States after Pearl Harbor. The Japanese attack
on Pearl Harbor would probably, have brought
us into war against Germany in any case, but
had Hitler immediately followed the Japanese
attack with a conciliatory statement declaring
that he had no quarrel with the United States
public opinion in the U.S.A. —much of it at
the time against an entry into war against
Germany and focused on revenge against Japan
—would have caused political and psychological
difficulties. Hitler’s whole effort —at almost any
cost —before as well as after Pearl Harbor,
should have been to avoid a collision with the
United States, whose tremendous ■ industry, he
Before the war I was in Tokyo
when the Emperor left for Nara to
worship before the shrines of his
ancestors in that vicinity. I had to
leave the second floor of the build-
ing where I happened to be because
nobody must look down on the
Jap Son of Heaven. Subjects on
the sidewalk along the line of
march had to kneel and bow their
heads in the dust as the “divine”
one passed. Today, in Allied circles,
some contend that the Emperor
should be made to do the crawling
while the crowd looked on from
the sidewalks, the windows and the
rooftops; that the divinity cult
should be stamped out and the
people taught that Hirohito is just
an ordinary creature like them-
selves. Others, however, are con-
vinced that religion can’t be knocked
out of a people by force; that
force only makes fanatics. They
believe Hirohito would be more
useful to us in his palace than on
a gibbet.—William Philip Simms;
N.Y. “World-Telegram.”
should have known, would sooner or later
doom him to defeat.
(3) The decision in 1940-41 not to invade
England. In view of captured German
generals’ statements about inadequate landing
craft and mercantile and naval shipping and
because of the failure of the German Air Force
to win air supremacy over England, this is a
more debatable point. Nevertheless, had the
Germans been willing to lose what remained
of their fleet, much of the air rorce and per-
haps 100,000 to 300,000 men, a combined
amphibious and airborne invasion would prob-
ably have succeeded. The Jiurdle was the
Channel; the British in the summer of 1940
had less than one fully equipped division avail-
able to meet German invaders.
(4) The invasion of Russia, starting a two-
front war. Had England been eliminated first,
or had the African venture been pushed to a
successful conclusion, the Russian assault might
well have been successful. As it was, the
Germans’ miscalculation was not as great' as
sometimes pictured. Moscow very nearly fell
in 1941, and the Russian losses in 1941 and
1942 were tremendous. The Russian “come-
back” and the creation of new armies in the
midst of war have been, therefore, all the more
remarkable; there has probably been nothing
like it in military history. But the original
German miscalculation of Russian strength was
probably more a mistaken estimate of industrial
and psychological strength than of military
strength. For the Russian Army of today is
a very different army, indeed, from the Rus-
sian Army of 1941. The moral strength and.,
will-to-resist of the Russians, the fusing of a
whole nation on one goal—victory—and Russia’s
industrial power surprised Hitler and led to
his defeat. He contributed to that defeat
trying to fight in Russia a war of unlimited
objectives and by challenging what no army ever
has wholly and successfully challenged—tre-
mendous mass and indefinite distance.
In this connection the switch in the second
summer of war from the logical military objec-
tive —Moscow, the industrial, transportation,
psychological and political capital of Russia
and the large Red Armies defending it—to in-
definite economic and political objectives in
southern Russia was a strategic mistake of large
consequence. Stalingrad could have fallen
without decisive results; as it was, it was the
high-water mark of German conquest, but
probably not the turning point, for the mistake
had already been made. The real turning point
in Russia was probably the first battle for Mos-
cow; he turning points in the war were the
Battle of Britain, Moscow, the German declara-
tion of war on the United States and El Ala-
mein.
(5) Fundamentally, it was probably a German
mistake to start the ar,in 1939; the invasion
of Poland, which was ■ ' ' by the German
agreement with Russia, vds botfobejri speeded
by British attempts to achk-mposit rochement
with Russia, which undoubk Q j ned Ger-
many. Had Germany used pre , Ul and the
strategy of terror for another or so—
developing in the meantime •_ -weapons,
atomic energy and other explosive
weapons with maximum inteasKv >he might
have won the war rapidly. As is was. the secret
weapons were introduced top lat’e and too
little.
Such are some of the might-have-beens of
history. It is well for us that the enemy made
mistakes.
Plan Long Jap War.
(From a Chicago “Sun” special article .)
Top U.S. military men know that their
toughest problem in the Pacific is not
whipping the Japanese, though the cost
will be great, but whipping up enough
enthusiasm at home to clinch total vic-
tory.
Since a couple of years ago, when the
late Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox
and other high naval officials revealed
they were making plans to fight in the
Far East until 1949, little has occurred
to revise this estimate, which was based
on hard military calculations of strategy,
logistics and production.
Because of the mighty achievements in
the war against Japan, some strategists
say victory may come a year earlier than
was at first believed likely. But even at
that, we are faced with three more years
of bloodshed.
Assuming further that Russian aid
were forthcoming, and that it would
shorten the Far Eastern conflict by an-
other year, it would still leave two more
years of the toughest, bitterest fighting
imaginable.
How Lloyd’s Works.
(Condensed from an article in the “Saturday
Evening Post.”)
The only reason Lloyd’s did not foot
the bill for the destruction of Pompeii
by Mount Vesuvius is that this calamity
preceded the founding of Lloyd’s. More
recently, it is fair to state, few
catastrophes, mishaps and losses have
occurred in the world without Lloyd’s
being affected. And the fact that Lloyd’s
has no.t collapsed under the staggering
weight of the world’s, accumulated woe
proves that there’s money in optimism.
Endless as the catalogue of human fears
is the catalogue of risks accepted in The
Room today.
Having largely concentrated for two
centuries on marine insurance, Lloyd’s
started going in for other risks on a broad
front some 50 years ago ; today these
other risks outweigh Lloyd’s marine
policies by a considerable margin.
Lloyd’s insured the fishmongers of
Fish-street Hill against the contingency
of the London Monument crashing down
upon their houses. Lloyd’s insured a Lon-
don menagerie-keeper who had promised
to pay a large sum of money for the
Loch Ness monster, dead or alive, against
the, slender chance of his having to pay.
Lately Lloyd’s was insuring hotel-keepers
and owners of buildings in Britain and
America against damage resulting from
the exuberant reaction of the general
public to reports, true or false, of an
armistice between the United Nations
and (a) Germany, ( b ) Japan or (c) Ger-
many and Japan.
Of all standard types of insurance only
life insurance is outside the orbit of
Lloyd’s. “Everybody dies,” one under-
writer remarked, “so what’s the fun of
writing life insurances?”
War is the greatest insurance risk of
them all. Its purpose is destruction, and
the underwriter, accustomed to staking
his all on the belief that “the worst seldom
happens,” has to look where he is
going before he faces Mars himself with
an insurance policy in his hands.
During the first World War Lloyd’s
made a mint of money by covering land
war risks in the British Isles. With the
first German zeppelin overhead the
British public, it seems, rushed to
Lloyd’s to insure against wholesale de-
struction by aerial bombardment. Brokers
were mobbed in their offices and had to
hire special clerks, who jotted down names
and accepted premiums all day—one
broker had paid £370,000 in excess-
profits taxes before the war was over.
Only a few tiny and innocubus bombs
were dropped, and another human fear
proved unfounded, with Lloyd’s emerg-
ing as the ultimate beneficiary. Today
land-war risks as such are no longer
accepted at Lloyd’s. Buildings and
property are now insured by the Govern-
ment —it is the British nation, this time,
that foots the bill.
However, at the beginning of the blitz
Lloyd’s underwriters started to compute
figures and tabulate losses, and one group
evolved a “1000-to-l” monthly insurance
scheme, offering a policy covering the
assured against death or loss of limbs —
“death and spare parts” in underwriters’
lingo—at the moderate cost of one pound
a month for £lOOO insurance. This inven-
tion proved a gold mine—the group which
issued the policies was able, as a gesture
to the public, to double the benefits of
the policy during the lull of 1942. The
arrival of the flying bomb last summer
raised the amount of insurance taken out
to as much as £6,000,000 in a single day,


A ustralian-made
2-pounder Anti-Tank Gun
From War
to Peace
ippa?
Ss
't'rtm »tyv
SiumaS
•‘"^an'feowsfr-
Did you know this wheel
was made in Australia?
Benson Wheels .... made in Australia .... arc
original equipment for the 2-pounder Anti-Tank
Gun, Bofors Anti-Aircraft Gun, Twenty-five
Pounder Pack Gun, Jeep Trailers, Bomb Trains.
Whether the chassis of your post-war car is made
in or out of Australia, it should certainly be fitted
with the Australian-made wheels which have
proved themselves under the gruelling tests of
battle!
BENSON WHEELS
o
Wholly Made By
AUSTRALIAN STEEL SPLIT PULLEYS PTY. LTD.
ARTHUR STREET, HOMEBUSH, N.S.W.
too*?
m
*
is
»»
k
w
I
Ml
fss
J/
&
r
v . i\\ *>
or
V
■"Even pearls are dark before
j? the whiteness of her teeth.”
j That’s how the Persian poet
Nizami described his girl-
friend’s smile.
The world’s first dentifrice
was produced by the ancient
Greek, Hippocrates, in 400
B.C. Over two thousand
years later. Dr. N. S. Jen-
kins, a brilliant American
dental surgeon, perfected the
formula for a really scientific
dental cream - Kolynos !
Kolynos is the dental
cream that saves you
good, solid cash. You
just squeeze half an
inch of Kolynos on to
a dry brush. That half
inch of Kolynos thor-
oughly and antiseptic-
ally cleans your teeth.
Have you ever used
a blade of grass as a
toothpick? English
people in the Middle
Ages believed that de-
mons lived in grass ...
so you’d run the risk
of inhaling one.
Hercules (son of Zeus, and
the strong man of his
day) was also the possessor
of a triple row of teeth.
gf
Would you like to try Kolynos in
powder form? Kolynos Tooth Powder
gives teeth that same sparkle and polish.
in England, in the 16th Century, the Keeper of the
Public Bathhouse was an amateur extractionist. This
vagabond dentist strung teeth around a patched leather
jacket as mementoes of his professional activities. It’s
easy to make your teeth shine with their natural lustre.
Use Kolynos, the active and antiseptic dental cream.
All chemists and stores sell Kolynos.
and Lloyd’s V-l total was £30,000,000
as against a £9,000,000 stake in the blitz.
The war that rides the seas is a differ-
ent proposition altogether. In Britain
war-risk insurance on ships themselves is
carried by the Government. At the be-
ginning of this war, when it was evident
that commercial insurance rates on sea-
borne cargoes would have to be so high
as to cripple Britain’s over-seas trade, the
British Government took over war-risk
insurance on cargo en route to and from
the United Kingdom, commercial under-
writers not to compete. The scheme has
worked out well. Though unkind ob-
servers abroad have referred to the low
Government insurance rates as export
subsidies in disguise, it is fairer to
say that these rates enabled Britain to
carry on in the teeth of the U-boat
menace. Lloyd’s underwriters, who have
a keen sense of competition, have never
grumbled at being excluded from this
business.
Besides, there were enough “cross
voyages”— not touching United Kingdom
ports —as well as cargoes being shipped in
non-British vessels to compensate for the
loss. Almost every ton of cargo that went
down off the U.S. shores and on the
ticklish South Atlantic run carried,
directly or indirectly, some Lloyd’s cover-
age, and it took an establishment that
had survived the losses of eight genera-
tions to weather the storms of 1942. This,
incidentally, was one of the leanest years
for Lloyd’s underwriters specialising in
marine insurance—just as 1944 may prove
to be one of the best ever. The differ-
ence between the two tells the story of
the triumphant comeback of the Eagle
and the Lion.
Early in May, 1940, at the first signs
of the approaching storm, Lloyd’s sud-
denly doubled its rates for all voyages
to Holland and Belgium. On May 10
all war-risk policies on shipments to or
from the Low Countries were cancelled,
and a week or so later the same was
done for France. On June 19, 1940, the
rate for shipments from the American
continent to the United Kingdom went
up from 5 per cent, to 1\ per cent, of
the value of cargoes insured, and on July
10 it was jumped to 10 per cent. There-
after, with the U-boats taking a steadily
increasing toll, rates sky-rocketed and
premiums as high as 20 to 30 per cent,
for perilous voyages were not exceptional
—meaning that Lloyd’s sometimes re-
ceived nearly one-third of the value of a
ship’s cargo if the ship got through. On
August 7, 1941, four months before Pearl
Harbor, Lloyd’s sharply reacted to the
growing Japanese menace by charging
an extra 1 per cent, on all voyages to and
from the Far East. The maximum trans-
Atlantic rate charged by the British Gov-
ernment, from Pearl Harbor to the North
African landings, was 5 per cent.
And, then, on November 12, 1941, four
weeks before America entered the war,
Lloyd’s could announce the first reduc-
tion in the trans-Atlantic rate, stating the
measure reflected “the improved situation
and the strong naval policy of the United
States.” It was the first faint rainbow
after the deluge. In June, 1943, rates for
the Mediterranean were quoted again,
for the first time since the early summer
of 1940, and after the Allied landings in
Normandy the trans-Atlantic rate went
down to H per cent—the sun had broken
through at last.
The future? Although the uncertainties
of war may send Lloyd’s premium in-
come to dizzy heights, Lloyd’s men are
professional pacifists. Marine insurance
is based on international trade, and the
free flow of commerce between nations
is the lifeblood of international insurance
of every type. Its stake in the reinsur-
ance trade, especially, gives Lloyd’s a
vital interest in international co-opera-
tion. Before the war, for example, the
largest risk handled at Lloyd’s was the
vast network of chemical plants and
laboratories owned by I. G. Farben in
Germany; another large source of
premium income cancelled by the war
was the French merchant marine. In
the 1920’s Lloyd’s successfully pioneered
in the field of international trade in
covering a British firm which had bought
a shipment of Russian timber and which
had been asked by the Soviet Govern-
ment to deposit the money in advance.
This deal, which actually amounted to
an insurance of Russia’s good faith in
fulfilling her contractual obligations, re-
opened British-Soviet trade; today the
Soviet Government itself, through its in-
surance monopoly, is heavily reinsured at
Lloyd’s. Oiir Chinese Allies have insured
the meagre assets of Free China at
Lloyd’s, and there is good money in
Lloyd’s South American accounts. Ob-
viously, a return to narrow nationalism
after the war, with one nation shutting
out other nations’ goods and services,
would cause unhappiness at No. 12
Leadenhall-street.
At their annual meeting on June 23,
1943, the members of Lloyd’s decided to
widen the basis for membership by ad-
mitting the nationals of British Dominions
—a decision which was received in the
British press as “one of the most sensa-
tional pieces of City news for many
years.” A movement to invite American
citizens to become members of Lloyd s is
afoot. By opening its doors to men from
every part of the English-speaking world
this amazing institution expects to take
the lead, once more, in the peaceful
growth of international trade. Cheerfully
anticipating the unknown hazards of the
next 250 years, Lloyd’s is confident that
it cannot be licked ; for, seen from the
inner sanctum of The Room, the customer
is always wrong.
R.N.’s “Floating Base.”
(Condensed from a report by N.Y. "Times"
correspondent Robert Trumbull, aboard the
British Fleet “Train” flagship .)
With current operations in the Pacific
the British Navy departs radically from
her centuries-old tradition. The British
Navy was built to operate from bases
spaced no more than a thousand miles
apart around the world, and that has been
the classic scheme of empire. In the
strike against the Sakishima Group in the
Ryukyu Islands British ships were fight-
ing 4000 miles from their nearest base in
Australia. This abrupt departure from
her ancient concept of sea fighting is
being accomplished through a naval unit
new to the British, known as the fleet
train.
The fleet train essentially is a tremen-
dous floating base that can be anchored
anywhere. It is a manoeuvrable Malta
that supplies the combatant ships with
services they formerly obtained ashore.
It consists of a vast collection of repair
and supply vessels that can give any ser-
vice from hospitalisation to repair and
A Labor union has taken the
unusual step of expelling from its
ranks six members whom a union
trial committee found guilty of
slowing down production of 40mm.
shells in a Long Island City war
plant. Loss of their membership
means loss of their jobs, in view of
the union’s closed-shop contract.
Eight suspended members will
also lose their jobs. A trial com-
mittee, after hearing testimony,
concluded that the 14, three of
whom were women, were respons-
ible for “an organised interruption
of production.” The suspended
members were fined a total of
$325, which the union said would
be turned over to Navy Relief “as
a small token payment of the harm
caused by these members.” — N.Y.
“Times” report.
replacement of aircraft. It supplies am-
munition, oil, tools, food, water and new
man-power to fill the gaps left by casual-
ties.
With a fleet train the British Navy in
the Pacific is fully self-sustaining during
operations. The maintenance captain of
the train has said that when the fleet
recently passed through an American
naval base all it required was water and
a little oil —the usual harbor services.
That is what the British mean by self-
sufficiency out here.
In the train are a number of Australian
ships, a Danish tanker and a Dutch hos-
pital ship, which, the maintenance captain
explained, “just happened to fit in.”
British hospital ships, incidentally, are
chartered liners with staterooms knocked
together into wards. The.commercial line
still runs the ship, with doctors, nurses
and patients travelling in the status of
passengers. The standard British hospital
ship handles 500 casualties.
The American and British positions in
the naval world have been reversed. With
a string of bases across the Pacific to fbe
coorstep of the enemy, the United States
fleet now can operate short range, as the
British once did, without the Pacific naval
stations they held prior to December,
1941.
The British are now fighting in a long-
range war at sea with a short-range fleet.
The fleet train is an attempt to overcome
the obvious difficulties.
Eisenhower.
(From an article by Washington “Post” touring
correspondent Marquis Childs .)
The weight of his responsibility has
aged 54-year-old General Eisenhower
visibly in the nearly three years he has
carried it, first in Africa, then in Italy,
and in France and Germany.
When subordinates put a knotty
question up to him he has a habit of
hesitating a moment and biting his
lower lip in concentration. “Now, Fm


... i m
:■>. •• • ->X ; - v ,V^
For BEAUTY
and
PROTECTION
Specify
IETAL WINDOW
FRAMES
h
J. CONNOLLY PTY., LTD., Sydney
IIC»*
All Men Think
All Men Mortal
But Themselves
And that is why so many other-
wise careful and provident heads
of families neglect the most
sacred duty they owe to those
dependent upon them.
That is to ensure by the careful drawing
of a Will that the provision made for
those who follow on passes to them
without loss or inconvenience.
Your wife and family are dependent
on you now; they will be much more
dependent when you are gone. Now
they have your counsel and support;
what they will have when you are gone
will depend very largely on what you
do before you go.
So, remember that you, too, are mortal.
Have your Will properly drawn and
attested, and be sure you leave the
administration of it in good and
experienced hands.
The Trustee Company—such as the
old-established Union Trustee—is the
ideal executor. It possesses experience
and business judgment. It is com-
pletely impartial; it does not grow old
or die ; its charges are moderate and
are ascertainable in advance.
For further information consult
The Union Trustee
COMPANY OF AUSTRALIA LIMITED
[lncorporated in Victoria] Established 1885
333 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
DIRECTORS :
J. C. Mackinnon (Chairman); E. T. H. Richardson (Vice-Chairman)*
Sir Clive McPherson, k.b., c.b.e.; Arthur Debenham; Norrafn J. Carson.
Advisor: Samuel Cooke, General Manager: John Larrltt.
Manager: J. McEwan Carroll.
Pastoral Inspector; H. A. Hay,
2 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY
NEW SOUTH WALES BOARD:
Hon, Sir Henry Braddon, k.b.e. (Chairman); Colin A. Sinclair (Vice-Chairman)*
Hon. Sir Graham Waddell, k.b.e.; A. E. Heath, c.m.g.; Robert C. Wilson- '
Hon. Sir Henry Manning, k.c., m.l.c.
Manager : J, G. H. Shipway. Assistant Manager : L, K. Stephen;
Pastoral Inspector : Frank Laird.
398-402 QUEEN STREET, BRISBANE
QUEENSLAND BOARD:
Major-General Sir T. W. 'Glasgow, k.c.b., c.m.g., d. 5.0., v.d. (Chairman)-
J. W. Fletcher, ojb.h. (Vice-Chairman); R. M. Bell; B. Hart, m.c., f.c.a. (Aust.)-
R. J. Donaldson, d. 5.0., b.e.; Cecil Brenan,
Manager : H. W. Herbert, b.ec., f.f.i.a., a.c.i.a.
Assistant Manager : C. A. Bradfield, a.f.i.a., a.a.i.s.
TOWNSVILLE, 14-16 Denham Street —E. N. Jobst (Branch Manager).
TOOWOOMBA, Margaret Street—L. G. Wemyss (Branch Manager)
Pastoral Inspectors : C. W. Stumm, J. S. Lipscomb
CONCERTED ACTION
—on a 94-ctcre front
The WELL-PLANNED FLOORS of che eight General
Motors-Holden’s factories throughout Australia aggre-
gate just this area . * . ninety-four acres of laboratories,
drawing offices, workshops, and administrative offices
where thousands of employees, using ingenious pro-
cesses and still more ingenious machines, co-operate
in the production of equipment and vehicles required
for war.
Until final Victory is won, this tremendous effort will
be maintained. It is a co-ordinated method of working
which General Motors-Holden’s believe will not only
help to end the war, but will also produce more and
better peace-time requitements, for more people, when
war is won.
GENERAL ROIORS-HOLREN’S LTD.
BRISBANE SYDNEY MELBOURNE ADELAIDE PERTH
* Keep on buying War Savings Certificates and
Xf- National Savings Stamps
BEDFORD. BUICK. CADILLAC. CHEVROLET. G.M.C.. OLDSMOBILE. PONTIAC. VAUXHALU
C 804
not trying to buck your question,” he
says. And then, when he has thought
it out, he gives his answer.
Inevitably, a certain remoteness sur-
rounds this man. His concentration on
the objective before him is necessarily
so intense. Not because he wanted to,
since he is by nature a friendly human
being, but because it seemed the only
choice, he cut himself olf from all social
life. This includes military banqueting,
which is part of the function of higher
officers in a foreign country, as well as
mingling with the rich and aristocratic
French, who court some high-ranking
American officers.
Eisenhower’s forehead is more lined
than it was three years ago. He is per-
haps more bald, with only greying wisps
of sandy hair on the top of his high-
domed head. His expression is ordin-
arily serious and preoccupied except
when a warm smile lights his face.
The impression he makes on most
visitors is one of solid, almost solemn,
integrity. It is in the way he sits with
his massive hands locked together on
the desk before him. It is in the way
he speaks about the war. It is not that
he is formal or pompous. Far from it.
There is no fuss and feathers about his
headquarters.
He can be mild and friendly, but he
also can be stern. Once, when he was
living in the apple orchards of Nor-
mandy, a United States labor union
delegation came to see him. They began
to talk about reconversion. Mild-man-
nered General Ike let them have it.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Underlying all these glowing dreams- of per-
fectly adjusted world commodity markets, in
which producers and consumers of a hundred
nationalities are delighted to agree upon just
enough production and the right prices, is the
naive assumption that thinking is better market
regulation than trading, that the decrees of an
authority can bring willing sellers and willing
buyers together more quickly and more con-
tinuously than they can find one another
through their own experience-trained efforts.
That idea fights with both common sense and
history. But the truly abhorrent thing about
it is the police surveillance of the humblest
citizen’s efforts to make a living, without
which its eager proponents themselves are forced
to admit it wouldn’t work. All of these plans
and specifications for the best way to save our
traditional way of life, to preserve our political
forms from destructive revolution, seem to this
newspaper to add up to the proposition that we
set up a governmental tyranny for the post-war
years lest worse befall. What worse thing could
happen ? —‘ ‘ Wall-street Journal.”
* * * *
Rarely in history has any conference been
given a more overwhelming mandate for action
by the common people of the United States
than San Francisco was given. The tide of
public sentiment in favor of setting up a world
league backed by force is running higher than
at any time in 10 years. More than eight out
of every 10 civilians polled by the American
Institute of Pubic Opinion favor such a step, as
against fewer than 4 in 10 before the U.S.
entered the war. The sentiment of the majority
is, moreover, a comparatively intense sentiment.
A large proportion consider it highly important
that the United States join this organisation.
In short, if the results of the San Francisco
Conference are in any way disappointing it
will not be because of any lack of agreement
among the American people on the principle
of United States co-operation to maintain
peace. —George Gallup.
* * * %
Francis Forde, Australian Deputy Prime Min-
ister, when in London to attend British Com-
monwealth talks, went to the Boomerang Club
for Australians in London. “I am Forde,” he
said by way of introduction. “What, Henry?”
one of the clubmen asked. “No; I wish I
were. I am just the Deputy Prime Minister,”
Forde replied. —Chicago “Tribune.”
* * Jfc H*
Bribery, bootlegging, hijacking, gangsterism—
all the sour fruits that prohibition gave to
American manners—are common in French
cities because of the shortage of food, fuel,
clothes and the means of moving from one
place to another such consumers’ goods as are
available. It took a month of repeal—the flow
of plenty of legal, reasonably priced alcoholic
beverages—to wash from the United States
most of the moral stains of prohibition. It will
require many months after this war before the
curse of the black market is lifted from the
French people. However bounteous this year’s
crops may be, normal transport will be lacking
throughout all of 1945 and it is doubtful if
any large French city will have good food and
good wine at reasonable prices until another
year has rolled around in more peaceful cir-
cumstances. — Chicago “Sun” correspondent in
France.
* * * *
Except for periodic shifts towards the
centre, Mr. Roosevelt in his 12 years fol-
lowed the New Deal pattern, and there was
little doubt that —after the war and peace
problems had been solved —the late President’
would have embarked on a post-war second-
phase New Deal in company with tried
and true New Dealers. The difference antici-
pated under Mr. Truman is this: He will
certainly not turn “conservative” as that term is
understood by organised Labor and those on
whom the late President most often relied. His
leadership in the legislation to increase the pay
of railway workers is one good base for this
belief. But his thinking will be much more
along conventional economic and social lines.
And he will in time surround himself with
assistants who have not been admirers of Mr.
Roosevelt’s inner circle.— Arthur Knock; N.Y.
“Times.”
* 4= * *
U.S. Supreme Court Justice Robert H. Jack-
son has advised against “farcical” judicial trials
for war criminals. “If it is believed that the ex-
ample will outweigh the tendency to create
among their own countrymen a myth of martyr-
dom—then let them be executed,” Mr. Justice
Jackson said. “But in that case,” he added,
“Jet the decision to execute them be made as a
military or political decision. We must not use
the forms of judicial proceedings to carry out or
rationalise previously settled political or military
policy.” The justice said he was not arguing
against bringing to trial those accused of war
crimes, but was calling for “trials in fact, not
merely trials in name to ratify a predetermined
result.” There are cynics, he said, who “will see
no reason why courts, just like other agencies,
should not be policy weapons.... It is charitable
to assume that such advocates of power as the
sole source of law do not recognise the identity
of their incipient authoritarianism with that
which has reached its awful climax in Europe.”
—“Christian Science Monitor.”
* * * *
“Scientific discoveries have been made in this
war which have not yet been embodied in war
weapons, have not yet materialised in a muni-
tions programme—discoveries which, if any war
were to take place in the future, would make
this calamity seem small in comparison; would
multiply this calamity tenfold, or one hundred-
fold, and might mean the end of the human
race.” — Field-Marshal Smuts.
* * * *
Molotov proposed at San Francisco that
nations should guarantee the “right to work”
as one of the fundamental rights to underlie
any world organisation. Americans countered
with a proposal to guarantee the “right of free
speech” and “freedom of the press,” whereupon
Molotov said he thought it would be better
not to mention any specific rights but t'o refer
to all human rights. That was agreed upon.
—“United States News.”
* * * cfc
The Russians apparently desire —and probably
will have their way—a large mass of German
slave labor to rebuild their country. According
to Maurice Hindus, the Russians hate the words
“slave labor.” He says: “The very suggestion
of slave labor rouses Russian ire. True enough,
Germans will be drafted for work in Russia
and in other lands they have scorched and
sacked.” It is a distinction without a difference.
Labor, unless it is paid wages for work done,
unless it has freedom of movement to seek and
find jobs, unless it can be hired, fired or can
resign from a job, unless it has some form of
collective bargaining, no matter how primitive,
and possesses the right to strike, is slave labor.
Russian labor has not been free for 28 years
by any definition of freedom understandable in
the United States. — George E. Sokolsky; N.Y.
“Sun.”
*4: * 4:
In London restoring liberties taken away by
the war was one of the first post-victory steps.
The Government has made a good start in this
direction, revoking 84 defence regulations and
modifying another 25. Members of Parliament
were especially gratified at the removal of Regu-
lation 18-B, aimed at potential quislings. Under
this, citizens could be interned without trial.
Although essential at the time of its imposition,
this particular infringement of liberties always
made Parliament unhappy. Government de-
partments have started axirtg some of their
staffs, especially the Ministry of Economic War-
fare and the Ministry of Information. But
with the setting up of new Ministries, such as
that of National Insurance, a good many Gov-
ernment workers losing their jobs simply will
transfer to other departments. Parliament will
have to exercise vigilance if war-time staffs are
to be cut sufficiently to help toward tax re-
duction. Aluminium houses will help Britain’s
light alloy industry carry on during the tran-
sition period as aircraft production is cut. Sir
Stafford Cripps, Aircraft Production Minister,
announced an order for 50,000 temporary
aluminium homes. Later it is hoped that an
order can be placed for 50,000 permanent alu-
minium houses. — London correspondent “Wall-
street Journal:”


. „,„Wr <4»®P
H StßVltt
c 0 c ln^ ustl^
Se . t\ie HatioM
Serves t» e
, w£ ftO ot+' cE _
FACTOR 8 * riC HMOHO
t* C^,ice
iiiiiii
■ -
THIS
*■ , h 0 right limited
Over on*® ng ava
olpt oducten rised TaV»
nuanfities a* >
Paints agen • _
- -ri-ix r T V Y1 4 jJVW'
* iU
■W® boP Jllbe able to gel a 01 .
nr»^^ tomato
ised Tabor s 9 way-
a liUle g° a 1
; root pWtn lr
I££S-
KALSOMIN^' -
\ tR VLOR'S SPlßtf
‘stßms-savRH
ALUMINIUM
gUASffiL
80®^-
t 11 TaY^° r s a* preset
»?JS3SP-^Sta“£» ~
b due to
NO STOCKS j aVO un'cs-
oiy ouxP*® w
-^.r^ EsRMEt
.taylobs
%
r.
c r, e
Ta
-St BX
#
' '* f
f IME ISA* TEST
PREPARED
Three coats ol first-grade
paint give 5 years' full protection.
TP 2-45
r
I
Made by Taylor's Pa utherland Ave., Paddington, N.S.W. Tel. FA 2125
PAINT SUF ARMY. NAVY AND AIR FORCE
THE WAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRY. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Rayon and Wool.
“Outback”: The case put by the British
rayon delegation for the co-operation
of wool interests in the manufacture of
cloth from a mixture of wool and rayon is
worth considering. The delegation frankly
admitted that in its own field wool was
supreme. No man-made fibre combined
such wool features as warmth, elasticity,
strength, water-absorbency, slow conduc-
tivity, etc., and no man-made fibres had
of themselves any felting or milling pro-
perties. But wool was not ideal for
tropical wear, and so, often as not, cotton
was used. Cotton was cool, so was rayon;
but without a mixture of wool neither
made up as smartly as wool clothing.
A cloth-manufacturing expert said that
by a mixture of fine “denier” rayon staple
it was possible to spin counts twice as fine
as anything in all-wool, even when the
finest wool was used. This long-staple
rayon could also be mixed with cheaper
sorts of wool to increase their spinability
and make fine crossbreds handle more
softly.
The newer type of rayon—calcium
alginate—was alkaline soluble, and it dis-
integrated and disappeared when the
fabric was washed after weaving. This
apparent drawback was used to produce
all-wool textures of almost gossamer fine-
ness for hot weather and evening wear
materials, in which wool alone had no
hope of a place. The delegation displayed
samples of beautiful materials of tropical
cloth made from a mixture of 60 p.c. to
70 p.c, wool and the balance rayon, which
was being manufactured in readiness for
the post-war trade.
Having seen some of the “ersatz”
materials produced by Germany for use
in military uniforms, the delegation said
that graziers need lose no sleep regarding
competition from such materials. It was
significant that even during the last
months of the war German Army cloth-
ing never contained less than 60 p.c. of
wool.
“Graz”: British textile authorities
announce that post-war woollen fabrics
will be made “mothproof, unshrinkable
and unaffected by exposure to light and
laundering.” Fibres are treated with syn-
thetic resins, different resins producing
different kinds of wool. Treated wools
have three times the wearing quality of
untreated. Wool is still pre-eminent in
cold climates, but competition elsewhere
is hot, wool tops selling at 2s. 6d. up-
wards and synthetic fibres only lOd. per
pound.
Britain, producer of the world’s highest-
quality woollen cloth, is eager to regain
her export trade. Her mill output for
civilian use during the war years was very
low, but experienced millworkers are now
being released. France, second-largest
importer of wool, again has her mills in
production. Belgian and Polish mills
(at Lodz) are reported ready for action.
All European mills will need to work at
high pressure if that continent’s
360,000,000 human bodies are to be
wrapped in woollen garments this coming
winter. This potential increase in con-
sumption, coupled with declines in pro-
duction of 104,000 bales in the 1944
American clip and 330,000 in Australia,
suggests that war-time accumulation of
wool has reached its peak.
Dairying Crops.
“Muffin”: Many dairy farmers are not
satisfied with the growth of fodder crops
and pastures on their farms, otherwise
dairy advisers would not be called on so
frequently to answer questions bearing
on soil fertility and productivity, the
rapid running-out of grasses during dry
spells' and the increasing difficulty of
maintaining swards of nutritious pasture
plants. To most questions a common
answer may be given: that most of the
soils in old-established dairy lands have
been allow to deteriorate in fertility, par-
ticularly in respect of content of organic
matter.
Through continuous cropping and graz-
ing supplies of readily available mineral
plant foods become exhausted. With the
depletion of humus, soils lose to a great
extent their capacity to absorb and retain
moisture. To get both grass and crop
land back to a highly productive condi-
tion it is necessary to practise rotation,
including growing green manure and top-
dressing of pastures.
Among right methods of pasture im-
provement is systematic application
of farmyard manure, the cheapest of
available fertilisers and one which should
be more widely appreciated as a factor
in grassland economy. Properly used,
animal manure rapidly improves the
growth of grass.
Feeding Young Turkeys.
“Myrrhee”; Turkey poults may be
fed as soon as they will start to eat
(usually after 36 to 48 hours) a good chick
mixture either as a dry or a wet mash.
When the birds are a few days old add
a little finely-chopped, tender green food
to the mash and give some of it sepa-
rately. Allow free range in fine sunny
weather and provide good shelter ; young
turkeys are susceptible to damp.
Skim milk could be used in the mash
and for drinking. Give ’em a little
cracked grain in the evenings and at the
end of six weeks whole wheat and oats,
with some cracked maize. When the
birds are on free range with plenty of
grass seeds and insects the mash may be
dropped and grain given in the evening
to encourage them to come back to the
roost. Give them extra feed three or
four weeks before marketing.
Shelter Belts.
“L, Cove”: The farm-tree scheme fol-
lowed by the U.S. Forest Service is so
successful that Australia can’t do better
than follow it. The U.S. objective was
to co-operate with farmers in the estab-
lishment of shelter belts in the prairie
regions. Drift of the fertile topsoil in
that area resulted in a p.c. decrease
in population. Most farms lacked pro-
tection from wind, and farmers were hard
to convince that trees could be grown
under drought conditions in sandy soil.
Under the Forest Service planting pro-
gramme from 1935 to 1942 trees in shelter
belts 'developed from 20ft. to 45ft. high
and from 6in. to 12in. in diameter. To-
day the shelter belts stabilise the soil,
control wind erosion, help retain ground
moisture, temper summer winds destruc-
live to crops and protect stock from cold
changes. Under the plan the farmer and
local agencies bear 50 p.c. of the cost.
The U.S. Government supplies all
planting stock, plants trees on new plan-
tations and on areas being replanted. It
advises the farmer on thinning and re-
placement, supplies poison bait and
rodent control, and constructs necessary
fencing. The farmer undertakes prepara-
tion of the land for planting, furnishes
power for subsoiling, fencing material
and, in certain cases, fence-construction. He
does all necessary field-cultivation, distri-
butes the poison for rodent control, does
some minor planting, maintains fences
and is responsible for protection and
maintenance work, including insect con-
trol.
As a result over 30,000 farms in U.S.A.
benefited between 1935 and 1942. In
all, 18,600 miles of shelter belts were
established, containing 217,378,350 trees.
Total shelter-belt expenditure in 1940
amounted to £3,500,000; cost per acre
averaged £l7.
Silting of Streams.
“L.C.”: The advocates of weeping
willows as binders of stream banks and
supplementary fodder don’t go far
enough. Willows bring another problem
which, if neglected, may cause rather
than retard erosion.
During the last few months I have in-
spected the headwaters of the Condamine
River (Q.) from Cecil Plains to the Range,
cfeeks about Stanthorpe, Inglewood and
Tenterfield, the Mole and Severn Rivers,
all of which I had not seen for over 30
years. I was astonished by the mass of
tangled branches of weeping willows
lying in the beds of these streams. Many
limbs and trunks had been cut, apparently
for stock feed, and it had been too much
trouble to pull them out of the channels
before it rained. The result is silting—
huge masses of mud are forming around
what was once a small limb or two.
The flow is impeded by the debris in
the streams. The Condamine at Elbow
Valley stopped flowing for two months
this year, the longest time on record.
All fallen limbs and trunks should be
removed from the streams once or twice
a year. This gives the first fresh a chance
to flush the holes out and deposit the silt
downstream on the flats, where it will be
an asset instead of a liability. Snig them
out or bum them when the holes are dry,
but don’t leave them to ruin your water-
hole.
Whitewash Mixtures.
“N.”: The Queensland Department
of Agriculture recommends the following


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANS EASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S
gf
DUPLICATOR
I Has all the fines! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction d
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli*
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
SENDFOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
ONIV AGENTS
£l7/10/. 'srssm
Built entirely in Australia by
JACKSON
& O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
S 3
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
SOLD
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/0
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/<)
BY ALL OHRMTSTS
MANY NEVER
SUSPECT CAUSE
OF BACKACHES
[This 019 Treatment Often firing;
Happy Relief
It is surprising how quickly many sufferers
relieve nagging backache once they discover
that the real cause of their trouble may be
clogged kidneys.
Your kidneys contain 15 miles of tiny tubes
or filters which strain the waste and acids
from the blood. A healthy person should pass
three pints a day and so get rid of three pounds
of waste matter.
If your kidneys don’t work well, this waste
stays in the body and may become poisonous,
causing, nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago,
swollen feet and ankles, puffiness under the
eyes, rheumatic pains and dizziness. Frequent
or scanty passages with smarting and burning
are further evidence that something is wrong
witih the kidneys or bladder.
Don’t wait! Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS...
used successfully the world over by millions of
people suffering with backache and other kidney
disorders. They give quick relief and will help
flush out the 15 miles of kidney tubes. So be
sure you get DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY
PILLS,
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIQH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
g
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
CVanogaS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY,
G 'T A B L E T S
FOR BLOOD. VEINS.
ARTERIES, ETC.
BLASTO? , . . What can it do for me ?
Here are the Answers !
If you suffer from constant
unnatural weariness; if you
are the victim of chronic pain
resulting from poor blood cir-
culation or a devitalised blood
condition; if you have varicose
veins, piles, rheumatism, skin
complaints or similar troubles
Elasto, the wonderful new
Biomedical treatment, can
bring you speedy relief. “How
can that be”, you might well
say, when so many things have
failed . ..
Here is how ELASTO works
It has long- been realised that
these conditions are frequently
the fault of the blood condition
or circulation, and the amazing
success of Elasto is due to the
fact that it goes right to ■gfork at
this source —it revitalises the
blood. Suffice it to say here that
Elasto is not a drug but a vital
cell-food. It restores to the blood
the vital elements which combine
with the blood albumin to form
organic elastic tissue and thus
enables nature to assist elastic-
ity to the broken-down and de-
vitalised fabric of veins, arteries.
etc., and so re-establish normal,
healthy circulation without which
there can be no true healing.
Nine times out of ten the real
trouble is bad circulation.
This is more fully explained In
simple .language in a free book-
let— see offer below.
What users of ELASTO say»
The fact is that no ailment re-
sulting from poor or sluggish
circulation of the blood can re-
sist the action of Elasto. Here is
what a few of many grateful
users have said:
‘‘No sign of varicose veins
now.”
“Completely healed my vari-
cose ulcers.”
“ ‘Elasto’ has quite cured my
eczema.”
“My doctor marvelled at my
quick recovery from phlebitis.”
Send for FREE Booklet
Simply send your name anu
address to “Elasto", Box 1552 E,
Sydney, for your FREE copy of
the interesting “Elasto” booklet.
Or better still, get a supply of
Elasto (with booklet enclosed)
from your chemist today and see
for yourself what a wonderful
difference Elasto makes. Obtain-
able from chemists and stores
everywhere. Price 7/6, one
months supply.
: ' i 6ajU& t AdUte * yim* fitnondd/
LYS
PROOF
100 % Australian-made
from Australian Material
Wire Netting
Wire Nails
Our Netting and Other Products are
known throughout the Commonwealth
as of the highest standard.
LOOK for Our MARKER in
every Roll of Netting.
LYSAGHT’S
Fencing Wire
m
ii
mm
•*
ESTABLISHED 1884
Barbed Wire
Zinc Oxide
QUALITY GUARANTEED .
Obtainable***from all the Leading
Merchants, Storekeepers and Agents.
Lysaght Bros. & Co. Pty., Ltd.
Head Office: 17-19 Bridge Street Sydney.
SPECIFY "LYSAGHT'S" WIRE. WIRE NETTING, ETC.
for milking sheds, bails, stables and all
outside work, and particularly for roofs,
to keep the buildings cool. (1) Twenty
pounds lime (unslaked), 31b. common salt,
ilb. alum. Slake lime with boiling water
to consistency of thin cream. To increase
antiseptic qualities add \ pint crude car-
bolic per bucketful. (2) To half a bucket
of lime add two handfuls of common salt
and two of tallow. Slake slowly with cold
water, stirring all the time. This gives
two buckets of wash, which will be very
adhesive and unaffected by rain, (3) Slake
lime with water and add sufficient skim
milk to bring it to the thickness of thin
cream. To each gallon add loz. salt and
2oz. brown sugar or molasses dissolved
in water.
The germicidal value of two and three
can be increased by the addition of
chloride of lime to every 30gal, of wash.
For inside work in dairies and factories
with damp atmosphere whitewashes,
should not be used ; the buildings should
be painted with reliable sanitary paints.
A Timber Theory.
“Scot”; In 1895 the box-ironbark-
brigalow-belah country of s.-w. Queens-
land was of an open nature, the timber
consisting of isolated seedlings and sap-
lings, trees of fence-post to strainer size
and old, hollow trees. Thick patches of
seedling and sapling growth, even where
no timber destruction had taken place,
were not in evidence. During bark-
stripping for home-building and slab- or
post-splitting the necessary saplings of
handy size for levers were not always to
be found. In 1898, when ’possum-
snarers used a light pole to lean against
the hollow trees for snare-setting purposes,
they had to cart the poles, obtained in
cypress pine and other scrubs, for con-
siderable distances on to the forest
country.
In the dry years from 1895 to the
record drought of 1902 thick patches
began to appear on both the green-
timbered and the ringbarked country,
and where not destroyed by manual labor
this growth has been in evidence ever
since that time, being the result of in-
frequent bush- or grass-fires of sufficient
heat and frequency only to cause timber-
seed germination but not to destroy or
thin out the growing young trees. Thus
it is evident that forest timber growth
was thinned out and checked by frequent
bush- or grass-fires, recorded by early
explorers and squatters as having been
lighted by aborigines for the purpose of
attracting marsupials to the young grass
that appeared after the fires.
Hints for the Farm.
“Hortus”: Class your sheep periodi-
cally, no matter how small the flock. The
best time is just before shearing, as the
sheep are then carrying a full fleece, but
any time after sheep have six or eight
months’ wool on will do. All ewes
showing faults in frame, or producing
wool not true to type should be culled
out.
“Nuffin”: Shearing merino rams twice
a year should be encouraged. Rams in
short wool are far less susceptible to fly
strike in the head, where a great propor-
tion of strikes in rams occurs. With the
shorter wool treatment is much simpli-
fied and the chances of saving a ram are
much fetter. Another point is that rams
are in condition to join at a time to suit
seasonal conditions. Joining rams with
any considerable fleece is not to be
recommended.
“V.G.L.”; A ration of 3*lb. of
potatoes and ilb. of linseed nuts or 31b.
potatoes and |lb. lucerne hay daily will
maintain the average sheep. The quan-
tities may be reduced according to
nature and quantity of paddock feed. It
is seldom necessary to feed the full
ration. Dry cattle could be fed the
ration in proportions, but each beast will
require five times the quantity fed to
sheep. Milking cows should get 41b. of
meatmeal, 161 b. of linseed meal, or 501 b.
of lucerne chaff with every 1001 b. of
potatoes. Slice or crush the potatoes
before feeding to cattle.
“E. 2”: Feeding in the bails is being
practised more widely on dairy farms,
continuing even when there is an over-j
supply of grass in the paddocks. Those
who’ve tried it say the cows stand more
quietly for machines and milk better and
there is less trouble in the yard. Grass
hay or chaff is good, but steam it previ-
ously if it be too dry. Strawb gets a bit
keen on bail feeding, so don’t knock it
off in the middle of the season,
“Hux”: Lack of lime and phosphoric
acid is the cause of bone chewing by
cows. Give them pure, sterilised bone-
meal and salt in separate boxes and let
them have all they want. If they don’t
take to it sprinkle with a little molasses.
Bone-chewing is dangerous and can cause
death.
“B.”: When a horse gets skin itch
wash the affected part, remove all dirt
and dry well. Mix two parts sulphur,
two parts tar oil, one part potassium bi-
carbonate and eight parts lard. Use a
soft brush and apply to the part and
some inches beyond it. Repeat three
times at five- to seven-day intervals. Dis-
infect the harness.
“Myrrhee”: Feeding working horses at
wrong times often causes digestive
troubles, principally colic. The length
of time a horse works without resting and
feeding has a good deal to do with it.
Never work a horse more than two or
three hours at a time without giving him
a short rest, water and a little feed. Give
small feeds on the road and the main
bulk of the food, especially hay, after
work is finished, but even then allow a
little space between work and feeding.
Always water the horse before feeding.
“M’hee” • To destrov anhis eens use
J
a spray of tar distillate one part in 35
parts of water on peach-trees during the
dormant winter period (but not later than
mid-July in Victoria).
“Bennie”: If caterpillars infest young
tobacco plants dust the leaves with
arsenate of lead, also good when leaf
miner and green tobacco loopers arrive,
Knock off dusting when plants are about
a foot high, the pests don’t bother them
after that,
“Green Ink”: Presume sugar-mangels
(jl 23/5/’45) are sugar-beet, of which
thousands of tons are grown here in the
Maffra (Vic.) district. There is a sugar
factory which treats up to 400 tons in 24
hours - Local dail T men feed thei f stock
on the beet pulp after it has gone through
mill> as F th ere is a smal ] percentage
f f ]eft in it Stock relish it even
when s rott en and high smelling. They
chase the lorries carting to the mill to
get the whole beet, but farmers say that
this, fed to cows, will dry them off.
Sugar-beet requires good land and a lot
of work and takes a lot out of the land.


of
Judg
QualiM
54^
m
&
m
REGISTERED TRADE MARK
fftusader ff(otj)
FOR QUALITY SUITS
GUARANTEED NEVER TO FADE OR SHRINK
One thing you can say for Australians —
they know a good cloth, . . . Their judg-
ment has made (Eruaafor (Elctl? the most
popular suiting throughout Australia. For
quality, beauty of design and long life,
(Erusator (Clutlf is unsurpassed.
Ask your Tailor to show you
When he's an “ordinary
listener ’ ’ again . . . hc'ii s«u be
a wireless expert. And his
radio will have to be a
real engineering job.
1
A
I
HIS MASTER'S VOICE
True-10-life RADIO
•
After the war your local
dealer will once again be
fully equipped to serve you
with new “ His Masters
Voice” Radio Receivers and
Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO. LTD,
(Incorporated in England)
HOMEBUSH N.S.W,
R7/M
SMOKE-OH!
“Kilts, complete with broaches.”
—Suburban paper.
So that’s what they carry in those
sporrans!
4- *l* 4* 4*
“Girls pulling up their stockings in public
is about the ugliest sight on the streets today.
—“Sunday Sun.
But most of us are old-fashioned in our
artistic ideas.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Any person has an undoubted legal right to
be dirty if he so desires.”—' '‘Sun.’’
Even radio comedians?
4* 4* 4*
“Terror lent her feet wings as she heard his
footsteps suddenly make up their mind to come
after her, but despite her turn of speed be
caught up with her.” — “New Idea.’’
’Twas little wonder that she shook
As he drew nigh and nearer.
For every step the villain took
Just made his meaning clearer.
D. H. E.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“I think the best and safest way of slimming
is to follow an approved diet.” — “Woman.
But never overtake it.
4* 4* 4*
“Keep the strawberry plants on the move.”
—Gardening note.
Particularly encourage their runners.
4. 4- 4*
“Young drake and duck, K.C., just started
lay, 12s. 6d. pair.”
—“The Clarion” ( Willoughby, N.S.W.).
They will, no doubt, have a brief
career,
4* 4* 4* 4*
Auntie Knows Best.
“As we unwrapped the wedding flowers we
couldn’t help thinking of the girl who found a
brown snake in flowers destined for her sister s
wedding bouquet.” — Womans paper.
“Heavens, Aunt Harriet, did you read
this?” .
“The word ‘this’ has no special
meaning, my girl, unless it ends with
‘tie,’ whereupon it becomes thistle and
has some point.”
“But, look, Auntie ! A girl bought a
bunch of flowers for a wedding”
“You’re too young to start thinking
of weddings. The right age is ninety-six,
because you immediately think of some-
thing more comforting, like a cup of tea.”
“But nothing’s so gay as a wedding,
Aunt Harriet.”
“No? Ever been to a divorcee’s cele-
bration-tea? My girl, there’s real gaiety.
One more sparkle and the whole show
would explode.”
“Oh, you’re just cynical. Well, this
girl getting married found a snake in the
wedding bouquet and”
“That’s nothing, girl, I had a much
worse experience at my own wedding.
“SORRY!"
As I reached the end of the aisle a goat
fastened on to my arm.”
“Good heavens!”
“Yes, dear, he gave it a squeeze before
he said T will!’ ”
Yair. •
4* •i 1 4* *s*
“Young Jersey cow, first calf 10 quarts,
Saturday or Sunday.”
—Hornsby (N.S.W.) “Advocate.
Quite a good effort for a calf.
•i* 4* 4* 4*
“Did you know that naturally soured milk
is good for freshening the complexion?”
— “Sun.
What’s more, it guarantees you a seat
in the most crowded tram.
•i* 4* • 4* *l*
“Then he invited my whole unit to his mess
for a cold drink. The lowest of the other ranks
there was a full colonel!” — “Daily Mirror.
The right kind of cold drink, eh?
“Lovely pink Marquisette bridesmaid’s frock,
£5.” — “S.M.H.”
She must have been a peach.
•J* 4* +
“American dish-washer, good condition.”
She tired of him soon after the wed-
ding, apparently.
4* 4* 4* 4* „
“R.A.A.F. blue officer’s uniform and coat.
—“S.M.H.”
Depressed at picking too many pears?
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Beauty, as you all know, is not the pre-
rogative of youth. It can lie in silver hair.”
— “Woman.”
But far more convincingly in blonde
or Titian.
i 4 1 4 ♦
“There’s no need to go to bed looking like
a greased piedish.” — Woman’s paper.
You can at least leave off the grease.
This Freedom.
“There will be no direction of labor after the
war. Every man will have a choice of occupa-
tion, but his choice must be beneficial to the
nation.” — Mr. Dedman.
The minor official of the Directorate
of Non-Direction of Labor looked across
at the applicant seated before him. “I see
you wish to be a manufacturer,” he ob-
served. *
“As you know, the Government
has broadly swept away all the old war-
time restrictions regarding a man’s choice
of what he would like to do for a living
—with one or two unimportant but neces-
sary safeguards, so trifling as to be
scarcely worth mentioning. Now I see
you used to be a manufacturer. In again
pursuing that vocation what line did
you propose exploiting, Mr. Trump?’
“Well,” replied the applicant, “I was
thinking I’d get back into my old game
—making carpenters’ tools.”
“H’m. That puts a different com-
plexion on things, I’m afraid. You are
probably aware that the Government is
about to nationalise that industry, Stm»
we have no wish to interfere with the
individual’s liberty of action. You are
quite free to refuse to compete with the
Government.”
“But I want to compete with the Gov-
ernment or anyone else. I know I coula
turn out a better article at half the cost
of those made in any Government Fac-
tory, because I know how high their over-
head is and the big proportion of go-
slows and deadheads they carry.’
The m.o.’s face registered horror, and
the eye he fixed on the applicant grew
stern. .
“My dear Mr. Trump,” he said coldly,
“no Government undertaking is ever con-
cerned about cost, and your reference to
it is in bad taste. I advise you mind,
in no sense is this to be interpreted as a
direction —to become an employee.
“We can offer you a wide choice. There
is a vacancy as a bender and another as a
straightener in one of the Government s
lolly-walking-stick factories. These posi-
tions, though classified and paid for a,s
unskilled labor, are really quite diversi-
fied and intensely interesting. I n one
position you will bend the sticks to
get the handle effect, and in the other
you simply straighten them. You will
also, of course, enjoy the choice of
joining the Lolly Walking Stick Benders
and Straighteners’ Union or of being
sacked and blackballed.”
“But that sort of a job doesn’t appeal
to me, I’d like something more”
“Mind you, we want to stress that this
is in no circumstances to be interpreted
as a direction to a job. That term has
been definitely abolished. You are per-
fectly free to take one of those jobs or
to have your food and clothing ration
withdrawn. To be disfranchised and de-
barred from your Community Centre
until you come to your senses.”
“That’s pretty hot! Til appeal!”
“Very well,” went on the official
blandly “Actually, we always welcome
an appeal, for the fact that we allow it
to be made helps to dissipate the mis-
guided notion, still unaccountably held
by some people, that there is still extant
some form of regimentation. Regarding
the appeal itself you may again exercise
a wide choice —you can appeal either to
me direct or to another official whom 1
shall nominate. And even should the
appeal, when all the facts have been care-
fully and impartially determined, be dis-
missed, you have an additional choice—
of liking it or lumping it.”
“Well, I’ll go hopping to hell!”
“We can even give you a wide choice
of the means of getting there. Under our
free medicine-system you may select the
poison of your preference. Good-day,
Mr. Trump. Next, please.”
BO.
Hard Lot.
Pity the poet of the present day !
For oft, when he is moved to dribble
rhymes,
He finds that whatsoe’er he has to say
Others have said before a dozen times ;
The only consolation to allay
This painful retribution for his crimes
Is the grim thought that future bards
will be
Even more destitute of themes than he.
T. W. Nathan.


Missing Friend.
WILL any person knowing MISS JUNE MYLRBA
please forward her address to BERTHA STEEVES,
9761 Tujunga Canyon Blvd., Tujunga, California,
U.S.A.?
Divorce Notice.
TO GEORGE YALSAMIS formerly of East Sydney
jj.S.W.—TAKE NOTICE that GEORGIA YALSAMIS
has filed a Petition in the Supreme Court of New
South Wales (No. 1238 of 1945) praying for a
divorce on the grounds of your, desertion without
just cause or excuse for three years or upwards
You may enter an appearance by the 31st August
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from MESSRS. A. R- BALDWIN & CO.,
Solicitors 33-39 Hunter Street Sydney— (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
Milk-0 I
mm
m
\\^ xV
i
MADE SPECIALLY TO PREVENT SORE THROATS •>*>.
TODAY when you take in your morning bottle of milk or buy your ration of butter
or cheese, you are sure of clean and wholesome food. This is only a recent
development. In XVIIIth century towns, cows were brought to the door to be milked
and “butter served by the gill tasted like train-oil thickened with salt.”
Science has done much to help the farmer to produce clean food and the public to
demand it. The chemist has made it easier and cheaper to produce an increasing
quantity of good milk, butter and cheese. The problem of winter feeding has been
solved and thereby an adequate milk supply has been ensured throughout the year.
First, co-operation between the British chemical and engineering industries has shown
how the high food value of summer herbage can be preserved for winter by drying
grass in a machine. Next the chemist found how comparable results could be
achieved by ensiling grass with molasses.
In dairying the chemical industry provides the chlorine disinfectants for general use
in cowshed and dairy, formalin for keeping down black mould in the cheese room
caustic soda for bottle-washing in creameries, and special products that sterilise the
bottles and give them a brilliant sparkle. The dyestulf, methylene blue, is used as
a test for keeping quality, and sulphuric acid and amyl acetate for testing the fat
content of milk. Recently a number of new chemicals have passed into wide use.
Drugs, including phenothiazine to help to keep the cow
healthy, and synthetic hormones such as stilboestrol can be
used to improve milk yield in cows and heifers, or help
maintain fertility. These are some of the ways in which
British chemical research and the products of the chemical
industry are giving increasing help to Britain’s dairy
industry as it has expanded under the needs of war.
IMPERIAL CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LIMITED
c
IL-J33
If
CRAVEN A
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality
Obialuabielxi 2o’s
SggSS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Australian Parrots, by Cayley, and
The Teaching of Poetry, by Haddow. —3647. ,
To buy back numbers of “Etude,” “Organ” ]
or “Organist” magazines.—3648. j
Information Sought.
i
To whom must application be made in order
to obtain a next-of-kin badge?
Send soldier’s name and number to District
Records Officer, Broadway, Camperdown, Syd-
ney.
* * * *
Populations and forms of government of the
countries in the Arab world?
Arabia: Saudi Arabia, 6,000,000, independent
State; Muscat and Oman, 500,000, independent
States; Yeman, 3,500,000, independent State;
North Africa: Egypt, 13,000,000, independent
kingdom; Algeria, 6,000,000, French depart-
ment; Libya, 1,000,000, A.M.G.O.T. Morocco:
French zone, 6,000,000, French dependency;
Spanish zone, 740,000, Spanish dep.; Inter-
national, 40,000, international. Tunisia, French
dep. Levant: Palestine, 1,000,000, British Man-
date; Transjordan, 260,000, British Mandate;
Syria and Lebanon, 2,000,000, independence
guaranteed. Iraq: 3,200,000, independent king-
dom. The total population is 45,490,000.
Population figures are from a recent estimate.
* * * *
* Some facts about Cook’s Excursion Agency?
Founded in 1841 by Thomas Cook, who
organised the first trip, a distance of 20
miles, on July 5. During the war in Europe
Cook’s was the only firm allowed to send postal
packets to enemy and enemy-occupied countries.
* * * *
What salaries are paid to female teachers
employed by the N.S.W. Education Depart-
ment ?
In the 18 and 19 age-groups, £133 p.a. and
£159 p.a, respectively is paid (£166 minimum
if away from home); a 20-year-old girl receives
£186. A two-year-trained adult receives £229
p.a. in her first year, rising to £337 by five
annual increments. A college graduate starts on
£250 p.a., reaching, with three annual increases,
£337. Kindergarten teachers earn the same as
primary teachers.
* * * *
When were the first intercolonial cricket
matches played, and the results?
N.S.W. v. Vic., at Melbourne, 1856; N.S.W.
won by three wickets. N.S.W. v. S.A., at
Sydney, 1890; N.S.W. won by nine wickets.
N.S.W. v. Q’land, at Brisbane, 1893 ; Q’land
won by 14 runs. N.S.W. v. Tasmania, at Syd-
ney, 1898; N.S.W. won by an innings and 487
runs. N-S-W. v. W.A., at Fremantle, 1907;
W.A. won by five runs. Vic. v. S.A., at Adel-
aide, 1874; Vic. won by 15 runs. Vic. v.
Q’land, at Brisbane, 1903; Vic. won by an
innings and 327 runs. S.A. v. Q’land, at Bris-
bane, 1899; S.A. won by an innings and 284
runs. Vic. v. Tasmania, at Launceston (first
Xl-aside match), 1869; Vic. won by an innings
and 25 runs. Vic. v. W.A., at Melbourne,
1893 ; Vic. won by an innings and 243 runs.
* * * *
Method of preparing dye for hand-embossed
handbags?
Boil 4oz. linseed seeds and loz. acid dye in
i-gall. water. If linseed is unobtainable dissolve
dye in milk. For dark shades use spirit-soluble
dyes and dissolve loz. dye in i-gall. methy-
lated spirit to which 2oz. castor oil have been
added.
Brief Answers.
A.J.B.: Warburton Franki, Ltd., 307 Kent-
street, Sydney, are the Australian agents
Pen-friend: Send your request to the San
Francisco “Chronicle” or Seattle “Times”....
Neville: That jockey’s license was withdrawn
after his riding of Trimmer B.McL.: Sheep-
dip ingredients are under Government control,
and a permit is necessary to obtain them; it is
cheaper and less trouble to buy the commercial
product E.F.: Pearl Buck was awarded the
Nobel Prize for Literature in 1938 T.F.B.:
He has been awarded the C.B., O.B.E., M.C.
and E.D.... .M.J.W.: The world, it has
recently been estimated, has a population of
2,168,000,000.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no M.S. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. US. should be addressed to
the Editor. »
C.M.S.: Says the usual things about the
usual weather in the usual way T.McC.^
Poem “appropriate for these times of speed”
is whizzing back... .S.McC.: Man may very
well be “lower than the browsing quadruped,”
but you might have specified whether giraffe
or dachshund H.P.M.: The usual anthem,
distinguished only by the exceptionally harrow-
ing couplet:
A commonwealth so firmly built
On fundamentals none can tilt. . .
G.H.: Never mind about the vast woes
of the world; picture the small things you_ ve
observed... .E.G.: Daniel the spamef and other
doggerel will find no kennel here... .F.A.: ine
maiden may be all you say she is, but yo
can’t'rhyme her with “engraven ....KB.iJ. .
Cheer up....L.P. Try “What Thought else-
where. .. .G.H.C.: Beer poem musty with age.
.K.A.8.; We hope you are now feeling better,
too M.T.: “He had the romantic slumbrous
eyes of a true son of the desert.” Send him to a
flapper mag C.W.: Humor crude F. .
Promising but slight.. . .E.H.; Misses.. . .3-D..
Yarn commonplace, denouement fantastic....
PJR ': Steele Rudd and water 1 A. ;
Material good but story formless... .R.A.j
Study in character sacrificed to trick ending.
...T.F.: Try a woman’s paper... .M.M..
Style too involved R.N.H.: Sugary.... 8.R.:
Come again... .R. 8.: Central character
shadowy.


" lifii || $ i gj|| g
i[tiit»i* «ii Jlllll iIUB
mm**
M«K
MUTUUM M WA II
HveHn'd
|iMh)
X
4Ts
"o*.
**o
°Oo
N<2
SBS
£2 millions
off your taxes each year
THE FIRST CHEQUE, £796,523, represents the
profit received during the last financial year
(1943-44) by the Government from the 3d. sur-
charge on Air Mails carried by the various Aus-
tralian Airline Companies.
THE SECOND CHEQUE, £1,250,000, represents
the conservative estimate of amounts paid each
year by these Companies in Registration Fees,
Primage and Customs Duties, Sales Tax, Company
Tax, Wages Taxes and Profit Taxes. Some ex-
perts place the figure at £2,000,000.
IF THE GOVERNMENT NATIONALISES AIR-
LINES this revenue will be lost and it will have to
make good the losses by additional taxes. And
to this increased burden of two million pounds
placed on the shoulders of wage earners will be
added the losses that follow every Government
experiment in transport.
Register Your Protest Now
Released by
AIRLINE OPERATORS’ SECRETARIAT
50 Market Street, Melbourne
La Belle Dame Sans Merci
By CECIL MANN.
CLARKEY is not in the March this
year—for the simple enough reason
that he can’t be. But you have
come along, Clarkey, just to be
here and see the old crowd. Sitting
straight, waiting in your wheel-chair on
the grassed mound where they’ll gather,
and from where, when they move off,
you will have a view of them swinging
into and heading away through the
people-canyoned street. Through the red
police-railings holding back the walls of
people, below the flags on the buildings
and windows of faces along the way,
A bit stiff, having to put in the Day
like this. Even a bit embarrassing,
Makes you feel somehow ashamed of
yourself. Though you have your medals
on, and they’re good ones, too. The dark
reds and blue of the D.C.M. Nice work,
Clarkey, old chap. But you sort of feel
a bit of a goat all the same, sitting here
like this in a chair on wheels, especially
with nothing that anybody can see the
matter with you.
Big shoulders square, and both legs
and arms o.k. Black shoes on and dark-
grey suit and dented, new grey hat. Quite
a tailor-made job. Long, rock-cut face,
shaved clean, with good brown color in it.
Hang it all, it’s like false pretences. You
can’t say to everybody as they go past:
“I’m not here like this just to be on ex-
hibition. Between you and me, 1 got a bul-
let that went through into me spine in that
June stunt on Gallip. Goodo, too. Got me
back here, and never worried me, either,
till lately. And then the damn’ thing
went phut on me, If you want to know,
I’m sitting upright like this because I’ve
got a wooden contraption on underneath
like a flamin’ pair of corsets. When they
take her off I sort of collapse, and I’ve
got to lie down. She’s not so bad then;
I mean, lying down; but she pains a bit
sitting here. And makes you feel a bit
of a ciss. Great day for the March,
isn’t it?”
No, Clarkey, old chap, you can’t say
that. So what’s there to do but make
the best of it? Anyhow, it’s good seeing
the mob coming alopg now in ones and
twos. Coming over to you and shaking
hands and having the sense not to say
much about it, except that it’s damn’ stiff
you can’t march this year, but you will
next year. Maybe you will, too. You
lasted out a tidy stretch before it bowled
you ; why shouldn’t it get right by the
time the Day comes round again?
CT O they come over to shake hands and
gather around. All of them shake
—except Spider Hayes, who’s t ball of
muscle, one of the fittest of the whole
bunch, as he always has been, even since
the May 19 show at the old address, since
when Spider hasn’t had any hands. Hell,
what a patch of slaughter that was!
Talk about war! Strike a light, the way
Johnno Turk came on in the open! And
a few days after he had to ask for an
armistice just to bury his dead,
Funny out there with him, helping pile
them into the old communication trench
and cover ’em over. What was the heads’
word for it?—for sanitary reasons! The
tally just there along that bit of gravel
and gorse slope three thousand,
The blokes and Johnno bending to-
gether burying his three thousand dead,
Darned funny feeling getting up over the
parapet in broad day armed with nothing
but a mattock. Eyeing the Turks off as
they come across towards you. Stepping
through the heaps you had helped to
shoot. Nodding and saying “Saieda”
across what is to be the long grave. Part
of the game. Working in between two
of them. Bending, lifting and heaving,
Dragging in the red-brown gravel-earth,
One of them pulling a picture out of a
pocket inside his shirt, smiling and giving
it to you to keep. Colored ; some sort of
a mosque. Looking over the nullah past
them to the bare slope down from their
front line ; measuring with your eye and
making the mental note: “She’s close on
a hundred yards further to that bend in
his trench than I’ve been reckoning.”
Shaking hands then with nuggety Johnno
and thin Johnno with the black mark
shaped something like a boomerang in
the skin of his cheek. The three of you
standing there looking down. Others all
along the crooked streak of fresh-turned
earth looking down. Mac a bit further
on shaking hands with a Johnno nearly
as big as himself and giving him a slap
on the back!
And now here’s Mathers coming in to
shake hands with you. “What’s on here?
I’ve got a couple of bob to say he can’t
head ’em. Hullo, Clarkey. Glad you
came along. Very hard luck you can’t
be with us in the March.” Talking bigger
now than he used to. You get that way
being a mayor. Captain Mathers. Might
be Lord Mayor Mathers, too, before he’s
finished. Good on him, anyway.
Damned if it isn’t old McGowen!
“How are y,’ Mac?” The old, crown-
and-anchor king. “Put her here, Clarkey,
•if she weighs a ton! What about a bit
on the lucky old hook? Win ’em an’
wear ’em like the soldiers do their wooden
legs. There you are, gentlemen—two
sergeant-majors and a jolly old club!”
The game on the boat the night before.
Who was it —Jonesey, wasn’t it—folded
up the paper off a gyppo jam-tin to look
like a note and put her on the heart, and
up comes two of them and Mac pays
him. And he tells Mac when they’re
perched up there in the trench along the
ledge near Quinn’s, leaning against the
trench wall, eyeing Johnno off through
their periscopes.
Now Jim Hannah. “Old Clarkey, eh?
How’re tricks? You’ll be down for the
reunion, won’t y’?” By the look of you,
Jim, you’ve put away a quart or two
since last Day* Always were pretty good
on the suds.
Another half-dozen or so of them.
Nothing to feel embarrassed about. Not
with these blokes round. With young
Hassett —the baby of the old mob-
making his way in to you on crutches, his
left leg off at the knee. Ormsby dookin’
you with his left hand, because he got
hold of a bayonet with his right at the
joint they call Villers Bret. That was a
good while after your time, Clarkey. But
—part of the game. Part of .the job. She
was always the one job, wasn’t she? Still
is. Always will be.
“Well, Clarkey, they’re startin’ t’ blow
the whistles. It’s been great seein’ y’.
Come on now, blokes, we’ll have to get
into it.” Old Colonel Jackson ; talking
rough for the mob. Lanky ; big nose and
ears ; shaggy grey eyebrows. Like Don
Quixote in a bowler hat. Not issue,
though ; one he bought. Starting to look
all out his age. Why shouldn’t he?
Cripes, he must have been damn’ near
thirty on Gallip. How old were you there,
Clarkey? Eighteen and a bit. Hang it
all, you’re getting along yourself.
So now they’re falling in. Gathering
behind the placard with the old batt.
colors and name on it. Quite a fair bunch
of them still. Most of them, though,
you’ve only got to know in the Marches
and the re-unions. Only a handful of
those that were in before you stopped
your own issue. When was it, again ?
The 29th or 30th? What’s it matter?
Hell of a long way down to the Beach
that night. You’d covered it plenty of
times, carting up the water-tins and bis-
cuits and the ammo. Up the tracks scored
on the hillsides through the gorse and
myrtle shrubs. It didn’t seem anything
like this distance. Being taken down
through the dark, a half-foot at a time ;
the fresh night smell of the wjld thyme ;
the two of them putting you down on
a level bit, getting their breath back ;
towering far above you like two pine-
trees against the stars. The hurt paining
unbearably; not, where it should be,
down in your body, but up inside your
shoulders.
They lift you again and carry you, and
get there at last; put you down in the
dark outside the clearing station built of
biscuit boxes and dug into the slope
below the cliff on the beach, and leave
you there. In your shoulders hurting
so much that you want to turn over.
You think it’ll stop if you can get on to
your side. So you put out your hand to
the hand you can see white on the
stretcher beside you. Trying to ask him
to turn you over. You take hold of it,
and it’s as cold as ice. Dead, That s
how it is: a dead man, Clarkey ; and
you think “I’m not like that; they think
I’m dead.” Breaking your lips apart and
yelling, screaming, till they come and say
“Shut up, you’re making a noise. You’re
making a show of yourself.” Kindly;
and lift you and take you inside.
And in there, waiting, you’re thirsty.
Your mouth hard-dry. So dry that your
tongue touches the roof behind your
teeth, and sticks, and you pull it away,
the tip wet. And your lips stick together,
dry, and when you break them apart
they give a bit of each other. A full
bucket of water there under the light,
and your eyes fixed on it; your finger
pointing to it and to your mouth. The
orderly dropping a piece of cottonwool
into the bucket; picking it out, squeezing
it dry, saying “Here, suck this, A drink’d
finish you.”
You’d forgotten, till it hit back at you.
COMING back here after they’d patched
you up in Alex. Remember seeing
this country again? Hobbling about,
starting to get right, up on the deck,
when someone yelled out: “There she is!
Look at her!”
And there, by heavens, she was! A
blur on the horizon. A grey outline
which might have been anything, but
which you knew was this place all right.
You knew it with every part of you that
could know. A queer sort of feeling. A
trim shape of a girl did something the
same to you. Of course she did—you
standing there like a stunned plover by
the post-office just watching her walk
away from you across the street. A
pair of wide eyes the color of corn-
flowers, and a toss of gold hair, and a
mouth —well, what the hell’s a girl s
mouth got to do with it, anyway?
What’s it got to do with this smudge
on the horizon? Getting bigger. An
you, Clarkey—you, you great angora-
standing there, leaning on the rail, scared
stiff. Scared that somebody might say,
“Hey, Clarkey, look here! ” And you d
look, and when you turned back the
smudge on the horizon wouldn t be mere.
What sort of a place is this that can do
that to you— after that job of slaughte
on May 19? Don’t wake it up. Leave
it and the rest of it. Don t wake any of
it up. There she is all right, and she s
getting closer. You think you can make
out the trees; and now you really are
scared. You’re dead scared, Clarkey, y .
ANALOGIES.
1. The Dragonflies.
Far be it from me to say, my long-legged
lady,
I am not content to stay as we are for
good.
Two grubs in a kind of glasshouse under
an eddy,
Myself with a squat brown carcass and
horny head,
And you, I’m afraid, though dainty to
me is your body,
Not differing much in the eyes of that
leafy god
Who dances on top of the roof until we
are giddy.
Down with our ogre the trout and the
comforting mud
We have been happy enough : but look,
my darling.
Where the silver air is shining around the
willows
A grub on a stone is watching the dragon-
flies whirling
And wings flash out from his back and
he springs and follows.
Like it or not, my dear, you must quit
the water,
And even in gentlemen grubs the bright
wings glitter.
N.S.W.
2. The Unexpected.
Frankly, Bogrumpus, I hardly expected it
once.
And after a lifetime of some disservice
to art.
Not to say more, you, too, are hard to
convince:
But down by the creek to-day where the
dragonflies dart
I have seen your immortal soul; and so
when we dance
In the flowery fields where the lords of
heaven disport,
Somewhere about, where the grasses are
tall and dense,
You will be with us playing your same
old part,
Stabbing the dancer’s back for your con-
science’ sake,
Hardly transfigured, but still not utterly
lost:
For there by the creek lay the withering
skin of the snake
While black with its red tongue darting
the new snake hissed
That death would take you, my friend,
and re-arrange you,
Polish, refresh, but could not hope to
change you.
DOUGLAS STEWART.


Three Well-known Members of the
MARS” Family of AUSTRALIAN-BUILT
PRECISION LATHES
I
m
iiii
mmm
mm
: rl'
■ : :
■
i
■■
THE “MARS” 10" HIGH-SPEED ENGINE LATHE
The “Mars” 10-inch High-Speed Engine Lathe is a master lathe at a
moderate price. It has been built specially for accurate and efficient
service, and may be used for all Sliding, Surfacing and - Screw-Cutting
operations. A fine sturdy lathe, equipped with Unit Drive.
fgfg
THE “VENUS” 7" LATHE
Here is a Sturdy, Quick and Accurate lathe which is ideal for
the small workshop and garage serviceman. It is suitable, not
only for very fine work, hut also for medium and roughing-out
work within its capacity of 4ft. lin. between centres and 20in.
maximum swing.
The “MARS” 10 inch
The “ATLAS” 84 inch
The “VENUS” 7 inch
The three lathes shown here
all possess the following
“Mars” outstanding features:
1. All necessary revolving parts
are DYNAMICALLY BALANCED
2. All surfaces are Machine Ground
3. All Gear Teeth are GENERATED
4. All Lathes have DETACHABLE
GAP BRIDGE
In addition to the 10-inch, and 7-inch
lathes, “Mars” also manufactures the “Mars”
6-inch Lathe and the* “Mercury”
Lathe, the “Mars” Plain Miller, “Mars”
Shaper, “Mars” Planing Machine, “Mars”
Boring Mill and the “Mars” Guillotine.
ALL MACHINE TOOLS ARE OFFERED
SUBJECT TO RELEASE BY MINISTRY
OF MUNITIONS
All “Mars” Lathes are built to
Dr. Schlesihger standards of
Accuracy
X.
Mm
it .
m
m
H
11
—.A
«j«SSS&SiSS
4U.
S« 1.1-fISf 1
jptyrri
ra i
...... j
/
THE “ATLAS” 8}" LATHE
The “Atlas* is a lathe of most pleasing design, and is an
ideal High-Speed, General-Purpose, Workshop Lathe. The
“Atlas” is a delight to handle, light and easy of control,
and embodies all the best ideas favoured by experienced
engineers. Equipped with Internal Unit Drive, with 2-speed
Gearbox.
mb
x
ESTABLISHED FOB A
QUARTER OF A
CENTURY
Send for full details to the Manufacturers or to the Agents listed below
MARS Machine Tool
Manufacturing Co. Pty. Ltd.
BRIDGE STREET, VALLEY, BRISBANE
Distributing- Agents: N.S.W.—Thos. Herbert & Co. Pty. Ltd., 139 Clarence Street,
Sydney; VlCTORlA—Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 38 Market Street, Melbourne.
Stockists: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney
big galoot, that somebody, one of the
rest crowded along the rail looking,
might say something to you, and you not
be able to answer him. What a place is
this to unman a man and make him feel
like a child?
Anyhow, Clarkey, it’s getting closer.
It’s a sure thing. It’s there. Those are
the headlands shaping out of the water,
And now you can see the trees clearly,
The tugboat is coming out to pilot you
in. It gets near, so that you see the
figures on its bridge. They’ve come
from the land ; from over there that’s
still making you feel that even now it
might vanish after all. That it is a mir-
age; that you have only dreamt , it;
and dreamt stepping through the heap-
ing dead along the slope. But there’s a
bloke beside you leaning further over the
rail and bawling out with a throat of
iron: “Ahoy there! What won
the Cup?” And back from the boat:
“Patrobas!”
No doubt now whatever. You’re
back, Clarkey ; you lucky cow, you’re
back! You’re back, and they’re taking
you right in to the wharves. Why, stone
the crows, there’s that same bloke down
there with the green shirt on pushing the
same damn’ hand-truck with the same
damn’ cask on it! The whole crowd of
them, with their coats off, are the same,
And be hanged if that isn’t the same bay
draughthorse over there in the shafts, with
his head down, asleep just the same as
he was when you last saw him. With his
off foreleg bent, and his bloomin’ hind
legs crossed! Well, strike me lucky!
And you were lucky, too, weren’t you?
Goodo being fit enough to be taken
through the city and on into the park and
the cricket ground, with the white circle
of rail, the green trees and the green
grass, and the sky and the women and
girls and all the rest of it, just like —
well, of course, just like today.
You didn’t march that day, and you’re
not marching today. Calling out now:
“Hey, Mac, just a minute! Thanks,
Mac ; look, just in behind under me coat
you’ll come across a couple of bits of
tape. Undo the bow an’ tighten ’em up
a bit. She seems to be saggin’ on me.
Yes, that’s them. A bit tighter. Right,
That’s about it. Tie a bow again, so it’ll
be easy for the sister to undo. Thanks,
Mac; that’s splendid.” “Sure you’re
right, Clarkey?” “Never more in me
life, Mac. You’d better hoppit. I think
they’re startin’ to move.”
'“THE leading bands whacking .into it
1 now. The boots or shoes tramping,
A sound of broken silence along the
peopled canyon. The leading units
swinging out and wheeling left in their
twelve abreast; making the best they can
of looking like soldiers again. Hard to
do with this twelve-abreast form of
marching, apart from any other sort of
handicaps you might be noticing. A bit
ragged ; but the shape of a march.
The old mob, Clarkey, are still there,
slightly below your grassed mound, where
you’re sitting throned like a king in your
chair on wheels, with your hands on the
tyres. Not their turn for some minutes
yet, and there’s more than half of them
on the old job already marking time!
Gives you a bit of a kick doesn’t it?
You’d only have to half-close your eyes,
and you’d reckon they had uniforms on,
and were the old mob in fact as well as
in spirit,
And now they’re moving. You swing
the right wheel a bit, so you can watch
them go easier. Everybody else watch-
ing, too. No cause to feel the slightest
bit embarrassed at ourself now. Nobody’s
taking any notice of you. They’re all
caught in the action ; in the flowing move-
ment; in the dark long narrow movement
going on through the canyon of watchers,
, In a way, a bit tough having to perch
here and watch them go, with the big
drum-majors flourishing their silver-
topped poles, the thumping drums and
the tumult of the trumpets and the cheer-
ing. Or is it so tough, after all,
Clarkey? There, now, go the old mob.
You pick out the ones of them that were
there when you were there. Hasset keep-
ing time with the march tune on his
crutches. Ormsby with no right hand,
and Spider Hayes with no hands at all.
You pick out others that came after-
wards, but are as much in the old crowd
as you are yourself, Clarkey. You see
one of them as they go pas\. you with his
jaw twisted into a fixed smile ; queer
heritage of a grenade. You notice another
of them, one you didn’t know over there,
being led along. You notice another of
the early mob, and you won t say what
it is you see in his face.
And so they go. Unit after unit, at
intervals, with their bands braving the
Day, along through the canyon’s walls of
people. Unit after unit of the old mob in
general. Take this of that one, and that
of this one, and this of that other one,
and something of another here and there,
and put together ; and there you are •
you have something almost complete,
Almost as whole as you yourself,
Clarkey ; sitting there watching them go.
And then the new mob, of another war,
following after them ; these like a rebirth
of the old, as the old were, to the uniforms
and the old lid and the color patches.
And, as the last of these, too, pass along,
the crowd closing in behind and follow-
ing also. Presently shutting them from
your view. So that after a while you’re
isolated, completely alone with all your
host of company. Dragging the dirt in
over the heaps of dead Johnnos in the
trench. Looking down again from up
in front of Shell Green, away along to
where the smoke hangs blue over the
British down at Helles.
By now the old mob will about be
giving their eyes-right to the Cenotaph,
Their hats off; baldys and grey-heads.
All you yourself have to look at is the
backs of the people who closed in after
the last of them. It gives you an odd
twist of thought. What you first saw
from the boat when the bloke along-
side you on the railings called out “There
she is! Look at her! ” There she was all
right; and, of course, here she is. All
this that can still take a hold on you.
All this that was all about you just
now, this that is about you still. The
warm sun and the sparkling air. The
green trees and the green grass and blue
sky. You’re lobking at her, Clarkey, you
old son of a gun —and isn’t she all you
ever thought her? Isn’t it she herself
who has you throned there like a king?
Isn’t that why they all went marching
away from you? Lost limbs and lost
sight, and that one—and how , many
more, Clarkey, that you didn’t notice?—
with what you will not say writ in his
face. All of them marching away from
you—marching to her and for her. So
you’re thinking.
T" HERE’S no doubt about you,
' Clarkey, you get some funny thoughts
in that old top-piece of yours. Sitting
here now like this with the twist of
thought that there went all the old mob
marching away with the idea that this
Day is theirs! Not knowing that she
filched it off them all long ago ; that now,
for all their shining brave medals, she
has taken over complete possession ; that
they are only the puppets of her purpose
that they always were, right from when
she marched them away, till they came
back —some of them. So you’re think-
ing, Clarkey ; and that she’ll keep them
marching year after year while one by
one they drop out. there aren’t any.
Larceny of a Day—that’s the word for
it. But with nice trimmings. She didn’t
just knock ’em over the head and take
it. She enlisted a lot of very nice per-
suasive chaps, wearing their collars back
to front, to help her. These said: “We
will make it a holy day.” And other
chaps, very nice persuasive chaps, with
their collars the right way round, poli-
ticians, to help them to help her. These
saying: “We will make it a holiday.”
The result the same way, anyway. A
holy day for the pious and a holiday for
all. The Day, Clarkey, that you and the
rest of the mob created, consecrated
there on the heights of the unknown, in
the startled dawn. The Day of blood and
death and thirst and pain. Taken oyer
from you, and thus made over. Nothing
rough about the conspired robbery. As
gentle and kindly as robbery was ever
done, A gradual larceny over the years.
Right enough, too, you’re thinking, as
you begin to wheel down the green slope,
going slowly till they come back to the
cafe for the reunion.
The cafe tables arranged end to end to
make one long table, with one across at
the top forming a T. Up there at the
top Colonel Jackson and Captain Mathers
and the other heads. Small glasses, for
whiskey. Colonel Jackson’s favorite.
The long table where they’re all sitting,
packed close, laughing, talking with the
Day’s excitement, set with plates of sand-
wiches, biscuits with slices of cheese and
tomato on theirt, and beer glasses.
The toast to the Fallen. All standing
silent, with Colonel Jackson huskily in-
toning Binyon’s lines that have become
a formula:
They shall not grow old, as we that are
left grow old;
Age shall not weary them, nor the
years condemn.
At the going down of the sun and in the
morning
We will remember them.
All chanting the last line in approxi-
mate unison: “We will remember them.”
You note, Clarkey, being the only one
remaining seated, perforce, and so de-
tached, that the word they stress is “re-
member.” An insistence ; or an effort.
And now Captain Mathers: “The toast
I give you, gentlemen, is Anzac Day,
coupled with the name of our old Col-
onel. As you all heard the Padre and
Premier both say at the service, it is the
one day in the year which we, with very
great pride, can call our own Day”
But easy on now, Clarkey. Don’t let
your fancies run away with you alto-
gether as you sit there letting the familiar
sentiments flow over you. That shape of a
girl suddenly out there in the street, paus-
ing, smiling in through the glass door at
you all with your glasses charged ready
to get up when he’s through and drink
your own Day’s health —likely enough
her identity’s not what you’re visioning
at all. Not what yqu saw when the chap
on the boat shouted: “There she is!
Look at her!” Surely not that one just
having a smile at your expense ; at the
expense of the lot of you. Or if she is
she’s happy to see you all happy as you
are. And as she is, too, on this holiday
you made for her with your bayonets
stabbing in the dark.


CHAMPION/
RUBY
TOBACCO
ifljS
mi
i
m
If sometimes your Champion Ruby is in short supply— it is
only for the war’s duration.
Ask for it as usual—your retailer will supply you when he can.
ft’s your fight—your money is needed now.
Buy War Savings Certificates and
5/> National Savings Stamps.
ACCUMULATED WISDOM
IN ADMINISTRATION
nrHE experience garnered by a Board of Directors, and a group of highly trained officers.
1 in the administration of many estates, results in an aggregate wisdom that no one
man could ever acquire. For this reason the appointment of Perpetual Trustee Company
Limited as your Executor must commend itself to you.
If you cannot arrange for a personal interview, write for particulars. A
"Your Executor and Trustee," covers the matter very fully. A copy will be sent
application.
booklet,
you on
PERPETUAL TRUSTEE
COMPANY LIMITED
DIRECTORS - T H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon
H V Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others,
Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET, SYDNEY.
Southern and Riverina District Representative: C. E. Cowdery, Gurwood Street,
Wagga Wagga. , _
Western District Representative: H. A. Shaw,- 140 Lords Place, Orange.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Burns, Philp and Co., Ltd.
To Re- Re-
March, Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
£, £ £r £
1935.. 212,362* 10 p.c. = 150,000 62,362 1,581,864
Written off plantations, £25,000.. 1,556,864
1936.. 234,474* 10 p.c. = 150,000 84,474 1,641,338
Written off plantations, £25,000. . 1,616,338
1937.. 244,149* 10 p.c. = 150,000 94,149 1,710,487
1938.. 261,725*10 „„ 156,250 f Q , . n , .. ofi9
To staff fund, £lO,OOO j 95,475 1,805,962
1939.. 290,286* 10 p.c. = 181,250 109,036 1,914,998
Unexplained addition, £33,809.. 1,948,807
1940.. 260,621 10 p.c. = 200,000 1 sn soi i qqo
To staff fund, £lO,OOO | 50,621 1,999,428
Unexplained addition, £93,982.. 2,093,410
1941.. 270,657 10 p.c. = 200,000 70,657 2,164,067
Written off plantations, £35,000.. 2,129,067
Docking and repair a/c, £150,000 2,279,067
Unexplained addition, £217,129 2,496,196
1942.. 194,435 10 p.c. = 200,000 2,490,631
Unexplained addition, £305,399 2,796,030
1943.. 201,464 10 p.c. = 200,000 1,464 2,797,494
Unexplained addition, £105,743 2,903,237
1944.. 226,572 10 p.c. = 200,000 ) , „„„ „
To staff fund, £25,000 J 1 >572 2,904,809
Unexplained addition, £112,658 3,017,467
1945.. 225.190 10 p.c. = 200,000 ) o o n9l ~0,
To staff fund, £21,373 f 3,817 3,021,284
* Includes net additions to insurance and branch
revenues, etc.
The fleet of this big 62-year-old Aus-
tralian shipping, merchandising and
agency organisation is now mainly in
the hands of the Australian and British
Governments. And some of the ships
have a very interesting record. The
Bulolo, which steamed 176,000 miles in
the Atlantic without any delay for
repairs, took part in every British and
American landing except Madagascar.
In the landing on D-day in France she
was principal direction ship, in the van
and under heavy fire from shore bat-
teries. About half the fleet (mostly
modern motor vessels) has been lost. As
for the other half (mostl/y the older
ships), the wear and tear over the last
half-dozen years has been so severe that
the cost of overhaul and repair necessary
to bring units up to Lloyd’s classification
makes replacement the cheaper policy,
especially in view of looming competi-
tion.
While Liberty ships and other tonnage
might be bought cheaply after the war,
B.P.’s board knows of no standardised
vessels suitable for the co.’s eastern and
island trade. As for purchase of new
tonnage, the chairman picturesquely
points out that:
Notwithstanding our accord with the idea
of establishing an Australian shipbuilding
industry, it would be uneconomical for any
owner competing in overseas services to
have to pay a high price to build here.
Extra cost of insurance and depreciation
alone over a similar ship built in the U.K.
would put one out of competition in over-
seas and foreign trade. While ships on the
coast in protected trades may be built here
at the cost of higher freights and passage
money, if we have to face world competi-
tion we dp not want to do so with an im-
possible handicap from the start. If we
have lOst. on our back for the World’s
Eastern Shipping Stakes, we cannot expect
to win against other entrants carrying
6st. 71b.
Any policy which results in overcapitali-
sation, or which tends to consume capi-
tal by denying the owners of it means
to provide for its replacement—Austra-
lian Government charter rates don’t
cover the increased cost of maintenance
andi replacement —must ultimately im-
pair efficiency and enterprise and weaken
the mainspring of progress. The weakest
point in Australia’s economic armor is
the high and rising level of costs. Herein
lie the seeds of much future industrial
and other trouble. There are many who
mistake our present apparent prosperity
under war-time contracts and lease-lend
conditions for security, and inflationary
war expenditure for sound finance and
stable money.
B.P. and its chief subsidiary—Burns
Philp (South Sea) Co., Fiji—together still
have 19 or more branches closed through
enemy control or occupation of Allied
forces. These outposts extend from
North Australia to Java, and then east
to New Guinea, and the Solomon, Gil-
bert and Ellis Island groups. If Australia
is not to miss the early trade bus in the
Pacific, then resumption of ordinary
trade activity by private enterprise in
some of the areas from which the enemy
has been driven is a question calling for
early decision by the Federal Govern-
ment. Rehabilitation of island proper-
ties will take time, and the less time lost
in face of aggressive competition the
better for all concerned. Recognising
this, U.S. authorities have already
authorised partial resumption of trade
in Manila.
The folding up of the co.’s trade activi-
ties in operational areas has been largely
offset by returns from recently-acquired
Allied shipping agencies, and from sale
of merchandise, etc., to the Allied forces.
Last term turnover advanced £824,753,
reaching a record £16,807,262. The im-
provement in gross earnings was £26,288:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Gross £ . £ £ £
earnings. .1,284,081 1,593,523 1,405,202 1,431,490
Exes. . . 845,020 1,110,446 1,002,963 1,087,570
Balance .. 439,061 483,077 402,239 343,920
Depreciation,
bad debts,
etc. .. 178,440 288,642 175,667 118,730
Profit claimed 260,621 194,435 226,572 225,190
The growth of £84,607 in exes, was
almost offset by a drop of £36,811 in the
allowance for depreciation (£117,498), and
of £20,126 in the provision for bad debts
(£1232). The net result was thus only
£1382 lighter at £225,190, or 11.2 p.c. on
capital, compared with 11.3, 10, 9.7, 13.5
and 13 p.c. back to 1940. The div. re-
mained at 10 p.c., and has done so for
the last 26 years, and £21,373 (double
the contractual amount) was sent to the
staff fund. All this leaves out of the
reckoning £112,658 added to insurance
and branch reserves, etc., lifting total
reserves to £3,021,284. The £112,658 in-
cludes excess insurance payment over
book value of one of the ships lost, and
makes total additions to this reserve over
the last half-dozen years £1,118,721, rais-
ing the figure to £1,732,365, some of
which might be genuine profit.
The co. is well-equipped for the re-
habilitation work ahead:
1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £2,000,000 £2,000,000 £2,000,000
Liabilities .. 2,356,082 8,040,434 2,856,065
Properties and
shipping .. 2,625,008 2,421,882 2,273,524
Investments, etc.. 2,047,903 2,894,264 3,447,378
Stocks, advances,
etc 1,126,486 1,704,804 1,241,562
Book debts . . 941,529 1,404,884 806,338
Cash .. • .. 205,786 144,407 208,546
Last year’s growth of £1,053,114 in in-
vestments, etc. —the item includes a large
wad of Government securities —and con-
traction of £463,242 in stocks, etc., and
a drop of £598,546 in debtors’ balances
mainly reflect release of capital previ-
ously employed in Allied shipping agen-
cies. Many of these agency accounts
have now been closed owing to the
northward shift of operational centres
in the Pacific. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£2,847,759) was £239,834.
Younghusband, Ltd. (Melbourne)
Net To
Mar., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 12,334 6 p.c. = 15,000 225,911
1936.. 26,969 8 „ ~ 20.000 6,969 232,880
Share premiums, £75,000 .. .. 307,880
1937. . 32,389 10 p.c. = 25,000 7,389 315,269
1938-. 36,054 10 „,, 37,500 313,823
Cost new share issue written off, £1337.. 312,486
Cost new branches w/o, £2200 \ oqy qaa
1939.. 27,662 73 p.c. = 30,000 f
Share premiums, £20,000 .. • • 327,948
Share-issue underwriting, £1750 .. 326,198
1940.. 43,236 8 p.c. = 37,333 5,903 332,101
1941.. 37,736 64 „ ~37,708 28 332,129
1942.. 23,062 44 ~ ~28,125 327,066
1943.. 30,117 44 ~ ~ 28,125 7 142 32 7,208
Written off goodwill, £lB5O f
1944.. 29,496 44 P-c. = 28,125 1
Goodwill, new branches written [ 171 327,379
off £1,200 J
1945.. 28,183 44 p.c. <= 28,125 68 327,437
As the eye sweeps down the profit
column in the table it is necessary to re-
member that, during the four years to
the close of accounts in 1941, those on
the register put up £470,000 of new share
(£375,000) and premium (£95,000) money.
That raised paid capital to its present
figure, £625,000. Also, each pound of
paid capital had the support and assist-
ance of 255. 3d. of reserves at the close
of accounts in 1937 as against 10s. 3d.
at the close of last acounts. Meanwhile
the business continued to expand by
absorptions and otherwise, but dry con-
ditions prevailed over most of the area
where the co. operates —there are
branches in Victoria and 11 in southern
N. S. Wales.
Last term drought became severe, espe-
cially in the N.S.W. Riverina. Despite
extensive handfeeding, heavy losses of
stock occurred on many properties, the
clip was lighter, and generally the staple
lacked robustness and bulk, with signs of
tenderness in fleeces from the driest areas.
The smaller number of lambs marked
showed poor development, and outturn of
fats declined heavily, owing to inadequate
pasture. At the same time handfeeding,
agistment and the rabbit pest, etc.,
bumped up growers’ costs. The price of
the staple, however, remained steady at
15.4 d. per pound, thanks to the British
wool contract, which runs for the dura-
tion of the war with Japan and one season
thereafter. The average price at which
wool was appraised in Australia this season
was 13.8 d. per pound. So growers will
have a tidy cheque to collect in equalisa-
tion payments —about Hi P-c. (approx.
£7,000,000) on appraised value. The
British meat contract (which runs till end
Sept., 1948) and demand of the Allied
forces in the s.-w. Pacific kept stock
prices at good figures, too.
Including the previous year’s carry-
forward, there was a drop of only 159-
bales in wool sold by the co. last term:
Wool Sold, Exes., p.c.
Bales. Gross. Exes., etc. of Gross.
1933.. 90,068 84,698 74,517 88.0 p.c.
1935.. 69,360 92,232 79,898 86.6 „
1936.. 94,719 113,443 86,474 76.2 „
1938.. 79,515 140,500 104,446 74.3 „
1940.. 84,711 190,561 147,325 77.3 „
1941. .111,281 199,778 162,042 81.1 „
1942. .103,913 196,407 173,345 88.2 „
1943.. 96,212 212,665 182,547 85.8 „
1944. .101,658 218,778 186,782 85.4 „
1945. 219,894 189,210 86.2 „
The growth of £lll6 in gross earnings
from all sources suggests that turnover in
the livestock and merchandising sections
held well. The co. doesn’t broadcast the
quantity of livestock handled, but the
figures are substantial. Including £13,750
(down £3000) set aside for the tax-
gatherer, exes, took all the gain and £1312
besides. After sending £2500 to the staff
fund £28,183 remained for shareholders.
The div. was kept at p.c., which took
all but £5B of the profit, and made the
average distribution over the last five
years 4.6 p.c,, compared with an average
of 8.3 p.c. for the preceding quinquen-
nium.
Movements in balance-sheet figures re-
flect the promptness with which the
Centraf Wool Committee settles accounts,
and continued absence of labor and
materials for rehabilitation of pastoral
properties:
1940. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £500,000 £625,000 £625,000 £625,000
Liabilities .. 693,451 138,010 247,731 145,079
Tax reserve .. 14,295 22,000 16,750 13,750
Premises & plant 212,855 249,324 253,224 252,968
Merchandise . . 6,555 10,436 12,366 10,291
Book debts,
etc. . . 1,331,433 826,805 716,389 685,919
Investments,
cash, etc. .. 9,005 34,535 250,010 180,213
Last term £102,652 was clipped off the
outside debt to the benefit of net earn-
ings. To do this cash, etc., was drawn
upon for £69,797 and debtors’ balances
were reduced by £30,470. When the books
closed more or less liquids exceeded out-
side liabilities, including tax reserve, by
£717,594 (up £3310).
As for the coming season, a lot more
rain is wanted in the Riverina and else-
where to ensure a satisfactory clip from
reduced flocks. Concerning the long-term
outlook, British authorities and repre-
sentatives of the industry from Australia,
Maoriland and S. Africa are Ww endeav-
oring to hammer out a plan for the com-
bined marketing of Britain’s stockpile
of about 11,000,000 bales and future
Dominion clips. Obviously much will
depend upon the outcome of this confer-
ence. While synthetic fibres cannot be
expected to strengthen either the demand
for or price of natural wool, it remains to
be seen to what extent they will operate
as a depressing factor.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House*
'adders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
RUPTURE
r NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
ACTS
LIKE THE HHHD
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
fiat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-duy for
free literature.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 21Z), 243 ELIZABETH ST.. SYDNEY.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA 6007/8
and at ail branches
fl FINE HOTEL
A hotel, certainly one of Sydney’s
leading hotels, tut different to
every otter in many things. The
Wentworth, for instance, has ever
teen noted for its quiet, restful
atmosphere. Another thing, too.
while away from the noise and
bustle, you are nevertheless con-
veniently situated to everywhere.
Service and cuisine are unexcelled.
THE WENTWORTH
ut
'Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
aus/ralian ABBOT
Filter
Cylinder
gf
gf
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
PATENTS.—Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House. Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * • * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Colling
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
Public Notice.
I, JOHN AKSEL KNUDSEN, of Danish nationality,
born at Ryslinge, Denmark, and resident five years
in Australia, now residing at No. 2 Moore Street,
Kogarah, N.S.W., intend to apply for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
Divorce Notice*.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
BETWEEN GRACE PATRICIA PEARSON, Petitioner
AND EDWARD EDGAR PEARSON Respondent.
TO the Respondent EDWARD EDGAR PEARSON—
TAKE NOTICE that the abovenamed GRACE
PATRICIA PEARSON has commenced a suit against
you numbered 1604 of 1945 in this Court and is
applying for a dissolution of marriage on the grounds
of desertion for three years and upwards without
just cause or excuse AND TAKE NOTICE that you
are required to enter an appearance in the said suit
at the proper office of this Court on or before the
15th day of August 1945 AND in the event of your
not doing so within the time limited or obtaining
further time the Petitioner will proceed and the
suit will be heard and determined your absence
notwithstanding A copy of the petition filed herein
may be had on application to the undersigned free
of charge DATED this Twenty-second day of June
1945 SAMUEL COOK Solicitor for the Petitioner
14, Spring Street .Sydney—For the Registrar, A. E.
BRADDOCK, Clerk in Divorce.
I GUT MY BUILDING COSTS WITH
this imat
SHEET I
fti/
w
mi
»>X.^Tv
safe
&
pmi
27s
JOHN LYSAGHT (AUST.) PTY. LTD.
SYDNEY . MELBOURNE - BRISBANE - ADELAIDE Tv PERTH'
BUILDING in Galvanized Iron
saves money both in first cost
and upkeep because its rigidity,
ease of handling, and great ten-
sile strength, mean taster con-
struction and longer serviceable
life. But for ADDED economy,
reduced labour costs, remember
to specify the 'lO Corrugations* sheet in
all your post-war building contracts. 274"
wide instead of 2'14" yet same price per
ton as *8 Corrugations' it cuts costs at
least 4% in materials alone. Ample sup-
plies for civilian needs with Victory.
IA2L4-3988
BUILT TO SERVE!
m
Willard’s
reputation has been built on Quality and performance
Willanl
. . . have the power to carry on!
for Tanks - Combat Cars . Jeeps - Walkie-Talkies - Ships
for Cars • Trucks • Tractors and Buses at home
Distributors for N.S.W.
WILLARD STORAGE BATTERY CO. OF AUST. PTY.,
LIMITED,
160 Castlereagh Street, Sydney.
British Titan Products, Ltd., England,
has decided to put up a new factory at
Burnie (Tas.) to manufacture pigments.
Production is expected to begin about the
middle of next year, and approx. 100
men will be employed. Principal product
will be titanium white, which is used as
a paint pigment, and in rubber and lino-
leum. The raw material is the mineral
ilmenite, supplies of which are available
in Tas. and elsewhere in Australia.
“P.McM.”: The landing of the A.I.F.
at Brunei Bay in North Borneo brings
the Allies to the fringe of the natural
rubber-producing areas there. In 1940
British North Borneo marketed 17,623
tons of crude rubber, whilst adjacent
Sarawak, also a British possession, pro-
duced 35,166 tons. If the Japs have
not destroyed the plantations recovery
of this area should be of some help
in maintaining the Allies’ dwindling
stocks of natural rubber, provided
planters are allowed to return to their
properties without delay.
* * * *
The old Wolfram Camp field (N.Q.) is
not Jiving up to the hopes formed of it a
year or so ago, partly because of the
collapse of demand for molybdenite, and
partly because the commercial minerals
persist in low percentage and are irregu-
larly distributed along an intensive con-
tact zone in quartz pipes and flat lodes.
For the 14 months to end 1944 the field
turned out approx. 81 tons wolfram, one
ton wolfram-bismuth, 6cwt. molybdenite
and 15cwt. bismuth, the lot worth
£31,672, of which wolfram accounted for
£30,685. This was the best outturn since
1920. During the year, however, two
producers gave up and a new one began
at the Baker shaft on Larkin’s lease,
wherfe prospects are said to be “encour-
aging.”
* * * *
Western Petroleum, whose bore at Nel-
son (Vic.) is being jointly drilled by the
Victorian and Federal Governments,
showed a loss of £162 for the year to
end of March last, raising development
account to £10,720. The rotary drill, now
down 6765 ft., has been reconditioned and
strengthened, and boring has started
again. It is the deepest borehole yet
drilled in Australia. It is also the
greatest depth of tertiary formation,
which has proved thicker than originally
supposed, penetrated by a drill in the
Commonwealth. Dr. Woolnough, for-
merly Federal Government Geologist, be-
lieved that the permo-carboniferous strata
offer best possibilities for discovery of
oil locally. This because the necessary
structural closures have so far failed to
develop in the tertiary beds.
* * * *
“Throgmorton” (London): At the
annual roll-up of Kalgoorlie Golden'
Miler, Paringa, chairman Charles S. Beale
made the most of the co.’s achievements.
Since treatment began in 1938 a through-
put of 528,820 tons yielded £1,033,900
stg. worth of gold ; £63,100 had been
written off for development, £44,700 for
plant depreciation and £198,500, over
100 p.c. of issued capital, had been paid
in dividends. Plans for expansion of
mine and mill would call for consider-
able capital expenditure, but no diffi-
culty is anticipated in raising the money.
The area owned by the co. is on the
strike of a series of proved ore channels.
As regards the Paringa block, the eastern
series of gold carriers, hitherto unex-
plored, are now being investigated by
drilling. Elsewhere on this block no
further high-grade ore worth mention-
ing has been discovered. Ore reserves
at end August last were put at 227,045
tons, averaging s.Bdwt., of which 101,715
tons, averaging 4.91dwt., was broken in
the stopes, and the balance, averaging
6.52dwt., was blocked. At present rate
of crushing there is about three years’
work ahead of the mill there. When the
books closed there was £94,509 in cash
(£36,228), broken ore (£36,279), stores
(£17,642) and debtors’ balances, etc.
(£4360) to meet £17,611 coming to sundry
creditors and £16,070 reserved for the
taxgatherer. Paringa’s interest in the Mt.
Charlotte and Maritana areas, about two
miles north of the Paringa group and
close to the eastern end of Kalgoorlie
township, is lumped with an unstated
amount of exploration exes, at £32,452.
* * * *
London-domiciled Westralian gold-
mining cos. which left the City when air-
raids were at their worst have either
returned or are returning. Lake View
and Goldfields Australian Development
went to Motcombe in Dorset; Wiluna
and Golden Horseshoe to Rickmansworth
in Herts; Gold Mines of Kalgoorlie*'to
Esher in Surrey. Boulder Perseverance,
Gt. Boulder, North and South Kalgurli,
Paringa, Sons of Gwalia and De Bemales
group stayed put. Buildings in which
some have offices were hit by bombs (De
Bernales received two hits), or suffered
from the effects of near-misses. No loss
of life was reported,
* * * *
Kalgoorlie Golden Mile mine-owners
continue to buy a lot of fresh water,
pumped from Mundaring reservoir
nearly 400 miles away, from the West-
ralian Government. Aggregate quantity
for the six months to end of March last
was 175,468,900 gallons, at a cost of
£46,732. This is little more than 50 p.c.
of pre-war half-yearly purchase. At the
opening of the Mundaring Water Scheme
in Kalgoorlie at the beginning of this
century George Reid, one of the visiting
Federal Parliamentary party, said lie had
never heard so much talk about water
and seen so little drupk. There is even
less drunk now.


CD
am
THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: In the advance of the
Ninth Division detachments in Borneo
it continued to be not a case of fighting
Japanese but of catching them, save on
Labuan. On that island the last pocket
fought bitterly, going out in the end in
two wild charges. Odd snipers keep on
turning up.
The swift fresh landings, north and
south, by the week-end had placed the
Australians virtually in control of 120
miles of coastline, the whole of the
Brunei Bay area and of the Seria and Miri
oilfields. In addition to Brunei, both
British North Borneo and Sarawak had
been penetrated.
Seria was the most valuable capture.
In pre-war days the field was under de-
velopment and had reached the stage of
yielding about 196,000,000 gallons of
crude petrol p.a. Actually the oil could
be loaded for bunker use without refining.
However, there was a refinery at Lutong,
about 80 miles south-west of Brunei,
equipped with a considerable amount of
new Japanese machinery. The enemy
abandoned the Seria field. Many of the
wells are in the sea and undefendable,
and the best f of the rest were within the
range of naval gunfire.
The Seria occupation * was made by a
land column which advanced from
Brunei and Tutong, and which after-
wards set out to link with the landing
party that went ashore at Lutong and
captured the Miri field, further south-
west, without meeting resistance.
Everywhere there is evidence that the
enemy was in occupation only recently.
No Australian prisoners have so far
been rescued, but 129 Indians left behind
in a dreadful condition confirmed thp
evidence supplied by derelict A.I.F.
equipment that Australians had been with
the Japanese on the west coast not very
long ago.
The clear run of almost bloodless suc-
cesses was saddened late in the week by
the death of Rear-Admiral Forrest
Royal, U.S.N., who commanded the
amphibious forces at Brunei and Tara-
kan.
Tarakan had seen its last fighting in
the aftermath of a wild downhill charge
by Jap remnants; and, meanwhile, Balik
Papan all the week was being softened
up by daily applications of fire and
bomb. South-west Pacific reported that
the process was continuing,' but did
not confirm Tokyo’s assertions up to
June 25. These were that early last
week Allied naval vessels had shelled
the .port, that minesweepers had en-
tered the deep gulf at the head of
which the town stands, and that on June
24 the Allies launched a landing attack
by A.I.F. troops, backed by strong naval
forces and about 120 U.S. fighters, which
had been “completely checked.”
Tough Going in New Guinea
The Wewak campaign is developing
into a weary game of chase and exter-
mination, in wet, murky hill country
which seems to have been furnished by
Providence with an endless helping of
peaks and razor backs for the benefit of
the enemy. There is a phantom quality
about the whole business which makes
it one of the worst experiences in cam-
paigning which Australian troops have
ever been asked to suffer. The campaign
has no great strategic objective, no
glorious victory in the offing to lend
lustre to the fighting. The enemy appears
to have no form and no location. Pieces
of him come away in the hands of
attacking units, but his residue slinks off,
dividing or uniting as occasion demands,
but always all claws.
The nights are noisy with mortars
flinging destruction at some sawback or
warren, while the “woodpeckers” spit de-
fiance and their owners try all the seem-
ingly stupid but nerve-wracking raiding
tricks for which they have become
notorious. Each encounter ends with a
scramble, usually through mud and
blood and lawyer vines, up a slope like
a greasy pole, after which all there is to '
show as a symbol of victory is a foul
enclosure trodden into wet pudding, with
mangled and charred bodies flung about
liks old rags and the rain beating down
on them.
The patrols go on to take another place
of the same breed, certain only of one
thing—that the Jap will be there, well
armed with the kind of weapons which
give him mobility, and loss of which
doesn’t mean much if he has another
cache of them to run to further back, as
invariably he seems to have.
It is not easy to keep up the
comforts of home in these surroundings.
The beer which milling mobs swill in
dirty Sydney bars is scarcely ever seen.
Tobacco is in attentuated supply and
arrives at intervals. Food is flavored
with the damp and fungus of the tropics
and with the eternal reek set up by 25-
pounders, bombers and flame-throwers,
which swathe the landscape in oily
smoke for days, the humidity bringing
it down to ground level and assuring
that the troops will wade through it up
to their necks, sleep in it, breathe it
along with the odor of Jap camps and
of Jap dead.
Many of the men who are going
through all this have had over five years
of soldiering to which they went straight
from school, never having known any
civilian manhood.
There seems to be months of this
bloody piecemeal campaigning still
ahead, at least for part of the force ; and
after that for that part which remains
there must be a period of recuperation,
whether for refitment for further fight-
ing or reversion to civilian life.
On Bougainville
On Bougainville the fighting is of a
somewhat different character in the main
theatre of the south. There something
like definite defence lines existed as
units of the Australian Third Division,
A.1.F., pushed the enemy chopped off the
Hari River in fragments towards Buin
and crashed its spearhead patrols against
the stiffening resistance on the Mobiai
River. Maoriland Corsairs are consfantly
overhead and without them the move-
ment would be slower.
The tanks are playing a great part in
the advance against a vicious but not
yery effective defence by Jap 47mm. a.-t.
weapons, and the Buin road is becoming
more booby-trapped every mile. The
enemy has lost large sections of his food
areas, and his position is hopeless, but,
as usual, his objective in such a fix is to
kill as many Australians as he can before
he is wiped out.
Enemy casualties during the week in
New Guinea and the Solomons were esti-
mated to number 700.
Stories from Brunei Bay.
John Brennan: Seven days to the
minute after their initial landings in the
Brunei Bay area and on Labuan Ninth
Division troops made another jump to the
the mainland, at Weston, a tiny town and
port six miles up the Padas River from
the northernmost corner of Brunei Bay.
It was the first return of Allied troops
to British Nohh Borneo, The Japs, too,
had landed first at Weston. The assault
was made from alligators, which can
roll through swamp and mud flat; for
even at high water Weston is open only
to ships of something less than six feet
draught. The alligators churned in long
procession up the river.
Spearheading the assault was the A.I.F.
battalion famous for its ten-day battle
with the Japs on the Wareo track dur-
ing the Finschhafen campaign. There it
had been completely cut off for a time.
It fought with distinction at El Alamein.
Always a composite battalion of men
from every State, it was formed in Eng-
land during the Battle of Britain.
Weston was empty of the enemy. A
reconnaissance party led by Lieut.
Douglas Billett, of Devonport (Tas.), had
been ashore there the previous day.
It penetrated about a thousand yards
inland and found a solitary native, who
reported that the small Jap garrison had
withdrawn four days previously.
The natives, too, anticipating an
attack, had mostly gone back into the
hill country. A R.A.N. group from
H.M.A.S. Lachlan took Billett’s party
ashore and buoyed the river channel.
Picture of Weston
Weston is set on the river’s edge, in the
centre, it seems, of a mangrove and nipa-
palm swamp. There is a small planta-
tion area behind the town, but almost
the only solid ground is the built-up
causeway which carries the railway line.
Most of the houses are built out oyer
the water. The rest is just foetid, stinking
mud. No wonder Japs left this place, the
troops said. And one of them was ready
with the comment: “Now I understand
why they build their houses out in the
river. It’s the driest place there is around
here.”
The railway line is single-track, metre
gauge. It runs to Beaufort, 20 miles to
the north, a pre-war administration
centre. From Beaufort another line runs
north again to Jesselton. Weston was
merely a small port for the shipping of a
little rubber and sago.
The enemy’s intentions are known to
himself alone and, except on Labuan
when his force had no means of escape,
he has chosen to fight only the merest
of rearguard actions during the present
operations.
Adventures at Brunei
The advance company of the Ninth
Division force which landed on the
Brooketon peninsula, 18 miles away, sent
a platoon into the Brunei town area on
the afternoon of the fourth day follow-
ing the landing. It was led by Sergeant
W. Pearce, of Marrar, N.S.W., who won
the M.M. during the Finschhafen cam-
paign. He had taken over the platoon
that morning when the lieutenant who
commanded it was knifed in a brief en-
counter with a Japanese patrol on the
edge of the airfield a few miles north
of the town.
The Japs, 12 of them, came walking
into the company area just at dawn.
In the dim light it was thought at first
that they were natives. Then everything
opened up. Headquarters platoon shot
five; the other two platoons accounted
for the other seven. The Japs seemed be-
wildered. They were shot as they ran,
but before he was killed one of them
jumped on the lieutenant and stabbed
him.
The town was in ruins from the aerial
bombardment. The riverside docks had
been spared; so had the large native vil-
lage, which was built on stakes in the
middle of the Brunei Basin. But the
administrative buildings and warehouses
and the sawmill just north of the town
had been almost completely destroyed.
Wrecked Jap ships and barges littered
the waterfront.
Pearce’s platoon had penetrated almost
to the docks area before it saw its first Jap.
He poked his head above a sandbagged
position beside a badly-damaged hut,
and was shot immediately by the forward
scout. Then a light machine-gun opened
fire from inside the hut, and a couple
of minutes later six Japs, armed with long
wooden Judo sticks to which were tied
double-edged knives, ran screaming from
the hut, led by an officer brandishing a
sword. All seven were cut down by the
fire from Owen and Bren guns before
they could cover the 25 yards separating
them from the grounded platoon.
That was the extent of the Japanese
defence of Brunei. The remainder of
the town was found deserted by the
enemy.
Enter the Sultan
South of Brunei town the Ninth drove
rapidly on to Tutong, 30 miles away on
the Tutong River. It had covered a dis-
tance of over 40 miles in a direct line
from its landing point, and with Tutong
held, a new seaborne line of supply was
available.
The N. S. Wales battalion which made
the original landing on the Borneo main-
land continued in the forefront of the
drive south. Its major initial objectives
were captured with a minimum of
casualties, and its speed of advance was
maintained, despite the difficulties of
supply, oVer a single, narrow road.
The force still had made no more than
minor contact with the enemy, and its
forward reconnaissance had been en-
trusted now to a party travelling in a
sandbagged jeep.
Another detachment pushed inland
from Brunei and made contact with the
Sultan of Brunei, who with his Sultana
and a retinue of Government officials
placed himself in Allied hands.
Before the war he had been the
nominal head of Brunei State, but his
power was limited to matters of religion,
and in all things else the real ruler was
the Resident appointed by the Governor
of Sineanore
The Japs established the Sultan as
titular ruler of the entire area of Brunei,
Labuan, Sarawak and British North
Borneo, but the Jap Army controlled the
administration. The Sultan astonished the
troops on his return to the palace by the
fashionable cut of his clothes. He wore
a double-breasted grey suit, the trousers
very recently and very carefully pressed.
Clearing Labuan Pocket
The troops whose task it was to clear
the enemy from that one small and last
remaining pocket west of Labuan air-
field found themselves engaged in a real
and actual war against a fanatical enemy
who had made his choice for death. He
stayed in his tight little corner in the
tangled jungle, covering all the approaches
with his fire. Every effort to inch him
out was met with stubborn, suicidal re-
sistance. For three days a company
probed into his hideout without success.
There were inevitable casualties. But
Labuan was secure, and there was no
real hurry to accomplish the enemy’s de-
struction. Artillery pounded his positions,
and he was bombarded from the air.
Major-General G. P, Wootten, who com-
mands the Ninth, put it clearly: “For all
I care he can stay there and rot.”
There was still an odd Jap roaming
the island at night, searching for food
or a way of escape. Up beyond Labuan
airfield Private Tom Fulton, of Roseville,
Sydney, was in a defence position near
a narrow grass-grown track.
Somewhere about midnight he noticed
a shadow across the track about ten feet
away from his hole. He watched it for
a long time, and it began to worry him.
At last, to clear it from his mind, he
walked over to brush it with his foot.
He touched a Jap. The Jap fired and
missed, and Fulton let him have a burst
from his Owen. The Jap got up and
went down the hill in a stumbling run.
From the next hole Private Alan Christie,
of Gilgandra, N.S.W., let loose after him
with his Bren. An hour or so later there •
was the sound of a single Jap rifleshot
from the foot of the little hill. In the
morning they found the Jap. His left leg
from about halfway up the shin down
had been mangled to a pulp. His left
side had been torn with bullets, and there
were two bullet-holes in his chest.
He had removed his shoe from his
right foot, used his toes to pull the trigger
had shot himself through the head.
Few prisoners were taken.
Airfield in Use
Labuan airfield was operating seven
days after the landing on the island.
With the Japs it had been a large field,
but, by Allied standards in the Pacific,
never a good one. Jap ’planes are
lighter on the whole than are American
and Australian, and the enemy has not
the same need for a heavy-surfaced
hard strip. The field had been
rendered completely unserviceable by
R.A.A.F. and U.S. bombing. The run-
way was cratered from end to end, and
the huge craters were jammed together,
spilling earth from one to the other and
half filled with water.
There were between 20 and 30 wrecked
Jap aircraft about the edge of the field
and in the revetment areas.
One-third of the bombing would have
been sufficient to deny the field to the
enemy. It was rather as though the air
forces had gone about cracking an egg
with a sledgehammer. The R.A.A.F. air-
field construction engineers reckoned it
ilhe most badly-damteged airfield they
have come across in the South-west
Pacific.
After the craters were filled they
quarried sandstone from an escarpment
for a temporary surfacing.
Gangs of natives were set digging
drains. The field will drain well, for it
sits on a small plateau.
The first ’plane in was a Douglas
transport of the R.A.A.F.’s No. 34
Squadron, piloted by Flight-Lieut. Frank
Noland (Adelaide), with Flight-Lieut.
Don Anderson, of Waikerie (S.A.), as co-
pilot.
Nolan and Anderson have been flying
transports for over two years now with-
out an accident or a hold-up of any kind.
Following them were a couple of
fighters, the first piloted by the C.O. of
the squadron, Squadron-Leader Peter
Jones (Sydney). A regular tail came in
after them and next day others touched
down on Labuan.
Okinawa Falls.
“Ek Dum”: Okinawa has fallen, and
towards the end Japanese surrendered in
unprecedented numbers —just on 8000,
including roughly 2500 labor troops,
are numbered in the estimated enemy


Trained men
help advance Australia
Under the watchful eye of his mentor, an electrical
apprentice pays close attention to the job of learning
how to wind an electric motor armature.
A steel industry fitting and turning apprentice has a mechanical drawing explained to him by his foreman.
Industry to-day has become so com-
plicated and technical progress so rapid
that any nation which does not keep
abreast of every new development will
soon find itself outstripped by its
competitors.
This applies most forcibly to the
steel industry because its efficiency or
otherwise affects the nation’s entire in-
dustrial economy.
To-day, Australia’s steel industry
operates with a high degree of efficiency
and one of the contributing factors is
the system by which its workers are
trained. Australia’s steel industry pro-
vides employment for thousands of
workers skilled in a multiplicity of
trades and professions.
The training of these men cannot be
left to chance. Their abilities must be
fostered and any outstanding talents
utilised to the best advantage of both
the individual and the industry.
To this end, The Broken Hill Pro-
prietary Co. Ltd. some sixteen years ago
introduced a comprehensive scheme of
employee training. The scheme ensures
that a steady flow of trained men is pro-
vided to carry on the vital and varied
tasks required in steel production.
The results of this policy become
apparent to some extent when we con-
sider how our steel industry has success-
fully met wartime demands.
The B.H.P. employee training system
gives the ambitious youth the opportun-
ity to consistently improve his status in
the industry and benefit from the in-
creased earning power which profici-
ency brings.
To hold our own in post-war competi-
tion will require every resource we can
command —at least one advantage is
provided by the body of trained man-
power created through the steel indus-
try’s employee training-scheme.
Nowhere is greater steel making knowledge
necessary than in the open hearth furnace
plant, where iron with other alloying ingredi-
ents is refined into steel.
The handling of the steel industry’s tremendous tonnages of hot metal—as instanced in
the above operation of tapping a blast furnace —calls for the services of experienced men.
One of several freighters built at the B.H.P. Why alia shipyard whose produc-
tivity forcibly demonstrates the success of technical and apprentice training.
Thorough training and long experience are required before steel industry
employees are considered eligible to take charge of control panels as shown.


m
The World follows Britain's lead
p
V. :■,
sa*. ijt
c- ■->-
;
i
RAILWAY TRANSPORT
RAILWAY locomotives, which have hauled the major portion
of the world’s land traffic for the best part of a century,
were invented in Britain, and British steam trains are still the
fastest and safest in the world.
Not least among the many other discoveries and inventions for
which the world owes a debt to Britain is the development of
rayon by the firm of Courtaulds. It is almost entirely due to the
enterprise shown by Courtaulds that the development of rayon
has advanced with such giant strides. The pioneer work done by
this British firm has been the means of creating a vast industry in
England, the United States and other countries.
Today, rayon has won universal acceptance and admiration. As
a factor in raising standards of life and comfort, Courtaulds
rayon yarn, and the lovely fabrics made from it, deserve a prominent
place in the regard of all nations. The necessities of the war
have restricted the available supply of Courtaulds rayons. But
when victory is won, the results of unceasing research and experi-
ment during the war years can be translated into even more
beautiful and more versatile rayon materials.
In the post-war years the> British Commonwealth will demonstrate
that in the future, as in the past, British brains and industry can
guide the world towards fresh achievements for the well-being
and happiness of the human race. To this great ideal the firm of
Courtaulds dedicates its vast store of technical skill and experience.
GEORGE
STEPHENSON.
Born 1781. Pioneer oj
railway locomotion.
His famous engine
“The Rocket” made
history in 1829 by
pulling a train at a
speed of 29 miles pei
hour.
The World's greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE.
Issued by Courtaulds, Ltd., London, England.
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd. Rayon Fabrics
distributed overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd.
SYMBOL OF SUPREMACY
ON
AUSTRALIA’S
AIRLINE
a/
SYMBOL of Australia’s conquest of the air
in peacetime and wartime skies—on Aust-
ralian and Empire routes —this design has
been evolved from the Qantas House Flag, as a
distinguishing feature of this Airline.
Q.EA. —the initials of Qantas Empire Airways
—may well stand for the Quality, Experience,
and Achievement associated with the name of
Qantas .... accredited representative of the
Commonwealth Government and pioneer in
aviation developments of universal significance.
Smfa/te
l VVVI
SYDNEY MELBOURNE BRISBANE TOWNSVILLE PERTH
casualties of 101,000-odd during 82 days
of desperate fighting.
It was a terrific campaign. The usage
of ammunition on our side was equal to
that of a major battle of the Western
Front, and the wastage of weapons and
supplies must have been enormous. Up
to last week the Americans had lost 24
ships sunk and 59 damaged, and their
casualties were 11,260 killed and
missing, among them 4200 naval men
killed, and 33,769 wounded. The victory
was saddened by the loss of General
Simon Bolivar Buckner, G.O.C. Tenth
U.S, Army, who was killed by a
shell fragment and buried on the island
with his troops, and Brigadier-General
Claudius Easley, Assistant-Commander
of the 96th Division, who died on the
field of battle two days later. Lieut.-
General Stilwell has succeeded General
Buckner.
The main fighting ended on the even-
ing of June 21, but was immediately fol-
lowed by the heaviest swoop yet made by
Japanese suicide aircraft. They came
over in waves all night, each flight break-
ing formation to dive on a target.
Tokyo had been alleging throughout
the week that shipping was concentrating
off the southern end of Okinawa for an
attack on the Sakishimas—which, like
Kyushu, were bombed on June 22—and
it was apparently thought worth while
to make a stern attempt to disrupt the
preparations. It was admitted that two
small U.S. naval ships were sunk, an
auxiliary fleet unit heavily damaged and
two small ships hit.
The first set of attacks ended at noon
on June 22, when the enemy had lost 59
machines.
Raids on Honshu
Bombing of Japan continued. Three
main attacks were made, each split into
sections, the last by 450 Superfortresses,
mainly unescorted, which aimed at Kure
naval base. The Superforts met intense
and accurate ground fire, and had to
ward off strong fighter attacks. Only
four were reported missing, though a
number were damaged.
One of the main objectives was the
Mitsubishi plant at Tamashima, which
makes Betty 11, carrier of the small
suicide aircraft. But S.Fs, and Mus-
tangs were operating at the same
time north of Tokyo, and Lightings and
Hellcats raided the Fukuoka prefecture
and the district north-east of Tokyo from
Iwo Jima, flying 1645 miles to attack the
Kasumigara and Shimodate airfields. For
the first time a balloon barrage was en-
countered in Japan, but the raiders shot
down 69 machines,
That the raids on Japan are not the
light-hearted affairs usually pictured is
shown by the fact that since March 4
851 S.Fs. have made emergency landings
on Iwo “instead of having to make forced
landings at sea.”
Japan’s Defences
Newspaper optimists are certain that
the next move will be a direct invasion
of Japan, and that with victory at
Okinawa it is all over bar the shouting,
Okinawa and Iwo were in substance
screen defences. They never have been
estimated as part of the main defence
area of the homeland, though Amami,
the northernmost island of the Ryukus,
as yet uninvaded, was in peace-time in-
eluded as one of the 17 fortress areas of
Japan—the others are Yokosuka (at the
mouth of Tokyo Bay), Chichijima
(Bonins), Kure, Shimonoseki, Maizuru,
Sasebo, Tshushima, Nagasaki, Iki, Hako-
date, Saganoseki, Keelung, Mako (For-
mosa), Chinkai (Korea), Gensan and
Port Arthur. The main naval bases were
Kure, Sasebo and Yokosuka,
In the Philippines, Aparri, the last port
held by the Japs on the north of Luzon,
had at the week-end been taken over by
guerrillas and U.S. troops, which were
hard put to hold it. There are supposed
to be 20,000 Japs caught in the Caayan
Valley,
. ... ...
General Marshalls Views
General Marshall, U.S. Chief of Staff,
has declared his military plans for the
“coming year.” Japan is to suffer raids
by 1000 Superfortresses—in which term
,the terrible Dominators, or Super Libera-
tors, presumably are included—when the
battle is in full swing. General Arnold
promises that by next March Nippon will
be absorbing 166,000 tons of bombs a
month—roughly the amount which was
being hurled at Germany at the. end of
the European war—and that from Sep-
tember 12,0001 b. bombs will be in use
against Japan.
Two U.S. air forces will be operating,
the Twentieth, and the Eighth which will
be under General Doolittle,
But General Marshall said that it would
be a costly mistake and a hideous injus-
tice to relax into optimistic estimates of
the situation.
The general assumption by buoyant
critics is that bombing will wipe out
resistance, and it is even being canvassed
that the assistance which Uncle Sam is
being offered to beat Japan by Britain
and the Dominions is slightly embarrass-
ing, as it will scarcely be possible to
accommodate their “somewhat inferior”
aircraft and air force. No American com-
mander is likely to share these views after
seeing what was accomplished by the
Lancasters and the Spitfires and the Mos-
quitoes, but it is possible that there is
some agreement that Britain should keep
the bulk of her forces in Europe until it
is certain that aggression has been wiped
off the Continent,
The British Empire’s first phase of
operations will certainly be the clear-
ing of southern Asia along lines forecast
in these pages many months ago, and
again early this month. But this should
be accomplished well before the main
battle for Japan is over, and if there is
not plenty of room for British effort in
the final phases it will be a matter for
pleasant surprise.
Slim on the Jap '
Bombing may destroy the enemy’s
moral. In this it did not succeed on
Tarawa, on Iwo or on Okinawa, and all
optimists would do well to paste in their
hats the sage summary of General Slim,
of the British Fourteenth Army, who has
just finished the first real continental cam-
paign against the Japanese: —■
You get a complete psychological picture
if you picture mansized soldier ants. You
wn stamp on them but they still cordon....
fig h h e ts J to P the e e e ndf Othe/armies say they will
fight to the last man, but only the
Japanese army does it—Over 100,000
Japanese have in ®urmasince
the formation of the Fourteenth Army in
October, 1943. Prisoners totalled fewer than
2000, of whom 1500 were so badly
wounded or physically exhausted as to be
iK&kSSL were “SUT
F , „
The general added: I do not allow our
men to count any Jap killed unless they
have the body. So far 100,000 Japanese
bodies have been picked up in Burma.
An approach to an accurate and just
estimate of the damage which has been
done to enemy manhood in the Pacific
would have been obtained if everybody
involved had followed General Slim s
salutary statistical rule.
British Operations
With the breaking of the block position
on the Toungoo-Mawchi road into the
Shan Hills, the Japanese on the east of
the Sittaung were compelled to fall back
further. The hills now havmg
reached and the rains being m tu >
progress is likely to be slow un. ~
enemy tries to get out ot tne iviaw
area altogether. ,
It was announced on z *
carrier-based Seafires and Hellcats
the British East Indian Fleet had se
small vessels on fire and destroy ea
damaged 19 Jap aircraft during an a i
on the north-east coast of Sumatra,
_
Cargo I ask r orce
One section of the Burma Command
will do with a recess to reorganise be-
fore the dry months produce the next
campaign. The first year’s work of the
South-East Asian Combat Cargo lasK
Force has been colossal,
Cargo aircraft have dropped m
along lines of communication 6UU,uuu
tons of supplies—a load heavier than the
bomb-load dropped on Europe during the
same period by the R.A.F. (470,000 tonsj.
In April alone 77,000 tons were delivered
to advancing troops, despite the storms
of the pre-monsoon period. Some or the
loads had to be carried over 10,000 ft.
ranges, and many came under fire. British
forces surrounded in Arakan were fed
and ammunitioned by aircraft,
Jn March, 1944, when General Slim
W ent over to the offensive, 12,000 troops
W] - th mules and stores were put down 150
miles behind the Jap lines. Myitkyina,
when captured, was turned into one<of
the world’s greatest air-traffic centres by
a complete construction battalion, which
p ew j n all its equipment, including a
sectionalised 17-ton bulldozer. In March,
1945, when the British-Indian IV Corps
crossed the Irrawaddy and began the dash
f Meiktila, it deliberately allowed the
I „
Japs to close in behind, and was then re-
inforced in brigade strength from the
a j r _ Some of its units wrecked Thazi
Junction and generally cut oft the Manda-
lay escape routes. Not an aircraft was
j os j. j n operation,
xhe force consists of R.A.F. and
r c.A.F. pilots flying Dakotas and
Americans in Dakotas, Commandos and
e : ant
“
The Allied Battle Order.
_
“Ek Dam”: Figures published in Lon-
don early this month gave Shaef’s estimate
of Allied strength in western Europe at
the end of war as 15 U.S., four British,
two Canadian, three French and one
Polish armored divisions ; 42 U.S., eight
British, three Canadian and eight French


Public Notice.
I, GUIDO DE MATTIA, of Italian nationality, bom
at S. Stefano Condore, Italy, and resident eight years
in Australia, now residing at Wilberforce Road,
Windsor, N.S.W., intend to apply , for naturalisation
under the Nationality Act 1920-1936.
If any illustration in “The Bulle-
tin” takes your fancy, write to the
Manager, who will quote you price
for the original.
THE SYMBOL
OF SERVICE
All the refinements of a Great
Hotel will make your next
visit a really pleasurable one
... if you “guest” at the
Radio, Cable and
Telegraphic Address
“SANGEORGE”
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON
NEW ZEALAND
SG.2
5.6. C.
THE GENERAL ELECTRIC
CO. LTD., OF ENGLAND
in war as in peace
at the service of the Empire
m
m m§
•■W—t...
■« £
L.J
I
IK
i- *
mm
sr-'x.
m»" mv
■it k M •*
m
m
m
m?
I—l
: ■
e
M
111;
mm
ill
Centralised control of electrical supply systems, such as the British
Grid and similar extensive systems overseas, which require complete
co-ordination for smooth uninterrupted service has led to the development
of specialised electrical equipment by the G.E.C.
The rapid increase in industrial electrification to
meet the demands of war has resulted in the entire
research, technical resources and vast production
potential of the G.E.C. being diverted from
normal supplies to war effort. With Peace the
great technical wartime advances of the Company
in all applications of Electricity, including the
important one of Electronics, will be available
for post-war reconstruction throughout the world.
s<aC!—Always in the Forefront of
Electrical Progress.
&&e.
ELECTRIFICATION
SCHEMES include
all industries: Air-
craft; Chemicals;
Collieries; Food;
Mining; Smelting;
Locomotive and
Wagon Works;
Motor Car Works;
Ships and Shipyards;
Textile and other
Mills; Oil Fields;
Refineries, etc. etc.
(Sole Australian Representatives of the G.E.C, of England ).
SYDNEY. NEWCASTLE. MELBOURNE. PERTH. HOBART. LAUNCESTON
BRISBANE: British General Electric Company (Q’land) Pty., Ltd.
ADELAIDE: A. G. Healing, Ltd.
LEND NOW—SPEND LATER! BUY NATIONAL SAVINGS BONDS.
infantry divisions and three U.S, and
two British airborne divisions.
Casualties were estimated as follow:
Killed. Wounded. Missing.
United States .. 89,477 367,000 57,877
U.K.-Canada .. 39,599 126,345 18,368
French .. •• 11,080 45,966 4,201
Poles .. .. 1,189 4,029 375
Czechs .. •• 170 406 14
Belgians •. .. 55 274 3
Dutch .... 20 104 3
Outside Air Force figures, the ground
casualties in the 337 days from D-day
to VE-day totalled 766,967.
The figures do not quite place the
situation in proper perspective. In that
wonderful year the Allies disposed of
over 7,000,000 prisoners and an estimated
1,400,000 killed and wounded enemy troops
in western Europe, apart from a million
previously dealt with in the Mediter-
ranean and Africa, thus putting it beyond
question that Moscow figures of Ger-
man losses were grossly exaggerated—if
Russian estimates were accurate the Ger-
mans suffered H casualties for every
man fit or unfit available to Germany
and all its Balkan Allies between the
ages of 18 and 55.
Neither do the bare divisional figures
present a true picture of relative national
efforts, which can be obtained only by a
survey of the whole Allied Order
of Battle. Unfortunately, this is not fully
obtainable. Russia has given no infor-
mation about its strength, which appeared
to be between 400 and 500 divisions, in
groups which, however, were not strong
enough to push to the limits of the zones
of Germany which it was agreed at Yalta
that the U.S.S.R. should occupy. Russia
was bogged down on the Oder when
U.S. troops of the Ninth Division pushed
to the outskirts of Berlin and other U.S.
troops rolled into what should have been
Russian fighting zones which Moscow
now claims as its own.
Tito’s “divisions” are an unknown
quantity. They consist of “an habitation
and a name” and little else. They are
formed on a territorial basis. If, say,
Zagreb is allocated as a “divisional
area” and there happens to be only a
bridge four of partisan troops in that
area, they constitute a “division.” What-
ever German troops are in that area,
even if they consist of a German refugee
and his dog, are also reckoned a divi-
sion. Thus Tito has been able most con-
veniently to hold down “as many divi-
sions as the Allied armies in Italy,” and
the peahen press has been able to create
his 300,000 tough fighting patriots by
the simple process of reckoning that in
every one of his divisional areas there
must be a division, which the peahen
press invariably believes to consist of a
rigid 15,000 men.
The Chinese position, too, is nebulous.
Chinese terms “army” and “division” may,
in European parlance, mean “division” —
at two-thirds strength—or “brigade.”
Fighting Power in April
In April, when the fighting was at its
height everywhere, the Order of Battle
of the Western Allies was somewhat as
follows:
WESTERN FRONT.
United States Army Groups (2): —
Thirteen corps—
Twelve armored divisions, three airborne
divisions, 41 infantry divisions. Total, 56.
British Army Group:
United Kingdom: Four corps—
Four armored divisions —Guards, Seventh,
11th, 79th.
Two airborne divisions—First and Sixth.
Nine infantry—Third, 15th, 43rd, 49th,
50th, 51st, 52nd, 53rd, 59th.
Canada: Two corps—
Two armored —Fourth and Fifth.
Three infantry—First, Second and Third.
Poles —
One armored.
All told, 21.
France: Two corps—
Three armored divisions—First, Second,
Fifth.
Six infantry—First and 27th (Alpine),
Second and Fourth Moroccans, Third
Algerian and Ninth Colonial. Total, nine.
ITALY.
United States : Two corps—
One armored division, six infantry. Total,
seven.
British: Three corps—
United Kingdom—
One armored division —Fourth.
Six infantry—First, Fourth, Fifth, 46th,
58th, 78t'h.
New Zealand —
One infantry—Second.
India —
Three infantry—Fourth, Eighth and Tenth.
S. Africa —
One armored —Sixth.
Poles —
Two infantry—Kresowa and Carpathian.
Total, 14.
Brazil —
One infantry.
INDIA AND BURMA.
British ; Three corps—
United Kingdom—
Two infantry divisions —Second and 36th.
India —
Ten infantry—Third, Fifth, Seventh, 14th,
17th, 19th, 20th, 23rd, 25th, 26th.
Africa —
Five infantry—Sixth, 81st and 82nd West
African and 11th and 13th East African.
Total, 17.
PACIFIC.
United States :
Five Army and two Marine corpse—
One cavalry division, 18 infantry, six
Marine, one airborne. Total, 26.
Australia: Two corps—
Six divisions—Third, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh,
Ninth and Eleventh.
New Zealand;—
One—First.
Total, Seven,
These figures do not, of course, pro-
vide an exact index to the war effort of
any particular national unit. Canada’s
effort cannot be exactly compared to Aus-
tralia’s because of its enormous indust-
rial, ship and arms production, its diver-
sion of resources! for the air-training
scheme and its fine share in the naval
defence of the North Atlantic.
Britain’s Great Effort
In comparing the United Kingdom’s
effort with that of the United States in
Europe it must be reckoned that U.K.
casualties were well on towards 500,000
before the United States entered the war,
that the British air effort and naval efforts
in the European zone have been in the
aggregate greater than the American for
the whole war and that —despite the
population being barely a third of that
of the United States —the R.A.F. was
dropping bomb for bomb and more than
firing aircraft shell and rocket per U.S.
shell and rocket at the end. Moreover, both
on land and in the air Britain was charged
with the defence of the jumping-off base
and had stood alone against Germany
and Italy and their satellites, which were
unhindered (to put it ■mildly) by Russia
and Japan, for nearly two years before
Russia was attacked, and for more than
two years before Pearl Harbor.
In assessing the British effort in India
it must be remembered that one battalion
in every three in the Indian brigades is
British, and that there is a large stiffen-
ing of British troops with the Africans.
Also, the figures take no account of
special British, forces scattered all over
the fighting world in brigades and regi-
ments and of the defences of such spots
as Gibraltar, Suez, Malta, Greece and
its islands and the Middle East.
The relative strength of U.S. and British
and Dominion and Indian forces in April
in the last blast of the war was probably
88 United States divisions, including six
Marine, four Airborne and 13 Armored,
and about 60 cohesive British-Dominion-
Indian divisions, plus perhaps a dozen
piecemeal and not otherwise accounted
for ip the Middle Eastern zone and in
war area garrisons—round 72 divisions.
Furthermore, in reckoning man-power
effort it must be considered that some
British and Dominion divisions have been
virtually rebuilt at least twice from the
bottom up. For example, the veteran
Australian Sixth cannot now contain
more than a few hundred of the originals
who set out gaily for the war in 1940, and
the whole of the A.I.F. is more like the
Fourth A.I.F. than the Second A.I.F.
The same is true of some of Britain's
divisions, as of the Indians. It was a
brigade of the Fourth Indian Division, in
at the death in Italy—2nd Camerons,
l/6th Rajputana Rifles and 4/7th Raj-
puts, Ist Royal Fusiliers and 4/6th Raj-
putana Rifles with two brigades in re-
serve, one of which was all-British —which
virtually opened the British offensive war
on December 8, 1940, at the Bir Enba Gap
and Nibeiwa, the forefront of 300,000
Italians! The spearhead was formed of
unitlv of the Seventh British Armored
Division (Desert Rats). When the Ger-
man w,ar finished these gallant divisions
were still fighting after five years of
almost continuous campaigning.
On July 18, 1944, at Caen, when the
small British forces were pressed by nine
German tank divisions in all, the Desert
Rats lost 118 tanks in a single day, but
pulled through. But the division which
made the famous dash across the desert
from Mekili athwart Berganzoli’s lines
ended its career gloriously in the van. It
liberated Antwerp, and in fighting which
involved 2500 miles of tank travel in
France, Belgium, Holland and Germany
it accumulated 48,000 prisoners.
Britain’s Eleventh Armored Division,
though it did not come into prominence
till late in the war, saw almost continu-
ous fighting during the year after D-day.
It was out of actual contact with the
enemy only five weeks in 11 months. It
suffered 10,000 casualties —more than
two-thirds its normal strength, and lost
800 tanks, its total tank equipment four
times over.
The total British and Canadian casual-
ties in France and Germany were equal
to about 13 divisions. The total maxi-
mum strength of the British-Canadian
forces was 20 divisions. Which gives a
fair estimate of what the fighting must
have been like and of the replacements
needed. British, Dominion and colonial
casualties to February last amounted to
the equivalent of 50 divisions on land.


c
II /
A
1 17,
N
t
i
m
«
I
i inch of Cane-ite will insulate your home better than
16 inches of concrete or an 8 inch thick brick wall.
CANE-ITE
A C.S.R. PRODUCT
Msmrm
Cool and pleasant in Summer, warm
and cosy in Winter insulate your
home for comfort and health.
Cane-ite acts on the same principle as
a vacuum bottle: isolates inside from,
outside temperatures. Easy to erect,
takes paint, kalsomine, dye or sten-
cilled patterns.
Manufactured by THE COLONIAL SUGAR REFINING CO. LTD.
(Building Materials Division)
Other C.S.R. Products S/agwoo/. Asbestos. Plaster Products
£20,000 for 1/-
2,533 CHANCES TO WIN
1/
\'
I st Prize to value of £20,000
2nd £7,000, 3rd £3,000
30 prizes at£IOO, 100 prizes at£2o
200 prizes at £lO, 200 prizes at £5
2,000 prizes at ~ .. ~ .. £|
Here’s your chance to win a fortune
—and to help the A.C.F. keep on
with its good work to the Services
in supplying hampers, comforts,
cigarettes, and welfare facilities.
Buy 1/- tickets every week —or buy
a complete book of twenty-four 1/-
tickets.
Tickets available from A.C.F. Branches and Committees , Banks and Co-
operating Organisations Centre , Martin Place , Sydney.
AUSTRALIAN COMFORTS FUND, Revenue Branch, 155 King St., Sydney
This space generously donated by
EDWARD LUMLEY & SONS PTY. LTD.
Insurance House, 263 George St,, and 9-11 Martin Place, Sydney.
Also at Melbourne, Adelaide, Brisbane, Perth, Newcastle, Canberra and Alice Springs
V it I H .' x iIIHI I si lliill
S. ft® v ><J-V ?§«•.•; s\ \ s %.• _> %'■••;
is* &«sS *i«~ m m . ■ ;
sss
5: S
&SS
■■ ■, ■■•;;*, ■ - ■.■■ *
*
m
;.v : i;
:
I
H
ii«P«
—■
Billil
%
;"■■ l i
;.S : " :'...|
x- • ■■ ; ■••■ ;>.’•:
#
mmmm
n
:S ! i»
W.S. 171
SPORTING NOTIONS
There was only the one race over the jumps
at Mentone on Saturday, and L. Meenan—the
way he’s riding you could say of course—was
on the winner, Azores, who beat Walladale and
Scipio nicely, with the fancied Hiatus out of
a place. All three place-getters are Grand
National Hurdle candidates, and the winner will
drop from 10.9 to 10.4.
.....
Apart from Meenan, whose choice for the big
Hurdle next mo’nth will have and will certainly
merit solid backing, a lot of Grand National
int'erest went with the scratching of the top-
weight - , Bay David. He’d have been Meenan’s
mount; and the way Meenan is both judging
them and riding them—he was on the Hurdle-
Steeple double, at Caulfield a week earlier, and
altogether has had 13 wins and eight places
from 29 mounts this season—is shown in his
change to Azores. At his only recent run oyer
(he jumps Azores fell, and in schooling during
the week seemed to display a dislike for if by
™„„mg off. However fregy enough
for Meenan y f , v a , l fhome and even
along to lead about five tiom norne, ana eve
when headed icf a iumnTt d lhc C las™hurdle
again, made a splendid jump at the last hurdf
and went on to an easy win.
_ • * . ,'
The poor showing of Hiatus, who was ex-
pected to trouble even ® ay .Pfnr^n£ v P com-
ably be overlooked, at least for ordinary co
pany. The going was on the heavy side, and
he seemed to find it against him. As well,, he
was reported to have had a boil in his mouth
which wouldn t cheei him up. He was moving
up fairly well coming to the turn, but floundered
about
With so many of the older horses temporarily
out of business through the fodder shortage
restrictions, the rest of the day was mostly a
Youth Encouragement Movement, not a solitary
aged starter competing in any of the remaining
six events. The two divisions of the seven-
furlongs Stuart Handicap for two-year-olds had
40 of the total of 85 in these six flat races,
and were respectively won by the Solar Hear
Bandiera chestnut filly Lady Antog trom iviarai
Gras and Coat of Arms (the three most fancie
starters), and by the heavily backed Act r
Grandchild bay filly Grand Act from the ou-
siders Gay Hua and Nuraha, the latter having
a first run and, shaping like an early. winner,
badly drawn, ‘luad leading them up till Grand
Act challenged the straight.
-••••*
Eighteen more of the total started in the 10-
f ur i ongs Lonsdale Handicap for three-year-olds,
won by the Enfield-Wardona filly Single Action
f rom Fungi and Chief Pilot. Fungi’s run was
something to remember. She came from no-
wh ere> and on ly just failed to make it. Beau-
tara do better. He was wide coming to
( | lc straight, and, as well, the going, with top
we j g bf W as against him.
......
T , ' f ■ . d snrinters La Patrice and
longs Tanti Stakes, and shaped reasonably well,
x • • \Tvth recoverine form shown -about three
starts back,’finished strongly to defeat Aggressor
an( j a p atr j ce a fter Dukedom’s top weight
had found hjm out jhe sprinter Night Link
beat Codicil, Logical and the two other starters
ma j n even t 5 the Inglehurst Handicap
furlongs), which was run to suit the winner
—comfortably slow early, and a sprint over
a j 3Qu(; tde j ast f our f ur iongs. Valline gave H.
Bad a belated change of luck by defeating
Min | nalaes and Go ld Hazard in the last event,
, .. n . Welter
the mile Dalrao w
* * * *
The 28,000 for the second day of the A.J.C.
Winter Meeting at Randwick was about 8000
down on last year, but, perhaps with the pious
hope that the law of averages was about due
to ease their suffering, they put £BOOO more
through the tote. The track was heavy, but
not the gluey bog of a week earlier. However,
conditions were similar enough for two horses
to score on both days, and times were uniformly
<.l™, J ’
A. Mulley,’ on the not greatly* fancied Fire
Chat, outrode the rest in a first division field
of three-year-olds over six furlongs. Prince
Galahad was leading comfortably at the home
turn, but thought the going looked better behind
the leger and headed for it. He was probably
right, but was brought back in time to just
head Dieppe out of second money. Dieppe,
a Pentheus gelding, has had only two starts
and run two good races which different tactics
might, either time, have won. He tried to lead
all the way over seven furlongs, and then left
his run too late in the six-furlong event. Lunar
ran her usual consistent race—fourth under top-
weighty burden ol 9.7. _ _ .
A well-supported second favorite, Blue
punters',
six lengths ahead in the mile Nursery for two-
year-olds. Two favorites and a second favorite
won the next three as well, so punters were able
to watch rough ’uns take the last two with
moderate indifference. Deed was behind Blue
Legend; and Blanmar, racing consistently on the
recent heavy tracks, was again third. Trans-
lucent and Mac Scott had a spill together early
in the mile. * ■
.
Lucky to be drawn in the Second Division of
the Three-year-old, Strathdarr, a classy-looking
brown colt by Strathisla-Boorcello, handled his
top weight very easily, with Man o’ Galway and
The Marine next at three-length intervals.
Petulance took the seven-furlongs Botany
Handicap as convincingly as he won the June
Stakes, and, with Randwick wins now over
six, seven, eight and nine furlongs, must be
regarded as one of the best three-year-olds
at present in training. Failures at other tracks
suggest that he is a Randwick specialist—and
what better place to specialise! Kingsdale and
Panchio filled the places, but neither looked
dangerous to the winner. Tahmoor found
9.9 too solid, but his record this time in—three
seconds and a win in four starts—represents
sterling honesty.
. . . . .
Thirteen furlongs is a not frequently run dis-
tance, and lack of means of
prospects of winter horses over me journey
possibly accounts for the Winter Stakes
notoriety as a trap for punters; Young Crusader
in 1936 was the last favorite to wi . y .
I Will was sent out favorite on
dubious merit of a last-start w n •
Neither she nor the next three m the betting
took a place. Buzz Oft, :most lof 1 of theway
and leading over the last halt-mile, gave a
Podmore his first win this season,
the winner ; and the placegetters Beau Jimiuc
and Feltpal, were both at longisn, o
-. , . •, . ■ o „ , : „ acti ' ..oiTp their
dhe sight ? e j s de-
crutches to romp hoi e "tracks and it
coming a tradition oyy ’ fe ji ow
Sgi„ G g‘ffine' bur: fJ'S&JSS 1°“ “and
Omapo. * *
For Moorefield (before acceptances) :
Fixed Weight Maiden: Right Royal, 1 ,
Pennicuick, 2; Prince Galahad, 3. Nursery :
Don Giovanni, 1; Mt. Howitt, 2; Sonmng, 3.
Three-year-old: Murray Stream, 1; Man o
Galway, 2; Lunar, 3. Flying: Star Gold, 1;
Petulance, 2; Vermeil, 3. Peter Moore Handi-
cap: Prince, 1; Goose Boy, 2; Royal Janette, 3.
Welter; Dieppe, 1; Bruce Wood, 2; Mar-
theus, 3.
* * * *
J. T. Jamieson, who trained High Caste, has
passed on at Waikato (M.L.). He had a long
string of successes in Australia, including the
A.J.C. Derby with Prince Humphrey, his one
bad setback being when the running of Country
Party earned the displeasure of Victorian
stewards.
* *
High Rank, a recent winner in Brisbane, tops
the weights for both the Doomben Newmarket
and Doomben Cup, to be run respectively on
July 14 and July 21. He has 9.5 in both,
Interesting Newmarket weights also include Hall
Stand, 9.1; Repshot, 8.11; Maa Leesh, o.v,
The Imag%, 8.6; Coonngwang, 7.10 and My
Wish, 7.4. Though it might not work out that
way, it looks like an invitation north tor Hall
Stand, who would almost certainly I are a lot
worse as compared with say, Repshot in a
seven-furlongs event in Sydney. The Albion
Park seven should admirably suit Hall Stand,


HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
ill
mi
m
in
ll law
111
ill
111
111 m
II
IP
Modern high-clf*ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
5T
//
Y%,\
/V - '■ |
,// w£-W // '<■
\ 'x
M
\ \ *. « t *
///,
4
X
ti
' j
AW
" M
\
\N
M
/ //.
Churchill
has proved that
It takes an old dog
for a hard
road
In other words, experience counts, and you get it in full
measure in Top Dog Men’s Wear! That is why it wears so
much longer, keeps its shape and smartness, and gives such
satisfactory service. In cut, fabric and finish Top Dog gives
fuller value for every shilling of its cost. So bring the day
nearer when civilian supplies will be unrestricted by investing
in National Savings Bonds and War Savings Certificates.
BREKS TROUSERS and SOVEREIGN HATS
are also TOP DOG PRODUCTS
who, incidentally, is owned in Queensland. The
Image won last year; Maa Leesh and My Wish
look definite possibilities, and at the weights
Cooringwang could trouble any of them. Auc-
tion, with 9.2, has only to strike his old form
to be well in it; he beat Repshot in a trial the
other day. With a bit more age now, The
Image might perhaps do better in the Cup, with
8.1. Though unsuccessful in Sydney, Qualeta,
with 7.13, must have a Cup chance, and so
must I Will with 7.1.
* * * *
Winning the toss in the second “Vic-
tory” Test at Sheffield, Hassett sent the
Englishmen in, and saw them wind up
the day with a total of 286 ; mainly Ham-
mond (100), Washbrook (63) and Pope
(35). Fair enough from the Australian
viewpoint that far, but probably not as
good as expected, the Bramall-lane wicket
standing up pretty well, though it had
had its face renovated since it was cratered
in the blitz, and though, there had been
heavy rain in the night before play
started. Cheetham and Pepper (three
each) and Williams and Ellis (two each)
took the first-day wickets, and Whiting-
ton and Workman had hit up 23 when
the day's play ended. Hammond played
a grand knock before Hassett caught him
off Cheetham.
* * * *
“H.”: The match being played at
Sheffield is the second on that ground in
Test history. The first was on July 3-5,
1902, when Joe Darling led what is re-
garded as the greatest Australian team
to play against England—Trumper, Duff,
Darling, Hill, Armstrong, Noble, Syd
Gregory, Hugh Trumble, Hopkins, Kelly
and Saunders. England’s skipper was
Archie MacLaren. The first four matches
of that series were drawn. In the first
of them, on the mud patch at Birming-
ham, Australia made an all-time Test
lowest score, 36 (Rhodes 7 for 17 and
Hirst 3 for 15); and in the second match
at Lord’s rain washed away the game
after 105 minutes’ play. It was a dour
struggle at Sheffield ; in three days 823
runs were scored, and Australia won by
143 runs. Noble’s sustained bowling
effort (40 overs, 10 maidens, 103 runs, 11
wickets) and Clem Hill’s 119 in the second
innings saved their side. Of that eleven
only Armstrong, Darling -and Hill are
still alive. That match, too, made another
bit of history—it was the first time the
six-ball over was used in Test cricket in
England.
* * * *
Nearly a third of the 65,000 who
watched Melbourne League games on
Saturday went to St. Kilda for the South
Melbourne-Essendon match, expecting the
Dons to give the leaders a close call. But
Essendon isn’t “The Same Old” any
more ; South, making light of the cross
wind and heavy going, piled up 12.15 to
5.11. More significant was Carlton’s de-
feat of North Melbourne by 12.12 to
7.17, for the Blues, hitherto well down the
list, turned on the kind of football which
made them famous in Clover’s day.
Footscray, now second to South Mel-
bourne, settled St. Kilda, 16.15-7.6;
Collingwood, when 21.18, sent a search
party out for Geelong, found it with
a puny 7.5 and called the massacre off.
Noises off disclosed that Melbourne had
beaten Hawthorn, 15.14-12.14, and Rich-
mond just scraped home from Fitzroy,
13.11-12.14.
Saturday’s V.F.L. games left South
Melbourne on top, having won 9 and
lost 1; Footscray, 8 and 2 ; Collingwood,
North Melbourne and Richmond, 7 and
3 ; Essendon, 5 and 4 and 1 drawn.
’Wood and North are in the four on per-
centages, giving Richmond a chance to
make a big score against Geelong next
Saturday while Collingwood and ’Scray
have at each other.
* * *
Saturday’s Rugby Union provided
another series of shocks. Winning the
toss, East decided to play against a
strong wind, and Randwick failed to
capitalise it sufficiently, having a slender
8-6 lead at half-time. Afterwards it was
all East, with five-eighth Marron cutting
holes in the ’Wick defence: East 24,
Randwick 13. A vastly improved side,
North registered its fifth successive win
by downing University 11-6. Though
Drummoyne scored four tries to two.
West made it a draw: 16-16. Parramatta
overwhelmed Gordon to the tune of
38- and St. George left Manly on the
lowest rung of the ladder by beating it
12-8. Randwick is now one point ahead
of East, with Parramatta and Uni. next.
On Sunday in a match controlled by
popular Surgeon-Commander Wallis,
R.N., at Coogee, Randwick played grand
football to beat a R.N.Z. Naval team
39- Two Maori members of the Kiwi
team delighted the large crowd with a
fierce exposition of their haka before
playing.
* * * *
The concern which enjoys a winter
monopoly of the Sydney C.G. for pro-
fessional football—which means also
brazen forms of gambling—was in a
dreadful state last week. It had the face
to ask the fighting services to put on “a
pageant” as a preliminary to a football
match “for the Comforts Fund” ; 60 men
and 40 women from each branch. The
Army politely declined on the ground
that “no suitable troops” were “avail-
able.” From the Navy came a blunt
refusal over the name of a lieutenant, the
port recreation officer:
I must' refuse to participate in any Rugby
League organisation regarding the Navy
Because of its professional standing, Rugby
League cannot be recognised or encouraged
by this service.
One League gentleman said he was
“astounded.” From another came the
bitter words “impertinent—we should
take further action.” “Further action”
was obviated by a soothing letter from
a rear-admiral. The rear-admiral ex-
plained that |he lieutenant was just in
from “sea service in battle areas” —con-
strued to mean that he might be pre-
sumed to hold strong views concerning
the relative importance of fighting the
enemy and playing League football —but
“had no authority to make a statement as
to naval policy in regard to Rugby League
football”; and though “it will not be
practicable, owing to war-time commit-
ments, for the R.A.N. to participate in
the march past at the match,” the League
might have the use of a shore band. The
rear-admiral didn’t go on to say any-
thing wounding, so it was agreed that
honor or something was satisfied.
* * * «
“Nuffin”; Eddie Bonis, who has repre-
sented Australia in 21 international
Rugby Union Tests, is out of the current
Brisbane fixtures because of a leg in-
jury. He has been the backbone of
Y.M.C.A. club since R.U. was revived
in Brisbane in 1929. At present he is
also a Q.R.U. executive councillor and
a selector.
* * * *
Football in Adelaide has gone back
this year to its eight clubs, instead of
the war-time plan of coupling them in
four pairs. But it proves to be one-sided
to a record extent. With the winter pro-
gramme half over, Port has never been
beaten, while the others are so in-and-out
that the clubs ranking at the moment
2nd, 3rd, 4th and sth, have each lost as
many matches as they have won.
* * * *
Having announced his retirement, Cliff
Bowen emerged from it to shape up to
Tommy Ward at Leichhardt. After a
few rounds of light sparring Bowen tired
perceptibly and Ward hit him at will.
The infliction drifted on to the seventh
round, whereupon Bowen went into
retirement again.
Making his second appearance at Syd-
ney Stadium, the English-born marine
Alex Buxton stopped Fred Manuel in
four rounds. A late substitute for an
American, Bob Tyler, Manuel was saved
by the bell at the end of the third round,
and was merely a target for the marine in
the fourth. Ken Bailey gave admirers
of scientific boxing a thrill with his dis-
play against Jackie Green—so called .be-
cause he is a Syrian—in the supporting
12-rounder. Though always aggressive,
Green did not land one solid punch on
the elusive Bailey.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Another happy return gladdened Syd-
ney last week, that of A.I.F. officers
who had been prisoners of war in Europe.
Their welcome was heartwarming. As they
left the ship which had brought them
home Red Cross workers and V.As.
were there with the usual comforting
smokes. Then the officers were drive#
to the Showground, where wives and
children and parents were waiting to
receive them. Here the billy had been
boiled and hot cups of tea and sand-
wiches were served. Then in cars pro-
vided by Red Cross the returned men
were driven to their various destinations.
Sydney Smith, of the P.O.W. association,
met the homecomers. His own son has
yet to be repatriated. Other welcome
arrivals in the ship were 198 repatriated
Australians of the R.A.F.
British wives of Australian servicemen
who reached Sydney last week—so of
them with 28 children —found a cheery
welcome at the Town Hall. Here in the
basement the Norman Nock lady and
a number of the members of the Mobile
Group of the A.C.F. gave greeting and
morning tea. Here the brides were met,
in many cases by relations of their hus-
bands. Others who made port were 65
members of the Netherlands Women’s
Army. These Dutch servicewomen in-
clude doctors, nurses and secretaries, and
will serve with the Dutch forces in the
Pacific.
There was a grey sky and the threat of
rain when the British Centre in Hyde Park
was opened last Friday at noon. The
Governor-General, the Duke of Glouces-
ter, made the opening speech. This was
gracious, to the point and brief. The
last attribute is one that might, with
advantage, be copied by many public
men. Alderman Bartley, president
of the Centre, told with quiet pride that
£174,000 of the £200,000 sought had been
garnered already. Sydney’s Mayor Hard-
ing made speech granting the use of the
site for the duration, and chairman of
the Building and Allied Trades Council
Blacklock gave the premises and an uncut
key to the Centre’s president. The uncut
key is symbolic of the ever-open door.
Congratulations on an interesting
speech are due to David Blacklock. He
made a vivid little picture of the forests,
the sawmills and other industries whose
products had gone into building the
Centre. It was interesting, too, to learn
that at the very moment of opening a
model of the Centre was on view in the
window of Simpson’s in Piccadilly.
Admiral Sir Bruce Fraser, C.-in-C. of the
British Pacific Fleet, made breezy utter-
ance, just occasionally obscured to those
in the back rows of the immense hall
by a touch of Atlantic fog. When he
spoke in passing of his pleasure in seeing
so many of the “junior” service present
there was a burst of laughter, because the
Duke was in army uniform.
Followed a brisk inspection of the
spacious and shining interior by the offi-
cial party. Then all 2000 present stood tip-
toe watching the guard of honor of
Marines as they smartly marched away.
The Duchess was the lure of every
woman’s gaze in her trig dark suit and
liny sailorish black straw hat with a
large pink rose in front. Her gloves were
champagne in tone, her handbag a pastel
pink. The Viscountess Clive discounted
the wintry day in a short-sleeved frock
and long white gloves.
Even at nine-thirty on a mid-winter
morning Sheila Kearns made a radiant
bride. Her sweeping frock was rose-
white, and over it fell a cascade of tulle
from a pearl coronet, the last-named ex-
citing the interest and envy of many a
beholder, as pearls for ornamentation
are almost unobtainable. Her attendants
were Marjorie Whiteman and Mrs. Bill
Hughes, who carried the bright glow of
yellow roses against their blue frocks.
Bridegroom “Joe fe ’ Bollen, of the Nether-
lands merchant navy, was a very upstand-
ing ’groom. His best man was Dr.
Don Quirk, his groomsman Paul Van
Doom. At the ring-giving moment,
during the Nuptial Mass at St. Mary’s,
Sheila as well as getting one gave one.
Another Dutch custom was observed in
the presence of Captain and Mrs. Brijl,
who represented the ’groom’s parents.
Sheila’s father and mother, Mr. and
Mrs.’ P. Kearns, of Chatswood, enter-
tained over 100 guests at Amory, Ash-
field. In the party were all Sheila's
brothers and sisters with their respective
wives and husbands. There were bright
speeches, and the atmosphere was as
sparkling as the champagne. The table
on which stood the cake was garlanded
with flowers sent by the captain and
officers of the ’groom’s ship. Among the
hillock of telegrams was one from Mrs.
John Woods and Mrs. R. Fagan. Mrs.
Woods is now Mrs. Fagan’s guest at
Mandurama.
A Gracie Fields house couldn’t be
more ‘-quickly rushed than the Y.W. hall
for last Monday’s choral concert. Nearly
a fortnight before the great night all
tickets were sold, and even some of the
association’s most important were met
with the “sold-out” sign. The concert was
the first effort of the Y.W. choir, which
has been trained from its beginnings by
Terence Hunt. Mrs. Hope Gibson,
chairman of the educational programme,
regards the choir as her special pet, and
she has a group of Y.W. members in
Killara working to keep its funds in a
healthy condition. Last Monday night’s
outpourings were to help build up a
library of music. Singers Dorothy Helm-
rich and Terence Hunt and violinist
Della Woods were the soloists. Accom-
paniments were supplied by Betty Moir.
The Royal Art Society of N. S.
Wales has a permanent address. It
is 26 Hunter-street. The cream \fralls
and green carpets are a sympathetic
setting for shows on the less imposing
scale. The Henry Braddon lady, pictured
here, is the president of the Women’s
auxiliary, and she is also an enthu-
siastic worker for the Woolloomooloo
Police and Citizens Boys’ Club. To bene-
fit the club the auxiliary is arranging an
exhibition during the first week in
August. The work of the club is so
well known and esteemed that artists are
gladly sending in pictures* to be sold in
the cause. A series of cocktail parties
during the show will further add to the
till. Photograph from Falk.
The W.N.E. (Wednesday Night Enter-
tainment) celebrated its fifth birthday last
week. The hall of Christ Church St.
Laurence was a swirl of dancers, for the
Navy was there in force. It doesn’t take
a sailor long to find out where there are
good dancing partners. Altogether, almost
20,000 service lads have been entertained
by this group, which leaped to its battle
station just after the outbreak. Mrs.
Ben Edye and Bort Fahy again kept things
moving smartly, and at suppertime a
glittering cake, complete with candles,
burst on the admiring gaze. Guests of
honor were the Morshead lady, Mayoress
Harding and Lieut.-Commander John
Hazel.
Mrs. Tom Hogan, gay of heart and
witty of tongue, is dead. She spent her
last few weeks of life ’in the Mater private
hospital in North Sydney, but she is
buried in Melbourne, which city was her
home for many years. She had friends
throughout Australia. Her brother,
Father Tom Walsh, S.J., noted for his
learning and his humor, was with her at
the end.
Mrs. Bertie Kelly looked well pleased
as she surveyed the seething Theatre
Royal at the gala matinee for St. Vin-
cent’s. Capacity house meant £750 for
the St. Vincent’s special drive for funds
for a maternity hospital. There was also
a brisk sale in exquisite white camellias
in the foyer. Like white camellias were
the girls of the Frances Scully school,
whose ballets charmed the eye and stirred
the imagination. There were sketches by
stage and radio actors and actresses, and
Bernard Shaw’s “A Village Wooing”
was a tasty morsel as presented by Kath-
leen Robinson, Dick Parry and Edgar
Yardley. The women’s auxiliary, of
which Mrs. Kelly is president, organised
the success. Coupons for the ballet cos-
tumes came out of the ration books of
many a nun of St. Vincent’s Hospital
and of members of the auxiliary.
From Melbourne
The farewell party given by Lud Mayor
Nettlefold and Mrs. Beatrice Campbell
for Admiral Sir Guy Royle apd his lady
will long remain in the memory of the
guests. When all had assembled in the
reception-room of the Town Hall naval
ratings piped Sir Guy and the official
party aboard. This ceremony was in
keeping with the general atmosphere, for
the reception-room had been dressed as
a ship. The dais had been turned into
a bridge, complete with helm, starboard
and port lights, and there were even masts
upon which were, hoisted the admiral’s
flag and the White Enign. Later naval
ratings spliced the mainbrace. Stan-
chions supported ropes which went right'
round the room, and pennants and life-
belts decorated the walls.
Even a rum-cask bearing the inscrip-
tion “God Bless His Majesty” was
present, and at an imaginary ship’s stern
was a ship’s bell. This bell, rung at various
moments during the reception, was a
relic of the H.M.S. Colossus, which was
at Jutland. Decorations were the inspira-
tion of Lieut. Joel, who is in Melbourne
to assist in the Jack’s Day Appeal, and
he had the assistance of Commodore
T. B. Drew and Lieut.-Commander White,
R.A.N., Flinders Depot. In his amusing
speech, Sir Guy Royle said it was the
first time he had been on the bridge of
a ship with women, and he explained
that the main reason this was not allowed
in the Navy in days gone by was that
the steel which formed part of the stays
worn by women had a disturbing effect
upon the compass; and also upon the
ship’s officers, he added with a twinkle
in his eye, '
Lady Royle spoke highly of the assist-
ance she had received from the women
of Melbourne in all her appeals for the
Navy. Over her frock of shrimp pink
she wore a navy-blue cloth coat. Her
tiny hat was massed with gay flowers.
Mrs. Campbell was, as usual, smart in
black and silver fox furs. The wife of
Archbishop Booth, wearing grey, was
with her husband on the dais. Mrs. S.
Baillieu Myer favored black, brightened
with a gay red hat. With his mother
was Lieut. Robert Wallace Mitchell, just
arrived from a battle area. Robert,
formerly attached to a commando, is now
with the paratroops. Marjorie Spry’s
hat attracted much attention. It was
pillbox in shape, and was fashioned of
white satin, with bunches of black ostrich
feathers forming cockades at each side.
A white-satin blouse was worn under her
smart tailored black suit.
Not even wintry chill and deep fog
dampened the ardor of the many women
who recently gathered at Menzies to dis-
cuss plans for the “Sons of the Sea” Ball.
The wife of Commodore Showers, Second
Naval Member, was elected president of
the bail committee. For this mid-morn-
ing meeting she was warmly clad in a
check suit of mist-blue tonings, topped
by a bright-red felt hat. Vice-president
the Hyde lady also chose a s.uit, hers of
a bold navy blue and white check, with
a topcoat of navy blue and a matching
felt hat. Mrs. Wallace Mitchell is organ-
iser of the ball, which will be held on
July 4; it will cost two guineas for
each ticket. Many of this energetic lady’s
friends were at the meeting. Pictured
here by Broothorn is Mrs. Mark Everett,
a member of the ball committee and an
active worker for many good causes.
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, Lady
Mayoress, was in the chair. A pleasant
surprise was the arrival of Lady Royle,
who covered her cyclamen frock with a
navy-blue coat, and wore a smart little
peaked cap. Mrs. Campbell presented
this guest of honor with a bouquet of
violets, and wished Lady Royle a, pleasant
journey back to England. Lieut. A. Joel,
R.A.N.V.R., also voiced his good wishes,
and in reply Lady Royle said the happi-
ness she had enjoyed in this country was
due to the fact that “we are all Britishers.”
Mrs. Jack Phillips’s black beret bore an
unusual decoration in the shape of the
colorful embroidered badge worn by a
French admiral. With Mrs. Phillips was
Mrs. David Baker, who had travelled
many miles to attend the meeting.
The usual crop of pretty girls attended,
among them the Leggo lasses and Eileen
Hattam. Mrs. Roy Wales, one of the ticket
secretaries for the ball, tucked herself into
a grey Persian lamb coat, which was worn
over a grey tailored suit. Sharing ticket-
selling duties with her is Marjorie Spry,
who for a wonder was hatless but wear-
ing a gay teal-blue coat with huge collar
of honev beige fox fur. Lieut. Max
Brice, R.A.N., and Lieut. Bruce Mathers,
R.A.N.V.R., were also at the meeting,
Much concluded when, with Mrs. Robert
Haines at the piano, those present sang
lustily “Sons of the Sea.”
Dr. Malcoln Sargent has captivated this
city by his masterly handling of the Mel-
bourne Symphony Orchestra. The Town
Hall has been packed to the doors with
enthusiastic audiences. The opening con-
cert was graced by the presence of a.
party from Government House. While
in Melbourne Dr. Sargent is a guest of
the State Governor, Sir Winston Dugan.
The Governor and Lady Dugan, attended
by Captain Murray Fairbairn, included
Prof. Bernard Heinze and his wife in their
party. Lady Dugan’s long, black velvet
coat made a foil for a spray of white
camellias. Mrs. Donald Davidson, who
accompanied Lady Dugan, looked strik-
ing in a striped pink and blue jacket, worn
with a very full matching blue skirt.
A.B.C. girls Bonnie McCallum and
Dorothy O’Neill made a good-look-
ing pair. Mrs. McCallum was smart in
a black outfit. The Gepp lady was an-
other smart dresser, and brightened
black attire' with a small red sailor
hat. Hilda Corbett caught the eye
in a sapphire-blue wool coat with
grey fox collar. This was worn over an
aqua-blue frock, and her small Queen
of Scots bonnet was of sapphire-blue felt.
Lieut. Brian James, R.A.N.V.R., and
Adrien Wall were both appreciative mem-
bers of the audience. Jascha Spivakov-
sky, soloist in the Chopin Pianoforte Con-
certo (No. 1, in E Minor), received numer-
ous curtain-calls at the end of his per-
formance.
When Shirley, only child of Professor
G, S. Browne, came of age, her proud
father and Janet Bowen Pain entertained
many intimate friends at cocktails and
a buffet dinner-party. Janet hostessed
in a soft purple afternoon frock and a
silver fox cape. Prof. Browne presented
her with a corsage of deep red roses, and
Bowen Pain presented Shirley with an
imposing spray of gardenias. For this
occasion Shirley donned a frock of soft
Mary blue crepe. Another gift to Shirley
from Bowen and Janet was a bolero of
red Canadian fox. Father’s present was
a tailored black coat. Among the guests
were Diana Medley, daughter of Mel-
bourne University’s Vice-Chancellor, Dr.
and Mrs. Kingsley Morris and daughter
Pat, Dr. Una Cato, Dr. Donald Cordner
and Mrs. and Mrs. Ron McGregor. To
finish off a memorable party, Flying-
Officer Eric Thacker and Shirley took a
party to Claridges for dancing and supper.
Strella Wilson was in fine form when
she recently appeared as singer and in-
troduced other performers at a Cafe
Chantant arranged by the Knox lady for
the Totally Disabled Soldiers. The Myer
Mural Hall was filled with a host
of, well-known women. Pauline Gar-
rick, daughter of Strella, received an
ovation after her items. Her voice is
remarkably like her mother’s. Most of
the performers were from Sydney, and
had been heard before by Melbourne
folk over the air. Jack Burgess, Terry
Howard and John Fullard were among
those who gave their services. Assisting
her mother as an usher, Rosemary Knox
was a decorative figure in a leaf-brown
outfit. The Knox lady herself favored
brown, her frock patterned in white, and
she wore an ermine coat with her match-
ing brown velvet hat. Strella Wilson was
also in brown, and another who favored
this color was the Angliss lady. The
Lady Mayoress had gold beads forming
a leaf design on the yoke of her black
frock, and Mrs. G. A. Cornwall, who
manages to sell more raffle tickets than
any other woman in this city, chose a
smart ensemble in deep brown tonings.
Carrie Moore, for many years the dar-
ling of Australian musical comedy, is
off to Hollywood. She looks forward
to seeing her old friends Cecil Kellaway
and Leon Errol. Born in Geelong, she
was trained in the Australian theatre.
She had successes in “Djin, Djin,” “San
Toy,” “Runaway Girl,” “Circus Girl”
and Gilsullivan operas, and was a
notable Sonia in “The Merry Widow.”
She’s also a pioneer of the Australian
cinema, as she appeared in a film version
of “Floradora” made in Melbourne.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4Jd. per line; all others per line.
Forms, Forms, Forms
I’m afraid Government department
are responsible for some of the black
marketing. Here’s my experience.
Housewives can claim a special issue
of coupons for household linen. Appli
cation forms are available at the pos
office.
Knowing the procedure, I filled in the
number of persons in the house, beds
single and double, the amount of linen on
hand and the quantity required. Back
came a form asking for the same par
ticulars, plus numbers of ration books
and identity cards and the name of the
supplier of linen. ((This last is very un
fair. Why must I be limited to one
shop?) I returned this form —and back
came a further questionnaire about the
relationship of the people in the house
to the applicant.
After that, can you blame any woman
if she swaps a few butter coupons, say
for clothes or sugar coupons?
The requirements bear hard on country
folk. City people can call and collect
their coupons, and, though it means
long wait, there is not half the bother
Country postmasters know pretty well the
composition of the households in the dis-
trict. If the postmaster will sign the
application form that should be all that
is necessary. Country Housewife
(S.A.).
In the R.A.A.F.
I am in a Group 1 mustering in the
Air Force. I board out, and am better
off than I would be if I were employee
at my trade at award rates. I am con-
scientious and try to do a job, but often
hear the gibe that there is no necessity
to work as hard in the Air Force as one
would have to do in a civilian job. Many
married men with me receive, after taking
everything into consideration, the equiva-
lent of £ll or £l2 a week (tax free).
Some of them do not earn £1 a week.
The services should be combed and the
existing deplorable wastage of man-
power should be cut down to a minimum.
Good, honest men who want to work
should not be forced to idle. They should
be released. —L. P. (R.A.A.F.).
The Way to Help Returned Soldiers
Re-establishment bills and the like may
be necessary, but the folk at home must
pull their weight or all plans to put
soldiers back to work must fail.
Some country centres in S.A. have set
an admirable lead. The formation of a
local committee of citizens has been fol-
lowed by the dispatch to all servicemen
and -women enlisted from the district of
a questionnaire, the object of which is
to assemble information as to the post-
war plans of each member of the services.
Thus armed the committee is smoothing
the way, as far as it can, for the carrying
out of those plans.— Timothy Tywire
(Q.).
Most newspaper references to the
return of servicemen to civilian life
assume a change in their outlook and
imply that they must be gently led back
to the ways of peace, as if they were a
strange and even abnormal race of men.
They have been through the fire, and
do see many things in a different light
from the man or woman who has not
been subjected to the reality of war. But
may not their vision of what is worth
while, and their disgust at so many phases
of life as they see it when occasionally
they come on leave, be a much finer
thing than any being offered to them by
stay-at-homers? Isn’t it time that we
realised a need to rehabilitate ourselves
spiritually towards our men rather than
they to us?
They ask only that they be allowed to
return to normal life as normal men, with
the knowledge that their many years of
exile from home and all that home means
have been worth while. — Mother of
Two (S.A.).
P.O.W. and Education
I’m grateful to “Pawang” (B. 16/5/’45)
for supporting a pet theory of mine when
he cites White, M.H.R., and Sir Ernest
MacMillan as men who occupied their
time intelligently while they were p.o.ws.
and so had no time for neuroses. There
are two schools of thought in the matter,
and both, in my opinion, have done con-
siderable harm. The one minimises, the
other magnifies, the difficulties the aveiage
p.o.w. has to face, both during captivity
and after repatriation.
To take one view, it would appear that
the best way to acquire a cheap university
education has been to get oneself captured
and then sit down and study through the
good offices of the International Red
Cross and the courtesy of the German
Commandant. Conditions varied. In many
camps in the German war there were no
provisions for such study, and in any case
the average soldier had an apprenticeship
of starvation to serve before he came into
contact with the R.C. Even when he did
go to a camp, such as Stalag 8B (later
changed to 344) near Breslau, where it
was possible to go to a Stalag school,
there were many snags. If he were a
private he was obliged to work, and
would eventually be drafted to a work-
ing camp, say a coalmine, where no such
facilities existed.
Teachers were volunteers, and usually
had other work to do as well, and there
weren’t enough of them. Books were
scarce and paper almost unprocurable, so
a terrific amount of memory work had
to be done. At regular intervals collective
punishment would be imposed on the
camp. “Offences” ranged from British
“atrocities” at Dieppe to failure to salute
a German officer, and the school would
be closed.
The significant thing, of course, is that,
despite these handicaps, men did sit for
exams, and did pass them. But a great
number of them were merely refreshing
on a course which they had failed in
before the war.
The reverse side of the picture is that
men could learn a lot in a prison camp,
not only about human nature but about
other nationalities. They could also learn
foreign languages, perhaps better than
they could at any school or university in
their own country, and they could do this
“You just put ’em in the ground, lady, and stand back!”
by talking to the people themselves, even
though text- and exercise-books may not
have been available. Naturally, when
men are living an unnatural life behind
barbed wire they don’t react to every
situation as they would in normal civi-
lian life. But the same intensity of
thought which might lead one man to
brood over his troubles and finally com-
mit suicide might lead another to study
some obscure Indian dialect, and thus at
least keep his mind active and disciplined:
perhaps more disciplined than it might
have been had he stayed in Australia.
Maleesh (N.S.W.).
Concrete Irrigation Channels
Recent dry seasons have demonstrated
the vital necessity for a concrete pipe-
line system to replace wasteful open
channels in irrigated areas. It is impera-
tive that the Government. should regard
this as a No. 1 post-war job. Doubtless,
the installation will necessitate enormous
expense, but the productive capacity of
the lOin. to 12in. rainfall areas will be
increased tenfold.
Irrigation will revolutionise farming on
Wimmera and Mallee wheat lands, will
secure water stocks and make country life
immeasurably more attractive. Water will
be continually laid on. The annual cost
of excavating and cleaning channels,
dams, etc., over a period of ten years
would more than pay for the new plan.
— S. Dunstan (Vic.).
Neglect of Australian Fisheries
A fisherman of 57 years’ standing with
experience in Victoria and S.A., I regard
the Australian fishing industry as being
70 years behind the times. We have in
Australian waters fish of a quantity and
quality equal to anywhere in the world.
Obtainable around our coast at all times
are whiting, garfish, schnapper, snook,
tommy ruffs, mullet, kingfish, trout and
salmon. Salmon abound in our coastal
waters. They could be caught, cured and
tinned. Small tommy ruffs and small
mullet can also be cured ; they would
rival sardines.
When I was all set to open up fisheries
in a big way the depression came and I
was caught. Now, an old man, I am still
Seeking to put the scheme into operation.
My plan requires men and the very latest
equipment. So far, despite my appeals
to the Commonwealth Government and
to the State Fisheries Departments, all
attempts to get hold of the equipment
have been thwarted. Given a fair go, my
plan could be put into operation with
beneficial results to Australia.
Once fairly launched we should send
men overseas to study fish-curing. Either
that or bring fish-curers to Australia.
Lack of experience in curing has been the
main cause of pre-war failures. — Geo.
Wiseman (S.A.).
A “State Depot”
Another example of unwarranted Gov-
ernment interference with a primary in-
dustry is being provided at Caloundra
(Q.). A noted fishery centre with con-
venient access to extensive grounds both
inside and outside Moreton Bay, its facili-
ties have enabled residents and visitors
to obtain fish at reasonable prices and m
regular supply. A private depot, recently
improved and extended, ensures adequate
cold storage for supplies awaiting trans-
port to the Brisbane markets.
Now the State Fish Board has
expressed its intention of setting up a
State depot there, and professional fisher-
men will have to sell all their catches
to the board at a flat rate of 6d, per lb..
If they want to sell any to customers they
will be obliged to buy it back from the
board at an increased price, which will
naturally be passed on to the public.
The local depot will, of course, be put
out of business, the fishermen will lose
hard-won money which they would other-
wise make and residents and visitors wil
have to pay more. But it will be another
step towards that socialisation of industry
ideal which “Labor” Governments seem
to regard as the best vote-attracting line
of guff in spite of all the ghastly messes
which have resulted wherever it has been
tried.— Bray Rock (Q.).
Horror Films
“Eve” (B. 13/6/ ’45) takes exception to
the showing of the films depicting Ger-
man barbarities. Personally lam only
sorry it could not have been made com-
pulsory for everybody to see them.
Why does “Eve” think that General
Eisenhower asked for a body of Ameri-
cans drawn from the Senate and a body
representing both Houses of Parliament
in Britain to view these camps if it was
not to make the world, through them,
realise how the Nazis and their followers
had acted and what barbarous crimes
they had committed? When all traces of
these camps had been obliterated, ac-
counts of the outrages committed might
otherwise have been looked upon purely
as propaganda.
We know the Versailles Treaty was a
lenient one, although it looked severe at
the time. Let’s hope the same mistake
will not be made again. Realist
(N.S.W.).
Ban the Conunos.
The (Bulletin’s article, “A Commu-
nist Australia?” (B. 23/5/*45), brings up
the desirability of permanently banning
the Communist party. Vague sentimen-
talists talk about free speech. Logically
this argument means that any party, what-
ever their aims, could be tolerated, which
is absurd. For instance, the fiercest de-
fenders of free speech would not put up
with an openly-avowed Nazi party, advo-
cating the forcible seizure of power. Why,
then, is the Communist party permitted?
With the Communist party banned, free
speech would not be affected in any way.
Genuine followers of Socialism could
work for it in the Labor party, which
wants Socialism by legal methods. The
very fact that the Communist party stands
apart from Labor, though professing
much the same principles, proves that it
has other aims and methods.
The outlawing of the Communist party
would mean that the weapon of those
who wish to use free speech as a means
of crushing free speech for ever would
be destroyed. Then, with an irritation re-
moved, we could start to build Australia.
—Ern (Vic.).
Study Pacific Languages
A little peregrinating around the Pacific
with the services has given practical en-
dorsement to an academic belief of mine
that Australians generally and the Aus-
tralian educational bodies should pay
more attention to the study of foreign
languages,
Dutch should be of unlimited com-
mercial, social and cultural value to
Australians; Spanish would facilitate
intercourse with the South American
Pacific republics; Malay is essential to
adequately dealing with a multiplicity of
races in Malaya and Indonesia, while even
pidgin English in our own possessions is
not a matter for playful banter but a
very necessary means of contact. Rjts-
sian cannot be ignored, its fearsome
cyrillic script notwithstanding, for Russia
is a Pacific nation and a world Power.
We have been ever ready to wax senti-
mental over China, but we have treated
her ideographic language as an “untouch-
able.” Prof, Sadler, in Sydney, used to
try to whip up an interest in Mandarin
in private (and free) classes, but China's
friends remained more sentimental than
studious. The ill wind of war has at
least blown a*>little good to the study of
Japanese.
We sons of Australia in journeying
around the Pacific have realised how
helplessly inarticulate we often are. We
realise that the world is a shrinking globe,
and want our country to produce warriors
and citizens who are not speechless away
from home. We need representatives in
all walks of life who may speak for us
with fluency in Merauke, Manila, Chung-
king, Batavia, Vladivostock and Val-
paraiso. The better the understanding the
less chance of war.— Marco Polo
(A.1.F.).
Adult Education
It took a war and total mobilisation
of Australia’s man-power to bring to light
the fact that many thousands of adult
Australians are illiterate or semi-illiterate.
Two problems in particular arise from
this fact: Firstly, all these illiterate and
semi-illiterate people have a vote;
secondly, from my own experience, and
from what I can gather from other
sources, at least 90 p.c. of them are com-
pletely indifferent to any effort made to
help them.
No person should be given the right to
vote unless he or she is able to prove
possession of a satisfactory standard of
education. — Pandanus (A.1.F.).
This Austerity
As I understand “Trail-Eye” (B.
23/5/’45) he would have us forsake the
very things for which we are fighting in
order to win the war. On the surface it
sounds a very good idea to lend ourselves
completely to aid victory, but what would
the Sixth, Eighth and Ninth Divvies say,
if on their return to Australia after fight-
ing a six- or seven-year war, they found
that they had to fight another war here
in Australia to reinstate their sport?
We can all take part in some kind
of sport. Most of us do. To
withdraw that right is to withdraw a
heritage. In Britain (and who of us can
condemn the unselfish way the war has
been fought there?) a great deal of sport
was retained in war-time life.
When “Trail-Eye” has sporting fixtures
cancelled I presume he will have the
hotels closed too. If he does not, the
money and time that would have been
spent on a sporting afternoon will be a
small part (in many cases) of what will be
spent in an hotel bar.
On completion of a tour of overseas
duty a serviceman usually gets home
leave, and if he is lucky he may even get
stationed quite near home. To play a
game with your pre-war club is an ex-
perience much appreciated ; it’s a part of
the process of realising you are really at
home. Quite apart from that, with the
strain of war and without the relaxation
of a Saturday afternoon, the civilian por-
tion of the community would be hard
pressed to carry on.
If the people who are sending the
soldier his materials, and are striving to
keep Aussie the way he remembers it,
should be blocked, the mission of the
Sixth, Eighth and Ninth Divvies will have
been in vain. Until it becomes an abso-
lute necessity we should carry on with at
least some of our sporting activities, and
keep some part of the soldier’s life open
for him when he comes back. —D. G. H.
(R.A.A.F.).


Hf
MILO
every night!
TTOR sound, refreshing sleep, sip a
-w I \ cupful of nerve-soothing stamina-
J building MILO just before you turn
I out the light. This delicious chocolate-
v J flavoured blend of pure country milk
V and malted cereals, with its added
energising vitamins, will aid that complete relaxa-
tion which is the prelude to a perfect night’s rest.
MILO is the perfect “nightcap”, soothing, restor-
ing, delicious and easily digested. Whilst you
sleep, MILO will help to build up your system,
restore expended energy, enable you to greet your
alarm clock with the good cheer which comes from
renewed vitality.
: • ■
■
WmmM
3SKSS v
:
mmm
* ; f : w
mm
X.;:
iili
: m
■
mm?.
■ • •« -
w
t
. S
Wy&m
■
m
m
mm
m
mm
.. •
igiiiiii
7 M
■am
A
o#*
A^
m
tH*
fA^
■
m
y
11 a.m. at home. MILO helps to
prevent the mid-morning “sag”.
Gives a feeling of new energy for
completing the day’s work.
3.30 p.m. at the office, milo
helps to give that oft-needed “lift”
. . . that added zest for keen thinking
and effective action.
m
ipf
4 p.m.-home from school, chu-
dren derive wonderful benefit from
the stamina - building qualities of
MILO.
£ y’■ '/ } ■
the Fortified
TONIC FOOD
\ s6*., >v-
A NESTLES PRODUCT
SSIfeVT H'
imM
1.1. ~
I- I ,ll
Copyright 812148
INVALUABLE FOR CONVALESCENTS
AND NURSING MOTHERS
rj’HE re-energising qualities of this tempting,
easily - assimilated tonic food make it
especially beneficial to those recovering from
illness. It is often recommended by doctors
in such cases. MILO contains calcium, phos-
phates and essential mineral salts and nurs-
ing mothers will find that MILO not only
helps to promote new vitality, but assists
natural feeding,
MILO is sold in handy half-pound tins by
all chemists and stores. In metropolitan
areas, the tins cost only 2 /3d. MILO takes
only a few seconds to prepare and serve.
