

ROYAL
PURPLE PARA
LET'
FINISH THE JOB—BUY ANOTHER BOND IN THE FOURTH
VICTORY LOAN
The Bulletin
‘The Bulletin,” Vol. 66—No. 3427
Wednesday, October 17, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at , the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper,
Seppelts
BEAULIEU ABBEY-WHERE MARGARET OF ANJOU RESTED.
T>EAULIEU ABBEY, near Lyndhurst, Hampshire, lies in a
beautiful situation, as its name demonstrates, at the head of
Beaulieu Creek, and at the mouth of a little river. This is the legehd
of its foundation: After various oppressive measures had been
put in force against the order of the Cistercians, King John in
1204 summoned the abbot and principals to Lincoln. The monks
went, expecting to receive favor from the King, but John ordered
them to be trampled to death by horses. No attendants could be
found to carry out this order, and the monks hastily retired to
their inn. That night the King had a terrible dream: he was stand-
ing before a Judge accompanied by the Cistercians, and the Judge
commanded them to scourge him with rods. The King the next
morning declared that he could still feel the smarts, and an
ecclesiastic of the Court advised him to pacify the Cistercians.
Shortly afterwards he granted them a charter for the foundation
of Beaulieu Abbey, and it became a sanctuary as privileged as
Westminster or St. Martin’s in London. After the Battle of Barnet,
in which Warwick the King-maker, who was then fighting for the
Lancastrians, was crushed (1471), Margaret and her party took
refuge at this sanctuary. She was here visited by many of the
Lancastrian nobles, and with them she made her way to Bath.
Early in the reign of Henry VII Perkin Warbeck, who set himself
up as the younger of the two princes murdered in the Tower by
Richard 111, after his claims had been recognised by Scotland,
France and Burgundy, was finally forced to seek safety at Beaulieu.
He was lured thence by the promises of Henry VII, made a com-
plete confession of his imposture, and was executed at Tyburn.
The abbot’s house is now used as a residence.


g
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTTS CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAIL
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write lor Profit, as
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin"
My Name
My Address
S.B. 145 .AGE
The Red Page
COMEDY AND SATIRE.
Gideon Planish (Angus and Robertson),
a novel rather like Elmer Gantry and still
more like Babbitt, shows Sinclair Lewis
at his old trick of hitting every head in
sight:
The two mysteries regarding any organi-
sation for philanthropy are who really
owns it and what, if anything, if actually
does, beside create a pretty letterhead and
provide a warm office for the chief execu-
tive to take naps in.
In. the business, (he term “Foundation”
usually means an institution which is en-
tirely supported by a trust fund established
by a philanthropist (meaning a man with
more money than he can spend on houses
and pearls).
The Heskett Foundation published
speeches about rural education, but no
country teacher ever seemed to have re-
ceived them. They were sent to manag-
ing editors, who turned them over to
the drama editors, who threw them into
the waste-basket, along with Hollywood re-
leases about Miss Sylvia Silva’s goat farm.
The Foundation had been known to give
blackboards to a school in Kansas, two
motion-picture films to a teachers’ college
in Dakota, and a collection of Turkish
stamps to a Hawaiian institute for pine-
apple-growers.
If you compare that with a paragraph
from Norman Lindsay’s new novel, The
Cousin from Fiji, from the same pub-
lisher, a certain difference of tone is im-
mediately noticeable:
Mamma at that moment might be stand-
ing obstinately in a public street wearing
a ridiculous hat and booming a refusal to
go home. There was a collection of old
hats, once the property of Grandpa Dom-
kin, standing in a dusty recess off the bath-
room, kept there because the inertia of
time had fixed them there for ever, and
only a colossal act of will could have
consigned them to the dustbin. They
ranged from the lofty stovepipe to the
broad-brimmed cabbage-tree, the flat-
crowned topper to the solar topee like a
giant mushroom, giving Grandma a hand-
some assortment of peculiar headgear under
which to stalk forth, daring every eye she
met to comment.
The difference is not merely that one
author is writing about the U.S. from
1902 to the present day and the other
about Ballarat in the ’nineties; not that
one quotation concerns philanthropists
and a film star’s goat farm and the other
a grandmother and a collection of old
hats; but that Sinclair Lewis, one feels,
does not like film stars’ goat farms, and
Norman Lindsay does like old hats.
Both writers keep a sharp eye on the
lunacies of human behavior, but one
watches with frenzy, the other with
acceptance. Reading The Cousin from
Fiji you feel it is highly desirable that
grandmothers should wear mad hats and
turn the hose on the old lady from down
the street; reading Gideon Planish you
feel that organised philanthropy in the
U.S. is a most undesirable racket. Sin-
clair Lewis is writing satire; Norman
Lindsay comedy.
One can make such a distinction only
with the broad truth of a generalisation.
Gideon Planish runs over, as it were,
from satire into comedy at frequent inter-
vals ; The Cousin from Fiji runs at times
into farce. Gideon Planish sets out to
entertain as well as to criticise; if you
like to look for it, there is a social pur-
pose underlying the laughter of The
Cousin from Fiji. But, broadly speaking,
Sinclair Lewis is trying to reform the
American people, Norman Lindsay
simply to set down a fragment of the
human comedy.
Each novel has the‘advantages and dis-
advantages of its method. Writing a
national satire on the grand scale, Sinclair
Lewis ranges wider than the Australian
and America —its people and its gadgets
—is an integral part of his book in a
way that Ballarat, in The Cousin from
Fiji, is not. The Australian town and its
scenery are capably described, but they
are not part of the living texture of the
novel as were the diggings of “Redheap”
in Saturdee or the lanes of Melbourne in
A Curate in Bohemia. On the other hand,
taking half a dozen themes .and bringing
them simultaneously to crisis at the end,
The Cousin from Fiji is a model of con-
struction (Norman Lindsay’s best novel
to date in this respect), while Gideon
Planish, because of Sinclair Lewis’s indis-
criminate and apparently directionless
satirising, seems to jump rather than to
move steadily in constructive rhythm and
comes to its crisis in a manner apparently
accidental and certainly slovenly.
The basis of Sinclair Lewis’s satire is
not difficult to find. He may hit out
wildly (and wittily) at every American
citizen who comes within his reach:
Professor Campion, an almost new friend,
was a surprising person to find in the
Planish School of Economics, because Pro-
fessor Campion actually knew something
about economics, and was even licensed to
teach it at a reputable school; Cornell
University.
But Professor Campion was a Signer.
Any group of rebels, Communists,
Royalists, Argentine, Danish, S.P.C.A.,
Y.M.H.A., or 0.G.P.U., who drew up a
protest' to be sent to the Congress or to a
foreign ambassador, complaining because
somebody was going to be shot at dawn,
or wasn’t going to be shot at all, could
count on Professor Campion to sign. He
often signed nine protests between 1 a.m.
and bedtime and his chief reading matter,
outside of the works of Plato, was his
breakfast-table pile of four-page telegrams
from propaganda organisations asking for
his immediate shirt.
But the attack is not quite so indiscrimi-
nate as it seems. All attackers must have
a point to attack from. And here, as in
all his novels, Sinclair Lewis’s great,
primary and fundamental grudge against
the American people is that they do not
know about Literature. They do not read
good books: —
The Dean was cheered thus into doing a
rather larger essay on the important books
of the day (for his material he had to
read clear through the advertisement's in
a New York Sunday “Herald-Times”).
Or their taste is confused, vulgar and
commercial:
He who had so often told his students,
“An inspired business letter can pull the
heart-strings of the prospect just as well
as the best love lyrics by Shelley or
James Whitcomb Riley”
Which, of course, is very salutary for
the American people; and pleasing to
the community of art and letters, which
does not often get a chance to tell the
Babbitts what it really thinks about them.
But it is not altogether a sound basis for
the portrayal of character in fiction. A
horse that has never read Shelley may
still be a good horse. When one meets
Norman Lindsay’s George Domkin, with
his beard and the gold-knobbed cane that
preserves him from the indignity of
speech, there seems no need for the ques-
tion of his taste in literature ever to arise.
George bent, with immense condescen-
sion, to kiss Cecelia on the brow, which
temporarily abolished her face in his beard.
With the beard he wore with calm detach-
ment a high white topper, a tussore silk
coat and grey plaid trousers, and carried
a gold-headed Malacca cane, which was
for George not only an insignia of leisured
power, but a wand for compelling service
from lesser beings. Ella, who was bund-
ling luggage out on the platform and
saying breathlessly, “Hello, Uncle George—
hullo, Aunt Sarah —hullo, Florence,” re-
ceived a slight tap with the wand, which
was then pointed precisely at a porter.
By this Ella was relieved of porterage and
the porter committed to it.
In George’s charge the party struggled
out to the cab rank, where George’s wand
indicated a cab, pointed the ladies into it,
hooked the cabman off his seat to help the
porter stow the luggage on top of the
ladies. For himself he reserved the front
seat, where his beard made for them a
royal progress through the town. To those
citizens permitted to know him, George
raised a forefinger. His face did not know
them, only his finger did.
It is extremely probable that George
holds incorrect opinions on the poetry of
Henry Kendall. But George is still a
delightful human being: to read about,
anyway. To Sinclair Lewis he would be
just another Babbitt.
One could continue the search for the
basis of Lewis’s satire one step further
and find that his apparent passion to turn
all American citizens into faintly Lettish
intellectuals (such are his only heroes) is
a mask for some temperamental distaste
for humanity—an acidity, if not Swift’s
bitterness, of mind —but one would find
that acidity redeemed by the wit and
vigor of a genuine artist.
Illiterate, strident, vulgar, trapped
among their perfect plumbing in material-
ism’s mad scramble for money and
power, his characters are harangued and
jeered at till they seem completely repel-
lent ; less than human ; made of plaster
and machinery; soulless. And then, un-
obtrusively in Gideon Planish as whefi
Vergil Gunch breaks Babbitt’s nerve
simply by looking at him, comes the
moment of humanity when Gideon is
broken by his wife and is shown as a lost
soul, it may be, but still a soul: be-
wildered, terrified, driven by fiends and
angels in his mad activities in the world
of oratory and philanthropy no less than
are Norman Lindsay’s characters in their
happier antics of love-making.
And this is where the two novels, in
spite of their vast differences, meet: in
the excellence of characterisation. Each
book, curiously, in its most important
human drama is a portrait of a fraud,
exposed and exploded by a dominating
woman ; and so closely do the novelists
agree in their findings on humanity that
the characters are almost interchange-
able : the pompous George and the ruth-
less Gussie Maguire, the pompous Gideon
Planish and the ruthless Peony his wife.
They meet again in their laughter:
these are both richly funny novels. And
again in their gusto. Somerset Maugham s
The Hour Before the Dawn, recently
reviewed here, was thin, mechanical, tired.
Sinclair Lewis and Norman Lindsay are
still at the top of their form.
Theatrical Reminiscences .
From Bob Hope’s I Never Left Home
(Peter Huston, Ltd., Sydney):
On our way to get our A.P.O. numbers
we passed a British soldier standing by a
winch that had £f cable running up into the
fog overhead.
“Is there a barrage-balloon on the other
end of that cable?” I asked him.
“If there ain’t, guv’nor,” he said, “I’m
doing the blooming rope trick.”
And a meeting with the U.S. Tank
Corps in Africa:
Those Tank guys were nice to us. Even
though the show went a little sour they
let us eat with them. What food those
guys had! And do they grab for it. I
saw one soldier eating with his fingers.
I said “Didn’t they give you a knife and
fork?”
“Yes,” he answered, “and they were deli-
cious.”
Which is enough to indicate that /
Never Left Home —the record of the
comedian’s travels in Africa and England
entertaining U.S. troops—has a fair
ration of the typical Hope gags and wise-
cracks. In fact, it is crammed with them,
to the exclusion of almost everything
else, except a few appropriate sentiments
about soldiers. Some of the jokes are
forced; too many are variations on the
one theme of mock-modesty; but on the
whole they are extremely bright. There
is something extraordinary—indeed, for-
midable —about a man who can rattle out
wisecracks with the speed and persist-
ence of a pneumatic drill.
The book contains 64 black-and-white
illustrations and 60 of these are portraits
of Bob Hope: which is a further indi-
cation of what may be expected in the
text.
In spite of its sub-title, “The Unconven-
tional Memoirs of the Famous Opera and
Movie Star,” Grace Moore’s You’re
Only Human Once (Invincible Press,
Melbourne) is a whole lot more conven-
tional than Hope’s little tome. In fact,
it is the usual book of theatrical reminis-
cences and the only unconventional thing
about it is the over-colored* photograph
on the dust-jacket, looking like a tooth-
paste advertisement and obviously in-
spired not by the Metropolitan Opera
House but by Hollywood.
Grace Moore spends her time in
Chicago and New York, London and the
Riviera ; meets notabilities ; attends par-
ties ; discusses her love affairs with what
the publisher, a trifle optimistically, calls
“complete candor” ; and, of course, sings.
She writes with charm and spirit; and
with much good sense:
If opera is to keep out of the red, it
must turn toward the development of
American artists and the furthering of
American music. American opera has had
to fall back on European artists who came
here backed up by years of experience
and training in the small opera auditoriums
of Europe. Our own young artists cannot
compete fairly with those, seasoned per-
formers. Their initiative and natural
talents become shrouded over with fear
and gaucherie, and few survive the ordeal.
No one disputes that the influx of Euro-
pean artists has always had a most healthy
and stimulating influence on American
opera. But that very stimulation should
have taught us how urgent was the neces-
sity to find an outlet for developing talent
here equal to the European The most
beautiful natural voices in the world are
right here in America.
The U.S., Grace Moore says, is begin-
ning to pay proper respect to its own
talent:
Twenty years ago you went to Europe
to study if you really wanted a career.
The study of music was an expatriate pro-
fession, like left-bank literature and Grande
Chaumiere art. ' Today the young musician
keeps her eyes and her voice at home. As
our writers have returned from Montpar-
nasse, music has come home, too.
All this, of course, should be applied
to the Australian theatre. And, inciden-
tally, it is about time Australian publish-
ing, too, came home from “Montpar-
nasse” —which, in the case of these two
books, means America. It is all to the
good to have Grace Moore’s memoirs
reprinted here; Bob Hope, though his
book is “dated” and does not cover his
trip to this country, may also have been
worth reprinting ; but a really enterpris-
ing Australian publisher, before tackling
overseas material, would try to persuade
such people as Gladys Moncrieff, “Mo,”
George Wallace and one of the Wirths
to write their reminiscences—as, for the
good of the theatre in this country, they
should.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
“The Late Christopher Bean,” adapted
from the French by Emlyn Williams, was
very well played by Melbourne Little
Theatre. It concerns a sick young artist
who goes to live with the family of a
struggling country doctor and dies with-
out anybody recognising his “genius,”
though a Welsh servant, out of liking for
him, has preserved his pictures. Years
later dealers and critics flock to the
village to rave about the paintings and
offer fantastic prices for them; where-
upon the doctor’s family, hoping to cash-
in, finds to its dismay that the Welsh maid
had clandestinely married the young
artist on his deathbed, and hence is the
legitimate owner of the pictures. It would
be difficult to imagine a more sympathetic
performance than Aenid Johnson’s as the
Welsh maid, William Clarkson’s as the
distracted doctor and Roma Johnston’s
as his wife. It. was perhaps just as well
that neither the genius nor his pictures
made a positive appearance.
When Frank Hutchens helped Lindley
Evans to play his duo-piano piece “Idyll”
and Lindley Evans reciprocated by help-
ing Mr. Hutchens to play his Phantasy
Concerto at the latest symphony concert
at the Town Hall, Melbourne, under the
Heinze baton, each seemed to be as in-
terested in his colleague’s composition as
in his own. This is an illustration of the
well-known fact that artists seldom make
decent politicians. If Mr. Evans had had
an ounce of political acumen in him he
would have sneaked in before the per-
formance and emptied a bag of sand into
Mr. Hutchens’s piano, and if Mr,
Hutchens had had the makings of a states-
man in him he would have slipped a
pound of potatoes and a couple of dead
fish under the cover of the instrument
played by Mr. Evans. But the musicians
co-operated, and the result was a magni-
ficent performance of two admirable Aus-
tralian compositions.
At the talkies:
“Experiment Perilous” (Sydney Century):
Psychological study of a wealthy husband’s
jealousy of the admirers, real and supposed,
of his beautiful young wife. A doctor (George
Brent) combines the duty of trying to cure
the husband with the pleasure of looking with
unprofessional ardor into the inviting eyes of
the wife (Hedy Lamarr).
“Ministry of Fear” (Sydney Capitol): First-
rate spy drama. Based on Grahame Green’s
novel, the ingenious plot starts moving when
a man wins a cake in a guessing contest at an
English country fair.
“Princess O’Rourke” (Sydney Tatler): Euro-
pean princess travelling incog, in America who
kicks over the traces with an air-line pilot.
Only the skilled work of Charles Coburn,
Robert Cumins and Olivia de Haviland succeed
in lifting the opus from the ruck.
“National Velvet” (Sydney St. James): A
Sussex girl’s day-dreams that she will own a
a Grand National winner, which eventually
she does. M.-G.-M. has captured the spirit of
Enid Bagnold’s novel; family scenes are de-
lightful and the outdoor scenes in color, par-
ticularly the steeplechase, are richly English.
Elizabeth Taylor and Mickey Rooney are both
capable, but the film is stolen by Ann Revere
as the mother.
“Guest in the House” (Sydney Mayfair):
Pathological study of a young woman, semi-
invalid, who tries to break up a home. The
strength of the film lies in the fine work of
Anne Baxter in the difficult and unsympathetic
leading role.
“God Is My Co-Pilot” (Sydney Plaza):
Based on an autobiography by Col. Robert
Lee Scott, one of General Chennault’s Flying-
Tiger pilots. There is air-borne action a-plenty.
The title is explained rather shyly by mission-
ary priest Alan Hale (a misfit) after a storm
is miraculously dispelled. Raymond Massey
easily does the best work as the American
general.
“China Sky” (Sydney Empire): Flimsy
triangle story with air raids galore. The first
night was attended by apparently the entire
Chinese population of Sydney—and their in-
scrutable countenances remained inscrutable.
A soldier-artist who looks like con-
tinuing the second of his professions is
Sgt. Lindsay M. Edward (A.1.F., New
Guinea) who, after a previous show in
Melbourne, has had a second at Sedon’s.
It shows considerable development.
Among the 235 pictures at the spring
show of the Victorian Artists’ Society
Ernest Milston has a farmer’s daughter
with some force about her, Gwendolyn
Grant’s “Kitchen Parade” is refreshingly
simple* there is a vein of pictorial satire
—possibly unconscious—in J. M. Gill’s
“Land of Hope and Glory,” and W. A.
Dargie portrays night operations in New
Guinea with a facility which tends to
slickness; but most of the rest barely
justify their existence. At Kozminsky’s
Karl Duldig, a Viennese sculptor who
formerly taught in Singapore, has been
showing works in terracotta, sandstone,
bronze, pewter, clay, Australian gum and
marble, but the variety of materials does
not conceal the monotony of the sculp-
tor’s line. The liveliest is a simple child’s
head. At the Park Galleries, William
MacGuffie has a show of oils. A Scot-
tish artist, he paints after the Streeton
tradition.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
"THE SENIOR STORE"
ANTHONY HORDERNS’
122 Years of Service
/
m
m
%
....
FIRESIDE-
uP HOLSTER^ ringa
de
a vn
lain
cHMR s
an
grov/n
strip 6
polished
£4/6/6
rang 6
ateria
Price
lour
co
Inut
W
1
1
Wmm
K:
mm
mm
K: ■
t:* '
CHE- Sl, u. tor
j suitable
K"" 1 ’ „d(eei<» t 0
g i”V M aae s, °l
ciiest' Pine aU Q
tolii «»-«
oS d ° V " a ‘ block fee‘-
«*•
3tt- . deep.
•VC d \Nl^ G
si**®® toomy -a-
SUITE.* 1 c „tWV
iia «ei». k chan” «' 1
table. 4 •'» 1 ' T\to-tone
upboUW'f 1
Oak 6nlA. £M/S/ .
price
■
sm
. I ,
■
m
m
>\
:
il
11
. * glides
l ight of D»* U ''»%T«
■
m
s
m
mm
chest
qF drawers, sobd
d r a v/ e r
jolisVied
op atld
fr ° n j tS ’ Oak colour.
Medium
,- . Ift. 7m-
-3 ft. kigk. u
2 ft, 7in. v/ide.
decP. £7/S/ -
P« ce
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
TELEPHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
nVS HIGH
re ensuring V
Spa 9 L lance and
* ectba r cVii^'
satety ° trU cted
ji v consn
S ° Und Oak knisk-
Ug U ° aVt 32/
price
p u rnitu re ’
Third
Flo
f
POST TO BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


"MY NAME CORPRIL"
By S. H. COURTIER.
WE did not propose to give George
any special welcome home on his
return from Alice Springs, but we
were curious to observe the effect
of the Army upon him. There were two
schools of opinion concerning this, respec-
tively headed by The Boss and The
Missus.
When George left us to join the abori-
ginal employment unit at Alice, The Boss,
an old soldier himself, had argued that a
bit of Army discipline would do him the
world of good. George wasn’t a bad
sort as station abos measure, and when
he had learnt to do what he was told
when he was told he would be a fair-to-
middling stockboy, and The Boss thought
the Army would teach George just that
very lesson.
The Missus, on the other hand, had
opposed George’s going, arguing that the
Army would spoil him. George stood
high in The Missus’s regard. His re-
straint in matrimonial matters appealed
to her, for he was content with one wife
at a time. Moreover, his treatment of his
lubra was gentlemanly. The average buck
settled domestic tiffs by knocking his
lubra down with the thickest waddy at
hand. George never lowered himself like
that. He always used his fist.
So when we heard that George’s unit
had been disbanded we awaited his
return with a good deal of interest and
speculation.
A truck going through to Larrimah
brought George home. It dropped him
at the gate and went on, and George
walked up to the homestead with a bulg-
ing kitbag over his shoulder. It was obvi-
ous a change had come over him. He
held himself stiffly, he gazed around with
a stern and haughty air, and he was very
conscious of his khaki shirt and slacks,
his military boots and his slouch hat
adorned with a genuine puggaree.
“Well, it’s George,” said The Boss.
“How are you, George?”
Putting his kitbag down, George
dragged his heels together and swung The
Boss a smart salute.
“My name not George,” he said with
dignity. “My name Corpril.”
And he indicated his right sleeve where,
sure enough, two stripes could be dis-
tinguished under a lot of grime.
“Cripes!” exclaimed The Boss. “How
did that come about?”
George, though still dignified, was not
loath to tell us. We gathered he had been
a success at Alice, impressing everybody
with his efficiency. He hadn’t broken
saws into pieces with which to make
knives, he hadn’t sold picks and shovels
for tobacco and he hadn’t pinched any
sugar. So he had been made a corporal
and his name was George no longer.
“But the war’s over and you’re out of
the Army,” The Boss pointed out.
“No matter,” said George. “My name
Corpril.”
Then, having displayed the spare
clothes and condensed milk and tinned
fruit and tobacco he carried in the kit-
bag, George went down ; to the blacks’
camp.
“H’mph! ” sniffed The Missus
righteously. “Someone’s got too big for
his boots, I think. Big and all though
the boots are,” she added thoughtfully.
THE tribe was exhilarated at George’s
return. They mobbed him, yelling,
pushing and grabbing at the kitbag. Even
old Nemitje, the headman, capered excit-
edly, though Jinny, George’s lubra, was
inclined to melancholy somewhat.
George abruptly quenched the exuber-
ance. He waved everybody back and
made a speech. He informed them he
was a corporal, a being so superior he
made a debbil-debbil man look like a
dumb piccaninny, and he showed them
his stripes. This was magic, he said,
big fella magic.
He further told them he did not like
their looks, their smell or their noise.
However, he would soon alter all that.
He would teach them what the Army had
taught him, and if they did not do what
he ordered big fella magi(j would get
them ; and he patted the two stripes.
Then, to make Jinny realise he was
home, he caught her a clout that bowled
her over, and he stalked off to his humpy.
“A beautiful advertiserrtent for the
Army,” said The Missus disdainfully.
George began the reorganisation of the
tribe next morning. The Boss, dispatched
by The Missus to find why the house
lubras were not on the job in the kitchen,
came upon an extraordinary scene behind
the horse-yards.
At first he thought it was a riot. The
entire tribe was there ; old men, young
bucks, lubras and piccaninnies, milling
and jumping and shoving in an appar-
ently unanimous free-for-all.
Then he caught sight of George’s
slouch hat bobbing madly about in the
melee, and he heard George’s voice yell-
ing, and it dawned on him what was up.
George was giving the tribe its first mili-
tary lesson—how to come on parade.'
Kicking and punching, he eventually
lined the tribe up in three ranks, with old
Nemitje, looking very mournful, as
marker. Then he marched out to the
front, turned arid faced them.
“Prade!” he bellowed. “Shun!”
The parade stared at him. Some of
the young lubras giggled, George
bounced into the air, roared, called them
a mob of wooden-legged cripples and
other things (thereby showing he had list-
ened carefully to the sergeant-majors
down at Alice), and demonstrated how to
“shun.”
“Prade!” he bellowed again. “Shun!”
The,tribe came more or less to atten-
tion.
“Stan-tease! ” ordered George. “Pay
atten’ teenorder.”
He pulled a sheet of newspaper from
a pocket. Holding this up he read out
the day’s orders for the tribe. The Boss
was relieved to hear nothing that would
interfere with the work of the station.
The house lubras were to report to The
Missus, the stockboys were to carry on
with their usual jobs, Nemitje and the old
men were detailed to mount guard over
the camp, the lubras assigned to camp
duties and the piccaninnies told to keep
out of the way. Finally, George an-
nounced there was to be an emu parade
later on, when they would clean the camp
and get it into something like military
order.
George put the routine orders back in
his pocket.
“Step out front, Privum Ooralla!” he
snapped.
In the rear rank, a tall lank young buck
looked at George with malice in his eyes.
This was Ooraila. George stared back
at him, also with malice. There had been
a time when Ooralla competed with
George for Jinny’s favors.
“Step out, you fella you, Privum
Ooralla!” George bawled.
Ooralla sulkily shouldered through the
ranks.
“Privum Ooralla,” said George. “You
batterman belonga me. Batterman job
clean boots, make bed, get mornin’ tea,
sweep tent. You wash clo’es, chase fly,
pickem cig’ret butt up. You batterman
belonga me, Privum Ooralla.”
“You go to hell,” said Privum Ooralla,
airing his best English.
George promptly put on a turn. He
shook his fist under Ooralla’s nose, called
him big fella whinger, threatened him
with a charge-sheet, 28 days in clink and
the loss of pay and privileges. Then
George thrust his right arm forward and
flourished the stripes.
“Big fella magic,’-’ he said. “What
name you, Privum Ooralla, with big fella
two-stripe magic chase you?”
The threat was too much for Ooralla.
His eyes rolled, his hands twitched ner-
vously and he raised no more objections
to being George’s batman. He slunk
back into the ranks a subdued man.
“Prade, shun!” roared George. “T’
dooty, smiss!”
THE Missus became aware that Army
control had clutched the station when,
on the heels of the house lubras chatter-
ing and giggling at the morning’s excite-
ment, Privum Ooralla came to the door
of the kitchen and sullenly asked for the
hot water belonga Corpril.
“What’s this hot water belonga Cor-
pril?” The Missus demanded.
“Him shave him,” said Ooralla.
“Him shave fiddlesticks!” The Missus
said. “You tell Master Corporal George
to boil his head in oil.”
Privum Ooralla withdrew. Ten minutes
later George came to the kitchen, look-
ing very dignified and very hurt. He
saluted The Missus and said that when he
sent his batman to get shaving water he
expected his order to be obeyed. The
overriding of his authority was preju-
dicial to good order and military disci-
pline.
“Him fella Ooralla him bad fella,”
said George reproachfully. “Him sit
down, no work, you tellem no hot water.
Very bad, Missus.”
“Don’t you come here talking like
that,” The Missus said tartly. “It’s a pity
you ever went near Alice Springs. The
Army’s done you no good. You cheeky
fella.”
“Missus” —George appealed, but The
Missus would not listen. She said that if
George was not out of her kitchen in
double-quick time he would feel the
broom around his legs. George went,
followed by the loud tittering of the house
lubras, who viewed the military com-
mandant’s defeat as a splendid joke.
“Corporal, indeed!” said The Missus.
psESPITE this setback, however, the
‘-'establishment of a military dictator-
ship went ahead. That afternoon the emu
parade was held. A deal of rubbish was
cleaned up and burnt and George set the
tribe to work rearranging their humpies
in regular lines like him fella soldier tent
longa Alice Springs.
Nemitje and the old men were inclined
to rebel against this. They considered
George was going too far. They squatted
in their humpies and spat disgustedly,
whereupon George strutted and fiercely
threatened to invoke the magic of his two
stripes.
The old men eyed the awesome em-
blems, shuddered and got to work.
Nevertheless, their hurt feelings de-
manded some consolation. That evening
an epidemic of wife-beating broke out in
the camp such as had not been seen for'
many a moon.
Next day saw the institution of tent
inspection. Every member of the tribe
had to be standing to attention in front
of the humpies while George walked
along the line looking for faults.
Offenders were punished on the spot.
The penalties consisted mainly of pro-
viding George with something nice to eat,
a lump of fat carpet-snake, the leg of a
scrub-turkey or, perhaps, a pitch! of sugar
scrounged from The Missus. ®
From then on the tribe was under stern
discipline. There were guards and pickets,
parades and drill, and any quantity of
yells and orders from George. There
were grumblers, of course, but none dared
to disobey. The fear of the two magic
stripes on George’s right arm was too
strong.
All the same, there were efforts to dis-
lodge George from power. Old Nemitje »
came to The Boss for help.
“What name mess prade, Boss?” he
asked. “Him fella Corpril, him make
mess prade. Make blackfella stanup line.
No stanup line, no tucker. What name
mess prade, Boss?”
The Boss said that mess parades were
a habit they had in the army.
“Him bad fella,” Nemitje said sadly.
“Blackfella, him eat tucker sit down,
stanup, walkabout. Him please him.
Stanup line bad fella. Him Corpril, him
eat good tucker. Blackfella get bad
tucker.”
The Boss said that also was commonly
supposed to be a habit of the Army,
cooks and mess orderlies getting the best
tucker, the men what was left, though he
would not vouch for it. But he pointed
out to Nemitje there was no real neces-
sity for the tribe to do what George said.
“Him big magic,” Nemitje replied.
“Him stripe on arm. Big magic, Black-
fella ’fraid. White fella magic very
strong, Boss. You gib Corpril big kick
in pants, eh?” x
The Boss, to The Missus’s outspoken
annoyance, would not intervene, and
Nemitje went sorrowfully away.
“You’ll regret this one of these days,”
The Missus told The Boss,
Nemitje was back the following day
with a fresh complaint.
“What name roo march. Boss?” he de-
manded.
“Another army custom,” said The
Boss.
“Him bad fella,” said Nemitje shaking
his head. “Blackfella go walkabout, him
walk, him stop, him sit down. Him
please him. Roo march! Corpril alia
time sing out ‘Lep, rye, lep, rye! Pickem
up! Lep, rye! Pokem out chest! Pullem
belly in! Lep, rye!’ Poor blackfella
tired, lie down close-up dead fella him.”
The Boss agreed that route marches
were the devil.
“You smackem Corpril down, eh,
Boss?” pleaded Nemitje.
The Boss shook his head. He said
Nemitje could easily rectify the trouble
if he liked. All he had to do was tell
George where he got off and there was
the end of it. But Nemitje departed,
thinking The Boss very silly fella not to
understand that George’s two-stripe
magic was too strong for the tribe to
fight.
Then The Missus threatened drastic
action.
“If you don’t do something about
George, I will,” she said to The Boss.
“The Army’s ruined him. Walking about
the place as though he owns it! He wants
a whack where it would hurt most.”
“What’s he done now?” asked The
Boss.
“Outside is your concern,” The Missus
replied indignantly. “But when he starts
interfering with my kitchen I kick.
Molly’s the best lubra I’ve got. Today
Master George sends Jinny in place of
her. He says he has a duty for Molly at
the camp.”
“Probably wants to marry her,” The
Boss grinned, adding that Jinny wasn’t a
bad lubra as far as housework con-
cerned ; as for George, he couldn’t see
much harm in that military-minded man s
antlCS
“Very well,” said The Missus. “If
George comes near this kitchen again or
upsets my work 1 go for him with a stock-
whip. And, mark my words, he’ll cause
you a lot of trouble yet.”
I T so happened that The Missus was a
1 good prophet. One evening we heard
sounds of uproarious merriment down at
the camp. No official corroboree being
due, The Boss decided to look into the
matter. As he approached the camp he
became aware of a strikingly familiar
odor,
“Beef or I’m a fool,” he said sniffing
the air.
It was certainly beef. There were huge
lumps of freshly cut beef roasting over
every fire in the camp. The Boss’s blood
pressure rose steeply. No one could
touch his cattle with impunity.
“Who told you to kill a beast?” he
roared at Nemitje.
“Him fella Corpril,” stammered the
frightened headman. “Him say spear
beast. Him say tribe good fella soljer.
All good fella, so makem big fella feed.”
The Boss stared savagely at George,
who was supervising the preparation of
the feast. George stared importantly
back.
The Boss restrained a murderous im-
pulse to hit George with the nearest
waddy. He also checked a milder im-
pulse to take George by the scruff of the
neck and kick him the length of the
camp. A subtler, more devastating blow
than that of merely planting a boot on
George’s person was necessary. He
turned back to Nemitje.
“I’ll fix Corporal,” he said. “But you
listen to me, Nemitje. You let blackfella
touch my cattle and I’ll turn my magic
loose. And my magic is real magic,
Nemitje.”
The Boss did not feel any better when,
upon his return to the homestead, The
Missus sniggered at him and wanted to
know what he thought of his corporal now.
“George will get his,” said The Boss
grimly. Then he went searching through
his wardrobe . . .
'"THE BOSS was present when George
1 lined the tribe up on parade the
following morning. He carried a paper-
covered parcel under his arm. He waited
till George had got through his rigmarole
of routine orders, then he took over.
“Step out, Nemitje,” he ordered.
The old fellow came forward looking
as though he expected to be shot.
“Right,” said The 'Boss. ■ “Now,
Nemitje, you been good fella. I’m giving
you a present. Make you big fella. Yes,
very big.”
He unwrapped the parcel, bringing to
view an old khaki shirt.
“You put this on, Nemitje,” The Boss
went on, slipping the shirt over the old
chap’s head. Nemitje, very puzzled,
wriggled into the garment. Then the
parade gaped. There, on Nemitje’s right
arm, were three beautiful white stripes.
“You sergeant now, Nemitje,” The
Boss said. “Big magic, sergeant. Very
big magic. Bigger than corporal magic,
Nemitje.”
There was a moment’s silence. Then
the significance of the three stripes sank
in and a delighted yell went up. The
parade disintegrated and the tribe rushed
around George, laughing and jeering and
jostfing.
George stood it for a minute, then lie
staggered away to his humpy, a stricken,
broken man.
By next morning the tribe was back to
normal —no more parades, no route
marches, no duties. But to. make sure
there was no misunderstanding The Boss
went to Nemitje.
“Sergeant magic big magic,” he said.
“But, by the Lord Harry, Nemitje, if you
spear any more cattle you’ll be sad fella
sergeant sit down longa jail quick fella
you.”


The Bulletin
Vol. 66 —No. 3427
Wednesday, October 17, 1945
MURDERING AUSTRALIA.


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street. Sydney:
, Box 2521 BB; Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand: Nathan's Buildings C opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington .
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Stredt,
London, E.C.4.
"NAKED SELFISHNESS."
On October 8, 1855, Charles Gavan
Duffy left his native country, for which
he had endured many perils and dis-
appointments, having known the bitter-
ness of being betrayed by political asso-
ciates, to carve out a new career in Aus-
tralia. This he did most effectually, be-
coming Premier of Victoria and founding
a family which has served Australia with
distinction in many spheres. Elected to
the Victorian Assembly shortly after he
arrived, he had within three years held
office in the O’Shanassy Government
and been named leader of the Opposi-
tion. That position, he wrote long after-
wards in a book, ‘My Life in Two Hemi-
spheres, “had strong attractions for me,”
We had an opportunity, I thought, of
adopting what was best in the habits and
institutions of free countries and reject-
ing whatever had proved deleterious; and
this experiment might be made with great
success in Victoria, for liberty, civilisation
and arts had come to perfection in small
States. In the old country, overladen
with abuses, the work of a statesman was
to pull down, but here it was clearly the
more exacting task to build up. In democ-
racy I recognised the modern form and
expression of the spirit of improvement
which won all the concessions which con-
stitute political liberty; but 1 had as little
sympathy with the naked selfishness which
saw no interest at stake but the interest
of the, working classes as with the other
naked selfishness which plotted to get the
public lands into the hands of a few mono-
polists.
“The naked selfishness which saw no
interest at stake but the interest of the
working classes.” Evident to an experi-
enced observer in the demands of agita-
tors five years after the Eureka Stockade,
which has since been captured by Com-
munists and, as it were, transformed into
a trap baited by knaves to catch fools,
it has now become the evil spirit of Aus-
tralian public and private life, deter-
mining the policies and proceedings of
trade-unions. Labor parties and Labor
Governments. And in the fields in which
these organisations operate naked selfish-
ness is no recent development. Its ugly
features were descried quarter of a cen-
tury ago by James Edmond, who did
more than any other man to inspire the
policy of the Commonwealth in its early
creative years. In 1922 Edmond wrote:
This is the new creed, taught by the
new leaders, some of them blatant, semi-
criminal castqffs from overseas, whom
Labor has taken to its bosom, or who
have taken Labor, bosom and all, and
made it their chattel.
Labor shall not fight for Australia.
Labor shall not pay for Australia.
Labor shall not work for Australia.
Labor shall not love Australia. It may
love Ireland or the International but not
its motherland. */
We have seen it invoked (if indirectly)
and,acted upon since the first day of the
second German war. We see the second,
third and fourth articles in operation at
this moment:
(2) In the Victory Loan flop, which
coincides with a selfish orgy of gambling,
encouraged and exploited by Labor Gov-
ernments ;
(3) In the selfish strikes, which threaten
to bring industry and rehabilitation to a
standstill, and the vilest of which menace
the weak and the sick;
(4) In the contempt for Australia, its
vital policy and its fundamental needs
and interests, evidenced in the lawless
efforts of Communist-controlled unions Jp
assist a colored Communist insurrection To
Indonesia, lawless efforts yielded to by
Labor Governments on the “principle” of
“the union, right or wrong.”
On the first article Edmond scornfully
allowed that “Labor’s bosses sometimes
admit, very reluctantly, that defence —
untrained and undisciplined defence-
should be compulsory when invasion
actually takes place, the invader choosing
his own time, opportunity and place of
landing. But they hold that when an
enemy arises with the avowed intention
of wrecking the Empire and stealing its
outlying sections (including ourselves) we
should hold aloof.”
This was precisely Federal Labor policy
in the first months of the German war.
While Canada and New Zealand were
recruiting and training expeditionary
forces. Federal Labor declared its oppo-
sition to the dispatch of the A.1.F., whose
three grand divisions it was to recall from
the Middle East and put to excessive use
in bitter and costly tropical campaigns,
when its own ideas of making war had
gone wrong. Through its Mr. Ward,
nominated by Mr, Curtin for an ignoble
job begun in his own name, it tried to
get a Defence Act prohibition of defence
of Papua, mandated New Guinea and
the Solomons and, yes, Norfolk Island
by "compulsorily enlisted men. It even
sullenly objected to Australian partici-
pation in the great imperial plan for train-
ing the airmen who, from 1941 onwards,
did so much to protect the British people,
assailed in the last year of the war by
flying bombs and rockets, and defeat
Germany.
As late as February, 1944, when Mr.
Curtin, “very reluctantly,” was about to.
leave for Britain, Mr. Ward had the face to
assert that this “policy” was “correct” —
his own expression. For himself he said:
Shortly after the outbreak of war, when
members opposite were clamoring for the
dispatch overseas of a number of divisions
of Australian troops, I pointed out that it
was unwise to denude this country of its
manpower, because by doing so we were
actually rendering a disservice to the
Allied nations.
And for his party, no member of which
objected:
We then pointed out the most effective
role Australia could play was that of the
great supplier to the Allied nations and that
we should devote our efforts to building
up supplies to that end. That view has
been proved to be correct.
No baser utterance ever broke from a
Minister of a British country at war.
When this Minister made it he knew that
the Asiatic enemy had taken 20,000 Aus-
tralian prisoners in New Britain, Ambon,
Java, Timor and Singapore, and that in
one foul way and another many had been
done to death, while his Government
could give no assurance that any would
return alive. He knew also that the
Japanese were still in occupation of great
tracts of Australian territory held under
mandate and that Americans as well as
Australians were facing them. To the
Americans his Government had appealed
or squealed for aid, and aid they sent
without tying strings to it as his Govern-
ment tied strings to militia service in
regions oyerrun by the Japanese, even
in those where most of the Australian
servicemen were held captive. Generous
as they are the Americans could not have
swallowed the monstrous proposition that
Australian soldiers, in keeping with
Labor “policy,” must not be called upon
to fight for their own country.
In its fumbling, materialistic way, the
Government to which Mr. Ward belongs
tried, like Canada, to become a “great sup-
plier to the Allied Nations,” though, un-
like Canada —which made magnificent
gifts to its associates, Australia among
them —charging for everything it sup-
plied. It failed even to keep up supplies
to Britain.. In its selfish and short-
sighted folly it wasted the bounty
of nature and starved the rural in-
dustries of labor and equipment while
it kept hundreds of thousands of
men in mainland camps for years after
all danger of a Japanese descent on the
continent had disappeared. In the end,
drought having hit the country after a
year of exceptional bounty had in large
part been wasted by its measures, it was
reduced to importing wheat and stock
feed. Under the Budget heading of
“wheat-acreage restriction,” it paid West-
ralian farmers £599,348 in 1934-44 and
£586,964 in 1944-45 and has agreed to pay
them £285,000 this year. Nearly a million
and a half to farmers in one State, who
with a fair price and no restrictions could
have doubled their output last year —
pretty good in the West —for not grow-
ing wheat! .
Among the men kept idle in camps
when they were longing to fight were the
members of a parachute battalion. Some
of the facts about these lads were re-
vealed, though not by the Government,
when the wars were over:
Many of them originally volunteered for
parachute training because they were tired
of inaction in units that were still in Aus-
tralia. They wanted to play a part in
the war, and were led to believe that' to
enter the parachute battalion would ensure
it. Years of hard and at times dangerous
training followed, and the battalion became
one of the best-trained fighting units in the
world. It was tentatively allotted several
roles, including one as an ordinary infantry
unit, but it was never used.
With what bitterness of spirit must
these parachutists and the men of the
armored division and tank units have
read Mr, Chifley’s frigid statement of
July 27, made when he expected the war
with Japan to go on for at least another
18 months, that the divisions in the
northern islands were to be reduced from
a (nominal) six to three, and the (nomi-
nally) supporting R.A.A.F. squadrons
from 53 to 36, and that it was “proposed,
if possible,” to send “a token force” to
avenge and liberate the men in captivity!
The armored division and tank units
were organised for service in the army
of General Montgomery. They were not
permitted to share in the glory of the
Britons, New Zealanders, South Africans
and Canadians, their Government, which
recalled the Ninth A.I.F. Division from
El Alamein when the Anglo-Americans
were hard pressed for shipping, prefer-
ring to keep them unemployed. Moved
to Westralia, “they suddenly found at
the end of 1942 that they were not going
abroad”; but, though bitterly disappointed,
they did not give way to despair or wild
courses. This was noted with admira-
tion by Colonel G. F. Murphy, C.M.G.,
D. 5.0., as Director of Military Prisons
and Detention Barracks, in evidence given
to the board of inquiry into the deten-
tion barracks system, an outcome of un-
justified allegations made by popularity-
hunting politicians and newspapers:
The establishment of the armored division
and tank units numbered 40,284. The peak
period was January, 1943, when some
30,000 rrien were on strength. A test
whether frustration had operated on those
men, and so driven them into detention,
showed that total admissions to detention
barracks that month were 120. Throughout
the period January, 1941, to August 7,
1945, total admissions were 2242.
Colonel Murphy, an Old Digger of
sterling character and a humane man in
every sense of the word, was appalled at
the prevalence of misconduct among
other soldiers, especially in the dreadful
year 1942 —year of the loss of Manila,
Rabaul, Singapore, Ambon, Java and
Timor; of the sinking of H.M.A.S. Perth
and Yarra ; of the bombing of Moresby,
Darwin, Broome and Wyndham, and
of the submarine attack in Sydney
Harbor.
During that year 20,685 soldiers were
arrested by military police in N. S. Wales
alone, and 1270 by civil police for
other than military offences. During the
next 12 months 26,096 were arrested by
military police and 1765 by civil police
in N. S. Wales.
Figures for Australia show that 35,902
men were under arrest in guard compounds
in 1943, when guard compounds were estab-
lished in Sydney (two), Melbourne (two),
Brisbane and Townsville (one apiece),
66,431 in 1944 and 40,737 in 1945. Of
these 23,424, 18,434 and 11,393 respectively
were committed to detention.
The number of illegal absentees since
the outbreak of war represents 2.05 per
cent, of the total strength of the army.
The total delinquency rate on August 12,
1944, illegal absentees over 21 days and
personnel in detention or civil gaols, was
2.8 p.c.
Net desertions in the world-wide British
Army for six months of 1944, May-October,
were 1746 —.019 p.c. of total strength.
The impression that all the men in de-
tention have “gone sour” because they
could not go overseas is utterly erroneous.
There was a disturbance at Grovely. On
the following day a senior officer said he
was authorised to remit the sentences of
men who would .volunteer to go to a for-
ward area. Only two out of 70 volunteered.
Next day the offer was repeated to 120
men. Seventeen volunteered.
Fifty men were sent forward to the Lae
detention barracks. They rioted. A senior
officer narrowly escaped fatal injuries and
seven of the staff had to be sent to hospital.
Nine of the men in detention suffered in-
juries. A newspaper account stated that
some had been sentenced to six years’ im-
prisonment. There is not a word of truth
in this statement.
Colonel Murphy was asked by Chap-
lain-General Rentoul, a member of the
board of inquiry, how he accounted for
“the big difference” between the British
Army and Australian Army desertion-
rates. He replied that he thought it was
in part a matter of education (“there is a
failure to realise that education means
something beyond what is imparted in a
school”), and of tradition (“in Britain they
are steeped in it; in Australia, though we
have the tradition of the A.I.F. and the
old explorers, it has not sunk into the
people’s blood”); but, above all, it was
a matter of “the British” having been
“much nearer to the war than we were.
It was right at their door.”
They were bombed day and night. They
had their Dunkirk. They lived under the
threat of invasion for months and months
and months. Their men came back off the
flying line, came back off their warships
and submarines; they lost' their homes and
home life; they saw Coventry and those
places. Public opinion there impelled
every person to play his part.
It was not always so in Australia. The
defence of our country is not looked upon
as a moral obligation by a great percen-
tage of our people. The delinquencies and
revolt against authority must be regarded
as constituting part and parcel of the un-
rest that we see in all spheres.
But haven’t these “delinquencies” and
this “revolt against authority” a common
origin, along with the unbridled gamb-
ling, the black markets, the larrikin
strikes and go-slow and the plague of
pillaging which have not spared the front-
line soldier and the sick, the torpid Labor
inaction in the presence of all those
abominations and the spread of Com-
munism, which is organised envy, hate
and greed? Aren’t they all traceable to
“the naked selfishness which sees no in-
terest at stake but the interest of the
working class,” which Gavan Duffy re-
jected as a guiding principle and which
trade-unionism and Labor-in-politics
accepted? We have had a great example
of the very opposite in the behavior and
bearing of our prisoners-of-war in Japa-
nese hell-camps. In the long arid cruel
years of captivity they never lost heart
or hope. Starved, scourged, diseased,
they helped and comforted one another.
A band of brothers who endured every
species of Oriental devilry with unflag-
ging fortitude, they saved and exalted
themselves by their unselfishness. That
spirit, made “part and parcel” of the
national life, will save and exalt Aus-
tralia as nothing else can.
Of Communist Origin.
As an example of how the vaunted “soli-
darity of Labor” works the Bunnerong
powerhouse strike would be hard to beat.
The setting is ideal for such an exhi-
bition. Bunnerong was conceived ac-
cording to the aspirations of the prophets
of the Workers’ Paradise. It was built
and equipped by “socialists” for social-
ists. Some of the money got into dirty
hands, but that is a detail.
The result was the establishment of an
enterprise publicly owned and operated
and not subject to the evil influences of
the “profit motive” ; and it gave excellent
service.
But war conditions imposed such a
strain on the plant that the County Coun-
cil was advised by its technical officers
that “maintenance work was necessary
day and night and during week-ends.”
And, an Industrial Commission ruling
having been obtained, the men were
asked to labor 44 hours on a rotat-
ing shift roster, which meant that a fitter
worked 22 days out of the 28 (and was
paid extra if he exceeded that helping),
for an average wage of £8 ss. 9d. But
even urgent necessities and the law could
not compel them to accept this position.
In May they stopped working. The
Commonwealth Government issued a
Security Order directing them to resume.
The strikers knew full well from ex-
perience that they had nothing to fear.
The only weapon with which Mr. Chifley
is armed for such occasions is a mouth,
of which the muzzle velocity is so low
that his oral bullets bounce off any union
carapace as a matter of course. It was also
a matter of course that when the Industrial
Commission upheld the County Council
and made an order nothing would happen
to those who flagrantly disobeyed it, the
“Labor policy” of arbitration long since
having been turned into an empty farce.
Declaring the shift roster “a contradic-
tion of union principles,” the strikers pro-
posed a five-day week, Monday till
Friday, overtime rates to be paid at the
week-end. Under this scheme they would
enjoy a 36-hour week worked in five days,
but would be paid for 44 hours, the week-
ends being taken care of by other workers
at overtime rates. Other proposals came
from them in a continuous stream:
They said they wanted overtime rates,
not shift work. Then they wanted a 36-
hour week. Then they wanted overtime
rates for eight hours, working 52 hours in
that week. Then they wished to work 44
hours from Monday to Friday and another
eight hours on Sunday—s 2 hours; 104
hours over two weeks. They then pro-
posed that they should toil some additional
time and divide the result by three, getting
a 36-hour week.
The quoted remarks were made by Mr.
Guy Anderson, president of the Sydney
Labor Council and of the Electricians’
trade-union. As president of the Labor
Council Mr. Anderson had come info the
picture in the interests of “continued nego-
tiations.” Another Labor Council worthy
allowed that white-collar workers who,
with pluck and public spirit, were doing
a capital maintenance job at Bunnerong
(though there were many power black-
outs) were not “scabs” against the
strikers —those fellows themselves were
“scabs” who had “put the unions in a
cleft stick.” This, it was soon proved,
exactly stated the position.
A Labor Council motion that the Com-
monwealth Government be asked to take
over Bunnerong and run it having been
defeated —no doubt with loud laughter—
the Labor Council improvised “a for-
mula” for which it was proposed that the
strikers should negotiate. The “formula’
was based on a 40-hour week. So far
from showing gratitude, the strikers ac-
cused the Labor Council of attempting
to “drive us back to work.”
At the moment it looked as if Mr. Ander-
son’s union had this fell design, since it
announced that unless its 28 members
concerned ceased striking it would
be obliged to let the County Council
replace them with soldiers holding
union tickets. Mr. Anderson himself ex-
pressed the opinion that “there were sinis-
ter outside influences” behind the strikers,
and, after a very long pause, he asserted
(and the strikers denied) that “the sinister
influences” were exercised by “an unholy
alliance between the Lang party, the Trot-
skyites and vested interests to crush the
Labor movement and to weaken the
trade-unions by producing another situa-
tion similar to that of 1917.” Being presi-
dent of the Labor Council by grace of
Communists, he wouldn’t offend Commu-
nism for the world.
Drawing strength from the strength
shown by its general manager, Mr. Nolan,
the County Council advertised for soldier
labor to take the place of the strikers. A
Federal Labor niember’s suggestion that
the N.S.W. Labor Government should
take control was rejected by that concern,
its Mr. Kelly, who “controls” hospitals,
coming in with the great thought that hos-
pitals could be lighted with car batteries
when the blackout arrived.
It was at this stage that the real Gov-
ernment appeared. A Mr, Sutherland,
secretary to the Enginedrivers and rire-
men, declared that he would have every


enginedriver in the State on strike before
he would see the Bunnerong men beaten.
And Mr. Wells, the Communist boss of
the Miners’ Federation, joined the Engine-
drivers and the Railwaymen, also now
involved in the threats, to say that “coal-
owners would be wise if they diverted
coal consigned to Bunnerong,” since
“wagons with the Bunnerong sign” would
be “left at the sidings by the railwaymen.”
The Labor' Council meantime had
translated what it called the “men’s fight
for benefits for a select few” into a
“fight” for a 40-hour week for 44 hours’
pay, the beneficiaries to be all shift men
in County Council employ. It was “pre-
pared” to “order” a continuance of work
at Bunnerong if this concession were
granted on the basis of five shifts in seven
days. The County Council replied that
it would consider any proposal condition-
ally upon a method being devised of
doing the thing “legally and constitution-
ally.” Another Mr. Kfelly traced the
course of events to other “sinister influ-
ences,” such as the loss of Dr. Evatt’s
referendum and the existence of an anti-
Labor majority in the Legislative Coun-
cil, A compulsory conference called by
the Industrial Commission at the “sug-
gestion” of Mr. McKell was adjourned
when Mr. Anderson bleated that if it
were proceeded with “delicate negotia-
tions” with Mr. Hamilton Knight, the
Minister of Labor, might be “prejudiced.”
The gang behind the expansion of the
dispute now decided that it provided a
golden opportunity to force on the com-
munity a universal 40-hour week, irre-
spective of the law and regardless of what
loss and suffering the whole business
might cause to workers in general and to
the people of States far removed from
N. S. Wales. South Australia and Vic-
toria were already in a parlous position
as a result of the endless coal stoppages.
On Monday it was reckoned that
150.000 people, chiefly unionists, had
been forced into idleness in Sydney, and
15.000 or 16,000 unionists were having
a slopwork strike in Newcastle to assist
7000 Kembla unionists, “fighting” for a
40-hour week. Union bosses, with even
more than their usual effrontery, called on
all workers fhreatened with compulsory
idleness (estimated to number 250,000
in Sydney and thereabouts) to register
immediately with manpower offices so
as to become eligible for unemploy-
ment benefits. And the State Govern-
ment imposed drastic electricity cuts,
with penalties going as high as £5OO, being
ruthless only with the general public. The
opinion of a K.C. that deliberate denial
of coal supplies to Bunnerong warranted
a prosecution for criminal conspiracy it
shied away from according to custom.
There are strikes in other parts of the
English-speaking world, but these N. S.
Wales strikes are different. They always
are. They are of Communist origin,
“part of a campaign to place the country
in a state of chaos,” as the A.W.U. repre-
sentative said, referring particularly to
the Newcastle slopwork strike, but mak-
ing a general survey of Communist
methods and their results. Another “part”
of the “campaign” is a holdup of ship-
ping, designed to speed a colored Com-
munist insurrection in Indonesia against
the friendly and kindly Dutch, one inci-
dent of which, a mingling of colored men,
white girls and alleged unionists at the
departure of a ship packed with yelling
Indonesians, must have made departed
A.W.U. worthies like Spence and Mac-
donell turn in their graves.
In criminal circles it is held that indus-
trial anarchy with “black, brown and
brindle” trimmings is a step * towards
complete seizure of power.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Unappreciated Genius.
Relations between the Sydney dailies
and the effete British became so bad
recently that it looked that if someone
didn’t rise up and do something anything
might happen.
Not only did those bureaucrats at the
Dominions Office and the Foreign Office
conspire to diddle Australia out of its
part in the Japanese-surrender ceremonies
and tell whoppers when ruthlessly exposed
by Mr. Beasley and Dr. Evatt, but they
joined with No. 10 Downing-street and
the Blimps at the War Office and the Bar-
nacles of the Admiralty to administer a
“cooler” to Mr. B. Penton, of the “Daily
Telegraph.” And this when the ungrate-
ful hounds had had the eminent services,
as strategist and general adviser, of Mr.
B. Penton (“b. Aug. 4, 1904; recreation,
yachting”) for the mere cost of buying
copies of his paper.
It wasn’t B. Fenton’s fault that the
Union Jack wasn’t run up in Madrid in
1937 and Prague in 1938. B. Penton
was full of fight in both years; but the
dotard Chamberlain and his gang had
their tails down. Now that Prague has
become a Russian outpost, and now that
the World Trade-union Federation and
La Passionflower and Laski can with diffi-
culty be restrained from stamping Franco
flat so that a beautiful Spanish Commu-
nist regime may be installed, everyone
can see that B. Penton was right—or can
everyone? When the German war finally
came it found B. Fenton’s pockets as full
of strategic plans as Talleyrand’s pockets
were full of women, and B. Penton took
the Japanese war equally well provided.
Who expelled the duffer generals from
Egypt and replaced them with Russian
marvels? Who saw tq it that the Eighth
Army never went into action without
tankbusters? Who in February, 1942,
raised the cry of “Fight for Australia in
Java?” Who proved by King’s Cross logic
absolute that “To save ourselves we must
help to save the N.E.1.; that’s where our
men should be; that’s where we should
be fighting the Battle of Australia”? And
when the silence of death had fallen on
the forces in Ambon, Java and Timor,
who came out with undirainished vigor
for a Second Front in Europe, with
Britain represented as a reluctant Blimp
about to be propelled from a springboard
by personifications of “British and
Russian opinion”? B. Penton.
It was a small thing to ask, in requital
for such favors, that Britain should hand
over Hong Kong to the Chinese. B.
Penton didn’t mention requital when he
came out with the suggestion, being con-
tent with pointing out that it would be
making a virtue of necessity, since J. Bull
couldn’t hold the place. Instead of ad-
mitting this like reasonable men and hav-
ing flowers ready for a triumphal entry by
Chiang and his Nationalists or Ma and his
Communists (“acknowledged masters ot
mobile warfare over a shifting front” —B.
Penton), the British got into Hong Kong
first, having powerful forces ready in case
of arguments; and there they remain—
HOT SEAT.
“After you, Mr. McKell — it’s a State mattery."
“After You, Mr. Chifley — it’s a Federal matter !”
(“Further exchanges resulted in the gentlemen deciding unanimously that it was a municipal
matter.”)
and will remain. It was and will be the
same in Burma, Malaya and North Borneo.
And everywhere the returned British have
been greeted as old friends and de-
liverers ; even the “whisky - soaked
planters” and “languid women” of boy-
reporter stories, which tickled so many
palates in 1942 and which were lapped up
with immense gusto by Mr, Ward.
But let J.B. take warning. B. Penton
is not a man to be trifled with. Even be-
fore his advice about Hong Kong was
rejected he had reviewed the imperial
partnership with cold detachment and
pointed out the real significance of the
Canberra offer of “soldiers, sailors and
airmen for the occupation of Japan as a
principal Pacific Power,” of which he
thoroughly approved:
In demanding the right's of a principal
we demand a complete reorganisation of the
British Empire to put at our disposal the
plant and manpower that will reinforce
the'policy we formulate as a principal.. ..
If the British people were to remain in-
different to such an argument, or were to
turn it down flat, we would have to make
. other arrangements outside the imperial
system.
So there, J. 8., you have it flat! Your
part in the imperial future is to do what-
ever B, Penton chooses to “formulate.”
Trifle with B. Penton you may, but you
will do it at your peril.
A Flag Is Presented.
In Sydney on Saturday, Mr. E. W. Elliott,
Federal secretary of the Seamen’s Union,
and a lot of other gentlemen and ladies
farewelled a shipload of Indonesians who
were being sent back to their country in
a vessel for which many better uses could
have been found.
Allegedly “on behalf of the Australian
trade-union movement,” Mr. Elliott pre-
sented the departing guests with “a Re-
publican flag” and some typical Com-
munist gasconade—“We, Indonesians,
British, Australians, French, Americans
and Russians, fought this war for free-
dom.” Mr, Elliott did no fighting for
freedom. He was one of the many hulk-
ing Communists who were saved from
the necessity of fighting by being placed
in “reserved” occupations.
Mr. Guy Anderson, president of the
Sydney Labor Council, was not at the
farewell, being engaged with a strike, but
he was recorded as having said that the
Labor Council was “wholeheartedly
behind the Indonesians in their fight for
freedom.”
According to the N.E.I. official news-
agency, the leaders of the Indonesians
are advising them to employ against
\vhites and Eurasians all manner of
weapons, mentioning particularly darts,
arrows and wild animals for. in-
stance, snakes. For civil war is
in being in the East Indies, even if not
at its flood. There are nightly and daily
knifings. The summer capitals of Ban-
doeng and Soerabaya are in the hands of
Indonesian insurgents. A British officer
and an Indian officer were killed ; shot
and “hacked to pieces.” Every white in
Java of whatever sex, age and condition,
is in danger of being “hacked to pieces.”
Surely there are Australian trade-union
leaders, if not Australian Labor Minis-
ters, who will dissociate the decent body
of Australian Labor-unionists from the
support given in their name to colored
savages who have been stirred up to
attack humane and friendly whites.
A Tale of the Sea.
(N.S.W. Chief Secretary Baddeley said that
if necessary his Government would acquire
trawlers to maintain the supplies of fish.)
The N.S.W.G. steam trawler Pride o’
McKeil cast off from Darling Harbor
wharf for her maiden cruise and steamed
prdudly under the Harbor Bridge, cheered
by thousands of housewives who, baskets
in hand, had already formed queues all
along the foreshores to await her return
with the harvest of the seas. From his
position on Mrs. Macquarie’s Point Mr.
Baddeley watched her round Bradley’s
Head and point for the open sea, a satis-
fied smile on his face. “Ah,” he mur-
mured, “now we’ll show these fish capi-
talists who runs the show. It’ll prove
to the peepul that socialism is the ticket.”
And the eminent statesman went back to
his office to consider a petition from the
Dogproof Fence Whitewashers’ Union for
an extra tobacco ration.
Time passed. There Were more lot-
teries, more strikes, more shootings.
Mines, wharves and slaughteryards were
idle, ’buses broke down, models posed
in the new mulberry - leaf costumes,
form-guides increased in size—all the
normal life of the great State of New
South Wales went on. But nobody had
a fish with which to bless himself. If
the people sometimes were depressed or
hungry or felt that they were being got
at, Mr. Baddeley or Mr. McKell or one
of their colleagues spoke soothingly of
the Government trawler gallantly breast-
ing the Pacific rollers and of the great
feast that was to come.
But time passed too much, and now
anxious eyes peered towards the Heads.
Mr. Baddeley became slightly wonied.
An incoming vessel reported the Pride
o’ McKell as hove-to somewhere oft
Barrenjoey. What had happened? Had
the engines broken down? Had the ship
sprung a leak? Mr. Baddeley summoned
a press conference, and announced that
there was no call for alarm; the skipper
had sent a wireless message in code which
was being deciphered by a special staff.
Next day’s newspapers carried the
explanation:
The skipper of the Government trawler
Pride o’ McKell informed Mr. Baddeley by
wireless last night that members of the
Trawlnet Knitters’ Society aboard his vessel
had complained that Clause J sub-section
67 of their award had not made provision
for the netting of barracouta. Members of
the Gaff Sharpeners’ and the Ship and
Dinghy Wheelwrights’ Unions on board sup-
ported the complaint, and it was decided to
hold a stop-work meeting until the matter
was adjusted. The vessel was prevented from
returning, since she had been declared
black by the Trawlnet Knitters, and con-
sequently the engine-room men were un-
able to work the engines. The Trades and
Labor Council will confer with Mr.
Baddeley.
Next day Mr. Baddeley announced
that as barracouta was a Victorian fish
he had referred the matter to the Vic-
torian Premier. The Victorian Premier,
after ascertaining whether he way Pre-
mier, replied that he was sending a
fisheries inspector to Sydney by air.
Two days later Mr. Baddeley an-
nounced that a close examination of the
area by seaplane and by a specially de-
signed submarine had failed to disclosed
the presence of barracouta. It had, how-
ever, been established that the trawler
lay 4j miles east of Barrenjoey light,
which meant that the whole.thing had
become a Federal matter; and as such had
been referred to Mr. Chifley. Mr. Chifley
said that anything beyond the three-mile
and/or Militia Hopscotch limits placed
it within the realm, of international poli-
tics, and he had accordingly advised Dr.
Evatt to place the matter before the next
meeting of the Council of Foreign Min-
isters, if and when held. The Chifley
Government, Mr. Chifley added, had no
intention of crucifying the workers.
A late report stated that representatives
of shipping lines had asked the Com-
monwealth navigation authorities to
place a light on the obstruction 4£ miles
east of Barrenjoey which, they asserted,
had become a danger to shipping.
Not So Sweet.
Queensland’s Labor Government, with
characteristic Labor indifference to the
opinions or rights of those most con-
cerned, if those most concerned are not
unionists, has rushed in and renewed the
sugar agreement with the Federal Gov-
ernment. So for another five years the
embargo on foreign-grown sugar and the
retail price (4d. a pound), the wholesale
price and the concession to the fruit in-
dustry in capital cities remain. Acting
Premier Hanlon says his Government has
the right of review if production costs
rise seriously, and that, since sugar
organisations wers unwilling to clinch the
decision for at least six months, his Gov-
ernment acted ; delay might have resulted
in the Commonwealth proposals being
withdrawn —which seems absurd.
The existing agreement really dates
from 1931, and has been renewed from
time to time—in May, 1940, to August
31, 1946. In the belief that the next five
years might be tough for Australian land
industries, the sugar organisations wanted
to wait until well into next year to see
how the cat was jumping.
At the moment Empire preference is
getting a lot of disquieting attention in
London and Washington, and much de-
pends on the outcome of the dollar-
exchange position. Under Empire prefer-
ence Australian sugar has an advantage
of £3 15s. a ton over foreign sugar in
the British market. Normal Australian
exports to Britain run to about 400,000
tons annually, and loss of the preference
rate would cost the industry about
£1,500,000 a year. If, in addition, there
happened to be a basic-wage increase of,
say, Bs. a week, the industry would be up
for another £500,000 in yearly costs.
It was with something of this in mind
that a delegation to Canberra last August
reminded the Prime Minister that the
retail price in capital cities hadn’t been
altered since January, 1933, when it was
dropped as a depression measure,
though the general index figure for food
and groceries had since increased by 37
p.c. Sugar-production costs in the same
period jumped by 30 p.c. Only higher
export prices in tjie war years covered the
rise in costs. As war prices were unlikely
to hold, the delegation wanted a subsidy
in the event of further cost increases and
a fall of export price below £l5 ss. a ton.
No decision was made by the no-deci-
sion Government.
If Empire preference is lost, October,
1945, renewal of an agreement which did
not run out till August 24, 1946, will look
rather silly. Meanwhile, the industry
scarcely knows whether it is going or
coming. Possibly Labor likes to see in-
dustry in that state of mind.


For 67 Years
the
MERCANTILE MUTUAL
Insurance Co., Ltd.,
An Australian Institution, has been providing
security for the homes of the people.
Our Company has established agencies through-
out the length and breadth of Australia giving
its people the protection of Insurance Policies for
their dwellings, sheep, cattle, fencing and other
possessions, which saved them from ruin when
the dreaded Bush Fires swept the land, and with
that security they were able to maintain that
independence so dear to the heart of Australia’s
sturdy citizens. Insurance as thus outlined forms
a material part of our National life, and pro-
vides employment for thousands of people.
Fire, Marine, Accident, Motor Car
Crops, Stacks, Fencing, Pluvius
All Classes of Agricultural Insurance
g;; c d e: 11 7 PITT ST.. SYDNEY
Gordons
Gin
TANQUERAY GORDON & 00. LTD.
LONDON GIN DISTILLERS
LONDON ENGLAND
need a
Do
you
Jhtui/
HAUNTING bills and money wor-
ries, including medicaland dental
expenses, can be disposed of
through the Personal Loans Depart-
ment of the Rural Bank. Old debts
may be merged and small loans are
made for any approved purposes,
repayable on easy terms.
Whatever your financial problem, call
and discuss it with an experienced
officer of the Personal Loans Depart-
ment.
mikaUfmik
MARTIN PLACE, SYDNEY
POLITICAL POINTS
Victorian electors are used to passing
judgment on the Premier without a party
majority or a ghost of a chance of getting
one, having known no other sort for
many years. They will presently have
to deal with a Premier, Macfarlan, .who
has neither a majority nor a party, the
Liberals having expelled him. He claims
to have a policy, and to be determined
to deliver it tonight. Since he is (or was)
member for Brighton, he might as well
write it out on a paper boat and launch
it on the waves or on a kite, like Mr.
Dick’s memorial, and let it soar into the
clouds. In either case, he would be
assured of a unique place in history, like
the man who was Thursday, or was it
Friday?
New Guinea Diggers who have had to
go on short commons because of water-
front strikes and go-slow will be charmed
to read what the practitioners of these
arts can earn. The information was sup-
plied by Minister Beasley, who sits for
a waterfront constituency, as do Labor
Ministers (Ward, Holloway and Makin)
and members, and who was asked
whether it had cost £1715 for 135 Sydney
men to unload 230 tons of cargo. After
saying he couldn’t say, not knowing the
name of the ship, he admitted that “for
an 11-hours shift on Sundays a waterside
worker can earn up to £5 25., plus 4s.
meal-money.” Think of that, Digger,
when you’re eking out your bits of bread
and bully (if any) with vitamin pills!
. On Monday about 150,000 people were
out of work in Sydney through no fault
of theirs or their employers, and the
number was expected to reach quarter of
a million. It all came about through a
handful of fellows at Bunnerong power-
house who struck for 36 hours’ work for
44 hours’ pay. The Labor Council, after
condemning the strike, now supports it,
and its president, after having a crack at
pretty well everybody else, has turned
on Chifley. Chifley, after passing the
buck to McKell, went to Bathurst, and
after that is expected to tour Queensland.
A mighty number of the workers he is
so anxious not to “crucify” will have
ample time to ponder his mercy in idle
days ahead.
Yugoslavia now possesses an all-Com-
munist Government, the anti-Communist
Ministers, fingering the back of their
necks, having resigned. Czechoslovakia is
also in process of acquiring an all-Com-
munist Government. Meantime a Parlia-
mentary election is alleged to be in pro-
gress, members being elected “by accla-
mation.”
The 1944-45 loss on the Victorian Gov-
ernment coalmine was £77,000 (revenue
£394,000, expenditure £471,000), and the
1945-46 loss was reckoned at £lOl,OOO by
Dunstan before he had to retire. Friends
and admirers expect that Dunstan will
come back, but no optimist expects that
the Government coalmine will show a
profit until the moon is identified as
green cheese.
“Britain, the U.S.A., Russia and China
have agreed to the establishment of a
Far Eastern Commission to formulate
policies for carrying out the Japanese
surrender terms.” That was how the tale
began; and this was the sequel as pub-
lished 11 days later:
The U.S.A. has invited Britain, Russia,
China, France, Australia, New Zealand,
Canada, the Netherlands and the Philippines
to a meeting of the proposed Far Eastern
Advisory Commission in Washington. At
the same time Mr. Byrnes made it clear
that America did not intend to alter
General MacArthur’s position as Supreme
Commander in any way, and that in the
event of disagreement' on policy the United
States view would prevail. He was opposed
to the Control Council' asked for by
Russia, because it would mean replacing
or demoting General MacArthur.
Somehow the arrangement can’t be iden-
tified as one of Dr. Evatt’s Masterstrokes
or as a Great Victory for Australia.
When halted in his career, Dunstan
was about to bring in legislation provid-
ing for increased betting taxes —Is. on
£5, 2s. on £lO and so on up to £1 for
every £lOO or part. The schedule may
be read in conjunction with a Sydney
“Herald” statement that wagers of £lOOO
were common at the Randwick meetings.
Labor is much kinder to bookmakers
than Dunstan proposed to be.
Paterson, the Communist M.L. A.,
tried to have soldiers’ widows included
in a plan for short-term interest-free
loans to Queensland soldier - settlers.
Acting Premier Hanlon replied;
If we have to turn our women and
children out to work on farms we will
have nothing to be proud of. It might be
the Communist view that male and female
are equal and that the woman should take
her share in labor on the farms; but we
do not look at it in the same way.
It reduced Paterson to silence, and to be
reduced to silence hurts any Com.
The prize of the year, consisting of
one expired union ticket, a half-podnd
of John Dory from the black market
and a free tenth share in a State lottery
ticket, is hereby awarded to the Hon.
Christopher Augustus Kelly, M.L.A.,
N.S.W. Minister of Health. Gus gets
the prize for his suggestion that if hos-
pitals go short of electricity because of
the Bunnerong strike they can carry on
by using motor-car batteries. No other
competitor came within miles of that
one.
The Victorian Communists are running
five candidates for the Assembly, two
are doctors. The Commo doctor is
a rather frequent circumstance in Aus-
tralian cities. This rather supports the
impression that modern education of
doctors, except on the vocational side,
is defective.
Much to the surprise of the Bar, the
McKell Government appointed T. S.
Holden, M.L.C., a barrister since 1938,
to the District Court Bench. Son of a
McGowan Labor nominee who was in
the House for 22 years, retiring when it
was “reconstituted” in 1934, he was “re-
garded as an Opposition supporter.” The
Government confidently expects to get
his seat, and, with the extra vote, to bring
off a Labor majority in April—for the
first time since the “reconstitution.”
Dr. Evatt has turned from arranging
the affairs of nations and arguing with
Menzies as to whether he was a gate-
crasher at the Council of Foreign Minis-
ters to negotiating for the visit of a Rugby
League team to “Australia,” which means
a few places in N. S. Wales and Queens-
land. A picturesque preliminary to the
tour would be a statement showing how
many 1939-45 members of Sydney Rugby
League teams, grade and reserve grade,
saw front-line service or the equivalent in
the late wars, how many became casual-
ties, how many won decorations, and
what the decorations are. The equivalent
information has always been forthcom-
ing from Rugby Union clubs, and it
makes a splendid story; but the profes-
sional organisation, though never spar-
ing of private and intimate paragraphs
about its mealtickets, has neglected to
proclaim their military records. Con-
sidering the powerful political protection
and favors it enjoys, the principal favor
being a winter monopoly of the Sydney
Cricket Ground, dedicated to amateur
sport, it sHould be as precise as the Rugby
Union.
When the Fourth Victory Loan had
been on the, market a fortnight only
£40,000,000 had been'subscribed, chiefly
by the ever-reliable insurance companies
and other capitalistic institutions which
Ward and his friends have marked down
for “nationalisation.” and Chifley was
pained. He said “the lag is noticeably
marked in New South Wales, and I
deeply regret that the senior State should
set such a poor example.” There has
been no lag in gambling. “S. M. Herald,”
which now beats all its rivals with form-
at-a-glance supplements, records that
“bets of £lOOO were almost common-
place at the spring meetings,” and the
N.S.W. Labor Government ran six lot-
teries, “of 100,000 at ss, 3d., fully sub-
scribed,” during the fortnight. You can’t
have an orgy of gambling and full Vic-
tory Loan subscriptions at the same
time, especially as , taxation has such a
crushing effect on the thrifty middle-class.
An embargo on gambling, to last until
the Victory Loan has been filled, might
bring the New Rich to their senses if
nothing else will.
One of Sydney’s flapper papers, none
of which has any particular sense of the
fitness of things, published a picture of
“the Girl with the Ideal American Legs”
partly above and partly alongside a re-
port that “a young single woman was
viciously assaulted and raped near Arn-
cliffe railway station while returning
home from work.” There has been a
plague of rape cases, though they rarely
get into the papers, and the relation of
close-to-the-knuckle photography to
these abominations should be the subject
of a police inquiry and report. It is a
rotten reflection on Sydney journalism
that the great heroic episode of our
prisoners-of-war in Asiatic captivity
should receive so little attention and the
strip-tease brat so much.
It is taken for granted in Perth that
Dr. Coombs will become boss of the
Commonwealth Bank—subject to Chif-
ley, subject to Caucus—when Armitage
retires, and Armitage is near the retiring
age. Dr. Coqjnbs was named Director-
General of Post-War Reconstruction, in
which capacity he gathered a huge
staff about him and issued tons of printed
matter, though the equivalent of bricks
and sawn timber would have been more
serviceable. He was a pupil of Laski,
so keen on “nationalising” the Bank
of England. Neither gentlemen has been
a banker or even a wage-payer; but in
these days it is theory that counts.
T, L. Goodman, who did tlhe cam-
paign in Burma for “S. M, Herald,”
reported the emergence in that country of
“an anti-Fascist organisation, dominated
by two Communists, Than Tun -(general
secretary) and Aung San (president),” and
gave their history in brief:
Both Than Tun and Aung San worked
for the Japanese during the greater part of
the occupation. Than Tun was a minister
in Dr. Ba Maw’s puppet Government.
Aung San was one of Tokyo’s “heroes”
who went to Japan for military training
and political instructions and later com-
manded the Burma National Army. Both
. became “disillusioned.”
Presumably when orders came from the
usual quarter that the party line had to
be changed. Nothing has been heard of
these “heroes” since, but Communist-
supported “heroes” are throwing their
weight about in Java.
An Industrial Relations Bill introduced
into the U.S, Senate is designed, among
other things, to “forbid strikes where
severe public hardship would result, such
as essential communications, public utili-
ties and vital food distribution.” Aus-
tralia’s largest city will watch progress
with mournful interest, knowing from
bitter experience that legislation is one
thing and enforcing it is another when,
as in Australia, the Administration,
whether Federal or State, hasn’t the spine
of a jellyfish.
Russians, who do not lack humor, must
have many a good laugh at the credulity
and servility of English-speaking Com-
munists and fellow-travellers. They made
fun of “the civil-war generals” when Com-
munists and fellow-travellers and Leftist
papers like the Sydney “Telegraph” were
hailing these exploded warriors as
marvels (one of them, the “brilliant
Budenny, led his armies into one of the
most frightful defeats of the war), and
demanding that some of them should be
borrowed to lead the British armies in
the Western Desert and the British in-
vasion across the Channel. That invasion
was timed by the Communists, fellow-
travellers and Leftist papers for early in
1942, when the Japanese were in strong
force in New Britain and Timor, and m
informed circles were expected to invade
the Australian continent.
Report says the British are becoming
impatient of continuing controls, particu-
larly in- the matter of food queues. They
never did knuckle under to bureaucracy
any longer than they felt it necessary.
A Sydney suburban weekly reports that
in 1943, after a fatal accident to a child
returning from school, a Waver ley aider-
man collected signatures to a petition
praying for an infants’ school at Dover
Heights.
The reply was that this coukl not be
considered as the proper departmental form
had not been used.
The proper departmental form having
been used, a deputation headed by two
local politicians waited upon the Minister,
who inspected the site and approved the
request.
However, the department asked for a
further petition containing all the names
of those interested.
This was done, and the area is to get its
school, and the suburban weekly thanks
everybody and calls it a “happy result.”
Weird recommendation by a confer-
ence of Government housing officials in
Melbourne;
The States to control internal allocation
of materials which are not in inter-State
demand; the Commonwealth to assume re-
sponsibility for allocation of materials pre-
dominantly produced in one or two States
but required throughout Australia.
A prize of a brick is offered to anyone
who can name an item of building
material not in inter-State demand.
Graham, the N-S.W. Minister of Agri-
culture, told a conference at Hawkesbury
months ago that the locations of four
country killing centres would be an-
nounced “shortly,” and that “several Gov-
ernment officers” would visit M.L. to
study up-to-date killing centres. Nothing
has been heard of “the Government offi-
cers” since, but it is to be hoped that
they contrived to have a peep at slaughter-
men at work, opportunities for this
branch of study at the Government s
Homebush yards being limited,
Playford reports that S.A.’s brown coal
has stood up to a heavy test. An engine
“fired wholly with dried Leigh Creek
coal” has drawn a load of 380 tons from
Adelaide to Murray Bridge ; that is, over
the Adelaide hills, including a grade ot
1 in 45. It is a step towards making the
State independent of the N.S.W. coal
striker .and loafer, on which Victorians,
for their part, are now keen —ominously
so for the N.S.W. coal striker and loafer.
“White Coal”: The Speck, like Maori-
land and the technologists of T.V.A., has
discovered that there is no ascertainable
ceiling to the demand for cheap electric
power. Tasmania was using 62,000 h.p.
of hydro-*electricity in 1930 and 112,000
h.p. in 1940. This year the output is
161.000 h.p., and the Cosgrove Govern-
ment plans to increase the supply to
250.000 h.p, by 1950. Preparatory to this
expansion an aerial survey was com-
menced last-year. Over a thousand square
miles of likely country have now been
contoured. Work at present in hand at
Butler’s Gorge and Waddamana absorbs
1000 men and another 1200 will be given
employment when the South Esk and
Nive Rivers and Arthur Lakes schemes
are tackled.


BOMBS ON CANBERRA.


Sociey
"AND IT'S PRINTED
WITH WIMBLE'S INKS"
“Throw that back! It's under reflation size."
“Gyro Joe”: Our managing director,
having lost his private secretary, decided
that the old hit-and-miss method of
selecting a successor was outmoded, so he
engaged an industrial psychologist and
asked him to find the right girl for the
job. A few days later a message came
that the field had been narrowed to three
applicants. Would the boss come down
and make the final selection? Down he
went, and took a seat at a desk with the
psychologist. The latter pressed a buzzer
and in came the first girl. “What’s two
and two?” asked the psycho. “Four,”
replied the applicant. “Good; send in
the next girl.” “What’s two and two?”
This girl suspected a trap. “Twenty-
two.” She answered. Out she went and
in came the last girl. “What’s two and
two?” questioned the psycho. “Four —
but it could be twenty-two,” said the girl.
“Thank you, that is all.” As soon as she
had left the room the psycho held forth;
“These tests, though simple, are defi-
nitely selective. The first girl has a prac-
tical but unimaginative mind —to her two
and two are obviously four. The second
girl has imagination, she skips the ob-
vious and realises two and two could
mean twenty-two. But the third girl—
she’s, both practical and imaginative.
Which one do you select?” Said the
great man, determinedly “The blonde will
do me.”’
* He * *
“Scribe”: Maorilanders are further
separated from their cousins across the
Tasman in the matter of time, thanks
to a decision of the M.L. Cabinet. Ap-
proval has been given the introduction
of legislation to extend the half-hour
period of daylight-saving throughout the
year, thus putting the Shaky Isles perma-
nently 12 hours ahead of Greenwich, a
margin that has been in operation as a
war measure since 1941. The ghost of
Tom Sidey must have nodded approv-
ingly, for the introduction of legislation
in 1927 was the reward of his unremit-
ting campaign from 1908 till then.
Britain adopted daylight saving in 1916
as a war measure, and led the way for
the United States, nearly all of Europe,
Canada and Mexico, which adopts it all
the year round.
* * * *
“C.Q.”: The bequest of £70,000 left
by G. F. Carden, of Melbourne, for anti-
cancer research has already borne fruit.
The Anti-Cancer Council is to set up a
central radio-therapy institute in the
Central Hospital in the near future. It
will be governed and staffed like other
hospitals but will be run on the commu-
nity hospital principle, with a governing
body drawn from all co-operating insti-
tutions.
* * H: *
“Visitor”: The way of the pioneer
can be hard. With all this current talk
about the need for sex education a
teacher in S.A. found that some of his
girl pupils, aged between 11 and 13,
wanted information, and he kindly “satis-
fied their curiosity.” When they talked
about this, the police being old-fashioned,
called it Gross Indecency. Only the
teacher’s good character and his earnest
plea that the curiosity had been entirely
one-sided got him off with the loss of
his job, and release on a bond for “good
behavior.”
* * * *
“Bo”: Too often Hollywood satire,
strained in trying to stress a point, falls
horribly flat, but one script-writer got off
a neat hit at the hooey surrounding
cahlege and ’varsity football (which in
the States is well up in the scale of Big
Business), as well as the cosmopolitanism
of most teams. The film is “The Male
Animal.” In one sequence bull-voiced
Eugene Pallette, a big-shot supporter, is
at the microphone, where in a veritable
frenzy of enthusiasm before a big crowd
of fellow-supporters he is naming an “All
American” grid team. “You all remem-
ber the great A 1 Finkelbaun!” (roars)
“‘Manny’ Heilman!” (cheqrs); “‘Butch’
Spaletto! ” (cheers); “Lars Svergensson! ”
(shouts); “Cuspidor Miguello!” (’Rah!);
“Ilyitch Bragavicz!” (’Rah, rah!); “ ‘Spike’
Tumminello!” (roars) “and ‘Big’ Mike
Murphy!” (prolonged cheers). Then
said a stooge in a whispered aside:
“Murphy! How did he get in?” “Sub-
stitoot!” was the snapped answer. Excel-
lent !
* * * *
“Clodter”: Neery is normally a kind-
hearted bloke, but the other night, when
about 40 cats gathered in the Neery,
driveway and held a concert, he arose
and scattered them. An hour later they
resumed. Again Neery went forth and
hurled threats into, the darkness. The
cats vanished. Along in the early hours
Neery awoke to hear the yowling in full
blast again. He pondered a moment,
then arose, felt his way to the kitchen and
heated a saucepan full of water. Leaving
it on the fire he sneaked into the living-
room and located the performers by ear,
placing them as east of the side door,
between the house wall and the high
fence flanking it. The alleyway created by
fence and wall ran east and west and
along it from the west usually blew a
strong* breeze. Neery went back, got the
now boiling water, softly opened the side
door and hurled the scalding liquid east-
ward. But a strong north-easter had
sprung up, the water sprayed back and
half the suburb started awake as a noise
as of seven leprechauns screeching burst
upon the dim silence of the dawn. Neery
is now looking for a good terrier.
#-* * *
“Looby”: We’ve been well trained. I
was hanging around when the dyed-in-
the-wool pessimist got his issue of petrol
coupons. “Eight extra!” said the man
behind the counter, expecting a cheer.
The dejected man looked cautious.
“Yair?” he growled ; then, after a pause,
“Well, come on, where’s the eight fdrms
I’ll have to fill in for them, and how
many years will it be before I can use
’em?”
* * * *
“Mouchard”: Among those who take
a pessimistic view of the future ot
humanity in the Atomic Age is the
Frenchman Maurice Dekobra. It was
thought worthwhile to cable that he has
made a will leaving his library of 17,000
volumes and his works of art to the town
of Papeete, in the hope that this remote
Pacific settlement “will escape destruction
when Paris, Washington, London and
New York are wiped off the surface of
the earth.” Dekobra, though not so well
known to English-speaking readers as is
Gaston Leroux or Maurice Leblanc
(creater of Arsene Lupin), had a big vogue
30 and 40 years ago, when his crime-
detection stories, all with a strong
Mahommedan flavor (Dekobra did his
military service in La Syrie), were trans-
lated into all European languages. Ap-
parently he did very well out of it.
* * * * ■
“A Major”: As elusive as the composi-
tion of the ether or the winter habitat of
flies is the answer to the question “What
makes a ‘song hit’?” At the time of
writing every juke-box, milk-bar and
radio songster is discoursing a ditty with
the refrain “My Dreams are Getting
Better All the Time.” The thing really is
catchy. After sufficient plugging it ad-
heres to one’s memory like fly-paper. It
is to be supposed that, like all these
ephemeral successes, it has some little
touch of dexterity or novelty that com-
mends itself to the popular taste, though
where that touch comes in in such
lugubrious cases as “The Old Spinning
Wheel” and “Roll Out the Barrel” defies
analysis. The oldest inhabitants of Tin
Pan Alley can throw no light on the
mystery. They only know that a first
effort is as likely to click as the 1000th
product of a hardened songsmith. Bill
Judge made a bigger hit with his first
effort, “Tipperary.” than did Nat. D.
Ayers with any of 40 catchily-written
and widely-publicised songs —though “If
You Were the Only Girl” is still heard,
**. * *
“Empy”: England has so stamped her-
self on human thought that her tradi-
tions and her contributions to human
progress spring to alien minds quickly
when they seek simile or metaphor. When
the “Nippon Times” heard of Mac-
Arthur’s order suppressing all laws re-
stricting freedom of speech, assembly,
thought and belief, did it look upon the
great American, reflect upon American
history and declare “This is Japan’s
Gettysburg speech?” It did not. It
turned to the cradle of freedom and an-
nounced “This is Japan’s Magna Charta.”
* * * *
“Psycho”: A lot of fun has been poked
by American humorists at such devices
as the “lie-detector machine,” supposed
to be in use by some State police depart-
ments, but the English, who don’t adver-
tise so much, believe very seriously in the
efficacy of such a device to diagnose
mental ailments. Such a machine is in-
stalled at the .Maida Vale Hospital for
Nervous Diseases in London, (the presi-
dent of that institution is Lord Dawson
of Penn, the King’s Physician). This
machine, which operates on radar prin-
ciples, looks like a big radio set. On the
patient’s head is fitted a sort of rubber
cap studded with silver buttons. The
machine is called E.E.G., from its con-
nection with the new science of electro-
encephalography, and it magnifies by
20,000,000 the “brain waves” set up when
the subject is questioned. Lord Dawson
says that the instrument has already cast
quite a flood of new light on the pro-
cesses of the brain.
* * * *
“Lawnstob”; Hobart probably has the
only bridge in Australia which is insured
against pirates. It transpired at arbitration
proceedings between company and Gov-
ernment over the compulsory acquisition
of the bridge after a storm nearly swept
it away that, having to decide whether
it was a bridge that was half a ship
or a ship that was half a bridge, Lloyd’s
plumped for the marine definition. This
implied a full marine policy, whibh in-
cludes damage by pirates as well as
damage by storm. The damage cost the
insurers £250,000.
$ * * *
“Ike Hollar”: A war correspondent in
Germany, sick of horror-camp reporting,
found material for an interesting article
when he discovered that the Nazis had
caused an official inquiry to be made into
the standing cricket had secured in English
national life. The general conclusion of
the investigators seemed to be that cricket
was one of the means by which the baf-
fling Britishers maintained their sense of
national superiority. Before the Nazis
took charge the game was making some
headway in Germany, It was fostered by
schools which catered for English students
who wanted to polish up their German.
Prospectuses of these schools stated:
“English Curriculum, Cricket.” Incident-
ally, a lot of American private schools
advertised in the same way; but I have
never found a hero who played cricket
on any Hollywood film or in any U.S.
magazine story.
S' ♦ * ♦
“Cauboy”; When Thea Philips per-
formed the exacting feat of taking both
her own soprano role and the part of a
sick tenor in an Elgar oratorio at the
Melbourne Town Hall, she reminded me
of an occasion when her patroness Melba
also showed resolution in a crisis. The
diva was billed to appear at the old Audi-
torium, and the car she was travelling
in burst into flames on St. Kilda-road.
The side curtains were torn down, the
party bundled on to the roadway and a
passing car was hailed and requested to
pick up the singer. Melba showed com-
plete calm until she reached the theatre,
when she had a violent fit of hysterics.
Her friends were appalled, the manage-
ment was in despair and a doctor was
hastily sent for. Then the orchestra was
heard striking up the first notes of the
opening number. The diva calmly got
up from the floor, walked on to the stage,
and as the curtain rose the Voice was
heard bursting into an operatic aria with
its usual perfect intonation.
TOO MUCH BUTTER.
“The portraits of the first two women members
of the Federal Parliament, which two women artists
were commissioned to paint, were both rejected as
‘unsatisfactory,’ ‘a bit overdone’ ‘a little too glamor-
ous.’ ”
Watch out, you artists who accept commissions
To use whatever skill it may lequire
To limn the lineaments of politicians
For future generations to admire;
Watch out, take warning lest you may be head-
ing
For setbacks that will cut you to the quick,
Beware (to use a homely phrase) of spreading
The butter on too thick!
Your subject needn’t be an emulator
Of Cromwell, who, according to reports,
Bluntly impressed upon the operator
Whom he employed not to ignore the warts.
A touch of artifice is no great matter
When kindly and considerately meant,
But bear in mind your task is not to flatter,
But merely to present.
Stick to the verities, abjure the mystic
Features in modern art so oft we scan;
And if you can’t be wholly realistic,
Still, be as realistic as you can.
Bethink that portraiture, to be effective,
Your sitters’ looks to canvas should transfer
As mirrored in your eyes, quite irrespective
Of what they might prefer.
If fancy beckons you astray, eschew it.
To whatsoever enterprise you are
Assigned, your job’s to do not overdo it—.
As easy in a picture as a par.—
Or when it’s time for pay to be collected
You may be met with the calamitous
Announcement that your effort’s been rejected,
And find you’ve missed the bus.
Yet, now that we’ve been given firm assurance
That portraits painted for our Hall of Fame
Are sometimes banned for overmuch allurance,
And sometimes for a shortage of the same,
Wouldn't it be—l hazard the suggestion—
Better to give photographers % fly?
Artists are fanciful, beyond all question,
But cameras cannot lie.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
DEDMANISM.
“The Government is concerned with providing
good houses for the workers, not with making them
little capitalists.” —Minister Dedman.
A chap who owns his home, in lieu
Of regularly paying rent,
Becomes, it seems, in Dedman’s view,
Too evidently well-to-do,
Too obviously affluent *
To be a sturdy barracker
The cause of “Labor” to assist,
When he’s a small financier,
An embryotic capitalist. '
He’s out determinedly to hit
While he administers the laws —
That’s absolutely definite-^
Whoever “sits behind a bit” '
As an opponent to*“The Cause.”
He’s naturally prejudiced
Against whatever him or her
Who’s just a callow cap’talist
A miniature financier.
Houses he’s out to build and let
To any needful Bill or Jim,
Who, paying rent, will not forget
(Whene’er collectors call) the debt
Owed to philanthropists like him.
But all his “Labor” creed demurs
At making stolid suffragists
Incipient financiers
And supposititious cap’talists.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“Jasby”: Cannibalism is a gruesome
subject to joke upon, but now that it has
been established beyond doubt that Nip
practices in this direction are not limited
to a few isolated cases it may be per-
missible to pass on a story that has had
currency in the Sixth Division for several
months. Scouts on the main Jap L. of
C. from the coast to the Sepik captured
a message from the Commander of
Wewak Force to the Commander of Sepik
Area. Translated into Australian Army
jargon it is reported to have read: “The
practice of using reinforcements as supple-
mentary rations will cease forthwith.”
* * * *
■‘Jamwood”: “Officialese” is ugly, but
I am grateful for grand specimens of
official English. Who can forget that
bulletin from a royal deathbed in 1936?:
The King’s life is moving peacefully to
its close.
And the deeds of heroes in the late war
were often commemorated in noble lan-
guage, notably that of our own Middle-
ton, V.C. Before me is the official ac-
count \of a posthumous award of the
George Cross to a lieutenant in the Royal
Tank Regiment. It relates that “mor-
tally wounded, his right leg blown off, he
crawled on through a minefield, in pitch
darkness, to help one of his men who
had also been woundfed. For five hours
he encouraged and directed his men, and
refused to let them try to help him.
Lieutenant St. John Graham Young
understood the limitless responsibilities of
a leader and with a great heart accepted
them.” Perfect!
* * * *
“Bufo”: Don’t tell me that the Aus-
tralian pioneering spirit is dead! A
Gippsland woman farmer and her 15-
year daughter decided to move to Queens-
land and grow tropical fruits. War-time
restrictions prevented usual means of
transport, and two initial attempts in 1945
had to be abandoned. Then they fitted
out a three-ton horse-drawn caravan and
made a start again last November. After
being 10 months on the road, and cover-
ing 1300 miles, including the Great Divid-
ing Range and the N.S.W. Eastern
Plateau, they reached Brisbane in Sep-
tember with no more serious mishaps than
the death of a horse from lockjaw and a
three-day snowstorm at Glen Innes. Mrs.
Clyne walked 1000 miles of the journey,
and her daughter, Diana, rode the whole
distance on her pony. Actual travelling-
time occupied five months.
* * # *
“Pitt St.”; My petrol quota being in-
creased to four gallons for the month, 1
wiped the cobwebs off the car and took
a run into the outer N.S.W. metropolitan
southern districts for the “8-hour” or “6-
hour” or whatever -it- is week - end.
Apparently a great many other car-owners
had the same idea, but few had my luck.
“The fruit motif is scarcely so becoming to Madame as the poisson !”
For 80 miles out and back stalled, punc-
tured and tired cars appeared every mile
or so, their owners’ heads buried in
bonnets or contemplating assorted parts
spread cut on the road. On steep pinches
some of the exhausts gave forth clouds
of fumes that would have made a 1914-
18 gas attack look like a light fog. There
was at least one unfortunate over a 10ft.
drop, front of his car in a ditch, and in
the shades of night four fellows toiled
past Warwick Farm pushing their vehicle.
The usual cranks were out, including
one in an ancient square-modelled car
which contained himself and about 10
young children. His idea of amusing the
load was to try to race everything on
the road, cutting in on dangerous curves
and cutting out from behind pantechni-
cons right into the oncoming traffic.
Most of ’em observed a leisurely pace,
being mindful of the 30 m.p.h. limit im-
posed by N.S.W. law. But that law
meant nothing to a fluid-drive Chrysler
bearing the red Commonwealth “C”
which flashed past me like a meteor near
Picton. When I got up to 45 m.p.h. coast-
ing down a long, straight hill near Liver-
pool I got a dirty look from a traffic cop,
but just then another fluid-drive Chrysler
sizzled in the opposite direction up the
hill, and the cop decided he had business
in the adjoining paddock with un-
registered rabbits or something.
* * * *
“Purist”: I’m glad “Oxmead” (B.
3/10/’45) brought up this matter of pro-
nouncing “rations” and “lieutenant,” for
it gives me a chance to say that Ameri-
cans usually say the first to rhyme with
nations and use “lootenant,” which sug-
gest that Americans still pronounce their
English as did the Pilgrim Fathers. What
I’m more worried about, however, is the
prevalent looseness of grammar, particu-
larly with what was an unforgiveable sin
in my ink-slinging youth—the ending of a
sentence with a preposition. Glancing
through a woman’s magazine I came
across these examples: “Oil it is cooked
in”; “Who did he get it from?” “The
man he intended to go with”; and “Who
could we trust it to?” I would have in-
sisted upon “oil in which it is cooked,”
“from whom did he get it?” “the man
with whom he intended to go” and “to
whom could we trust it?” But maybe
I’m archaic.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus” on an institutional up-
set: —
There has been a row at Melbourne Zoo,
where the director has been dismissed. Rightly or
wrongly—wrongly, I should say—he was held
responsible for the deaths of two hippopotami in
whose intestines were found tangled masses of
binder twine. Then a hundred monkeys perished,
as a result, it is asserted, of structural altera-
tions ordered by the board against the advice
of the director. A keeper was killed by Queenie,
the elephant, which was destroyed. The board
says the director has lost its confidence, and as '
he refused to resign it was compelled to sack
him. After consulting the emus, the Malayan
bears, the giraffe, a Rhesus monkey, an African
lion, a Polar bear and other members of the
permanent resident population, I am in a posi-
tion to state that the board has lost the confi-
dence of the animals. They point out that, with
the exception of the rats, which can acclimatise
themselves anywhere, and are free to come and
go anyhow, they are all living away from their
natural habitat and being submitted to the
vagaries of Melbourne’s weather under con-
ditions and on diets of which they strongly
disapprove. They point out that zoos have be-
come absurd anachronisms since the advent of
the cinema, which can portray beasts in their
natural habitat. They think the zoo should be
demolished and that they should be allowed their
freedom under the terms of the Atlantic Charter
and the Four Freedoms.
“T. McN.”: A lot of people may have
become familiar with the “owe-four-
hundred-hours” time-keeping in the ser-
vices (B. 3/10/’45), but I doubt if anyone
wants to perpetuate it in civil life, and
how on earth “R.AJ.” can claim it as a
time-saver beats me. If anyone asks the
time it takes longer to say “owe eight four
five” than “quarter to nine,” and in con-
versation it isn’t necessary to add the
meridian initials. And why would a time-
table be less bulky with the military sys-
tem? In the present one light figures
mean morning and black ones afternoon,
sr. that npvpr mnrp than fnnr fimires are
so that never more than tom figures aie
necessary m any line. These birds who
want to change comfortable old customs
purely for the sake of change bore me.
v * * * *
tr « tt t *l mi a i o ■
Petermac : Unlike the 1914-18 affair,
the war period just ended was practically
free of the bellicose female who dealt
rvnt n white feather tr» anv man in mnfti
out a white leather to any man in mum,
but I recall two of that tribe who got a
severe shock. It was in 1943. Two young
“Sorry I'm so late, dear —I had a little trouble balancing my books!”
civilians were sitting together, oddly
silent, in a tram when two middle-aged
women boarded it, sat opposite the young
men and began loudly deprecating the
modern generation and wasters who
wouldn’t fight for their country. The
women continued in this strain for some
time, glaring meaningly at the pair oppo-
site, who still appeared sublimely indiffer
ent. Then the two young men started
talking to one another —with their fingers.
* * * *
“Melbn”; Something has gone wrong
with the trees in St. Kilda-road. The
spring buds look yellow and discouraged
and the council proposes wholesale demo-
lition and replanting with deciduous trees
of European origin. The old trees cer-
tainly need replacing, but the proposed
substitution shows a lack of imagination
on the part of Melbourne’s beautifiers.
Why not plant Westralian flowering
gums? There are no trees in the world
to beat them for beauty. All sorts of
objections will be lodged against it, just
as all sorts of objections are lodged in
musical circles against the employment
of Australian conductors, instrumental-
ists and singers and, in the literary realm,
against Australian writers. The ancient
prejudice against the homegrown dies
hard. If the magnificent specimen of
flowering eucalypt at Oakleigh, to which
citizens make annual pilgrimage, can
manage to survive, why couldn’t similar
trees survive in St. Kilda-road?
* * * *
“Ear Punisher”: Lud Mayor Connelly
has infuriated the anti-liquor people by
suggesting that if the 1947 Olympic
Games are to be held in Melbourne to
coincide with the proposed World Fair
the city must prepare for these great
international events by getting itself into
line with cosmopolitan tastes. This in-
cludes opening theatres and well-con-
ducted dance halls on Sunday evenings
and opening hotels on week-days from
noon until 10.30 p.m., with an interval
from 2.30 to 4 p.m. The chances of the
Lud Mayor achieving these reforms are
as remote as the likelihood of Mr. Dun-
stan being kept out of office by anything
less formidable than a tommy-gun. An
eminent English conductor who came here
under the delusion that Australia was the
freest country in the world told me he
was astonished to find Australians not only
the most restriction-ridden people he had
encountered in a lifetime of travel but
the most docile.
* * * «
“Lao-dah” on a disputed possession:
Cochin-China is a trophy of the French
Navy. The third Napoleon wanted to
be a great imperialist like his uncle and,
lacking scope in Europe, tried his luck in Asia.
As with the Protestant Kaiser, who acquired a
Chinese province while avenging the murder of
Roman Catholic missionaries, the providential
assassination of a Spanish bishop in 1857 gave
Nap. 11l the occasion and a succession of
vigorous French admirals carried out the busi-
ness. The first expedition ended with the sign-
mg of a treaty ceding thiee provinces of
Cochin-China. A second admnal added the te-
maining tbree provinces. More missionaries
were b | ing murdered in Cambodia, and a third
admiral extended the sway of Bonaparte’s
nephew over that ancient kingdom. the
process of finding a route for French trade
into southern China, a naval lieutenant, Fran-
cois Gamier, with a paltry force of 175 men
and two gunboats, added Tonkin. This brought
France into conflict with the Black Flags, a
secret society regarded by the French as ban-
dds and by the Chinese as patriots. Another
naval offic e r w j t h a small force was sent with
instructions to remonstrate, but not to shoot,
but he became a conqueror like his predecessors.
This led to war with China, and another naval
expedition which, by including Laos and a bit
of Siam, rounded off an Asiatic empire half as
large again as the mother country and almost
equal to it in population, with fewer losses than
the first Napoleon sustained in a single battle.
With a rich soil watered by huge rivers, it is
one of the chief granaries of Asia. An ancient
and mysterious civilisation has left traces of
itself in the immense temple-city of Angkor-
Wat, amongst whose sculptures and carvings
and miles of frescoes French savants were hap-
pily browsing when the Japanese came.
* * * *
“Ectoplasm”: “X.S.’s” vague and
banal “clairvoyant” (B. 19/9/’45) was
typical of all of the tribe that I have ever
struck. There have, of course, been some
practitioners who have carried to such
heights the art of making the ambiguous
and puerile sound profound and signifi-
cant as to deceive men of the calibre of
vSir Oliver Lodge and Dr. Conan Doyle.
The swindle was so profitable just after
World War I that it attracted crowds of
charlatans, some of them very clever in
the exploitation of a well-organised in-
telligence system. But none of the
“mediums” seems to have been able to
raise up a spirit who could give more than
the haziest and foggiest description of the
world of the departed. It was Madame
Blavatsky who supplied a really inspired
explanation of the amiable idiocy of the
“spirits.” She said the members of the
spirit world have nothing but contempt
for the living, and delight to play prac-
tical jokes on people at seances.
* * * *
“Avon”; A sense of kinship with
Britain, much stronger in Maoriland than
in Australia, has as one of its manifes-
tations an old-standing friendship be-
tween the towns of Hastings in Sussex
and Hastings in Hawke Bay. As long
ago as 1908 there was an exchange of
flags, commencing a correspondence that
has been continued through the years,
with exchanges of little gifts and of
seasonal greetings. In the council
chamber of Hastings Borough (M.L.)
there hangs proudly a fine map of the
“Cinque Port of Hastings, England,” as
it was in the days of Good King Alfred.
When earthquake smote Hawke Bay in
1931 and Hastings suffered severely the
English town was very practical in its
expressions of sympathy. The antipodean
Hastings got its opportunity to recipro-
cate when, in 1940, the old Cinque port
got frequent attention from the Luft-
waffe. Hastings (M.L.), after inquiry as
to what would be most acceptable, sent
honey by the ton, as well as other foods,
and has continued right through the war
with a generous shipment each Christmas
of honey, tinned foods, toys, sweets —all
characteristic products of the Hawke Bay
district. And the movement has spread.
Hastings-on-the-Hudson, N.Y., heard of
the entente and insisted on making it a
threesome, so the Sussex port very parti-
cularly realises that blood is thicker than
water.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Horseless Horseman”: New Guinea
natives, you discover, have their own
folk-lore to explain most things. For
over a year now we have been calling
at a perfect Robert Louis Stevenson
reef-fringed anchorage, uncharted and
unspoiled, where the vessel’s stern line is
made fast to tall overhanging trees, the
playgrounds of myriads of birds. With
boongs from the village hard-by, we
“blow” fish, canoe about the reef, go
ashore shooting and trade anything from
kondoos to coconuts, and those natives
are our friends. But last trip there I
nearly spoilt our friendship by taking aim
at a white cockatoo. The animated pidgin
conversation that followed between
myself and my, two dusky escorts was
worth broadcasting. “Masta, ’e no
shootem cocky,” they protested. Then
they explained: “Long fellow time ago,”
all the males of the village were killed
off by a raiding hill-tribe. The village
was threatened with extinction. One day,
however, two “good fella, young fella”
Marys were out in the bush working sac-
sac (sago) when a handsome buck
appeared from nowhere. The cockatoos
all around told the Marys “Him good
fella, you no fright fright along ’im.”
The dark gent, at all events knew his
eckka! For nine months later while out
in the bush the two Marys were over-
taken with terrific pains. The cockatoos
assured them not to worry, everything
would be right; and it was. They were
the mothers of two fine boys —later the
fathers of the present villagers. Conse-
quently the old white cocky, which is
shot everywhere else along the coast, is
in sacred precincts near that village.
# * * *
“E. 2”: Old “Jay-jay” was proud
of the patch of millet in his hill-paddock,
which is strongly fenced against stdek,
rabbits and dingoes. Dan, riding through-
to a cattle lease, left the back gate open,
intending to close it on his return, but it
slipped his memory and he came back
by another track. Next day, however, he
noticed the open gate, remembered and
closed it. Jay-jay, bringing his dairy
cows out for a green picking a week
later, was surprised to find the millet
eaten off bare in patches and sought out
the cause. Suspicious, he rode over to
Dan’s, but was convinced Dan knew
nothing of it, and the pair rode around
the fences and found them intact. But a
ride through the big clump of timber
located the culprits, and Jay-jay is still
moaning about providing free agistment
for 19 (purple) kangaroos, which climbed
over two heights of netting and barbed
wire to get at his millet.
* * V *
“Kiwi”: On the subject of the liquid
content of fish (B. 15/8/’45), tell
“Naturala” that experiments were carried
out a year or two back which indicated
that the shipwrecked mariner could wring
sufficient water from a moderate catch
of fish to keep him going indefinitely—if
he could catch the fish. Moreover, the
fluid is only slightly salty. The blood
(and hence tissue fluids) of all animals
is supposed to have been originally circu-
lating sea-water, but it was sealed off
many million years ago, when the seas
were only slightly saline, and has been
kept ever since at the same composition.
* * * *
“Bo”: As the goods train jerked to a
slow clattering stop at the little siding a
figure on a dusty, grass-bare rise sud-
denly shot up its arms, gave a shout and
started racing pell-mell towards the line.
A minute later the resident of Flystrike
was engaged in a short but earnest con-
versation with the engine-driver, his
own remarks being punctuated by
pointings with his finger towards the
middle of the line of trucks. Within an-
other minute he was tearing back along a
track and shortly he disappeared over
the rise. The goods engine stopped at the
siding. Half an hour later a sled, hold-
ing two empty 44-gallon drums, pulled
by an old horse and driven by the man
who was so interested in the train,
appeared over the rise, and they consti-
tuted the only signs of animation over the
whole of the drought-stricken landscape.
Eventually he stopped the sled at a truck
in the middle of the train, and his eyes
gleamed as he looked again on the tar-
paulin which was bellying down under
the weight of about 100 gallons of water.
Then he set to work. Ten minutes later
he drove the sled up to the engine.
“Thanks for runnin’ through that thun-
derstorm back by the ranges, mate,” he
said to the driver, who answered with a
short cock-a-doodle-do and then pulled
the starting lever.
* * * *
“Esk D.”: Old Harry, who lived alone
at a ramshackle place on the Dry Creek
road, was approached for assistance to
the hospital egg appeal. Remembering
vaguely that a few chooks strutted about
the yards and camped in the sheds Harry
promised 10 dozen. Shortly afterwards
I was yarning there with him when a
cackle arose in the stables. Instantly two
staghounds and a couple of cattle-dogs
raced in that direction, with Harry close
behind, and a series of yelps told me it
was a close finish. Harry came puffing
back in triumph ; he had the egg. “You
ought to tie the mongs up if you want
“So long, Cenny—see you at the next War.”
the eggs,” I said. “No fear,” he replied.
“I ain’t gathered heggs f’r years. Them
dawgs are the on’y ones wot know where
the nests are.” Harry managed four
dozen for the appeal, but shortly after-
wards there was a notice in the weekly
rag thanking the anonymous donor of
the crate of fowls that found its way to
the hospital yard.
* * * «
“Dickie Beach”: The reported find by
a U.S. ship of £BO,OOO worth of ambergris
floating off the Azores will disappoint
the hopes of the finders when it comes
to marketing it. The queer, repulsive-
looking, greasy stuff is a result of intes-
tinal disease in a sperm whale. Its former
value was due to its peculiar property
of intensifying perfumes, although by
itself it has only a mawkish earthy sort
of smell. Modern chemistry has largely
supplanted its use, and at last quotations
the old price of anything up to 255. an
ounce had gone down to 2s. 6d. The
weight of the recent find is not stated,
but the previous record piece, found in
the Dutch Indies, weighed 9821 b.
* * * *
“Old-timer”: “Curyo” Charlie had his
sweat-wheel running at the Willenbrina
sports and was advising the crowd that if
it didn’t speculate it couldn’t accumulate,
when a truculent individual surged up
and demanded “What’s y’r limit, mate?”
Charlie eyed him impassively and
answered “What’s yours?” The truculent
one flashed a roll of notes and asserted
“When I bet it ain’t in birdseed.”
“Curyo” seemed bored. “I’ve had blokes
come all the way from Manangatang t’
play me wheel,” he said, “but they
brought more’n the kid’s money-box.”
The other needed a moment to take this
in ; then his temper flared and he roared
“All right, I’m on the five and two,” and
slapped down a note on each. Charlie
picked the notes up and handed ’em
back, remarking “Y’ wanted t’ know me
limit just now. Well, it’s blokes like you.
You’re a one-bet artist. If y’ win y’ go
skitin’ about it all over the course an
draw the crabs; if y’ lose y’ wanta fight
somebody. I ain’t feedin’ skites or buyin’
fights, mate, so get back an’ let the players
in.” And he fixed his tormentor with a
cold blue eye and stared him down. The
crowd opened up, the truculent cove
vanished and the game went on, plenty
of players being assured from the large
crowd attracted by the disturbance. The
truculent bloke wasn’t seen again—not till
that night, when “Curyo” paid him his
share of the proceedings.
* * * *
“Club 16”: Was still elated with some-
thing when I read that “ragged thirteen”
cribbage par. (B. 10/10/’45), and I sub-
mit this to the Council. In a six-hander
last night I had a fourth five when the
opponent played a third, making it 25 for
six. My partner and my next opponent
had to “go,” and I came in for 30 and 13
holes. In the next game the very same
thing happened, except that I got 12.
That a record?
*** ’ *
“Gill Guy”: Rabbits in the far north-
west of N.S.W. have for some years
ceased to be a pest; in my particular beat,
covering an area equal to, say, a triangle
with Newcastle, Kiama and Bathurst as
the points, I haven’t seen a dozen bunnies
in 12 months. They used to be here in
millions. The seasons have not varied
and there is positively no disease epidemic
responsible. Foxes have done the job.
Adjoining this district just across the dog-
proof border-fence in Queensland the
country is over-run with dingoes, rabbits
are still as thick as ever and there are
no foxes. Dingoes kill any fox rash
enough to venture into their sphere, yet
do not even threaten the rabbit fecundity.
In N.S.W. the border-fence is effectively
patrolled, straying dingoes are trapped
and killed, leaving a largely increased fox
population well in control of the rabbit
pest.
♦ * * *
“Jemalong Jim”: That bush kid who
was disgusted to find the dead calf “dead
again” (B. 10/10/’45) couldn’t have felt
as did Thirsty Dickins the day four of us
arrived at Old Junee (N.S.W.) with the
temperature well up to find the pub a
smoking ruin and a few locals lamenting
the disaster. We drove on, but got slewed
somewhere and after wandering around
side-roads for about two hours suddenly
debouched into Old Junee again. Thirsty
let out a croak: “Gorstruth, the ruddy
thing is still burned down.”
* * * *
“Betcha”: In preference to carrying a
box of matches, “M.U.R.’s” suggestion
(B. 29/8/’45) of dashing a few miles back
home and lugging out a drum of poison
gas and pump every time the dogs put a
bunny into a log or hollow tree wouldn’t
appeal to any practical bloke. One feels
almost tempted to ask this Tarzan with
what he plugs all the top openings of
hollow tree§ when he gets up there. Nor,
even with all openings rammed, is the
fumigant dependable in burrows in sandy
ground, rock warrens along creeks or on
loose, shaly hillsides. Bunny usually
makes for the end of the burrow, and
there, with rump wedged tight against it,
he survives until the poison gas has
escaped through the loose soil. Time and
again I’ve seen river frontages painstak-
ingly dogged and burrows fumigated, only
to find a fortnight later that the rabbits
were almost as numerous as before. In
some places cyanide is successful, but 24
hours after it had been gassed I opened
one burrow where there was a fair per-
centage of shale, and at the end of one
shoot found nine rabbits quite unaffected
by the stuff. The advantage of fire on
hollow trees is that it gets rid of one more
of Brer’s fortresses, and without his hide-
outs he is more easily mopped up.
* * * *
“N, Sylvester”: As one addicted to
referring to the strife as the long-haired
mate, I agree with all that “Mat” says
on the subject (B. 12/9/’45). Still, I’ve
known quite a few of the gender to turn
out matey. One is wife to a man
who, in his advanced forties, found him-
self paralysed, blind. She not only
attends to all his wants cheerfully
but has also shouldered his business,
which employs six persons. I have known
others, back in the early W.A. goldfields
days, who were content to live quite a
long time in a 10 x 12 tent until sufficient
funds were accumulated to build some-
thing better. And I’ve seen them, 100,
when they weren’t eVen mates, going from
tent to tent giving attention to poor blokes
down with typhoid or pneumonia.
Queer creatures; and the queerest thing
about them, different from a man’s mate
of his own gender, is that they generally
stick closer to a man in the hours of his
adversity. Few male mateships will sur-
vive the matter of an unrepaid loan of a
fiver.
* * * *
“Wonk”: Johnny struggled into the
hut, forced the door shut against the
terrific wind, and cursed steadily for a
couple of minutes. Then his hat landed
forcefully against the wall. “Dunno why
somebody don’t make a flamin’ lid that’ll
stay on,” he growled. “One with a fasten,
like Gripes, yair, that’s it,” he
grinned suddenly, “I’ll wear me old
V.D.C. hat. Big enough t’ keep a man
dry, too, if it rains.” He adjusted the
chin-strap, chuckled triumphantly, and
once more faced the wind. At midday
Pete Was first in to dinner. “Johnny
won’t be in t’day,” he remarked casually.
Cookie suspended his meat-hacking
operations to glance up inquiringly.
“Thought he was mad t’ go wearin’ that
big hat with the strap a day like this,”
Pete went on. “Me’n Jeff picked ’im up
in the horse paddock. Shoved him on
his bunk.” He paused, then went on
more hopefully. “ ’Course, it’s on the
cards he’ll get better, but it’s taught
him a lesson.” Cookie, long used to
Pete’s propensity to put one over, waited
non-committingly. Pete glanced round,
discovered his audience waiting, and
nodded his head several times. “Yair,”
he concluded solemnly, “dislocated neck.”
* * * *
“E. 2”: Dan had a few drinks at Ten-
mile, and the agent, also half-stonkered,
sold him for ten bob an ancient, knobby-
kneed hack of doubtful ownership which
had been running loose on the roads for
some time. Next day I was shifting a
mob of young steers and sang out for
Dan to come along. He came, astride
the dilapidated crock. 1 It was soon evident
the hack had only two speeds, a slow,
halting walk and a barely-faster trot;
stirred beyond that he automatically fell
down. Dan stuck it gamely as we got
the steers on the road, and all went well
till we reached the crossroads. When the
steers took the wrong turning I headed
them off and brought them back, Dan
blocking nicely. But then they made off
on the other offshoot, and Dan went in
pursuit. He would sneak on them at a
walk and then try to head them by a
sudden burst of the slow trot. Four
cigarettes later he landed back with the
cattle, signs of a spill and a pleased look
on his face, and we finally got them to
the yards at the siding. After a couple
of drinks we went to collect the horses,
and found a belligerent, whiskered little
cove stripping saddle and bridle off Dan s
moke. “I miss that nag,” Dan said as he
rode home behind me on the bay.
“He’d’ve bin worth his price with a few
more years’ trainin’.”
He #
“Munja”: On the prowl in the Walcott
Inlet area (W.A.) for parrots and lori-
keets to take south, I noticed a honey-
parrot leave a coolibah in a hurry. Climb-
ing the tree to investigate, I discovered
the expected hole. Peering down into
the depths I saw several phosphorescent
lights, moving in the gloom: wide-open
mouths of baby lorikeets. Experiment
with a torch proved that the luminosity
was confined to the mouth-margins. I
am no ornithologist; will someone in-
form me if the luminous baby mouths act
as “lamps” to guide Mum and Dad to
their hungry offspring at feeding-time?.
VINEYARD AT NIGHT.
The vines, with leafy arms outstretched and toes
Pointed, like dancers frozen in a pose
Of delicate beauty, under the moon’s cold stare
Keep their unchanging rows.
But when the white jasmine, every flower a star.
Glimmers in dim light drifted from the far
Deeps of space—on nights of the dark moon—
The vines are all astir.
In pas-de-deux, with chass6 and fouette
They move to ballet measure, pirouette
Lightly, with whispered talk, and greet the dawn
With sighs of faint regret.
You would not see them move, though you
took a light .
And walked among them (bravely, for the
night
Of the dark moon belongs to such as these),
But feel that they were caught
Suddenly into stillness, and became
Rooted on the instant, poised to begin their
game
Anew, while a faintly hostile green life flickered
Along the rows like flame.
S.A.
NANEY CATO.


"I never drink with the flies, doc. —will you have one with me?"
“Propalong”: In this corner of the
Flinders Ranges (S.A.) the drought has
been at least severely fractured, and all
the high, level country under the big hills
that a few months ago was a sea of red
gibbers and powdery, sifting dust is now
evenly covered with green. But you
hardly notice the greenery you marvelled
at a month or so back, for everywhere
there are flowers —mile-long drifts of
pure gold, made up of millions of billy-
buttons, yellow squash flowers and the
tiny, double, yellow daisies. And farther
off you can see at the foot of a great,
ink-dark range what seems like a level
bed of snow, sometimes pure white,
sometimes, many miles away, a startling
and unearthly silver. That’s the white
daisies. And for variety there are daisies
of aster-blue and vetches, purple and
orange; the scarlet glory of the hop
bushes and the golden splendor of a
shrub that fills whole valleys with its
strong, sweet perfume. In one place
where some hardy soul once tried to
grow wheat there are acres of - poppies,
standing high above the blue-flowered
geranium. The time to see those is in
the early morning with the low sun shin-
ing through their petals. Then you get
an unforgettable blaze of luminous pink.
And among the flowers, inconspicuously
here and there, are the white bones and
the weathered wool of the flocks that
were. These, and an occasional mile or
so of raw, wind-gouged earth still un-
healed, are left for a warning.
“Narrin”; The morning began with a
hot sun and enough dryness in the still
air to tighten a man’s skin, but soon the
breeze came down fjom the eastern hills
and, in half an hour, the scrubby low-
lands were misted with smoke. At least
it looked like smoke ; low, persistent drifts
of it. But if you walked along the creeks
you saw that it came in clouds from the
orange-tipped branches of the native
pines. And then you wondered if, to this
Nature, who can afford to lay a smoke-
screen of pollen over square miles of
country to fertilise the creek-side pines,
a few thousand men one way or another
can matter much.
* * • *
“B. A. Ker”: The contention of “No.
1 Bench” that round logs, when used in
bridge building, endure time and weather
better than sawn timber is unassailable
(B. 19/9/’45). But the explanation is
simple: The grain in a tree grows upward
and outward in an acute or obtuse angle
according to the species. Where the sap-
wood touches the bark, however, Nature
seals the grain-ends, and, incidentally,
insulates a barked log against the ele-
ments. It is this “seal” that makes a
young sapling useful as a makeshift tool-
handle: smooth and splinterless without
the use of sandpaper. Sawing tears across
the grain and leaves the timber porous
■ —unless several coats of paint are
applied. The drawback with round timber
lies in the fact that the outer circumfer-
ence is composed of sapwood, which is
inferior and apt to develop dry-rot if
shrinkage causes surface cracks and
allows moisture to penetrate. The most
durable timber is that which has been
squared up with a broadaxe or adze —
railway sleepers are a good example—
the sapwood being cut away, while the
keen steel seals up the pores again. But
the statement in “No. 1 Bench’s” par.
that the Westralian P.W.D. changed back
to round logs did surprise me. To make
such a logical change here in N.S.W.
would mean the unravelling of 72 miles
of red tape.
* * * *
“E. 2”: “Y’d hardly think possums’d
worry that young orchard of Andy’s—
least of all one possum,” said Tarput
Jones. “There ain’t a holler tree in a
mile. But there was one pickin’ over the
fruit, an’ Andy was layin’ f’r it with the
scattergun fT weeks. Andy’d be watchin’
at one side of the orchard an’ he’d hear
the possum spittin’ out seeds at the other;
by the time he raced over there the
possurn’d be tearin’ into fruit in another
place. Dawgs were no good after the
possum lammed ’em in the ribs with a
few hard plums. Well, Andy got it bailed
up in a corner one night, an’ the ducks
singing’ out showed him his target. His
shot must’ve bin close enough t’ put a
few pellets in the old thief’s hide. As
far as we know the possum on’y came
back once before disappearin’ completely.
That’s a coupla nights later, an’ the
mornin’ after Andy finds the ducks laid
out in a row with their necks wrung.
* * * *
“Notaden”: A Queensland -iguana* has
contributed to railway history by caus-
ing a derailment. A maintenance in-
spector was riding a motor rail-tricycle
on the Mary Valley branch line, when
the ’go bolted suddenly across the track.
It was hit by the wheels, the trike was
thrown clear off the rails, and six of the
rider’s ribs were broken. The cause of
all the damage merely shook itself and
continued on its nefarious way.
* * * *
“F. W. L.”: Granted that colonies of
bees reduced in numbers to hopelessness
will sometimes desert their hives (B.
26/9/’45), but these miniature swarms
appear to act more faun confusion than
any way resembling conscious reasoning.
Swarms when they issue plurally have
an irritating tendency to join company,
and a very small issue, unable to main-
tain the semblance of a swarm, will enter
any near-by hive where bees are flying.
Immediately the inmates form a tight ball
around the intruding queen, and she is
eventually killed by stinging. If the
intruders are in sufficient force they ball
the resident queen and she, too, may be
killed. Bees of a hive with a virgin queen
take little notice of her till she is mated
—in effect, the odor peculiar to a queen
doesn’t assume a great significance till
after the nuptial flight, from which time
the colony cherishes her tenderly—and
she may be unmolested by the workers,
though not by a rival queen, when two
swarms unite. So the unlikelihood of a
small stock of bees reasoning on sup-
planting the queen of a hive with their
own is obvious, and the possibilities
where a virgin resident queen is con-
cerned are practically non-existent.
* * * *
“Gill Guy”: Have collected bones of
the extinct giant marsupial Diprotodon
Australis from the banks of the Darling
at Brewarrina (N.S.W.), the Bulloo River
overflow and over at Lake Callabonna
in South Australia. The Bulloo specimen
consists of a forefoot and lower leg bon©
unearthed by a tank-sinker 9ft. below the
present level of the surrounding country.
My first trip to Callabonna was to the
east side of the lake, past the ruins of
the old station homestead of that name,
and resulted in a pocketful of tooth
fragments which were found scattered
widely over the dusty surface. Next visit
to the place was from the west, on the
Flinders Range side. That time I got
away with a hundredweight of perfect
specimens of limb bones, vertebrae, parts
of jaw and teeth. Discovered the re-
mains of three of these great animals
on that trip, where they were bogged,
perhaps a million years ago, in the mound
springs dotted over the bed of Lake
Callabonna and along the western shore,
It looks a safe bet that hundreds of
Dips perished here when the changeover
to the arid conditions took place. I have
a long string of evidence in the way of
collected fossils to show that this s.-e
part of Centralia is a fertile field for the
palaeontologist.
* * * *
“E.J.C.”: We sopped all our matches
in wading a river to reach our camp,
The sun was too low to dry them and we
had the prospect of a cold, fireless night.
One of the hardheads asked for a torch,
He cracked the globe, held a damp
matchhead across the filament and
pressed the button. The match fizzed,
spluttered and finally flared.
x»*xj >» tt, * , * , , Tr
D.R.H. : They appeared yesterday
mormng a whole flock of blue-grey birds
with light breasts black cheeks and a
white stripe extending downward behind
the ear. We heard a great chattering
and some very bad language from the
babblers who regard this as their special
place, and went out to find the masked
wood swallows in possession and tumb-
ling all over the sky. I came home m the
evening and there were at least twice as
many of the sprightly blue chaps There
had been reinforcements during the day,
but the newcomers, identical at a distance
with the mornings issue, wore dark-red-
dish waistcoats and a white streak above
ffie eye. So we knew that the white-
browed wood swallows had also turned
up at the terminus of their spring migra-
tion. Next day the sky from 12ft. toi 50ft.
above the house was a constant flutter of
blue birds, darting, swooping, diving,
flying head down or tail down, trying to
fly backwards, hawking moths and chiack-
ing each other. By midday each flock
of budgerigars, also new arrivals, had a
swallow or two in its midst don t ask
me why. And that evening, 24 hours
after their arrival, one pair of the white
browed birds was lining a nest m the
hollow mallee outside the back gate.
“Mat’s Mate”: We were travelling to
Melbourne in style, new suits, new shirts,
gold-mounted matchboxes, first-class fares
and everything, and in the compartment
with us were three young women who
chatted incessantly in affected voices, con-
stantly called each other endearing names
and had us bushwhackers silent with ad-
miration or something. At Maryborough
one prepared to depart. “Such a bore,
really darlings, but Moms would be
horrified if I didn’t go. Hate to leave
you, darlings, but, well, really” Then
it was “Goodbai, dawling.” “See you
next week, darling.” “Oh, dawling, I do
“It’ s time y’ sacked that cook! This hacksaw blade Was in the stoo."
hope it won’t be too trying.” “’Bye,
darling.” “ ’Bye.” The train pulled out.
There was silence. The remaining two
looked pensive, gave us furtive glances,
fussed over their things, were restless. So
Mat spoke up. “Look, girls,” he drawled,
“don’t take any notice o’ me an’ me
cobber here. Hop right in an’ tear her
to pieces. I can see you’re bustin’ for
it.” The silence became thicker. “Oh,
well” Mat said, “now a man can get
a bit of nap.” And we composed our-
selves to slumber, what time the one
stared indignantly through the window
and the other’s face went from scarlet
to white and back again.
* * * *
“Colonial Cove”: That Papuan who
had been to heaven—and back (B.
9/9/’4s)—could be pretty well matched
by an early Australian explorer who met
the devil when Captain Cook’s ship put in
for repairs for the mouth of the En-
deavour. Returning from a bush patrol one
of the crew reported haying met a strange
creature “about the size of, and much
like, a one-gallon cagg. It was as black
as the devil and had wings: indeed, 1
took it for the devil, or I might easily
have catched it, for it crawled very
slowly through the grass,” Actually
the apparition was a Queensland flymg-
fox, grounded. There was no one,
no t even Mr. Joseph Banks, capable of
explaining that simple fact to the affrighted
mariner, and so probably to the end
G f his days he felt that he was the one
favored human who had been granted a
view of his Satanic Majesty,
* * * *
“Horseless Horseman”: Whenever the
beauty of New Guinea birdlife is men-
tioned the varying spectacular hues of
he bird of paradise so absorb con-
versation , that usuafiy the splendor of the
u _ bl ria pigeon is overlooked. In
lu \ he ga Sria is second only to the
£ ing . o f. all . birds , but in stature it wins
* Not of the pigeon fami ]y at all,
hg * ia . g more of a fowl, tw i ce the
s]zQ & of a Leghorn, with a magnificent
snake . b]ue and w hite-tipped crest stand-
majestically erect above its head. It
a SJ to have all the habits G f our
w mound . bui i ding birds . When you
on Qne it flies 50 yards t 0 tbe
looks around and is off .
. are hard to rear in captivity, but
the Bogia district te n me that
the war it was not uncommon to
haye them Uvi witb barn -door fowls,
And nQ wonder The gauria is fine eat-
cherished diet G f patr ol men.
Q ne pecubar feature, however, is that
b a q bave in their gizzards a solid
tbe n size of the tip of one’s little
The pebble is probably an aid
S ‘ stion
g - * *
q” . The scorching sun beat
down from a c i oud l e ss sky for weeks on
Bungleburn. Then one evening a
wisp cloud wafted up in the
west apprG ached steadily and passed away
towards the coast. 'Next mornmg it was
hot and cloudless as ever as Fi P
proached the stock *** ji^ be bo rTzon
saddling up. He scanned the h
carefully m a couple of places, then p
a long tobacco juice. Rai
all gorn agen, he said,
***, , * . ,
“Lower Tops 1 : A colorful revival,
outcolne of the war-time petrol restnet-
tions, is the increased use of sail among
small-boat fishermen along Victona s
stormlashed shores Up till the outbreak
of war, although Queenschff, Port Fairy
and San Remo fishermen still carried
masts and standing lugs in their 28ft.
half-deckers, the rig was merely in case
of emergency, and sail was generally only
hoisted to steady the boat while trailing
in a seaway for barracoota. With the
use of powerful and reliable car engines
to thrash their boats along, even the die-
hard old-timers had fallen to the easy
way of steaming home with all winds,
But today, despite the more liberal petrol
allowance, it is quite like old times to
see again from Cape Wollomai white sails
dotting the bay as the fishing fleet returns
to San Remo.
THE LEE OF THE LAND.
In the lee of the land we try to miss
The wind that blows from the west;
In the lee of the land we hug the coast
Where bar-bound coasters rest.
There’s a westerly blow on our starboard beam,
It drifts to our quarter bow;
The masts and the rigging creak and groan
As the sea comes Over the bow.
The moon is hiding her amber light,
The darkness hides the stars,
The beacons flash from the headlands grim
To steer us across the bars.
The sea-hulks rot on the rugged coast
Where the Iron Duke came to grief;
We steer our ship for a wider course
Ere we pass the Mermaids’ Reef.
The eddying wake leaves a trail of foam;
We watch the spindrift chum;
We hear the throb of the swirling sea
As the twin propellers turn.
We follow the sea-ways broad and deep
When easterlies shift the sand;
But we hug the coast when the westerly blows
To get the lee of the land.
N.S.W.
JOE BLANCH.


)
— ■
m
ti
m
m
%
Siwrantea^
\
Jsgp
The HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR
THE HYGEIA DISSOLVENATOR, the completely self-con-
tained sanitary system, IS GUARANTEED AS TO EFFICI-
ENCY AND LONGEVITY by the Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty.
Ltd.—a firm of integrity established in 1927. There is
authentic proof of up to 17 YEARS’ CONTINUOUS
SERVICE. You are asked to verify this.
WARNING !
Though some of the other makes of chemical closets marketed during
our 17 years’ existence have left behind them a record of unfulfilled
promises and guarantees, efforts are made from time to time to sell them
again.
The Hygeia Sanitary Co. Pty,, Ltd., invites investigation into the history
of the Hygeia Dissolvenator, as well as the integrity and reputation of
the company itself.
PRICE:
£l9/2/6 F. 0.8. Sydney.
(Crating: 10/9 extra.)
Slightly more in other States.
WRITE FOB ILLUSTRATED
PAMPHLET.
HYGEIA
SANITARY CO. PTY,
LTD.
26-30 Bridge St. Sydney;
Est. 1927
N.S.W. Agents: Hygeia Dissolvenator Dist. Co. (K.5.W.),82 Goulburn St., Sydney
Queensland Agents: Hygeia Dissolvenators (Q’land), Woolworth’s Buildings,
Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Victorian Agents: Victorian Producers' Co-op. Co., Ltd., 578 Little Flinders
Street, Melbourne.
South Australian Agents; Harris, Scarfe, Ltd., Grenfell Street, Adelaide.
Tasmanian Agents; Wm. Crosby & Co. Pty., Ltd., P.O. Box 6290, Hobart;
also at Launceston.
M
ms
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia; R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE: 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREB,
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
f
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out an
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
OnogAS
SAVES
MANPOWER
“ITS THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
Cyanogas blower (Pafc’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
"DON'T WORRU. I'M SENDING IT TO
GRAZCOS."
Clothing the World.
“Graz.”: The Central Wool Committee
has handled six war-time clips totalling
21.322.000 bales, of which only 5,136,000
bales were held in Australia at 30/6/ ’45.
At the beginning of this year the U.S.
Government held 383,300 bales of foreign
wool, now almost exhausted; France
alone has taken 250,000 bales of it.
South American wool stocks haven’t
been disclosed but the bulk being carpet
types they would not seriously chal-
lenge finer quality Dominion wool. Aus-
tralia, Maoriland and S’Africa are the
world’s largest exporters of apparel wool,
and now they have got together with
Britain in a joint wool-marketing organ-
isation producers should be able to look
ahead to some years of stabilised prices.
The difficulty of arranging credits and
transport between holding and consuming
countries is still the greatest handicap to
getting a hole cut into the 10,000,000 bales
of surplus stocks. France and Belgium
have obtained soipe wool from America
and Britain. Poland has received some
from Russia, but neither Britain nor
America has yet had trade talks with
Russian-dominated countries in eastern
Europe—all of which are very short of
clothing. Italy, whose mills are intact, is
seeking wool. Befofe the war she used
300.000 bales annually. U.N.R.R.A.
cannot clothe the world’s naked people;
only by fully employing the world’s tex-
tile mills and factories can that objective
be reached. Europe faces another winter
very short of clothing and blankets.
There’s a moral in this ; I hope the peace-
makers can see it.
Licks in Victoria.
“Corriedale”; A. R. Grayson, veter-
inary officer of the Victorian Department
of Agriculture, concludes that they are,
for the most part, an unnecessary expense
south of the Murray, holding that where
the grazing land is properly managed suffi-
cient minerals are available.
He points out, in an article in the
“Journal of Agriculture,” that mineral
needs of sheep and mineral content of
pastures have been given a lot of promi-
nence lately, and adds that provided the
soil has a normal mineral content the
grazing sheep will get sufficient phos-
phorus and calcium from it to maintain
health. The four necessary mineral
elements are calcium, phosphorus, sodium
and chlorine, though there are other
“trace” elements which are also neces-
sary. The four are important to the
skeletal structure, the balance of alkalinity
and acidity of body tissues, the function
of the cells and the removal of waste pro-
ducts from the body cells.-
Where superphosphate has been used
to topdress pastures or where sheep are
grazing on cultivated land where super, has
been used to promote cereal crops the
phosphorus and calcium contents are
fairly high. This is particularly true
of leguminous roughage. Thus it
seems that provision of di - calcic
phosphate or bonemeal and other
minerals is unnecessary “in the greater
area of Victoria.” Grayson adds that
C.S.I.R. tests indicate that the returns
don’t justify the outlay.
Molasses is recommended, first for its
food value and then for its value in pre-
ventive control of some diseases. Gray-
son suggests that when molasses is again
available in solid or block form it be
supplied thus rather than mixed with salt.
Because of their liking for the molasses
some sheep may get too much salt with
the mixture.
Tomato Growing.
“Rooster”: To raise tomato plants
from seeds select shallow boxes or trays ;
put a layer of turf on the bottom, then
a layer of compost, topping off with a
thin layer of fine sandy soil. A sheet of
glass (not too thick) placed over the trays
in such a way as to allow for adequate
ventilation will ensure strong germination,
When the seedlings send out their first
pair of leaves they may be transplanted
to small pots or along a sheltered border
until they are strong enough to plant out.
Each plant must have ample room for
expansion, a minimum of 18in. being
allowed. Loamy soil, with the addition
of a little leaf-mould, is the ideal bed.
The soil should be pressed down firmly
and the stems supported by stakes.
Until the fruit is formed no manure
is required. Superphosphate or liquid
manure may be mulched into the soil
at this stage. Over-manuring tends to
shrivel the roots, thus slowing growth. If
there is too much nitrogen in the soil
wood ashes will neutralise jt and restore
chemical balance.
If plants are attacked by so-called
“sleeping disease” they should be pulled
up and burned, the soil removed alto-
gether or sprayed with a solution of sul-
phate of iron. Black spot can be similarly
dealt with. Tomato plant diseases are
rapidly spread if neglected. Seeds and
“Can't you take that somewhere else? You're distracting me."
seedlings should be obtained from reliable
nurseries.
Pasture Management.
“Pat O’Day”; Seasonal conditions, soil,
quality of the plants, play only minor
parts in the ultimate success of good pas-
ture. Without proper management areas
sown to grasses and clovers will only
yield about half their real value. Mul-
linger Park, on the south S.A.-Victorian
border, with a 22in. rainfall, shows the
splendid results of excellent pasture man-
agement through not only sowing every
acre with valuable grasses and clovers,
but employing continuous supervision and
maintenance of the paddocks.
This includes renovation of old clover
paddocks that have become over-charged
with nitrogen by ploughing them and re-
sowing to oats—tremendous crops of oats
being reaped. On other border proper-
ties I’ve seen the effectiveness of harrow-
ing pastures (this procedure is not yet
fully appreciated in N.S.W.) that are
highly productive* and heavily stocked,
Heavy stocking consolidates the surface
soil, and harrowing should be done to
break the crust, to aerate and sweeten
the soil, allow rain to enter freely
and, by the formation of a mulch,
to conserve moisture. The habit of stir-
ring the surface of pasture land even in
comparatively dry districts should be an
adjunct to topdressing,
"~ j ... • ..
Cross-pollination,
“Seedsman”: “Bugaldie” (B. 19/9/ 431
is quite right about cross-pollination be-
tween Queensland Blue and Tnambie
pumpkin ; same, of course, applies be-
tween any two varieties of cucumber,
rock melon or water melon. EApert
opinion, however, does not agree that cab-
bage will cross with swedes or turnips,
the latter being a different species of bras-
sica. Again, experience shows that toi
practical purposes neither lettuce plants
nor tomato plants cross with other plants
of their kind when grown in close proxim-
ity, except in very rare cases. In my
experience the vegetable seed now being
produced in Australia under the super-
vision of the seedsmen and with the co-
operation of the Department of Agricul-
ture is of a high standard and has proved
thoroughly satisfactory.
Hints for the farm,
Court”: One method of prevent-
mongs. from picking up poison
baits and eating ’em (B. 5/9/’45) is to
give ’em a few pepper-seasoned bits of
meat before they get too old. Idea is to
bury the “baits” in the ground some-
where, then trot the pup out and let him
sniff ’em out. After he has burned his
mouth hell make a mental note to leave
strange meat alone,
“Lub”: Manuka ti-tree is hardy stuff
und has a lot of uses about a farm. Well-
seasoned manuka makes good handles
for tools, and I know some who use it
for scoop-handles and light swingle-bars,
When axe- and hammer-handles were
scarce I found it stood up better than
any native hardwoods I’ve tried,
“Bull-ant Bill”: Corrugated iron is a
precious article these hard days, and every
foot is worth saving. Crosswise it cuts
easily enough with a good pair of snips,
but lengthwise along the corrugations it
is a different matter. For that take a
handsaw and give a touch with a file to
the first tooth at the handle end to en-
sure thorough sharpness. Then, holding
the saw by the blade and pressing the
tooth firmly down, draw it evenly along
the bottom of a corrugation. Repeat this
three or four times until there is a
deepish even cut all the way along. Then
lay the sheet flat over the edge of a bench
or plank, the scratch upward, and bend it
down and up. It will soon break off
neatly. Needn’t be afraid of using your
good saw—nobody ever gets as far as
the first tooth.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
U.S. Plan for Japs.
(From an article by N.Y. “Times” Tokyo
correspondent.)
The United States Government has em-
barked on a huge, programme
of re-educating Japan, using press, radio,
motion picture and school facilities to
convince the Japanese people of their
country’s war guilt and to promote peace-
ful and democratic processes in this de-
feated nation.
This programme will be stern and com-
pulsory to some extent, especially as it
affects the news presentation of atrocities
committed by the Japanese military. In
large measure, however, voluntary co-
operation of Japanese agencies will be
sought and used “as long as essential
ideas and information are given in the
proper light,” the headquarters announce-
ment said. The programme will be
directed by the headquarters Information
Dissemination Section, which replaces the
Psychological Warfare Branch but re-
tains the latter’s experienced educators,
newsmen, linguists and other specialists.
Basically, this is a military programme,
prosecuted by the United States Army for
as long as U.S. occupation forces remain
on Japanese soil. At least, on paper, the
programme represents one of history’s
most massive plans to influence the minds
of a people. Its avowed aim is to re-
orient the intellectual processes of
78,000,000 persons whose ways of think-
ing are essentially unchanged from
medieval thought.
Within the framework of the plan are
five distinct objectives ;
(1) Aid in eradicating militarism and
ultra-nationalism.
(2) Make clear the fact of Japan’s de-
feat, acquaint the Japanese with their re-
sponsibility for the war and the atrocities
committed by their armies and with the war
guilt of their leaders.
(3) Foster a sound economy and en-
courage democratic organisation.
(4) Encourage free government respon-
sible to the people.
(5) Promote political and civil liberties,
the right of assembly, public discussions,
education and free elections and respect for
human rights.
To start with, this re-education pro-
gramme will operate through the Japanese
Board of Information for contact with
representatives of Japanese publications,
radio, movie distributors and schools.
Japanese newspapers have already pub-
lished, under American direction, a
mimeographed army handout entitled
' Typical Japanese Atrocities During the
Liberation of the Philippines.”
The editorial reaction of two Tokyo
newspapers, the “Asahi” and the “Nippon
Times,” was revulsion and shame, and
indicated a willingness to believe the re-
port on the word of General MacArthur’s
headquarters that the incidents could be
documented with photographs and affi-
davits.
The “Asahi” editorial, entitled “Crime
of Tojo’s Military Clique,” even added
on its own that “if such was the situation
in the Philippines, then the actions ram-
pant under corrupted military discipline
in the course of the China affair, which
went on aimlessly for many years, were
undoubtedly beyond imagination.”
This was exactly a type reaction ; it was
one of the first instances in which re-
sponsible Japanese leaders of opinion
plunged, without hedging, into an explor-
ation of the low political and military
morality into which the nation had fallen.
The feeling at headquarters is that
before the Japanese people can take effec-
tive steps to “cast out the demon,” they
must first develop a great sense of shame
and of national wrongdoing.
The “Asahi” editorial went on to de-
clare that the Tojo cliqtie made war in-
evitable with its “deliberate arrogance,
ignorance, self-complacency and vanity ”
There was another type of Japanese
who in the first two weeks of American
occupation took advantage of initially
easy-going policy to disseminate propa-
ganda minimising the Japanese defeat and
war responsibility. As a result, the
Domei newsagency was suspended for 18
hours and reopened only under strict
censorship and the elimination of its
foreign service.
Under the programme since announced
all Japanese agencies of public informa-
tion have been subjected to censorship.
In addition to broadcasts from the United
States and news furnished by American
agencies the Japanese received from the
Army certain news articles and radio
commentaries as “must” items for use.
Among these will be “factual presen-
tations” of atrocities committed by the
Japanese military, according to the an-
nouncement.
The Army will prepare information for
the other programmes, editorials and
features and offer them to Japanese agen-
cies for use at will. The Information
Dissemination Section, however, will not
write most of the articles, and the Japa-
nese may use their own methods of pres-
entation “as long as essential ideas and
information are given in their proper
light.”
It seems likely, for the time being, that
emphasis will be placed on convincing
the Japanese of their defeat and responsi-
bility for the outbreak of the war and
war crimes. Gradually democratic ideas
and processes will be publicised and the
people encouraged to organise democrati-
cally.
Film agencies will be asked to present
motion pictures depicting the Allies’ goals
for peaceful reconstruction, democracy
and liberalism. Textbooks will be expur-
gated of military propaganda, and schools
will be guided by an education unit under
Major Harold G. Henderson, on leave
from Columbia University, to assure a
factual presentation of government, his-
tory and political and civil liberties. The
announcement said that the school pro-
gramme would not use dictatorial
methods, and that free discussion of all
phases of subjects would be encouraged.
Criticism of MacArthur
There is a lot of criticism of General
MacArthur by those who accuse him of
giving the Japanese a soft peace. A large
part of this criticism comes from Red
and Pink sources, which have become
very bloodthirsty indeed. The similarity
of many of the attacks justifies the suspi-
cion of something of a propaganda cam-
paign, the purposes of which seem now
obscure but which will undoubtedly come
to the surface in time.
The idea of the critics seems to be:
First, that it was a mistake to keep the
Emperor in power; secondly, that it was
a mistake to allow Japanese officials to
remain in office; thirdly, that we should
have slapped the Japanese down in a
heroic and crushing manner. From a
careless and thoughtless approach to the
question it is easy to find premises to
support those arguments. It is quite
evident that the issue of whether or not
we should have agreed that Hirohito
remain in power under the orders of
MacArthur was debatable. It can be
argued that the freedom allowed the Japa-
nese press resulted in the publication of
reports of the occupation which were ten-
dentious and in many cases quite false.
What was the situation MacArthur
faced when he set about occupying
Japan? He got a few thousand men
ashore at a moment when there were fully
3,000,000 armed Japanese on the islands
he set out to occupy. Those who made
the decision knew that. They knew it
would take a couple of weeks or so to
get as many as 100,000 Americans ashore.
Anything was possible in such a problem.
The result in having Hirohito call for the
surrender and laying down of arms by
that 3,000,000 Japanese soldiers seems to
have justified the decision to use him.
But more than that. Japan had some
3,500,000 troops on the Asiatic mainland,
in the Pacific islands and in south-west
Asia. It ought to be evident that the
difference between an order from their
Emperor to surrender and an order from
the American General MacArthur was
something very important. The result of
their having surrendered at the Emperor’s
orders ought to speak for itself. Un-
doubtedly thereby were saved thousands
of Allied lives.
The greatest difficulty the victors face
in Germany today is the lack of organ-
ised authority with which to deal. We
cannot make a peace treaty with Ger-
many because there is no Government
with which to make one. That ought to
constitute an argument for the considera-
tion of the advantages of maintaining
some Governmental system in Japan.
That has been done.
Now it is to be admitted that the ad-
vantages of dealing with and through
Hirohito, the main advantages at the be-
ginning being largely military, would by
no means justify permitting the same old
crowd, with only slight modifications, to
hold sway in Japan, to allow the Japanese
to continue to think their army had not
been defeated. If we were to accept the
invitation of the Japanese Premier to
forget Pearl Harbor in exchange for the
Japanese forgetting the atomic bomb we
would be embarking on a programme
which could with difficulty be deferfded.
But what proof is there that Mac-
Arthur will permit anything of the sort?
He had to get in a position in which
through the increase of his occupation
strength and the weakening of potential
resistance he could speak with a loud
voice and effectively.
His war criminals list is being rounded
up. He is even using the Japanese authori-
ties to arrest the men he wants; that is
a point. We have yet to see how Mac-
Arthur will handle the war criminals busi-
ness. There is much criticism over the
delay in trying German war criminals.
The delay is undoubtedly having an influ-
ence on the German population. In
speculating on whether MacArthur may
find a more direct and quicker method
to handle the problem it is to be borne
in mind that he has to follow instructions
from Washington.
Orders were issued in the name of the
Allied Commander to the Japanese press
to cease being so fresh. The papers have
been obliged to print the Allied statement
on war criminals. Domei stopped broad-
casting abroad after it had gone to un-
reasonable lengths on the theme of the
war being over, so that everyone should
forget what had gone on.
Why not grant that MacArthur had
practical reasons to justify at first actions
which have been called too soft and now
give him a chance to show what he can
do about disarming Japan? His job is
a big one. The several million Japanese
troops outside of the four home islands
must be taken back. The leaders of the
military clique which so long dominated
Japan must be put into impotence.
And life must go on in the islands.
If he can handle this job with-
out putting a million American soldiers
into Japan, why not? It would take more
than a million Americans if every petty
job were taken from a Japanese and an
American put in his place.
Dealing through the Emperor has not
proved to be a mistake. It certainly has
many advantages, for he has an influence
which it would take much strength for the
occupying authorities to match. It seems,
really, the one question of any importance
is this: Can MacArthur get the Emperor
to work in the interest of the Allies from
now on? There is no indication of an
Imperial resistance to MacArthur’s orders.
The few rough spots have been unofficial
in character.
Those who have followed the Japanese
press have remarked the effort to tell the
people that the war ended because the
Emperor wished to end it, that the
Japanese were masters in their own house
as compared with the situation in Ger-
many and so on. Well, in giving the new
censorship orders yesterday MacArthur’s
agent said to the Nipponese:
“General MacArthur desires it to be
understood that the Allied Powers do not
regard Japan as an equal in any way. It
is a defeated enemy which has not yet
demonstrated a right to a place among
civilised nations.
“The tone of the colored news which
you have been presenting to the public
gives the impression that the Supreme
Commander has been negotiating 1 with the
Japanese Government. There are no
negotiations, and the public should not
be permitted to gain a false idea of the
position of the Japanese Government in
relation to the Allied Powers.
“The Supreme Commander will dictate
orders to the Japanese Government. He
will not negotiate with it.”
Well that doesn’t sound very “soft.”
And to take the position that MacArthur
talks that way now because he has been
stung by criticism of his policy in Japan
indicates an unwillingness to give any
weight to the considerations which
weighed heavily as the occupation began.
Three months from now will be a much •
better time to judge the nature of our
occupation of Japan.
A Very Silent Admiral.
(From a report by N.Y. “Times” New Zea-
land correspondent Quentin Pope.)
The United States Marines’ long ordeal
in the Solomon Islands was protracted, it
is believed here in New Zealand, by the
secretiveness of Vice-Admiral Robert L.
Ghormley, then South Pacific com-
mander, which robbed him of Australian
and New Zealand forces in the initial
South Pacific counter-attack against
Japan.
Admiral Ghormley, eminent among
naval commanders for his secretiveness,
even when navy censors not only sup-
pressed all stories showing tinges of facts
but also attempted to track down infor-
mants, made his debut in New Zealand
by asking the Government to study a
plan for the use of land forces in the
Pacific. When told the forces would be
made available when the Government
knew their role, the Admiral refused to
give this information. The result was a
delay in the assignment of New
Zealanders.
Defence Minister Joseph G, Coates
said at the time that the admiral might
be a great strategist, but New Zealand
wanted to know what she was undertak-
ing when committing troops.
Admiral Ghormley, who apparently did
not relish the role the Navy had given
him in the Solomons with the available
forces, is reported to have made a second
attempt to obtain reinforcements in a
message to the War Council in Australia.
Although General Douglas MacArthur
then had two or three trained American
divisions, he rejected the request. The
Australian Government, which might have
moved to aid Admiral Ghormley, was
alienated by his refusal to disclose the
nature of his operation, it is said.
The assault was finally mounted
hurriedly. Lieut.-Generaf Alexander A.
Vandegrift did not have time to assemble
his First Division, but had to borrow the
Second Marine line regiment, one bat-
talion of the Tenth Marine Artillery Regi-
ment, a battalion of the Eighteenth
Marine Engineer Regiment and some
medical companies from the Second
Marine Division to assemble a bare divi-
sion, and Admiral Ghormley attacked
with this force.
He did get some aid from New Zea-
land in the form of patrol bombers, old
type Lockheed-Hudsons that lacked speed
and arms.
Australia and New Zealand lacked
large trained formations, so the value of
the troops they turned over would have
been limited, but New Zealand had half
a division in the Fiji Islands that had had
considerably more training than the Third
or Fifth Marine Regiments. Australia
also had formations that were far ad-
vanced in preparations to enlarge the
Middle East force at the time the Japanese
struck. Later they were employed in
New Guinea.
Neither Australians nor New Zealanders
had been trained for jungle fighting. The
United States Marines also lacked the
knowledge, and their strength on Guadal-
canal lay in their courage and their train-
ing in patrol fighting.
If Admiral Ghormley had been less
secretive his original force might, it is
said here, have been at least doubled, and
the tremendous tax upon the Marines
would have been materially diminished.
Senior Marine Corps operations officers
said during the Guadalcanal struggle that,
as the only , real asset of the island was
Henderson Field, they were anxious to re-
group immediately and transform the air-
field area into a defence zone and strike
against the Japanese on Bougainville to
deny them land bases from which they
were raiding the southern Solomons. This
plan was blocked by the lack of another
two divisions, the Marines said.
After receiving news of the Guadal-
canal landing New Zealanders became so
restive because of the lack of informa-
tion that Prime Minister Peter Fraser, De-
fence Minister Coates, Brigadier-General
Patrick J. Hurley, the United States
Minister, and the staff chiefs flew to
Noumea, where the admiral had estab-
lished advanced headquarters. They
arrived in New Caledonia the day after
the first Battle of Savo Island, in which
three United States cruisers and one Aus-
tralian cruiser were lost. The head-
quarters, General Hurley said later, was
in a state of confusion.
Prime Minister Fraser was rebuffed by
Admiral Ghormley, who virtually told
the New Zealand leader that his infor-
mation would have to come from Pearl
Harbor.
Mr. Coates was dismayed by the
Noumea situation, and said the next day
that he believed Admiral Ghormley
lacked real authority, that the war was
being run from Pearl Harbor and that
the Navy’s attitude was that it did not
matter if the Japanese swarmed over the
land as long as the fleet kept its ships
afloat.
Russia’s Convict Laborers.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post” article by
Peter F. Drucker .)
Although much is being written on
the Soviet economy, very little attention
has been paid to the basis of all Russian
industrial achievements —the recruiting of
a labor force to build and to run the new
industries.
In 1926, before the first Five-Year Plan
started, Russia had no more than
4.000. industrial workers. By 1940 the
labor force had been increased to
14.000. perhaps even 20,000,000 men.
During these 14 years the number of
white-collar men —clerks, accountants,
engineers, executives increased from
3.000. to 7,000,000 men. These
new workers were obtained largely
by forcing 20,000,000 farmers off
the land. This, the most radical


I
/
Fish and
flashlight
batteries M
be fres
r
LOOK FOR THE
DATE LINE
Do you know that flashlight batteries can go stale?
Do you know that Eveready No. 950 flashlight
batteries are always sold to you with a date-line
that guarantees their freshness . . . guarantees
you a bright, steady flash of light every time
eVEREADy
TRADE-MARK
DATED FLASHLIGHT BATTERIES
THIS MORSE MESSAGE SAYS: "THEY LAST LONGER
BECAUSE YOU ALWAYS GET THEM FRESH."
BOOKS TECHNICAL
A brief selection from our wide range; watch each week for further titles:
Model Making. Including workshop practice, design and construction
of models by Yates
Pottery Made Easy. Profusely illustrated and indispensable to the
beginner, as the title implies, by Doherty
Bolts, Nuts and Screws. A collection of practical discussions on engineer-
ing design, production of headed and threaded products. Over 100
illustrations; Lamsion and Session
Pistol and Revolver Shooting. The history of small arms, the growth of
shooting clubs, the old-time experts and the guns they used are all
included, by Roper
The Slide Rule and How to Use It. Including 5 place log tables. Learn
with the FREE slide rule attached
The Merino, past, present and future. A comprehensive history of this
famous breed which carries Australia on its back; Austin ..
New Medical Dictionary. Terms, first aid and general home nursing, etc.
Lists of all subjects supplied on
application.
Est. 1860. The G.P.O. is opposite. 183-185 ELIZABETH ST., MELBOURNE.
McG ILL'S AGENCY ,
gf
HOTEL
S T - GEORGE
WELLINGTON NEW ZEALAND
Where efficient but un-
obtrusive service is a boon
to the travel weary.,.
where all the arts of
the modern hotelier
find expression in
your greater
comfort.
THE SYMBOL
OF SERVICE
Radio, Cable and
Telegraphic Address t
“SANGEORGE”
•w S
, •
v '
j a is ' it"
j a®
ggg j bhb
sss
mr
\
BiS
ess
r<]
D
lIIUOIXOU*
XO^WJ
m 9»
i
E'tJS
social transformation any country has
ever undergone except as a result of war,
was accomplished through the policy of
compulsory collectivisation which re-
placed practically all family farms in the
country with large, centrally managed
“farm factories” in six or seven years.
A good many of the younger people
on tlie farms, eager to escape the narrow-
ness of village life, were only too happy
to be forced off the land. The great bulk
of the displaced peasants, though not
resisting collectivisation, had to be driven
into industrial work through recruiting
campaigns, using a mixture of induce-
ments and threats. A minority, number-
ing several millions, resisted collectivisa-
ti°n actively or passively. These recalci-
trants were arrested as kulaks and
enemies of the State and hei ded into
concentration camps for use as convict
* a k° r -
Convict labor is rarely mentioned in
the Soviet press, and never in Soviet
statistics. No foreign observer has been
admitted to the camps, though all visitors
have come across convicts at work. Since
the camps are run by the Secret Police,
Russians released from them do not con-
sider it healthy to talk about their experi-
ences. Despite the prevailing ignorance
on the details, it is certain that convict
labor played quite an important part in
Russia’s industrialisation. Reserved at
first for obstreperous farmers, commit-
ment to a camp soon became the general
punishment for all prisoners, whether
common criminals or political suspects,
including the victims of the great purge.
Although we have no official figures on
the number of convict laborers—estimates
range all the way from 3,000,000 to
10,000,000—we do know that they built
Russia’s new canals and most of the
25,000 miles of new railroad, and that
they unloaded Lend-lease supplies in Mur-
mansk and Archangel at a time when
German bombers were overhead all the
time and when all mechanical loading
equipment had been destroyed.
With the end of the war, the recruiting
of industrial labor again becomes the
biggest problem of Soviet economic
policy. As the pre-war industrial workers
Ivere mostly men of military age, they
bore a disproportionately heavy share of
the staggering Russian battle casualties,
Furthermore, there is no surplus farm
labor on which industry can draw. The
farms will need additional workers until
their mechanised equipment is restored,
Hence Russia will have to turn abroad
f°J her supply of industrial labor,
There are three ways open to her. She
can import foreign goods instead of the
foreign labor to make goods. She can
bring in a large army of foreign compul-
sory laborers—.prisoners of war and war
criminals. Or she can open her frontiers
to large-scale immigration. We know
that even before the Potsdam Center-
ence had awarded to Russia half of Ger-
many’s surplus industrial equipment the
Russian armies had begun to ship home
vas£ quantities of machinery from Eastern
Germany, Austria and Hungary. And
it is an open secret that Russia will be
i n the American market for supplies of
manufactured goods, machines as well as
consumer goods. We also know that
Russia intends to use large numbers of
Germans as compulsory workers in her
reconstruction programme for a good
man Y years.
The Russian plan to use foreign com-
pulsory labor explains in part why the
Polish Government in London held out
so stubbornly against acceptance of
Soviet demands. The London Poles were
afraid, rightly or wrongly, that compul-
sory labor would not be confined to Ger-
mans, but would be extended to Poles
SUS p e cted of anti-Russian or anti-Com-
munist leaningSj both in the territory
ce ded to Russia and in Lublin-controlled
Poland proper. Even the third way—
large-scale immigration—seems to be con-
sidered seriously by the Russians, though
it would require considerable change in
Soviet domestic policy. There are large
masses of surplus farmers, eager to move
a way, on the poor and badly overpopu-
lated lands of the Balkans, such as Bul-
garia, Hungary and Southern Yugoslavia,
But they are unlikely to migrate unless
assured of religious liberty and of the
right to community leaders of their own
choice. These demands Russia has so
far refused to grant. Many observers in
close touch with Russian affairs, there-
fore, interpret the new Soviet policy
toward the Russian Orthodox Church as
the first step in a bid for large-scale immi-
gration of Balkan peasants.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
It is believed that U.S. Republicans have
picked their man for 1948 —General of Army
Dwight D. Eisenhower. Politicians who
watched him co-ordinate diverse elements m
Europe say he’s one of the few generals with
talent for that sort of thing. The key to how
General Eisenhower feels about it will come if
and when he’s offered chief of staff job. Its
four-year appointment would bring him into the
administration of his probable rival. Scripps
Howard Washington staff.
* * * *
It is not entirely fair to compare the strong
and decisive manner in which the British and
the Russians have handled the Japanese who
have surrendered to them with the softer
methods pursued by Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
General MacArthur’s problem is far greater;
he was originally holding a bridgehead in the
heart of a hostile land with a few men arrayed
against scores of thousands of the enemy. As
his strength grew and Japanese disarmament
progressed General MacArthur’s actions have
taken on a more definite and decisive tone.
Signs indicate that the “easy” policy toward
the Japanese is a temporary one, dictated by
military expediency and by the raw and un-
equivocal facts of the' occupation—millions of
Japanese against a few hundred thousand
Americans. — N.Y. “Times” commentator Han-
son W. Baldwin.
* $ * *
It is a foregone conclusion that Italy will
hand over the Dodecanese Islands to Greece,
but there is a question of Italian reparations
for the invasion of Greece and for the destruc-
tion of the Greek mercantile marine, upon which
the nation depends for its food supplies and
maritime trade. Damaskinos is also concerned
over the adjustment of the Greek frontier with
Bulgaria when that question comes up, since
three times now Bulgaria ‘has invaded Greece
through key passes in the Rhodope mountains.
Also linked indirectly with the Italian agree-
ment is the Albanian question, in which Greece
is profoundly interested. — N.Y. “Sun” staff
correspondent in Europe.
* * * *
On the Allied side of neutral Sweden’s war bal-
ance sheet is the shipping to England of parts of
an unexploded V-2 bomb which crashed in
Sweden on July 13, 1944. Also, when the war
ended there were 106,000 refugees of all nation-
alities in Sweden, including 38,000 Norwegians,
15,500 Danes arid 6100 Finns. In addition,
some 1500 American airmen who force-landed
in Sweden were also evacuated. Sweden, be-
qidec treating the interned airmen royally while
under technica i arres t, found a
national i aw to let more Americans be e %
than Germans— N.T. e !“
mnmg Sweden.
It seems beyond question that Britain has
accumulated large quantities of gold. .
production has continued without serious
dumnui tlon p “ d Sc?re are" requimcTTo sell their
whole ‘ output to the South African Govern-
ment, which has retained less than a qua
the new output Where is thejdd? It
mAtoand * por-
up g the British exc hange fund.-
Cf . “Tribune.”
* * * *
j ]j ved China from 1918 to 1931 and
w jtnessed some of the wars there, even partici-
paring in a few. Close to the scene, 1 always
felt that the Chinese were in
for their phght, that so “ e Jra t was m
them which made national unity impossioie.
Today, ta the pempective of been^awa,
from t±U y y Chine y se w ’ ho fee l that it is
s j the j mpact of Western civilisation that
as disturbed and distressed their country,
more it is foreign meddling in
their a fi a irs, that it is the support which foreign
countries have given revolutionary groups that
prevents China from settling down to construc-
tive life.— George E. Sokolsky; N.x.
* * rmlv in im-
A oma m q£ thfe atom y c bomb
P signature of the 30-year treaty of friend-
between the Soviet Union and
. Chinese Nationalist Government. Final
treaty must be reserved until
its prov i s i o ns are tested in practice.
endures for 30 years it will considerably
maties Tnon-aggression whicl.
g ov j et Government has concluded with
neighboring European States.— William Henry
Chamberlin; ‘‘Wall-street Journal.
* * * *
_ Before the war the Japs were seeking all
available outlets for their overcrowded islands,
and now Jap ex-servicemen are spread out
over the very areas most preferred—aside from
California, Canada and Australia, which are out
of bounds to them. Now that they are there,
they will certainly stay if they can. At least
nyist of them will. It would serve Japan's inter-
ests well to have Asia for ever in turmoil.
That’s the way she gained foothold in the hrsl
place. Accordingly, her ex-servicemen, work-
mg underground, may lie expected to tan the
flames of revolt and civil war whenever they
can. Disgruntled minorities, those seeking m-
dependence, any cause, good or bad, Wm pro -
ably get Jap support not tor the sake ot
cause itself but to create trouble, cause -
sions and make for weakness which Nippon m >
eventually exploit. That has been China s n -
tory for the last 50 years. It rnay be all Asia.
story for decades to come—A.T. World-
Telegram” correspondent William Philip Simms,
who spent many years in the tar East.


Ii y VICTORY
S Toda'
. : : ; v •. :: : .
a
w
THE JOB IS NOT yet finished. Your
money is needed just as much as in any
previous loan. It is needed to help bring
scores of thousands of servicemen and
women home from their stations. It is
needed for the care of the sick and
wounded; to maintain considerable occupa-
tion forces; to maintain all personnel until
the day of their discharge; and to assist in
discharging our obligation completely to
equip all those who fought for us, to re-
enter civil life. It is needed, too, to avert
the menace of inflation.
All these are very good reasons why you
should buy bonds, but you should buy
them as well for your own sake—they are
the safest, highest interest-earning gilt-
edged investment in Australia.
g
f GO ALONG TO ANY Bank, Savings Bank,
I Money Order Post Office or Stockbroker.
I There’s no elaborate routine to go
| through, no fuss or bother —in fact,
buying bonds is no more trouble than
making a purchase in a shop, though it is
a better purchase than you’ll find in any
shop.
You can buy bonds two ways—for cash or
terms. Why not buy them both ways—as
many for cash as your available savings
will cover, remembering that all that is
required is a 10% deposit and 10%
monthly instalments. However, the impor*
tant thing is to buy bonds, as many as
possible, as soon as possible.
TOUR MONEY ISNEEDEOtN THE
FOURTH
f
ictory Loan
4V13J13
. N
5788
CRAVENA
(JmU appreciate tkm
MditaiuUtUf q/»eMtt"
Obtainable In 10’s & 2©’s
■
gf
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Letters from a Self-made Merchant
to His Son, by Lorimer.—366l.
To buy Health via Food, Some Human Ail-
ments and Weight Control, all by William H.
Hay.—3662.
Words of verses “The Sharpshooter’s Miss.”
—3663.
Information Sought.
Do the sun’s rays come in a direct straight,
tine to the earth?
Only when the sun is directly overhead. At
all other times the rays follow a straight path
to the top of the earth’s atmosphere and are
then refracted in a curved path to the earth’s
surface. The amount of refraction depends on
the inclination of the sun to the vertical, and
is greatest when the sun is nearest the horizon.
Einstein’s Relativity Theory implies that space
is curved, but the amount of curvature due to
this is infinitesimal as between sun and earth.
Some information about the manufacture of
casein ?
Skim milk is heated continuously, by hot
water pipes, to .HOdeg. F. Hydrochloric acid
of 20deg. Baume concentration is diluted with
four parts of water and pumped at the required
rate, determined periodically by titration, into
a small stoneware cylinder containing baffles
and serving as a mixer. Here it meets the thin
stream of warm milk, mixes with it instantly and
precipitates the casein curd. It then flows
through a stoneware baffle box to the draining
conveyor, which consists of an inclined trough
carrying a steel-ribbon-type screw flight. The
whey gravitates towards the discharge, while
the curd is moved upwards by the rotating
screw and is finally discharged to the curd-
breaker at the upper end of the conveyor.
In the curd-breaker the curd is further broken
down and pushed through a perforated plate
into the washing conveyor, where it is freed
from ash and free acidity by counter-current
washing. The washed curd is passed into a
continuous two-roll power press, after which it
is dried. Further facts can be obtained from
the Dairy Products Section, Division of In-
dustrial Chemistry, C.5.1.R., Lorimer-street,
Fishermen’s Bend, Victoria.
(1) Melbourne Cup winners since 1932? (2)
What were the placed horses in the 1939 Mel-
bourne Cup? (3) In what year did Peter Pan
last start in the Melbourne Cup ? (4) What)
horses have won the Caulfield Cup and Mel-
bourne Cup double?
(1) Peter Pan, Hall Mark, Peter Pan, Mara-
bou, Wotan, The Trump, Catalogue, Rivette,
Old Rowley, Skipton, Colonus, Dark Felt and
Sirius. (2) Rivette first, Maikai second, Pantler
third. (3) 1934. (4) Poseidon 1906, The Trump
1937, Rivette 1939.
Brief Answers.
T.G.; The report on the case has not yet
been published P.F.: Rupert Brooke, author
of Poems, Letters from America and 1914 and
Other Poems, was born in 1887, graduated from
Cambridge, and travelled extensively in M.L. in
1913-14. He was commissioned in the R.N.
in 1914, died in 1915, and was buried at Sky-
ros Island, in the /Egean Maxina: An ex-
serviceman, on reaching the age of 60, is
eligible for. a pension provided that total income
does not exceed £4 10s. per fortnight for a
single man and £9 for a married man, and also
does not own property, apart from the house
in which he resides, exceeding in value £4OO
for a single man and £9OO for a married man.
When you terminate your employment contact
the Deputy Commissioner, Repatriation Com-
mission, Brisbane, enclosing evidence of age,
so that your application can be considered.
C. 8.5.: Conditions of eligibility for cam-
paign stars would fill a book; would be able
to advise if qualifications are stated... .F.S. :
The air dry weight of assorted timbers is
approximately 581 b. per cubic foot; air dry
weight of box and ironbark is approx. 631 b.
and 651 b. per c. ft. respectively; thus • the
actual wood contents per ton of air dry
wood would be 38.6 c.f. for assorted timbers,
35.5 c.f. for box and 34.5 c.f. for ironbark
J. 8.: It would be advisable to have your gramo-
phone adjusted... .J.G.P.: The British Govern-
ment Information Office, 39 Martin-place,
Sydney, has issued a pamphlet on the sub-
ject F.G.F.: Application should be
addressed to the District Finance Officer, Show-
ground, Sydney R.J.W.8.: There are no
books or magazines which contain all the facts
required. The Chief Clerk, Department of
Civil Aviation, Melbourne, might be able to
help you 8.M.: Approximate cost would
be £400; for an exact quote, a sketch of the
building and other relative information should
be sent to York Air Conditioning and Refrige-
ration Co., 163 Phillip-street, Waterloo, Syd-
ney M.W.; Compulsory acquisition of Vic.
freehold land for the purposes of the Statute
is constitutional. (2) The price fixing is valid
as regards the 1943 values. (3) and (4) Could
not hope for success on those grounds.
Answers to Correspondents.
Z.H.: 'Promising....P.J.R.: It goes sud-
denly flat when you say such things as “I still
hear its peculiar sound”... .K.S.; Wordy....
D 1.M.: Take a sharp axe and tap on the
head all sorcerers, witches, gipsies and wizards.
C.V.G.: Story a lightweight, but call again.
!! . .A. 8.: Poets seem to get as incoherent on
the demon drought as on the demon rum
F.C.; Themes too abstract and conventional.
. . .i.G.: That forlorn lady bobs up all over
the country and you don’t make her real...*.
L.D.: “‘Hist!’ the gaunt stranger hissed, rais-
ing a finger to his bearded lips. ‘Secret Ser-
vice!’” Hush, hush*.. .J.McM.: Come again.
B.M.: It’s short, anyway O.B.: Country
town good, but story rambling C.N.T.:
Conversations swell to speeches L.E.:
Characters are marionettes.... R.H.: Try a
woman’s paper J.M.Y.: Stick to what you
know A.McK.: Too much erudition has a
stunning effect on the reader D. 8.: Weepy.
P.N-L.: Cowboys and Indians are out-
side our territory, pard 5.1. N.; Published
stories not wanted J.0’8.: Slight 8.D.:
Improbable... .L.A.R.: Might make a par.
Bellerive: “Famous Racehorses” is a
starter: —
Among the fine steeds
Who’d proved their worth
In thrilling events
Of the racing turf
Shone out Phar Lap
And little Hall Mark
A wonder as swift as
A flash in the dark;
Peter Pan, White Nose.
and the brilliant Ajax ;
Old Rowley the stayer
Of the racing tracks,
The modern punters
From near and far
Comment on the merits
Of Tranquil Star.


* Let's finish the job —
Buy 4th Victory Loan
Bonds.
SIR: .V
specif r
MilEs
.
[7
C$
c'r,
c\o
& ovs v
a*
a
«ov
«e
OUT
0^
M***
Until conditions return to normal you may still find some
difficulty in getting all the Capstans you require.
But keep asking for your favourite " Red ” Capstans.
Capstan Special Mild, Medium and Full Strength are
regularly distributed.
areyou getting
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
lOflflV
[Filter
Cylinder
i
I'zJjih dloi-l
To
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
towners’ and Householders ,
Workers’ Compensation, Boiler
Explosion, Machinery Breakdown,
Aviation, etc.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Lincoln Mills (Australia), Ltd.
, —Dividends—,
Pref. To Re-
June. Profit. 9 p.c. Ordinary, serves. Reserves,t
£ £ £ £ £
8J p.c.
1935.. 47,615 36,000 6,710 4,905 21,303
1936.. 50,109 36,000 6,710 7,399 28,702
1937.. 48,658 36,000 6,710 5,948 34,650
1938.. 60,304 36,000 6,710 17,594 52,244
12J p.c.
1939.. 69,207 36,000 10,066 23,141 75,385
Divs. from subsidiaries, £15,172 .. 90,557
Capital reserve, £72,153 .. .. 162,710
1940.. 80,989 36,000 10,066 34,923 197,633
1941.. 70,189 36,000 10,066 24,123 221,756
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 211,756
1942.. 80,612 36,000 10,066 34,546 246,302
To staff fund, £lO,OOO .. .. 236,302
1943.. 64,987 36,000 10,066 18,921 255,223
To staff fund, £5OOO .. .. 250,223
1944.. 64,537 36,000 10,066 18,471 268,694
To staff fund, £5OOO . . . . 263,694
From tax reserve, £ll,BOO . . . . 275,494
1945.. 35,510 36,000 10,066 264,938
To staff fund, £2500 .. .. 262,438
t Excluding depreciation reserve.
The sharp decline in earnings in 1943
and again last term was largely the result
of shortage of female labor, especially in
the juvenile group. For some time the
flow of juvenile labor into textile mills
has not been sufficient to replace normal
losses. The situation has arisen out of
a rapidly-expanding war-time economy,
which has given rise to a strong demand
for female labor over a wide range of
occupations, including the services. To
many young women the new war-time
jobs, even at less pay, looked socially
more attractive and not so arduous as
work in the mills. Demobilisation
will provide little, if any, relief to the
position that has developed, because
women released will, for the most part,
have passed the age at which it is essen-
tial they should commence training for
spinning, weaving and other mill occu-
pations. Not until the extraordinary
demand for labor arising out of the
abnormal conditions of the last few years
slackens, and brings about a new psycho-
logical approach in which the worker
“calls for the job” instead of vice versa,
does the problem look like being effec-
tively solved. Similar remarks apply also
to absenteeism, which is another factor
retarding output.
It all means delay in attaining full-scale
production, and all the disadvantages that
go with it, including higher costs, which
will push prospects of developing an
export trade further into the background.
Also, unless this productive lag can be
overtaken in time, there is danger of a
substantial import trade developing to the
detriment of the Australian industry. At
the moment there is a serious shortage of
outer-wear materials, both in range and
quality, due in no way to lack of manu-
facturing facilities. Among other diffi-
culties standing in the way of the fullest
possible use of these resources are main-
tenance of rationing on its present scale
and restrictions on types and quality of
yarn and cloth produced. Such interfer-
ences now threatens to bring about a
hand-to-mouth trading policy by whole-
salers and retailers, and consequent cur-
tailment of manufacture. Anothei direc-
tion in which the Government can and
should help is by granting some relief
from the present excessive burden of com-
pany taxation, which tends to keep the
cost of production at home high, and to
impair ability to meet competition from
those countries in which equally steep
taxation is not imposed.
During the year to June 30 last a “sub-
stantial part of the co.’s plant was idle
owing to lack of workers.” Declining
output bumped up manufacturing costs,
while the ceiling for selling prices was
maintained at the 1943 level, when pro-
duction was not much below its peak.
There was a sharp contraction of £29,027
in net earnings (£35,510), which were the
lowest since 1931, and £490 less than the
9 p.c. pref. div. called for. However, the
ords. were handed 12i p.c., thanks to
previous overprovision for taxation, from
which £ll,BOO was transferred back to
p. and 1. account, leaving free reserves
at June 30 only £1256 less than at the
previous balance. In addition to the lay-
by shown in the introductory table there
is a depreciation reserve of £139,593 (up
£20,679). And it needs to be remembered
that 16s, per pound of ord. capital
(£322,000-odd) was jettisoned in 1925 to
cover fire and other losses, reducing the
figure to £80,527.
As for prospects, everything depends
upon solution of the labor and other
problems affecting output and costs.
Demand promises to be in good volume
for some time to come. Since the close of
accounts a little relief has been given by
the Prices Branch granting a slightly
higher selling price for worsted yarn.
Here are the co.’s balance-sheet figures:
1939. 1943. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital.. £480,527 £480,527 £480,527 £480,527
Liabilities .. *33,838 *188,843 *153,820 *153,139
Deprec. reserve t 97,728 118,914 139,593
Freeholds . . 81,596 143,501 144,014 144,091
Plant . . 114,124 238,927 243,480 254,225
Stocks . . 341,805 466,894 477,929 527,795
Book debts, etc. 113,462 203,065 186,598 142,152
* Includes tax reserve, t Deducted from asset.
Last term’s allowance for depreciation,
etc., together with a reduction of £44,446
in book debts, etc., enabled £49,866 to be
added to stocks and £10,745 to plant. The
more or less liquid surplus (£516,808) was
only £6lOl fetter than at the previous
balance.
Finney, Isles and Co. (Brisbane)
To
Jan., Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1935.. 35,506 7 p.c. = 20,410 15,096 41,694
Profit on sale of property, £13,121.. 54,815
1936.. 45,868 7 p.c. = 25.640 20,228 75,043
1937.. 49,786 8 „ „ 29,454 20,332 95,375
1938.. 51,746 10 „ „ 37,033 14,713 110,088
1939.. 5£,853 10 „ „ 37,371 15,482 125,570
1940.. 56,101 10 „ „ 37,681 18,420 143,990
1941.. 44,412 10 „ ~38,113 6,299 150,289
July,
Life-policy bonuses, £2433 .. .. 152,722
1941*. 25,789 10 p.c. = 19,190 6,599 159,321
1942.. 48,610 10 „ ~38,379 10,231 169,552
1943.. 63,568 10 „ ~ 38,663 24,905 194,457
1944.. 65,945 10 „ „ 39,253 26,692 221,149
1945.. 78,454 10 „ „ 39,883 38,571 259,720
* Six months.
An encouraging performance. Net earn-
averaged £62,841 over the last Si-
years compared with an average of
£51,270 for the preceding quinquennium.
War created scarcities, increased spending
power, and brought a heavy influx of our
own and Allied personnel, together with
other ingredients of a seller’s market, to
the northern capital. So, despite restric-
tions, retail turnovers kept on expanding.
Here are percentage increases in aggre-
gate turnover of a dozen Brisbane depart-
ment stores compared with the corre-
sponding period of the previous year:
Average Three Months Ended
A .
/ \
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1938- . . + 3.7 + 1.1 + 0.7 + 3.5 + 2.6
1939- . . + 6.1 + 9.9 + 9.1 + 8.7 + 8.5
1940- .. + 5.3 + 3.0 + 5.9 + 8.8 + 5.8
1941- . . +12.3 +10.6 .+22.2 1.0 +ll.O
1942- .. 0.0 + 0.7 + 1.4 +13.9 + 4.1
1943- . . 2.1 + 3.5 + 3.0 + 4.6 + 2.4
1944- . . + 716 +lO.O + 1.0 0.3 + 5.0
Though the supply position eased a little
the difficulty over the last 12 months was
to get rather than sell goods, and a similar
condition is likely to prevail during most
of the current term.
Last term Finney’s gross earnings
(£279,204) sprang £8159. Trading exes.
(£142,662) made off with £5856 of the
gain. But £9156 less was set aside for
the taxgatherer (£52,471), and the allow-
ance for depreciation was reduced by
£lO5O. The net result, which thus bene-
fited by £12,509, reaching £78,454, was
easily the best in the co.’s history. It was
19.4 p.c. on capital as against 16.6, 16,5
and 12.6 p.c. for the three preceding
years. With one eye on the future, the
board kept the div, at 10 p.c, for the
ninth successive year, and nearly as much
was put by as was distributed.
With war over a different set of cir-
cumstances, and with them a buyer’s
market, can be expected to develop as
controls are relaxed and production is
stepped up. Demand will become increas-
ingly capricious and volatile. After the
regimentation of uniforms and austerity
styles women’s thoughts are turning to
the glamor of more distinctive clothes,
dainty footwear and other frills of civi-
lisation. Hence the importance of re-
tailer’s stocks. Lines likely to be in short
supply for some time are cotton, worsted
and Manchester goods.
During the year Finney’s reduced stocks
(now only 73 p.c. of the 1941 figure) by
£26,924 and increased cash, etc., by
£55,971. There is a suggestion here that
the board is keeping stocks at minimum
requirements and strengthening cash so
that existing lines can be replaced by
others of more appealing design and
quality as they become available. Here
are balance-sheet figures:
1941. 1942. 1944. 1945.
Capital . . £383,793 £388,793 £395,595 £402,067
Creditors . . 133,276 78,144 37,973 29,242
Tax reserves, etc. 30,150 41,109 61,923 54,020
Property, plant,
etc. .. 856,313 352,785 334,646 329,008
Stock . . 305,463 300,875 250,047 223,123
Book debts, etc. 48,799 31,769 14,579 19,901
Investments and
cash .. 15,156 6,358 137,148 193,119
The growth of £5322 in book debts is
the first thing of its kind since before the
war. The year’s improvement in the more
or less liquid surplus (£352,881) was
£51,003. The store, which is in the centre
of the Queen, Albert, Adelaide, Edward
streets shopping block, is to be renovated
and shopping facilities further improved
as soon as labor and materials become
available.
Associated Pulp and Paper (Tas.)
Towards
Re—
April, Loss. Dividends. serves. Deficit.*
£ £ £ £
Rights, development, etc. .. .. 251,233
Preliminary exes., £11,006.. .. 262,239
1939.. 51,823 Nil 314,062
Added patents, £5007 ~ ~ 319,069
Profit.
1940.. 31,743 3 p.c.f= 28,500 3,243 315.826
1941.. 132,092 6 „ „ 68,827 63,265 252,561
To stock reserve, £31,150 .. .. 283,711
1942.. 121,631 6 p.c. = 90,300 31,331 252,380
1943.. 108,545 6 „ „ 90,300 18.245 234,135
1944.. 125,791 6 „ „ 90,480 35,311 198,824
1945.. 101,634 6 „t= 94,620 7,014 191,810
* Excluding “Reserves for depreciation, renewals,
etc.,” now £553,873. f Ord. shares only. {ln-
cludes 4i p.c. on new shares.
It is an achievement for which those
responsible have good reason to feel
proud. After years of research, at con-
siderable cost, a way was found to manu-
facture fine writing papers on a com-
mercial basis from pulp made of indi-
genous eucalypt, a raw material vastly
different from the long-fibre soft-wood
pulps of Europe and America. So with
the blessing of the big mining cos. at the
Barrier, Zinc Investments, Electro. Zinc
and A.C.1., mills were erected at Burnie
(Tas.) and production began in August,
1938. At the start tariff protection
against subsidised foreign competition
was inadequate. But war, which virtually
cut off supplies of imported writing and
other papers, provided the co. with, fresh
opportunities, of which the management
made the most, and at no extra cost to
the Australian consumer. Indeed, Asso-
ciated now sells its products, prices of
which are rigidly controlled, well below
the cost of similar paper from overseas,
and has done so for several years.
What will happen to the price of
imported writing papers when British
and Continental mills get into full
swing again nobody can say at the
moment. The question is compli-
cated by matters relating to exchange,
tariffs, quotas, subsidies, costs, etc.,
all of which have yet to settle on a
firm basis. Locally, much will depend
upon whether wages and prices can be
stabilised around present levels. If a rigid
ceiling is maintained over selling prices
and .costs allowed to rise production,
earnings, employment and the national
income will all suffer. The present ex-
cessively high level of company taxation
weakens the ability of manufacturers to
meet foreign competition by its effect
upon costs.
Although the co.’s output stepped up
from the initially-planned 15,000 tons
p,a. to around 21,000 tons p.a., it has
been unable to keep abreast of the order
book. So a third paper-making machine
and auxiliary equipment, together with
some stand-by plant, are to be installed.
This will lift capacity by 7000 tons p.a.
Over each of the last couple of years
production has shrunk a little, following
decline in delivery of pulpwood, owing
to the manpower position. This and
lifts in the cost of wood and wages, and


New Invention Controls
RUPTURE
No Springs—No Cushions
This latest invention by Dr. L. Barrere brings
to rupture sufferers an entirely new method of
control. It is the result of 40 years’ practice
and improvements, and has been proved com-
pletely successful by all who have tried it.
The NEO-BARRERE acts like the hand when
placed flat upon the orifice. You will at once,
without effort and in all movements, hold the
intestine in its cavity.
Write to-day for FREE LITERATURE.
BARRERE DISTRIBUTION CO.
(Dept. 22H), 243 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY
n
g
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
nim on a course
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotior
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/P
SKIN LOTION 2/i)
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/U
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castiereagti Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
HAPPY RELIEF
FROM PAINFUL
BACKACHE
Many of those gnawing, nagging, fjalhPul
backaches people blame on colds or strains
are often caused by tired kidneys—and can be
relieved when treated In the right way.
The kidneys are Nature’s chief way of tak-
ing excess acids and poisonous waste out of
the blood. Most people pass about 3 pints a.
(day or about 3 pounds of waste.
If the 15 miles of kidney tubes and filters
don't work well, poisonous waste matter stays
In the blood. These poisons may cause fre-
quent and scanty passages with smarting and
burning, nagging backaches, rheumatic pains,
loss of pep and energy, getting up nights,
swelling, pufflness under the eyes, headaches
and dizziness.
Don’t wait I Ask your chemist or store for
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS, used
Successfully by millions for over 40 years.
JPhey give happy relief and will help the 15
tniles of kidney tubes flush out poisonous
Waste from the blood. Get DOAN'S BACK-
ACHE KIDNEY PILLS to-day—the remedy
|hat will make you well «uui Jteej. you; sell, ,
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydiiey,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys, Collins
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. — Advt.
STRONGER... LIGHTER ...LONG ER-LASTING
Under war condi-
tions, only occasional
manuiactura is pos-
sible, but Globites
will be supplied
whenever available.
fg
COMPANY MEETING
Australian Paper Manufacturers, Limited
* , , i :
Address by the Acting-Chairman (E. Tel-
ford Simpson, Esq.) to the Shareholders at
the Annual General Meeting, 1945.
Ladies and Gentlemen, — .
In the absence of our Chairman, Sir Norman
Brookes, who is visiting North America and Great
Britain, It falls to me, as the Acting-Chairman, to
address you today and to give you an account of the
operations of our Company during the year ended
SOth June, 1945.
RAW MATERIALS
During the year collections of waste paper and
waste cardboard, essential raw materials for the
manufacture of cardboard, continued to fall short of
our requirements. Pulp made from straw has been
used as a supplement wherever possible. Overseas
woodpulp deliveries have met our needs, although we
have had some anxious moments when wartime con-
ditions caused shipping delays. Our Maryvale Pulp
Mill, despite many difficulties, achieved the record
production of 86,500 tons of chemical pulp, com-
pared with 32,430 tons last year. The shortage
of coal has been the greatest single factor limiting
the Company’s production for the year.
PRODUCTION
The total output of paper and board was 117,902
tons, compared with 117,259 tons last year.
WAR EFFORT
During the war the Company’s production has been
directed to war and essential civilian uses. If it were
not fully appreciated previously the war has certainly
brought home the value of this industry to Australia.
Every phase of Australia’s war economy and opera-
tions somewhere along the line owes its effectiveness,
and often its existence, to paper and paper-board.
DEVELOPMENT
After exhaustive investigation it was decided to
proceed as soon as possible with the Company s post-
war expansion plans. These plans were based upon
a conservative estimate of the post-war demand for
the Company’s products. Orders have been placed
for additional manufacturing units and additional
steam and power plant. . .
I should like to emphasise that the steps taken
should be regarded as the first stage only of a long-
range plan of development designed to make the most
effective contribution to the essential requirements of
Australia for paper and board and to ensure the
future economic stability of the Company’s opera-
tions.
RESEARCH
At one time it might have been said that industrial
research was a good thing if one could afford it. It
is now evident that no industry can afford to neglect
research, as it is the only guarantee of steady pro-
gress and safeguard of the future.
During the war period the major item occupying
the attention of our Research Department was the
production, of purified wood cellulose for explosives
manufacture. Mention has been made in previous
reports of the work done in producing from locally
?rown softwoods cellulose of a high quality and with
finely standardised characteristics required for muni-
tions purpose. Turning from this work, our Re-
search Department is now directing its activities to
x number of items which will, we believe, play an
important part in the future expansion of this
Company.
PERSONNEL
The total number of staff and employees is now
800; 975 employees and staff left the Company’s
jrvice to join the fighting forces during the war. Of
hese 40 were killed on active service. I wish to
iiank the staff and employees who have served in the
ghting forces for the splendid part they have played
a the service of the nation. Our heartfelt sympathy
j extended to the relatives of those who have made
he supreme sacrifice.
FINANCIAL
(a) The Year’s Results: The net profit for the
ear is £258,775, after providing income, tax of
1235,102, Depreciation and amortisation of build-
igs and equipment amounted to £317,671; this
icludes an amount for the amortisation of special
luipment installed to meet wartime requirements
tub also for the writing down of certain buildings,
lant and equipment installed during wartime at
igh cost. The balance sheet, a copy of which has
een sent to all shareholders, with the Directors’
;port, shows the total in value of shareholders’ funds
E £3,727,678, represented by:—
(1) Current assets ..£2,214,157
Less liabilities .. 828,059
-£1,386,098
(2) Fixed assets after deducting de-
preciation .. .. ■ • 2,194,918
(3) Other assets .. .. • • 146,662
£3,727,678
(6) Price Control: I should like at this stage to
ike a brief reference to price control. There is
doubt in the minds of your Directors that some
rm of price control should be maintained during
e period of transition from war to peace. The form
at this control should take, I would like to sug-
st, should be confined to those items which go to
ike up the basic wage, e.g., food, clothing, rents
d certain miscellaneous items, with a generous eon-
ruction on the item rents, because the figure on
all
he
this
which rents are based must necessarily include
building materials and household furnishings,
this manner the basic-wage earner would be pr
tected against any rise in the items on which
mainly has to spend his money. .
(c) Debenture Issue: There is no need in
address to go into detail regarding the 2i million
pounds issue ot debentures which was recently under-
taken successfully by the Company, since shareholders
received full information in the Prospectus regarding
the objectives of the issue and the uses to which the
money would be put. However, there are some
general comments which I can make on various
features of the issue (apart from its size, which in
itself is noteworthy), which may be of interest.
Firstly, I think the Company and its shareholders
can feel proud that it was one of .the first in the
field in raising a large sum of new money for post-
war development, as an earnest of its desire to con-
tribute as fully as possible to industrial expansion
in Australia and to a high level of employment for
Australians. I can safely say that this is the first
step only, and further steps will undoubtedly be
necessary in due course. Secondly, I should like to
say a word about the use of debentures as a method
of financing major industrial development. This
method has been comparatively rare in this country,
as compared with countries like the United States,
and it was only after a great deal of consideration
that your Directors decided that, provided a proper
balance is kept between share capital and debentures,
such a method of finance is both a sign of strength
and a source of strength.
POLICY
In June of this year the Commonwealth Govern-
ment published its White Paper on Full Employ-
ment. This is a document of the greatest consequence
to the industrial and social future of the country.
Full employment, or, as it should be called, a high
level of employment, is an objective which your
Directorate stands firmly behind. The immense prob-
lems to be surmounted if it is to be successfully
realised should not be underrated. There is no pros-
pect of a satisfactory solution unless Governments
appreciate the conditions necessary for the most effec-
tive carrying on of private enterprise. Only through
a sincere, understanding alliance between the State
and industry can the objective be obtained.
There are important ways in which private enter-
prise can assist. The larger basic undertakings, _of
which your own Company is an example, and which
collectively embrace a great volume of employment,
should endeavour, so far as practicable, to stabilise
employment within their own organisations. This
will involve, among other things, budgeting for an
even spread of production over the year, and planning
capital development on the basis of a steady long-
range programme. Noteworthy advances of this kind
have been made in a number of tha larger British
and American companies.
On the other side, it must be clearly understood
that private enterprise can only make a fully effec-
tive contribution to the employment problem if it is
given every assistance by Governments. It is illogi-
cal for Governments to expect private industry to
provide for the great bulk of employment if at the
same time they pursue policies which are restrictive
and harmful to the fqll expression of individual driv-
ing force and initiative. For instance, the plans of
capita] development of private industry are basic to
a widening field of opportunity and employment, and
Governments should move warily before applying
restrictions to legitimate expansions of business.
Excessive taxation is also inconsistent with an
inventive, robust private enterprise assisting, in a
maximum degree, to the provision of full employ-
ment. It destroys the essential driving urge to
achievement on the part both of employers and em-
ployees, and makes difficult the continuous overhaul
and improvement of machines and technical equip-
ment without which Australia will be unable to keep
in the van of industrial progress. The British people
are facing a great challenge to their status as an
economic power, and it would be the height of un-
wisdom to neglect any measures which will contribute
to raising the efficiency of our people.
I should like to see rates of depreciation allowable
as a charge against profits for income tax purposes
increased, to encourage industry to write off and re-
place its plant and equipment more rapidly. This has
always been a cardinal feature of American industrial
practice, and its wisdom has been demonstrated by
the remarkable productiveness of American industry
during the war.
That there is an expanding role for Governments
no one who view's the economic scene dispassionately
can doubt. But a major purpose of Government must
still be —as it w'as in the days of rapid British
industrial expansion and later similarly of American
-—to create that intangible atmosphere of confidence
without which business will stagnate and the economy
falter. The economic lesson of the decades between
the wars is that the functions of Government must
in certain directions extend —not at the expense of
private industry but in pursuit of a mote energetic
and effective operation of private industry. Private
enterprise on its side must not wait upon Govern-
ment direction. In national policy it must take the
initiative and provide leadership in a way not con-
templated before the war. It must develop vigorously
its own plans in the domestic and export field, make
its own arrangements with labor, carry out its own
research, form its own views on national economic
policy. In some of these things industry has lost the
initiative to Governments. It must regain it. In-
dustry should re-assume leadership on questions which
are primarily industrial questions.
Finally, I should like to express the Board’s
appreciation of the work of the staff and em-
ployees. They have worked w'ell, and we appreciate
the work done and the loyalty they have shown.
the shutting down of the main
boiler for repairs, show up in a
contraction of £24,157 in last term’s
net earnings. That was after allow-
ing £86,992 less for taxation (£74,799)
and an extra £8395 for deprecia-
tion (£115,775). The £101,634 of profit
claimed was 6.3 p.c. on capital as against
8.3, 7.2, 8.1, 8.7 and 2.6 p.c. back to 1940.
The div. was kept at 6 p.c. The £7014
that remained reduced the amount of
capital unrepresented by tangibles in the
books to £191,810. That leaves out of
the reckoning a depreciation reserve of
£552,373 (up £119,343).
Early in, the term the co, bought from
Australian Newsprint Mills the 319,526
f.-p. £1 shares in Paper Makers Pty. for
£85,321 (in scrip), and with them 123,000
acres of forest freehold and 140 acres ad-
joining the mill site. A further 4679 shares
were issued for cash:
1939. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital .. £1,200,000 £1,508,750 £1,598,750
Liabilities.. .. 841,826 61,471 59,823
Tax provision . . 1,675 254,204 247,429
Freehold land, etc.* 100,834 128,538 137,745
Buildings and plant* 971,967 1,173,781 1,247,299
Stores .. .. 61,373 288,560 318,004
Finished stocks .. 52,057 43,648 80,733
Debtors .. 26,679 121,750 142,803
Cash, etc.... .. 16,529 347,616 388,944
Rights, preliminary
exes., etc. .. 314,062 257,885 257,323
* At cost.
The issue of scrip already referred to,
together with allowances for depreciation,
etc., enabled the board to finance an all-
round expansion of assets without calling
upon outsiders. The year’s improvement
in the more or less liquid surplus
(£623,232, including the shares in Paper
Makers) was £137,333.
Zircon Rutile, Ltd. (paid capital
£72,500 in 10s. shares), which is treating
the beach sands at Byron Bay (N.S.W.),
netted £14,498 (= 20 p.c.) for the year
to June 30 last, compared with a profit
of £622 for the preceding year. A 10 p.c.
div. (£7250) was paid. When the books
closed cash (£8775), Government securi-
ties (£21,060), debtors’ balances (£1914)
and stores (£8727) totalled £40,476. In-
cluding the div., liabilities amounted to
£17,309. The year’s production was
affected by two short stoppages, owing to
lack of water and then floods, but treat-
ment .and production figures aren’t broad-
cast. Demand for zircon, which revived
halfway through the term, continues, and
further expansion of output is planned.
Collapse of earnings in 1944 was due to
evaporation of American demand. In
metallic form zircon is used in steel-
making as a scavenger and deoxidiser.
Armor plate and projectiles of excellent
quality are made from zirconium steel.
There is also a demand for zircon porce-
lain for use in connection with high-
frequency electric current.
* * * *
An attempt is presently to be made
to revive the old Lucknow goldfield,
about six miles from Orange (N.S.W.),
by a group which holds working options
over most of the field, and for which
Mining Services Pty., in which the Mar-
shalls are interested, is managing secre-
tary. Declared aim is to close-bore the
area, concentrating firstly on “locating
the downward continuation of the rich
gold chute” worked by the Bismarck
Range Co, in the 1930’5. Equipment
capable of drilling to 2000 ft. is to be
used. The Lucknow field is one of the
trickiest in the Commonwealth. Out-
standing feature of operations to date
has been the amount of diving and shaft-
sinking done in relation to the amount
of sloping. But when pay-ore in quan-
tity is found —shearing and other things
have caused the stuff to accumulate in
pockets—results have often been dazzling.
Speaking generally, the n.e. or hanging
wall is formed of serpentine, the foot-
wall of andesite. The western contact
of these two rock types is known as the
main fissure or joint, and has been de-
veloped for some 4000 ft. along its strike.
The dip varies from horizontal to verti-
cal, indicating the erratic nature of the
deposits. A series of quartz veins, rang-
ing anything from a few inches to 15ft.
in width, make within the andesite of
the footwall. At or near the junction
of the veins and the main fissure the rich
gold carriers are often found, the yellow
metal being invariably associated with
calcite. In the past prospecting was car-
ried down to 1000 ft., but no productive
ore bodies were found below 780 ft.,
which, however, does not mean that they
do not exist.
* * * *
“Iona”: The gold tax, which clips 50
p.c. off the price above £9 a fine ounce,
is likely to have crippling effects on the
industry if continued. Goldmining has
buffered severely from the effects of war-
time conditions, and working costs have
risen steeply. The tax, imposed when
goldmining was a reserved occupation,
slugs company and prospector alike about
8 p.c. (at present) on all gold mined,
whether payably or otherwise. Revenue
collected from this source cannot be
considerable, and dropping the tax would
show beneficial results to and encour-
age production in the industry at a time
when both are needed in the interests of
“full” employment and the national
income.
* * * *
Westralian Government is bringing
down a bill to enable Western Mining
Corp. to acquire a large auriferous reser-
vation, which takes in some of the salt-
lake country between Coolgardie and
Norseman. Co. proposes to spend a con-
siderable sum in prospecting for deep
alluvial wash. Years ago Professor
David spoke of such wash in buried river
beds on the eastern and northern gold-
fields of the Slate. One bed is believed
to extend from near the Kalgoorlie-Port
Augusta railway line in the east to Ash-
burton in the north-west, and, it is
thought, a lot of gold is deposited some-
where along its course. Just where has
yet to be discovered.
* * * *
An option held by Wiluna, Lake View
and Gold Fields Australian Develop-
ment on the Porphyry gold blocks, near
Yarri, in the Yerilla district (W.A.) is
attracting attention in London. It is an
£BO,OOO option, main condition being that
the holders must do 3000 ft. of boring in
the first nine months. Already they have
drilled between 20 and 30 holes in a flat
formation with, it is reported, satisfactory
results. About 250,000 tons of ore are
said to have been located. The, property
was originally held by Edjudina Gold
Mining Co. Later it passed to an
Adelaide co., which is the present vendor.
A small treatment plant is on the spot.
* * * *
According to Westralian Minister for
Mines -Marshall, H. A. Brassert and Co.,
London, still holds seven iron ore leases
on Koolan Island, Yampi Sound. He
understands the co. arranged before the
war to supply iron ore to Japan, but has
no knowledge of contracts, if any, entered
into. He says all Westralian iron ore
leases provide for payment of royalty at
3d. a ton for the first 10 years and 6d. a
ton thereafter.
* * * *
Westralia’s new Government geologist,
H. A. Ellis, has had a life-time associa-
tion with his subject. An associate of
Otago University School of Mines and
Bachelor of Science, N.Z. University, with
geology as a major subject, he obtained
his first practical experience with the
Maoriland Geological Survey and coal-
mines at Westport. Since then he has
been geologist and inspector of mines in
the Northern Territory, and was acting
Westralian Government geologist in
1938-39, while F. G. Forman, whom he
succeeds, was in U.S.A.
* * * *
“O.B.”: Surface bogging and quarrying
has caused a former prominent Kal-
goorlie Golden Mile landmark, the
Boulder ironstone-quartz hump, to almost
disappear. Treatment of quarter of a
million tons of oxidised ore from it is
estimated to have given a return of a
pound’s worth of gold a ton. There was
a time when the hump’s intrinsic value
was reckoned to be nil. That, however,
was when fine gold was quoted at under
£4 ss. an oz,


m
n
Q
0
6
W 7
fU
(TWON'TBELONG NOW/
—before you can fill your car with petrol
and bop off for a care-free day at the beach
with the family. Meantime, your car is not
getting enough running to keep the battery
charged. Call on your Masse dealer once a
fortnight and get him to test it. An occa-
sional re-charge may mean many extra
months of service.
Masse
A 8 I liJ 0 I B 8
VS
W-
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
g
They’re AMPHIBIOUS
Here’s a watch you can take swimming, fish-
ing, golfing in the rain or for a care-free bath
without the slightest danger to its perfectly-
timed movement. Movado ■ Waterproof Swiss
Watches are expected soon. Order now for
Christmas delivery.
MOVADO
(UPMARKET ST.. SYDNEY
SWISS
WATCHES
Open 9 to 5
Mon. to Fri-,
9.15 to 12 Sat.
'*-3-
%
gSS 3
H.P.
Saact
a
H.P. SAUCE
Business, Rollery, Etc
The Coming Showdown
Trade-unionism, whether fully aware
of the fact or not, is in the process of
cutting down production in many vital in-
dustries in almost all parts of the Com-
monwealth. It is asking for a shorter
working week, longer paid-for holidays,
and the general tendency is to produce
less in each hour worked. It is impos-
sible for such conditions to operate
without a fall in production in the
industries concerned. Which means
that, with a smaller output per man,
there must be a smaller share for
each man. Thus trade-unionism, where
it goes on strike to gain the objectives
outlined, is really striking for the right
to a lower standard of living. And that
goes to show how damned silly most of
these strikes are. But few unionists see
things that way. The strike-leader simply
holds before them the prospect of illu-
sory “better conditions” and they fall,
regardless of consequences.
Wrapped round with a tangled mess of
national finances and economics—the
war has added greatly to the tangle and
confusion—the present crazy industrial
attitude is ominous. Demobilisation
problems are upon us. The nation is
loaded with debt as a result of the war,
and the taxation burden is over-heavy.
Inflation is all around us. The Gov-
ernment itself is adding to the waste
of money and manpower common
in union-ridden industry, thus increasing
the debt and taxation burden unneces-
sarily ; but part of our taxation load is
the result of contributions to a national-
welfare fund to provide, generally speak-
ing, for those unable, now and in the
future, to work because of old age, illness
or depression.
It is tragic for this country and its
wage-earners that an attempt should be
made to reduce the productive capacity
of the nation at a time when Govern-
ment policy aims at reserving part of the
value of our present production as the
basis of a widely-based national-welfare
scheme. The setting aside of funds now
for future pensions must, in a properly
financed scheme, represent a levy on cur-
rent living standards. With strikes, a
shorter working week and a go-slow
policy in working hours already eating
into our living standards, the load im-
posed by national-welfare planning is ill-
timed. Perhaps it is better to say that
trade-unionism’s industrial policy is
singularly ill-timed.
In the midst of all this industrial and
political madness Labor is not satisfied
with a 1939 standard of living either;
it is demanding a better one. It would
be interesting to know by what miracle
we have been enabled to provide for
so much greater a consumption out of
so much reduced a production. Our
plant capacity has not been increased or
improved during the war to a point
where it will revolutionise the rate of
production. Far from it. Most fac-
tories catering for civilian goods are find-
ing that their machinery has deteriorated
during the war, that replacements will
take a long time to get, and that they
will be expensive when they are avail-
able. Mechanical improvements in pro-
duction are not going to save this nation
from those trade-unionists who are com-
mitted to a policy of industrial suicide.
Into what great insanity will Australia
eventually be dragged by irresponsible
elements in organised Labor? Com-
munist cells represent the ignition and
the timing of the strike-and-go-slow
machine, but the industrial rank and file
itself is not yet awake to its responsibilities
in a democracy. It is too easily seduced
by its own greediness and lack of sense
of proportion. It is not organised to
express itself ; it is organised more often
to express the policy of trade-union
racketeers. To get anywhere Labor in
Australia must be able to govern itself
and educate itself, and it must let other
social and political classes travel towards
prosperity with it. Otherwise there will be
no prosperity, only economic chaos, with
perhaps worse to follow.
A showdown is approaching. On the
wharves and in the coalmines industrial
anarchy has run riot. Fighting men have
been let down badly by unionists and by
the Government at Canberra. From
Wewak has come a shoal of bitter com-
plaints from soldiers that they have been
reduced to half-rations or worse because
of blunders or hold-ups in the Common-
wealth. A shocking commentary on the
people responsible. This state of affairs
seems the more inexcusable when it is
considered how many wharfies are not
engaged on loading ships plying to the
Netherlands Indies. There should be no
shortage of wharf labor for Australian
vessels, especially so far as the needs of
fighting men are concerned. The space
taken up by 687 striking Indonesians
being repatriated on the Esperance Bay
would have been much better filled with
food for Australian soldiers.
With militant trade-unionism now de-
fying the arbitration laws almost every
day—with almost every strike illegal—it
is becoming impossible for the controllers
of industry to compromise in trade-union
disputes. For the good of wage-earners
and everyone else in this country a stand
against industrial anarchy must be taken
on sound economic ground. The forces
of evil in this country have to be shown
up for what they really are.
—————— %
New Zealand has had a Parliamentary
discussion on its Employment Bill. A
Labor member said the main principle
of the bill was to increase the produc-
tivity of the country, and that threw an
unprecedented responsibility on the trade-
unions ; but he felt sure they would
measure up to it. If Maoriland unionists
measure up to their responsibilities they
will do better than the average Australian
unionist. Here the idea is every privi-
lege but no responsibility. Maoriland’s
debate on the Employment Bill brought
forth much Opposition criticism as to its
socialistic intent, and the Government
rejoinders included comments on the “old
skewbald mare of private enterprise.”
Sullivan, Minister for Supply, said he
visualised a period of difficulty following
the closing down of munition industries,
but displaced employees would be ab-
sorbed in new construction work —manu-
facturers had asked for permission to
spend £3,500,000 on factory extensions
and new buildings and £2,500,000 on
plant.
* * * *
The Bank of England, in addition to
passing over to Government ownership
by . Crown purchase of the stock, is to be
empowered to obtain information from,
and give directions to, the British com-
mercial banks. This extension of the
legislation has caused some surprise in
London. Under the new constitution the
Treasury may consult with the governor
and give directions to the bank,
but, subject to such directions, it is to
leave the management of the institution
to the court of directors. The effect of
this will depend upon how wide and how
detailed Treasury “directions” may be.
Holders of £ 100-worth of bank stock will
be paid approximately £4OO in 3 p.c. Gov-
ernment securities. Paid capital of the
bank is £14.5 million, and about £5B mil-
lion of Government stock will be in-
volved. Former shareholders of the bank
will get the same average income from the
Consols as they have received over the
past 20 years from the bank’s shares.
* * * *
Commonwealth war expenditure dur-
ing the first quarter of the financial year
has been £lOB million. Though this is
in excess of the Budget rate mentioned
by Mr. Chifley, it is in keeping with
actual Budget figures—when those figures
are more closely analysed. The Govern-
ment misrepresented the extent of 1945-
46 “war” expenditure in introducing the
estimates to the House. The Common-
wealth Treasury-bill debt on September
30 stood at £363 million, an increase of
£2O million since June 30.
* * * *
The Federal Government, which,
through National Security Regulations
and through the banks and other financial
avenues, has a stranglehold on all private
initiative, is an economic encumbrance
because of political preoccupations and
administrative incapacity. It is still spend-
ing money extravagantly on “war” when
it should be doing its utmost to rehabili-
tate the national finances, reduce taxa-
tion and give industry its head. The
recent Budget was a piece of financial de-
ception, covering far more expenditure
than Mr. Chifley openly admitted. While
so much humbug is put over by tinny
Canberra politicians—from the Prime
Minister downward regardless of
national results, and at great cost to citi-
zens, it is little to be wondered that wage-
earners resent the heavy taxation that is
levied on overtime earnings. In the ideal
view of things the more war expenditure
that is paid for out of taxation the better ;
but Canberra is making an excuse of
“war” to continue spending a major part
of the national income in an injurious
as well as a wasteful way. Beggars set
up in fluid-drive Chryslers are destroying
incentive and confidence among all classes
of the population. Dedman’s talk about
“little capitalists” was only one mani-
festation of the Canberra policy. So
long as this policy continues there will be
industrial unrest that can be laid directly
at the Government’s door.
* * * *
One of the grievances in which trade-
unionism is justified is unnecessary taxa-
tion. The trouble is not entirely that
taxation is so high ; it is that the money
is not spent to good effect by the Gov-
ernments, especially the Commonwealth
Government. Misdirected Government
expenditure on a large scale not only
means excessive taxation of the indi-
vidual ; it also means that full civilian
production is obstructed by a concentra-
tion of spending, planning and employ-
ment in the hands of politicians. The
changeover from war to peace calls for
a good deal of quick, expert planning in
order to get plant running for civilian
purposes with a minimum loss of time
and employment in the process.
* * * *
There has been a Government instruc-
tion that motor-cars imported from over-
seas up to June 30 next should be com-
plete with tyres. This has brought a pro-
test from an Australian tyre manufac-
turer. Just now the demand for tyres
(and many other things) is so urgent that
normal economic considerations must in
some cases be set aside. But as soon as
our raw material supplies and factory
capacity (including the manpower aspect)
are adequate to meet demand Australia
should not consider for a : loment further
importation of tyres. Before the war
Australian motor tyres were cheaper than
American, even with imports duty-free.
Efficiency of this kind deserves every
recognition.


You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MANSE ASE
All mens-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured'by Mansease Co., Drummoyne, N.S.W.
fg
DUPLICATOR
I has all the fines! features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing. Writing.
Plans, Music, etc.
ONLY
£l7/10/-
AGENTS
WANTED
ALL STATES
Built entirely in Australia by SEND FOH ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
■ ■ ■ ■ SYDNEY AND BRISBANE ,
BRYLCREEM
By Jove/., some chaps
are lucky /"
mU/%
Although Service require-
ments still come first, a
quota of Brylcreem is now
available for civilians. If
you’re lucky enough to get
a bottle, please make it last
as long as possible.
In wide-neck jars,
1/5 and 1/11
mf,
mm
The “MARS” High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Built to recognised Standards of Accuracy.
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the “MARS” Planer is of
a proved design and capable of
obtaining maximum output from
high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED - - - ALL GEAR
TEETH ARE GENERATED. Illustrated literature from
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
PRECISION LATHES, MILLERS, SHAPERS, PLANERS.
Bridge Street, Valley, Brisbane.
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Co. Pty., Ltd., 139 Clarence Street,
Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty., Ltd., 28 Market Street,
Melbourne. STOCKISTS; Goodall & Co. Pty., Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
wsm
f
buy war saviwgs certificates
Dbt
Kf
m
<*>- ,£•*
Thomas Hardy & Sons ltd.. Adelaide, Sydney, Melbourne; Makers of
Tintara Gold Label Port. Amontillado Sherry, Gold Label Muscatel; The
Tmtara Sparkling Wines;— Champagne. Hock, Moselle, Burgundy, and
Tinlara Old Brandy.
IB UY WAR S AVI NGS CERTIFICATES |
RIMS,
SIS
Under its Social Security Amendment
Bill the New Zealand Government pro-
poses to allow a man of eligible ngc &
pension of £2 a week, with £2 a week for
his wife whether she is of eligible age or
not. An additional £1 a week may be
earned between them. A single man or
woman of eligible age will be entitled
to a pension of £2 a week and to earn
an additional £1 a week. Pensions of
widows who have or have had children
will go up to £2 a week, with an addi-
tional 10s. for each child (which may be
increased to £1); the widow may earn
up to £1 10s. a week. Widows who have
not had children will get £1 10s. a week,
and may earn an additional like amount.
An invalid man may draw £4 a week for
himself and wife, and they may earn an
extra £l. An invalid wife may collect £2
a week, and she and her husband may
together earn £3 a week more without
affecting their pension rights. The Maori
War benefit will be increased from £1
12s. 6d. to £2—there is ofily one recipient
of this! Benefits for miners and sick-
ness benefits for adults are on a scale
similar to the old-age pension. Unem-
ployment benefit for adults is also equal
to the old-age pension rate. From
April 1, 1946, provision is being made
to ensure payment of 10s. a week for
each child under 16 irrespective of
parents’ income. Universal superannua-
tion will be amended by providing for
extension of the present limit of £B4 10s.
to £lO4 a year.
* * * *
Another revision took place in the
Stock Exchange price list last week. Ceil-
ings were lifted for B.H.P. (40s, to 445,),
Commercial Banking Co. (£2O Is. to
£22 25.), Burns Philp South Sea (245. 6d.
to 275.), Peters Delicacy (255. 9d. to 28s.
6d.), Tooth (565. to 61s. 9d.) and about
50 other industrial and financial issues.
Among mining stocks, Tableland Tin had
its ceiling for ordinary shares lifted from
20s. to 225. No stock is allowed to jump
to its ceiling price immediately. Even where
the market is prepared to pay ceiling price
a graduated rise to it only is allowed.
* * * *
The Menzies Government abolished
rebates of company taxation as a war
measure. Previously a taxpayer who
received dividends from a company
which paid a higher rate of tax
than his own rate was entitled to
a rebate of up to the company’s
rate. McKell, N. S. Wales Premier,
promptly followed suit simply as a
McKell measure, misrepresenting the
position grossly in order to get the
“principle” through Parliament. When
uniform income tax became the rule the
Commonwealth war-time law applied
throughout the continent. Though it was
admitted to be a war-time emergency,
measure by Menzies, without great regard
for equity, the present Federal Govern-
ment shows no sign of abandoning double
taxation of company incomes now that
the war is over. In public finance, as in
many other things, Australia will have to
get back to fair and logical principles
before it will have much chance of pull-
ing out of what is obviously an ever-
growing economic and industrial mess.
* * * , *
Bradford Cotton, Australia’s most pro-
gressive cotton concern, is asking share-
holders to agree to an incitase of
£1,000,000 in nominal capital, raising the
total to £2,250,000. Notice of the meet-
ing called for the purpose does not give
reasons, but it is understood that the
Cotton Textile Manufacturers’ Associa-
tion has put before the Secondary Indus-
tries Commission a plan for the outlay
of more than £7 million on factories and
plant to meet the Commonwealth’s
shortage of cotton goods. At present
there is a world shortage of cottons. The
plan presented to the Tariff Board aims
to raise Australian cotton-goods produc-
tion to 40 p.c. of annual requirements.
Before the war about 10 p.c. of require-
ments was made locally.
* * * *
Trade-unionism is agitating for the re-
moval of the wage-pegging regulations. It
is doing so in' spite of the fact that price
control is to be enforced for another
three years—and the greatest factor in
most prices is wages. Wage-pegging in
the Commonwealth does not deny to em-
ployees rises in remuneration in sym-
pathy with the cost-of-living index. But
it is supposed to prevent unrestricted bar-
gaining in labor and to make illegal ex-
cessive demands by labor in vital indus-
tries. The pegging of wages has been an
essential part of our war-time economic
controls; unrestricted wage rises can do
as much economic damage to the interests
of all (including wage-earners) as any
other form of inflation. It is true that the
cost-of-living index in the Common-
wealth at the present time is not a fair
reflection of living costs, and that hous-
ing in particular represents a great prob-
lem to many people. But it is also true
that wages, in spite of “pegging,” have,
on the whole, greatly increased, and that
“workers” have not paid a full share
of war’s cost either in taxation or loan
contributions. It is astonishing the
number of people who believe that wage-
earners should have suffered no reduction
in income or living standards during the
war. War, particularly against Japan,
was a life-and-death struggle, and so
great were its inroads into the national
life and production that all had to pay
for it, and pay heavily. But in spite of
reduced living standards there was no
increase in the civilian death-rate during
the war. Frivolous strikers and others of
their kind seem to take the view that war-
time and the immediate aftermath repre-
sent an opportunity to extort “improved
working conditions,” You can’t get im-
provement out of general deterioration.
The essence of our industrial problems
today is that trade-unionism as a whole is
not accepting the responsibility of demo-
cratic self-government and that our Federal
Government is an administrative failure.
* * * *
Labor-party interests have been push-
ing hard their “social-security” plans in
the Commonwealth during the war. In
some cases, too, they have been awarded
higher rates of pay, a shorter working
week and longer annual leave. By con-
trast, the nation has been sinking into
great debt, plant has been wearing out
without adequate replacements, shipping
facilities have deteriorated, railways and
rolling stock have not been kept up to
pre-war standards, and, altogether, the
country has grown poorer both mone-
tarily and in productive capacity. It seems
to be that there are still many Australians
who believe that the war was fought pri-
marily to achieve for them some sort of
“new order” —not to save the country
from German and Japanese domination
at all costs, but for the difficulties of the
occasion to be used to lever benefits out
of fellow citizens who were more directly
engaged in the war. The wage-earner is
often inclined to regard himself as a
small, lone man who is ground down by
oppressive capitalists and others who
have many times the money and power
which he possesses. Taken collectively,
wage-earners represent the greatest body
of income-earners in the land, and if they
mulcted the capitalist of every penny he
possessed they would not be vastly better
off even for the time being. And, of
course, they would very soon find out
that in bankrupting the capitalist they
jeopardised their own livelihood. With
his growth in political and economic
power the wage-earner has not grown in
intelligence or sense of responsibility.
This is most evident in his apparent belief
that a war of great waste of itself entitled
him to a far better economic status.
* * * *
In 1938-39 excise was paid on 157,708
proof gallons of Australian whisky, while
in 1944-45 the quantity had increased to
371,638 gallons, H. E. Thonemann, chairr
man of Australian Distillery Co., Ltd.,
told shareholders at their meeting. Duty
on imported whisky was paid in respect
of 220,341 gallons in 1938-39 and 71,710
gallons in 1944-45. Australian whisky
taken from bond in 1944-45 was greater
in quantity than all the whisky consumed
in the Commonwealth during the last pre-
war year. Mr. Thonemann estimates that
Scotch whisky being distilled this year
will not reach the market until 1948.
* * * *
The trial of Laval in France, which
has shocked French people themselves
because of its intemperance and grossly
theatrical nature, should be a warning
to Australians. In this country there is
an inclination to discredit and/or defy the
law, and the Federal Government itself is
not blameless, its cynical behavior in con-
stitutional matters being notorious, while
one Minister, not pleased with a High
Court judgment, blustered (behind the
protection of Parliament) that certain of
the Judges had “thrown their wigs
away.” Attacks of this kind on the in-
tegrity of administrators of the law are
to be deplored. Upholding the law of the
land involves great responsibility on the
one hand and respect on the other. Cer-
tain pressure groups in Australia are out
to degrade the law to a level to suit their
own nefarious purposes. The people
themselves must resist this evil. When the
authority of the law goes so does freedom.
* * * *
In the United States during 1945-46 it is
expected that 250,000 houses will be built.
But the industry is not likely to get into
full swing until a long list of heating,
plumbing and electrical appliances is
more readily available. There is also an
acute scarcity of timber and other essen-
tials. There was a shortage of a million
houses in the U.S.A. when war began,
and the deficit has since been increasing
at the rate of 400,000 to 500,000 a year.
“In view of the huge potential demand
and the adequate financial resources
available, post-war building prospects are
considered to be most promising, pro-
vided costs can be kept in line,” one
banking authority remarks.


THE SERVICE MAN
REMEMBER THE BRISBANE LINE?
“Ek Dum”: It seems certain that the
next session of Parliament will produce
some stirring debates qn the defence of
Australia in 1940-45.
From a defence point of view Aus-
tralia is unique among English-speaking
countries. Normally defence, like foreign
policy, is above party politics, a matter
on which all sides agree once a plan has
been shaped; and this was so in the
Commonwealth until conscription be-
came an issue in the last war. Thence-
forward Labor was prepared to use as a
vote-buying measure its capacity when
in power to relieve tens of thousands of
young men from the duty of learning to
protect their country.
Under this policy, despite the despair-
ing warnings of men like Harry Chauvel,
politicians in opposition to Labor felt it
necessary to soft-pedal their views on
defence. Whenever they did make feeble
attempts to strengthen the military or
naval situation they could be sure that
they would meet rousing opposition in
Parliament from the Labor party.
At the beginning of 1929 the Common-
wealth military forces had a training
strength of 47,931 including admini-
strative sections. At the end of the
year the Scullin Government adminis-
tered the coup de grace to compulsory
training amidst Communist plaudits.
“Expert Butchers”
An average specimen of the Com-
munist viewpoint in these matters was to
be found in a “Workers’ Weekly” report
of the Anzac Day march in 1927, a year
in which Communism had almost cap-
tured the N.S.W. State Labor party:
A wave of anti-working-class propa-
ganda swept Melbourne like a plague.
The first was in connection with the Duck
and Duckess (i.e., the present King and
Queen, who had come to inaugurate
Parliamentary sittings at Canberra), and
was followed by the jingo parade on
Anzac Day.... when the people were
promised a first-class swashbucklers’
show, including some expert butchers
who carried the V.C.
By 1937 Australian Labor had reached
the stage where Mr. Curtin was preach-
ing vehemently that youth
must never again be sent to die in “the
quagmire of Europe,” and that Australia
itself could best be defended by aircraft
—“300 aircraft,” which were to cost less
than a battleship. The adoption of this
convenient programme enabled speakers
to oppose compulsory military training
as unnecessary and to use their policy
as an article of barter with something
like a clear conscience. Communist
unions backed this attitude enthusiasti-
cally. It has always -been their policy—
their ultimate aim being the overthrow of
Australian institutions —to use every
measure which would prevent the exist-
ence of an internal military force at the
call of the Government.
When war with Germany broke out
the tune for the unions under Com-
munist domination was called by Dmitrov,
Secretary-General of the Comintern,
whose pamphlet War and the Working
Class was published by the Communist
Party of Australia. It took the stand
that the war in which Germany and
Russia were partners in Poland was an
Anglo-French “imperialist war” for
colonies. In fact, Britain and France
were the “aggressors” and, Poland hav-*
ing been divided between Germany and
Russia, there was nothing left to fight
about.
After that a campaign—called an “anti-
conscription” campaign, but in reality an
anti-recruiting campaign—was carried on
with the vigor of impudence by Commu-
nist-controlled unions. Parallel with it
was a campaign to prevent the sending of
Australian troops to the Middle East and
to the fringes of the Indonesian zone, i.e.,
in New Guinea.
“Defend Soviet Russia!”
It was represented that in the Middle
East Australian troops might be used
presently to “attack Russia” —they were
fighting desperately to hold their own in
Africa at the time —in the interests of
the “British oil monopoly.” The so-
called oil monopoly was of great interest
to Communists bent on disruption of the
British Empire and Commonwealth, since
it provided the Royal Navy and the
British forces in the Middle East with
their means of transport in their battle
with Russia’s partner, Nazi Germany.
Simultaneously there was violent pro-
paganda against the defence by Austra-
lian troops of the northern islands. It
was represented that the “imperialist”
Powers were bent upon establishing mili-
tary control in the East Indies to prevent
the inhabitants obtaining independence,
carrying out Communist insurrections,
one of which in 1927 had resulted in con-
siderable bloodshed. Leaders of the Com-
munist insurrection were exiled to Dutch
New Guinea.
It was strange how Labor policy ran
parallel with the programme put for-
ward by the Communists.
The spearhead in promoting it in Par-
liament was Mr. Ward.
The Party Line Changes
While the Menzies Government was in
office the theory was that its objective
in sending troops outside Australia could
be based only on imperialistic grab.
So soon as the Labor Government
came into power Communist policy
changed. It became more insistent and
vocal when the Japanese attacked Pearl
Harbor. Then the slogan: “Defend Indo-
nesia! Defend Java!” was heard and
Communists began to be interested in the
defence of even New Guinea, • And there
were savage attacks—Communist chiefly
but not altogether—on the British com-
mand in Malaya, as cowardly and con-
temptible.
Strangely again, the Government’s
attitude altered. Mr. Ward, who had
been closest to the Communist line in
opposing the defence of New Guinea,
was now foremost in propagating the
Communist line that the islands of the
north must be defended at all cost and
that the Menzies Government had been
recreant in its duty in failing to provide
the defence which Mr. Ward had so
strenuously opposed.
Thus Mr. Ward, fresh from a
conference of trade - union secretaries,
among them several members of the
Communist Committee (Thornton and
others) at the end of January, 1942, in-
toned that he would like to “criminally
prosecute” those “guilty men”.... those
men who “put Australia last,” Mr. Men-
zies and Mr. Spender. In other quar-
ters he was vocal in declaring that the
Menzies Government and the military
command had failed in its duty to defend
the whole of Australia,
These outbursts, though characteristic,
were amazing in the face of the dictum
of Mr. Ward’s leader, Mr. Curtin, uttered
on October 18, 1941, 11 days after the
Curtin-Ward Ministry took office:
Through their membership of the Ad-
visory War Council, most Ministers of
the (newly-formed) War Cabinet are
familiar with Australia’s war effort, and,
since assuming office, the Government
has made a broad review of the situation
with the chiefs of staff and the Com-
mander-in-Chief, Far East. The Navy is
*at the highest pitch of efficiency, as
demonstrated by the notable exploits of
some of its ships overseas. The Home
Defence Army is well trained and its
equipment has been greatly improved.
The strength of the Air Force has been
largely increased, both in respect of home-
defence squadrons and training resources
of the Empire Air Scheme. The equip-
ment of the Air Force has also been
much improved. Finally, munitions pro-
duction and the development of production
capacity over a wide range of classes,
including aircraft, are growing weekly....
It has been the privilege and duty of
the new Government since it assumed
office to take several important decisions
on co-operation with other Powers in the
Pacific which reflect an extraordinary
advance on what might have been con-
sidered possible a year ago. I wish to
assure the Australian people that the Gov-
ernment is alive to all eventualities of the
situation, and some time ago all necessary
precautionary measures for the defence of
the Commonwealth and its territories were
taken by the services.
Mr. Ward’s views are mainly signifi-
cant in relation to the change which took
place in Australian military policy and
the disastrous results which came from
the scheme of dispersion which was
adopted and which, according to Mr.
Ward, was out of line with the policy of
those who framed Australia’s defences
and fitted the plans to our resources.
“Brisbane Line” Strategy
The defence lines of Australia had been
laid down years before the outbreak of
the Japanese, or even of the German, war.
They were based primarily on our ability
to defend ourselves, which was small.
Effective defence frequently envisions
months or years of retreat or stalemate
and even of sectional temporary defeat.
Thus, Mr. Churchill in 1941 was able to
tell the British to look forward to 1944.
Communists advertise the retreat to the
Volga as a stroke of military genius.
The Australian military command}
with resources which were painfully thin,
and with a personnel which was pitifully
untrained and poorly armed even by
1914-18 standards, contemplated making
the most of its resources by placing its
formations where they could best defend
the vital portion of Australia, its indus-
tries and its larger populations, and where
the existence of roads and railways would
make its force most mobile and of most
use for defending the greatest number of
points, the enemy’s ships and air arm
being on the stretch.
On the basis of Mr. Ward’s “revela-
tions” it seems that the Government
threw overboard this plan and adopted
one which was agreeable to Communists,
and to newspapers with which Com-
munists were then very popular. Hence
the sacrifice of the men of Java: 2000
good but ill-armed troops who had
proved their mettle in Syria. Hence also
the sacrifice of the garrisons of Ambon
and Rabaul, in the latter case with a
civil population which in view of the
situation could have been withdrawn and
saved. With the enemy in command of
the sea, and able to develop overwhelming
strength on land and in the air, the situa-
tion of all these small forces and of
that sent to Timor was hopeless—though,
by dint of wonderful courage and re-
source, part of the Timor force got away.
Curious Parallels
At that period there were numerous
issues on which Government and Com-
munist opinion ran in curious parallel
courses, the outcome of which was that
the Communists obtained the results they
aimed at. When the Communists wanted
Ratliff and Thomas out, the Govern-
ment’s view on the internment of Austra-
lian subjects was one thing; when the
same people wanted the Australia
First people in, Government opinion
turned a somersault. When the Com-
munists were against sending troops out-
side northern Australia to create a fringe
defence, the Labor party was implacably
against sending them. When the Com-
munists made a volte face and were for
defending Indonesia and arming the
Javanese, the Government decided to
set down island garrisons here and there,
each with only a shadow of air support,
and with the enemy in command of the
sea.
When the Communists and their daily
press organs promulgated the idea that
guerrilla troops were worth more than
trained troops, Mr. Forde became con-
vinced that he could turn out front-line
fighters fit for battle training in three
weeks. But even Mr. Forde could not go
so far as to adopt the Communist idea
that A.I.F, divisions could be left over-
seas to open a second front in Europe
while Australia itself was defended by
“a People’s Army,” i.e., by a Com-
munist-controlled militia in the hands of
shop stewards and the like.
The whole history of defence at that
time is such as to point the moral for a
national defence policy continually im-
plemented through a skilled and continu-
ally rejuvenated general stalf and free of
political influence. Meantime, a full in-
quiry into the very phases of the Gov-
ernment’s actions in defence of the coun-
try round the early months of the Japan
war would be healthy in illuminating the
factors and influences that produced
some of the events which now seem so
appalling, and the losses which now seem
in perspective so tragic, futile, unneces-
sary.
1942 and 1943
Mr. Ward will certainly be tackled on
his Brisbane Line outbreaks, in which
he rang the changes on the assertion that
“when the Curtin Government came into
power the defence plan provided for all
of Australia north of a line north of
Brisbane.. . .to be abandoned to the
enemy.” To this Mr. Curtin, borrowing
an opprobrious word from his lieutenant,
added that “the home-defence plan was
defeatist in outlook and preparation.”
These things were said in 1943, the elec-
tion year, and the year after Rabaul,
Ambon, Timor and Java, all the respon-
sibility of the Curtin Government, though
Mr. Forde has tried feebly to associate
“the previous Government” in the respon-
sibility for Ambon. Was the Brisbane
Line business something more than
muddy—though effective —election pro-
paganda? Was there a notion that in
the mud-darkened atmosphere the truth
about Rabaul, Ambon, Java and Timor
could not, or at least would not, come
out?
The Hungry Sixth.
“Ek Dum”: With thousands of
prisoners-of-war coming back, in British
ships chiefly, the distinction of being
“the forgotten men” of the A.I.F.
seems to have been transferred to
the Sixth Division. The pioneer 1939
division is stationed at Wewak, most re-
mote of the New Guinea fighting areas, at
the end of a long, rain-soaked, bloody
campaign which was hampered in its
early stages by disgraceful shortages of
food and weapons.
There is no doubt about the facts. They
are attested by scores of letters from
members of the division ranging from
officers to privates. One letter, typical,
was addressed on October 4 to a member
of the Advisory War Council by a Sixth
man who was a public servant before
he enlisted:
On behalf of the thousands of men of
the division I appeal to you to do some-
thing to alleviate the serious food situa-
tion which has developed in this area. For
some reason which only the Government
knows, our supplies have been allowed to/
decrease steadily. We have not had fresh
vegetables for almost two months, and
have been extremely lucky to receive on an
average two meals of fresh meat per week.
Supplies of fresh meat were exhausted
today. We are on half rations, and even
with the present precautions present
stocks are only expected to last about 10
days. Our breakfast this morning con-
sisted of a slice of toast and a cup of tea.
Already skin diseases, attributable to lack
of vitamins, have become prevalent. Our
G.0.C., Major-General Robertson, has
done everything possible to avert a critical
position without result.
We have tried to work out why this
should be when, apart from the transport
of repatriated p.-0.-w., food for forward
troops has always been of the highest
priority. Can it be that the Government
has leamt that at.the forthcoming elec-
tions it will be more than lucky to receive
any votes from the servicemen whom it has
continually let down with its conciliatory
attitude towards our gallant strikers, or
is it that we have served our purpose and
can now be dumped?
Mr. Abbott, M.H.R., an Old Digger,
has quoted an army signal issued to the
troops in September:
Q.G.929, unclassified. Shortage rations
and pol (petrol, oil, lubricant). Until
shipping arrives from mainland issues of
ration commodities, of which less than 14
days’ stocks are held, will be reduced to
50 per cent, normal issue, commencing
October 1. Main items affected: tinned
meats, milk, beans, margarine. Until full
rations are available one vitamin B and one
vitamin C tablet per man will be issued
daily.
Conditions became much worse after
the letter was written, and all the feeble
attempts of Mr, Chifley and Mr. Forde
and of Communist leaders of waterfront
unions to cover up the real facts are
futile.
Mr. Chifley affected to be “inquiring"
and Mr. Forde began calling for the re-
ports which he invariably calls for on
such occasions. Senator Ashley denied
that the shortage was due to failure to
load ships in Australian ports. Nelson, the
Communist president of the Waterside
Workers’ Federation, tried to pin the
issue down to a single ship which sailed
long after the crisis began to develop.
None of these excuses holds any water
whatever. The letter to the A.W.C. mem-
ber makes it plain that fresh vegetables ran
out early in August. The question of sup-
plies, military and ration, was debated
lustily in Parliament in March and
April, Acting-Minister for the Army,
Senator Frazer, was sent to investigate
the position, and reported it satisfactory.
Assurances were given on that matter in
April and May, by the Prime Minister
and by other Ministers responsible.
The supplying of a division in a remote
area is not something which is done over-
night. It is organised—of necessity—
months ahead of the usage of supplies.
The feeding of the troops in September
should have been in hand as far back
as March, when the debates in the House
were in progress. Obviously it was not,
or if it was the plans have been dis-
organised by the series of strikes, go-
slows and other disgraceful industrial
incidents in coal and shipping circles
which since so gravely have hampered not
only the A.l.F.’s operations, but those of
the Royal Navy. R.N, commanders
early this year prayed that Providence
would send them a base as far from Aus-
tralia as possible before the methods of
unionism and “government” in this
country wrecked their plans.
The most wicked factor in the present
trouble is that the shortages began
to develop while hostilities were still
in being. Apparently, had the war
continued, as every military authority
believed that it would continue, into Sep-
tember, the men of the Sixth Division
would have fought starving.
They’re coming home:
With the arrival of 1300 p.-0.-w. at the week-
end on H.M.A.C Formidable, proud flagship
of the Royal Naval Aircraft Carriers in the
Mediterranean in the days of Crete and Malta,
the back of the task of bringing home the
long-lost Eighth Division was broken. For-
midable was diverted from the task of taking
British p.-0.-w. home to bring the 1300
from the Philippines. She was followed by
H.M.A.C. Speaker with another batch from
Manila. At Singapore only 2000 men re-
mained. The first were due to leave by the
Moreton Bay on October 15, and the balance
before October 25 on the Circassia and the
hospital ship Dorsetshire. All these are due to
travel via Fremantle. The most elated p.-0.-w.
to arrive during the past week were those who
came in the Duke of Gloucester’s York, and
who were only .19 hours on the way from Singa-
pore to Laverton (Vic.), South Australians
having been delivered in Adelaide in 17 hours.


(VtUouw*
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
After nearly 50 years in the mining
game in Queensland, E. J. Laun is pull-
ing out for a rest, having retired from
the Mines Department at Charters
Towers. He went up from the N.S.W,
Northern Rivers in ’96, getting a start on
the Day Dawn Block and Wyndham as
mullocker, trucker and platman. After
that he passed through other jobs, toiled
awhile at Chillagoe, had to do with
copper, tin and wolfram. Later he re-
turned to the Towers and gold, attended
the School of Mines and joined the
department in 1907, thenceforward mov-
ing extensively about North Queensland
mining districts. He had a hand in the
rescue work at the Mt. Mulligan colliery
in 1921, when ah explosion killed 75 men.
Low’s drawing of John Lemmon
—he is now 70 —represents him as he
was in the days when it was almost im-
possible to go anywhere in Victorian
Labor politics without falling over him.
Then he was about 40, the Trades Hall
authority on workers’ education, president
of the Working Men’s College, in which
he himself had been trained, arid past
president of the A.N.A. Lemmon was the
inevitable Education Minister in Labor
LEMMON, ACCORDING TO LOW.
Ministries —he served in four —and for a
time was a councillor of Melbourne Uni.
An athlete in his younger days, he proved
a stayer in politics, and attempts to
shift him from the Williamstown State
seat, which he has held since 1904,
have failed, leaving him ultimately
the father of the Victorian Assembly,
and full of fight —he was Mayor
of Williamstown last year though
attacked by a Liberal, an Inde-
pendent and a Commo. at the forth-
coming election. His son. Nelson, who
used to be chairman of the Gnowangerup
Roads Board, and who is a member of
the Wheat Stabilisation Board of W.A.,
won the Forrest seat, long John Prowse’s
preserve, at the 1943 Federal poll.
Another Victorian Labor pioneer has
not been so lucky as John Lemmon.
Edmund Cotter, who has held the Rich-
mond seat since 1908, was beaten for the
party nomination by S. M. Keon, secre-
tary of the Victorian Public Service Asso-
ciation.
The posthumous V.C. award to Lieut,-
Commander Gerald Roope, R.N., must be
something of a record. It was for an act
of gallantry performed five years ago,
when Roope’s destroyer, H.M.S. Glow-
worm, firing torpedoes at 400 yards, went
down fighting the German heavy cruiser
Hipper. The details of his heroism did
not become available till the Glow-
worm’s survivors were released from a
p.-0.-w. camp in Germany. After the
Glowworm sank Roope reached the
Hipper’s side and seized a rope, but he
was so exhausted after helping several of
his men to safety that he had no strength
to hold on in the heavy seas and was
drowned before he could be pulled out.
Australia lost a good friend in Dr.
Georges Guillaume Morel, delegate here
of the International Red Cross since 1940.
A benign figure, with a friendly smile,
he confessed to loving this country second
only to his own and frequently recounted
with humor incidents to prove that Aus-
tralians were “happily unique.” He
was on a Red Cross mission to the N.E.I.
when he became suddenly ill in Brisbane
and died after an operation. Formerly
sub-editor of the International Statistical
Year Book and sub - editor of the
Armaments Year Book in the Disarma-
ment Section of the League of Nations
in Geneva, he did excellent work amongst
the considerable number of enemy
p.-0.-w. and internees in Australia, from
whom he received a great many letters
of appreciation. In the course of his
duties he travelled thousands of miles
throughout Australia each year. Only
47, he leaves a widow and a young son.
Arthur Butler, whose airline company
is turning its Mascot (Sydney) fac-
tory into a co-operative show run
by the employees, is a tiny, dark-
haired, youthful-looking birdman who
gives the impression that he could
accomplish almost anything he set his
mind to, short of sitting still. After
qualifying for his B commercial air ticket
and.ground engineer licence he went to
England in 1931, and a chance meeting
with Nicholas Compel, designer of the
Comper-Swift, led to a successful attempt
on the light-’plane record to Australia
in the smallest ’plane to fly here.
Butler contributed his fare to the
cost of fuel, and after 20 landings
made a record of 9 days Ihr. 57min.,
which stood for some ‘time. Suc-
cessful tenderer for the Cootamundra-
Charleville link in the England-Australia
air mail, he formed Butler Airways; of
which he was first and only managing
director. The co. runs services from Syd-
ney to Charleville, via Coonamble, and
Sydney to Bega, and during the war
manufactured aircraft parts, and over-
hauled and rebuilt service aircraft, Ayro
Ansons in particular. Its head is a firm
believer in Australian liaison with the
British aircraft industry.
“Contact”: Talking of tough observers
(B. 19/9/’45), I’d say the toughest of the
No. 1 Squadron gang was L. W. Suther-
land, D.F.C., D.C.M., who won the latter
decoration in the Light Horse before
joining the A.F.C. After the war he
joined the permanent Air Force, and,
taking an SE5a off the old Canberra
aerodrome, hit a fence and crashed badly.
Realising that his neck was injured, he
locked his hands and pulled them down
hard on his head, keeping them there
until he was safe in hospital under a
doctor’s care. His neck was broken, and
for many months he lay in plaster, able to
move only his eyes. Recovering, he was
pensioned by the R.A.A.F., and now sells
oil for the Wakefield people. He applied
for a commission in the Militia when it
was being expanded, and was actually
accepted until something was mentioned
about the neck. He wrote a book on the
work of No. 1 Squadron called Aces and
Kings.
“R.V.” on a dangerous job:
About the most dangerous civilian job in
war-time is that of the man who works the
submarine cables He has to stick to his post till
the last, there being no chance of “evacuating”
like other civilians, and he frequently departs,
if he departs at all, from an occupied city
after the soldiers and after sending his last
message. Consequently the highest rate of
casualties proportionate to numbers in the wake
of the Japanese invasions was amongst the staff
of Cable and Wireless. Sixty-five members of
the European staff were taken at the various
capitulations: 40 interned, 25 posted miss-
ing. Among those interned at least
four deaths have been confirmed and not
one listed as missing has been recovered.
Of those who got out of Singapore 12 are
known to have been aboard a steamer bombed
and sunk by the Japs—there was one survivor.
News of others is turning up. Fred La Nauze,
of Melbourne, died in captivity in Malaya. He
was the younger brother of G. H. K. La
Nauze, who in the last war sent the wireless
message from Cocos which brought the Sydney
to destroy the Emden. A. Stevens, of N.S.W.,
who was manager at Batavia and sent the last
message from that city, has died in Java, but
his second-in-command, J. T. Ryder, is re-
ported safe there. Two Maorilanders, Coates
and Sladden, who were working Banjuwangi-
Darwin, were reported safe a year ago, but
further news of them is awaited. J. G. Laurie,
of S.A., manager of Labuan station, and
E. T. E. Meredith, of N.S.W., an old Bulletin
contributor from those parts, are safe and well
at Kuching. G. J. Feakes, of Sydney, and
R. H. C. Green, an ex-member who was serv-
ing on censorship in Singapore, are reported
O.K. There were no casualties at Cocos,
although the tiny islet was a perfect target and
was bombed on several occasions. Hong Kong
and Singapore resumed communications the
day of the surrender and, although Java isn’t
a particularly healthy spot for Europeans at
the present juncture (in fact, they are being
got out), a new manager is going in, to take
over the station at Batavia. Cable men call
theirs “the othef Silent Service.”
The Celestial diplomat, old style,
studied ancient Chinese history, the Con-
fucian Analects, the Spring and Autumn
Annals. He wrote literary essays in a
language so dead that it was incapable
of expressing anything but generalities,
and in which it was considered improper
to bring thought and literature into any
relation whatsoever—an attitude not per-
haps peculiar to China, A revolution in
1917 brought the spoken tongue into use
as a medium for the writer, and now
potential Chinese diplomats take degrees
in sociology and economics at Harvard,
Oxford, or some other such address.
Cheng Yu Ting, Chungking’s Min-
ister to Australia, belongs to the new
school. He studied international relations
at the Londoh School of Political and
Economic Science, has been on special
missions to Paris, Tokyo, Shanghai and
Hong Kong, was political adviser to
Foreign Minister Dr. T. V. Soong, and
is an old friend of Generalissimo Chiang.
Slim, spectacled and studious-looking, he
has a wife and five children.
A. S. Macdonald, sketched here by
Scorfield, has been in many parts of the
world, but found the climate (or some-
thing) of Australia to suit him better than
that of any other place. Macdonald was
born in Scotland 57 years ago, and it was
odds-on that he would be an engineer.
He is an associate of the Royal Technical
College and B.Sc. (Engineering), Glasgow
University; he has added London and
Australian degrees since. At 22 he was
helping to build the Para port in Brazil.
Two years later he joined the P.G.E.
Railway in Canada. In 1915 he dumped
his bags in Australia, taking a job with
the Sydney Harbor Trust, but soon was
A. S. MACDONALD.
off with A.I.F. artillery. He rose to cap-
tain’s rank and was wounded twice. After
the war he spent a year or two in London ;
then he set up in Australia as a consulting
engineer. On his own or with various
partners (his firm is now A, S. Mac-
donald, Wagner and Priddle) he has
supervised something like a third of the
major construction jobs in Sydney during
the past 25 years, and his work is known
in N.Z. and S. Africa. His honorary
activities are almost endless, and are his
chief hobby. His son served in the
R.A.A.F. during the recent war.
Charles Pearcey Mountford, whose
benign, 55-year-old visage is served up
herewith, is one of a group of S. Aus-
tralian scientists who have done more to
preserve knowledge of the Australian abo,
than most moderns. Well equipped with
an accurate knowledge of drawing as an
AN ABO. AUTHORITY.
engineer, and gifted with the power of
the brush, Mountford’s collection of pic-
tures of the Red Centre and its native
inhabitants is the finest in existence. As
usual with men of his calibre; his work
has been better appreciated outside his
own country than in it. He received the
Gold Medal of the American National
Geographic Society a full 20 years ago,
and his last tour of the U.S. under Com-
monwealth Government patronage was so
successful that he is now off on another
one, from which he will return to visit
Arnhem Land under the auspices of the
National Geographical Society to collect
fresh Territorian material.
The family of F. E. Bassett, of Wyn-
yard (Tas.), are fully entitled to be in the
front row of great Australian fighting
families. Eight sons joined the services
for World War II; four have been dis-
charged, three are still in khaki, and the
last has just been released as a prisoner-
of-war in Sumatra. One was among the
Rats of Tobruk.
Passed on in Sydney shortly after
reaching his three score and ten, Alfred
Webster Thompson, owner for more than
half a century of Widden Stud, a nursery
of great racing stock. On the death of
his father, John Thompson, founder of
the stud, A.W. took over in 1914 as senior
partner with his brother Albert, and
became sole owner in 1925. One of the
greatest sires to stand at .Widden was the
imported Valais, bought for 14,000
guineas at the dispersal of the Arrowfield
Stud. Valais sired Heroic, sire of Ajax,
now at Widden and begetter of an A.J.C.
Derby winner. Magnificent, from his first
crop. A.J.C. member for nearly 40 years
and a committeeman since 1936, Thomp-
son found time for civic duties, being
on the Muswellbrook Shire Council for
14 years, including four as president. A
widow, three daughters and a son, Lieut.
Frank Thompson, survive him.
Into the silence:
At Gindie, Emerald (C.Q.), Frank H. Gibson
(77), old-time drover and horseman of the
Dawson and the Gulf country, who put up a
record among bushmen by keeping a complete
double set of teeth undecayed to the end, and
.who crossed his last saddle only an hour or so
before he died.
At Christchurch (N.Z.), at 98, Rev. Frede-
rick Guise Brittan, last of the “Canterbury
Pilgrims.” Born in Dorset, son of Dr. William
Guise Brittan, chairman of the Pilgrims, he
arrived in the ship Sir George Seymour, being
then two years of age. He was grounded at
Christ’s College, Christchurch, graduated at
Oxford, took orders and spent a long, placid
life alternating service as a parish priest with
periods as an assistant master at Christ’s Col-
lege. He retired in 1922.


WOLFES
n
IH
# DISTILLED IN AUSTRALIA
FROM
UDOIPHO WOLFE'S ORIGINAL FORMULA
j"«s property ud Ingredient, but it is also of
imitations.
M. MOSS & CO. PTY. LTD.. S
NET: 1 PINT 6 FL, OZS.
WOLFE'S
<zznrmidbjc
SCHNAPPS
AS GOOD FOR WOMEN AS FOR MEN
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO PHILLIP RAYMOND SEAEGG.—TAKE NOTICE
that NELLY CAROLINE ALICE SEAEGG has filed
a Petition for Divorce No. 2888 of 1945 on the
grounds of desertion without just cause or excuse
for three years and upwards If you wish to defend
you may enter an appearance before the 2 1st day
of December 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from MESSRS. BRA YE & MALCOLM-
SON Solicitors 92 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ERIC BOWMAN late of Tenterfield. —TAKE
NOTICE that MINNIE THERESA BOWMAN has
filed a Petition for Divorce No. 4786 of 1944 on the
ground of desertion without just cause or excuse for
three years and upwards. You may enter an appear-
ance at the Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street
Sydney on or before the 12th November 1945 and
obtain a copy of the petition without charge from
T E RUMMERY, Solicitor Lismore or his Sydney
Agents MESSRS. HILL THOMSON & SULLIVAN
Solicitors 115 Pitt Street Sydney.— (l.s.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m.
S8S ;«II '(m
11 i Wmp
ill Miilp
in Mjiiid
iititfl
. "i- V- -
m 3
Modern high-clf'ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates—
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first*
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLESydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
The V.A.T.C. had a most auspicious open-
ing day at Caulfield. A more exciting race
for the Guineas has never been seen.
In the Moonee Valley Stakes Attley had
given Royal Gem a thorough doing. On this
score he was a hot Guineas favorite, 5 to 4,
and he ran up to Valley form, on which Royal
Gem (7 to 1) improved. Apropos, the only
filly in the race, went to the front early and
led at the half-mile from Royal Gem and
Attley, with Don Pedro (9 to 4), ridden by the
Sydney jockey W. Cook, tailing the field.'
Apropos held the lead to the home turn, with
Royal Gem still behind her; Attley had
dropped back a few horses, and Don Pedro was
working his way through the field. In the
straight Royal Gem went to the front, but
Attley moved up to him, and they made it a
neck-and-neck tussle to the post, where the
judge could not separate them. Don Pedro
finished fast in third place, and Magnificent
was a fair fourth.
It was the first dead-heat in Guineas history,
and the race was run so truly throughout and
so fast that the dead-heaters lopped quarter of
second off Ajax’s course record for the mile,
1.37.
There was little money for Magnificent, who
went out at tens. For the Ajax colt it was
his first experience of being out of a place.
He may do better at Flemington. Caulfield is
a course which would scarcely suit him, with
his penchant for running out wide.
Already a short favorite for the Melbourne
Cup, Lawrence had another smashing win in
the Caulfield Stakes, downing St. Fairy and
trustworthy old Tranquil Star. His manner of
winning races—giving the fipld a big start and
then flying at the finish —is calculated to
give nervous punters heart failure, but he
always seems to get there. At the half-mile in
the Stakes he was a dozen lengths behind the
leader, Amana, while St. Fairy was handy to
the front. Lawrence swiftly made up his
ground and, with Breasley taking things easily,
he put in a few long ’uns and won by a neck,
very comfortably. At 350 guineas as a yearling
the Law Maker horse was a wonderful bargain.
Time for the Stakes, 1.50 i, was a half-second
outside the track record for nine furlongs. As a
Caulfield Cup trial St. Fairy’s race was meri-
torious, especially as he carried lib. over the
9.0 he has in the Cup. The highly reputed
New Zealander Typhoon disgraced himself by
running last, and he would have to improve
magically to have a chance in either Cup.
In the Toorak Handicap, sometimes in the
past a good pointer to Caulfield Cup prospects,
the six-year-old Solar Bear horse Huntingdale
put in a good finish to down Prating and
Delina and record 1.37 for the mile. He has
entered into consideration for the first leg of
the big double, and so has Rubontine, from
Westralia, who ran on very well.
The divided Debutante Stakes gave some
more of the new two-year-olds opportunities of
showing their paces. Nestani, who had won a
Maribyrnong Trial, was sent out an even-money
favorite for the fillies event, but a Midstream
filly, Joystream, showed the field her heels all
the way; Burka (Dhoti-Vestral) was second
and Nestani third. In the race for colts
and geldings Crown Gem, a brother to
Royal Gem, had his first run and was made an
absurdly short favorite partly on the strength
of this relationship. He, too, failed, Hindu
Prince repeating his Maribyrnong form to defeat
British Bo and Bray Law. By Dhoti from
Ranji, Hindu Prince has given a speedy return
of the 1100 guineas paid for him as a yearling.
In the Caulfield Cup Silver Link, despite his
failure in the Metropolitan, is well treated with
7.6, but may find the Melbourne horses too
good for him. Indications are that the finish
will be confined to St. Fairy (1), Huntingdale
(2) and Silver Link (3), with a good chance
for Rubontine.
When a Caulfield Cup some 20 years back
led to a batch of long “outings” part of the
terrific shindy kicked up was over a newspaper’s
list of the final acceptors not having included
the winner as a starter. It’s recalled by what
has for some time been common in Sydney
sports pages—the naming of horses as prob-
able non-starters. A whole string of examples
could be produced. That the scribes act in
complete good faith isn’t at all questioned, but
it’s a wonder they don’t treat with deep sus-
picion the information that misleads them so
often.
*** ' *
At Rand wick the crowd slumped to 35,000,
but £117,526 went through the tote, bringing
the turnover for four days to a record sum
of £692,805. And none of the bookmakers
were noticeably idle. A steady drizzle affected
the attendance. It did not affect the track and
particularly good times were made.
With only 281 b. above the limit and only
third-raters to beat, Flight had her easiest task
of the season in the Phar Lap Handicap. At
“take seven to four” she was the shortest
and the only winning favorite. The Royal Step
mare made her own running, with High Ten-
sion, until the pair were 20 lengths clear of
Shining Night, Cordale and Feltpal, with am
other gap of a dozen lengths or so to the fail-
enders. They raced most of the way in this
broken order. In the straight Cordale worried
the tiring High Tension out of second money,
but Flight was the easiest of winners and did
the 12 furlongs in 2.30. The mare has en-
gagements in Melbourne and in her present
form could worry any field.
Although beaten in his previous last two
starts, Sleepy Fox was again sent out favorite
for the Peter Pan Handicap, his first start in
Sydney at handicap weights. He missed the
jump badly and finished third-last. Silent, at
surprisingly long odds (tens to eights), put in a
well-timed run and had his honest head in
front of Victory Lad at the post. Tahmoor
was third and the time for seven furlongs was
1.231. By Talking from Morning Gift,
Silent has been first twice, third four times,
fourth twice in eight starts; distances six to
ten furlongs. Talking was a son of Magpie, and
all the Magpies that came good were honest.
Taking the lead early and untroubled after
that, Superfort won the Juvenile Stakes from
Tamasha and Tragedy at his first attempt.
A beautifully developed chestnut by Portofino
from Swoop, Superfort ran the five furlongs in
1.1, and could have improved on that time had
he been tested. Possibly the preference shown
for his stablemate Prince Standard in the
Breeders’ Plate may have been misjudged.
Superfort brought 550 guineas at the yearling
sales. Tamasha, whose buyer went to 2500
guineas, had no chance with the winner, but
was lengths better than the rest; they included
Mohbuzz, third in the Breeders’ Plate, and
Franjax, third in the Cannonbury Stakes.
Tamasha is a big fellow for an early two-year-
old, a chestnut colt by Titan from Idavale,
and should improve.
Times indicate that the Sydney two-year-olds
promise some good-class performers. Three
five-furlong dashes have been won in 1.01, 1.1
and 1.1., and two of the winners were not
unduly exerted. Still, there was the case of All
Love, 58|sec. —and she never trained on.
The most surprising time of the day was
clocked in the Three-year-old Handicap, con-
tested by a field whose performances marked
them very ordinary. Two maidens, Purple
Heart and Marshal Tito, finished in that order,
with Even Time the next best, and Purple Heart
ran out the mile in 1.37, good time in any
company. Well bred and well named, being by
Midstream from For Valour, Purple Heart was
an expensive yearling and something of a boom
horse as a two-year-old, but failed to live up
to his reputation. Marshal Tito, a Titan colt,
may win a similar event before long; this run
and a fifth in the Clibbom Stakes were
promising.
* * * *
For Rand wick (before acceptances):
Novice Handicap: Marshal Tito, 1; Eagle
Hawk, 2; Volley, 3. Two-year-old Stakes:
Vigaro, 1; Tamasha, 2; Tragedy, 3. Denman
Stakes: Tribal, 1; Warlock, 2; Tahmoor, 3;
TattersalTs Golden Jubilee Cup: Silent, 1;
Cordale, 2; Accession, 3. Three-year-old:
Melos, 1; Mt. Howitt, 2; Even Time, 3.
Club Welter: Fort Denison, 1; Good Idea, 2;
Active Service, 3.
* * * *
Melbourne cricketers gave a great wel-
come to Captain Ben Barnett, back from
captivity with the Eighth Division. As
was the case with so many of his com-
panions, his physique and health were im-
paired during his experiences but not his
spirit. He picked up on the voyage, and
it is to be hoped that he will soon be
playing cricket again. He is still young
as ’keepers go—37. Barnett went to
England in 1938. On and off the field
that team had no better-liked member.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”: Nobody would detract from
Carter’s merits (B. 8/8/’45), but surely,
if the words “iron man” are to be
dragged in for this class, “Alfie” Jarvis,
of S.A., has a claim. He had the ill-luck
to be contemporary with the greater
Blackham right through their joint
careers from 1880 to 1893. Yet he
played in 11 Tests, went to England four
times, and for S.A. “took” the bowling
of George Giffen and Lyons all the years
that they were putting their “colony” on
the cricket map. “Affie” was a black-
smith originally, and anyone who had
ever shaken hands with him (as I did)
wouldn’t have barred him from the “iron-
man” class.
The Australian Board of Control has
invited an English team to visit Australia
in 1946-47, Accepting, provisionally,
M. has asked for Tests to be limited
to six days, the fifth to be played to a
finish if necessary. Sheffield Shield
matches are to be deferred until 1946-47,
but home-and-home fixtures between
N. Victoria, S.A, and Queensland
will be played, limited to four days. The
Services XI (after the Indian tour) will
also play State teams
The W.A. delegate, Randall, startled
the Australian Board of Control with a
request that his State be included in the
Sheffield Shield. A decision was deferred,
but it seems likely to be favorable. The
board appointed a committee —Dr.
Morton, Bradman and Hutcheon —to
recommend what will in future be re-
garded as first-class cricket matches
played in Australia. Its decision will
define what performances may go into
record-books. "•
* * * *
Bromwich and Joyce Fitch proved too
good for Dinny Pails and Alison Hatters-
ley in the final of the Sydney metro-
politan tennis championship: 3-6, 7-5,
6-1. The match was not without incident,
umpire Willard being heckled over de-
cisions. The Old Digger left the stand in
protest, but returned to finish the game.
*’* * *
N.S.W., S.A., Victoria and W.A. will
provide crews for the King’s Cup race,
to be rowed on the Nepean River
(N.S.W.) next April.
* * * *
One of the Independent Company be-
lieved to have been lost with the Monte-
video Maru, on which the Japs carried
885 p.-0.-w. and 205 civilians from
Rabaul, was Mack Ramsay. The Rugby
Union world is not abandoning hope, but
it is seriously concerned for the fate of
a grand fellow. Ramsay was a Rand-
wick forward and member of the
Australian team that went to England
in 1939 and returned without playing a
match. Many of them figured magni-
ficently on sterner fields, and nobody who
ever saw Ramsay the footballer can
doubt that he bore himself like a man
in the struggle with an enemy cruel and
vastly superior in numbers.
* * * *
“Forsyth St”; I’ll'never see it, but
if ever a pampered Melbourne Aussie
Rules team goes to Iron Knob (S.A.) to
play the local lads they’ll wonder what
hit ’em. The oval is turfed with
gibbers and three-cornered jacks, and the
ground underneath is harder than an
umpire’s heart. Yet the boys from around
Whyalla and Port Augusta go out to the
Knob and cheerfully romp round among
the boulders, what time the barrackers"
roars echo over the saltbush. How the
ball itself gets through, a game in one
piece is a mystery, and if ever Whyalla
gets to be the place its inhabitants believe
it will become, with a commensurate in-
crease in teams, somebody would be on
a good thing by buying the Zambuck or
Rexona rights.
*
Veterans of boxing in Melbourne must
sometimes wonder whether they are see-
ing visions. The favorite Melbourne
heavyweight is Jack Johnson. Paddy
Slavin came down from N. S. Wales re-
cently to show his mettle, and Tommy
Burns had a fight on Saturday. None
of these pugs is related to the old-timers
whose names they sport; Slavin is a light-
weight who intends to make rose-grow-
ing his life work (the original Slavin was
nothing like that) and Burns is so-called
because his name is Murphy. Coming
from Queensland with a great reputa-
tion, Burns-Murphy did not live up to it
in his engagement with Vic Caltaux, a
human punching-bag from Maoriland.
Though sometimes in difficulties, the
human punching-bag was on his feet at
the end of the 12 rounds, being then
about ten miles behind on points.
* * * *
“Though absent long from one an-
other,” not having been matched for at
.least six months, Tommy Colteaux and
George Elliott soon demonstrated at
Leichhardt that they had not lost theii
familiarity with one another’s methods.
Other than a punch which rocked Elliott
in the third round, nothing much hap-
pened till the seventh, when Elliott bled
from a left-eyebrow gash. The referee,
after inspecting the injury, let him go
on, and on he went to such purpose
that he got the verdict, which was just,
though unimportant.
Bill Fadden is just a boxer. For three
rounds he was superior to Jimmy Brunt
at the Sydney Stadium, but, as it trans-
pired, the Royal Marine hadn’t begun to
fight. Half-way through the fourth
Brunt shot a right to the chin, and the
punch put Fadden to sleep for more than
10 seconds. It was the one really solid
blow Brunt had unloosed, and it was
sufficient.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney gets more and more rapturous
in her welcome of homing p.-0.-w. Every
day ships are bringing them. Last
Saturday the aircraft-carrier Formidable
brought back 836 of the Eighth Division,
and as * the towering ship reached the
Heads she was greeted by calls and sirens
from 30 launches filled with friends and
relations of the returning men. From
every passing ferry foghorns shrilled
greeting. Thousands waited for the buses
to pass on their way to Ingleburn and
cheered the men within them. Girls ran
from shops and offices into the city streets,
voices raised and faces shining to cry a
welcome. It was a glad home-coming,
even for some who have not yet got in
touch with their relations. One of Satur-
day’s most excited was the wife of Dr.
lan Duncan, whose husband had been
in captivity for four years. With him
came back brother Ted, of Wollongong.
Mrs. Duncan and Sister, Mrs. Harold
Bott, had the joy earlier in the week of
welcoming home two brothers who had
also been p.-0.-w. in Malaya. .
A.C.F. benefited from the Allied Vic-
tory Ball, held in the Town Hall. Foi
the first time since the war every woman
wore a long dance frock. Without excep-
tion these looked crisp and smart in spite
of the fact that wearers were murmuring
about how long they had lain wrapped
in tissue paper. Men wore dinner jackets
or full-dress uniforms; mostly uniforms,
for soldiers, sailors and airmen were at
every table. The dressing, together with
the decorations, gave the Town Hall an
appearance of something of its pre-war
gaiety. Palms waved gently in the vesti-
bule, flags of the Allied nations draped
the balconies. The platform massed with
flowers was a colorful and fragrant back-
ground for the evening. Decorative
effects were by organiser of the ball Mrs.
Sam Jones and Alderman W. Becker.
Mayor Neville Harding and his wife-
welcomed the official guests. In this
group were Vice-Admiral Sir Bernard
Rawlings and Vice-Admiral J. R. Edei-
stein, Rear-Admiral G. D. Moore and
his attractive young daughter. She wore
a frock of summer-sky blue crepe. Black
lace was worn by Major-General E. C.
Plant’s wife and the wife of Town Clerk
Roy Hendy. The A.B.C. was well
represented. Chairman Boyer was in the
party. His; wife’s black taffetas were pat-
terned in gold. Very proud is she of her
nephew Teddy McKenzie, who joined the
R.A.N. on his 18th birthday, saw action
in the Coral Sea, had his ship bombed
at Port Said, has the African Star, the
Pacific Star and ’39-43 medal and is now,
at 23, a full lieutenant. His grandfather
was a captain in the R.N., and his great-
grandfather was a captain in the British
merchant service. Frank Crane’s graceful
wife wore petal-pink crepes, and this
color was also worn by the wife of
A.B.C. general manager Charles Moses.
Margaret Gillespie hostessed one of the
brightest parties of the evening. Mention
must also be made of Bettina Brown s
group of dancers, and of the attractive
girls from Kinneil Officers’ Club who
acted as official hostesses, helping guests
to find their tables. and answering the
101 questions that some people always
have ready to ask.
Winifred Moore, clever newspaper-
woman from Brisbane, has been in Syd-
ney having a grand time watching race-
horses showing their style, being enter-
tained and playing her flute. Winifred,
who is a good pianist, learned the art of
the flautist in the beginning of the war.
She said “You can’t take a Broadway
Grand into an air-raid shelter, but you
can take a flute, and shelterers might be
glad to listen to a little music.” She was
a guest of the Celtic Society one night,
and flautists in Sydney rallied around.
Winifred, always energetic, managed to
take lessons in glove-making during her
visit.
Ex-p.-o-w, actor John Woods was the
guest of the Minerva management on
Saturday at “Love in Idleness,” and later
co-starred with Minerva’s co-director,
Roland Walton (just returned from
America and England), at a back-stage
party given in their honor. Kathleen
Robinson was hostess to this large party,
which, in addition to the actors, included
every person concerned with the working
of the theatre.
There were dancing and “crazy ballets,”
in one of which Minnie Love and Dick
Parry took part. There were a burlesque
of the current play and a supper at which
toasts were drunk. John, always slim, is
much thinner than Sydney remembered
him. He had a marvellous time, renew-
ing old friendships and making dates for
future meetings. Also in the party were
just-returned flying-man Paul O’Loughlin
and his wife radio-artist Maiva Drum-
mond. The party broke up in the early
hours of Sunday, Mrs. Walton carrying
home with her an armful of flowers.
Admirers of Noel Mewton-Wood were
not disappointed in his ballet “Perse-
phone.” There is classic grace and drama
in this composition, and the work was
loudly applauded. The conductor of this
Sydney Symphony orchestral concert was
Dr. Bainton, of the Conservatorium.
Soloists of the evening were Melbourne
dramatic soprano Sylvia Fisher and bari-
tone Harold Williams. Wagner was their
line of country. Sylvia sang the “Liebe-
stod” from “Tristan and Isolde,” in im-
pressive style. Harold Williams as Wotan
stood up manfully to the orchestra.
Theatre first-nighters as well as innu-
merable friends will miss the familiar
figure of Princess Radziwill. The Princess
had returned from a city theatre just an
hour when she died. She had great
charm, a gentle manner and good looks
which had not deserted her even in her
seventies. When she married her prince
(Prince Michael Radziwill, who had vast
estates in Poland, and was related to the
ex-Kaiser) she was the widow of jeweller
Stewart Dawson, who owned the old
Ambassador’s. The Princess was a Lan-
cashire girl. Two sons, Percy and Stewart
Dawson, and a daughter in London are
left in sorrow. Another son, Major
Norman Stewart Dawson, was killed dur-
ing a London blackout.
Sadie Parker, who has just been ap-
pointed by Legacy as Director of Appeals,
is well known in the newspaper and pub-
licity world of Sydney. Before joining
Legacy she acted in a voluntary capacity
as publicity officer for the opening of the
Anzad House Appeal and for the British
Centre, and for five years handled
national publicity for Metro-Goldwyn-
Mayer. To her new job she brings in-
tense interest and a sympathetic under-
standing of the work done by Legacy
members, or Legatees, as they are called
In its beginnings Legacy was the Re-
membrance Club. This was started by
Major-General Gellibrand as a help-one-
another club ; its members ex-servicemen
of the 1914-18 war. Soon the scope of
the club widened, and then came the in-
clusion of widows and children (the latter
being called the wards of Legacy) of men
who had fallen in the war.
Right through the years Legacy has
carried on the work of looking after the
general welfare of these children and
doing all it could to make life easier for
them and for their mothers. The work
is unceasing. If an ex-soldier dies even
ten years after the war his children be-
come wards of Legacy. Now there are
the fatherless children of this war to look
after, many of them children of wards
from the first war. Last year 4000 of
these were enrolled. Soon the present
clubrooms will not be large enough to
carry on the work. Surely it is up to
everyone to help the children whose
fathers have fought for the liberty of this
land, just as their fathers did before them.
An attractive bride of the week was
Betty Hayes, who married her R.A.A.F,
Flying-Officer W, J. M. Baillie at the
Rockdale Congregational Church. The
bride, who is the daughter of the R.
Hayeses, of Bexley, wore white crepe.
There were two ’maids. These were dressed
in blue afid had delphiniums in their nair.
Flying-Officer Bill Hyde was best man
and Flying-Officer Greg Mayes was
’groomsman. After the ceremony the
bride’s mother entertained over 100
friends. The bridegroom was one of the
batch of wireless chaps turned out from
the A.T.C. School on The Bulletin’s
sixth floor, and he will be remembered as
the sole survivor, after more than 30
bombing missions over Germany, of the
crew of a Lancaster which took a direct
hit and blew up.
From Melbourne
With the advent of the racing season
life takes on added zest. Hotels are com-
pletely booked out and fashions are all
set to tempt women who still have a few
coupons left. The season promises a re-
turn to pre-war standards. Governor
Dugan and his lady are to entertain again
at G.H., the first do a small dance on
Derby eve. The vice-regals realise that
most of the girls who normally would
have made their debut during the last six
years have been members of the various
services or doing other war work and
should have the opportunity of “coming
out” now that the war has ended.
In war-time fashions have been sane
and serviceable, and the modes now being
shown in the shops follow the same trend.
Suits in linen, plain and colored, so far
appear to be in most demand. Women
coming to Melbourne for the races should
bring one suit with them, preferably one
which can be buttressed up with smart
accessories, such as a dressy white blouse
and a small white sailor hat.
Pictured here by Broothorn in all the
glory of Chinese robes is Gloria Mellody,
who has appeared in many National
Theatre productions. One of her finest
peiformances was the name role in "Mrs.
Moonlight.” She is also remembered for
a fine portrayal of a cole in Emlyn
Williams’s “The Corn Is Green.” She is
able to change her personality with each
succeeding role. Now she has steeped
herself in the Chinese tradition to play
“Yin Yin” in the Laurel Berryman pro-
duction of “The Western Chamber,” to
be presented at the Union Theatre for
three nights beginning on October 24,
Profits will swell the coffers of the Aus-
tralia-China Co-operation Association.
Asher Joel, recently discharged from
the R.A.N. and formerly of Sydney, is
now domiciled with wife and family in
this city. He organised the party given
in the lower Town Hall to honor ex-
mayor Nettlefold. It was a men’s affair,
and women reporters took their leave after
a very short stay. They had time, how-
ever, to see a landscape painting by
Arthur Streeton, presentation of which to
knight Nettlefold was the crux of the
party. Chief Justice Latham, handing
over the gift, said that one of the features
of the recipient’s term of office had been
the imagination shown in his discharge of
his many duties.
In reply the ex-mayor said he ended
his term of office poorer in pocket but
richer in both experience and friendship.
Among the outstanding events of his term
were the collection of toys for Britain
and the seaside holidays at Frankston,
organised to give children in the Mallee,
at the height of the drought, a taste of
seaside life. He said he hoped to obtain
a permit to go to England with the 55,000
toys collected so that he could play Father
Christmas to British children.
Mrs. J. Bowen Pain, secretary of the
Royal Empire Society Women’s Group,
gave a party in the Matthew Lang
Cellars. Setting was the reception room,
and illumination was by soft candle-
light, in the fashion of an early
day. Candlesticks df silver stood on a
table made of panels of wood from old
wine casks, and more light came from
inverted bowls in the guise of clusters of
green and purple grapes. Pictures on the
walls depicted scenes of early Melbourne.
The party was to give members of the
newly-formed Younger Set an opportunity
to meet knight Nettlefold, president of the
Victorian branch of the society, and the
Dixon lady, president of the women’s
group. President of the Younger Set is
Mrs. Pain.
The 30 girls who form the Younger
Set assisted recently at the theatre night
held at the Village Theatre, Tobrak, when
over £4OO was raised. The money will
help form the library in the new Centre
which it is hoped will soon be established.
All the girls work at the National Bank
and are keen on the good cause. J. G.
Holt thanked knight Nettlefold for the
interest he had taken in the formation of
the Younger Set, and announced that the
head office of the Royal Empire Society
was forwarding £lOOO to aid the expenses
of the new Centre. Furthermore, the
R.E.S. on December 5 would entertain
the Governor General, the Duke of
Gloucester, and the Duchess at a luncheon
in the Town Hall.
Glynness Wagg, one of the girls present,
was responsible for getting the girls to-
gether to help the Royal Empire Society.
Mrs. Hudson Eastwood was also at the
party. An exhibition of her work of
replicas of old masters and hand-painted
china, to be held soon, will also swell the
funds of the Society. At the luncheon a
picture of Winston Churchill, painted by
Mrs. Eastwood, was sold for 100 guineas
and was then presented by the purchaser
to the society as a gift. The picture # will
hang in the library of the new Centre.
The Duke of Gloucester’s colors, red
and blue, predominated in the decorations
of St. Kilda Town Hall for the Victory
Gloucester Ball. School flags with those
of Allied nations hung from the balcony,
and a large Australian flag was promi-
nently displayed on the stage. Flowers
from Mt. Macedon decorated the tables.
One thousand dancers took the floor. In
pre-war days the St. Kilda ball was the
big social event of the year for young
people, and its return was heralded with
delight. Youth had its fling and con-
sumed many gallons of “ginger pop” as it
danced its way gaily though the night.
Funds from previous balls have raised
£5OOO, with which the girls’ ward at
Prince Henry Hospital was built and
furnished. Money from the latest and
future balls will maintain it.
Forty-two debutantes, with their part-
ners, made their “coming-out” bow to the
Herring lady, wife of the Lieut.-Gover-
nor, knight Edmund Herring. All the
debs were frocked in white, with a pink
tulip and spray of lily-of-the-valley in the
hair, and they carried little posies of pink
tulips and blue hyacinths tied with the
Gloucester colors. Hon. sec. for the
dance and Public School Girls’ Auxiliary
Kathleen Lasceltes, trained the girls
in the waltz they performed before an
admiring public to the strains of “The
Blue Danube.” Kathleen presented the
Herring lady with a bouquet of flowers
which highlighted her frock of deep mid-
night-blue crepe. Kathleen’s .short jacket
had lapels of lime-green crepe which were
encrusted with silver beads, and it
matched her long tailored gown of white
cloque crepe.
Ticket secretary Cherrie Kaye was out-
standing. Her frock of white taffeta with
an imprint of soft pink and pastel-blue
roses was covered with a filmy chiffon
redingote of white, patterned in the same
toning as her frock. The long front open-
ing was banded in soft blue satin. An-
other beautiful gown was worn by Phyllis
Croysdill. The front was of white bro-
cade floral patterned, and the. long-
trained back was of mist-blue satin.
Across the back of the waistline was a
narrow fluted peplum and a pattern of
gold beads joined the frock at the sides
and outlined the neckline. With it were
worn long French-blue suede gloves, and
gardenias in the hair. With Group-Cap-
tain Charlton was his wife, gowned in
leaf-brown silk organdie. The skirt, cut
on full-flowing lines, had a band of white
lace medallions at the hem line. The full
puff sleeves and square-cut neckline of
the bodice were also outlined in matching
lace medallions. The bodice of Anne
Wilton’s blue net frock was finished with
tiny velvet bows and was allied to a skirt
full and flowing. Also in the official
party were Dr. and Mrs. Catchlove, repre-
senting Prince Henry Hospital, and Mr.
and Mrs. Burns Campbell.
From Adelaide: It is a long time sirice
Government House here had grown-up
young people in it. But now Rosemary
Norrie, lately from school in England,
has brought with her a cousin, Eleanor,
of the same age, and the two girls are
prominent in everything. Without an
atom of “side” they made beds and
washed dishes for countless soldiers at the
Cheer-up Hut, and now the Governor’s
daughter is head of the school’s Old Girls’
Association.
The engagement is announced of
Meida, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Richard
Manly, to John McCarthy Seward, of
Perth. Meida, a graduate of Melbourne
University, is the holder of a Red Cross
scholarship and is now in her final year
in Social Studies, She is well known in
sporting circles at the University and is
a member of the University Women’s
Committee.


ote
Ltte
llciff lIPHBK
The one thing you will imme-
diately notice when you stay at
the Wentworth is the peaceful
atmosphere . . . the absence of
noise and hustle. . . . The
Wentworth faces a park . . . yet
it is merely “round the corner
from the centre of the city. The
rooms are all you would wish
... the service and cuisine
excellent.
THE WENTWORTH
ill
’Phone BW 1361 (10 lines)
C. D. Maclurcan, Managing Director
WAR RECORD OF THE ‘QUEENS’
‘Queen Elizabeth’&‘Queen Mary’
moved 1,500,000 troops over
1,000,000 miles equal to 40
times round the World.
"Queen Efizabeth
L
Their 200,000 h.p. engines lubricated by the makers of
Mobiloil
VACUUM OIL COMPANY PTY. LTD.
M 4512
H
PRODUCTS
ALITi
m
m
mm
m
m
• ........
m
mm
*sr
Queen
Mary
SMOKE-OH!
“ “Once I thought a lot of your father, but
now I hate and despise him,’ shouted the en-
raged Eric as he left her at the door.”
— Story.
He did go off Pop.
*F *F *F *F
“You need shoes you can live in.”
— Woman’s paper.
For even the flat-footed must have
standing room.
-I- -I- -i-
-‘ Room m garden offered man in exchange
part time gardening.” —Suburban paper.
But he’ll go to sleep on the job.
“Wauled, plumber’s job, £1 week, no cash.”
“Great Northern” (Sydney).
He won’t be a drain on his employer’s
resources.
Ar *F *F *F
"He annoyed her by passing facetious re-
marks about her mother’s hips.” —Short story.
Broad humor?
•F *F *F *F
"In the later stages of the entertainment all
the members of the orchestra revealed obvious
signs of intoxication.” —Magazine story.
One of those full orchestras.
•F *F -I- *F
Ethnological Discoveries.
“Among some natives of Central East Africa
a wife may leave her husband if he fails to
mend her clothes.” —“Daily Telegraph.”
Some quaint marriage customs also
prevail among the M’gumbo-M’gumbo
tribes of the Portuguese Congo.
The ceremony of choosing wives takes
place in the streets of the kraal every
evening. The village girls attract the
attention of passing bucks by slowly
dropping the left eyelid, at the same time
exposing as many teeth as possible. The
prescribed reaction of the buck is to purse
the lips with a sibilant noise, crook the
right forefinger and cry “Oi!” This in
the M’gumbo dialect means “Indeed, this
female is gratifying to the eye.” There-
upon he places his arm around her waist
and the marriage is regarded as complete.
Where two bucks are attracted by the
same woman there is a careful counting
of cattle, supervised by the woman in
dispute, and the wealthier buck is
acclaimed the lucky man.
A different procedure takes place when
two or more women dead-heat for the
same buck. He summons a sufficient
number of his bachelor friends to take
care of the surplus, and there is a general
mating, accompanied by much girlish
laughter, shouting and good-natured
raillery.
The divorce law of the M’gumbo tribes
is simple: there is no divorce. It was
for this reason that I left the M’gumbo
country, when after spending a very con-
genial month there, I was told about their
marriage customs.
Plum.
A sugar-daddy gets all stirred up with
a little spoon.
•F *F *l* *F
The man with the biggest bank balance
hasn’t always the best equilibrium.
•F 4* *F *F
Ministerial Stock Phrases Explained.
“We are exploring every avenue”:
Avenue-exploring is, next to buck-pass-
ing, the most popular sport among Min-
isters. It is a manifestation of the same
sturdy pioneering spirit that animates the
hotel-lounge lizard who recklessly ven-
tures into the trackless wilds of St. Kilda-
road or Macquarie-street. Avenue-
exploring politicians, however, have been
known to become lost, usually in the fog
of their own word-spinning.
“I shall call for a report”: This ffbary
standby is a great favorite when Parlia-
ment has just opened, the six-months
recess is still a couple of months off, and
a question particularly embarrassing to
the party has- been asked. As no report
will possibly be available for at least
three months this gives a fair margin of
safety until the recess, by the end of
which the questioner might either have
died or forgotten it.
“Cabinet doesn’t claim to be able to
produce wonders”: A delightful
example of modest understatement. The
production of gutless wonders can always
be achieved by Cabinet with amazing
facility.
“We have nothing to hide”: This is a
celebrated lapsus lingua. For “to” simply
substitute “but.”
“I am content to let history be the
judge of my actions” : The fatuous belief
that future historians will furiously de-
bate his virtues is indicative of the colos-
sal ego of the hack politician. As an
action is defined as a state of acting,
and as to act is, according to Webster,
to “exert force,” this quite rules out the
possibility of any historian ever becom-
ing interested, quite apart from the cer-
tainty that six weeks after politics know
him no more he will be as forgotten as
last week’s murder.
“We have never stooped to favoring
petty sectional interests ”; As Bungs and
bookies, professional pugs and party
parrots could never be insulted by being
refen ed to as “petty,” the phrase is self-
explanatory.
“It would not be in the public in-
terest for me to comment at this junc-
ture” : In other words, he hasn’t the
faintest notion what the questicai is all
about. As a time-staller this phrase leads
in popularity by a short head from “I
shall have to consult my colleagues be-
fore I am able to answer that.”
“My speech has been grossly mis-
reported” : Always a sure winner when
he has said something a bit more stupid
than usual and it has started to rebound.
“The request will be given sympathetic
consideration”: This is usually said in
an oily voice at the close of a deputation,
and after the Minister has made up his
mind to knock back whatever has been
requested. Decision to knock it back is
mostly taken just after he has been ap-
prised of the nature of the request the
deputation is to make on its visit.
“We are leaving no stone unturned’ :
Unturned stones have the same horrify-
ing effect on a member of the Govern-
ment as industrial peace has on a mili-
tant union leader. When the next De-
pression arrives the Government, it b
felt, will, purely out of sentimental
reasons, have the unemployed shifting
stones from one place to another and
back again, instead of the usual sand.
“We will shortly start”: Sometimes
when they reflect on the stupendous total
of intellect enjoyed by members of Cabi-
net the thought positively frightens
them. It is this fright which gives them
a start,
“This is not the time for rash or preci-
pitate action”: All prompt action is
deemed to be rash and precipitate.
80.
Diversion From Type.
Once Grannie had the flavor
Of true Victorian stamp ;
A Mrs. Grundy savor,
A touch of Sairey Gamp.
She faced the world severely ;
She stood for ancient rights ;
But things have altered queerly
Since Grannie took to tights.
She’s such a curious mixture ;
Her upper half’s still there,
Her bonnet seems a fixture.
And spectacles aglare.
But underneath her waist-line
We see the strangest sights.
Her shanks display their chaste line
When Grannie kicks in tights.
Old head on youthful torso
Should not be sought, they say,
But just as strange, or more so.
Are tights ’neath tresses grey.
The oldest of our papers
Should shun the freakish vein.
O, Grannie, quit your capers
And don the gown again.
LANCE FALLAW.
Fly In the Ointment.
The flowering plum-tree’s laden with
The foaming snow of spring.
And warmth of old delights, renewed,
Embraces everything.
The world smiles gaily as we pass.
And daisies crowd the verdant grass
With little golden speckles.
But all I do is curse, alas,
For on my face there is a mass
Of new, determined freckles.
EVE MERRITT.
Revised Version.
“According to French novelist Paul Valery,
an intelligent woman is one with whom you
can be as stupid as you like.”
Whenever I was bowled by Cupid
The lass possessed a massive mind,
For my demeanor, I would find,
Could only be described as stupid ;
No love of clowning actuated
My soul in its moronic act —
The grisly business was, in fact,
Entirely unpremeditated.
Still, with the years a bloke outgrows
All this unwarranted timidity,
And speaking now as one who knows
The ne plus ultra in stupidity.
I’d say the Frenchman could transpose
The genders in his little quiddity.
P. M. LUSK.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed first is paid
4£d. per line; all others 2£d. per line.
Middle-aged and Single
“All Should Marry” (B. 26/9/’45) is
talking through his hat. I’m willing to
bet that most of “those single middle-
aged women” he mentions would give
their eye-teeth, if they’ve any left, poor
dears, for a husband, home and children.
Their talk of careers is just camouflage.
There was a war in 1914-18, and
because of that wholesale slaughter of
young men many women are unmarried
today. History will repeat itself as a
result of this last six years.
Take my case. The man I was engaged
to was killed in World War I. Six years
later I joined my brother on one of those
wonderful green-scrub blocks in the
Mallee on which the Government settled
ex-servicemen. I was 30 then, there were
six families in the district and not an un-
married male over 21 among them. (Even
if there had been, it doesn’t follow that
he would have asked me to marry him.
“All Should Marry” seems to forget that
we have to wait to be asked!)
I stuck it for ten years, five of them
depression years, so there was no
money about; and then I had to go and
nurse my mother, and later my father,
till their deaths three years ago. In the
meantime my brother had added a wife
to his responsibilities, so there was no
home for me there. I had no money
worth mentioning after a doctor’s bill had
been paid, so I took a job as an “over
45”—a man’s job, but not at a man’s
wage. (The Women’s Employment Board
was just getting around to me, when
someone or other scrubbed it off.)
I’m 50 now, and the job is liable to
end in a month or so ; and there’s no
widow’s pension or such for the likes
o’ me. What would “All Should Marry”
suggest I should do? I’d like to know,
for I’m darned if I know myself.—Spin-
ster (S.A.). '
Service Medals
The long-overdue Pacific Star has at
last made its appearance, and with it our
jungle fighters get due recognition.
Hearty congratulations are in order for
our three-ribbon men —wearers of the
1939-45 Star, Africa Star and Pacific Star.
The new issue of ribbons has necessi-
tated readjustments of the terms of the
awards. The Africa Star previously took
precedence over the 1939-43 Star, and the
two ribbons could not be worn together,
but now the 1939-45 (ex 1939-43) Star
takes pride of place, becoming really a
General Operational Service Medal. The
Africa Star and Pacific Star (in that order)
are worn in addition to symbolise service
in those theatres of war.
As for the Defence Medal, it is antici-
pated that this will correspond to the
1914-18 General Service Medal.
Before the ribbons issue is complete
it is to be hoped a rather glaring omission
will be remedied. No special recognition
is at present made of service in Greece,
Crete or Syria. There is a surprisingly
high number of men mainly original
Seventh Divvy enlistments-—who saw ser-
vice in one or other of these early cam-
paigns and, for various reasons beyond
their control, have not since seen action.
They were included in the original award
of the 1939-43 Star, but this award has
now been swallowed up by the issue of
the 1939-45 Star for any overseas service,
and these men, mostly si-year veterans,
receive less recognition than militiamen
who have had six months’ compulsory
service in New Guinea.
General opinion amongst the troops is
that an additional medal to cover Greece,
Crete and Syria is not desirable, but that
the award of the Africa Star should be
extended to include these campaigns.—
J.A.L. (A.1.F.).
Atrocity Stories
Let me express my heartfelt thanks to
The Bulletin for its recent issues, par-
ticularly “Ek Dum’s” contributions. His
reference (B. 12/9/’45) to the low ebb to
which Sydney newspapers sank in report-
ing Jap atrocities applies equally to
Melbourne dailies. The way in which the
Ambon story was reported added incal-
culable anguish to my mother’s state of
mind during the next 19 days until she
was finally notified of my brother’s death.
From now on it appears she—and many
like her—are to be further tortured by
publication of detailed stories of the
awful deaths their loved ones died—
stories extracted by the newspapers from
the survivors as they arrive. One of the
few means I had of consoling my parents
was to read them some extracts from
“The Serviceman.” This I hope to con-
tinue doing—especially if I see anything
like the republished broadcast by Sergeant
Blain.—J. (Vic.).
Prison Reform
At Numinbah (Q.) there is a prison
farm run on the honor system. It is
mainly for first offenders, and contains
all types of men, some serving fairly
lengthy sentences.
During the last ten years 1500 prisoners
have served sentences on this farm, and
there have been only six attempts to
escape. The men do useful farm work
and are allowed certain comforts. On
completion of sentence employment is
found for them.
This intelligent prison system should
be exploited more fully. If a man is given
work to do, if his mind is kept occupied,
if he is made to feel useful to the com-
munity even while serving his sentence,
he does not come out bitter and self-
pitying, and thus a potential danger to
the community. Many young men incar-
cerated for the first time meet up with
old lags who initiate them into the tricks
of crime. They come out feeling that
they are tough, not wanted by the world
and so not wanting the world. Many
post-war reforms are being advocated.
Let our prison system be given high
priority.—C. C. S. (Q.).
Survey the Inland
Before schemes of irrigation and de-
velopment of inland Australia, particu-
“You push the stick forward to rise—is that it ?”
larly Queensland, are embarked upon
a complete survey should be undertaken.
By this I mean a topographical survey
based on principles: a climate
survey, covering rainfalls, catchments,
run-offs of the wet country, and evapora-
tion for the dry; and a soil survey to
determine the value of the land and the
absorption rate.
When such surveys have been made it
will be possible to evaluate any irrigation
scheme. Factors involved are:
(1) Availability of water for irrigation.
(2) Cost of conveying water to the land
to be irrigated.
(3) Area of land that can be supplied
with water.
(4) Improvement in land value through
irrigation.
Factors imposed on (4) are:
(a) Productivity of soil for different agri-
cultural purposes. ( b ) Availability of
markets, (c) Transport to markets, (d) Net
value of products.
The net value of products of improved
land may not be the governing economic
factor, as it may be desirable for the
country to operate such a scheme with
an eye to its ability to provide livings
for an increased population and provide
an internal market for products from
other parts of the country.
It must be admitted that the cost of
a survey of Australia would be consider-
able. But no sensible person would con-
sider erecting an expensive building with-
out making certain that the foundations
were sound, nor would he invest money
in a business without estimating the
chances of success.
Emphasis is placed on the necessity
for a complete survey. Numerous unco-
ordinated surveys are made for various
purposes. One authority requires a sur-
vey of contours to design a road ; an-
other authority, for irrigation, requires
a different set of data ; then a geologi-
cal survey is ordered. When the three
are compared it may be found that owing
to the lack of accurate groundwork (geo-
detic survey) and the varying require-
ments of the different types of surveys
there is lack of agreement. In other
words, the land has been surveyed three
times and still requires a further survey.
Unless a geodetic-based topographical
survey of the whole country is carried
out immediately millions of pounds may
be wasted in abortive development
schemes, and the lives of settlers ruined.
—N. O. C. (Q.)l
Ethics and Atomic Bombs
The answer to the objection of “Barrier-
Ranger” (B. 26/9/’45) to “the muttering
from churchmen and others outraged by
the use of the atomic bombs” is clearly
this: either the “churchmen and others”
are right or outcry against the “inhuman
warfare” of the Germans and Japanese
is wrong.
It is logically ludicrous to execrate a
reversion to barbarism in war on the
part of our enemies and to commend an
advance to barbarism in war by our-
selves, as exemplified by our progress in
incendiary and atomic warfare. —J.W.R.
(Tas.).
T.B. Prevention
The introduction of the Federal T.B.
Benefits Bill, to cost £300,000 a year now
and later £1,000,000 annually, should
startle thinking people into action. An
equal amount spent on preventive meas-
ures would render the proposed expendi-
ture unnecessary.
The Anti-T.B. Council says the disease
could be stamped out in two or three
decades if the public would agree that
prevention is better than cure and co-
operate accordingly. The services have
set the example by ensuring that every
man enlisted is X-rayed at least once.
Much of the equipment for such exami-
nations will become available as the ser-
vices are demobilised, and the whole
population could be X-rayed within 12
months.
Certain municipalities have already
started mass X-ray examinations for the
detection of t.b., but their efforts are
hampered by lack of funds and the
absence of legislation making it compul-
sory upon citizens to submit themselves
foi; examination.
T.B. testing of dairy herds has already
been widely adopted by local councils,
milk having been proved a source of con-
tagion. Many single cow-owners have co-
operated in country areas for the protec-
tion of their own families.
Too many loopholes for contagion still
exist, however, in the form of milk railed
from distant parts and untested animals
being introduced into “guaranteed t.b.-
free” herds.— The Tatler (R.A.A.F.).
The Wool Plan
Sorhe light upon the practical working
of the Australian wool plan would be
welcomed by graziers.
Many competent appraisers employed
by the Government will doubtless desire
to resume their association with their prin-
cipals—the manufacturers of England
and the Continent —as buyers. Where
will efficient appraisers be found?
Obviously, the selling brokers’ men,
who are interested in getting as much as
they can for their clients, cannot be
appointed appraisers to fix prices and
then act as selling agents.
Further, has it ever happened that a
year’s wool production has been sold in
12 months? In addition to quitting the
whole of a year’s clip there will have to
be disposed of about 750,000 bales addi-
tional if the ten million bales of stored
wool are to be quitted in 14 years, as
proposed.
If prices are fixed as reserves (to pro-
duce a given average) that the world
cannot or will not pay, how are they
to be maintained and the big quantity
disposed of? In announcing the scheme
the authorities said that the auction
method was the best available test of
world values, yet a fixed price, possibly
above world value, is to be insisted upon.
It is time an authoritative statement was
made on the subject.— Jumbuck (N.S.W.).
A Liberal Daily
I agree with the view expressed editori-
ally (B. 26/9/’45) concerning the need
for a daily newspaper to give support
to the Libera] and Democratic side in
N. S. Wales. We farmers want a paper
that would support the countryman in
such things as water conservation, open-
ing of fresh ports and other projects of
national importance, and that would also
support those city people who believe in
sane Government.
It might be possible if a thorough can-
vass was made of N. S, Wales to get
enough financial support to start a daily
paper of that sort. Certainly something
ought to be done to end the present drift.
—G. A. Smith (N.S.W.).
Plight of Black Brother
There has been a wonderful response
to the appeal for clothing for
U.N.R.A.A, People have ransacked their
wardrobes ; clubs and circles have sprung
up to collect and make clothes ; knitters
are busy making garments for a deserv-
ing cause.
But I wonder if any of these
good - hearted people have any idea
of the plight of our own aborigines
on the Nullabor Plain? They are
a race suffering, not from the ravages
of war, but from the effects of civilisa-
tion. They are a sorry sight to members
of the forces who cross Australia on the
“trooper.” At meal-time the “trooper”
stops in the desert and disgorges all ranks,
who line up with plates and dixies to be
served with a meal of bully beef. At the
same time the aborigines appear as if
from nowhere.
They are emaciated creatures, scantily
clad in filthy rags, with sores on their
limbs and flies feasting on their infections.
They hang around the troops in the hope
of a meal and are glad of anything that
anyone will spare them.
How tragic it must have been for one
of our number, an aboriginal soldier, very
trim in his uniform, to witness this degra-
dation and misery of his own people! He
had been fighting to keep Australia for
Australians. —G. A. P. (R.A.A.F.).
Aero Engines
Few large aero engines have been made
in Australia during the war. Of the 700
Beaufort bombers and 300 Beaufighters
turned out nearly all were fitted with im-
ported engihes. A few of the early ones
had Australian-made twin-row Wasp
radials, but the engine production faded
out. This, I think, is regrettable.
Since the Battle of the Coral Sea in
May, 1942, it has been clear that Aus-
tralia’s preservation depends upon air
power. To maintain air power an assured
supply of engines is essential. Three
engines, or sets of engines, are needed
for every front-line ’plane—one just in-
stalled, one just taken out for overhaul-
ing and one approaching completion of
overhaul. For Australia’s purposes one
type of engine would suffice —the same
sized engine can serve for fighter, bomber
and large bomber.
In Sydney a magnificent factory was
erected with the help of Pratt and Whit-
ney, makers of the Wasp engine. The
first engine made there was given a
running test in September, 1941. A Beau-
fort bomber fitted with two of these
Australian-built Wasp engines was flown
from Perth to Melbourne non-stop in
May, 1942, This type of engine, though
used by the British only for training pur-
poses, has been almost universally em-
ployed by the Americans in their cam-
paigns against Japan.
After the Wasp experiment (discon-
tinued probably because costs were sky-
high) we were told that Rolls-Royce
“Merlin” engines were to be made in
this plant, but none have been made yet.
Indeed, suspicious people believe that
the “Merlin” talk was a strategem in
cover relinquishment of manufacture
because of excessive, cost.
High costs could not have been due to
unsuitable plant, because the proper
machines were installed. They cannot
arise from the incompetency of Austra-
lian mechanics, nor can they be traced
to high wage rates—a craftsman’s pay in
Australia is about one-fourth of what
his opposite number is paid in U.S.A.
Can it be that in this country there are
too many organisers, inspectors and such
gentry in authority? — Fitter (N.S.W.).


OPPORTUNITY
IS KNOCKING AT
YOUR DOOR IN-
The great industrial revival which is taking place in Australia is opening
up interesting well-paid positions everywhere for men who are trained in
Diesel engineering. Plans for the new industrial undertakings, power
plants, etc., all indicate that Diesel will play a still bigger part in the
great new world of the future. The big car and truck manufacturers are
turning more and more to Diesel . . . Railways are going Diesel . . .
Diesel engines are powering ships and transport of every kind ... to say
nothing of tractors . . . earth-excavating machinery and the rest. All of
these mean more and more permanent jobs for trained Diesel operators.
Diesel operators not only earn big money, they enjoy pleasant conditions
and the respect of all the community—the respect due to the man who
has specialised knowledge.
gf
NOW IS THE TIME TO START YOUR
SPARE TIME DIESEL TRAINING
The Diesel Engineering College can train you in your spare time
by the same efficient methods which, during the past 1 0 years, have
earned the College’s graduates such a fine reputation in the Diesel
.World. You don’t need any high educational standard, or any
previous engineering knowledge. The Difesel Engineering College
teaches you thoroughly and completely- It is easy to grasp . . •
quick . . . and thorough. The Diesel Engineering College Course
is complete and right up to date ... it covers both transport Diesel
(tractors, buses, etc.) and stationary Diesel (constructional power
plants, etc.).
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE STUDENTS
HAVE BEEN PLACED ALL OVER AUSTRALIA
The Diesel Engineering College’s new simplified system of personal
training by mail makes learning Diesel Engineiering easy, no matter
how far from Sydney you may live. This College does not sell you
a pile of textbooks and leave you to wade through them, nor does
it fill up your head with a lot of complicated mathematics. By this
simple home-study course practical Diesel engineers teach you
everything you need to know to operate and service Diesel engines
NO PREVIOUS ENGINEERING
KNOWLEDGE—NO HIGH EDUCA-
TIONAL STANDARD NEEDED.
NO TEXT BOOKS REQUIRED.
efficiently. You are guided step by step with the aid of easily-
followed instruction papers and diagrams. Everything is made
clear. You’ll be amazed to find how quickly you become familiar
with the workings of the Diesel. Many students have qualified for
positions in as short a period as four months. The fees are low
and payments easy.
Many students of the Diesel Engineering College have obtained
positions as Diesel operators immediately after completing the
Course. Others • have the satisfaction of knowing that their
qualification as Diesel operators will stand them! in good stead
when the time comes to transfer to other work. Non-residents
of Sydney can obtain practical experience on a working
Diesel engine when they visit this city, NOW is the time for YOU
to start. Call at the Diesel Engineering College office any day, or
any Wednesday or Friday nights, for full particulars.
Government Diesel Engine Driver's Certificate
Residents of Sydney and district are prepared for the Government
Diesel Engine Driver’s Certificate , . . over 90% of our students pass
in the quarterly examinations.
g
FOR FREE BOOKLET.
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
255 A George Street, Sydney.
Those who get in early reach the top first.
Tear off and post this coupon now for free
booklet describing the Diesel Engineering
College course. There is no obligation, so
don’t put it off! The best intentions in the
world are useless if you don’t ACT! If
you don’t want to mutilate your * ‘Bulletin”
just drop us a note!
m
DIESEL ENGINEERING COLLEGE,
Dept. 14, 255 a George Street, Sydney, N.S.W.
Please send me the Free Booklet with particulars of the
Diesel Engineering College course.
NAME AGE ;
ADDRESS
B. 17/10/’45.
IISEL ENG > N EERING COLLEGE
255 a GEORGE STREET, SYDNEY.
