

ŵ
The Bulletin
The Bulletin,” Vo!. 66 —No. 3387
Wednesday, January 10, 1945
Price 6d.
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Post as a Newspaper.
Seppelts
ST. PETER’S CHURCH AND THE BUNYAN STATUE, BEDFORD.
A LTHOUGH most of it has been rebuilt since John Bunyan’s
** day, Bedford is really an old town and still has a few relics
of antiquity. Bunyan’s cottage is at Elstow, a village about a
mile away, but it is at Bedford that the English author’s memory
is preserved by this statue and the rebuilt meeting-house at which
he preached. Within it is preserved a chair he used, and the
building is entered through pannelled doors representing scenes
in Bunyan’s immortal allegory, presented by a former Duke of
Bedford. It was the same duke who presented the fine bronze
statue by Sir J. E. Boehm which stands near St. Peter’s Chuich.
This church has certain claims to antiquity. The tower, the
foundation, and at least part of the chancel are said to be Saxon
work. On the tower may be seen the marks of fire from the
time when it was partly burned by the Danes in 1010.


sraii
Mi
ibis Book FREE to VOUI
STOTT'S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
CUT HERE AND MAII
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet explaining how to Write jor Profit, a*
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletin."
lly Name
My Address
S.B. 115 AGE
The Red Page
HOT POTATOES.
“Baby,” said Mr. Shean, “I got the
dough.”
“I have not been an infant for years,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “and I didn’t know
you were a baker. Why don’t you speak
Australian?”
“Those very words were spoken by an
Australian shortly after the last war,”
said Mr. Shean. “I have it on the author-
ity of Devon Minchin’s novel. The Potato
Man, published by Frank Johnson. A
bloke called Bill Norton spoke them to
a barmaid in Redfern.”
“What did the barmaid do?” asked Mr.
Gallagher.
“If Devon Minchin has reported her
correctly,” said Mr. Shean, “ ‘She
swore.’ ”
“And what did Bill make of that?”
asked Mr. Gallagher.
“ ‘He swore,’ too,” said Mr. Shean.
“And you swore also?” said Mr. Gal-
lagher.
“Certainly not,” said Mr. Shean. “I
was in a state of ecstasy over the descrip-
tion of the public bar. I quote you the
opening sentence of the novel: ‘The
floor of the Public Bar was swamped in
a reeking mixture of beer, cigarette butts,
paper, matches, dirt and sputum.’ ”
“From pigs,” said Mr. Gallagher, “we
obtain bacon. From beer, heavenly bliss.
I suspect Devon Minchin of being a
Ruthless Realist, with his eyes firmly
fixed on the floor of the stye. It is true
that public bars are not all they might
be ; but a surprising number of men and
even novelists contrive to enter them each
day without falling down in a faint. But
you haven’t told me why the barmaid
swore at poor Bill.”
“Bill had been ‘lewdly ogling’ her,”
said Mr. Shean.
“Tut,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Bill,” said Mr. Shean, “is a very bad
boy indeed. Having ogled in vain, sworn
and pushed another bloke’s face in so
violently that men ‘four yards away’
bumped their heads together, he ‘stag-
gered into the bottle department, had six
bottles of beer wrapped for him, and
staggered out again.’ ”
“I am staggered,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Worse is to come,” said Mr. Shean-
“After announcing in picturesque
imagery that everyone is a ‘white-livered,
yellow louse,’ this ogler of barmaids stag-
gers home and there —I am distressed to
report —‘ravages’ his long-suffering wife.
‘He despised her,’ the novelist records ;
‘he looked on her as so much stupid
cattle.’ ”
“Unless he had a herd of wives,” said
Mr. Gallagher, “I really think he ought
to look on her as a stupid cow.”
“How different from her dreams as a
girl, she most justly reflects,” said Mr.
Shean. “Not at all like the days when
Bill was ‘foreman on the Pyrmont
wharves, or something.’ In other places
in this book Bill calls her a ‘stupid dame,’
a ‘snivelling boob’ and a ‘dumb dame.’
And since, when he caffs on her in the
maternity hospital, she ‘glared at him
balefully’ I am secretly inclined to sym-
pathise with him.”
“All dames are a bit dumb,” said Mr.
Gallagher.
“The truth is,” said Mr. Shean, “she
irritated him. ‘The smell irritated him.
The quietness irritated him. The nurse
irritated him. He irritated himself.’ ”
“This is all very irritating,” said Mr.
Gallagher. “What,is this novel about?”
“It is really about Bill’s son,” said Mr.
Shean. “Biff is shot in a jail riot; the
wife dies; two older children go to an
orphanage; the infant Eddie is,adopted
by a family living at Killara.”
“I have discovered a strange fact about
the Australian novelist,” said Mr. Gal-
lagher. “He doesn’t like the slums—par-
ticularly the pubs—and he doesn’t like
the rich suburbs either. If people live
uncomfortably it drives him mad; and
if they live comfortably that drives him
mad, too. He can’t stand Footscray and
Redfern, and he can’t abide Toorak and
Killara. In short, he doesn’t like any-
body to live anywhere.”
“That is so,” said Mr. Shean. “I find
that Minchin opens his Killara chapters
with a kind of sinister sarcasm: ‘Stately
and serene, diffusing an aura of dignified
tranquillity, the suburb of Killara was
saturated in architectural affluence.’ ”
“The word ‘saturated’ is not happily
used,” said Mr. Gallagher.
“Having duly attacked Killara,” said
Mr. Shean, “the novelist proceeds, dis-
armingly if inconsistently, to defend it.
But I am afraid that here, too, he is un-
happy in his choice of words: ‘lndeed,
many of its inhabitants were genuine
aesthetics, and most of them had a pre-
dilection for things good.’ Are there no
sub-editors in Australian publishing
houses, with a predilection for things
good, to remind their authors that
‘aesthetic’ is an adjective?”
“Tell me,” said Mr. Gallagher, “what
happens among Killara’s saturation of
architectural affluence?”
“ They use finger-bowls not as a pre-
rogative, but as a necessity,’ ” said Mr.
Shean. “And the infant Eddie, now a
strapping young monster called Ted, turns
out to have a split personality. His father
appears to him in dreams, in a horrible
apparition which he names ‘The Potato
Man,’ and urges him to do wicked things
against his better nature. He does wicked
things, fakes a suicide, disappears and,
after a period of wandering, turns up in
Brisbane as a baker, s.p. bookie and go-
getter. His long-lost brbther and sister
—whom, of course, he doesn’t recognise
—are operating a rival bakery business ;
he ruins them. The brother goes mad
and the sister tries to shoot Ted.”
“Is it the Potato Man,” asked Mr.
Gallagher, “who hounds Eddie or Ted
into becoming an s.p. bookie?”
“Apparently,” said Mr. Shean. “And
that’s where the book has me puzzled.
Eddie is supposed to be a nice fellow
with a complex; he is normal and
likeable till anybody shows fear in front
of him, whereupon he becomes a killer.
That is all right. But how can he be a
nice, unfortunate fellow when he shows
himself as a miserable villain on all
possible occasions? Not, of course, that
I mean to imply that s.p. bookies are
miserable "villains. But in his pranks at
Brisbane Ted doesn’t appear as a tempor-
ary maniac driven to dark deeds by
people who show fear in front of him,
but simply as a petty rogue. It doesn’t
make sense.”
“Does it make a novel?” asked Mr,
Gallagher.
“Mr. Gallagher,” said Mr. Shean,
“there are some surprisingly good bits in
this novel. A girl, Betty, who eventually
marries Eddie and rids him of the
Potato Man, is excellently drawn ; gay,
fresh and vital. And when the author
is not trying to be a ruthless realist or to
decide whether or not good houses with
pleasant gardens are a social abomina-
tion but is dealing simply with simple
things—jew-fishing at night from a Syd-
ney beach or work at a timber mill—
he writes well. Though mechanidal coin-
cidences are used, the novel is ably con-
structed. I think Minchin might write a
good book some day.”
“I am so cheered by your conclusion,”
said Mr. Gallagher, “that I think I must
go out and ogle a barmaid.”
“I got the dough, baby,” said Mr.
Shean.
The Almost Imaginary
Emperor.
Edith Sitwell’s latest collection of short
poems Green Song (Macmillan ; Angus
and Robertson) brings to - mind Hans
Andersen’s story of “The Emperor’s New
Clothes.”
The situation is not quite the same,
for in the fable, blinded by their syco-
phancy, the courtiers were unable or un-
willing to see that the emperor was walk-
ing about in the nude. There’s no doubt
about the clothes in the Edith Sitwell
poems; her bizarre and colorful style
makes sure of that. But, so thin and
commonplace is the thought-content
under the flashing imagery, the awful
suspicion arises that perhaps there is no
emperor. One seems to be offered only
the trappings of poetry ; much ado about
nothing.
With a wealth of the familiar imagery
about “bird-blood” and tawny sunlight,
with occasional obscurities of expression,
with a mingling of Christian and Grecian
symbology deriving from The Golden
Bough and with a parade of learned
“Notes,” the reader is offered the simple
information that spring comes after
winter, rebirth comes after death, and
Love is all.
However, it could never be quite true
of Edith Sitwell’s poetry that there is no
emperor. Reminding one how well she
has written in the past, she uses again in
“Lo, this is she who was the world’s
desire” the lines from an earlier poem:
When the appalling lion-claws of age
With talons tear the cheek and heart, yet rage
For life devours the bone....
And frequently one comes across new
lines of the same quality:
The cold! How shall I bear my heart without
its beat,
My clay without its soul? lam alone —
More cold than you are in your grave’s long
night,
That has my heart for covering, warmth and
light.
Also:
I who was once a golden woman like those
who walk
In the dark heavens —but am now grown old
And sit by the fire, and see the fire grow cold,
Watch the dark fields for a rebirth of faith and
wonder.
The turning of Ixion’s wheel the day
Ceased not, yet sounds no more the beat of
the heart
But only the sound of ultimate Darkness falling
And of the Blind Samson at the Fair, shaking
the pillars of the world and emptily calling.
And again, thinking of age and death:
I live in my perpendicular grey house
Then in my horizontal house —a foolish bed
For one whose blood like Alexander roamed
Conquering the countries of the heart.
There is an emperor ; but he is a small
and not very startling man, in clothes so
voluminous that one can hardly see him
and so stiff and heavy with jewels that
he can hardly walk.
Though, oddly, there are a number of
borrowings from Yeats in this collection
—“Heart and Mind,” the opening poem,
is the queerest mixture of Sitwell and
Yeats—generally speaking, Edith Sitwell is
the slave of her own style. She chose to
speak freakishly and awkwardly and now
when she has a good theme she loses it
m the freakishness and awkwardness.
“Anne Boleyn’s Song,” in which the un-
lucky queen is pictured going from the
arms of one murderous consort to
another—from Henry the Eighth to the
“great grey King” called Death —would
be a really excellent poem if it € were not
so wilfully mannered.
Shipwreck and Mutiny.
The first known Australian shipwreck,
that of the English vessel Trial in 1622,
says Frank S. Greenop in his Coast of
Trageldy (K. G. Murray Publishing Co.,
Sydney), took place in weather so tran-
quil that the disaster seemed incredible
to the doomed seamen. He quotes John
Brooke, the master, who survived after
a boat voyage to Java :
“I ran to the Poope and hove the leads.
I found but' three fadom watter, 60 men
being upon deck, five of them would not
believe that she had strooke, I cryinge to
them to beare up and tacke to westward.
“They did ther beste, but the rocke being
sharpe the ship was presentlie full of watter.
For the most part these rocks he two fadom
under watter. It struck my men in such a
mayze when I said the ship strooke and
they could see neyther breach, land, rocks,
change of watter nor signe of danger.”
The quotation indicates that Mr.
Greenop has an eye for the dramatic.
Curiously, he fails to give details of—or,
if that was not possible, to comment on
—one of the most dramatic scenes that
arose from the shipwreck, the choosing
of the 36 men who were to sail to safety
in the longboat.
A collection of popular historical
studies, Coast of Adventure deals with
such subjects as the Bounty mutiny (the
references to Fletcher Christian always
as a “seaman” instead of as the mate is
liable to create a false impression); Ben
Boyd’s death on Guadalcanal; the tribu-
lations of Flinders; the massacre of the
crew of the Boyd at Whangaroa (Mr.
Greenop uses the spellings “Tarra” and
“Ti Puhi” without remarking that “Tara”
and “Te Puhi” are customary); and the
wrecking of the Essex by a whale that
gave Melville the plot for Moby Dick
and that led to a drama of cannibalism
which would have served Conrad very
well as a setting for Falk.
Most of these stories have been told
and re-told many times, so that Mr.
Greenop’s claim in his introduction that
the book is the result of five years’ re-
search reads a bit oddly. There are, how-
ever, a number of less familiar stories,
and the book as a whole is certainly both
interesting and readable.
SUNDRY SHOWS.
Its last play having been a pleasant
little comedy about an American service-
man in England, Sydney Minerva fol-
lowed suit with Reginald Beckwith’s “A
Soldier for Christmas,” about a Canadian
soldier in England. Earlier in the year
Sydney Royal had Ivor Novello’s “Fresh
Fields,” about Australians in England;
and the talkies have presented in rapid
succession “A Yank at Oxford,” “A Yank
at Eton” and “A Yank in the R.A.F.”
The story of all these works is that the
husky from overseas is or is not con-
sidered a suitable match for the daughter
of the house (usually not), and the pro-
found philosophical revelation made is
that there is a lot of good in the simple
savagery of overseas visitors and also a
lot of good in the decorous English way
of life. Points which distinguish “A
Soldier for Christmas” from its predeces-
sors are that a certain amount of
amiable piffle about the New Order is in.
eluded; that the “wit” is elementary;
and that the characterisation is incompre-
hensible. Possibly through weariness
possibly because the author’s mind was
unreadable, Richard Parry’s acting is nt
more than a kind of declaration o
neutrality, Leonard Bullen (Lord knows
what he is supposed to represent) snuffle;
and snorts to himself in odd corners, and
Minnie Love is like nothing ever seen on
earth, Even the vigorous Grant Tayloi
is hardly conceivable as a character;
though he, Pat McDonald, Joanna Wills
Phyllis Best, Hilda Dorrington and
Dorothy Whiteley do contrive to put
some sort of personality in front of the
audience. Winifred Green also had hei
moments, but throughout the first act
could not be heard half so clearly as the
prompter.
Lloyd Lamble played Jonathan in
“Arsenic and Old Lace” at Sydney
Royal’s 5.30 show, and after the con-
clusion of hostilities delivered a neat little
speech which was almost a paraphrase
of Puck’s epilogue in “A Midsummer
Night’s Dream,” Audiences no longer
hiss the villain ; but their enjoyment of
a play still depends to a great extent on
a “willing suspension of disbelief,” and
it was a mild shock to be abruptly ad-
dressed with winning words by the most
sadistic of the Brewsters. Mr. Lamble
added that the company had just finished
the most successful tour New Zealand
has seen. A good play and well acted,
“Arsenic and Old Lace” was, of course,
staged at the Minerva months ago.
“Cauboy”; At “The Amazing Dr. Clit-
terhouse,” put on by J.C.W. at the
Comedy, Melbourne, the playwright’s
name isn’t considered worth mentioning
on the programme alongside that of
Edwin Styles; and quite rightly, as Mr.
Styles certainly provides an amusing, if
not amazing, evening by just being Mr.
Styles. But if this pseudo-scientific piece
of nonsense has an author and didn’t
merely come about by spontaneous com-
bustion, the playwright ought to write
another work in which Dr. Freud is made
to do all the weird and unseemly things
his neurotic patients did —it would make
an exciting play, if it got past the censors.
When a play is about nothing it is super-
fluous to try to assess the performances
of the actors ; who, in this case, are good
ones —Eric Reimann, Gwenda Wilson
Keith Eden, Madge Aubrey and Charles
Zoli.
The Greatest Show on Earth at Wirth's
Olympia, Melbourne, has been exhibiting
to the Yuletide population The Only
Circus-Panto in the Universe. Consider-
ing the management has all the necessary
fauna, it is a wonder it didn’t produce a
panto on the Old Man who Lived in an
Ark, but the traditional theme selected
was the Old Woman Who Lived in a
Shoe. Some 120 talented juveniles inter-
pret the opus, and the lions, elephants,
equines, acrobats, contortionists and
other customary impedimenta are in at-
tendance ; making a stirring entertain-
ment that deserves a long run. The
Continental Clowns alone are worth the
money.
That somewhat nursery-governessy pic-
ture of childhood, “Peter Pan,” made a
surprising Christmas panto, appearance
at the Tiv, in Melbourne. The opening
scene, in which Peter flies into Wendy’s
nursery, contained several beds, and con-
cealed in one was a recumbent figure.
Long inured to Tivoli fashions, the
present commentator was fully convinced
that when Barrie’s airy fantasy threat-
ened to bore the children the recumbent
figure would reveal itself as Mo got up
as a mermaid. He was disappointed. The
show proved to be as decorous as a
Sunday-school picnic, though replete with
pirates, Indians, crocodiles and other
fauna, and exceedingly well acted by a
posse of children, the cleverest of whom
were Dot Rankin and Dorothea Dunstan-
It was also upholstered on a scale of
elegance which did credit to the manage-
ment’s ability to make its ration tickets
go a long way. Still, one can’t help won-
dering whether the youngsters wouldn’t
have preferred more robust fare—Nor-
man Lindsay’s “Magic Pudding,” for
instance.
“Cauboy”: A somewhat unfortunate
alteration to the text of the opening
chorus of “The Mikado” was cast out
and the original version restored in the
revival of “The Mikado” at His Majesty’s,
Melbourne, which was all to the good-
What wasn’t to the good was the absence
of Ivan Menzies from the role of Lord
High Executioner (taken aridly by Len
Getting). Mr. Menzies’s reasons for re-
x fusing to play the part are high ones and
do his feelings credit, but I doubt if they
are aesthetically valid. Gilbert was satir-
ising England, and the comedy is no
more about the Japanese than Anatole
France’s Penguin Island is about penguins.


“TRUTH IN ADVERTISING”
“THE SENIOR STORE
nficnoN
n
CM
* “
******
mk
\Vu 'll
A'v'M,
Bathu^sts
r f>
■■
. i ‘
•••-.
M
r~.» -■■■ai ■ •-—>
r "“o'e«c ’J’H
1
«•««.*," L“* "**“
m
o—. .
WPhc ( . -""'m
*“> »*.
m
kk
•v.
i
s>i
i
J
JS-
WW
MeUfe
titled
R«ow
AppN
'oimoos lrrtWt
STAIKLeSS . .
V*Jh~
''•V
Prices:
6- ox. bot., 2/
1 -ox. bot., lid
\-oz. bot., 6d
Genuine
OIL
TREE
TE
+
EP
Why not enclose a bottle of Te-
Tree-Oil in your next parcel to
your soldier. The uses of Te-Tree-
Oil are innumerable. It is anti-
septic and can be used freely for
washing the body and for wash-
ing clothes. It has been proved to
give wonderful healing to tropical
sores, ulcers, etc.
Te-Tree-Oil has been thoroughly
tested pathologically, surgically
and clinically, and in practical
use in hospitals over a number of
years it has been found to give
marked satisfaction.
,W\w '\ «\ A{\\’ •
\rC
\M
vtW
\\\*>
J7l
v\\\
WA
No matter what colour your hair
happens to be, this scientific
shampoo contains all the ele-
GENUINE
"Te-Tree-Oil” I
“rtiseptic Shampoo,
sp,c,« tv recomMemjgj for I
‘■'eatmenfof Dandruff |
ZT ,ONi Ww I
W^mVA/ At(r ,
l^Ss*
l '<'J/mM
V*
/ /
' /
-'W
H
PX,
sy y
..A' y
sy&
' a
*s
w *«s- ,
ments for scalp health. Restores
the brilliant lustre and promotes
growth to the hair. Large bottles
cost only 2/6
• Chemistry Department —Ground Floor, Pitt St.
Postage in N.S.W., 1/-; Interstate, 1/6
Do you suffer from dandruff? If
you do, get a bottle of Te-Tree-Oil
Shampoo and see ho w quickly
this marvellous shampoo will re-
move the dandruff. It also pre-
vents falling hair and promotes
healthy hair growth.
ANTHONY
FAMOUS
’PHONE: M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
HORDERNS'
LOW PRICES 80X 21,2 C. C.f.0., SYDNEY


THE ENTHUSIASTIC PRISONER
By E. O. SCHLUNKE.
HENRY HOLPEN decided to get
an Italian prisoner of war after
he had seen several at work on
Esmond’s farm. Esmond* was
building a shed, and it was beautiful to
see how they ran to get the things he
needed, how they rushed to carry any-
thing he picked up, and how they seemed
to take it for granted that they were
there to do all the heavy work while the
boss gave the orders.
When the captain in charge of the
P.W.C.C. had a preliminary look over
Henry’s place he tactlessly asked him if
he was an invalid ; he saw so few signs
of work being done and so many of
neglect. He wasn’t at all keen on letting
Henry have a p.0.w.; he didn’t think he
was the type to handle them successfully,
but, on the other hand, he was eager to
get his “hundred.”
When the p.o.w. arrived Henry was
decidedly disappointed with him at first
sight.
He did not look obliging and polite ;
he didn’t even look like an Italian.. He
had a tremendous amount of fuzzy
brown hair; his eyebrows were so large
and dense they nearly surrounded his
eyes, and thick hair grew all round his
neck and jutted out of his ears. His
small bright eyes glinted sharply from
among all the hair; not at all like the
large, soft and servile eyes of the Italians
at Esmond’s.
In fact, he reminded Henry of a big
brown bear, with his air of having great
physical strength and tremendous deter-
mination. When the military truck drove
away Henry had an uncomfortable feel-
ing of having let himself in for some-
tiling.
He directed Pietro to his room and,
while he was settling in, tried hurriedly to
work out a plan of what to do with him.
There was, of course, plenty of work to
do, but it wasn’t so easy to start a man
who didn’t understand English, or know
Australian farms. In a few minutes
Pietro appeared.
“Worrk,” he said, briefly and deter-
minedly.
Henry abandoned his half-formed plan
to let Pietro have the first half-day off. He
thought of a number of jobs, only to
realise that he didn’t have the necessary
materials. In desperation he decided to
repair a fence. He pointed to the fence
and to some tools and tried to explain
to Pietro.
“Unnerstan’, reparare,” said Pietro.
He picked up a shovel and pick, and
started hunting for a “leva.” Henry
• soon realised that he meant a crowbar,
but he couldn’t remember where his was.
Pietro looked at him in astonished re-
proval. When they started off, Pietro
carrying all the heavy tools while Henry
carried the wire-strainer, Henry felt
better, though he was sure that Esmond’s
men would have offered to carry the
wire-strainer, too.
They did little good with the fence,
although Pietro was obviously eager to
work. It really needed a lot of new
posts and wires and Henry had neither.
They tightened what wires were there
and braced and stayed some of the key
posts in a makeshift manner. Pietro
liked the wire-strainer. Apparently he had
never seen one before, and he was greatly
intrigued with the way it worked.
“Very ni, very ni,” he said.
But when they were going home for
dinner he glanced disapprovingly at the
propped-up posts. “No good, no good,”
he said,
J—f ENRY usually had a nap after dinner,
1 * which lasted well into the after-
noon if the day happened to be warm.
But Pietro apparently didn’t know about
dinner hours. He waited outside the
door for a while then .knocked and said,
quite politely but very firmly, “Worrk.”
Henry went out, and remembered the
woodheap. It cheered him immensely.
He had recently brought in a load and
it would take Pietro several days to chop
it up. It would be a great standby.
Pietro could work there all the after-
noon.
He lay down while Pietro chopped with
great vigor, but he could not sleep or
even relax properly because of his prob-
lem. His wife and family, too, kept
asking him questions about Pietro ; they
were rather awed by Pietro.
He heard the rumble of the wheel-
barrow on the verandah several times
and sounds of cut wood being tipped
out. Then Pietro knocked on the door.
He pointed to the great pile of wood
and said “Sufiiciente.”
« No, not sufficient,” said Henry.
“Chop more.”
Pietro looked at him with a blank
expression.
“No understand he said ; and, before
Henry could work out another way of
expressing himself, he inquired, “Suffi-
ciente one day? Two day? Tre day?”
“Tre day,” Henry admitted reluctantly.
Pietro smiled broadly and looked sur-
prisingly pleasant as he did so. “Plenty
sufficiente,” he said, closing the argu-
ment.
Henry went and got his hat. He could
hear the wind banging a loose sheet of
iron on the roof of the machinery shed.
They would begin by nailing it down.
But when they climbed on the roof
Pietro discovered that half the sheets
were loose. Henry gave him the nails
and directed him to nail down the flap-
ping sheet. But Pietro was hunting round
for causes. He discovered that the rafters
were rotting and demonstrated it by giv-
ing one a hard hit with the hammer. It
split from end to end and a couple of
sheets immediately blew off the roof.
They spent the afternoon cutting trees
in the scrub and trimming them for
rafters, though nothing had been farther
from Henry’s intention and inclination.
He cut down a few little trees while
Pietro cut a lot of big ones. Pietro
always took the heavier end when they
loaded the rails, but even so Henry be-
came exhausted. Round about four
o’clock he decided to go home. “Suffi-
cient,” he said,
Pietro consulted a diagram he had
made.
“No sufficiente,” he said. “Ancora
four.”
They went on working.
AT tea that night Pietro met all the
Tv family. There were a flapper daughter,
three younger boys and a baby. He was
particularly interested in the baby.
He made some queer foreign noises at
it, and to everyone’s surprise it showed
unmistakable signs of affection for him.
He asked Mrs. Holden if it was breast-
fed, and when she told him, in some con-
fusion, that it was not, he wanted to know
why. Then he gave her detailed and inti-
mate directions, mainly by signs, about
how to ensure an abundant flow for the
next baby. The flapper daughter half
smothered a lot of embarrassed giggles,
and the boys nearly “busted” trying not
to laugh. Henry felt that he should
reprimand Pietro for his indelicacy, but
didn’t know how he could make him
understand.
The next day Henry felt stiff and sore.
He decided to relax, but Pietro kept
calling him on to the roof; sometimes
for advice, but mostly to help him in
fitting rafters which were too big to be
“Poseeble solo.”
They finished reroofing the shed by
the week-end. Pietro wanted to know if
they would cut some fence-posts next week
to repair the fences. Henry thought of
how he would suffer if he had to work
on the other end of a cross-cut saw with
a tireless bear like Pietro. He said “No,
some other work.”
But he didn’t like the way Pietro looked
at him, so he decided to hide the cross-
cut saw.
On Sunday Esmond’s Italians came to
visit Pietro, and told him all about what
was going on at their place. On Mon-
day morning Pietro wanted to know why
Henry was not preparing his soil for his
crops like Mr. Esmond. Henry looked a
bit guilty, then tried to explain that he
used different methods from Esmond.
Pietro was not satisfied.
“Mr. Esmond good resultare? No
good resultare?”
Henry had to admit that Esmond’s
results were good. He also had to con-
fess that his results were often bad.
“Provare similar Mr. Esmond,” Pietro
suggested enthusiastically, “Poseeble very
.good oat, very good weet.”
“Tractor broken,” said Henry. He was
always overwhelmed by a feeling of hope-
less apathy in the autumn, and he couldn’t
face the strain of all the preparations
necessary for his worn-out plant.
“Me look?” asked Pietro, and was off
before Henry could say anything.
Pietro had a thorough look over the
tractor and scarifier. He made a list of
all the new parts needed, which he
laboriously translated into English with
the help of his little dictionary. He ex-
plained that he was not a mechanic, but
he had had a lot of experience with mili-
tary vehicles.
He suggested that Henry go to town
and buy the necessary parts, and Henry
went, glad to escape from the responsi-
bility of Pietro for an afternoon. While
Henry was away Pietro “polished” the
toolshed and the farmyard.
When Henry came home, rather late
in the evening and somewhat the worse
for wine, he thought he had come to the
wrong farm until Pietro emerged and
carried his parcels for him. He was in
an exalted mood, and gave Pietro an
orange for his services. But Pietro
spoiled the effect by telling him of several
things he had forgotten to bring.
At the table that night Pietro objected
to Mrs. Holden giving the baby honey
to stop it crying.
“No good ’oni, no good,” he said.
But she continued to exercise the law-
ful rights of a mother. Suddenly the baby
vomited. Pietro made an angry noise,
jumped up and put the honey-pot away
in the cupboard.
“No good, no good,” he said so em-
phatically that she was startled and
impressed.
I—| ENRY found that he couldn’t tell
1 * Pietro much about overhauling farm
machines. He stood by to explain where
tools, parts and materials were kept;
frequently he found it easier to fetch
them than to explain ; sometimes when
Pietro was held up he became so im-
patient that Henry found himself running
just like one of Esmond’s Italians, until
he remembered his dignity as a
“padrone.”
They had an auspicious rain when
everything was ready,. and Henry’s land
was never worked into better condition.
The tractor ran very well. Pietro
assumed a jealous control of it, and
appeared to be very happy on it no matter
how long he worked. The arrangement
suited Henry extremely well.
He felt free for the first time since his
prisoner arrived. He had plenty of time
to turn over all the vague plans he had in
his head.
When Pietro finished working the land
he suggested again that they cut some
fence posts. But Henry was ready with
his own plan. Pietro was to paint the
house. Pietro agreed heartily; the house
certainly needed painting. They went to
have a good look at it. Not only had the
paint peeled off, but much of the plaster
was cracked and loose.
“No good paint,” said Pietro. “Prima
plaster.”
But the thought of all the work and
expense involved in plastering horrified
Henry,
He said, authoritatively, “Paint suffi-
cient” ; and he took a trowel and demon-
strated how the rough plaster could be
smoothed off.
He handed the trowel to Pietro, who
made what appeared to be a similar
movement. But the result was vastly dif-
ferent ; at least a wheelbarrow load of
plaster fell off the wall.
“Plenty similar,” Pietro said, and
knocked off another square yard. Henry
gave in.
Henry was kept very busy mixing the
plaster and carrying it to Pietro. It had
to be mixed in small lots and applied
immediately, Pietro said, otherwise it
would fall off just like the previous
plaster.
When it was finished Henry brought
out the paint. Pietro was very interested
in the “colore.” When he discovered that
it was to be a drab, uniform stone-color
all his eagerness vanished.
“No good, no good,” he said. “Similar
mud.”
He wouldn’t take the brush when Henry
offered it to him.
“Brush no good,” he said. “Troppo
old.”
J_J ENRY tried the brush, and had to
1 1 admit it was worn out. He decided
to go to town and buy a new one. Pietro
wanted to go, too, to have his hair cut.
Henry left him at the Control Centre and
went to do his shopping.
When he walked into the general store
where he did most of his business he
had an uneasy feeling that he was being
followed. He turned and saw Pietro
carrying the two big tins of stone-colored
paint. He had that brown-bear look
about him which Henry hadn’t liked the
first time he saw him.
The manager of the hardware store
came up to them. He saw by the look in
Henry’s eye that he wasn’t sure of him-
self, so he turned to Pietro, who appeared
to know exactly what he wanted. Pietro
held up the tins.
“Colore no good,” he said.
The manager remembered having ad-
vised Henry against a uniform drab color,
and immediately set out to help Pietro.
He quite ignored Henry’s somewhat in-
distinct “No, it’s all right. I’ll keep it.”
He showed Pietro a color-card, from
which he selected a very light cream, a
bright blue and a black.
“One big creama, one little blu’, one
little, little nero,” he said.
The manager was, as he would have
said, intrigued. He tried to discover what
design Pietro had in mind, and Pietro
demonstrated as best he could, attracting
a lot of attention from other shoppers
who began to gather round.
Henry became most uncomfortable. “I
won’t have it at any price,” he protested.
“Everyone who goes past will die laugh-
ing.”
“Ah, garn,” said a big voice from tire
back, “let him have a go. It couldn't
look any worse than it’s looked for the
last twenty years.”
Then a couple of ladies joined in.
“How interesting!” said one. “The
Italians are so artistic, aren’t they?”
The other one said “I remember seeing
the adorable Italian cottages painted just
like that. You* must let us come and see
it, Mr. Holden.” She happened to be
the wife of Henry’s long-suffering mort-
gagee, and her word carried some weight
with him. Quite a number of others
voiced favorable opinions before Henry
and Pietro carried out the cream, blue
and black paint.
Pietro took endless pains over the paint-
ing, and all the time he was at it Henry
felt resentful, despite the fact that many
people came and admired it. He com-
forted himself by compiling a long list of
heavy jobs Pietro would have to do when
he was finished. He had the interpreter
prepare a translation, and when at length
the house was finished he gave Pietro a
week’s programme, consisting mainly of
firewood-carting and post-hole digging.
BUT that day it rained, a splendid
soaking rain, and during the night it
cleared.
Henry was wakened early in the morn-
ing by the roar of the tractor starting.
He was puzzled and rather annoyed;
Pietro was up to something. Then he
realised that Pietro had made the all-
important decision of the year: to start
sowing the wheat.
Henry thought, with some indignation,
of the programme he had given Pietro,
but he also realised that it was much
more important to have the wheat sown
while the soil was moist. He lay think-
ing for a long time of ways in which he
could re-assert himself, and all the time
he heard the noises of Pietro’s prepara-
tions. He stayed there because he always
hated the worry of working out the pro-
portions of wheat and fertiliser and ad-
justing the machines accordingly, and all
the other important details necessary for
a successful sowing season.
When at last he went out Pietro hur-
ried up to him, his face aglow with en-
thusiasm. “Oh, rain very nice,” he said.
“Poseeble very good weet this year, simi-
lar Mr. Esmond.”
He pointed to the tractor hitched to
the sowing combine and the farm cart
loaded with supplies of seed, fertiliser
and tractor fuel.
“After brekfus I take trattore and weet
machine. You bring carro. Allora we
commence before Guiseppe and Leon-
ardo on farm Mr. Esmond.”
“Yes, Pietro,” said Henry.
OTHERNESS.
Out on the hill today, why was I stirred
As one in waking trance
Of old ehchantment? What unspoken word
Trembled upon the verge of utterandte?
For on the hill-today
A sudden startling sense of imminency
Troubled the veil that hides reality.
About me lay
A strange new light of wonder on the green,
Uncertain as the shadow thrown
By the evening star alone;
That Otherness so felt, so almost seen,
So near yet hidden still,
That awed with rapture not since boyhood known,
And kept me late upon the hill.
So, when in moments insight-wise
Beyond the bounds of thought we go,
Do we not seem dimly to realise
Other life than lives we know —
Manifestations more of mind
Than the sole lamp of humankind?
Yet ever they unveil but to evade,
Glimpsed only as they fade,
So soon the wonted world of sense besets,
And the spell breaks:
As he who wakes.
Thinks once of his faint dream and then
forgets.
QUEENSLAND.
JAMES DEVANEY.


The Bulletin
Vol. 66—No. 3387
Wednesday, January 10, 1945
“LADY, BE”—RUTHLESS!
“Officialdom has appealed to the public to take a strong stand against black marketeers.”
“Missus, this is YOUR job.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior
P. H. Prior
J. E. Webb
David Adams
HEAD OFFICE : 252 George Street, Sydney;
.. Box 252IBB; ’Phone 87971.
Victoria : Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane,
Westralia; 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
JNew Zealand: Nathan’s Buildings ( opp.
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London : 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street,
London, E.C.4.
AIMS OF THE ALLIES.
Hitler’s ( New Year broadcast as re-
ported, though confused even for him,
should have brought comfort to the
Allied side and also occasioned some
thought. Anything but the triumphant
speech of a conqueror, or even of a con-
fident leader, it blamed the “treacherous
capitulations” of “Germany’s allies” and
the “stab in the back” by “criminals at
home” for events which, up to mid-July,
had shaken belief “in the strength of Ger-
many’s resistance,” both “in the camps
of friend and foe.” It claimed that ever
since then the tide had been running in
Germany’s favor, prophesied that 1945
would be “a year of an historic turn of
events,” but closed with the warning that
“it will exact from us the utmost courage
and initiative” courage to endure,
among other things, “barbaric methods”
which “devastate our towns, destroy our
culture and kill our women and children.”
A virtually defeatist note that; and
there was another theme running through
the speech.
We know our enemies’ aims. They would
enslave and starve the whole German
nation. The alternatives are life and free-
dom or death and bondage The existence
of the nation is at stake. We are fighting
for the German way of life, for the preser-
vation of our people and for the future of
our children.
This might all be read as a desperate
effort to hold German morale together ;
a further bid towards gaining time, in
the hope—the only hope the German
leaders can have, despite some recent
military success —that politically the
Allied coalition will break apart. It
might also be read as a practically direct
appeal for war-ending terms.
Such terms are already known, -and are
not likely to be changed. They are the
Roosevelt-Churchill formula of “uncon-
ditional surrender.” In that formula
Stalin may also be understood as agree-
ing. The “aims” are at this date known
neither to the Hitlerites nor to anybody
else. As far as anybody can say posi-
tively, they have not yet been agreed
upon, and will not be till the curiously
deferred meeting of the three chief Allied
Jeaders takes place.
Most of the Allied chiefs and associates
have declared for the disarmament of
Germany, the destruction of the Nazi sys-
tem and precautionary measures against
future German war-making. There has
been nothing specific even as to these
hardly extreme “aims.” For yearr., how-
ever, “What to do with Germany” has
been the inspiration of countless unofficial
proposals and discussions in Allied coun-
tries. It has been summed up by an
American columnist as “the most amaz-
ing hysteria in history people who
don’t know enough to come in out of the
rain have become international experts
overnight.”
It would take the whole army of these
or actual experts working from now till
Doomsday to compile even an index of
the panaceas that have been proposed,
and when they had finished it would be
an index to confusion never worse con-
founded. Most drastic of all in the index
would be the Morgenthau plan. Reading
like a bid to out-Vansittart Vansittart,
but reported to have been so favored by
Mr, Roosevelt that he discussed it with
Mr. Churchill, it proposed cutting Ger-
many in two, giving pieces to Poland and
France; stripping Germany of steel mills
and chemical and synthetic oil plants ;
closing or controlling universities ; above
all, converting Germany to an agri-
cultural country. Accepting this as offi-
cial, Hitler’s interpretation of the aims
of the Allies and their effects could
scarcely be described as exaggerated. The
Morgenthau plan, however, has been sub-
jected to such widespread hostile criticism
in America (and in Britain as well) that
apologists for the Secretary to the Treas-
ury have resorted to describing it as only
a “trial balloon.” It was jumped on by
Senator Johnson:
The Morgenthau plan has played into
the bloody purposes of Goebbels arid Hitler.
Before it was disclosed the Germans were
surrendering in droves. Now they are
fighting like demons.
The thoughtful N.Y. “Times” also
noted the Germans as since then fighting
“with a fervor that goes beyond compul-
sion ; and this has raised the question
whether our psychological warfare is as
effective as it could be.” The same line
of thinking was evident in a blast from
Tass, which insisted that projects for dis-
memberment had “not been and are not
considered by the European Advisory
Commission.” All that had so far been
decided, Tass stated, was unconditional
surrender, the procedure for disarming
Germany and the dividing of the country
into three zones of occupation.
The Tass statement suggests that the
European Advisory Commission is not
making all the decisions, particularly in
view of Mr. Churchill’s support of Rus-
sia’s expansion at the expense of Poland
and the compensating of Poland with
such of East Prussia as Russia does
not intend also to grab. According to a
variety of other published proposals the
dismemberment of Germany is to include
the taking over of the Rhineland by
France —General de Gaulle has hinted as
much. Poland might get even more than
a slice of East Prussia. Not that the
Polish Government-in-exile has wanted
anything of the sort, but the territorial
claims of the “Liberation” Government
set up in Lublin, and recognised by Mos-
cow but, not by London or Washington,
will be as dictated by the Kremlin. Austria
is similarly reported to have been prom-
ised independence. Belgium, Holland
and Denmark, it has also been stated,
may be others wanting territory or
having it wished on them. Other such
proposals include placing the Ruhr and
the Kiel Canal under international con-
trol.
On top of all this, and much else,
including, under the Morgenthau plan,
the cutting of Germany in two —the
largely non-Catholic northern' part being
one country and the largely Catholic
southern part another—the shifting of
millions of Germans back into what
would be left of Germany has been pro-
jected. The objections to all these
schemes are, in the general welter, as
numerous as the schemes themselves. As
far as making even an unaltered Ger-
many agricultural goes, it is pointed out
that of the 75,000,000 Germans scattered
over Europe, and presumably to be
squeezed in somehow, the optimistic
limit to those that could be supported
on an agricultural basis would be*
20,000,000, leaving 55,000,000 others to
be dealt with somehow.
Whether any or ail of these things
happened to Germany might Well be a
matter of indifference to those who have
suffered from Germany’s fiendish war-
making ; but political considerations enter
in which could conceivably nullify the
whole boiling of schemes and plans, and
the peace also. A good deal must turn
on the question of reparations and resti-
tution, Russia, which has spoken loud
when demanding reparation payments
from the smaller countries, is not likely
to speak soft in demands against Ger-
many. Proposals already given out have
included astronomical reparations figures
—l5 times as much as Germany was
asked to pay in 1919, and didn’t. How
anything like such a sum could possibly
be paid is not stated. It could be written
off now as impossible for a weak Ger-
many, and altogether impossible unless
East Prussia and other proposed dismem-
bered portions are to be balanced in at
so much per acre.
Repayment in goods by a strong Ger-
many might suit Russia and perhaps
other German land neighbors, but it
could not suit a Britain sorely in need
of expansion for its shrunken exports,
and it certainly could not suit the U.S.A.
Similarly, it has been proposed—from
Russia —that whole legions of Germans —
up to 10,000,000 —shall be used as slave
labor for an indefinite period rebuilding
the devastation. This would not appeal to
Britain and would be of no use to
America. In any case, trying to make
such schemes work would involve indefi-
nite occupation of Germany; and the fear
has been expressed in both Britain and
America that it will be no time after the
war before public pressure in both those
countries will be heard against keeping
their armies there. Already mere
have been demands in Congress for the
return of all American troops immediately
after Germany is defeated. Russia also
has been reported as “not interested” in
any long occupation of Germany by
Russian troops.
Whatever such an apparently hopeless
confusion as all these proposals, plans and
requirements may be called, it cannot be
dignified by the title of “war aims of the
Allies.” But, as far as anyone knows to
the contrary, it is all that Hitler had to go
on in making his appeal to the Germans
for a continued desperate stand.
Hitler, obviously, is not counting on
military victory. The one hope left to
him is that the Allies, so far from having
any agreed aims, are divided already in
this respect and may eventually fall
apart; and so he is fighting for time. Nor
can he be said to be without some
ground. After the Morgenthau plan was
projected Mr. Cordell Hull—who should
normally have made the official announce-
ment on that subject—stated that “mutual
understanding” among the U.S., Russia
and Britain on what to do with Germany
had not thus far been reached. Soon
afterwards Mr. Hull resigned—through
ill-health, it was reported. Since then
there haVe been such straws in the wind
as Mr. Churchill’s reference to the
urgency of an early meeting of the chief
Allied leaders and the statement of former
Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles:
As 1945 dawns the American people face
a future which seems less certain than at
any moment since the war began. At the
very time when the armed forces are making
the greatest sacrifices to speed final victory
the objectives for which they fight seem less
assured than they did three years ago.
There has become evident a wide and grow-
ing rift in the basic political understanding
of the three major Allies.
If a Churchill-Roosevelt-Stalin meet-
ing is the only way to close the rift,
then may it come soon.
It can be taken for granted that no pro-
posals that Britain and America could
agree to would be what Hitler is now
easily able to convince the German
people the Allies have in store for them.
The terms will deservedly be severe, but
they will not be the effusions of luna-
tics. They should be terms that it will be
feasible to enforce and keep enforced for
a protracted period. And they should
be defined now, towards defeating both
Germany and the one hope Hitler has
left.
"Sports" and War.
Although the volume of betting is
vaster than ever before, there being no
lawful impediment to the illicit variety
other than the occasional potting of small
fry, all is not well on the Sydney racing
front.
After infinite legislative and adminis-
trative exertions the Sydney Turf Club,
which the “Labor” Government brought
into existence and is backing, was placed
in the position of buying a racecourse
(its ambition runs to three racecourses),
sanction being obtained from the Com-
monwealth “Labor” Treasurer, who is
always hard put to it to fill war loans. A
party to one of these transactions was the
then Lord Mayor, He was photographed
at the signing of the papers. If the photo-
graphs reach New York they will con-
siderably surprise Mayor La Guardia,
who, so far from being interested in
racing and those who batten on it,
regularly denounces bookmakers over
the air, going to the length of invit-
ing wives and children of punters to
bring him information as to the book-
makers who get away with the family
money so that he may have them
prosecuted.
Under the Sydney Turf Club Act the
owners of three racecourses not required
by the club were deprived of dates. They
retaliated by announcing that their
courses would be closed for training as
well as racing. As something like a
thousand horses were trained on these
tracks, this necessitated fast thinking on
the part of the “Labor” Government, for
only a fraction of the thousand horses
could be accommodated on the author-
ised courses. To make matters worse,
there is a saddening dearth of feed and
water in the dairying districts from which
Sydney drawsr its milk supply, and the
farmers say they are losing on every
gallon sold. Hence a milk shortage, with
severe rationing ahead, and more to come,
and the threat of a dairymen’s strike
unless the “Government” gets them
Is. lOd. a gallon. As always on these
occasions, the “Government’s” thoughts
ran to.another litter of conferences and
royal commissions, but the dairymen’s
ultimatum was “one and ten or nothing.”
The fodder scarcity affects the racing
business also. If the position doesn’t
rapidly improve, a first-class slaughter
of dairy cows may be necessary. Of
course, no “Labor” Government would
think of ordering the destruction of race-
horses as an alternative.
In the great and enlightened daily and
Sunday prints Colorful Punters and
Dashing Bookmakers get more admiring
attention than Eisenhower, Alexander,
Montgomery, Tedder, Cunningham and
Bruce Fraser combined. In a strange
lapse from this sort of journalism, the
sporting editor of one of the prints came
out with a statement that “the ranks of
really big punters are dominated by bac-
carat and two-up-school principals, liquor
racketeers and a sprinkling of under-
world characters, who all bet in cash (tax-
free of course) and appear to have in-
exhaustible ‘banks.’ ” Associated with
these gentry, he proceeded, were men
with criminal records, interesting details
of which were given;
None of these men has done any army
service. They have eluded all the man-power
nets. The principals own expensive cars
and get plenty of petrol.
Did this wholly unexpected blow have
a chastening effect on “really big
punters”? It did not. The impres-
sion produced was so fleeting that
after the ensuing race meeting it was
recorded that a cash punter, unnamed,
had taken £6OOO to £3OOO from a
Mr. Mulligan and had modestly declined
Mr. Mulligan’s offer to make it £12,000
to £6OOO. The horse lost. Lost also
was the trail of the cash punter, if any
person in authority tried to get in touch
with him with a view to inquiring how
he got the £3OOO, and where he keeps his
hoard —safe deposits seem to be in great
demand —and what part of it represents
income from personal exertion or prop-
erty or both, and whether or not he has
paid tax on it.
In these cases, as in those of s.p. book-
makers who want more telephones, no
questions, it would seem, are asked. Yet
an official inquisition accompanies the
tremendous housing shortage, to which
the “Labor” Government in its con-
centration on the Sydney Turf Club
and “that good and useful sport
dog-racing” (words used by “Colonial”
Secretary Baddeley prior to calling the
inevitable conference) gives only cursory
attention, it being “a Federal matter,”
though to the South Australian Govern-
ment housing is No. 1 priority. Because
estates have to be wound up it is possible
now and then for a houseless man to find
a cottage for sale at £lOOO. He may—
and probably will —have to borrow most
of it. But when he asks for Authority’s
sanction, as is required in all war-time
transactions in dwellings, he is promptly
and inexorably informed that he won’t
be permitted to buy unless he can show
£2OO in war bonds and agrees to an inter-
dict on his disposing of the whole or any
part, however hard pressed he may be.
On the other side of the Pacific the
Government carrying on the war is clos-
ing every racecourse and dogtrack, and
causing every professional athlete to be
examined so that he won’t escape the
draft unless proved unfit. This action
has been precipitated by the realisation,
born of the severe reverses and losses on
the western front, that the war is going to
last much longer and to exact a far
greater toll of life and treasure than
seemed likely as late as August, but it
has also been prompted by the dis-
covery that man - power, man - hours
(particularly in war factories on race-
days), transport, fuel, fodder and the
sinews of war are prodigally wasted
in feeding the craze for commercial
sport based on gambling. Nothing
of the sort is expected in this country,
though—unlike the U.S.A. —Australia,
according to the C.-1.-C. land forces, has
90,000 enemy soldiers on its territory, and
they have been there for three years. In
Sydney especially the gambling interest
has powerful friends, and all forms of
commercial sport flourish, as do the mul-
titude of rackets, every part of the law
apparatus relating to them being like
putty.
Under “Labor” government, State and
Federal, the city is a happy hunting-
ground for hard-faced men who have
done very well out of the war, and for
strapping fellows who have never been
called upon to attend it where the bullets
fly, though in far better physical shape
than many of the men of the great A.I.F.
divisions who have done nearly all the
ground fighting in which Australians have
been engaged.
PLAIN ENGLISH
Slow and Painful.
Just as Federal Labor knew it could run
the mine at Coalcliff (admitted loss for
about a twelvemonth, £25,000, and pro-
duction down 90 tons a day, although 43
more men were put on) and is sure it
will achieve wonders in the airways and
banking businesses, so N.S.W. Labor was
positive it could show the charcoal-
burners, whose calling must be nearly the
oldest in Australia, how to do things.
It set up a concern grandiloquently called
a Charcoal Production Undertaking, and
plastered the Undertaking with funds,
mostly derived from the Commonwealth
Government as benevolent grandfather
and customer for “services,” obligingly
paying through the nose.
The Auditor-General has told the story
of the Undertaking in an unfinished serial.
The 1942-43 chapter ended with the chill-
ing statement that “total losses, derived
from a writing-down of the value of capi-
tal assets and from trading, amounted to
£130,571.”
In 1943-44 additional capital of £60,976
was required, £20,687 of it “to meet trad-
ing loss for period January 1 to June 30,
1943,” and £976 “to pay off additional
liabilities disclosed subsequent to the re-
construction of the Undertaking at
December 31, 1942,” It brought “net
total expenditure for the establishment
of the Undertaking” to £294,634 at June
30. But there was, of course, another
“trading loss” for 1943-44 ; “as shown by
the books” it amounted to £44,836.
Meanwhile individual charcoal-burners
contrive to make good wages and partner-
ships make good profits.
According to Mr, Ward, who would go
broke in the meatpie and saveloy busi-
ness if he had a Paddington monopoly,
“nationalisation is the remedy.” It is
deadly poison,


Writing to his father in Sydney, a man
at Nadzab (N.G.) said the troops’ Christ-
mas was spoilt by looters:
Comforts parcels for New Guinea were
“ratted” and all the tobacco, cigarettes and
chocolates pinched in transit. Of course,
there wasn’t enough to go round. Instead
of the normal issue of two bottles of beer
a man a week, we got only one bottle in
Christmas week because about 7000 cases
of beer were stolen, too We have been
asked ,to tell our relatives about it in the
hope that they will make it as public as
possible.
Invited to comment, an A.C.F. officer
in Sydney promised an investigation.
Shortly afterwards Sydney daily papers
were quoting from letters written home
from N.G. and from statements made by
Customs officers and others.
A.C.F. parcels were broken open and
cigarettes and chocolates removed; 14,400
bottles of beer, 500 swimming costumes
and some hundreds of personal parcels dis-
appeared. Whisky cases were filled with
stones Canteen stores for northern areas
have suffered seriously and the losses in
beer consignments have been heavy Our
C.O. informed us that because of pillaging
and losses we will have to go short at
Christmas In most cases razor blades,
chocolates and cigarettes were extracted
A Customs official said that on occasions
nearly 100 parcels for troops in N.G. were
pilfered in a single shipment Parcels
were ripped open for tobacco and choco-
lates Cakes for which mothers and wives
had sacrificed butter rations were trodden
underfoot in h01d5.... Before the hatches
have been closed broken packages have
been seen scattered around the hold.
In effect, the black-market looters
had broken out in a fresh place.
Until three or four months ago
they could get all they wanted from
American supplies. On October 1
Captain J. A. Chambers, U.S. Provost
Marshal in Sydney, was moved to make
a public appeal to Australians to stop
buying black-market American cigarettes
and other comforts intended for U.S.
servicemen.
Civilians in Sydney are paying up to 30s.
a carton of 200 cigarettes. Many thousands
of cartons sent to N.S.W. for American
forces have been stolen to feed this black
market. Shipments are guarded, but there are
still heavy losses—the heaviest at wharves,
warehouses, canteens and railway yards.
Among the goods stolen are arms, clothing,
canned food, petrol and wristlet watches.
Captain Chambers mentioned that in
the previous month, with Australian de-
tectives assisting U.S. officers, 16 convic-
tions had been obtained, adding sarcasti-
cally that “one first offender received a
sentence of two months.” Farcical penal-
ties imposed on looters caught with the
goods have obviously convinced the un-
speakable tribe that they have little to
fear from the law. The racket is so
their loot. Thereupon what looked like
a gang war developed.
Most of the Americans moved north.
A short lull ensued. Then the looters fell
upon A.C.F. and Defence Canteens
goods, there being an extra supply for
Christmas; and again the stuff disappeared
from “wharves, warehouses, canteens and
railway yards.” Now that a big British
naval force is to be based here, presum-
ably their stores will be the next target.
But here some risk will be involved, for
the Royal Navy knows how to handle
looters, its way being very different from
the ways of Sydney lawmakers and magis-
trates.
Different it will need to be. On Sep-
tember 23 the N.S.W. Minister of Justice,
a Mr. Downing, received a deputation
from the wharf-laborers’ union protesting
against suspected thieves being searched
by the police. Wharfies and others con-
victed of looting cargo are dismissed with
fines, which can be made up in a few
hours or a few minutes, according
to whether toil or theft is pre-
ferred ; for they always go back
to their jobs. Any attempt to prevent
their doing so is met with threats of a
strike, and when strikes are threatened
the “Labor” Governments at Canberra
and Sydney curl up and offer a confer-
ence or a royal commission or both. It
is a principle of the new unionism, not-
ably on the waterfront and in Government
slaughteryards, if not yet in Government
railway departments or in the Post Office
(though in N. S. Wales post office thieves
are hardly ever sent to jail) that the con-
victed thief retains his union rights. Only
non-unionists, however honest, industri-
ous and patriotic, are beyond the pale.
Brains at Bargain Rates.
The Cooper Government, having ac-
cepted the Public Service Commis-
sioner’s recommendations, is to make
sweeping changes in the Queensland De-
partment of Agriculture and Stock. It
is also sweeping the Commonwealth in
order to obtain the best men possible. So
the tale runs.
The department is to be divided into
five divisions: administration, plant in-
dustry, marketing, animal industry and
dairying. The divisional heads are to be
“men of sound training, wide experience,
and having administrative and executive
ability able to identify essential needs
of industry, formulate proposals and
direct activities.” Branch heads will be
specialists; so will “understudies or
assistant directors,” field and technical
officers —in short, the Government wants
first-class men in every division.
At the salaries it is offering it won t
get them. The highest is £lOOO a
year; others range from £425 to £825,
with most of them round the £5OO-£6OO
mark. Qualified men can earn four
figures as vets., soil chemists, fruit ex-
perts, marketing supervisors and so forth.
They won’t take wharf laborers’ pay
even to oblige a Labor Government.
The Return of Hogan.
Ex-Premier Hogan was a farmer’s son,
is himself a farmer, and was a pretty good
Minister of Agriculture. He has been
named chairman of the Victorian Soil
Conservation Board for the unexpired
portion of H. G. Strom’s term, Strom
having been recalled to his duties as
Water Supply Commission engineer.
There have been objections to the Hogan
appointment, but they seem paltry,
especially as his three sons went into the
armed services and one is dead. Though
newspapermen and others may rail, no
serviceman would wish to disqualify a
man with such a record from such an
appointment.
Before retiring from the field of con-
troversy, Mr. Hogan came out as a mor-
dant critic of Federal Labor’s agricul-
tural performance. He pointed out in
an “Argus” article that Government pub-
licity officers, though they “filled the
newspapers and air with propaganda” for
three years, have been “very silent” on
the subject since the Commonwealth
Statistician revealed that “the total area
under crops in Australia decreased from
23.500.000 acres in 1938-39 to 15,900,000
acres in 1943-44.” This “alarming reduc-
tion,” Mr. Hogan declared —Mr. Forde
has made a poor fist of denying it—was
“mainly due to the policy of the Curtin
Government.” Its wheat - restriction
measures alone reduced the areas sown
from 13,285,000 acres in 1939-40 to
7.860.000 acres in 1943-44; and there were
other things :
The Curtin Government took too many
farmers and farmers’ sons and daughters
off the land. Because of that, and because
of the difficulty and increased cost of get-
ting any work done, and because of short-
age of super., Commerce Department restric-
tions and Man-power directions, production
of all crops except vegetables decreased
alarmingly.
And, of course, the Curtin Government
paid wheat-farmers for not growing
wheat.
Ex-Comrade Hogan allowed that “there
was a large increase in the printing and
issue of paper money and Government
propaganda,” but protested that these sub-
stitutes fed nobody, though they “tem-
porarily satisfied and gulled a lot of
people.” He has never forgotten that his
Labor nomination for Warrenheip was
withdrawn during the depression, or that
when he was Premier and on the other
side of the world he was expelled the
party for “refusing to repudiate the
Premiers’ plan.” He recalled those times
in his “Argus” article.
Some people keep on saying in writing
that in 1931-32 there was a surplus of food,
but the people did not have enough money
to buy it. They are strangely silent about
the present phenomena, when some people
have a surplus of money but there is not
enough food or clothes or beer or tobacco
or houses to buy.
In conclusion, the iconoclast called
upon “intelligent Australians” to bring
about “a change in the economic policy
of the Curtin Government, which has pro-
duced plenty of paper money and caused
a scarcity of nearly everything else.”
The Bias of Patriotism.
“American commentators,” it seems,
“are still discussing the causes of the
recent Allied reverses on the western
front.” Not all American commen-
tators are like that; Hanson Bald-
win admitted that “it was our reverse.”
True, Baldwin went on to protest against
Montgomery being placed in command
of Americans; but that was a mild
example of the bias of patriotism com-
pared to what appeared in an unsigned
Chicago “Tribune” editorial on Nov. 11:
The Japs laughed at Britain in this war,
calculating correctly that she couldn’t pro-
tect her Asiatic colonies. They had no
difficulty with the Allied fleet in Asiatic
waters when it was united under either
Dutch or British command. It wasn’t until
the Japanese met an American fleet under
an American command that the tide turned.
Off the Philippines we have just sunk half
the Japanese navy, and sent the rest of it
home for heavy repairs.
The German army tore up the armies
of France, Britain, Belgium and Holland.
It remained for the American army to
crush Germany in France. We did it with
some help from Britain, and we did it while
we were defeating the Japanese in New
Guinea.
The article concluded with a tremen-
dous vaunt at which the subject, fine
fellow that he is, taken by and large,
must have grinned: “On land, on sea
and in the air the American fighting
man has proved himself the superior of
every opponent and of every ally.”
PREPARING FOR A COMEBACK.
“Fascism still survives in Italy. Clandestine newspapers have sprung up, leaflets are distributed and slogans such as 'Viva, Mussolini!’ and 'Viva, Hitler!’ appear on
walls.”— N.Y. “Times."


FOR 66 YEARS
the
Mercantile Mutual
INSURANCE CO., LTD.,
An Australian Institution, has been pro-
viding security for the homes of the
people, giving service to thou-
sands throughout the land.
Fire, Accident, Motor Car
Householders and Houseowners’
Comprehensive (Combined) Insurance.
Insure Australian Property in an
Australian Insurance Company.
Head Office:
117 Pitt Street, Sydney.
SELWYN KING, Managing Director.
Making
iH*!
in*!
Pf
■in
Sy
m
PA
your will?
When appointing a trustee and executor to your will, nominate the
Permanent Trustee Co. It is the best and safest course of action.
Enduring and unprejudiced, and with over 56 years’ experience in
such work, the Company will administer your estate with impartial
judgment, protect your assets and dependants, and fulfil your wishes
to the last letter. Write or, if in Sydney, call and discuss your position
with one of our senior officers, confidentially and without obligation.
PERMANENT TRUSTEE CO. of N.S.W., LTD.
23-25 O’CONNELL STREET, SYDNEY.
PERSONAL LOANS
Are negotiated by the RURAL BANK
on a strictly confidential basis tor the
purpose of paying such items as—
(a) Medical and dental expenses and
hospital charges ;
(b) Funeral expenses ;
(c) Insurance premiums ;
(d) Other pressing debts,or approved
purposes.
The present discount rate Is 5% P-a.
and the following table indicates instal-
ments which will fully repay a loan for
amounts mentioned within 12 months s
Monthly
Instal.
16 8
1 13 4
2 10 0
3 6 8
4 3 4
8 6 8
granteo accoroing to «r«.
with a corresponding reduction in the
instalments.
Apply Personal Loans Dept., 4th Floor
RURAL BANK
Head Office. Martin Place, Sydney
POLITICAL POINTS
Somebody has discovered that the
Duke of Gloucester is to have “a luxury
airliner for use in Australia,” a four-
engined Avro-York. The meeting of the
Duke in “the luxury airliner” and his
Ministers in their grand fleet of Chryslers
of the 1942 vintage—the last made before
the plant was turned over to war work —
should be a sight to behold. The yarn
about the Chryslers is that they were con-
signed not to the Labor Government, but
to other people, and were offered to the
South African Government. That Gov-
ernment, the story proceeds, refused them
on the ground that it was practising
economy.
Fallon of the A.W.U. was re-elected
to all his official positions by thumping
majorities in a recent ballot. He
described it as a “most pleasing victory
for Australian democracy over a foreign
philosophy.” It must be said for the
A.W.U. that in two wars it has lived up
to its name. It is no plaster saint of
unionism, but it has not forgotten Aus-
tralia.
In Melbourne, as in Sydney, where the
bottled beer goes to after it has reached
the pub is a problem which is agitating
the thirsty, who are told by publicans
that supplies are too small to go round.
The police threw some light on the ques-
tion when they found an American negro
in the Yarra—he had bought 18 dozen
bottles in Fitzroy for four shillings the
bottle. As Lao-Tze, the Chinese
philosopher, said 2000 years ago, when the
people are subjected to overmuch govern-
ment the land is thrown into confusion,
and the greater the number of laws and
enactments the more thieves there will be.
Russia has for the first time been
openly invited by one of our war leaders
to come into the war against Japan. In
a New Year statement to newspapermen
Admiral Nimitz “declared that he would
welcome Russian participation in the war
in the Pacific on our side.” If there has
been any reply from the Kremlin it has
not been published.
Martin Dies, in the Leftist jargon
“America’s No. 1 Rdd-baiter,” is no
longer a Congressman—he retired ill —
but the Dies Commission is to go on.
This was one of the first decisions of the
new Congress, and it staggered corns,
everywhere.
Newspapermen in the U.S.A. are twist-
ing the Lion’s tail once more, and news-
papermen in Britain are ruffling the
American Eagle’s feathers. Not all by
any means ; those engaged in the silly
business are chiefly Leftists. London
“Economist,” which has been drifting
to the Left for years, came out
with an angry article in which it
envisaged the possibility of a peace settle-
ment with “American collaboration”-
excluded, and alleged that “the ordinary
Englishman” is on the way to believing
that “the only reliable helping hand is in
Soviet Russia.” No Australian harbors
that illusion. Australians can never
forget what the Americans did for Aus-
tralia when Australia was in peril, and
when “the only reliable helping hand”
was wholly concerned with the war
against “Hitlerite Germany”—as it still
is, with politics added.
It appeared in a responsible Sydney
newspaper over three months ago
(30/9/’44):
Trams and buses will stop running when
news of the armistice in Europe is officially
announced ... The Minister for Transport,
Mr. O’Sullivan, said that trams and buses
would not run into the city when the
armistice was declared, but would return
as quickly as possible to their depots.
Special instructions would be issued to the
police.
That comes of thinking more of the
cheers and the beers than the fighting.
F. J. Haase, a Melbourne man, has
been named Commonwealth Superinten-
dent of Marketing and Distribution of
Fish. As soon as he can find a fish to
market or distribute he will advise the
Minister, who will call a conference.
To the inexpressible delight of Forde,
and with a “What did I tell you?” under-
song from Wells, the communist presi-
dent, N.S.W. coalminers were back in the
pits on January 2, the date prescribed in
the National Security regulation. At least,
some were. Production loss for the week
was “only about” 20,000 tons. In January
N.S.W. coalminers are always assailed by
lethargy; in fact, that is true of the
January-March quarter, wars notwith-
standing. It was during the January-
March quarter of 1942 that Curtin lik-
ened their loafers to the Japs; “as much
the enemies of this country as the directly
enlisted legions of the enemy.” In the
January-March quarter of 1944 16.3 p.c.
of “possible working time was lost”
in “dislocations” (“N.S.W. Industrial
Gazette,” a Government publication). The
“working” week is nominally 40 hours,
but underground it is generally worked in
36 hours from bank to bank.
At 82 or near it the second World
War I Prime Minister goes into the House
of Lords, subject of his choicest
A BAR-ONE PROPOSITION.
“The Government should freeze chaff stocks and give the primary producer No. 1 priority
over racketeers and racing stables.”— Finnan, U.L.A. for Hawkesbury ( N.S.W. ).
“One of you animals is going to have its throat cut. What’ll the betting he?”
Limehouse invective, as Earl Lloyd
George of Dwyfor, “name of the stream
running past his Carnarvonshire farm.”
One of his objections to peerages in his
Limehouse days was that the succession
went as of right to “the first of the litter.’
By his first marriage he has two sons
and two daughters, Churchill’s Minister
of Mines being “the first,” etc.
Adelaide “Advertiser’s” Canberra man,
overcome with sympathy;
Mr. Curtin’s illness is symptomatic of a
quite general tiredness in the Cabinet.
Nearly half the Ministers have shown signs
of sickness and strain in varying degrees in
the last year.
half” should be nine. Strange
that they should be so overcome when
older men at Washington and Westmin-
ster with a far greater burden of toil
and cares are bearing up. These sensitive
plants could be replaced tomorrow with
tough fellows from the Opposition, none
of whom “showed signs of sickness and
strain” when in office. But that would
mean a national Government, and to
every officeholder and officeseeker in
Caucus national Governments are abom-
inable.
McKell, who has been talking a great
deal about his “Government’s” erosion
stations, has been tartly reminded that
the one at Wagga, though bought seven
or eight months ago, is still nothing more
than a dusty paddock. Maybe McKell
intends to use it for a racecourse,
A London “Daily Express” writer has
been surveying the communist programme
for the British elections. He says the
corns, will nominate over 50 candidates
and will “be very satisfied” if five are
elected.
Communists are urged to run for all
elective posts in unions and politics. They
are stressing the new emphasis on the
personal probity and repute of their can-
didates, are urging the comrades to become
known as good workers at their jobs.
But it must be a worry to them not to
know which way Somebody is going to
jump.
The report of the Soil Conservation
Board, tabled in the Victorian Parliament,
referred to a long, hot summer in 1943-
44, high winds and erosion in the Mallee
and serious and widespread fires. The
fires wiped out a lot of the State’s grass
cover which should have been collected
for cattle fodder. Had heavy rain oc-
curred then, as it did in 1935, a large part
of the State would have been washed into
Bass Strait. Luckily, the autumn came
in light and fitful rainfalls so that the
ground cover had a chance to get re-
established. There was enough in the
report to occupy legislators for the rest
of their lifetime; but the Christmas
recess was looming.
An Australian airman who was a
schoolteacher, and who crossed the
U.S.A, in a somewhat leisurely manner
on his way home, says that picture-
theatres and pubs are usually the most
up-to-date buildings in N.S.W., schools
in U.S.A. He seemed to think there was
a moral in it.
In the last week of July Australian
papers had the Russians careering into
Warsaw, and Stalin, according to a Polish
account, gave it out that his men would
be in the city on August 6. Now Harsch,
the “Christian Science Monitor” man, has
written that “known facts point increas-
ingly to the assumption that the Russians
suffered one of the worst military defeats
of the war at the Vistula early in August.”
Subsequent events lend weight to the
“assumption,” but the truth is not likely
to come out till after the war.
Constitutional requirements will com-
pel the Mackenzie King Government to
go to the country before June. With a
big majority in the present Commons
and a very fine war record, it ought to
be sure of re-election, but the rise of the
so-called Co-operative Commonwealth
Federation, very successful at provincial
elections, and the conscription rumpus
are evil omens. If the French turn
against it on the conscription issue the
Government is gone. Conscription was
introduced by the Conservatives in the last
war. They haven’t been in office since.
Last month a statement of U.S.S.R.
foreign policy was issued from the Soviet
Legation at Canberra, and presumably
sent to all the dailies, but only the “West
Australian” published it. Like all Soviet
State papers, it doesn’t mention the war
with Japan, nor is Japan mentioned
among the “large number of countries”
with which the Soviet Union has estab-
lished diplomatic relations during the
war. A Stalin reference to “such mon-
sters and cannibals as Hitler and Ribben-
trop” is quoted, but it is not explained
why the non-aggression pact with “such
monsters and cannibals” was signed or
when or with what result, although
“Chamberlain and Daladier” are blamed
for the “failure of the negotiations in
1939.” There is a lot about “bankrupt
Polish politicians,” the continuity and
consistency of Soviet policy and the
“basic principles” thereof, among which
are “categorical renouncement of im-
perialist expansion and non-intervention
in the internal affairs of other States.”
All very interesting and very comforting
to those given to believing what they
wish to believe.
The statement of Soviet policy is attri-
buted to Colonel A. Galin. The colonel’s
sole reference to military performance
in the one war in which he and his Gov-
ernment seem to be interested:
Without the Soviet Union the unbridled
Nazi beast would have become the master
of Europe and of the whole world.
Very soothing to the communists who
raged and intrigued against “the imperial-
ist war” during the year in which Britain
stood alone against Germany and Italy
and began tearing the Italian empire to
tatters; but no Briton or American will
ever believe it.
In New York recently a Federal Judge
fined one Hyman Karlin $lOO,OOO for
“liquor ceiling violations,” and smote a
“textile jobber,” Joseph M. Safie, with a
fine of $llO,OOO and four months, the tex-
tile jobber to remain in prison until the
fine is paid. If Hyman and Joseph know
Sydney they must be sorry they weren’t
dealt with by Sydney magistrates.
Characteristic of “S. M, Herald’s”
literary page, which pronounced Alex-
ander Hamilton a Fascist enemy of the
republic which still bears the stamp of
his constructive genius, were two reviews,
published the same day. One dismissed
Deakin’s great Federal Story in two
inches of print which could have been
written by the office boy. Perhaps it
was; there is an absurd reference to
“the federation of the States of Australia
into the Commonwealth.” The other
gave 21 inches to a volume by Bishop
Burgmann, with a three-column head-
line, the good man’s latest portrait (he
seems to have one taken every month)
and a closing puff:
This is an admirable little book by a wise
Australian. It should be required reading
for all parents, teachers and politicians.
The reviewer belongs to the N.S.W.
teaching body. Perhaps the reading will
be “required” by the Teachers’ Federation
as part of its political programme.
Bishop Burgmann to “S. M. Herald”
just before it boomed his book;
Those who do not want a communist
type of revolution should seek to do better
by anticipating all the just demands of the
communists and going still further.
If it is proof of being a Wise Aus-
tralian to prescribe to this British nation
utter submission to the communist pro-
gramme as a necessity dictated by fear of
what corns, may do if it doesn’t crawl to
them, “and go still further,” this paper
will eat a shovel hat.


(ydand»
ROYLO
Royal Reserve Port
PERSONAL ITEMS
As announced from London, a speci-
ally picked crew of crack Australian air-
men will man the Avro-York airliner the
Duke and Duchess of Gloucester will use
in Australia. Men in the crew are Wing-
Commander D. R. Donaldson (captain),
Flight-Lieuts. R. R. Anderson and J. A.
Critchley (co-pilots), Flying-Officer J. G.
Earl (navigator), Flying-Officer K. W.
Miller (flight engineer) and Pilot-Officer
L. E. Welldon (wireless operator).
Canberra University College has ac-
quired Old Enzed Digger N. M. Rich-
mond, history lecturer at Queensland
Uni., for its permanent staff. A Maori-
land Rhodes scholar, he went to Queens-
land as an authority on adult education,
after 10 years as director of tutorial
classes at Auckland University College,
and took charge of W.E.A. tutorial
classes. His work at Canberra will be
mainly teaching history to diplomatic
cadets.
k The January 23, 1944, issue of N.Y.
“Times Magazine” featured large repro-
duced photos, of “Ten Who Will Lead
the Invasion,” and side by side were
Air Chief-Marshal Leigh-Mallory and
Admiral Sir. Bertram Ramsay. Leigh-
Mallory, missing on his way out by air
to take charge of the flying side of
Britain’s Pacific War fighting, has since
been presumed dead; and last week
Ramsay, Allied Naval C.-in-C. for the
European fighting, was killed in a ’plane
crash in France. It has been said of
Ramsay that “he could wear any kind
of regaHa and still look what he is—a
British naval officer.” “Where rolled the
ocean, thereon was his home,” and he’d
already been 40 years at sea when he
retired in 1938. A month before the
present war started he was recalled, sub-
sequently organising the vast armada of
big and little boats which got the 300,000
men away from Dunkirk. He also
planned the huge armada which carried
the North African invasion expedition,
and last year was given the top Navy
post for Eisenhower’s invasion.
Nominated by the King for election
as Archbishop of Canterbury and Primate
of England, Dr. Geoffrey Francis Fisher
has been since 1939 Bishop of London,
Dean of the Chapels Royal and Prelate
of the Order of the British Empire. A
brilliant scholar, he became headmaster
of Repton in 1914, and held that post till
1932, meanwhile marrying a grand-
daughter of a former Repton head. They
have six sons.
Another brilliant medico lost:—-
Passed on, at 50, Leslie Utz, major at the
113lh A.G.H., and brilliant pathologist. Edu-
cated at Sydney High and Grammar, he gradu-
ated in Medicine just before his 21st birthday
at Sydney Uni. He was actively interested in
sport, particularly tennis; was president of the
Sydney Sports Union and the first president .of
the Australian Universities Sports Association in
1921, 1922 and 1923. Resident M.O. and later
Assistant Superintendent at the Children’s Hos-
pital, Camperdown, he went from there to Royal
Prince Alfred as Senior Resident Pathologist
and Medical Registrar. He began practice in
Macquarie-street as a pathologist in 1920, and
was appointed Medical Administrator of the
McGarvie Smith Institute in the same year,
visited S. Africa, India and other parts of the
world in the interests of the institute, and built
up the sale of the anthrax vaccine enormously.
Appointed Hon. Director of Pathology at St.
Vincent’s Hospital in 1923, Dr. Utz was a
member of the Cancer Research committee, an
acknowledged authority on many medical sub-
jects, and did a lot of research work with Dr.
Lila Keatinge—who died at 35 ten years ago—
on Hodgkinson’s Disease, which stimulated re-
search in this subject throughout the world.
Although medically unfit, his desire to serve
his country prompted him to accept the task
of building up from scratch the Pathology De-
partment at the 113th. Here he did perhaps
the grandest job of his career, as it is acclaimed
both by Australian and visiting Allied medicoes
the finest pathology department in Australia, and
equal to the world’s best. On the committee
of the A.J.C., he resigned when he took on
his military duties. Like many another medico,
he died in harness as the result of sheer hard
work, the pace of which he refused to reduce.
In his day a fine horseman and later
known wherever horses are mentioned in
Australia, William (“Old Bill”) Kelso has
passed qn in Sydney at 74. He was a
special crony of The Bulletin’s “Pilot”
(J. F. Dexter), and before the war inter-
fered with such things they spent many a
day together motoring down the South
Coast. Their friendship became firmer,
if anything, during the ill-health which
dogged both the last year or two, and
each, if not himself a cot case, never
failed to spend hours at the other’s bed-
side. Only in death were they divided —
“Pilot” was too sick to see the last of his
old mate.
Home to his native shores, Lieut. Eric
Sholl, R.A.N.V.R., after nearly four years
with Royal Navy destroyers. He served
in Hunt-class ships in the North Sea,
taking in the St. Nazaire operation, the
Madagascan campaign, hunting U-boats
in the Atlantic and escorting convoys in
tropical waters; then to the Mediterranean,
to land the first of the British commandos
on the Salerno beaches; and after that
the big invasion across the Channel. Son
of veteran “Hansard” reporter R. F.
Sholl and brother of R. R. Sholl, Rhodes
scholar and Melbourne barrister, Lieut.
Sholl is an M.A., LL.B. of Melbourne
University; boxing and baseball “blue”
and ex-grade cricketer. In 1936 he toured
South Africa for A.B.C. with the Aus-
tralian Eleven ; in 1938 he did the Tests
broadcasts from England ; then he was
appointed N.S.W. programme executive
for A.B.C. He comes back with “Q. 0.”
after his name in the Navy lists.
S.A. School of Mines loses a noted
wool-classer in A. H. Codrington. He
was a student there under George Jeffrey,
gained a lot of experience in Westralia
and has been in charge in Adelaide since
1920, but now runs against the age limit.
“U ramao”; Australian education
authorities hae a guid conceit o’ the Gal-
lants in Maoriland’s Scots Colleges.
Anither headmaster, V. F. O. Francis, of
Wellington Scots, has been enticed awa’
to Melbourne to boss the Carey Baptist
Grammar School. Such a flitting o’
Scots College masters ayont the Tasman
during the past few years has not oc-
curred since the deil flew awa’ wi’ the
exciseman.
Sketched here by Finey, Lord Nuffield
has given away a fair whack of personal
poundage as Well as his familiar liberal
LORD NUFFIELD.
handouts of £ s. d. since he was last in
Australia. He’s done five years of solid war
work without a let-up, and is here this time
mainly for a spell, though he’ll look into
agencies connected with his organisation
before he gpes back. He’s had bombs
falling round his house, and describes his
recent past as “five years of hell.”
“H.M.”: Despite infantile paralysis in
both legs at 15, David Gilbert Bengafield
lately scooped the honors in his final
term in laws at Sydney University and
won the Uni. medal and the John George
Dailey prize. He had to go to his studies
in a wheel chair. His dad is Dr. Vivian
Bengafield, “Bengie” to Diggers when he
was director of medical services at Repat.,
“Bengie'’ still gives a helping hand to
numbers of Diggers.
Westralian short-story writer Gavin
Casey is heading back to, the West,
thinking none the worse of the East or
of the Department of Information, for
which he’s been writing special articles.
He reckons D.I. has been frying hard to
do a good job, with some success.
Articles by himself and others publicising
Australia have been well used and re-
ceived overseas. At one time Casey was
particularly keen on speedy motor-
cycling but, oddly, wrote only one story
GAVIN CASEY.
about it —“Horse Power,” which appeared
in The Bulletin, and which Vance
Palmer is using in this year’s Coast to
Coast. Casey’s returning to Perth “Daily
News,” which he left to go into the army.
Harold Charles Green, who goes to
manage a private firm from the job of
Director of Materials Supply, Ministry
of Munitions (though he continues in a
voluntary part-time capacity in his former
billet), was one of the young men selected
by George Knibbs for the Common-
wealth Bureau of Census and Statistics.
In his four years with the First A.I.F.
he was severely wounded. Afterwards
he played a big part in the financial re-
conciliation of Australian-British war
expenditure.
Major F. Yeats-Brown, whose life of
excitements ended in England the other
day, was a fellow-prisoner in Turkey of
Wing-Commander Tommy White, M.H.R.
Like White, he spent his whole time in
durance vile scheming how to get out and,
also like White, succeeded. While a Lancer
in Bengal Yeats-Brown became a con-
vert to Yogi, practised its strange dis-
ciplines, and by dint of gazing at the pit
of his stomach claimed to have attained
to some of the lesser powers of the naked
mystics. Subsequently he wrote a book
about it. Then he wrote The Dogs of.
War, in which he discussed and dis-
missed the various panaceas for man-
kind’s belligerency, from the League and
the super-State to international social-
ism, finally concluding that war is the
expression of man’s creative Spirit. His
Bengal Lancer was turned into a film.
In 1938 Yeats-Brown met Hitler, who
told him that he had seen that film five
times.
Already a veteran of anti-shipping war-
fare in two war theatres, Wing-Com-
mander C. G. Milson, D.F.C. and bar,
of Winton (Q.), has taken over command
of an Australian Beaufighter ship-buster
squadron of the R.A.F. Coastal Com-
mand. Milson joined the squadron early
this year and has been in many actions
against enemy convoys along the Nor-
wegian and North Sea coasts.
William QuealL lately president of
Adelaide Chamber of Manufactures for
three years, has stepped up to be presi-
dent of Australia’s Associated C. of M.
His post in Adelaide is taken by R. J,
Michell, chairman of directors of a family
tanning co., and the youngest man on
local record to hold it.
Bung in general is far from popular
at present, but representatives of the Wine
and Food Society, the Viticultural
Society, a leading brewery and prominent
citizens sharing a common devotion
to thp good things gathered together one
evening a week or two back to do
honor to one in Melbourne—and a
distinguished Judge presided. The one
honored was Joe Ecker, of the Globe
Hotel, Albury, that'rarity among publi-
cans a man who takes a passionate in-
terest in good cooking and right drinking,
and whose cellar and table are spoken
of wherever two or more connoisseurs
are gathered together. In pre-austerity
days epicures were known to take a trip
to Joe Ecker’s town simply to enjoy his
cuisine, and experts consult him on Aus-
tralian wines and European vintages.
Nearly every Australian Prime Minister
has been entertained at his table.
The Westralian Chief Inspector of
Police, J. Doyle, becomes Commissioner
on the retirement of D. Hunter. A native
of County Wexford, Doyle joined the
Royal Irish Constabulary in 1907 and
resigned to come to Australia in 1913,
when he joined the W.A. force. Three
years later he was in the C. 1.8., was
Inspector in Charge in 1936 and Chief
Inspector in 1940. He was a personal
escort to the Prince of Wales during his
Australian visit and later to the Duke of
Gloucester.
S.A. honors:
Arthur Cudmore, who gets a knighthood, is
one of Adelaide’s leading surgeons, with ser-
vice m two wars, and much more at the Royal
Adelaide Hospital and the military one at
Keswick. He is president of S.A. Medical
Board.
Chief Justice Mellis Napier takes a step up,
to be K.C.M.G. "
Callaghan, C.M.G., was N.S.W. Rhodes
scholar in 1924, has done much since for plant-
breeding in his own State, and is now head
of Roseworthy, S.A.’s agricultural college.
Hans Heysen gets the 0.8. E., which goes also
to Mrs. Dolling, widow of the international
cricketer; she is a Master of Science of Otago
(M.L.) Uni., a journalist, and especially a
great Organiser in war-work.
The estate of Arthur Ferdinand Yen-
cken, the Victorian who lost his life when
a ’plane crashed in Spain, where he was
British Minister to Madrid, was worth
£96,446. It goes to his family.
Into the silence:
Sydney George Keys was principal of Tam-
worth (N.S.W.) High School, and lately head of
Newcastle High. At Sydney University he had
a distinguished career, and later was more dis-
tinguished still as a teacher of English, -in recog-
nition of which the Keys Prize in English was
established at Sydney Tech. Henry Keys, war
correspondent with the A.I.F. in New Guinea,
is a son.
At Heidelberg Military Hospital, Melbourne,
Lieut.-Coi J. p. Sandberg, till last August
chief Dutch liaison officer under General Mac-
Arthur. Popular with hundreds of colleagues,
he leaves a widow and four children, over whom
the German silence fell four years ago in Hol-
land.
At 73, William Thomson, for quarter of a
century secretary of the Rockhampton (Q.)
Hospitals Board, and a foundation member and
several times president of the Stock Exchange
there. Born in the Orkney Islands, he came
to Australia as a boy and set up as a public
accountant in Rockhampton 50 years ago.
In Adelaide, the widow of Josiah Symon, the
K.C. who dominated the S.A. Bar for a whole
generation, and was, unless tradition is wrong,
within an inch or so of being the first Chief
Justice of the High Court. He was a “colonial”
and Commonwealth Attorney-General and a
Senator (1901-13). Meanwhile she brought up
his big family, ran a farm in the Adelaide hills,
and founded a Poetry Society. Their joint
genius has been transmitted mainly to some
clever daughters.
In Adelaide, at 80, L. H. Griffiths, Director
of Posts and Telegraphs till he retired six years
ago. Telephones were his strong point, and
he claimed to have been in at the installing of
the first exchange, about 1883, and himself the
first night-operator on the switchboard. He
was the first president of the Postal Institute.
At 70, in Melbourne, Captain Donald Mac-
donald, commander of many ships of Howard
Smith and the Melbourne Steamship Co,.
At 77, in Melbourne, Lieutenant-Commis-
sioner Wiebe Palstra, a leading Salvationist for
60 years. He served in Holland, Africa, China,
Korea and N.E.1., and in Australia as chief
secretary. A son was killed in the R3l disaster
in 1930, another is p.o.w, in Malaya and a
daughter is interned in Chin^.
In England, at 82, Leonard P. Rees, the
greatest man in the chess world on the legisla-
tive side. He made the laws by which chess
is now governed.
At Kapunda (S.A.), at 51, Thomas Percival
Jeffs, managing director of Jeffs Bros., millers.
From a small manufacturing concern at
Kapunda, he and a brother took up milling at
Fords in 1921. After being burnt out they
transferred to Gawler and opened branches in
N.S.W., at Junee and Lismore.


Sicuety
“P.McM.”; A young married couple
after months of futile advertising and
searching were advised by an estate
agent that he had a furnished flat-
ette vacant if they still required one.
They immediately grabbed it without in-
spection. On arriving at their new home
they found it clean if tiny ; but there was
no trace of a kitchen. The wife rang
the agent. “How are you to do your
cooking? Oh, that’s all right, you’ll find
a primus stove under the bed.”
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”: Before the war,
when a new Bung took over it was
natural to expect drinks on the house.
But on a Saturday I happened to
be in a pub in a Sydney industrial
suburb when 'the new licensee was intro-
duced by the outgoing one. Did the bar
mob demand that Bung should push the
boat out? Not on your life! Instead,
they began falling over one another in
their anxiety to ingratiate themselves
with the new potentate, each insisting
“Have one with me, boss!”
* * * *
“Tuart”: Sydney “Telegraph,” in an
astonishing burst of frankness:
The war has demonstrated that “trap-
ping” armies is not as easy as it seems.
If the enemy forces which correspondents
have reported trapped during the last two
years had stayed trapped there wouldn’t
be a German in jackboots today.
After thus scoffing at its own cables this
flapper paper returned to the trapping
business in the very next issue:
Budapest Trap Tightening.
And in the succeeding issue it had one
of those Great Russian Victories in the
making:
Russians Encircle Budapest
Trap 100,000 Germans.
Five days elapse, with noticeable results
to trap-arithmetic:
Two Red Army divisions have launched
an all-out offensive to destroy between
20,000 and 30,000 Germans in Budapest.
Came the morrow, and with it a calcula-
tion on the grand scale:
2,000,000 Trapped.
No; “more than 2,000,000”; but they
were “civilians trapped in the burning
city.” The “Sun” also had risen to the
occasion:
Two Million Trapped in Budapest.
That was on January 2. On December 23
the “Sun,” besides settling Buda’s busi-
ness (Danube Runs Red as Budapest
Dies), had disposed of Von Rundstedt
in a few hectic lines:
Nazis Stopped.
Death-trap on Army Closing.
Von Rundstedt faces the threat of com-
plete annihilation of his elite divisions
unless he chooses to gamble more of his
remaining reserves, says a Reuter corre-
spondent.
The Americans are squeezing the salient
into a death-trap.
And so this crazy “reporting” goes on.
Nothing has done more to convince the
credulous and the work-shy that the war
is nearly over.
* H: * *
“C.Q.”; Can any “commuter,” as our
American friends call them, beat the
record of A. M. Meudell, of Melbourne?
He wrote to the Railways Department
the other day announcing that he was not
going to renew the periodical ticket he
first took out in 1880.
* * * *
“Caesar’s Ghost”; A picture-show
manager tells me that 75 p.c. of hi?
theatre’s bookings for first showings ot
new pictures come from regulars; in
short, the tradition of the “first night” is
being carried on, though it has, in this
connection, no ascertainable significance.
Originally first-nighters put the stamp of
public approval on a play, and gave the
laurels to the author and all concerned,
or howled the thing down. An old theat-
rical commentator said that originally a
dozen men could make or mar the pros-
pects of a new show. The reactions of
these established critics were watched and
followed slavishly by others who wanted
to share the glory of being arbiters.
Society, with a capital S, saw in the in-
stitution a chance to lead in culture as
“Did you get the plans and specifications approved by W.O.I.?”
in fashion, and so first nights became
social occasions. Personally, after long
years as actor, as dramatic critic
and as plain theatregoer, I would rather
go to a show on any night but the first.
“Zake” discusses professional funny
men:
The Australian passion for inexpensively-
produced musicomedy “revivals” —“disinter-
ments” would be a better word —and the kill-
ing of the old-time variety shows have rung the
deathknell of the knockabout comedian. Re-
vivalist comedians are hired merely to go
through the ritual of firing off gags that were
out-dated half a century ago. The cinema,
which has filled the Australian theatrical
vacuum, gives wonderful opportunities to
comedians of “movement.” Chaplin, the best
knockabout of them all, created comedy that
hasn’t been equalled. Harold Lloyd followed
it with freak physical stunts taken at a fast
pace. Will Rogers cut a niche with dry back-
woods humor. Modern comedians such as Bob
Hope and Jack Benny don’t need to hurl cus-
tard pies to get laughs—the polished wisecrack
and backchat (the old “patter” streamlined)
do it for them. But Frick and Frack, Con-
tinental comedians, are demonstrating by clever
antics on the ice that the physical side of
comedy, when allied to funny clothes, can still
make a powerful appeal. A realm of comedy
awaiting re-exploitation is that connected with
springboard and diving-tower. It used to be
done —and well, too —at some of Sydney’s swim-
ming carnivals. The pioneer to popularise it
on the screen should reap a rich reward.
* * * *
“Clooter”: I have always been uneasy
about the administration of summary
justice, especially when the administering
is done by hurriedly-set-up tribunals
in the heat of a popular disturbance.
Which is why I shudder every time
I read of the trial and execution of
somebody in liberated France and other
parts. I’ve no more time than anyone
else for traitors and collaborators, but I
do stick to the old British tradition of
proving the accused’s guilt beyond any
shadow of doubt —a thing almost im-
possible to achieve under the stress of
war and excited passions. My unease
hasn’t been lessened by pictures and
descriptions of executions in Italy and
France, for the pictures depict the con-
demned generally as good types as far
as appearance goes, and all of them
appear to die game.
*t * * *
“Hamer”: Sydney’s oldest hansom-
cab driver, George Dale, has called it a
day, at 86, and the license he held for
60 years has been passed in. His rank
was on the Pitt-street-Bridge-street
corner and old George (“Gramp” in
recent years) had a good deal of Bulle-
tin patronage. David McKee Wright
and Randolph Bedford were regular cus-
tomers in their day. But “Gramp’s”
most faithful client was W. E. Smith,
the printer. Smith went home to
Randwick daily for lunch, and Dale
drove him there and back, besides driving
him home at night, for 40 years. For a
few years, until the war brought a re-
vival, “Gramp’s” was the only remain-
ing hansom in Sydney. He turned down
an offer of £B5O for his number plate
when the taxi boom was on.
* * * #
“Filmhater”: I, too, have heard
applause evoked from Australians by
the movies (B. 3/l/’45). It was a very
select audience, too —the film critics of
the “second city of the Empire,” and
they were assembled (this was long
before the war) to assess one of those
opuses infested by Jackie Cooper in his
most lachrymose period. Another in-
habitant of the film was the hard-faced
Humphrey Bogart, then a rather small
potato. He was a gangster, and he kid-
napped Jackie. And when poor dear
little Master Cooper commenced to
weep the brutal Bogart fetched him a
swipe on the lug that cut the tears and
sobs right off at the meter. The audi-
ence rose and cheered. I don’t think
anything could have pleased it better,
save perhaps the sight of Bobbie Breen
being swept over Niagara Falls.
* * * *
“Cauboy”: The weirdest make-ups in
the G. and S. entourage in Melbourne
are to be found on the countenance of
Bernard Manning. No horror film is
likely to daunt the child who can look at
Manning’s Dick Deadeye without blanch-
ing, and the green sequins gummed
on to his eyelids when he appears as the
Mikado almost blind an audience to the
rest ,of the proceedings. Hence I read
with some amusement in a daily that Mr
Manning prepares himself by studying
where the shadows fall on any unusual
face he sees, and then tries to produce
the effect on his own face with pencils
and greasepaint. He ought to ask an
artist. Shadows aren’t fixed things and
the slightest movement of an object
painted in that way would change the
relationships completely and make what
was true of one aspect quite untrue of
another. An artist who lingers longer
than 20 minutes over a landscape is
falsifying Nature, and it was the
realisation of this fact that produced the
impressionistic school of painters. I
now know why Mr. Manning on the
stage looks less like a human being than
any other actor.
* * * *
“S.T.S.”; The yarn told against
Clement Wragge (B. 3/12/’44) about a
farmer who gained a reputation as a
weather prophet by reversing Clement's
predictions has been told, I am assured,
of every official forecaster since meteo-
rological science began. However that
may be, I remember that Charles Todd,
of Adelaide, had the pluck to tell it to
me about 1890 as having happened to
himself. But, of course, Todd was, in
his later years, a licensed humorist. Any
hostess who offered him a cup of tea
could wager on the bright reply “Cer-
tainly, thank you. I should be Odd with-
out my T.”
* * * *
“Spoke”: In pre-war Paris you were
always liable to run across unconven-
tional artists in the cafes, like Vlaminck,
who wore a wooden tie and painted it
afresh every day, making it reflect the
mood in which he happened to wake up
in the morning. Another, unknown to
fame as regards his painting, carried live
snakes in his pocket, and would produce
them with a flourish. When expostulated
with by Streeton on the ground that a
reptile he brought forth might be
venomous, he calmly remarked: “But it
is venomous.” Still another, who was
under treatment for some gastric com-
plaint, had the habit of taking a ride
along the Bois on a mare every morning.
Exactly at. eleven, having consulted his
watch, he would dismount, milk his
steed into a bottle and drink the con-
tents. These were publicity methods
which made it almost superfluous for
their exponents to paint pictures, and
most of them didn’t do much painting.
Unlike their European exemplars, most
Australian “modernists” are unconven-
tional only in their pictures, and those
merely reflect unconventionalities which
became cast-iron conventions 40 years
ago.
* * * #
“C.Q.”: Talking of literary hoaxes (B.
6/12/’44), A war correspondent of to-
day whose dispatches are a feature of
an Australian paper did some free-lancing
in M.L. in his young days. One day he
showed me a cheque he had received
from a literary monthly for a series of
articles on the novelists of Russia, from
Turgenieff to Dostoieffsky. “You must
have to do a lot of reading to write
them,” I said, “for the Russians wrote
extraordinarily long novels.” “Not at
all,” he said grinning. “I dealt with the
lot without having read a single Russian
novel.”
* * * *
“Uramao”: The Maori is setting a
good example to the pakeha. The Native
Department’s 1944 report shows that
brown brother is multiplying and re-
plenishing to an extent that banishes any
remaining fear that his race may expire.
Since 1896 the increase in the native popu-
lation is 148 p.c., the figures having grown
from 39,854 to 98,860. This latter figure
does not include Maoris serving over-
seas. The natives must now be well
over the 100,000 mark —6 p.c. of the
Dominion’s population.
EARL LLOYD GEORGE.
(At his best he could almost talk a bird out of
a tree. I have seen him turn a Cabinet round in
less than ten minutes.— Winston Churchill in
“Thoughts and Adventures.”)
Wizard of Wales, indomitable Taffy,
When first your feet in Parliament were set
A prophet would have been accounted daffy
Who tipped you toying with a coronet.
To those who heard the stinging maledictions
At titled legislators you would hurl,
Holding them ’mong your country’s Worst
afflictions,
It would have seemed the maddest of predic-
tions
You’d finish up an earl!
But still, why not? Your most embittered foe-
man
Could never help admit you were the one
Who many a changing year had learned, as no
man
Else in your time, the way to get things done.
And should you, when as active politician
Bowed with the weight of years your bolt is
shot,
Covet the mark of royal recognition
That lifts you from plebeian to patrician,
Well, then, again why not?
Master supreme, whenever the occasion
Arose, for fifty strenuous years and more
Of all the subtle arts that win persuasion,
From pungent phrase to homely metaphor,
You leave the stage where as a doughty doer
Of deeds was none who might with you com-
pare
For where the calls for driving power are fewer
And, ev’n at eighty odd, to find (be sure)
No one quite like you there.
Arise, my lord, as well equipped as any
By shining merit raised, to take your place
Among the land’s elite, including many
“A tenth transmitter of a foolish face.”
Your way to rank by proven worth you’ve
welted.
Clear sign how Fortune’s wheel may twist and
twirl _ J
When you who with philippics peers have pelted
Appear among the crowd you’ve biffed and
belted,
Yourself a belted earl!
N.S.W.
T. THE R.
SMOKING IN THE STREET.
The London “Times” publishes widespread pro-
tests against women smoking in the street.
Puff, if you wish, your gaspers, maid or
madam,
There's not the slightest reason to believe
That any sedative approved by Adam
Should necessarily be bad for Eve.
Sauce for the goose is ditto for the gander,
And to reverse the proverb is as meet,
But —let me put the case with perfect candor —
That hardly stands for smoking in the street.
Heaven forbid that you should be forbidden
In hours of leisured ease a cloud to blow;
But note, across the seas your sex is chidden
For such indulgence coram publico.
Impassioned wowsers find it past endurance;
Censors of modes and manners, more discreet,
Hold it detracts from feminine allurance
When women take to smoking in the street.
I doubt you get a tithe of the enjoyment
With which the fragrant weed provides a
man; ,
Still, as a medium for light employment
A fag may be as useful as a fan.
Yet graceful gestures of the sort that capture
A cavalier, and poses subtly sweet
Enough to fill an artist’s heart with rapture,
Are like to go unnoticed in the street.
Forth from the heart of Empire goes the fiat:
For impropriety it can’t be beat.
Time was it well might have provoked a riot
And still it causes infinite disquiet,
The sight of women smoking in the street.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


“And don't forget you've promised this time to Write every six months!"
“Wodgil”: Once, and once only, I
heard Deakin speak. It was at Ballarat
in 1906, and as leader of the party in
office—one of three —he was “opening the
campaign,” as they call it. In presence,
platform manner, voice and diction he
came up to my expectations, which were
pitched very high, but in matter the
speech was not one of his happiest
efforts. He was trying to persuade Aus-
tralia that his party was “the Centre
party,” and though it survived the elec-
tion and remained in office for , another
couple of years the death-dew was
already on its brow —that Parliament
saw Fisher and Hughes come in again
(the latter to be “dragged, screaming,
from the tartshop”), then the Fusion
with Cook, which had lasted less than
eleven months when the electors shot it to
pieces. Having read The Federal Story,
1 now realise that Deakin gave up a
literary reputation, as well as his health,
in the service of his country. Broadly
considered, no Australian of his time
spoke as well and none wrote better.
“Swinburne’s poetry,” a critic objected,
“doesn’t make pictures.” Macaulay’s
prose does, and so does Deakin’s ; and
it’s a very rare quality, as any newspaper-
man will testify. Of the hundreds of con-
temporaries mentioned in The Federal
Story only three survive: G. H. Wise,
Watt and Isaacs. Wise and Watt are re-
ferred to briefly but favorably. Isaacs is
criticised on the score of some of his
actions during the Federal campaign, but
Deakin makes no secret of his admira-
tion for his fellow-Victorian’s talents.
They impressed him so much that he
appointed Isaacs Attorney-General in the
second Deakin Ministry, and then to the
High Court Bench.
•f* H*
“Cine Ma”: In a “Sun-Pix” editorial
on the lack of theatres in Australia
it was said that “thousands of young
Australians have never seen a worthy
stage production, and we have acquired
the habit of trying to disguise our
lamentable deficiencies in this respect
by referring to cinemas as ‘theatres.’ ”
Well, aren’t cinemas theatres? “Theatre”
comes from a Greek word meaning
“sight” and is applied even to places
where surgical operations are performed ;
so there is no valid objection to the word
being applied to halls where a flat screen
gives the illusion of depth and move-
ment and is just as vocal as. living actors.
Nevertheless, I can understand the “Sun-
Pix” writer’s feelings, I used to feel
guilty if I were seen coming out of a
movie theatre and virtuous if I were seen
coming out of a J. C. Williamson play-
house or a Town Hall symphony con-
cert or the Russian Ballet. Yet after
reflection I have to come to the conclu-
sion that for on 6 intelligent play that
I have seen on the “legitimate” stage in
the last 15 years I have seen 100 intelli-
gent talkies.
“Cauboy”: Commenting on a state-
ment by Brett Randall, of Melbourne
Little Theatre, that the shortage of play-
houses in Australia was' a national scan-
dal, there being only four in cities with
a population of 3,000,000 altogether,
Frank Tait, of J.C.W., remarked that in
M.L. country towns halls are fitted up
as opera houses, and Australia could do
the same. But if there were 100 com-
mercial theatres in Australia would it
make any difference? When there were
II in Melbourne they didn’t show two
plays a year appealing to people above
the intellectual age of seven, and now
that there are only two well-equipped
houses one is running a one thousand and
oneth Gilsullivan revival and the other
is staging a thriller. On the day that his
defence appeared Mr. Tait announced
that “Grade Fields’s appearance is the one
definite item of importance in theatrical
plans for 1945.”
* * * *
“Hamfat” on theatre-going in old Syd-
ney :
Audiences were made up of tough customers
in the days when Rignold staged two plays in
one night (“L.H.P.,” 13/12/’44), and they
wanted a lot for their money. Programmes
were long and frequently contained a “curtain-
raiser” to start and a “roaring farce” to finish.
Most theatregoers lived in the city itself and
could scurry to the showhouse shortly, after
ceasing work. In Sydney’s earliest days shows
started at 6.30 and continued often until after
eleven, the d.c. and orchestra stalls patrons
coming in about eight for the main performance.
In the family circle and the gallery there were
no separate seats; the patrons simply sat on
the floor of the rising tiers, and were made
more uncomfortable by the work of the
“packers” with their “Move up a bit there,
and make room for a couple more.” In “the
pit,” at the back of the stalls, the audience
simply stood. The rough seating in the galleries
continued until about 30 years ago. The actors
were tough, too. “Rehearsal after the Show”
might go up on the call-board if the stage-
manager was incensed by weaknesses in the per-
formances, and the mummers after the double
bill would be kept rehearsing until day-
light, with the prospect of a renewal of opera-
tions at 10.30 a.m. Old mummers used to
say, appreciatively, of George Rignold: “The
Guv’nor always ordered breakfast on the stage,
or sent for cabs to take his people home,”
when there was one of these affer-show re-
hearsals.
* * * *
“F.S.”: My prophecy that the mana
of “Ern Malley” might survive his ex-
posure by his two creators seems to be
well on its way to fulfilment. The latest
issue of “Angry Penguins” is almost ex-
clusively devoted to earnest discus-
sion of the problem whether the
non-existent poet’s verses were,
hoax or no hoax, as great as the
editors believed them, and overseas
critics have been drawn into the
discussion. The general consensus
of opinion is that the authors of
the faked poems builded better
than they knew and that Ern really
and truly deserves a statue ; which
seems to me nonsense. It isn’t non-
sense to say “This man is a great
painter, but is this a great
picture?” because a great painter
can sometimes paint badly. But
to say “This is a great picture,
but is the artist who painted it a
great painter?” is to be puerile.
If it is a great picture the artist
must be a great painter, so what
the victims of the hoax are now,
in effect, maintaining is that the
two young men who hoaxed them
are great poets. I know one of
them. He is a modest individual,
mildly amused at the success of
his joke* and determined not to
climb to a Parnassian peak on the
strength of it.
“Rufus Rawhide” (S.Africa): Mention
by “Nakhoda” (B. 30/8/’44) of the H.
V. McKay jubilee reminds me of pleasant
days as a McKay traveller. It was never
any trouble to sell any class of McKay’s
products to better-class farmers. Machines
I sold in S.Africa 35 years ago are still in
commission, and McKay machines of all
sorts are to be seen through the length
and breadth of the Dark Continent.
Prospective purchasers were always
offered a demonstration before the deal
was settled, and they generally assembled
their neighbors for the display. S.Africa
is now manufacturing farm machinery at
Vereeniging, but has a long way to go
before producing articles in the same
class as McKay’s. Practically all types
of Australian war equipment, including
explosives, used in the Mediterranean
area in World War I were made by
McKay.
# * * *
“Strict Veg.”: A sheep’s skin which
decorates the floor of the bar of a hos-
telry between Nagambie and Shepparton
(Vic.), has a story attached to it. It once
covered the internal economy of Clar-
ence, who was famous all over the coun-
tryside. Every morning, precisely at 11,
Clarence, the son of a Royal Show cham-
pion, called for his bottle of beer and
drank it with every symptom of enjoy-
ment. It seemed to do him good, for his
fleece turned the scale at 3011 b. The in-
terruption to his drinking habits is said
to have been caused by poison, but there
are those who ascribe it to a broken
heart over what has happened to the
bottled-beer trade.
* * * *
“P.0.M.C.”: “A Major’s” contempt
for the popular songs of the last decade
(B. 13/12 / ’44) strikes me as both preju-
diced and previous. As “A Major” him-
self says, there are associations with some
of the older tunes, and the future alone
can decide what contemporary songs will
survive from one generation to other.
Popular songs are written for, and usually
sung by, the young, and while many are
trash and most deserve oblivion, melo-
dies with happy, sentimental, sad or
dramatic associations for the generation
for which they were especially written
will be remembered, and perhaps affec-
tionately remembered, by that generation
as it grows older. All “hits” and theme-
songs of recent times haven’t necessarily
been rubbish; several have shown un-
doubted lyrical qualities. For a single
example, why shouldn’t that catchy air
“Lilli Marlene” become fixed in' the
minds and hearts of young servicemen
and women of today as “The Trail of
the Lonesome Pine” and “Till the Sands
of the Desert Grow Cold” remained
memorable for their father and mothers?
* * * *
“C.Q.”: Hundreds of Victorian chil-
dren posted letters addressed to Father
Christmas in the week before Christmas
and some of them even enclosed postal
notes and money. The Dead Letter
Office is opening the lot in hopes of re-
turning them to senders. None of the
letters was addressed to Mr. Dedman.
* * * *
“Bengali” on a pioneer trader:
The Honorable East India Company estab-
lished something of a stranglehold on Aus-
tralian commerce in the early days by in-
sisting on the monopoly of the South Sea trade
it possessed under its charter. If was left to
Robert Campbell, a Scots-Indian settler in
these parts—eventually at Canberra —to fight
the powerful corporation on this issue. In
July, 1805, he dispatched the ship Lady Barlow
to Londok with a cargo of 260 tuns of seal
oil and 14,000 pelts. When she anchored in
the Thames the vessel and her cargo were
seized by Customs and H.E.I. Co. officials on
the ground that the co.’s charter had been
infringed. A strenuous legal fight followed.
Campbell wasn’t allowed to land his goods for
four months; and then only on the understand-
ing that they shouldn’t be sold in England.
“Hurry up an let that dorg off, Ernie, or I'll come over an give
y' a hidin'."
He reckoned that he lost about £7OOO over
this business; but he wasn’t to be bluffed, and
sent other cargoes home in flat defiance of
John Company. At last, mainly owing to the
representations of Sir Joseph Banks, the re-
strictions on Australian trade were removed,
and the H.E.I. Co. had to climb down.
* * * *
“Lord Luvus”: A pernicious insti-
tution is the Christmas-tree. Every
child is supposed to have a present and
considerate parents try to make the
presents equal, but the making of the
gifts in company inevitably produces an
emotional crisis which most children,
being in the pre-intellectual period of
their development, find it quite impos-
sible to manipulate except with tears,
jealousy and hatred. If you give one
child a doll in a blue dress and another
child gets one in a pink dress the first
child thinks that for some reason or other
the pink must be better than the blue
and that it has been singled out for
scurvy treatment. A bawling match
ensues which the adults try to deal with
reasonably, forgetting that the child is
incapable of reason; and in a very short
while the Christmas party is in an
uproar. The only place where presents
should be given is individually and pri-
vately in the child’s bedroom before
breakfast. After painful experience since
early childhood of the traditional
method, I tried this one on December 25
and it worked to perfection.
sic
“Penicillin” says the Nips can originate :
The popular belief that the Nip is merely
an imitator has been exploded. The flood of
cheap imitative goods that poured into this
country from Japan’s low-wage factories in pre-
war days certainly lent color to this theory,
but the experiences of war tell a different
story. Both in the revolutionary tactics em-
ployed in jungle warfare —the spearhead attack
with converging flanks, which lost Malaya to
the Empire—and in the more technical field
of equipment the Jap has given evidence of
initiative and inventiveness. In aeroplane con-
struction the Zero revealed him as boldly
progressive. Almost unbelievably frail, by
Allied standards, the light construction of these
craft gave them a capacity for quick turns very
disconcerting to pilots of machines designed on
more orthodox lines. Then take the Naambu
light machine-gun, unconventional, yet simple
and effective. Nip optical equipment is ex-
ceptionally good and in many cases original
in design. Consider, too, the contrivance used
by ground troops as a deterrent to low-flying
aircraft. This consists of a cylinder fired into
the air. At the top of its flight eight para-
chutes are released, to each of which is attached
a small explosive charge and from each of
which a further eight smaller parachutes are
projected into the path of the attacking ’plane,
thus compelling the airman to maintain altitude
to avoid entanglement and destruction.
* * * *
“C.Q.”; For once in a way the Vic-
torian Nat, Gallery trustees accepted a
picture the other day without having an
argument about it. The opus is a vast
stretch, of canvas depicting the burial of
Robert O’Hara Burke, the explorer. It
was painted by William Strutt from in-
formation supplied by the leader of the
relief expedition.
* * * *
“Rooster” on outlets for army bore-
dom: —
Troops returning from jungle campaigns to
the mainland find that night-life in camp,'
usually outback, gets monotonous. But there
are several antidotes for this “wish-I-could-find-
something-to-do” feeling. Music-lovers, for
example, can get set round the wireless, select
a suitable programme, and with pencil and
paper jot down what they think are the numbers.
Several weeks of this and the musical knowledge
of troops is on the up-grade. In our group we
made one salutary rule—no points were awarded
for recognising Sinatra. Another good pastime,
we found, is impromptu debating. Subjects
range from aspects of modern science to inter-
fering mothers-in-law. Reconstruction and New
Orders are always favorites, though, as one
chap remarked, “She’ll be cornin’ round the
mountain when she comes.” Wet and Dry
debates are liable to end in a brawl, and,
like politics and religion, are best banned.
Palm for originality in choice of subject went
to a chap in our group who harangued us for
90 minutes on “Perverseness in Human Nature.
It was a surprise to ftie n.c.os., who wondered
how such a remarkably perverse cow could
have the hide to expatiate on the subject.
We debated the inevitable “Should Bachelors
Be Taxed?” and the majority voted “yes.” But
only two of us are unmarried. Most of us
learned a lot from these debates, and certainly
we were saved from boredom by them.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Bo”: The long, scrawny fellow with
the washed-out blue eyes and untidy hair
edged along the bar, propelling his
“drum” with one foot. His ginger dog
moved along with him, dropping full
length with a deep sigh as his owner
stopped. “It pays you to study nature,”
the long ’un said conversationally. “I
just come from Wallabinya, an’ the
drought there’s somethin’ crool. No
w T ater to wash with even. I always bin
used to a daily bath, but I sees how the
sparrers seem to like a dust bath, so I
thinks I’ll try it. I did, an’, d’yer know,
a funny thing happened—the freckles that
was on me dile an’ arms as thick as
buzzies on a dead goanna all disappeared
in a ooupla days! I wakes up then it
must’ve bin somethin’ in the Wallabinya
soil that done it. I’m on me way now
to Sydney to git some business blokes
interested in floatin’ a company—we’ll
make a forchin sellin’ the soil to freckled
city tabs. Now, mate, you can git in on
the ground floor yerself if yer like—l
can let y’ have ten shares at a quid each ;
if y’d like to put down a deposit
now” “That’s very good of you,”
I said. “But it might have just been a
fluke in your case. Can you offer
corroborative evidence of this soil’s won-
derful freckle-removing properties?” The
long ’un pointed down at his dog. “Yair,
•him,” he said. “He took his dust baths
with me, an’ he ain’t got a freckle left
on him —an’ you know how freckles
always go with ginger hair!”
* * * *
“C, Coral”: Torres Strait leaf-and-
grass houses often have a line of large
white cowrie shells running round the
building halfway up which visitors
ascribe to Jimmy Susu’s artistic instincts.
But, like the shell of the same species
which ornaments his big wooden dugong
wap (for hurling the harpoon), and which
is also attached to his drums and worn
as part of his dance outfit, it has a special
significance. It is symbolical, by reason
of its configuration, of the reproduction
of life.
* * *
“Mac F.”: Me and The Whopper had
taken on a fencing contract for a cocky,
but we got a whisper in the township that
he is a bit light on ; so The Whopper
ups and outs to see him, and asks for
some sort of guarantee before we get the
gear out of hock from the publican. The
cocky reckons he’ll give us a receipt for
a pen of porkers worth somewhere about
the contract price. He tells The Whopper
that by rights they belong to his kids,
who’ve been fattening them. “No good
to us, boss,” said me cobber. “Me and
my china won’t come at robbing kids;
but I’ll tell you what: you’re expecting
an addition to the fam’ly soon, ain’t,
you?” “At any tick of the clock now,”
says the cocky. “Okay,” says The
Whopper. “We’ll lift the baby bonus off
you when it comes.”
* * *
“Zake”; I struck him out from
Stroud (N.S.W.) in heavy scrub country,
and he was making his bunk up
for the night. X° the tree-trunk
just above his nap he had nailed
a particularly “high” slab of steak,
and immediately under this a tin half-full
of kerosene. I inquired the wherefore,
and he informed me the device was “a
skate to beat the mossies,” which were
bad in that district. His idea was that
the sleep-disturbers would make straight
for the bit of ripe bull; investigating it,
they would be overcome by the fumes
from the kero, and would take a sugar-
doodle into the liquid, whence there was
no escape. Personally, I would prefer
to put up with the hum from the mossies
than the hum from the beef.
"Where's Dave this morning , Dad?”
“Over in the far paddock, maybe. He’s just like Winston Churchill —
you never know where he is.”
“Waltzing Matilda”: Lack of man-
power in blackberry country means the
more extensive use of goats, and Billy,
generally being a tough customer, re-
quires constant renewals of collar and
chain, which are mighty hard to come by.
Last week, desperate, I approached old
Tom Ryan, whose goat had, in his own
words, “gone back to God” at the end
of a neighbor’s shotgun some 18 months
before. Tom was most sympathetic, told
me the whole story —how Jim Macalister
shot his pet for trespassing and, despite
the law, had planted the carcass on his,
Jim’s, property. However, they were on
speaking terms again, and he’d have a
word with Jim as to the whereabouts of
the remains and gladly retrieve the buried
collar and chain! But now I am a disap-
pointed woman. Jim, it seems, has, sig-
nificantly, a monster pumpkin growing
on the spot, and it can’t be disturbed for
a couple of months.
* * * •
“Friday Island”: Evil-smelling puru-
lent eczema in dogs, particularly wire-
haired terriers, is generally thought to
respond to nothing. Actually,, the worst
case will be cleaned up by ship’s tar ( i.e.,
the genuine Stockholm), but not the sub-
stitutes of gasworks origin. “Stockholm”
has a nice smell, which dogs don’t dis-
like ; they won’t lick it off and flies abhor
it. Canker of the ears responds to sulpha-
nilamide ointment locally and sulpha-
pyridine tablets internally, but kidney
blockage has to be guarded against during
the tablet treatment by administering
potassium citrate along with copious
drinks of water.
* * * *
“B. A. Ker”: The fellow who woke up
to find a snake crawling in his bed is as
common in the bush as authentic Dan
Kellys in the haunts of the late Ned.
The only thing original about the parti-
cular brand of snake yarn is the alleged
method of escape. Old George was doing
justice to his reputation as, making a short
story long, he dramatically described how
he kept still and calmly waited until Joe
indiscreetly slid between his knees —and
was trapped in a vyce-like grip. The sub-
sequent battle, with the reptile escaping,
only to be trapped again between the
Georgian ankles, and finally strangled,
took half an hour in the telling—and sent
all but the over-polite and Deafy to bed
early. Three seconds after George him-
self turned in a blood-curdling yell
startled even Deafy. “Quick,” came the
voice from the darkness ; “for Gorsake
do somethin’! There’s a snake in me
bed! I can feel ’im twistin’ round me
leg ; now he’s climbin’ up. Get a doctor
quick!” Tich was the quickest off the
mark. From the camp he leapt to the
bedside, swept the blanket down with his
left hand and in the same second struck
at the writhing black coils with a bottle.
The blow followed through with a sick-
ening thud on George’s hip bone, but not
a sound passed his trembling lips—until
Tich, with suddenly changed expression,
held aloft a black, semi-inflated bicycle
tube, Deafy wasn’t always as deaf as he
pretended to be.
* # * *
“B-gar”: The cane-cutters had refused
to cut any more cane green—the crops
must be burnt first. Into the shop of a
barber who was at times also a cane-
cutter walked a cocky who was sadly in
need of a haircut. Half a dozen cutters
were discussing the strike, and the cocky
walked out. “Wouldn’t he cut your hair,
Mick?” asked one of the cutters standing
outside the shop. “No,” snorted the cocky,
“he’s like you blankards ; he won’t cut*
me hair green—he wants it burnt.”
* * * *
“Danyo”: Bores in the western Vic.
Mallee (B. 27/12/’44)? They were
operating as long ago as 1920 and a fine,
strong flow of water they provided. But
I doubt they pump “thousands of gal-
lons,” for in my time there was a distinct
restriction of the amount of water any
cocky could take from those run by the
Government.
* * * *
“Mat’s Mate”: We were toiling for a
real wowser out on the Kapunda line in
S.A. He condemned all forms of sport and
levity, believing that it was man’s destiny
to work from dawn to dark, and after
that in the moonlight, and that all hired
persons, such as ourselves, should be
happy to work from Monday morn unto
Saturday night and then spend the Sab-
bath in contemplation of our sins, prayer
for forgiveness and attending to odd jobs
about the place. These ideas scarcely
agreed with our own, but we needed
the money and stuck it out. One day the
boss was discing a bit of fallow when the
horses bolted. He fell off the machine
and it went over him. We raced across
the paddock, dug him out of the dust,
scraped earth and blood off and saw that
he was unconscious. We lugged him up
to the house and stood by while his
missus went to work on him, having
assured ourselves that there was no
serious injury and that he was out
through shock. Presently he came
around. Looking at us solemnly, he
said “My lads, I have been dead. There’s
no doubt my soul left my body for a
time and was restored by Heaven’s
mercy.” “Aw, go on,” said Mat. “It’s
the gospel truth,” stated the boss,
“Can’t be,” said Mat, getting up and
making for the door, “you wasn’t
anywhere near dead. Why, dammit, there
wasn’t a sign of a burn on him, was
there, Bally?” Then we got outside and
left him to work it out. He did; that
night we were out of a job again.
* * * *
“Sarina”: Was reading in a pictorial
rag of a so-called “strangler” vine that
winds itself tightly around giant forest
trees and kills ’em. Great grooves in
the bark of standing trees were given as
evidence of the mighty constricting powers
of the vegetative python. N.Q. has, in
the common liana vine, or monkey rope,
a good imitation of the “strangler.” There
are any number of saplings and big trees
on my N.Q. farm that appear to be in
process of being “strangled”—rather, de-
capitated—by thickening lianas, which
have gone up their victims for, in some
cases, 20ft. Far from giving in, however,
the scrub trees are retaliating by throwing
bark over them and hemming them in.
Several of our indigenous figs are real
killers, which cover their victims almost
entirely with crushing aerial roots.
* * * *
“Mulgabbie”: For the manufacture of
rough wheelbarrows and other bush
vehicles (B. 6/12/’44), Westralia had the
world’s champion wood, gimlet: two
varieties, red and black, although black
was the stronger and more adaptable.
Found in all sizes, from hammer handles
to shafts for the sulky or the dray, it was
as strong as hickory, possibly
stronger, and harder wearing
than ironbark. Yet it split
easily, with an immensely long
grain. So with the minimum
of tools, but with the necessary
axe, the bush ’wright got to
work. The body of the barrow
was easy: timber the right size
for every part could be selected
from clumps of gimlet within
a radius of a thousand yards.
The wheel took more making.
For this red gimlet was often
preferred. Split into short slabs
4in. wide by thick, these
could be laid one set across
the other, nailed together,
pegged or even fastened with
wire, until the wheel blank was
built. The 18in. or 2ft. circle
was then hacked out, prefer-
ably with a saw. The gimlet
also provided a suitable axle,
failing only in the matter of
a tyre. But a long strip of
hoop-galvanised-iron sufficed,
being nailed on —and when a
nail went into gimlet it stayed
there. Such a wheel was solid
and heavy. But there were
artists who built their wheel
with black gimlet, giving it
spokes and felloes, making it
light but with the essential tyre
of strip-iron, though green hide
was not unknown.
“Naturala”: While I agree with “W.
Matilda” (B. 6/12/ ’44) on the value of
the so-called hornet as an exterminator
of caterpillars, I am inclined to think
that housewives won’t be over-much
troubled by the nest-building of such
wasps in the not-very-distant future. I
have not seen one for several years,
although one time they were most com-
mon. Probably the wasp falls victim to
the same poisonous orchard baits that ds,-
stroy millions of bees every season. It
is as an odd tragedy of man’s interfer-
ence with Nature that the butterflies and
moths which propagate the grubs and
caterpillars that do such immense
damage to gardens are themselves im-
mune from poisons, in that with very rare
exceptions they neither eat nor drink
during their short lives; while the wasp,
arch-destroyer of the caterpillar, falls vic-
tim to the very poisons laid for the cater-
pillar’s destruction.
* * * *
“Betcha”: George’s pet abomination is
a biting sheep dog, so when his best dog
developed the habit he began devising
cures. He at length hit on the forked
stick method. Forcing the wide end of
the fork into the dog’s mouth he strapped
it behind its head, leaving the butt end
protruding several inches in front; the
result was that as the mong went to
bite the pressure of the butt against the
sheep forced forced the fork back and
hurt his mouth. Well pleased with the
contrivance, George recommended it to
Jim. Several days later he met the old
drover on the road, and, noting the
straps on his Border’s head, dropped off
to inspect Jim’s handiwork. “Gripes,
Jim,” he called presently, “a spur ain't
no good t’ make it out of. Besides, with
that bit o’ wood behind his head the
thing won’t push back into his mouth.”
Jim nodded lazily. “I know. But don’t
y’ see the long rowel in front?” he
grinned. “Well that there’s proddin’ this
shorn mob along real grand.”
THE RETURN.
I tramped and trained at Greta in the days of
’39;
I sailed the seas to Suez and I crossed the
Libyan line;
And in the sweat of training days and in the
nights at sea
The willow trees of Gundagai kept coming back
to me.
I saw the river drifting past beneath the old
white bridge,
I saw the dark clouds lifting high on wild
Bongongo ridge,
And though the way was dusty then and I was
often dry,
The longest road would lead me to the pubs
of Gundagai.
We saw Bombay one eventide and I will not
forget
The silken veils of softened light on every
minaret;
The fronded tops of palm-trees there were
nodding in the breeze
Upon a tiny, milk-white beach beside the laugh-
ing seas;
And high above the jungle’s reach and point-
ing to the sky
A slim white building beckoned us and winked
a jewelled eye.
But ere we left I knew again that, hard as I
might try,
I’d never find a place quite like the pubs at
Gundagai.
India, Egypt, Palestine, I found them all the same:
The earth was made of mud and dirt, the sky
was made of flame;
We saw the sights of Tel Aviv and those of
Stanley Bay,
We saw the dark-eyed damsels —aye, we saw
and turned away.
And then in time back home we came, to Syd-
ney by the sea,
With loafers, thieves and prostitutes and
gangsters on the spree.
I felt a fierce compulsion as the heedless crowd
swept by
For open air and rolling hills and the pubs of
Gundagai.
I trembled with excitement as the slow miles
took me by
Goulburn and Yass and “Coota.,” on the road
to Gundagai;
The tastes of twenty cities I would very quickly
drown
In the Royal, Star and Family and other pubs
in town.
We passed by Coolac siding now, the trucking
yards, and soon
The Five Years faded at the sight of Patter-
son’s lagoon.
But then an awful thing befel, I fainted with a
sigh,
For “No Beer” signs were hung upon the pubs
at Gundagai.
N.S.W.
Sixth Divvy.


“Zag”: It was the fourth time that
Strawberry, taking pot shots at a torment-
ing fly, had flipped Dad on the ear. Curs-
ing, he grabbed the offending tail and
put some pressure on a half-hitch. Straw-
berry bellowed, sidestepped as far as the
rope would permit, and slammed a hoof
on Dad’s toes; Dad retaliated with a hard
jab with his thumb. In the ensuing scuffle
the leg-rope parted, Dad copped the hoof
in the shin and the attached portion of
the rope across the seat of his pants. With
a howl of pain and frustration be slid to
safety through a pool of spilt milk. The
Land Army girl, emerging from the cream
house, stood a moment gazing wild-eyed,
and then cried in glee “00-er, learning
tobogganing, Mr. Smith?”
* * * *
“Nugget”: Despite “Harap’s” conten-
tion (B. 20/12/’44), Nature can and will
repair the ravages of man if left to work
it out herself. Here in Maryborough
(Vic.), which probably has as great a
proportion of worked-out mining coun-
try around it as any place in Australia,
grey-box, ironbark and other native trees
_are growing well in the old diggings:
many of the trees are actually growing in
the holes and shafts. Slowly but surely
the holes are falling in, being filled up by
water action, etc., and most of them, due
to the trees, hold large accumulations of
leaves and other forest rubbish. Limber,
through no agency of man, is gradually
healing the scars of earth.
“Old Camp”: Duststorms? In the old
W.A. goldfields days jn early summer
they came with regular frequency
—vast clouds of dust that seemed to top
the heavens and spread horizontally to an
illimitable distance. Sometimes the blow
would start at dusk and continue half
the night. Walls were only slight protec-
“Boy, am I glad to be back in civvies?”
tion. Beds, blankets, the lips and eyes
of would-be sleepers became gritty,
while to step out on to the floor and
return meant an infuriated laundress at
next wash day—that’s if you ran to sheets.
How many thousands of tons of soil were
annually lifted and redistributed can only
be imagined, though there was the con-
soling factor that mostly the dust blew
further inland, building a soil formation
that by some miracle of climatic change
may come to use a million or so years
hence. Xhe odd thing was that most
goldfielders regarded the duststorm as a
nurelv natural phenomenon, whereas it
was almost entirely due to the cutting
down of the scant timber by the army o
swampers and the churning-up of the dry
god by wagon wheels and the hoofs of
draught animals. #
*.. - , u
“Hanko”: I mind the time when the
coming of the thresher was a day to be
remembered. Its approach under horse-
or bullock-power caused a stir on the
farmstead. Horses, tails aloft, caieerea
about the place; even staid old brood
mar es ioined the stampede. Cows made
a beeline for the yard and scrambled be-
tween the bails. Dogs barked, fowls
cackled and the womenfolk got flustered
and nowhere with the treacle tarts and
rockcakes. With the wooa-devourm o
juggernaut almost upon them, the men
swung grimly on the crosscut saw. Now
it chaneed. Aeroplanes roar over-
head; tractors sputter about the pad-
docks, and farm animals dont bat an
evelid All is progress, efficiency. All
on a par with the 14-yeat-old boy who
rolls the makmgs with a flick and a lick.
Once the building of a home-made fag
was a task that required endless patience,
at least three papers and enough spittle
to skid a jeep. Dammit, I tread on my
ziff striving to keep pace with
* * AHh h tbp aboriginal
silsiSS
SfeSSesS
, itb a narticularlv brilliant
a kangaroo with a particularly onmmi
ca** of -iSha“
§ ° r^ hen g a parent playfully offered
infant his “dtuna ” or throwing-stick,
d^ d he became
Dtuna-marra. Or when the father presented
his fingers and the baby played with them
he became Wabbe-marra, since wabb e
meant to play. was another
djetto being the Mb of a species
of orchid much eaten. The smail gi
who asked where she
was fobbed off with a tale something lik
born under a cabbage—she be came Tuco-
bung, found in the swamp. Goongarne,
the nicest of all abo. girl names, means
broken to little bits her Motmg mothe
noting how the tiny feet!>roke to smafl
pieces the roots and sticks carried in t
same bag. * * *
» old * tl » T h e tractor salesman
hard on old Mac., ladling
out a ll sorts of evidence to prove that
the machine would lighten labor, shorten
hours and increase production. Mac
listened politely for the best part of the
morning, invited the salesman to a cup
of tea, dropped into a brown study,
asked one or two questions, then con-
eluded the interview with the otter All
right, young feller, you bring the gadget
out here an’ we’ll let old Fred have a
look at it.” Elated with that much pio-
gress, and certain that if he once got the
tractor on to the place he could talk
Mac into signing the contract, the sales-
man hurried off. “I hope ms foreman
isn’t a stick-in-the-mud, he remarked
to his offsider. The offsider trowned.
“He’s got no foreman that 1 know oi,
he said, “Then, who’s this old Fred.
“Increase the range a few hundred yards—those last shots didn't
come out!”
The offsider didn’t know. Nobody in the
town seemed to know. Deciding to wait
on events, the salesman had a tractor
driven out to Mac’s, hooked it on to
Mac’s five-furrow plough and drove it
up the paddock. Mac watched for a
bit, then went away, to reappear leading
an ancient draught gelding. He led it
up to the snorting machine. The gelding
cocked ah ear at the monster, clopped
at a fly with his lower lip, rested his off-
hind leg and turned his blank, kind old
face to Mac. “You got many more like
him?” the salesman asked, a bit narked
by Mac’s wasting time with an old nag.
“No,” said Mac. “Just as well,” said the
salesman cheerfully. “Anyway, you can
send ’em all to the boneyard when you’ve
got your tractor going.” “Fred
to the boneyard,” said Mac coldly. “H e ’s
the best furrow horse I ever had, an’ I’ve
had him fifteen years. Well, Fred, what
do y’ think of this here iron horse?’
Biting his tongue, that salesman withdrew
quietly and waited while man and horse
inspected the machine, for he knew
farmers and their ways. That’s why,
despite his initial blunder, he made the
sale.
* * * *
“Fancar”: Because a blossom is papi-
lionaceous is no reason for “Pat Ater
(B. 13/12/’44) to assert it is “self-polli-
nating to a full degree.” The percentage
of self-fertilising leguminosae is very
small, and the hinged wings and keel of
most peas and similar hinging of standard
and keel in clovers have been specially
evolved to facilitate insect pollination of
these plants. Certainly the pea does
not produce hybrids with the same facile
prodigality as the willow or the vine, but
a long period of growth and a myriad of
plant diseases make these awkward sub-
jects for a research worker. Mendel
wanted an economic plant, and the pea,
with its easy and quick germination, to-
gether with a quick growth cycle, was
“just right.” Thomas Andrew Knight,
whose researches stopped just short of Men-
delian discovery and laid the foundation
of the Knight-Darwin law of cross fer-
tilisation, had all the money, influence,
land and labor the London Horticultural
Society could supply, but he got a wealth
more data from his peas than his two
thousand different strawberry hybrids and
hundreds of other vegetable and cereal
hybrids. And what does “P.A. ’ mean
by the term “functionless” when he de-
scribes his lovely “ulex”? Is the bloom
sterile or lacking in sexual components?
It’s too vague to apply to a flower.
* * * *
“Nor’-wester”; The primitive abo. was
reckoned to be pretty hard on his wife
or wives, but he didn’t always have it all
his own way. Munday, the big man of
the Perth tribe through the thirties and
and forties of last century, had as wife,
Dorregate. By some throwback such
as occurs even among aboriginals, Dorrie
had a plump figure and legs that would
have shamed no white woman. She also
had a bright and roving eye, and was
not long in discarding the tribal style in
hair-dos, clay and goanna-fat, in favor
of soap and water and a comb. And
she would stand no load-carrying nor
bossing about, for she had plenty of
champions to stand by her—young bucks
not only of her own tribe but of the
southern Murray and the northern hills
tribes. Munday knew this quite well,
and never dared to thrash her lest she
bolt to where youth and protection
awaited. He even had to walk a trifle
circumspectly himself, since there was
always the chance that some young buck,
having taken the “glad eye” too sen-
ously, might plant a glass-tipped spear
between the elderly husband’s shoulders.
November mating with April brought its
due penalties even in the abo. world.
* * * *
“Blime”: For 30-odd years Charlie had
subscribed to the “Weakly Squeak” and
waded through it religiously from cover
to cover. He shopped through its
columns, dosed his stock when advised
and built sheds from its plans. “Beautify
Your Surroundings,” it had beseeched a
few years back, going on to describe the
ugliness of treeless towns and the stark
nakedness of country homesteads that
needed only a cloak of carefully selected
ornamentals to turn them into oases of
loveliness. Obediently, Chas took the
matter up. For weeks he pored over
the suggested lists, ordering and planting
as directed. Thereafter the garden notes
were carefully followed till after several
years of labor and expense he built up
some imitation of the original dream.
“You should stick to the ‘Weakly,’ ” he
proudly told all-comers, and even after
the horticulture articles became rare Chas
still carried on, hoping each issue for
something new. It came. I dropped in
the other day to find him hunched over
the table, his jaw swinging loose, his
eyes goggling stupidly at his favorite
page. At my second query he came
slowly to life and pushed over the paper.
“Don’t sacrifice safety for sentiment,”
I read. “Cut out all pines and shrubs
growing near the house and protect your
home from bushfires! ”
* * * *
“Ned”: “We’re makin’ good money
bag-sewin’,” said Charlie, “doin’ extra
well on account o’ havin’ in the gang
‘Stumpy’ Horrigan, a ringer on the needle
and twine f’r so long as his gullet was
satisfied with the gargle that runs in the
Castlereagh. We’re movin’ on to a new
area and are in sight of the pub on the
fringe o’ Golden Plains when Stumpy
says he’ll swing off and make camp f’r
us at the One-mile. ‘Me thirst’s a
drought,’ he tells us, ‘but it’s this way.
That’s Doolan’s joint, and he useter keep
the shanty at Little Killaloo, where I was
slavin’ f’r Stingy Costigan. One o’ the
neighbor’s girls is gettin’ hitched and
we’re needing a drop o’ booze t’ oil the
send-off, but t’ get it out o’ Doolan I has
t’ tell him Stingy’s brother’s turned up
his toes, and we want the stuff f’r a wake.
Doolan chalks the grog up t’ Stingy and
says he’s sorry he can’t come on account
of it bein’'Saturday. So, y’ see, boys, y’ll
be obligin’ me by bringin’ me out a bottle
o’ rum.’ ”
* * * *
“W. 0.2”: Patrol duty took us through
a vast mangrove swamp in the coastal
region north of Cooktown (N.Q.), where
we made our first acquaintance with the
queer little * mangrove-climbing crab.
Reddish-brown, with legs well adapted
for tree-climbing, being flattened, with
sharply-pointed tips, the crab seems to
spend most of its time racing up and
down the trunks of the mangroves, dodg-
ing spirally round the trunks as expertly
as any goanna as one approaches. The
oozy mud of the swamp was riddled with
the burrows of the big black mangrove
crabs and of the comical-looking fiddler-
crabs, the males of which possess one
big red claw far exceeding in size that
of the other. In some cases the dispro-
portion was so great that the larger red
claw was of greater bulk than the rest of
the body. Thousands of them crawled
about the mud or peeped warily from
their burrows. At the northern end of the
swamp we disturbed a flock of the pretty
yellow-billed kingfishers, rare birds un-
known outside N.Q. and New Guinea.
Black-and-white nutmeg pigeons were
plentiful.
THE OLD EWES.
The waterless paddock is stretched
Under a blistering sun,
The thirsty ewes have gathered
In a mob to the south of the run.
Chewing a thoughtful cud,
Patient and lean they wait,
Resting their tired old bones
In the shade by the five-barred gate.
They have seen droughts before,
But they were young ewes then
And could live on water and salt
Till the rains fell down again,
And over the paddocks ran
The grass like a soft green flood.
The old ewes wait in the shade
And dream as they chew their cud.
At the beat' of a horse in the lane
They rise by one, by two,
And the man bends down to the gate
And the pet ewe leads them through.
Not pushing, not ringing around,
Their feet make lines in the dust;
And the blind ewe follows behind
As in spite of her thirst she must.
Down to the rim of the dam
Hurries the sorry rout,
And here, if just for a moment,
There is no more fear or doubt.
Bellies and legs in the coolness
And grateful heads stretched out,
Now their world is made of water,
No dust, no sun, no drought.
N.S.W.
JOAN O’BRIEN.


m
tin
%%
NO
hm
B-A.M
1
DURING THE SUMMER THE “THERMIL” THREE-
BURNER RANGE is a necessity in your Kitchen. Ask
your retailer to give you particulars of—
IANiS __
* b L U Elf LAME
COOKING APPLIANCES
SSte&stob ' to~*&*‘A*,*M*&* .-.^w. , 77»>. .'.r
Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1563)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
„ EICENSBD AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
a ran *m S «S?SLr OPFICE: 4 BLIGIi STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEVILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
ẃ
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
(Regd.)
SAVES
MANPOWER
“IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
A boy can use the 'Blb.
Oyanogas blower (Fat’d).
Obtainable from all
Storekeepers throughout Australia.
BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD,
7-11 MARKET STREET, SYDNEY.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Tailing Lambs.
Hangaree : One of the primary
objects is to have the wounds healed as
quickly as possible. Two causes of re-
tarded healing are the small bush-fly and
infection. Apart from these, C.S.I.R.
experiments have proved that in younger
lambs the wounds heal quicker than in
older, the longer the tail the quicker it
heals, and it makes no difference whether
the tail is cut through the bone or at a
joint.
Observations made at two, six and ten
days after tailing showed that where the
tails were cut long—leaving about four
inches —healing was practically complete
after ten days. Medium-length tails took
longer and short tails almost twice the
time. Pushing the skin back toward the
base of the tail before cutting was
proved to help healing and appearance.
There are hazy ideas of what a long
tail actually means. If a young lamb is
left with a 4in. tail the tail will have
grown with the lamb and will be much
longer at maturity. The C.S.I.R. recom-
mendation for length is approximately
*iin. below the tip of the vulva. No
matter what age the ewe lamb may be
this practice gives an even length of tail
throughout the flock.
No mention is made by the C.S.I.R.
concerning dressings, but it is generally
assumed that wounds will heal just as
quickly and as cleanly without a dressing.
However, if flies are troublesome it is
advisable to dress with a repellent, such
as oil of citronella. One advantage a fly
dressing may give is that should the area
become blown the maggots will be
poisoned. Much depends, however, on
the kind of dressing. Arsenical dips or
dressings should not be used, as they wil
kill more sheep than flies, while phenylic
and similar oil dressings are of little use
A dressing which will leave behind a de-
posit of boracic acid, such as BTB-15
will give best results. On the whole
wounds will dry quicker if left alone anc
if the Iamb is not carelessly dropped to
the ground.
H or sebreed ing.
“E.H.S.”: Racing controllers and
blood-stock breeders are interested in
horses only while they are racing (B.
4/10/ ’44), and the present tendency is
to breed for speed without regard to
staying power and weight-carrying capa-
city. Of the thqusands of animals bred
each year comparatively few make good
on the race track, and,,the majority of
the failures are of little value except as
knockabout hacks for lightweights. The
oft-repeated claim that racing has been
mainly responsible for the establishment
and maintenance of our horse-breeding
industry is not borne out by facts.
For many years the gradual deteriora-
tion and disappearance of the long-
distance weight-carrier has progressed in
proportion to the increase of racing.
Racing promoters are not interested in
the horse as a unit in our national
economy, but simply as an indispensable
part of a vast sporting organisation,
which is of about as much economic
value to the nation as a two-up school
01 a pak-a-pu joint. This country needs
horses of the type on which a lucrative
export trade was carried on about 40 or
50 years ago, and it can get them by re-
verting to the old method of mating
large-framed, compactly-built thorough-
breds or Irish hunters with suitable mafes.
Racing controllers could, if so in-
clined, do much toward rehabilitating
the industry by fixing racing weights and
distances at a minimum of lOst. and two
miles respectively. Many of the old-time
stock horses and army remounts were
bred by mating active Suffolk Punch and
Percheron type mares with a thorough-
bred, the females from this cross being
mated with another thoroughbred to pro-
duce the type of animal required.
Kikuyu v. Bracken.
“Jesmond”: On the Phillip Island
(Vic.) property of E. J. Moore, who intro-
"Look out, Ma! You'll mix 'em!"
duced the grass to Victoria, established
areas of kikuyu are gradually choking
out the bracken. But it is a slow pro-
cess. Bracken and kikuyu may live to-
gether for years without any noticeable
effect on the former, but as the extensive
root system of the grass spreads and
thickens and works down into the soil
the bracken is weakened and gradually
dies out.
There is no need to plough for kikuyu.
Given reasonable weather, roots dibbed
in or laid in a spade-made furrow should
survive and spread. But don’t put away
the mower and rely only on kikuyu.
Mowing and heavy dressings of super,
encourage cattle to feed among and
trample down the young bracken shoots.
Super, is scarce, but kikuyu grows
reasonably well without manure, and it
is relished by stock. Planted in bracken
country it will entice the cows in to feed,
though if the bracken be old and tough
the stock won’t hurt it. So keep the
mower going as often as possible, plant
kikuyu as thick as you can, keep the
rabbits off if possible and so give grass
and cows a fair go. They’ll do the job
between them.
A Big Idea.
“L.C.”; W. A. W. de Beuzeville, ecolo-
gist, wants to see a mile-wide belt of
kurrajongs running from Barringun on
the N.S.W. northern border via Bourke,
Cobar and Griffith to Mulwala in the
south. He sees it as a vast fodder reserve
in time of drought, a soil-binder against
erosion and a provider of shade for thou-
sands of stock. Breaks where soil and
climate prove unsuitable to the kurrajong
would be filled with other edible shrubs
and trees. Total length of the belt would
be approximately 450 miles. Two-thirds
of it would traverse the Western Divi-
sion of the State and thus render resump-
tion of certain areas unnecessary. Spac-
ing the plants 30ft. apart, 32,000 plants
would be required per square mile ; two
tons of fertile seed for the full belt.
De Beuzeville maintains that kurra-
■jong-planting is comparatively cheap
compared with the planting of other trees,
and that open rooted plants are more
likely to succeed under dry conditions
than those raised in tubes. He reckons
200 men, working on a 15-year plan,
could do the job. It’s a big idea, but
then this is a big country, and for some
of its problems big ideas are necessary.
Ulcers in Pigs.
“Pookie”: Sulphanilamide, after the
war, may solve the problem, according
to R. E. Alexander, a M.L. vet. Necrotic
ulcers originate in wound or abrasion,
and may occur on any part. A young
animal is usually affected on the nose,
an old one on hoof, knee, hip, scrotum
or hock. The ulcers usually appear as
cavities eating into the flesh, often
accompanied by a tumorlike growth of
fibrous tissue which frequently grows to
a large size. The surface of the ulcer
becomes coated with a thick crust which,
when stripped away, reveals a bleeding
surface.
Present treatment usually is isolation,
scrubbing and washing of the wound with
Condy’s fluid and dusting with powdered
tartar emetic—tedious and unsatisfactory
in advanced stages and where the jaw is
affected ; another drawback is the danger
of poisoning when large areas are
treated.
It is claimed that sulphanilamide gets
quick results, is simple in execution, free
from danger of poisoning and has re-
sulted in the cure of apparently hopeless
cases.
A composite of sulphanilamide and
sulphathiazole (M and B 760) was mixed
in equal proportions with starch and
applied to the dried surface of the wound
after a preliminary scrubbing with
Condy’s solution. All crevices and
pockets were dusted, special attention
being paid to the juncture of the sore
with the normal skin. The dressing
seemed to affect the deeper tissues as well
as the exterior of the sore. In all cases
there was extensive sloughing and the
formation of passages leading into the
heart of tumified tissue which facilitated
drainage. Actual treatment takes about
two to three minutes.
The Fruit-fly.
“Pat Ater”: It usually visits peach,
nectarine, plum and apricot crops about
five weeks before ripening. Then the
eggs are laid just under the skin of the
fruit. Maggots hatch, eat and burrow
on the ripening delicacies. Only way to
beat them is by killing the female fly
which does the laying job. That entails
the making of a poison lure (of syrupy
juice in which the killing agent is mixed)
and spraying that on patches of foliage
around the trees. Spray work begins five
weeks before ripening and continues
weekly until picking the fruit. It needs
replacing after rain. Use at least 6fl. oz.
to each tree.
The lure: Tartar emetic, 20z.; white
sugar, 2£lb.; water, four gallons. If
small quantities only are needed, make a
stock solution by dissolving lOoz. of
poison in one gallon of water. Store in
glass container and mark “Poison.”
Dilute for use, using one pint of stock
solution, one pint of water and 2\oz. of
sugar each time. A quart will spray four
to six trees —an average home “orchard.”
Gather and boil for ten minutes all in-
fested fruit (including tomatoes) on trees
or the ground.
Hints for the Farm.
"Tormac”: Dust doesn’t bother J. R.
Abernethy, of Lake Camm, Westralia.
Taking up virgin country 16 years ago,
he left a chain strip of green timber on
every fence line. Now his place of 2500
acres, each paddock ringed with a chain-
wide stripe of green timber, presents a
pleasant contrast to the semi-dust bowls
of neighboring farms. Abernethy comes
from Scotland.
“C.H.”: Salt added to damp hay in-
creases its palatability, keeps down fer-
mentation and reduces the risk of over-
heating. A little sulphur sprinkled on
every layer will keep mice at bay. Sulphur
peppered over wheat bags when placing
them in barns gives the same result.
“Myrrhee”: Spot the rust patches on
galvanised-iron roofs with a prime coat
of metallic zinc-dust paint, or, if unpro-
curable, a good iron-oxide roofing paint.
Lead-base paints should not be used on
roofs which serve as water catchments
for stock or domestic purposes.
“B.”; The standard bushel fruit case
suffers in the market. Contents are re-
moved by taking off the side, and the
box is left with a bulging top and bottom
which becomes the sides unless it’s re-
made. In re-using the case reserve for
wrapped fruit and change the type of
pack from 3-3, 3-2 and 2-2 to 3-2 and
2-2 packs. The dump bushel case is the
best for all purposes. All fruits pack
into it easily. The shopkeeper removes
either the bottom or the lid and leaves
the box in good condition ready for re-
use.
“Myrr”: Routine spraying for codlin
moth will control leaf slug on pear trees,
but young trees not yet in production
and without the protection of the lead
arsenate spray often suffer. The slug
also attacks foliage of the cherry and
plum, skeletonising the leaves. Control
is simple with a spray of loz. lead arsen-
ate in 3gal. of water.
“H.C.”: To breed good layers shy off
the bird with fine bones. Its chicks de-
velop into fowls that lack stamina and
size and produce small eggs. The bird
with the medium bone structure produces
vigorous chicks that will prove better
layers than herself.


UNCABLED ADDITIONS
Soviet Rule Spreads in Iran.
(Reported by the N.Y. “World-Telegram”
special writer Henry J. Taylor.)
Iranian Government sources describe
the “oil concession troubles” there as
secondary in the British-American-Rus-
sian situation involving the sudden resig-
nation of Premier Mohammed Maraghei
Said under Russian pressure.
Strain on the Roosevelt-Churchill-
Stalin pronouncements mutually guaran-
teeing the independence of this key State
in the Middle East has been reported to
be the main issue. But Russian censor-
ship at Tehran suppressed this disclosure.
It appears that units of the Red Army,
dropping further and further south from
the Russian border, now occupy Iran to
the exclusion of all other forces, includ-
ing King Riza Pahlevi’s own Iranian
troops and police. This is true not only
along much of America’s lend-lease route
from the Persian Gulf, but throughout
the area north of Tehran.
Iranian Government officials, - citizens
and military men, as well as American
and British officers, no longer are per-
mitted to enter this vast northern section
of the country without Russian passport
authority and other forms of consent
obtainable only from Moscow.
Iran made demands on Moscow for
relief from this situation by invoking the
Roosevelt-Churchill-Stalin guarantees of
independence for Iran. These demands
coincided with Russia’s own demands for
oil concessions in the northern area. And
these, in turn, coincided with British and
American applications in the south. All
the applications covered undeveloped ex-
panses generally regarded as potentially
rich in oil.
To avoid pressure from each foreign
interest and to forestall any charge of
favoritism. Premier Said and the Iranian
Parliament decreed that no concessions
would be granted any nation until after,
the war. Premier Said is reported to have
reasoned that then Iran should be able to
make such grants “free from military
duress.”
It is clear, the Iranian sources said,
that neither the Premier nor the Parlia-
ment expected this decision to be violently
distasteful to Moscow, because the loca-
tion of the northern areas, largely shut
off from the south by mountains, made
concessions there valuable only to Russia,
and no British-American competition for
these grants was involved.
Moscow apparently chose this decision,
however, as a timely occasion to refuse to
withdraw Russia’s occupation of northern
Iran and to obtain a “demonstration” of
Russian displeasure over any interference
by Iran, Great Britain or the United
States with Russia’s policy of independent
action. So the Russians forced* the resig-
nation of Premier Said.
“Demonstrators” were transported to
the Premier’s residence in Red Army
trucks, with Russian officers clearing the
streets of British and American observers
and restraining their movements through-
out the capital. This display was
especially emphatic because Premier Said
was regarded as Russia’s best friend in
the Iranian Government. He had served
previously as Ambassador to Moscow.
The impact of all this in Tehran was
that if Premier Said could be so badly
in Russia’s disfavor any opposition to
Russian policy by anyone in a new Gov-
ernment would be met even more
severely.
The explanation by informed sources
is that, quite aside from oil- matters.
Marshal Stajin prefers a Middle East in-
cident at this time to provide him with
another of several demands, namely the
continued occupation of northern Iran,
in consideration for concessions which
might be asked of him at a future Roose-
velt-Churchill-Stalin conference.
Europe Going Socialist.
(Report by the London correspondent of N.Y.
“Times.”)
That American public opinion in its
enthusiasm for private enterprise has
failed to grasp to what an extent German
National Socialism has made socialism
in Europe inevitable, even where un-
wanted, has been inferred here [London]
from dispatches setting forth the views
of the American delegation at the Inter-
national Business Conference at Rye,
N.Y.
From this and other indications of
opinion in American official and busi-
ness circles it is concluded that to recon-
cile American ideals and Old World
realities will be one of the most difficult
problems of the post-war period.
The facts as they are seen here are:
Russia is a completely socialised country ;
Britain, although still theoretically capi-
talist, has accumulated so many debts,
lost so much trade and hypothecated so
many overseas investments during the
war that nothing but controlled collective
action over a long term of years can put
her on her feet; and private ownership
in Europe has been so confused and
compromised by the Nazis and their col-
laborators that European Governments
are being forced to take over large seg-
ments of it.
A Czech official said his Government
would be compelled to take over the
Skoda works because it had long been a
State enterprise under the Nazis, and
would be forced to nationalise the big
coal mines in the north because the Nazis
had bought them. He also stressed the
case of mines and factories owned by
traitors. Public opinion, he argued,
would allow no solution of this problem
other than confiscation by the State.
“We will have problems enough on
our hands,” he said, “without wishing
to add nationalisation of industry to
them. But in many cases, economically,
legally and, above all, politically, we
have no choice.”
What will apply to Czechoslovakia
has already been demonstrated to apply
to France for the same reasons and will
be duplicated, it is predicted, in nearly
all other European countries.
In Britain private enterprise has been
neither confiscated nor compromised but
it has been so concentrated, converted
and controlled that to return to it would
require continued Government interven-
tion.
Many British businessmen are as
eager to return to competitive export
trade as are their American equivalents.
But just as President Roosevelt in 1933
thought the raising of American domestic
prices was more important than return
to an international gold standard, so a
large and influential section of British
opinion considers full domestic employ-
ment more important than freer world
trade.
Too Many “Traps.”
(A “Christian Science Monitor” editorial
comment.)
shapes Trap for Leyte Japs” ; “Clos-
ing Pincers Peril Nazi Host” ; “Quarter
Million Foe Caught in Pocket” ; “Ad-
vancing Spearhead Guts Last Escape
Road.”
Such headlines are the result of an
understandable endeavor to find a story
that will bring the day’s situation vividly
to the reader’s mind and heart, a story
that often must be dug out of factual
dispatches and military communiques
cold and complex. And such a story does
quicken the- pulse. The drama and sus-
pense which fie in the implied questions,
“Will we catch them?” “Can they
escape?” are the stuff of all adventure
stories.
Newspapers have thus contributed their
share in whipping up the waves of un-
warranted optimism and the following
troughs of unnecessary gloom.
How many traps have really been
sprung; how many pincers have pinched
shut; how many pockets have been but-
toned up over the doomed enemy hordes?
A few, but not many. Nor have the
military commanders, except as an out-
side hope, ever expected that many
would.
U.S. Isolationists’ Hopes.
(The strongly isolationist “Daily News” —it has
much the biggest circulation of any daily in
New York—forecasts a revival.)
Well, at the Presidential election we
isolationists, to borrow the words of Gen.
Vinegar Joe Stilwell, took a hell of a
beating. However, we seem entitled to
get some long-range comfort out of the
prospects opening out before this coun-
try, now that the majority of its voters
have O.K’d. President Roosevelt’s world
super-State ideas. Here are some of those
prospects:
The World Council projected at the
hush-hush Dumbarton Oaks conference
will presumably have four members, or
five—one each from Britain, France, Rus-
sia and the United States, and maybe
one from China,
In that case there will be much dis-
pute about whether a majority vote shall
always decide, or whether any one dele-
gate can refuse for his nation to go along
with the majority.
Whatever the rules and by-laws may
be, we can be sure that Russia will send
troops to help put down aggression some-
where else only if Russia wants to, and
regardless of the World Council major-
ity’s wishes. That is the way Russia is
acting with regard to our and Britain s
and China’s war against Japan.
Mr. Roosevelt proposed shortly before
the election that the U.S. delegate have
the power to make war, along with the
other World Council members, without
consulting Congress. The voters re-
elected Mr. Roosevelt.
So the Roosevelt-Churchill plan boils
down to this: The British, Dutch and
French empires are to be restored, largely
by American arms and money, and then
this whole world set-up is to be guaran-
teed by the producing power and fighting
strength of the United States, plus what
power the three imperialist nations have
on their own account.
We do not see how such an arrange-
ment can last indefinitely. We’re con-
vinced that if we Americans go to war
Many hands are setting the stage
for a triumph of bolshevism with-
out the need of any incitement
from Moscow. In both Italy and
France exiled communists who fled
from fascism or the war are re-
turning to places of influence.
However, the accelerating trend
toward bolshevism does not derive
its impetus so much from Russian
intentions as from the adventurism
of radicals working on the inde-
cision and timidity of conservatives.
Men who achieved an aim in the
war control of production and em-
ployment are unwilling to give it
up. Their hand is strengthened by
men who, although disliking the
system, are afraid of what might
happen if after the war the controls
suddenly were all removed. The
resources of free enterprise are
questioned even by men who would
have had no doubts before the war.
They are losing faith in their own
system - and aiding in the develop-
ment of a belief in the possibility
of conciliating freedom and control.
This mood can become fatalistic.
The destruction caused by the war
may have extended to the will and
the courage of men who have now
become afraid that free enterprise
can no longer work. A contest be-
tween persons convinced and de-
termined to set up a new system
and people doubting their own be-
liefs is an unequal one. In a great
panic the triumph of bolshevism
may be easy. —Chicago “Tribune.”
every time the map is re-drawn in Europe,
with some boundary shifted or proposed
to be shifted a few miles, we shall be
damn’ fools.
Which is to say that we look for a
strong comeback of isolationism, or
America First, in this country sooner or
later —quite possibly before the 1948
Presidential election —and that though we
isolationists took a hell of a beating in
1944 we’re a long way from being down
and out for good
Governing Germany.
(From a “Harper’s Magazine” article by Peter
F. Drucker.)
None of the Great Powers will be will-
ing to govern Germany for a very long
time. The demand for recall and demobi-
lisation of the American army of occu-
pation will be pretty general in America
very soon after the cessation of hos-
tilities. And the same will be true of
Russia and England sooner or later —with
five years an upper rather than a lower
limit. The Continental countries could
not keep up the occupation and govern-
ment of Germany by themselves. And
over the entire transition period will thus
hang the question: who will ultimately
govern Germany, and on what lines?
If Germany cannot form a stable Gov-
ernment the transition period cannot be
resolved into a new European order.
Neither Europe nor the Great Powers can
demobilise. Such a perpetual armistice
would set the countries of Europe against
each other, as few of them could resist
the temptation to enlarge their territories
at the expense of a disorganised Ger-
many. It would make the German ques-
tion a grave threat to the unity of the
Great Powers themselves. Finally—the
worst threat—it might force or coax the
Great Powers into sponsoring a new
Hitler, if only to enable them to with-
draw from the tedious and thankless job
of governing Germany. Because they do
not -proclaim ideals of Government and
of political conduct on which they could
establish a responsible German Govem-
ment they might have to establish an
irresponsible one. It is clearly on such
a development that the Nazi leaders have
been pinning their hopes for a comeback
ever since they realised the imminence of
defeat.
Maidanek.
(From a “Saturday Evening Post’’ article by
Edgar Snow, sent from Maidanek, Poland.)
For Poland and Russia, at least, Maid-
anek and the ghosts that throng around
it will be a living presence at the peace
tables to harden man’s heart to the in-
evitable dismemberment of Germany.
When the history of this war is written,
Maidanek may best epitomise the inner
nature of Nazi philosophy and mark its
most thorough success in perverting the
very virtues of a once great people into
the service of a machinery of crimes
almost too monstrous for the human
mind to accept. Even after seeing the
abundant evidence, hearing the state-
ments of eyewitnesses and listening to
the confessions of a few of the murderers
themselves, there is something in the mind
of a man taught to revere human life as
sacred that continues to say all this could
not happen.
Yet when I look at my notes, taken
on two trips, and on a double check in
the camp itself, when I review the accu-
mulation of testimony, intelligence in-
forms me, as it does every other observer
I know who has had this unenviable op-
portunity, that the main story of this
death factory, to which the Nazis them-
selves unofficially referred as the Camp
for Extermination, has been truthfully
reported.
How many people were destroyed at
Maidanek? I have no way of knowing
precisely. Two Germans who worked
in the camp told us that on a single day,
November 3 of last year, between 17,000
and 20,000 men, women and children
were obliterated here. They agreed also
that “hundreds” at a time had been taken
out of the gas chambers on various days.
Doctor Siengalwicz, a Polish toxicologist
and professor of forensic medicine of
Lublin University, told me that to date
they had identified, by chemical analysis,
a total of 1934 cubic metres of human
ashes recovered from graves and from
near-by fields —the remains of perhaps
1,000,000 corpses.
And Poles from Warsaw to whom I
have talked say that the Treblirtka camp
near the capital was worse than Maid-
anek. Only Jews were sent there. The
Poles assert that more than 4,000,000 fives
were blotted out. Poland had three other
large concentration camps whose stories
are not yet fully known. The Germans
may succeed in those, as they failed here,
in destroying the evidence and witnesses
of their crimes. But they cannot erase
the negative which re-creates the picture
of Maidanek. This crowning achievement
of Nazi totalitarianism executed with
German efficiency is in a way far more
frightening in its ultimate implications
for mankind than the record of any rival
killers in history.
“World Police” Flaws.
(As analysed by Chicago “Tribune,”)
Some of the prospects opened up by
the Dumbarton Oaks formula for the
organisation of a peace are so transpar-
ently absurd that the prospectors made
them unfinished business, apparently hop-
ing for an inspiration which is badly
needed.
The planners propose to use an inter-
national army to enforce peace. An in-
ternational constabulary which could be
used on crime alarms is a preposterous
fiction. So then we must come to an inter-
national army which must be greater than
any possible combination against it.
Every nation then must reduce its mili-
tary establishment to submission. It must
consent to be conquerable. In good faith
it must strip itself of defences which
would make subjection by the inter-
national force uncertain or difficult.
Otherwise, why establish the international
force? Frankly, it is not to be used
against the powerful nations which com-
pose the council of the world organisa-
tion. The question then rises if such a
nation can be declared out of order with-
out its consent. This question is part of
the deferred business. Again we have
absurdity. A nation which would agree
that international armies should be used
against it would not commit the fault
which invited the punishment. It would
not persist in doing the wrong thing. If


The World follows Britain's lead .
wm
v
m.
Vo;.V:
i&m
m
wm
wr
mm
::
&r
iSSSSSi
BSB s
>?os--
MECHANISED WARFARE
IN the last world war, Britain evolved the Tank. out-
standing military weapon of the period and forerunner
of mechanised warfare. Despite their ingenuity in forging
new weapons for battle, the British peoples have con-
tributed more to peace than to war Prominent amongst
the benefits Britain has bestowed upon the world is the
development, by Courtaulds, of rayon and the lovely
fabrics made from it.
Courtaulds foresaw the potentialities of rayon and
brought it to perfection- Within a generation they had
established vast new industries in Britain, the United
States, Canada and elsewhere. Probably no single
achievement has secured a more widespread improvement
in standards of living everywhere.
The war has restricted the amount of Courtaulds rayons
at present available Research and development con-
tinue, assiduously, and still lovelier rayon fabrics will
reappear when victory is won. Courtaulds will demon-
strate once again that a British firm can lead the world
with new products and ideas destined to benefit all mankind.
Major-General
SIR ERNEST
SWINTON,
K.8.E.,C.8.,D.5.0.,R.E.
The originator of the
Tank, raised and
commanded the
H.S.M.G.C.in 1916 The
tank was first used as a
new weapon in the battle
of the Somme in 1915.
The World’s greatest inventions and discoveries
originated within THE BRITISH EMPIRE
Issued by Courtaulds Ltd., London, England
Rayon Yarn distributed overseas by Lustre Fibres, Ltd, Rayon Fabrics distributed
overseas by Samuel Courtauld & Co., Ltd
s» «
KS
; <>''• • ** Vvv
v v;'->>-x-, -vx..
5%
%
\1
%
%5
Official despatches credit the Hawker Typhoon single-seat fighter (2,200
h.p. Napier Sabre) with brilliant successes against German units in France,
where, in one month alone, Typhoons fired 21,000 rocket projectiles. It
mounts four cannon guns and can carry eight rocket projectiles under its
wings . Its speed exceeds 400 m.p.h.
DESIGN FOR BATHE
The fire-power of British
combat aircraft has grown
progressively throughout
the War. To-day single-
seat fighters can fire a salvo
comparable with a broad-
side of 6-inch naval guns.
"Design for Battle” the
principle adopted by the
Air Staff years before the
War—led to the provision
of the 8-gun fighters which
clawed down the German
raiders in the Battle of
Britain.
Shell - firing cannon suc-
ceeded the machine-guns.
And now British fighters
mount rocket projectiles of
unprecedented destructive
power, white the efficiency
of aircraft gunfire has been
doubled by the new British
gyro-gunsight, which en-
sures that to-day’s heavier
armament is more sure than
ever of a "kill.”
British aircraft designers
have wedded each advance
in armament with a combat
’plane perfectly suited to
exploit that advance to the
full.
The versatility, foresight
and ingenuity so admirably
displayed in design and
production of the world’s
most efficient battleplanes
will be available to meet all
needs of the Air Age of
To-morrow.
THE BRITISH AIRCRAFT INDUSTRY
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SOCIETY OF BRITISH AIRCRAFT CONSTRUCTORS - LONDON
its consent to such action were not re-
quired it might have the very insecure
feeling that some of its associates in the
organisation were not above doing it a
dirty trick.
The world organisation is obviously
intended to support an international set-
up arrived at by the peace conference.
Russia proposes to take other people's
territory. It justifies these seizures or
recoveries on the ground of security. Not
all of the peace promoters are by any
means satisfied that the Russian pro-
gramme is just, fair or peaceable. How-
ever, Russia’s two principal allies, Great
Britain and the United States, will un-
doubtedly consent. That is a part of the
price which Russia must be paid. Once
these territories are given to the Soviet
Union by peace treaty they become a part
of the arrangement which the world
organisation for peace is obligated to
sustain. If the arrangement is unjust and
causes bitterness the force of the peace
organisation must be used to protect the
boundaries and keep the people under
the rule to which they have been sub-
jected. Any attempt to change these ar-
rangements would be a disturbance of the
peace and would be regarded as aggres-
sion.
It is not believable that either Great
Britain or Russia will expose itself to the
power of any international police force
which it could not resist if it were to be
used against it. And it is unlikely that
the American people, after sober thought,
would agree to any such thing. A force
which could keep the little fellows in
order might do constabulary work and
prevent small wars. But if it were big
enough to stop a big war it would be
the supreme military organisation on the
globe and the fiat of the men who con-
trolled it would be the law everywhere.
No sane people would risk that if they
could avoid it.
The persons who are seeking to organ-
ise the world along the lines discussed are
in for a lot of trouble. They aren’t going
to have their way, although here in the
United States they are running a great
fever. The absurdities of their schemes
are exposed as they argue for them, and
even here in the United States, where
there is an attempt to make prudence
seem felonious, there is a residue of com-
monsense which will look aghast at the
arrangements the excited promoters pro-
pose.
Australia and Tariffs.
(From a N.Y. “Journal of Commerce "
report.)
Australian delegates to the Interna-
tional Business Conference at Rye (N.Y.)
considered tariff protection for Aus-
tralia’s newly developed industries to be
of less importance to Australia than a
general reduction of tariffs elsewhere,
which they believed restrict the foreign
market for Australian wool and other
agricultural products.
Arthur Spencer Watts, chairman of
the Australian delegation, said that an
increase in the per capita wool consump-
tion of the United States would be of
more importance to his country’s economy
than any possible advantage which she
might obtain from building up her in-
dustries behind tariff walls.
Admitting that manufacturing interests
in Australia are agitating for higher
tariffs after the war to permit them to
meet foreign competition in the domestic
market, Mr. Watts said that, in his
opinion, a general world-wide reduction
of tariffs that would permit Australian
wool to enter the United States in greater
volume was much more to be desired.
Pointing out that the per capita wool
consumption of the United States is
among the lowest of the more highly in-
dustrialised countries, Mr. Watt said that
he thought that it would be more desir-
able from the American point of view
to grant a Government subsidy to wool
producers in the United States rather
than to keep up the present tariff, which,
he asserted, has curtailed the use of wool
in the United States.
Although present high labor costs
may make it difficult for Australian
manufacturers to retain their domestic
market after the war, Mr. Watts said
he believed that the introduction of more
modern equipment and improved tech-
niques might enable Australia to lower
unit production costs, as they have been
lowered in the United States. *
Australian manufacturers, he said, are
less concerned with the necessity of pay-
ing high wages than with the restrictive
practices of labor unions, which are a
factor which may retard the introduction
of labor-saving machinery and modern
manufacturing procedures.
Dragnet Digest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources .)
Anglo-American and Russian strategy was
concerted at Tehran, and the operations on the
eastern front at the beginning of the last
summer were approximately timed to comple-
ment those in the west, just as the whole in-
vasion of France—in the broad picture of
grand strategy—was conceived as a means of
diverting sizable German forces from Russia.
But since the half of the Russian offensive on
the central front at the Vistula River at the
beginning of last August the operations of the
Allies in east and west do not seem to have
been as closely timed or as carefully co-
ordinated as is desirable. Strategically, the
most important section of the eastern front is
that extending from the Masurian Lakes in
East Prussia to the Carpathians. Yet this
part of the front has been relatively quiet
and no major offensives have been launched
there, so far as can be determined, since the
first of August.— Hanson W. Baldwin; N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
The Soviet Government has concerned itself
keenly with the “purges” being carried out in
France and Belgium. These “purges,” as it con-
ceives them, ought to include the prominent
men who some day may recover enough autho-
rity fo lead the attack against the semi-revolu-
tionary regimes of today. The contention of
Moscow, as expressed by the newspaper
“Pravda,” is that too many important persons
are being spared, that no mercy is being shown
only to the small fry. It may be taken for
granted that reports from Alexander E. Bogo-
moloff, Soviet Ambassador to Paris, are harping
on that theme. Russian policy expects today
from the “purges” what it expected in 1935-36
from the “popular fronts” set-up in several
countries. In the summer of 1935 the congress
of the Comintern, held in Moscow after an
interruption of seven years, propounded the
co-operation of communists and liberals against
fascism —the so-called “popular fronts.” The
aim of the Comintern was to eliminate from
office the politicians who were prone, for
motives of social conservation, to act con-
cerfedly against the Soviet Union rather than
resist the dictators. The Comintern has disap-
peared from the scene, but not the purpose it
tried to fulfill. — North American Newspaper
Alliance report.
* * * *
It is everyone’s deep hope that* when this war
is over, and complete defeat has taught Ger-
many and Japan a needed lesson, we shall enter
a prolonged period of peace, guaranteed by the
new league of nations for which the founda-
tions have been laid at Dumbarton Oaks. But
for some years, surely—however high our
present hopes—we shall need to take out insur-
ance against a recurrence of war, which could
come next time with even less warning than
we had this time. It is the well-informed and
strongly persuasive testimony of General Mar-
shall and Secretary Stimson that the best such
insurance lies in the creation of a citizens’
army, based on the same democratic principle
of universal compulsory training to which we
have resorted in the emergency of war —N.Y.
“Times.”
* * v *
There’s more bad news for Tokyo on Con-
solidated-Vultee’s assembly lines. Off these
lines are now coming the new B-32’s, Consoli-
dated’s new —and some say better —counterpart
of the Boeing B-29 Superfortress. Better, they
think, because in the B-32 have been incor-
porated changes in designs and equipment dic-
tated by battle experience of the Superforts.
The new B-32s will be known as “Dominafors.”
— Scripps-Howard Washington staff.
* * * *
The Canadian Government has stated that
some conscripted troops will be employed in
the Pacific. Perhaps overseas service for these
men will prove more acceptable on these terms
than if the troops were sent to Europe as re-
placements for volunteer units. It must be
remembered that French Canadians, as the
principal objectors, have had practically no ties
with Europe in almost 200 years. But they, as
well as all other Canadians, will remember the
mistreatment of Canadian soldiers by the Japan-
ese at Hongkong. Canadians are not the kind
of people to take such abuse lying down
Chicago “Tribune.”
# * * *
Sumner Welles, former U.S. Under-Secretary
of State, has decried efforts “now being made
to persuade public opinion” that the United
States should adopt a foreign policy aimed at
obtaining more satisfactory Governments in
certain nations “not presently involved in the
war.” With Spain and Argentina, among other
nations, apparently in mind, although he named
none, Mr. Welles said: “The pursuit of
such a policy as this would inevitably result once
more in direct intervention, even by force, by
the United States in the internal affairs of other
sovereign peoples. I cannot conceive of any
peaceful and stable world order in which any
individual power, solely because of it's armed
strength or it's material resources, is entitled to
arrogate to itself the right to determine for
other sovereign peoples in its neighborhood the
conduct of their own internal affairs.” — N.Y.
“Times.”
* * * *
Russia has long had ambitions in China —
wants Port Arthur back, naturally, plus some
or all of Manchuria to bolster the Maritime
Provinces, plus Outer Mongolia. Russia could
let us use some Siberian airbases from which
to bomb Japan regularly as a modest return
for our $6,000,000,000 worth of lend-lease goods
sent to Russia up to last June 30. But after
Japan had been licked it would look very
strange for us to acquiesce in a Russian carv-
ing-up of our respected Chinese ally’s northern
territories. — N.Y. “Daily News.”


Personal and Missing Friends.
RICHARDS, George William, who left Bendigo about
1908 (brother, late Edward Albert Richards, Bull-
finch, W.A.), or any person knowing present address,
please communicate with THE WEST AUSTRALIAN
TRUSTEE, EXECUTOR AND AGENCY COMPANY,
LIMITED, 135 St. George’s Terrace, Perth, West
Australia.
WILL BILL JOHNSON, Carpenter, who worked at
Urisino, N.S.W., please communicate with the
Manager of Urisino.
TRESSIE STUBBINS, formerly of Ben Eden, please
communicate with COWLEY & ALLEN, 70 King
Street, Sydney.
EYE LOTION
tor Inf lamed Eyes and Eyelids... Sold Everywhere
H. Rose & Co., Pty.. Ltd.. King Street. Sydney.
66
more time to fish”
m
M
m
/y
■
m
mm
m
BSB
mm
%
mm
&mmm.
mmm
s?i»
&V-3
:.-;
Is proud owner and seasoned skipper
a 60-foot fishing boat reveals why
prefers “Caterpillar” Diesel Marine
gines for fishing power. He says:
formerly had a 45 h.p. Diesel
igine in our boat. It gave us
lots per hour on 4 gallons of fuel
3r hour. With the new Caterpillar’
iesel we use only J gallon more
ael per hour and get II knots from
be boat.
‘This extra speed gives us more
fishing time as we can get to the
grounds and back much quicker.
We just start the engine and that’s
all we have to do. It runs itself.”
CATERPILLAR DIESEL
™ r IN. U-S. PAT, Off.
MARINE ENGINES
TRACK TYPE TRACTORS • DIESEL ENGINES AND DIESEL ELECTRIC SETS • ROAD MACHINERY
Distributor • for Neve South Wales and Queensland t
WAUGH & JOSEPHSON PTY. LTD.
Unwin’s Bridge Rd., St. Peters, Sydney. ’Phone LA3321. Marquis St.,
Cnnnedah. ’Phone Gunnedah 326. Service Engineers: Mr. J. A. Rathbone,
57 Cambridge St., South Grafton. Mr. R. Tweedle, Port Macquarie. ’Phone
Port Macquarie 81. Mr. D. McDougall, 96 Kincaid St., Wagga. ’Phone 2839.
v 102 Melbourne St., South Brisbane. ’Phone JI4S6. Rankin St., Innisfail.
’Phone Innisfail 475.
ŵ
MAIL THIS COUPON TO-DAY
Please send us free and without obligation your
FREE 32-page Catalogue of Caterpillar Diesel
Marine Engines.
Nam e ■ , ■■ - , „
Address
CATp
wg
10.44
d
You’ll appreciate their
outstanding Quality!
CRAVENA
Obtainable In 10’s & 20 9 s
sr
5786
M A
E $ PEC I ALLY T C
SO R E TH RO ATS
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy complete or almost complete files of
The Bulletin in good condition, preferably
unbound. —3566.
To buy “Home Beautiful,” April, May, June,
1942.-3567.
Information Sought.
How to eradicate white-ants ?
The termites require a connection with the
ground; if this can be reached the job is easy.
Break the covering and insert small quantities
of paste made of arsenic and sugar. The ants
killed by this will be eaten by their fellows and
thus the whole colony may be wiped out.
*£ * # *
Some aboriginal words suitable for naming
a seaside home?
Wooladoora (safe harbor), Billbabourie
(good place near water), Eloura (near the sea),
Aldinga (near trees and water), Liaweena (near
the water), Millumbawa (sparkling water),
Gubbayarra (shining sands) and Quambatook
(camp near big water).
# * * *
First-aid treatment for bite of red-back
spider ?
Immediately scarify the spot bitten and rub
in a strong solution of potassium permanganate
(Condy’s crystals). If possible get a doctor.
* * * *
How to determine the age of a cow?
Count the rings on one horn and add three.
In the case of youngsters, peeling horns indi-
cate two years, clean horns three years and
one ring four years. Cattle in cold climates
may have clean horns in two years.
Brief Answers.
L.A.C.: Soaked wheat can be substituted for
bran, but a coarsely crushed wheatmeal is
preferable F.Y.: Great Britain posseses
295,026 of the 652,932 Suez Canal shares now
outstanding D.T.: In 1938 the U.S. produced
1,213,200,000 barrels of crude petroleum
L.H.: X-rays were discovered by W. K. Roent-
gen, a German physicist, in 1895... .D.T.C.:
Angus and Robertson, Sydney, can supply
S.B.: Book out of print K.T.: Stamp
worth about 9d E.W.M.: Effect would be
negligible A.R.C.: Dunlop Rubber, 27
Wentworth-avenue, Sydney, are agent's for
Stabinol... .M.M.: Webster’s Biographical
Dictionary, £3 5 s., from Angus and Robertson,
Sydney. G.H.P.: Haim’s 150 Low Cost
Homes (21s.) and Modern Home Plans: 50
Plan Suggestions (5s.) are obtainable from
Angus apd Robertson K.S.: Gun is appa-
rently an old army rifle bored out to receive
a modern 12-guage shell. Value is about 30s.
J.B.: Good-quality instrument's may be
obtained from any local electrical dealer.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
F.L.8.: “Casting on him a glance of unutter-
able scorn she ran backwards out of the room.
Send her to a circus J.M.: Don’t say “doth
and forget about the end of the rainbow....
J. 5.8.: Mechanical D.B.McC.: Pleasant
landscape marred by concluding outburst of
conventional moralising... .D.W.: Review stilted
H.R.P.: “A suggested aboriginal folk-song
more or less half translated” is more or less
nothing at all G.G.: A string of questions
isn’t a poem D.H.C.: Nearly; too many
whiskers on the last line... .F. 0.8.: Kangaroos
hopped madly out of the office in all directions.
....L.F.: Not quite.... E.N.S.: Lame... .L.C.:
Come again R.P.: Both hackneyed....
L.8.M.: Featherweight... .G.D.: You spoil a
serious theme by the cheap joke at the end ..
TRL • “Please could you find a corner for
this little ditty I made up 9 Yes; but there's
big basket in that corner... .H.K.: No
woTendfngs. . LV.N ? ‘‘My friend wrote
thic ctorv and I think it is pretty good.” You
are a true friend BS W.; “Beyond the
Pale” is
TO ARTOTIC (ANTL
CORRbSI ONDLJNIa.
Lefty; The characters are transparently un*
Australian. One of them says Its a sure-
fire cinch, pal-how’s about it?” You seem
to be an admirer of Joe Palooka... .A.C.. ine
two straight-up-and-down females suspended m
space are tossing the dreariest drxt-chat.


STAFF SUPERANNUATION
BENEFIT TO EMPLOYEES
THROUGH the A.M.P., many Firms and other
Employers throughout Australia have established Superan-
nuation Funds for the benefit of their employees on retirement.
They pay a substantial portion of the premiums: the employees
pay the balance.
The strength of the A.M.P, Society is a guarantee to Employees
that their Superannuation Fund will be well managed and will
provide for the future financial welfare of themselves and their
dependents.
The members of the A.M.P. hold 1,790,000 policies to the
amount of £427,000,000. In the last five years the Society has
paid out £40,905,324 to its members.
The Society will be glad to send an experienced representative
to talk the matter over with any interested Employer.
A.M.P. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfleld, Manager for New South Wales,
Head Office; 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
YOUR FAMILY'S FUTURE
U OWADAYS no considerate man appoints a friend as sole Executor and Trustee
*■ under his Will. The burden is too great, the risks too many.
Far better to appoint Perpetual Trustee Company, Limited. If it be desired to link
the friend up as counsellor, by all means appoint him as Co-trustee with the
Company that is so well equipped to bear burdens of responsibility; that can guarantee
a continuity of sound administration of your Estate based on 59 years’ experience.
Write for a copy of “Your Executor and Trustee,” that explains the Company’s
service and what it costs.
Perpetual Trustee Company,
Limited
DIRECTORS: T. H. Kelly (Chairman); Hon. T. A. J. Playfair, M.L.C.; E. R. Knox;
H. Norman Pope; Allen C. Lewis; W. Deuchar Gordon.
H. V. Douglass, Managing Director. A. G. Armytage, Manager.
Executor and Trustee, Agent under Power of Attorney for Absentees and others. Administrator, etc.
Trust and Agency Funds under Administration exceed £62,800,000.
33-39 HUNTER STREET. SYDNEY.
The WILD CAT
COLUMN
Herald and Weekly Times, Ltd. (Melb.)
, Dividends ■,
Pi'ef. To
Sept., Profit. 61 p.c. Ord. Reserves. Deficit.
1935. .209,707 8125 10 p.c.=110,000 ) , n
Written off, £41,031.. ..{50,551 o4,/66
Reserves.
1936. .226,529 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 1 „ 01 ln „ r ’
Written off, £41,113.. .. \ 45 ' 291 10 > 525
1937. .259,659 8125 12 p.c.=132,000 7 7R nh1 RR
Written off, £41,533.. 78,001 88,o26
1938. 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 7 RQ QR „ 17R , RQ
Written off, £43,682. . .. \ 89 > 963 178,189
1939. .280,984 8125 14 p.c.=154,000 \ 71 Rfu 9 - n 9q ,
Written off, £47,055 _ f 71,804 250,293
—* —Pref.
61 p.c. 6 p.c. Ordinary.
1940. .240,333 8125 1,031 14 p.c.=154,000 \ 282,993
Written off, £44,476.. .. . .f
1941. .229,866 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7 290,289
Written off, £43,945.. .. .. |
1942. .184,875 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7 252,167
Written off, £44,372.. .. ..j
1943. .223,954 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7 OKO 0Rft
Written off. £44,216.. ’..{ 253,280
From staff fund, £10,000 .. .. 263,280
Post-war restoration res. £128,592 891,872
1944. .225,058 8125 16,500 14 p.c.=154,000 7 QQK 7r( -
Written off, £42,550 f 395,755
“We have, as a co., weathered the war
years better than our most optimistic
hopes,” said the chairman at the annual
roll-up. For the five years to the close
of last accounts declared profits, includ-
ing visible provision for depreciation,
averaged £220,817, compared with an
average of £254,529 for the preceding
quinquennium. Over the decade the
prefs. were handed their contract rates,
the ords. averaged 13.2 p.c., and £481,072
was visibly added to reserves. Although
circulations held well, there has been dras-
tic war-time rationing of newsprint, with
consequent shrinkage in the size of publi-
cations and curtailment of advertising.
Also, the cost of paper and of gathering
war and other news climbed with extra-
ordinary speed, while censorship of news
and service and other man-power call-ups
multiplied the difficulties of management.
All this, however, was largely offset by
savings in the volume of newsprint used,
and by extra revenue from a lift from
lyd. to 2d. per copy in the selling price
of the “Sun” and “Herald.”
The co., which is Australia’s largest
newspaper organisation, puts out a string
of eight publications in its home city,
chief being the “Herald,” Melbourne’s
unchallenged evening broadsheet, and
the “Sun,” morning competitor of the
“Age” and “Argus.” The “Sun” and
“Herald” lead the Commonwealth’s daily
circulation field with net sales of about
310,000 and 290,000 respectively; each
added over 25,000 to daily circulation
last term. Broadcasting interests 3DB
and 3LK reported the biggest year’s busi-
ness yet. And the associated publica-
tions, “Courier-Mail” (Brisbane) and
“Advertiser” and “News” (Adelaide),
continue to progress.
Largest outside interest is Australian
Newsprint Mills Pty. (Tas.), in which
H. and W. T. was a prime moVer.
For a while output of the Boyer
mills was the only thing between
metropolitan dailies and four-page issues,
newsprint consumption having been re-
stricted to 27| p.c. of the 1938-39 figure.
For the year to June 30 last the mills,
working to capacity, turned out 26,700
tons of newsprint, and are now supplying
about one-third of Australia’s present
consumption. A p.c. div. was declared.
It is hoped soon to produce better quality
paper at reduced cost, and plans for ex-
tension of the undertaking are in hand.
Imports of newsprint, which stepped-
up from nil, 1942, to 25,000 tons, 1943,
and 70,000 tons, 1944, are expected to
reach 100,000 tons for 1945, thanks to
the efforts of W. Dunstan, H. and
W. T.’s g.m., who went to Canada to
negotiate with millowners there on be-
half of the Australian press.
After setting aside £205,309 (up
£7564) for the last term’s
net earnings from all sources were £llO4
better at £225,058. The “Wild Cat”
continues to treat visible provision for
depreciation, shown as written off in the
table, as an appropriation of, rather than
a charge against, profits, because the his-
tory of the business has shown such pro-
visions to be in excess of actual require-
ments for the purpose. Last term’s
£225,058 of profit covered the pref. divs.
and 18.2 p.c. on the £1,100,000 of ord.
capital, compared with 18.1, 14.5, 18.6,
21 and 16 p.c. back to 1939. The div.
remained at 14 p.c., of which 2 jp.c. con-
tinues to be labelled bonus.
During the year £128,592 of inner
reserves were disclosed and tabbed “re-
serve for post-war restoration of stocks
and plant.” It is tax-free, and if not ulti-
mately required for the purpose for which
it has been created is to be tossed into
the general lay-by. A sum of £IO,OOO
was also returned from the staff fund,
superannuation being now provided for
in another way.
As for the future, the chairman says:
We have, of course, plans for post-war
development. Men have been travelling
for us. Men stationed abroad have been
collecting material for us. Our own senior
executives have been conducting researches
here and preparing for buildings and plans.
We will hope to develop as a great print-
ing house with a wide spread of produc-
tions. Of course, this will have its
hazards, but' the opportunities should be
great.
Precisely what the board has in mind,
and whether shareholders are likely to
be asked for anything, yet remains to be
disclosed.
Finances are very comfortable, as the
following comparison of balance-sheet
figures shows:
1940. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Stock. , £416,322 £822,687 £203,254 £261,013
Debtors,
etc. . . 189,316 144,219 144,560 141,653
Shares in
other cos. 726,985 893,470 894,242 894,242
Cash, etc. 16,933 227,826 511,655 619,388
Liquids £1,349,556 £1,588,202 £1,753,711 £1,916,296
Liabilities* 115,540 152,866 254,496 239,159
Surplus £1,234,016 £1,435,336 £1,499,215 £1,677,137
Freeholds,
etc. . . 465,456 475,025 474,858 474,691
Machinery
and plant 238,052 163,896 119,645 79,976
Net
assets £1,937,524 £2,074,257 £2,093,718 £2,231,804
* Excluding tax reserve, now £240,126.
The apparent growth of £57,759 in
stocks is connected with the disclosure
of inner reserves already referred to.
Cash, etc. —the etcetera is Common-
wealth bonds, £599,370 —was strengthened
by £107,733.
Kauri Timber Cos.
Written
Aug., Profit. Dividends. Off. Reserves.
1934.. 31,978 3 p.c. = 22,500 11,129 174,040
1935.. 52,604 5 „ „ 37,500 12,692 176.452
1936.. 63,576 5 „ „ 37,500 21,107 181,421
1937.. 67,772 6 „ „ 45,000 22,434 181,759
Goodwill disclosed, £12,000 .. 169,759
1938.. 70,696 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,407 175,048
1939.. 65,227 6 „ „ 45,000 19,421 175,854
Goodwill written off, £2,000 .. 177,854
1940.. 70,335 6 p.c. = 45,000 23,166 180,023
Goodwill written off, £1,988 .. 182,011
1941.. 07,550 6 p.c. = 45,000 20,731 183,830
Added to intangibles, £56 .. fe.183,774
1942.. 55,866 5 p.c. = 37,500 16,218 185,922
Unexplained addition, £2OOO .. 187,922
1943.. 54,189 6 p.c. = 37,500 16,639 187,972
Profit, sale of assets, "£3938 .. 191,910
1944.. 57,346 5 p.c. = 37,500 19,331 192,425
Profit, sale of assets, £lßl .. 192,606
A world-wide shortage of utility
timbers is expected after the war. “Aus-
tralia would have to import timber
during the next 30 years, because it had
no resources to fill its own require-
ments,” said Commonwealth timber-con-
troller S. H. Kessell at the third all-
Australian timber congress last month.
He estimated that Australia would re-
quire 1,200,000,000 super feet of timber
annually for several years after the war,
whereas the annual yield from its own
forests would not be more than 850,000,000
super feet. The outlook for the trade is
thus bright enough on the demand side.
What timber merchants are most con-
cerned about at the moment is the extent
to which freedom of trade is likely to be
restricted by continued Government inter-
ference. Absence of a clear-cut state-
ment by the Government as to its inten-
tions in connection with priorities and
other controls is retarding development of
merchant plans to enable the industry to
swing without delay into large-scale
operations.
Kauri’s freehold and leasehold timber
stands are mainly in Maoriland, where it
also has large subsidiary milling interests,
and in Westralia and the Solomon
Islands. A mill and drying kilns were
erected in Melbourne about a decade ago
to handle logs from the Solomons, as
well as Victorian and Tasmanian timbers.
Later a Melbourne plywood and box-
making business was bought. Last term
the old-established timber business of
John Sharpe and Sons Pty. (Melbourne)
and the Newmarket Plywood Cos. Pty.
(Brisbane) were welded into the organisa-
tion. The price paid for the two last-
mentioned businesses and the net book
value of assets taken over are not stated,
but shares in subsidiaries* 1 increased by
£121,997 and investments, cash, etc.
(down £134,031) were drawn up to meet
the outlay.
Acute shortage of stocks was the chief
problem last term, especially in the ply-
wood section, which is mainly dependent
upon overseas timber for its require-
ments. War conditions still preclude re-
sumption of operations in the Solomons,
while the shipping problem, which might
get worse before its gets better, stands in
the way of full supplies being drawn from
Westralia, and stands in Victoria from
which the co. had drawn substantially are
now nearly cut out. In Maoriland, where
the co. is practically independent of im-
ported timber, anew mill and battery of
drying kilns have been erected at Pen-
rose, and further extension of the under-
taking is being planned in preparation for
post-war activity.
After allowing something for the tax-
gatherer and £19,331 (up £2692) for de-
preciation—included with profits in the
table and then shown as written off —the
net result of the year’s trading (£38,015,
up £465) was 5 p.c. on capital as against
5, 5.2, 6.2, 6.3, 6.1 and 6.7 p.c. back to
1938. That leaves out of the reckoning a
profit of £lßl on sale of assets. The div»,
from which a point was chipped in 1942,
was kept at 5 p.c.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1941. 1942. 1943. 1944.
Paid capital.. £750,000 £750,000 £750,000 £750,000
Liabilities .. 59,331 77,041 65,302 98,046
Freeholds and
leaseholds . 142,574 147,588 169,020 185,579
Plant, etc. .. 152,061 134,949 145,690 150,996
Stocks, etc... 318,720 282,308 282,717 241,996
Book debts .. 137,892 119,902 96,252 160,588
° thOT 123,969 123,969 124,569 240,560
In v e stments,
Cash, etc. .. 144,195 228,747 211,458 77,427
Including shareholdings, the more or less
liquid surplus (£628,531) was £21,163 less
than at the previous balance, owing to a
net addition of £21,859 to the book value
of fixed assets.
North Broken Hill, Ltd.
To Re-
June, Profit. Dividends. serves. Reserves.
£ £ £ £
1934. .303,355 27ip.c.= 192,500 110,855 2,340,148
1935. .420,683 40 „ ~280,000 140,683 2,480,831
1936. .666,940 70 „ ~490,000 176,940 2,658,771
1937. .940,628 105 „ „ 735,000 205,628 2,863,399
1988. .505,153 90 „ „ 630,000 2,738,552
1939. 40 „ ~280,000 76,841 2,815,393
Shares written up, £246,576 .. 3,061,909
1940. .520,388 40 p.c. = 280,000 240,388 3,302,357
1941. .575,052 40 „ ~ 280,000 295,052 3,597,409
1942. .462,320 40 „ ~ 280,000 182,326 8,779,735
1943. 35 „ ~245,000 128,826 3,903,561
1944. .365,455 35 „ „ 245,000 120,544 4,024,016
Besides mining non-ferrous metals,
backbone of munitions, at the Barrier,
the world’s greatest silver-lead-zinc lode,
the big co.’s operations there have also
made handsome contributions to develop-
ments over a wide range of Australian
industry.
The curtain remains drawn over the
co.’s owij production, milling and assay
figures for security reasons. It may now
be questioned, however, whether any use-
ful purpose is served by the continued
black-out of domestic mining statistics,
upon which shareholders rely for
appraisement o$ their investment.
Chief factors affecting earnings during
the war have been lower tonnage (due to
the manpower problem), decline in grade
of ore mined and treated, lifts in taxation,
wages, freight rates, cost of fuel, timber
and other mining requisites, together with
higher smelting and refining charges and
reduced returns from investments.
Mine and mill are reported in first-
class order. Last term the volume of
mill feed, of which 82.1 p.c. was drawn
from the north section of the mine,
shrunk by 3.2 p.c., and the average head
value was slightly lower. The drop in
grade was due to inclusion of more ore
from the older and lower-grade parts of
the mine, which comprise the upper levels
at No. 1 shaft and the British and Junc-
tion sections.
Still, the percentage of metals recovered
in ore treatment remained constant,


PATENTS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Cr. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
* * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collina
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, C.l. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks.— Advt.
THE
UNITED
INSURANCE COMPANY LTD.
HEAD OFFICE : GEORGE AND HUNTER
STREETS, SYDNEY
An Australian Institution.
Established 1862,
DIRECTORS:
E. R. Knox (Chairman), Sir Thomas
Buckland, F. W. Hixson, Orwell
Phillips, G. F. Hughes, Robert Vicars.
Fire, Marine and Accident
Insurances of Every
Description
A. C. Dawson, T. C. Reynolds,
General Manager. Asst. Gen. Manager
ARE YOU GETTING
CLEAR WATER?
SEND FOR BOOKLET
AND PRICES OF
THE
AUSTRALIAN
ABBOT
GUTHRIDGE
ci*»l
BT*
CANPEROOWN
F
GUTHRIDGE Pty. Limited,
10-12 Parramatta Road, Camperdown,
Sydney, N.S.W.
From 40 years , ago
.. .TILL
•••
w*
LL_ii
Forty years ago when the first executives of this Agency
were pioneering advertising, it was a comparatively
simple procedure calling for little more than average
astuteness and a reasonable command of the limited
media and techniques then available.
To-day, there is a great deal more to advertising and
merchandising than in the beginning of the century.
Media and techniques have multiplied in number and
complexity, and competition has intensified. War has
changed buying and selling methods. The post-war
period will bring even greater changes, in that hundreds
of thousands of homes are already looking forward to
acquiring improved labour-saving devices and luxury
items. At the same time, this post-war period almost
certainly will be one of keen competition, demanding
strenuous endeavours in planning and developing
markets.
Obviously, out of all these varied and confusing factors
rises the need for expert advertising and merchandising
counsel to direct the intensive advertising campaigns
that will naturally be necessary.
The logical step, of course, is to entrust these problems
to a group of trained experts such as the Willmott
Advertising Agency which for almost half a century
has kept abreast of every change in advertising technique
and field.
Having serviced the advertising of a very worthy list
of internationally-known products for many years, our
experience enables us to start in on YOUR problems.
The time to plan is NOJV. The opportunity for a
discussion of your advertising and merchandising
problems would be welcomed.
’Phone or write us for an appointment.
WILLMOm
ADVERTISING AGENCY S
Chamber of Commerce Building, 36 Grosverior Street, Sydney
Telephones: BW 7191 —BW 7194
PRfcSS . . . RADIO . . . FILM . . . POSTER . . . DIRECT MAIL
advertising
thanks to further improvement in milling
practice:
1939. 1941. 1943. 1944.
Lead .. 94.6 p.c. 96.2 p.c. 96.5 p.c. 96.6 p.c.
Silver .. 87.4 „ 90.5 „ 90.9 „ 90.9 „
Zinc .. 83.2 „ 86.0 „ 86.3 „ 86.2 „
The better lead recovery followed separa-
tion of the composite lead-zinc sulphide
particles, thereby reducing the quantity
of lead previously contained in the zinc
concentrate. The importance of this lies
in its effect upon costs. The future of the
industry will largely depend upon its
ability to compete with other metal pro-
ducers in the world’s markets. Pre-war
the co. used to sell some 85 p.c. of its lead
and about 75 p.c. of its zinc products
overseas.
Ore reserves at June 30 last were put
at 5,433,000 tons (down 78,000 tons), and
a lot more payable stuff is known to exist
outside measured limits. Extension of
the north drive on the 2600 ft. level to
2620 ft. north of No. 2 (main) shaft will
enable exploration of the northern lease
to be pushed ahead as soon as men and
materials become available. Also, the
main shaft, now 59ft. below the 2920 ft.
level, where the plat and headings have
been completed, is to go deeper.
Revenue and expenditure figures com-
pare as follows:
Revenue— ' 1941. 1943. 1944.
Mine products .. £1,741,318 £1,467,871 £1,535,137
Investments .. 184,786 101,120 103,223
£1,926,104 £1,568,991 £1,638,360
Expenditure—
Mine .. .. 1,054,658 1,067,326 1,121,869
P. and 1. item 405,821 213,662 233,249
Loss, investment 598
£1,461,077 £1,280,988 £1,355,118
Net profit .. 465,027 288,003 283,242
Last term’s spring of £67,266 in revenue
from mine products was due to better
average prices received for lead and
zinc. Increased mine expenditure —
working costs are now about 50 p.c. per
ton of ore higher than they were five
years ago—and heavier provision for
taxation, etc., gobbled the gain and £4761
besides. The difference between the pro-
fit claimed (£283,242) and that shovyn in
the introductory table (£365,455) repre-
sents the allowance for depreciation
(£75,000) and addition (£7213) to stores
replacement reserve. The div. was kept
at 35 p.c.
Balance-sheet figures present an attrac-
tive picture:
1940. 1943. 1944.
Shares in other cos. £1,813,637 £1,490,491 £1,537,468
Stores .. .. 90,008 143,238 167,444
Concentrates on hand 12,514 7,745 8,402
Debtors .. .. 443,887 325,754 374,104
Cash, etc 187,196 400,388 374,875
Liquid assets . . £2,047,192 £2,367,616 £2,462,293
Less liabilities* . . 325,220 270,065 267,821
Liquid surplus . . £1,721,972 £2,097,551 £2,194,472
‘Excludes provision for tax, etc., now £146,202.
The liquid surplus (up £96,921) was equal
to 15s. Bd. per share at June 30. Share-
holdings include scrip in B.H. Associated
Smelters (546,576 f.p. £1 shares), Electro-
lytic Zinc (173,077 f.p. £1 ords.), Associ-
ated Paper and Pulp (155,728 f.p. £1
ords.), Commonwealth Aircraft Corp.
(62,500 f.p. £1 shares), Western N.S.W.
Electric Power Pty. (180,000 £1 shares
paid to 4s. each) and Shale Oil investiga-
tions Pty. (120,323 £1 shares). Freeholds
and leaseholds figure at £457,896 and
plant at £2,217,852.
The Broken Hill Water Board is allow-
ing the mining cos. to draw 2,500,000
gallons a week from the Darling River.
This, together with underground mine
water, will enable the cos. to carry on
at present rate of production. Stevens
Creek reservoir has been empty for some
time, and Umberumberka is almost de-
pleted. Over the last five years average
rainfall at the Hill has been less than
inches.
“O.B.”: Fate of Wiluna, mine and
town, hangs in the balance. Notice has
been posted at the mine informing the
500-odd employees of possible curtail-
ment of operations and reduction of staff
after the end of January. For some time
the grade of ore milled has not been pay-
able ; and for the last nine months or so
the co. has been able to make ends meet
only with the aid of a Federal subsidy for
production of arsenic, which the ore con-
tains as well as gold. Failing a renewal
of the subsidy—the matter is being dis-
cussed with the Government by g.m.
Carroll—the co. will probably sack all but
sufficient hands for re-treatment of some
millions of tons of surface residues. The
mine is the mainstay of Wiluna town-
ship, which, next to Kalgoorlie, is largest
n / t L wpstnlian onld fields
® ' *
* *
From a man on the spot:—
If high values mean anything, and plenty are
distant Pilbara mine (W.A.) must be a wonder,
But is it? Things some local shareholders would
like to know are: (1) How and by whom has
the sampling been done? (2) Why are only gold
values and not antimony, of which there is said
to be a high percentage in the ore, mentioned
in the reports? (3) How it is proposed to profit-
STM «££
* * * *
According to Westralian Minister for
Mines Panton, the Federal Government
has appointed a committee to supervise
replacement of machinery taken from
goldmines for war purposes. Such equip-
ment as cannot be manufactured locally
has been ordered overseas, and the com-
mittee expects that all requisitioned equip-
ment will be available by the time the
war ends.
*. .. * . *. t
Associated Mining and Fmance, Ltd.,
a London investment concern which re-
cently decided to wind up and distribute
its assets, was formed at the beginning of
1925 to acqu i re the Canadian assets of
Aecfw-iotpd Gold Mines of W A.. Ltd.,
consisting mainly of shares in silver-
producing mines, and also some cash.
L ater bought blocks of Australian gold
, including Lake View and Wiluna.
S . tOCkS .’ c of W A INewl
Associated Gold Mines or W.A. (JNew),
Ltd., was formed at the same time to
take over t h e Westralian assets of the
and machinery, was sold to Lake View
and Star, Ltd., for 100,000 fully-paid 4s.
Lake View shares in 1934. Later the
new Associated co. liquidated.


PRETTY FimißE!
freest ym
\ i
•. -• •:
iIK
/
/w ~ / w/mtm'il \
GOVERNMENT AIRLINES GOST ?
Look at the Government’s record in the field of commer-
cial transport. £4,004,678 is what it cost taxpayers
to end the steady drain on their wage envelopes as a
result of the Government’s entry into shipping.
The Railways immense pre-war losses, which, in one
State, culminated in writing off thirty millions of the
Taxpapers’ money, have long been accepted as part of
the taxation cross we have to bear.
Socialisation of Airways will, according to a Canberra
estimate, cost two to three million (air experts say eight
to ten million) in “taking over” alone.
What the annual burden on taxpayers will be time
alone will tell, but the history of the Government’s com-
mercial undertakings makes it quite clear that you will
have to pay and pay and pay.
RELEASED BY
THE AIRLINE OPERATORS' SECRETARIAT
The future belongs to those
who prepare for it.
During the post-war period when
business will be rushing to get
back on the markets—those men
and women who have trained
and qualified for some specific
business occupation will find it
comparatively easy to obtain con-
genial and well-paid positions.
Whether you are in the armed
forces or in essential service,
KOW is the time to train and
qualify and the H.R.I. with 47
years of business tutorial experi-
ence can advise and help you to
choose the right career training
for you.
Prepare Today for Tomorrow’s
Opportunities
Consultation costs you nothing.
Consult H.R.I. about your future.
Let us help you to choose the voca-
tion jor which you are most suited —
seek our advice—start training NOW I
L
BLI 24 Chalft Chbs., 142 Phillip St., Sydney
and in all Capital Cities, Newcastle
' and Launceston. _
I Please send me FREE copy of your ]
( 96 p. “Guide to Careers in Business.’’ 1
Hemingway Robertson
Institute
founded ond Owned by Hemingway & fioberteoo Ply, UdJ
Professional Tutors
Tiame Age
Address
Career Interested in 24/668
BRANDALERA
C,**
ft
PENS
Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a SRAXUAOSK * CO, US. SIRMISaHAM. KKO
Business, Rollery, Etc.
A Growing Lack of Balance
The volume of' potential spending
power continues to mount within the
Commonwealth. During November
there was a rise of £7.4 million in savings-
bank deposits, bringing the total up to
£5lO million, compared with £245 mil-
lion before the outbreak of war. De-
posits in the trading banks have risen 70
p.c. since war began, while the note issue
in the hands of the public has soared
from about £33 million to £lB5 million.
There has been a vast increase in the
money in the hands of “small people”
during the past five years, as well as a
more unhealthy inflation of the wealth
of black-marketeers.
“Big business” has not been abl£ to
“stow it away” on a similar scale be-
cause of price control and excessive taxa-
tion of limited companies, especially pro-
prietary concerns. It is the smaller con-
cern, often of uncertain address, where
the proprietor or his relatives, dealing on
a cash basis, can hide the nature of the
turnover and the amount of profits from
the Prices Commissioner and the Taxa-
tion Department.
Money earned op the black market
and money which has not paid taxation
is “hot money”—that is, the owner is in
a hurry to give it a legitimate appear-
ance by unobtrusively investing or spend-
ing it, hoping that no Government official
will ask questions until sufficient time has
elapsed to build up a story that will
sound plausible.
There is truly a very large volume of
money piling up in the Commonwealth
in spite of the heavy taxation paid on
the higher incomes. Where it is not “hot”
money the increase is mostly money in
the hands of wage-earners, who will aim
to spend a large proportion of it when
war-time restrictions over civil production
relax. It would, of course, be most in-
teresting from a businessman’s viewpoint
to know into what channels this spending
power will pour when the opportunity
for its pouring arises. One certain thing
is that there will be a great demand for
homes, for furniture and for a number of
those household necessities which have
become rarities in the later years of this
war. *
But there is the question of how
much of this stored-up war-time “wealth”
is going to be lost to its holders through
rising prices, a direct result of the in-
flationary manner of this “wealth’s”
creation, and there is the problem of
how soon industry will be able to meet
the demands of the people willing to
spend their war-time accumulations. The
change-over from war jobs to peace-time
production may not be so easy as would
seem on the surface.
To begin with, industry, as already
indicated, has found it difficult to accumu-
late reserves of spending power during
the war, and the ordinary investing class
has been hard-hit by taxation. There is
a decided lack of balance between the
financial strength available on the pro-
duction side of industry and the spend-
ing power available on the consumption
side. The Commonwealth Government
has shown very little practical concern
for the economic problems of private
enterprise arising out of this war, though
its politically-influenced financial policy
is partly to blame for the excessive in-
flation seen in the spending power in the
hands of consumers.
The real financial strain of this war fell
upon us after Japan came in and the cost
of defence rose to something like half the
national income. Especially during the
early period of the war in the Pacific, the
Government derived too much of its
income from the proprietary side of in-
dustry and not enough from consumers.
Investors and businesses were milked
without restraint, but at the- beginning
there was great diffidence about drawing
off an adequate sum from wage-earners.
Profits of a large number of assorted
business undertakings fell from 7.6 p.c.
on shareholders’ funds in the 1939 finan-
cial year to 6.4 p.c. in 1943, and much
the same figure is expected in 1944.
Dividends dropped from 6 p.c. to 5.2 p.c.
in the same period, and they are taxable
in the hands of shareholders. By com-
parison there was a very large expansion
in the incomes of wage-earners in the
same time, and the great increase in
savings-bank deposits shows that not all
the expansion was taken by taxes.
Even where a company has not in-
creased its prices since war began it may
be ordered by the Prices Branch to pay
part of its profits into some Government
department, and if it is a private concern
its undistributed profits are taxed at the
average rate applicable to all its share-
holders. If the average income of its
shareholders is above £2OOO a year this
means that less than half the reserved
profits are left to provide for business
expansion. This undistributed-profits tax
is in addition to the ordinary company
tax of 6s. in the £. Shareholders, of
course, pay tax in full without rebate in
respect of company tax.
Financial strength of industry depends
considerably upon the extent to which
factory expansion, etc., may be paid for
out of reserves. As indicated, it has be-
come. difficult for industry to build up
reserves during the present war, in spite
of the fact that much plant is growing
rapidly obsolescent, even where not sub-
ject to extraordinary wear and tear. Also
the majority of shareholders in industry
in their private capacity have been finan-
cially weakened by war-time taxation, in
striking contrast to many wage-earners,
as suggested by the growth in savings-
bank deposits and the note-issue.
Where company reserves are not suffi-
cient to finance factory extensions it may
become imperative for the concern in-
volved to seek new capital, As a rule,
overdrafts and similar loans are not a
desirable method of financing capital ex-
penditure, and industry in the past has
usually issued shares or debentures in
order to gather in the necessary perma-
nent money. With the traditional in-
vestors left short of money as a result
of the war, it remains to be seen whether
the owners of the increased savings-bank
deposits, etc., will readily take their
place, thus spreading their spending
power between investment and consump-
tion, or whether the preponderant part
of it will be earmarked for the purchase
of consumption goods, thus placing an
extraordinary demand in front of indus-
tries suffering from financial malnutrition
and inadequate plant facilities.
In whatever detail we follow out the
possible financial aftermath of this war
we repeatedly come to the conclusion
that inflation will be a very real prob-
lem. Even if the banking system is en-
trusted with the job of trying to expand
credit in a way that will help stimulate
industrial output, unless there is a ready
flow of investment direct from the people
into productive industry we are likely
to have credit expansion for productive
purposes when we should really be having
credit there being already, on
the whole, an excess of money about,
with further credit expansion undesirable.
And in whatever way new capital is found
for industry it is going to be much less
satisfactory than expansion financed out
of reserved profits, especially as post-war
costs of plant installation are likely to be
exceptionally high.
The problem of post-war building and
plant enlargement or rehabilitation has
been given earnest consideration in
Britain and Canada. Definite taxation
concessions have been stipulated now, and
there is a general assurance in those coun-
tries that private enterprise is being
looked to to play a full part in the task
of building up trade and living standards
when the end of the war comes. In the
Commonwealth there have been some
taxation concessions in respect of plant
working extra shifts because of war con-
ditions, but the economics of industry as
a whole have been treated far too
casually and politically. The vested in-
terests of Labor politics, coupled with a
hazy Ministerial view of all national
economic matters, have raised huge prob-
lems of finance and production in a
period of three years.
The question of all interest rates, in-
cluding that concerning Government
loans, is involved in this post-war finan-
cial picture. Inflation will not help the
national credit. At the same time the
Government’s commitments may be
heavy ; up to June 30 last there had been
an increase of £26 million in the Com-
monwealth’s war-time interest bill, and
it has the ill-conceived “national-welfare”
plan to finance.
The present Government has made in-
dustry and investors the prime beasts of
burden in meeting war’s costs. What
about after the war, when industry’s real
problems become apparent? Will the
Government of the day try to continue
taxing industry heavily, giving consumers
the first relief from taxes, though industry
will still be weak in finance and the con-
sumer strong?
Up to date the Labor Government has
chosen to pass off these problems with
sneers about “orthodox finance” being
obsolete and claims that nationalisation
of industry is the solution of all economic
problems, including those of trade and
employment. Unless the Ministry is pre-
pared to take a more realistic view of the
position, not only will it bring itself to
disaster, but it will leave its successbr to
overcome the toughest economic and poli-
tical problem that has ever beset this
country.
The Taxpayers’ Association of Queens-
land, in its annual report, says (relative
to all payers of income tax throughout
the Commonwealth):
Pay-as-you-earn Taxation.
Taxpayers will soon be receiving their
assessments, if they have not already had
them, and they will then realise more
readily the present effect of this plan upon
their finances, particularly those who have
income other than salary or wages.
Wage-earners are not noticing the effect
so severely because the amount is deducted
week by week, but in the case of a man
in business on his own account his eyes
will be fully opened when 8| p.c. of the
tax on 1943-44 income has to be paid in
addition to the full tax on that income.
The same position will arise in the two
following years, as the tax payable in re-
spect of 1943-44 income is to be spread
over three years. »
It will be remembered that the rebate
in respect to the transition year 1943-44 is
limited to 75 p.c. of the tax on a normal
year’s income.
However, in the long run, although the
going in the first three years will be hard,
. the institution of the plan will prove bene-
ficial, if not to the taxpayer himself, at
least to his successors.
The Association points out that in 1943-
44 Commonwealth taxation collections of
all kinds, allowing for reimbursements
to the States, ran to £37 ss. 6d. a head,
compared with £3l 19s. 4d. in the pre-
ceding term. During 1944-45 it is ex-
pected that the figure will be approxi-
mately £4O a head.
* * * *
In a Roseville (Sydney) butcher’s shop
last week a widow, with an only son
abroad in the R.A.A.F., was refused meat
of any kind, though there was a good
supply in the shop. She was asked to
show her coupon book ; upon production
of it she was told that she was not a
regular customer, and would not be
served. Authority, if not impotent, can
be given all particulars.


Queensland
Insurance Go.
Ltd.
Head Office:
Pitt & Bridge Streets,
Sydney.
The Largest
Australian Company
Transacting
Fire, Marine, Accident, House-
holders’ Comprehensive, Workers’
Compensation, Boiler Explosion,
Machinery Breakdown, Aviation,
etc.
You cannot tire a man
who wears a
MAASEASE
All men’s-wear shops
and chemists.
Manufactured by Mansease Co., Dnimmoyne, N.S.W.
Bank of New South Wales
PERSONAL LOANS
DEPARTMENT
Trust Big., King & Castlereagh Sts.,
Sydney
Phones: MA6007/8
and at all branches
£l7/10/-
DUPLICATOR
has all the finest features of high-priced
imported machines at only a fraction of
their cost. The "National" Rotary Dupli-
cator will reproduce Typing, Writing.
Plans. Music, etc.
•eu.U'mirtlymAumaUoby SEND FOR ILLUSTRATED LITERATURE.
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN Pty. Ltd.
SYDNEY AND BRISBANE
STOP GETTING
UP NIGHTS!
Don't get up night after night because of
lack of control over the urine. When your
rest is interrupted, you are tired and worn
out on arising in the morning—totally unfit
for the day’s work. If you get up at night
due to frequent, scanty passages with burning
and discomfort, your kidneys and bladder
need help.
The longer you have suffered from these
symptoms of kidney and bladder trouble, the
more you owe it to your health to heed the
warnings and take immediate steps to correct
the cause of sleepless nights and days of
misery, discomfort and inconvenience. When
the kidneys do not function properly, waste
matter and poisonous acids stay In the blood.
In addition to causing frequent scanty pas-
sages, you may have backache, rheumatism,
sciatica, lumbago, leg pains, swollen feet and
ankles, dizziness, puffiness under the eyes and
excess uric acid.
Don’t delay 1 Neglect is dangerous. Take
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS. They
strengthen and regulate the kidneys and blad-
der, banish pain and aid in ridding the system
of harmful wastes and acid poisons. Get
DOAN’S SACMOBB tg-day.
The MARS High-Speed
PLANING Machine
Designed for the precision work-
shop, the "MARS" Planer is of
a proved design and capable
of obtaining maximum output
from high-speed cutting tools.
ALL ESSENTIAL REVOLVING
PARTS ARE DYNAMICALLY
BALANCED. ALL GEAR TEETH
ARE GENERATED.
Illustrated literature from-
w
MARS Machine Tool Mfg. Co. Pty. Ltd.
Bridge Street Valley, Brisbane
Distrib. Agents for N.S.W.: Thomas Herbert & Ltd., 139 Clarence
Street, Sydney. For Victoria: Thompson & Williams Pty. Ltd., 2S Market
Street, Melbourne. For N.Z.: A. M. Satterthwaite & Co. Ltd., Hereford Street,
Christchurch. STOCKISTS: Goodall & Co. Pty. Ltd., 301 Kent Street, Sydney.
ms*
mmMM
mi
■r- ; •••
iililil
■l*ll
time for a Capstan
m
m
■
§ :
272 D 1X.44
0 If YOU’RE SHORT OF
CAPSTANS
it’s because they’ve gone to the Fighting Forces
Opencut Plans for Callide Coal
“C. Capricorn”: While coal is in such
critically short supply the big Callide coal-
field in Central Queensland, lying dor-
mant, has recently been extensively bored
and tested by a good Queenslander, L. G.
Neill, who has been granted a coal pros-
pecting area, although leases have been
applied for. This work shows tjpat there
is a vast tonnage that can be quickly and
easily got by opencut.
It’s worth remembering, too, that a
little while back Federal Cabinet liked the
idea of coal opencuts, because the fuel
could be got out quickly and cheaply in.
big quantities. The Railway Commis-
sioner of Queensland has been to the
field, likewise the Commonwealth Coal
Commissioner’s deputy. The deposit has
Mr. Mighell’s blessing, provided the pros-
pector can get a mining lease from the
State Mines Department.
What then is stopping the granting of
a lease? That is a question that has in-
furiated the Port Curtis Development
League, and delegates have been to Bi is-
bahe to try to have the matter solved ;
if plain speaking will do any good they
may get somewhere. A seam up to 60ft.
thick has been reported, but while L. G.
Neill has been supplying the Railway De-
partment with coal for tests he can’t get
his lease, and, consequently, can’t sell a
ton of coal!
Regarding the tests, it was shown that
the coal did not suit the ordinary Queens-
land locomotive, but that tests with Gar-
ratt engines were eminently satisfactory.
As there are quite a number of Garratts
in service in C.Q., Callide coal would
ease the shortage there. But Authority
hasn’t responded ; the scheme has been
hanging fire for months, though the coal
is just below the grassroots and could be
bulldozed out at great speed.
Gladstone, Biloela (the field is 10 miles
from the latter railway station by good
road) and other centres are organising
action to overcome an absurd position
that seems to have arisen from over-regu-
lation.
A shareholder in Guinea Airways, Mr.
Donald Reid, has circularised other
shareholders, advising them to oppose the
sale of their undertaking to Australian
National Airways. Mr. Reid says the
directors of the co. at Sept. 30, 1943,
held only 1056 shares, and it seemed
anomalous that, with such a small share-
holding, they should recommend the sale
of the co.’s “highly successful under-
taking.” He contends that, with the end
of the war, Guinea Airways will have a
great opportunity to get its share of in-
creased traffic resulting from growing
airmindedness, but, “just as our soldiers
and airmen are coming back fully con-
vinced that air travel is going ahead
by leaps and bounds (and no one knows
this better than the management of
A.N.A.), our directors propose to hand
over the undertaking for what is in effect
a rental of £16,500 a year.” Mr. Reid
points out that nationalisation of the air-
ways is by no means certain, and sug-
gests that, if it did occur, compensation
would be “infinitely more satisfactory
from our point of view than the offer
that has been made by A.N.A.”
* * * *
In Canada the period in which new
capital investments became eligible for
the double depreciation provision prom-
ised as a taxation concession in this
year’s Budget commenced November 10,
1944, and will continue until December
31, 1946, or until two years after the
cessation of hostilities with Germany,
whichever is the earlier. To get the con-
cession a certificate must be issued by the
Minister of Reconstruction certifying
that, having regard to war or reconstruc-
tion needs, it is desirable, in his opinion,
that the project be allowed double de-
preciation. Finance Minister Ilsley says
that the measure is being implemented
immediately to assist projects which
would result in increased war production,
and which would later on have a post-
war use and contribute to maintaining
employment when war production falls
off. Mr. Ilsley has also emphasised the
need of early steps to meet the problem
of conversion to peace-time production
before the actual ceasing of hostilities
in Europe. Plans must be made now and
much preparatory work must be done.
The double depreciation allowance in
respect of those assets which qualify will
continue annually until 80 per cent, of
the assets in question have been written
off. Thus, if normal depreciation of an
asset is at the rate of 10 per cent, per
year the double depreciation will be
allowed to continue for four years. Cer-
tain kinds of new investment are ex-
cluded for the present from the benefits
of double depreciation. Among these
are buildings used • for commercial or
financial purposes, including stores,
hotels, tourist accommodation and office
buildings; dwelling houses, including
apartment houses; motor-cars, trucks,
buses and railway rolling-stock.
* * * *
It is worth recalling the provisions
Britain is making in the matter of taxa-
tion concessions for the benefit of post-
war industry. To begin with, 20 p.c.
of the 100 p.c. rate of excess-profits tax
is being allowed as refund for post-war
capital expenditure. Sir John Anderson,
according to a press report at the time
the concessions were announced, “gave
the assurance that all trading concerns
that had to face post-war expenditure on
rehabilitation and reconstruction, or,
indeed, that had to face capital expen-
diture of any kind whatsoever, could look
forward with absolute certainty to having
the credit available for that purpose.
Allowing for the income tax payable on
all refunds of e.-p.t., the post-war credit
represented, net, a sum of 10 p.c. of the
annual produce of the 100 p.c. rate of
tax. That meant a growing fund at the
rate of £4O million to £5O million a year.
That must obviously be a great factor
in enabling industry to turn back to
peace-time production.” The Chancellor
of the Exchequer then proposed, in addi-
tion to the existing allowances for wear,
tear and obsolescence, a special initial
allowance of 20 p.c. of the cost of new
plant and machinery. He also proposed,
as part of the post-war policy, that in the
case of a continuing business the obsoles-
cence allowance should be given when plant
or machinery was scrapped, whether the
particular piece of plant was replaced or
not, allowance being made for anything
gained on disposal. Details were given
of a proposal to grant tax relief on the
cost of industrial buildings, including staff
buildings. It was decided to write-off the
cost of the structures on the basis of a
50-years’ life, with an initial allowance of
10 p.c. of the actual expenditure. The
plant allowance would be of particular
value to the shipping industry. Special
provision for depreciation of plant in-
stalled to work wasting assets was also
introduced this year in Britain’s Budget.
There is a grim realism about Britain s
outlook towards post-war industry. The
Treasury is no more inclined to give taxa-
tion money back than is the Australian
Government, but in Britain it is appre-
ciated that the national economy has to
work, and work very efficiently, in order
to cope with the problems of post-war
trade. Australia’s Labor Government
seems to have no such realisation.
* * * ?•
In 1945 it would be stimulating to see
in Australia a revival of the spirit of the
“fair go.” Australians have long pro-
fessed to be champions of this principle,
but in recent years morbid and selfish
political doctrines have intruded, even
to the extent of affecting some fields of
sport in N. S. Wales. It is in the indus-
trial field where the principle of fair play
has been most noticeably forgotten, how-
ever, and it is here that the most far-
reaching influences arise. Where large
bodies of men get unfairly high pay it
follows that other bodie‘s of people get
unfairly low rewards. There is only one
total national production, and sections
which dip into that production over-
heavily leave so much less for the rest of
the people. The production pool is
already dipped into deeply by the need
for war materials and war services, some-
thing which so many sections desirous of
improving their present standard of liv-
ing seem to overlook. This country is
going through a period of great diffi-
culties difficulties which have been
added to by the over-attentiveness which
Government members display towards
the self-interest of their constituents.
Unavoidable problems have arisen out of
the drought, out of the need for muni-
tions production and greater food and coal
production and out of the shortage of
man-power. A country effectively self-
governed could minimise the difficulties
arising from these natural and war-
created problems by intelligent and co-
operative effort. But in Australia selfish-
ness and sectionalism have added to the
original difficulties, and the burden of
war has thereby been increased instead of
reduced. Sectionalism has the effect of
preventing one man from seeing another’s
point of view. It is a prime enemy of
the spirit of fair play.


THE SERVICE MAN
Advancing on Luzon.
“Ek Dum”; It was here said last week
that attack on Luzon could not be long
delayed by General MacArthur.
This became even more patent later in
the week when Allied forces carried the
war round a circle of bases which sur-
round Luzon and cover its naval
approaches—lwojima, in the Volcano
Islands, 600-odd miles from Nippon ; the
Formosan bases; Palawan, the long island
which forms the north-western wall of the
Sulu Sea; Balik Papan, with some other
centres which might be nests of defen-
sive preparation for naval units or air
formations tucked out of harm’s way until
needed. Finally, Foochow, on the China
coast, recently taken over by the enemy,
and a gateway to Formosa from North
China and the Manchurian industrial
areas, was bombed, the first north coastal
port to be attacked.
On January 5 Tokyo reported that large
British carrier forces had heavily attacked
bases in the north of Sumatra far on the
other side of the islands, but this was
probably associated directly with Burmese
operations.
The bombing of Luzon airfields, as well
as of those on Mindanao, and an inten-
sified onslaught on shipping were
pointers which even Tokyo did not ignore.
On January 2 and 3 it was reported from
General Mac Arthur’s H.Q. that 15 ships,
a seaplane-carrier and 14 transports
and freighters—the largest between 9000
and 12,000 tons —had been destroyed
by U.S. land-based bombers and that 10
other ships were damaged. Most of the
vessels were in Subic Bay, near the base
of the Bataan Peninsula, or Lingayen
Gulf further north. On January 5 60
Japanese vessels were claimed as sunk or
damaged in three days.
On January 5 a Tpkyo communique
announced that the arrival of a large U.S.
convoy, heavily escorted, which had
passed through the Sulu Sea into San Jose
harbor, on Mindoro, heralded a direct
attack on Luzon. Attacks on surrounding
bases were interpreted as preliminary
attempts to sever external communications.
Tokyo alleged, as usual, that “overwhelm-
ing” Japanese air .forces had bombed
and strafed the convoy which had reached
Mindoro, and also a strong task force
which the same afternoon had entered
the Sulu Sea. It was claimed that for the
loss of a mere three Japanese aircraft a
U.S, aircraft-carrier and two battleships
or cruisers had been sunk.
Landing unresisted —on Marin-
duque Island by the Americans intensified
Nipponese broadcasters’ fears. Marin-
duque is halfway between Mindoro and
the butt of the tail of Luzon, across the
mouth of Tayabas Bay, where a narrow
isthmus joins the northern part of the
island to the southern part near Ati-
monan. Thus, General MacArthur’s
forces have come within 30 miles of the
landing point from which one part of
the lethal invasion of Luzon took place
in December, 1941.
Next day Japanese sources declared
that the U.S. forces were shelling the Lin-
gayen coast and trying there to carry out
landing operations. The report said that
70 warships were taking part in the bom-
bardment, but that heavy guns from land
batteries were keeping the fleet at arm’s
length.
There was bound to be fierce resist-
ance. This is the first key area, likely to
be defended on a really major scale, which
the Allies have attacked in the Pacific.
The Japs’ Plan *
In December, 1941, it worked out to
the following timetable:
Dec. 10: They landed at Aparri at the ex-
treme north of the island, about 300 miles north
of Manila. They drove from there down the
motor road which runs through the western
interior past the Tuguegarao highway junction,
where another road from Lingayen Gulf comes
in. The same day they made a second landing
on the northern part of the west coast at Vigan.
This cut the main coastal road from Lingayen.
Dec. 12: They landed near the extreme south
of Luzon at Legaspi-Albay to secure control of
San Bernardino Strait, an important channel
leading from the Pacific into the heart of the
group, and also to gain a foothold on the in-
ternal communications of the southern part of
the island.
Dec. 22: They landed at and near Agao,
about 120 miles north-west of Manila, on the
Lingayen Gulf, which is the main strategic in-
vasion point of the island. From here one
main drive went inland to Camp John Hay,
and then to Baguio to cut the main highway
to Aparri; another struck south-eastward via
Tarlac; another nearer the west coast towards
Subic Bay—these took Clark Field and Camp
Stotsenburg in their stride en route for Manila.
■ Dec. 23: A force landed south-east of
Manila, at Antimonan on the Pacific side of
the isthmus, within 30 miles of Marinduque
Island, which the Americans have taken. It
made its way round the southern shore of the
wide lake which lies south-east of Manila —the
Laguna de Bay— to the Cavite Naval Depot.
Dec. 24: Another landing was made slightly
north-west of Antimonan. This invasion party
went round the north side of Laguna, along the
railway to Nichols Field and Manila. It was
very skilful and effective. By January 1 the
enemy had every main road, every port of the
slightest use for strategic purposes, every rail-
way cut and under control.
The Japanese will have to risk their
fleet and their air force to prevent the
Americans adopting the same routes of
ingress if they wish to use them. The Lin-
gayen area is, however, the crucial area
from which the defensive heart of the
island round Manila Bay can be most
quickly penetrated and shattered.
It was reported at the week-end that
Japanese casualties on Leyte were esti-
mated at 121,470 to Jan. 2,
The Moluccas and north-western New
Guinea remained the province of the
R.A.A.F., whose Kittyhawks, in numbers
up to 50 on a single day, operated
in conjunction with U.S. Mitchells and
Liberators against gun positions, dumps,
airfields and other facilities.
These operations have gone on for so
long and on so intensive a scale that
Japanese activity in the area must still be
far from negligible.
Australian Publicity.
“Ek D.”: Complaints from Mr. Percy
Spender, in New York, that
General MacArthur’s communiques do
not give due credit to Australia’s military
efforts have little justification in fact.
Communiques rarely single out national
sections of an army for mention unless
engaged in major operations, which Aus-
tralian land forces have not been for some
months.
The parts played by Australian sea
and air forces in every American landing
since Cape Gloucester have been ade-
quately mentioned by General Mac-
Arthur. He issued a special order prais-
ing the R.A.N. squadron’s share in the
October sea battle in the Philippines. The
contribution of the R.A.A.F. Aerodrome
Construction Unit has been regularly
mentioned, including its work on Min-
doro, for which Mr. Spender says that it
was not given credit. So have the opera-
tions of Australian Kittyhawk squadrons
over the Moluccas and of our new
“heavies” elsewhere.
There are never any complaints from
Maoriland that General MacArthur or
some other over-all commander does not
give sufficient credit to New Zealanders.
The Maoriland air units in the South-
west Pacific zone cover a relatively small
area, and do a very restricted job com-
pared with the R.A.A.F., but Maori-
landers hear 20 times as much of the
work of their men as do Australians.
Scarcely ever does a Maoriland squadron
make a raid without an adequate account
being cabled at once by the official corre-
spondent.
In Italy it is the same; and so it was
in Greece; so it is with the R.N.Z.N.
Maoriland official coverage of war news
is thorough and magnificent.
Australia is in a position to duplicate
the work which is being done by the
Maoriland Information Department’s war
section. If Australian troops are involved
in some mysterious large-scale operation
north of Australia, about which it is not
necessary to fold a blanket of secrecy
for security reasons, then it certainly de-
volves on Australian defence authorities to
tell Australians what their men are doing.
The Canberra policy, however, is to
shroud everything iff'mystery which can
be shrouded in mystery. Other countries
tell their people what their troops are
doing, often the names of the units in-
volved, certainly the names of command-
ing officers —this while operations are in
progress or just after they close. But
here these matters are dead secrets.
A sample of the way these affairs are
managed is the position of The Bulletin's
only front-line war correspondent. The
Commonwealth Government has ac-
credited him. It permits him to wear uni-
form. He may go anywhere—so long as
he does not go near Australian forces in
a war zone. But the Americans have
welcomed him with open arms. Instead
of reporting the “sizeable and important
operations” by Australian forces north
of the Commonwealth, he has been
making a reputation for himself at
Munda, Empress Augusta Bay, on Guam,
in Peleliu, in Leyte and Samar. He can
write eye-witness accounts about any unit
in action in the South-west Pacific so
long as they are not Australians!
Akyab and Yeu Fall.
“Ek Dum”: After the long, weary
campaigns in the mud, rain and bamboo-
clad hills of the Mayu Peninsula and the
Kaladan track, British forces occupied
Akyab on January 3, with the backing of
naval units of some strength which in-
cluded two Australian destroyers.
It must have been a happy day for
General Christison and the XV Corps.
Three times British - Indian - African
forces have pushed their way from the
Chittagong road towards Akyab, which
lies on a flat, swampy island at the mouth
of the Mayu River.
The first push in 1943 was the wo:.st.
The enemy was there in force. There
was no naval support worth the name.
There were no roads and no modern
means of building any. The enemy on
both sides of the Mayu put up the kind
of resistance he did in New Guinea.
When the peninsula force between the sea
and the Mayu River had fought its way
to Donbaik it found him heavily en-
trenched in the usual tropical fashion.
And presently the rains put an end to
the operations of 1943 in short order.
In 1944 the campaign was even more
limited in range, though on a much larger
scale. Approach to the Maungdaw-
Buthidaung area, where once a light rail-
way ran 15 miles inward from the sea,
disclosed the presence of a powerful
Japanese force, which went at once on the
offensive, surrounded large bodies of the
British Corps and compelled them to
fight for their lives. The enemy was
driven off with considerable slaughter.
Some of the defence boxes were for a
time supplied from the air. But. the
British advance was limited.
In 1944-45 progress seemed so easy as
to be almost unbelievable. The course
of the advance was much the same as
in 1943. One column came down inland
along the Kaladan River between the
Mayu River and the Arakan Yoma,
striking the Mayu at Rauthedaung about
25 miles from Akyab.
Two others dared the peninsula between
the Mayu and the sea, one on either side
of the range which fills the coastal dis-
trict. None of the three columns met
much resistance. ,
In place of the improvised mule packs
and man-power and the few motor-boats
which had backed the 1943 effort, the
army had all the appurtenances of a
modern campaign in abundance.
The British, when all drives had reached
the vicinity of the Mayu Estuary,
assembled a substantial fleet backed by
strong naval power. But it was not
needed. The enemy already had left.
When he had withdrawn in force is not
certain. The aerodrome which at one
time had held powerful squadrons of
bombers and fighters was already sinking
into jungle. Residents said that the
last of the land forces had taken them-
selves off on New Year’s Day. What
men were available to the enemy in the
later stages had, however, apparently
been sent inland to meet the danger
looming on the Kaladan River in the
British force, of which the core was the 31st
West African Division, which eventually
crossed the river north-east of Akyab and
began to threaten the rear of the island,
Japanese Strategy
Japanese strategy everywhere seems to
be in line with the strategy of Germany,
The navy, army and air forces are all
being drawn back towards a central area
of defence, which will not be so easy to
create as it has been for the Germans,
though in the ultimate the kernel —Japan
itself —will be easier to defend.
The same process as in Arakan has
been going on in central Burma; the
same in the Philippines. In central
Burma, taking Yeu, the British-Indian
force from Imphal acquired a railhead
less than a dozen miles from the north-
south main road and railway and only
65-odd miles by air line from Mandalay.
Further north the 36th British Division
spearhead, fighting its way down from
•Wuntho, captured the Kano Weir, which
controls’ the irrigation of a very large
agricultural area of the northern fringes
of the dry belt.
Both Allied forces have reached the
edges of the civilised centre of Burma, with
its good roads, cities, oilfields and general
development. It would have been diffi-
cult for them to do this if any great
effort had been made by the enemy, since
lines of communication are long and
treacherous —perhaps the most difficult
ever negotiated by so large a force over so
great a distance. But overwhelming air
transport communication and cover have
made a great difference.
The enemy was found entrenched in
some force three miles south of Yeu.
On the Chinese Burma front the spear-
heads pushing from Bhamo were seven
miles west of Namkhan, 63 miles from
Bhamo, and only a few miles from the
Burma Road. But the Shweli River lay
across their path.
The Fight for Burma
If the enemy intends to fight for it
the fight must'soon begin. Capture of
Akyab does not open a land road to
central southern Bwma, though a move
to Taungup opposite the Cheduba Strait,
120 miles further south-east, would do
so. From here the enemy was last year
constructing a road across the tail of the
Arakan ranges to Padaung to link with
the main north-south rail and highway
system, jus* on the other side of the Irri-
waddy. Reconditioning of Akyab aero-
drome, nowever, will bring even Manda-
lay (240 miles) within moderate fighter
rauge and Rangoon within 300 miles.
Irome and the Irrawaddy are less than
120 air miles away.
From another viewpoint the attack on
Akyab was historic. It was the first time
in the present war that the British in
the South-east Asian zone have assembled
a large landing force complete with land-
ing ships, naval and air cover and the
equipment for bombardments to cover a
force going ashore.
That force is unlikely to be allowed to
rust. Its existence endangers every base
along the coast held by the enemy. Some
of those bases have a direct relation to
attack on Rangoon. Only 135 miles by
airline down the coast from Akyab is
Sandoway, another enemy air centre at
the head of a main road which follows
the coast to Bassein, which in turn is
linked with Rangoon both by rail and road.
It is curious to notice how the forma-
tion of the old earth and sea remains the
only thing immemorial in war, save
human courage and ingenuity. Arms
change, weapons change, tempo changes ;
but even the conquest of the sky cannot
release main forces of invaders from the
necessity of using age-old strategic routes,
whether the war be on the borders of Ger-
many or of Burma.
The British conquered Burma in a
three-pronged campaign—from the sea,
from Chittagong and from Assam —in
the days of Archie Campbell, 120 years
ago. With all their modem weapons the
geographical shape of their strategy of
approach is t,he same today.
New Drive in the West.
“Ek Dum”: Each succeeding day
proves the fallacy of the widely-held be-
lief in German weakness. It becomes'
more and more evident that the enemy’s
policy has been one of cautious retreat
to a central position behind mountain and
water barriers, fighting as little as pos-
sible, and that only with second-class
troops for the most part, and of building
up resources for the decisive struggle
which is now beginning.
Events on the western front advertise
the absurdity of Moscow claims that the
enemy lost 4,000,000 in killed and
prisoners alone last year, with ten times
as many dead as in an average year of
World War I.
The formations which are fighting the
battle of the Ardennes, and which forced
the Americans of the Seventh Army back
from the Bien Wald across the Lauter
River, and near Bitche, on the edges of
the Forest of Waldeck in the Rhine area,
proved in the main to be first-class battle
troops, with hard spearheads of shock
troops, an abundance of armor and guns
and sufficient aircraft to make a good
showing.
The fighting has been among the most
terrible in the war. In every case where
there has been a German stroke it has
been made in rough country, where com-
mand of main roads means command of
the situation. In the Ardennes, along the
edges of the Rochefort Gap, the terrain
itself is broken, its hills divided by pas-
sionate little streams like the Ambleve,
whose rushing waters have Carved out
scenery which in peace-time attracts
thousands of tourists. In places lush
timber spills into broken gorges, and be-
hind Rochefort and near Stavelot, at Coo,
there are caves more famous in Europe
than Jenolan in Australia,
Ardennes Terrain
Much of the countryside behind this
which is not high moorland or rough
range is organised State forest full of
matured trees growing as closely as pos-
sible. These are weighed down with
snow. And the hard roads through them
are coated with the thick film of ice
customary at this time of year.
In time of peace this area presents a
very beautiful appearance in the depth
of winter. Icicles glint on the trees.
Snow has been piled up by the snow-
ploughs feet high on either side of the
road. The road surface itself is frosty
white and smooth like milky quartz.
It remains beautiful, however, only so
long as the viewer of it does not have
to exert himself in the snow, in which he
sinks to his knees or deeper after a nor-
mal fall. If there is cloud the human
body seems to draw all the moisture of
the forest to itself, and this moisture
promptly freezes on the human magnet.
If the sun comes out it is reflected from
the snow. Who attempts to move in it
finds his feet glued in bitter cold below,
while the sun fries him to a turn above,
and the gravy runs off his panting chest
and congeals in ice round his knees.
Admiration and pity should go out
to the soldier wading through the


Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO WILLIAM SMITH late of Byron Bay in the
State of New South Wales. —TAKE NOTICE that
CHRISTINA CATHERINE SMITH has filed a Peti-
tion for Divorce No. 1939 of 1944 on the ground of
desertion without just cause or excuse for three
years and upwards If you wish to defend you may
enter an appearance at the Divorce Office Supreme
Court King Street Sydney before the 19th February
1945 and obtain a copy of the petition without
charge from W. H. MANN Solicitor 247 George
Street Sydney New South Wales. — (1.5.) C. K.
BODY, Registrar In Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES— In Divorce.
TO SAMUEL CALDWELL, formerly of Mortdale.—
TAKE NOTICE that ELIZABETH ANNE CALDWELL
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2862 of 1944
on the grounds of desertion without just cause or
excuse for three years and upwards If you wish to
defend you may enter an appearance at the Divorce
Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by Bth of
February 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
without charge from R. F. DUDLEY Solicitor 113
Pitt Street Sydney.—(L.s.) C. K. BODY, Registrar
in Divorce.
CD
am
mess with SBs, bazookas and Spandaus,
assorted snipers potting incessantly at
him every time he appears where fire can
reach him and death lurking in his
path. For he does not know from
moment to moment when he may not
hit a trip-wire or step on a mine hidden
under the white covering of the ground.
The axis of the German drive has been
along the watershed from Coblenz to St.
Hubert >and Rochefort. It has thus
carved a passage deep into the Allied
mass, throwing the armies of the Aachen-
Diiren area on to the northern side of
the watershed, and those of Luxembourg
and Alsace Lorraine to the south. On
v the north the country is high. A belt of
land 2000 feet or so above sea-level
at points stretches from the upper reaches
of the Roer across the Aachen-Malmedy
and the Aachen-Trier roads. This is
known as the Hohe Venn. It is largely
bleak moorland and swamp, frozen over
in winter, and it is not very suitable for
offensive action from the north —the ap-
proaches are too open and exposed.
On the south of the German-Ardennes
drive, in the Bastogne region, the coun-
try is more broken and difficult for
armored vehicles, motor transport an*d
artillery.
Enter Monty
The Allied objective at present aims
ohly at completing a first stage of the
destruction of the ’German salient by
attacking the western end of its claw
from both sides at right angles to the
direction of the enemy drive. On both
north and south the Allied movements
are mainly based on the Belgian section
of the Liege-Metz road, which provides
the best highway linkage between the
armies of Hojland and the northern front
and General Patton’s Third Army area
and the Saar and Rhine front.
The division of the Allied forces by
the enemy led inevitably to a reorganisa-
tion of command. It edged the northern
armies of General Bradley’s group com-
mand into the realm of Field-Marshal
Montgomery, and almost as soon as the
drive started the U.S. First Army and
the U.S. Ninth Army were added to his
21st Army Group. This placed him in
command of four armies, including the
British and Canadians.
The field-marshal was equal to the
emergency. He deployed his experienced
armor in depth along the cliff-hedged
Meuse, stopped the Germans before they
reached the river and masticated their
vanguard.
Then, with strong elements of his
powerful aggregation, headed by for-
mations f r om the U.S. First Army,
energetically supported by British troops,
Montgomery began a drive from the
direction of Liege across the Y-
shaped river system formed by the
junction of the Ourthe with its main
tributary, the Ambleve., Roughly, there
was a 25-mile German front between the
Stavelot area, on the north-eastern side,
and Marche, in the Rochefort Gap, an
important crossroad on the main highway
from Metz and Luxembourg to Brussels,
via Bastogne and Namur. Marche is
about 60 miles from Brussels by crow-
fly. The main objective of the field-
marshal’s drive was to push up the Ourthe
valley to Laroche and thence to the
heights at Houffalize, 10 miles from
Bastogne—it is here that the road from
St. Vith and Cologne arrives from the
north-east. The plan was moving very
effectively on January 7 along a 30-mile
front. Montgomery’s men had indeed
burst across one of the two main roads
to the western tip of the enemy’s salient,
which is near St. Hubert.
From the south the Americans are fight-
ing towards their same objective from
Bastogne, up the channel which they have
dug in the German southern flank.
Houffalize is only 10 miles from Bastogne
along the Liege road, and the Americans
are far nearer to it than the British, But
they are finding the digging hard, and the
Germans on the east have kept up such
heavy pressure on the eastern wall of the
U.S. Bastogne salient that it has been
very difficult at times to prevent the
salient’s walls from caving in. There are
said to be ten German divisions in this
area.
Southern Offensive
The shape of the German drive in the
Ardennes is roughly that of a stout prong
°f a pincer. The curve is on the south, with
Ihe point reaching out to crash down on
ihe traditional strategic gateways to
France Givet-Mezieres-Sedan from
which the nearest section of the German
force seems to be distant 30 miles, on
me heights between St. Hubert and Libra-
jpont. But the tortuous Semoise River
Acs across the invaders’ path.
It had been reported here that General
Patton had been compelled to withdraw
from all of his Saar bridgeheads save one
north of Saarbrlicken, and that German
troops and armor were massing in the
Saar region. It now seemed that the
enemy intended to try to form east of the
Saar another pincer claw which would
seriously threaten the Americans and
French at Strasbourg and south of that
city, and place General Patton’s southern
flank in jeopardy.
The attack began along a 25-mile front
from the Rhine along the Lauter River,
and thence to the Forest of Waldeck, at
the northern apex of which is Bitche.
The left wing of this advance is up the
Rhine Valley. The country is low, but
far from flat. Ten miles or so south of
the border it approaches the Forest of
Hagenau, just below the main road from
Rastatt to Saarbriicken, across the Rhine.
The great Hagenau rail junction, given
up to the Americans a few weeks ago
with deceptive ease, lies on the southern
side of the forest, which is crossed by
many a rambling stream and ringed with
strategical railways and highways. The
old Maginot Line runs through it diagon-
ally, north-east to south-west, from
a belt of timbered land near Bitche and
the north of the Waldeck Forest. This
forest, equally with the Forest of Hage-
nau, has been equipped with a cunning
and intensive series of military commu-
nications.
The primary objective of this drive is
the Saverne Gap, about 50 miles to the
south-west, forming the gateway to the
Lower Vosges main routes. If the Ger-
man attempts to reach it succeed the
Allied forces in the Rhine valley to the
south will be in a nasty position, with
powerful enemy forces on both flanks,
especially since the enemy has broken
across the Rhipe eight miles north of
Strasbourg.
As in the north, the attack has been
skilful, economical in material. It will
take a great deal of stopping, though no
doubt when the Allies have braked its
pace and brought it to a standstill they
will be able to deal with it as they have
begun to deal with the northern attacks.
The two operations amount to the begin-
nings of a giant pincer or series of pincers.
If the enemy has the men and materials
it would be reasonable to expect another
move north of the Saar on the Thion-
ville (Diedenhofen) routes, striking for
Verdun and the regions round and behind
Metz, to link up with both southern and
northern drives.
Traditional Methods
There is little doubt that the whole of
German operations which have led up to
the present situation have for a long
period been developed by skilled generals
steeped in German military tradition and
following the theories of the Old Masters
of their horrible art of war. The withdrawal
into Germany followed exactly Clause-
witz’s teaching of the superiority for de-
fence of a centralised force with a hard
core and the ability to strike at any point
round the circumference of a complete
circle. The regions of attack in the
present drives are those favored by
Schlieffen in his second (1912) plan. The
time has been chosen, despite all its dis-
advantages, to gain most from the in-
ability of the Allies to use their air
superiority to full advantage. Also, be-
cause the Germans feel that they can
throw into the battle large formations
seasoned to winter fighting on the Rus-
sian front and skilled in all its tricks and
devices, while in this department the
Allies are as yet novices.
The battle is only beginning. Present
operations in the north are aimed not
at the destruction of the German salient
but at ripping the claw off it. Defeat of
the divisions in the blunted base of the
German penetration east of Houffalize
will be a task to come after the Bastogne-
Marche-Stavelot area is baek in Allied
hands. In the south the enemy was still
on the offensive at the week-end.
Stimson’s Summary
The summary of the U.S. War Secre-
tary, Mr. Stimson, was a fair one. He
said that the enemy had sufficient re-
sources in the northern salient to make
another blow possible. And he issued a
warning that Von Rundstedt was not yet
pulling out and seemingly had no inten-
tion of doing so:
The Germans are a tough and disciplined
enemy and will never rest on passive de-
fence.
The War Secretary declared that no accu-
rate statement of casualties in the offen-
sive could be given for some time, but
between December 16 and 30 22,430 Ger-
mans had been captured. It was esti-
mated by U.S. H.Q. that German casual-
ties during the period had been 60,000
killed, wounded and prisoners. Our tank
losses, Mr. Stimson said, were only 6 per
cent, over the normal monthly rate.
Material losses were heaviest in com-
munication, equipment and wire which
had to be abandoned during the with-
drawal.
The human casualty roll will be a sad
one to read. The Germans claim to have
taken 50,000 prisoners.
The Mediterranean Fronts
“Ek Dum”: The Eighth Army scored
a considerable success in the Adriatic
sector when its Canadian units broke
through tine difficult bit of low-lying
country near the coast and reached the
shores of the broad Valli di Comacchio
Lagoon north of Ravenna. The northern
part of the lagoon is only 50-odd miles
from Venice, It is divided from the sea
by a narrow belt of land broken towards
the north by smaller lagoons and marshes,
among which the Canadians were pursu-
ing enemy remnants when last heard
from.
Further west, mopping -up continues
beyond Faenza along the Senio River
under heavy shellfire, but the Allied
forces at the week-end held about 30
miles of the east bank of the river.
The coastal victory, however, over-
shadowed progress on the Bologna road.
It should be a prelude to an immediate
advance on Ferrara so soon as the
weather permits.
On the Fifth Army front snow and
bitter weather on the hills hampered
operations, and there was only patrol
activity.
In Greece E.L.A.S. forces have been
driven from Athens and Piraeus after
stubborn fighting, but in their retirement
they have behaved with the savagery
usually incident to communist revolution-
ary operations, setting fire to at least one
badly-needed Red Cross food dump and
carrying off British and other civilians as
hostages. Until these ate released there
seems no chance of a settlement.
Meantime, Archbishop Damaskinos has
been installed as Regent, and a new
Ministry has been formed under General
Plastiras, who has announced his inten-
tion of building an army to liquidate the
rebels if they do not lay down their arms
and are not prepared to transfer their
active rancor to the German front.
As elsewhere, widespread propaganda
is being carried on in Australia to prove
that E.L.A.S. is not a communist revolu-
tionary movement. On this, the only
comment necessary is that the delegates
sent to meet Mr. Churchill were George
Siantos, secretary to the Communist party
of Greece; Demetrios Partsalides, also a
prominent communist associated with
many Comintern arrangements in the
past; and “General” Mandakis, a Cretan
who has many communist associations.
They all turned up at the conference in
British battle dress —in which their mob
had been busy shooting British soldiers.
German Drive on Buda.
“Ek Dum”: With all the devices so,
commonly used in the reporting of Rus-
sian campaigns, the picture of the fight
for Budapest, as Russian correspondents
wished it to appear to the world, was pre-
sented last week.
The previous week it had been repre-
sented that the Germans and Hungarians
had been driven from the main parts of
the city and were being “annihilated,”
From their location it whs at once plain
to anybody knowing the geography of
Budapest that the defenders were there
engaged in blocking the communications
across the bridges of the Danube.
Early in the week the tone of Moscow
reporting changed. It then seemed that
the Germans —in “hordes”—were bent on
turning the twin-cities into “another
Stalingrad,” resisting until the whole place
was destroyed, but quite helpless in the
face of Russian superiority. Moreover,
it was reported that 2,000,000 people,
largely refugees from the country which
the Russians had first occupied, were
“trapped” in Budapest.
Moscow Radio on January 4 appeared
to lose interest in the matter, though it re-
marked that the enemy already had lost
10,000 killed, 30,000 wounded and 1429
captured in the battle for the capital,
whose fall was only a matter of days.
There was, however, a distraction by
this time, due to a powerful counter-
attack by a fresh German force 45 miles
north-west of the city at Komarno. Mos-
cow reported that at least six heavy
panzer divisions were represented in this
force, which made some headway toward
Buda by dint of incessant onslaughts.
Moscow declared that Russian aircraft
were strafing these new formations of
attackers incessantly, that they had
been stopped by January 4 with tremen-
dous losses, and that the enemy had no
hope of breaking through the 35-mile-
wide Russian belt round Budapest. But
on January 7 the Germans had taken a
town 20 miles from Buda and nearly 60
miles east of Gyor.
The Russians’ drive towards the Vienna
Gap, seemed to have stopped for the
time being. Last week they were sup-
posed to be approaching Gyor.
The Germans in their official com-
munique of January 7 admitted that the
Russians had made a penetration of their
front in the n.-w. area, but declared that
it had been “sealed off” with heavy loss
to the counter-attackers. Their H.Q.
asserted that fighting was in full swing in
Poland, north of Lublin.
Another impending offensive was
promised by Moscow Radio:
A new Russian winter attack on a bigger
scale than any of the earlier ones is about
to be launched.
This was audited, and found correct by
Mr. Henry Shapiro, of the British United
Press.
Last year’s winter offensives began on
the Leningrad front on January 15. But
conditions are not so favorable for so
late a start further south-west. The thaw
and the floods come earlier on the west
than further east, and the Russians
will have to move quickly to reach main
objectives. At the same time, once they
can reach and control part of the com-
munication systems towards the German
border conditions will improve.
The Navy's Loss.
“Ek D.:
The death of Admiral Sir Bertram Ramsay,
R.N., with all his staff, and in the same week
of Vice-Admiral Sir Alfred Evans, R.N., head
of the British Naval Technical Mission in
Ottawa, both in air accidents, emphasises the
terrible fatality which seems to pursue prominent
Allied leaders in the air.
Britain has lost, among others, the Duke of
Kent, Air Marshal Sir Trafford Leigh-Mallory,
chief organiser of the Air Invasion of Western
Europe, and Major-General Gott, one of the
most brilliant exponents in the use of armor,
who would have been invaluable in western
Europe today.
Australia itself lost at one blow a great soldier,
Brudenell White, Chief of the General Staff, and
three Cabinet Ministers —its Minister for the
Army, Brigadier-General Street, its Air Minister,
J. V. Fairbairn, and its Information Minister,
Harry Gullett. One of its best' senior com-
manders, Lieutenant-General Herring, was
boarded out of the service as the result of an-
other air crash.
Sir Bertram Ramsay entered the navy in 1898,
succeeding E. R. G. Evans in command of
H.M.S. Broke in the Dover Patrol in 1915. Aus-
tralia saw him when he came out with Lord
Jellicoe in 1919-20, and he had a good deal fo do
with the formulation of the Jellicoe naval plan
for the defence of the Pacific Dominions and
Asiatic Empire which, if it had been carried out,
would have put a very different complexion
on the Japanese outlook. The writer gratefully
acknowledges to him some pungent primary in-
struction in naval strategy. He was on the staff
of the R.N. Staff College for some time; also
on that of the Imperial Defence College; C.O.S.
of the China Station; C.O.S. of the Home Fleet.
And then, having retired in 1938, he was called
back in 1939 to become Flag Officer in com-
mand of his old beat at Dover, whence he was
transferred at just on 60 to organise and com-
mand the immense combined operations involved
in the invasions of Sicily and Italy and the
greater ones of Normandy.
It is a stupendous tribute to the resources
of the British Navy and nation that such a
man can pass without causing a tremendous dis-
location of war plans.
Vice-Admiral Alfred Evans, lost on an
Atlantic air journey, was one of the most
cosmopolitan flag officers in the R.N. —South
African born, married to a daughter of H.
McNeil, of Sydney, C.O.S. on the S. Africa
Station, Captain of the Fleet to the Home
Fleet and Commander on the S. American
Station. Some Australians will remember him
as a cricketer who played for Hampshire and
the R.N. Like Admiral Ramsay, he shone as
an organiser.


\
1. '
v\
m
/«r*
m
V
a
Min
m
IT WON'TBELONG NOW/
—we hope, before you will be able to plan your
summer tour and see your own country in a big
way. But, meantime, give a thought to that
precious Masse battery. Call on your nearest
dealer for a fortnightly check-up. An occasional
re-charge may mean many extra months of
service.
‘Masse
i B I 1 I C I R 8
m
BATTERIES
FOR WORK
3-44
HOTEL METROPOLE
Bent, Phillip and Young Streets, Sydney.
m
*»:
111
Hi
si I
Mi
Modern high-cl?ss accommodation
at a moderate tariff. Hot and cold
water and telephone in all rooms.
Rooms with private Bathrooms
available. Meals at moderate rates —
unexcelled cuisine—Dining Rooms,
Grill Room, Banquet Room and
Wintergarden, together with a first-
class orchestra.
ROOMS-ONLY RATES.
Single Rooms from 7/- per night
Double Rooms from 13/- per night
Telegrams, Cables and Wireless:
“ METROPOLE” Sydney.
Telephones: 8W2061 (9 lines)
86363 (4 lines)
SPORTING NOTIONS
With a Maiden Handicap (Im. If.), a
Nursery Handicap (5f.) for colts-geldings
and the same for fillies, a Flying Handi-
cap (6f.), a Trial Handicap (apprentice
riders ; moderate-performed horses up to
five years old ; Im. If.), a Club Handicap
(Im. 3f.) and a Welter Handicap (Im.
If.), the Sydney Turf Club, having its
first meeting on its own course at Can-
terbury on Saturday, catered for practi-
cally every type of horse now racing in
Sydney.
At his first start here, Hedui, with a
record of eight wins, a second and a
third from 10 starts in Queensland, won
the Flying Handicap in a style suggesting
future wins against our best sprinters.
His margin over Tea Rose was a length
and a half, and he was going easily, A
handy third from start to leger, he went
on from there very freely., A four-year-
old gelding, he is Australian-bred, with
Valais blood on the dam’s side. He car-
ried a good horse’s weight, 8.7, and was
ridden by A. Sinclair, the Queensland
jockey who has been making a specialty of
sprint events in Sydney. Hedui has 7.10
in the Challenge Stakes.
Though Tea Rose was burdened with
9.1 and was having her first start since
winning four races in succession, last of
them the Derby, she was made favorite,
heavily backed, on the principle that
“class will carry her through.” The
stewards questioned her rider, L. Hone
(another of the Queensland contingent),
and concluded he had ridden “an ill-
judged race.” Her performance was
really good. Slowly away, several lengths
last before they had gone half a furlong,
she gradually made up ground, and was
galloping well at the end. Martheus was
third, and of the others Mannerheim (fifth)
showed returning form.
A mile-and-three seems exactly right
for the Newcastle mare Neta Linette.
Practically all her Sydney wins have been
over that distance, including one at Rand-
wick and an earlier one on the Canter-
bury course. Confidently ridden by
Doon, she moved steadily up past half
the field, to be fourth at the home turn,
and went to the front a furlong from the
judge. Russia (third) was another of
those heavily backed on the day that
would have been better for a run, but
Skip Bomber (second) looked the most
likely of the field for a good win ahead.
E. Doon, whose riding is reminiscent
of the early D. Munro, ended his claim
to apprentice allowance when he won the
Nursery Handicap (colts and geldings)
on the Pure Gold-Hot Stuff colt Nigeria,
beating D-Day (Hua-Early Morn) and
Grand Mosaic (Mosaic-Early Silence) and
the heavily supported Tiber (fourth) and
Edinburgh (fifth). All the first five ran
well. D-Day and Edinburgh look possi-
bilities for short races before long.
Though nobody could have thought
much of her chance on runs this season,
the winner of the Maiden Handicap,
Silver Clare, at least had breeding to in-
spire backing. By Silver Standard —one
of the most unlucky and most consistent
horses that ever raced in Australia —she
is from the Gimcrack Stakes winner
Euclare. Hijacker (fourth) is an awkward
galloper who may do better in stronger
company in a smaller field.
After the running of the Nursery for
fillies there was a prolonged “demonstra-
tion.” The race was won by Double
Gift, trained by J. Munro, from Fast
Light and Saskatchewan. Carrying 9st.,
Flowers was third to the turn, but then
petered out. Doubloon, ridden by W.
Hogg, took a bad knock. She will do a
lot better. The stewards, after an in-
quiry continued on Monday, suspended
N. Tomlinson, rider of the winner, for
one month.
Against what looked the weakest field
he had met since coming to Sydney, the
Doomben Cup winner Bahtheon could
do no better than a poor third in Welter
company. He had top weight (9.11),
despite which he was an early favorite,
though he “blew” later. Having his first
race since September, Bon Terre gave
Newcastle another winner, beating ageing
Kookaburra in a good finish. Bahtheon
must win soon. So should Tennessee,
who, though only sixth, looked to be
going \yell there.
Felbeam’s backers were of opinion that
she was a shade unlucky not to have won
the Carrington Stakes. It is therefore not
surprising that she is a strong fancy for
the Challenge Stakes. She has gone up
81b., against Victory Lad’s 101 b. and
Trimmer’s 41b., but as she has shown she
is up to weight the rise should not
seriously trouble her. Although Hall
Stand is up 31b. on Carrington figures,
he must be given another chance. Grand
Prodige is not over-weighted with 7.13,
but six furlongs may now be short for
him, notwithstanding he has won at that
distance.
If Grand Prodige is an average stayer,
and his breeding is not against that possi-
bility, he should have a good Anniversary
chance. He is by Beau Pere, and his
dam, Providence, was placed up to a
mile and five furlongs in races in Eng-
land. Providence’s sire, La Prodige, was
a high-class stayer in France.
* * * *
A vacant place:
Flags were half-masted at Canterbury Park
on Saturday for William Kelso, who had died
early that morning. For the greater part of a
century there has been a William Kelso at
Randwick, and “Old Bill” was the second of the
line.
There were few figures more familiar in
Sydney. Fie was something more than a racing
man with an unsurpassed knowledge of horses
and horsemanship. Men eminent in other walks
of life sought him out in his place on the
official stand at Randwick, intent on drawing
him out and enjoying and repeating his dry
comments on sport and life. He never spoke
ill of fellow-trainers, and to three decades of
jockeys he was “The Boss,” even those who
were not grounded in his stables, as many were
(Pike, above all), but he had his aversions.
One was the sensational type of racing re-
porter; another, the lady punter. Once a sport-
ing matron with social ambitions addressed
him in one of those shrill voices that carry.
“What’s going to win this race, Kelso?” she
said. “I know no more than you do, Madge.”
was the instant retort; and the consensus of
opinion in the clubs was that she deserved it.
Keenly enjoyed also was his reply to a
steward who mildly questioned the running of
a horse from Orville Lodge (it happened only
three times in Kelso’s long career). “What
went wrong with that thing of yours?” the
official asked. “I don’t know,” William replied
—“hadn’t you better ask the horse?”
An accomplished jockey before he grew too
heavy, Kelso trained many good horses, such
as Parthian, Strathroy, Dandy, Beverage, Son
o’ the Marsh, Boaster, Millieme, Statesman,
Bacchus, Piastoon, Red Gauntlet, Bairn, Fon-
dant and Topical, and some of the best of them
raced in his own colors. Like himself, they were
as honest as the day, and he saw to it that they
had good paddocks when their racing days
were over. Millieme, who beat the great
Artilleryman in the AJ.C. St. Leger, was his
special favorite. Millieme broke down in the
Australian Cup when the race seemed at its
mercy. The vet. said it was a case for a friendly
bullet, but when the stricken animal raised
its head and looked straight at its master Kelso
could not find it in his heart to give the order.
He had Millieme patched up and consigned to
rich pastures until the horse grew too infirm
to fend for itself; even then one of his sons
had to issue the merciful instruction.
Kelso is survived by Mrs. Kelso and all his
children, Will, Jack, Fred, Jean and Frank.
Fred, a lieutenant in the A.1.F., had combatant
service against Gratiani and in Greece, and is
in the north again on special work for which
he studied before the war.
* * * *
Apprentice R. Hutchinson’s riding was
a feature of the Moonee Valley meeting
last Saturday. With a mount in each of
the seven races, he rode three winners
and a second. Now 17, Hutchinson had
not been on a horse before he joined
trainer C, Goodfellow as a stableboy
about three years ago. Goodfellow sent
him to Bob Lewis for tuition, and the
lad, who has ridden seven winners this
season, was obviously an apt pupil.
Mountjoy, difficult to train because
of bad knees, looked lucky to defeat
Kinder Chick and Veileme in the first
Appeal Handicap. A three-year-old geld-
ing by Portofino from Betheen, he im-
presses as likely to improve.
Firmament (Fernkloof-Calina) out-
classed Big Sister and Last Port in the
second Appeal Handicap. Mountjoy and
Firmament were ridden by Hutchinson,
whose other winning mount was William
Tell in the Hospital Handicap. William
Tell set up a useful lead halfway through
the race, and won at his ease from Star
Valley and Whitten. Las,t-named again
finished third when saddled up for the
St. Vincent’s Highweight later in the day.
“Scobie” Breasley, premier jockey last
season, and an easy first so far this
season, landed a double on Little Tich
and Comedy Call. Little Tich, a four-
year-old gelding by Actor-Tinytown,
raced on lease by W. Adams and S. Gib-
son from Sol Green, ran to the front
about three furlongs from home in the
Alfred Handicap, 15fand won from
Damalis and Grain Trader. Damalis
was unlucky in that his rider lost his whip.
Drum Net showed that his Flemington
win live days earlier was not a fluke by
justifying his favoritism for the St. Vin-
cent’s Highweight.
* * * *
Summer racing at Randwick proved
that our alleged “bad horses” included a
few useful stayers. It was bad luck for
owner and trainer that Kiaree ran so well
in both Cups without scoring a win. At
five years further improvement in him is
probable, but he has reached a mark
where every extra pound tells. Seven-
year-old Easter Time may improve to the
same extent as Kiaree, but he is still at
a weight that puts another good handi-
cap within his reach. Further develop-
ment in Craigie is, of course, probable,
and though, under his very light weight,
Skip Bomber missed a place in Tatt.’s
Cup, he is worth following in distance
handicaps.
A mishap caused Royal Peer’s with-
drawal from Tatt.’s Cup. He was not
up to expectations in the Summer Cup,
but circumstances were against him in
that race, and in summing up his chances
on a future occasion it might be advis-
able to overlook that failure.
Falcon Knight won a race, but Tatt.’s
Cup running tended to dispose of the
idea that he will ever act up to his earlier
promise. There is still hope for Betza,
but Grand Fils and Abspear may not
repeat their earlier best efforts. We saw
Grand Prodige and Victory Lad only
as sprinters, but middle-distance wins, at
least, may be within the compass of both.
Three years in succession we have had
exceptional fillies in Sydney, and if
Courtship’s staying ability is in keeping
with her pace it is possible she will, as a
three-year-old, prove up to the standard
of Flight and Tea Rose. Of medium
height, and not heavily fleshed, it is on
the cards for Courtship to stay quite as
well as either. She does not suffer on
the score of staying breeding, seeing she
is by Agincourt (half-brother, by Bos-
worth, to The Buzzard) from Happy
Romance, whose maternal granddam was
D’Oro, a sister to Desert Gold, and
Nigger Minstrel, second to Heroic in the
A.J.C. Derby.
So far as the two-year-old colts are
concerned, Monmouth and Titanic stand
out from the others that raced during
recent meetings at Randwick, Handi-
capper Wilson rates them as practically
equal, but the autumn may see Mon-
mouth further ahead of Titanic than the
pound placed between them in weights for
the S.T.C. meeting.
The Breeders’ Plate winner, Magnifi-
cent, must also enter into autumn calcu-
lations, as, in addition to being by bril-
liant Ajax, his dam, Complete, comes
from the same line as many good horses,
sprinters and stayers.
Miscellaneous
Next to Patrick, Billy Fletcher is the
most powerful puncher among the light-
weights, but his hopes for a match with
the champion received a setback at the
Sydney Stadium when he boxed Joe
Grant. Some time during five fiery
rounds Fletcher jarred his right hand on
Grant’s head, and the injury proved so
painful that at the end of the fifth
Fletcher could not carry on. With sting-
ing straight lefts, Grant was ahead on
points when hostilities closed.
FOR ROSEHILL.
(Before acceptances .)
Maiden Juvenile (colts and geld-
ings) : My King, 1 ; D-Day, 2;
Grand Mosaic, 3.
Maiden Juvenile (fillies): Doub-
loon, 1 ; Saskatchewan, 2; Fast
Light, 3.
Novice Handicap: Simla, 1;
Lance, 2 ; Severus, 3,
Flying Handicap: Lagoon, 1 ;
Beauhead, 2 ; Felbeam, 3.
Three-year-old Handicap: Recka
Oka, 1; Chantilly, 2; Hawk Craig, 3.
Rosebery Handicap: Skip Bomber,
1 ; Russia, 2 ; Bahtheon, 3.
Welter Handicap: Rex Felt, 1 ;
Tennessee, 2 ; Dick Whittington, 3.


Women's Letters
From Sydney
Sydney is already beginning to recog-
nise the nurses and V.As. attached to the
British Pacific Fleet. Thirty-five members
of the Queen Alexandra Royal Naval
Nursing Service are now quartered at the
113th A.G.H., which will be their address
till their own hospital is ready for them.
Their uniform is neat, navy and brass-
buttoned. Blouses are white; shoes, ties
and stockings are black. Their navy hats
are tricorne. There’s a touch of red and
gold piping here and there. For hotter
days the wear is white tunic frock, shoes
and stockings and white felt hats with
service badge.
Many of these nurses have already
given splendid and courageous service.
Matron K. Baker, in command of the
Q.A.R.N.N.S. here, is decorated with the
Royal Red Cross. She has served in Malta,
Hong Kong (from 1939 till 1941) and in
hospitals in England during the bombings.
Matron Westaway, second in command,
has been awarded the 1939-1943 Star.
The whole company looks happy to be
in Australia. They like the hot days, the
bright lights, the fruit, the ice-cream. So
far, they like Australians, too. Austra-
lians like the bright complexions, the
friendly, unaffected manner of these kins-
women and are glad to welcome them.
Shipping knight Thomas Gordon was
among the first hosts to extend hospitality
to members of the Q.A.R.N.N.S. He
entertained a group of them at morning
tea in the big board room at No. 4 Bridge-
street.
Smiles and handshakes from France’s
Consul-General Boris Eliacheff for hun-
dreds of his countrymen and -women who
streamed into the Consulate last Tues-
day morning. New Year’s Day is the
great day for exchange of greetings and
good wishes in France, so, Monday being
a holiday, Tuesday was the next-best
thing. The reception, with toasts but no
speeches, went on till after one o’clock,
and then crowds went on to the club
rooms of the Friends of France, where
Mrs. Ivy Moore handed out coffee and
welcome.
“A Soldier for Christmas” is the festive
cracker the Minerva is pulling with its
patrons this New Year. Like all good
crackers, it has a motto in it, too, but each
has to translate it for himself. War-time
London provides time and place, and the
Fergusons’ upper middle-class home pre-
sents the interiors where the soldier from
Canada is receiving Christmas hospitality.
With an Oxford Group chef and a com-
munist char, things may not be quite on
the scale of the old Merrie England days,
but they provide quite a lot of fun for
audiences down under.
There are some lovely touches in the
play. Mr. Ferguson, something in one
of the Ministries, has had a very busy
day—his department has sent hundreds
of parcels to Fiji: records of “lolanthe”
and gardening notes. Then just before
curtain-fall Mrs. Ferguson, talking of
daughter Phoebe’s coming marriage, says
to her husband: “Now, if I can get a
woman in for the day, and you will give
us all your new clothing coupons ”
Just how many fathers in Australia recog-
nise a familiar ring in that phrase—“if
you will give us all your new clothing
coupons”? One begins to suspect the
hour has struck for an international amal-
gamation of couponless fathers.
The engagement is announced of Joan
Frances Clarence, only daughter of the
E. A. Clarences, of Maitland and Forbes,
and Flying-Officer John Weston Smiles,
returned from operational service with
the R.A.A.F, in New Guinea and
Islands. Joan thinks that former school
pals of hers at the Melbourne C. of E.
Grammar School might be interested to
know that her ring is a solitaire diamond
in a claw setting. Flying-Officer Smiles’s
mother, Mrs. R. C. Smiles, lives in Manly.
Sydney’s new Mayoress, Mrs. W.
Neville Harding, made her first appear-
ance as civic hostess yesterday from 11
till noon. She received a stream of callers.
Today and tomorrow she will be at home
in her rooms at the Town Hall at the
same hours.
It was well worth a trip to St. John’s,
Darlinghurst, last Wednesday to see pretty
Rada Penfold Hyland in her wedding
array. Rada, only daughter of the Frank
Penfold Hylands, wore a frock of white
chiffon, long and very full. Its bodice
had a heart-shaped neckline that seemed
part of the picture with the tiny Ann
Boleyn cap of seed pearls that held her
three-quarter veil in place. Bridegroom
Captain Stuart Shierlaw, of the Indian
Army, sth Battalion (Napiers), 6th Raj-
putana, was impressive in appearance,
too. He wore the full-dress uniform of
his regiment, the white tunic striking a
festive note. Captain Shierlaw was for-
merly A.D.C. to the Governor of the
United Provinces, Sir Maurice Hallett.
Super orchids, purple and white, were
carried by the bride. Reception at the
Penfold Hylands’ Elizabeth Bay home for
a hundred or more guests followed the
church ceremony.
U.S. War-Paintings of MacArthur’s New
Guinea Campaign is the title of a gripping
if somewhat grim collection to be shown at
the National Gallery. This has already
aroused attention in Brisbane, Adelaide
and Melbourne. A great roll-up is ex-
pected for the opening, and America’s
Minister in Australia, Nelson T. Johnson,
is coming from Canberra to make the
speech. January 11 is the date, and the
paintings will be on view for a month.
' Another year has spun around, and
once again it is Archibald Prize season.
Judgment will be made on January 19,
and, what with one thing and another,
the award is expected to arouse as great, if
not so consuming, an interest as that of
last year, Frank Medworth, acting-direc-
tor of the Gallery where the portraits will
be on view, is undergoing an operation
in St. Luke’s. Bernard Smith, organising
officer of the travelling art exhibitions,
has taken charge of the National Gallery
in Mr. Medworth’s absence.
University and legal circles are going
to feel the loss of Mrs. Frank Mullin,
who, as Jean Malor, made a bit of a dent
on Sydney University records when she
graduated in law with first-class honors.
Mrs. Mullin leaves tomorrow for Mel-
bourne, where her husband has been
posted. The two (he graduated in
economics) were very active in Uni.
movements. One of Mrs. Muhin’s
greatest regrets is having to resign
from being treasurer of the Law
School Comforts Fund, an office she had
filled since the fund’s foundation. An-
other regret is resigning from the Stand-
ing Committee of Convocation. Norton
Trevaire photograph.
The Victorian, the Edwardian, the
Georgian days are no more. Wellington,
Roberts, Kitchener, Florence Nightingale,
Kipling are names of the past. All have
been vital entities during the life of one
Australian woman. She is Mrs. Louisa
Leader, who attained the grand age of
100 recently. She is one of the oldest
surviving pioneers of Eugowra, near
Forbes. Her birthplace was Mudgee, and
she had lived at Orange and other points
out West before she and her husband
settled in Eugowra, then a calling-place
for Cobb and Co.’s coaches. Mrs. Leader
is healthy and alert, and reads without
glasses. There were four generations of
Australians among the 45 descendants
gathered around this lady’s birthday cake.
Daughters and granddaughters had joined
in making it, and had surrounded it with
100 candles.
It is reported from Copenhagen that
the Germans have sentenced to death
Mrs. Monica de Wichfeld, a cousin of
Lord Dunleath, who as Captain Chas.
Mulholland, of the 11th Hussars, was in
Australia many years as Military Secre-
tary to Lord Forster. Mrs. De Wichfeld,
daughter of J. H. G. Massy-Beresford,
was a daughter of Charles Mulholland’s
aunt, and therefore a descendant of three
fighting Irish families whose scions are
spread all over the British Common-
wealth, including Australia, where both
the Mulholland and Massy clans are
generously represented. She lost one
brother in the last war and a second was
seriously wounded. She"herself married
a Danish attache, and from the end of
the last war her hospitable home at
Maribo has been a haven for-nnany a
homesick English stranger. She has three
children, of whom the elder of two sons
is about 25 and the daughter, Varinka, 22.
From Melbourne
The old year went out like a lamb,
but 1945 arrived like a roaring lion.
Wind and sleety rain made New Year’s
Day a good time to spend indoors with
a book. . Nevertheless, thousands of
people wended their way to Flemington
for the races. Frocking was dull, for
instead of the smart linens and attractive
silks reserved for mid-summer, tweed
suits and fur coats made their appear-
ance. Talking of fur coats, an American
magazine says that fifty years ago a mink
coat cost a hundred dollars. Today the
cheapest costs more than a thousand
dollars. The latest fashion fad is to have
the mink coat dyed platinum, which
makes the cost of these pelts even greater.
In this Holiday season the seaside and
country resorts are gayer than usual. Mrs.
Sydney Baillieu Myer has doffed her Red
Cross uniform for natty beach wear, and
is at Portsea with daughter Marigold and
naval son Baillieu. The Myer homestead,
right on the sparkling waters of the bay,
is large and the house guests many. The
Angliss lady is at the farm enjoying
butter made in her own dairy. Lady
Mayoress Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, with
daughter Margaret, is in Tasmania getting
ready for the busy days which lie ahead.
Lud Mayor Nettlefold is back from a vic-
torious bowling tour of country districts,
and is busy answering congratulations.
P. W. Tewkesbury included a cheque for
£lOOO in his letter, and asked that it be
distributed in any way which pleased the
Mayor. An anonymous donor sent a
cheque for £5OO.
A shipboard romance will have its
sequel on the 17th when Major Lynton
Stuart White, M.8.E., R.A., who has
come from India will claim his bride,
Phyllis Worley, pictured here by Spencer
Shier, Major White is the younger
son of Sir Dymoke White, Bart., M.P.,
and Lady White of Southleigh Park,
Havant, Hants., England. He has been
serving with the British Army in India
and was on his way there when he met
Phyllis, who is the elder daughter
of Justice Worley (interned in Singa-
pore) and of Mrs. N. A. Worley, Frank-
ston, Victoria. With her mother and
sister Anne, Phyllis left Singapore to
enrol at Melbourne University, where
she studied hiodern languages. Twelve
months after Mrs. Worley and her two
daughters arrived in Melbourne war with
Japan broke out and Phyllis gave up her
studies and became attached to the staff
of the Netherlands Indies Government
Information Service. For some time
prior to. her approaching marriage she
was head of the Documentary Depart-
ment. Vows will be exchanged at St.
Paul’s, Frankston, and Phyllis will be a
white and gold bride. Her only atten-
dant will be sister Anna, who will wear
pale blue.
Melbourne is pleased with the knight-
hood bestowed on Lud Mayor Nettlefold.
Hundreds of congratulatory letters and
telegrams have reached the Town Hall;
many were from overseas visitors who
enjoyed civic hospitality last year. The
year was a very busy one both for the
Mayor and for the Lady Mayoress,
Mrs. Beatrice Campbell, who was hon-
ored with the C.B.E. Mayor Nettlefold
extended the hospitality of the city to
many distinguished visitors from overseas
and sponsored many patriotic appeals.
The Mayor’s Hospital Fund has been
better supported during his regime than
at any other time, and the campaign for
Toys and Sweets for Britain has met with
considerable success. Mrs. Beatrice Camp-
bell, wife of a former Lud Mayor, won
a place in the hearts of her fellow-
workers in the various good causes with
which she was associated. The loss of
her husband was a blow, but she carried
on bravely and went about her duties
with high courage.
The most successful venture of the
A.I.F. Women’s Association is the Holi-
day House at Seaford, a pleasant little
village on Port Phillip Bay. Widows of
servicemen and wives of prisoners of war
and their families have first preference
during the school holidays, and the
youngsters have a most enjoyable time
swimming and playing on the sand. Ten
days is the limit at that time, for there
is a long waiting list, but at other times
soldiers’ families who badly need a holi-
day are permitted to make a stay of two
weeks.
The Holiday House is just across the
road from the beach, and it has nine bed-
rooms, a dining-room, a small lounge
and a large play-room. The play-room
is so constructed that mothers may sit at
one end of the room in comfort and at the
same time keep an eye on their brood.
During the 17 months the Holiday House
has been in commission almost 800
mothers and children have had an annual
holiday in these pleasant surroundings.
Members of the Committee of the A.I.F.
W.A. are unfailing in their efforts to
make a success of the place, and visit
often to help make the guests happy.
Headquarters of the association are at
487 Collins-street, and any woman with
a husband or son in the A.I.F. may call
there and get advice on her worries. One
of the chief aims of the association is to
have a large number of hostesses who, in
times of emergency (when, for instance,
a mother goes into hospital and there is
no help in the house), will take the children
and care for them until the mother re-
covers and is able to take up her house-
hold duties.
Stonnington was once a vice-regal resi-
dence. Edward P. stayed there and gay
indeed were the balls given while the
Governor was in residence. Now the
scene has changed and the house is a
Red Cross Convalescent Home for
soldiers sick or wounded in this war.
The gardens are as well kept as of old
and supply the wards and lounges with
flowers, and most of the vegetables
served to the patients are grown in the
garden. The mansion comfortably houses
150 servicemen, with two sittings for
each meal. All cooking is done on coke
stoves, and the saucepans are old-
fashioned iron ones.
Fruit and tomatoes are bottled in the
Stonnington kitchen, and last year almost
500 bottles were placed on the pantry
shelves for use during the year. Many
of the rooms are filled with beautiful
cedar and mahogany furniture a century
old, and the walls are beautifully panelled.
The patients able to get about spend most
of their time playing billiards, croquet or
cards or pottering in the garden. Red
Cross workers teach modelling and other
crafts. Voluntary helpers make the
burden a little lighter for the matron and
her assistant, but the cry is for still more
helpers.
When lan, six-foot son of the late
Major Eric Wilton and Mrs. Wilton, came
to Melbourne after his graduation from
Duntroon, it was a grand excuse for his
mother and sisters to give a party. Mrs.
Wilton has two daughters. Maureen, tall
and with a peach-bloom complexion, has
a war job, and Anne has just finished
acquiring knowledge at Mandeville Hall.
Scene of the party was the Wilton home
in Toorak, and lan brought along most
of the Melbourne lads who graduated
with him. His sisters gathered together
a bevy of girl friends, including Ailsa
Ham and Joyce Lienhop. Other guests
were Lieut. Bill Simpson, N.Z.E.F., and
Flight-Lieut. Sam Calder, D.F.C. Mrs.
Wilton was assisted by her sister, Mrs.
Don McKenzie. Brigadier and Mrs.
Dollery and Colonel and Mrs. Ken
McKenzie were at the party.
Riverside Inn is the latest addition to
the bright spots of this city. It is on
the less picturesque side of the Yarra,
but once inside the dining - room
the visitor could easily imagine herself
transplanted ints Tudor England. The
room is lofty, the openwork timbering
very effective. On the hottest night the
place is cool and airy. Recently this
resort was the scene of a dinner party
given to welcome home from abroad
Squadron-Leader Ted Llewellyn. Among
the guests were Wing-Commander Andy
Swan, M.8.E., and his attractive wife
Sylvia, who wore a sage-green frock and
small, tight-fitting cap trimmed with roses
in palest pink.
Latest distinguished visitor to Mel-
bourne is Lord Nuffield, who says he has
come out to Australia for a rest and to
see old friends. From his home on the
Chiltern Hills the maker of Morris cars
has seen 19 explosive bombs fall. The
house, by the way, is seven miles from
the nearest town. Lord Nuffield is Hon.
Col. of the 52nd (City of London) Anti-
Aircraft Brigade, and when seen at his
hotel was wearing the blazer and tie of
the Royal Artillery.


RUPTURE
l , NO PADS—NO SPRINGS
nets
LIKE THE HflllO
The latest invention of Dr.
L. Barrere is the result of 40
years’ practice and improve-
ments. Stupendous success
of new method of control.
The NEO-BARRERE acts
like the hand when placed
flat upon the orifice. You
will at once without
effort and in all move-
ments hold the intes-
tine in its cavity.
Write To-day for
free literature.
RARRBRE DISTRIBUTION CO
('Dopt.2lN), 343 ELIZABETH ST., SYDNEY.
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a course* __
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
u
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN LOTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. ~/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
Made by
FORD SHERINCSTON LTD.
ŵ
Owing to war needs,
supplies of "Airway" are
not at present available.
Manufacturers of
GLOB IT E Travel Case a
WRITHED IN PAIN ON FLOOR
Bus Driver’s
Incredible Escape
Sufferers from Lumbago, Scia-
tica, Rheumatism or similar
complaints, can gain new heart
from this remarkable experi-
ence of a young bus driver.
Mr. Walgers’ own words state: “I
was doubled up, and could hardly
walk, and sleep was out of the
question. I could not bear to lie
in bed and many times I would
fall to the floor and writhe in pain.
“After the first packet of R.U.R. I
began to get relief, and could at
last stand up straight, and sleep
returned to me. I then took a
course, and can honestly say I
have not one pain left. I am back
at work again, and can even dig
in the garden. I now take R.U.R.
twice a week, and am feeling my
old self again.”
A NATURAL
INTERNAL CLEANSER
R.U.R. clears the body of poisons,
acids, and wastes. These poisons
and acids cause the unbearable
pains of rheumatism, neuritis,
lumbago, and sciatica .. . the dull
eyes and muddy skin of liver
troubles . . . the headaches and
half-asleep feeling of constipa-
tion, as well as the pain of kidney
troubles . . . the unpleasant,
“Can’t-eat-a-thing” feeling of
indigestion and gastritis. R.U.R.
gently reaches every eliminative
organ of the body, cleaning out
wastes and poisons, toning liver,
kidneys, stomach, and bowels to
normal function. R.U.R. ENDS
constipation, but forms no habits.
Harley St. Prescription
Geo. V. Walgers,
Queen’s Road,
Dock, N.S.W.
104
Five
R.U.K. is de-
rived from a
Harley Street
Specialist's
prescription.
Many users
say that they
obtain real
benefit from
the very first
dose, and re-
port remark-
able restora-
tions to health
from disorders
listed above.
When you realise that R.U.R.
costs but 4/- a packet to make 26
ounces of active mixture and 7/6
to make 52 ounces, it is no exag-
geration to say that R.U.R. is by
far the cheapest and most effec-
tive treatment you can use.
Take R.U.R. and Right You Arel
mi
m
ELECTRICAL
SCIENCE in Seven League Boots
demands of war Kave given sensational impetus
to electrical development. In the Philips laboratories, in
particular, electrical science has donned seven league
boots I The discoveries and perfections thus achieved will,
when the war ends, be adapted to the needs of a world at
peace—-a world in which progress (in illumination, radio
communication and all that pertains to electronics) will
have advanced by half a century in a few short years.
Then, as ever before, the name PHILIPS will symbolise
electrical science in seven league boots..
ẁ
PHILIPS
Lamps and Lighting • Radio
and Television • Transmitting
Equipment • Electronic Devices • X-Ray Apparatus
Electrical Equipment for Industry, etc.
Philips
Sydney
Electrical Industries of Australia Pty. Limited
Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
SMOKE-OH!
“Shorthand was known in Rome in 63 b.c.”
— “World’s News.’’
Schoolboys wish that Julius Caesar had
gone to a business college,
*!• •h
“Daily she went down to the gate of the
cottage, and stood there, starching the long
road for the sight of her lover. He did not
cdme.” — Woman’s paper.
Both the long road and she were stiff.
4* 4* 4*
“I’m still very much in love with him and
think he is, too.” — Woman’s paper.
It was probably his modesty that won
her heart.
Records Smashed. Dance.” — Paper heading.
At a radio station, we hope.
•I 1 4* *i»
A Question of Abuse.
t The wife had accused her husband of being
constantly abusive,’ but his Honor doubted
whether the abuse was one-sided.”
—Divorce report.
His Honor must know Maria.
“And now,” says Maria bitterly, “you
are becoming abusive.”
“I am becoming abusive?” I query.
“Yes —you!” Maria retorts. “I was
merely telling you that you were practi-
cally a murderer ; but that as your whole
family was a bad lot, little could have
been expected of you. You have spent
your whole life cheating and lying and
acting generally like a blackguard”
“You’ve been telling me this since we
had tea,” I begin. “It”
“If you think you can sidetrack me like
that, Aitchem, you’re mistaken,” Maria
storms on. “You are one of the lowest
types of men. You are simply”
“It is now one in the morning,” I finish
desperately.-
“You are rotten to the core, like all
those precious friends you drink with.
I”
“Oh, dry up, you virago!” I yell.
“There yqp are again!” cries Maria
almost triumphantly. “Nobody can try
to point out to you any of your faults
but what you must abuse them!”
H. M.
4* 4* 4 1
“Just as she was swooning Sylvia recollected
a man entering the flat with a revolver, but she
could not remember him clearly enough to
identify him.” — Crime story.
She would have only a faint recollec-
tion.
_ , . * 4* 4* *
In their efforts to keep cool some of
these beach belles are pretty hot.
q. q. # q.
“This 20-stone woman now eats her bread
dry.”— Diet article.
Although this weighty dear
Put nothing on her bread,
She made it very clear
That she had lots of spread.
Nat.
Kid Gloves.
“American military police are being taught to
coo rather than shout belligerently at disobedient
soldiers.”
Further instructions for the more scien-
tific treatment of unruly soldiers are:
1. When asking for a leave pass, pro-
pose in a jocular way that this should be
produced as a mere formality. If it is
not forthcoming, suggest that the soldier
accompany you back to camp in order
that you may get him one. He may be-
lieve this.
2. If the prisoner resists arrest, re-
frain from stunning him. Reason with
him. Appeal to his better nature. Stress
the comforts and amenities of military
detention camps. Mention his mother —
this frequently reduces hardened veterans
to tears.
3. Do not call the prisoner insulting
names. Content yourself with a brief
outline of his parentage (or lack of it),
his personal habits, etc., couched in flow-
ing and euphonious English. By the time
he has worked out what you mean he
will be under lock and key. Expressions
such as “You cad!” and “Naughty,
naughty!” may prove useful with ex-
tremely violent cases.
4. Refrain from handcuffing or forcibly
restraining the prisoner. An occasional
breakaway will enliven the journey to de-
tention barracks. This may even develop
into a kind of game, such as catch-as-
catch-can, and will promote fellowship
and good feeling between prisoner and
captor.
5. If the prisoner should strike you,
it is recommended that you turn the
other cheek. If he strikes that also, use
your own judgment.
Plum.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“The girl who avoids what her husband
dislikes is usually using a good fashion baro-
meter.”—“New Idea
And will avoid many storms.
•J* 4* 4*
Continuous.
“A man hears a lot during an eight-hour
day with scissors and comb,” says a women’s
barber.
He shampoos, shortens, tints and perms.
Their crowning glory; listens, squirms
For hours on end while daughters, nieces,
Aunts, wives and mothers speak their
pieces.
A t length it’s done ; he locks his door —
And then goes home and hears some
more.
P. O. M. C.
4* 4* 4* 4*
Consistency.
The News Editor looked up as his Ace
Reporter came in. “Things pretty dead,
aren’t they?” he barked.
“Completely defunct,” said the A.R.
“Murders are off the menu, the Leviathan
Punters aren’t making sensational plunges,
little Alfie hasn’t turned up in the family
kennel after a hundred searchers with
police dogs have been scouring the scrub
all night, and there hasn’t been a lottery
winner burst into tears and recall the
awful time he had on the dole in the
’thirties.”
“You don’t say!” said the News
Editor.
“I do,” said the A.R, “And I haven’t
Told All. The usually wild bunch at the
Trades Hall might as well be buried in the
lounges of the Union Club, Barney, the
wire-haired pet of King’s Cross, hasn’t
caused consternation by deciding to live
across at Dario, erosion’s a drug in the
ink, and even old ladies haven’t miracu-
lously discovered the long-lost brothers
from whom they parted as kids in the Old
Dart sixty-five years ago. It’s terrible.”
“H’m. Well, you’d better hop round
and see Mattingley. The old goat’s
always good for something boneheaded.
Get his views on something that’ll bring
some bites —say, should the working-
girl who wears open-toed wedgies paint
her toenails. Then get around and land
a stickful of nibbles from the usual cross-
section. You know the stuff. Now get
going.”
Next day the paper ran a column of
replies to the contention by “Septimus
Mattingley, the well-known philanthro-
pist,” that “working-girls shouldn’t lower
themselves by painting their toenails,”
Betty Ulrington (17), Florist’s Assis-
tant: “What does Mr. Mattingley know
about the problem, anyway? I think
toenail painting is cute, and my boy-
friend likes it. It also helps morale on
the home front. The customers seem to
like it, too.”
Cynthia Wurble (22), Conductress: “1
don’t wear toeless wedgies to work. If
I did the grumpy old hoofers that tramp
all over your feet in the bus would soon
have me crippled. I paint my toenails
when I go to the beach, and if Mr. Mat-
tingley objects to that—and on a Sunday,
too—well, that’s just too bad!”
Herb Dunwoody (Slaughterman): “I
suppose it’s all right girls painting their
toenails if they want to, and blood-red
isn’t a bad color, either. If the boss
objected to my daughter painting her toe-
nails and she didn’t come out on strike
Ed want to know why.”
Bishop Bogeyman: “If simple personal
freedoms like painting one’s toenails—of
which I don’t necessarily approve—are to
be questioned now, what is the signifi-
cance of the Four Freedoms, the Atlantic
Charter, Dumbarton Oaks or the Tehran
Conference? This is a People’s War for
the People’s Freedom. They manage these
things infinitely better in the U.S.S.R. I’m
sure Marshal Stalin is too big to prohibit
toenail-painting in the Socialist Sixth of
the World.”
Later that day the A.R. saw the News
Editor. “I suppose I’d better feed the fires
of bunk,” he said, “by getting the opinions
on toenail-painting from our Upper Ten
and the art colony—they’re in the mullet
brigade. And I can”—
“No, I’m killing it, Joe,” said the N.E.
“You see, the Chief’s writing a leader
belting those newspapers that always rush
in and get cross-sections of public opinion
on frivolous subjects. It’s a real scorcher,
Better hang off for a few days and you
can get on to another silly-season sub-
ject.”
BO.
Back to the Pedestal.
A New York woman who appeared in
Court on a charge of smoking a corn-cob pipe
received a suspended sentence.”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
A bloke who’s set on etiquette
Will find, it’s pretty safe to bet,
A pipe, cigar or cigarette
Between a woman’s lips offensive;
And, following the Court’s decree,
There’s plenty of us will agree
Some competent authority
Should make the ban more comprehen-
sive.
And then, untainted by the weed,
The fairer sex would be indeed
Once more a subject for romance;
Not only that — there’s just a chance
My no-tobacconist might deign
To sell me cigarettes again.
P. M. Lusk.
Address to Granny.
Oh, Granny, dear, if you will do
One thing for me, I’ll do for you
A lot of things. I’ll never more
Recite those poems you deplore;
I’ll drop those friends whom you dislike,
And sell my noisy motor-bike:
I’ll knock off making home-made brew ;
Your smokes I’ll borrow not —if you
Will act as everyone exhorts
And cease to wear those ghastly shorts!
T. W. NATHAN .


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
The contributor placed lirst is paid
4%d. per line; all others per line.
A Voice from the Outback
I am a former R.A.A.F. officer, re-
leased after four years’ service. A city-
bred chap, I am on a station in the far
west of N. S. Wales, giving a hand to
relatives who cannot get labor.
Our political gentry should pay a visit
to this district. For weeks terrific dust-
storms have swept the land for hundreds
of miles—not ordinary duststorms, but
great masses of red dust swirling before
the gales. Sometimes there has been a
visibility of a few yards ; sometimes total
blackout. No rain has fallen for months.
Broken Hill is railing water from the
Darling,
Feed has gone, buried under a red
moving mass. Tracks are gone; water
has gone; tanks are filled in. Men
move what is left of their sheep to other
tanks, only to find them gone, too. Per-
ishing sheep, than which there is no
more piteous sight, stagger in search of
feed and water. Men see the work of a
lifetime broken and blasted.
Politicians prate ; racketeers wax fat;
all forms of gambling flourish. Society
drivei fills the columns of the papers.
War-time opportunists engineer their rela-
tives into sinecure jobs. Administrative
muddle goes on. Parliaments go into
recess. Miners strike over childish griev-
ances.
Meanwhile real Australians work from
daylight to dark and into the night try-
ing to save what cruel Nature has left.
Women and girls toil in the blazing sun,
carting water and shifting stock.
I meet some of these girls at the week-
end. The rotten part of Australia is not
fit to lick their riding-boots.
Some of the back-country chaps are
talking of taking their first holiday for
years. They say; “When all the stock is
dead we can have a spell.” Perhaps they
will not have to take such a holiday. Per-
haps at long last it will rain and some-
thing will be saved from the wreck. But
whether it rains or not —whether it
doesn’t rain until the stock are all dead
—these chaps will start again. They are
the real Australia. Their families came
out here long years ago, and battled with
this before, but in those days the spirit
of the whole of Australia was different.
There was not the taint of rottenness
and selfishness that is in sections of our
people now. Let them learn what the
bush people put up with —and feel
ashamed. — Far West (N.S.W.).
Industrial Rot
Australia will never be “the great
nation she has it in her power to become”
(Admiral of the Fleet Lord Keyes, B.
29/11/ ’44) whilst industrial employees
are doing their damnedest to ruin the
country, intentionally or otherwise.
In our small war-time Government
factory “What’s the hurry? Y’ don’t get
no more for it” is the slogan. Few
take any pride in their work and many
quite openly don’t care how little is
done nor how badly so long as they fill in
the requisite hours to entitle them to their
princely pay. The union does nothing
to encourage a healthy pride in a good
job well done ; does nothing towards en-
couraging its members to make provision
for the future. All it seems to care about
is forcing workers into its fold and then
collecting membership fees and occasion-
ally trying to procure useless amenities
(which are not even wanted) at someone
else’s expense. Self-help is unheard of,
and without it Australia can never hope
to be a great nation. —S. E. & O. (Tas,'*
Fire in the Mallee
Fire has been the prime cause of
erosion in the Mallee. From the very
beginning fire was used to clear the land
after the scrub had been rolled down.
After each crop was taken off the
stubble was fired to burn the suckers
from the stumps. As the years went by
the scrub left around the. paddocks and
along the roads began to disappear as it
also caught fire from the carelessly-burnt
stubble.
Twenty-five years ago I drove across
the Mallee from Warracknabeal to
Nyah, and during the three days’ jour-
ney I seldom saw a farmhouse, because
every road was but a track half a chain
wide cut through the thick belts of
scrub lining the surveyed two-chain road-
way, while around the inside boundary
was a fringe of scrub about a chain wide.
The idea of the early surveyors and
planners of the Mallee was that these
belts of scrub around every square mile
would stop a lot of the force of the wind
and so prevent erosion.
In fact, it was generally understood
that a clause in the Crown lease or con-
tract of sale forbade the destruction of
scrub within half a chain of the boun-
dary fence. These were very wise pre-
cautions, but who ever heard of a Mallee
farmer being prosecuted or otherwise
punished because he broke his contract
by carelessly firing the scrub around his
property?
Today hardly any of that roadside
scrub remains, let alone the half-chain
shelter strips, and desolation reigns
supreme—all because the State Govern-
ment, which Mr. Dunstan bombastically
affirms is quite capable of dealing with
this now huge problem, failed to assert
its authority. If the past attitude of State
Governments is any criterion there is no
hope for the future, and if their present
ideas prevail there is none either, for, as
Mr. Hanslow, of the State Rivers and
Water Supply Commission, sadly pointed
out in a recent broadcast discussion, “In
Victoria the Soil Conservation Board has
not had all the assistance it might have
had in this grave problem. The Gov-
ernment had been lacking in what it
should have done for the Board.”
It is a matter for the national Parlia-
ment.—Country Ped. (Vic.).
“Mother insists on my food being cooked WITHOUT salt!"
Pre-fabricated Houses
This is by way of correction of
“Melbn” and “Strict Veg.,” who referred
to our pre-fabricated plywood home at
Balwyn.
Taking issue with “Melbn,” we say this
house is the first pre-fabricated plywood
house to have been built in Aus-
tralia. “Melbn” asserts that a previ-
ous attempt was made when an
enterprising builder had his timber
pre-cut to size, but this has no bearing
on pre-fabrication, which is building the
completed sections in the factory. In
our house the only parts not pre-fabri-
cated are the foundations and the roof,
so that it only requires a minimum
amount of time for assembly on the site.
“Melbn” also declares that the erection
is a “bald-looking dwelling,” which is at
variance with competent opinion. The
house was designed, not for mass-pro-
duction to one plan, but with distinct
individuality, first, to suit family require-
ments, and, secondly, to suit the site
chosen.
“Strict Veg.” also gives quite an erro-
neous impression in saying that little
skill is required to erect such a building,
and that carpenters may become an ex-
tinct species in the post-war era. As a
matter of fact, a much greater degree of
skill from the carpenters will be required,
as the utmost precision is essential in all
stages of production. And just as many
carpenters will be required as in other
types of constructions. But it is hoped
they will do their work in air-conditioned
factories and so eliminate lost time and
wages due to adverse weather conditions.
— R. C. Miles (sales manager, Rdmcke
Pty, Ltd.).
Two Families
Sickened by “hooey” I propose to tell
the story of two large families founded
without State aid of the sort advocated in
these days of high wages and pegged
prices.
My uncle, eldest of £t family of 11
children, came to this country at
17. He married a girl of 16 not long
after his arrival, and they had 16 chil-
dren, all of whom (except two) grew up
and married. My uncle bought land
cheap in the Adelaide hills, and soon
had a large fruit garden. When his
eldest child was 16 he, with a companion,
went to the Bendigo gold diggings for
18 months, when, having done very well
there, he returned to his home, the garden
meanwhile having been kept going very
efficiently by his wife and the children
old enough to work.
As each of the boys reached marrying
age my uncle gave him £5OO or set
him up in a garden with a stone house
to live in. Each of the girls also received
£5OO on marrying. Uncle was able to
manage that because he never boozed
nor gambled.
Now for the second family. My own
father was the youngest of that family
of 11, of which my uncle was the eldest.
My uncle sent enough money to enable
my father with a family of nine to come
to Australia so that the boys would have
a chance. My father hadn’t enough
money to buy land, so he got a job as
gardener in a nursery and stayed until
the boys were able to go to work. At
18 and 16 respectively the two elder boys
had saved about a hundred pounds be-
tween them. They started a modest busi-
ness, and by dint of hard work and
abstention from drinking and gambling
built it up till they had more than 20 men
in their employ.—E. B. (S.A.).
A Servicemen’s Party
“Lieut.” (A.1.F.). and “N.M.G.”
(B. 29 /11 / ’44) seem to be thinking along
somewhat similar lines in regard to the
future of ex-servicemen. With nearly
nine years’ service to my credit, includ-
ing 4i years’ active service, I think
I can claim the right to express the
opinion that the time is ripe for the for-
mation of an ex-servicemen’s political
party. The political set-up in Australia
today could not be worse.
Diggers of 1914-18 differ very slightly
from their sons of the present show.
Both possess a realistic outlook on life,
combined with a spirit of tolerance sadly
lacking in most present-day political
careerists.
It has been said, very definitely, that
the R.S.S.A.I.L.A. is non-political. Long
may it continue to be so. But that does
not prevent a separate body being formed
of -returned and discharged servicemen
who, no matter what their pre-war politi-
cal creed may have been, now see what
a large number of niggers there are in
the political woodheap of this country.
They would be only too willing to join
a party that would be composed of men
who have proved that their first thought
is their country’s welfare.
Amongst the many thousands of men
who have served —women as well —there
must be some who are capable of honest
politics. A servicemen’s party would
provide the almost perfect basis for the
amalgamation of all that is best in the
various political creeds, and,' what is
more, would present such a solid fighting
front that Diggers could rest assured their
interests would be respected by any
Government. — Sans Changer (S.A.).
Adult Education
It is to be doubted if an organised
system of adult education would be worth
the candle. The testimony of public
librarians is that not many people are
interested in self-education. Those who
desire to increase their stock of know-
ledge require no classroom and no tutor,
nor any aid in their quest after know-
ledge other than advice on the selection
of literature —advice which any public
librarian and any university professor
will freely and gladly offer.
Self-education is, in many respects, the
best means of acquiring knowledge. The
seeker is not tied down to a curriculum.
He studies those subjects in which he is
chiefly interested; he selects his own
textbooks and considers them at leisure.
Subjects are inter-related in a natural
manner, and as the student progresses
the field of study widens.
Organised adult education seems to
have very poor prospects to offer in
comparison with self-education as
privately practised by a few thoughtful
citizens. — Blue (Q.).
Dutch Immigrants
An excellent immigration scheme has
been 1 brought under my notice by a
highly-placed official of the Dutch diplo-
matic service. He assures me that he
could at once bring to this country dozens
of Dutch families able and willing, even
anxious, to become landowners, who
would think themselves kings to be
allotted even 50 acres of land so favor-
ably situated as most of ours is.
The tenure he suggests is rent-free for
the first two years, rental to be fixed by
arbitration after two years, and thereafter
a revision every five years, with option
of purchase.
There are many places in N. S. Wales,
permanently watered, near towns and
railways and bitumen roads, and contain-
ing more acres than the owner has ever
walked over, where half a dozen of these
“pocket-handkerchief” farms could be
easily established. One property espe-
cially in my mind is within 200 miles of
Sydney. Its owner, recently deceased, was
overlord of 28 stations in Australia. The
place is “stocked” by a few old scrubbers
of bulls, cows and calves and between
200 and 300 horses; many of them,
seven and eight years old, have never
looked through a bridle.
Some time ago several farmers from
this very district were assisted (by Gov-
ernment grant, I presume) to tour Maori-
land, and they came back with stories of
mixed farms of 100 acres or so —“pocket-
handkerchief” farms to them —on which
the owner ran sheep, cattle, a dairy and
grew his own fodder, human and animal
(with some for market), fruit, poultry,
bees, etc. This was considered almost
miraculous by our coves, but they don’t
seem disposed to anything of that sort
themselves.
But the Dutchmen would, and they
would be a fine asset to Australia.—
Norman McLeod (N.S.W.).
The Trouble in Greece
When I think of Greece I think of a
nation which was our ally—almost our
only ally—from November, 1940, to
May, 1941. I think of honest, hard-
working peasants who hid me from the
Hun in the small village of Kerassia ; of
hundreds of Greek civilians with their
donkeys carrying our rations despite the
efforts of the Luftwaffe. Even more, and
it is hard to restrain a tear when I think
of it, I remember Greek peasants taking
boots off their own feet to give to Aus-
tralian soldiers who had walked from
Corinth to Marcopoulon, on the road to
Marathon, over a rugged coastline, and
later those same brave fellows sneaking
into the Australian hospital which was
left behind in Athens, to give cigarettes
and fruit to the sick and wounded there.
Recently the C.O. of that hospital re-
turned to Australia from Germany, and
one of the first things he did on
his return was to send - a substantial
cheque to help a fund whiclf hopes to
send goods and comforts to the Greeks.
He was full of praise for these great
people, who were dying in the streets at
the rate of 800 a day only two Christ-
mas anniversaries ago. Can we forget
that many of these people gave their lives
rather than surrender Allied soldiers for
whom they were caring and whom they
led to safety eventually?
No topic is discussed more freely or
more bitterly amongst troops who fought
in Greece and Crete than the unfortunate
position which has arisen in every coun-
try in Europe liberated by British-Ameri-
can forces. Essentially, the trouble arises
from the impossibility of a Government
in exile, not often in touch with the resist-
ance movement, being fit to govern the
country immediately it is liberated. There
is the same friction in Yugoslavia, which
will not accept the return of King Peter ■;
in Belgium, where sentiment is turning
against the return of King Leopold, and
where foreign bayonets had to enforce
the authority of the Government returned
from exile.
Only in Holland has the problem of
reconstructing Government been faced
clearly. The head of the Dutch Govern-
ment in exile has announced that as soon
as his country is freed his Government
will resign, “because it is right that one
of the men who have been under Ger-
man occupation should be Prime Min-
ister.”—NX Two Figures (A.1.F.).


li
THE SUN SHINES ON A FAIRY-
LAND OF BEACH. AND ARNOTT'S
v MILK ARROWROOT BISCUITS ARE
PLENTIFUL ONCE AGAIN.
fm
m
■
I «
I
A
v
i*
SB
?
.;•/. .j
I I i ; >i
3::
|/|j I Vf;
i
; ?
toss;*
i
»
'X i
1
/
'I
' - ,#
f
IS
ii
9.
:
m
m
s, s
1
i
/
■
ii
II
S# 1
hi
■
Qmottls
b | • FAMOUS 1^
Milk Arrowroot Biscuits
THE FIRST FAVORITE OF EVERY CHILD—EASY TO CARRY—EASY TO SERVE
BUY WAR SAVINGS CERTIFICATES AND NATIONAL SAVINGS STAMPS
