

’
The Bulletin
The Bulletin.” Vol. 66—No. 3412
Wednesday, Jmy 4, Ij74d
ŵ
Registered at the General Post Office, Sydney, N.S.W., Australia, for Transmission by Po«t as a Ne s l P
Seppelts
HARDWICK HALL.
TTARDWICK HALL, near Chesterfield in Derbyshire, was built
by the famous Bess of Hardwick in the time of Queen
Elizabeth, and it is the greatest of the many palaces she reared ;
for to build was the one delight of this imperious lady, the daughter
and heiress of John Hardwick —only a few miles to the east is
another castle, called Bolsover, which she began. When she
married Sir William Cavendish —father of the first Earl of Devon-
shire, and ancestor of the present dukes —she brought him Hard-
wick as part of her dowry. Hardwick was old even then, but she
designed and created even as she planned Chatswprth and Old-
cotes. Hardwick Hall remains in outward form one of the best
specimens of the art of its time. Some pieces of Hardwick Hall
tapestry were worked by Mary Queen of Scots, who was once a
guest beneath the roof of old Hardwick Hall. That Hall the rest-
less lady razed to the ground, and but few traces remain, but its
stones were used in the making of the second Hall. The bed in
which the Queen of Scots had slept was carefully preserved, and
still stands in one of the rooms of Hardwick. There is an old
saw about Hardwick which runs: “Hardwick Hall, more glass
than wall.”


linl
This Book FREE to YOU!
STOTT’S CORRESPONDENCE COLLEGE.
100 Russell Street, Melbourne.
Please send, without obligation, your New Free
Booklet, explaining how to Write for Profit, at
advertised in the Sydney “Bulletins’
My Name
My Address
S.B. 245 ...AGE
The Red Page
ELEGANT PARTICLES.
It is true that no happy zanys dance
around a maypole in Martin-place:
Australia has been spared many horrors.
But, remembering Wattle Day, it is not
altogether correct to say, as Mrs. Ethel
Anderson does in Timeless Garden (Aus-
tralasian Publishing Co.), “We, in newer
worlds, have no Spring festival.”
And to say that “our poets are quite
as indifferent to her [Spring] as our bus-
drivers” is mere madness. Shaw Neilson
hardly ever wrote about anything else.
The truth is, Mrs. Anderson can’t resist
a good phrase. Since she has woven into
her essays on the gardens of Admiralty
House and Yarralumla some lively Aus-
tralian history, she knows very well that
to say “We have no history but natural
history” is to talk moonshine ; but —it’s
a good phrase ; and it provides an excuse
for another sentence which, if not of the
same epigrammatic quality, allows Mrs.
Anderson to impose for a moment (on an
Australian wildflower garden) the baroque
world of the Sitwells: —-
European embellishment, such as the
Belvidere, the Gazebo, the Ha-Ha, the
Maze; fountains, pergolas, archways,
arcades, pavements and dovecotes do not
well consort with our Antipodean sim-
plicities.
Mrs. Anderson is daring. The Belvi-
dere, the Gazebo and the Ha-Ha (ha-ha)
do indeed consort uneasily with our Anti-
podean simplicities. As also does the
essayist’s love for a lord. So accustomed,
indeed, have we become to meeting
wealthy or titled people only as the vil-
lains in our literature it makes one feel
slightly guilty even to read Timeless
Garden, as if one were breaking the law.
To praise it seems positively wicked.
Yet praised the book must be. Even
its faults are good, are valuable faults.
Here is an Australian writer who has
actually striven to cultivate a Style. Read-
ing the essay “A Garden for Moonlight”
one comes across such passages as this:
and the worst one can say about it is
that it is precious. It is also undeniably
pretty.
In the “Wildflower Garden” essay one
encounters the following instructions: —■
If the garden be laid out —as is most de-
sirable —in a four-acre clearing among gum-
trees, the pond should be dug well out of
reach of falling leaves, boughs or bark, and
to cut down the loss by evaporation reeds
should be planted completely round it, as
reeds, being good radiators, cause dew to
. be deposited upon their tips, and this
trickles down into the pond
and the worst one can say is that Mrs.
Anderson has been reading her Compleat
Angler a little too thoroughly:
To which end it is observed, that such
pools as be large and have most gravel,
and shallows where fish may sport them-
selves, do afford fish of the purest taste.
And note, that in all pools it is best for
fish to have some retiring place; as namely,
hollow banks, or shelves, or roots of trees,
to keep them from danger, and, when
they think fit, from the extreme heat of
summer; as also from the extremity of cold
in winter. And note, that if many trees be
growing about your pond, the leaves
thereof falling into the water make it
nauseous to the fish, and the fish to be so
to the eater of it.
Like the Sitwells, to whom she owes
much, Mrs. Anderson chooses to live in
a world antique and unreal. More
directly than theirs, her writings disclose
the style of the masters whom she fol-
lows : Walton, Gilbert White; perhaps
Evelyn, and Burton of the Anatomy of
Melancholy.
When she is writing preciously, or when
she is borrowing too obviously from her
exemplars, Mrs. Anderson’s essays lack
the note of sincerity that is just as im-
portant as are cadence- and the right
choice of words in a good prose style.
Old Isaac Walton genuinely wanted to
tell his readers how to make a fish-pond ;
anglers pick up tips from him to this
day. Mrs. Anderson, one feels, doesn’t
so much want to tell you how to make
a wildflower garden as to show you how
well she can write in the manner of
Isaac Walton.
And yet, what is the motive of these
exercises? Not merely to parade a
borrowed style ; but to work towards a
sound individual style based on the great
tradition, and to challenge an age of pro-
letarian thought and writing with the
aristocratic ideal and a style of elegance.
In Australian prose we have had enough
and too much of the proletarian manner,
the dull, monotonous mumbling of the
imitators of Hemingway. It is as well to
have the other extreme.
Good style—Hazlitt’s “plain English
style”—lies somewhere between the com-
monplace and the artificial; and often
enough—usually when she has for theme
some Australian scene that has genuinely
impressed her and so needs no “pumping-
up” of enthusiasm —Mrs. Anderson dis-
covers it. “Desperate Noon” and'“Night-
piece in a Leura Garden” are memorable
pieces of description, one for its bushfire
and the other for its yabbies, Mrs.
Anderson writes about everything from
books to butterflies —sometimes like a
book and sometimes like a butterfly,
always very capably and always attrac-
tively.
A basin to hold the stars should be put
where the four pathways meet.
While the walks in a moonlight garden
are best made of light-colored granite
(marble, unless it be liberally clouded over
with pink, is too white) the star basin
should be lined with malachite, or black
marble, or some other dark substance, so
that Betelgeuse or Aldebaran lose nothing
in the reflecting. For this reason the water
should be sunk, lest the winds ruffle it, be-
low the rim of the platter. Yet it should
not be set back so deeply that a hand
cannot reach the stars.
Since lotus buds, in the moonlight, open
so quickly that it is possible to hear (he
plop the peals make in sundering (as if
they kissed in parting); since the yellow
waterlilies of the Euphrates or the dim,
Asian kinds blossom only at night, it is a
temptation to some to mix lilies in with
the stars in the basin. But it is better to
limit oneself to the galaxy
Woodman, Spare fhat Tree.
Mr. Richard St. Barbe Baker’s great
grandfather, being rector of Botley
Hampshire, spent £12,000 in planting
trees. Mr. Baker’s grandfather, another
clerical gentleman, used to walk abou
with his pockets full of acorns, which he
planted in any spot not already occupier
by an oak-tree. At the age of three, Mr
Baker’s father began his career as a fores
ter by planting apple pips in flowerpots
in his playroom, with the result tha
“Eighty years later Baker’s Seedling and
Baker’s Southern Wonder are two vari
eties that originated from pips he
planted.”
After all this, it is hardly surprising
that Mr. Baker’s autobiography shoulc
be entitled I Planted Trees (Lutterworth
Press; Moore’s Bookshop), nor that
should declare that trees are “in his
blood.” It would hardly be surprising
if he were some kind of seedling.
And, indeed, Mr. Baker is as nearly a
tree as a man may be. In his boyhood
he recalls, his best friend was a large
chestnut:
My brother and I used t'o sit on one
branch, leaning back on another, pleasantly
shaded from the sun and sheltered from
showers by the dense canopy of leaves.
Looking back on the years that have
passed, it is difficult to estimate the tre-
mendous influence of that tree-friendship
'upon my whole life. Although I was not
fully conscious of it at the time, close con-
tact with this very vital tree, when as a
growing boy I was developing rapidly,
stimulated my whole being and generated
balance and poise.
Just as Mr. Baker is nearly a tree, so
his trees are almost people. Discussing
the fact that some foresters and nursery-
men, giving their green hopefuls appa-
rently precisely similar treatment, will
achieve better results than others, he com-
ments :
To my way of thinking, if is that the tree
responds to or shows its pleasure in return
for loving care. There are some people
who might ridicule the idea of a tree think-
ing, but let me remind them that a tree has
an organised body of depending parts, ful-
filling functions necessary to the life of the
tree. Its organism is akin to our own in
many respects. It has for blood its sap.
It has a circulatory system. It has for
skin bark. It has for lungs its leaves. Like
ourselves, it must have food, and the free
draws its nourishment from the soil, air
and sunlight.
The tree adapts itself to circumstances.
Sir Jagadis Bose, as also the Austrian
forestry research students, proved that
the tree has heart-beats and that the pul-
satory reactions of a plant are exactly
parallel to those of a human being. It
responds to stimulants and can be put to
sleep under an anresthetic. Its growth can
be arrested or stimulated by electricity, and
it can feel an electric shock. A sensitive
plant such as the Mimosa pudica recoils
at the touch of a man’s hand, transmitting
shock effects along different nervous
channels or, when growing in the wild, it
escapes danger from grazing cattle, for
with a touch of their foot it becomes in-
visible to them, sinking down in the grass
until threat of damage has passed.
No man, after reading Mr. Baker, could
with a good conscience remain a vege-
tarian. Nor, of course, could he cut
down a tree.
An expert on forestry and such kin-
dred subjects as soil erosion, Mr. Baker
tells in an odd, rambling fashion of his
experiences in Canada, Kenya, Australia
and New Zealand ; the last two countries,
on account of the briefness of his visits,
being dealt with only sketchily. There
is a pleasing glimpse of the author among
New Zealand’s Southern Alps, when, lying
down to photograph some ferns, he be-
came frozen to the ground: “When I
tried to get up I was stuck; but for my
Maori friend, who came and yanked me
off, I might have been there for ever.”
Gracie Fields.
The line-up to book for her concerts
in Sydney looked the biggest queue of
people in the world. Or thereabouts.
Four deep, mostly feminine, the queuers
stretched along the pavement from the
booking-office for half the long George-
street block, then round the corner to go
the full length of the Market-street block
and around the next corner for some dis-
tance down Pitt-street. It made the aspi-
distra look like a seedling.
According to a policeman who had a
watch, they started to line up at 6 a.m.
The queue was so long and it moved so
slowly that those who got on the end of
it at 10 a.m. were only opposite
Dymock’s, with some distance still to go
to the booking-office, at nearing 4 p.m.
A cop was then going along telling them
they hadn’t a hope of getting tickets, but,
apparently liking it, they stuck on in spite
of him. At last the booking-office people
picked on a boy—possibly the only one
on the premises ever likely to win a V.C.
—to go out and tell them that all tickets
had been sold. They never swore so much
in all their lives.
Newsboys had sold them edition after
edition of the evening papers on the
exaggerated plea “Something to read
while you wait.” They could have read
Anthony Adverse. The biographer of a
future Lord Mayor will be able to tell
that this was where his hero started on
the way to affluence and fame. Having
sold out of papers, he bought out Market-
street Sargent’s supply of cakes and tarts
at tuppence each, and in contempt of Mr
Dedman and Mr. Copland retailed the
confections along the queue at a treybin
a time. Forgive us our trespasses and
lead us not into temptation.
Saying to those near her “Hold my
place!” a woman chased a fruit cart
along Market-street, bought an empty
case from him for sixpence and brought
it back. For the rest of the day she and
the* others near her took turns sitting on
it. Another woman knitted three-quarters
of a khaki sock from a big ball of wool
in a dillybag dangled on her arm. Some
uncouth Digger will drag them on with-
out a thought for what went into the
knitting.
Gracie herself, no doubt, had something
to do with all this. But English comedy
vendors have come here from time to
time and been woeful flops. The gods in
Melbourne threw pennies on to the stage
for pathetic Little Tich, and George
Robey’s reception was dismal. That,
however, was before Britain’s Battle
and all the rest of it, including the White
Cliffs of Dover and Mr. Churchill and
suchlike symbols of the Old Country,
came into its own again in a big way. In
fact, if the booking had been for a series
of speeches on England by Mr. Churchill
the queue would no doubt have stretched
the rest of the way down Pitt-street and
over the end into the harbor, with the
rearguard patiently dogpaddling some-
where off Bradley’s Head.
Another slant on the phenomenon is
probably that people are not merely used
to queues now but actually get pleasure
out of queueing up. Perhaps the women-
folk, anyway. There’s a passive sort of
excitement about it. Maybe a lot of
them are lonely and a queue is company.
It wouldn’t, perhaps, be a harking back
to when they carried the tribal goods and
chattels from place to place while the
lordly male stalked on in front with a
spear? Possibly it’s a tribute to compara-
tive patience. Men are bad-tempered
queuers, except only, perhaps, at the tote
collect-windows. This queue for Gracie
was as good-humored as that lady her-
self. Even the unladylike langwidge it
lavished on the unhappy boy at the end
wasn’t really savage. Perhaps part of the
pleasure in queueing is anticipation of
disappointment. And also, in this case,
there’d be a bit of keeping up with the
Joneses.
There might have been something else
to this Gracie phenomenon, too. The
Sydney Town Hall audiences for her most
decidedly have had age on them. They
have been the very opposite of anything
like a Youth Movement. That could, of
course, be Gracie herself. In appearance
she is the embodiment of womanhood.
There is plenty of her, but by no means
too much. She looks the ideal of what
probably any woman wouldn’t mind look-
ing at her age. She adds to the woman-
ness by her acted affectation of being one
who has in her day known all the answers,
and given them in the affirmative.
She is the homey sort of woman, and
naturalness itself. It may or may not be
deceptive artists are deceptive people,
and there’s no question Grade is an
artist —but she gives the impression that
as she is there on the stage, wearing her
womanness as a kind of gown, so she is
all the time. One of her best turns is
a burlesque of a regal elderly matron,
either of the la-di-da or huntin’ variety,
She gets the effect for the one merely by
poking her hair up with a couple of pins
and sticking herself out in the appro-
priate places, and for the other simply by
putting on a man’s hat. No actress was
ever less dependent on props. She has
only to tie a small bit of black ninon
round her throat to represent a different
sort of woman. Make-up doesn’t enter
into her method, nor does costuming;
She can do it all in a flowing pink frock
with a half-inch silver band round the
waist. She does a lot of it with her hands,
which she holds up breast-high and half-
cupped. She is Lancashire only when
she wants to be. And whatever particular
variety of the sex she may be representing
or burlesquing she is as well all the time
herself; and herself is that embodiment
of womanness of the Walter, Walter-
lead me to the altar variety.
Possibly these considerations mainly
account for both the enthusiasm for
Grade in Sydney and the nature of the
enthusiasts. There is, as well, the fact
that Gracie is, while herself an original,
at the same time a survival. She satisfies
what nostalgia there is for the glorious
old days of Vaudeville. She is Vaude-
ville when it was a succession of originals
in individual acts, before it had degen-
erated into mere revue. She is of the
London Palladium and Coliseum when
they were at their best. She is Vesta
Tilley and Marie Lloyd and all the rest
of them. Anybody who has formed a
poor impression of her from canned
Gracie—filmed or broadcast—might be
astonished at the fresh quality of
herself. Perhaps in time people will get
tired of the fakery of shadow represen-
tations and mechanic-sounding voices,
ind Vaudeville may come back again.
More likely to think so is to dismiss all
but this aspect of the Gracie phenomenon.
Gracie is undoubtedly good ; but, apart
from that and also' the woman-appeal
aspect, it might still be doubted if there d
have been that incredible queue for her
if she came from, say, Ruritania, instead
of from Old England.
C. M.
Sundry Shows.
A tiny proportion of Harold Herbert's
vast output makes an interesting memorial
exhibition at the Victorian National Gal-
lery. Herbert produced a water-color
sketch with great facility—sometimes, per-
haps, with too much facility—and he
often worked on an outdoor impression;
in his studio. He came to his character-
istic formula very early in his painting!
life, and he changed his outlook so little
that his earlier sketches can hardly be
distinguished from his later, so much so
that an onlooker could easily imagine
that the Nat. Gallery show was his latest
exhibition. Had he found the job harder
going his work might have become pro-
founder. As it stands, however, it is
pleasant and refreshing and easy to
understand.
Adelaide Repertory, with Jack Ham
producing, tackled for five evenings
Priestley’s weird “They Came to a City”;
which starts by suggesting that all the
characters are recently dead, yet ends by
sending them back home to report on this
ideal city (which the audience never sees
into), free from greed and selfishness. The
long dialogues pro and con gave the
actors a difficult task, in which they did
well. Keith McDonald came back from
broadcasting 'to play the tramp-
philosopher who realises that this earth
is “paradise enow.” The play is peril-
ously near a sermon.
Dr. Malcolm Sargent is a dynamo of
energy at a rehearsal, but a dynamo
which stops and starts, reverses opera-
tions, becomes contemplative, indulges in
earnest conversation with the first violin
or the oboe, or has a discussion on
acoustics with an A.B.C. conductor. At
a performance, when the thing has started
and can’t be stopped, he is a smooth
machine which never hesitates from start
to finish. In his first programme at Mel-
bourne Town Hall he had his orchestra
with him in a polished performance, the
daintiest of which was the walk with
Delius to the Paradise Gardens, and the
most complex the Symphony No. 2 in
D Major of Brahms. The Concerto No.
1 in E Minor of Chopin brought Jascha
Spivakovsky to the piano. He has be-
come such a confident performer that
if anything went wrong it would have to
be attributed *to physical causes. The
rondo was a scintillating piece of business.


"TRUTH IN ADVERTISING"
the Senior store 1
I V
1
lA ..
ii
m
* "mm
1
m
#
4S
ii
■ .<
m*
W
%
n
- • I A"
V
*f\
■\
I
* t/Jr 1
sk.. «/.
wljs
v«
J.
v» <%
i ** % *
tw. .
>■■
i®
•M. .f
i^‘
■
✓.j
-->-
<rvs
Cj% c
/ *iK V xTf
V v>
> >
»
>s
»
4 \
Ii
SR#
V*
v
ii
i
a
*
if
//>/ / / /
' ; ■
TWILL WINCEYETTE, suitable for ladies' and
children's night wear or underwear. In three
shades: Salmon, Lemon and Pale Green. 36
inches wide 3/2i yard
2-j coupons yard.
PRINTED WINCEYETTE.—
Illustrated are only three of
the many designs available,
suitable for ladies' and child-
ren's wear. Pink and Blue
tonings on White grounds
predominate. 36 ins., 3/2 yd.
and 2-j coupons yard.
I.—WHITE TURKISH BATH TOWELS.
Soft, absorbent weave, fringed ends.
Size 24 -X 48 inches 5/2 each
3 coupons.
2.—COLOURED TOWELS. British
manufacture, reliable quality.
Green or Orange stripe predomi-
nant on Fawn grounds. Size 22 x
44 inches 3/11 each
3 coupons.
3.—COLOURED TOWELS. Heavyweight,
absorbent, reliable wearing quality. Blue
stripe on Fawn ground. Size 22 x 44
inches. Price 3/3J each.
3 coupons.
WHITE HONEYCOMB BATH TOWELS, British manufacture, absorbent, hemmed ends.
Size 24 x 48 inches 4/11 each
3 coupons.
PLAIN TEA TOWELS. Osnaburg, heavyweight, absorbent. 27 x 34 inches, 2/1 each
2 coupons.
COLOURED BORDER TEA TOWELS. Soft, absorbent weave. Red border. 24 x 34, 2/6 ea.
2 coupons.
HHi
m - i
i
L—QUALITY SHIRTING suitable for
Shirts or Pyjamas. Blue ground with
Darker Blue stripes, also Tan with
Brown stripes. 36 ins. wide, 4/4i yd.
2 2- coupons yard.
2. QUALITY FASHION £>HIRTING
in Green or Blue tonings. 36 inches
wide 3/3 yard
2i coupons yard.
3. NARROW STRIPE EFFECT in
Blue, Tan or Green and White block
stripes. 36 inches wide, 3/11| yard
2 i coupons yard.
• Manchester Department—Ground Floor.
■
MATTRESS
9*
PHONE; M 2401 (DAY AND NIGHT)
Vi
m
i
n
r
r
CRIMEAN FLANNEL is a mixture of
Cotton and Wool. Suitable for Win-
ter Pyjamas. Broad fancy Blue or
Fawn striped designs. 29 ins., 6/1 yd.
2i coupons yard.
ALL WOOL NATURAL FLANNEL,
for men's and boys' wear. 28 inches
wide 3/4| yard
2 \ coupons yard.
ALL WOOL CREAM DOCTOR
FLANNEL, fine texture, soft finish for
infant's wear. 28 ins. wide, yard
coupons yard.
Freight paid in N.S.W.
FAMOUS LOW PRICES
BOX 2712 C, G.P.0., SYDNEY


Hereward and the Chestnut-tree
BY J. H. MELVILLE.
OH, yes. Aunt Min forgave our
family for killing Hereward
Beck, her cousin off the dredge.
She is forgiving us yet, with a sweet-
ness and persistence that is damning. Each
anniversary of that Sunday morning years
ago she comes brushing through the cur-
rant bushes, a pilgrim with her basket.
“Remember how you stood here under
the tree?” her litany goes, as she waits
for the ladder to be placed for her against
the big horse-chestnut tree that grows
between our place and her cottage. “Re-
member how you egged him on? And
how you laughed” . . .
Her ascent of the ladder is slow and
faltering now, and her hands grope un-
certainly for the starry white flowers of
the clematis twining through the tree.
But then, when the clematis and the
chestnut are in bloom the breezes of
spring are coming up from the lake, the
tree quakes joyously at the whispering
of a thousand green tongues alive with
the devilment of the man who died in
its branches. There is no shame then
in remembering that Sunday morning.
For the mood of the tree bears witness
that, short of some fantastic death-scene
enacted in one of his own dredge-buckets,
there was no other exit befitting such a
man as Aunt Min’s cousin off the dredge.
Most of what we’d known of Here-
ward Beck for years was in the wonder-
ment aroused by a strange ornament
among the bottles on Aunt Min’s scul-
lery shelf. The thing was a glass dome, s
covering souvenirs that included a bat-
tered gold watch, pieces of greenstone,
a rusted revolver and a smaller jar in
which starfish and other marine speci-
mens were preserved. A label, roughly
lettered, bore the terse advice “Dredged
up. Hereward Beck, 5 ” It had been left by
Hereward on the. last of his rare visits. He
hadn’t returned to the cottage since then,
despite joint ownership of the property with
Aunt Min —a condition of his father’s will.
But then one day, by a telegram which
adopted Aunt Min’s cottage as his home,
the existence of the man off the dredge
moved a stage beyond the ornament on
the shelf: “Heart gone. Home tomorrow.
Hereward.”
In the greyness of next morning’s
frosty dawn Aunt Min was out and busy ;
a plump, rubicund, stick-wielding genie
disappearing and re-emerging from the
smoke and steam eddying round her
copper in the yard. She was arranging
a family reception for Hereward, and
at intervals throughout the day she was
through the privet dividing hedge, one time
with doughy hands and another with her
hair straggling out from under a dust-cap,
bringing a revised set of instructions.
We assembled at the gate that even-
ing, but we didn’t see Aunt Min assisting
her stricken cousin over the rise from
the railway station. She returned alone
and anxious. Hereward had not arrived.
Our household was awakened later
that night by her frantic call on father,
“Harry! Harry! There’s a man com-
ing up the drain!”
Father clattered out of the house in the
lead, and the rest of us, in assorted styles of
undress, were soon trailing him cautiously
down the orchard to the company drain.
The night was frosty again, aand the moon
was high above the plantation. Through
the apple-trees, it shone on a wisp of a
man knee-deep in the weeds of the drain.
“Ahoy, there!” he greeted over his
shoulder, as he struggled to drag a boat
up on to the bank.
He wore a cap and had a bulging sack
slung across his back.
“Hereward!” exclaimed Aunt Min.
Shivering and miserable. Aunt Min
had her hair knotted up in scrappy bits
of rag and wore an old coat over her
nightdress. She stammered out her wel-
come and asked how he’d got there.
“Worked my pasasge,” Hereward said.
He indicated briskly that he’d come up
from the river mouth in a dinghy and
changed to a duckshooter’s flattie at the
lake, rowing up the creek and finally pant-
ing up the drain past the slaughter-yard
to the bottom of the section. He’d snipped
obstructing wires of cross fences and
dragged his boat over gateway bridges.
“Well, I’ll be damned,” Father said.
He spoke for all of us. Nobody had
come home to the Flat by boat before.
Nobody had thought of it. The sea and
its life had been something remote and
distinct behind the hills; the Flat had
been the land and inviolate.
Reduced to gestures. Aunt Min led
Hereward up to her cottage. The rest
of us, overawed by the advent of a revo-
lutionary, filed back silently through the
wet cocksfoot.
SURE enough, a blue boat was lying
beside the drain in the morning, and
the soles of a pair of clogs faced into our
back door as Hereward lay back on Aunt
Min s porch with his feet up on the rail.
“He says he mustn’t be disturbed,”
Aunt Min told us.
Every now and again she was out
patrolling the privet hedge, armed with
her broom in defence of his seclusion.
If Hereward saw gaping kids stealing a
peep at him round the end of the porch
he gave no sign of it, though he cer-
tainly looked directly at us.
His gaze seemed drawn by something
beyond the objects of immediate vision,
and sometimes his mouth twitched in a
fleeting smile, at whatever it was he saw.
There was something of resignation in
ms smile—and contempt. His small
face, under a thatch of grey bristly hair,
was craggy and assertive in comic rela-
tion to its size. As he lay back there in
Aunt Min’s cane chair, his blue jersey
hung on him in folds and a tartan rug
covered his knees.
He whistled two of us over next day
asked us to take him along to Dono-
van s place. Everyone knew Donovan’s
place. Hereward’s ignorance of the dis-
trict showed how little interest he’d taken
on his infrequent visits to Aunt Min. He
refused to believe that the quickest way
was over the rise and round past the rail-
way station by road.
“There’s short cuts everywhere if you
look for them,” he said.
We took him on a detour through the
plantation and came out at the bottom of
Donovan’s gardens and saw Big Fred
seated on an upturned box, hammering
listlessly at the back of a shed.
Big Fred didn’t see us until we were
beside him. His eyes looked askance at
Hereward out of a pufly sallow face. A
piece of rein-leather was riveted into his
belt, and his trousers gaped open at the top.
Briefly, but politely enough, Hereward
asked for a loan of a horse and dray to take
the duckshooter’s boat back to the lake.
“I’d a lot of trouble last time I lent a
horse and dray,” Big Fred said charily,
without going into detail.
“I’d look aftef it.”
“Maybe you would,” Big Fred con-
ceded, “I’m not saying you wouldn’t.
It’s not that. There’s other things. You
don’t know the bad luck I have.”
“I know what bad luck is,” Hereward
said. “My heart’s gone.”
“Have you got a big family?”
“I’ve never bothered.”
“It’s hell when you’ve got a family,”
Big Fred said, taking his point with mor-
bid relish. “Club-root down by the plan-
tation.” He smacked his hammer viciously
against the patched weatherboard. “Spuds
blighted on me last season.” His hammer
smacked again, “And, sure as prices are
worth getting, I’ve got the worst crop
in the country.”
After he’d cited figures to justify his
lament, he got up and waddled round to
the front of the shed to bring old price
returns for comparison.
Suddenly a gunshot boomed in the shed.
“He’s shot!” Hereward exclaimed,
darting round the corner.
We followed him, scared and uncertain.
Big Fred was lying among loose straw
in a corner of the shed. There was a
gun beside him and a patch of sky showed
thrqugh a hole in the roof.
Hereward asked if he was hurt, and
was answered by a picturesque commen-
tary on the fate that would make a man
leave a loaded gun where it could be
accidentally dragged down off its shelf
and discharged.
“If you’d thought of your family,
you’d never have done it,” Hereward
was saying, disregarding Big Fred’s out-
burst. Just for an instant his mouth
twitched in that quick ironic smile. “You’d
never have done it no matter how bad
things are.”
“Done it?”
“Come in here to do yourself in.”
Big Fred’s eyes goggled, and then he
swung up behind a horny fist that took
Hereward in the mouth. Another one,
coming in from wide out, caught him as
he fell. He lay quiet for a minute. Then
he began spitting blood into the straw.
Big Fred, standing over him, was try-
ing desperately to speak.
Hereward looked up and lisped through
broken teeth, “I only came to ask you
civil-like for a horse and dray.”
“I might have killed you! You with
your bad heart, too! ” Big Fred managed
to stutter when he found his voice. “But
you see how it is with me, don’t you?
You see how it is?” His hands were out,
appealing for understanding. “It’s always
something. Five minutes ago I was mend-
ing my shed.” He was half-crying. “Other
men mend their sheds.”
Hereward waved us away from the door.
He wasn’t home for tea that night.
Later in the evening Donovan’s dray
pulled up outside, and we saw Hereward,
unsteady on his feet, being assisted into
Aunt Min’s by Big Fred, who left him
at the porch and went plodding on dourly
down the section to drag the, boat up
from the drain and load it into the dray.
Hereward had gone inside.
Presently he came out again with Aunt
Min. His bag was on his back, and a
bandage covering his mouth muffled the
answers he gave as she, protested against
his leaving. He slid the bandage down
his chin to declare conclusively “There’s
not a doctor allowed to lay a finger on
me but me own man in town.”
Aunt Min showed no hostility to Big
Fred ; we learned afterwards that Here-
ward had explained his mouth injury and
a subsequent seizure as being due to an
accident.
“I’ll put him on the bus,” Big Fred
promised her, after he’d climbed into the
dray and hauled Hereward up after him.
Her concern was somewhat allayed by
Hereward’s assurance “I’ll see me own
man in town tonight and he’ll have me
fit as a trout in no time.”
We stood with her at her gate and
waved goodbye as they drove away.
LIT XCEPT for a note that came later,
—' saying he was back on the dredge,
nothing was heard of Hereward for
months. Then one afternoon Big Fred
brought him up from the station
in his dray. Alongside Hereward’s tin
trunk there was a big box of fish—fish
for Big Fred, for Mr. Glover-Brown, the
stationmaster, and enough left over to
feed our family for a month.
Hereward looked shrunken and uncom-
fortable in a new blue suit and a felt hat.
This time Aunt Min wasn’t going to
be cheated out of her reception. ' She
coaxed him over to our place that same
evening, eager to tell of his coming debut
as a stage performer.
Doubtless inspired by Hefeivard’s job on
the dredge and the gift of fish, Mr. Glover-
Brown had managed, with Aunt Min’s keen
support, to persuade him to play Neptune
in a marine tableau that was to be a fea-
ture of a charity concert in the hall.
Hereward wasn’t so enthusiastic. He
slumped back in the armchair and stored
into the fire with half-closed eyes.
“Remember what we promised,” Aunt
Min *chided, wagging a finger at him as
she caught him in the act of slipping out
his newly-fitted false teeth into a piece of
red flannel. “Company, you know.”
“I’ve got sunk gums,” he boasted in
a defiant outburst to all in general.
“There’s not a dentist alive that can fit
me with bottom teeth for eatin’.” With
his teeth out he lisped as he’d first done
in Donovan’s shed.
Afraid, perhaps, of a clattering inser-
tion, Aunt Min hurried him away while
his teeth were still in his pocket.
Next morning we were out at the chop-
ping-block with him, watching his deft,
knobbly fingers fashion a trident out of
a shovel handle and a length of heavy
fencing wire.
“I’m making ’er solid so’s you young-
sters can use ’er after to spear eels in
the creek,” he told us.
The trident, bound with fancy paper,
was sloped over his shoulder as he
marched up to the hall with Aunt Min
on the night of the concert.
“You kids keep away from that man,”
father warned as we watched him pass.
“He’s got the points of that pitchfork of
his as sharp as needles.”
But he did no more with his trident
than, was expected of him, and he did
that well —on the 1 stage.
Back in the ante-room everybody con-
gratulated him on his performance. Still
wearing his loose white robe and card-
board crown, with his trident resting
against the wall behind him, he had been
placed at the head of a plank-and-trestle
table, at which the rest of the tableau
players were seated awaiting refreshment.
The jabber of conversation was muffled
to a low drone by the steamy brickwork of
the room. Two of the pirate quartette were
causing amusement by springing out and
brandishing their cardboard cutlasses as
women brought in plates of cakes. The
statiopmaster’s wife came in with an urn,
from which the scent of brewing tea rose
to dispel the odor of mould pervading
the hall.
Aunt Min was fussing about and man-
aging everything in sight. She had roped
in some of us kids to help in serving
supper, and seemed to have everything
under control.
Then suddenly she gripped my arm.
“His teeth! ” she gasped.
A piece of red flannel in Hereward’s
hand had attracted the interest of every-
one in the room. He had it almost to
his mouth before he caught the meaning
of Aunt Min’s signals. With apprehen-
sion came that odd grin of his that flick-
ered for an instant and was gone.
Grasping his trident and raising it im-
pressively, he held the piece of red flannel
at his eyes and reverently bowed his head.
The midshipmaids, who were really the
Misses Leaper and their schoolmistress
boarder, promptly lowered their heads
over the table, and there was only
momentary hesitation here and there
before all in the room had their heads
down. The door had swung shut. Voices
of a children’s choir out on the stage came
through softly. There was no other sound.
Then, silently and stealthily, Hereward
wiped out his teeth.
He replaced his trident against the wall.
Aunt Min stood shaking her head, and
the tableau players eyed him with shades
of expression varying between deference
and bewilderment.
Probably because Aunt Min was so
proud of his performance on the stage,
his lapse wasn’t mentioned on the way
home after the concert.
He presented us with the trident as an
eel-spear after he’d made a few practice
lunges at a hedgehog scuttling through
the grass on the roadside.
His clogs were up on the rail next day,
and Aunt Min was patrolling the privet
hedge. That was Saturday.
WE were out at the woodheap on Sun-
day when he died. The morning was
exceptionally hot and muggy for spring.
Aunt Min, sitting with Hereward in
her porch, looked up now and again from
her knitting to shout orders at her dog
down the yard, but the cackling and yelp-
ing broke out anew each time the terrier
doubled back to get among her hens
again. Eather was chopping wood in the
shade of the chestnut-tree, and he cursed
his poor aim each time he let fly at the
dog with a stick. Aunt Min varied her
concern by calling warnings to a pair of
us skylarking in the tree.
“Do some of my old gymnasium tricks
that i was teaching you,” Father ordered,
loudly enough for Hereward to hear.
We did our best to impress with a few
pointless antics that Father cherished as
a legacy of his “gymnasium days”—a
champion javelin-thrower had one time
kept the top store and conducted physical-
culture classes in the stables at the back.
“You’ve got to be fit for that sort of
thing,” Father told Hereward.
Aunt Min was alarmed by something
Hereward had said. She was hanging to
his braces trying to restrain him as he
got up and came out of the porch. He
made a joke of her distress, dancing her
through the currant bushes and then
breaking away.
He was up the chestnut-tree like a cat.
As he clambered through it he was
sweeping aside the foliage and grimacing
at her from about half a dozen different
angles in as many seconds.
Seeing us looking up and laughing at
his clowning annoyed her. She stamped
her foot and said “You’re not to encour-
age him.”
Then he was teasing her by hanging
upside down just out of her reach, his
knees over one branch and his feet
hooked under another. The contents of
his pockets—a knife, coins, nails, span-
ners —rained down on her as she bobbed
about helplessly below. She gathered them
out of the grass and threatened to hold
them forfeit in an effort to coax him down.
But he stared at her as if pretending
not to hear. She had worked herself up
to a state bordering on terror, and our
amusement thrived on such a droll contrast
with Hereward’s disregard. We had never
seen her authority countered that way.
She had realised what was wrong. Then
we understood, too. But it was too late.
After he’d been taken down out of the
tree and into Aunt Min’s cottage there
was nothing that could be done. Here-
ward had died.
The familiar sounds of Sunday were lost
in the hush that filled our house that day.
“\A/HAT’S a tree like that doing here
W anyway?” Father asked later.
“How did it get here in the first place?”
A sense of unreasoning imposition was
eased by hearing him use that tone to
associate the afternoon’s tension with '
some sinister influence of the tree.
“It’ll have to come out,” he said. “I’ve
been meaning to get at it for a long time.
It was a promise of vindication.
But the horse-chestnut tree is still
standing, surviving each winter until the
mischief of Hereward Beck returns with
spring, when out of its tossing leaves the
rays of early-morning sun come winking
into the back bedroom to make a mock-
ery of remorse and Aunt Min’s pilgrim-
age. There is no sadness then in the
memory of that Sunday morning and thq
man off the dredge.


The Bulletin
Voi. 66—No. 3412
Wednesday, July 4, 1945
AFTER ’FRISCO.
“And everybody praised the Doc.,
Who this great fight did win.”
“But what good came of it at last?”
Quoth little Billykin:—
“Why, that I cannot tell,” said he;
“But 'twas a famous victory.”


The Bulletin
The National Australian Newspaper
“Australia for the White Man”
Directors:
H. K. Prior J. E. Webb
P. H. Prior David Adams
HEAD OFFICE: 252 George Street, Sydney:
Box 2521 BB; 'Phone 87971.
Victoria: Newspaper House, 247-249 Collins
Street, Melbourne.
Queensland : 239 Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Westralia: 33 Barrack Street, Perth.
New Zealand : Nathan s Buildings iopp,
G.P.0.), Wellington.
London: 1 Hare Place, 47 Fleet Street.
London, E.C.4.
MOSCOW, 'FRISCO. ETC.
Russian ways haven’t noticeably changed
with the change of systems.
Just as the French of the First Repub-
lic and Empire followed the “expansion-
ist” foreign policy of the Bourbons so
the present rulers of the Russian
dominions are following the “expansion-
ist” foreign policy of the Czars, who
accumulated most of what to the en-
tranced eyes of the Red Dean of Canter-
bury is the Socialist Sixth of the World
by wars of conquest. They are reaching
out towards the Mediterranean and the
Persian Gulf—witness the forms of coer-
cion applied to Turkey and Iran and the
Moscow agent Tito’s claim to Trieste—
and apparently have plans for the Baltic
resembling the plans of the Czars for the
Black Sea. That sea was closed for mili-
tary purposes against Russia by the treaty
signed after the Crimean War. The treaty
was “denounced” by Czarist Russia while
France was losing the 1870-71 war against
Prussia, and the British Government of
the period accepted the “denunciation”
rather than go to war again alone.
The only difference between then and
now is that the Czars had only Russian
backing for their imperialist adventures.
Their successors have the service in nearly
all foreign countries, even throughout the
English-speaking world, of Communist
parties, communism being organised envy,
hate and greed.
Stalinist Russia, like Czarist Russia, has
a secret police, a controlled press and the
semblance of a Parliament which is of
no more consequence than the Duma.
One of the correspondents who were per •
mitted to stay in a Moscow hotel during
“the war against Hitlerite Germany” re-
turned to London reporting indignantly
that no member of the pub corps was
allowed at any of the Great Victories
they chronicled so effusively, to the im-
mense, though temporary, advantage of
“Australian” communists and fellow-
travellers, all the “information” coming
from suspicious and often uncivil officials.
Other correspondents have been refused
permission to enter Russia or any of the
countries occupied by the Red Army. A
large band of them held a protest meet-
ing and called upon the British and
American Governments to secure this
permission for them, so far without the
slightest effect.
After the abdication of Napoleon in
1814 “Russia, exaggerating the part it
had played in the final struggle, demanded
that the whole of Poland should be added
to the Russian dominions.” (Encyclo-
paedia Britannica, ninth edition.) This
year of grace has witnessed the same
exaggeration and the same effort to make
all Poland a Russian province, though the
procedure has not been quite the same.
At Yalta representatives of Russia,
Britain and the United States agreed that
the half of Poland grabbed by the Rus-
sians in association with the Germans, with
the great city of Lwow and other histori-
cal parts of Poland which never came
under Russian sway till September, 1939,
should become Russian property. At
Moscow, with the blessing of represen-
tatives of the same three Powers, a so-
called Provisional Government of
National Unity, three-fourths communist,
was “formed” to “govern,” subject to
Moscow, the part of Poland which Russia
did not chose to seize, plus German terri-
tories which have not been marked out
for direct Russian possession and rule.
In each case, as the Polish Government
in London has pointed out, these arrange-
ments were made on foreign soil without
reference to, much less representation of,
the Polish Government or Home Army
recognised by the British and U.S. Gov-
ernments. To the Home Army even the
enemy granted belligerent rights. The
only use Russia had for it was to put one
of its leaders and other patriot Poles on
trial for their lives in the Russian capital
for acts alleged to have been committed
m Poland, the trial being staged while
“the Provisional Government of National
Unity” was being improvised in the Rus-
sian capital.
On grounds of logic and of national and
inter-Allied responsibility the protest of
the Polish Government in London is un-
assailable, And that Government is sup-
ported by all the Poles in the British ser-
vices and by the great masses of civilian
Poles in Britain and Western Europe,
all of whom, to the embarrassment of
Moscow’s plans for Poland and eastern
Germany, which need millions of docile
Poles for fulfilment, refuse to go back
(those who came from eastern Poland
are now men without a country)
until self-government is guaranteed.
It is certainly no answer to smear
the Polish Government in London, still
accredited by Britain and the United
States, with the word “emigre.” It
is “emigre” only in the sense in which the
Governments of France, Belgium, the
Netherlands and Norway, which took
shelter in Britain, were “emigre” (though
they were never so smeared by Australian
leftist papers) until their countries were
liberated by Anglo-American arms, with-
out which and without the great material
resources which Britain and the United
States placed at Russia’s disposal, at cruel
cost in men, ships and ’planes, the Red
Army might still be fighting beyond the *
Urals, if fighting at all.
A propaganda charm snapped when
the last shot was fired in “the war
against Hitlerite Germany,” and the
effects have already been felt in this
country. It was easy to present the
exploits of the Red Army in all the
colors of romance while the Red Army
was in action, but it is impossible to do
this persuasively with Russian foreign
policy, as revealed between Tehran and
Yalta and since. In any case, “Russo-
phile” publications not tied to the Com-
munist party have lost the taste for their
foimer pursuit since Russia has not only
exhibited an utter contempt for the first
of the Four Freedoms, freedom of speech
and expression, but is exercising it at
their expense.
Moreover, returned prisoners of war
and others who speak with knowledge,
and none of whom can be dismissed as
“fascist,” are saying Awful Things.
Maoriland newspapers have published the
subjoined dispatch from a Press Asso-
ciation correspondent;
I have yet to meet one returned prisoner
of war liberated by the Russians from the
Germans who has a good word to say about
the Russian Army. They are not enthusi-
astic about their treatment by the Russians,
and several state that if they had not
escaped they would still be in the camps.
Sydney newspapers, even the “Tele-
graph,”’have published shattering state-
ments vouched for by returned Diggers.
One, a corporal from Randwick, said he
had “wandered through the Russian lines
for weeks before being officially placed
in Russian barracks for repatriation.”
We were searched by Russians all along
the route, and our cigarettes were taken
from us. Three parts of a Red Cross
parcel were stolen from our sled while we
were in a farmhouse getting a cup of tea.
Russian officers told their troops to lay off
us, but whenever the officers were out of
sight the infantrymen frisked us. We saw
farms where German men, women and
children had been shot. We saw cases of
rape and some of the most horrible sights
of death I have ever seen. The Russians
wreaked vengeance on anyone or anything
German; some of them went berserk. The
average Russian soldier is illiterate and is
lost without the guidance of his officers.
Another, a private from Newtown,
related to the “Telegraph,” which prides
itself on accurate reporting, how he and
nine other Australians and 73 Tommies
had fared after their escape from a- Ger-
man military prison near Dantzig:
When we took refuge in a farmhouse we
were surrounded by Russian regulars. The
sergeant-major in charge, thinking we were
Germans, lined us up and ordered a Soviet
tommy-gunner to shoot us down. A Soviet
guerrilla came up just in time and identified
us. The Russians in the patrol went outside
and killed two German civilians they had
found asleep in a barn.
Then came a terrible passage:
They dragged off German girls aged
about 14 and raped them. About 20 Rus-
sians raped each girl. Some of my British
mates saw the Russians drag the girls away
after they had lost consciousness.
The “Tribune” sought out the private and
asserted, allegedly on his authority, that
he had been “wrongly reported.” The
“Telegraph’s” Sunday issue, reproducing
a statement signed by the soldier, gave
the communist sheet the lie.
Another returned Digger testifies that
he was in an Austrian p.o.w. camp along
with other Australians, many British and
French and soldiers of other nationalities
when Red Army soldiers arrived in bad
shape. They were accompanied by Russian
medical orderlies in much better condi-
tion, and, to the astonishment of the Aus-
tralians, British and French, the medical
orderlies carried whips. The whips they
used to prevent the Red Army soldiers
getting more food than the medical order-
lies considered good for them —their own
absorbent capacity seemed unlimited.
Taking pity on the moujiks, the Austra-
lians shared Red Cross parcels with them,
they having none of their own —to Mos-
cow the Red Cross is an excrescence on
the capitalist system or something of the
sort. But run-down as they were, and not
being used to such food, the Red Cross
comforts made the poor devils sick.
And there is the testimony of Mr.
Maloney, the Australian Minister to Mos-
cow, imparted at “private” meetings of
Labor politicians and trade-union bosses
and reported, without denials from those
particular quarters, in Mr. Lang’s “Cen-
tury” and the Sydney “Sun.”
Arriving full of zeal, Mr. Maloney
found among the office impedimenta an
Australian flag which had been borne to
Moscow by his predecessor, Mr. Slater,
as a pledge of fraternal affection. Dis-
appointed, but still game, he offered to
make a public presentation of the flag,
and proposed also to stage a diplomatic
reception, thinking that the Soviet hier-
archy would be present. In each case Mr.
Maloney received a “cooler.” He stayed
a bit longer than Mr. Slater did and then
contrived to return to Australia and report
—that Soviet trade-unionism is a sham and
that the Workers’ Fatherland is every bit
as class-ridden as Czarist Russia, Com-
munist party members, officials and “high-
ranking technicians” getting the pick of
what is going in State restaurants and
stores ; in fine, the Russian workers are
worse off than the workers in India.
Mr. Maloney was Poland’s Protecting
Power in Moscow until informed by one
of the countless officials that he was no
longer recognised as such. Although
Minister Makin protests, without going
into details, that the “Century” and “Sun”
reports are “inaccurate” and denies that
the Soviet Legation has lodged a diplo-
matic protest, Mr. Maloney may now
need some protecting himself.
At San Francisco the representatives of
the Russian Soviet Federal Socialist
Republic, the Ukrainian S.S.R. and the
White Russian S.S.R. signed the United
Nations Charter and if it may be pre-
sumed that their signatures commit the
other 13 “republics” (the number is dis-
puted by “unreconstructed” Estonians,
Latvians and Lithuanians), that looks
good as far as it goes. It would look
better if the second clause of the Atlantic
Charter, vital to small nations within the
Russian sphere of influence or ambition
and several times subscribed to by Russia
(“No territorial changes that do not accord
with the freely-expressed wishes of the
peoples concerned”) had not been left out
of the San Francisco instrument, which
does not mention the Atlantic Charter at
all. It would look better still if people
who, in the light of very ugly develop-
ments, have misgivings about the Anglo-
Russian Treaty of Alliance can agree with
an American writer that the Charter
supersedes that treaty. Supercession is
provided for but only by “mutual agree-
ment” : —•
Article 111.
(1) The High Contracting Parties declare
their desire to unite with other like-minded
States in adopting proposals for common
action to preserve peace and resist aggres-
sion in the-post-war period.
Article IV.
This Article [it provides for mutual de-
fence against an attack by Germany or any
of its allies] shall remain in force until the
High Contracting Parties, by mutual agree-
ment, shall recognise that it is superseded
by the adoption of the proposals men-
tioned in Article HI. In default of the
adoption of such proposals it shall remain
in force for twenty years [from Aug. 12,
1941].
It will be time enough for exultation in
the doings at San Francisco when doubts
are removed, as they may be at the Berlin
meeting of President Truman, Mr.
Churchill and Marshal Stalin, There is
no cause for anything of the kind in the
Russian Note to Britain’s other ally Tur-
key “seeking special rights over the Bos-
phorus and the Dardanelles,” with “bases
in the Straits,” or in the Russian “acquisi-
tion” of Varna from Bulgaria and
Ruthenia from Czechoslovakia, whose
“Government” has become as abject as
the Lublin crowd.
Just Like Old Times!
Apparently everybody in these historic
days is far too occupied to find
time for reading anything so distant and
fusty as history as written by Edward
Gibbon. A pity, since the most cur-
sory reading in Gibbon’s tomes can
unearth many striking resemblances to
recent happenings, correcting the evi-
dently prevailing notion that history dates,
at the furthest, from 1918.
Literally scores of precedents for the
butchery of Mussolini crop up. Pertinax
—a name currently familiar ; one of the
army of foreign correspondents uses it —
was “dispatched with a multitude of
wounds” after “a barbarian of the country
of Tongres” had levelled the first blow.
Pertinax’s head was cut off, stuck on a
lance and carried away in triumphant
procession. For those times —it may go for
these times, too —Pertinax was compara-
tively gentlemanly and civilised. Corn-
modus may be a better example. After
this ruler of the Roman Empire had been
strangled by a husky youth and execrated
with such terms as “tyrant” and “public
enemy”—by all accounts, that was put-
ting it mildly—it was
decreed in tumultous votes that his honors
should be reversed, his titles erased from
the public monuments, his statues thrown
down, his body dragged with a hook into
the stripping-room of the gladiators, to
satiate the public fury.
“These effusions of impotent rage
against a dead eniperor, whom the Senate
had flattered when alive with the most
abject servility,” commented Gibbon,
“betrayed a just but ungenerous spirit of
revenge.” It provides a handy yardstick
for measuring the march of mankind. “To
depose or to punish with death
the first magistrate of the republic who
had abused his delegated trust,” Gibbon
added, “was the ancient and undoubted
prerogative of the Roman Senate; but
that feeble assembly was obliged to con-
tent itself with inflicting on a fallen tyrant
that public justice from which, during his
life and reign, he had been shielded by
the strong arm of military despotism.”
In short, it had to leave the job to the
mob. Progress is certainly wonderful.
The Romans, too, had their Victory
Parades with elephants in lieu of tanks,
chariots for armored cars and spears,
swords and suchlike instead of rifles,
tommy-guns and bazookas. But they had
other appropriate attractions with them.
The prototypes of Ribbentrop, Lord
Haw Haw and the rest were all there,
with the ropes already round their necks,
the mob jeering them, and ahead of them
the spectacular prospect of being torn to
pieces alive. As well,
a great quantity of large trees, torn up by
the roots, were transplanted into the midst
of the circus. The spacious and shady
forest was immediately filled with a thou-
sand ostriches, a thousand stags, a thou-
sand fallow-deer, and a thousand wild
boars; and all this variety of game was
abandoned to the riotous impetuosity of
the multitude. The tragedy of the succeed-
ing day consisted in the massacre of a
hundred lions, an equal number of lion-
esses, two hundred leopards and three hun-
dred bears.
For the current Victory Parade “a big
stand has been erected in the centre of
Berlin, near the Brandenburg Gate,” How
“big” is not stated; but there are exact
figures for the “Victory Stand” erected
by the Romans for a like purpose. It was
“five hundred and sixty-four feet in
length and four hundred and sixty-seven
in breadth, founded on fourscore arches
and rising, with four successive orders of
architecture, to the height of one hundred
and forty feet,” the outside of the edifice
“encrusted with marble and decorated
with statues.” “Nothing was omitted
which, in any respect, could be subser-
vient to the convenience and pleasure of
the spectators,” The arena assumed the
most different forms —“the garden of the
Hesperides,” “the rocks and caverns of
Thrace,” or, say, “a wide lake, covered
with armed vessels and replenished with
the monsters of the deep.”
All this will be absent from the Victory
Parade in Berlin ; and absent also will
be the poets who of old celebrated
the conqueror and his conquests in
suitable stanzas. “However we may
censure the vanity of the design or the
cruelty of the execution,” wrote Gibbon
regretfully, not, of course, referring to the
poetry, “we are obliged to confess that
neither before nor since the time of the
Romans so much art and expense have
ever been lavished for the amusement of
the people.” Perhaps there is yet time to
make those Romans look pikers.
Further, the Big Three are about to
meet in Berlin, against a background not
only of victory over aggressive Germany,
whose cohorts lately spread over much
more of the Roman Empire than the
ancient aggressive barbarians from that
country managed, but also of plans for
keeping Germany henceforth from ever
again making war. Gibbon on the third-
century victory and plans:
Probus passed the Rhine and displayed
his eagles on the banks of the Elbe and the
Neckar. He was fully convinced that no-
thing could reconcile the minds of the bar-
■ barians to peace unless they experienced in
their own countries the calamities of war.
Germany, exhausted by the ill-success of the
last emigration [Gibbonese for blitz], was
astonished by his presence. Nine of the
most considerable princes repaired to his
camp, and fell prostrate at his feet. Such a
treaty was humbly received by the Ger-
mans as it pleased the conqueror to dic-
tate. He exacted a strict restitution of the
effects and captives which they had carried
away from the provinces, and obliged their
own magistrates to punish the more obstin-
ate robbers who presumed to detain any
part of the spoil. A considerable tribute
of corn, cattle and horses was reserved
for the use of the garrisons which Probus
established on the limits of their territory.
He even entertained some thoughts of com-
pelling the Germans to relinquish the exer-
cise of arms, and to trust their differences
to the justice, their safety to the power, of
Rome. To accomplish these salutary ends,
the constant residence of an Imperial
Governor, supported by a numerous army,
was indispensably requisite.
On second thought, that made Probus
ditch his great design. Gibbon’s view of
it being that, “had Germany been reduced
into the state of a province the Romans,
with immense labor and expense, would
have acquired only a more extensive
boundary to defend.” Probus did not
have the inestimable advantage of a mul-
titude of planners, but otherwise he
appears to have been up against a prob-
lem bearing an extraordinary resemblance
in background and details to that which
the Big Three are billed to Ipok into.
“Instead of reducing the warlike natives
of Germany to the condition of subjects
Probus contented himself with the humble
expedient of raising a bulwark against
their inroads.”
It should be highly interesting to some
future Gibbon to look back and see what
the Big Three did about it.


PLAIN ENGLISH
Money? What's Money?
Parliament has appropriated £27,000,000
for payment of old-age and invalid pen-
sions in 1945-46. This is far more than
double the Commonwealth income-tax
yield in 1938-39, £11,882,440, though
Commonwealth and State income taxes
that year, especially in N. S. Wales and
Queensland, were among the stillest in
the world. On other social services an
expenditure round £50,000,000 is blithely
contemplated, and the question of how
the money is to be found never worries
“Labor” unless “Labor” is pressed for
reduction of taxes, with exemption for
nearly all wage- and salary-earners, who
receive four-fifths of the national income.
“Labor’s” answer can be construed to
mean that the matter will be attended to
in the election year; and after that the
deluge.
Defending the huge expenditure on old-
age and invalid pensions, increase of
which will be useless to the recipients if
cost of living goes up, Mr. Holloway had
the face to assert that “administrative
expenses are the lowest in the world,”
and that “no one can get an invalid
pension who has not given at least 20
years’ service to industry in this country
and who has not a clean moral record.”
Recent criminal cases in N.S.W. have
rendered it very doubtful whether these
requirements are insisted upon in all cases.
N. S. Wales, with two-fifths of the popu-
lation, has nearly half the number of
invalid pensioners: in 1941 27,248 out of
58,921, both sexes, and in the case of
women, 15,310 out of 32,446. The 15,310
nearly equalled the totals for Victoria
(6676), Queensland (4483), S.A. (2710)
and Westralia (1881), although the female
population of N. S. Wales, all ages, that
year (1,401,977) was 608,262 less than
that of the other four mainland States
(2,010,239). These odd facts ought to
make the “Government” inquisitive,
though they never do. .
Harold and Herbert.
Two souls with a single thought:
By a strange coincidence two men, neither
of whom can claim Parliamentary authority,
although one is a Cabinet Minister, have shot
up as arbiters of foreign policy: British in the
one case, Australian in the other.
In a moment of folly British Labor chose
Professor Harold Laski as chairman of its
party organisation. It should have known that
the gentleman, though full of knowledge, is
empty of wisdom and has a mania for intro-
ducing Continental socialism, with “controls”
and all the rest, into a country which has always
rejected it. Nor could the party have been
ignorant of writings in which its professor in-
sultingly compared the British war performance,
hindered by capitalism, with that of the Rus-
sians, inspired by socialism. Pexhaps some of
the old hands hoped that it would be delivered
of the professor through his head bursting.
In the office of chairman the Laski head did
swell prodigiously, and this can scarcely have
escaped observation. But the Parliamentary
leaders were obviously not prepared for the
ultimatum he delivered when Mr. Attlee was,
very properly, invited by Mr. Churchill to go
with him to his Berlin talks with President
Truman and Marshal Stalin, as confidant, coun-
sellor and possible successor. Professor Laski
announced, in effect, that he would permit Mr.
Attlee to attend but “only as an observer,”
in no way bound to accept the decisions arrived
at. If called to office as Prime Minister he
was to be bound to carry out “Labor’s” (i.e.,
Laski’s) “foreign policy, which is in many re-
spects not tied up with that of the Tory-domi-
nated coalition and far sounder.” And it was
“very necessary that Mr. Churchill, Marshal
Stalin and Mr. Truman should be quite aware
of the position.”
This was too much for the Parliamentary
leaders. Mr, Attlee, with Mr. Bevin’s public
support, accepted the invitation, informing Mr.
Churchill, and through him the that “my
principal colleagues in the House of Commons”
were of the same mind with himself as to the
“great public advantage” to be gained, by “pre-
serving and presenting to the world that unity
on foreign policy that we have maintained
throughout the past five years.” Mr. Attlee
added that “there was never any suggestion”
from his “principal colleagues” that “1 should
go as a mere observer.” Thus snubbed, Mr.
Laski had to accept the situation, but, his con-
ceit asserting itself, he was presently heard say-
ing that “throughout Europe and over part,
perhaps most, of Asia,” there was “a great
democratic revolution” whirling the “liberated
peoples” on to socialism, that “the Labor
party supports their efforts” —meaning the efforts
of the Russian agents in Yugoslavia, Rumania,
Bulgaria, Poland and the rest—and that “its
foreign policy is based on that support.”
The other arbiter of foreign policy is, of
course, Dr. Evatt. Whereas the matters dis-
cussed at the San Francisco conference were
fully debated in both branches of the Legisla-
ture at Ottawa, as well as in the British
House of Commons, as custom demands, Dr.
Evatt did not bother to consult the House of
Representatives or the Senate. In this he was
following his own bad practice as Minister
of External Affairs.
At San Francisco, though he was not the
leader of the delegation from Canberra, he
seems to have acted as if leadership had been con-
ferred on him, and as if decisions on Australian
foreign policy were for him to make, and him
only. The one great and promising feature of
the conference was that the British and United
States representatives were in friendly agreement
throughout. Recognising the importance of
British Commonwealth unity, the Canadians and
South Africans worked in with the British,
headed by Lord Halifax. On important matters
our No. 2 elected to play a lone hand.
Towards the close of the proceedings Dr.
Evatt was reported as having reached the view
that “Australia and New Zealand are now the
chief spokesmen for the Empire, since Britain’s
voice must in future be tempered by the de-
mands of Big Five unity”—which is ridicul-
ous and may be dangerous. And he fell foul
of Lord Halifax over the authorship of “the
trusteeship provisions in the charter,” what-
ever they may be. In the result, according to
one account, Lord Cranborne “protested
against Dr. Evatt’s criticism of the British
Ambassador and his off-the-record reference to
the British delegates as obstructionists” —this
in a letter to Mr. Forde, now back in Aus-
tralia. Mr. Forde denies the letter, but admits
“discussions” with Lord Cranborne. He will
certainly be questioned on the subject, and on
other conference matters, particularly his re-
lations with Dr. Evatt, when he reports to
Parliament, which he will have to do if Parlia-
ment still counts for anything with his party
—Mr. Menzies and Mr. Spender have doubts.
It is just as well for the party that it
will not this year have to account to the
country for its adventures in foreign policy, to-
gether with control of money and credit, all
the existing “controls,” “Labor’s” housing, food
production and man-power record, its attitude
to five-year servicemen and its Re-establish-
ment Bill—subject of a Sydney R.S.L. protest
meeting which has put the wind up some of
the Ministers. British Labor is not so lucky.
At an ordinary election it would find Mr. Laski
a dreadful handicap. This is no ordinary elec-
tion, and, with Mr. Churchill making a vic-
torious progress through the constituencies, the
like of which Gladstone himself never ex-
perienced, the party is palpably fated to run
another second.
In essentials English foreign policy has not
changed since Queen Elizabeth’s reign. The,
people who, under the leadership of a man of
heroic mould, brought Hitler and Mussolini
down, as their forefathers brought down
Napoleon, Louis XIV and Phillip 11, are not
going to swap Mr. Churchill for Mr. Laski and
leave the foreign policy which has survived so
many storms to be jettisoned by an arrogant
little Left-Wing Jew.
North Queensland Astir.
One part of this continent where the
people are up and doing with plans for
their own advancement after the war is
North Queensland, From Rockhampton
to Cairns and out as far as Winton there
is a great stirring and public meetings are
being held all over the place. The in-
spiration comes from the belief that in
all the dreams of the Canberra post-war
planners there is no place for the North
(North Queenslanders are not alone in
that belief), and the North, knowing its
own capabilities, is flat out to do some-
thing for itself.
There are proposals for meatworks,
shipbuilding, railway and bridge con-
struction, housing, electricity and mining ;
for expansion of the land industries and
of fishing and timber-growing. There is,
too, a strong movement for a new State.
This is a healthy sign and an example
to other areas. It is naturally and
directly opposed to the habit of relying
on distant city Governments and of
placing too much power in their hands.
For half a century it has been obvious
that the chief cause of centralisation is
the location of Governments in bloated
cities with predominant voting power,
influence and ignorance.
Still Under Restraint.
A returned p.o.w. as recorder:
When we left Germany late in 1943 we spent
about three days in Marseilles, a day in Bar-
celona and about a month in Egypt. We had a
fairly good time in Egypt, and from our own
people there a heartwarming welcome. Major-
General Rowell, who was Australian liaison
officer at the time, surprised us once by apolo-
gising for what, in his opinion, was inadequate
provision for our comfort and amusement. He
added that, although he was prepared to accept
all responsibility, if we made any complaints
on our arrival in Australia they might result in
more and better facilities being available for
the next batch of homing p.o.ws.
There were no complaints. Those of us who
were ill were taken to a New Zealand hospital
at Heluon Les Bains, a suburb' of Cairo, which
was staffed by a splendid crowd of doctors,
nurses and orderlies. The youngest V.A.D.
there was a veteran. General Rowell’s small
staff were also veterans —of the M.E. or New
Guinea, or both. It made a big difference.
When we arrived in Melbourne we went
straight to Heidelburg Military Hospital, where
the Victorians among us met their people.
Arrangements had been made to send the New
South Welshmen and Queenslanders away the
same night, but we found we had to wait.
There had been a coal strike.
When we arrived at Sydney Showground we
met our families and were given 21 days’ leave.
So far so good, and we were favorably im-
pressed by the speed with which we were issued
with leave passes, food coupons, pay and
so forth. When we had a good look at Sydney
the incredulity we had felt when we heard that
Australia still indulged in coal strikes faded a
little. I think I lost it after the fifteenth taxi-
driver slowed down, leered contemptuously at
my uniform and then drove on in search of
richer prey.
The 21 days’ leave was all too short. One?
back at the Showground we realised that the
earlier celerity shown had been simply a grand-
stand play. For a time I suffered, more or less
patiently, the parades and roll-calls which seem
an integral part of the bqse-wallah’s religion.
By dint of a cunning born of long experience I
managed to evade fatigues, although I was re-
lentlessly pursued up to the day of discharge by
a couple of adolescents who happened to be my
superior officers. Generally speaking, although
I was treated as a rather unintelligent raw re-
cruit, it wasn’t too bad, and once I was medi-
cally boarded and discharged I forgot about it
quickly enough. And, after all, I thought, the
base-wallah is the same the wide world over.
Men returned from the prison camps of Ger-
many via England or Russia have been less for-
tunate. They had to endure gruelling conditions
in the final phase of the European war, when in-
ternal transport broke down. Those who came
out through Russia were not tenderly treated
by our “allies,” and those who went to Eng-
land had the bad luck to strike the Australian
base-wallah (now a fully-qualified returned
soldier by virtue of the trip) at Eastbourne
camp. Things got so bad there that Brigadier
lan Campbell, former C.O. of the 2/Ist Bat-
talion, and former p.o.w. in Germany (inciden-
tally, a very gallant soldier), had to take over
himself and straighten out the mess. Men at
Inglebum Convalescent Depot hope he will
come home soon and clean up Inglebum,
When they arrived the grandstand show
was put on, and they had their 21 days’ leave.
Now a friend of mine, aged 45, who had a
not undistinguished career in the 2/Ist Bat-
talion, 6th Division, is spending his first weeks
in his own country carting pig feed, under the
command of chaps who have never seen a shot'
fired in anger or even petulance.
The men are roughly split into three groups:
those who cart pig feed, those who chop and
carry wood and those who do route marches —
ten-mile marches are common. In addition,
they do guards, pickets and sundry fatigues.
There are five roll-calls a day, which in itself
makes the place a punishment camp. These men
have seen enough of punishment camps to
last them for life —camps, moreover where con-
ditions were worse than even the most in-
genious base-wallah in Australia could imagine.
But they bitterly resent the fact that they are
being punished, and they want to know why. If
necessary they would like court-martials. If
they are to be discharged they would like it to
be done swiftly. They have waited years to
get home and they wish to enjoy what they
can of their own lives as quickly as possible.
One man who came out through Odessa has
bgen waiting six weeks.
On the other hand, they say, if they are to
soldier on let them be given refresher courses
and a chance to catch up on their training.
And let them be treated as soldiers and given
their own officers. Leave would be wise and
humane as well, for five years or so is a terrible
time to be away from home, and the returned
p.o.w. usually has much to do. But base-wallahs
don’t understand that sort of thing —how could
they? .
MORE MOPPING-UP.
“At a great public meeting in Sydney Town Hall Digger speakers characterised the Re-establishment Bill as ‘a hoax,' ‘a
mockery’ and ‘a swindle’; and there is to be a public protest march.”


Safe and Profitable—
AN “A.C.A.” POLICY.
* Old age or untimely death terminates a man’s earning-power, but matures
the life policy.
* Think of your dependants, and the time when YOU will be dependent.
With an A.C.A. whole-life or endowment contract you can’t go wrong. Your
premiums earn bonuses, which accumulate as the policy matures.
* Take out an A.C.A. policy and you have a front-rank investment. The
Office directs attention to “The Bulletin’s” criticism (17/3/’43). Policy-
holders get 90 p.c. of the profits.
Australasian Catholic Assurance
COMPANY, LTD,
Head Office: A.C.A. Building, 66 King Street, Sydney.
E. J. Mooney, Managing Director. P. J. Ryan, Secretary.
Brdnch Offices :
Victoria: A.C.A. Building, 118-126 Queen Street, Melbourne.
Queensland: A.C.A. Building, 270 Queen Street, Brisbane.
South Australia: Bank of N. S. Wales Chambers, 12 King William Street, Adelaide.
Western Australia : Warwick House, St. George's Terrace, Perth.
District Offices and Agencies Throughout the States.
-
MUSIC for the MILLIONS
THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF MUSIC MASTERPIECES:
A complete Concert, Radio and Record Guide, by David Ewen. Large
handsome volume, size 10 x7£ inchtes, and two inches thick. 700 pages.
38/6 (post 1/3).
Here is the long-awaited treasury of music by the famous authority. The book
is a rich store of information on all forms of musical masterpieces, entertaining
and instructive. This one-volume musical library gives plot outlines to the operas,
short biographies, survey of each composer’s place in Music, etc.
Morley’s Variety. A selection from the
writings of Christopher Morley, contain-
ing three complete novels, and selec-
tions from his writings, short stories,
essays, poems and plays. 636 pages.
12/6 (post Bd.).
The Best American Wit and Humour. An
anthology of modern essays, sketches
and poems by America’s sharpest wits.
7/6 (post 4d.).
The Bedside Bonanza. By a galaxy of
41 stars. Stories, humorous, satirical,
adventure, love and romance. Edited
by Frank Owen.
18/6 (post 6d.).
The New Concise Illustrated Encyclopedia.
over 3000 illustrations, more than 1200
pages of valuable information. 15/-
(post 1/-).
ANGUS & ROBERTSON, LTD., 89 Castlereagh St., Sydney.
POLITICAL POINTS
Forde came back from ’Frisco praising
Evatt and everybody and everything.
Australia, which Curtin “put on the
’ is allowed a share in the glory;
its “international reputation” is now “at
a higher standard than we have ever
previously achieved,” its “delegation”
having been “easily the strongest ever
sent by this country to an international
conference.” As for the United Nations
charter, it is “the most important inter-
national document- ever written.” Hughes
and Cook, returning from Versailles with
the mandate over New Guinea and a
share in Nauru and Ocean Island, and
with the covenant of the League un-
sullied by a Japanese race-equality
clause, were comparatively modest. But
modesty is now out of fashion.
Forde takes over from Chifley, the
mildest-mannered House leader who ever
applied the guillotine to legislation like
the Re-establishment and Banking bills.
Chifley is, however, first favorite for the
succession to Curtin, whose condition has
not improved. It is significant that pen-
sions for Prime Ministers are being dis-
cussed on both sides.
Exit Stettinius as U.S. Secretary of
State (he has received an Irish promo-
tion to an Uncio job); enter Byrnes,
Director of War Mobilisation. Byrnes
was a friendly rival of Truman for nomi-
nation as Vice-President, and if Truman
is fated not to complete his term Byrnes
will succeed him. This consideration,
more than any dissatisfaction with the
work of Stettinius as Cordell Hull’s suc-
cessor, seems to have prompted the
change.
J. L, Hodson’s account, condensed, of
the British election arrangements:
We shall vote on July 5. Nineteen days
later, an interval to allow service votes
to come from all over the world irrspecial
aircraft, counting will take place. The pre-
siding officer, his clerks and all the police
guarding the sealed ballot-boxes are sworn
t'o secrecy.
Alexander, the Macedonian (not the
Eighth Army man), sighed for new worlds
to conquer. Bluecher, looking down on
London, said “What a place to plunder! ”
If the grand old Sydney Labor artificer
who made the ballot-boxes with sliding
panels is still available and in the mood
to contemplate the British elections, a
similar sentiment must agitate his
buzzum.
For 637 seats in the House of Com-
mons there are 1675 candidates —two
Labor members and a Conservative were
returned unopposed. -Labor has nomi-
nated 601, the Conservatives 547 and the
Liberals 305 ; the rest are Communists,
Common Wealth chaps and Independents.
The private member’s salary is £6OO a
year, less tax, and no gold passes—only
railway warrants entitling a member to
travel between his electorate and Lon-
don when Parliament is sitting. Members
of the Westralian Assembly and Council
are much better off with their £6OO a
year, free travel throughout the Com-
monwealth and New Zealand and a great
deal less to do.
“Whatever the politicians may say”
(“Labor” is understood), “the five- and
six-year men in the Ninth Division are
tired soldiers.” Thus Allan Dawes in a
Labuan despatch to Melbourne “Herald”;
and he went on to say that “every one I
have asked, and I have asked plenty,
would give the game away tomorrow.’”
He quoted “a chap about 40,” who said
“Billy wouldn’t have done it —Billy
wouldn’t have let down the low num-
bers.” No ; whatever else may be urged
against him, Billy knew what was due to
S °i d l g °t Anzac leave for
/UUU A.I.F. veterans after four years’
service. Many of them looked very weary
and worn when they returned. If the
present breed of Labor politicians met
any of them the memory must have been
fleeting.
Dr, Evatt, his last words at San
Francisco;
We won’t forget that it was a Soviet dele-
clause^ 10 drafted the full-employment-pledge
If “we” try any tricks with the external-
affairs power by way of getting round
the powers-referendum result “we” shan’t
be allowed to forget it.
The reaction against the communist
conspiracy started when the Russian war
ceased to be a subject for romance, and
has even reached the Sydney Labor Coun-
cil. Last week that semi-communist show
rejected a proposed amendment of the
A.C.T.U. constitution intended to place
the A.C.T.U, completely under com-
munist control. It is even possible that
THE INGRATE.
“Re f erri ng to the capital levy projected in France, Senator Cameron, the Postmaster-General,
said 'We may reach that stage in Australia.’ ”
Mr. Chifley; “What Senator Cameron said was his own personal view, The Government
has not considered the proposal, and, as far as I know, does not intend to consider it.”
"And you a nineteen-forty-three boy, which means that you won’t have to
go up for exam. till ’forty-nine. Couldn’t you have spared a thought for
those who will have to go up next year?”
Thornton’s credentials as “Australian
representative” at . the next Soviet-
dominated Trade-union Congress will be
withdrawn. •
In all or nearly all the countries in
Russian occupation or with communist-
controlled “Governments” what is called
“a redistribution of land” is in progress.
The process is the same everywhere; the
land is seized from “fascists” and par-
celled out amongst supporters of the
regime. Protests that the dispossessed
parties are not “fascists” are useless and
resistance is suicide. In Rumania all the
“big estates” have been selected for “ex-
propriation” (a “big estate” is any-
thing over 250 acres) and divided into
“grants” of up to acres.” Rumania
is a wheat-growing country. Com-
munists are plying Australian wheat-
growers with propaganda and have had
some success. Australian wheatgrowers
must be charmed with the definition of
250 acres as a “big estate” and with the
prospect of trying to make a fortune, as
“peasants,” on a communist grant of “up
to 12} acres.”
Going to Birmingham, a Chamberlain
stronghold for 70 years (a son-in-law of
Austen Chamberlain is now the only
representative of the family standing),
Churchill was showered with confetti,
bouquets and kisses and that “in the
poorer districts.”
Shouts of “Good old Winnie” mingled
with singing of the “International” by a
group of workmen waving a red flag.
Dismal song, dismal interlude, dismal
group—no doubt a few shop stewards
and the like. In a London constituency,
it is also recorded, hoodlums —com-
munists no doubt —tried to howl down
Bader, the legless airman, when he was
speaking for the Conservative candidate.
This communist larrikinism, like Laski’s
crawl-to-Moscow “foreign policy,” is ah
assurance of triumph for Churchill’s
party at the polls.
J. L. Cremean will succeed his dead
brother, H.M., as Labor M.L.A. for
Clifton Hill (Vic.); he has a communist
opponent, but nowadays communist
opponents don’t matter. The impression
the brothers have made on Clifton Hill
electors was indicated by the pre-selection
voting: 646 for Cremean, 101 divided
among four opponents. If J.L. makes
good, as H.M. did, he should find it no
difficult feat to step from the Assembly
in Melbourne into the House at Can-
berra.
Sydney “Daily Telegraph,” through its
'Roving Reporter, Mr. Blunden, has
thrown its vast influence into the British
election campaign on the Labor side,
“The Parliament which has dissolved,”
the Roving Reporter raves, “was a Par-
liament whose majority appeased the dic-
tators Mussolini, Hitler and Franco.”
Very different from Mr, Blunden’s paper ;
in 1938 it wanted to fight all three and
Japan as well, mobilising for the pur-
pose all our Wirraway squadrons, the
two 10,000-ton cruisers built in 1925 or
thereabouts and the 30,000-odd militia
boys, “trained” 12 days a year. Not four
years later it insisted on the supercession
of the Blimps in Egypt by Russian
generals and the immediate invasion of
the Continent under Timoshenko’s com-
mand and the shipment of all the Austra-
lian divisions to Java. And it can’t
understand why its orders were never
obeyed.
The latest Soviet trial had familiar
and unfamiliar aspects. Familiar in that
the “prosecutor” made a series of politi-
cal speeches execrating the Polish Gov-
eminent in London and in that “confes-
sions” were made from the dock; un-
familiar in that three of the 16 charged
were acquitted, a fourth was “too ill to
attend the hearing,” and the rest, instead
of being condemned to execution per
bullet in the back of the head, received
prison sentences. Nor did the confes-
sions have the old abject touch. Some of
the “criminals” spoke out boldly.
General Okulicki saying “We want the
friendship of the Soviet Union on one
condition, the preservation of Poland’s
independence ; there will be no friend-
ship if the Soviet Union wants to enslave
Poland.” His words will go ringing
around the democratic world.
In the election of members the British,
like the Canadians and Maorilanders,
adhere to the first-past-the-post system.
This should work out to the advantage of
the Conservatives in many electorates and
the Laborites in many others, leaving to
the Liberals only the hope of gaining the
balance of power. It seems a faint hope,
though the interest aroused by Beveridge
and his plan may carry a few Libs, in.
Scotland, once a fortress of Liberalism,
was lost to the party long ago, and Lloyd
George’s death dims its prospects in
Wales.
Predictions that the N.S.W. Liberal
conference would end in a general
wrangle or washout were not fulfilled.
Like much of the anti-“ Tory” stuff being
printed about the British election, they
seem to have been inspired by wishes
rather than thoughts.
In a very unusual libel case Melbourne
“Herald” was sued by a juryman who
objected to its comments on the acquittal
of the youth Sutton, charged with the kill-
ing of a girl in sordid circumstances. The
claim was for £5OOO damages. For the
newspaper, J. F. Mulvany stated that in
20 cases in which murder was the charge
there had been only two murder verdicts,
each coupled with a recommendation to
mercy; eight accused had been found
guilty of manslaughter and nine were
acquitted ; period, 18 months. The action
failed.
The Australian Wool Board has pro-
duced a graph designed to show that as
the national wool yield rises or falls so
does the national employment position:
Tear. Wool cheque. Employed.
1911 .. .. £30,000,000 1,300,000
1919 ~ .. 50,000,000 1,500,000
1921 ~ .. 35,000,000 1,450,000
1925 .. .. 80,000,000 1,600,000
1931 .. .. 33,000,000 1,400,000
1933 .. .•. 50,000,000 1,500,000
Adam Smith had a somewhat similar
idea regarding the price of wheat. But
the board has done a foolish thing, for
“Labor” is sure to want the wool in-
dustry “nationalised to protect the
workers against these iniquitous fluctua-
tions.”
Australian and Maoriland accounts of
the ’Frisco conference picture Bert Evatt
and Pete Fraser as always scoring in
argument. Doubts intrude after the read-
ing of American reports, particularly one
in which “Newsweek” describes how
Senator Connally, from Texas, justified
the powers vested in the Security Council,
“which the New Zealanders wanted to
weaken.”
Slowly rising to rhetorical heights, Con-
nally demanded “Where would Eisenhower
be today if he bad had to seek the approval
of all the United Nations before landing in
Normandy?” Pointing an accusing finger
at Carl A. Berendsen, the N.Z. delegate, he
thundered, “And you, Mr. Berendsen,
where would you be today if the United
States had had to ask the United Nations
for permission to defend your country,
even before the South Pacific had run red
with American blood?
Berendsen was at Canberra for a time.
Like the zealots rebuked by Cromwell,
and, like Herbert Vere Evatt, he gave the
impression of being incapable of enter-
taining the thought that he could possibly
be wrong about anything.


CHMUj'Nu
battow-
'ML
1744
This man is completely nuts. He s got a
crazy notion that by increasing his idling
speed he charges his battery! And> oh! how
it eats up petrol coupons.
The wise way to keep your battery in tip-top
shape is to get a fortnightly check-up and an
occasional re-charge from your nearest Exide
dealer. It will give you many extra months
of service.
BATTERIES
STILL KEEP GOING WHEN THE REST HAVE STOPPED
Exide Batteries of Australis* Pty., Limited,
44 Bridge Street, Sydney.
PERSONAL ITEMS
Tasmania’s new Governor, Admiral
Sir Hugh Binney, K.C.8., C. 8., D. 5.0.,
R.N., began in H.M.S. Britannia ; was
gunnery officer in H.M.S. Queen Eliza-
beth in 1914-18; on C.-in-C.’s staff, Grand
Fleet, 1918 ; captain in 1922, and in com-
mand of H.M.S. Cardiff till 1925, when
he* became Deputy-Director of the Plans
Division at the Admiralty. He was
Flag Captain in H.M.S. Nelson, 1928-
30 ; then Director of the Tactical School;
in command of H.M.S. Hood (1932-33);
Chief of Staff, Plymouth ; rear-admiral
and then vice-admiral; Commandant
Imperial Defence College, and admiral
commanding Orkneys and Shetlands,
1939-42. He retired in 1943. His wife
is the eldest daughter of the late Lieut.-
Col. Blair-Imrie, C.M.G., 0.8. E. Admiral
Binney succeeds Sir Ernest Clark, retir-
ing at 82 after 12 years as Tassie’s Gov-
ernor.
There’s a largish issue of fighting ex-
perience in the Playoust family, repre-
sented through Bill Prior’s drawing by a
medico member of it, Dr. (Captain) Roger
Playoust, of Cremorne, Sydney. The doc.
himself can adorn his sleeve with six
chevrons. With the first crowd to the
Middle East, he eventually stayed on look-
ing after the wounded in Crete, was taken
prisoner and only a month or two back
was repatriated from Germany, where
he’d been meanwhile p.o.w. Dr. Playoust
CAPT. ROGER PLAYOUST.
is one of seven brothers, six of whom
served in the 1914-18 war, mainly with-
the French Army; two of them were
killed. Being French, he, too, was just
off to France to do his military service
when that war ended.
Any competitors? The Jas. Campbell
and Sons firm, Brisbane, claims an Aus-
tralian record, with nine employees who
have been on its payroll for more than
50 years without a break. These old-
timers are G. P. Campbell (with the firm
for 62 years), C. W. Campbell (58 years),
H. Hartley (56 years), W. Ryan (55 years),
P. Walsh (53 years), A. Adsett (53 years),
J. Reid (51 years) and W. Stewart (50
years).
Yet another Old Digger goes up in
S.A., with the elevation to the Bench of
George Coutts Ligertwood, K.C., who
takes the place of knight Angas Parsons
in the Supreme Court. Adelaide-born, of
Scotch descent, Ligertwood, J., collected
his 8.A., LL.B. and the Stow Medal at
Adelaide Uni. in 1910, and served his
articles with Uncle J. R. Anderson, K.C.,
later becoming associate to Samuel Way,
C.J. In 1916 appointed Acting Master
of the Supreme Court, Ligertwood since
1920 practised with Baker, McEwin,
Ligertwood and Millhouse. He took silk
in 1930, and was leading counsel for the
States in the uniform taxation case in
1942. Now 56, he’s a former president
of the Law Society in S.A. and a vice-
president of the Law Council of Aus-
tralia.
Wing-Commander Colin Gordon,
whom St. Peter’s College, Adelaide, gets
as its new headmaster, is an Englishman
who has educated youth in two Austra-
lian States. He was housemaster at
Manifold House, Geelong Grammar, for
four years, and was senior classics
master at The King’s School, Parramatta,
until he enlisted in the present war. A
Charterhouse boy who went to Christ
Church, Oxford, and graduated B.A. in
1930, he was president of the Oxford
Athletic Club, was in the British Olympic
team in 1928 and in the .Empire Games
team in 1930. His wife was Patricia
Newbegin, of Melbourne, and he has one
daughter. Gordon has been in charge of
the R.A.A.F. rehabilitation section at
Albert Park, Melbourne.
R. W. Bosisto, chairman of the new
commissioners of the W.A. Rural and
Industries Bank, comes from manager-
ship of the National’s branch department
in W.A., a job which gained him experi-
ence in many parts of the State. An
Old Digger, Bosisto knows something
about soldier settlement and its problems.
His fellow commissioners are R. W.
Brownlie, for years with the Agricultural
Bank and on commissions of inquiry,
and C. Abey, an old E., S. and A. Bank
man and former Agricultural Bank g.m.
“Ek Dum” on an old acquaintance:
Denis Boyd, who becomes Britain’s first
Admiral (Air), is a lean-jawed, humorous Lan-
castrian, with plenty of drive and ability. He
reached commander’s rank in 1924 during the
cruise of the Atlantic Fleet, which he made in
H.M.S. Hood as torpedo commander. Like
Hood’s executive commander, F. H. W. Gool-
den, Boyd was lent’ to the R.A.N. after the
cruise and spent two years here. He served as
captain of a destroyer flotilla in the Mediter-
ranean during the Spanish civil war, and gained
the special experience which made him one of
the greatest of Cunningham’s fighting captains
during the glorious years of 1940-41. He it was
who took Illustrious to Taranto in November,
1940, and carried out the first major air blow
in history against a .battle fleet holed up in a
well-defended port. He left the Italian fleet
looking as if a Philippines tornado had been
through it and justified the theories over which
he used to become a little hot under the collar
15 years before when naval roles and the air
were discussed. Promotion to rear-admiral fol-
lowed, and he was a tower of strength as, in
Formidable and Indomitable, he pulled his
squadron through the difficult period of Crete
and the time that followed. In 1943 he became
Fifth Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Air Equip-
ment, and most of the organisation for the
R. onslaught on Japan in the Pacific was
his work.
Geoffrey J. D. Hamlin, registrar-secre-
tary and accountant of the Pharmacy
Board of N.S.W. for 16 years, moves to
S. to become secretary of the Public
Teachers’ Union. He’s A.I.F. of both
wars.
C. K. Gamble, chairman and managing-
director of Vacuum Oil since January,
1938, is returning to New York to take
up a high executive post with an associ-
ated oil organisation. One of Australia’s
leading business figures, he has also been
Commissioner of the American Red Cross
in the South-west Pacific and an execu-
tive of other patriotic bodies. He was
on the original executive committee
which organised A.C.F. His successor
in Vacuum Oil is Harold Rabling, resi-
dent director of the company in New
York for the last seven years.
Edward George Brooke, director resi-
dent in Australia of Cables and Wireless,
has seen some remarkable changes in
Australian communications since he
started as a dot-pusher at Georgetown
(Tas.) in 1885. The Eastern Extension
operated a cable that was capable of
talking only one way at a time, and then
at a pace that the manual operator could
easily keep up with. Now a single cable
is capable of several simultaneous tele-
graphic communications, as well as tele-
phonic conversation, at a speed that even
automatic instruments can’t cope with.
An immigrant from London, Brooke
taught himself telegraphy, from a key he
bought in a shop in Melbourne. In 1919
he became Australasian manager of
Eastern Extension, with h.q. in Mel-
bourne. Prominent in Melbourne racing,
he’s the owner of several winners and is
treasurer of Moonee Valley Race Club.
Brigadier Warren Macdonald R.A.E.,
whose name has been put forward as a
Country party candidate for Hume at
the next Federal elections, is an institution
in Canberra and its surrounding districts.
Born at Penguin (Tas.) and educated at
Launceston Grammar, he is now 44.
By profession a civil engineer, he has
the reputation of being willing to tackle
any job, and when he tackles it it usually
gets done in record time. His latest record
was achieved in becoming a brigadier.
BRIG. WARREN MACDONALD.
He enlisted as a sapper in September,
1939, came back in 1942 as C.R.E.,
Sixth Division, served in the Owen
Stanley campaign, and has just left
Kapooka Training Camp, of which
he made a grand success, to be-
come chief engineer to one of the Aus-
tralian Corps in a fighting area. This
has scarcely been bettered in A.I.F. his-
tory. Brigadier Macdonald is a pleasant
companion, who in his young days was
well known as an inter-State Australian
Rules footballer, has captained Can-
berra teams both in cricket and foot-
ball, and is now president of Can-
berra Golf Club. He has land connec-
tions, and owns a very efficient sheep
farm. All in all, the kind of soldier who
would add ability and prestige to Parlia-
ment.
One way to wings:
Many know Fred Haig, Vacuum Oil’s avia-
tion manager, whose hawk eye and eagle fea-
tures are here reproduced by Mcßeath, but few
know the story of how he came to enter the
flying business. Wounded on Gallipoli and in-
valided back to Australia, he joined the then
just-forming No. 1 Squadron, A.F.C. as an
armorer. Back again in Egypt, while jumping
the rattler one night from the forward area to
Alex, he luckily found a half-empty carnage.
On the other side stretched a sleeping soldier,
and soon the train-hopper was in the same
posture. Came the dawn and the truth. In
the darkness Haig had accidentally slipped into
FRED HAIG.
the private carriage of General Salmond, R.A.F.
The upshot was an immediate transfer to a
flying school, which would have resulted in a
commission if the potential airman hadn’t been
posted A.W.L. from his own unit for the two
months of the training, Salmond’s advice of his
appointment having failed to reach Fred Haig s
C.O. As it was, he became the A.F.C.’s first
sergeant-pilot. Followed a brilliant flying record
and, later, 300 flying hours as chief pilot with
Qantas. Since then Haig has been chief pilot
to S.A. Aero Club, and has gone on two world
tours in connection with his present job.
Squadron-leader, A.T.C., and a member of the
RA A F Air Crew Interview Board, post-war
aviation will no doubt see him adding further
to his crowded record.
Going to Chungking University to con-
duct courses in bacteriology for
U.N.N.R.A., Dr. Ernest Singer, is a Czech
who came to Melbourne from Prague, a
fugitive from Nazism, in 1939 as research
scientist at the Baker Institute. He is a
first-class linguist. Chemical agents for
countering the diphtheria toxin is his
special study.
The first Y.M.C.A. welfare officer to
go overseas with the Sixth Division in
January, 1940, Allan MacLachlan, was
captured in Greece and taken to Ger-
many, where he carried on his fine work
for the troops. He lately arrived safe and
sound in England after four years p.o.w.
Val Bevis, first Y.M. welfare officer with
the A.I.F. at Tarakan, was also among
the first to enter Sattelberg when it fell;
by the time the main body of troops
arrived he had a coffee stall in operation
m a tumble-down Jap building.
“C. 8.”: The traditional red flag was
flown at half-mast at the Trades Hall,
Melbourne, for Harry Langridge, a pic-
turesque old-timer. This generation knew
him only as a quaint old whitebeard
who frequented city dance halls with
a flower in the buttonhole of his trim
coat. In his heyday, as a member of the
Clerks’ Union, he was a thorn in the side
of the conveners of Trades Hall confer-
ences as a crusader for social reforms
then regarded as advanced. One of his
notions was an alteration of the Consti-
tution to debar employers from mem-
bership of the Labor party. Like Ber-
nard Shaw, he advocated free bread for
the entire population, employers not
excluded. Eighty-eight at the finish.
J. A.. O’Connor, Deputy State Gov-
ernment Insurance Commissioner (Q.),
is to retire after 50 years in the public
service. He has held his present post
since 1921. Earlier he represented
Queensland in rowing and Rugby Union.
Into the silence:
At 56, from a heart attack, and buried at
sea with naval honors, Rear-Admiral Muirhead-
Gould. Flag Officer-in-Command at Sydney-
prior to last September, he was in control when
the Jap midget subs, were stonkered. An able
officer and a good fellow, he was in great re-
quest as a speaker on patriotic occasions. He
recently took the surrender of the German com-
mander at Heligoland.
In Adelaide, at 91, Charles Shilton, a driver
for 40 years on the coaches of John Hill and
Co., the local Cobb and Co. of last century.
After he retired, during the former big war,
he did good work at the Remount Depot.
His favorite . memory was of driving King
George V and his elder brother part of the way
from Adelaide to Melbourne when the boy
princes were here in 1881.
In London, the wife of Lionel Logue, ot
Adelaide and Perth, the specialist in speech
defects who cured King George of his stammer.
She was a niece of Paris Nesbit, the most pic-
turesque Adelaide barrister of his time.
At 86, William T. Frost, formerly of
Manoora (S.A.); sheep-breeder in the Lower
North, ex-member of the local district council
and judge of livestock at country shows.
At Ipswich (Q.), at 76, G. Humphreys, who
had been a resident there for 71 years; born in
Liverpool (Eng.) and coming to Australia as a
four-year-old in a sailing ship. He was secretary
of the Ipswich Hospitals Board for 33 years,
secretary of the Ipswich Grammar School (where
he was educated), and also secretary for 40
years of the Grand United Order of Oddfellows.
“Hamer”: Auburn’s “friend of the poor,”
Dr. Ludwig August Kortum, was given the
most impressive funeral the Sydney suburb has
known. Practically everyone in the district
turned out to see the last of the man (dead sud-
denly at 54) who had for 20 years run a ser-
vice for the old and poor, refusing to accept
fees. Unmarried, Kortum was, outside his
practice, a sportsman and an air enthusiast,
owning his own ’plane.
In an air crash into the sea off Mindanao
Group-Captain J. A. Mitchell, one of a brilliant
band of Citizen Air Force officers. With
No. 3 (City of Sydney) Squadron in the
C AF. before the war, he was called up lor
full-time duty in September, 1939. He was then
with Vacuum Oil in the western parts ot
N.S.W. At the time of his death Assistant
Director of Operations at Headquarters Allied
Air Forces in the Northern Fighting Area,
he was the son of former N.S.W. Commis-
sioner of Police James Mitchell. _
At Norton Summit (S.A.), at 85, Thomas
Playford, orchardist and father of Premier
Thomas Playford. Son of a former S.A.
Premier of the same name, he was well-known
in the fruit industry and a pioneer director ot
the East End Market Co.
At 62, John Banks, artist and Fellow of the
Royal Art Society. Fie studied under Harry
Garlick, Syd Long and Lawson Balfour, and
was a perennial exhibitor With his society. His
only show of his own work, held some years
after a trip abroad, found ready buyers
IO At C Ti y aF Bendigo, E. G. Batchelder, business-
man and one of Bendigo’s most active phil-
anthropists. He was a former mayor of the
city.


Society
“Bo”: He came into a Sydney seed
shop and asked for “one of those Can-
berra chokos.” The seedsman looked
puzzled, said he had never heard of the
species and suggested that the customer
must have got the name wrong. The
customer insisted he was right, and said
that a sample of the choko was in the
window. At which the seedsman’s face
broke into a broad, understanding smile,
and he immediately went and got one of
the newly-evolved, prickle-free variety of
choko, a sample of which, displayed in
the window and labelled “Spineless,” had
been attracting a lot of attention.
* * * *
“Jerboa”: Veterans of Tobruk will
have a particular interest in accounts of
the arraignment of William Joyce (“Lord
Haw Haw”) at Bow-street. During the
siege his mocking voice over the ether
was familiar. One day after telling the
world that “Menzies’ bushrangers ar.e
caught like rats in a trap,” he advised
the “Rats” that if they had not evacuated
by May (which was only a few days off)
“Tobruk and the forces in occupation will
be blown off the map of Africa.” Jerry
attacked on May 1. He, made a large
dent in our perimeter, and one A.I.F.
battalion lost 80 p.c. of its total strength ;
but the Diggers'still had plenty of fight.
They dug in round the dent. “Haw Haw”
referred to the “Rats” as “self-supporting
prisoners,” and said: “Wives, sweet-
hcarts, mothers of the Australians in
Tobruk, do not worry about your loved
ones—they are fifteen feet down and still
digging.” After a day of particularly
heavy air raids he mocked again: “Hello,
Rats of Tobruk! Did you salute your
air force this morning? Oh, I beg your
pardon. You haven’t got an air force
these days. Well, well! How did you
like our bombers today?” He has seen
a lot of bombing since then —from the
receiving end.
* * * *
“Craiser”: Defective education may
account for the fact that, to date, Mel-
bourne art thieves haven’t shown the dis-
crimination of their colleagues in
Europe. From a collection, that includes
such priceless treasures as Rodin’s
“Minerva,” the Rembrandt self-portrait
and the £30,000 Van Eyck, they have
chosen in the last few weeks two works
of minor importance, a small bronze
head called “Besharin Boy,” by an un-
known sculptor, and “Coming Storm,” a
landscape by John Rowell. The last-
named was wrenched from its frame
and hasn’t since been heard of. It is
valued at 21 guineas.
* * * *
“Syd Ney”: A street accident which
must have broken all records for that sort
of thing turned one of Sydney’s busiest
streets into a semblance of a battleground.
It happened in the lunch hour, when
crowds were thickest. A young lad left
to mind a delivery van while its driver
went Kf lunch started the engine, it is
alleged, and when, panic-stricken, he tried
to stop it, trod on the accelerator instead
of on the brake pedal. The vehicle
smashed into a dense mass of humanity
on a George-street footpath, near the
intersection with King-street. Nine-
teen people were picked up by am-
bulances and taken to hospital, nine of
them with fractured bones, others with
cuts and other injuries. A dozen or so
other victims also required surgical atten-
tion, bystanders meanwhile taking off
their overcoats to make pillows for the
wounded, while others formed a living
cordon to keep the crowd back. The
driver of the van, who got off with
no worse than a shaking, was later
arrested and charged with causing bodily
harm by a negligent act—a Children’s
Court case.
* * » *
A good Digger family:
McCaughey is a name honored among
Diggers, Old and Young. Samuel McCaughey,
dead these 26 years, gave £25,000 to the Red
Cross and left £450,000 for the service of re-
turned soldiers and their dependants—with
interest it approaches a million —besides paying
hre-assurance premiums for many recruits.
No\v another McCaughey Trust is to be estab-
lished by Samuel McCaughey, of Coree station,
Jenldene, and David Roy McCaughey, of
Coonong, Narrandera, as a memorial to Lieut.
Samuel Michael McCaughey, killed in action
on December 28, 1943, on McCaughey Knoll,
Shaggy Ridge, N.G., and air-gunner David
McPherson, killed on February 4, 1943, over
North Australia “while on an operational mis-
I shortened it because it kept tripping me!”
sion against the enemy.” The lieutenant was a
son of the Coree McCaughey and a nephew of
the Coonong man; the air-gunner was the
nephew of both. The trustees are Frank Young,
of Commonwealth Wool and Produce, and
Harry Manning, K.C., M.L.C., with David Roy
McCaughey to be added. Under the trust 24,000
acres of Coree, with the homestead and all
station buildings, will be worked “for the benefit
of the pastoral and agricultural industries by
means of research and training of specialists.”
Ward has had the face to say that nine-tenths of
the men in the services came from trade-unions.
This could not be true had all male unionists
of military age enlisted or been called up; as
Ward knows very well, having been the “re-
sponsible” Minister, the great majority were
“reserved,” though a good many (more power
to their elbows!), beat the gun, as it were, and
the A.W.U. has maintained its excellent 1914-18
record. There was no reservation for “wool”
or cattle “kings,” and it would be fairly safe to
wager that nine-tenths of the pastoralists, of
military age enlisted. Like young McCaughey
and his cousin, many will not’ return.
* * * *
“Gules”: A reference by “Melbn” (B.
30/5/’45) to the Lord Mayor of Mel-
bourne’s suggestion that there should be
a lending “library” of paintings requires
explanation. The suggestion has never
been acted upon in Victoria. One or two
artists, many years ago, talked it over
and started something, which was never
properly organised. In England the thing
is done well and is a success. As a matter
of fact, there are many pictures in the
basement of the National Gallery. Seven
or eight were lent to the Town Hall and
are on exhibition in the reception-room;
the Lord Mayor made the suggestion and
the selection. Three, greatly appreciated,
are Felton Bequest pictures: a Buck-
master, a Septimus Power and a James
Charles.
* * * *
“Melbn”: I wonder how many citizens
hurrying along Collins-street have
noticed that the street’s uniformity of
lampposts is broken by a picturesque 50-
year-old example standing outside the
top end of the famous Howey acre,
somebody having forgotten to remove it.
It is a much handsomer article than the
modern ones, obviously all turned out of
the same mould ; nevertheless, it is to be
removed. Melbourne has fewer relics of
antiquity than most cities of its size, and
most of them are concerned with Batman,
who wasn’t a very inspiring person. Cities
like London with a sense of history pre-
serve these things in situ, if they can.
They don’t put them in museums.
* * * *
“Amber Gris”: Returning from the
M.E., we did not rejoice: when we
were transhipped, at an Asiatic port, from
the luxury of a Dutch liner to the dingy
troop-deck of what looked like a tramp
in comparison. Yet, being still headed
for Australia, even a sampan would have
filled its passenger list. But it was gall
and wormwood to find that our part of
the ship was in the lawful dominion of a
Tommy W/O. He soon fell foul of the
Australian temperament. At 6.30 Ack
Emma on the first day out we were
snoring peacefully when he clattered
down the companion-way and bellowed
with the voice of Stentor, “Nah, coom on,
lahds, git thawse ’ammicks rawled cop.”
Not a toe twitched. He passed on, giv-
ing us a few minutes’ grace. We tumbled
out and talked things over. Next .morning
he came again. He was stamping down
the deck and had almost reached his
bawling post when up from the sagging
rows of canvas poked a host of wild-
eyed Australian heads. In a deafening
chorus they yelled, “Nah, coom on, lahds,
git thawse ’ammicks rawled 00p!”....
That set him back on his heels for a
second ; then he came from behind his
regimental mask and—smiled broadly.
Almost ’uman ’e were. Oh, yes; the
early-morning visits ceased.
***!(!
“Clooter”: He came into the office in
search of justice. He had been, he ad-
mitted sadly, an addict to drink for many
years; had been classed as an inebriate
by the law and several times placed under
treatment; all to no avail. On the most
recent occasion he had been sent to an
inebriates’ treatment ward attached to a
mental hospital and this he felt to be
harsh. “Isn’t it enough that I’m sunk,
that I can’t beat the liquor? Isn’t it
enough to be classed as an inebriate with-
out having the stigma of insanity upon
me?” Attempts were made to assure him
that insanity wasn’t imputed, “But why
send me there if they didn’t think I was
mad?” he demanded. “Anyhow, they
proved that they thought me sane, for
while I was there they brought me a
referendum paper. A man couldn’t vote
on the referendum if he was insane, now
could he?” He thought for a minute or
two, then looked up, a dawning wonder
in his eyes. “Or could he?” he asked,
thoughtfully.
* * * #
“Lao-dah” with some Bornean history:
Kuching (Malay for “cat”), the capital of
Sarawak, must be the largest* and most pleasant
town Aussies have entered in the Pacific cam-
paign. Situated 23 miles up the Kuching River,
it has had more modern history than most towns
of its size. James Brooke, the first rajah, who
had inherited a large fortune from his father,
entered the East India military service with un-
usually high ambitions. He sold his commission,
bought a yacht in Singapore and sailed to Sara-
wak. Landing in Kuching, he found civil war
raging in the usual languid Malay way between
rival factions of the Sultan Brunei’s court. In
his journal he gives descriptions of Malay war-
fare. The contending parties each built stockades
bristling with cannon and sat down to enjoy
themselves. Daily they hurled defiance at one
another from the rival battlements. Every even-
ing both parties, men, women and children,
peacefully went down to the river bank to bathe,
and next day the vocal belligerency would be re-
sumed. This method of conducting a campaign
revolted Brooke’s energetic soul. Within a short
time he had suppressed the rebellion and, having
been made a rajah by that opium-sodden wreck
the Sultan of Brunei, he set out to suppress
headhunting and piracy. He suppressed heac
hunting by pitting rival tribes of headhunte
against each other, and put down piracy wi
the assistance of a British naval officer and
British ship. When Brooke’s nephew, the seconc
rajah, ascended the throne a child could wa
from one end of his dominion to the other anc
keep its head on its shoulders. I rememb
the second rajah as a tall, lonely figure stridin
around Labuan, where he had a b'etwecn-season
residence. He shared many of t'he characteristi
of his uncle. He died in 1917. The presen
rajah is a grand-nephew of the original Brook
* * sfc Jfc
“Triangle”: Music in pub bars, is it
In the ’nineties the only Jimmy Affoo hac
the Exchange Hotel, at Longreach, (C.Q.
He also had a family, a dozen or more
every one a born musician. They former
a brass band, with the littlest Affoo on th
cymbals. The music room opened direc
into the bar, and trade was good—ever
man in town was audience, there bein
nothing else to do. A new police inspecto
came to the ’Reach. He scratched his heac
and called the sergeant. The sergeant inter
viewed Jimmy. Music on licensed premise
was a contravention of the Act —o
words to that effect. Jimmy sera tehee
his head. Next night, as usual, the ban
opened up at the usual time and the pas
sage of men from the music room to th
bar was as strong as ever. The polic
called. Jimmy took the sergeant outside
showed him between music room anc
pub a wall hastily erected about fou
inches from the bar: “Sepelate loom
No music on license’ plemisee.” But th
door of the new room was exactly oppo
site that which led into the bar, and botl
doors were open all the time.
* * * *
“Avon”: Maoriland also has been
having trouble with its power and light
ing this winter. Though most of its elec
trie generators are water-driven and not
dependent on the whims of miners, they
are still vulnerable to storms, which dis-
organise power stations and disrupt
transmission lines. A particularly rough
winter has played havoc w,ith North
Island installations and over a very wide
area it has been necessary frequently to
cut off all current from this district or
that for hours to forestall disastrous
overloading. To aggravate the position,
the use of stand-by steam plants or of
gas has been discouraged by the fact
that stormy weather locks ships up in the
West Coast’s bar-entranced harbors, and
coal cannot be sent north. At the back
of the whole business is the fact that
the demand for electric current in the
Shivery Isles is always close on the heels
of the supply and sometimes outstrips it.
* * * *
“X.P.8.1.”: Leathery veterans of 1939
still talk, with some of the old awe, of
the original A.I.C. sergeants who trained
the first batches of the .second A.I.F.
Most of us had been scared off joining
the Militia by the horrible uniforms de-
signed for that force, and had never seen
soldiers till these A.I.C. sergeants and
W.O.s burst on us like beings from
another planet. All big men, with the
shoulders and bearing of Grenadier
R.S.M.s, their perfectly tailored uniforms,
gleaming Sam Browns and natty canes
and the sizzling snap of their movements
made a deep impression. Gently they
began with such elementary things as
filling palliasses, and the kit layout. With
unfailing patience they took us forward
step by step, never laughing once at our
first “Right Forms,” keeping perfectly
straight faces at our antics in bayonet
drill. When we grew bored they pater-
nally let us learn our drill with the enter-
taining game of “O’Grady Says.” Tire-
lessly they lectured, explained, demon-
strated, repeating it all again and again
until hoarse but never losing their tempers.
They were not the roaring, illiterate
tyrants of comic fiction, but keen young
men who had studied their job. Our first
N.C.O.s trained by them did their best
to acquire the A.I.C. voice, swing, pace
and angle of the hat, but that takes years
of the parade ground. Today, although we
know the awful secrets then revealed were
just rookies’ stuff, those early mentors
still loom through the mists of memory
as supermen.
* * * if
“Kelpinya”: An American writer has
dug up a few peculiar American place
names and offered them as “America’s
own, typical of the land, suggestive of its
origins,” and so forth. The list:
Defeated (Term.), Social Circle (Ga.),
Nine Times (S.C.), Sacred Mind (Ky.), Bat-
tiest (Ok.), Cheesequake (N.J.), Moan
(N.Y.), Mud (W.Va.), Oral (S.D.), Quietus
(Mon.), Bicycle (N.D.), What Cheer (Iowa),
Opportunity (Wash.), Racket (Miss.),
Vinegar (N.Y.) and Young America (Ind.).
Well, here’s a few of our own, which may
also be “typical of the land and sugges-
tive of its origins.”
Smoko (V.), Alan Cunningham (N.S.W.),
Tallyho (V.), Banana (Q.), Goodnight
(N.S.W.), Sandfly (T.), Geranium (S.A.),
Red Jacket (V.), Robe (S.A.), Broad Arrow
(W.A.), Dollar (V.), Crow’s Nest (N.S.W.),
Chute (V.), Blowhard (V.), Chirrup (V.),
Cargo, Putty and Guy Fawkes (N.S.W.),
The Bonnet, The Hatch, The Pocket, The
Risk (N’S.W.), The Brothers, The Sisters,
The Heart (V.), The Head (Q.), Wee Jasper,
Brandy Mary’s Flat (N.S.W.) and Yea (Q.).
OUR FRISCO DELEGATES.
A wekome’s waiting for you, Bert and Frankie,
Now that your course again for home is set,
But not the demonstration wild and swanky
Successful generals are wont to get.
Y °ur service has been rendered in exploring
The ways whereby war may be made to cease,
Your efforts dedicated to restoring
The piping limes of peace.
Twin emissaries to a world convention
to a memorable rendezvous,
As yet I’ve but a misty comprehension
If you achieved what you were sent to do,
It you upheld what you were delegated
To barrack for. I cannot tell because—
Should you require the reason plainly stated —
I don’t know what it was.
Still, that you battled firmly and forthrightly
For what you held your mission none will
doubt,
You, Bert, on whom the limelight shone so
brightly,
Whose accents rang so resonantly out.
And, Frankie, you who, self-effacing, through so
Strenuous a war of wits and tongues, took on
The humbler role that Friday filled for Crusoe,
And Sancho for the Don.
Well, chaps, you’re homeward bound, to be
explaining
Soon, I suppose, all that you’ve learned and
heard
Where fifty nations met for peace-campaigning—
Welt-politik, I fancy, is the word.
A welcome warm should be your due for coping
With tasks to tax the strongest brains and
frames.
And may you find at Canberra —here's hoping!
That, while your backs were turned, no inter-
loping
Person has jumped your claims.
N.S.W.
T. THE R.


“... .An' then she ses t’ me, she ses. ...
“Wodgil”; “Marry a German girl,”
Napoleon said to a confidant the morn-
ing after his convention-shattering union
to Marie Louise —“they’re as fresh as
roses.” Such is not the advice or opinion
of an austere London Sunday-paper
moralist, who, on the contrary, warns the
soldiery that German women are “dan-
gerous”; they have “fine clothes and silk
stockings, and are religiously following
a plan to break down the non-fraternisa-
tion regulations.” Bating the 7 adverb, I
am afraid this would be true of minxes
of any nationality if “non-fraternisation
regulations” were imposed anywhere. And
why “non-fraternisation”? X have seen
hundreds of servicemen, particularly
Allied servicemen, in deep converse with
young women got up just like these Ger-
man wenches, and their attentions never
seemed at all brotherly.
“Tuart”: Drew Pearson, whose syndi-
cated stuff appears in Melbourne “Argus”
and Sydney “D'T.,” is in trouble again.
He tackled Senator Tydings on the score
of a Tydings commission’s visit to the
Philippines, and, returning to his vomit,
said the Senator’s charges against himself
(horribly libellous) were “too absurd to
answer,” and, in any case, did not “ex-
plain the fact” that Tydings “planned to
stay for five weeks and, after talking to
General MacArthur, hastily left after five
days.” The General came in with the
statement that, so far from objecting to
the Tydings commission, he enjoyed
working with it, and hoped it would re-
turn, and that the Pearson version, “un-
founded, baseless, clearly abuses one of
the greatest pillars of our form of life —
freedom of the press.” In short, Drew
Pearson lied, but he is far from being
the only liar who has the run of Aus-
tralian newspapers.
* * * *
“Notaden,” for a war of extermination;
It is to the Melbourne City Council, not the
C.S.I.R. lads, that “Nakh” (B. 13/6/’45) needs
to appeal for methods of stopping rat-infesta-
tion of his room. Meanwhile, if he were to
protect his room by stopping up all places of
entry from without with metal or other material
proof against gnawing or burrowing he would be
following the first essential rule for rat-control:
Build Them Out. By putting all presses and
cupboards and other possible places of con-
cealment clear of the, floor, making them proof
against use as shelter, and keeping doors and
windows shut when he is out, he will fulfil the
second rule —Keep Them Out. There must be
something in the room to attract them —those
astute and essentially practical animals do not
go there for the sheer fun of it —so that “Nakh”
is probably as much to blame as his neighbors
for leaving waste food about. Both are really
matters for the City Council to attend to on the
large scale by enforcement of its by-laws relating
to ratproofing of all buildings and disposal of
rat-attracting refuse. So is the third rule: Kill
Them Out—by systematic use of the newer
poisons of the thiourea group and by organised
location and destruction of breeding-places. A
classical example of the efficiency of these
measures has been provided by the Port of
London Authority, where a large area of ware-
houses and other buildings was cleared and kept
clear of rat-infestation even under stress of war
conditions.
* * * *
“P.M.”: It’s a wonder that none of the
army of prophets who have had a lash
at it has put in a claim for having fore-
seen the date of the end' of the war with
Germany, Many people whose names
were in the news had a glance in the
crystal ball during the last six years,
mostly just naming a particular year.
About the closest I can find on record is
Field-Marshal Montgomery’s mother —
her guess was March 23, 1945. Mont-
gomery himself, last year, said that the
end of 1944 might see it over. Eisen-'
hower in 1943 also picked 1944, and
Admiral Halsey’s guess at the same time
was the end of 1943. The mediaeval seer
Nostrodamus was reported by his Holly-
wood management to have plumped for
1943, and Old Moore’s Almanac, with
250 years’ practice at the game, said the
same. Among the worst pickers was
Hitler ; a German victory in 1941 was his
pop.
* * * *
“Clooter”; A young man who enters
the service of the N.S.W. Department of
Justice with the idea of some day be-
coming a magistrate and dispensing
justice impartially, either in civil or
criminal cases, can expect little more than
the satisfaction of good public service.
His salary as a magistrate and his pen-
sion upon retirement mean genteel
poverty during his active life and penury
in retirement. Of 26 retired magistrates
two receive £312 and £558 per annum, 14
get £3 a week, eight £2, ope about £2 6s.
and one about 30s. Magistrates at present
on the Bench number about 40. Eighteen
will get £3 or less on retirement; only
16 will get £6. The State superannuation
scheme, which dates back to 1919, badly
needs readjustment. The Magistrates’
Institute is asking that every magistrate
upon retirement shall receive, in addi-
tion to the existing pension, £l5 a year
for every year of service, this addition not
to exceed £2OO p.a. It seems a very
modest request.
♦ * * *
“Joypet”: News comes from the U.S.
Quartermaster Corps that should make
any self-respecting bab of the old school
disgustedly toss ’himself into his own
stew. Icecream (diagnosed officially as a
“morale food”) is henceforth to be served
to American troops overseas in eight
flavors in addition to the usual vanilla.
The ready-prepared powder for mixing
icecream comes only in vanilla, but the
Q.M.C. has issued a recipe-book with
instructions for mixing it with dehydrated
fruit juice, tinned fruit and other items
in the standard lation, to turn it out
chocolate, lemon, fruit cocktail, peach,
coffee, maple, pineapple and hard-candy
flavors. At the same time the advent is
announced of a kitchen spice kit con-
taining 18 condiments and flavoring
materials, dehydrated table sauce and
gravy and mustard mixture.
* # * *
“Uramao”: One of Maoriland’s most
unusual churches is that at Cave, in
Canterbury. It was erected in memory
of the shepherds, musterers and others
associated with sheep in the great
pastoral area which runs westward to
Mt Cook and takes in Lakes Tekapo and
Pukai. T. D. Burnett, M.P. for Temuka,
whose family were pioneers in the district,
erected the sheepmen’s church. All
materials were obtained in the vicinity.
The walls are of boulders and stones
from the creeks, the baptismal font is a
large scooped-out boulder, and an arch-
way has as support part of the first
bullock wagon used by the Burnetts on
their sheep-run.
* * * *
“Pookie”: It isn’t hard to make money
in Sydney nowadays. A small, aggressive
man has recently taken over the cara-
vanserai where I stay. His first move was
to so curtail the hot-water supply that a
boarder who succeeded in getting even a
lukewarm shower became famous over-
night. Then the fire in the lounge-room
was cut out and half the room itself shut
off and rented to a family. A host of
minor inconveniences, plus a little de-
liberate rudeness, got rid of most of the
old-timers within a week, and once they
went three or four beds were put in their
vacant rooms and let at £2 10s. per week
per head, a nice increase on the previous
price (pegged) of £1 17s. 6d. a week for a
single room. This chap’s latest dodge is
to assist stranded sailors by allowing
them to sleep on the floor of what re-
mains of the lounge-room. They have
nowhere else to go, usually, and they
don’t begrudge 7s. 6d. each.
IK * * : j :
“Petermac”: The cabled account of a
New York curio-dealer whose shop had
been burgled five times inside 20 years
suggests that there must have been some
good reason for its popularity among
the banditti. A house in my subbub has
been rifled four times in seven years, not
another dwelling in the street being
touched. No doubt on each occasion a
scout had marked it down as an easy and
profitable place to enter.
* * * *
“U.S.S.Co.”: “Rover’s” reference (B.
9/5/’45) to the Bingera being “the first
turbine steamer to sail Australian seas” is
not correct. The Loongana, which arrived
in Melbourne on October 7, 1904, had
the distinction of being the first ocean-
going merchant ship driven by turbines,
not only in Australia but throughout the
world. The Bingera, according to Lloyd’s
Register, was not completed .until Novem-
ber, 1905. The Union Steam Ship Co. is
very proud of the distinction held by the
Loongana.
“Sh! I've just got her to sleep.”
.“Strict Veg.”; It is more or less reli-
ably reported in the press that hundreds»
of horses will have to be slaughtered
in Melbourne if the shortage of
chaff continues. Why not eat them?
When I was in Paris I learnt I
had been eating horse much more
often than beef without noticing
any difference. Melburnians might be
hornfied at this suggestion, but much of
the fish they buy for flathead and barra-
couta is flake, which is only shark.
There used to be the same prejudice 111
Melbourne against shark and rabbit as
there is now against horse.
“Pip” on animal pets of the A.1.F.:-
Irrespective of its location or number of
moves every army unit collects an assortment
of pets. No camp, in or out of Australia, is
without a dog. The combination of breeds that
goes to make one of these animals is almost
without limit and a standard name for the
camp canine is Heinz. Stinkers, Kanakas and
Coons abound and an enormous mastiff
rejoices in the title of Tich. Most cats up
North have a streak of the jungle in them and
could never be intimate pets, though they
appeal to some, They are tolerated by the
main body of the soldiery for their rat-catching
abilities. Wallabies are owned by several units,
and become completely tame, The master or a
baby wallaby usually carries it around inside
his shirt, and invariably takes it to the pictures.
One fellow kept a huge python in a cage, taking
it out occasionally for a bit of exercise. He
was almost inconsolable when a person or per-
sons unknown; with no love for any sort of
snake, slew it' with an axe one night. Field mice
become friendly quickly, and many a brawl
has arisen from somebody’s cat looking happy
after somebody else’s pet mouse has disap-
peared. Birds that stay on the owner’s shoulder,
eat food from his lips and show off for all and
sundry are fairly common. Lizards, squirrels,
even baby rabbits have been adopted, and
earlier in the war a Victorian unit kept a goat
Which, decked out in trappings of the regimental
colors, never miss|d a parade.
* $ * *
“P. McM.”: A soldier I know who
spent his leave at King’s Cross did so in
mufti. The prices charged him for food
and drink seemed to him to be remark-
ably stiff, but, with a nice sum of accumu-
lated pay burning a hole in his pocket, he
forbore to protest. On the day he was
due to return to his unit he entered his
usual restaurant clad in jungle-green and,
after polishing off a meal that he expected
to be charged ss. for, glanced idly at his
bill. It was for 2s. That such patriotic
fervor should exist at the Cross restored
a diminishing faith in human nature.
* * * *
“Avon”: The links of Empire are a
lot shorter than they were just a few
years ago. Fred Doidge, M.P., of Maori-
land, who flew from Auckland to London
(then on to Italy, where he saw the last
hopover, then over occupied Germany),
summarised his experiences on his
arrival in the ’ Hub. Itinerary was:
Left Auckland Sunday, 9 a.m.; had after-
noon tea in Fiji (stay two hours); reached
Canton Island at midnight and had
supper. Flew on in the darkness, reach-
ing Honolulu at midday, next day (still
Sunday, hemispheral meridian having been
crossed). Sixteen hours’ stay at Hono-
lulu enabled the visitors to motor to Tan-
talus Heights and Pearl Harbor. Off
again at 4 a.m.'on Monday, they reached
San Diego just after dusk. After two
hours’ stay they flew on to Montreal,
reached in the late afternoon. Next day’s
course lay to Labrador, after which came
a night flight across the North Atlantic,
at 17,000 ft., necessitating use of padded
suits and oxygen masks. A landing was
made in Scotland on a sunny Thursday
morning, and London was reached in the
afternoon. Flying time 62 hours travel-
ling time five days. Jules Verne, if his
shade looks on, must be staggered at his
prophetic moderation. Apropos, Doidge
and partner (Opposition-leader Holland)
had travelled 37,000 miles by air when
they returned to Maoriland; then
Doidge came across the Tasman to see his
mother, who was very ill.
* * * *
“Macedonian”: The impending inva-
sion of Japanese territory won’t be the
g rst fighting British forces have done on
tb at terrain. On September 6, 1864, three
men Q f h.M.S. Euryalus won the Vic-
torja Gross “somewhere in Japan.” The
rec jp[ en t s W ere Midshipman Duncan
Gordon Boyes, Captain of the Afterguard
Thomas Pride and Ordinary Seaman
William Seeley. According to the cita-
tjQns donjon Gazette of April 21,
1 8 . 65 > a company of bluejackets from the
u *der the command of a Lieutenant
Edwards, advanced in the face of the
thickest fire to capture a stockade in the
hands of the enemy. In this successful
att t p r : dp wa<? dannerouslv wounded
atl^cl 9 \ nae was / wounoeu
a ud Seeley was shot through the arm,
while the color carried by Boyes was six
times pierced by musket-balls. What they
T • „ • j 7 r
were doing in Japan is moie than I ha
ever been able to discover.
MOULDERS AND IMPLEMENTERS.
'‘The British Labor party is split by a controversy
whether its policy should be moulded or merely
implemented by the party leaders.” — Cable.
The question still has to be argued out,
It would appear, in Father Bull’s dominion,
But that it’s settled here there’s little doubt.
What’s your opinion?
Trades unions cast the bullets and the shot,
The ammunition just as they desire it,
And whether Ministers approve or not
Their job’s to fire it.
Not theirs a party platform to design,
Their views and aims correctly representing.
Moulding’s for other hands.* Their duty lies
In implementing.
Beasley may warn adherents they must not
Do as they “damn well like” (a mood ensuing
On Labor’s leap to office). But just what
Else are they doing?
The tail, asserts another demagogue,
Should never wag the dog. But what avail is
The gag if doubt persists which is the dog,
And which the tail is?
Puppets must dance, whoever pulls the strings,
And try to look as if theyAJidn’t mind it;
And Demos’ throne must have, like any king’s,
Powers behind if.
N.S.W.
IFORD.


ABORIGINALITIES
“Old-timer”: Little Curl had a blue
dog with an off-side wall-eye set in a
white ring of hair; It was a good enough
cattle hound, but to hear Little Curl
you’d think the thing embodied all the
wisdom and experience of all the heelers
ever whelped. As we pushed the cattle
across the Neimur and down the road to
Barham Little Curl’s skiting got on the
outfit’s nerves. Our chance came at
Noorong, where the boss met us with new
rations and a few bottles of pain-killer.
On Jack Barton’s instructions we deliber-
ately pressed most of our pain-killer on
Little Curl, who was soon in a happy if
somewhat blundering state. The'n Barton
got the whitewash he’d borrowed from
Noorong and carefully painted a white
ring around the off-side eye of every dog
in the camp, what time each of us care-
fully charcoaled a black one round each
man’s near-side eye. When Little Curl,
awaking from his befuddled nap, beheld
six black-eyed men holding six white-
eyed tykes, the whole twelve yelping and
capering, he ran 360 yards to a crab-hole
and plunged in. He sold his white-eyed
wonder in Cohuna for 50 bob.
4 * * *
“Gidya George”: The old myth about
sheep always feeding upwind persists.
My experience has been that they’ll work
normally any did way the feed and their
desires lead them. The one time they
will work upwind is just after the wet
season, when flies are in a black cloud
and sandflies are in millions. They have
to, then, for the wind is the only protec-
tion they have for eyes, nostrils and other
soft spots: flies always ride on the lee
side of an animal.
* * * *
“Mai’s Mate”: The drunk fell into our
compartment, festooned with bottles,
-shared one with us and fell asleep. His
snores would have waked the dead. Mat
and I rolled him over, sat him up, laid
him down, prodded him; still he snored.
Then we lumped, him down the corridor
and laid him to rest at the end. Ten
minutes later he fell into our compart-
ment and started to snore again. We
carted him along to an empty compart-
ment, shoved him in and locked the door.
Fifteen minutes later he reappeared,
greeted us like old friends, was astonished
when we refused to drink and fell a-
snoring. Then the train pulled up some-
where for water. We carried that drunk
across the platform and planted him care-
fully on a station seat. The train backed
on to a loop and waited while another
came through. Just as it pulled out again
that drunk fell into our compartment.
Mat pulled his swag from the rack, heaved
it through the window and climbed after
it. “Came on;” he called, “if we can’t
have the blasted train without him we
won’t have the blasted train.”
* * * *
“Zake”: The shag doesn’t seem to be
a particularly aggressive bird, except from
the fish’s point of view, yet I have noticed
that whenever one of them is doing over
a patch of water the gulls and other sea
birds will keep well out of his range.
Similarly, you’ll never see hates, where
there are rabbits about, and vice versa.
Also crows and minahs never mix in the
same social circles. If there is any par-
ticular reason why these things should be
I’m listening.
* * * *
“Julia Creek”: Jim Culhane, “Betcha’s”
entry for the correct seat on a horse (B.
13/6/’45), hits the nail on the head. When
much younger I, too, had a hankering for
cruppers, breast-plate, flank girths and
such like. Then from older men who
never used anything but a surcingle I got
the advice to “ride the horse,'not the
saddle.” In time I found this was so. I
also found that a vast majority of Aus-
tralian bushmen ride by brute strength
and gameness, their motto being “Never
let a horse beat you.” Years of observa-
tion have led me to the conclusion that
until the rider learns to carry his hands
correctly it is weil nigh impossible for
him to sit properly on his mount. For
some unaccountable reason Australians
assume that the lower the rider’s hands
the better. To effect this the rider leans
forward, upsets his balance and naturally
has only a limited control over his horse.
The hands should be carried just forward
of the pommel, with sufficient clearance
to move them back over the pommel if
desired. Don’t rest the hands or reins on
a horse’s neck unless to restrain a hard
puller. I once saw a racing picture on
the screen with Steve Donohue riding.
An illustration of perfect hands and per-
fect control.
* * * *
“C.A.1.”: I also have seen- men like
“Zake’s” fencer (B. 6/6/’45) insist that
the small end of a post be put in the
ground—and for a sound reason. For if
the small end be buried it repels moisture
which the big end sucks up and so con-
tributes to rotting off below ground-level.
To determine the small end of a sawn
post brush the hand across it. A rough
end denotes a moisture-resisting grain,
and that’s the end to park in the hole.
* * * *
, “X.E.D.”: Doing 50 in the old utility,
we topped the rise to find a large mob
of sheep sprawled over the road in the
hollow below. Sam trod on the pedal
and the brakes screamed, but failed to
hold, and we pulled up with a series of
bumps in the middle of the mob. The
man with them took the loss of the three
starvers we’d flattened with true outback
philosophy and the quid Sam offered him
as compensation without hesitation. As
“ You'll find a side Ways' stroke less tiring, Carruthers .”
we drove on past the straggling tail of
the mob a horseman, pulled us up. “Saw
y’ drive into the sheep,” he said belliger-
ently. “Did y’ hit any?” “Three,” Sam
said. “But I fixed up with y’r mate,”
“Mate!” he echoed. “I’m drovin’ these
woollies on me pat.” My mate now in-
sists that I call him by his new full name
of Samuel Alec.
* * * *
“Bogaduck”: Up here at our island
base we can’t get a feed of fish. It is impos-
sible to use a dragnet on the coral bottom
and there’s nowhere to set a gill net. Fish
more than two or three inches in length
won’t take the hook, and we can’t entice
more than an odd one into a drum net.
Nowhere along the coast is there a suit-
able site for a big fishtrap. In other
places we have been able to rely on the
t experts who, wearing diving goggles and
carrying a light spear, go down among
the coral and spear fish hiding under
ledges, but around here none of the fish
seem to hide up in that way and the
divers haven’t bagged a single fish to date.
Sizable fish are seen swimming about, but
always keep just beyond spear range.
Some of us have heard of a device some-
thing like a crossbow, powered by strong
rubber bands, which is used to shoot
steel arrows under water with consider-
able success in some parts of the world.
If anyone knows how to make this device
and will send a sketch plan and instruc-
tions to Army Education Officer, 5 Aust.
Base Sub-Area, he will earn the gratitude
of the troops.
“N. Sylvester”: Regarding abo. fish-
traps (B. 23/5/’45). There used to be a
good one at Giralia Landing, at the head
of Exmouth Gulf, n.-w. W.A., which
was constructed mostly and unwittingly
at Government expense. At the Landing
one of the W.A. Government rabbit-
proof fences comes to an end by running
several hundred yards out to sea. Secur-
ing a roll of six-foot netting from some-
where, a tribe of beachcombing abos.
fastened this on to the end of the fence,
extending the addition in the form of a
large V k With a tidal rise of about ten
feet most of the trap was covered at high
water, and there never was an ebb but
that the trap turned in the best part of a
hundredweight of scaly and shelly sea-
food.
* * * *
“Blime”: Martie’s old dog was
poisoned coming home one night, so next
morning he went over and collected a
bull-headed useless-looking nondescript
from Mac. A fortnight later when I
caught up to Martie coming from town
he was sorting the yelping cur from a
wire fence he’d got mixed up in. Half
a mile further on the new owner again
dismounted, this time to dash off and
stop the mong plucking one of Smith-
son’s weak jumbucks. Pleased at being
carried back to the road the tripehound,
as soon as we got going again, took an
excited jump at the nag’s head. Martie
picked himself off the gravel, swearing
vengeance. “Gripes, I’d love t’ shoot the
thing,” he growled. “If only I c’d get
another somewhere. This . , now
look at him going after Kelly’s steers,
will y’? Come back here, you . . . you
. . . aw, hell, they’ve broke the fence.
No, this mad-headed brute’ll never make
a dog,” he continued. “I got t’ watch
him every minute, an’ I’ll be darned
glad t’ get rid of him.” “Then what are
y’ keeping him at all for?” I inquired.
Martie glanced up in surprise. “Don’ be
a dope,” he sniffed ; “a bloke can’t go
out without a flamin’ dorg o’ some sort.”
* * * *
“Brian Bureau”; A solitary traveller
plodded up the steep and dusty road that
meandered over the range not far from
the crater of an extinct volcano. When
near the summit he came abreast of
“Truthful” Charlie and “Stumpy” Joe,
reclining on their swags in the meagre
shade afforded by a scraggy roadside
tree. The stranger paused for breath*,
then panted out; “This the road t’
Bumbledeen?” “Yair,” answered Charlie.
“How far d’ y’ say it’d be t’ there, mate?”
pursued the stranger. “Aw, just a good
stone-throw.” “Thanks, s’long! ” After the
questioner had departed “Stumpy” stared
inquiringly at his mate. “A stone-throw! ”
he scoffed. “Bumbledeen must be ten
flamin’ mile if it’s a yard.” “Yair, I
know,” agreed “Truthful”; “but them
big basalt boulders dotted orl around
Bumbledeen was thrown there fr’m this
here crater, wasn’t they?”
* * * Sic
“Nagheer”: A substantial increase in
the crocodile population of the Leich-
hardt, Flinders and other Gulf country
rivers is reported to have occurred during
the last few years. Local opinion is in-
clined to ascribe it to the fact that Binghi,
now largely living in mission stations on
tucker b’long white pfeller, is no longer
impelled to raid nests in the mangroves
while mother croc, is away getting a feed
of fish. But there are plenty of other
natural enemies. The 60 or 70 eggs are
laid in a nest formed from mangrove
mud, leaves and twigs and covered with
similar material. They are situated in
small, open spaces in mangrove swamps,
and the sun’s heat does the actual hatch-
ing. Mrs. Croc, makes a wallow for her-
self alongside and resents intruders
fiercely, be they other crocs., iguanas, wild
pigs, crows or Binghi, all of whom have
a liking for the leathery-shelled eggs little
larger than those of a turkey. Once the
youngsters hatch out she takes no further
interest in them, except a casually gastro-
nomic one should she catch them off-
guard. The brisk, savage, 6in. croclets
make for the water, and at first exist on
the contents of a yolk-sac attached to
their bellies until they can catch little
fish, beetles, small crabs and mangrove
worms for themselves. Fish and eels
take- heavy toll of them, and their elder
brothers and sisters are not above a bit
of cannibalism when they get the chance.
It is unlikely that more than one of every
half-dozen average broods ever reaches
adult life.
* * * *
“Ultima Art”; I was mighty inter-
ested in that idea of shooting rabbits
with a bow and arrow (B. 17/6/’45), but
I can’t help being ppzzled by the claim
that a new bow was necessary because
the old one couldn’t stand the strain of
shooting 28in. arrows. Does the length of
the arrow affect the strength of the bow?
I want to know because somebody gave
me two New Guinea arrows and each
one of them, is six feet from point to
notch. The blokes that used them must
have needed a new bow every shot, if
I’ve read “Narrin” aright.
“The 0.D.”; I see where that “Narrin”
(B. 27/6/’45) wants to know where he
can “get hold of a decent bow.” We
presume, naturally, that he means a long
bow.
* , * * #
“Uramao”: The opening of Maoriland’s
late-autumn duck-shooting season was an
occasion for much manoeuvring. In
Southland a queer outfit was observed by
moonlight; an undertaker was using a
coffin for purposes of approach to the
quarry. Fore and aft he had attached
kerosene-tins to give the craft buoyancy
and prevent its sinking through lake water
percolating through its seams. He had
quite a successful season.
sfc * * *
“C.E.”: Mum drove the horse into
the shade of the old gum across the
street, collected an ancient basket
from the back of the trap, and
walked over to the store. Grumper
was serving another customer, so
she waited quietly in a corner till
presently her turn came, “It’s the
butter, Mr. Grumper,” she said,
holding up the basket. The store-
keeper took out the parcel and
tossed it on the scales. “Dairy
butter might be hard t’ get these
days,” he remarked, “but, let me
tell you, I ain’t takin’ short weight.
What y’ sent in last week was
light.” Mum’s eyes opened in
surprise, “Yes, every single
pound of it was two ounces under
weight,” Grumper went on. “Y*
can’t expect folks t’ pay good
money f’r butter they don’t get.
Not these days. An’ I’ve got t’
pass it on t’ me customers.” “I’m
sorry, Mr. Grumper,” Mum began
nervously, “but you see ”
“Well, I’ll dock the price of half
a pound and let it go,” said the
storekeeper, “seeing this’s the first
time. Only mind it don’t happen
again.” “N-no,” agreed Mum.
“But, as I was saying, I’ve got
c’rect balance scales, but last week
I mislaid my pound weight, so in its
place I used that pound of currants I got
from you the trip before.”
* * * *
“Lub”: Joe Kinnon, from Willeego
Creek, was in Melbourne with his wife
and baby. The infant performed unmelodi-
ously at night, keeping the other inmates
of the boarding-house awake, so Joe was
sent out to buy a dummy. The first score
of chemist shops were unproductive;
then Joe struck a woman chemist who
admitted she had a few baby comforters.
“But,” she added with a suspicious look
at Joe, “we only sell them to mothers.”
Joe is still wondering whatinell she
reckoned he intended doing with it.
:|c * * %
“Bo”: A§ the weekly mixed rounded
the bend a figure leaped out of the hop-
bush, took up a position by the
side of the rails and began frantically
waving a coat. The driver slammed on
the brakes and the train shrieked to a
slow, chattering stop. As the driver ran
back to see what was amiss, the train-
hailer walked over to the guard’s van,
climbed up and thrust a whiskered face
in the doorway. “Can y’ spare us a fist-
ful o’ tea, mate?” he said casually. He
pointed across to where a campfire
burned just off the track. “I got me billy
boilin’ an’ I find I ain’t got a skerrick o’
color for it. Not a cow’s got any tea
to spare round these parts, an’ I ain’t
got a ration book.” The guard looked
at the derelict. “Did you pull this train
up to ask for tea?” he demanded. “O’
course,” said the other. “Don’t you know
you’re liable to get into serious trouble
doin’ that?” asked the irate railwayman.
The old swaggie looked shrewd. “Yer
mean them rationin’ jokers?” he said.
“ ’Owinell are they t’ find out a man got
tea without giyin’ up ’is coupons?.”
MAJOR-MITCHELLS PASSING
OVER.
With a fleecy cloud for overcoat
And a rosy lining like dawn aglow,
The graceful Mitchells rise and sink,
Then wheel in arcs of while and pink
As back to their distant homes they go;
Screeching and flashing, home they go.
For the rains have come. The lush wild oat
Will sway, long-stemmed, its heavy heads.
The native grasses, tender fruit.
And the juicy nuts are theirs to loot.
Creeks are flowing in sandy beds,
Deep and cool in their sandy beds.
Up from the south came that harsh wild note,
From Mitchells homing north again.
Wheeling, screaming, they flash along,
Lift and fall like a lilting song,
Home to the inland after rain,
The burgeoning inland after rain.
VICTORIA.
H. E. RAMSAY.


“E. 2”: “I’m trappin’ the mountain
gullies,” said “Dogwhiskers” Jack, “an’
it strikes me there’s two kinds of bunnies
in those parts. The mountain rabbits live
high on the spurs an’ ridges, travellin’
fair distances t’ feed on the choicest flats ;
an’ the gully rabbits live in burrers an’
don’t shift erbout much. The two kinds
fight a lot f’r the best feedin’ grounds,
an’ I often find a trapped bunny done t’
death by the rival facshun. Which set
me think in’ I oughter trap all but one
strip so they’ll congregate there an’ start
an all-in stoush. It worked awright f’r
a time, me pickin’ up dead bunnies from
the fights as fast as I c’d skin ’em. But
the mountain bunnies got too strong at
the finish, an’ I had t’ leave.” “But why
didn’t you keep on trapping the mountain
rabbits?” I asked. “Aw, y’ see, they got
too cunnin’,” said Jack. “Useter foller
when I was settin’ up an’ pull out the
traps an’ chuck ’em in the crick,”
* * * *
“Edjudina”: Digging around a few of
Australia’s dry places I have more than
once unearthed a frog, full of water and
with every opening of the body,* including
eyes, completely sealed, it being in a
condition of suspended animation ; and 1
have wondered just how long such a frog
might live, deep under the clay. Scientists
have tried to put the matter to proof by
sealing up living frogs and toads in
blocks of sandstone, limestone and
cement. Opened a year later every in-
mate was found to be dead, and long
dead. But those scientists should have
"I told y’ not to Wear hobnail boots — they'll cause statics!"
expected no other result, for their sub-
jects, without question, were lacking in
that peculiar power of self-sealing pos-
sessed by frogs. Now, has any member
of the council ever struck an unques-
tioned case of a frog being found sealed
up inside a solid rock?
* * * *
“Bad Australian”: Re “D. Y. Dick’s”
suggestion (B. 20/6/’45) that I should
brush up my Biblical education with
reference to the classification of the
Galilean turtle. I have searched the
Book, but I have failed to find any defi-
nite statement supporting his contention
that the turtle of the old Israelite
chronicler was, in fact, not a turtle, but
a bird. Come now, “D.Y.D.,” chapter
and verse, please!
*** * *
“Plain Angas”: That touching little
statement of “The O.D.’s” (B. 13/6/’45)
about lambs getting too big in a week for
the wedgetails to lift, and so moving off the
wedgies’ menu, reminds me of my cat Sam-
son. Samson could never manage any
game larger than a fortnight-old rabbit.
I left him at the camp one year, and for
a fortnight, of course, he thrived. He
was pretty lean when I passed that way
a little later, but he was able to pub
down the young quail that were jus*
appearing. Experimenting, I found that
he could manage quail up to three
weeks old, so I knew he’d be safe for that
length of time. In four weeks I returned
to find the old chap pretty weak on it.
But the wax-bills were nesting in strength
in tHe old brush shed, and I discovered
that he could deal with a young waxie up
to the ten-day-old size. Unfortunately,
it was a fortnight before I returned, and
than I found that me poor old cat had
pegged out.
* * * *
“Propalong”: Tell “Bli m e ” (B,
13/6/’45) and others who want to know
where I get my cartridges that there have
been ample supplies of .22s in this State
(S.A.) since the beginning of 1944.
’Whether this is because some officious
cow has told Canberra about our historic
diet and the consequent necessity for an
increased issue of ammo. I don’t know.
* * * *
“Esk D.” I found George laboring
over a piece of bloodstained newspaper
he’d salvaged from around the meat.
“I see they’re raisin’ the pension an’ the
kids’ endowment,” he informed me.
“Yes,” I said. “You’ll be in the cash
now, George.” “Yair,” he said dolefully.
“A man’s a flamin’ mug, though. Gripes,
I could’ve married a old-age pensioner
like meself an’ bin drorin’ two pensions
an’ endowment f’r half a dozen kids by
now if on’y I’d known.”
* * * *
“Mrs. Stumpjump”: “Hungry” as a
bush appellation doesn’t stick to the
bearer with such grim steadfastness as
is fondly imagined (B, 16/5/’45). For
one thing the personnel of a country dis-
trict may change considerably in 20 years,
and newcomers have generally no interest
in district history except the lurid
patches. The old hands, too, can have
conveniently short memories. In one
district Scraper’s one child, a girl, is quite
a bright young thing of marriageable age,
and those eyeing the wide acres for their
sons have endowed the carmudgeonly
owner with an almost endearing charac-
ter. Similarly old Cheeseparer, who, to
dodge taxation for himself and help
his lads evade military service, bought
up three of the best properties in the
neighborhood, has lately been awarded
(by hopeful families) a reputation for
generosity based on his unswerving help
at the school picnic—and Cheeseparer
(and his ilk always get their money’s
worth at a school picnic. Another reason
for the title “Hungry” being lost is that
wife and daughters become adept at
“Blast those banana skins!”
ẁ
sulky came burning m• Jw J ates
after Branmgan junior had ahghted his
parent was headed back n the s a me and
tion, unwontedly using the whip tQ con
vince a sulky pony (m two semes) ftat
home doesnt necessarily mean journey s
end Reining in the chestnut at the store,
Dad didn t even wait to lock the whee
before bounding through the doorway
and locking horns with Turner. It was
a spirited encounter, but Dad earned too
many verbal guns /fjhe storekeeper-
With victory-a packetofl
grasp, the nicotme-starved man was
glimpsing paradise when a sndden clalte
outside brought him rushing to the door
—just in time to see the pony heading
for home at full gallop, the sulky jurnp-
ing and bumping behind. Turner got ms
bus running, and the chase was on. 1 ree
or four miles out of town the car swung
widely around the obviously tired runaway
and stopped at the top of a grade, ine
chestnut, slowing at every stride* raltere ,
beheld Dad’s outstretched arms confront-
ing her, and came to a trembling ha .
With Turner thanked and speeding nacK
to his shop, and the pony tied to a post,
Dad slapped his pockets in delicious anti-
cipation. Realisation came like a punen
in the solar plexus. He’d left his pipe on
the store counter!
* * * *
“Thugine”: Struck a boy on a N.S.W.
North Coast dairy farm, in broad day-
bght, carrying a lighted hilrricane-lamp,
and asked b im what was the idea. The
j ad po i n t ed ab ead to a figure he was fol-
}owing> “The ole man’s got no matches,”
besa j d “j got p ge t round with this
f or when he wants to light his pipe.”
****
“ Bo ” ; Hutton was in town when the
he liyed fn Qn hig 300 . acre block
caught fire His neighbo rs were converg-
ing on tbe p j ace t 0 ge t a bucket brigade
going when “Hovering” Herb happened
to come by with his bullock team. Herb
announced in his laborious voice: “Yer’ll
wav _ it ’ s too s i ow
never git er out mat way it s too s ow.
I got a better lurk.” Whereupon he set
about hitching his team of 16 to the shack
deS pite protests from the bucket-
wiefders? p proc £ eded to urge Ba ldy, Cap-
tain and c - to bend beef into tbe yoice
and tfaus him render stout service
fe iiow- m an. When he informed
the others that his desdnadon was
Hutton’s dam down the slope the in-
«eased cries of protest from the others
blazing shack eventually heaved and
moved off Herb gave a shout of triumph.
Halfway down to the dam the branch of
a pepper-tree tore the galvanised roo
d ean off, and a few yards fuither on a
to jerk
to a stop and telescope in a shower of
a f^. s - y dle bm< r be bac got tbe
buddmg the °^ S Ihout
dam, which was found to contain about
four inches of mud all that was left of
the place were the heaviest bearers and
joists. As Herb was alternately con-
templating the mess and arguing with the
bucket school of thought Hutton arrive
home and raced straight down to the
dam. He took m the s.tuauon at a
glance and then turned on Herb You
stupid blankard. he shrieked. \
drag the joint away from a well with a
thousand gallons o' water m it to an
empty dam! Herb looked aggrieved.
“That’s gratitood,” he said slowly. Then
he pointed up the slope to the blackened
heap of galvanised-iron sheets. “Why,
if it hadn’t been for me y’d have lorst y’
blanky roof altogether!”
DAWN ON NIGHT SHIFT.
ẃ
VICTORIA.
S.D.B.


Australian, Mercantile, Land & Finance
Company, Limited
(INCORPORATED IN ENGLAND IN 1863)
WOOL, FAT STOCK, STORE AND STUD STOCK,
PRODUCE AND PROPERTY SALESMEN.
General Manager for Australia: R. SINCLAIR SMITH.
ADVANCES MADE ON GRAZING PROPERTIES, ON STOCK, AND ON
CONSIGNMENTS OF WOOL, SKINS, HIDES, TALLOW, ETC.
LICENSED AUCTIONEERS, STOCK AND STATION AGENTS.
SYDNEY OFFICE; 4 BLIGH STREET. A. M. MURDOCH, Manager.
ALSO AT MELBOURNE, BRISBANE, NEWCASTLE, WAGGA, HENTY, HAY, MOREE.
TOWNSVILLE, CHARLEYILLE, BUENOS AIRES, LONDON.
GENERAL AGENTS IN NEW SOUTH WALES FOR NORTHERN ASSURANCE CO., LTD.
For Mineral Mixtures and Licks for
Bone-chewing Cattle _ * jL
To Remedy BONE FLOUR
Phosphorus Deficiency
in Pastures and Fodders
Tri-cal-os Bone Flour is purely a bone product without admixture
of any other substance. It contains a guaranteed minimum of
32.5 per cent, phosphoric acid and 40 per cent. lime.
All particulars from :■
DAVIS GELATINE, G.P.O. BOX 35835, SYDNEY.
0.P.0. Boxes—4osB Melbourne, 758 K, Brisbane, 712 P Adelaide, 588 Perth.
CERTAIN DEATH
to RABBITS
The safest, surest and most economical solution of the rabbit menace.
The only way to carry the maximum number of sheep is to clear out all
the rabbits. Done without heavy cumbersome application.
SAVES
MANPOWER
CYanogaS
‘IT’S THE GAS THAT KILLS THEM”
CyaJuTgas blower (Fat’d). BUZACOTT-WOLSELEY PTY., LTD.
7-11 MARKET STREET. SYDNEY.
Clooic/ *U/ec^/it
USE
CIOBITE
TRAVEL CASES
War needs and conditions restrict supplies, but
Globites will be made available whenever possible.
THE MAN ON
THE LAND
Lambing Percentages.
“Sheepo”; Lambing percentages might
be increased if graziers paid more attention
to fundamental principles, such as (1) the
rams must be in good working condition,
free of disease and pests and not too
young or too old ; (2\ the ewes should
not be too fat, and after the rams have
been joined each paddock should be mus-
tered and ewes and rams yarded for at
least one night a week ; (3) maiden ewes
are shy breeders, and a percentage of
older ewes should be included ; (4) barren
ewes should be fattened and sold ; (5)
when lambing is taking place the ewes
should be watched; (6) anti-blowfly
methods should be followed. Too much
attention is paid to percentage of lambs
marked and not enough to the numbers
that turn up at weaning time. It’s not
much good marking 90 p.c. if only 60 p.c.
of them survive. Losses often occur be-
tween marking and weaning, and seasonal
conditions aren’t always to blame.
Joining tlje rams at a time that will
bring the lambs when grass seeds, fliers
and other pests are prevalent is bad man-
agement. Many lambs die just after
marking through becoming separated
from their mothers, due mainly to hand-
ling of large mobs and late finishing.
Mothering is always a trouble, and mark- „
ing should cease at noon or soon after
and the lambs given a chance to find their
mothers. Hurry-up methods don’t pay.
Some graziers encourage fast workers and
then wonder why so many deaths occur.
The careful operator is worth a dozen
speedsters’.
Temporary yards should be used, and
each day they should be raked thoroughly
and the refuse burnt; pens and marking
rails sprayed with an antiseptic. Knives
and pliers should be given a dip in the
solution every now and then. The lambs
and their mothers should be watched for
a few weeks after marking. If this is
done more lambs will turn up at weaning
time.
A Wheat Forecast.
* “8.C.”: Hardly had the first showers
fell in Riverina when Mr. Scully’s De-
partment of Commerce was out with an
estimate of the 1945-46 Australian wheat
harvest. It is for 100,000,000 bushels,
which is about double the 1944-45 crop.
The prophets claim that the estimate is
conservative, saying that prospects had
improved in Victoria, in the central-west
and north-west of N.S.W. and that “the
outlook in parts of Riverina” was better.
Queensland and W.A. crops are expected
to be normal and S.A. light.
There’s nothing like optimism, of
course, but seeing that the rain came in
mid-June, four to six weeks after plant-
ing time, and that the wheat has had to
go in without its usual complement of
super., two-thirds of a normal average
crop would be very good. However, the
department says that while 100,000,000
bushels will relieve fears of a local wheat
shortage it will leave little for export.
Lucerne for Grazing.
“Bugaldie”: Although lucerne is about
one of the best legumes grown it will not
increase carrying capacity to any great
extent —the vagaries of the Australian
seasons see to that —but it will give
superior grazing where inferior was be-
fore, and helps to make, bigger and better
sheep. Once more “spelled paddocks for
healthier sheep” comes in, and nobody
who values his lucerne patch will flog it
out, but rather close the paddock up,
maybe a month, maybe three. When the
rain and lucerne come again there is a
“ There's y'r noo clothes-line! The barbed wire'll save your pegs."
perfecfly healthy paddock, free from
worms. In a lush summer season, when
worms appear more prevalent, don’t leave
a big mob of sheep in one small paddock
for more than three weeks at a stretch ;
shift them round to other patches, and
so rotate the grazing.
The saying goes “Lucerne will not
grow where it is not sown.” However,
it is not as easy as that. Sowing with a
cover crop of wheat —a very popular
method —is not always satisfactory. Of
course, if you have a cultivation paddock
that is to be spelled for a few years it
is an excellent idea to sow lucerne with
the final wheat crop. It will probably
grow, but don’t rely on it. Sow l£lb.
to 21b. per acre.
The safest and most economical way is
to sow oats the first year, graze it
and eat completely off in the spring. The
ground will not need much working to
prepare it for the autumn lucerne sowing.
—2lb. to 31b. of seed, following the first
decent rain after about the end of March,
using a seedbox attachment on the ordi-
nary combine. If necessary, use super.,
but sow the seed on top of the ground ;
this goes for sowing with a cover crop,
too. Lucerne sown on its own enables
you to get a lot of grazing from it the
first year, and to have an established
stand the second, whereas sowing it with
a cover crop means no grazing the first
year, and maybe not much of a stand in
the second year.
Inland Water.
“C.S.D.”: In “Water for the Inland”
(B. 13 / 6/’45) “B-gar” suggests damming
the Georgina, Diamantina and the Cooper.
Investigation will probably show that
Nature has already dammed these and
other inland rivers below the surface,
thereby creating huge, natural sub-surface
reservoirs of clean, clear, cool water im-
mune from evaporation losses.
Investigation abroad is proving sub-
surface reservoirs in certain areas. In
one place in U.S.A. an investigation
so recently as May this year showed
that one group of wells of modern design
will produce 86 million gallons of “very
clean, clear and pure water” about 10 deg.
F. below surface water temperature
(except in mid-winter). The users of the
system (not the suppliers) reported favor-
ably, averring that the system “had never
broken down or failed to deliver its water
quota.” Up to 25,000,000 gallons of sub-
surface water can be had to augment the
Newcastle (N.S.W.) supply.
Underground rivers and streams are
often found to be wider and deeper than
adjacent streams. The Los Angeles River
dries up most years, and the stones in
the bed of the river are hot enough to
fry an egg on, yet the stream beneath pro-
vides a never failing 8,000,000 gallons per
day of crystal-clear water for a nearby
city.
Recent investigations have indicated
that thousands of square miles of our
great inland are underlain with sub-sur-
face water, all probably the accumulation
of flood waters trapped by natural sub-
surface dams. All we have to do is tap
them.
Storing Root Crops.
“Farmer Bill”: Store swedes, mangolds
or carrots by the pit method. Choose a
site level and well drained. Roots must
be mature and dry to forestall sweating
and rotting. Cut the tops; leave a small
portion of the neck attached to the roots
and get rid of all dirt. Place two logs
parallel to one another about 4ft. apart.
Make the base of the heap about 4ft.
wide, and slant it up to a ridge approxi-
mately 3ft. 6in. high; length of heap is
determined by the number of roots to be
stored. If the weather’s fair, hold off
covering up for a few days to give any
moisture content a chance to dry. Then
cover with dry grass or straw to a depth
of 6in. and overlay with 6in. of soil, let-
ting some of the straw protrude through
the soil at intervals to provide ventilation.
A drain around the mass is a good pre-
caution.
Hints for the Farm.
“H.C.”: Sawdust-concrete for pigs’
sleeping quarters is proving satisfactory
in Maoriland. Made of three parts of
coarse sawdust to one of cement the
finished job is more durable, drier and
warmer than concrete or timber. Put
down a concrete bed first and on top of
that a layer of sawdust-concrete half an
inch thick. Allow to dry ; repeat till you
have four layers. Top off with one dust-
ing of pure cement and one of sand. One
bag of cement will cover approximately
21 square feet.
“Mackay”: The American practice of
growing mulberry-trees in the piggery en-
sures good shade in summer and sunlight
in winter. Once well established the tree
fruits over a long period, and the fallen
berries are harvested by the pigs. Trees
grow quickly from cuttings of young
wood. Trench a strip of land deeply and
water well before planting; leave only
one-third of the cutting above ground.
Plant after frosts, but before buds burst
in spring.
• ' “Nuffin”: Over a three-year period
the average tomato production per acre
in Queensland’s main producing areas.
Metropolitan, Stanthorpe and Bowen,
are respectively 154.5, 90 and 96.5
bushels. The metropolitan area has
much the best figures because trellissing
is almost universal and nearly all areas
are irrigated. The State’s average pro-
duction is static, at around 100 bushels
per acre. The average gross value (1936-
40) was £45 per acre, but in the war
years this figure has risen over 100 p.c.
to £lOO per acre.
“Lane C.”: Use household scraps to
bolster the poultry ration. Meat without
fat, bread, boiled vegetables and fresh or
sour milk make good fowl feed. Boil up
together and add to the morning mash.
Corned, pickled or bad meats, or the
liquid from them, cause trouble.
“Aichess”: A dog pest, new at least
to N.S.W., has made its appearance in the
north-west of the State. Known as diro-
filaria, it is a worm which grows up to
lOin. long and lodges in the heart of thp
dog with fatal results. Its commonest
host is the dog flea, but the ordinary mos-
quito also carries it. Foxes and dingoes
carry the dog flea, and are aided and
abetted by the “mossy.” A mixture
known as Fordine will account for the
worm, but as it still remains in the dog’s
heart that doesn’t avert the fatality. It
would be interesting to hear of treat-
ment and results, as dirofilaria is a pro-
duct of the tropics and is believed to have
been brought here by the dogs of drovers
from “up North.”
“Graz”: Our daily press has taken to
playing-up Russian cows, recently giving
one a “world’s record” with 3577 gals,
(or 33,7701 b.) milk in one year. Com-
pared with Britain’s milking Shorthorn
cow, Cherry, 41,644j1b. and a Yank Hol-
stein with 38,6061 b., both in a 365-day
period, the Russian cow is a long way
off being a world-beater. Canada’s
wonder cow has outstripped them all as
a butter-producer with 14091 b. butter-fat,
or 17611 b. commercial butter, in a twelve-
month. This came from 2800 gal. milk —
it would hardly need separating. Her
owner has knocked back an offer of
20,000 dollars.


UHCABLED ADDITIONS
Trouble Brewing in France.
(From a report by the “Christian Science
Monitor" Paris correspondent.)
France’s returned war prisoners spread-
ing throughout the country have proved
to be the catalyst that has brought into
the clear the fundamental weaknesses and
dangers of the Fourth Republic pro-
claimed by General Charles de Gaulle.
Chief external signs have been increas-
ing labor unrest and many strikes. It
was obvious to any observer trying to
move about and live in France, with
“black market” prices and scarcities
dominating the whole picture, that the
situation could not continue indefinitely.
Too many persons are hungry, ill-*
clothed, poorly paid. And when war
prisoners came back as returned heroes
only to find themselves even less able than
most civilians to meet the mad challenge
of inflationary prices and deflationary
pay the fat was in the fire.
These veterans, 2,000,000 strong, are
considered the hope of France. Back
from imprisonment, they expected a
warm welcome. They got it from the
hearts, but were chilled by the economic
facts they faced. They are given $2O
when they arrive to help them tem-
porarily, but that period usually stretches
into several weeks. They need food, yet
even an inexpensive meal costs $5. They
need shoes, and a pair costs $4O. They
need clothes, and a suit costs $2OO. Thus
the $2O allowance is gone before the
second or third day for food alone, and
they still are without vital clothing.
France already was in the doldrums
economically, due to the occupation and
the resulting dislocation. The arrival of
these men on the jobless market is no
help. They cannot even work to aug-
ment their small Government allowance.
The constant drama in the daily spec-
tacle of arrivals of prisoner trains at the
Gare du Quai d’Orsay must be visualised
to see how this prisoner impact is build-
ing into an overwhelming flood that con-
ceivably could inundate the delicate
structure of the present De Gaulle Gov-
ernment, which still is unrooted, lacking
a mandate from the people.
You speak to a workingman about how
things are and ask what’s the solution.
He will say “It can’t go on like this.”
You smile, thinking it’s a joke because
you’ve talked about “come the revolu-
tion” jokingly for years. Then you look
in his eye and get no return twinkle. He
is completely serious. You speak to
several of your favorite waiters in dif-
ferent places, and without prompting they
all come back with the same answer “It
can’t go on like this.” You move into
middle and upper circles. Their talk is
more furtive, but on much the same line,
and you realise that a strong suggestion
of revolutionary trends is abroad in the
land even if it has not really crystallised.
No matter where you turn, you never
get anyone with any clear hope for solu-
tion, which is the most discouraging
phase of it all. As a result, General de
Gaulle’s prestige is definitely being
affected. His failure to find a solution
to France’s internal problems could yet
prove his undoing politically.
Russia in Bondage.
(From it S.Y. “times” report)
Even the Russians are “yearning for
freedom,” the proof of this being that
“Russian soldiers by the thousands and
Russian generals by the dozens deserted
Red Russia, fled Stalinism, escaped
from communism, and fought willingly
beside the Nazis.” Representative Clare
Boothe Luce, Republican of Connecticut,
said this in a nation-wide radio address.
These men “were, of course, deceived
in their search for freedom, just as de-
ceived as were the German soldiers who
deserted to Stalin,” Mrs. Luce added.
“Today in the Balkans,” she asserted,
“over 300,000 Russian soldiers have
deserted victorieus Russian armies to
seek a better, richer, happier way of life.
Their search becomes every day more
fruitless —because the hand of Stalin
reaches out for them, reaches over the
Balkans.” *
The fact that millions of Russians “put
up a hard fight for their homeland,” just
as “millions of Nazis” did and “millions
of Japanese” are doing, does not prove,
she asserted, that “communism is, there-
fore, justified.”
Mrs. Luce declared that “180,000,000
Russians are today incarcerated behind
a towering wall of censorship,” unaware
of “a world in which the words law and
justice, charity and freedom have a sweet
and real personal meaning for great
masses of men.”
“The fate that has overtaken the Rus-
sian people/’ she continued, “is now
about to overtake almost all the peoples
of Europe and Asia.”
Terming Russia “the world’s No. 2
Power and the military and industrial
Titan of Eurasia,” Mrs. Luce declared
that “at this hour every Government in
.Central Europe is either controlled
directly or indirectly by Moscow-minded
rulers,”
Mrs. Luce declared that “the world of
totalitarianism” and “the world of
liberty” are “doomed to come into con-
flict.” Will mankind, she asked, eventu-
ally “stand in the light of freedom” or
“crawl in the darkness of slavery?”
Peace with Justice.
(From a “United States News” editorial .)
The world has had other military vic-
tories, but no set of conquerors has ever
before faced the mammoth job of forc-
ing 80,000,000 persons to accept long
years of privation and punishment. There
will be a temptation to use stern measures
of coercion such as the Germans tried
in an attempt to pacify defeated France.
If general public opinion wants to see
that course adopted, then there is not
much use calling the period that lies ahead
“peace.” It might better be called frankly
the period of enforced pacification.
If ever there was a time for so-called
Christian nations to keep their heads it
is now. For we shall not gain peace by
becoming imitators of the Nazis or by
dragging ourselves down to the level of
the Nazis.
Some military minds of Britain and
America have felt is necessary to impress
on civilian minds the terrible nature of
the crimes committed by the Nazis, The
first newspaper reports and pictures
evidently were not enough. Hurried calls
were made for American editors and
members of Congress and of Parliament
to visit German prison camps. The rea-
son openly given for this summons was a
fear that civiliaqs would not be sufficiently
impressed by the initial flow of news
dispatches about the atrocities.
Isn’t this the first step toward the im-
pairment of objective thinking? Isn’t
this the road to public policy by passion,
by hatred, by revenge and by bitterness?
Let’s hope not. Alas, however, if you
question these attempts at artificial in-
fluence on public opinion you are for a
“soft peace,” If you don’t want to see
minds, especially at this critical time,
poisoned and warped hy the passion for
reprisal, then you must somehow be for-
getting or forgiving the cruelties of the
Nazis and must somehow be trying
actually to create sympathy for the Ger-
mans!
But the instincts to humane behavior
will not be crushed by slogans or epithets.
The teachings of lesus cannot be burned
at the stake by these new fires of revenge
nor crucified on the cross of ridicule as
so much maudlin sentiment, irrelevant or
inapplicable.
Those individuals guilty of violating the
rules of warfare must be ferreted out and
must pay the supreme penalty. But the
old men and women, the children, the
babes in arms must not be starved or
deprived of a means of livelihood.
We must keep our reasoning power
focused on the real objective—peace. We
must administer justice. We must repair,
reconstruct, rehabilitate. There must be
an end to debasement and destruction.
This is the real way to re-educate and
reconvert human beings and to build
firmly that foundation of human brother-
hood which is so essential to a lasting
peace,
Word War on Japs.
(From a report by a "Christian Science
Monitor" war correspondent in the Pacific.)
The basic purpose of the propaganda
issued by the psychological war officers
under Admiral Chester W. Nimitz’s corn-
mand is to tell the Japanese the truth. In
a variety of ways the Japanese are told
they are losing the war and that what
they and their homeland have suffered so
far is just a forerunner of things to come,
A typical leaflet dropped over a factory
area will say: “This might have been a
bomb. Stay away from the factory and
you will not be injured.” Perhaps the
particular area will later be bombed and
the lesson of the leaflet brought resound-
ingly home.
Last summer the Japanese authorities
tried to use the suicides among the
civilians and military on Saipan as a
morale builder on the home front,
Admiral Nimitz’s psychological war-
farers attempted to counteract this cam-
paign with leaflets informing the Japanese
that 13,000 civilians and 2100 of the
military had surrendered. The 2100 army
ẅ
Britain Wants U.S. Wines.
(From N.Y. "Journal of Commerce.")
London quarters have expressed a de-
sire to purchase wines from California,
New York and the Middle West at the
earliest possible opportunity.
American liquor circles are reported to
attach great significance to this develop-
ment in view of the fact that it indicates
that many American wines both compare
and can compete favorably with similar
types of wines from France and other
countries. British trade quarters have
expressed a desire to receive large-scale
shipments of some types of champagnes
and still wines because of the improve-
ment which American producers have
been able to achieve in developing uni-
formity and consistency.
In commenting upon this, a New York
“Times” London dispatch states:
“Wine merchants here have been under
some pressure from the Government to
do their volume purchasing in South
Africa and other parts of the Empire,
but have resisted on the ground that the
quality of these products is not up to
their standards,
“In pressing for approval for wine pur-
chases in die United States the merchants
maintain that sales of Scotch in the ex-
port market create more dollar exchange
in normal times than any other British
export. Since the United States is the
best foreign market for Scotch, the mer-
chants hold that the Government should
permit them to earma/k a certain per-
centage of the dollars earned by Scotch
exports for the import of American
wines. . .
“France, of course, still is first m the
minds of the wine importers as a source
of supply, but the unsettled outlook re-
garding francs and the exceptionally high
prices that the French are now asking
for their wines have prompted London
dealers to seek a reliable and supplemen-
tary source.”
About Cartels.
(From an “American Mercury” article by
Frederick Haussmann and Daniel J. Ahern.)
International cartels have been accused
of every crime in the book. Every time
anything goes wrong it is blamed on a
cartel. As a result the impression has
grown that if the world abolished all
cartels then, overnight, you and I would
find ourselves in Utopia.
Today the whole question of cartels is
hopelessly webbed in suspicion, emotions
and misconceptions. Prominent among
these misconceptions is the general belief
that all cartels are bad ; that they were
invented by Hitler; that every Govern-
ment—except the Nazis —is against them.
Supposedly, they are formed only by Big
Business in capitalistic countries.
One of the most prevalent misconcep-
tions is that no one really knows what a
cartel is —except, that, whatever it is, it is
bad. Primarily, a cartel is an agreement
which seeks to regulate production and
prices. It is an attempt to adjust produc-
tion to current demand. In every cartel
there are bad and good elements. Some
are altogether bad ; none is perfect; none
is entirely beyond redemption.
The next time you sip a cup of tea you
might remember the International Tea
Cartel. After many failures, the Inter-
national Tea Agreement (1933) inaugu-
rated an elaborate control of tea-growing
in India, Ceylon and the Netherlands
Indies. Cultivation was improved, and,
in spite of the usual claims that every
cartel restricts production, an average
yield of 939 million pounds in the period
of 1930-34 increased to 1102 million
pounds in 1939-40. Only recently
a study by the Food Research Institute
of Stanford University stressed the “matu-
rity and wisdom” of the production- and
price-policies of the tea cartel.
A second misconception about inter-
national cartels is that they were in-
vented by Hitler as part of his conquer-
the-world strategy. It is true that when
the Nazis came to power they used exist-
ing cartels and formed others to carry
out their economic policies both in Ger-
many and elsewhere. But long before
Hitler international cartels operated not
only in Germany, but also in most other
countries. Indeed, in every stage ef
economic history there have been cartels
and anti-cartel movements.
Most people think that all Governments
—Nazi Germany excepted—are despe-
rately attempting to abolish cartels. Noth-
ing could be farther from the truth.
In the United States production agree-
ments and price understandings are illegal.
There are, however, numerous legal ex-
ceptions. Why are export cartels per-
mitted in the United States? Because
Congress felt, and apparently still feels,
that U.S. exporters should not be forced
to operate at a disadvantage against any
foreign combination in the world market.
In both England and pre-Hitler Ger-
many all such combinations, domestic or
international, were subject to dissolution
if they acted either against public policy
or against the interests of their fellow-
members. Actually, few cartels in either
country were ever dissolved by Govern-
mental action. The same is true of
France, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Holland
and Sweden. Norway and Poland exer-
cised a strict control, but even in those
countries many domestic and international
cartels were allowed to operate.
Some Governments have participated
partner-wise in cartels. In the tin cartel
the Governments of Bolivia, the Nether-
lands Indies, British Malaya, Nigeria and
Siam were contracting parties.
Finally, a number of instances can be
cited, particularly since 1930, in which
Governments have themselves created


In
ft
mu( H4W
THE FUTURE
Drawing nearer now are the prospects ot peace-
ful days, restful nights and happy home life for
thousands of men and women in our fighting
forces. . . . After the rough and tumble of the
fighting fronts they will appreciate more than
ever the quiet underfoot luxury of Feltex floor
coverings in every room.
w
Insist on genuine
FELTEX look
for the name .
FELTEX
FELT & TEXTILES OF AUSTRALIA LTD.
MANUFACTURERS OF PLAIN AND MARBLED FELTEX
f//y
0&
O'
•tO^ S
pi'*'
p\S'
»V<
o**
t©
to
Ot> tV
r
HILLMAN MINX
The Greatest Achievement in Light Car design
Since its inception the Hillman Minx has held a
world-wide reputation as the light car with Big
Car comfort and exceptional performance, coupled
with strict motoring economy.
The Minx, dressed in camouflage, has been serving
on all fronts, but as soon as its present official
duties cease it will be available again to uphold the
reputation of "The greatest achievement in Light
Car design."
A PRODUCT OF THE
isnpiMW
Manufacturers oft
HILLMAN . . . HUMBER . . . SUNBEAM-TALBOT
Cars
COMMER . . . . (CARRIER
Commercial Vehicles
N.S.W. DISTRIBUTORS: John McGrath Ltd., Cathcart House, 11c Castlereagh
Street, Sydney (temporary address).
Resident Representative t
C. H. HORDERN, 472 Bourke Street, Melbourne.
cartels. The Wheat Agreement of 1933
embraced, in their official capacity,
Canada, Australia, Great Britain, Argen-
tina, Hungary, Rumania, Yugoslavia, Bui-
gana and Russia. The United States,
which played a major role throughout the
negotiations, was. one of the co-signers.
Governmental agreements were also
reached in sugar (1937) and in coffee
(1942).
And on Aueust 8 1944 Great Britain
anrl .r° T T jpc. ♦ iy44 ’ a n
and the United States, as part of a long-
range collaboration between the • two
countries in the international economic
field,” concluded a cartel-like agreement
which is aimed at “assuring the avail-
n,, , , °
ability of adequate petroleum supplies
to all peaceable countries at fair prices
and on a noil-discriminatory basis, sub-
ject to such collective security arrange-
m \? S If may r Et u an T y r tin ?xr b€ i n i f 0 / Ce -”
Members of the Left Wing delight in
emphasising the international conspiracies
of capitalistic cartels They would be
surprised to learn of the Soviet Union s
role as an active member in many cartels;
of the Soviet’s share, for example, in
several European oil agreements, in plati-
num, wheat and sugar, and in the Timber
Exporters’ Convention. The Soviet Gov-
ernment also sat in at the International
Cotton Meeting of 1939. And Russia's
international cartel policy —it may be
noted in passing—has been both shrewd
and successful.
All the larger nations, on one occasion
~ , c , . ,
or another, have formed or used cartels
or cartel-like agreements to achieve Gov-
ernmental purposes. Certainly this would
seem to prove that these Governments
do not consider cartels as good or
“bad” in themselves, but judge them
rather according to how much their pur-
pose and actions promote general econo-
mic welfare.
What the United Nations will eventu-
ally do about international cartels cannot
be foreseen. But it will be most interest-
ing to see whether they will attempt to
ripstrrw nil cartel* pxrent their own
destroy all cartels except tneir own.
Dragnet Dlffest.
(Condensed from various acknowledged
sources.)
If U.S.-Britain-China win the Japanese war
together they’ll make the peace there. Com-
munists in China will be weakened; will face
a strong Chinese regime. U.S. will hold the
No. 1 position of influence in China. Britain
will restore her Far Eastern empire; will have
a Pacific voice. Russia, in that event, could
claim nothing from the Far Eastern peace, could
not assert her interests in Manchuria, in Korea,
in communist parts of China. Her position in
mat part of the world would be less strong.
That situation is related to developments ahead
in the Japanese war. Japan, facing defeat, may
prefer to surrender to U.S.-Britain-China; may
figure* that her chance of future recovery is
better in those hands than in the hands of
Russia, too. Russian demands can be very
hard and uncompromising. So, Japan may
prefer to surrender at a time when Russia is not
m the war; may want to speed up negotiations.
United States News.”
* * ' * *
The means taken to achieve Russian security
can be either explained or extenuated. They
are means that have been taken in the past by
nations that they have called “imperialistic” and
capitalistic” but they are means that the San
Francisco Conference has been trying to out-
law- They are means that can in no sense be
described as democratic; they flout the principle
of the self-determination of peoples and above
all they show so little regard for not only the
States of eastern Europe but the other Powers
of the world that what has been happening
in eastern Europe is a bad portent for the future.
For the ends can never justify any and all means,
and any doctrine that proclaims this is contrary
to all American ideas of justice and freedom.
But so far the vital security requirements of the
United States, Britain and Russia in Europe,
Asia and the rest of the world are intact.
The heated discussions in San Francisco, which
at times have been reflected in newspaper articles
about “fundamental” differences and an “in-
evitable” clash between Russia and the United
States and Britain have —so far —no sound
strategical basis. It is absurd and unthinkable
to talk about imminent war between Russia
and Britain and America, as some writers have
done, for no peoples—Russian, British or
American —would fight such a war today. Nor
is there today any basic reason for such a con-
flict. But to say this is not to diminish the
potential peril of the distant tomorrows—the
peril of a world in which the great Powers
should find fundamental strategic differences
blocking the onward path of history.— N.Y.
“Times” war commentator Hanson W. Baldwin.
* * * *
There are some who know Japanese psy-
chology who believe that an offer of uncon-
ditional surrender by Japan in the next 90 days
or six months is well within the realm of proba-
bility. If Japan fails to surrender within that
time it will be only because her businessmen
who are influential have failed to persuade the
military group that the entrance into the war by
Russia would be ruinous for Japan. The present
period or breathing spell is not difficult for
the Japanese to estimate and only if they feel
sure Russia will stay out of the war will they
take the risk of prolongation. Will Russia stay
out? One Chinese of long experience to whom
I put the question in San Francisco asked me
in reply, “Knowing Russia’s historic position,
how do you suppose anyone can keep Russia
out of the war against Japan?”— Washington
correspondent N.Y. “Sun.”
* * * *
Political censorship is so stringent in Moscow
that it has reduced foreign correspondents there
to mere “yes men” whose only choice is to send
along news copied out of the Russian papers.
That assertion was made by Paul Winterton,
who has returned here after three years as corre-
spondent for the London “News-Chronicle”
and the British Broadcasting Corporation. In
an interview in the “World’s Press News” Win-
terton said that conditions are so difficult that
“no. useful purpose is served by the newspapers
having special correspondents in Moscow.”
The writer for the “News-Chronicle,” which is
a Leftist paper, asserted that in the three years
he was in Moscow it was impossible to write
anything implying the slightest criticism of
anything Russian or disagreeing in -any way
When the Truman - Churchill -
Stalin meeting occurs Mr. Truman
will place less dependence than did
Mr. Roosevelt on personal charm,
on personal negotiations; will utilise
the aid of others. Words in com-
muniques will assume less import-
ance ; acts more importance. U.S.
will want a clearer understanding
of just what it is that Russia is seek-
ing in Europe and the Far East;
will be wiser to the way of trading
methods. Russian technique, offi-
cials says, is this; Demand every-
thing, concede not a thing, appear
adamant. Then, when a crisis de-
velops, give way on unimportant
issues, expecting that others will be
so pleased by any concession that
they will give the vital things sought.
It’s d highly successful trading
method—to date.—“ United States
News.”
with Soviet policy. He said that censorship
made it impossible to give an impartial account
of the Russian attitude toward the British, of
the situation in the Baltic States, of Russian
treatment of British prisoners or of the Red
Army of Occupation in Germany. Winterton
said he had decided “that the Russian authori-
ties, who are highly suspicious of all foreigners,
prefer that news from Russia should be covered
by Tass ‘yes men’ and by a minimum number
of agencies confining themselves as far as pos-
sible to official reports.”— London correspondent
Chicago “Tribune.’''
* * * *
Molotov’s brother-in-law, Sam Carp, owns a
gas station in Bridgeport, Conn., as has been
reported. What the reporter failed to state is
that Carp also owns 34 other gas stations,
plus a fuel-oil company, plus an oil-burner com-
pany; is head of the Carp Importing Co. and
reported to be on the Amtorg board of
directors. — Danton Walker; N.Y. “Daily News”
columnist.
* * * *
Without Allied financial aid permitting Soviet
Russia to purchase large quantities of consumer
and technical goods abroad it is possible that
the standard of living in the U.S.S.R. may well'
take longer to recover than its basic heavy
industrial strength. The Kremlin policy always
has been prone to emphasise as basic the eradi-
cation of illiteracy, collectivisation, the estab-
lishment of powerful armed forces and the con-
struction of a large new heavy industry. It is
thought, furthermore, that the building of a
large Red Fleet now is on the list of con-
templated projects. This has resulted in a cer-
tain sacrifice of the comforts of the average
Russian during the last decade, and if
necessary there is no reason to doubt
that for the national well-being as conceived
by the Kremlin the nation could be made
to realise such a sacrifice might be necessary
again. This conceivably could produce the para-
dox of a Soviet Union with unprecedented
power in Europe and Asia but with few of the
softer blessings of life relative to the west.
— N.Y. “Times” special correspondent in
Europe C. L. Sulzberger.
* * * *
White House thinking is influenced by this
viewpoint: U.S. is almost bursting with dollars;
is filled up with $100,000,000,000 and more
of individual savings, with a stupendous money
supply. Dollars also are owned by foreign
nations in record quantities. There is more
than $20,000,000,000 abroad in gold and dollar
balances. Pent-up demand for U.S. goods,
both in U.S. and abroad, on the part of people
with money burniiig holes in their pockets will
assure a post-war period of prosperity; will
assure U.S. a rising standard of living, good
times. By 1948 the post-war boom will be far
along on its way. So, worry about economic
problems can be postponed beyond this term,
even beyond the next White House term. —
“United States News.”
* * * *
“The spread of totalitarianism in the United
States and the great danger posed by it is in
the gullibility with which some respectable
sections of the community have accepted the
brand of political and economic eyewash sold
by the American communists. American com-
munism can thrive best in a totalitarian atmo-
sphere. _ Every move to concentrate greater
power in the hands of government meets with
a chorus of communist approval, and since it
is generally agreed that big government is the
enemy of economic voluntarism or free enter-
prise, and since communism in America today
is completely behind the growing tendency
toward total control over the nation’s indus-
trial enterprise, those in business who soft-pedal
communism are, in effect, digging their own
graves.”— Matthew Wall, vice-president of the
American Federation of Labor.


Missing Friends.
HANCOCK Frederick. —Mr. Frederick Hancock,
husband of MARGARET ETHEL HANCOCK, who
died in Perth in 1905, or any person having know-
ledge of Frederick Hancock’s present address, is
requested to communicate without delay with
THE TRUSTEES EXECUTORS AND AGENCY
COMPANY LIMITED,
401 Collins Street, Melbourne.
Divorce Notice.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF QUEENSLAND—
Matrimonial Jurisdiction.
TO ALFRED GEORGE MILFORD LORA WAY other-
wise known as Alfred George Milford Larter formerly
of Main Street Kangaroo Point Brisbane in the State
of Queensland. —TAKE NOTICE that an action has
been commenced against you in the Supreme Court
of Queensland at Brisbane by Writ of Summons
Numbered 183 of 1945 by DORIS ANNIE LORA WAY
your wife in which she claims a dissolution of her
marriage with you and by her Petition filed herein
she alleges that in or about the month of February
1936 you at Main Street Kangaroo Point Brisbane
aforesaid deserted her without cause and have con-
tinuously so deserted her for a period of three years
and upwards to the present time and it has been
ordered that service on you of the petition and writ
of summons be effected by publication of this notice
once in the Sydney Bulletin and once in the “Laun-
ceston Examiner” If you desire to defend this
action you must within fourteen weeks from the per-
formance of the last of the said acts enter an appear-
ance at the Registry of the said Court and in default
of your so doing the plaintiff may by leave of the
Court or a Judge proceed in the action and Judg-
ment may be given in your absence.
DATED this Fourteenth day of June 1945.
(L.s.) J. S. GIBSON,
Second Deputy Registrar.
.*6 *'2s
I^sfi® 85
?t o*e c v<v **•
v ott* a (ii ®.\ tV® . ,Ae* D (is
° a fUt‘ S'''*.',<,»<^§SS»
s3 v e * . - GP}', e *V e J
.* \«, * yea* 5 ~ b«1-
*.•«• a e* er *
b eV" nA
C%v
n <
Pelmanism
Scientific Training of Mind , Memory and Personality
H.M. Forces
160 admirals and generals and
’ nearly 100,000 other ranks have
taken the Pelman Course.
Approved by the War Office.
A gratifying feature of our relations
with students is the friendly communi-
cations we receive from time to time
from Pelmanists who completed the
course years ago. An extract from one
such letter is included below.
SOLDIER —24th April, ’42: “It is grati-
fying to realise the difference Pelmanism has
made in my Army life....as evidenced in
many new friendships, for instance.”
TEACHER —22nd May, ’42: “I have taken
a fresh grip on things. I used to dread
Inspections, and stew over them before and
after. I am now looking forward to this
year’s Inspection.”
SOLDIER —14th May, ’42; “The Course
has improved me wonderfully, especially in
regard to observation and general efficiency.”
CLERK—7th April, ’42: “In an early
lesson you said that there is no magic in
Pelmanism. I can only say, from the peace
of mind and increased efficiency I have enjoyed
since studying Pelmanism, that it takes on
the appearance of magic.”
SOLDIER —17th May, ’42: “My past
training in Pelmanism has stood me in good
stead since joining the A.I.F. There is
ample opportunity here for the application
of the Pelman principles of living.”
MEDICAL STUDENT-9th May, '42:
“I find myself improved in decisiveness and
concentration, which have combined to vastly
Increase my self-confidence.”
AIR FORCE —18th May, ’42: “I took the
Pelman Course in September, ’36. It proved
to be an outstandingly-wise decision on my
part....l have improved and increased my
earning capacity in the last six and a half
years....l have enthusiastically recommended
the Pelman Course to hundreds.”
BOOT TRADE—I2th May, '42; “Each
lesson has shown me more grounds for im-
provement and my aims have become clearer.
I applied for the Course to obtain social
ease, but quickly saw the wisdom of your
advice to aim at all-round development.”
SOLDIER —Ist May, ’42: “I undertook
the Pelman Course to overcome a bad
memory, and I am making good progress.
Yesterday I had to learn the Morse Code,
and I made astonishing progress. To-day
there are only two letters of which I am not
quite certain.”
The Headquarters of the Felman
Institute are in Xiondon.
The Institute has been established In
Melbourne under the same direction
for over 34 years.
The staff of the Pelman Institute is fully aware of the present need
for intensification of effort, and it sets out with each pupil to get
as quickly as possible to the core and substance of his individual
requirements.
Speed and Accuracy
The first thing Pelmanism does is to quicken the perceptions so
that we are more intensely aware of what is around us and about us.
We see more, and we see it more quickly and accurately. In conse-
quence, there is a great access of confidence in our ability to acquire
exact knowledge, remember it and recall it as required. We learn
to trust our sense perception.
The way to development of inherent qualities and aptitudes is
then open and relatively smooth and easy for the normal man and
Svoman. The more important of these qualities are
Observation Self-Confidence Concentration
Will-Power Judgment Initiative
Decision Organisation Social Ease
and a THOROUGHLY DEPENDABLE MEMORY
for faces, figures, names, appointments, prices
and useful data of every kind.
The exercises are pleasant and each has its special purpose.
The Pelman Course is a real training, its primary object being to create
good habits of mind and memory in place of careless and slovenly
ones, to train the conscious and the subconscious so that every
faculty will, when called upon, contribute its share in making a
good performance of anything that has to be done.
There are over half a million Pelmanists, of whom more than 50,000 have
enrolled with the Institute in Melbourne.
We shall be glad to send readers* of The Bulletin a copy
of “The Efficient Mind,” 76 pages, cost free. Your inquiry
will be regarded as a confidential communication; we have
no outside representatives.
The Pelman Institute
3 Gloucester House, 396 Flinders Lane
(Cr. Market St.), Melbourne.
Telephone: MU2355. Telephone or personal calls are welcomed.
Note: Those who do not wish to cut The Bulletin are advised that “The Pelman. Institute,
Melbourne,” is sufficient address.
New Zealand Inquirers.
The Pelman Institute, with
the approval of the Reserve
Bank, has made arrangements to
meet the financial restrictions
and enable residents of New
Zealand to enrol for the Pelman
Course of Training without
delay. Write in the first instance
to the Pelman Institute* Mel-
bourne.
To the Pelman Institute, 3 Gloucester House,
396 Flinders Lane, Melbourne.
Please send me, post-free, a copy of “THE EFFICIENT
MIND.’’
Name
Address
151
fSWFNI
v JUil I nA
. (He always
smolb*fadt!
SPECIALLY
SERVICE DEPARTMENT.
Wants.
To buy Wool Classing, Shed and Station
Management. —3619.
Words of humorous recitation “Jenny Jinks,
the Kitchenmaid.” —3620.
To buy “Wild Life” for June, 1939. —3621.
Information Sought.
On a farm owned jointly by husband and
wife, and on which both work, is the amount
of tax affected if each submits a return for half
the profits?
Where the Taxation Commissioner is of the
opinion that a husband-and-wife partnership
has been entered into purely for the purpose of
reducing taxation he will tax the income as
belonging to a single person. In the case
quoted there seem to be grounds for splitting
up the income and making separate returns.
* * * *
What positions did Harold Clapp hold in
America ?
He was six years with General Electric Co.,
New York, engaged with work for Interborough
Rapid Transit Co., Hudson Tubes and N.Y.
Central Railway System. He next superintended
the electrification of the West' Jersey and Sea-
shore Div. of the Pennsylvania Railway, also
the electrification of the Oakland, Alameda
and Berkley suburban railways of the Southern
Pacific Railway Co. Manager and vice-president
of the Columbus Railway Power and Light Co.,
and vice-president of the East St. Louis and
Suburban Railway were other positions held by
him.
* * *
How many aeroplanes has the Duke of Glou-
cester in Australia, and of what type are they?
H.R.H. has no machines of his own in Aus-
tralia, but three machines have been made avail-
able by the R.A.F., through the R.A.A.F., for
his use. They are an Avro York (Endeavour;
a crew of five), an Avro Anson, and a single-
engined Proctor.
* * * *
Some facts about the Mexican pyramids?
Situated near Mexico City, they ‘are built
mostly with river boulders. The pyramid of the
Sun ( Tonatiuh ) is 761ft. from north to south,
725ft. from east to west and rises to a height
of 216ft. The pyramid of the Moon ( Mextli )
is 426ft. by 511ft., reaching 180ft. in height.
The staircases between terraces are intact.
* * * =?
Who was the previous boxer to Ray Thurger
who died after a contest at Leichhardt ( Sydney )
Stadium ?
Siteriki Bera, a Fijian. Bera fought on the
night of June 26, 1941, and died next day in
hospital.
* * * *
(1) Has Cecil Pepper (N.S.W.) played in Test
cricket? (2) What are his figures in Sheffield
Shield? (3) What is the professional pay in
Lancashire club cricket?
(1) No. (2) Eighteen innings, three not outs,
344 runs, 81 highest score, average 22.93;
248.1 overs, 16 maidens, 1066 runs, 29 wickets,
average 36.75. (3) Not known definitely; de-
pends on club bidding, bonuses, supporters’
hand-outs and “passing round the hat” for out-
standing performances.
Brief Answers.
E. 8.; The Prince of Wales landed at Sydney
on June 16, 1920 M.C.: He is an English
military officer writing under a pen-name
Observer: Letters 1876-1920, Stories, Dreams
and Allegories, Woman and Labor, Life of
Olive Schreiner and Migratory Springboks of
South Africa are more of Olive Schreiner’s
works... .A.E.H.P.: Twenty-two lives were lost
in the Creswick (Vic.) mine disaster of the 12th
December, 1882, and £24,600 remains of the
£27,000 subscribed S.D.M.: Prouds, Ltd.,
Pitt-street, Sydney, stock the watches when
available J.R.V.: The values are (1) Is. 6d.,
(2) 6d., (3) no value, (4) (5)-and (6) Id.; D. R.
Raymond, 128 Bathurst-street, Sydney, is a
dealer W.R.: The figures are not readily
available, but the secretary, Anglo-Indian and
Domiciled European Association, 11 Wellington-
square, Calcutta, may be able to help you;
your other questions will be answered later.
Answers to Correspondents.
Name and address must appear on the MS. No
liability is undertaken re contributions voluntarily
submitted; and no MS. will be returned unless
stamps accompany. MS. should be addressed to
the Editor.
G.C.: “Several friends consider this poem
good.” Friends always do —unless it really is,
in which case they say they can’t' understand it.
A.R.C.: Prosy R.R.: Tolerable essay
on an old theme, except that “supreme” is used
incorrectly... .M.H.: Incoherent... .G.E.8.:
Not a hope H.E.R.; Try elsewhere....
T.G.W.: How could you bring yourself to use
such at word as “fecundifi.es”?... .G.W.: ine
following lines presented themselves to me while
sitting by the Lane Cove River at Fig Tree one
sunny afternoon.” Well, next time anything
presents itself look twice before you accept it.
H.G.B.: Close; would be better if they
were aeroplanes instead of “screaming chargers,
“fiery steeds,” etc J.McC.: You’re a trier,
anyhow G.W.S.: “The Sun bursts on a
glooming world anew, As it burst ten thousand
times ten thousand Times before this crimson
birth of infant Day.” And that makes ten
thousand times ten thousand crimson poems
about the sunrise... .D.F.P.: “You’ve Got to
Be Quick in fhe Tropics” is.whizzing back like
lightning... .O.B.: Slight... .M.F.L.: Avoid
such sham-poetic truncations as “ ‘dentured”
and “ ‘questered”... .L.S.: “I love the gums
and I hate the slums.” Pithily put.


Who Will Look After
It Is unwise to appoint an individual as
Executor of your Will. He may become
overloaded with his own work, may die,
become ill or careless, leave the country, or
even abuse his trust.
The Trustees Executors and Agency Com-
pany Limited, constituted under Act of
Parliament, and with over 66 years’ experi-
ence in the administration of thousands of
estates, offers you ample security, an im-
partial viewpoint and complete continuity of
service. Charges are fixed and moderate.
Consult your solicitor or write for Free
Booklet.
The Trustees Executors
and Agency Company Ltd,
1 BLIGH STREET, SYDNEY, and at
401 COLLINS STREET, MELBOURNE
Capital (paid and uncalled) and Reserves, £961,446,
BOARD OF DIRECTORS*
Sir Alexander Stewart (Chairman) j D. Stuart Murray; Sir Claude
Reading, K.C.M.G.; Sir Lennon Rawa, C. 8.8.; G. S. Colman, C.8.E.;
Sir Alan Newton, M.S., Melfa., F.R.C.S., Eng.
General Manager: W. Sydney Jones.
Manager: K. M. Hughes.
NEW SOUTH WALES DIRECTORS*
Si* Claude Reading, K.C.M.G. (Chairman); W. D. Stewart;
R" T. Hilder; John Cadwallader.
N.S.W. Manager* J. W. Russell French.
Incorporated in Victoria in 1878.
Insure with the
AUSTRALIAN MUTUAL FIRE INSURANCE SOCIETY, LTD.
ESTABLISHED 1872.
HEAD OFFICE: INSURANCE HOUSE, 109 PITT STREET, SYDNEY.
Invested Funds exceed £500,000.
All classes Marine, Fire and Accident Insurance at lowest rates.
TOURISTS’ AND TRAVELLERS’ BAGGAGE INSURED.
VICTORIAN BRANCH: 411 Collins Street, Melbourne.
QUEENSLAND BRANCH; Woolworth’s Building, Adelaide Street, Brisbane.
Claims Promptly and Equitably Settled. Agents in all Principal Country Town*.
W. J. HITCHCOCK, Manager.
The WILD CAT COLUMN
Colonial Sugar Refining Co.
Replacement
Year and De-
coded predation
March, Profit. Dividends. Reserves. Reserves,
6i p.c.
) 935 .. 931,949 731,250 909,247 3,088,939
1936 . . 937,980 877,500* 969,727 3,311,260
6.9 p.c.
1937 .. 1,036,336 804,375 1,201,688 3,509,057
7J P-c.
1938 .. 1,060,786 877,500 1,384,974 3,700,479
1939 . . 1.005,670 877,500 1,513,144 3,870,539
84 p.c.
1940 .. 1,103,744 994,500 1,622,388 4,092,025
1941 .. 1,054,331 994,500 1,682,219' 4,351,538
1942 . . 934,619 994,500 1,622,338 4,666,640
1943 .. 1,041.601 994,500 1,669,439 5,049,140
1944 . . 873,969 994,500 1,548,908 5,443,655
8 p.c.
3 945 .. 881,136 936,000 1,494,044 5,793,701
* Includes special bonus of ss. per share to cover
taxation on last bonus scrip issue.
Like other big Australian industrial
organisations, C.S.R. has contributed
handsomely to the war effort. In this
connection activities are now practically
confined to machining, etc., of 25-
pounder and 17-pounder (anti-tank) gun-
barrels, and little more of the work
remains to be done. The co.’s munition
factory, which turned out over 1,500,000
shells, closed down in March, 1944. The
first 134,474 shells were presented to the
Government free of all cost, and the
balance was made without profit to the
co. Two other war factories closed last
term —one produced activated carbon for
gas-masks, and the other, operated in
conjunction with British Industrial Sol-
vents and Robert Corbett Pty., produced
acetone for explosives. The co. financed
the carbon factory and the Government the
other one.
In Australia the co. is engaged mainly
in refining and selling all but a small
fraction (handled by Millaquin) of the
entire sugar output under Government
contract, in milling on its own account,
and in the production of building
materials, which is a new and expanding
section of the business. In Fiji it is both
grower and miller, and has a pineapple
factory, too. There is a refinery in
Maoriland. And trade earnings are sup-
plemented by returns from a fine wad of
investments and cash.
Decline in earhings since 1940 is due
chiefly to reduced production and higher
factory and other costs, including wages,
materials and taxation. Shortage of
man-power, which has affected the effi-
ciency of labor, has had its effect, too.
Last term declared net earnings improved
£7167, reaching £881,136, equal to 7.5 p.c.
on capital. That was after £350,046 had
been dropped into the replacement and
depreciation reserve, and £16,776 into
suspense accounts (£3,010,128), which are
partly provision for contingencies which
might or might not occur. Only half a
point was clipped off the div., reducing
it to 8 p.c., which took £54,864 more
than the profit claimed.
The Australian output of raws last
season was 645,000 tons (up 140,000 tons)
compared with 901,000 tons in 1939. The
co.’s own mills in the Commonwealth
produced 127,000 tons (up 17,000 tons)
raws. In Fiji the outturn was only
63,000 tons, or about one half normal
throughput. This is the backwash of
strikes and refusal of growers to cut cane
in 1943 ; the position has since improved,
following reduction of Allied war expen-
diture in Fiji.
Australian and Maoriland sales of re-
fined sugar, golden syrup and treacle
together reached a record 525,000 tons,
owing to-heavy service demands in the
South-west Pacific. The recent shortage
of fines in Australia was the result of
increased service requirements, abnormal
end-year demand (surplus coupon spend-
ing), shortage of man-power, and, in
Victoria, industrial troubles as well.
Owing to the post-war importance of
the building materials section, three of
the co.’s officers are now abroad investi-
gating latest developments connected with
the co.’s activities in this direction.
Despite additions to the Cane-ite factory,
demand continues to run ahead of pro-
duction. The plaster mill at Concord
(N.S.W.) is producing steadily, and the
auxiliary .gypsum wallboard factory is
nearing completion. Erection of the last-
mentioned factory was delayed for 11
months, the time taken by eight Govern-
ment departments to grant necessary
authorities. It is a sad commentary on
the efficacy of Government control in
speeding up industrial activity.
The plant for making asbestos-cement
products, taken over from Asbestos Pro-
ducts, Ltd., in June, 1944, has been un-
able to keep abreast of the order book ;
additional equipment for production of
hardboard is being installed. In Maori-
land an interest was recently acquired in
Fletcher’s Holding, Ltd., which is con-
nected with production of building and
allied materials there. The asbestos mine
and mill at Wittenoom (W.A.) are turn-
ing out high-grade blue asbestos, and
production will be quickened when neces-
sary man-power and equipment are avail-
able. Similar remarks apply to the co.’s
other asbestos mill on the Argent River
(Tas.).
Of the four grain alcohol distilleries
which the co. is operating for the
Federal Government, the one at Cowra
(N.S.W.) closed down owing to the wheat
shortage. It .operated for about 12
months and produced 2,600,000 gallons
power alcohol and 5700 tons bran. The
one at Warracknabeal (Vic.) has been
completed, but the wheat position pre-
cludes a start being made. The remain-
ing two, one at Wallaroo (S. Aus.) and
the other at Collie (W.A.), are nearing
completion.
The next table shows the financial
structure of the organisation:
1939. 1944. ■ 1945.
Paid capital .. £11,700,000 £11,700,000 £11,700,000
Sundry creditors 2,152'000 2,674,457 4,322,761
Suspense accounts 2,437,456 2,993,352 3,010,128
Employees’ funds 55,817 56,540 42,698
Refineries, mills,
etc 10,478,655 11,741,524 11,993,709
Steamers, etc... 271,877 268,310 268,310
Distilleries .. 322,678 478,536 500,178
Premises . . 228,202 233,476 233,342
Stocks .. 4,176,249 3,958,825 6,915,022
Book debts, etc. 415,295 2,310,855 1,198,868
Investments .. 3,252,177 3,539,009 4,799,630
Cash and
deposits .. 3,022,574 2,383,627 922,273
Last term’s expansion of £1,648,304 in
the amount cofhing to sundry creditors,
reduction of £1,111,987 in book debts,
etc., and growth of £2,956,197 in stocks
are inter-related. And so is the contrac-
tion of £1,461,334 in cash, etc., and ex-
pansion of £1,260,621 in investments —
money at call was put into war loans.
The more or less liquid surplus
(£6,467,967) was £7761 stronger than at
the previous balance.
Kempthorne, Prosser (M.L.)
To Re— Re—
Jan., Profit. Dividends. serves, serves.
1935.. 54,494 8 p.c. = 46,640 1 IQI ln .
Staff provident fund, £2500 ..(
1936.. 54,454 8 p.c. = 46,640 ) 10M1Q
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. j i),di4 18b ’ 41tf
Obsolescence reserve, £18,223 .. 204,642
1937.. 50,180 8 p.c. = 46,640 f rqs
Staff provident fund, £2500 .. f 9JU ZUo > bd4
1938.. 77,735 8 p.c. = 46,640 31,095 236,727
Special 124 p.c. cash bonus, £72,875 .. 163,852
1939.. 62,148 8 p.c. =, 46,640 15,508 179,360
1940.. 78,418 8 „ „ 46,640 31,778 211,138
1941.. 63,776 8 „ „ 46,950 16,826 227,964
To investment reserves, £6475 .. .. 221,489
1942.. 60,481 8 p.c. = 51,725 8,756 230,245
To investment reserves, £1316 .. .. 228,929
1943.. 51,886 8 p.c. = 52,059 ) 997 vrr
To patriotic funds, £lOOO m.tao
1944.. 52,079 8 p.c. = 52,059 ) 9n 99R
To patriotic, funds, £lOOO . zu
1945.. 50,154 8 p.c. = 52,059 224,871
Dunedin-controlled, the co. is in the fer-
tiliser and wholesale drug trade. The
drug side of the business, on which the
co. grew up, has seen pre-war expansion,
occasioned by the Dominion’s exchange
difficulties, accelerated by war-time con-
ditions. The co.’s four warehouses are
stocked largely with products from its
own pharmaceutical factory, now too
small and out-of-date to satisfactorily
deal with present demand. So a new fac-
tory to produce at lower cost is to be
built as soon as circumstances permit.
Also, new works are to be erected in
Southland in conjunction with the
Dominion Fertiliser Co., thus providing
fertiliser coverage for the South Island
for “mhny years to come.”
On the fertiliser, now the largest, side
of the business superphosphates are
turned out from four works in the most
important agricultural and pastoral
areas in the Dominion. Owing to the
importance of super, as a factor in pro-
duction of fat lambs and dairy produce,
and in furtherance of its price and costs
stabilisation policy, the Government has
subsidised manufacturers of the stuff to
help offset the increased cost of rock
phosphate, bags, etc. The amount of sub-
sidy paid to the industry in 1943-44 was
£lOO,OOO.
Following loss of rock phosphate from
Nauru and Ocean Islands, owing to
enemy occupation, production of phos-
phatic fertilisers in the Dominion has
been severely curtailed over the last three
years. During this period Egypt has been
the chief source of rock supply, and a
small quantity has been obtained from
local deposits at Clarendon, Otago. Ac-
cording to official Maoriland statistics,
the number of persons engaged in chemi-
cal fertiliser works during 1943-44 de-
creased by 3.3 p.c., salaries and wages
paid rose by 1.6 p.c., and there was an
increase of 5.5 p.c. in exes, other than
wages, salaries and cost of materials. The
net result was an increase of 4 p.c. in the
value of output added by manufacture.
Since selling prices are fixed manufac-
turers have had to bear the increase in
costs, with consequent reduction in net
earnings. The lesson to be learnt is the
failure of controls to achieve stability in
the face of inflationary spending—un-
avoidable in war —which must finally
express itself in a decreasing standard of
living.
Last term the co. recorded increased
turnover in all sections of the business.
But costs increased in greater propor-
tion. After deducting net cost of manu-
facture and allowing for depreciation,
there was a contraction of £14,162 in
gross profit (£190,112). This was largely
offset by savings of £12,237 in trading
exes. (£139,958). The net result was thus
£1925 lighter at £50,154, or 7.7 p.c. on
capital as against 8, 7.9, 9.3, 9.8 and 12
p.c. back to 1940. The recession in the
ratio of net earnings reflects the steady
rise in costs, despite controls. The div. was
kept at 8 p.c., but unless the upward
trend of costs can be arrested it might
not remain there. Much will depend
upon how soon rock can be obtained
again from Nauru and Ocean Islands.
Finances are comfortable; — )
1935. 1941. 1944. 1945.
Capital .. £583,000 £621,952 £650,738 £650,738
Liabilities* .. 84,438 449,087 328,034 489,375
Factories, etc. 366,221 407,557 359,035 342,352
Stocks.. ~ 274,477 512,264 521,310 743,561
Book debts .. 133,802 318,184 235,693 272,930
Cash, etc. .. 105,002 87,543 119,794 35,424
Outstanding feature last term was addi-
tion of £222,251 to stocks. The increase
was nearly all on account of phosphate
rock at fertiliser works. To meet the
outlay and carry an extra £37,237 of
book debts, £161,341 was added to the
amount coming to outsiders and cash,
etc., was drawn upon for £84,370, The
year’s improvement in the more or less
liquid surplus (£562,540) was £13,777.
Mark Foy’s, Ltd. (Sydney)
r -Dividends
Pref. To Re- ' Ee-
Peb., Profit. 5| p.c. Ordinary. serves. serves.
£ £ £ £ £
1935.. 2,642 15,123 Nil 164,907
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £lOl7 .. 163,890
5 p.c.
1936.. 54,341 54,011* 5 p.c. = 27,018 137,202
To Staff Welfare Reserve, £385 .. 136,817
Added Tax Reserve, £2OOO .. ~ 138,817
6 p.c.
1937.. 60,025 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,229 150,046
Profit sale property, £827 .. .. 150,873
Written off Target Mills, £16,734,. 134,139
1938.. 61,564 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 12,768 146,907
1939.. 62,005 16,374 6 „ „ 32,422 13,209 160,116
Net addition tax reserve, £30,000.. 190,116
1940.. 60,003 16,374 6 p.c. = 32,422 11,207 201,323
Net addition tax reserve, £26,084 .. 227,407
1941.. 68,642 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 9,089 236,446
Net addition tax reserve, £75,177 .. 311,623
1942.. 70,107 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 10,504 322,127
Tax reserve included with creditors,
£151,262 170,865
1943.. 62,500 16,374 8 p.c. = 43,229 2,897 173,762
1944.. 74,228 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 3,817 177,579
1945.. 75,931 16,374 10 „ „ 54,037 5,520 183,099
* Includes £40,367 arrears paid in ord. scrip.
Alive to its problems, the board sums up
the position in this way:
Despite the continuance of war-time
difficulties,, in respect both of supplies and
staff, the co. has maintained the high stan-
dard of service which has been its goal at
all times. During the last 12 months the
reward for this service, in terms of public
appreciation, has been a substantial in-
crease in turnover, which is reflected in the
increase in gross profit The improvement
„ has been such as to enable us not only to
meet certain heavier outgoings such as taxa-
tion, but also to establish an employees’
benefit fund, and still show slightly higher
net profit than last year.
The co.’s woollen and knitting mills have
been engaged mainly on Government
work from which little profit was looked
for.
However, with the easing of war
demands a few more goods for civilian


ẁ
If your
dog’s coat
is dull,
loose or
ragged—
if he is list-
less, won’t eat
or is out of
sorts —he may
b e suffering
from digestive
disorders. Start
him on a coursei
n
of BARKO Condition Powders. Constant scratch-
ing is often a sign of Eczema. Give him BARKO
Condition Powders and apply BARKO Skin Lotion
to the affected parts. Wash your dog always with
BARKO lodine Dog Soap.
BARKO
CONDITION POWDERS 1/6
SKIN POTION 2/9
lODINE DOG SOAP .. -/9
SOLD BY ALL CHEMISTS.
LET
r ATLAS >
CARRY THE
BURDEN
a
S'
Established 1808 in Kelgn of George 111.
STABILITY
The "Atlas” has seen many
battles, including the Battle of
Waterloo, and has emerged
from them all with greater
strength and prestige.
FIRE ACCIDENT MARINE
ATLAS
ASSURANCE COMPANY, LTD.
( England )
ATLAS BUILDINGS, 8 SPRING ST.. SYDNEY.
GUY H. HEATH. Manager, N.S.W.
E. V. ELDER,
Assistant Manager for Australia & New Zealand.
LEONARD PETTITT,
Manager for Australia A New Zealand.
INVENTORS. —Have you an idea worth patenting?
Griffith, Hassel and Griffith, Patent Attorneys,
Asbestos House, Or. York and Barrack Streets, Sydney,
obtain Commonwealth and foreign patents.— Advt.
Hydraulic Power, Electric and Hydraulic Lifts,
Limited (incorporated by Act of Parliament 1888),
hydraulic, electric and general engineers, lift
specialists. Maintenance and repairs of all classes of
lifts and other machinery. Colonial Mutual Life
Building, 14 Martin Place, Sydney.— Advt.
♦ * * *
DAVIES & COLLISON, Patent Attorneys. Collini
House, 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 0.1. Austra-
lian and overseas Patents and Trade Marks. —Advt.
ẃ
The House
that Jack Built!
TACK DURHAM, as a small boy, was encouraged
J to put a part of his pocket-money away in his
money-box. His mother put these savings towards
an endowment policy with the A.M.P.
Years later, when Jack married he was able
to put down £4so—the proceeds of this A.M.P. policy
—towards the purchase of a home. (He's never
had to scan the "To-Let" columns!)
The old money-box habit still sticks, and now
all his savings go into increased security for his
family.
He says: "My children are putting aside some of their
pocket-money just as I did, and I subsidise their savings so that
each may have an A.M.P. endowment policy of his own, I
know from my own experience how gratified they will be in
later years."
You can do the same for your children. Ask any A.M.P.
office or representative for particulars or. if you prefer, we shall
send them by post.
A.MJ*. SOCIETY
Security through Co-operation.
A. W. Sneddon, F.1.A., General Manager and Actuary.
S. Osmond, Secretary.
M. C. Buttfield, Manager for New South Wale*.
Head Office: 87 PITT STREET, SYDNEY. N.S.W.
00 10
4
i
I
»sal\o«
iwflW®
\asW&
VAXOS
ions
FftOW
Sol
CATARRH
HAY FEVER, CHRONIC COLDS
BRONCHITIS, ASTHMA. ANTRUM. & SINUS TROUBLES
These distressing complaints are all caused by germs in the
bloodstream, and lasting relief can only be obtained by defeat-
ing these germs. Vaxos No. 1 is an Oral Vaccine (a Vaccine
which, instead of being injected, is simply taken a few drops
each day in water, ty mouth) and is produced by an eminent
medical bacteriologist. Upon absorption into the blood-
stream, Vaxos quickly sets to work destroying the attacking
germs and neutralising the poisons created by them, with
the result that the patient soon feels brighter, headaches and
body pains vanish, and health steadily improves. With
continued treatment, long-lasting immunity to the disease
is established. Vaxos is perfectly safe, even for children
and elderly people to take. Don't continue to suffer need-
lessly; obtain Vaxos from your Chemist to-day.
TWO OTHER VAXOS TREATMENTS.
Vaxos No. 2 (Warren Crowe
type) for Rheumatism,
Neuritis, Sciatica, Myositis.
Fibrositis, Lumbago and
Spondylitis.
Vaxos No. 3 for Boils, Pimples,
Carbuncles, Acne, Psoriasis. Der-
matitis, Eczema, Impetigo, Septic
Sores and most Skin Infections.
"Vaxos" costs only 21/- a large bottle containing 24
c.c.'s, which is sufficient for several weeks' treatment for,
chronic cases. The medium size bottle for milder cases is
obtainable at a cost of 12/6.
VAXOSN”!
ORAL VACCINE
If your Chemist fa oat of stocks, write W
VACCINE PRODUCTS (AUST.), 582 Lit. Collins St., Melb.
consumption have come on to the market
since mid-1944 to the benefit of retail
turnovers, as the following table shows
—it gives percentage changes in aggre-
gate sales of a number of the larger
Sydney stores compared with the corre-
sponding period a year earlier:
Average Three Months Ended.
Sept. Dec. Mar. June. Year.
1939- +2.6 +5.6 +3.2 +6.3 +4.5
1940- +7.5 +7.8 +10.9 +23.3 +12.3
1941- +15.4 +9.4 +11.5 —2.4 +B.O
1942- —6.0 —19.3 —lB.B —6.0 —12.6
1943- —19.3 —1.6 +1.3 —l.B —5.7
1944- +6.6 +7.4
Recently the position was further im-
proved by a slight appreciation in the
purchasing power of clothing coupons.
However, both volume and quality of
Australian textile and other production
are still rigidly controlled. In Britain
and U.S.A. readjustment of manufacture
to a one-war basis and a partial shift-
back to peace-time production are in pro-
gress. To enable Australian retailers
and manufacturers to effectively plan
their own business activities, and so
unnecessary dislocation and unem-
ployment during the switchover from
war to peace production, a clear state-
ment of the Government’s intentions in
connection with import and other con-
trols is called for. In this connection
something more than a broad statement
of policy is needed.
As controls are relaxed, and as the
seller’s market which developed under
war conditions gives place to a buyer’s
market again, competition will grow pro-
gressively keener, and exes, will become
increasingly difficult to restrain. Retail
and other turnovers, however, can be
expected to benefit from deferred buy-
ing in all directions, subject, of course,
to Government regulation and interfer-
ence.
For the 12 months covered by the
latest accounts the spring in Foy’s gross
earnings (£548,012) was £61,984. That
was after allowing £29,936 (up £3043)
for depreciation. Including an unspeci-
fied but heavier provision for taxation
and an initial contribution to the staff
fund, exes. (£472,081) took £60,282 of
the increase. The net result was thus
£1703 stronger at £75,931, which was suf-
ficent to pay the prefs. their full contract
rate and show 11 p.c. on the £540,367
of ord. capital, compared with 10.7, 8.5,
9.9, 9.6, 8 and 8.4 p.c. back to 1939. The
div., to which a couple of points had been
added in the previous term, was kept at
10 p.c. And there is nothing in sight at
the moment to suggest that the 10 p.c.
is likely to be interfered with.
Last year’s was the best showing since
reconstruction of the main premises in
the late 1920’5, when the work was
financed largely on bank overdraft, which
had reached £349,000-odd in 1931. This
debt pressed heavily on attenuated earn-
ings during the difficult slump years that
followed, and the ords. went without for
five years to the close of accounts in
1935.
Last .term the mortgage debt (£lOO,OOO
at end Feb., 1944) was wiped out of the
accounts, and £87,283 was added to the
amount coming to sundry creditors,
which includes provision for taxation.
Here are balance-sheet figures:
1940. 3942. 1944. 1945.
Paid capital. . £813,269 £813,269 £813,269 £813,269
Liabilities* .. 432,740 515,617 408,766 396,049
Property . . 728,044 723,970 717,918 714,292
Plant, etc. . . 118,125 91,673 49,120 22,763
Stocks . . 456,462 600,287 567,336 571,841
Book debts . . 105,223 91,941 37,096 41,697
Cash, etc. .. 13,876 68,752 77,028
* Includes tax provision.
Plant (down £26,357 last term) has been
reduced by £95,362 over the last five
years. Stocks (up £4505) are still well
above the 1940 level, a suggestion that
the board dioesn’t anticipate an early
drop in prices. The more or less liquid
surplus (£294,157) was £29,739 stronger
than at the previous balance.
“Elmo”: About ten miles south from
Eskdale (Vic.), the old Mt. Elmo gold-
field is recommended by Victorian Mines
Department for further investigation by
prospectors. The belt extends nor’-
westerly for many miles and, though not
proved in the interlying area, is generally
believed to link up with Glen Wills, where
the Maude and Yellow Girl has been
active for many years and still shows
promise. The twin lines of Mt. Elmo
show signs of coming together at depth,
but work was discontinued at 300 ft. or
less on the numerous shoots. Values
came and went in lenses through the
shoots and, lacking an overall develop-
ment scheme, the field closed down pre-
maturely, with promising stone in most
faces. West of Mt. Elmo H. F. Lubke
and Sons’ lona has been worked for
good returns in late years, and payable
ore is waiting post-war operations. Crush-
ings yielded up to 14oz. to the ton. The
schists, sandstones and gneissic granites
of this area are highly metamorphosed,
and many reefs with rich, superficial gold
values occur. The rich patches of tin
found have proved too irregular for ex-
tensive mining.
*
Some gold dredges on the West Coast
of Maoriland’s south island will be drop-
ping out of production in the next year
or two. A few new projects are contem-
plated as soon as steel is available for
construction. Best gold producer on the
West Coast last year was Arahura,
operated by Gold Mines of New Zealand,
Ltd., in which a lot of Australian capital
is invested. It yielded 17,6480 z., valued
at £179,729. The next best was Kanieri,
worked by the same company, with
13,5220 z., valued at £136,612. Then fol-
lowed the American-operated dredge at
Ikamatua with 10,0970 z., valued at
£102,725. Rimu and Ngahere are still
going strong, but Barrytown (another off-
shoot of G.M. of N.Z.) recently shut
down. Up to the end of last year the
main dredges on the West Coast had
recovered an aggregate of 700,4910 z. of
gold, valued at £6,039,333—peak period
of production was in 1902. Four small
alluvial shows won 19860 z. last year,
valued at approx. £20,000. Costs, which
have rocketed since war began, and the
fine state of division in which the metal
is now found, with consequent recovery
difficulties, are the main troubles.
* * * *
The small mica deposit on Mt. Craw-
ford Forest Reserve (S. Aus.) doesn’t
look like developing into anything worth-
while. Small books of muscovite occur
in pockets up to 12 inches in thickness
along the edge of a pregmatite dyke. The
mica itself is stained, and fractures and
herring-bone structures reduce the size of
sheets to minus 6 sq. inches, and no im-
provemeqt of grade with depth seems
likely. The bulk of material (over 90 p.c.)
is waste.


THE COMMONWEALTH OIL
REFINERIES LIMITED
jT
Proprietors of the
Following Trade Marks
“C.O.R PLUS” MOTOR SPIRIT
“C.O.R” POWER KEROSENE
“CORALITE” KEROSENE
“C.O.R LIGHT DIESOLEUM”
“C.O.R” DIESEL OILS; AND
“C.O.R” FUEL AND BUNKER OILS
v/,.
* -i. •"
/
m
im.
BRANCHES IN ALL STATES
"m
///,
r
'n
/
cf
0
\ /.
2-A-T“
-qj-A
nFtu£
&e
l/V
*'•/
j-'
TREAT AS TREASURE
What the artist means, of course, is that you should
take the greatest care of your self-stropping Valet Razor
nowadays. For one thing, no more are being made while
the war lasts. And for another, it gives you weeks of
perfect shaving from every single blade, and saves you
endless hunting in the shops for blades which are in
short supply because of limited production ... But even
a Valet pays for a little coddling.
So remember: Never let the strop get gritty or
dusty. Scrape it clean occasionally with the back
edge of a used blade and work in a little strop dress-
ing or lanoline to keep it smooth and supple.
VALET RAZOR STROPS ITSELF
Valet blades 5%d. each
Business, Rollery, Etc.
Deadly Political Fungus
Before Australia can get on with the
job of restoring its economic health, so
heavily taxed during the war, it will have
to remove the huge political and bureau-
cratic fungus that has attached itself to
the very heart of the nation. And the
moral spirit of the country needs restora-
tive aid as well as the body.
A total-war effort meant many sacri-
fices, many restrictions. But great con-
tributions by the people impose 4 a great
trust with the Government. That trust
has been abused.
Australians want to be able to see jobs
with some future in them, or they
want to set up businesses of their
own. They want to see their sav-
ings secure, and they don’t want
to be continually blocked from doing
what they desire simply because Gov-
ernment muddle or dogma stands in their
way. To reduce this barrier Government'
spending must be cut down.
Big Spending, Waste and “Restriction"
War with Japan began two months after
Curtin succeeded Fadden, and in 1941-42
defence expenditure ran to £320 million,
though it is all too plain now that great
waste began very soon after Labor
assumed office. Next year £s6z million
was spent in the name of defence, and
taxation and restriction of civil rights in-
creased. That financial period (1942-43)
saw our heaviest Budget expenditure of
the war, and it was not grudged by a
nation which felt that the peril from the
Japanese was deadly.
In 1943 the outlay receded to £544 mil-
lion. During the financial year just ended
it was aimed to spend £505 million on
defence, thought actual outgo has been
below that figure. But, except in respect
of Allied Works Council and defence
projects, it is safe to say that the
proportion of waste and misspent money
has in no way fallen. Some fantastic waste
occurred in A.W.C. projects when that
body was functioning fully, in the
darkest days of this war. Until the last
month or so there has been very little
let-up in the restrictions over civil con-
sumption, and taxation assessments now
coming to hand are in most cases terrific.
The cost of the referendum campaign was
high, and the Auditor-General has queried
the manner in which expenses in con-
nection therewith were charged to the
nation.
Frustration by Officials
Control over the levying and spending
of so much money has meant that the
present Government has had tight control
over civilian lives and over the whole
production and financial system. A
man may not set up in business or
make new lines of goods without
first going cap in hand to some Gov-
ernment official who may have no direct
knowledge whatsoever of the circum-
stances surrounding the industries he is
dealing with, and who may be only re-
motely connected with anyone who does.
The borrowing of money has been
made subject to Treasury approval. Bank
advances have been strictly limited to
purposes that have official sanction.
Interest rates have been fixed, though
real Government care of our credit has
been absent.
Increase of Non-producers
In this period—nearly four years—of
Labor-Government spending of about
one-half of the national income and
control over all aspects of labor, ad-
ministration, production and industry that
are not the particular provinces of the
law courts, there have been joint and
several departmental attempts to swell
the civil services and to inflate bureau-
cratic powers.
The result has been that industry
has been run, in many respects,
to suit vote-chasing politicians, to
suit bureaucratic shellfish with a pay-
envelope outlook, and to suit the class-
conscious and reactionary theories of
a burnt-out and morale-bankrupt Labor
movement. In paying huge taxation
and providing large sums in war
loans, industry and the private individual
have paid for, in addition to the war
effort, the nurturing of a fungus of cock-
eyed Labor politics and an overloaded
civil service that is draining their
economic strength and frustrating their
initiative.
To get a fair go themselves, Australians
will have to take a hard view of expan-
sive Government expenditure and “con-
trols.” They will need to deal with mis-
chievous boobs like Senator Cameron,
who, though he has spoken of “national
credit” as being the answer to our eco-
nomic difficulties, now suggests a “capital
levy” (as in France) to “stabilise” our
“economic system”! Almost an admis-
sion that Labor has ruined us as France
was ruined.
Government by Unelected Minorities
The growth in obstructive, badly-
advised, costly and non-productive Gov-
ernment ramifications is one of the chief
problems to producers in Australia today.
Another is the intrusion of the politics
of revolutionary minorities through
Caucus into the laws of the land.
An example of the latter is the banking
legislation now before Parliament, which
is definitely unpopular with the majority
of every section of the community. But
Labor politics have been so jockeyed by
personally-ambitious revolutionaries and
currency cranks that the popular voice no
longer exists within it.
There have lately been signs of con-
flicts within the movement arising
from the communist influence over
the unions, and, therefore, over the Gov-
ernment —an influence that it has not
been possible to obtain at either Federal
or State general elections. Unable to do
any good by election to Parliament, com-
munists have infiltrated most unions,
seizing control of some and thus, through
Caucus, have dictated to the Government.
At this late stage there has been a flare-
up against Comrade Thornton, head
of the Ironworkers’ Union, but he still
has friends in the Ministry.
Peace-time Political Ambitions
The Attorney-General, Dr. Evatt,
plainly has ideas for continuing war-time
Government controls after the war is
over, and his efforts generally have had
the support of the communists. Dr, Evatt
carried the “yes” flag in the referendum
campaign, and though the referendum
was defeated there is evidence that Dr.
Evatt is not yet done with his political
ideas and doctrines. Dr. Evatt has never
protested against the extravagance for
which his Government will become a by-
word in a later day, when revelations can
be freely made, and he has never said a
public word against Caucus control of
banking or the excesses of trade-unionists
or the bureaucracy. All the evidence in
this respect is that, with a post-war con-
tinuance of war-time controls and powers,
there would be no better or fairer admin-
istration than*we have seen for the past
four years. Yet The Bulletin believes
that the conditions of Government we
have seen are basically ruinous, and that
they cannot continue without a progres-
sive deterioration of. industry and social
standards.
Stability Wanted, Not Doctrines
The doctrinaire, whether he*be a com-
munist or otherwise, is a great danger to
Australia at this vital hour. The Gov-
ernment takes so much of our money to
spend or invest in its own way, and it has
so much to do with the “planning” of in-
dustry, etc., that unsound doctrines
adopted by the Ministry can grossly affect
the whole outlook of the country.
The rights of the individual, ordinarily
so powerful, cannot counter this damage
under regimentation. Dr. Evatt fre-
quently misrepresented our industrial
position in his referendum campaigning,
and there is little evidence that this legal
light and would-be power in the land has
much real knowledge of the facts of pro-
duction and finance.
We must get back to the true basis of
Government economy, private enterprise,
individual freedom and the rule of law.
We must recognise that wasteful Govern-
ment spending is not only a loss in taxa-
tion and living standards but frequently,
through the departmental interference it
so often creates, an obstruction to further
wealth-production that could be spread
through the whole community.
Impudent, Clumsy Interference
The Government has stifled a number
of functions within the country for purely
party-political purposes. One has been
the Stock Exchange. Regardless of
economic consequences—and they have
had a grave effect on war loans —arbit-
rary prices have been set upon Stock
Exchange securities that have been most
unfair. In many other such cases the
Government has wilfully fiddled with
politics while industry and the nation’s
credit and institutions have gone hang.
The gravest political interference has
been in respect of banking. The pro-
posed banking legislation goes far beyond
the making of a strong central bank free
from political control. The Government
aims at Caucus-control of the whole Aus-
tralian banking system. Public choice
or preference, the spur to any good ser-
vice, industrial or financial, is to be frus-
trated. Political impudence or expedi-
ency is no substitute for skill and experi-
ence in banking matters.
Confident Planning, Econ'omical Produc-
tion
It is a fundamental of efficient produc-
tion that extravagance should be elimi-
nated, that there should be no waste of
administrative time or factory labor, that
there should be a maximum of financial
and other legitimate incentive, that there
should be no Government obstruction
where business is competitive, and that
finance should be available to industry in
accordance with public confidence, a cen-
tral bank having power, however, to in-
fluence the flow of credit to industry,
both in times of boom and slump.
To get anywhere within coo-ee of
a return to strength in our country’s indus-
tries —thrown into disorder by the im-
pact of war and the ineptitude and
opportunism of Labor politics - we
shall have to do everything possible
to root out the waste of money, material,
time and man-power that seems to
be inherent in this Government. We
shall have to encourage thrift held
in contempt by Labor —by the protection
of investors, and stabilise our currency by
abolishing unsound methods of Govern-
ment finance and social security and re-
storing initiative to a competitive banking
system operating in conjunction with a
strong central bank. We shall have to
endeavor to keep the growth of the
national debt within limits imposed by
the value received from Government
expenditure, and reduce taxation to a
point where no more than the necessary
administrative and defence functions of
government are carried on and decent


#•
i
m I
5 3
ms
--X- fNTC\
m
m
iLLc
yes:.",k77
had everything
while he lived
.... but he had failed to have
his life assured as a precaution
against an untimely death. Do
not leave YOUR family without
ample protection. Arrange now
for an assurance policy.
EQUITABLE PROBATE
AN ° GENERAL INSURANCE CO LTD A
Head Office: 371-373 Queen St., Brisbane
Wlngello House, Ansel Place, Sydney.
Collins House, Collins Street, Melbourne.
B. V. PERKINS, General Manager.
PUBLIC TRUSTEE
Acts As
Trustee, Executor,
Administrator, Agent
or Attorney.
Under STATE GUARANTEE.
Absolute Security.
Estates efficiently and
economically managed.
WRITE OR CALL FOR
FREE BOOKLET.
19 O’Connell St. (Box 7A, G.P.0.)»
Sydney.
W. B. Geddes, Public Trustee.
HAVE THAT PHOTO
COPIED NOW!
We cannot come to you, but you can
send to us. Send your photos, to us to
be copied. We enlarge, colour and
frame. We will be glad to give a quote
on any work, and the greatest care will
be taken with your original; pack your
originals in cardboard.
Our address is:- 6 Goldie Place>
G. O. KEVIN, Melbourne Cl.
HARTS
Circular Charts Jo* all type* of
Recording Instruments for any class
of Machinery or Equipment
METER CHARTS a specialty.
Accuracy guaranteed. Gel our quotation^
JACKSON & O’SULLIVAN
QUEEN STREET
PTV. LTD.
BRISBANE. O 10.
The Australian Council for
the United Nations Relief and
Rehabilitation Administration
appeals to you
m
m
125 MILLION WAR VICTIMS URGENTLY NEED CLOTHING
In the liberated countries of Europe alone there are
30 million children like these —shoeless and in rags.
Will you help to provide clothing for them so that
they will not have to endure another winter, ill-
clad and freezing ?
Will you help their parents too, nearly 100 million
of them, with gifts of old clothing you and your
family can do without ?
Go through the house now, select the garments you
don’t really need —particularly those that you’ve
had put away with the good intention of renovating
... some day !
U.N.R.R.A. needs your help to get clothing for
these destitute war victims before Europe’s cruel
winter comes round again. Practically anything
is acceptable so long as it is clean.
GIVE YOUR UNWANTED CLOTHING TO
UH.R.RA
The Australian National Clothing Collec-
tion for Overseas Relief is a united effort
on the part of U.N.R.R.A. and forty
Australian relief agencies , which comprise
THE AUSTRALIAN COUNCIL FOR THE UNITED NATIONS RELIEF AND REHABILITATION ADMINISTRATION
Ring your Local Council now they’ll tell you what to do
Issued by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia U 1,83,65
provision is made for the unfit and the
aged, with a subsidy for those who are
prepared to pay something to provide for
their own old age, ill-health and unem-
ployment, The taxation scale, too, must
encourage investment in industry if full
employment is to be achieved.
Politics Must Bow to Industry’s Needs
Political parasitism now flourishes;
industry decays. When a cleaning-up
is completed the functions of the
Government should be reduced to a
reasonable thing, and the present policy
of retreating from economic difficulties by
granting “subsidies” out of taxes or creat-
ing new, obstructive Government con-
trols should be replaced by a plan based
on efficient, enlarged production and re-
duced costs, regardless of trade-union or
other intimidation. Trade-union anarchy
must be fought by the Government and
the country sooner or later, and the
sooner the better.
Profits Control in Operation
It is but a few months ago since an
official who certainly should know told
The Bulletin that the Prices Branch in
no case ordered businesses to pay portion
of their profits into a Government depart-
ment, and that only in instances where
extensive business was done direct with
the Government was such a practice sug-
gested. There were always alternative sug-
gestions, the official said, and it was only
in cases of increasing gross or net profits
that any move was made at all.
Perhaps that is why the Minister for
Customs, who is the Minister in charge
of price control, himself “advised” the
British Tobacco Co. that anything above
a certain maximum profit “should be paid
to the Government.” Certainly the action
taken by‘the Minister is vastly different
from what is claimed to be the policy of
the Prices Branch. But the Minister has
done exactly what sections of industry
have been complaining that the Govern-
ment has been doing through various
channels for the past couple of years. The
action of British Tobacco (which believes
that a carrying-out of the Government’s
demand would be illegal) in giving pub-
licity to the matter is highly commend-
able. Smaller concerns, especially those
which do not make public their annual
reports, have not stood up against Gov-
ernment action of this kind for fear of
retaliation by officialdom on other scores,
officialdom having such wide arbitrary
powers at the present time.
British Tobacco has told the Govern-
ment that it cannot comply with its de-
mand for the passing-on of profits in
excess of an arbitrarily fixed amount. The
figure set by the Government will not
allow the reduced 9 p.c. dividend to be
paid after making usual provisions for de-
preciation, etc.; and the cost of imported
tobacco leaf, which is being procured by
the Government in the United States, is
increasing heavily.
The prices of the products sold by
British Tobacco are, of course, pegged by
the Government, Rising cost of leaf and
other expenses were relieved for a time
by a rebate of excise, but the Government
has since fallen down on its obligation to
maintain the company’s profits so long
as it respects the prices ceiling set in
April, 1943. In fact, the Minister for
Customs has made it quite clear that the
Government has no intention of honor-
ing that responsibility. There is not the
slightest suggestion that the company is
any less active than it was pre-war—out-
put has never been higher, in spite of staff
shortage—or that it is in need of any of
Mr. Dedman’s “efficiency experts,” the
loan of whom was put up quite seriously
in 1943 as an alternative to a price sub-
sidy in the case of increasing costs.
Coal Crisis in Maoriland
Old King Coal has been providing fuel
for public grievance, if for nothing else,
in Maoriland this winter. Conceded that
the demand for coal has soared during
the war years, but there is still much mys-
tery about output. Each time the Gov-
ernment asserts production is higher than
last year the coalowners reply that the
Government is including returns from
opencast operations, and that the output
per man has fallen. Judging by the
number of stoppages and strikes, the indi-
vidual output will be down further this
year. In the meanwhile, a series of crises
in industry through the shortage is pro-
viding excellent ammunition for oppo-
nents of the Government. Drastic elec-
tric-power cuts have been blamed by the
supply authorities directly on the Gov-
ernment because of alleged failure to heed
warnings to import more generating plant
in 1937, 1938 and 1939. Moreover, the
Government has refused to assist steam-
generation plants because of the coal
scarcity.
Grave repercussions have been felt in
the gas industry, and for weeks at a time
industrial consumers in Auckland have
had to go without gas, while domestic
consumers have been rationed to half-
hourly and hourly meal periods twice a
day. When there is gas it is of poor
calorific value owing to unsuitable coal.
Weeks of gales on the west coast of the
South Island have prevented colliers from
leaving port, and relief has come only
in dribs and drabs.
Latest headache for the Government
and the public is a ban on cement for
private building, which threatens to render
idle 3000 workers in the Auckland build-
ing trades. Here, too, shortage of coal is
the bugbear, since the northern Portland
cement works have been deprived of ade-
quate supplies for cement manufacture.
The big State hydro-electric undertaking
at Karapiro (on the Waikato River) and
defence works have No. 1 priority for
cement at a time when 15,000 applicants
exist for State houses in Auckland alone.
Bottlenecks, delays and shortages, many
of which could be mitigated by elimina-
tion of the dead hand of bureaucracy in
Maoriland affairs, abound everywhere.
With over 20,000 returned soldiers ex-
pected before the end of the year, the
housing situation, already desperate, will
become tragic unless bold measures are
taken. While Prime Minister Fraser, in
the Olympian atmosphere of San Fran-
cisco, has been barracking for the small
nations, one of them at least has got into
an unholy mess in his absence. He has
an unenviable task on his return.
Menzies, addressing the first meeting
of the Victorian State Council of the
Liberal party;
The Labor party has no basic beliefs at
all. It is tired; if is burnt-out in its
enthusiasms. It sees every problem in
superficial terms. It believes in officials,
and in another half-crown on the pension,
or another bottle of medicine. If has lost
all belief that it is leading men into a new
world, because no party can lead a man
into a new world unless it sees the track
gleaming in front of it, and never loses
sight of it.
Communism stands for just’ one other
form of dictatorship. Get it into your
minds that there is only one dictatorship
that this country can stand, and that is
the dictatorship of seven million good Aus-
tralians. If communism does not stand for
blood in the streets, what is the difference
between communism and socialism? If
communism does not stand for revolution
in this country and the tearing-down of
Parliament, why is there a Communist
party? Why won’t the Labor party do?
The electorate could hardly ask for a
more logical or lucid exposition than
that. Devastating, too.
* sf ¥ *
Australian Paper Manufacturers, work-
ing co. for Australasian Paper and Cum-
berland Paper, is offering £2,250,000 of
debentures carrying £3 17s. 6d. per cent.
Term is 25 years, with the right of re-
payment after 20 years. Shareholders,
both pref. and ord,, in the holding cos.
will have prior rights of application in
the ratio of £1 of debentures for £3 of
shares, with a minimum of £lOO. of de-
bentures. About half the issue will be
offered publicly. The new money is
wanted to help finance a long-term plan
of post-war expansion. The undertaking
chiefly concentrates upon manufacturing
woodpulp, brown-paper and cardboard.


THE SERVICE MAN
Australia's Own War.
“Ek Dum”: Though it would be diffi-
cult for a stranger in Australian cities to
guess it, Australian troops are now en-
gaged in larger and more widespread
operations involving more men in front-
line service than at any time since the
1914-18 war.
The forces are well led. The awful
condition under which their leaders were
unknown and never mentioned has been
cured. They are still fighting short of
the food standards and amenities of com-
fort provided for British and American
troops, but their equipment has improved
out of sight. They have adequate naval
and air support, if not always their own,
and they have ample artillery and
engineering equipment and support, the
very latest bridge-building and road and
aerodrome construction devices, and, for
the moment, abundant and skilled and
experienced technical personnel, though
a shortage is sure to develop at a later
stage.
Balik Papan Landing
Attention was mainly riveted on Balik
Papan, both in Tokyo and among the
Allies. Bombed for 35 days on end, and
absorbing 3000 tons in the last 16 days
to June 30, Balik Papan was the storm
centre of the East Indian area. Every
airfield within 500 miles of it and every
source from which the doomed town
appeared likely to have any help were
gone over by air squadrons from the
Philippines and from bases held by the
R.A.A.F. On June 29 the approaches
were being reconnoitred in the time-
honored manner by Australian small
ships.
Against our attacks the Japanese used
balloon barrages with explosives attached,
but without much effect. Tokyo continued
to assert all the week that Allied land-
ings had been beaten off, and that Allied
warships had been successfully attacked
by suicide aircraft. Up to ane 30 there
was no confirmation of the suggestion
that a landing was about to take place,
though it was known that one must be
in the wind. An Allied communique men-
tioned on June 29 that three Japanese
aircraft which had attacked U.S. war-
ships in the Macassar Strait had been
shot down.
On July 2 it was announced officially
that Australian troops had landed at
Balik Papan and that in five hours
a firm beachhead had been estab-
lished. The town, which has in
peace-time 30,000 people, of whom 1000
are Europeans, lies at the head of a deep
bay, shaped something like one of the
South Australian gulfs in miniature, and
is the pipehead of the Samarinda oilfield,
60 miles further up the coast towards
Tarakan. The surroundings are tropi-
cally unpleasant, though perhaps not so
bad as those of Tarakan. But incessant
bombing and destruction wrought by the
enemy himself will not have improved
conditions. Balik Papan on July 1 was
a flaming ruin.
From the amount of blasting which
the place has received strong opposition
evidently was expected.
The Seventh Goes In
The landing was made on Sunday
morning by troops of the Seventh
Division A.I.F. under Major-General E.
J. Milford, D. 5.0., and Brigadiers I.
Dougherty and F. O. Chilton. Rear-
Admiral Albert Noble, U.S.N., com-
manded the U.S. Attack Group. Thus
all the historic Middle East A.I.F. divi-
sions and two other Australian divisions
are now fighting or on action fronts.
General MacArthur and Lieut.-General
Morshead went ashore shortly after the
landing.
The beach selected, about two miles
east of the town, had been pounded for
11 days with 7000 heavy naval projectiles,
apart from air power. And as well as
shell-fire 10,000 rockets hit the shore in
the hour before the attempt was made.
There was not much of the defences left.
Mine-sweeping had proved a big job,
and the engineers had their work cut out
with under-water obstacles. Careful and
patient preparation saved many lives, and
the R.A.A.F. and U.S.A.F. air cover and
the ministrations of the joint naval
squadron—which included H.M.A.S.
Shropshire, Hobart and Arunta —added
to the men’s eager confidence. Over 300
ships were used in the operation, the
greatest yet in the South-west Pacific area
save for Leyte and Lingayen.
The troops seized three beachheads,
which they quickly converted into a front
li miles long. They pushed inland over
a mile in short order without meeting
much opposition and with “very light”
casualties. '
The flanks of the advance were
harassed by 37mm. fire. Beyond this only
snipers were encountered. Resistance
later stiffened, but when this was written
Jap intentions were not clear.
Ahead of the advance Balik Papan
was going up in columns of thick black
smoke, shot through with flame.
The North Borneo Advance
There Was a lull in north-west Borneo
as the Ninth A.1.F., under Major-General
Wootten, expanded its hold along the
coast and linked its forces.
Few of the enemy were met, though
some of those who were encountered
were in uncomfortably close proximity to
General Blarney when the C.-in-C. was
visiting Labuan on Sunday, June 24.
Snipers were discovered and caught
only 20 feet below Major-General
Wootten’s tent while he was conferring
with the C.-in-C. They went the way of
most Japs who come close to the A.I.F.
Beaufort, formerly the administrative
centre of British North Borneo, fell into
Australian hands oh June 28 without re-
sistance. Beaufort is about 60 miles
north-east of Brunei and 35 miles to the
south of Jesselton, central town of one
of the 8.N.'8. Residencies.
Far to the south-west the A.I.F. was
reported to have completely occupied
both the Seria and Miri oilfields, the two
forces, one from Brunei, which travelled
down the coast, and the other, which
landed at Lutong, having linked hands.
The fields are not much use at the
moment, though Tarakan already is pro-
ducing usable fuel.
The 300 wells on the Miri-Seria fields,
some of which are under the sea, have
been on fire for three weeks, and all their
installations were destroyed by the enemy
before leaving.
On July 2 the A.I.F. held nearly 130
miles of the north-west coast of Borneo
from Kiwanis Bay, on the north, to Miri.
On Wewak’s Peaks
The Wewak battle becomes bitterer
and more crucial. Two actions which
have opened the way to the Prince
Alexander Mountains have been nearly,
if not quite, the toughest yet fought in
the Wewak area.
The first, mentioned on June 26 as
successful, was the taking, of Mt. Tazaki,
which involved the launching of a furious
artillery barrage, by which a small area
on the peak was carpeted with 3000 shells
in the most intensive bombardment of
the campaign, and then of a swift in-
fantry advance across half a mile of un-
favorable territory sloping well over 300
feet towards the summit. But as the
assault party looked out through the
smoke from the peak, which towers in its
rugged setting above the coastal neighbor-
hood, they felt that the effort had been
worth-while, especially since the heavy
artillery preparation had kept casualties
down to a minimum. ,
Next a fierce attack was launched on
Mt, Shiburangu, which is the highest
peak in the Wewak front and a key posi-
tion commanding the route to the enemy’s
inland strongholds. R.A.A.F. Beauforts
and more massed artillery cleaned the
slopes, and a swift bit of outflanking on
the west soon had the 400 ft. Kanakan
position, which bristled with machine-
guns, By the week-end Shiburangu was
virtually in Australian hands.
It is easy to write in a few lines. But
on both mountains the attackers, travers-
ing the worst of approaches, with the
slope and cover against them, were more
than once stopped in their tracks by a
withering blast.
Cleaning-up round the slopes of the
two mountains was still going on on July
2, and was all difficult and perilous, fre-
quently terrible.
Forward to the Mivo
The Bougainville battle is nearly at the
main Japanese defences. Tne fight for
Buin will be no picnic. The final stage
of the drive to the Mobiai River at the
beginning of the week was achieved after
concentrated artillery fire from 155mms.,
25-pounders and mortars, the ever-faith-
ful Corsairs having paved the way.
The clearing of the enemy from both
banks of the Mobiai did not take long,
resistance largely being confined to
fanatical patrols. By June 29 the way
was open for a further advance to the
Mivo.
This is the last river of any consequence
which will have to be crossed, but it is
a stream not to be trifled with. It is the
largest and most turbulent yet met in the
far-southern drive of the Third Division,
guarded by escarpments and by a fore-
front of bad country which consists of
about half water, half-chumed mud and
the wrong kinds of cover, with a sugar-
bagful of pests thrown into every square
yard for flavoring. The engineers in this
region were held to be more fluent and
original than any others in the world
after they had built a tank route through
some of this country.
Before the week-end substantial forces
were concentrated on the Buin road,
about 20 miles from Buin itself, in
preparation for another advance, which
rhe enemy, regrouped, had been strong
enough to hold up with his frequent
fierce and gusty counter-attacks, backed
with guns from six-inch downwards and
aided by spotters, perched with telephones
in the tops of trees —until located.
The Corsairs and the artillery, how-
ever, soon turned the scale. Eighty-eight
of the Maoriland machines blanketed the
Japanese positions, and 4500 25-pound
shells and 4000 inortar rounds finished the
preparation before the Third Division’s
attack detachments drove forward. Tanks
lumbered over the laboriously built
corduroy tracks, which were awash from
pduring rain the evening before, while
the P. 8.1, waded and crawled through
the foetid swamps and jungle among the
suicide posts which the enemy had left
behind him.
The scene west of the Mivo is more in
keeping with the presence of a main
stable Jap defence force than any other
so far encountered in Bougainville. All
the features familiar on Tarakan were
present—shells fused as tank traps, booby
traps and anti-tank mines. But the spear-
heads at the week-end were through to
the west bank of the Mivo facing the
great Jap defence area, which embraces
the south-eastern tip of Bougainville. If
the enemy has supplies there will be
heavy fighting there within the next few
days.
Burma and Its Lessons.
“Ek Burn”: In pouring monsoon rain
the British-Indian-African units of the
Fourteenth Army continue to push back
and annihilate the remaining Japanese in
Burma, mostly east of the Sittaung River.
The same policy is being pursued as
last year. The Allies have infinite
superiority in wet-weather equipment, and
particularly in air transport, and they will
use it to the full with the same disorganis-
ing effect as they did in the last monsoon
season. At the end of the rains they will
pour forward, supplied mainly by air, or
go more directly to Malayan objectives.
The Burma campaign, like that of New
Guinea, has demonstrated the mobility
and resilience of the Japanese, their
elusiveness when they have power to dis-
perse and their powers of survival. They
are a nasty illustration of the truth so
often forgotten and so clearly proved on
the Russian front that the deciding fac-
tor is always man-power, if there is
enough of it to provide endless reserves
and if it is of a type which will go to
certain death like the black ants to which
General Slim, the Fourteenth Army Com-
mander, compared his enemies last week.
A review from Seac H.Q. thus
elaborated the general’s remarks:
It is generally accepted by the Western
Armies that once one-third of the fighting
strength of an opposing force is broken its
resistance ceases to be effective. Unfor-
tunately this maxim finds no parallel in the
war against Japan, either in Burma or else-
where. The once-victorious Japanese forces
in Burma consisted of three armies: the
15th, 28th and 33rd. Their overall strength
was about 200,000 men, including a normal
proportion of administrative and supply
service personnel. Today this force, chased,
harried and hacked about by our own
frqops, musters some 54,000 effectives—less
than one-third of the original and represent-
ing a gross loss of at least two-thirds.
The bulk of the Japanese remaining in
Burma are along a line behind the
Sittaung from Inle Lake to Moulmein,
on the Gulf of Martaban. The main
forces now seem to be fairly concentrated
in the area north of Moulmein, though
for a time there was a sort of feinting
drift towards the Shan Hills to try and
drain British troops from the southern area.
Attempts are being made to reorganise
broken divisions, but most of them are
capable only of very local and intermit-
tent offensive operations.
Resistance on the Toungoo-Mawchi
route to the Siamese border did not end
with the signal victory of the Welsh and
Gurkhas at the bunkered Point 1534 Hill,
near the Twenty-mile Post, where the
enemy had a 9000-yard position on a
precipitous crescent range. The rate of
the British-Indian advance over three
weeks had been kept down to little more
than a tedious and dangerous half-mile
a day, but though it has been accelerated
latent enemy resistance is still present.
There was also small patrol fighting on
the road from Kalaw eastward with
rearguards. And there are still two large
groups of the enemy in the Pegu Yomas,
between the Sittaung and the Irrawaddy
—one spread through the hills over 100
miles of country almost up to Prome and
the other forming a covering force just
north of Pegu. The scattered group is
very badly off for supplies, as are most
of the more isolated enemy forces.
And the R.A.F. is doing an excellent
job in assuring that communications are
unusable. Several ships were destroyed,
including one 10,000-tonner, the largest
enemy cargo vessel seen in the Gulf of
Siam for some time, which was wiped
out by R.A.F. Liberators on June 15.
The Kanchanaburi bridge over the
Mekong, where the railway from Singa-
pore crosses on the way to Bangkok, just
north of the Gulf coast, makes a serious
break in Japanese rail communications
which form their only main military
artery.
Liuchow Recaptured
With the continuing withdrawal of the
Japanese in China behind the line of
Hangchow Bay south of Shanghai, the
Chinese forces have made considerable
advances. Liuchow, the former U.S.
base in the heart of the Kwang-si prov-
ince, has been recaptured and at the
week-end the Chinese were approaching
Kweilin, 320 miles north-west of Hong
Kong. And Chinese troops were reported
seven miles inside Indo-China.
Along the north coast, opposite the
Ryukus, in which U.S. forces during the
week seized Kume, a small island in the
China Sea, 60 miles west of Naha, on
Okinawa, the Chinese command claimed
to hold a zone running 300 miles north
of Foochow to within 33 miles of
Ningpo. This area was abandoned by
the enemy. Neither Foochow nor Wen-
chow is of much use as a port, nor are
there any ports in the Chinese zone
north of Formosa worth having until
Hangchow Bay is reached. If the
Chinese can take Ningpo, Shou-hing and
Hangchow they will achieve something
worth while. As it is, they are within
200 miles airline of Shanghai, and they
are twice as close to Kyushu, the
southernmost island of Japan, as Guam.
Bombs and Black Ants.
“Ek Dum”: General MacArthur has
pronounced Luzon liberated and the cam-
paign which liberated it “one of the
most savage and bitterly fought in Ameri-
can histbry.”
The report as to casualties is that in
170 days 113,000 Japs were killed on
Luzon, 13,000 fewer than on Leyte in
considerably less time, and slightly more
than in the whole of the Burma cam-
paign.
American casualties on Luzon were
3793 dead, 11,351 wounded, 34 miss-
ing ; total 15,178, against the 11,897 killed
and 34,422 wounded and missing
on Okinawa in less than half the
time. The lightness of the General’s
losses in proportion to estimated de-
struction of the enemy is unmatched on
any other front.
In the whole of the Philippines, accord-
ing to South-west Pacific Command esti-
mates, over 400,000 of the enemy have
been killed, which means that in the
islands outside Luzon and Leyte going
on for 175,000 have been wiped out,
though in most cases no large-scale fight-
ing was reported.
The cogent fact is that the Philippines
are now available as a main base.
Effects of Bombing
With Okinawa out of the way, main
emphasis has been laid by reporters and
critics on the bombing of Japan. Rumors
of the existence of invasion fleets at vari-
ous points round Okinawa were rife.
> Up to June 28 it was stated that Super-
fortresses had burned out completely 115
square miles of main city areas. And in
seven days before that date they had hit
Japanese cities, factories and aircraft
centres with 12,000 tons of firebombs.
The main targets included in the last
week’s raids were Sasebo, H.Q. of one
of the three great naval districts —Kure,
in the Inland Sea, and Yokosuka, near
the mouth of Tokyo Bay, are the other
two —Moji, a great fuelling port; Oka-
yama, on the main island of Honshu, a
major transport centre, and Nobe, where
large quantities of explosives are made.
General Stilwell, who knows more
about the Asiatic than any other U.S.
fighting leader, takes a sober view:
We are shifting from a 3000-mile haul
across the Atlantic to a 7000-mile haul
across the Pacific. The jump-off, instead
of being from our east coast, with its wealth
of port facilities, is from the west coast,
where there are few. The Philippines, with
one good port, must take the place of Eng-
land The Japanese are stronger now
than they were when the war started.
The centre of gravity of port transport
is only now beginning to move from
Atlantic to Pacific.
Admiral King, C.-in-C. U.S. Navy, him-
self tried last week to stem a little of the
enthusiasm of the aerialists: “If you want
to know what the Navy still has to do
in the war against Japan, I invite your


Missing Friends.
WOULD BESSIE ALDAM, believed to reside in
New I South Wales, please communicate with D. A.
Robertson, Solicitor, 26 Pirie Street, Adelaide, S.A.,
to, her advantage?
TO SAMUEL FLETCHER MAOAULEY formerly of
224 Barkers Road Hawthorn in the State of Victoria
a member of the Australian Impefial Forces but now
of parts unknown. —TAKE NOTICE that your wife
JENNY ELIZABETH MACAULEY has instituted
proceedings for a Divorce on the ground of a repeated
act of adultery UNLESS you enter an appearance
in the Office of the Prothonotary of the Supreme
Court of Victoria at Melbourne on or before the 80th
day of July 1945 the case may proceed in your
absence IF you intend to defend the suit you must
also file an answer in the said Office on or before the
9th day of August 1945 AND FURTHER TAKE
NOTICE that the sealed copy Petition and copy
Citation in the suit have been forwarded to you care
of’ Mrs. I. Macauley 27 Dunn Street Wonthaggi
Victoria. —JOAN ROSANOVE 415 Bourke Street Mel-
bourne Solicitor for the Petitioner.
Divorce Notices.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Dxvoece.
TO GORDON KEITH FULLER late of Goulburn.—
TAKE NOTICE that MARGARET MARY PULLER
has filed a Petition for Divorce No. 2007 of 1945
against you on the grounds of your desertion If you
wish to defend you may enter an appearance at the
Divorce Office Supreme Court King Street Sydney by
the 3rd August 1945 and obtain a copy of the peti-
tion without charge from T. MARSHALL MARKS &
JONES Solicitors 67 Castlereagh Street Sydney.—
(1.5.) C. K. BODY, Registrar in Divorce.
IN THE SUPREME COURT OP NEW SOUTH
WALES — In Divorce.
TO ELSIE SMITH late of Cowra.—TAKE NOTICE
that FRANK SMITH has filed a Petition for Divorce
No. 2302 of 1945 alleging that you the said ELSIE
SMITH have been guilty of desertion without just
cause or excuse for three years and upwards If you
desire to defend the suit you must enter an,appear-
ance at the Divorce Office King Street Sydney by the
22nd August 1945 and obtain a copy of the petition
free of charge from JONATHAN WINGROVE JOYCE
Solicitor of St. James Buildings 107-109 Elizabeth
Street Sydney New South Wales.—(n.s.) C. K. BODY,
Registrar in Divorce.
Public Notices.
I HELEN VERONICA SACCO, Italian by marriage,
born at Sydney and resident all my life in Australia,
now residing at Pittwater Road, Collaroy, intend to
apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
of 1920-36.
I, KARL HEINRICH SCHULZ, of German nation-
ality, born at Blankenese, County of Holstein, Ger-
many, and resident 18 years in Australia, now resid-
ing at 24 Carinya Avenue, Mascot, N.S.W., intend
to apply for naturalisation under the Nationality Act
1920-1936.
The “WILD CAT” MONTHLY is
Australia’s Leading Financial Journal.
21- per copy, or £l/2/6 per annum posted
CD
am
attention to its losses off Okinawa —70
ships sunk or damaged and 4907 killed
and 4824 wounded.”
But optimism still prevails. There are
still tens of thousands of Australians who
believe, thanks to the daily press, that
Japan is not far from caving in, and that
if it doesn’t surrender soon it will be
shrivelled out of existence before winter
sets in.
It is true that aerial operations will be
stepped up tremendously by comparison
with operations over Germany when
bases are available ; but they need to be
considered in relation to the more primi-
tive surroundings, the longer distances
which it will be necessary to fly and the
different meteorological conditions. It is
one thing, for instance, to operate very
large-scale raiding in the Pacific in
summer against Japan’s southern coastal
fringe ; quite another thing to carry on
the same kind of operation against Man-
churian centres in the long winter —it
lasts for over 200 days. And there is no
comparison between bombing from
British airfields, with their screen of Spit-
fires, and bombing from the bleak
Chinese winter countryside or from small
north Pacific islands lashed by winter
spray.
Difficulties
The only aircraft which can bomb
Japan effectively pending the full con-
ditioning of Okinawa fields are the
Superfortresses. It is suggested by the
reporting of the raids by these giants
that their expeditions are airy jaunts in
which they roll over the Japanese land-
scape at heights far beyond the reach of
flak, brushing aside the sparse fighters
which attack them, and, with a deadly
precision which can hit a dime in the
centre every time, burn out a few more
selected square miles of giant factories,
steelworks and naval bases and blow
gaily home, their crews laughing at the
futility of the Japanese.
It is no laughing matter, as the gallant
crews know only too well.
On Iwojima since March 9 nearly
1000 Superfortresses have made forced
landings, either because of damage or
shortage of fuel which made it impossible
for them to continue to the Marianas,
This means roughly one Fortress force-
landed for every 40 tons of bombs
dropped, not taking account of the
machines which could not force-land on
Iwo, but came down over Japan and into
the sea.
It is a fallacy which has great popu-
larity that now Okinawa has been taken
the time is approaching when there will
be sufficient airfields to step up the bomb-
ing to European levels. The fact is that
only the Chinese mainland can provide
sufficient bases for operations on a
European scale. U.S. airfields in Britain
were numbered by the dozen —a hundred
were handed back the other day. In
Europe, with only comparatively short
distances to fly, the Americans were doing
less than half the main bombing right up
to the last.
The Japanese Navy’s Part
Still another belief is that because the
Japanese Navy is largely knocked out,
and because the air defence of Japan is
not what it was in the prime days of
Europe, it is a sign that the end is near.
Germany’s Navy at its best was not as
strong as Japan’s at present. And the
real strength of Japan’s aerial defence is
not yet known, since it is only when the
infighting begins that its weight will be
properly estimated.
Japan’s latest fighters, the Jacks, are
some of the fastest things on wings. And
the Air Force which can produce at this
stage of the war a machine like the
“baka” bomb needs to be treated with
thorough respect. .The evil thing can be
launched from the belly of its mother
aircraft (Betty II) at anything within a
20-mile range and propelled at something
over 600 m.p.h. And it has a warhead
which weighs more than a ton.
Suicide Bombers
Only homekeeping optimists believe
that the worst has been seen of the kami-
kaze technique. What Admiral Mitscher
meant when he said the other day—and
he is as game as they make them —that
he had been twice driven off his flagship
by this supposedly stupid weapon—the
only thing stupid about it is the pilot—
was shown when the detail of one of the
occasions was released.
The flagship was the Bunker Hill,
27,000 tons, completed only in 1943 and
with an armament of which the capital
base was 16 five-inch high-angle guns.
Suicide bombers hit her twice, one drop-
ping a delayed-action 5001 b. bomb, and
then crashing in the midst of 34 aircraft;
the other, 20 seconds later, put a bomb
through the flight deck and then crashed
at the base of the island. Those two
single-handed Orientals killed 373 Ameri-
cans, wounded 283, many severely, forced
the Admiral to transfer by breeches buoy
to a destroyer and rendered one of Uncle
Sam’s newest carriers into a charred hulk,
which had to be put out of commission
for several months while being repaired
and reconditioned at distant Puget Sound.
A nation which produces men who are
prepared to so sacrifice their lives in this
way cannot be despised or fought half-
heartedly—especially when it has a poten-
tial 160 divisions prepared to die to the
last man and to fight against odds even
when there is nothing left to fight with
but knives on judo sticks, as at Brunei.
Black Ants at Sea
It cannot even be said that Japan is
under total blockade, or nearly total
blockade, as Germany was. It is true that
large numbers of Japanese ships have
been sunk—the estimate is that only
1.500.000 tons of merchant ships are left
of the original pre-war 6,000,000-odd
tons. Still, the number of ships in service
cannot be dismissed with a shrug, even
though it was stated on June 29 that 119
ships had been sunk in and around the
Japanese and Korean coasts in five days.
Japanese shipping, like Japanese man-
power, has become black-ant-like. The
possibilities of the small, teeming ship-
ping of the China and Tenasserim coasts
and the China seas was here pointed out
at the very beginning of the Japanese
war.
Under present conditions, on the pre-
sumption that Japan is withdrawing into
its hard northern shell, every ton of Japa-
nese shipping will soon do the work of
perhaps 200 tons of Allied shipping, since
the enemy will have only to serve the
short routes to China and Manchuria,
being blockaded off all others, while the
British and Americans ships will have
to make runs of anything from 7000 to
13.000 miles.
True, this also will constrict routes and
concentrate targets for the Allied
bombers, but it reduces not only the ton-
nage needed but the size of the ships used
(and, therefore, the targets), increases the
possibility of defence and particularly
makes it possible to limit traffic to a large
degree to the hours of darkness.
Man-power is no object, as it is in the
mercantile marines of Europe. Where
the powered sampan of the type which
the enemy developed and perfected in
pre-war years and the barge which he
used in New Guinea are involved man-
power is two a penny. These types of
vessels have advantages over large, ships
for small distances, even if there are also
disadvantages. Cargoes, for instance, can
be dispersed, calling for ten times the
effort on the part of a hostile force to sink
them, and replacements can be made
quickly, and of materials which are more
easily obtained than in the case of large
ships, which call for great quantities of
iron and other materials and large plants.
A convoy of ordinary merchant ships
within range of Allied naval. aircraft is
now about as safe as a beetle in Hades.
But where a large number of small and
fast barges, which can make the 120- to
150-mile voyage from Moji or Shimono-
seki to the Korean railhead in a few
hours of darkness, are scattered over
20.000 square miles of sea, or where hun-
dreds of barges can sneak along the
Korean coast while others are ranged over
the 350,000 square miles which make up
the Tung-hai and the Hwang-hai, be-
tween a line from Foochow to Okinawa
on the south, and one from Wei-hai-Wei
to Chemulpo on the north, a very large
proportion of them must get through.
And the cost, in men and material, of
destroying those which do not is liable
to be greatly increased.
A 10,000-ton or even a 5000-ton cargo
ship is rarely seen abroad with the
Japanese flag in these days. Sixteen craft
reported sunk last week by U.S. Naval
H.Q. as part of the 119 destroyed in five
days were all luggers — i.e. r powered small
vessels of a type which used to cruise in
days of peace all the way down to the
Barrier Reef for shell.
The Japanese have adopted the black-
ant policy at sea as on land. And
it must not be forgotten that they are
good seamen and have a huge field from
which to recruit, since more than 2,500,000
Japanese normally are employed in sea
fishing, apart from the mercantile marine
and the large well-trained naval reserve.
The Russian Position
The blockade recently has been ex-
tended to the northern end of the
Japanese islands, where the ships of Rear-
Admiral Fletcher recently sank three
ships and damaged two between the
northernmost of the Kuriles and the
Siberian coastline. The operation men-
tioned enchanted evening newspapers be-
cause it took place “near” the coast of
Russia. That country is still supplying
fishing bases and oil to Jgpan, and there
is no present reason for supposing that it
will not continue to do so, under its
agreements, until next April, besides
making it impossible to blockade Japan
on the west and cut her Manchurian
communications.
“Near” the Russian coast in this case
meant near Kamchatka, which is frozen
in for two-thirds of the year. There is
no real indication that Russia is strong
enough to fight Japan on the Asiatic
front. It has few aircraft, and its equip-
ment on the German front was almost
entirely British and American. Its Far
Eastern population is small, despite the
press propaganda which visions Siberia
as a centre of teeming, highly developed
Russians and civilised, whereas it is
mainly a freezing, undeveloped area, most
of it icebound for more than 200 days
in the year and with a population less
than that of Australia on an area as
large.
But airfields in Siberia handed over to
the Allies would shorten the war by
months and save the lives of many
English-speaking men.
In Darkest Europe.
“Ek Dum”: The Big Three or Four
are about to meet in Berlin, and Allied
troops other than Russians are at last to
be permitted to reach that battered capital.
Nobody can be destitute of considera-
tion for Mr. Churchill, tired with six
years of war, and Mr. Truman, feeling
his feet under unexpected and sudden
burdens, as they survey the European
scene and its problems.
In the west, French “resistance”
soldiers, still gathered in the region
of the Pyrenees, eager to avenge a beat-
ing in the Spanish Civil War. In France,
unkind feelings in high places towards
Britain over Middle Eastern affairs. In
Belgium, something close to chaos —
threats on all hands of insurrection if
the king returns, of secession, of revolu-
tion and civil war, but the whole showing
signs of being resolvable by firmness and
the prospect of a free election.
In the'Anglo-American zones of Ger-
many, millions of slaves and of German
refugees from the eastern provinces,
wandering at large in such numbers that
it is almost impossible to round them up.
None of them show any desire to return
to the Russian zone. Lawless, and some
of them only half sane, these homeless
people loot, burn forests and exist as
best they can at the expense of the local
population. While summer continues
they will manage somehow, but a terrible
winter threatens,
Poland’s Travail
Poland, allegedly rejoicing at the settle-
ment of its problems, is actually under
occupation by the Red Army and the
N.K.V.D., the successors of the G.P.U.
The one hope of Poland is a free elec-
tion, with a real secret ballot and no
intimidation. This it is not likely to get
unless somebody who understands free
elections can take control of it. Other-
wise, the kind of free election Poland will
get will be one such as was vouchsafed
to the Baltic States when their people
“voted” themselves almost unanimously
into the U.S.S.R, Provision was made on
the ballot-papers only for a Yes vote, but
anybody who wished to vote No, at the
risk of being exported to Russia, was
enabled to do so, under the eye of the
secret police. Among the voters were
the Red Army of occupation!
The greatest urgency in Poland is food
and clothing. The whole country has
been stripped bare, first by the Germans
and then by the Red Army’s endless
hordes of Asiatics. Coalmines —accord-
ing to Australian prisoners of war who
worked in them —have been ruined be-
cause the Germans worked them in the
manner which would give them coal in
the quickest possible way, thus often
making them inoperable for future gener-
ations without immense preliminary
labor. And although the Millennium has
come to Poland the rule there is: “Red
Army needs first and the devil take the
hindmost.”
Italy and the Balkans
Italy has to face some of the same
problems. What they did to the mines in
Poland the Germans did to the land in
Italy wherever the seasons made their
technique possible. There is much land
in Italy, especially on the Lombard
Plain, which has been under crop or seed
almost continuously since the middle of
1940. As one crop came out the ferti-
liser and seed went in for the next. The
result has been that the ground is about
worked out for the present.
Anybody who has seen the Balkans in
the midst of a peace-time winter is in-
clined to shudder even at the thought
of its normal condition in parts
villagers on one meal a day, a black flag
on every third house, for a death, families
sleeping in heaps to keep warm, farm
animals brought into sleeping quarters
and kept there, villages up towards the
Carpathians which literally had not seen
bread for years before the war and whose
inhabitants lived almost entirely on a
meagre potato ration and green vege-
tables. But now there are millions in the
Balkans who have no clothes to cover
them and who have taken to the forests to
escape their political enemies.
From these Balkan countries, as from
Poland, Russia takes what it wants and
leaves the rest under commissars of the
Comintern, which seems to have been
absorbed by the Russian Foreign Office—
Kolarow, the erstwhile general secretary,
is in the Foreign Office ; so is Losovsky,
head of the old Profintern. Dmitrov,
general secretary when war broke out, is
in Bulgaria as Russian Foreign Office
agent, having been flown from Moscow.
All the east of Europe, including
eastern Germany, is now under com-
munist control. In Poland, in Russian-
occupied Austria, in Yugoslavia and else-
where the same conditions rule. The
Ministry of the Interior handles domestic
government and, together with the
Ministry of Police, sees to it that all
goes well from the communist point of
view. If anybody gets obstreperous the
Red Army is in the background.


Bis
0
Si
ill
ill
w
liiii
*S®
i mm
'<• '-!
o
fe
a
a
H
■H
ill
The name “CAL-TEX” came into
being with the discovery of huge
oil resources in the British Protec-
torate of Bahrein (Persian Gulf) by
the CALifornia-TEXas Oil Company.
Texaco, a world-wide oil Company
which has served Australia for
many years had large marketing
and distributing facilities.
So . . by consolidation of the huge
resources of the two companies, the
name “ CAL - TEX ” was bom and
it became possible to develop the
new and strategic source of supply
WHICH HAS PROVED SO VALU-
ABLE TO AUSTRALIA DURING
THE WAR YEARS.
The management and policies of
the Company remain unaltered.
You get the same friendly service,
unsurpassed quality and nation-
wide distribution you have enjoyed
for many years. From now on ask
for “CAL-TEX.”
THE PICK OF THE WORLD'S FINEST OIL SUPPLIES
SUBSCRIPTION RATES TO
The limitation on Subscriptions to The
Bulletin have now been removed.
Rates, payable in advance (including postage)
are:—
12 months .. .. ..£l4O
6 „ 12 6
3„ 7 0
Concession rates for members of the forces
serving outside Australia:
12 months .. .. .. 15 0
6„ 8 0
3„ 4 0
By airmail to members ot the forces in the
Islands—3 months .. ..£l9O
ẅ
HAIR RESTORER
SPORTING NOTIONS
The Federal Hurdle at Moonee Valley—won
by Walladale (M. O’Brien), from Ellipsis and
Anthony—would have been a better pointer to
prospects in next Saturday’s Grand National
but for the scratching of Solvent and Intermis-
sion. Walladale won very well. Nicely placed
all the way, he got to the front at the last
jump and turned for home with a winning lead.
He has been a sound and consistent hurdler
this year—twice first, three times second in six
starts, and the other time he was going well
when he fell. However, the better part of a
mile further to travel might not suit him so well
as it should suit Isambard, for one.
Intermission was reported on the injured list,
with the McCormick stable to be represented in
the National by Bay David, who certainly must
command respect, both for his solid hurdling
performances and the fact that L. Meenan
should be on him. Anthony ran a good race
last Saturday, but will be better for more ex-
perience; it was his first run over the jumps.
Ellipsis appeared to have every chance, but,
despite Meenan’s horsemanship, was well beaten.
Solvent, a good winner not long back at Flem-
ington, where the Nationals will be run, was a
National tip even before the weights came out.
He is reported to be in tiptop condition and
must be hard to beat. Isambard, who, as a
sound stayer and very sound jumper, has first-
rate National credentials, seems to have had a
particularly well-timed preparation. He was a
close fourth on Saturday; was third at his
previous start; and, though he has his full issue
of weight (11.8), should be running on when
most of the field have had enough. He came
from a long way back at the Valley, and is
better still on a bigger track.
So for the Grand National Hurdle: Isam-
bard, 1; Bay David, 2; Solvent, 3.
The Grand National Steeple, to be run on
Saturday week, was made to appear still more
safely in champion Winterset’s keeping when
his possibly strongest rival, Zalmon, carrying
12.5 and ridden by Meenan, got into the fence
near the seven-furlongs, crashed and was killed.
He and Hearsay were so far in front of the
rest when it happened that Hearsay was able to
go on and win, cantering, by 15 lengths, with
Cimranda and Puckawidgee in the places. All
but seven of the 16 starters came to grief at one
fence or another.
South Australia’s good, colt Chatter Lad
(Limond Lad-Chatterer) struck his true form at
last in the six-furlongs Piccaninny Handicap
for two-year-olds, leading all the way to win by
four lengths from Leryhen and Credo. The
Kinderscout-Crow Call colt Tenderfoot won the
second division almost as easily from Beaumelle
and Star of India. Tenderfoot, however, was
receiving a good bit of weight from Beaumelle
and was half a second slower than Chatter
Lad. Still, he won like a pretty good colt, who
may get a bit of distance under reasonable
weight—he’s on the small side.
A. Breasley forged a couple more ahead
towards easily winning as leading jockey. He
won the six-furlongs Keilor Handicap on
Aggressor, with * Labrador and Audacity in the
places; and the mile Ardock Handicap on
Metro Star, beating unlucky Oxford Street a
length and a half, with Brace next. There were
only seven in the main flat event, the 12-furlongs
Mt. Alexander Handicap, which Codicil (H.
White) won very easily from Clayton and Night
Link.
» * * •
Reopening Moorefield on Saturday after a six-
months’ spell, the S.T.C. started the card with
an innovation —a fixed-weight maiden for three-,
four- and five-year-olds, the youngest carrying
Bst., the rest 81b. more. Though punters pre-
ferred a couple of others, Pennicuik was the
form starter, and this big brown Piccadilly filly
was well placed all the way to win comfortably.
Valaire. was second, with Attentipn several
lengths away third. The time, 1.43, was three
seconds outside the record for the reputedly
hard Moorefield mile.
Balmore, sired in N.Z. by the English Derby
winner Coronach, represented class in a mode-
rate two-year-old field. Taken to the front
with such haste that his apprentice rider, 1.
Clarke, incurred a month’s suspension for inter-
ference, Balmore set up a long lead in quick
order. Giving the topweight his head to lead
the charge up the Moorefield hill seemed a little
injudicious, and in the downhill run to the
judge the bottomweight, Bramalt, let' loose the
energy saved by a more leisurely approach to
the rise and ran the leader down near the post,
winning by half a length, with Don Giovanni
and Moongalb'a third and fourth. Bramalt, a
slight, and not over-attractive bay colt by Brazen
from Malt Tip, has finished promisingly in the
first half-dozen at most of his recent starts,
but was not expected to beat this field. Bal-
more’s run, though misjudged, was a classy
first-up effort. The early interference most
affected Gold Caste, who finished dead last,
but his supporters on the tote had the satisfac-
tion of collecting on Bramalt’s win, the two
being bracketed.
With the end of the season near, most of the
two-year-olds likely to run as such have been
produced. One or two, on the score of easy wins
against weak winter fields, are being discussed as
Derby prospects. Magnificent, seen in a quiet
early-morning amble round Moorefield on
Saturday, appears to have lightened in color,
and looks a beautiful, sound, docile colt.
W. Cook rode a nice race-well placed out
of the barrier and in front from the half-mile
—to take the mile Three-year-old on the Le
Grand Due-Estimation colt Marlborough. Gold
Ross and Waratah, close together, were second
and third, and Man o’ Galway, running con-
sistently well lately, was fourth.
In the six-furlongs Flying Star Gold tried to
lead all the way and went close, but the
Winooka three-year-old Vermeil is very hard to
beat when he strikes form, and, commg with
a fast outside run, this handsome chestnut
colt was too good in the tussle over the last
few yards. He gave J. Thompson, who still
heads the jockeys’ premiership list, his first win
in many weeks. The run was no disgrace to
Star Gold, either, and Cargeonel was third, only
a length away.
The Peter Moore Handicap is run over a mile
and a quarter, and, appropriately, P. Moore’s
Cavedweller —a Moorefield specialist in the late
’twenties—still holds the track record for this
distance, 2.6. It’s an unusual ten.furlongs
course —downhill from the start, up the hill on
the other side, and down again to the finish.
G. Podmore, on the Hua-Peal o’ Bells horse
Turn Again, solved whatever question of riding
tactics is involved by going straight to the
front and staying there. As he held off a
strong challenge by Timken in the last stages
it was a creditable run, despite the weak com-
pany. Salivant was third and the rest, includ-
ing the lately disappointing Goose Boy, barely
in sight.
The last event, a helterskelter Welter, was run
off in two divisions. Battle King, Bab Hall and
Last Bowl, none of them far from the front
at any stage, took the first; Brazier, Pearler and
Twice Royal the second. Brazier crossed sharply
in me straight and had to survive the consequent
protest. The stewards gave his rider, B.
Robards, a month, but though both minor
placegetters had suffered the damage was done
too far from the post to greatly affect the re-
sult.
♦ ♦ * ♦
For Rosehill (before acceptances):
Juvenile: Balmore or Tithonus, 1; Moon-
galba, 2; Strauss, 3. Nursery: Civic Pride, 1;
Belle Femme, 2; Stefanova, 3. Flying: Ver-
meil, 1; Kingsdale, 2; Cargeonel, 3. July Han-
dicap: Gauntlet, 1; Wellesley, 2; Feltpal, 3.
Three-year-old: Dieppe, 1; Lunar, 2; Man o’
Galway, 3. Encourage: Waratah, 1; Prince
Buzzard, 2; Spearex, 3. Parramatta Handicap:
Royal Janette, 1; Monaro, 2; Bragger, 3.
* * * *
The A.J.C. some time ago requested a 50
p.c. cut in the 800-odd horses then in training
in Sydney to cope with the fodder shortage.
The response was for nearer 1000 horses to
compete in races in the ensuing couple of
months. Polite measures having failed, the
State Government then asked for definite action.
The A.J.C. responded with three regulations:
As from August 1, two-year-old fillies are
banned from racing before February; restricted
races are to be confined to three-year-olds;
and any horse becomes ineligible after missing
a place in six starts. An excellent solution.
The only good race affected will be the Gim-
crack Stakes, and that will be compensated for
by the opportunity to test the theory, held by
many, and borne out by the subsequent careers
of a host of Gimcrack winners, that hard early
racing has an adverse effect on fillies.
* * * *
In the first “Victory” Test —unofficial;
they have no place in first-class records —
Australia just beat the clock. In the
second, ended last week, they got within
41 of the 330 needed for a win. In the
second innings Workman (63) and Whit-
ington (61) gave a good start with 108
for the first wicket, and even when the
board showed 5 for 221 there was still
a chance, but the tail flopped. Austra-
lian bowling figures for the match are
interesting: Ellis (58 overs; 5 for 113),
Pepper (45.5 overs; 5 for 132), Miller
(26 overs ; 2 for 47), Williams (25 overs ;
2 for 54), Cheetham (21 overs ; 3 for 66),
and Price (7.4 overs ; 3 for 35).
• * * *
R.A.A.F. tackled South of England
last week-end, and the English team,
which included Edrich, Allen, Fishlock
and Holmes, crashed for 208 (Ellis, 4 for
52). The clock stopped the game with
R.A.A.F. 184 for three wickets (Miller
78 not out, Carmody 43). Allen was given
out “handled ball” — a rarity in big
cricket. Allen picked up the ball after
it had hit the stumps and the bail was
not shifted, and Roper had every right
to appeal for “bowled.” The trundler
had a bad raking by the crowd, but it
all ended happily when Roper apologised
for doing the right thing.
* sH * *
South Melbourne, V.F.L. leaders, went
to Carlton on Saturday; there was a
fierce cross wind, and the Blues fell upon
man and ball in smothering efforts that
blocked the forwards on both sides, so
that the first quarter ended 1.4 to 1.1,
something unique in V.F.L. football; The
second quarter was much the same, 2.5-
2.4, Carlton leading. The third ended with
South 6.7 to 6.5, and the last was a toe-
to-toe affair that sent the barrackers
crazy, gave the goal-umpires a holiday
and Carlton the victory by 8.7 to 7.8 —
fair shooting in such a wind and such a
game. At Collingwood “Wood” strove
desperately to make the four and ’Scray
strove as desperately to keep ’em out. It
ended in a 10.9-9.10 win for ’Scray, giving
them equal place with South Melbourne
on top. Of the other leaders. North Mel-
bourne just struggled home against St.
Kilda, 6.21-6.15, but Richmond had a
gala day and neatly doubled Geelong’s
score, 14.28-8.8. In the lesser arguments
Fitzroy beat Hawthorn, 10.15-7.8, and
Melbourne beat Essendon, 9.14-7.12.
Next Saturday’s V.F.L. matches will be
affected by the absence of some of the
best men in Adelaide with the Victorian
side to play South Australia. Chief source
of excitement will be the Footscray-Rich-
mond match. ’Scray now shares the lead
with South Melbourne, and Richmond
is fourth, two points ahead of Colling-
wood, which will be up against the strong
North Melbourne team, third on the list
and determined to stay there.
* * * *
Solid and effective, North continued its
winning sequence in the Sydney Rugby
Union competition by beating East 15-13.
East was a man short in the second half,
but North deserved to win. Displaying
more polish and cohesion in its back-line
moves. West held Parramatta to a 14-14
draw. St. George surprised by battering
Drummoyne to gain a clear-cut victory,
eight-nil. Randwick was untroubled to
beat Gordon 26-11, and University
trounced Manly 21-8. Randwick is now
three points ahead of Parramatta, with
East next and then Uni.
* * * *
Queensland University team leads in
Brisbane’s Rugby Union. By defeating
Past Brothers a week or two back it
annexed the Keith Horsley Memorial
Cup, presented to the R.U. by Brisbane
“Telegraph” in memory of Keith Horsley,
formerly chief of that paper’s sporting
department. He was killed by a Jap
sniper in Malaya in January, 1942.
* « * *
Danny Simmons, a strong and game
featherweight, made a determined attempt
to whip Eric Macready at Leichhardt,
but was too slow. The only rounds in
which he" had the advantage were the
sixth and the tenth. Macready was
clearly ahead in each of the other 10, and
the customers made Leichhardt history
by accepting the decision without a soli-
tary audible objection.
As often as not the No. 2 match on a
boxing programme is more thrilling than
the headliner, and so it was with the bout
between light-heavyweights Andy Hodgins
and Bob Peters at Sydney Stadium.
Neither troubled himself about defensive
tactics, and each connected with swings
that seemed solid enough to split the
other’s skull. It became a question of
which could go on “taking it,” and
Hodgins had the answer. With a well-
timed right he floored Peters for “six”
in the 12th round, and Peters was being
punched at will when the referee, Teale,
applied the closure. A 1 Kimber claims
that he beat the count when a left from
Billy Fletcher floored him in the tenth
round of the main event. Fletcher had
knocked Kimber down on two earlier
occasions. Referee Joe Wallis said
Kimber was down for at least 10 seconds
on his third trip to the canvas. Neither
showed much class, though willing
enough.
From “Niloc”:
It’s probably the weather, but up here
the blokes are as knocked up after one three-
minute round as they are after about the tenth
down south. The best we’ve got in the
pug line is “Swede” Kelso. He’s as broad as
Big Tom [heftiest chap round The Bulletin
premises], but a bit shorter, has his locks cut
off like a hearthrug, and a dial like armor-
plate they’ve been practising on. You might
have seen the Fitzroy and Richmond districts
in Melbourne; they’re our mob’s home field.
On the look of the Swede and a fe\y other
blokes I’d say those part's would make the
Darlinghurst fraternity look a mob of sissies.
It may be a coincidence, but our colors are
those of the Richmond Aussie Rules team, and
may also .be found on bottled turps from the
same locality. This Aussie Rules —we get it*
as a sort of condiment every mealtime —seems a
pretty good sort of footer. Any uninstructed
Cornstalker or Banana-bender who makes the
bad blue of mentioning Rugby is flattened with
disdain in large chunks. And now we’ll cross
to the ring. It’s raining tonight, so things are
a lot cooler; the stoush consequently smarter.
First couple were lightweight clashes, particu-
larly snappy, especially a darkie from our unit,
whose mits moved in a steady blur. The sur-
prise of the evening was one Ralph Finklestein,
who was W.A. middleweight champ, and runner-
up in the Aussie championship in 1940. He put
on a beautiful exhibition—two rounds with
one of his own crowd and two with one of
ours. The only time either of ’em laid a glove
on him was when they shook hands. His only
purposeful punch travelled about two inches,
and dropped his opponent like a ton of ’em.
Thereupon Finklestein hoisted him back to his
corner and proceeded with fanning operations.


Women's Letters
From Melbourne
There is never a dull moment at a
rehearsal under Dr. Sargent. A.B.C.
allowed a bunch of music-lovers to
attend one, the Town Hall balcony being
thronged. Dr. Sargent fulfilled all ex-
pectations, even sometimes singing a bar
or so to show the players just what he
wanted from them. After the rehearsal
many of his audience thronged around
the conductor for his autograph, among
them Guy Hutchinson, whose apprecia-
tion for music has been fostered by his
mother, the American singer Madame
Grace Angelau. At night the Town Hall
was crowded with an audience which
applauded a fine performance of Elgar’s
First Symphony. Jeanne Gautier, French
violinist, was associated with the orch-
estra in a Tschaikowsky concerto.
Patricia Green had a truly nautical
party for her 21st birthday, for many R.N.
and R.A.N. officers were guests. Patricia
has been in the W.R.A.N.S. for just five
months, and on passing out after her
recruit course was attached to the R.N.
She is now driver for Rear-Admiral
Rivett-Carnac and likes her job. It was
an occasion to doff uniform, and Pat
took the opportunity to wear a gown of
lustrous white satin. Her girl friends
made a colorful array in gay frocks.
Lieut.-Col. Scruttin (Royal Marines) was
a guest apd also present were Com-
mander Ted Allen, R.N., and Lieut.-
Commander Hutchins, R.N. With Noel
Dixon was wife Joan, who formerly
wore the uniform of the Royal Nether-
lands Navy and was a driver in that ser-
vice. Audrey Gullett, W.R.A.N.S., was
with fiance David Tudehope. Another
guest who came along to wish Patricia
a happy birthday was Mrs. John Guest.
Studio parties are becoming a feature
of Melbourne life and one recently given
by Maie Hoban in Pilgrim Cottage was
most successful. It was not a mere
“have-a-drink-and-chat” party, for three
one-act plays were presented, and the
many theatrical people present had a
busman’s holiday. Aileen Britton, who is
in the cast of “Blithe Spirit,” was one of
the guests who had a good time, and
Max Oldaker, John Sanger, Natalie
Raine and actress-author Jean Campbell
formed another group.
The Jack’s Day Appeal has been vigor-
ously presented and has met with a
generous response. It is anticipated that
the amount aimed at, £30,000, will be in
hand when the lists are closed. The
Angliss lady and her street collectors
worked valiantly in cold weather to make
the Button Day a success. Among func-
tions in aid was a White Ensign Fair,
held at the Town Hall, Mrs. A. Showers,
wife of the Navy Board Second Member,
headed the committee organising this
bazaar, and it would seem that every
portion of the community with any asso-
ciation with the Navy offered help.
Flinders Naval Depot sent in farm pro-
duce, and Williamstown Dockyard
workers did their bit.
Final plans for the Sons of the Sea
Ball on July 4 were shaped at a meeting
at Menzies. Seven hundred tickets are
to be sold and the four guineas for a
double ticket is being paid- cheerfully.
Among those at the meeting who had
booked tables was Mrs. George Griffiths,
displaying a spring-like silk frock in
cyclamen tonings under an ermine coat.
Her small blue felt sported cyclamen
ribbon bows. Her friend, Mrs. E. Finlay,
was in black with a silver fox collar
added for warmth, and her small black
hat featured a snood. Pam Forster
garbed herself in a black suit and a gay
little canary-yellow feather cap. Mary
Tibbetts was there in the smart uniform
of a driver in the U.S.A. Forces. Mary
is very like Bette Davis and will imper-
sonate that film star in a forthcoming
Cavalcade. Sylvia Green, smartly tailored,
was busy gathering gifts and donations
for the lucky dip, which will be one of
the attractions at the ball.
Though many consider Ibsen’s plays
outmoded, his “Doll’s House” still pro-
vides food for thought and good stage
material. As Nora Helmer, Joyce Turner
(Mrs Lindsay Biggins) was star of a
Melbourne revival of this drama, and
captivated the women members of the
audience with her early nineteenth-cen-
tury clothes. She is seen in the correct
setting also, for the living-room in the
Helmers’ flat is full of the plush and
brocade so loved in the time of Queen
Victoria. Draperies at the mantel and
the door, standard kerosene lamps and
whatnots filled with ornaments were all
in keeping. Joyce wore for her first scene
a lovely bustle frock of dove-grey silk,
the bodice tight-fitting, demurely fastened
at the neck and with an apron front.
Touches of gold embroidery gave dis-
tinction to this frock and the full skirt
had a double flounce of box pleats. Her
second change was another dove-grey
period frock, lent by Ruth Sugden, also
in the cast. As Mrs. Linden, Dorothy
Ratcliffe was first seen in silvery-grey
taffeta banded in black velvet, and made
her second appearance in royal-blue
moire and black lace. The Helmer chil-
dren wore their unaccustomed clothes
with charm. In the audience were
noticed Dr. and Mrs. Featonby, Major
Keith Allan, braving the cold in his kilt,
and Mrs. Spencer Macdonald, who
covered her fuchsia-toned frock with a
grey fur coat. Her mother, Mrs. George
Sibbin, was snug in a tailored grey suit
and matching coat.
No meeting or function of the
Younger Set is complete unless Mrs.
Eric Cottrell, pictured here by Broo-
thorn, is present. Though she has two
bonny children, Gavin McGregor and
Marilyn Marjorie, Mrs. Cottrell has done
a great deal of voluntary work in the
war years. Every Wednesday she is a
waitress at the cafe run to assist the Red
Cross P.O.W. Fund, and for two years
she worked at “The Dugout,” a canteen
for Navy, Army and Air Force men.
Now she is treasurer of the Younger Set
and a member of the Sons of the Sea
Ball committee.
One of those American-Australian alli-
ances which flowered from the use of this
continent as a base for Uncle Sam’s
warriors has provided New York “Sunday
Mirror” with a two-column feature story.
Private Goldberg met Clarisse Kotz (of
the W.A.A.A.F.) in Sydney. Five months
later they were married at Port Lincoln,
S.A., the bride’s home town. After a
brief honeymoon the soldier husband
sailed away. Correspondence ensued, and
Pte. Goldberg (who lives in the Bronx,
NY.) knew a little stranger was on the
way. But when the time arrived he “re-
peatedly tried to establish cablegram con-
tact with the maternity ward 11,000 miles
away in Australia and failed.” He
appealed to the “Sunday Mirror” to help
him, and that enterprising journal got to
work, with the result that in a few hours
it was able to inform Private Goldberg
(and the world) that he was the father of
“a darling little daughter” and that
mother and child were doing well. Fur-
thermore, through the good offices of
Gavin Casey, Director of the Australian
News and Information Bureau in New
York, a “person-to-person broadcast” was
arranged to enable the young couple to
exchange congratulations.
The C.E.M.A. season was so success-
ful and this newly-formed body is so
active that the suburbs have now entered
into the field and propose to give con-
certs. The new Philharmonic choirs of
Brighton and Camberwell, under the
baton of Dr. Herman Schilberger, will
lift their voices in their respective suburbs
this month. The programme will in-
clude arias and scenes, with full ensemble,
from “Aida” and other operas. There
are over 140 singers in the Camberwell
choir and Camberwell Town Hall is not
large enough for choir and audience, so
the organisers were forced to go a little
afield to Canterbury Memorial Hall.
In pre-war days the annual ball of the
Alliance Franfaise was one of the big
social occasions. Preparations are now
being made to revive this function, ehfire
proceeds to go to Australian and French
p.o.w. The ball will be held on July 14,
Bastille Day, the 156th anniversary of
that occasion.
From Sydney
The City of Newcastle has come in for
a rich gift. It is the collection of paint-
ings in oils and watercolors, prints and
rare books presented to it by Dr. Roland
Pope. The books are on birds, homes
and gardens, the ballet, the theatre, sport.
The paintings are by Australian artists.
All are on show in the art gallery of the
Education Department, and will remain
there till July 13. John Metcalfe, prin-
cipal of the Public Library, declared the
exhibition open last Monday at three
o’clock.
For a change the Society of Women
Writers had a man as guest of honor last
week. And he was a soldier! He was
General McNicol, up to the outbreak of
war Administrator of New Guinea. Two
extra tables had to be put in for last-
minute arrivals, and it was a good thing
for them that the salad didn’t run short.
The General’s wife was handed pink
hyacinths and red roses to go with her
cinnamon brown suit, and altogether the
Chelsea Club was as bright a lunching
spot as any in town, last Thursday.
Along the tables the flume of poinsettia
burned from the dark brown setting of
buka baskets. Acting-president Mrs.
Gaynor introduced the guests, Mrs. Gwen
Spencer thanked them.
Former residents of New Guinea
turned up in force —among them Mrs.
Allen Innes, who is a member of the
society, and writes articles and stories
with the Far North setting, Mrs. Don
Symington, an old friend of the
McNicols, Mrs. Poppy Forsyth, a planter
in her own right since her widowhood,
and Bishop Wilton another former N.G.
resident. Dame Mary Gilmore was
present.
Wives are no burden on the native boy.
The more he has of them the easier life
is for him. Number 1 attends to the cook-
ing, No. 2 makes the nets, No. 3 does the
fishing. No. 4 looks after the garden.
The price of a bride may be snail shells,
but a wife is as busy as an ant. The
General gave a nice little sketch of
Northern courtship when he told of visit-
ing a near-by native village. In one of
the huts he found a young girl busy on
some fancywork. On the walls about
her were ranged 45 green snail shells.
Her young man was out sleuthing the
other five shells which would make the
ultimate payment for her to her father.
Women and pigs cause all the trouble in
the Pacific Eden. Murder is looked upon
as sometimes a necessary evil. A boy
who disposed of his wife, when asked the
reason, replied in a bored way: “she
talked too much.”
Visitors to Brisbane who are at all art-
minded know the northern capital’s Art
Library, near the Supreme Court, in
Police Court-lane. Money from the Car-
negie Trust has furnished the shelves of
rooms given by the Government with
literature on art, and public spirited citi-
zens have added prints and books from
time to time. Mary Corkery, the girl
in this picture, who has just been holi-
daying in Sydney, has recently under-
taken the job of organising secretary for
an appeal for funds on the library’s
behalf.
The institution is kept up by a group
of members who pay a guinea a year and
get no more benefits from the establish-
ment than does any ordinary citizen. It
is just their little contribution to culture.
The objective of the appeal is to enrol
200 more members at one guinea. Mary,
apart from the library movement, intends
running exhibitions of paintings by artists
of her own and other States, and her
journey to Sydney and Melbourne was
undertaken with this purpose. The ex-
hibitions will be held in one of the recep-
tion rooms of the Canberra Hotel, Bris-
bane.
It is nineteen years since the Australian
Art Society was launched. Last Thurs-
day the Halse Rogers lady declared the
1945 exhibition open and the Blaxland
Galleries at Farmer’s, shiningly polished
for the occasion, held animated groups
of artists and their friends. There are
over 80 paintings in the show, and a
meditative little landscape by Hanke bore
the “sold” sign before the drop of the
handkerchief. This year the Gallery
bought nothing, but a figure painting by
Garrett Kingsley carries the society’s
special order of merit. One woman stood
before Dora Toovey’s glimpse of Venice,
and as she viewed the Rialto scene mut-
tered longingly: “Will we ever be able to
travel again?”
Warm w'ith sincerity and the true Aus-
tralian atmosphere are J. Salvana’s bush
and sky, Ken Murray’s “Stroud” will
appeal to all likely honeymooners, and
the woman who has president Jerrold
Nathan’s flower pieces on her wall need
not grieve unduly over the empty vases
of these flower-scarce days.
The Institute of Journalists snared the
tall Captain Benstead, R.N., as its lunch
guest last Monday. The guest’s qualifi-
cations as set out on the circular sent
to members are imposing and read:
M.C., M.A. Cambridge—Mathematical
Tripos. Captain Benstead, who a week
or two ago was the guest of the P.E.N.
Club, is the author of several books,
among them: Retreat —the story of
General Gough’s army, March 1918;
Steady, Boys, Steady and Alma Mater. He
knows the Australians at war, both in the
Navy and in the Army. The State ball-
room was crowded. Captain Benstead’s
reputation as a speaker is growing as
rapidly as Grade Fields’s aspidistra
crossed with an acorn.
* Much-talked-of engagement last week
was that of Dr. Bertie Schlink, chairman
of R.P.A. Hospital, and Dr. Margaret
Mulvey, superintendent of the King
George V Hospital, which is the
maternity section of R.P.A.
Slim, brown-haired Marjorie Meryl
Wilkinson, younger daughter of the J. D.
Wilkinsons, of Kirribilli —father is the
popular secretary of the Royal Sydney
Yacht Squadron—and the fair, six-foot
Patrick Godwin Hearn, of the Merchant
Navy, have just announced their engage-
ment. Patrick’s ship first came into Syd-
ney waters last November. He is the
elder son of Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Hearn,
of Sutton, Surrey, England.
Melbourne pianist Leonard Hunger-
ford, whom Eugene Ormandy praised so
highly and recommended for a scholar-
ship at the Julliard School of Music in
New York, gave two concerts in Sydney
last week. Backstage during a con-
cert Leonard keeps himself in fighting
trim for the keyboard by draughts of
orange juice, and after last Friday’s con-
cert squeezed orange-skins on a table
in the artist’s room were mute testimony.
A covey of young servicewomen hovered
about, going off presently with smiles
and autographed programmes. His play-
ing throughout was crisp, sensitive and
rich in tone, and showed great musical
discernment. He leaves for America in
a few months’ time. Ormandy’s state-
ment that the young man “has the ability
to become a world-famous pianist”
seems justified.
Maorilanders in Sydney will have
somewhere to celebrate on this coming
Dominion Day, September 24. The
Enzed Club is arranging a ball at the
Town Hall for that night, and the
Dominion’s High Commissioner, J. G.
Barclay, has promised to receive the debs.
Funds from this will go towards the
already cosy sum that is to set up a hostel
(when a suitable place can be found) for
Maoriland troops passing through Syd-
ney. The club had its eleventh birthday
last week. There was a glittering cake
with 11 bright candles around it for the
occasion. President Mrs. Elenor Hemp-
ton cut the cake, having to park an arm-
ful of presentation roses before she could
do so. At the meeting which preceded
the party —both in Federation Hall in
Phillip-street—all the office-bearers were
re-elected.
Heads of churches have already ap-
pealed to their flocks to hand out some of
their woolly and other clothing to send
to the peoples of stricken countries. The
collection is under the direction of
U.N.R.R.A., and will be nobly supported
by all voluntary relief organisations in the
Commonwealth. The Sydney adminis-
trative office for the collection will be on
the fifth floor of Dymock’s building in
George-street. An appeal for clothing
will be launched this month, and will
end on September 1. The wife of Dr.
Harry Daly, of Potts Point, who has been
such a success as organising secretary of
C.U.S.A. Navy Club, has been appointed
as assistant organiser of the work, which
staggers under the cumbersome title of
Australian National Clothing Collection
for Overseas Relief (presumably it will be
known as A.N.C.0.R.).


IF BACK ACHES
KIDNEYS MAY
NEED HELP
Flash Oat Year 15 MILES of Kidney Tuhei
►— Get Quick Relief
Don’t expect rubbing to make your aching back
well and strong again— if the trouble is caused by
tired kidneys.
All the blood in your body circulates through your
kidneys every 15 minutes to be strained of acids and
wastes. Healthy persons pass about three pints a
day and so get rid of three pounds of waste matter.
When the kidney tubes become tired, bladder passages
are often scanty and difficult. Instead of being
filtered out, waste and acids get back-wasted into
the blood and may become poisonous. This is often
the beginning of nagging backaches, leg pains, loss of
pep and energy, getting up nights, lumbago, swollen
feet and ankles, puffiness under the eyes, rheumatic
pains and dizziness.
Don’t wait for serious trouble to lay you up. Ask
your chemist or store for DOAN’S BACKACHE
KIDNEY FILLS and get the same quick relief they
have been giving millions for many years. If back-
ache is bothering you due to tired kidneys, try
DOAN’S BACKACHE KIDNEY PILLS today.
STOPrcu* Rupture
Worries/
Mark® LocaHon
of YOUR RUPTURE
Try the new Roussel
Appliance Free. En-
ables you to do hard
work with comfort and
security. Definitely
holds, a condition ab-
solutely necessary for
Improvement or recov-
ery. Recommended by
Doctors. Satisfaction
guaranteed no matter
where you live. Send for details, self-
measurement form, testimonials and 14 days’
free trial offer. No obligation.
THE KOUSSEE APPEIANCE CO..
(Dept. 27). S Martin Place, Sydney.
BRANDAUERS
a**
PENS
W# fnkliy Every point
guaranteed
do not experiment with imitations.
a BBAHDAVU * 00u IM. UllllXaHik. KUO
Since
broadcasting Began
“His Master’s Voice” has aimed to
bring to radio reception a purity of tone
and a quality of reproduction which will
ensure that the world’s greatest artists are
heard as they would wish to be heard.
W'W
"HIS MASTER’S VOICE
RADIO RECEIVERS • RADIO-GRAMOPHONES
* After the war you will again be able to get new "His
Master's Voice” Radio Receivers and Radiograms.
THE GRAMOPHONE CO, LTD, (Incorporated la England)
HOMEBUSH. N.S.W.
R3/45
Essential in Peace . . .
• • • Indispensable in war
i
•' J
HI
i
m
K
m
1
I
&
SS
HE
1
IP i.V
- '^ v I
ns;
:
GERRARD
MODEL
“TV
MACHINE
Food is just as vital to our lads as
ammunition, and the safe delivery of food
supplies at forward areas is most essential.
For safer transit faster packaging
Gerrard Wire Tying Machines are playing
an important part in Australia's
wartime Food Programme.
And in post war days, with our skill
trained and sharpened under pressure,
we will continue to produce equipment
designed to make the name GERRARD
more than ever a symbol of superiority.
GERRARD WIRE TYING
MACHINES CO. PTY. LTD.
.18-24 IRELAND STREET, WEST MELBOURNE
Branches throughout Australia
SMOKE-OH!
“You can’t fool a woman.” — Woman’s paper.
But she’ll let you think you can.
4* 4* 4* 4*
“Do your household chores out in the open
air.” — “Woman.”
Until the family tires of smoky grills.
4* 4* + 4 1
“The stout lady hurried out of the downpour,
but not before she was wet to the skin.”
—Short story.
She was not only fat, she was dripping.
“Mr. Chifley was ‘trying to pull the wool
over the eyes of the workers.’ ”
—“Daily Telegraph.”
Another taxation sock.
4* + 4* 4*
“Brooch, ivory, 5 elephants also also white
kid Gardenia. Lost. Reward.” — “S.M.H.”
The elephants should be easy to trace.
“Indication of ‘Cheap’ Money Era.”
Financial column.
Am I to understand this means
That Mr. Chifley plans to rid
Himself of surplus fiscal beans
And pounds will sell for half a quid ?
Percy.
»|«
TSie Favorite.
Joan I admire, except the way she
always takes her lunch. She orders all
food “crisply done,” then she delights to
crunch.
I like Lynette, but still I hate to take
that girl to lunch. She giggles but, far
worse, she just delights to sprawl or
hunch.
Young Beth’s a girl I like a lot. But
taking her to lunch is something of a trial
watching her determined munch.
Judith’s the girl I like to take to lunch ;
she’s fat and quiet, but what a joy sh& is
to watch —she’s on a slimming diet!
Looby.
•i* 4* *S*
“Sale, milking cow, good sort.”
— Advt. weekly paper.
Even men-about-town will be interestec
in this.
“ With His Own Petard.”
“Relative to methylated spirits in one gallon
tins, I have to inform you that the maximum
price has been pegged at the price charged by
any particular trader on the ceiling date (i.e.,
12/4/’43 or last preceding date) or any charge
that legally should have been in operation on
that ceiling date, whichever is the lesser. The
legal price on the ceiling date would be that
calculated in accordance with the provisions of
Prices Regulation Order 666 which operated
prior to the ceiling date: namely, cost plus
the money margin of profit on the basic date
(15/4/’42 or last preceding date).” —From an
official reply to a letter asking what the fixed
price was.
“I gather that you wish to lodge a com-
plaint about an alleged overcharge by a
greengrocer for cucumbers, is that it?”
asked the Prices official.
“Well, I wouldn’t go so far as to use
the term complaint,” I began. “The
utilisation of such a plain word would
scarcely admit of that circumlocutory
tergiversation without which the possi-
bility of a complete official cognisance of
the true circumstances might be rendered
null and void.” .
“Putting the case simply,” I went on,
“I feel that whilst the question of
inculpation for an offence against
Regulation 242, sub-section 2C, should
be and unquestionably is in its ultimate
stage one primarily for those who by
virtue of the plenary powers dedicated
by the Legislature, powers which in
themselves are of course interdependent
upon the judicious exercise of an inten-
sive perscrutation the bona ftdes of which
would be beyond question, are concerned
in the apprehension and possible retribu-
tive punishment of anyone guilty of a
breach of that same regulation, I as the
person who by entering into a simple
contract —that is, by the offering of coin
of the realm, which was accepted by the
party of the other part prior to my being
handed the merchandise or goods or
chattels exchanged therefor, and which
are the subject of this interview —started,
as it were, the departmental machinery
in motion, could be considered as the
instrument of the delations, and I will
even admit to a degree of dissatisfaction
which nevertheless might not be con-
strued”—
Here the official gulped, and his
manner, I thought, became a shade more
respectful. “Quite so,” he broke in. “But
about the overcharging part.”
“Let’s not be so precipitate,” I said.
“The word ‘overcharging’ is bourgeois,
and moreover may presuppose something
which, when the imponderables are even-
tually segregated from the aggregation
of such permissible evidence in the case
as may be available, might not be borne
out. It is true that I yielded to the shop-
keeper’s request that I should provide a
greater amount for consideration of the
aforesaid merchandise, goods or chattels
for the purchase of which I had specifi-
cally entered his establishment, than I had
deemed fair and just, taking into con-
sideration the regulations under which
the sale of such merchandise, etc., would
be governed by virtue of the regulations
and the powers inherent in them. Also,
I might view with reserve the suggestion
that so far as the question of an alleged
exorbitance of price is concerned, the
superimposition of a categorical”
The official by now was clawing at his
collar, “Listen,” he said weakly, “did
I understand —er —what you have been
saying referred to a greengrocer?”
“To refer to him broadly as that,” I
went on inexorably, “were possibly to
jump to an unwarranted conclusion. He
might possibly claim to be professionally
a cucumberician or a vegetablist. Pin
him down as a greengrocer and it might
be proven that the major portion of his
business is done on the confectionery side,
rendering him basically a confectionist
and only secondarily a purveyor of
greens. Taking into consideration the
potential repercussions in the department
should a misinterpretation of his actual
status be ascribed to official procacity
or”
By this time the official’s eyes were
sticking out like hatpegs. “Tell me,” he
pleaded in a voice that rose to a shriek,
“was it cucumbers you came here to
complain of?”
“I wouldn’t go so far as to call the
article a straight-out cucumber,” I pur-
sued, cautiously. “Though I’ll go so far
w
Surprise Packet.
“A Los Angeles couple claimed $500,000
compensation from the hospital for their shock
on discovering that their ‘son’ was a girl.”
It’s often so with these events:
When you’ve at last decided on
Cuthbert, perhaps, or just plain John,
More definite developments
Conspire to make you rearrange
The name of your prospective sop,
And then you realise there’s one
Commodity you can’t exchange.
Though damages may circumvent
To some extent your discontent
With either sex. I’ll stake my oath,
Nothing can mitigate the jar
That shocks your system when you are
Presented suddenly with both.
P. M. LUSK.
Ironical.
The other day I sent a pal
To lease a cottage by the sea.
Not dreaming how ironical
The outcome of his quest would be.
Today he sent a note which ran :
“ I’ve failed ! It was a dirty point!
A sneaking vegetarian
Just beat me for that week-end joint.”
BRIAN BUREAU.
Dietetics.
/ am no vegetarian ! I believe
That people who eat vegetables grow
Like that which they consume. How .
would grieve
If turned into a cabbage! What a blow
If I revealed a tendency to weave
Like choko vines, around, above, below
Come, then. Let us have mutton whil
we’re able.
Better to be a cow than vegetable.
T. W. NATHAN.


THE OTHER FELLOW'S MIND
ẁ
War and Atrocities
I can’t go all the way with “Eve” (B.
13/6/’45) in regard to exhibition of
atrocity films, though I think the lesson
that they have to teach is lost by the
present method of presenting them.
Atrocities are the last and ultimate
beastliness of war, but what of all the
disaster caused to families everywhere
by the “legitimate” military processes—
ruined hopes and blasted lives?
The lesson that these films* should be
designed to teach, therefore, is: No more
wars ; don’t let chaos again rule and con-
trol the world.
It is doubtful whether it is possible just
/ now to get this lesson effectively to the
people. For the last six years their minds
have become conditioned to receive pic-
tures and news of destruction, desolation
and mass slaughter as the normal; some-
thing inevitable in war.
When the war is over and life has
settled down into something like normal
again it will be time to teach that war
is not inevitable. When the mind has
conformed once more to its peace-time
mould, when even the accidental loss of
a single life is a topic of conversation,
the time will be ripe to display atrocity
films, not as propaganda against a people
but as propaganda against war.
Mass laziness on the part of the peoples
of the earth’s leading nations makes war
possible. All other means having failed,
if the only way to cure this laziness is to
shock and disgust them let us do it. It
is a small price to pay for peace. When
Complete peace comes let us see fewer
romantic films about war and more
factual short horror films—just to jog the
memory.—C. S. (A.1.F.).
Solving the Housing Problem
Although not a belligerent, Sweden has
its housing problem, just the same as other
countries, and it is solving it in the un-
conventional fashion which is characteris-
tic of the small Scandinavian nations.
Swedes who want homes build them
themselves on Crown land. The munici-
pality gets a fee of 10s. for each block
and in return connects light and sewerage
for nothing. Houses are built in groups
of approximately 20, the men helping on
• each other’s houses.
Only two or three essential rooms are
built to start with, future extensions being
made by owners to fit in with the arrival
of fresh Swedes. The cost is unbelievably
low by Australian Post-war Reconstruc-
tion standards, about £9O ; and it is easily
paid off in a few years, interest being 2
or 3 p.c. p.a. Wood is the principal
material. I haven’t seen a picture of the
type of house built, but 1 once visited
Sweden, and the prettiness of the cottages
suggests that the Swede wouldn’t put up
with a gimcrack-looking dwelling.
Timber is in short supply in Australia,
and that is one of the main obstacles to
a building programme. But there is no
lack of earth and clay in the country.
On a public holiday I watched two
young men and two girls make mud
bricks to build a dairy, using methods
evolved by the ancient Egyptians—lay-
ing the wet mud in moulds. After the
two days 800 bricks were drying in the
sun—quite sufficient to build a small
house. The mud brick is much larger
than the commercial article, is easily laid
in mud mortar, is more impervious to
moisture than concrete, will last for at
least *2O centuries, is warm in winter and
cool in summer and is an infinitely better
building material than anything the post-
war reconstructionists are discussing.
Any person of average intelligence can
learn how to plaster the walls in ten
minutes, and, whitewashed or kalsomined,
they make most attractive - looking
dwellings. It would be a simple matter
to organise teams of experts in construc-
tion to give advice to each group of
builders.
Here is one way of solving the Aus-
tralian housing problem, if the P.Rs.
aren’t too conventional to see it and if
trades-unions and other vested interests
aren’t allowed to tyrannise over the rest
of the country.— Bumpkin (Vic.).
Wealth in Whales
We Australians are a casual lot! Un-
exploited wealth is at our door, for daily
at this season there may be witnessed the
spectacle of whales making the annual
trek from Antarctic waters past Albany
(W.A.) up the western coast to the
warmer clime off Point Cloates. In a
month or two the whales will set out on
the return journey south. This migration
has been going on for countless years,
and the spectacle of dozens of whales
close inshore in King George’s Sound at
Albany is a common one.
Prior to World War Ia Norwegian co.
established a factory on the shores of
Frenchman’s Bay, and with a few whale-
chasing small vessels operating in adja-
cent waters is reputed to have done very
well out of the whaling industry.
Periodically a large ( sailing ship came from
Norway to transport the shore-treated
blubber to home factories. Well over a
hundred Norwegian workers were em-
ployed, and the concern circulated many
thousands of pounds ashore for supplies,
clothing, etc. Later the factory was dis-
mantled for some reason or other, and a
valuable industry left Australia’s shores.
The whales are now unexploited. It is
alleged that officialdom is investigating
the possibilities of establishing an Aus-
tralian co. with shore factories at Albany
and Point Cloates, and a possible season
of nine months out of 12. It shouldn’t be
difficult to discern very rich possibilities.
—Ah Gee (W.A.).
Smokers and Ship Thieves
A one-day sample of relative crime-
values as assessed in. the Brisbane Police
Court and reported in the “Courier- •
Mail” made curious reading.
Three Chinese who had been found in
possession of opium were fined £SO
apiece. One of them was aged 71, and
on his own admission had been an opium-
smoker for 50 years.
An Australian seaman, aged 28, em-
ployed on an American ship at £25 a
“Are you asleep, Williams? I said pick up your dressing by the right!”
week, was convicted of stealing linen
sheets from ship’s stores. He got off with
a £lO fine. So did two wharf-laborers
convicted of having in their possession
goods stolen from ship’s cargo. A third,
in whose house had been found a large
variety of articles stolen from ships, was
fined £25.
Amongst white people in Australia
opium has long ceased to be a risk to the
national wellbeing, as it had threatened
to become when the legislation forbidding
illicit use and traffic in it was initiated
half a century ago. Present-day drug
addicts prefer handier kinds of dope. Yet
its mere possession is assessed by the
law as from two to five times more serious
an offence than stealing from ships en-
gaged in war service. Apropos, pillaging,
as it is called, could be stopped in a week
by the requirement of a substantial term
of jail in all convictions. — M. Turlutu
(Q-).
Why Coddle the Kids?
“Riff” (B. 16/5/’45) says “the world
was plunged into its current troubles by
the incompetence and shortsightedness of
the older generation, and the responsi-
bility of retrieving it falls on the shoul-
ders of present-day youth.” That’s what
the kids of 1914-1918 said ; it is what has
been said by one generation of another
all down the ages, and the accusation will
be launched by the next generation
against the kids of today. In each case
there was, and will be, some justification,
but not very much.
“Riff” claims that ’teen-age Australians
have a comprehensive knowledge of poli-
tics. In 24 years spent mostly dealing
with young Australians I did not find it
so. Furthermore, a knowledge of local
politics is not what is required, but a
much wider knowledge Of world affairs,
which the great majority, even of Austra-
lian professional politicians, sadly lacks.
The narrow parochial outlook (or should
I say inlook?) of Australian politicians
has done a lot .of harm to the standing of
Australia in world affairs.
“Riff” demands that young people be
spared ridicule ; if the kids of today have
not the courage to stand up to a little
ridicule they have not the courage to do
anything worth while.
“Riff” might also have the courage (and
sufficient loyalty to his forebears) to re-
member that it was the “cynical old-
timers,” as he calls them, who fought the
Beast before to maintain the freedom of
the world for him and his fellow-kids.
Let these youngsters put their minds
to studying men of all races; not politics,
and they will soon learn that there
is more than one side to every ques-
tion, and also that they themselves are
by no means free from human frailties.
The world must indeed look to its
youngsters to remould into greater secu-
rity our present world Governments and
systems, and this will call for great cqur-
age and -persistence, clear thinking and
world-wide vision; perhaps most im-
portant of all, no little humility.— Bahut
Achchha (Fiji).
Psychology in the School
Let me uphold “J.K.D.’s” reference to
school-teachers who need training in
child-psychology (B. 20/6/’45). A dozen
incidents of my own schooldays occur to
me; outstanding is the memory of a
French mistress who, one day, when I
was in the middle of a deep-scarlet blush,
called out to me “Could you tell the class
in French what nerves are?” She
throttled my interest in French. I never
even passed the French exams, whereas
(for the only teacher I can remember
who was also a psychologist) I got
honors, though the subject he taught
appealed to me even less than French did.
In my experience teachers fall into two
main groups—bores and skites. The
bores just talk and the skites just show
off. Very few teachers seemed sufficiently
enthusiastic about their special subjects
to be able to impart to the young minds
the necessary enthusiasm for learning.
Another grudge I have always had
against teachers is that when they made a
joke (no matter how crude) you had to
laugh like blazes. When / made a joke
it was “cheek,” and I was told to shut
up. — Infant Mind (N.S.W.).
Queensland Beef Prices
Ceiling prices for beef in Queensland
are proving insufficiently attractive to en-
courage maximum crop-fattening on the
Darling Downs, where a wonderful season
is now assured.
There is always a certain amount of
risk so far as the future climatic condi-
tions are concerned when Downs farmers
feed off their grain crops, and this,
coupled with the capital outlay necessary
for the purchase of store cattle and the
work involved, is causing much less in-
terest to be taken*, in crop-fattening than
was anticipated.
As there is every prospect of a short-
age of fat cattle for some months from
the usual fattening areas in Queensland,
the Prices Branch should review the whole
position, with a view to beef prices being
increased in order to encourage crop-
fattening on the wonderful crops now in
prospect everywhere on the Darling
Downs.
A decision should not be long delayed,
otherwise this opportunity to increase
beef production will be lost, as farmers
will decide to rely upon the income from
their grain crops. Prices of store cattle
have risen since the rain, and when other
drought-stricken areas in New South
Wales receive relief rains prices will in-
crease still further, thereby making it less
likely that Darling Downs farmers will
decide to eat off their crops.— Outbacker
(Q-).
Strike Statistics
From January, 1941, to December,
1944, a total of 3,229,245 man-days’ labor
was lost in Australia through strikes.
Labor unrest was at its maximum dur-
ing 1940. During that year 1,507,252
man-days’ labor was lost; in no subse-
quent year has the total reached a mil-
lion.
The British Ministry of Labor reports
that in Great Britain and Northern Ireland
3,700,000 man-days’ labor was lost as a
result of strikes during 1943. In the
U.S.A. the total was 13,500,529 days,
according to the records of the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. In Australia the
official figure issued by the Common-
wealth .Statistician for 1943 was. 990,151.
The working population of Great Britain
is about seven times and of the United
States about 18 times as great as that of
Australia. On a relative basis, therefore,
the labor lost was; Australia 990,151 man-
days, Great Britain .530,000 and the
U.S.A. 750,000. The position was much
the same in 1942. It is thus true to say
that relatively there was about half as
much labor lost in Great Britain and
three-quarters as much in the U.S.A. as
in Australia.
One Australian State, however, can
speak with pride of its industrial record.
In the last four years the total man-days’
labor lost as a result of strikes in Tas-
mania was only 727. — Statistician (Tas.).
Farm Relief
“One of Them” (B. 23/5/’45) is bark-
ing up the wrong tree.' A farmer with a
substantial credit balance can’t get
drought relief. Any money advanced
carries bank interest, and is repayable.
To have an annual instalment postponed
usually means appearing before the
district Land Board, and interest post-
poned is compounded.
The salaried man knows what his in-
come is, but the farmer doesn’t. A strike
at Homebush every spring just as lambs'
are fit for m'arket is just one of the little
surprises we can expect.
McKell’s Government is the only
Government that has done anything for
the farmer in N. S. Wales. It has handled
the exceptional drought conditions well,
and Minister of Agriculture Graham has
promised us country killing centres. —
Arthur Belling (N.S.W.).
The Exchange Rate
The views expressed by A. A. Baker
(B. 15/6/’45) on the exchange rate are,
if not actually erroneous, at least half-
truths. For a start, he says that every
section of the community is “forced to
pay higher prices for imports,” and then
concludes with the remark that “an in-
flated exchange rate merely indicates a
need to restrict imports. That would
compel us to do more manufacturing,
thus giving greater employment, etc.”
Well, what is he arguing about? When
the trading banks, with the assistance of
the Commonwealth Bank, succeeded in
freeing the exchange rate at the end of
January, 1931, at £l3O 55., subsequently
“pegging” the rate at £125 55., their action
undoubtedly helped Australia in coming
through the depression better than any
country in the world. The high rate of
exchange has remained pegged ever since,
and it seems likely that the, consequent
result of restricted imports materially
assisted this country in creating a form
of self-sufficiency of enormous value
when war came to us in 1939.
The “curious fact” mentioned by
A.A.B. concerning low. variations in ex-
change rates for the 60 years up to 1929
is not so peculiar. Australia, in common
with most other countries, was on the
gold standard for most of this period,
and a strict observance of the “rules of
gold” meant that rates could not vary
except between the “gold points.” Aus-
tralia went off gold in December, 1929,
and was the first country to do so, fol-
lowed closely by Argentina.
England did not follow suit until 1931,
at enormous cost to her economy, and we
have the authority of numerous experts
that a return to gold is very unlikely. Due
to the war, highly increased funds are
available in London, and this involves an
increase in bank deposits within Aus-
tralia. When this happens the Australian
pound appreciates, causing higher export
values, increased borrowing and/or a fall
in imports.
In some ways our present high London
funds are embarrassing. The exchange
rate has never been allowed to follow
“the good old law of demand and supply”
without some form of brake, be it the
gold standard or silver standard or
pegged. The days of permitting prices to
follow, the law of supply and demand seem
to be numbered, and a new and more
efficient system of prices control is in
sight.— Keston (N.S.W.).


„ y'/SMfsZ
r
WfL
A
« m r
/
WyJV/?y
Wit*
Vy
%
\\
V.\
V,\
i
that
m
kV
Wv
A\
money
R
/
v ‘
Ba\'
IV,'
\v
cannot
\W
row
"O
A
VP -*
A O
\\\
<o
/
fv
w
VO
mm
V N
i!i!
\ \
MS
1
Mi «
?/«/
os
mi! >
a better
/////,
■X
///,
w>
"/
m£s&*r " S / / y
mm
m«S»iN
VS///SA
',iS
rXsss.*
The phi ips emblem,-the world-
famous "waves and stars ’/-is your
guarantee tfiat the lamp bearing this
brand is tbe best that money can buy.
Look for tbe "Mark of tbe Master” when
you buy your lamps. You’ll be sure then
that you are getting a maximum of good
light for a minimum of cost. Fit a
Philips and seel
PHILIPS
w
Lamps and Lighting • Rad io and Television • Transmitting
Equipment • Electronic Devices • X-Ray Apparatus
Electrical Equipment for Industry, etc.
PHILIPS ELECTRICAL INDUSTRIES OF AUSTRALIA PTY. LIMITED
S y d n e y • Melbourne Adelaide Perth Brisbane
* PLIB-45
